
THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Obama inau~rated as 44th president 
AARON STEINER/The Observer 

Please turn to Onlookers clap and take pic­tures on the National Mall page 8 for yesterday as Barack H. Obama is inaugurated.
full coverage. 
Students watch ground-breaking event at locations around campus 
Millions crowd the Capitol to witness historic inauguration 
once more." 

' By JENN METZ 
Those in attendance, forming an 
News Editor 
indistinguishable sea of waving 
American flags, listened almost in 
WASHINGTON -The millions of reverence to the words of the first 
those who poured in from across the black president of the United States, 
country, braved the cold and waited who expressed his humility at being 
in hours of disorganized lines to wit­able to go down in the history books 
ness history, rejoiced in celebration as the 44th man to take the oath of 
shortly after noon on Tuesday as office. 
Barack fl. Obama was sworn in as "I stand here today humbled by the 
the 44th president of the United task before us," he said, " grateful 
States. for the trust you have bestowed, 
His inaugural address, delivered mindful of the sacrifices borne by 
before a crowd perhaps unlike any­our ancestors." 
thing our nation's capital city has Obama, just after taking the oath 
ever seen before gathered on the of office on the same Bible Abraham 
National Mall, once again enumerat­Lincoln used in his 1861 inaugura­
ed the challenges to come but also tion, spoke for almost 20 minutes, 
called for an America that returns to assuring his fellow Americans that 
the ideals set forth by its forefathers, 
an America that is "ready to lead see SPEECH/page 8 
~ 

Many travel to Washington to be a part ofcelebration 
eted area, the silver zone, stretched 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
on for over a mile. 
Associate News Editor 
When the hour of the noon swear­
ing-in drew near, those in line at 
WASHINGTON -Yearning to be a Independence and 3rd St. to get into part of history, more than a million one of the ticketed areas began people thronged around the U.S. chanting, "Let us in," and waved Capitol Tuesday to witness the their silver viewing tickets to securi­swearing-in of the 44th president of ty. the United States of America, About 20 minutes before the cere­Barack Obama. mony began, their chants were 
Thousands arrived in the District answered as thousands more were before dawn broke, cramming onto allowed onto the National Mall Metro trains or walking into the city behind the Reflecting Pool. Stepping only to stand in queu~s that over collapsed net fencing, beside a stretched around buildings and row of hundreds of portable toilets, under bridges, past museums and those who had waited in line for between barricades. hours took their place, shoulder to 
Those who had tickets to the view­shoulder, to watch the peaceful ing areas closest to the Capitol were transition of power, as President scarcely better off than those who did not, as lines for the largest tick-see TRAVEL/page 8 

By EMMA DRISCOLL News Writer 
Tuesday's historic inaugu­ration of President Barack Obama was an inspirational moment to remember for many students, a moment they'll remember for the rest of their lives. 
"It was important that I saw history being made," sophomore Sean Gibbons said. "Just how historic it was, not just the fact that he's black, but the fact that so much of the world has been inspired by his elec­tion." 

Senior Emma Whitten took in the inauguration from the lounge area of LaFortune Student Center, where many students chose to watch the inauguration. 
"It w,as really cool watch­ing it with a ton of people,". Whitten said. "Everybody cheered at all the right moments and I cried a little bit." 
Even from the television screens in LaFortune, Whitten was impressed with the amount of people that 
gathered to be at the actual inauguration. 
"It was kind of incredible when they showed the shots of everybody out in the Mall," Whitten said. 
Senior, Caitlin Conway watched the inauguration from her off-campus house. She e nj o y e d Are t h a Franklin's performance. 
"I'm from Detroit, so loved the Aretha song -one of Michigan's natural resources [as voted by the Michigan legislature]." 
see CAMPUS/page 8 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Challenge me 
I love challenges in football. Referees getting calls wrong isn't 'part of the game' like in baseball, where balls and strikes or safe-out calls are subject to umpires' discretion. But I'm sick of the commentary surrounding challenge 
calls, both from the commentators and other people in· the  Bill Brink  
room. There's nothing worse than hearing  Sports Editor  
Mike Tirico babble on about how many  

feet you need in bounds for a catch while you watch Andre Johnson drag his feet on the sideline for the sixth time. It's the same principle with John Madden and the on-screen pen. I can see that it's third-and-seven. Don't cir­cle the graphic on the screen that dis­plays down and distance. 
The commentators treat challenges like a magic eye -if you look at it enough times, eventually it will get clearer and clearer. How else can you explain seeing the replays over and over? Once you've seen all the different views once or twice, what can we glean from repeated viewings? 
The worst doesn't come until you're watching a game with nine other peo­ple. You get nine versions of the NFL rulebook as you're watching the replays. I also feel like I'm watching in the radio booth. You hear nine people narrate what you~ can clearly see in· front of you: "His knee's down there... " (I can see that) " ... and the ball comes out there... " 
Enough. Stop treating me like I'm four. At this point. most people watching football have seen enough cpallenges ­and the subsequent analyses that go with them -to understand how they work. So here's what I propose: show all the angles of the replay, then have a football trivia game. If Donovan McNabb doesn't know the overtime rules, how much do you think the average fan knows about obscure rules of the game? 
For example, a question about chal­lenges, since that's the topic of the col­umn. If a coach wins all of his chal­lenges, how many does he get? Three. And did you know that if you put in your third-string quarterback before the fourth quarter, the first and second string QBs cannot re-enter the game? 
I'd rather do trivia than hear an end­less loop of readily apparent informa­tion spat at me until "the ground can't cause a fumble" gets stuck in my head like "Single Ladies." 
Another alternative: give me a micro­phone inside the referee's huddle after a controversial play, and a camera under the hood where the referee watches the replay. Give me a transparent view of how they make their decisions. Anything to break the monotony of replays and analysis. 
Final thought: American ldol-i"ze the challenge procedure. Allow viewers at home to text their votes to the refs; most votes wins. After watching Santonio Holmes' touchdown get taken away by a challenge in the AFC Championship game, that method might be more fool­proof than the current system. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, January 21, 2009 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: How DO YOU PLAN TO CELEBRATE rHE 2009 PRESIDENTIAL INAUGERATION? 




Anna Jones  Mike Healy  Jay Datar  Serene Bethune  Megan Savage  
senior Walsh  senior off-campus  senior offcampus  senior McGlinn  senior off-campus  
"Watching CNN, spending time with friends andfamily, and having the occasional 'celebratory  'Tm having pheasant, duck and molasses sweet potatoes for lunch. ,  'Tm spending it by waiting for change. ,  . "By talking to my 97 year old grand-daddy about this moment in history and ·'toasting' too.,  "Living vicariously through my sisters who live in Washington, D.C."  

toast."' 


Lee Svete, the director of ND Career Center is hosting the "Preparing for the Career Fair" workshop in Howard Green Lounge, yesterday 
OFFBEAT 
Fishennen spent a month floating in an ice box 
CANBERRA -Two Myanmar fishermen have survived for almost a month in shark-infested waters by floating in a large ice box after their boat sank, rescue officials said. 
The men, both aged in their 20s, were on a 12­meter Thai fishing boat with 18 others when it sank in heavy seas off Australia's north coast on December 23, said Australian Maritime Safety Authority spokeswoman Tracy 
TODAY 

a:: 
1.1.1 
:::c 
~ 
1.1.1 
3: 
~

..... 
II( (.) 
0 
HIGH 26

.... 
LOW 20 
Jiggins. 

"They had no safety equipment, no beacons, no means of communi­cation and they'd been drifting for 25 days," Jiggins told Reuters Tuesday, describing the ice box as "desk sized." 
"For them to have even been spotted in a huge body of water is amazing," she said. 
New shelter houses dogs of homeless owners 
BRUSSELS -A shel­ter in the Belgian city of Liege has opened its doors to dogs this win­ter to persuade their homeless owners to come in from the freez­ing cold. 
The city's social wel­fare agency has agreed to house about eight homeless people with their pets at a local soc­cer club when it is freezing outside. 
Michel Faway, secre­tary-general of the agency, said the pro­gramme started because many homeless people refused to come inside without their dogs no matter how cold it got. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
~ 
e.
*"• .. 

HIGH 10 HIGH 32 HIGH 27 LOW -11 LOW 21 LOW 11 


IN BRIEF 
Author and Senior Astrophysicist at the Space Telescope Science Institute at Johns Hopkins University , Dr. Mario Livio, will give a Public Lecture entitled, "Is God a Mathematician?" Today at 7:00 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. A book-signing will precede and follow the talk. 
Tim Robbins will be giving a lecture called "Theater as Community" at 7 p.m. Today in Leighton Concert Hall in DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets can be pur­chased online or through the ticket office for $5. 
John Smart, president of the Acceleration Studies Foundation will give his lecture entitled "Foresight Development in a World of Accelerationg Change: Thoughts from an Evo Devo Futurist" in the Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business as part of the Ten Years Hence Lecture Series. This event will be held on · Friday at from 10:40 a.m. to 
12:10 p.m. and is free and open to the public. 
There will be a pantJl discus­sion entitled "Pornucopia: Living in a Pornified Culture." It will be held in Room 100, Hesburgh Center Auditorium on Thursday from 7 to 8:30 
p.m. with. a reception to follow in the Great Hall. This event is sponsored by Gender Relations Center (GRC), Gender Studies, Ethics & Culture, Philosophy Dept, Phys Ed Wellness, Campus Ministry, al)il.IDND. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 
Q 
* *
**** ** 
HIGH 13 HIGH 11 LOW 5 LOW 9 
Atlanta 42 I 23 Boston 23 I 14 Chicago 28 I 21 Denver 67 I 39 Houston 68 I 45 Los Angeles 72 I 52 Minneapolis 31 I 14 New York 26 I 18 Philadelphia 26 I 20 Phoenix 81 I 55 Seattle 4 7 I 35 St. Louis 43 I 27 Tampa 55 I 32 Washington 31 I 19 
~ 

Wednesday, January 21, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COR 
Group exan1ines dorn1 relations 
Project would encourage same-sex friendships outside of dorms 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
Same-sex dorm events were the topic of discussion at the Council of Representatives' (COR) first meeting of the semester. 
Drawing from a campaign promise made by student body president Bob Reish, COR discussed way~ to increase communication and friendship among stu­dents of the same gender. 
"If you're not from the same dorm, contact is often awkward or forced," said Reish. 
The aim of the project would be to encourage stu­dents to participate and coordinate activities with same-sex dorms. 
One area of discuss1on was whether or not mone­tary funding would be offered as an incentive to participate. 
Other incentives were dis­cussed including possibly giving away points toward the Hall of the Year Award. 
Money for funding would most likely come from the Student Government budget or be asked for during allo­cations for this specific purpose. 
"The most important way of publicizing this issue will be to talk about it," said Reish, "That's definitely something we want to do." 
Various COR members discussed their participa­tion in some of the same­sex events already on cam­pus. 
Highlighted among these events was the Dillon­Alumni Big Red Dawg dance, the Keenan-Stanford Masses, and the grouping together of same-sex dorms during Frosh-0 activities. 
COR members stressed they were not trying to 

force contact between same-sex dorms, but encouraging it. 
"Seeing people outside of class, just seeing them in a different setting gives you the ability to see them in a new light," said Reish. 
Ideas for potential events included 5-K runs, inter­dorm masses, and dances. 
The focus for these events would be more on the plan­ning process than on the outcome, that way students would be able to work together with other stu­dents and get to know them more personally. 
Reish said that if the pro­gram were to be funded, it would only be so for a short period of time, possibly no longer than two years. 
In other COR news: 
+ Reish said the off-cam­pus eatery discount book­lets have arrived and were approved. They should be availably soon for purchase 
+ 
COR has a new appeal form that will be imple­mented. A few changed were made to the old form including a new event his­tory portion. 

+ 
Reish also took the time at the end of the meet­ing to preview new topics that will be up for discus­sion during this semester's COR meetings. These included evaluating the ticket lottery process for home games, increasing student activity fees to include a spring concert, a new student orientation for students transferring in during the spring semester, and an update on the Peer Advocacy Program. 


Contact Liz O'Donnell at edonnnel@nd.edu 

SMC honors Moreau feast day vvith play 
By MEGAN LONEY News Writer 
What do a yoga class, a vision, the Notre Dame fight song and a gardener have in common? Father Basil Anthony Moreau, of course. 
Saint Mary's College honored the feast day of Blessed Basil Anthony Moreau, the Founder of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, with a play incorporating all of these seemingly unrelated entities. 
"The Fighting Jardiniers" is a play written by Bill Lawrence at 
the prompting of Saint Mary's director of special events, Richard Baxter. Baxter said he asked Lawrence to develop a script that would exam­ine Holy Cross spirituality. 
"Following the Beatification of Father Moreau, I wanted to do something at Saint Mary's which would help us better under­stand where we were with Father Moreau's intent to establish Holy Cross ministries," Baxter said. 
Lawrence and Baxter met while 
studying at the University of Utah and both are now affiliated through their work at Holy Cross Institutions. 
Though the play was created to help establish an understanding of the influence of Father Moreau's vision in the lives of students at Saint Mary's, Notre Dame and Holy Cross, it is lively and invokes smiles and laughter, Baxter said. 
"This is not meant to be a bor­ing, dull, educational evening of material regurgitated from dusty history books," he said. 
The play takes place at Holy 

Cross High School, a fictional high school in Indiana, and how Moreau's vision of Holy Cross has been fulfilled, Baxter said. The school's mascot is the Fighting Gardner, or jardinier in French, which is where the title of the play comes from, according to a press release.· 
The production featured Saint Mary's students and faculty includ­ing assistant professor Michael Kramer, associate professor Bill Svelmoe, and sophomore Maria Chipman. 
There was more on the agenda for the cast than providing quality 
"Following the Beatification of Father Moreau,. I wanted to do something at Saint Mary's which would help us better under­stand where we were with Father Moreau's intent to establish Holy Cross Ministries., 
Richard Baxter Director of special events Saint Mary's College 
entertainment for the audience, Baxter said. He hopes the audi­ence took the les­sons presented in the play to heart. 
''I'd like for peo­ple to leave [the play] with an appreciation of continuing Moreau's hope that we educate the whole person -not just the mind," he said. "I also hope they leave with an appreciation for the call to saint­hood, something Father Moreau took to heart. This is something we all must face day-to­day, minute-by­

minute, in the trenches of our rou­tines." 
The play was also one of the activities the College planned to celebrate Heritage Week, a week to remember and celebrate the origins of Saint Mary's, including celebrating Blessed Basil Anthony Moreau, the founder of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, who was beatified on September 15, 2007 and whose feast day was yesterday, Baxter said. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyOl@saintmarys.edu 




Vatican official discusses immigration challenges 
By ROBERT SINGER News Writer 
Speaking about the plight of migrant workers, war refugees, and religious pilgrims, Archbishop Agostino Marchetto, a Vatican offi­cial on immigration, said the issue has become "an event that affects the structure of our society and comprises a problem that is a social, cultural, political, and not least, pastoral reality." 
Marchetto, who gave a lecture entitled "Immigration: Global Perspective" Tuesday, discussed the Church's role in helping migrants adapt to their new surroundings. An aspect of pastoral care, this effort seeks to create a "culture of welcome" for people displaced by economic hardship and civil war. 
Refugees fleeing countries torn by civil war face many challenges, Marchetto said. 
"Civil war migration is a phe­nomenon that brings a lot ofsuffer­ing," he said. "You do not know the customs, the language. You are emerged in a world that is not yours, but you must find work." 
Marchetto said the bishop of the region that has an influx of immi­grants is responsible for their pas­toral care to ensure that their lan­guage, culture and popular devo­tion are respected while they adapt to new surrqundings. 
"It i!? important that there is a dialogue between the churchof ori­gin and the church of arrival, so that the integration of the migrants is going on smoothly," Marchetto said. 
As people migrate, they often leave family members behind. The Church must work to alleviate the hardship caused when a family's caretaker or provider is separated, Marchetto said. "One of the biggest problems of the migrants is the question of the family. In many cases, there is rupture. More or less, 50 percent of the migrants are women." 
Sometimes, especially in coun­tries suffering from civil war, ten­sion develops when family mem­bers are forced to fight on separate sides. Marchetto said that the Church is working to peacefully reunite families -most notably in Uganda, where children have been kidnapped and trained to kill their parents. 
"In Africa, the Catholic Church is playing a role to reconcile children back to their families," Marchetto said. 
Marchetto also touched on the poverty in the developing world that is causing many to migrate to more aflluent countries. He called for a world in which "goods are more equally distributed" and voiced optimism that President Obama could help the economies of impoverished nations. 
"This phenomenon also raises the ethical issue of the search for a new economic order," he said. "This was raised by the new presi­dent today, and I hope that it is something that is really in his con­science." 
As the global economic down­turn makes it difficult for many citi­zens of wealthy nations to find employment, Marchetto said anti­immigrant sentiment is rising and will pose challenges in the future. 
"If there are less jobs, and the local people have to fight to have the jobs, and they find in their way other people who are not from their country, it is easy for them to have animosity," he said. "So, this is really a point of difficulty in the future." 
But Marchetto expressed opti­mism about the possibility of an integrated world in which people of different cultures interact peaceful­ly. 
"Sometimes there is a fear to be surrounded by migrants, but I think it is a splendid opportunity to meet people and to see that we have the same suffering and the same joys and that we are one family," he said. 
Contact Robert Singer at 
rsinger@nd.edu 

,------------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 21, 2009 

Holy Cross fathers share stories of priesthood 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY News Writer  tant, it was sense that whatev­er I did in my life should be meaningful," he said. "I think  the working of God's grace in people's lives, and to be a wit­ness to that intimately is a priv­ early on in life that life was about inviting people in and building community, Lies said.  Notre Dame undergrad that he again considered the priest­hood, Dowd said.  
that desire has been fulfilled in  ilege."  "I realized that I had some  "I was really inspired by the  
University president Father  tremendous ways."  However, priesthood does  choices to make," he said. "I  priests and brothers I met here  
John Jenkins said that as an  Jenkins said his vocation has  have its. challenges, Jenkins  knew I loved the lord and loved  at Notre Dame," he said. "It  
undergrad at Notre Dame, if someone had told him he would become president of the University, he would have had  been "satisfying work" from his first job as a parish priest to teaching at Notre Dame. . "I loved teaching. I feel that  said. If a layperson and loses his or her temper, they  "I realized that I had some choices to make.  the Church, and I ~~~ulT~!· :es~::~ n't think about  began to seem plausible to me, and very attractive." McCormick said he thought seriously about priesthood in  
them committed. the vocation of a teacher is "I couldn't imagine anything close to that of a priest," he less likely," he said. "You engage said. "Life takes [students] at a funny turns." "What led me to take deep level, and it Jenkins is just a greatpriesthood seriously shared his privilege to teach experiences as was not so much a people and to  are considered a jerk, he said. But if a priest and loses his temper, people ask how a priest could do that.  I knew I loved the lord and loved the Church, and I thought ifsomeone like me doesn ,t think about serving God as a  serving God as a priest, who will?" Lies said he loved Holy Cross from the moment he met the Holy Cross priests at Notre Dame.  high school, but did not pursue the vocation until after college. He said he came to Notre Dame, knowing nothing except that a friend of his was living in Old College. "What I found when I got here"though, was the begin­ 
a priest in the Congregation of Holy Cross as part of the cele­ sense ofthe role of being a priest, although that is  raise questions in their life." As a priest, Jenkins said he  "To stand for something more than yourself is a daily chal­ prist, who will?, Bill Lies  "We give one another a home," he said. Dowd said he  nings of another family," McCormick said. Later, when serving a parish in Phoenix, McCormick said he  
bration of the Feast of Blessed Basil Moreau Tuesday in  important, it was a sense that whatever I did in my life should be meaningful. ,,  has been privi­leged to preside over weddings, work with people who have dedi­ lenge," he said. Fathers Bill Lies, executive director of the U n i versify's  Executive director Center for Social Concerns  grew up admir­in!:{ his parish priest for his humility and the kind way he  finally truly believed that priesthood was what he was called to do. "It was the people that taught me what it means to be a  
Washington  cated their lives  Center for Social Concerns,  treated  the  people  of  the  priest," he said.  
Hall in a talk entitled "Men in Black: Holy  Father John Jenkins University president  to service celebrate Sacrament  and the of  Robert Dowd, assistant profes­sor of political science and Peter McCormick, rector of  parish, and pictured a similar path for himself. "As a small kid I used to cele­ McCormick is currently the rector of Keough Hall, which he said has been a joyous experi­ 
Cross Stories."  Reconciliation.  Keough Hall also shared stories  brate mass quite often," he  ence.  
Jenkins  Although many  at the event.  said. "I was famous for fire and  "[The students] teach me a  
attended Notre Dame as a lay  people think Confession is a  Lies said he attended Catholic  brimstone homilies, but over  lot," he said. "They give me a  
student, and did not enter into  challenge in the priesthood,  school and grew up in a reli­ the years I have softened up."  lot of laughs, and they even  
the seminary until after gradu­ Jenkins said at those times  gious family, surrounded by  Later, as an adolescent, Dowd  taught me to play guitar hero  
ation from the University.  people are not at their worse,  relatives who were priests and  said he thought less about join­ and for that I am eternally  
"What led me to take priest­ but at their best.  nuns.  ing the priesthood, and instead  grateful."  
hood seriously was not so much  "The  Sacrament  of  "I  was  doomed  from  the  dreamed of becoming a major  
a sense of the role of being a  Confession is particularly pow­ start," he said.  league baseball player.  Contact Madeline Buckley at  
priest, although that is impor­ erful," he said. "You~really see  His mother taught him very  lt was not until enrolling as a  mbuckley@nd.edu  
•  

Professor discusses Vatican II 
By MOLLY MADDEN News Writer 
Last night, the third part of the Second Vatican Council lecture series sponsored by the Orestes Brownson Council on Cathoficism and American Politics took. place. The Orestes Brownson Council chose to have this lecture focus on the document Gaudium Et Spes, or The Pastoral Constitution on the Church in the Modern World. 
"Gaudium Et Spes is the doc­ument of Vatican II that gath­ered up information from past encyclicals and gathered it all up into one cohesive text,"said Professor Walter Nicgorski of the Program of Liberal Studies. 
The Gaudium Et Spes docu­ment was made public by Pope Paul VI on December 7, 1965, the day of the council's conclu­sion. The document is consid­ered to be one of the chief accomplishments of the coun­cil as it addresses issues about the Church's role in the mod­ern world. 
Nicgorski said that the docu­ment had four basic principles of dignity, sociality, solidarity and subsidiary, which con­tributed in the shaping of the document's main goal. 
"I believe, that in reading this document, one sees an emerging goal. Along with this goal, they can see four princi­ples that have shaped the goal and therefore they can also see the spirit and the means used to achieve this goal,"he said. 
This overall goal is to answer the question of what role Church plays in the mod­ern world. Given the time peri­od in which the document was written, there are many social and political implications that need to be taken into account when addressing this goal. 
"Gaudium Et Spes is reflec­tive of that period of the early 1960s," Nicgorski said. "Here in America, we had the Civil Rights Movement, the begin­nings of Vietnam, and the threat of nuclear war. In other parts of the world intense decolonization struggles were taking place." 
In light of all these struggles the Council used the document to try and help develop the full caliber of human dignity, he said. 
"The whole essence of human dignity is to participate in life," Nicgorski said. "The solidarity aspect of the docu­ment is that it makes distinct efforts to help make the mod­ern world a better place rn where ideas can be spread, no matter where those ideas came from." 
Another aspect of Gaudium Et Spes is an extension of acceptance of others, he said. 
"Gaudium Et Spes condones openness with others," he said. "This openness with embracing others extends to all people who respect genuine values; it even extends to non­believers such as Atheists." 

However, Nicgorski said that the Council acknowledged in the document its own limita­tions. 
"The document states that the Church does not always have a ready answer to every question. What this does is help to solidify the vision that the Church stands for in the modern world," he said. 
Overall, Nicgorski says that the document says that we all 
have  a  responsibility  to  
embrace  the  good  in  the  
world.  

"The vision and goal of the Church with Gaudium Et Spes is to endorse the fullness of human life; the life in which religious dynamism is open and free to be fulfilled in light of the Gospel," he said. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden@hcc-nd.edu 

Right to Life club funds trip to Washingtori 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 

The majority of student<> travel­ing to Washington, p.C. to partici­pate in the March for Life left last night, to see the sight<> and attend events in the capitol. tomorrow and march in the Right to Ufe March on Thursday. 
The trip is sponsored by the Right to life Club. 
"Tons of people go. It's literally a river of people just walking past the Capitol. It's exeiting. There are motivational speakers talking, famous people," said freshman Gabrielle Stroik, who attended the march last year and is going again thi<> year. 
Stroik said that some of those marching hold signs, some of which have statistics, or promote adoption and saving lives. 
The March begins at 4th Street and ends at the Supreme Court building, said Stroik. The Mareh will pa'iS the Capitol building on the way, she said. 
"When you go to something like this, you know that you are pro­moting a good cause and spreading awareness of something that should be understood by people, especially with the Freedom of Choice Act coming up. This is the perfect time to go show our support for life," said Stroik. 
The Freedom of Choice Act will "protect, consistent with Roe v. Wade, a woman's freedom to ehoose to bear a ehild or terminate a pregnancy," according to the National Right to Life Web site. 
According to the Web site, President Barack Obama said to a Planned Parenthood Aetion Fund in July of 2007, "The first thing I'd do as president is sign the Freedom of Choice Act. '111at's the first thing that I'd do." 
Conscious of President Obama's intentions, freshman Patrick Hess is going on march in order to show the nation that he disagrees with abortion. 
"Our country needs to be aware that there are different opinions," said Hess, who wants to go to D.C. to see the sights, to have a good time, and to "stand up and let [my] voice be heard to our nation's capi­tol." 
Hess understands that as a male, he personally will never make the deeision whether or not to get an abortion, but "it's just kind of one of those things that the more voices the louaer the cry," he said, and travels to D.C. with the intent of showing his support for the right to life. 
"I can have my voice be heard and show the nation that there are people that support life and wantto end abortion," he said. 
Stroik fmds her pro-life stance primarily based in her Catholic faith. 
"I've grown up in a Catholic fami­ly. I have five siblings and I've just grown to really appreciate life," said Stroik. "Children are great ... and even the tiniest child will grow up to a famous engineer or scien­tist. Life really begins at eonception. It's a core part of the Catholic faith to respect life." 
Hess's views also come his faith. 
"From what I've been taught through my faith and my own rea­soning, the miracle that is life is from conception through death. That is what I feel is life, said Hess. 
Students attending the March that did not leave last night will go on a shorter trip to D.C. and leave tonight, Stroik said. They will be in 
D.C. in time to march on Thursday, she said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 



ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, January 21, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Russia restarts gas flow to Europe 
MOSCOW -Russia's Gazprom gas monopoly says it has restarted gas ship­ments through Ukrainian pipelines to Europe after halting them nearly two weeks ago amid a pricing dispute. 
Gazprom spokesman Boris Sapozhnikov says EU-led monitors will track the flow of the gas being pumped into Ukraine. He says the gas flow was restarted around 1030 Moscow time (0730 GMT) Tuesday. 
Officials say it could take 36 hours for gas to reach consumers in Europe. 
Russia halted gas shipments to Europe on Jan. 7 as it argued with Ukraine over 2009 gas prices. Europe gets about one­f"ifth of its gas from Russia via Ukrainian pipelines. 
Supplies were restarted after Russian and Ukrainian officials signed a deal Monday that doubled the price for supplies to Ukraine. 
China appeals to U.S. for cooperation 
BEIJING -China made a rare appeal for cooperation between its normally secretive military and Washington on Tuesday but said U.S. arms sales to Taiwan remain a "serious harm to Sino­
U.S. relations." 
The statements came as China issued a major policy paper on national defense that said blocking formal Taiwanese inde­pendence remains the chief concern for one of the world's fastest-growing armed forces. 
A Chinese military spokesman present­ing the paper made an apparent reference to Taiwan as one of the "obstacles" the Pentagon should remove for better _rela­tions with China. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Blagojevich misses second deadline 
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. -Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich on Tuesday missed his second deadline for filing formal answers to an impeachment charge, with a Senate trial over his ouster now less than a week away. 
The second-term Democrat, whose crimi­nal lawyers quit his impeachment defense in protest of the trial's rules last week, had until 4 p.m. to file a request to dismiss the charge and kill the Senate proceeding. Had he done so, senators, sitting as judges in the trial, would have voted on whether to grant the request. 
As a result of his inaction, the Senate will presume that the governor pleads "not guilty" to the charge and move toward open­ing the historic trial on Monday, said Toby Trimmer, spokesman for Senate President John Cullerton. 
485 now affected by salmonella 
ATLANTA-Health officials say the num­ber of people sickened in a national salmo­nella outbreak involving peanut butter has grown to 485 cases. 
The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said Tuesday the number has been inching up as lab tests confirm that new cases have the same genetic fingerprint as the outbreak strain. The illnesses have been reported in 43 states and Canada, and may have contributed to the deaths of six people. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Man donates eyebrows to charity 
BLOOMFIELD, Ind. -A 72-year-old man with eyebrows so long he brushed them each morning raised $1,600 for charity from people who paid to take turns trimming his out-of-control brows. 
Some of the wiry hairs shorn from Si Burgher's shaggy eyebrows measured more than three inches long because the former jeweler's brows had never been trimmed. 
Burgher's eyebrows were so long he used to brush them before leaving the house. But he agreed to have the overgrown brows tamed last week by members of the Bloomfield Rotary Club to raise money for a polio eradication campaign. 
GAZA STRIP 
.Hamas claims victory in Gaza 
Despite celebratory rallies, terrorist group offers no plans to rebuild devastated Gaza 
Associated Press 
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip -Waving green Islamic flags atop the ruins of Gaza, Hamas proclaimed victory in rallies attended by thousands of support­ers Tuesday, saying it sur­vived Israel's military onslaught despite the destruction and massive death toll suffered by Gazans. 
Beyond its fiery words, however, Hamas offered no plans for rebuilding Gaza, which suffered some $2 billion in damage dur­ing three weeks of fight­ing. Gaza's borders with Israel and Egypt, largely sealed since the Islamic militants seized power 19 months ago, remain closed and are unlikely to open unless the militants relin­quish some control. 
Israel has also claimed victory, but neither side was the clear winner. 
The fighting killed some 1,300 Gazans, the vast majority civilians, and thousands of Palestinian homes were destroyed,. Israel emerged from the war with relatively few casualties -13 dead, including 10 soldiers ___:_ but halted fire before reaching its objectives. No internationally backed truce deal is yet in place ly more powerful enemy. medicine still smoldered H~ later visited the to prevent Hamas rocket Addressing a crowd Tuesday, sending white Israeli border 'town of fire on southern Israel or near Gaza City's demol­smoke into-the air. Ban Sderot, a frequent target arms smuggling into Gaza. ished parliament building, said he felt "utter frustra­of Hamas rockets and 
Israel had withdrawn Ismail Radwan, a Hamas tion, utter anger" over the expressed sympathy with the bulk of its forces from leader, declared: "Hamas shelling of the compound residents. Gaza by Tuesday evening, today is more powerful." and two U.N. schools, and "You live every day with coinciding with the inau­Nearby, militants held up demanded a full investiga­a threat of a rocket falling guration in Washington of a huge banner proclaim­tion. As he spoke, the buzz from the sky. No human Barack Obama as presi­ing in Hebrew: "Hamas is of Israeli unmanned air­being can live in a state dent. However, the tempo­victorious. Israel has been craft could be heard over­like this," Ban said. "I rary cease-fire remained defeated." head. expect basic humanitarian shaky. Israel's air force A few hundred yards Israel has said troops law to protect civilian life struck a Gaza mortar away, U.N. chief Ban Ki­responded to fire from to be respected and squad after it shelled moon toured the local militants from the areas, a restored and not violated Israel, the military said. U.N. headquarters, claim the U.N. has vehe­as Hamas has done." 
Hamas held more than a inspecting damage from mently denied. The Palestinian Center dozen victory rallies an Israeli shelling attack During a tour, Ban was for Human Rights has across Gaza, choosing last week. It hit three told that hundreds of tons reported that 156 mili­bombed-out buildings as warehouses where flour, of food and medicine were tants were killed in the backdrops to underscore oil and other food rations destroyed. "It's totally out­fighting, including 48 from its message of defiance for Gaza's needy were rageous and unaccept­Hamas, 34 from Islamic and its claim to have sur­stored. able," he said, shaking his Jihad and the rest from vived battle against a vast-Piles of rice, beans and head. Palestinian President 



Boats scour river for plane engine 
and two hats, according to NYPD north of the Intrepid Sea, Air and 
Associated Press 
spokesman Paul Browne. 'Space Museum, near where the plane 
NEW YORK -Authorities using The missing left engine; however, is made its emergency landing. The sonar in the search for the missing the most coveted prize. Investigators engine is about the same size as the engine from US Airways Flight 1549 will examine it along with the plane's object picked up by sonar. detected something about the size of attached right engine to better under­Swift currents made it impossible to the massive aircraft part deep in the stand how the jet conked out drop a robotic device with a video frigid, murky Hudson River on Thursday after hitting a flock of birds. camera to confirm whether it is the Tuesday, but divers ran out of day­All 155 people survived the miracle engine, and evening fell before divers light before they could locate the crash landing on the river, and US · could fmd anything. · object. Airways said Tuesday that not even a Since the crash· landing, the NYPD 
Crews will resume their search pet perished. has recovered more than 40 pieces of Wednesday. Police have already locat­New York Police Department harbor the aircraft, including four window ed several pieces of debris from the officers working with a sonar expert exits and an access panel door. All the flight, including 35 flotation seat from the National Oceanographic and debris and passengers' belongings cushions, 12 life jackets, 15 pieces of Atmospheric Administration got a are being turned over to the National luggage, two brief cases, 11 purses, reading on an object 16 feet long and Transportation Safety Board for its 15 suit jackets and shirts, four shoes, 8 feet wide in about 60 feet of water investigation into the crash landing. 
page 6 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, January 21, 2009 

Kennedy well after seizure 
Senator hospitalized after collapse at post-inauguration luncheon 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, ill with a brain tumor. was hospital­ized Tuesday but quickly reported feeling well after suffering a seizure at a post­inauguration luncheon for President Barack Obama. 
"After testing, we believe the incident was brought on by simple fatigue," Dr. Edward Aulisi. chairman of neurosurgery at Washington Hospital Center said in a statement released by the senator's office. 
"He will remain overnight for observation, and will be released in the morning." 
The statement said the 76­year-old senator "is awake, talking with family and friends, and feeling well." 
The statement did not dis­close the tests that were per­formed on Kennedy, whose seizure was witnessed by sev­eral fellow senators seated with him at lunch. 
Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., told reporters he and Kennedy's wife, Vicki, grabbed the senator as he became ill. 
Added Sen. Chris Dodd, D­Conn., "It took a lot out of 
him. Seizures are exhaust­ing." 
Even so, Dodd quoted Kennedy as saying; ''I'll be OK, I'll see you later" as he was put into an ambulance. 
"The good news is he's gonna be fine," Dodd added. 
Kennedy had appeared in good health and spirits a few hours earlier when he~ stepped out of the Capitol and onto the inauguration plat­form where Obama took the oath of office. His endorse­ment of the former Illinois senator had come at a pivotal point in the Democratic pres­idential race, and the older man campaigned energetical­ly for the younger one. 
Sen. Jay Rockefeller, D­W.Va., told reporters that Obama noticed when 
Kennedy  became  ill,  and  
rushed over to his table.  
"There  was  a  call  for  
silence  throughout  the  

room," he said. "The presi­dent went over immediately. The lights went down, just to reduce the heat, I think." 
In his remarks, Obama said his prayers were with the stricken senator, his family and wife. 
"He was there when the Voting Rights Act passed, along with John Lewis, who 
was a warrior for justice," the newly inaugurated presi­dent said. 
"And so I would be lying to you if I did not say tliat right now a part of me is with him. And I think that's true for all of us," Obama said. 
Sen. Robert C. Byrd. 91, also left the luncheon early, but his office and others said his health was not tho rea­son. 
Byrd "is currently in his own office ... and is doing fine, though he remains very concerned about his close friend, Ted Kennedy," said Mark Ferrell, a spokesman for the West Virginia Democrat. 
Kennedy was diagnosed last May with a particularly aggressive type of brain tumor, called a malignant glioma, after sufl'ering a seizure at his Massachusetts home. lie had what his doc­tor described as successful surgery to remove as much as possible of thn tumor in his left parietal lobe. Kennedy then underwent radiation and chemotherapy, necessary because doctors know that even if they remove all of the visible tumor, stray cells almost cer­tainly remain. 

Older blacks celebrate change 
... . 
Citizens who suffered through Jim Crow see hope in Obama 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA-As she watched Barack Obama des~nd the steps of the U.S. Capitol to be sworn in as the 44th president of the United States, 107-year­old Ann Nixon Cooper leaned forward in her seat, grinned and let out a contented sigh. 
One of her grandsons asked, "How do you feel about hav­ing a black president?" 
"Well," Cooper said at her home on Martin Luther King Jr. Drive in Atlanta, "I helped put him there." 
And so she had. 

It was not just Cooper. It was all the men and women of the black generations who endured the cruelties of Jim Crow, who knew the indignity of separate drinking fountains and the terror of snarling dogs. They fought back with sit-ins and boycotts and bal­lots. 
On Tuesday, with weathered hands and an excitement that belied their age, they applauded Obama -and the role they played in sending one of their own to the White House. 
"I was hoping for a great change that would happen in my· day," said Cooper, whose story was highlighted in Obama's speech the night he won the election. "I put my thoughts into ideas pointed towards better days for our people." 
Mary K. Jones, a 78-year­old retired university profes­sor in Detroit, has come a long way from the sweltering heat and segregation of Arkansas. She grew up there, along the banks of· the Mississippi River, on the same 40 acres her great-grand­mother -a former slave ­received from the U.S. govern­ment. 
"Jim Crow and segregation were something we were born into. It was just a way of life," Jones said Tuesday. "We lived in a certain area. We all knew where we could go or couldn't go. You stayed where you were. But they [whites] were in their place, too." 
When Obama took the oath of office, Jones sat up in her chair, clasped her hands to her chest and smiled. 
"There is still integrity. It's not lost," Jones said. "I feel very full." 
Sam Cain stood up and threw his hands in the air, tears streaming down his face after Obama took the oath of office. The 61-year-old South Carolina native was born in the midst of Jim Crow's hey­day, barred from eating and drinking with his white neigh­bors in his Bishopville home­town. 
"From the time you're 2 or 3, you know your place," Cain said, though he said he now believes life has changed for his-family, his race and all Americans with Obama's elec­tion. 
"I do believe in my lifetime he can bring this country together," Cain said. 
In his inauguration speech, Obama looked to inspire the nation with a "new era of responsibility" and a recogni­tion of how far the nation has come. 
"This is the meaning of our liberty and our creed -why men and women and children of every race and every faith can join in celebration across this magnificent mall, and why a man whose father less than 60 years ago might not have been served at a ·local restaurant can now stand before you to take a most sacred oath," Obama said. 
Obama then led an inaugu­ral parade that paid further homage to pioneers in the fight for equality. He-enactors from a black Civil War regi­ment, World War JJ's surviving Tuskegee Airmen and Freedom Riders who battled for civil rights followed the new president's limousine down Pen.nsylvania Avenue from the Capitol to the White House. 
In Birmingham, Ala., where protesting blacks faced fire hoses and police dogs in the 1960s, thousands gathered in historic Boutwell Auditorium to view the inauguration on a huge video screen. The old hall had the feel of a church revival, with gospel songs and flags waving. 
"I never thought it would ever come," said 77-year-old Ted Roberts, who marched in civil rights demonstrations in Birmingham when segrega­tionists held power. 
At the historically black Alabama State University in Montgomery, Tonea Stewart was among those brought to tears watching the new presi­dent take office. 
The 60-year-old chair of the theater department grew up in Greenwood, Miss., worked in the civil rights movement and campaigned for Obama. "I knew it would happen, but to see it happen in my lifetime is so powerful and so signifi­cant for this whole nation," Stewart said. 

Religious diversity 
seen at inauguration 
Associated Press 

WAS! IINGTON -The clergy were Protestant, and so was the new head of state. 
But the inauguration Tuesday of President Barack Obama aimed for a much broader audience: an increas­ingly diverse America, where people want their beliefs acknowledged in the nation's most important ceremony. 
In his address, Obama referred to God and Scripture, saying, "the time has come to set aside childish things," from 1 Corinthians. 
But he also reached out to American secularists, calling the United States, "a nation of Christians and Muslims, Jews and llindus -and nonbeliev­ers." The Center for Inquiry and the Council for Secular Humanism. based in Amherst, N.Y., called recognition in the inaugural address "truly his­toric and remarkable." 
Evangelical pastor Rick Warren, whose participation drew criticism from liberals and gay rights groups, directly invoked Jesus as expected in his invocation, but did so per­sonally. 
"I humbly ask this in the name of the one who changed my life," he prayed. 
He also quoted from the most important prayer in Judaism, the Sh'ma, when he said, "IIear 0 Israel, the Lord is our God. The Lord is One," and he called God "the compassionate and merciful one," a phrase from Muslim devotion. 
"His was as inclusive a prayer as an evangelical can give," said Hichard Mouw, president of Fuller Theological Seminary, a leading evangeli­cal school in Pasadena, Calif. 
The Hev. Joseph Lowery, a United Methodist considered the dean of the civil rights movement, focused on poverty and social justice. 
"Lord, on the complex arena of human relations, help us to make choices on the side of love, not hate. On the side of incJusion, not exclusion. Tolerance, not intolerance," he said. 
He called the stage where Obama took his oath "this mountaintop," a reference to the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.'s final speech. Lowery also quoted from the song known historically as "The Negro National Anthem." 
"God of our weary years, God of our silent tears," he said, at the start of his benediction. 
Prayers at inaugural cere­monies g()nerally draw little attention, but this year was different. Obama spoke of his faith openly during the elec­tion, trying to change the image of the Democratic Party as hostile to religious voters. He has also welcomed nonbe­lievers, who tend to vote Democratic, in his speeches and public appearances since his earliest days of campaign­ing. 
His supporters had been deeply upset by the promi­nence of the Christian right during "the administration of President George W. Bush, and they watched to see what reli­gious signals Obama would send at his swearing-in. 
Warren is a Southern Baptist who wants to broaden the evangelical agenda to include environmental protection, fighting poverty and ending AIDS. He also backed Proposition 8, which banned gay marriage in his home state of California. Gay rights advo­cates and liberals were out­raged that Obama had given Warren a place of honor at the eeremony. 
Obama, who prays with Warren, said he wanted the event to reflect diverse views and insisted he remains a "fierce advocate" of equal rights for gays. The new presi­dent had also asked Bishop Gene Robinson of New Hampshire, the first openly gay Episcopal bishop, to give the opening prayer Sunday at the inaugural-kickoff event at the Lincoln Memorial. 
In his invocation Tuesday, Warren did not refer to the controversy. However, he asked God to forgive "when we fail to treat our fellow human beings and all the Earth with the respect that they deserve." He also prayed for "civility in our attitudes, even when we differ." 
Warren said Jesus' name in four languages -English, Spanish, Arabic and Hebrew­and ended his invocation with "The Lord's Prayer," from the Sermon on the Mount. 
Rabbi Gary Greenebaum, who leads interreligious out­reach for the American Jewish Committee, called Warren's invocation "inclusive even as it was slightly exclusive," for praying in Jesus' name and ending with "The Lord's Prayer." 
"I don't think the language of the prayer itself is offensive, but the context of the prayers, coming from Christian Scripture, is somewhat exclu­sive," Greenebaum said. 
Some atheists and agnostics had sued unsuccessfully ahead of the swearing-in to keep ref­erences to God out of the event. 
Obama began the day at St. John's Episcopal Church, where presidents since 1933 have prayed before being sworn in. Several evangelical clergy spoke at the service, including the Rev. Luis Leon and the ~ev. Joel Hunter of Northland,_ church in Longwood, Fla. Bishop T.D. Jakes, a Dallas megachurch pastor, gave the sermon. 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Wednesday, January 21, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 


7949.09 -332.13
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
442 84 3,369 3,122,537,568 
AMEX  1,329.65  ,~s:3'ls*tn  
NASDAQ  1,440.86  -88.47  
NYSE  5,058.06  c]29:44  
S&P 500  805.22  -44.90  
NIKKEI (Tokyo)  8,065.79  0.00  
FTSE 100 (London) 4,091.40  -17Jl7  

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -5.28 -4.49 80.57 BANK OF AMERICA (BAC) -28.97 -2.08 5.10 CITIGROUP (C) -20.00 -0.70 2.80 ULTRA FINANACIALS (UYG) -28.91 -1.11 2.73 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE +1.78 +0.041 2.345 13-WEEK BILL -13.04 -0.D15 0.100 30-YEAR BOND +1.83 +0.053 2.947 5-YEAR NOTE +0.21 +0.003 1.454 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +2.23 38.74 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +15.30 855.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -2.65 80.68 
Exchange Rates 
YEN 89.8200 EURO 1.2909 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2656 BRITISH POUND 1.3924 



IN BRIEF 
Madoff investors will get low return 
NEW YORK-Investing a dollar and getting 1 0 cents back in return is a bad deal even in today's market. But recovering 10 cents on the dollar might be optimistic for investors who gave their cash to Bernard Madoff. 
Moreover, they face a years-long process to get any money back .as investigators search to find Madoff's assets. Dozens of lawsuits and the possibility the fraud was committed over decades makes the chance of recovery even more difficult. 
Madofl' has become one of the most vilified people in America since news broke Dec. 11 that he had confessed to running a giant Ponzi scheme, paying returns to certain investors out of the principal received from others. He's estimated to have duped investors out of as much as $50 billion. 
Experts agree that the first of any recovery payments might be years in the future. 
USPS struggles with mail hoarders 
DETHOJT -Some of those who are supposed to endure snow, rain and gloom of night to deliv­er the mail have resorted to hiding tons of it in garages, a self-storage unit and the dark of their basements. 
Carriers from North Dakota to North Carolina have been hauled in recently for hoarding mail. Though the U.S. Postal Service says the offense is rare, it smacks at the agency's image. 
"I heard a couple of people come in and say, 'Can I piek up my mail -or is it in storage?'" said Annette Koss, the postmaster in Howell, 50 miles northwest of Detroit. A former carrier there, Jill llull. pleaded guilty Tuesday to desert­ing the mail, a misdemeanor. 
The part-time, fill-in carrier had kept thou­sands of pieces of unopened mail, including 988 first-class letters, in a self-storage unit that man­agers opened in September after she failed to pay her bill. Some of the mail had postmarks from 2005. 
"We just didn't understand it," Koss said. "It's such a stupid thing to do/' 
During a brief hearing in federal court in Detroit, Hull simply said, "I was unable to deliver all the mail." A postal investigator said in a court filing that Hull had intended to catch up with late payments and apparently keep the mail under lock and key until she died. 
.. 

Stocks fall on Inaguration Day 
Obama suggests Wall Street will be subject to greater oversight by new adminstration 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The dawn  
of the Obama presidency  
could not shake the stock  
market from its dejection  
over the rapidly deteriorat:  
ing state of the banking  
industry. .  
Financial stocks: many of  
them falling by double digit  
percentages, led a huge  
drop on Wall Street  
Tuesday that left the major  
indexes down more than 4  
percent and the Dow Jones  
industrials down 332  
points. Although traders on  
the floor of the New York  
Stock Exchange paused to  
watch the inauguration cer­ 
emony and Obama's  
remarks, the transition of  
power didn't erase  
investors' intensifying con­ 
cerns about struggling  
banks and their impact on  
the overall economy.  
The market's angst,  
which began with multibil­ 
lion dollar losses reported  
last week by Bank of  
America Corp. and  
Citigroup Inc., intensified  
after the Royal Bank of  
Scotland's forecast that its  
losses for 2008 could top  
$41.3 billion.  
The collapse in bank  
stocks was swift: State AP  
Street Corp. plunged 59 Traders on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange pause to watch the  
percent, Citigroup fell 20 inaugural speech of President Barack Obama Tuesday.  
percent and Bank of America lost 29 percent. Royal Bank of Scotland fell 69 percent in New York trading. "The reason we're having a panic drop is the fact that Europe is catching our cold, and we could have deeper and deeper problems that could require more and more money. And eventual­ly the government is going to have to stop spending," said Keith Springer, presi­dent of Capital Financial Advisory Services. "It's a pretty dangerous situation to be in." The shrinking value of bank stocks means the financial industry accounts for less than 10 percent of the Standard & Poor's 500 index for the first time since 1992. At the end of 2006, banks made up 22 percent  of the stock market bench­mark. And the market's retreat Tuesday means Wall Street has eaten through most of the advance it made from Nov. 20 through Jan. 6. The S&P 500, which had been up as much as 24 percent, is now up only 7 percent from its November low. Fears about banking eclipsed the shift in Washington. Royal Bank of Scotland's forecast for what would be the .biggest los~ ever for a British corpora­tion left investors fearful that government's would have to nationalize banks to keep them from collapsing. The British government injected more money into the struggling bank Monday and announced another round of bailouts for the country's banks.  State Street and Regions Financial Corp., a bank with branches primarily in the Southeast, both report­ed big earnings drops Tuesday. Acknowledging tne global economy's woes, Obama suggested Wall Street would see greater oversight: "Without a watchful eye, the market can spin out of control," he said in his address outside the Capitol. Obama warned the eco­nomic recovery would be difficult and that the nation must choose "hope over fear, unity of purpose over conflict and discord" to overcome the worst eco­nomic crisis since the Great Depression. Investors are expecting Washington will be a cen­tral part of the economic recovery. But the first hours  of rhe new administration did little to ease their con­cerns. "At this stage, markets in general and bank investors specifically are really look­ing to government as the way out," said Jack Ahlin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank. "Certainly, of just about all of inaugurations that I can recall today's event proba­bly has the not only the symbolic importance but really tangible importance to the stock market." The Dow Jones industrial average fell 332.13, or 4.01 percent, to 7,949.09, its lowest close since Nov. 20, . when the blue chips ended at 7,552.29-their lowest point in more than five years. It was also the blue chips' biggest drop since Dec. 1.  

FBI: Broker planned disappearance 
The Florida financier's car was The 76-year-old financier disap­

Associated Press 
found at a Sarasota airport, and peared last Wednesday. Nadel told 

TAMPA, Fla. -A missing hedge Sheriff's Lt. Chuck Lesaltato said they his wife he was going to his office, fund manager who owed investors a believe Nadel left on his own volition. but was not there when she arrived $50 million payout told his wife in a "He doesn't want to be found," about two hours later. Later, Nadel note he felt guilty about mismanag­Lesaltato said. called and said he'd left something ing people's money, and threatened Also on Tuesday, pepper spray for her in a desk drawer at their to kill himself, according to a sheriff's manufacturer Mace Security ranch-style home in Sarasota. That's report released Tuesday. International claimed Nadel owed where she found a suicide note, the 
However, the Sarasota County them $2.2 million. The company said sheriff's report states. Sheriff's Office said it believes Arthur in a release they'd been informed the In it, Nadel told his wife how much 
G. Nadel planned his disappearance deposits could not be located, and he loved her. He also said he felt and that it was ending its search for that documents Nadel had provided guilty over losing other people's him. were not authentic. money. 
The Federal Bureau of "We have already filed a report "The subject wrote that as a result Investigation will continue to investi­with authorities, and we intend to of his management of other people's gate complaints from investors who take all possible legal action against money that there are those that were expecting Nadel to deliver the the Victory Fund," Mace CEO Dennis would like to kill him," the sheriff's $50 million redemption on Jan. 15, Raefield said, referring to one of report states, "but that he will do it the day after he disappeared. Nadel's hedge funds. himself." 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, January 21, 2009 
Speech 
continued from page 1 
the problems that face our nation will eventually be overcome. 
"Today I say to you that the challenges we face are real, they are serious and they are many," he said. "They will not be met easily or in a short span of time. But know this ,America: They will be met. 
Among these challenges: A faltering economy, that is "badly weakened, a conse­quence of greed and irre­sponsibility on the part of some but also our collective failure to make hard choices and prepare the nation for a new age," he said. 
Michelle Obama held the Bible for her husband, a "man· whose father less than sixty years ago might not have been served at a local restaurant," as he said in his speech. 
His words not were not only addressed to the American people, but "all other peoples and govern­ments" who watched the cer­emony on television all over the world, "from the grand­est capitals to the small vil­lage where [Obama's] father was born." 
Marking Tuesday as a new era in the history of the nation, Obama called all citi­zens to work toward a better tomorrow. 
"We must pick ourselves up, dust ourselves off, and begin again the work of 

remaking America," he said. 
The response from the crowd at several moments during Obama's speech was ear shattering -all were clapping, some cheering loudly .-nd others still weep­ing from happiness. 
Obama, who arrived at the Capitol Tuesday morning with President George W. Bush, repudiated some of the policies put in place by his predecessor, calling for change where change is needed. 
. "The question we ask today is not whether our govern­ment is too big or too small, but whether it works, whether it helps families find jobs at a decent wage, care they can afford, a retirement that is dignified," he said. "Where the answer is yes, we intend to move forward. Where the answer is no, pro­grams will end." 
At the close of his address, the new president called upon the nation to "remem­ber these timeless words: 
"With hope and virtue, let us brave once more the icy currents, and endure what stores may come; let it be said by our children's chil­dren that when we were test­ed we refused to let this jour­ney end, that we did not turn back nor did we falter," he. said. "And with eyes fixed on the horizon and God's grace upon us, we carried forth that great ~ift of freedom and delivered tt safely to future generations." 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
she was moved after insightful," Whitten said. watching the inauguration For Gibbons, the attitude
Ca01p~s 
in her dorm of the rest of continued from page 1 room. the world 
"I felt like "I think it's really 
toward Conway said. 0 b a m a encouraging that so Obama and Conway noted that the touched on his election
much ofthe world is 
inauguration was particu­everything has been larly exciting for the cur­that had got­so hopeful about his inspiring. rent generation of college ten him the presidency and so "I think it's students. presidency, really
inspired by his 
"Our generation, it's the focusing on encouraging
election./ think it's 
first inauguration of a new his ideas of that so much president that we can change and really impressive how of the world remember really well," how immedi­is so hopeful
the whole world came
Conway said. "It's inspiring ate action about his
together to celebrate
to see someone who I know need to be presidency is going,,U> being change taken in order his election and I and so we need. to solve the think it bodes well for inspired by 
She said she is confident problem that his election,"
his presidency." 
Obama can handle the we're in," Gibbons said. challenges of the presiden­Bath said. "He "I think it's cy. emphasized Sean Gibbons r e a I I y "I thought IObamal dw a · that we have a impressive
sophomore
good job of integrating the solution. It 's how the issue of the economy and in our history, whole world things that are most press­we were brought up with came together to celebrate ing with this notion that his election and I think it things that as Americans, bodes well for his presi­are pushed we ·can do any.-dency." to the way­"Our generation, it's thing." Gibbons said Obama's side, like the first inauguration Whitten said speech demonstrated that healthcare, that Obama's the nation has work to do,
ofa new president
education perspective on but also confident that and envi­that we can government America can resume its ronmental remember really well. stood out to leadership position and be sustainabili­her. an example for the rest of
It's inspiring to see
ty," Conway "I really liked the world. said. "He someone who I know when he said "I definitely got the feel­gave me is going to being some people ing from [Obama'sJ inaugu­hope that question ration speech that we have
change we need. " 
he's going whether a gov­a lot we need to do as a to try to ernment is too country," Gibbons said. "A solve a lot Caitlin Conway big or whether lot of changes are going to of problems senior a government is be necessary, a lot of diffi­at once too small, but cult changes.:· instead of the real ques­handling tion is whether things for the short term." a government works. I Contact Emma Driscoll at 
Senior Lorna Bath said thought that was very edriscol@nd.edu 



Travel 
continued from page 1 
George W. Bush became the former president, and Obama became America's-first black president. 
On the Mall and along the parade route, Notre Dame students, professors and alumni witnessed the historic event. Approximately 50 members of the Africana Club and members of the College Democrats of Notre Dame arrived in Washington Tuesday morning on separate buses. 
Juniors Chris Luken, Matt Howard and Cate McGillivray, all members of the Washington Program, had tickets to the viewing area on the Mall. They left their apartments in north Washington. at 7:30 a.m. to make it to the ceremony. 
"A lot of people in the pro­gram didn't support Obama," Howard said, "But everyone came today." 
Louis Pignatelli, a graduate student at Notre Dame, has 

\ 
been a supporter of Obama since his entrance into Illinois politics. When he met Obama in Illinois several years ago, he said he thought he was bound for bigger things. 
Pignatelli said he has high hopes for the Obama presi­dency. 
"Iq the longer term, I think what we are going to see is a second coming of [Franklin Delano Roosevelt's] promise for America," he said. 
The highlight of Inauguration Day, 1968 Notre Dame graduate Richard DiLorenzo said, was listening to Obama's speech. DiLorenzo, 62, and weaiing a hat from his alma mater, arrived in Baltimore from Ohio with his wife Tuesday morning in time to see the ceremony. 
Thousands waved l'Iags. Many wore Obama gear. All were dressed warmly to with­stand the winter tempera­tures, which hovered around 30 degrees. 
Julia Jett, 75, drove from Birmingham, Ala. with sever­al members of her family to see the inauguration. The trip took 13 hours. 
"It was worth it," she said. 
Jett's granddaughter, Laketha Robinson, 32, brought her daughter Ariyuna, 6, to the inaugura­tion, waking up at 2 a.m. to make it to the city in time to stand in line at an entrance gate. 
"I want her to remember the crowd," Hobinson said. "The importance of being here." 
The crowd stretched the length of the National Mall, from the Capitol building to the Lincoln Memorial and f1ooded out to the side streets off the grassy expanse. 
"It's crowded, but every­body's friendly," Hobinson said. "You step on a person's toe, and it's OK." 
People in attendance at the inauguration eame from around the country, and some 
from  distant  parts  of the  
world.  
Three  days  ago,  Faosat  

Idowu, 62, took an 18-hour flight from Nigeria to be pres­ent when Obama took the oath of office. 
"It's a new beginning. It's a new dawn for us," she said. "We believe he is going to bring a change economically, financially, all the works." 
Idowu was wearing tradi­tional Nigerian garb -a hand-woven shawl and a headdress -decorated with Obama's image. The rest of her family was watehing the inauguration from Nigeria. 
Inauguration Day, Idowu said, is "something that will stay with me for the rest of my life." 
Th(~ trip to the inauguration was much shortnr for Sarah Hobinson, 52. Hobinson, who has lived in Washington, D.C. since she was 11, brought several members of her extended family with her to the Capitol grounds. She was standing hundreds of yards away from the Capitol, still waving an Ameriean l'Iag after Obama had lel't the plat­form to drive to a lunch and then participate in the parade. 
"It's just a blessing to see how far we came as a people, from the riots, to the discrim­ination, to today, with Obama as our president," said 

AARON STEINER/The Observer 
Sarah Robinson, 52, waves a flag on the National Mall during the inauguration yesterday. 
Robinson, who is black.· "I didn't care how far away I was, I just wanted to be on the ground, because it's truly a blessing from God.!' 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 


Wednesday, January 21, 2009 The Observer + NEWS page 9. 

AARON STEINER/The Observer Over one million people crowded the National Mall in Washington, D.C. Tuesday morning for President Obama's inauguration, most traveling from long distances from around the country. Obarna delivered his inaugural address shortly after noon on Tuesday to a captive audience. Those in att~dance braved cold weather, long lines and chaotic crowds to catch a glimpse of the country's 44th president. 
• 
THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, January 21, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 

On friendship 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

As I work through my last semester, I of humor and similar approaches to tion between the two concepts is firm 
EDITOR IN Cll!EF 

reflect on the many things I have larger issues (somewhat nebulous, but .and internally felt by an individual -or 
Chris Hine 

learned in my tenure here. The only let us proceed regardless). This connec­at the very least should be in order for MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER topic on which I have reached any sort tion through basic personality also does the person to understand the different Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan of conclusive thought is, I now realize, not make Fred, Gary and Chris friends. t~pcs of relationships in his or her life. 
friendship. And so For example, in a discussion in a class The primary factors of friendship can be
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR! Katie Kohler 
I grace you with of mine I found a classmate who shared present in an acquaintanceship: trust 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR! Deirdre Krasula 
my seemingly dis­my taste in music, understood my jokes and respect ean exist together, vulnera­NEWS EDITOR! Jenn Merz jointed yet eventu­and thought like me. But neither of us bility and respect can exist together, and VIEWPOINT EDITOR! Kara King ally fitting tract on was compelled to spend any more time so forth. Only when the three are unified SPORTS EDITORS:· Dan Murphy the nature and together than our brief contact in class. and complete may a friendship germi­application of Therefore personality does not inherent­nate.
Bill Brink 

friendship On 900 ly induce people to forge long-lasting All friendships, then, necessarily start
SCENE EDITOR! Analise Lipari 

words). conneetions with similarly minded peo­in a stage where the people are
SAINT MARY's EDITOR! Liz Harter 

Who can be ple. acquaintances. Furthermore, friend­
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 

considered Again, our heroes have been granted ships (understood by me to be constant­GRAPHICS EDITOR! Mary Jesse friends? Is there a another factor explaining their relation­ly evolving structures) can move freely ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer distinction ship but no essential element determin­between the levels of friendship and between a friend ing it or defining it as friendship. A acquaintanceship as the people involved 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 

and an acquain­seeming\y endless list of related factors shift and develop their own conscious­
CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill 

tance? How can could be given further illustrating the nesscs and psyches. A friend can 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR! Mike Moriarity 
this distinction be practically realized? interactions of Fred, Gary and Chris: become an acquaintance as quickly or OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO I will begin my discussion with the Their parents' homes are in close prox­as slowly as an acquaintance can 
(574) 631-7471 creation of a scenario to which I will imity, they played sports together, they become a friend. The practfcal realiza­
FAX 

return throughout: Fred, Gary and Chris registered for similar elasses, they spent tion of friendship or acquaintanceship
(574) 631-6927 

are three people who went to the same time with the same group of people, etc. rests less practically than internally on
ADVERTISING 

high school. They are all seniors in col­Over and over, these items can be tested the independent beliefs of the various 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF lege now. Fred and Chris attend Blank to show that nothing on this level would individuals involved. This then leads to 
(574) 631-4542 U; Gary attends Blank State. They have make Fred, Gary and Chris friends. the case in which a Fred could view a MANAGING EDITOR been in close contact since the summer Nothing that can be rationally discerned Gary as a friend but that same Gary
(574) 631-454! obsme@nd.edu 

before their sophomore year of high or logically argued can bestow upon could view that same Fred as an 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

school and still keep in touch regularly. these three people the honor of friend­acquaintance.
(574) 631-4324 

BUSINESS OFFICE Fred, Gary and Chris are not inherent­ship. In conclusion, there is no steadfast or 
(574) 631-5313 ly friends. Working under the givens of So what does? ultimately determined pathw<ty to define NEWS DESK the scenario they are merely people who As I have come to understand it, a friendship. The relationship itself 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu have spent ample time together over the friend is someone upon whom you grant remains irrational and emotionally
VIEWPOINT DESK 

past seven (plus) years. But you might your trust, your respect and your poten­derived. From the outside, we can never
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.I@nd.edu 

think that the sheer amount of time tial for vulnerability. Without trust, simi­tell if Fred, Gary and Chris are friends:
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 
631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu spent together would make them lar likes and dislikes or a copious To us they are merely people who SCENE DESK friends. The fault in this argument can amount of time spent in the same circle remain in close contact and to judge 

(574) 
631-4540 scene.I@nd.edu be found in the following: I have known will never allow two people to build an them as anything else is presumptuous 


SAINT MARY'S DESK 

my uncle my whole life (more than interdependence and symbiotic under­and wrong. 
smc. I @nd.edu 

seven years) and remain in close contact standing. Without respect any of the True friendship is difficult to explain.
PHOTO DESK 

with him due to the fact that he lives above factors are rendered meaning­Even with my "conelusive thought" I still 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS within 10 miles of my parents. Yet I less. Without becoming vulnerable in do not know how I can explain to you 
(574) 631-8839 would not call or define my uncle as a the presence of the other person, or per­why Fred, Gary and Chris are friends. 
THE friend because he is my family, my sons, an individual will never be able to But they are. And sometimes that's blood. So though time seems a com­build a level of trust or respect neces­enough.
OBSERVERONLINE 

pelling factor, there must be a condition sary for the friendship to commence.
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

underlying this span of time which will Without all three factors working in uni­Andrew Miller is a senior English 
POLICIES 

determine for us whether Fred, Gary son, a friendship is malformed and major. He can be contacted at The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper and Chris are in fact friends. incomplete. Such a degraded friendship amille15@nd. edu published in print and online by the students ofthe Let us then assume that Fred, Gary (and not necessarily degraded, but, The views expressed in this column 
University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's 
and Chris share several interests which more simply, unfinished) is how I have are those ofthe author and not 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
we will define as: taste in music, sense defined acquaintanceship. The distinc-necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither 
• 

institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
News Mandi Stirone Sports Madeline Buckley Bill Brink QUOTE OF THE DAY 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
John Tierney Greg Arbogast Graphics Michael Blasco 
"Education is the ability to listen to
Blair Chemdlin Scene 
· "If you would win a man to your
almost anything witliout losing 
Viewpoint Michelle Fordice ­
cause, first convince him that you Katrina self-confidence."
your temper or your 
are his sincere friend." 
Schmerold 

Abraham Lincoln
Robert Frost 

former U.S. president
U.S. poet 



THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Wednesday, January 21, 2009 page 11 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Research is not the enetny 
Regarding Prof. Rice's editorial in Monday's Observer ("Catholic identity," Jan. 19): 
I generally enjoy the articles by Prof. Rice, as he brings a good Catholic point of view to the editorial pages. However, as a practicing Catholic and a grad student, I must disagree with his opinion that increasing Notre Dame's research initia­tives and academic stature will only decrease its Catholic identity. 
When Prof. Rice claimed that Notre Dame and other schools have funded research mainly through increases in undergraduate tuition and fees, I had an awful vision of myself-a mosquito of a grad student, fattening myself on the blood and sweat of unfortunate under­graduates and their parents! I must protest at this portrayal. 
Graduate students in my discipline (mechanical engineering) generally receive a tuition waiver and a stipend. I could not fmd exact percentages, but I know that much of this money comes from external grants. According to an April16, 2008 press release, Notre Dame has received over $90 million in external research funding. My own advisor's research is funded from sources as diverse as the Indiana 21st Century Fund and the U.S. Army. 
It's true that tuition increases have hit everyone hard in the past few years. However, with the abundance of external funding, I feel it is unfair to blame tuition increases on ND's research initiatives. Call me an idealist, but I believe that Notre Dame's Catholic identity is not doomed by its goal to become a great research university. I was most saddened by the way that good scholarship and strong faith are portrayed as inherently conflicting. 
Prof. Rice bemoans the lack of Catholic professors at Notre Dame, but Catholic professors don't exactly grow on trees. I for one appreciate Notre Dame's Catholic identity, especially since academia can sometimes seem like the sole province of committed skeptics. 
According to a July 2007 article in Harvard Magazine, 37 percent of profes­sors at "elite research universities" are atheist or agnostic. It doesn't take a math Ph.D. to figure that of the remaining 63 percent, there are probably a small minority who are Catholics, and an even smaller minority who are actually practic­ing their Catholic faith. This gives Notre Dame a fairly small pool of candidates to choose from. However, I think Notre Dame is in a unique position to help rem­edy this situation. 
By increasing research funding and recruiting Catholic graduate students, Notre Dame can create a pool of talented Catholic academics who could become the ND professors of the future. It might take some time, but Notre Dame could actually reverse the trend of fewer Catholic pro­fessors by increased research funding. I envision a cooperation with other Catholic universities to build up this talent pool of Catholics in academia. Idealistic, I know, but not impossible in my opinion. 
Research at Notre Dame is also benefi­cial to undergraduate students. In our research group we have a number of undergraduates doing their own research. This gives them hands-on expo­sure to science as well as major advan­tages in applying to graduate and profes­sional schools. I'm impressed by their smarts and initiative, and I wish I had had the same opportunities at my undergrad alma mater. But without funding, under­graduate research would be impossible. 
In closing, we graduate students, bene­ficiaries of Notre Dame's push to become a top research university, are not-the enemy. Not all of us are die-hard secular­ists bent on destroying ND's Catholic iden­tity. Some of us do appreciate ND's uniqueness and the opportunities she offers to grow in our faith. 
I agree wholeheartedly with Prof. Rice when he says, "the false dichotomy between faith and academic quality dis-. torts reason as well as faith." He might be pleasantly surprised to fmd that he does indeed have support for preserving the Catholicity of Notre Dame among the graduate student population -and many of us would not be here without Notre Dame's increased commitment to research! 
Christina Merrill grad student offcampus Jan. 19 

Trying to go (lap )topless during class 
I'm easily distracted. I have to have my background noise while studying, and during class there are plenty of thirrgs that can steal my attention away from the professor -Gchat, Digg and Perez Hilton, 
to name 3; fe~. Christina 
The maJonty of 
Domenico

my distractions have one thing in University of common -they Pennsylvaniaoriginate on a 
Daily

lovely little thing 
Pennstzvanian 

we call "the Internet" and are accessible on a portable device called the "laptop." For all the great advancements in communication and technology that the Web has allowed, it is a brick wall stand­ing in between a pile of research and a student's term paper. Even worse, open web browsers are tempting eye-candy for those of us who go the old-fashion route and Five-Star it. 
There's no reason why students should use the Internet so heavily during class. Unless a professor asks everyone to navi­gate to a certain page, open laptops do nothing more than attract eyeballs that should be attending to lecture notes. Bright, shiny monitors in front of a college student during lecture are evolved bug­zapper lamps. 
Sure, you may say that you're not affect­ed by it. That you can pay attention, take good notes and still catch up on the latest headlines at nytimes.com. Or that you have the discipline to remain oblivious to your neighbor's open PennLink page. But then you'd be lying to yourself. 
The evidence? Take this annual exam­ple. Every spring, there's that one frater­nity pledge who causes a stir in a big lec­ture class because he's watching porn in the first row. If no one was paying atten­tion to the laptop ahead of him or her, the annual commotion would never occur ­but it always does, without fail. Just wait a few weeks from now. 
Currently, some Penn professors choose to ban laptops from the classroom to pre­vent any distraction they can create. Marketing professor Tony Adams announces on the first day of his classes that his is a "topless" class. And he's not talking about clothing. 
"How could you have been 'great' (in class) if you were hiding behind a lap top screen?" he asked in an e-mail. "My last 2 undergrad classes, I've instituted the 'top­less' rule-and everyone seems to get more out of class." 
Of course, taking notes on a computer has many benefits, and more and more students are doing so. I mean, it's easy. Students can write more information quicker and more accurately. For those who love the greener side of the street, electronic notes also reduce the amount of paper thrown out at the end of the semes­ter. When a class is heavy on content, a computer definitely comes in handy. 
So to cut out distractions and get the most out of our tuition dollars, one drastic and evil option is to shut down wireless access in classrooms. And since we finally, sort of, have one AirPennNet system, I don't advocate this. 
But last spring, the University of Chicago Law School took this step to cut out non-class related computer use. As Dean Saul Levmore said in his letter to the school's students and faculty, "we know that class time is not for shopping and e­mailing." 
Still, that's what it has become in many lecture halls around campus. You can find a wide array of non-academic content popping up on every computer around. Perhaps, then, this problem shouldn't be blamed on wireless internet access or the presence oflaptops, but" on students them­selves. If students don't care to pay atten­tion to class, then it's their loss. 
In the name of the New Year, let's all make a resolution to cut our internet activity while a professor is talking. If not in the name of our own GPA, then for the sake of our classmate whose notes may suffer because they're distracted by the porn two rows up. 
Whatever the case, the overabundance of web surfing during class detracts from the overall atmosphere. We go to the class for the material -not to read over our peers' shoulders as they catch up on the latest celebrity gossip. 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 20 edition ofDaily Pennsylvania, the daily paper of the University of Pennsylvania. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE 
By ALEXANDRA KILPATRICK 
Scene Writer 

The fourth season of 'Lost' clear­ly marked a sharp transition in the viewers' motivation for watching the show. The audience was no longer waiting to see if the passen­gers from Oceanic Flight 815 would ever get rescued from the island, but instead looking for an explanation to the secrets of the island. 
The fourth season is also marked by a battle between two groups, the Others and Charles Widmore's science team: 
The science team: Headed by Charles Widmore, an extremely wealthy industrialist, the team arrives to the island via helicopter from a freighter, called the "Kahana," at the beginning of the season. The passengers of flight 815 quickly realize that the team is not there to rescue them, but rather hired by Charles Widmore to explore the island's strange properties and essentially exploit it. 
The Others: A group of people who have.been living on the island for many years, long before the Dharma Initiative, a research proj­
f
. ~ -~ 
1
~)~·
:~.··.··· 
:.·:,:. 
·.:.:."" 

Although undying love or hatred for a cultural phenomenon is easy to understand, indifference-is somewhat harder to pin down. This Wednesday, while so many of 
my friends  
are anxiously  James McGuire  
·awaiting the  
. premiere of the penulti­ Scene & Heard  
mate season  

of ABC's hit serial "Lost," I will probably be doing homework or trolling around cable looking for "Dirty Jobs." I have been judged and met with bewildered stares on this subject dozens of times. "You don't watch 'Lost'?! But it's the best thing ever." The way I see it, a large segment of the American populace has drunk the Kool-Aid once more, and I'm just riding things out with water. 
Being the pop culture maverick that I am, I have always been aware of "Lost." I have a vague idea of who Kate, Jack, and Sawyer are, and I know that their shenanigans involve an island, a hatch, and one of the hobbits from ect designed to conduct experi­ments on the island beginning in the 1970s. They do not want the island to be manipulated by Charles Widmore's team. 
The Others include: 
Benjamin Linus: The leader of the Others who takes many drastic measures in a last-ditch effort to save the island. Linus is also slow­ly phased out as the leader of the Others as flight survivor John Locke begins to learn more about the island's secrets and gains more of a leadership role among the Others. At the end of the fourth season, Linus uses a wheel under­ground to move the island in time and space, which causes it to apparently disappear. 
Hichard Alpert: Linus' advisor who seems to be ageless as he appears in several flashbacks at many different times but never appears to change in physical appearance. Flashbacks•show that he helps Linus to kill off the Dharma Initiative in 1992, recruits Juliet, a fertility doctor from Miami, to the Others as a scientist in 2001, and appears at Locke's birth in 1956. In the fourth season, 
he  leads  the  Others  to  "The  
Temple."  
Jacob:  The  Others'  highest  

authority, Linus receives orders 
st? No, I'm ri2ht here 
"The Lord of the Rings," but it has never quite struck my fancy. There always seemed to be a lot going on: things blowing up, peo­ple pulling guns on each other, and I think there was even an abominable snowman one time. Maybe I just hit it on a bad day on those several dozen occasions I caught it. 
However, that begs the question: Is there something wrong with me? I like to think that I am an intelligent person with a biting wit. Maybe it's just how I'm wired. I don't watch "American Idol" either (that's more of a Hyan Seacrest thing though) or "The Office." Perhaps I'm not meant to watch anything that is in the Top 20 in the Nielsens. I like my old standards, my tried and true hits. Was I the only one excited when Spike TV started airing "Married... with Children" again? Or who doesn't mind that TBS will air about twelve hours of "Family Guy" in a row? There is no accounting for taste, I suppose, but most of what the major net-from him and is the only person in regular contact with him. lie lives in a cabin on the island that ~eem­ingly moves and is invisible to some people. Locke visits Jacob's cabin, but he can only hear Jacob, not see him. 
Charles Widmore's team, also known as the "Kahana" crew, includes: 
Miles Straume: a spiritualist who can apparently talk to the dead, an important characteristic on an island where people appear who are supposedly dead, including flight survivor Jack Shephard's father, Christian. 
Daniel Faraday: a quirky, nerv­ous, theoretical physieist, who rec­ognizes that there are strange physical properties on the island. For example, when a helicopter takes Desmond Hume and Sayid Jarrah to the freighter or the Kahana, Faraday notices that prime dilation occurs, a phenome­non in which time begins moving slower when something is moving at the speed of light time. lie also helps Desmond, who becomes unstuck in time between the years 1996 and 2004 while traveling to the freighter, by telling him to find a reliable constant in both time periods. 
Kevin Johnson: Flight survivor 

' 

Michael Dawson, famous fo yelling Walt every chance he gets. appears as a spy for Linus one Widmore's freighter under thel alias Kevin Johnson. Be is the jani­tor aboard the "Kahana" and: attempts to disarm a bomb on thej freighter but fails and is killed. along with another flight survivor' Jin Kwon. 
Other significant elements of thet fourth season include: 
The l'lash-forwards: Following! with the canon of the third season; finale, the fourth season includes~ significantly more nash-forwards! than flashbacks. These flash-for­wards show the lives of a few pas­sengers after they safely leave the! island (yes, they do get rescued from the island) and give hints as to who is included in the Oceanic 
6. However, a few flashbacks fol­low the lives of the supposed res­cue team. 
The Oceanic 6: The six charac­ters aboard Oceanic flight 815 who event-ually safely leave the island are revealed in the flash-forwards. This group includes Kate Austen; Sayid Jarrah; Sun Kwon; Claire Littleton's baby, Aaron; Hugo "IIurley" Heyes; and Jack. 
Contact Alexandra Kilpatrick at Alexandra.C.Kilpatrick.5@nd.edu
.. 

works have churned out over the past few years seems inter­changeable to me. Can anyone actuaUy tell me what the differ­ence is between "Private Practice" and "Grey's Anatomy"? 
Maybe it's because I have been burned by addictive television shows before. "The X-Files" was just about the greatest thing ever when I was thirteen (I'd take the Cigarette Smoking Man and the black oil over the Dharma Initiative any day) but was torn asunder when David Duchovny left and they thought that the bad guy from "Terminator 2" would be an acceptable substitute. And "ER" really was "must-see-TV" until everyone interesting either left (Dr. Ross), died (Dr. Greene), or got mangled by a helicopter (Dr. Homano). I'm a TV commit­ment-phobe at this point. 
Not to say that you shouldn't give things a chance, but you should never have to "work" at liking TV. You also shouldn't have to be ashamed of what you do watch either. If you like provoca­tive, cerebral television (like "Mad Men" or "Damages," for instance), then you should have at it. Is 24­hour cable news your thing? Well, I'm sure Nancy Grace has orches­trated another elaborate child dis­appearance for you. Do you design your class schedule so that you can run back to your dorm and watch John and Marlena do the dramatic, shifty eyes at each other on "Days of Our Lives"? Then come out of your shell and be proud of your taste in televi­sion (or lack thereoO. Life is too short to pretend that you are cool and actually know why the people on the island had to keep their finger on that button in the hatch for all those years. It's time to express yourself (and see what else is on). 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact James McGuire at jmcguir2@nd. edu 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Wednesday, January 21, 2009 page 13 
Caitlin Ferraro 

Scene & Heard 
questions pre­sented over the seasons. I have to know whether the Oceanic 6 return to the island and why. I have to know if and how Locke died. And I ­have to make sure Sawyer's (Josh Holloway) shirtless body is okay back on the island. 
I love the show because of the tangled yet prearranged design of the "Lost" universe. The show is about more than the passengers of Oceanic Flight 815 crashing on a mysterious island. Yes, the nature of this show is a supernatural one, but it is predominantly about rela­tionships. Each episode centers on one or two people, making the 
jShow a complex character study. 
,,~j 

The plot of "Lost" focuses around 
:some sort of sick, twisted quasi­experiment of stranding planeloads of people on a remote island, Jess Shaffer and completely out 
Kaitlyn Conway
of contact with 'the outside 

Scene & Heard
world. The series' aim, on the whole, must also be a sick 

What sick experiment? viewers' abilities to suspend knowledge of what being strand­-~J-Me:a an island entails hygienically. It viewers' patience to follow and :'II"'J''u'"'""''Y convoluted and inex­u"''-'"......"" plot and character supply. 
it experiments with the TV auolllo:;JLH_,o:;'S COmmitment tO a ShOW that apparently is so jam packed that missing one episode will leave 

in a jungle of confusion almost incomprehensibly mysterious as 
island itself. There is no doubt that the characters of "Lost" are not the only ones suffering from this 
island. In fact, even we, 

TV watching public, are nothing than guine.a pigs in a cruel, joke of the series that is 
Lost." 
you lead, I will follow? 
"Lost" is a show that should be tched daily. Yes, daily. Once a 

is just not enough. This is not ...,.._,...,...., • .,._, it's so irresistibly addictive. ad, a daily refresher is entirely ne,cessar to keep up with the com­
random plot developments 

are not only unpredictable but also unnecessary and ludicrous. Seriously, this show attracts new, random, and arbitrary plot lines faster than free pizza draws non-have connections to each other that they don't know about such as the fact that Claire (Emilie de Ravin) is Jack's sister. It is impressive and intriguing how every story is inter­twined somehow. 
Although ABC wants more episodes, writers Damon Lindelof and Carlton Cuse want to preserve its creative success and have set an end date for the series. Sadly, this means I only have so many more episodes to enjoy. 
"Lost" is series of unanswered questions, but although a single episode might tell me nothing, I am still excited by it. "Lost" is genuine­ly unpredictable but I have faith that all will be revealed in the end. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cfer­rarl@nd.edu 
. ---.. _. ·-__ --· 
_')\; 

of yet another season of shows that t< '; _ have done absolutely nothing to explain the mysterious goings on of the island 
Let's blow something up 
Among these numerous plot twists is the revelation of massive amounts of explosions. Some of these are found on the (plot twist!) pirate ship that had landed on the island. These: are used to open the hatch, which leads .us into another long, twisted season of 'what does it all mean?' At one point, there's even enough to blow up a submarine. Let's not talk about how implausible that is on a not-so-deserted island. There also seems to be a gratuitous amount of· guns on the island, which are often misfired and used to kill the minor characters that no longer have a place in the labyrinthine storyline. 
We can see how "Lost" draws peo­ple in. The never-ending mystery is fascinating, but the frustration caused by the fact that you never learn anything and can never catch up makes the show less pleasurable to watch and more like a hopelessly tangled knot you only work on because of stubbornness. The day "Lost" will fmally start to resolve itself is the day that the velocirap­tors will finally appear on the island. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffel@nd.edu and Kaitlyn Conway at kconway2@nd.edu 
... 

And because of the show's big cast. there is a character everyone can identify with or root for. 
The man in my corner is the heroic yet tortured Dr. Jack Shephard (Matthew Fox). Early on 
_in the series Jack takes on the responsibility of everyone else's lives, including siphoning his own blood out of his body in an effort to save a dying Boone's life. Regardless of who you root for, "Lost" fascinates the audience because every episode gives a glimpse of a particular character's life, usually off the island. And just when I was used to learning about the characters through flash backs, the third season finale tricked us and was instead a flash forward reminding viewers to expect turns and twists at every corner. 
"Lost" is certainly a complex mythology, and viewers have to be committed to every single episode, but the effort is worthwhile because the show is unafrctid to be 
.'lost~.---=';:::·.·.·...·~·u.·..·-~ 
inventive. No one is s any­one can die at any time. A piece of the magic of "Lost" is that there can be beauty in even death on the show. For example, the first single of Charlie's (Dominic Monaghan) band is the last song he hears before he dies. Every detail whether it be a city, name, song or even a book in the background has a reason for being there. It is amazing that millions of devoted fans spend hours writing and read­ing blogs trying to decipher these clues at to understand what is going on. 
I love "Lost" because I care about the characters and their relation­ships. I am invested in Desmond and Penny's love affair that trans­verses time. I will debate any Sawyer-Kate fan endlessly that Jack and Kate (Evangeline Lilly) belong together. I pray that Jin (Daniel Dae Kim) is somehow alive so that he can be reunited with Sun {Yunjin Kim). The characters even 
interested passer-bys to obscure campus events. The pre-episode recap is just not long enough to summarize the twist and turns that leave Viewers tangled up in knots week to week. So the only solution is to watch every week. Or if you have a life, and can't quite budget that in on a weekly basis, you have to _ entirely abandon the task of trying to comprehend what's going on. There is no "picking up'" this series. In fact, there is no casually follow­ing "Lost." You're options are care­ful attention to your addiction or complete ignorance of what's hap­pening. 
Hygenic heist 
If your plane crashed on a tropic jungle, how much deodorant, make­up, hair products, and shaving sup­plies would you have? Additionally, how long would this store last you? Apparently on "Lost," chins, legs, (though I prefer not to think about it) armpits, stay completely smooth and hairless. Apparently faces and hair remain spruced and clean, looking attractively disheveled and the diet of the average inhabitant of a desert island is the exact formula for maintaining weight. Many "Lost" characters have better hygiene than the typical college student. Alas, maybe this is still another undevel­oped plot line. The island has spe­cial powers to keep its victims clean and fresh. Now that's a code that should be cracked. Maybe this is the big secret of the series. 
No man is an island 
While no man may be an island, it seems that there is a seemingly end­less supply of people on an island. 
Luckily for the series, this island has just the right amount of only s~mi­important people. Hence, minor characters are fortunately expend­able, allowing the series to kill peo­ple off for dramatic purposes with­out losing the core cast. Additionally, there are always new people to add into the "Lost" uni­verse. I guess I got confused in the geography lessons of my youth. See, I thought islands were land locked, making it therefore implausible for such a continuous new supply of fresh cast members to appear. I also thought a main premise of the cast being stranded is that this island is lost, incapable of being found. So either this is only a figurative island 
that in reality is attached to the door of a Hollywood casting cent@r or everyone knows about this island except for the poor souls living on it. 
The plot thickens 

We all like a good plot, a nice cliffhanger to leave us wanting more at the end of our favorite show. "Lost" takes this a step too far. This show has an endless supply of plot twists, throwing in a surprising amount of new, interesting, and mysterious finds for an unknown island. The ever-growing cast of characters never lacks for some­thing new to explore, or to provide them with the tools of survival. This has even been known to include a shower. The plumbing behind this has never been explained. This has also been coupled with massive amounts of death in the form of minor characters. But don't worry­the main cast members won't kick the bucket until a dramatic, infuri­ating season fmale, marking the end 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, January 21, 2009 
NHL 

Ducks quack ~ver refs in loss to Rangers 
Bell scores third of Senators' three power-play goals with 1:22 remaining to give Ottawa win over Washington 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Henrik Lundqvist thought the New York Rangers' winning goal was anything but a thing of beauty. The Anaheim Ducks were not really sure it. should have even counted. 
Despite the varying opin­ions, Scott Gomez's chip shot from the side of the net found its way past Jonas Hiller, snapping a tie and lifting the "It didn't look good," Lundqvist said of his team's power play that somehow clicked twice. "We really struggled on the power play, but two goals went in. It felt like they were not really sharp, but that's what happens some­times." 
Nikolai Zherdev passed the puck onto Markus Naslund's stick in the crease and he deftly slid it to Gomez at the right post for a jam shot that got past Hiller for the winner with 7:21 remaining, 
"They made a play in the crease area and Naslund backed into our goalie and moved the puck over to the other side with both feet in the crease, Ducks coach Randy Carlyle 
Lundqvist made 32 saves for his 24th win. The Rangers bounced back from a lack­luster 3-0 loss at Pittsburgh on Sunday that wrapped up the trip. 
New York (28-16-4) scored 12 goals in its final six games before the break, but earned nine points in that stretch. · 
"We're just kind of playing to our strengths," Drury said. "We know we're not a high-scoring team, but that's OK. We'll win games with defense and goaltending. We'll win 2-1 or 3-2 with an empty net. A win is a win." 
Anaheim, 1-2 on a five­game trip that continues Wednesday on Long Island and conclu,des after the break, got goals from Corey Perry and rookie Bobby Ryan. Jonas Hiller stopped 26 shots, giving a break to Western Conference All-Star starter Jean-Sebastien Giguere. 
Hiller was pulled for an extra skater with 1:25 left, while Anaheim was on a power play, but Blair Betts sealed the win with a short­handed, empty-net goal with 
33.9 seconds to 
go. "Right now, 
said. was  "Gomez almost  "They made a play in  we're shooting  just our­ 
behind the net  the crease area and  selves  in  the  
when he tapped it in." Naslund, who  Naslund backed into our goalie and moved  foot," Ducks defenseman Chris Pronger  
scored a power-play goal in the first period,  the puck over to the other side with both feet in the crease. "  said. "It's not fun." Anaheim answered with  
had his back to  a  late goal in  
Hiller, but the goalie put more blame on  Randy Carlyle Ducks coach  each of the first t.wo peri­ods to forge  
himself for let- ties. Soon after  
ting  Gomez's  the  Rangers  
shot  sneak  failed  on  a  

through. power play, in which they 
"He was outside the were whistled for icing crease, I think," Hiller said. twice, Perry got the Ducks "I should still be able to stop even at 2 with his 14th goal. it." Lundqvist had made a 
The Rangers, playing their quick left pad stop against first home game following a George Parros on a redirect 3-1-1 trip, hopped back over in tight, but that only briefly the New Jersey Devils ipto protected New York's lead. first place in the Atlantic Perry took a pass from Division. New York is now Andrew Ebbett in the slot off for a week for the NHL and blew past defenseman All-Star break. Dmitri Kalinin before beat­
"It's a good little run of ing Lundqvist. points here. It's such a tight New York had gone·ahead division, it's such a tight 2-1 at 3:22 of the second race. Every night is a big when Sjostrom chased down game," Rangers captain teammate Michal Rozsival's Chris Drury said. "It's going long clearing attempt during to be a big test for us when an Anaheim power play and we get back." scored from the left circle. It 
Gomez also had an assist, was Sjostrom's third goal Fredrik Sjostrom added a and snapped his 26-game short-handed goal in the scoring drought. second period, and Naslund staked the 
CLASSIFIEDS 


Rangers goalie Henrlk Lundqvlst, right, blocks a shot by Ducks center Samuel Pahlsson during 
New York's 4-2 win over Anaheim Tuesday.  
Rangers to their first lead  Tuesday night.  Islanders. The Capitals had  
when he ripped in  a  drive  Bell put  a  shot from the  won 16 of their previous 21.  
from  the -slot  with  7:13  right  side  past  Jose  Theodore, 9-2-0 in his pre­ 
remaining in the opening  Theodore  18:38  into  the  vious 11  starts, made  31  
period. Naslund was set up  third  with  five  seconds  saves  in his fifth straight  
perfectly  after  broth~rs  remaining in  a  penalty to  start.  
Scott and Rob Niedermayer  Washington's  Alexander  Ottawa's Peter Regin made  
knocked the puck right to  Semin.  his NHL debut. A 22-year­ 
him while trying to clear the  Dany Heatley scored a pair  old  chosen  in  the  third  
Anaheim zone, and scored  of power-play goals in the  round  of the  2004 draft,  
his 15th goal to move into a  first to stake the Senators to  Regin  was  called up from  
tie with Drury for the team  a 2-0 lead.  Binghamton of the AHL ear­ 
lead.  Brian Elliott started his  lier in the day and became  
Ryan made it 1-1 with his  fifth in  a  row for Ottawa,  the fifth Danish-born player  
14th goal, which got him  which has  seven  points in  in league history, centering  
into  a  tie  four games (3­ a line with Mike Fisher and  
among  NHL  0-1), including  Nick Foligno.  
rookies at 13:45 of the first. Ryan, chosen No. 2 in  "It's a good little run ofpoints here. It's such a tight division,  a 5-4 shootout loss to Montreal on Saturday.  Fedorov scored his fifth goal of the season 37 sec­onds into the second, moments after a lengthy  
the 2005 draft after Sidney Crosby went first to  it's such a tight race. It's going to be a big test for us when we  Sergei Fedorov and Dave Steckel scored in the  video review determined that an earlier shot by Fedorov had not entered the net.  
Pittsburgh, has played in only  get back."  second to help the Capitals  The Russian veteran left no doubt on his next shot as  
30 games this season with the Ducks. He  Chris Drury Rangers captain  erase a two­goal deficit and tie it at 2  he one-timed pass from Semin and drove a slap shot from the slot between  
spent the first  midway  Elliott's  pads  to  draw  
18  games  in  through  the  Washington within 2-1.  
the minors, but has come on  middle period.  Steckel tied it at 2 with his  
recently with six goals in  Semin was called for trip­ sixth goal at 9:58.  
seven  games  -including a  ping with  3:17 remaining  Recently  moved  to  the  
hat trick.  after he upended Senators  Senators' second power-play  
captain Daniel Alfredsson  unit, Heatley opened the  
Senators 3, Capitals 2  while he  was  carrying the  scoring with his 20th goal  
OTTAWA  - Brendan Bell  puck through the neutral  8:11 in.  
scored Ottawa's third power­ zone.  The two-time 50-goal scor­ 
play goal of the game with  Washington ended a three­ er made it a two-goal lead at  
1:22 remaining to lift the  game winning streak follow­ 15:54 with his second goal  
Senators to  a  win  over the  ing a  2-1 road win in  over­ of the period, his team-lead­ 
Washington  Capitals  on  time  over  the  New  York  ing 21st.  .  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 J.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charlie is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all class1fieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
Babysitter wanted for 2 young chil­dren of ND faculty near ND Mondays &/or Wednesdays. Good pay. 
Please email kbrantma@nd.edu 
FoR RENT 
3 & 4 bedroom 3 full bath homes close to campus. Safe Neighborhood, cathedral ceilings, fireplace, 2 car garage, 10x20 decks. Call574-232-4527 or 269­683-5038. From $1 ,700/mo 
\ 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! Why pay for 12 months? 
Now offering 1 0-month leases. 
Bluegoldrentals.com 
4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Starts ­
6/09. $850/mo. 574-250-7653. 
PERSONAL 

Suck on it, Sensenbrenner. 
Special thanks to the good people of the 5th District of Wisconsin for not showing up. 
Obama's List of Things To Do: 

1a) Fix worst recession since Great Depression 
1b) Do so without crippling future generations with unimaginable level of debt 
2a) Successfully transfer forces from Iraq to Afghanistan 2b) Work on the fact a large %of the world is not so fond of America 
3) Make medical care and Social Security work 
4) Improve ailing public school sys­tem 
5) Many many more Tough list huh 


OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, January 21, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 15 
MLB 
Division I Men's Hockey USCHO Rankings 
team  points  record  
1  NOTRE DAME (38)  986  19•3·3  
2  Boston Univ. (7)  931  16·5·1  
3  Cornell (5)  877  13+3  
4  Denver  828  15·6·2  
5  Northeastern  821  15·5·2  
6  Minnesota  753  12·5·5  
7  Vermont  673  13•5·3  
8  Michigan  637  16·8·0  
9  Princeton  562  1H·O  
10  Miami  507  13·8-3  
11  New Hampshier  468  11-6-4  
12  Ohio Slate  467  16·6·2  
13  Colorado College  427  13·8·5  
14  Boston College  320  9·8·3  
15  North Dakota  316  14·10·2  
16  Wisconsin  280  13·10·3  
17  Minnesota-Duluth  123  11-7·6·  
18  Dartmouth  117  10+0  
19  Alaska  '100  11-8·5  
20  Airtorce  94  15·6·1  
21  Nebraska-Omaha  67  13·8-4  
22  Yale  39  11·5·1  
23  Minnesota State  26  11-11·3  
23  Quinnipiac  26  12·8·2  
25  RIT  16  14-9·1  

Division I Women's Swimming 
CSCAA Rankings 
team  points  
1  Georgia (7)  293  
2  Stanlord (2)  291  
3  Florida (1)  273  
4  Arizona  271  ,,,,..,..  
5  Auburn  263  
6  TexasA&M  258 '  
7  Teitnessee  239  
8  California  229  
9  Minnesota  218  

10 Virginia 289 
11 Michigan 193 12 North Carolina 118 13 Penn State 174 14 SMU 173 15 UCLA 157 16 Arizona State 148 17 Texas 131 18 LSU 119 19 Indiana 118 20 Wisconsin 114 21 Missouri 94 22 Florida Stale 92 23 Virginia Tech 911 24 Washington 90 25 usc 64 
·:·\:·:·:· 
NCAA Division I Fencing Rankings 

record 
U·O 4•1 .9·1 
94 
-~==~::; 7·0 3-D a.1 4·1 4·1 
6-D 
3·1 
2~3 
5-1 
4·2 /1-3 9-1 
6~1 
6-2 
9-1 
3·2 
13-2 9-2 
6-4 
6-2 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK, N.Y. -Ryan Howard proposed a salary as prodigious as one of his home runs. 
The Philadelphia Phillies first baseman asked for $18 million in arbitration Tuesday, the third-highest figure submitted since the process began in 1974. 
Philadelphia offered $14 million to the 2006 NL MVP, who is not eligible for free agency until after the 2011 season. Howard had a major league-leading 48 homers and 146 RBis last year, helping the Phillies win their first World Series title since 1980. Before the season, he was awarded $10 million in arbitration rather than Philadelphia's $7 million offer. 
Houston pitcher Roger Clemens set the record for highest request in arbitra­tion at $22 million in 2005. Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter is second at $18.5 mil­lion in 2001. 
Milwaukee first baseman Prince Fielder had the sec­ond-highest request this year at $8 million and was offered $6 million by the Brewers, who renewed his contract last year for $670,000. He had 34 homers and 102 RBis as Milwaukee reached the playoffs for the first time since 1982, down from 50 homers and 119 RBis in 2007. 
Colorado third baseman Garrett Atkins was third at $7.95 million. The Rockies offered a raise from $4.44 million to $6.65 million after he had 21 homers and 99 RBis. 
Forty-two players reached one-year agree­ments Tuesday just before the exchange. Among them were Seattle left-bander Erik Bedard ($7.75 million), Pittsburgh first baseman Adam LaRoche ($7.05 mil­lion), New York Yankees outfielder Xavier Nady ($6.55 million) and Boston closer Jonathan Papelbon ($6.25 million). 
While 111 players filed for arbitration last Thursday, just 46 exchanged figures with their teams. That group included Baltimore right fielder Nick Markakis, who has a tentative agreement on a $66 million, six-year deaL 

Yankees center fielder Melky Cabrera settled just after the swap, agreeing to a $1.4 million, one-year deaL 
Howard's $4 million gap was the largest among play­ers who exchanged figures with their teams. Tampa Bay and third baseman Willy Aybar had the small­est margin at $150,000, with the player asking for $1.05 million and the club offering $900,000. 
Men Women 
IN BRIEF
1 Penn State Penn State 2 Ohio State Barnard Steelers' Ward may be out Jayhawks' Bill Self faces Cardinals fans set 3 Columbia Harvard for Super Bowl recruiting snafu McNabb's lawn on fire 
4 Harvard NOTRE DAME 
PITTSBURGH, Penn. -Hines Ward LAWRENCE, Kan. -Kansas officials CHANDLER, Ariz. -Philadelphia
5 St. Johns Ohio State 
needs extensive work to rehabilitate are checking to see if basketball coach Eagles quarterback Donovan McNabb
6 NOTRE DAME Northwestern 
his sprained right knee for the Super Bill Selfs brief encounter with a top recently had to play defense at his off­
7 Pennsylvania St Johns 
Bowl, but Pittsburgh Steelers coach recruit might constitute an NCAA season home in Chandler.
8. Princeton Pennsylvania 
Mike Tomlin still expects the wide infraction. Two Arizona Cardinals fans hung
9 Stanford Prinooton 
receiver to play. Self. agrees he said hello to John their team's flag in a tree and burned
10 Ouke Yale 
"We're definitely not going to count Wall, a 6-foot-4 guard who had just "Go Cards," "Go Kurt," and "l heart AZ" him out," Tomlin said Tuesday. played in a high school tournament in in McNabb's yard with diesel fuel, "We're going to save a seat on the bus Springfield, Mo. It happened during an· 'Chandler police Sgt. Joe Favazzo said for 86." evaluation period last week when col­Tuesday. 
Ward, the Steelers' career receiving lege coaches are not allowed contact Favazzo said the fans hung the flag leader, sprained a medial collateral with prospects other than to exchange Thursday, and McNabb laughed it off
around the dial 
ligament while making a catch in the greetings. and even left it hanging. first quarter of the AFC championship "We are aware of the report, and the Then the fans returned Saturday and game against Baltimore on Sunday administration is looking into it," said left a cardboard box in the driveway night. If the Steelers played this week, Chris Theisen, a Kansas spokesman. with "Go Cards" written on one side and he may not have been ready. Wall is rated the No. 1 overall recruit "Beat Philly" on the other. McNabb 
NHL Tuesday was the players' scheduled in the class of 2009 by Rivals.com. The laughed that off, too, when he discov­day off, yet Tomlin observed Ward Springfield News-Leader said the ered it at about midnight, Favazzo said. doing extensive rehabilitation work in exchange took place between Self and But McNabb stopped laughing when 
Blues at Blackhawks 

the team's practice complex. The Wall outside Wall's locker room after a he went outside Saturday morning,
8:30 p.m., CSN 

Steelers leave Monday for Tampa and game Thursday night. smelled diesel fuel and realized some­the Feb. 1 game against Arizona, but "Basically, it's accurate," Self said one had burned Cardinals cheers into only after they go through a regular after beating Texas A&M 73-53 his lawn, causing about $2,000 in dam­week of practice. Monday night. age. 
Wednesday, January 21, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 16 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
. 

Wake Forest yawns at top ranking 
Associated Press 
Wake Forest was riding the bus home after beating Clemson when a walk-on broke the news: Pittsburgh lost, clearing the way for the Demon Deacons to jump to No.1. 
The last remaining unbeaten team in Division I then greeted that update with a collective yawn. 
"Nobody really got excited, like, 'We've got a chance to be No. 1,"' guard Jeff Teague said. "It was like, 'Oh. It doesn't mat­ter to us -(the Panthers) don't play in the ACC."' 
Forgive their tunnel vision. Wake Forest may have returned to the top of college basketball after its school-record 16-0 start, but the Demon Deacons can't stop to enjoy the view. Just down Tobacco Road are No. 2 Duke and No. 5 North Carolina in a concentration of big-time basket­ball power. 
"You really can't enjoy it much, because your goal is to be No. 1 at the end of the year," guard Ishmael Smith said. "The· funny thing is, you can be No. 1 today, and Wednesday night after the (VIrginia Tech) game, you could drop down to 10 or 12 just as easy. ... When people recognize it, you say, 'Thank you,' but you've really just got to keep pushing and keep pressing." 
Through the years, it has been an occasional struggle for tiny Wake Forest -the smallest school in the ACC, with an enroll­ment of about 4,500 undergrad­uates -to claw its way past instate rivals Duke, North Carolina and N.C. State and claim the spotlight. Each of those three programs has won multi­ple national championships while combining for nine NCAA for going to Wake ... to try to 

build that "You really can't school, to try to enjoy it much because 
get recruits like 
your goal is to be 

we have there 
now." No. 1 at the end of the While the year.Demon Deacons may have 
Ishmael Smith 

slipped under the national Wake Forest guard radar for the past few years, 
while leading a run-and-gun offense that aver­ages 85 points. 
Wake Forest makes more of its shots (51 per­cent) than any other team in the ACC. It is tougher to shoot against than anyone else in the confer­ence, allowing its 

Where the girls are. 

Wonder where ND girls are living next year? 
Brand new irish How Apartments and Irish Crossings Townhomes are leasing tast for both the 2009-2010 and 2010-2011 schooi years. 
Interestingly, future rt?sidents are 80% girls and 20% guys so far·--that's four girls to every one 9uy. 
What brings the girls? 


} 
·Maybe it's the cooi features that come w1th living at Irish Row or Irish Crossings, like: 
• 
Furnished residences -Including a 42" flat panei HDTV 

in every living room 

• 
Private. full bath in each bedroom 

• 
Up to 4 bf>drooms per unit FREE lntP.Jr,t>t & 20(!+ TV stations 




!ri~h 
Row 
•o 
&\ltJh;iif fff<fd'S 
* 
~ii.btti'll;•i ~MftlUl'~Pt
• 
• 
Laundry room w1th washer & dryer in each unit 

• 
Fitness center and lounge, includmg tanning 

• 
Brand new construction . 

• 
Cornmun1ty social event> 

• 
Close to QIOceries, restaurants. entertainment .~nd campus 


Come see what's bringing in all the girls. But, better hurry before all the guys catch on. 
Irish 
ROW 

lrishRowApartments.com 1 lrishCrossings.com kar le:W@irish~owapamnent~.com 1 574.277.6666 Sales model at the corner of Burd~tte & Vaness Str~ets 

NOW LEASING FOR 2009-2010 AND 2010-2011 
AUSTRALIAN OPEN 
New look, same game for NadaI
tournament titles. 
The Demon Deacons have pro­duced plenty of household names -Tim Duncan, Josh Howard, Muggsy Bogues -but they reached their only Final Four in 1962, when they were led by eventual TV analyst Billy Packer. 
Their only previous appear­ance at No. 1 came four seasons ago when late coach Skip Prosser and guard Chris Paul guided them to the top spot for two weeks in November. 
"A lot of times, you do get overshadowed (in North Carolina)," said Paul, now a star with the New Orleans Hornets. "And that was part of my reason flashes of potential as freshmen last season, leading them to an upset of then-No. 2 Duke that marked Gaudio's first big victory. 
This season, the Demon Deacons have made a rapid climb from a preseason ranking of No. 21. They snapped BYU's Division 1-best 53-game home­court winning streak, beat the then-No. 3 Tar Heels and went Oil the road last week to knock Clemson from the ranks of the unbeatens. 
Teague averages 21.4 points and is the ACC's second-leading scorer, trailing only defending national player of the year Tyler Hansbrough of North Carolina 

Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia ­Rafael Nadal ditched his trade­tnark sleeveless top in favor of a more conservative T-shirt. 
His bulging biceps may no longer be exposed to view, but they're certainly still driving the top-ranked player's muscular approach to the game. 
The 22-year-old Spaniard bul­lied Christophe Rochus around Rod Laver Arena on Tuesday night with some brutal fore­hands and 10 aces in a 6-0, 6-2, 6-2 first-round win at the Australian Open. 
He hit 47 winners in 22 games and Rochus, a Belgian who turned 30 last month, could get nowhere near most of them. 
Having the last match of the opening round had its advan­tages for Nadal. He'd already had a chance to see how Roger Federer, defending champion Novak Djokovic and fourth­ranked Andy Murray had pro­gressed. 
He would get another look at Federer and Djokovic in the sec­ond round Wednesday. Match two in Federer's quest to tie Pete Sampras' record 14th Grand Slam title is against Russian Evgeny Korolev. 
Nadal deflected a question about his intentions with such an aggressive start. He was less interested in upping the ante on his highly ranked rivals, he said, than in gauging himself after a 1 Vz-month layoff for tendinitis in his right knee. 
"I am no thinking nothing about this," he said. "I just think about try to play well myself. Roger and Novak and Murray, they are far (away) in the draw. 
"I just can play with them in semifinals or finals, no? I have to think (only) about next match right now." 
His next match is against 26­year-old Croatian Roko Karanusic, who was ranked 92nd and has never gone past the second round at a major. 
No. 9 James Blake beat Canadian Frank Dancevic 6-4, 6-3, 7-5 in the other night match, joining fellow American men -No. 7 Andy Roddick, Mardy Fish and Amer Delle -in the second round. The other three are in action Wednesday. 
The Williams sisters navigated the first step in the path to a potential semifinal showdown and, rather than do their own thing on the days between sin­gles matches, have decided to team up in the doubles. 
Serena Williams opened her campaign for a 10th major ­and to continue her odd-year pattern of Australian titles that stretches back to 2003 -with a 6-3, 6-2 victory over 123rd­ranked Yuan Meng. 
The temperature topped 104 degrees during the match, prompting Williams to finish points quickly, spend time in the shade and conserve fuel. 
"I was able to just take my time and play a lot slower, not giving 1 ,000 percent," she said. "I think it was pretty important for me not to ... go crazy out there." 
The temperature had dropped to 79 degrees for Venus Williams 6-3, 6-3 win over Angelique Kerber of Germany. 
Olympic gold medalist Elena Dementieva beat Germany's Kristina Barrois to extend her winning streak to 11 matches. No. 13 Victoria Azarenka of Belarus and 2006 champion Amelie Mauresmo of France also made it through. 
Murray needed only 12 games and 45 minutes to reach the sec­ond round, advancing when Andrei Pavel retired while trail­ing 6-2, 3-1.due to a back prob­lem. 
Since his career-best run to the final at the U.S. Open, he's grown in confidence and is now talking openly about "going one better." 
He lost to Federer at the U.S. Open, but has beaten the Swiss star three times since then. He's also had two wins over Nadal and one over third-ranked Djokovic. 
The 21-year-old Scotsman is not the only one encouraged by the run: British bookmakers are listing him as co-favorite to win the Australian Open. 
Fifth-seeded Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, the Muhammad Ali lookalike who launched his run at the last Australian fmal with a win over Murray and beat Nadal in the semifinals, started this time with a 6-4, 6-4, 6-0 win over Juan Monaco of Argentina. 
Fellow Frenchman No. 6 Gilles Simon and No. 24 Richard Gasquet also advanced. 
No. 13 Fernando Gonzalez of Chile, runner-up here to Federer in 2007, ended Lleyton Hewitt's 13th Australian Open. lfewitt, the 2001 U.S. Open and 2002 Wimbledon champion, lost the 2005 final here to Marat Safin. . 
Nadal has never reached the Australian final, but has improved one round each time he's come back to Melbourne Park. If that trend continues, he'll be in the championship match this time. 
He's never won a Grand Slam on a hard court, but won the Olympic gold medal in Beijing in August last year and had a tour­high 46-10 record on the sur­face. 
That was better than Federer (34-10), who has won eight of his 13 majors on the hard courts in New York or Melbourne. 
Rochus is touting Nadal, who beat Federer in the French Open and Wimbledon fmals and usurped his No. 1 ranking last year. Rochus was playing his 31st Grand Slam tournament and couldn't remember getting so badly mauled. 
He later joked that the this Grand Slam event -only his second since the 2007 French Open -would be his last. 
"He was going full power on every shot, and to every corner of the court," Rochus said, still shaking his head long after the match. "He was really impres­sive. He was .confident, he knew he had almost no chance to lose." 
Nadal had no mercy, stalking the baseline with a menacing look, seemingly concentrating on each point as if it was a breakpoint chance against him. Tie didn't need the practice, not having to face any of those. 
"You know, the sport is like this," he said. "Becau~e if you are not playing all the time 100 percent -if I had some mis­takes in some moments -he can come close back to me and anything can happen." 
the recruiting experts certainly never lost track. 
Big men Al-Farouq Aminu and Tony Woods were part of a fresh­man class rated No. 3 nationally by Scout.com. They were among the high school stars being recruited in person by Prosser the day before he died in July 2007 of an apparent heart attack. They honored their non­binding commitments to Wake Forest when the coach's long­time right-hand man, Dino Gaudio, was tabbed two weeks later to succeed him. 
Teague and forward James Johnson also stuck with the Demon Deacons and showed 
opponents to shoot just 36 per­cent. 
Johnson and Aminu rank among the league's top rebound­ers. And 7-footer Chas McFarland is one of four players who stand 6-11 or taller -giv­ing the defense-minded coach plenty of options for stopping Hansbrough and other dominant post players. 
"That's the good thing about this team-we're so talented, yet we still have so much more to work on," Smith said. "I still don't think everybody has played well at the same time.... We still have a whole lot to work on to get better." 

Wednesday, January 21, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Images of Fitzgerald a nightmare for Steelers 
Preparingfor Super Bowl, Pittsburgh players, coaches remember Arizona wide receiver's play at University of Pittsburgh 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH Larry Fitzgerald might be the most scouted player in Pittsburgh Steelers history. For two years, they needed only to look out their office windows to watch him. 
Fitzgerald's exceptional hands, his knack for making difficult catches while heavily covered and his high jumper-like leaping ability might pose the biggest obstacle to the Steelers beating the Arizona Cardinals in the Super Bowl on Feb. 1. 
As Steelers coach Mike Tomlin suggested Tuesday, scouting and a good game plan alone aren't enough to slow Fitzgerald, whose 419 yards receiving are the most in a single NFL post­season, with one game remain­ing. 
"If you get down the field one­on-one with him, he's going to come back with the football," Tomlin said. "He is the best in 'the world at that, bar none." 
Not that any one needs to remind the Steelers. 
Displayed in their Heinz Field pres~ box, alongside pictures of former and current Steelers players, is a large photo of Fitzgeralli leaping above three Texas A&M defenders to make a touchdown catch while at Pitt in 2003. He couldn't have been more covered, yet it made no difference. The football was there, and, in Fitzgerald's mind, nobody else was going to get it. 
Ask the Philadelphia Eagles 
about plays like that. 
Fitzgerald's series of three, 
can-you-top-this touchdown 
catches in the NFC champi­
onship game Sunday prevented 
an all-Pennsylvania Super Bowl. 
It also set up an improbable matchup between the Cardinals, an old franchise that could hard­ly be less successful, and the Steelers, an old franchise that could hardly be more successful. 
"Larry Fitzgerald, is quite sim­ply, the best receiver in the world down the field in one-on­one situations," Tomlin said. "If we're to be successful in Tampa, we need to limit the number of times we're downfield with him one-on-one. Invariably, he's going to come up with the foot­ball. The (video) tape tells us that." 
So did their own eyes. 
Although the Steelers and University of Pittsburgh never practice together on the four­field complex they share on the city's South Side, more than few Steelers employees were tempt­ed to sneak a few peeks at Fitzgerald when he played for Pitt in 2003 and 2004. 
Why wouldn't they? In his two college season-s about being 
-recruited by former Pitt coach Walt Harris, a passing game whiz, Fitzgerald caught 161 passes for 2;677 yards and 34 touchdowns, with at least one TD catch in a record 18 consec­utive games. The Steelers also influenced Fitzgerald, too. Not long after the Cardinals drafted Fitzgerald No. 3 overall in 2004, when the Steelers drafted Ben Roethlisberger eight spots later, Fitzgerald said his goal wasn't just to be the receiv­er who made the occasional highlight-film catch. Instead, he wanted to be as steady and reli­able as the Steelers' Hines Ward. Now, Fitzgerald probably needs to be better than Ward if 

the Cardinals are to win their unmatched. first NFL championship since "I don't know what Larry 1947-three cities and 61-plus Fitzgerald's vertical leap is, but years ago. Curiously, the then­he looks like Michael Jordan Chicago Cardinals beat the playing out there to me," Eagles to win that '47 title, a Collinsworth said Tuesday. "If week after Philadelphia beat the it's a tie, you just throw the ball Steelers in a rare playoff game up in the air and Larry for the Eastern Conference play­Fitzgerald comes down with it." off. Tomlin isn't about to tip his 
Former NFL receiver Cris hand about the Steelers' cover­Collinsworth, the NBC analyst, age plans for Fitzgerald, but no agrees with Tomlin that doubt cornerback Ike Taylor and Fitzgerald's ability to make plays · safety Ryan Clark are keys to it. when the ball is in the air is Taylor isn't as well known as the showpiece players on Pittsburgh's defense -Troy Polamalu, Defensive Player of the Year James Harrison and linebacker James Harrison ­yet he allowed only two touch­downs in coverage all season and is a Pro Bowl alternate. 
If Fitzgerald runs into All-Pro safety Polamalu, it might be when he goes over the middle rather than deep, as Polamalu often plays as much like a line­backer as he does a defensive back. 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Cinderalla George Mason preparing for dance again 
Associated Press  Colonial Athletic Conference. It leads to a refrain they'll  -one-loss teams in the confer­ence: Wednesday at  lar season. Face it: The world doesn't come to a halt  his players a photo of him­self with Obama and univer­ 
FAIRFAX,  Va.  -George  keep repeating in Fairfax  Northeastern and Saturday  when  the  Patriots  host  sity President Alan Merton.  
Mason coach Jim Larranaga  until everyone finally has  at Virginia Commonwealth.  William & Mary.  taken  on  campus about  a  
always begins practice with  the message: The Patriots  "For us  to get any consid­ "The high-major schools  year ago. lie said he would  
a  thought for the day.  He  plan to keep right on making  eration at all,"  will always get  share a story about Obama's  
didn't have to think hard to  noise on the national scene.  Larranaga said,  the  most  involvement in basketball  
come with one on Tuesday.  "A lot of us  still have that  "we're going to  ':4 lot of us still have  attention  and how it has affected the  
"Yes, we can!" he told his players as they gathered at midcourt at 11:30 a.m. at the Patriot Center, about a  chip on our shoulder," sen­ior Darryl Monroe said. "Like, 'Hey, this wasn't just a one-time thing.' We want  have to have a huge year in the league." That's  that chip on our shoulder. Like, 'Hey, this wasn't just a  because they have multiple t e a m s ranked,"  new president's life. On Monday, Larranaga ref­erenced Martin Luther King Jr. on the holiday honoring  
half-hour before Obama was  Barack  to let everybody know this is a good pro­ because Patriots'  the non­ one-time thing."'  Larranaga said, "and  the civil rights leader -and it was a very timely mes­ 
sworn in as president. Then came  "Yes we can!"  gram and we want to con­tend for a con­ conference schedule was­n't very strong  Darryl Monroe George Mason senior  deservedly so." On campus, though,  sage. His Patriots nearly got into a nasty push-and-shove with James Madison's play­ 
laughter as  the  ference  title,  th-is  season.  Larranaga  is  ers during some  trash-talk­ 
group singled out senior Chris Fle-ming,  Jim Larranagak George Mason coach  national title, all of it." Anyone pay­ Their curr.ent RPI is 48, well below the 2006 rating that earned  still star, not afraid to mold or two. His  a rock break a players  ing as the teams left the court after George Mason's win over the Dukes on  
the team's sole  ing  attention  them  an  NCAA  at-large  thought they would miss the  Saturday.  
Republican.  already  has  berth.  inauguration  when  they  Larranaga told his players  
"Everyone  received  the  In  some  ways, everything  learned of Tuesday's prac­ about  an  episode involving  
else  voted  for  Barack,"  message. The Patriots failed  changed when Mason went  tice  time,  but  the  coach  King at  an  Atlanta church  
Larranaga said,  "so  they  to  make the NCAA  tourna­ to the Final Four.  People  no  interrupted the workout at  where  an  angry mob  had  
wanted  him  to  have  to  say  ment after losing the CAA  longer say "Who?"  at the  11:57 a.m.  and sent them to  gathered outside. King chose  
the· words."  tournament championship  mention  of  the  school's  the locker  room  to perch in  not to  confront the crowd.  
Larranaga's inspirational  game in 2007, but last year  name.  Attendance has risen  front of the television.  which  likely  would  have  
ploys  were well documented  they took  the  conference  steadily  at  the  Patriot  The  players  applauded  escalated the violence.  
during  George  Mason's  title and  were  back in the  Center,  and  recruiting is  when Obama took the oath  "He's been talking about  
unexpected Final Four  run  big dance.  much easier.  and again after the speech.  discipline,"  senior  John  
in 2006, and apparently he  This year looks p~omising  In  some  ways,  though,  Then  it  was  back  to  the  Vaughn  said.  "He  under­ 
hasn't lost his touch. This  as  well. although this week  nothing has changed. George  court to finish practice.  stands how it is to be out in  
year's team is off to the best  will go  far  in determining  Mason  - and the  CAA  at  Tuesday night, after land- front.  We  understand that  
start in school history, with  George Mason's postseason  large  -still gets barely  a  ing  in  Boston  for  we're  hunted  and  other  
a  14-3 record that include~  worth.  The  Patriots  play  mention in  college hoops  Wednesday's  game,  teams are  hungry to take us  
an  immaculate 7-0 in  the  road games against the two  discussions during the regu- Larranaga planned to show  down."  


.......----------------------------­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, January 21, 2009 
NFL 

Ross won't let Big Tuna get reeled 'in elsewhere 
After buying Dolphins, new majority owner says Parcells will remain in charge offootball operations 
Associated Press  2001. Parcells broke his silence  thinks like a businessman: You don't solve all your problems  Sparano, and said he foresees no changes on the football side.  family and organization will do everything we can to support  
MIAMI  New  Miami  Tuesday on the subject of his  with money; you solve them  He said he found the atmos­ Steve and the team for the ben­ 
Dolphins  majority  owner  status. Scouting players prac­ with brains."  phere at the Dolphins' recent  efit of all of South Florida."  
Stephen Ross won't mess with  ticing for the Senior Bowl in  General manager Jell' Ireland  playoff game electrifying and  Ross, 68, made his billions as  
success: lie says Bill Parcells  Mobile, Ala., he spoke briel1y  said the sale won't affeet the  wants to build on this season's  a lawyer and developer and is  
will remain in charge of the  with several reporters and was  way he, ParcPlls and coach  suceess.  ehairman  of  Helated  
football opPration.  asked if he planned to remain  Tony Sparano go about things.  "That is the most important  Companies,  an  international  
Ross, a New York real estate  as the Dolphins' vice president  "It doesn't really change what  thing, and tim thing that drives  real estate development com­ 
billionaire, completed his pur­ of football operations.­ I do, it doesn't ehange what  me -creating and being part  pany. lie has homes in New  
chase of 95 percent of the fran­ "What does it  Tony  does,  it  of a  winning organization,"  York and Palm Beaeh, and he  
chise for $1  billion Tuesday,  look  like  I'm  doesn't change  Ross said. "There is nothing  ranked 78th in 2008 on Forbes'  
with Wayne Huizenga retaining a 5 percent interest. Ross then addressed specula­ doing?" he said. "What do your eyes tell you?"  "/feel very, very comfortable with him,  what Bill does," Ireland said in Mobile. "We've  more important than th.at." Ross said Bryan Wiedmeier will remain as team president,  list of riehest Americans with a net worth of $4.5 billion. , Ross attended Miami Beach  
tion he and Parcells might not  When  asked  and I think he feels  got  to  win  and negotiations regarding a  High School and the University  
be hitting it off. The sale trig­gered a clause in Parcells' con­ why he wouldn't commit outright  comfortable with me."  games." · In February  position on the business side are ongoing with Arlen  ol' Florida, then earned degrees from Michigan and Wayne  
tract allowing him to leave and  to  staying,  2008,  Ross  Kantarian, fDrmer U.S. Tennis  State law sehool. lie began his  
still receive the $9-12 million  Parcells  said  Stephen Ross  bought 50 per­ Association CEO. Hoss said he's  career in Detroit as a tax attor­ 
remaining on the four-year contract he signed a year ago.  experience taught him  Dolphins owner  cent of' the fran­chise, Dolphin  talking to potential minority partners, but none has agreed  ney, and the Michigan business sehool bears his name.  
"Parcells is in charge," Ross  never  to  rule  Stadium  and  to invest yet.  Once a minority partner with  
said in a conference call. "He's  anything out. He  surrounding  Huizenga bought 15 pereent  the New York Islanders, Ross  
staying, and I think we're very  said if something happened to  land from Huizenga for $550  of the Dolphins and 50 percent  was part of a group in 1990  
fortunate to have someone like  change his mind, he'd "hate to  million, with an agreement to  of  the  stadium  from  team  that tried to bring baseball to  
Bill Parcells, who I think people  be called a liar."  later become managing general  founder Joe Hobbie's family in  Miami before Huizenga became  
have  come  to  recognize  as  But Parcells said he likes  partner.  1990. Total eost of those pur­ founding owner of the Florida  
probably the best football mind  Ross and is not seeking a new  Ross closed on the pur~:hase  chases was $168 million.  Marlins.  He  also  made  an.  
in America."  contract.  of an  additional 45 percent  The Dolphins never reached  unsuccessful bid for the New  
Thanks  to  Parcells,  Ross  "It's  not  about  money,"  Tuesday.  That  part  of the  the  Super  Bowl  under  York Jets in 1999.  
takes over with the franchise's  Parcells said. "I've got more  agreement  received  pre­ Huizenga's ownership.  "When I read the paper, the  
fortunes on the upswing. When  than I can spend."  approval  from  the  NFL  in  "The sale represents a bitter­ first section I go to is the sports  
the. first phase of his purchase  Ross said he's 100 percent  October.  sweet moment for me, but the  section," Ross said. "Sill'Ce I  
was completed last February,  certain Parcells will stay for  Huizenga, 71, became sole  timing is right to eomplete it,"  wasn't going to make it as  a  
the Dolphins were coming off a  another season.  owner of the Dolphins in 1994.  he said in a statement. "I know  player,  it  was  a  dream  to  
1-15 season, worst in team his­ "I feel very, very comfortable  A year ago he said it was time  under Steve's leadership the  become an owner."  ~  
tory. Under the  new Parcells  with him, and I think he feels  for  someone else to  assume  Dolphins are in outstanding  Last year Forbes Magazine  
regime, they improved to 11-6  comfortable with me," Hoss  control.  hands. We are still a 5 percent  valued the Dolphins at $1 bil­ 
this season and made the play­ said. "I think we've developed a  Hoss plans to meet Friday  partner in the franchise and  lion, with a revenue stream of  
offs for the first time since  good rapport.  ...  Bill Parcells  with  Parcells,  Ireland  and  the stadium. The Huizenga  about $232 million.  

UCOfl91l 
LIVING IN A FOR.NIFIE..D CULTUR.E. 
40 MILLION AMt~I(~N) ~ltW 

APANEL EXPLORING HISTORICAL, LEGAL, AND MORAL RESPONSES TO PORNOGRAPHY: 
GAIL BEDERMAN · RICK GARNETT· CRISTINA TRAINA· FR. NATE WILLS · BRIAN VASSEL 
THURSDA~JANUARY22,2009 
7:00-8:30 PM HESBURGH CENTER AUDITORIUM 
(IN THE HESBURGH CENTER FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES ON DEBARTOLO QUAD) 
SPONSORED BY: GENDER RELATIONS CENTER, GENDER STUDIES PROGRAM, NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR ETHICS AND CULTURE, PHILOSOPHY DEPARTMENT, CAMPUS MINISTRY DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND WELL NESS INSTRUCTION, IDENTITY PROJECT OF NOTRE DAME 

page 19 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, January 21, 2009 
NHL 
Things keep getting worse for Islanders 
Hampered by persistent swelling and soreness in left knee, goalie DiPietro decides to shut it down for the season 
Associated Press  
NEW  YORK  Hick  
DiPietro's  season  ended  
before  the  New  York  

Islanders' franchise goalie really got a chance to get it going. 
Lingering persistent swelling and soreness in his left knee that required sur­gery twice in four months kept DiPietro out for all but five of the team's 46 games this season and led to Tuesday's decision to shut him down. 
"Everyone's consensus is that Rick should rest the knee, allow the postoperative swelling from two surgeries in a relatively short timeframe to resolve, and get him ready for next season," said Dr. Elliott Hershman, an associate team orthopedist, who participated in the second operation. 
"At this time, we're not anticipating any further sur­gery but we're certainly fol­lowing this knee to make sure that the inflammation and swelling does resolve on a more permanent basis so he is able to return fully," Hershman added. 
DiPietro is in the third sea­son of a landmark contract, having agreed to a $67.5. mil­lion, 15-year deal in the sum­mer of 2006. Islanders gener­al manager Garth Snow said he isn't concerned that DiPietro won't be able to play through the remaining years of the deal. 
"We've taken all the correct measures and the right steps throughout this process. Talking to the doctors, that scenario has never come 
After the initial knee sur­gery in June, DiPietro backed up Joey MacDonald for the first four games of the sea~on, but didn't see any action. 
The Islanders (12-29-5) will enter this weekend's All-Star break with the fewest wins and points in the 30-team NHL, but Hershman 

up, Snow said DiPietro's
"We've taken all the 
s a i d season would
correct measures and
"Obviously, be over even if when you teh right steps the team was have a goalie in playoff con­
throughout this 
of Rick's cal­tention. 
process. " 

iber, it's dis­Hershman appointing didn't question when you Garth Snow his decision to don't have clear DiPietro
Islanders general manager
him in the to play twice lineup. thls season. 
• "We got more than one set "We were incredibly cau­of eyes to look at him and we tious, actually, and I thought just wanted to take our time that at each time we had Rick and make an informed deci­trying to play it was the right sion." time," he said. "If anything, 
The 27-year-old DiPietro we have been exceedingly made a few early season cautious with him. At each appearances following sur­juncture we responded to the gery that was believed to be way that Rick was progress­on his right knee, but was ing. I wouldn't second guess clarified to be the left on myself at all." Tuesday by Hershman. He Several doctors, including then was shelved again after a famed surgeon Dr. James second tear of the lateral Andrews, either examined meniscus was revealed by an DiPietro or studied the MRI MRI and repaired with a sec­and determined rest to be the ond arthroscopic procedure in best recommendation now. October. "There was a lack of 
improvement from the time of the first surgery to the second surgery," Hershman said. "It was up and down and we really didn't have a sense that it was progressing as it should when Rick tired to play on it. 'The response was not what 
we expected." 
The injury is not believed, at 
this point, to be career threat­
ening. DiPietro is expected to 
be re-evaluated in six-to-eight 
weeks to see if the swelling 
and discomfort has dimin­
ished. 

Upon returning from his 
early-season break, DiPietro 
made three straight starts, 
but lasted only one period 
against Carolina on Oct. 25. 
DiPietro had arthroscopic sur­
gery Oct. 31 to repair the torn 
meniscus. He allowed five 
goals on 33 shots in a loss at 
Phoenix on Jan: 2, his final 
appearance of the season. 
"This has been one of the 
most frustrating situations I 
have ever had to deal with, 
but this is the right decision 
for me and the team," 
DiPietro said in a statement. 
"I am confident this will allow 
me to make a complete recov­
ery, be ready in plenty of time 
for next season and compete 
to my highest ability for many 
years to come." 
DiPietro has had three oper­
ations in seven months, 
including a hip procedure in March. That was the second time DiPietro had hip surgery, once on each side in consecu­tive years. He also has a histo­ry with head injuries. 
"The problem is that the lat­eral meniscus when it's dam­aged and has surgery on it two times, it can take quite a while to recover," Hershman said. "A lot of the stress of the knee in hockey goes through the lateral compartment. 
"I don't think it is related to the hips. I think both his hips are doing quite well right now. I do think he is recov­ered." 
DiPietro, an NHL All-Star starter last year, went 1-3-0 this se·ason with a 3.52 goals against average and a .892 save percentage. 
After becoming the first goalie chosen·No. 1 overall when the Islanders took him in the 2000 draft, DiPietro has posted a mark of 117-112-8­24 with a 2. 79 goals against average and a .905 save per­centage in 273 NHL games. 
He is expected to resume skating sometime during the summer. 
"The most important thing is that at this point we give the knee some time to rest, free from on-ice activity, and see what the knee does," Hershman said. "When we do 
NBA 
Oden responds to self-challenge with breakout ga111e 
Portland rookie center sees 24 point 15 rebound effort against Milwaukee as evidence of his potential 
who saw him as the future of
Associated Press 
the franchise. PORTLAND, Ore. -Greg Despite his absence on the Oden challenged himself. court last season, the former 
Weary of play even he per­Indiana Mr. Basketball from ceived as inconsistent, the Lawrence North still had a big Trail Blazers' 7-foot _center profile with the Blazers. He made a conscious decision to became known for his toothy break out. grin on the bench, an affable 
The result was Monday manner and even his humor­night, when he scored a ous blog posts. career-high 24 points artd had This season, however, the 15 rebounds in Portland's vic­happy-go-lucky Oden vanished. tory over the Milwaukee He injured his foot in the Bucks. Blazers' opener 
"I just wanted and missed six to start stepping games. When he up my game," he "'just wanted to did come back, said. "Being start stepping up my his play was dis­inconsistent, I've jointed, and at
game. " 

been saying that times he all year. It's time seemed sullen. to change that." Greg Oden Smiles and Oden didn't Portland center jokes were rare. 
just become more confident and aggressive, 
he seemed to snap out of a funk that had largely clouded his rookie season so far. He high-fived fans after the game, then smiled and joked with reporters gathered around his 
locker. 
"It feels good," he said. "I convinced myself that when I'm out there I play good, and when I'm not, I don't. This was one of those times it showed." 
Oden was the top pick in the 2007 NBA draft. His rookie year was delayed when he had microfracture surgery on his knee, a blow to Portland fans 
Although 
Oden was going 
though typical first-year growing pains, there was tremendous pressure from fans and the media. Even rap­per Lil' Wayne proclaimed Oden a bust in a commentary for ESPN.com. 
The Trail Blazers, for their part, stood steadfast in their intention to let Oden progress at his own pace. 
"I think I put just as much pressure as anybody else would on a job they love to do, and wanted to do good at it," he said. 
His numbers are not bad for a rookie center. He is averag­ing 8.3 points, seven rebounds and 1.09 blocked shots. But he has struggled with fouls, as well as maintaining his energy level. 
In Portland's 102-85 victory over the Bucks, Oden had just two fouls. 
The Bucks were without top rebounder Andrew Bogut, who missed his third straight game because of back spasms. Bogut is averaging 10.4 boards a game. 
Bogut's absence helped Oden, and the Bucks were forced to go with a smaller lineup when Dan Gadzuric got iuto foul trouble. 
It was Oden's team-high 12th double-double. 
"It's hard because the sea­son's so long and you're going to have ups and downs, espe­cially as a rookie," Blazers guard Brandon Roy said. "But I think the good thing about it is that he's definitely staying involved with trying to loosen up. It's not like he's going to happen to wake up one morn­ing and be totally loose. He's 
.going to have to continue to work on it." 
Now the question is whether Oden can keep it up. The Trail Blazers host LeBron James and the Cleveland Cavaliers on Wednesday night. 
''I'm not going to say I'm all the way disappointed with myself or down on myself," he said, ''I'd just say I need to step up my game." 


page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, January 21, 2009 
had blowouts in the confer­game. snapped Notre Dame's win players in double figures. ence season, but still have to streak with a 75-65 victory Sophomore guard Erica
Big East 

travel to Pittsburgh and Rutgers (10-5, 3-2) Jan. 13, but then lost to Morrow leads the way with 
continued from page 24 Storrs. Notre Dame has a How the mighty have fall­Hutgers by 23 five days later. 17.7 points per game. The 
chance to make a statement en. The national runner-up Marquette is lucky to avoid Orange started their confer­Cardinals was an 85-82 in the league in the coming of a year ago and a No. 2-any long road trips this sea­ence schedule strong with upset at the bands of week with a matchup with seed last season, the Scarlet son, and has the luxury of wins against Rutgers and Nevada-Reno on Nov. 29. No. 21 Rutgers at the Joyce Knights have already lost playing its road games Cincinnati before falling at The Cardinals still have the Center. twice in conference, at against some of the other home to Seton Hall and get­brunt of their conference Syracuse and at Louisville. middling teams in the con­ting doubled up by UConn. schedule left, including trips Pittsburgh (13-4, 3-2) Even though every coach in ference. to UConn, Notre Dame, The Panthers jumped up to the conference will say it is South Florida and Seton Mar·quette and a rematch at the fourth spot in the confer­tough to win on the road, C. Villanova (2-2, 10-7) Hall have matching 2-4 con­the Bearcats all still to come. ence after the Cincinnati Vivian Stringer should know The Wildcats are just ference records, and have 
loss, despite the loss of all­that her team needs to win where they should be on gotten them in very similar UConn (18-0, 4-0) Big East center Marcedes games like those if they want paper, beating West Virginia fashions, beating only other 
The best team in the coun­Walker, who graduated last to remain among the elites. and· Providence and losing to teams in the bottom half of try isn't the best in the con­May. Guard Shevonte Zellous Rutgers has only one player Rutgers and Cincinnati. They the bracket. With every team ference standings, but only has picked up the scoring for in double figures -guard have a chance to make a making the Big East tourna­as a result of scheduling. Pitt so far this season, aver~ Epiphany Prince with 20.8. statement game against the ment this season, there is The Huskies have played aging 24.1 points and 5.4 They don't score much. but Irish on Saturday to improve less pressure on these teams fewer conference games rebounds per game. The the Scarlet Knights also have their league standing and to step up their games in than Louisville, in part Panthers showed how good a stifling defense, allowing postseason opportunities. February in order to make a because they played in one they could be in their last only 52.5 points per game. Otherwise, Villanova has a postseason appearance, but of the biggest out-of-confer­game out, when they chance to win out at home seeding still helps as both ence matchups of the sea­crushed Seton Hall 76-40 on Georgetown (12-5, 2-2) (Providence, St. John's, will try to turn things around son: a 1-vs-2 game last the road. (Just for the The I-Ioyas have see-sawed DePaul, Louisville and USF) quickly. . Monday at North Carolina. record, the Irish only beat in their c.onference season so and get into the top half of Connecticut crushed the Tar the Pirates 66-60 on that far this s.eason, alternating the Big East bracket. St. John's, Providence and Heels 88-58. snapping a 31-same court.) wins with big losses. West Virginia are the cur­game home win streak for Georgetown has struggled DePaul (14-5, 2-3) rent league cellar dwellers, North Carolina and proving Cincinnati (13-5, 3-2) against tho two top tier The Blue Demons have had but that is not to say they they an~ the best team in the Cincinnati has only two teams it has played (Notre to replace their leading scor­are all bad teams. St. John's country beyond a shadow 'of losses so far, but has avoided Dame and Louisville) and er from a year ago, forward played the Irish close until the doubt. UConn also has playing most of the big dogs will likely fall quickly in the Allie Quigley, and have done the final whistle, refusing to arguably the best player in in the league. The Bearcats standings in the next few so with some ease. The team play dead, and the college basketball, sopho­have beaten up on Seton weeks: They play Marquette. has three players averaging MountaLnee.rs are, if at all more forward Maya Moore, Hall, West Virginia and Pitt and UConn in their next in double figures this season: possible, a good 0-5 team in who averages 29.2 points Villanova in their wins, but four games. Those tlll'e~ are Deirdre Naughton with 17.3 the Big East. Four of their­per game on 53.4 percent lost to Louisville and last all at home, but with how points per game, Natasha losses are against the top shooting. year's surprise of the season the lloyas have played so far, Williams with 15.4 and half of the league and the 
Syracuse. Cincy avoids the they will be lucky to go 1-2 Keisha Hampton with 10.4. final one was a two-point Notre Dame (15-2, 4-1) Huskies thanks to schedul­in those games. DePaul already has one big squeaker at Villanova. Top­
The Irish remain alone in ing, but has a three-game win on its NCAA resume, a to-bottom, the Big East is a third place in the league road trip later this season Marquette (11-7, 2-2) 69-62 victory at Pittsburgh. solid league, where even the after Cincinnati's loss where it have to travel to The Golden Eagles are worst team in the league Wednesday night, but could Pitt and Rutgers back-to­another team looking to find Syracuse (13-5, 2-3) (WVU) boasts a winning be worse off if not for clutch hack. A solid performance in their way in the league. They The Orange have one of the record (11-7). · play against St. John's this those games could help put started off by beating USF more prolific offenses in. the weekend. Notre Dame has the Bearcats over the top before falling on the road to country, averaging 71.1 Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at won both close games and and get them the second bye Seton Hall. Marquette then points per game with four jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

Campus Ministry invites students returning to campus from study abroad to a special 
WELCOME BACK MASS 
Thursday, January 22, 2009 5:15p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
A dinner will follow in the Hammes Lounge ofthe Coleman Morse Center. 

Campus Ministry 


Wednesday, January 21, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NHL 
Oilers win in final minute 
Grebeshkov and he put a shot into a crowd of play­
Associated Press 
everything he had into a ers standing in the crease. EDMONTON, Alberta -shot that beat Steve Mason The puck caromed to Boll Ales Hemsky put on a show to tie the game 3-3. and Roloson was unable to 
and helped the Edmonton Hemsky got the job done stop the tap-in.Oilers head into the All-Star almost single-handedly at Edmonton regained the break on a high note. the end to give Edmonton lead in the middle of the 
Hemsky scored his second the win as he came in on second period as Hemskygoal with 34.9 seconds left the right hand side and beat sped past Fedor Tyutin and to play, giving the Edmonton Mason up high. beat Mason on a backhan­Oilers a 4-3 win "When you der. over the have four It didn't take long for the Columbus Blue points or Jackets to knot the game
"For me every game 
Jackets on something again, as just a minute and Tuesday night. we win is what I feel like that you a half later, Melhot blasted 
Hemsky added good about. I just are always a shot past Roloson to make two assists, and asked if it is it 2-2.
want to go out there 
Lubomir the best CDlumbus took its first Visnovsky and and do my part.,, game in your lead of the game with five D e n i s career," minutes to play in the peri­Grebeshkov also Hemsky said. od, when Williams took a
Ales Hemsky

scored for the "For me shot from in tight that
Oilers wing 

Oilers (24-19-3) every game Roloson waved at with his who have won we win is glove.five of their last what I feel The Blue Jackets came six to move back into a good about. I just want to close to going up by two playoff position in the go out there .and do my midway through the third as Western Conference. part. It felt great to win the a puck sneaked behind 
"That was unreal, I game. It's a great feeling in Roloson before Ladislav haven't seen anything like this room right now." Smid fished it out. The play
that in a while," said Oilers Edmonton ended with head coach Craig MacTavish got out to an Roloson throw­of Hemsky's performance early leasl, ing punches at 
Tuesday. "Two goals and scoring on "We gave it away. We Boll for crash­two assists. We've seen that the power ing the crease.
had a turnover with
before. But not where all play five min­"We pissed i.! four are world-class plays. utes into the 4 7 seconds left. You a w a y , 
"It couldn't have come at opening peri­can't do that. ,, Columbus a better time. He single­od when coach Ken handedly willed the win for Visnovsky Hitchcock said.
Ken Hitchcock
us. It was a great effort sent a cross­"We turned it 
from Ales." Blue Jackets coach 
ice pass to over twice in 
Jared Boll, Marc Methot Hemsky, then the neutral and Jason Williams scored crept in from zone and we for the Blue Jackets who the point for gave it away.
have lost two of their last the return feed and blasted They had nothing going, we three. the puck past Columbus were completely controlling
The Oilers tied the game starter Steve Mason. the hockey game. We gave it at 3 with 4:42 to play, just The Blue Jackets tied it a away. We had a turnover as a power play expired. minute and a half into the with 4 7 seconds left. You Hemsky spotted a pinching second, when Williams sent can't do that. 
B u d t r 0 n g e 
w  a  n  t  t  0  b  e  t  t  e  r  u  n  
H  0  w  a  b  0  u  t  y  0  u  r  s  
A y I  r 0 0  e u 0  r k  y s  0 e n  u I g  f  f  n u 0  t n r  e a  r b s  e I 0  s .t e m e  e t  
I p c t  f r 0 0  s 0 0 j e u p I c a  y c t e s I I  0  u n w  r t t  e h h  n e t  0 t F a m e e n s  
J  a  c  D k  r  e  J u 0 r B a  u  a t  e  s r  c s  h a  
e  m  a  t  f  c  p  t  

SMC BASKETBALL 
Saint Mary's travels to face winless Hornets 
to 6-1. Kalamazoo's latest lostByALEXWEST 
came against Albion last 
Sports Writer . 
Saturday by a score of 68-38. AlthougtJ. the Hornet's still 
Saint Mary's (8-7) looks to r'emain winless, Henley said 
bounce back from its first 
she doesn't believe her team 
MIAA loss of the year when it will overlook them. 
plays at Kalamazoo (0-13) "In this league, you can't 
today. 

overlook anyone. Records and The Belles will look to use standings never truly indicate 
their height inside and speed 
the strength of a team," she _, 
in the transition g.ame on 
said. 

·offense against the Hornets, She also said the Hornets' 
who rank last in the MIAA in 
defense could test the Belles. scoring "They play a 
defense and lot of different 
give up more defenses, so we
"We need to do a

than 7 5 points 
need to be able 

per game. better job on 
to recognize.Coach Jenn defending the drive what they are Henley said 
and shutting down playing and exe­
the Belles will 
cute our

Kalamazoo ,s inside
also need to ·offense," Henley
play well 
game. said. 
defensively. 
Belles leading"We need to 

score Erin
Jenn Henley

do a better job 
Newsom is com­on defending ing off of an 18­
the drive and 
point effort 

shutting down Kalamazoo's against Albion. She averages
inside game," Henley said. more
almost 15 points and 
"Our focus continues to be on 
than nine rebounds a game
defense, regardless of our 
this season to lead the Belles 
opponent." 
in both categories.
The Belles lost 77-72 to Albion last Wednesday, drop­Contact Alex West at ping their conference record awest@hcc-nd.edu 
NHL 
Marleau's overtime goal gives Sharks win 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE, Calif. -Joe Thornton set up Devin Setoguchi's tying goal in regula­tion and Patrick Marleau's over­time winner, and the San Jose Sharks . celebrated Claude Lemieux's return to the NHL after a Slf2-year absence with a dramatic 2-1 victory over the Vancouver Canucks on Tuesday night. 
Lemieux played a regular shift on the fourth line in his first NI-IL game since 2003 for the Sharks, who gave one of their most list­less efforts of the season until the last minute of regulation. Evgeni Nabokov made 13 saves for San Jose, which will enter the All-Star break with at least a share of the overall league lead. 
Roberto Luongo stopped 27 shots for the Canucks, who lost their sixth straight after surren­dering Setoguchi's tying goal with 39.1 seconds left. With Nabokov pulled for an extra attacker, Thornton threaded a pass from behind the goal to Setoguchi, who found a slight opening.. 
After Daniel Sedin committed a hooking penalty midway through overtime, Thornton made a cross-ice pass to Marleau for the San Jose cap­tain's 25th goal. Marleau is expected to be added to the West All-Star team soon, joining Thornton, defenseman Dan Boyle and coach Todd McLellan in Montreal. 
A violent serum erupted as the teams left the ice when Henrik Sedin ran into Nabokov and Ryane Clowe, who responded angrily. Both teams traded shoves, and Vancouver enforcer Shane O'Brien was frustrated in his attempt to confront Clowe. 
Taylor Pyatt scored in the first period for the Canucks, who were a few moments away from becoming just the second oppo­nent to win a regular-season game in regulation at the Shark Tank since last Feb. 14. Calgary ended San Jose's streak of 31 consecutive home games with at least one point last Thursday. 
All eyes at the sold-out Shark Tank were on Lemieux, the 43­year-old forward who won four Stanley Cups and a playoff MVP award during parts of 20 NI-IL seasons. 

Proprie~ors 
Watren & Linda 

:/irs/Oriyinaf:Azza in 7own / Since 1951 
Specializing in /lillian Entrees 

Tue5. -Thurs.: 5:00PM • 11:00 PM Fri.-Sat.: 5:00 f'M-1;00 AM 
537 NOflh St. loois • Soutn Bend, IN 
574·.133-2464 



..-------------------------------­
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, January 21, 2009 
Jackson 
continued from page 24 
Superior State. 
How many Notre Dame stu­dents have even heard of Lake Superior State? 
But in a sense, that was the college hockey world's view of the Irish program before Jackson took over in 2005; the previous year, Notre Dame had won just five games and had been all but dismissed from ' relevance. 
Immediately, Jackson made an impact. The Irish went 13­19-4 in Jackson's first year, . nearly tripling their previous win total in the only losing sea­son of Jackson's head-coaching career. 
The next year, with stud goaltender David Brown between the pipes, the Irish set a new "Gold Standard" -a slogan that graces many a sign around the team's locker room and offices-by winning 32 games, posting a .898 winning percentage and holding the top spot in the national polls for seven straight weeks. 
And last year, with a new goalie (current netminder Jordan Pearce, who has sinc.e emerged as one of the CCHA's best) and a shallow senior class (which overachieved but 
Clagett 
continued from page 24 
Dame midfielder had been selected by the Riptide in the MLL draft in May, but did not see any action in Los Angeles' 2008 season. 
In his career with the Irish, Clagett was one of the nation's top faceoff specialists, ranking No. 4 nationally with a .619 winning percentage his senior year. Clagett also led the team with 63 ground balls in his final season. 
A leader of several strong Notre Dame defenses, Zimmerman was chosen by the racked highly-recruited players because of the coaching change). Jackson did perhaps his best coaching job-guid­ing a team that barely made the NCAA tournament as the last at-large selection all the way to the Frozen Four, past top-ranked Michigan and into the title game. 
The '07-'08 Irish may have been a Cinderella story, but midnight has long since past, and Notre Dame is Still stand­ing strong. With a 20-game unbeaten streak and a No. 1 national ranking it has held for six straight weeks, the pro­gram is clearly here to stay ­as long as Jackson is (which appears to be the oase). 
Just how dominant have the Irish been? They haven't lost a game they have led after two periods, and Notre Dame ranks in the top five nationally of every major statistical category except for scoring offense ­for which the Irish rank eighth. 
And just how long have the Irish been that dominant? 
They haven't lost since Oct. 25 -the day the football team beat Washington. Since that day, the football team ended its season (and lost four more times) and the men's basket­ball team began its campaign (and has lost five times). 
A new president has been elected and inaugurated in that 
San Fran.cisco Dragons in the third round of the draft. The defenseman played in all 58 games in his career with the Irish, starting 45. 
Zimmerman helped Notre Dame's defense rank No. 4 in the nation his junior season and No. 5 in the NCAA in 2008. The Great Western Lacrosse League named Zimmerman to the all-conference team his senior year. 
Wharton, drafted in the sev­enth round by the Washington Bayhawks, led Notre Dame his senior year with 53 points and 32 assists. 
Wharton, who netted 31 goals with the Irish, helped Notre Dame rank fourth in the NCAA in offense, averaging time, in case you've been too consumed with the Irish hock­ey team's streak. 
That's the great thing about the team's success, too-stu­dents are taking notice. Games are selling out, and general interest and enthusiasm for the program is quickly rising, thanks mostly to the positive results Jackson's teams have posted in such a short time­frame. 
Jackson doesn't have the football team's budget or the new facilities several other Notre Dame programs have received in recent years -the hockey team's facilities are regarded as among the worst in college hockey, but that's another (less positive) column. 
But that hasn't stopped Jackson from bringing talented players and, more importantly, wins to Notre Dame. He's · already helped bring CCHA championship and Frozen Four banners to the Joyce Center, and he'll get his national championship soon enough. 
Why? 
He's the best coach in college hockey -it's what he does. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd. edu 
12.09 goals per game. 
Clagett, Zimmerman, and Wharton will join three other classmates in the MLL that were selected in May's MLL Collegiate Draft. Midfielder Michael Podgajny, goaltender Joey Kemp and defenseman. Sean Dougherty were selected over the first. four rounds of the draft and comprised the largest draft class ever from Notre Dame. 
The 2009 version of the Irish, ranked No. 9 in the "Inside Lacrosse" preseason poll, will begin play with several new starters Feb. 14 against Loyola in Atlanta. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 

NBA 
Jazz extend home win streak 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY -When the game got tight, Mehmet Okur took over for the Utah Jazz. 
After the Minnesota Timberwolves cut a big lead to one, Okur hit consecutive 3­pointers to boosted the Jazz past Minnesota 112-107 Tuesday night for'their seventh straight homewtn. 
Deron Williams twice drove to the basket and collapsed the defense to set up Okur. 
"My shot was cold in the first half but I tried to mix up my game in the second half," Okur said. "I knew it was going to be a long game, so I stayed focused and hungry. Deron did a good job finding me." 
The Wolves never led, but cut the lead the 97-96 on Randy Foye's 3-pointer. 
With a chance to claim their first lead, AI Jefferson, who had 25 points and eight rebounds, missed a jump hook and Okur grabbed the rebound. lie then made his consecutive 3s and added a free throw. 
"Okur hit two big 3s, really big," Minnesota coach Kevin McHale said. "We just couldn't score and we really didn't get good looks after we got it to a one-point game. We had an opportunity there and we just couldn't capitalize." 
Williams, who had 17 points and 11 .assists, followed Okur's shots with a jumper to expand the advantage to 106-97. 
Paul Millsap led Utah with 28 points and 15 rebounds and his dunk gave the Jazz a 97-89 lead midway through the fourth quarter. 
"I wanted to step up tonight. I had a tough game last time and I'm not used to that, so I felt like I needed to crash the boards hard tonight," Millsap said. 
Ryan Gomes and Foye led Minnesota's rally with late 3­pointers and each finished with 19 points. Sebastian Telfair scored 17, but couldn't keep the Timberwolves from losing a sixth consecutive game in Salt Lake. 
Williams and Kyle Korver made six free throws down the stretch to keep the Wolves at bay. 
"When they got within one point of us, we could have folded our tents and said, 'Okay, this is it.' But we made some stops on them, about three or four, and kept them from getting what they wanted," Utah coach Jerry Sloan said. 
Minnesota fell to 7-2 under coach Kevin McHale in January, who took over for Handy Wittman last month, and fin­ished a three-game road trip 2­1. 
The Jazz jumped out to a 12-0 lead as the Wolves couldn't find the net until the 8:46 mark when Telfair finally made a jumper. 
"We spotted them too many points. Got down by 14 points in the third, but we fought back hard," McHale said. 
Once Minnesota got going, the Jazz could not shake the Wolves. 
The Jazz never led by double­digits in the fourth quarter and were aided by Minnesota's free throw woes to escape. The Timberwolves missed five of seven foul shots in the final peri­od. 
Millsap, who had 19 straight double-doubles before he was derailed with a bruised right knee earlier this month, had nine offensive rebounds and kept five Utah fourth-quarter possessions alive with his second efforts. 


Saxer 
continued from page 24 
give credit for her success to her coaches and teammates. 
"My coach is so supportive and upbeat and I always look forward to practice because he makes it fun for all of us," she said. "My teammates are like family to me and without them I don't know where I would be. They are the people 
that you are around the most and they have been "We had a young 
there for me lady in for an official 
through both 
visit this past fall
the fun and dif­
ficult times in and, when she was 
my life." introduced to Mary, Being this 
the recruit exclaimed: 
successful cer­
tainly has its 'You're Mary Saxer, 
perks. you're Mary Saxer! "In high 
[The girl] was so
school, I had 
excited to meet her. " 
little girls come up to me at meets and ask 
Jim Garnham 
for my auto-
Irish coach 
graph," she said. "It's moments like 
these give her an opportunity to look back on and truly 
appreciate  what  she  has  
accomplished  during  her  
career.  

"When that recruit recog­nized me like that, it made me smile. For a moment, I took a step back and realized every­thing that I had accom­plished," she said. "It's easy to get caught up in the day to day practice and the strug­gles, but when I look at my pole vault career as a whole, I 
have a lot to be proud of. 
"I am a pret­ty modest per­son so I don't like to boast, but it's cool sometimes to think that peo­ple actually look up to me and think so highly of me and what I have accom­plished." 
Saxer is well on her way to achieving her goals for this season after 

th.at where I just smile and think how lucky I am to have been given this talent." 
Garnham offered one exam­ple in particular that speaks volumes about Saxer's popu­larity within the pole-vaulting community. 
"We had a young lady in for an offieial visit this past fall and, when she was intro­duced to Mary, the recruit exclaimed: 'You're Mary Saxer, you're Mary Saxer!' [The girl] was so excited to meet her," he said. "It was a pretty funny moment." 
For Saxer, moments like 
just three meets. Her season­high jump of 13-3.75 feet has qualified her for the NCAA Regional and Big East Championship meets at the end of the season. It is the sixth-highest jump in the NCAA this season and also tied her record from last year's NCAA Mideast regional. 
With much of the indoor season remaining and the entire outdoor season. on the horizon, the sky's the limit for this experience veteran. 
Contact Alex Barker at a barker 1 @nd.edu 
Wednesday, January 21, 2009 The Observer +TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

www. BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 

DAVID CAVADINI 

THE DOME PIECE 

THAT'S WHAT SH£SA!O. 

HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
JJ~rn!bJE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 


TREFER 
rJ ()

1 A 0000 PL..AC.E: 
www.jumble.com 
TO FINO A DATE:. 
I PRAMCE± 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I I r J I 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: 
A rI I I JrI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: TOKEN AGENT HECKLE DEAFEN Answer: Hemming dresses all day left the seamstress -ON THE "EDGE" 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
Across 35 Order of the 66 Celestial Inundated 
Arrow members Seasonings 39 Low-diet product
6 Trailblazed 42 Competitor of 
67 Suffix with road9 Caught congers, and speed uBid
e.g. 43 Emergency PC
14 Entrance key Down 16 They may have 46 Makes Electric gauge 
a view of a bridge something better 2 Not staying in 
17 Nut in a can of 
in a big way one's lane premium mixed 50 Kind of jacket 3 Climbs nuts 51 Tricky 4 Natty 
18 Bitmap bit 
52 Leatherworker's 5 Actress Lamarr 19 On occasion tool 
6 Door-to-door 21 Salon job 53 delivery service? Singer/songwrite
22 "One 7 Opera singer Soldie?(antiwar rAimee 
Pinza
song) • 54 Ducky 
8 Ignoring23 Yuppie_ 59 One of the 
9 Lay out(chronic fatigue Gandhis 10 Lando'
syndrome) 
62 Sherwood leprechauns26 Wind up Forest minstrel 
11 Not enforcing all 27 Yesteryear, 63 Like lapis lazuli 
the laws
nostalgically 
64 "Two cents plain" 12 CBS logo32 Some football 
drink 13 Alternative tolinemen: Abbr. 

65 Staff members, dial-up33 Hyatt alternative 
and what the Puzzle by John Farmer 
15 _ Tafari (Haile34 "A Thousand circled letters in Selassie)
Acres" novelist this puzzle 37 Onetime Mideast 43 Spring 53 Angry with Smiley represent 20_Tuesday letters 
44 "Happy Gilmore" 54 Boot (53-Across's pop 38 Game show host star, 1996 55 First-aid salve 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE band) Treadway and 45 House Judiciary 23 "Black box" others Committee 
56Zippo regulator: Abbr. chairman John
39 Music store 57 Some evidence 24 Former White stock 47 Gives up 
58 Crow cousins House adviser 40 "You've got mail" 48 "The devil looks 
59 Fled or bled

Nofziger co. after his " 25 Exhaust, with 60 _dye
41 Spain's Carlos I 49 Div. for the Mets "up" 
or II and Marlins 61 Project 27 Schmaltz 28 "Peg _ Heart" 
For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
29 Tum-_ (thrills) 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 30 Cut into small crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. cubes AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.
31 Spinners of the Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past Spinners, e.g. 
puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).35 Air gun ammo Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. 36 U.K. honor Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and ev~nts in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Rob Bourdon, 30: Garv Barlow, 38; Stacev Dash, 43: Bill Maher, 53 · • • 
Happy Birthday: Don't overreact, overdo or drown your sorrows when what you should be doing is assessing your situation and making the necessary reforms, improvements or direction changes to suit your needs. You are the oue responsible for the outcome of your life •• no one else can do things for you. Question your actions and do what needs to be done to make your life better. Your numbers are 3. 5. 17, 10. 25, 36,41 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Be a hero and do for others. The opportwtity to learn something about yourself and the people you hang out with will help you make an impor­tant decision that will influence your future. Don't get wrapped up in the moment if someone is trying to talk you into a risky fmancial deal. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You'll be far too emotional to deal with professional mat· ters rationally. Step hack and view what everyone else is doing before you make a deci· sion that may be difficult to reverse. Don't take unnecessary chances. 3 stars 
GEMlNl (May 21-June 20): Don't expect the ones you 10\·e to be as accommodating as your friends and colleagues. Added responsibilities may make your day a little more dif­ficult but it will be a learning experience that will help you out in the future. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): A deal, settlement or legal matter can be \Happed up. Expect a tempting offer from someone you love and respect. Added responsibilities are present but will bring great joy and pride.A change at home will add to your security. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Look on the bright side. Once you have pcsitive thought flow­
ing freely, you can manipulate whatever situation you face with friends or colleagues. 
You will come np with a brilliant idea that will be well received. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): It's best to keep a stiff upper lip and ride out any storm you face. Stick close to the people who think the same way you do but don't argue with the ones who do not. Listen, assess and organize. 2 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You cannot go wrong ifyou organize or plan something that will enhance your chance of getting ahead. Share a creative idea with people you know will be interested. A short trip will lead to information and suggestions. 4 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): This isn't the time to overreact or jump to conclusions. Put things in perspective aud realize your losses and gains. Nothing is a waste of time and every lesson learned will contribute to your future success. 3 stars 
SAGTITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You have to push to do the things you enjoy if you want to be successful. Don't let anyone who is uncomplimentary discourage you from following through with your plans. Be true to yow· dreams. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Open up and be receptive to a cause. You may be sur­prised by the cmmections you make. A deal that required some changes in order to move forward can be closed ifyou are willing to comprontise. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't take >myone or anything too seriously, especially 
if emotions are high and tempers are hot. Be willing to bend a little to get along. A part· 
nership can tum out to be much better if you get to know one another. 1 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A broader look at your situation and how it's affecting others will give you a better idea of what will help and what won't. You cannot assume anything when it comes to how people will react. Secret information may leak. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are open, interesting and intelligent. You are forward thinking, pro­gressive and often ahead of your time. You are sensitive and emotional. 
Eugenia's Web sites: eugenialast.cmn for confidential consultations, nryspace.com/eugenia last for Eugenia's blog, nstrondvice .com for fim 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one acade~ic year 
0 Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address ______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
r-------------­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, January 21, 2009 
page 24 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Conference complications 
Big East has five of its teams in the top 25 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Senior Women's Basketball Analyst 
The Big East is out to prove that it is the best con­ference in the NCAA, and it is doing it in force. Every team but Providence (7 -11) is above .500 so far this sea­son, and the conference boasts five teams ranked in the Associated Press top 25 -inc! uding top-ranked Connecticut. No Big East game is a given, especially on the road, and each win is even more important this season as the top four seeds get two bye games in the Big East tournament. 
Louisville (19-1, 6-0) 
By virtue of having played

... 
more games than Connecticut, the Cardinals are currently on top of the table in the Big East, having just beaten Cincinnati 66-50 Tuesday night. The lone 
AP and TOM LA!The Observer 

blemish on the No. 7 
Huskies forward Maya Moore drives to the hoop during No. 1 Connecticut's 88-58 win over No. 2 North Carolina Monday. Right, see BIG EAST/page 20 Irish guard Lindsay Schrader handles the ball during Notre Dame's 70-67 win over St. John's Saturday. 

NO WOMEN'S TRACK 
Saxer eyes NCAAs, All-America status during senior season 
and placing so I can be All­Garnham said. "Her answer world record. She was named the competitors at the colle­By ALEX BARKER American," Saxer said. "I know was no. She said she wanted to the National High School giate level. 
Sports Writer 
that I have the ability to be an All-American and that's Indoor Athlete of the Year in "Mary's past experiences in achieve this if I really put my our goal." 2005 and also received All­the pole-vault set her apart 
A three-time all-Big East mind to it." That's hardly a stretch for the America honors from numer­from her competitors. She had selection, participant in last She won't be alone on this Lancaster, N.Y., native who is ous associations including Nike a lot of success in the event in year's NCAA Mideast regional journey. New pole-vaulting no stranger to performing at an and USA Today. high school and I think having meet and holder of a number of coach Jim Garnham will be at elite level. As if that wasn't enough, she that experience really helps in school and meet records, senior her side willing and able to Saxer was the first high also claimed the national different situations," Garnham pole-vaulter Mary Saxer has assist her along the way. school female to clear the 14-championship in the long jump said. "Her maturity and her certainly enjoyed an illustrious "When I met with Mary this foot mark, owns the national at Nike's Indoor Nationals in mental toughness are her career at Notre Dame. fall after taking this job, I asked high school pole-vault record 2004. strongest attributes." 
But she's far from done. her if she had accomplished and, until recently, held the Garnham said he believes her Saxer prefers, however, to -"This year I have my eye set everything that she wanted to female American junior reeord high school career has given on the NCAA Championships accomplish athletically," as well as the female U-17 her a great edge over most of see SAXER/page 22 
HOCKEY COLUMN 
JusthowgoodisJackson? Success speaks for itself 
Is there a better college hockey coach than Jeff Jackson? 
Simply put, no. 

Midway through his fourth year at Notre Dame, Jackson has already Matt Gamber 
elevated the 
program 
Associate 

from an 
Sports Editor 

occasional contender to a perennial power in the· CCHA, one of the nation's top conferences. And after last. year's Frozen Four run, the Irish have proven they can be _ a force on the national scene as well. 
Looking at Jackson's resume, that comes as no surprise. 

He's coached-and won­at every level, from the Canadian junior league to the National Hockey League, where he was an assistant with the New York Islanders for two seasons. Jackson headed the 
U.S. National Team Developmental Program for five years. and as head coach won a silver medal at the World Junior Championships in 1997. 
And in the early 1990s, Jackson won two national titles and 75 percent of his games in six seasons as the boss at Lake 
see JACKSON/page 22 
MEN'S LACROSSE 

Three grads taken in draft 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
Three former Irish stars will take their games to the next level after being selected in the· Major League Lacrosse Supplemental draft. 
Midfielder Taylor Clagett, defenseman Hoss Zimmerman and attack Alex Wharton were all selected in the draft held on Jan. 14. 
Clagett was the first Irish graduate off the board in the draft, chosen by the Los Angeles Riptide in the first round. The former Notre 
see CLAGETT/page 22 







