
THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 43: ISSUE 112 _ FRIDAY, MARCH 27,2009 
Notre Dame to host college symposium 
Student government will discuss issues with representatives from midzpest universities 
the position in 2008 and will
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
be one of the last initiatives
News Editor 
he will lead before stepping down on April 1. 
Student government will "[The symposium] is a way host Notre Dame's first-ever of reaching out to other cam­Intercollegiate Symposium -puses to see what their stu­a conference between student dent governments have and government representatives don't have," Reish said. from other Midwest universi­He said he hopes the sympo­ties -this weekend in sium will spark ideas for LaFortune Student Center. improving Notre Dame's stu­
Modeled after the Ivy dent government. Council, an annual meeting "We would be wasting our between student government time and effort if we didn't representatives from the eight look at other universities," Ivy League schools, the Reish said. Intercollegiate Symposium Northwestern University, was strongly emphasized by Purdue University, Vanderbilt 


student body president Bob Reish during his campaign for 
•
Ads raise awareness for Marathon 

'Who's Brenna?' signs for College fund raiser 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY Saint Mary's Editor 
Neon signs appeared across the three campuses early Tuesday morning asking students, "Who's Brenna?" Students who wanted to know the answer were directed to watch WNDU at 5 p.m. and 6 p.m. , to learn the answer to that ques­tion. 
The fliers were placed around the campuses by Saint Mary's Dance Marathon committee as a way to raise awareness for the event and tell the story of Brenna, a young girl from the area who has spent time at Riley's Children Hospital in Indianapolis, Ind. 
Senior campus marketing chair for the committee Meg Varty said she got the idea by talking to Dance Marathon representatives who told her other colleges and universities had successfully pulled off a similar form of adver­tising. 
"We have never had a publicity stunt before and we decided we wanted and needed to do some­thing big," Varty said. "When I heard the idea, I got excited because I knew it was definitely something we could pull off." 
Brenna Blossor is a four-year­old girl whose life was saved by the doctors at Riley's Hospital, Varty said. 
Three years ago, Brenna and her family attended the first Dance Marathon held on Saint Mary's campus, and they wanted 
see ADS/page 4 

see COLLEGES/page 6 ANDREA ARCHER I The Observer 
Panelists: Obamahas global effects. 
Erskine Peters Fellows discuss perception ofpresident worldwide 
By ROBERT SINGER Assistant News Editor 

The election' of President Barack Obama has reverbenit­ed around the world, shifting social attitudes and even some policies in Jamaica, Tanzania and Brazil, according to this year's Erskine Peters Fellows who met for a symposium Thursday titled "Change, Hope and Expectation: The Obama Presidency in Global Perspective." 
Hosted by the Department of Africana Studies, the event sig­naled the culmination of the 
see 0 BAMA/ page 8 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Students to confer with conununity 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
NewsWrirer 

Student leaders will meet with leaders from the South Bend com­munity today at the third annual Community Summit, where "hon­est dialogue" will he!P the incom­ing Grant Schmidt-Cynthia Weber administration forge relationships and continue communication with the community, student govern­ment Community Relations chair Gus Gari said. 
The meeting -which will be held at Notre Dame Downtown, the location of the Office of Community Relations for the University -has four talking points, Gari said. 
He said one of the main topics of discussion will be how to improve communication between the two groups. They also will talk about the development that is happening around campus, such as the Eddy Street Commons and off-campus student housing. Safety and securi­ty issues, along with how to smoothly integrate off-campus stu­dents into the community, will also be discussed, Gari said. 
'We both have different goals a lot but ... we do realize that those goals can merge together and that's what we are looking for out of the Summit," Gari said. 
In order to get a variety of per­spectives, student government invited 40 people from a variety of positions, including representatives from South Bend's Common Council, the Mayor's Office, the Office of Student Affairs, Notre Dame Security Police and student 
see STUDENTS/page 4 

Latin Expressions to feature 17 acts 
'Ritmo Latino' will combine traditional Latino productions and ND performance groups 
opening act put on by the Latino," which Mabee audience always enjoys the 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
Latin Expressions team -described as "the rhythm we ushers and emcees. 
NewsWrirer 
with Notre Dame perform­all have that keeps us united "People always look for­ance groups who incorporate in being Latino." ward to the emcees because 
Those in search of a fun, Latino culture into their own Two other integral parts of they're always really great," unique event to spice up their acts, including Project Fresh, Latin Expressions are the Albite said. weekend should look no fur­the First Class Steppers, the emcees and the ushers, who Albite said this year, the ther than Latin Expressions. M.O.B.B. brass band and are crucial in helping the ushers will be given musical 
Latin Expressions, which Troop NO. audience to become a part of instruments and will dance takes place tonight at 7 p.m. Co-director of Latin the show. This year's emcees and play them during inter­at the Century Center in Expressions Cinthya Mabee are Danny Alvarez and Maria missions. South Bend, is a showcase of said the show is special Moreno, Mabee said. This is the 19th year Latin Latino culture that features because it allows Latino stu­She said the emcees guide Expressions will take place. 17 different acts and 116 dents, a minority on campus, the show's structure and The show has grown expo­total performers. It is spon­to give the audience a make sure the theme is evi­nentially since its first per­sored by La Alianza, the only glimpse into their heritage. dent in all aspncts of the formance in 1990. Albite Latino student organization "For those two hours, you show. The ushers dress said. on campus. are basically getting a snap­according to the theme and "The show has really 
The show combines tradi­shot of what drives us and interact with the audience expanded in its scope," she tional Latino acts -Coro our culture," Mabee said. during intermission. said. Primavera, Ballet Folklorico, The theme .of Latin Karla Albite, t:o-director of a mariachi band and an Expressions 2009 is "Ritmo Latin Expressions, said the see LATIN/page 4 
r-------------------------------­
page 2 INSIDE COLUMN 

Tired of Tvvilight 
I have not read Twilight, but I saw the movie and I think that is good enough, and furthermore, I am not ashamed of this fact. I am officially tired of the argument between books and movies. I real­ize that the book, academically and in detail, will always be preferable to the movie if you are a book lover. However, I do believe movie connoisseurs do have legitimacy in favoring a film over the novel. Ashley Charnley This isn't a mat­ter of intelli­
Saint Mary's 
gence; it is a matter of taste. Editor Simply because a person prefers the movie to the book doesn't mean they are not an intellectual or illit­erate. I think all of us at one point or another have seen that a book was coming to the theaters, and in light of our busy schedules, we decided to forego cuddling up with the novel and just waiting for the film. 
First of all, books and movies are two very different things. This is similar to comparing music and paintings. Paintings have inspired music and vice versa, however, in most respects they are really incomparable. One stimulates the eyes, the other the ears. Books stimulate the mind and imagina­tion. They allow you to create a world inside your head. Movies cre­ate that world for you, and offer an alternative interpretation to the characters and settings you envi­sioned in your mind's eye. Not reading the book takes away the element of comparison, but does not take away from the whole experience. 
It is important to take film as an art form in itself. There is still sym­bolism, significance in cinematog­raphy and lighting, as well as sub­tleties in the delivery and tone of the lines that could offer the viewer a different idea about what the sig­nificant lines of the book could have meant. Grant it, you may not agree with these interpretations but sit down with a literature class and analyze those same lines and the reaction will be the same. It will encourage debate, and isn't dialogue an important part of aca­demia? Any subject that can inspire a lively debate cannot be condemned as inadequate or lack­ing intellect. 
I am not discounting books how­

. ever. I thoroughly enjoy a good novel, and I do believe there are some stories that shouldn't be con­verted to the screen because they are such classics. There are always movies that come out that fail to recreate the beauty of the words on the page, but that is true of any art form. Some works simply fall short. 
So, go to the theater with an open mind. If you have read the book then you have the opportunity to see another interpretation different from your own, and if you are new to the story, then you will be enter­tained by a tale that has already been loved by many while it still lied artfully on the page. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, March 27, 2009 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT POSSESSION COULD YOU NOT LIVE WITHOUT? 


Kathleen McKieman  Melissa cameron  Heidi Grossman  
Freshman  Senior  Sophomore  
Howard  Howard  Howard  
"My cell phone;  "My cell phone  "My copy of  
gotta stay in  -gotta stay  Twilight-I  
touch with  connected to my  can't live  
people."  homiest"  without  
Edward."  



Man arrested for using slingshot to hit worker 
TACOMA, Wash. -The Washington State Patrol said a 50-year-old Gig Harbor man accused of using a slingshot to hit Tacoma Narrows Bridge toll booth windows has beQn arrested. Trooper Brandy Kessler said Wednesday that' the man was arrested and booked into the Pierce County Jail for investigation of second-degree assault, second-degree malicious 
mischief  and  reckless  
endangerment.  
Information  compiled  

from the Associated Press. 
VANESSA GEMPISfThe Observer 
Recent Notre Dame graduate Katie Vaas talks to students about careers with the Indiana Pacers during the Pacers Sports and Entertainment Information Session at the Dooley Room in LaFortune Thursday. 
OFFBEAT 
22 CA college students cram into phone booth 
MORAGA, Calif. Twenty-two students at St. Mary's College of California have done. something their prede­cessors famousl-y did 50 years ago: cram into a phone booth. Teams com­peted to fit as many bod­ies as possible into a phone booth on the cam­pus green Wednesday, a half-century after Life magazine published a now-famous photograph of 22 St. Mary's students stuffed into a phone booth, a popular college stunt in the 1950s 
Man impersonates justice, performs several weddings 
SEDONA, Ariz. Sheriff's officials in Arizona say a man impersonated an elected justice of the peace and performed several wed­dings whose legality are now in doubt. Yavapai County Sheriff's spokesman Dwight D'Evelyn says 41-year­old Allen Elfman was arrested Tuesday on charges of fraud, for­gery, criminal imperson­ation, impersonating a public servant and tam­pering with a public record. 

poster. He watches me sleep." 


Cristina Anaya Junior Howard  Carleigh Moore Freshman Howard  Caitlin Monesmith Freshman Howard  
"My Edward  "My ducks!"  "My Copy of  

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 


..... 
<C 
(.) 
0 

-I 

42 28 
Dracula; down with sparkles!" 
IN BRIEF 
Notre Dame MBA Marketing Club will host a lecture entitled "Marketing's Role in a Sustainable Society" on Friday at 9 a.m. 
An exhibit containing photo­graphs, lithographs, and books from Latin American sites vis­ited by Darwin will be present­ed at the Snite Museum of Art at 10 a.m. on Friday. 
Portrait prints of 11 historical figures who have influenced Mauricio Lasansky will be pre­sented in the exhibit "Great Thinkers (who have changed Modern Thought for the bet­ter). The exhibit will be held at 
10:00 a.m. in the Snite Museum of Art on Friday. 
Mass will be held at 11:30 
a.m. and at 5:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart on Friday. 
A panel will present a lecture called "Business on the Front Lines: Reports from the Field" will be held at noon in C-103 of the Hesburgh Center at 10 
a.m. on Friday. 
Edmund Pellegrino, M.D., will speak at the lecture "A Moral Foundation for the Helping Professions: Medicine, Law, Ministry and Teaching." The lecture will be held at 4:00 
p.m. in McKenna Hall Auditorium on Friday. 

A film entitled "Che. Part 1: ·The Argentine" will be held at 
6:30 p.m. on Friday. The film will be held in Browning Cinema, Debartlo Performing Arts Center. To purchase tick­ets, call the Ticket Office at 574-631-2800. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The 

MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 54 LOW 39 

Friday, March 27, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Panel discusses economic effects 

p~~I~E~• 
St. joseph 

l332 Hilhop Rd. • 269.983.9900 Mishawaka '5110 Edison Lakes Pkwy. • 574.271.1692 
www.PapaVinosltalianKltthen.com 
fEATURING 
Combination del Mare 
Sauteed Tilapia, Shrimp and Roma Tomawes over Angel Hair Pasta with ·\?Vhite Wine & Lemon Dill Butter Sauce; Served \Vith Crabmeat-Stuffed Mushrooms 
.,Other Seafood Cdehmtitm Items: 
Shrfmp & Scallop Scampi 
Linguini & Clams 
Capellini & Crabmeat 
Shrimp SizzlelinF' 
Unguini Pescatore 
Salmone Alia Griglia 
Pasta&, Salad Jus1 $7.99' Served 11 a.m.-3 p.m. 
Your choica Qf Rigatolll Fra 01avokl. Ca!)('Jiini & Craflmeat. Stlrimp Si:uJeUni•, Spicy Marinara or Mrot Sauce Lasagna, or Past! Con Polio and aPa!ill'S or caesar lndiWiual sallld. 
"'I{M H >J.<!f ·.J IHl~ tM,"3tcj~I;~':A:W~. ®~lt1iS!3E'~;ey.l:t,.~~m. IJ~f:mj;i:~:'f,:t,~ 

It's Your Future;.. 


Investin Youtse[
.,.~=m~:r::: 

We offer avariety of options to assist'you with-the financing of your ~gucatiQnal goals.
:::":::t:::t::::r::?::· :.:===:=:=:=:=:====:::.·· ·=::.:~::.:? 
Plus, you'll receive the answers you need to decide which option is right for you. 

Contact us Today! 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary's Editor 

A panel of professors and com­munity members discussed the social effects of the struggling economy in a lecture titled "Bringing About Change: Our Economy's Effects on Education, Family Violence and Unemployment" at Saint Mary's College in Vander Vennet Thursday . 
Jerome McElroy, professor of economics at Saint Mary's, said there are some differences between this recession and others the U.S. has gone through. 
"What's unique about our reces· sion is that for the first time in about two decades, the world economy is going to shrink," he said. 
McElroy said as a result, the ' government is left as "the only game in town." 
He said there are three ways to know whether the programs and policies the government put into place are helping to improve the economy. 
If we see builc:ting permits rise, average workweek hours rise and the new weekly jobless claims fall, then the economy should be "on the move," he said. 
Judith Fox, a professor of law at Notre Dame, addressed the issue of subprime loans and how they have negatively affected the econ­omy. 
'The original intent of subprime loans was wonderfuL It allowed people who couldn't otherwise afford a home, get a loan," Fox said. . 
What happened, though, is loan brokers began giving loans to peo­ple who couldn't afford them. Sometimes they were up to 70 or 80 percent of their income. This leads to high foreclosure rates, she said. 
According to Fox, Indiana is 11th on the list of state's foreclo­sure ratings, with a rating of 3.59 percent. 
Thomas Kavanaugh, vice presi­dent for JobWorks, Inc., discussed his work at JobWorks in trying to train people and help them find new jobs in the community once they are unemployed. 
"Elkhart County is pushing depression-like unemployment rates. Right now, at the end of January, they are at 18.3 per­cent," Kavanaugh said. 
The difficulty in finc:ting new jobs for workers in manufacturing comes from their lack of training in the areas of work that still have openings available, he said. 
"Most of the people that work at RV manufacturing companies have never needed a computer for work," Kavanaugh said. "The skill base we are dealing with for these individual<; who are not employed is completely under skilled with the people we are trying to employ." 
Filleting jobs is still an issue, and accorc:ting to Kavanaugh, word of mouth is currently one of the most common ways. It's not the Internet or classifieds, but connec­tions with people that are helping the currently unemployed find work, he said. 
"That is how people are finc:ting jobs these days. It's through net­working," he said. "It's not neces­sarily ~hat you know, it's who you know. 
Jessie Whitaker, director of the LEND Homeownership Center, said the housing market has been facing problems due to difficulties in homeowners securing loans. 
"I tell the individual, you may 

·need to start saving your money pack up and move because they are not going to work with you," Whitaker said. The government is working on provic:ting incentives for servicers, who homeowners pay their loans to, to modify the loans to help them pay their loan, she said. According to Whitaker, in the state of Indiana since January 2008, there have been 8,962 fore­closures. Annie Envall, assistant director at S-0-S, a rape crisis center in South Bend, shifted away from the financial effects of this crisis into the emotional toll it takes on indi­viduals and families. She said people enter into an abusive cycle that rotates between tension, explosion and regret, or something she called the "honey­moon stage." Envall said even though they blame their poor behavior on the economy, the abusers have larger issues. "The true driving force behind domestic violence is the need for power, the need for control," Envall said. She said she believes it is impor­tant to have resources available to help victims of abuse. Even though Envall said she hasn't seen a notable increase in domestic violence as a result of the economy, she also said abuse is one of the least reported of crimes. Mark Geissier, a social worker with the South Bend Community Schools Corporation, addressed the effect of these stresses on chil­dren. He stressed the increase of children living at or below poverty level. "I think what we are going to be seeing soon is kids slipping into poverty who were already living on the margin before," Geissler said. He also said the focus on chil­dren's emotional needs is not being addressed because their basic needs have to be met. "It's a great time for these kiclc;; to get mental health treatment, but the problem is, mental health is no priority when there is an uncertainty about where food. shelter, and utilities is coming from," Geissler said. In order to address these issues, the panelists said they b1~lieve gov­ernment regulation is necessary, but more importantly, there is a need for education. Kavanaugh said education "is an important thing that our gov­ernment, our leadership and real­ly the businesses really need to take a look at and make sure they are educating people on financial literacy." 
~ontact Ashley Charnley at achamO l @saintmarys.edu 


page4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 27, 2009 
Rightto Lifeto hold annual conference 
By NORA KENNEY NewsWrirer 

Amidst the fury of one of the most heated debates on Notre Dame's campus this year, the Notre Dame Right to Life Club will be holding its annual con­ference Friday and Saturday. 
Sophomore Holly Klejeski, the conference's coordinator, said she has been preparing for the 2009 Right to Life Conference since this time last year. 
Klejeski said it is the club's hope is "that the Conference can be an opportunity for rational consideration and dis­cussion of a variety of life issues." 
Klejeski said the club is excit­ed because several speakers have agreed to attend and give lectures. Part of the club's mis­sion is to "engage in a variety of activities including prayer, serv­ice, and education," and the conference will offer inspiration in these areas. · 
The events will kick off with a lecture entitled "A Moral Foundation for the Helping Professions: Medicine, Law, Ministry, and Teaching," given by Dr. Edmund Pellegrino, sen­ior fellow of the Center for Bioethics and Human Dignity at Notre Dame. 
Saturday's events include a 

Communications prof receives award 
Mass, breakfast and a lecture by Lisa Everett called "The Family as the Sanctuary of Life" in 101 Jordan Hall at 10:15 
a.m. Everett works for the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend's Office of Family Life. 
Chris Godfrey, a formal NFL player and a graduate of the Notre Dame Law School, will give a talk Saturday entitled "Life Athletes: Where Do You Live." Godfrey is the founding president of Life Athletes, Inc., whose mission is to stand for "Virtue, Abstinence, and Respect." 
Dr. Elizabeth Shadigan of WomenSafe Health Consulting will also speak about the long­term health effects of abortion. 
Francis Beckwith, a philoso­pher and this year's Senior Visiting Fellow with Notre Dame's Center for Ethics and Culture, will give a lecture titled, "What the Abortion Debate is Really About." He is the author of the recent book "Defending Life: A Legal and Moral Case Against Abortion." 
The conference ends with a talk given by Chaunie Brusie of Feminists for Life. Her talk is called "Say NO to the Status Quo: Support for Women and Children." 
Contact Nora Kenney at hkenney@nd.edu 

Latin 

continued from page 1 
Albite said that in recent years, the students in charge of the show have sought to make Latin Expressions more oriented towards non-Latino audience members. 
"Recently, we have taken it upon ourselves to not just make it a show for Latinos, 
Ads 

continued from page 1 
to use Brenna's story, Varty said. 
The members of the Dance Marathon committee who posted the fliers were the only ones who knew about the stunt, Varty said. They used fliers, posters, banners and sidewalk chalk spread throughout Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross campuses to spread curiosity over who Brenna was. 
"We wanted to create buzz around the campuses and the only way to do this was· to not let anyone find out what 'Ask Brenna' was," she said. 
During the day on Wednesday, the 16 girls who 

Students 
continued from page 1 
government. 

Gari said students who are not a1filiated with student government have also been invited to bring a fresh perspP-ctive. 
Students involved in student government "deal with these issues all the time," Gari said. By inviting students who aren't famil­iar with the issues, he said he hopes to get a fresh student per­spective. 
Jackie Rucker, director of the University's Office of Community Relations, said the Summit will help build relationships between students and community leaders, which will make solving problems easier. 
"I think the more that you talk to people and you build relations, the easier it is to resolve issues," Rucker said. "You find out what but for everybody," Albite said. 
Both Albite and Mabee have been working with Latin Expressions since their arrival at Notre Dame. They first learned about the show when they were on campus for Spring Visitation, and both immediately decided to become a part of the produc­tion. 
"The moment I saw it, I knew I had to be a part of it," Albite said. 
had posted the information about Brenna walked around the three campuses wearing neon green shirts that read ''I'm Brenna. Ask me." 
"The point was to have people walk up to us and ask who is Brenna or ask what they were suppose to ask Brenna, so then we could explain Brenna's story and . hand them a packet to sign up for Dance Marathon," Varty said. 
Overall, Varty said she believes the event was suc­cessful in raising awareness about Dance Marathon and its mission. 
"On Tuesday people all over were talking, and on Wednesday tons of people finally found out who Brenna was, either by asking the girls in the green or watch-
you have in common, you find out what your common goals are and some of the misconceptions that you had kind of melt away." 
In past meetings, Rucker said, "students have been very open and reaching out to people in the community, and the community leaders likewise .... We've been able to get some things going to help for each group to understand the other." 
Mikki Dobski, director of com­munications and special projects for the Mayor's Office, said she is "enthusiastic" about attending the Summit and appreciates the com­mitment that student government has made to improving relations with the community. 
She said the city of South Bend works with the University in a number of ways, and the collabo­rations have been positive for the city government. 
"If there are people in the com­munity who have a negative atti­tude, we want to help change 
She said she is so dedicated to Latin Expressions that she co-directed last year's show ·while studying abroad in 
Rome, Italy. 

"It's a beautiful show not 
just because there's good acts 
and good decorations, but 
because it's our opportunity to 
share who we are," Albite 
added. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 

ing the news," she said. "If they watched the news, they got to meet the Blossor fami­ly and the real Brenna as well." 
Varty said she is pleased with the success of the stunt. 
"I don't think it could have gone any better," she said. "It took a lot of work, but in the end it was more than worth 
it... The Dance Marathon will be held April 3-4. Members are asking that students register as soon as possible. "Dance Marathon is in 11 day's so get excited and turn in your packets as soon as possible," committee member Rachel Chesley said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
thflt," Dobski said. 

She said she hopes the meeting will bring "good dialogue so that we can identify common goals and work together." 
Gari said student government would also like to work with city officials to find out what is feasible for the new administration and how long it will take to accomplish its ideas. 
Gari said he would like to get "a lot of real and honest_ answers as far as what can be done." 
"Coming out of this meeting, it's important for city officials to know the student perspective on the issues that will be discussed. It's important for students to know the perspective of South Bend city officials and to really come up with tangible solutions that we both agree with," Gari said. 
"Communication is key," Dobski said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
By M.B. GIZINSKI 
News Writer 

Susan Baxter, professor of Communication Studies at Saint Mary's, was honored with the Saint Mary's College 2009 Woman of the Year award at the annual "Women Honoring Women'' dinner in Stapleton Lounge Thursday evening. 
Baxter was nominated by sophomore Maria Chipman and junior Nichole Fundora. 
Chipman said she was chal­lenged by Baxter and learned more from her than from the material in the textbook. 
"After class with her, I did not ask myself what I wanted to do, but what kind of woman do I want to become," she said. 
Baxter said she wanted to recognize the students who have created a symbiotic rela­tionship with professors. 
"You have this backwards," she said. "It's an honor for us to wake up in the morning and face a room of intellectuals." 
The event was hosted by the Student Academic Council (SAC), which is comprised of students from each academic department. 
The nomination process con­sisted of students writing let­ters to SAC to nominate a woman staff or faculty member who had enriched the lives of Saint Mary's students. 
Student body vice president Sarah Falvey, who organized the event, noted the large amount of nominations. 
"We had over 30 women nominated, which I believe is a record amount," she said. 
After two rounds of letters from students, six women on the faculty and staff were cho­sen as final nominees: Baxter, Ella Harmeyer, Jane Eleff, Isabel Larraza, Joanne Snow and Tina Flemming. 
Those who nominated the women members of the faculty and staff said they felt it was important for a women's col­lege to recognize them. 
"Thanks are the key to giving back," Chipman said. 
Seni()r Kelly Anderson, a member of SAC, said the award is an honor for the recipient. 
"This is a nice way to fore­ground women in positions of success," Anderson said. "There are not a lot of events to recognize women in acade­mia." 
Anderson highlighted the relationships that are formed between women at Saint Mary's College. "Since it is a women's college, this recog­nizes that we are a communi­ty," she said. "There is a spe­cial bond in being part of a women's college." 
Contact M.B. Gizinski at mgizinO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



Mon., March 30th 11AM-7PM The Gillespie Center at the Hilton Garden Inn 
Located on SR 933 and Doug!as Rd. on the campus of St. Mary's 
Delicious chocolate 4a. Photos with the samples from some of the Easter Bunny finest local restaurants, 
Prizes 

shops & bakeries. 
Ci It Cookirm demonstrations 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE DOOR -$5 Each Children under 5FREE 
Presented By: 
SAINT((fJOSEPH f:< ~~J~y
\_() .t**f"(l~~wn.~n
"# ~~~ w..:.~·~'f.~~<«~ ~:.~oj,fS..c~~ 

l!'tdies~ 
NEW STALK ~31M W/{_) 





ORLD & NATION 
Friday, March 27, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVER.:S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Somalia pirates seize tankers 
BRUSSELS -Pirates armed with machine guns hijacked a Norwegian chemical tanker Thursday off the coast of Somalia, the ship's owner said, an attack that came less than 24 hours after a smaller Greek-owned vessel was seized in the same area. 
The U.S. 5th Fleet, which patrols the pirate­infested Gulf of Aden, confirmed both hijackings and said they took place in the same area but separate from the gulf, one of the world's busiest -and now most treacherous-sea lanes. 
The 23,000-ton Norwegian-owned Bow Asir was captured 250 miles (400 kilometers) off the Somali coast on Thursday morning, and the 9 ,000-ton Greek -owned Nipayia, with 19 crew members, was seized 450 miles (720 kilometers) off Somalia on Wednesday afternoon, the European Union's military spokesman said. 
Both vessels are chemical tankers but their cargoes were not immediately made public. 
Foreigners attack Sudanese convoy 
CAIRO -Sudanese officials said foreign warplanes launched two separate airstrikes last month on Sudan near its border with Egypt, targeting convoys packed with light weapons and African migrants trying to sneak across the frontier. 
Just who was behind the strikes remains a mystery, but the U.S. and Israel immediately came under suspicion. 
Mubarak Mabrook Saleem, Sudan's State Minister for Transportation, told The Associated Press he believed American planes were behind the bombings about a week apart in early February and claimed hundreds were killed. A Foreign Ministry spokesman confirmed his account but said there were discrepancies on casualties. The 
U.S. denied any airstrike on Sudan. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Penn. juvenile convictions repealed 
ALLENTOWN, Pa. ~Pennsylvania's high­est court on Thursday overturned hundreds of juvenile convictions issued by a corrupt judge who took millions of dollars in kick­backs from youth detention centers. 
The state Supreme Court ruled that for­mer Luzerne County President Judge Mark Ciavarella violated the constitutional rights of youth offenders who appeared in his courtroom without lawyers between 2003 and 2008. 
"Today's order is not intended to be a quick fix," Chief Justice Ronald Castille said in a statement. "It's going to take some time, but the Supreme Court is committed to righting whatever wrong was perpetrated on Luzerne's juveniles and their families." 
Alaska volcano erupts twice 
ANCHORAGE -Alaska's Mount Redoubt erupted several times Thursday, spewing a more than 12-mile-high cloud that could drop ash on Anchorage for the first time since the volcano began erupting Sunday night. 
The Alaska Volcano Observatory said the first eruption about 8:30 a.m. shot an ash cloud about 30,000 feet in the air, and a sec­ond eruption about an hour later sent ash 65,000 feet high -the highest cloud since the eruptions began. Several smaller eruptions followed, with none of their plumes surpass­ing 20,000 feet. . 
The largest eruption caused a mud flow into the Drift River near the base of the volcano. 


LOCAL NEWS 
Crews still working on sinkhole 
FORT WAYNE -Fort Wayne officials say it will take longer than expected to fix a 30­foot deep sinkhole that's closed a street near the city's downtown since the week­end. 
City Utilities spokesman Frank Saurez says Anthony Boulevard just east of down­town will remain closed at least until the middle of next week, instead of reopening by the end of this week. 
The 12-by-15 foot hole opened up Sunday. 
U.S. to send more troops to war 
Obama to dispatch thousands of additional military to the Middle East 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Concerned about the falter­ing war in Afghanistan, President Barack Obama plans to dispatch thousands more military and civilian trainers on top of the 17,000 fresh combat troops he's already ordered, people familiar with the forthcoming plan said Thursday. 
Obama also will call for increasing aid to neighboring Pakistan as long as its lead­ers confront militants in the border region. The president plans to lay out his revamped strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan on Friday. 
Several sources told The Associated Press the strategy includes 20 recommenda­tions for countering a persist­ent insurgency that spans the two countries' border, includ­ing sending 4,000 military trainers to try to increase the size of the Afghan army. 

"It is an integrated mili­tary-civilian strategy," Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton told reporters in Monterrey, Mexico. "We are convinced that the most critical under­pinning of any success we hope to achieve, along with the people and government of Afghanistan, will be look­attacks on the United States, Obama proposes a greatly plated, said Levin, 0-Mich. ing at where civilian trainers, its interests and allies, the expanded commitment to "The trainers are the key to aid workers, technical assis­sources said. improving and enlarging the that." tance of all kinds can be best They described the recom­Afghan army and Pakistan's Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., utilized." mendations on condition of frontier forces. said it seemed like a viable 
Clinton declined to go into anonymity because the fmal The additional 4,000 strategy as long as the man­details to avoid pre-empting wording was not complete. troops devoted to training power is there. Obama's announcement. The new plan identified al­and advising the Afghan "I know we need more 
White House press secre­Qaida as the target in a larg­armed forces would head to than the 17,000," he said. tary Robert Gibbs also would er network of insurgents who Afghanistan this spring and As a candidate, Obama not discuss specifics of the threaten U.S. and allied summer. They come on top said the Afghan war should plan, but said Obama is forces in Afghanistan, often of about 17,000 combat and have been the U.S. priority beginning to discuss its fmd­from sanctuaries across the support troops Obama wants all along, and that the Bush ings with members of border in Pakistan. in place by the end of the administration wrongly Congress and others. The written outline of summer. diverted U.S. attention and Obama's top military advis­Obama's plan describes a Sen. Carl Levin, chairman resources to the war in Iraq. ers briefed key lawmakers "strategy for success," as of the Armed Services As president, Obama has Thursday. opposed to an exit strategy, Committee, said the training been under pressure to say 
In broad terms, Obama will but the goal is the same: group is needed because how he plans to address the define U.S: objectives as Stability on both sides of the there aren't enough U.S. mil­sharp increase in violence in eliminating the threat from border that would allow a itary advisers there now. Afghanistan while prodding al-Qaida to undermine or reduction and eventual with­"We've got to increase the anti-terrorism ally Pakistan topple U.S.-backed elected drawal of U.S. combat forces size," of the Afghan army to deal with the militant governments or to launch from Afghanistan. To do that, more quickly than contem-threat on its soil. 

GAZA STRIP 

Israeli army accused of misconduct 
told of vandalizing homes they snized to Palestinians as human shields. 
Associated Press 
use as army posts, as well as relaxed Senior military officials have acknowl­

GAZA CITY -When Israeli soldiers rules of engagement, including hasty edged using massive firepower in Gaza expelled Abir Hijeh, her five children and shooting at civilians. The soldiers, who to deter Hamas gunmen and prevent their neighbors from homes in a Gaza spoke to a military prep school in a casualties among Israeli forces. The war zone, she said they warned her in closed-door session, described an inci­offensive was unprecedented in its dead­broken Arabic: Go south or you might dent with similarities to the shooting of liness, and contrasted with the smaller, get shot. the Hijeh family. pinpoint operations of the past in Gaza. 
The group went the wrong way and The accounts, published in two Israeli However, an Israeli army spokes­came under fire from Israeli soldiers. newspapers last week, further fueled woman, Maj. Avital Leibovich, said the Hijeh was wounded and her 2-year-old international outrage over the Gaza military "took every measure of preven­daughter was killed. offensive. Israel, which invaded Gaza to tion possible in order to save the lives of 
Hijeh's account of a sniper firing on end years of rocket attacks by Hamas Palestinian civilians," including phone civilians, along with soldiers' graffiti and militants on Israeli towns, is already calls and leaflets warning residents to destruction seen by The Associated Press under international scrutiny about evacuate. Some of the incidents in homes they commandeered, lend sup­whether it used disproportionate force described by soldiers are w1der investi­port to allegations of Israeli army mis­and failed to protect civilians. Gaza's gation. The army chief, Lt. Gen. Gabi conduct during the onslaught in Gaza. Hamas rulers have been criticized for i\shkenazi, said this week that, if true, 
In recent testimony, Israeli soldiers targeting civilian areas and using they were an aberration, not the norm. 

r----------------­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 27, 2009 




OW HIRING TOUR GUIDE 
FOR THE SUMMER AND NEXT SCHOOLYEAR 
Applications availab1e for pick up in the 2·ba!h with 990± SF: free intemel: washer, dryer and dishwasher:: central air 
apartmenis available for 2009·2010 ::walking distance to campus:: 2·bedroorn.. 
Office of Undergraduate Admissions, 220 Main Building conditioning:: large balcony:: cathedra! ceilings 
Questions? Contact Beth Giudicessi, udi nd.edu 
Call Cnristina at 314·~4J·1~l~ to sc~eaule an a~~ointment or email us at mana~er@ndstaaiumclub~com 
Colleges 
continued from page 1 . 
University and Washington University in St. Louis are confirmed to attend the sym­posium. 
"These schools are all close in distance· and academic standing," he said. 
Reish said the representa­tives will arrive Friday, tour the campus and attend recep­tion dinner at the Morris Inn. 
On Saturday, the student government representatives will participate in three "breakout sessions" to discuss issues such as community relations, student govern­ment's role in academic life, relationship with the adminis­tration and campus technolo­gy, Reish said. 
Notre Dame's representa­tives will be Reish, student body vice president Grant Schmidt, chief executive assis­tant Karen Koski, student body vice president-elect Cynthia Weber and Ryan Brellenthin, who will replace Koski as chief executive assis­tant on April 1. 
"We are participating but not leading the discussion," Reish said. "We want to see open dialogue." 
Reish said he considered the idea of a symposium during the controversy involving the party ordinance proposed by the South Bend Common Council in 2007 to control stu­dent parties. He said when looking into the issue, he found that Northwestern University had a similar prob­lem. 
"Had we had a line of com­munication with them, it could have helped us," he said. 
When elected to office in the spring of 2008, Reish said of a personal connection." 

Reish said he particularly would like to discuss the rela­tionship between off-campus students and the community 
Monday, March 30,2009
at the symposium, an issue Northwestern University 5:30-6:30 p.m. stressed as important to them 
as well. Pizza Provided 
"This is something I really feel passionately about," .he 
said. Giovanini Commons. Lower Level 
Reish said he hopes the 
Mendoza Col1ege of Busines_s
symposium will not only help improve Notre Dame's student government, but he also would like the event to foster 
a lasting relationship between For information contact (574) 631-3277 • .Jcan.Mcade(a)ul.edu the schools. 
"We can ultimately develop a larger network," he said. "I think this can be a benchmark of wh(lre we fit on a larger scale." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at 
mbuckley@nd.edu 

U N l V F. R S I ~r Y 0 F 
NOTRE l)AME 
Mendoza College of Business 

hosting the symposium was one of his first priorities. 
"Last year, I wanted to have this in April to really set the tone of our term, collect ideas and get off the ground run­ning," he said. 
However, issues with funds impeded the progress of the symposium, so the project was put on hold while Reish and Schmidt worked on other ini­tiatives, he said. 
Instead, Reish connected with other student body presi­dents through the creation of collegegovs.com, a Web site that allowed access only to student government leaders at colleges and universities. 
But Reish said he was even­tually able to secure the funds to put together the project and grab the interest of the universities who will attend. 
"I have talked to everyone at the schools and they all said it is a great idea," he said. "We are really laying a foundation and creating kind 

Catholic Charities USAoo 
Fr. Larry Snyder, President ofCatholic Charities USA will discuss: 

• 
The mission ofCatholic Charities 

• 
Getting involved in Catholic Charities 

• 
Professional and entry-level positions 





Friday, March 27, 2009 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 

Jones 7,924.56 +174.75 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,995 80 775 3,934,384,261 


NASDAQ 1 587.00 +58.05 NYSE ···.,,·.s~~~~:~~l~;lilrtt·:as, S&P 500 832.86 +18.98 
NIKKEI I'TA~io'·· 0 '4 Pl:!t'ii2iRiiKWllio·nn·· 
,. '"""''~ I ........ Q.,UQQjj:~-~=,=,~:::::::.:::;::t;W:/~: :...~.l!lf. 

FTSE 100 (London) 3,925.20 +24.95 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
BK OF AMERICA (SAC) -1.56 -0.12 7.58 CITIGROUP INC (C) -4.75 -0.14 2.81 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +2.04 +1.66 83.11 FINANCIAL BULL 3X (FAS) +4.25 +0.28 6.86 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -1.41 -{).039 2.730 13-WEEK BILL -24.32 -0.050 0.140 30-YEAR BOND ·1.78 -0.066 3.650 5-YEAR NOTE -1.22 -0.022 1.780 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.57 54.34 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +4.20 942.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -3.00 85.00 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 98.780 EURO 1.3534 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2290 BRITISH POUND t4466 
IN BRIEF 
IRS puts pressure on Swiss banks 
WASHINGTON -The IRS is ratcheting up the pressure on Americans who kept secret Swiss bank accounts, giving them six months to come clean and cough up any evidence against their advisers or bankers. 
Tax lawyers told The Associated Press Thursday that demands for information and evidence have increased sharply since the gov­ernment sued UBS AG to try to get the names of tens of thousands of U.S. citizens who may have dodged taxes through Swiss accounts. 
Putting the squeeze on rich Americans who hid their wealth, IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman on Thursday also laid out a six­month window for those with secret offshore accounts to come clean under specific terms and penalties. 
The Obama administration wants UBS to turn over information on as many as 52,000 
U.S. 
customers who concealed their accounts from the government in violation of tax laws. ln February, the bank agreed to pay $780 mil­lion and turn over the names of roughly 250 

U.S. 
clients, but the Justice Department sued to get the names of tens of thousands more. 


Swiss authorities have vowed to fight to pro­tect their tradition of bank secrecy. 
Art gallery owner charged for theft 
NEW YORK -The owner of a now-closed Manhattan art gallery with a star-studded clientele was painted as a thief who stole $88 million from art owners, a bank and investors, including tennis great John McEnroe. 
Lawrence B. Salander used the money to try to corner the Renaissance art market and to support an extravagant lifestyle that included private jet travel, a lavish party for his wife at New York's Frick Collection museum, and the purchase and maintenance of his Manhattan town house and a 66-acre estate, Manhattan District Attorney Hobert Morgenthau said. 
Morgenthau said Salander defrauded a total of' 26 victims in two primary ways: 
In one. he sold artwork not owned by him and kept the money. The district attorney said Salander sometimes sold a piece of art owned by someone else several times. 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS 
page 7 

Harsh financial regulations proposed 
Obama administration submits new rules; says crisis calls for assertiveness 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Obama administration's aggressive plan for strict scrutiny of hedge funds and other freewheeling investors, part of the biggest expansion of finan­cial restraints since the Great Depression, is draw­ing instant opposition from Republican lawmakers and the rules' targets. .And skeptics are questioning whether the new rulebook would work anyway. 
Wall Street wizards have proved adept at designing complex financial products to sidestep existing regula­tions. And Vincent Reinhart, former director of monetary affairs at the Federal Reserve, says, "You're going to see firms try to figure out how to be under the radar." 
For example, private equity investors might try to buy large hedge funds and chop them into funds that would be small enough to operate unregulated, Reinhart said. 
Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, unveiling the plan Thursday, said the nation's economic crisis demands bold action. 
"We need much stronger standards for openness, transparency and plain commonsense language throughout the financial system," he told the House funds and other private panel backed the proposals, didn't think requiring big Financial Services pools of capital, including while Republicans assailed hedge funds to register with Committee. private equity and venture them as too far-reaching. the government would pre­
The administration's pro­capital funds, to register Private analysts also vent devastating frauds like posals, which require con­with the Securities and questioned whether Bernard Madoff's Ponzi gressional approval, Exchange Commission. Geithner's plan would suc­scheme. include: + Creating a regulator to ceed in safeguarding the "You could register all 
+ Imposing tougher stan­monitor the biggest institu­fmancial system. 10,000 hedge funds, and it dards on financial institu­tions. Geithner did not say "We're not in this mess probably would just over­tions that are judged to be which agency should wield becausP we need new whelm the regulator," he so big that their failure such authority, but the rules," said Bill said. would threaten the entire administration is expected Fleckenstein, a Seattle­Timothy Brog, portfolio system. to favor the Federal based hedge fund manager manager of New York­
+Extending federal regu­Reserve. who accurately predicted based hedge fund lation for the first time to + Empowering the gov­the housing bubble. "We Locksmith Capital all trading in financial ernment to take over major need to enforce the rules Management, said stricter derivatives -exotic instru­nonbank financial firms we already have," he said. rules won't work properly if ments such as credit default such as insurers and hedge "What we had was a com­regulators lilecome bogged swaps that are blamed for funds if deemed necessary. plete breakdown by all our down in policing individual much of the economic car­Committee Chairman regulators. They simply funds rather than monitor­nage. Barney Frank, D-Mass., and didn't do their jobs." ing the investment products 
+ Requiring larger hedge many Democrats on the And Fleckenstein said he they trade. 


7,500 GM employees to take buyout 
Associated Press down had not been made public. Thern Both companies have to submit com­
were very few who took the buyouts, pleted restructuring plans to the federal 
DETROIT -About 7,500 General the person said. government by March 31. Motors Corp. workers-roughly 12 The deadline to decide was Tuesda)'. The latest round of buyouts and early percent of the automaker's U.S. hourly and many of the workers waited until retirements at GM was the third for the work force -have signed up to take the last minute to turn in their paper­company since 2006. From all three buyout and early retirement incentives work, the person said. The workers offers, more than 60,000 workers have to leave the company, GM said have seven days from the date they turn decided to leave the company. Thursday. in the paperwork to rescind their deci­The departures and other actions 
Also, Chrysler LLC said Thursday it sion, so many will have to decide by taken by the company "will help ensure would extend its deadline to entice blue­March 31. the long-term viability and future suc­collar workers to leave. The old dead­For those that will leave, the effective cess of General Motors," Gary Cowger, line was Friday. date of their departure is no later than group vice president of global manufac­
GM offered $20,000 cash and a April 1, GM said in a statement. turing, said in a statement. $25,000 voucher to buy a car to all of it<> Both GM and Chrysler are living on a GM has enough workers on layoff to 62,400 hourly U.S. employees in an total of $17.4 billion in government fill all 7,500 vacancies created by the effort to further trim its blue-collar loans and are seeking another $21.6 departures, the person familiar with work force to match reduced sales. billion. The Obama administration's GM's plans said. But if dnmand increas­
Most of those who chose to leave took auto task force has indicated it may es and more workers are needed, the early retirement offers, said a person offer more aid, but further concessions company could hire new people at a familiar with the numbers who did not are possible from both the companies' new lower-tier wage of about $14 per want to be identified because the break-stakeholders. hour, the person said. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 27, 2009 
Oba01a 
continued from page 1 
Erskine A. Peters Dissertation Year, a program carried out in honor of Erskine 
A. Peters who was one of Notre Dame's distinguished scholars and a devoted servant to the community. 
Denise Challenger, a Peters 
Fellow and a doctoral candi­
date at York University in 
Toronto, spoke about how 
Obama has changed attitudes 
for the better in Jamaica. 
"There's a sense that 
Jamaicans can claim owner­
ship to the presidency of 
Obama." she said. "What he 
represents is the validation of 
the potential of the black com­
munity." 
While doing research in 
Brazil, Jessica Graham, a 
Peters Fellow and a doctoral 
candidate at the University of 
Chicago, said many people dis­
covered a renewed sense' of 
pride in their black heritage 
after Obama's election. 
In a recent Brazilian census, 
only seven percent of 
Brazilians consider themselves 
as black, but using objective 
measures, outside organiza­
tions put the country's black 
population at 50 percent. 
"People who are interested 
in the black consciousness 
movement in Brazil will hope 
that this will help people define 
themselves as black," Graham 
said. "They will find it more .appealing to be black." 
Seth Markle, a Peters Fellow 
and a doctoral candidate at 
New York University, said the 
Bush presidency damaged the 
reputation of the United States 
in the eyes of many 
Tanzanians, but Obama's suc­
cessful campaign restored their 
hope in the American electoral 
process. 
"They were engaging in the 
same way that we were engag­
ing with Obama in the U.S." he 
said. "People do see him as 
their president as well." 
In Brazil, Obama's election has helped to weaken racial prejudices targeted towards black women, Graham said. 
"It is very rare to see a man of his stature with a black woman," she said. "He pres­ents a pride that you don't often see in the Brazilian con­text. Young women are saying, 'there are going to be little black girls in the White House with hair texture like mine."' 
Challenger noted another example of how individuals have been motivated by Obama's election -Jamaican author Taniesha Burke wrote a book titled "Raising The Next Barack Obama." 
"She wrote a book on how to raise the next Barack Obama," Challenger said. "She's taken the idea of him and written an instruction book on how to raise the next Obama." 
However, as Challenger said foreigners' admiration of Obama does not always extend to his policies. 
"He represents values that go against Jamaican values," she said. "Homosexuality is a con­tentious issue. They decided that it is still a crime. The idea that homosexuality is immoral has now entered into the dis­course nationwide. Within the Jamaican community, they rec­ognize this complication." 
Moving to the subject of for­eign policy, Markle said Obama's presidency could diminish perceptions of U.S. imperialism. 
"I do think [Obama's presi­dency] is changing the discus­sion around imperialism," he said. 
According to Markle, because Obama is the same color as people exploited by American imperialist ventures in the past, the U.S. may begin to shed its reputation as an empire. 
Challenger also contested the arguments of social theorists who believe race and gender to be minor factors in Jamaica society compared to class structure. 
"Race and gender were the organizing principles of the for­mer slave colony," she said. "There is still an issue of color. Colorism is really a damaging 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 
Leasing now for 2009-2010* 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 

Enjoy the good life when you live off campus at a very reasonable price! 
3, 4 and 5 Bedroom Town homes 2 1/2 Baths Free Internet Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher Security System Off-Street Parking Located Close to Notre Dame 


Only $350 per month~ per student! 
*Our townhomes rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 

(574) 234-2436 
It's not too late... 
TO LIVE IN ONE OF THE BEST CRIBS IN TOWN NEXT SEMESTER 

Be the first person to ever live in a brand new Irish Row Apartment or Irish Crossings Townhome which will be complete this summer. 
There are still a lew units available for tall and plenty left tor the 2010·2011 school yeac 
Just one block east of campus. you'll find: 
• 
Furnished residences 

-Including a 4r flat panel HDTV in every living room 

• 
Up to 4 bedrooms per unit -Private, full bath in each bedroom 

• 
FREE Internet & 200+ TV stations 

• 
laundry room with washer &dryer in each unit 

• 
Fitness center and lounge, including tanning 


• 
Brand new construction 

• 
Community social events 

• 
Nearby groceries, restaurants and entertainment 


Visit the Irish Row leasing office at the comer of Vaness and Burdette Streets and get a FREE Irish Row or Irish Crossings "Kiss Me I'm irish" t·shirt, while they last. You can also find us on the web at www.lrishRowApartments.com. 
IIIrish 
ROW 

lri~hRowApartments.com ! lrishCross!ng~.tom k¥<em1llin~hrowapartmems.r.cm 1 574.27"1.6666 

Friday, March 27, 2009 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Store Your Stun Miss. tornado injures 28 
ov~r the summerl 
Call or stop on by & reserve today! 
15141 203-0512 
648] Briel< RwdSouth B«nd L<><llt«l .11 Clew.land Rd.& US 20 Byf}A~. 1 minutes h<.>m campu~ 

lUXURY 1-2 BEDROOM APARTMENTS ·SAUNA ·POOL 
•2 LAKES WI WATERFALL ·VOLLEYBALL BASKETBALL TENNIS COURTS ·WALK-IN CLOSETS ·FIREPLACES ·WID CONNECTIONS ·7 MIN. TO NOTRE DAME ·FITNESS CENTER •HOTTUB 
ENJOY THf ATTRACTIVE SURROUNDINGS AND AfFORDABlE RATES 
CALL TODAY FOR OUR SPECIALS (574) 256-1350 

Notre Dame Apartments 
Notre Dame Apartments are a Notre Dame tradition! 2 Bedroom, 1 ,200 sq. ft. Apartments Newly Remodeled Free Internet Free Water On~Site Laundry Off-Street Parking Only Three Blocks from Campus 
*These apartments rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our townhor;nes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 

(574) 234-2436 
Associated Press 
MAGEE, Miss: -Residents in a tornado-ravaged community took advantage of clearing skies Thursday to collect family keep­sakes and begin cleaning up from a storm that left 28 injured and dozens of homes and busi­nesses flattened across south­central Mississippi. 
But Magee, a town of about 5,000 in Mississippi's pine forests, may not have much time to begin serious cleanup as another storm system with the potential for more destruction was expected late Thursday or early Friday. 
While families were busy mov­ing debris from around homes and covering exposed ceilings, the steady grinding of chain saws echoed through the com­munity as utility crews cleared fallen trees from power lines. 
Magee Mayor Jimmy Clyde said the community was in the early stages of assessing the destruction from a pre-dawn twister that smashed through dozens of homes and apartment duplexes and damaged two churches. 
"This is like reliving Hurricane Katrina all over again and that's no fun," Clyde said as office phones rang con­stantly with reports of storm­damaged neighborhoods and lost power and water service. "We got hit back then and we've really been hit now." 
Officials believe 36 homes, a church and a business were destroyed in Simpson County, where Magee is located, and another 86 homes and struc­tures were damaged. Across the state, 43 structures were destroyed and another 146 were damaged by at least five con­firmed tornados. 
Phillip Runnels spent the afternoon sifting through what was the barely recognizable remains of his mother's mobile home on Mississippi 28. 
His mother, Pamela McCallum, 48, was in good con­dition after being airlifted to the University of Mississippi Medical Center in Jackson. Her boyfriend, Larry Pearson, 58, was also injured and was in fair condition. 
"She's in pretty bad shape and Mr. Larry, he's in worse shape," Runnels said as he continued his inspection. 
The twister smashed through Magee around 1:30 a.m. as severe thunderstorms rumbled across the Southeast. Power blackouts affected tens of thou­sands of Louisiana residents and authorities reported dam­age to some Alabama homes. Georgia residents also braced for potentially heavy rains. 
There were no immediate reports of deaths. 
Mississippi's governor declared a state of emergency in Simpson County. At least nine counties reported damage Thursday. An elementary school was closed in Amite County in southern Mississippi after high winds tore off part of its roof. 
The Salvation Army and other aid organizations hurried warm meals and supplies to stricken areas. 
"We're getting a lot of help in here," Clyde said. "That's the thing about Mississippi. Everybody just-helps each other in times like this." 
Clyde said homes in some areas were "basically leveled" and damage was extensive just outside the city limits. 
Jeff Giachelli, 48, said he and his wife, Cappy, were asleep when the storm hit. He called to his wife when the windows of their red-brick home shattered. His roof also had been sheared off. 
"We got in the closet and it just collapsed," he said. 
In a nearby neighborhood, several brick duplex apartments were smashed and cars were flipped upside down. 
Stephanie Malley, 35, cried as she looked at the shell of her home, its roof gone. She awoke when flying debris hit her in the back. She grabbed her 11-and 13-year-old sons and pulled them into a bathroom. 
"We stayed in the bathroom for a long time until everything started coming down," Malley said. 
Her 11-year-old needed nine stitches for a cut on his leg. Nearby houses were marked with red spray paint to show that emergency workers who dug through the rubble didn't find any injured or dead resi­dents. 
The nearby Corinth Baptist Church was so shattered that "only the doors to its sanctuary were left standing," she said. 
Members of the 1 00-year-old church stepped around the red brick rubble and walked through a cemetery where tombstones were knocked to the ground. A white church van was overturned. 
There were still plans to hold Sunday services in the parking lot, however. 
"Our church is still here, because our church is the peo­ple, but the building is gone," said member Charlene Loyd. 
Another tornado touched down Wednesday in Mississippi's Lauderdale County, heavily damaging nine homes and a business. but causing no injuries, officials said. 

THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, March 27, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Not;e Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDI10R-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink John Donovan 
"AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWs EDITOR: Madeline Buckley' 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber ScENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 

SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: !an Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVERTISING MANAGERS< Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CoNTROLLER< Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmerz@nd.eau 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 

(574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 spons@nd.edu SCENE DESK (574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK acharnO1 @saintmarys.edu PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commenraries, leners and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be. signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor-in-Chitf]enn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

1'hc Obscrvd" (USPS 599 2-4000) is pnbt®cdMonday m:ugh Fri.dJy aupt durir~g exam and vacation perio&. A sulm;ription ro The Ob&c:rver is $110 for one ~t:Ulic year, S6S fur ()ne stmes:ter. 
The Obstrvtr is published at: POSfMASTER 024 South Dining H~l Send:address.o.mections t<l: Norre Dam<, IN 46556.()779 lW:Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O~Boxm and additional mailing offices. 024-South Dining Hall 
Nottt Dame, IN 4:6:5-56-0779 
The ObscfVI:!t Ls a member ofthe Associat-ed Press. Ali [eproduccion rights are 
~-~ 

Constructive debate welcome 
The Observer's inbox has been inundated with letters in response to the University's invitation to the President of the United States to be the principal speaker at this year's Commencement exercises. 
These letters range from expressions of utter outrage and disbelief to mild acceptance, from sheer joy to indif­ference. Their authors -angered alumni, American Catholics not associated with the University and students -are contributing their viewpoints to a conversation that has -in many respects -reduced itself to a circus. 
Of the 612 Letters to the Editor The Observer has received as of 2 p.m. Thursday, 313 have been authored by alumni. Of those letters, 70 percent are supportive of the University's decision to invite the presi­dent and 30 percent are against. 
And while more alumni have written to The 
Yet the debate rages on, and with legitimate reason. According to official University statements, the invitation of the president is not an endorsement of his views per­taining to the protection of life. 
However, the question arises: Is it possible to pick and choose what to honor? 
There is no such thing as a perfect speaker; all are con­troversial on some level, regardless of their affiliation to political party or to religion. Take, for example, President George W. Bush, the last sitting president to speak at a University Commencement. A member of the Republican Party, his stance on the death penalty sparked protests in May 2001 when he was on campus. 
As it was in 2001, it remains in 2009: there 
is a difference between tolerance and accept­
ance. 

Observer than students, their voice must not The University has said it does not accept
OUsERVER
be lost. In fact, of the 282 letters authored by the president's views on the protection of life, students, the breakdown is a bit different: 73 but it will listen to him, it will respect him,
Editorial
percent of students who have written Letters to the Editor are supportive of the Obama selection, while 27 percent are against it. 
Looking at the senior class' response, the sentiment is even more extreme: 97 percent of seniors are supportive, 3 percent are not. 
There is a clear disconnect between alumni and the stu­dent body as a whole on this issue. 
This is the seniors' graduation, their last memories of Notre Dame as a student. Protestors would do well to remember this. Make your views known; healthy debate is welcomed. Photographs of aborted fetuses are not. 
The fact remains: President Barack Obama will be the 2009 Commencement speaker at the University of Notre Dame, following a long-standing tradition to invite the president to speak. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins has described the president's decision to come to Notre Dame as an "honor;" likewise, the White House released a statement that Obam-a is equally "honored" to come to campus and address the graduating class. Neither groups have indicat­ed that plans will change. 
and it will challenge him in the future. 
In doing so, the Notre Dame community is in 
a unique position to have the ear of the presi­
dent for one afternoon. 
University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, without a doubt one of the most influential American Catholics, a man who has fought tirelessly for civil rights in this country and to transform the University into a respected institution of higher learning, said this Friday speaking to a group of alumni, parents and friends of Notre Dame: · 
"No speaker who has ever come to Notre Dame has changed the University. We are who we are. But, quite often, the very fact of being here has changed the speak­er." 
We must continue that tradition, and show the president, and the world, what Notre Dame is; we will welcome chal­lenges, but retain our character and retain our class in engaging with those who might disagree with us in debate. And we wiH give the class of 2009 the best possible send off to bring Notre Dame with them when they leave cam­pus irr May. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 





-IEWPOINT
Friday, March 27, 2009 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Hip-Hop Night 
Choosing to come to Notre Dame during my senior year in high school was one of the most important decisions in my life. I had to choose a place to learn, live, and grow for the next four years while attain­ing a degree that'd be with me forever. I chose Notre Dame for obvious reasons. The University's academic reputation, ath­letic traditions, and commitment to Christianity are just a few of the character­istics that I'm sure draw all of us to this school. However, the quality of the people here is what impacted me the most during ~y visits and led me to decide to come to the Dome. 
Unfortunately this past Saturday, for the first time in my five and one half semesters here, I wondered if I had made the right choice. On Saturday the student group Wabruda brought Taalam Acey, a popular spoken word poet, into Legends for a show to be followed by Hip-Hop Night. I thought it'd be a great time to invite my friend from Chicago and younger cousin to cam­pus to listen to poetry and then have some dancing fun afterward. Instead. my guests were offended and insulted by some of the students' attire. 
It seems that some of my classmates deem it appropriate to wear "costumes" to Legends for Hip-Hop Night. Dressing in stereotypical "hip-hop" clothing for this is a growing phenomenon and is becoming increasingly offensive. These students may give the excuse of trying to dress "hip­hop," but it really just looks like a mockery of black culture. While hip-hop is not the sole form of representing black culture, it does give many of our young people a voice. It is an ever-changing form of music and to perpetuate a single stereotype with­in it is both hurtful and demeaning. Some students at Hip-Hop Night sport bandan­nas, jerseys, baggy sweatpants, corn rows and fake chains. One of the most shocking outfits that I observed on Saturday includ­ed a fake tattoo on a girl's abdomen that read "thug life." 
Sadly, while these students are garnering attention and making a spectacle of them­selves, I find it pointless to address the issue right away. Most of them are way too intoxicated to listen to let alone care about my concerns and those of my friends. I was utterly embarrassed for my cousin, a sen­ior in high school, to think that this is what she has to look forward to in college. I was even more ashamed that my friend, a jun­ior at Central State University, had to wit­ness such behavior and for it to help her form an opinion of Notre Dame. 
I know this letter probably won't trans­form insensitivity or erase ignorance, but I just had to show my discontent. I am sad­dened and disappointed that Notre Dame students, my classmates, could be so inconsiderate. · 
Shawnika Giger junior Pangborn Hall March 25 

Irish Outrage 
I am shocked and outraged by the actions of certain members of the Notre Dame com­munity as oflate. I am, of course, referring to William McTighe's participation in the White House's St. Patrick's Day party ("Student plays Irish music for President" March 25). How can McTighe possibly reconcile this action with his conscience as a Catholic? How can he possibly think to share such a joyous celebration (St. Patrick's Day) with our nation's charismatic, brilliant and popular president when he knows full well that Obama is pro-choice. McTighe has sullied the name not only of bag-pipers everywhere but the Irish race as a whole. How can the world think anything except that McTighe's band, the Shannon Rovers, is completely and with­out-exception pro-choice and thus do not value human life. 
In fact, I just threw away four Shannon Rover's CDs, two hats, six T-shirts, and one bagpipe due to their association with this group. I never thought it possible, but the Shannon Rovers are no longer my Irish pipe band. 
Bernardo Garcia sophomore Keough Hall March 25 

More than one issue 
Very recently there was a viewpoint letter which suggested something which normally I would consider very wise. The author suggested that we realize that this is one issue that the Catholic Church disagrees with President Obama on, and that a single issue should not dictate an entire relationship with a political official. 
This is a stance I've taken many times. After all, there are no perfect candidates. It is impossible to find one who does not disagree with you on at least one issue which matters to you. And from the standpoint cer­tainly of those who either agree with Obama on the pro-life/pro-choice debate, or even those on the fence, would agree that this is just one issue. ,.. 
What you must understand, however, is that those who believe that abortion is killing an innocent human being do not see it as just an issue. To them it isn't just abOut the economy, it isn't just about how much is spent on Iraq or education, how well the police are paid and how other countries view us. To them it's a question of killing innocent human beings, and how President Obama is campaigning to make it easier and easier to do this. He obviously does not see these as human beings, from the way he talks about them and his stance on it, but we do. 
To us it is not just about an issun; it's about thousands of lives being lost each day. It's not just an issue; it's a form of genocide. To the Catholic Church, having thousands die each day before they are even given a chance to see the light of day is the greatest tragedy in the mod­ern world -a tragedy that we facilitate. So naturally they are upset about President Obama speaking to them, when they consider him to be the facilitator of many of these e\ils. 
But the other side has a valid point too; now that we have invited the President, we cannot simply uninvitn him; it would be an amazing insult to him and everyone who agrees with him. Nor can we refuse to give him an honorary degree, because that would be a similar slap in the face. But those who want Obama to speak at commencement should realize that there is a difference between "respecting the office of the presidency", a good and patriotic thing to do, and heaping honors upon the President; I am perfectly capable of respecting my president without honoring him with awards, especially if I don't feel he deserves them. 
The true problem in the eyes of those against having him speak is that he was invited at all. Now that he's here, there is nothing to be done. If we don't all understand that, we need to begin to understand that. President Obama will speak at the Commencement, and he will get an honorary degree. There's nothing to be done about that now, and talk as radical and ridiculous as lining Notre Dame Avenue with pictures of aborted fetuses is not only counterproductive, but simply inflammatory and demeaning. 
But on the other hand, the response from those similar to what is going on at ndresponse.com is also quite reasonable and worthwhile; it's taking a stand on the issue when there is nothing in our power we can do about it. We must have the president as our speaker; we don't have to like it or take it lying down. And, as a sidenote, I'd also like to point out that for me, personally, it isn't about one issue. In fact I doubt that there is even one major issue that I agree with on the president on, as a Catholic, Aristotelian, pragmatist and capitalist. And also, on occa­sion, someone with a dollop of common sense._ 
So do not peg us all as simply having one issue with him, whichever issue that may be. 
Cavanaugh Hannon freshman Dillon Hall March26 
. 


Express som_e hum_ility 
Last Friday's Observer featured a col­umn by Bob Kessler about the "hookup culture" in which he made a comment about "our state school counterparts" that implied that they have lower moral standards than our own student body. I don't know Bob, but I'm sure he's a nice guy and that his comment was merely a light-hearted attempt at levity. Nevertheless, I believe this is worth mentioning because in my semester and a half here at Notre Dame, I've noticed that it is a consistent practice among a segment of the student body to pat themselves on the back by pretending to be superior to people at state schools. This past· week alone I probably heard about a half dozen such comments from my fellow Domers. 
I offer a word of caution to my peers who may think this is witty, or makes you appear more sophisticated than those mere peasants at state institutions: you sound like morons, and would be wise to kick this habit before leaving the Notre Dame bubble. I realize most of the time these remarks are made in jest, but given the frequency with which they can be heard here on campus or at a week­end party, they show a very real flaw in the character of those who say them. None of us are better than anyone else just because we go to Notre Dame. True, maybe some of us are smarter, maybe some of us worked harder. Though, maybe some of us just got lucky and struck the right chord with a particular admissions official in our personal state­ments, or maybe your family name is on one of the buildings here. 0r, maybe you worked just as hard to get here as a kid at a state school who made the decision on where to attend based on what he or she could reasonably afford. 
Regardless of how we got here, one thing is certain, we are all incredibly fortunate. I love this school, and all the amazing people I've met here, with all my heart. We should all be grateful for the opportunity to attend such a presti­gious institution, and upon graduation, go forth into the world with humility and respect for one another regardless of our various backgrounds or alma maters. As a Notre Dame student who transferred from not merely a state school, but a community college at that, and who earns excellent grades (better grades than the drunk who stood in front of him at a party this past week slurring his words as he quipped about those poor kids at state institutions, I might add), I would just like to offer a reminder that you never know who you're talking to and what your words might say to them about your own char­acter. 
Allow me to end with a dose of inspira­tion for my fellow public school alums, and fans of the Wes Anderson film, "Rushmore." I offer you the words of Bill Murray's character, Herman Blume, as he addresses the prestigious Rushmore Academy: "Now, for some of you it does­n't matter. You were born rich and you're going to stay rich. But here's my advice to the rest of you: Take dead aim on the rich boys. Get them in the crosshairs and take them down. Just remember, they can buy anything but they can't buy backbone. Don't let them forget it. Thank you." 
Brendan McPhillips Junior offcampus March 25 

Easter Mass 

Recently I heard the Basilica is filming an Easter Mass this Saturday which will be broad­cast Easter morning on NBC. I'm sure it will be a beautiful mass full of celebration, but can you really celebrate Easter · two weeks early? Isn't Lent supposed to be a solemn time of reflection and fasting? I'm confused how we can ''cele­brate" the Resurrection before He has even been crucified. It's great that the Church is broad­casting mass, but why not have it live? You would think that with the number of sporting events telecast live NBC could' broadcast something as impor­tant as Easter Mass on the actual day. 
Kelli Davis freshman Pasquerilla West Hall March 25 

page 12 

This Week's Mix-Bust Out the Shorts 


THE OBSERVER 




CENE 
Friday, March 27, 2009 

1 2 3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 

1 0 11 12 
by Andrew Seroff ttl "All Right Now~~-Free ~ ''No Sunlight"-Death Cab for Cutie w'J NSugar Magnolia"-Grateful Dead ~ "Let Me Go"-Cake 
~~ "Superman"-Goldfinger .;j "You Get What You Give"-New Radicals ""' "I'm From Barcelona"-We're From Barcelona 
~ "Wishbone"-Architecture in Helsinki 
!!J~~Hot Dog"-Led Zeppelin !tJ "The Blues Are Still Blue•-Belle and Sebastian .!!J NSaturday Morning"-Eels ~ "Beer"-Reel Big Fish 


By STEPHANIE DePREZ Scene Writer 

There is one thing to remember when lis­tening to the Kronos Quartet: they are not a string quartet. They are, in fact, a "new piece is that Kronos isn't playing normal instruments. Instead, the instruments look like someone took a violin and a trumpet and bashed them together. Instead of a cello, there is a long neck with strings and what looks like the head of a phonograph sticking 
music ensemble." What does this mean to the out of the bottom. average listener? It means they are some­These instruments are actually recreations 
where between Stravinsky  instruments  from  
and  Arcade  Fire  - and  Born from the avant-garde  Thomas Edison's time.  
nowhere near Mozart. Kronos was started in 1973 by David Harrington, who  movement, the Kronos Quartet has played and  Because string instru­ments had a hard time being picked up by an  
decided to form the group  recorded music that varies  Edison cylinder, musi­ 
after hearing a Vietnam­inspired piece by known avant-garde composer George  from Shostakovich and Webern to Thelonious Monk to  cians would put the round, flaring part of a horn near the strings  
Crumb. He decided to delve  Jimmy Hendrix.  to amplify the sound.  
into the new musical tradition  Kronos  had  these  

of music that is off the beaten path. Born from the avant-garde movement, the Kronos Quartet has played and recorded music that varies from Shostakovich and Webern to Thelonious Monk to Jimmy Hendrix. 
Their unique interest in minimalistic music and anything with an unusual rhythm has led them to run the musical gamut a few times over. They have collaborated with Bollywood artist R.D. Burman (giving them a distinct Indian sound), appeared on the album "Late in the 20th Century" (next to a Romanian woman's choir). can be found on the new release for AIDS awareness "Dark was the Night" (along with Sufjan Stevens and Iron and Wine), and were commissioned to write an ode to earth by NASA. They have appeared with Dawn Upshaw, Dave Matthews, and Nine Inch Nails. The heart­stopping music in "Requiem for a Dream" and "The Fountain?" Yeah, that was these guys. 
There is nothing they cannot do, and for that matter, nothing they will not do. 
Tonight they will be premiering a piece by Terry Riley, a famed minimalist composer. According to Harrington, Riley's "In C" in 1964 was a marked change in music. 
"All the sudden people thought about music differently," Harrington said. "There was no more hierarchy of musicians. It was a com­munity of music." 
Riley has since become one of the most famous composers of minimalism. 
The premier tonight of "Transylvania Horn Courtship" will be the 24th collaboration between Riley and Kronos. It will be unique for Kronos in many ways, one being the addi­tion of on-stage sampling, creating a musical loop in the middle of the piece they can play over. 
"We've never done sampling in a show before," Harrington said. The next thing one might notice about the 
instruments recreated for this piece by an artist and instrument maker in San Francisco. Since they were originally made for Edison's cylinder players by an Eastern European man, Riley was inspired to use the name Transylvania. 
The instruments used for "Transylvania Horn Courtship" are a strange, jarring blend of brass and strings that signifies some sort of quirky relationship between the two. The dichotomy is strangely appropriate for Kronos, who pride themselves on their musi­cal diversity and openness to literally any­thing that comes their way.· Watching them play, it seems to make sense. 
As Harrington said, challenges came with "learning to play completely new instru­ments. There has never been a piece we've played in 35 years that has required as many aspects" 
But why premier a piece at Notre Dame? "Anne Thompson [executive director of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center] invited us to make a project that would be joyous," says Harrington. "It's been a wonderful experi­ence with Terry Riley. This piece is the most joyous we could put together, this piece for this occasion." 
The collaborative team that calls itself the Kronos Quartet is a musical feat to be mar­veled. For over thirty years, they have been redefining contemporary music in all its forms, from metal to movie scores to mini­malism. They are an American institution, and their appearance at the Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will be a night to remember. 
The performance begins at 7 p.m. tonight, and the second performance takes place at 
7:30 p.m. Saturday. Tickets are $48, $38 for faculty and staff, $36 for seniors and $15 for students. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 


12 songs, 1weekend, 43 mins, 8 seci of music 
Photo courtesy of http://www.learningmusician.com 
ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic The Kronos Quartet will perform Friday and Saturday at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Friday, March 27, 2009 
page 13 

By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Scene Writer 
This weekend the Notre Dame Student Players will be performing Arthur Miller's classic American tragedy "Death of a Salesman," directed by freshman Tom Blanford and produced by sophomores Robert Jenista and Rachel Witty. Starring are senior JJ Rees as Willy Loman, sopho­more Kelly Hunt as Linda, freshman Derek Defensor as Biff and freshman Chris Stare as Happy. 
The protagonist, Willy Loman, is a trav­eling salesman based in New York City. His wife Linda loves him for who he is despite his shortcomings, but Willy always feels the need to be someone better. He puts incredible pressure on his sons, BitT and Happy, to be successful in business, yet they are both well into their adult lives and still have not done much of,anything. 
It is repeatedly noted throughout the play that Willy and his sons are good with their hands, yet it is clear that Willy thinks business is the only path to success in America. He clings to the American dream with everything he has, pretending to be a successful businessman before his family when really that is far from the truth. It is because of this extraordinary persistence to be someone he cannot that Willy sends his life spiraling downward towards suicide. 
"Death of a Salesman" has redefined the genre of tragedy, as it follows not the fall of a traditionally great man but rather someone like Willy Loman who seems to be insignificant and forgotten in his every­day life. 
Miller is making the claim that even men who are ostensibly small in the face of society can have just as long and tragic a fall as a great man. Willy does not rule a kingdom but he does in a sense rule his own household, which sets him up as a tragic hero. 
It is typical for members of the audience or readers of "Death of a Salesman" to flip-flop between empathizing with and feeling repulsed by Willy Loman. Rees believes that putting himself in the physi­cal and emotional position of this charac­ter has allowed him to empathize more with Willy. 
The play is told mostly from Willy's point of view. A series of flashbacks and warping of time characterize the show . and give the audience a more rounded explanation for Willy's current ragged condition. It is clear that in his distress he has begun to lose grasp of past and pres­ent, fantasy and reality. 
"It is important for the audience to see a stark contrast between the true charac­ters in reality, and their actions and emo­tions as Willy remembers them, yet see a smooth transition in and out of reality," Blanford said. 
Blanford has faced the challenge of dis­torted time and flashbacks through extra emphasis on blocking and transitions of emotions. 
As always, a show's set can dramatical­ly affect the audience's interpretation. 
"Our production this weekend is a tradi­tional, but minimalist approach to the show. The set is minimized and open to allow the emotions of this show to stand on top, while close attention was put into adopting the time period of the 1940s," Blanford said. 
As a popular play performed countless times since its debut in 1949, what makes this production at Notre Dame unique is that it is entirely student produced, direct­ed, and performed. Young, aspiring col­lege students are dealing with issues attributed to the working class of an older generation. 
"Willy Loman is 63 years old I am obvi­ously not 63 years old. It's a challenge to make Willy, Linda, [and the other charac­ters] relatable to college-age students," Rees said of his character. 
However, what connects Willy's genera­tion to our current generation are the "themes of defining success, the American Dream, and leaving a legacy," he said. 
Even though at times the characters' actions might provoke pity or disgust, these pervasive themes are what allow young adults to understand and relate to the position that Willy Loman and his family face. 
"Death of a Salesman" will be per­formed this Friday and Saturday at 7:30 
p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are $5 for general admission and $3 for students and seniors and can be purchased in advance at the LaFortune Box Office. 
Contact Sara Felsenstien at sfelsens@nd.edu 
Arthur Miller's "The Death of a Salesman" has been a staple of American theatre since its opening in 1949. This weekend it is being pre­sented by the Notre Dame Student Players Club at Washington Hall. 
It cen­ters on Genevieve McCabe the Loman 
family, a simple Scene Writer family struggling to achieve the American dream. The play is well done and enjoyable to watch if not entirely relevant to a col­lege age audience. 
As head of the family, Willy Loman, played by JJ Rees, works as a travel­ing salesman. From week to week he struggles to make ends meet. Because of this difficulty, he chooses to live in a world of memory and imagination rather than a world of reality. Through a series of flashbacks and daydreams, the story of Willy's life emerges. 
frustrations. The disappointment of his own life and the lives of his sons come together, crippling Willy under the pressure of keeping it all together. 
Rees delivers a convincing perform­ance as Willy, although it is at times difficult to remember that he is play­ing a 60-year-old man. 
Derek Defensor and Chris Stare do well as BitT and Happy, but the stand­out performance is delivered by Kelly Hunt as Linda Loman. 
Hunt delivers an earnest perform­ance as a wife trying to hold her crumbling family together. More than any of the other performers, Hunt seems to have reached the heart of her role. It is her performance that succeeds in engaging the audience at an emotional level. You cannot help but feel for Linda and sympathize despite her role in encouraging Willy's delusions. 
Overall, the play.)s well done. It does seem to drag on toward the end, though that is due more to the script 
than the actors them­

The audience can see that At certain points, selves. Willy's life is defined by his Unfortunately, despite
it is almost 

constant struggle to justify the best effort of the his version of the American annoying that cast, the message of dream with the disappoint­not a single char­"Salesman" is difficult to ment of reality. He has relate to and audiences
acter succeeds in 
elaborate ideas of success may find the story unre­and happiness, but he overcoming his warding. Willy's strug­struggles to find them in his self-pity. gles are often hard to frustrating and unsuccess­sympathize with from the 
ful career. 

Willy's two son's Biff and Happy provide further illumination into the fragile dynamics of the Loman family. Biff, the oldest son, has failed to live up to his potential in everyone's eyes, including his own. He wanders from one job to the next, never quite find­ing happiness or contentment. In Biff's own words, "I don't know what I'm supposed to want". 
The younger of the two sons, Happy, has seized upon his father's dream for success in business. He does relatively well and enjoys many of the trappings of success and happi­ness. Yet for all of his success, Happy hardly lives up to his name. Rather, he is just as lost as his brother Biff, who can at least acknowledge his 
perspective of a college age audience. 
Though Biff and Happy provide an example of where we all hope not to be in 15 years' time, the overall spirit of the performance falls flat. At cer­tain points, it is almost annoying that not a single character succeeds in overcoming his self-pity. 
This is not to say that those who are interested in the greater tradition of American theatre will not find the performance enjoyable. Rather, the average student may feel uninspired.:.. 
The views expressed in this cotzlnt~ are those of the author and not ' necessarily those of the Observer. 
Contact Genevieve McCabe at gmccabe@nd. edu 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, March 27, 2009 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Pitino eyes Arizona job 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Arizona coach Russ Pennell will play this weekend by the book. 
Rick Pitino's book. 

He's savoring every moment in Indianapolis, from the open shootaround to the usually dreaded news conferences, fully understanding Friday night's game against top­seeded Louisville could be his first and only chance to lead a team into the region­al finals. · 
So the man with the interim title spent Thursday blunting ques­tions about his uncertain future by focusing on the present. Or what Pitino once described as the pre-· cious present. 
"Just the opportunity to walk through this journey this year is incredible. It's stretched me, it's forced me to think outside the box. It's· very unconventional what we've gone through," Pennell said. "If this is the only opportunity, so be it. Life goes on." 
At Arizona, basketball success has exeeeded all expectations this March. 
The tumultuous season began in October with the retirement of Hall of Fame coach Lute Olson, a move that suddenly put a career assistant, Pennell, in charge of a program with 24 straight tournament appearances. 
There were times Pennell found himself on tenuous ground. 
Arizona opened the Pac­1 0 season going an unchar­acteristic 2-5, and many thought the longest NCAA streak in the nation would end aft~r the Wildcats lost five of their last six games heading into Selection Sunday. 
Instead, they were one of the final teams chosen for the field and proved they deserved the bid last week­end by beating fifth-seeded Utah and 13th-seeded Cleveland State in Miami. That got them a ticket back to Indy, the same site where the Wildcats upset 
Pitino's heavily favored Kentucky squad tiT win the 1997 national title. 
Now Pennell faces Pitino's 
Cardinals (30-5),  a  team  
that  looks  a  lot  like  
Arizona.  

"It's the closest I've ever seen two teams in the type of pressure (defense) they apply," Pitino s<J,id. "They do one thing different ­they bring their center out to the corner sometimes. But it's almost identical to what we're trying to accomplish." 
That's where the similari­ties end. 
No. 12-seeded Arizona (21-13) is the lowest left in the field and wasn't sup­posed to make it past one round, much less round two, and now looks like a longshot to get past Louisville. 
The Cardinals are still expected to be in Detroit for next weekend's Final Four after winning the Big East regular-season and tournament titles, taking the No. 1 ranking in last week's poll and claiming the top overall seed in the tourney. That means any­thing less than a national title won't suffice. 
Yet in a Midwest Regional packed with tradition and familiar coaches, Pennell is the exception. A year ago, he was still doing color commentary on Arizona State radio broadcasts. 
The four teams playing in Indianapolis have combined for eight national titles and three of the coaches here -Pitino, Michigan State's Tom Izzo and Kansas' Bill Self-have national cham­.Pionship rings. Pennell 
does not. 
Pitino also owns a ster­ling 8-0 record in regional semifinals, but Pennell sees things differently. ''I'm undefeated (in the tourna­ment). Better record," he said, drawing laughter, after going 2-0 last week­end. 
Pennell isn't the only who was being asked about his future Thursday. 
So was Pitino. If Kentucky coach Billy Gillispie is out, as rumors 
suggest, Pitino's name will almost certainly resurface as a possible candidate in Lexington. Again. It's a dis­traction the Cardinals don't need this weekend. 
Then Pitino was asked about another possibility: replacing Pennell at Arizona. 
"I wouldn't answer any question about any other job because it would be dis­respectful to Louisville," Pitino said. "Anytime you hear a player stand up here and say, 'I'm not going pro, I'm coming back,' he's gone. Any time a coach says he's not interested in a job, he's dead interested in a job. All I can tell you is that for eight years, I've given every ounce I've had to the University of Louisville and I will contin­ue to do that." 
The speculation appears to be having no impact on the Cardinals. 
They reduced a scheduled 5 0 -m i n u t,e p r a c tic e to 3 0 minutes and performed what amounted to a Midnight Madness workout -an impromptu dunk con­test with an array of half­court shots. Players also chatted with the large con­tingent of fans who made the 100-mile drive to Indy, where Louisville won its first national title in 1980. 
Forward Terrence Williams reflected on his days cutting lawns and one of the best smiles in college basketball. 
Clearly, there's no pres" sure in Louisville's locker room. 
"Even though it's a seri­ous game, you want to win, but you can still smile while playing hard, trying to win the game," he said. "So I want to be the rare guy that smiles all the time." 
Pennell concurs. 

Despite the possibility that Friday night could be his last game with the Wildcats, and perhaps ever as a head coach, Pennell isn't worrying about what could happen. 
He'd rather take care of business on the court, just like Pitino. 
NFL 

NFL player prevented fromvisiting dYffigmom: 
Associated Press 

DALLAS -A police officer was placed on administrative leave Thursday over a traffic stop involving an NFL player whom he kept in a hospital parking lot and threatened to arrest while his mother-in-law died inside the building. 
Officer Rooert Powell also drew his gun during the March 18 incident involving Houston Texans running back Ryan Moats in the Dallas suburb of Plano, police said. ~ 
"I can screw you over," he said at one point in the video­taped incident. When another officer came with word that Moats' mother-in-law was indeed dying, Powell's response was: "All right. I'm almost done." 
Dallas Police Chief David Kunkle apologized to the family and announced that Powell would be on paid leave pending an internal investigation. 
"When we at the command staff reviewed the tape, we were embarrassed, disappoint­ed," Kunkle said. "It's hard to find the right word and still be professional in my role as the police chief. But the behavior was not appropriate." 
Powell, 25, a three-year member of the force, stopped Moats' SUV outside Baylor 
· Regional Medical Center at Plano after Moats rolled through a red light. Police officials said Powell told his commanders he believed he was doing his job, and that he drew his gun but did not point it. Kunkle said Powell was not necessarily act­ing improperly when he pulled his weapon out, but that once he realized what was happen­ing should have put the gun back, apologized and offered to help the family in any way. "His behavior, in my opinion, did not exhibit the common sense, the discretion, the com­passion that we expect our offi­cers to exhibit," Kunkle said. Moats' wife, who was in the car along with other relatives, said Powell pointed his weapon at her. "He was pointing a gun at me as soon as I got out of the car," Tamishia Moats told The Dallas 
Morning News. 

Ryan Moats told KRLD-FM in Dallas in a phone interview Thursday that after the officer pointed the gun at his wife, he pointed it at him. "I just tried to stay as still as possible to not scare him or do anything to make him react," he said. 
He earlier told the newspaper he thought Powell should be fired but backed off that in his radio interview. 
"All I know is what he did was wrong," Moats said. "He stole a moment away from me that I can never get back. I'm really not the judge on what should happen to him." 
The Moats family did not immediately return messages left by The Associated Press. Powell did not respond to requests for comment through the Dallas police union. 
Video from a dashboard cam­era inside the officer's vehicle, obtained by Dallas-Fort Worth station WFAA-TV. revealed an intense exchange in which the officer threatened to jail Moats. 
He ordered Tamishia Moats, 27, to get back in the SUV, but after pausing for a few seconds, she and another woman rushed into the hospital. She was by the side of her mother, 45-year-­old Jonetta Collinsworth, when she died a short time later from breast cancer. · 
"Get in there," said Powell, yelling at Tamishia Moats as she exited the vehicle. "Let me see your hands!" 
"Excuse me, my mom is dying," Tamishia Moats said. "Do you understand?" 
Ryan Moats explained that he waited until there was no traffic before proceeding through the red light. 
When Powell asked for proof of insurance, Moats grew more agitated and told the officer to go find it. 
"My mother-in-law is dying! Right now! You're wasting my time!" Moats yelled. "I don't understand why you can't understand that." 
As they argued, the officer got irritated. 
"Shut your mouth," the officer said. "You can either settle down and cooperate or I can just take you to jail for running a red light." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer-AA 1 Walk to Campus 2-5 bedroom Need off-campus housing for next If you or someone you care about Surely some revelation is at hand; ing 10-month leases. homes 574-277-0116-yea (09-10)? 2,3,4 and 5 bedroom has been sexually assaulted, visit Surely the Second Coming is at 
FoR SALE Bluegoldrentals.com Cooreman.com houses available 1/2 miles from Support Services for Victims of hand. Houses for the 09-1 o school year. 2-Chicago 1 bd and 1 bth condo just campus, NO ALUMNI OWNED. As Rape & Assault at: The Second Coming! Hardly are bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. north of Millennium Park with 685 low as $275 per student. Contact http://osa.nd.edulhealth-those words out 
Condo for Sale 1564 Sq Ft 3 bdr 2 · Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 57 4-sq.ft on 36th floor. Views of lake, on-campus rep at ebarloh@nd.edu safety/assault/ When a vast image out of Spiritus baths 2 car garage Basement Sun 234-2436 or www.kramerhouses.com river and John Hancock building. or 1-513-706-9655 ---------------Mundi Porch Quiet neighborhood 6 mile ---------------Hardwood floors. Granite counters Don't you think that someone's Troubles my sight: somewhere in south of University $130k 574-291-1-3BR Contemporary Urban APTS and pendant lighting in kitchen. In-choice of junk food says a lot about sands of the desert 2306 across from Notre Dame Stadium. unit washer/dryer. 36th floor is the his personality? A shape with lion body and the 
The Foundry features private baths first residential floor stop in the ele----------------head-of a man,



PERSONAL 

for every bedroom, washer/dryer, fit-valor bank. Amenities: gym, 24-Get over yourselves, non-A gaze blank and pitiless as the ness center, theater room, tanning hour door person, on-site building science/engineering majors ...your sun,
FoR RENT 
salon, game room. Preleasing for management/maintenance team, life is not that hard. Is moving its slow thighs, while all 
August. Call 57 4-232-1400 or lease pool, sun deck, media room, onsite UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do ---------------about it 2009/1 0 student rentals Angela online www.foundryliving.com dry cleaner and on-site grocery not go it alone. We have many Find yourself a girl, and settle down Reel shadows of the indignant St./St. Peters & S.B. Ave. $1300----------------store. Lease parking available in resources in place to assist you. If Live a simple life in a quiet town desert birds. $2000/mo. Contact Bruce Gordon GRADUATION WEEK TOWN-building. Walk to work in the loop or you or someone you love needs The darkness drops again; but now 574-876-3537. HOUSE RENTAL-2 bedroom town shopping on Michigan Avenue. El confidential support or assistance, Steady as she goes I know ---------------house, sleeps 6-8, on Ivy Court for trains to 0 Hare, Midway airport please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 Steady as she goes That twenty centuries of stony sleep Affordable Graduate and Faculty rental Graduation Week. 2 full baths, and Lincoln Park are a short walk. or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more So steady as she goes Were vexed to nightmare by a rock-Off-Campus Housing. Call for living room, and kitchen. 2 night mini-Lease for $1 ,550 or sale for information, visit NOs Assistance for ing cradle, Availability (574)243-2818 or mum $1,000. contact $279,000. Available July 1. Please Pregnant Students//Office of Your friends have shown a kink in And what rough beast. its hour (574)276-6118. peterlawson@yahoo.com contact John (ND 04,05) at Student Affairs website at: the single life come round at last, ---------------Lux twnhs: 3 bdrms 3 ba, next to St. Unit3605@gmail.com for more osa:nd.edu/health-safety/assis-You've had too much to think, now Slouches towards Bethlehem to be andersonNDrentals.com FREE Marys $680 moper bdrm. 574-271-information. lance-for-pregnant-students. you need a wife born? COMCAST! 7030 harvey.18@nd.edu 



OUND THE NATION 
Friday, March 27, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE 0.BSERVE~s WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
NCAA Women's Lacrosse IWLCA Top. 20 
record pointsteam 
1 Northwestern 9·0 400 2 Maryland 8·0 365 3 Penn 7·0 365 4 North Carolina 7·2 319 5 Duke 8·2 296 6 Georgetown 5·3 291 7 Princeton 5·1 289 8 Syracuse 6·2 274 9 NOTRE DAME 8·1 234 10 Virginia 6·3 223 11 Vanderbilt 4·3 210 12 Boston University 5·3 178 13 Loyola (Md.) 6·1 140 14 Stanford 6·2 128 15 Penn St. 4·4 86 16 Dartmouth 3·3 78 17 Ohio St. 7·1 78 18 James Madison 4·3 59 19 Cornell 5·2 55 20 New Hampshire 6·3 52 
NCAA Softball ESPN.com Division 1 Top 25 
team record points 
1 Florida 32-2 498 2 Washington 27·3 476 3 Stanford 29·1 448 4 UCLA 24·3 438 5 Alabama 26·4 432 6 Oklahoma 25·8 354 7 Georgia 20·4 353 8 Northwestern 15·7 349 9 Arizona St. 28·5 340 10 Tennessee 24·6 332 11 Michigan 20·9 312 12 California 22-7 264 12 Ohio St. 22·3 263 14 Missouri 26·4 244 15 Arizona 28·7 228 16 louisville 26·3 188 17 lSU 20·6 186 18 Massachusettes 13·6 144 19 North Carolina 26·7 143 20 Florida St. 22·8 84 21 DePaul 13·7 80 22 Texas A&M 23·11 56 23 Fresno St. 11·12 44 24 Iowa 24·5 41 25 Cal Poly 19·6 37 
NCAA Men's Golf Golf World Division 1 Top 15 
team points 
1 Georgia S72 2 Southern California 
.$40 3 Oklahoma St. ·sao 4 Clemson 455 5 Stanford 446 6 Illinois m,,,,.,.. 1 Florida 418 8 Alabama 406 9 Arizona St. 397 10 Indiana 
·~.. · 11 Georgia Tech . 12 South Carolina P ~~~ 13 Texas 216 14 Tennessee 2fiO 15 Arkansas 241 
around the dial 
MLB 

Chicago White Sox vs. Chicago Cubs 
3:05 p.m., WGN 

NCAA Basketball 
North Carolina vs. Gonzaga 
10:00 p.m., CBS 


Associated Press 

GLENDALE, Ariz. ­After cruising through the first two rounds of the NCAA tournament, Connecticut found itself in trouble for the first time. 
Thanks to Hasheem Thabeet, the top-seeded Huskies weFen't in trouble for long. 
Thabeet, the Big East player of the year, scored 15 points, had 15 rebounds and blocked four shots, and Connecticut overcame a sluggish first half to defeat Purdue 72-60 in the NCAA West Regional semi­fmals on Thursday. 
One day after a Yahoo! Sports report alleged UConn committed NCAA recruiting violations, the Huskies (30-4) reached the regional finals for the fourth time since 2002. 
Coach Jim Calhoun and the Huskies had won their first two NCAA tourney games by an average of 41 points, but they struggled to score against the defense-oriented Boilermakers. 
UConn jumped out to an early 11-point lead, then went cold and let the fifth­seeded Boilermakers (27 · 
10) claw back into the game. 
Leading 30-25 at half­time, the Huskies turned to the 7 -foot-3 Thabeet in the second half. Thabeet scored Connecticut's first eight points of the second half, then blocked a shot to 
IN BRIEF UConn investigated for 
recruitment violations 
HARTFORD, Conn. -The University of Connecticut and the NCAA have dis­cussed an investigation into alleged recruiting violations by the school's men's basketball program, a university official said Thursday. 
The official, who requested anonymi­ty because he is not authorized to speak publicly about the allegations, said the sclrool was in contact with the NCAA Wednesday, after Yahoo! Sports report­ed that an agent who had once been a student manager at UConn helped steer recruit Nate Miles to the school. 
Yahoo reported Wednesday that Miles, a 6-7 guard from Toledo, Ohio, was given lodging, transportation, meals and representation by sports agent Josh Nochimson, and that a l)Conn assistant coach knew about the relationship between the player and the agent. The story cited interviews, docu­ments obtained under Freedom of Information laws and other sources. 
set up a fastbreak layup by 
A.J. Price, who scored 10 of his 15 points after half­time. 
That play was part of an 8-0 run that gave the Huskies a 42-31 cushion with 13:37 to play. 
But the Boilermakers wouldn't go away. They answered with a 7-0 burst, and soon they had pulled within four. 
Thabeet dunked to push the lead back to 57-45 with 6:28 to play, and that was pretty much it for Purdue. 
Craig Austrie added 17 points for the Huskies, who will play either Memphis or Missouri for a berth in the Final Four. 
Calhoun and his players 
Astro's Tejada issued 
probation for lawsuit 
WASHINGTON -The prosecutor's words were delivered in the matter known as "The United States of America vs. Miguel 0. Tejada," spo­ken during Thursday's 23-minute hearing in which the Houston Astros shortstop was sentenced to one year of probation for misleading Congress. 
The message -famous or not, you · must tell the truth -also could be interpreted as a warning to another baseball star, Roger Clemens. His case, involving sworn testimony to the House of Representatives, is cur­rently before a grand jury in the very same federal courthouse where Tejada appeared. 
"People have to know that when Congress asks questions, it's serious business," Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Durham told the court. "And if you don't tell the truth-and we can prove you haven't told the truth ­then there will be accountability." 
had promised on Wednesday that they wouldn't be distracted by the Yahoo! Sports report claiming the school broke NCAA rules during the recruitment of former player Nate Miles. 
Using its superior size and ability, UConn jumped out to an 8-0 lead in the first three minutes. 
Forward Stanley Robinson dunked on an alley-oop pass from Price, and then Austrie stripped Purdue point guard Lewis Jackson in the backcourt and swooped in for a layup. 
Purdue coach Matt Painter called timeout, and the Boilermakers soon began to rally. 

Blackhawks beat Sharks 
in final shoot-out, 6-5 
CHICAGO-No quibbling from the Chicago Black:hawks. They'll take a vic­tory over one of the best teams in the NHL this season, even if they had to go to a shootout to get it. 
After squandering a 4-1 lead, Chicago got shootout goals from Patrick Kane and Jonathan Toews to beat the San Jose Sharks 6-5 on Wednesday night and move back into sole possesSion of fourth place in the Western Conference. 
"We did it the hard way," Chicago's Martin Havlat said. "But we got two points. It doesn't matter who we played." 
San Jose's Joe Thornton powered past Brent Seabrook and beat Nikolai Khabibulin to tie it at 5 with 2:08 left in regulation. 
Andrew Ladd had two goals for Chicago, and Dave Bolland added three assists. Devin Setoguchi scored two goals for the Sharks, including one with :i:07left that cut Chicago's lead to 5-4. 
.-------------------------------------------. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 27, 2009 
MEN'S GOLF 

Irish hope to recover at FAU 

could probably help the guys
By ERIC PRISTER out in a small way or two that 

Sports Writer 

may add up to a few shots on the scorecard and in the end 
The Irish look to bounce give them some confidence," back from a disappointing fin­Kubinski said. ish in the E-Z-Go Invitational The Irish will compete as they head to Delray Beach, against three teams ranked in 
Fla., to compete this weekend the top 50 ­
in the first annual Florida Atlantic University Spring Break Championship. 
"We definitely had a hiccup last week, but surprisingly [the team] probably learned a lot more last week than even play­ing well over Spring Break, so in terms of development 
"We've really just focused on trying to learn this college game and get better every week and make good decisions and let the scores take care ofthemselves." 
James Kubinski Irish coach 
we're still on course," Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. 
"We've really just focused on trying to learn this college game and get better every week and make good deci­sions and let the scores take care of themselves." 
Kubinski will travel to Florida with the team after missing last week's event due to flu-like symptoms. 
"It was tough to watch the scores and know that you 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 


No. 7 Illinois, No. 40 Michigan and No: 46 Iowa. Also, six golfers compet­ing in the Spring Break Championship are ranked in the individual top 50, includ­ing No. 11 Mike Van Sickle from Marquette. 
Sophomore Jeff Chen, who has been at the 
top of the Irish scorecard in the last two matches, will not be competing in the Spring Break Championship, so Kubinski looks to others to lead the way, especially junior Doug Fortner. 
"I really look for [Fortner] to bounce back," Kubinski said. "He felt like each round he had those two or three holes that just killed him, so if he irons those out he's going to be around par or better. I think he can do that here." 
Other regulars in the Irish lineup are sophomore Dustin Zhang and freshman Max Scodro, who look to rebound from substandard perform­ances in the E-Z-Go Invitational. 
"[Scodro] hit so many greens last week, and had just amazing ball-striking, but he putted as poorly as he has in his career," Kubinski said. "He's worked hard in the last few days, and watching him today, he's rolling the ball very nicely, so he's very capa­ble." 
Rounding out the lineup for the Irish this weekend are junior Carl Santos-Ocampo and freshman Tom Usher. 
"[Santos-Ocampo] is back in his home state. He played 
-very well throughout the sum­mer in tournaments across the state," Kubinski said. "And it's going to be breezy here, and [Usher], from England, has a lot of experi­ence playing in those condi­tions." 
The Irish will compete in the three-day tournament will begin Friday at the Gleneagles Golf Club in Delray Beach. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 


from february 25-aprillO Get 


BKBIG FISH 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
Invites Non1inations for the 
Sheedy AltVard 
Each \'ear, the Sht:•t-...iv Award, n~HlH:~d ftlt" a: forn)t~r dear 
r•l th<.:Colleg'' ol Art; and Ldtt•rs, honors one nwrnht•T' 
<>f tlw Ar·t,; <lnd L"fter~ f,wully for outst<mdin).\ l<•,whing 
lk>lh studtmb and f<~nlily llW ilwi ted to submit no1nination l:Hter:-s. for thi~ yetn··~ f\\\'~Hd tp: 
Stuart Greene As,.ociatt• De<m for Undergr<lduatt' Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy hlall 
Deadline Monday, April13, 2009 

Friday, March 27, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
N 0 TRACK AND FIELD 
Outdoor track season begins 
meets," Piane said. "Some run­Smyth and junior pole vaulter By ALEX WEST and ners are just running different Matt Schipper represented the NATHANIEL LEE 
distances." Irish at the NCAA Indoor Sports Writers 
Junior Joanna Schultz and Championships last weekend. 
senior Mary Saxer headline the The fields at both invitationals 
· Once the successful indoor Irish women's team. Both were contain some of the best teams track season came to a close indoor season All-Americans, from around the country, three weeks ago, the Irish set Schultz in the 400-meter dash including No. 1 Texas A&M and their sights to the start of the and Saxer in the pole vault. top 25 team Arizona State. outdoor season Piane said "[The competition] is out­against some top he thinks that standing," Piane said. "Our collegiate talent. the two team will be extremely chal­
"Our team will be
The Irish kick off women's suc­lenged. This is one of the
extremely challenged. 
the 2009 outdoor cess has not biggest distance events in the track season out This is one of the come as a sur­country." west with the prise to them The Stanford Invitational
biggest distance 
Stanford or the team. begins on Friday afternoon with 
events in the
Invitational in Palo "Everyone preliminary races and con­Alto, Cal. for the country.,, knew that cludes on Saturday with the distance runners [Schultz and finals. The Arizona State and Arizona State Saxer] were Invitational begins on Friday as
Joe Piane
Invitational in studs to being will with the primary event
Irish coach 
Tempe, Arizona with," Piane beings the hammer toss. for the sprints and said. "This Saturday morning contains the the field events. doesn't change preliminary races and field 
Irish coach Joe Piane said he anything about their perception events with the finals being in isn't concerned about this being by their teammates." the afternoon. the first outdoor meet of the On the men's side, senior year. Patrick Smyth and junior Matt Contact Alex West at awest@hcc­
"There isn't much difference Schipper earned All-American nd.edu and Nathaniel Lee at between indoor and outdoor honors in the 3000-meter race. nleeS@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles open MIAA schedule Saturday 
singles, junior Camille 
By NATHANIEL LEE Gebert's 6-3 record at sec­
Sports Writer ond singles, and sophomore 
Jessica Kosinski's 4-5 per­
Saint Mary's opens its formance at third singles. 
MIAA conference schedule At first doubles, Hurley and 
Saturday against Alma at Gebert have a 4-5 record. 
the MSU Indoor Tnnnis "We are really looking 
Facility in East Lansing forward to playing in the 
Michigan. conference," Campbell said. 
The Belles (4-5) are look­"We are expecting to match 
ing to rebound after a up against Alma well. We 
tough defeat to No. 16 beat them last year, but 
Indiana Wesleyan. they have improved 
"We were a bit disap­between seasons." 
pointed in a few of our pre­Campbell said the Belles 
season results," Belles are looking to make a 
coach Dale Campbell said. splash in the tough confer­
"However, I think it's a ence, and expose the young 
good thing, because we squad members to a high 
have high expectations and level of play. 
we djd perform against The match against the 
tough nationally ranked Scots (5-5) will begin 
teams." Saturday at 1:00 p.m. 
The Belles have been 

paced at singh~s by sopho­
more Jillian Hurley, who Contact Nathaniel Lee at 
holds a 4-5 record at first nleeS@nd.edu 

Spring Visitation Weekend Prospects Arrive on Campus 
The Office of Undergraduate Admissions would like to recognize and welcome the 136 prospective African American, Asian American, Latino and Native American students visiting campus to attend this year's Spring Visitation Weekend 
The University of Notre Dame Welcomes the Following Students: 
Marisabel Agosto Atta Loma, CA Alison Mackey Carlsbad, CA Kael Anderson Clive, lA Arcelia Magana Escondido, CA Michael Appau Catonsville, MD Kimberly Mahoney Lancaster, CA 1-Ming Archbold New Milford, NJ Claudia Martinez Mesqutte, TX 
Alyssa Arias Mesa,AZ Siobhan Martinez Los Angeles, CA Martin Arreclonclo San Fernando, CA Patrick Mathews Seattle,WA Teninlanimi Ayo-Ariyo Carson, CA Sydney Mbachu Parkville, MD Monique Batson Ole! Hickory, TN OmarMedina Gonzales, CA Brittany Beavers Bellaire, TX Saclaf Meghani Memphis, TN Margaret Bice Brownsville, TX Michael Memari Chula Vista, CA Mariah Boycl Raceland, LA Adam Mendonca Houston, TX Jordan Brown Laplace, LA Kassle Molinar Upland, CA Robert Bucayu Santa Maria, CA John Nguyen Sugar Lane!, TX 
..... 
Myriha Burce Chicago,IL Tam Nguyen Houston, TX 
Felipe Campos Laredo, TX Vu Nguyen Las Vegas, NV Albert Chang Aurora, CO Minh-Duyen Nguyen V\Olchtta, KS Ramon Cordova Irving, TX Shantel Northbircl Cass Lake, MN 
Annette Corona Granada Hills, CA Selina Okonokhua Atlanta ,GA Carlos Cortes Bayonne, NJ Nicole Osorio Knoxville, TN Devyn Coskey Las Vegas, NV Alexander Padilla Riatto,CA 'vlctor Cruz Jr. Los Angeles, CA Jason Park Arlington Heights, IL Jahneille Cunningham Pembroke Pines, FL Rachel Parra Hurst, TX steven Davis Billings, MT Jesus Perez Covina, CA Jordan Davis Orlando, FL Hernan Perla Bayshore, NY Nia Daye Bayonne,NJ Alexandria Perry Canton, OH Nicole DeMont Glendale, CA Javier Pineda San Diego, CA Roneal Desai Cerritos, CA Calvin Poku Murphy, TX Caroline Dikibo Houston, TX Ryan Pounds Oxnarci,CA Hakim Effiom-Dauw st. Petersburg, FL Kelly Racla San Antonio, TX Jason Elizalde Corpus Christi, TX Andreina Rascon Queen Creek,AZ Nicole Endsley San Antonio, TX Amy Richmond Bloomington, IN Chiamaka Esomonu Union, NJ Julianne Rizzo Clovis, CA Mayra Estrada Bakersfield, CA John Roberts Ardsley, NY Alexandra Gahungu Cypress, CA Oziel Rocha Pice Rivera, CA Nayeli Gallardo Greenfield, CA Maria Rodriguez Chula Vista, cA Dana Galvan El Paso, TX Blaise Ross Hallsteacl, PA Cinthya Garcia Houston,TX Carlos Sahagun Hammond, IN Sabrina Garcia Montclair, CA Vanessa Samaniego V\ohittier, CA Leticia Garcia-Ramo Salinas, CA Diego Santana Austin, TX Amanda Garza Laredo, TX Michael Savage Mundelein, IL Briana Goncalves San Diego, CA Zachry Schwiethale Port Angeles, WA Carolina Goncalves Pembroke Pines, FL Olivia Scott Charlotte, NC Mariah Gonzales Fresno, CA Kayle Sierra Tampa, FL Aaron Gonzalez Burleson, TX Chase Sippel Diamond Bar, CA Susan Gonzalez McAllen, TX Julian Smrth Nashville, TN Bree Gray-Jordan Conley,GA Laura stokes Penfield, NY Nicole Guiclo-Estracla Palm Desert, CA Camille Suarez Panorama Crty, CA Gary Guillermo Los Angeles, CA Brandon Taylor Merrillville,IN Jasmin Hainey Chicago,IL Arianna Thomp_son Houston, TX Tasia Harris Columbus, OH Juana Torres San Antonio, TX Chamberlain Hill V\tJodberry Forest, VA Anh-Ton Tran Spring, TX Brian Hollins Rockville, MD Jonathan Tran Tarpon Springs, FL 
Renae James Hartford, CT Long Tran San Jose, CA Jasmine Johnson Miami, FL Phi Tran Tuscan, AZ Purterson Justilien Jacksonville, FL Thuy Tran Westminster, CA SeKim Los Angeles, CA Alfredo Trejo Edinburg, TX Patricia Kwan Alameda, CA Mario Vazquez El Paso, TX Colleen Lee Douglaston, NY Courtney Velasco Bakersfield, CA Grace Lee Sparks, NV Sylvianne Velasquez San Antonio, TX John Lee Colorado Springs, CO Dana Venerable Briok, NJ Joseph Lee V\bocl Riclge, NJ Luisa Vera Sanford, FL Kevin Lee Tuscan, AZ Francisco Villalobos Rosemead, CA Kyu Lee Oakland Gardens, NY Brandon Yo Corona, CA Laura Lhatka \1\eubun, MN Brendan Ward Spring Lake, NJ Kuijun Liang Las Vegas, NV Jeffrey Wei Granger, IN Aaron Lorton Prescott Valley, AZ Emerald Woodberry Toledo, OH Julio Luquin Escondido, CA T1naYue Brooklyn, NY 
~­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 27, 2009 
ROWING 

Irish set for rematch at Mich. State 
By CHRIS MASOUD Sports Writer 

Hoping to build off an out­standing performance in Oak Ridge, Tenn., on March 14, the Irish will travel to East Lansing Saturday to challenge No. 7 Michigan State. 
The Irish will conclude the weekend by taking on Indiana and Purdue in Indianapolis, Ind. Sunday. Both teams are perennial contenders for the national title. 
"We have a very good team that is going to get a lot bet­ter," Irish head coach Martin Stone told UND.com. 
The Irish faced the Spartans in two varsity eight races in Tennessee but lost both with open water. 
The team also matched up with Boston University and No. 6 Virginia. Led by coxswain Kelsey Otero and senior cap­tains Christine Trezza and Lauren Buck, the first varsity eight boat won the opening race for the Irish by defeating BU by a margin of one seat. 
The Irish didn't look back, as the second varsity eight crew cruised to a victory over the Terriers, winning the five­minute piece by an open water victory. 
"I thought the [varsity! fours did a fantastic job and the novices also did very well," Stone said. 
Despite their early success, the Irish left the waters with a bitter taste in their mouths due to the losses to the Spartans as well as two losses to Virginia. 
But the Irish will have a chance to. redeem themselves this weekend in their rematch against the Spartans. 
Stone said he believes his team is showing poise and ·resilience as the season pro­gresses. 
"Overall, I think we had a good training week," Stone said. "We are still working on evolving our lineups. All three schools (we faced) were ranked in the preseason top 20 poll that was released last week. I told the team that although we are not ranked going into the season that we will have ample opportunity to race against the ranked crews." 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles shut out Franklin 
Freshman pitcher Gillis remains unbeaten, adds three hits 
The Belles scored five 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
runs in both the fourth and Sports Writer 
fifth innings, bringing the run total to 13, enough to Saint Mary's took care of give Saint Mary's a run-rule Franklin College Thursday, victory. Palicki allowed 
sweeping a doubleheader without allow­ing the Grizzlies (3­
13) to score a run. 
The Belles (14-2) domi­nated the first game with a 13-0 win and continued on to a 3-0 victo­
"We play well together as a team but sometimes we make mental errors on the base paths. " 
Kate Mitchell Belles third basemen 
only two hits in the shutout. 
In thH sec­ond game, w h i c h required the defense to be at its best, freshman Angela Gillis (8-0) pitched the Belles to victory. Gillis 
ry in the second game. 
Freshman pitcher Monica Palicki (6-2) threw the first game, and was aided gre.at­ly by the barrage of Belles hits that came early and allowed her to pitch with the lead. 
also notched three hits with a home run. 
In the win, junior short­stop Maureen Healy had a pair of hits, scored one run, stole a base and recorded a run batted in. 
Despite the impressive 
performances, the team still has work to do as they enter the conference schedule. 
In particular, the focus of late has been on base run­ning. 
"We play well together as a team but sometimes we make mental errors on the base paths," freshman third basemen Kate Mitchell said. 
Saint Mary's will begin its MIAA conference games on Monday as the Belles travel to Calvin College to face off against the Knights in a doubleheader. Calvin has been struggling this season, winning its first game of the season on Wednesday against St. Catherine (Minn). 
The first pitch of the Calvin matchup is scheduled for 3:30p.m. 
Contact James Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 


Friday, March 27, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
ND WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish look to protect vvin streak 
The Hoyas are battle-test­
By ERIC PRISTER 
ed, though, having played
Sports Writer 
the top three teams in the country so far this season, 
No. 9 Notre Dame looks including a victory over No. to continue its seven-game 3 Duke last week. win streak and improve on Loyola will also be play­its 8-1 record as the Irish ing its first two Big East host two Big East oppo­games this weekend, with 
nents, No. 6 Georgetown 
Friday and No. "We're very excited 13 Loyola and motivated to 
Sunday. 
have the opportunity 
The Irish 
come into the to play two ofthe weekend with best teams in the 
a 1-0 confer­
conference this 
ence record 
week."
after an 18-9 win over Rutgers on 
Tracy Coyne 
March 17. The 
Irish coach 
team currently leads the Big East along with Syracuse. 
"Our ultimate goal is to win the Big East, so we're taking both the games real­ly seriously," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. "We're very excited and motivated to have the opportunity to play two of the best teams in the conference this weekend." 
The Hoyas, who knocked Notre Dame out of the Big East tournament last year, come into their first Big East game of the season with a 5-3 overall record. 
and Loyola 
its first against Rutgers Friday before tak­ing on the Irish Sunday. T h e Greyhounds are going into the weekend with a 7-1 overall record. Notre Dame have played 

three times since Loyola joined the Big East in 2006, with the Irish winning all three meetings. 
Despite the difficulty in preparing for two oppo­nents in one weekend, Coyne does not see it as a problem. 
"Earlier in the season we played Northwestern and Ohio State on the same weekend so it was a good opportunity for us to have the quick turnaround and have to refocus on your second opponent," she said. "I think we're in a good place with prepara­tion." 
Leading the Irish offen­sively is junior attack Gina Sciascia, who was named Big East offensive player of the week Monday for her performance in the Rutgers game. She recorded four goals and 10 assists in the victory. Sciascia leads the team in assists with 20 and in points with 44. 
''I'm psyched for Gina that she got [Big East play­er of the week]," Coyne said. "It's great recogni­tion, and I think Gina's having a fabulous season." 
Defensively, the Irish are led by senior captain Shannon Burke. Burke was named to the preseason All-Big East team, and was put on last week's Big East honor roll. 
"I think [Burke] should have gotten Big East defender of the week," Coyne said. 
Friday's matchup with Georgetown will begin at 8 
p.m. in the Loftus Sports Center, and the Loyola game has a 1 p.m. start time on Sunday, also at Loftus. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Squad set to play outdoor matches 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 
No. 27 Notre Dame will start and end their outdoor home schedule this weekend as they face off against No. 40 South Florida and No. 7 Illinois. 
The Irish (9-9) have played all of their outdoor matches up to this point as part of the Pacific Coast Doubles in La Jolla, C:al·if. and the Blue Gray Classic in Montgomery, Ala. 
The team hopes to rebound from the back-to­hack losses to Boise State and No. 19 Wisconsin that knocked them out of the Classic. 
"We cannot use the excuse that we have not adapted to outdoor play as a reason for the losses to Boise StatP and Wisconsin," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "We spent the entire week of spring break in California. We should be rpady for the outdoor portion of our sea­son." 
History is on Notre Damn's side for both matches this weekend, as the Irish hold a 
3-0 all-time series lead against South Florida and a 21-19 series lead against Illinois. 
The Bulls (9-5) are coming off a 4-3 loss to Louisiana State. 
The doubles game for the Irish, which Bayliss said has been a focus in practice this week, will have to deal with the Bulls' talented No. 28 doubles team of Thomas Estrada and Lucas Jovita. 
Senior Brett Helgeson and sophomore Tyler Davis will likely face off against Estrada and Jovita. 
The Fighting Illini (13-3) are coming to South Bend on a hot streak. They have won eight of their last nine, including a 4-3 victory over Wisconsin. Stiff competition in doubles will come from Illinois' No. 41 duo of Marc 
Spicijaric  and  Marek  
Czerwinski.  
The  Irish  host  South  

Florida on Saturday and Illinois on Sunday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. Both matches are scheduled to start at 1 p.m. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday March 27, 2009 
year, is to provide the mus­cle.
Ryan 

"Ryan [Thang] is a goal continued from page 24 scorer and Erik's a great passer," Ryan said. "So I need ahead for good in both to be in the corners winning games. those one-on-one battles, get­"I just happened to be ting the pucks to those guys going to the net at so they can the right time," m a k e 
Ryan said. "Game "Sometimes you're plays." 
to game you want gonna get chances Ryan has to put yourself in made plen­
and sometimes you're 
the same position ty of plays 
sometimes not. I -think I just kind himself this 
you're gonna get ofgot lucky to be in season, as chances and some­well. He
the right place at the
times you're not. I has netted
right time. " 
think I just kind of 12 goals, got lucky to be in including the right place at five game­
Ben Ryan
the right time." winners so
Irish forward 
Senior linemate far this Erik Condra, season. though, said there was a little Irish coach Jeff Jackson said more than luck at work for Ryan has come on as the Ryan. games have gotten more 
"If he gets his nose dirty important. and he gets into the play, he's "He's been playing pretty as a good a player as any­solid hockey here in the sec­body in the nation," Condra ond half," Jackson said. said. "And he's getting dirty. "That line is going to be very He's getting those dirty goals important to us on Saturday when we needed them." night." · 
Ryan agreed that his role Saturday night, when the on the line. which scored a Irish take on Bemidji State in combined 3 5 goals on the the first round of the NCAA Tournament, is a chance for Ryan and his teammates to finish what they started last year. 
"We've been in the tourna­ment the last two years," Ryan said "And it kind of showed us what it takes to win it all. We went so far, we came so close, we just didn't get it. The experience has definitely helped us out, and we know it'll take four great games to win. I think we're ready to do it." 
Ryan, who notched only two assists during last year's NCAA Tournament, said that this year he is ready to rise to the occasion. 
"It's just a result of the sit­uation," he said. "When you're playing in the playoffs and you're playing for the championship. that's what you work so hard for in the offseason and during the sea­son." 
So can Irish fans expect more game-winning goals from Ryan this weekend? 
"I hope so," Hyan said. "If we get game-winning goals that means we win." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 


Want to spend yoursummerliving and working in the Hamptons? 
You'll have aonce in alifetime opportunity to live and work in the Hamptons for two summers! Earn a$10,000 scholarship plus aweekly stipend. 
Looking for amotivated, self-starterwho enjoys working with people. 
Sweep 
continued from page 24 
claimed a 6-1, 6-3 win in No. 5 singles. In the only tightly contested match of the day, Kri'sik took her opponent to a third set in No. 2 singles before getting the win and completing an Irish sweep of the Hoosiers. 
The win is Notre Dame's third in a row and moves the Irish to 17-2 overall. 
The Irish return home to face No. 4 Baylor Tuesday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion before heading on the road for a four-match, five-day road trip that includes a rematch with top-ranked Northwestern. 
After that, Notre Dame will adjust its focus to post­season play, beginning with the Big East championships scheduled for April 16 in Tampa, Fla. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarkerl@nd.edu 

VANESSA GEMPIS!The Observer Irish freshman Kristy Frilling returns a volley during Notre Dame's 5-2 win over North Carolina on Feb. 27. 

Must be amale freshman or sophomore who enjoys working outside. 
Ifinterested, send aresume and abriefcomposition to sbeac:h@nd.edu by Sunday, April51h, explaining why you would be agreat candidate for the internship 

CENTER FOR APPLIED MATHEMATICS 2009 Nieuwland Lecture Series 
Dr. Charles Westbrook Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (ret.) 
T/a@ Role ol Combustion in JtuturP .IJ:nPrgg ~-..'it!enarios 

Wednesday, April I, 2009 3:30PM McKenna Hall Auditorium 
~tJ N [VERSITY OF ~NOTRE DAME 
Friday, March 27, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Pitt 
continued from page 24 
runs during Pittsburgh's 14­13 win over Akron Tuesday. 
"They have probably one of the hottest hitters right now in the country," Schrage said. 
The Panthers have won five of their last six and took two of said, the coaches will have them practice hitting a small or large strike zone. 
"Small zones still have cor­ners, and we've got to hit them," he said. 
Sophomore Cole Johnson will start for the Irish today. Johnson is 2-0 with a 3.00 ERA. 
The Irish bats have woken up late in the past four 
games, but 
sometimes not 

three at "Pitching usually soon enough. Cincinnati. wins, and our . "It's all a They beat question of
pitching has not been 
Youngstown whether or not 
State 7-4 very good the past we come to Wednesday. four games. " play and if we The Irish get ready to go (14-8, 1-2) from the begin­
Dave Schrage 
have lost three ning and jump of four and fell Irish coach out on teams," 
6-5 to Oakland Wednesday at home. They also lost two of three against Seton Hall over the weekend. 
Pittsburgh racked up nine hits against Youngstown State, two of them from sophomore designated hitter Joe Leonard. Leonard is bat­ting .382 through Wednesday. 
"Leonard's a big hopper for them right in the middle of the lineup," Schrage said. 
Irish pitchers gave up eight walks and hit a batter Wednesday against Oakland and had trouble locating their pitches. As a team, the Irish have a 4.48 ERA and have walked 96 batters.. 
"It's going to be up to us to try to shut their hitting down," Schrage said. "Pitching usually wins, and our pitching has not been very good the past four games." 
The strike zone against Oakland was small, but Schrage said the team pre­pares for that. When the pitchers practice indoors, he 
junior Matt 

Grosso said. "If we do that we can be suc­cessful. But if we lay back and let it come to us, we might have some trouble like we did this week against Seton Hall." 
Junior center fielder A.J. Pollock leads the Irish in hit­ting with a .391 average. He's also 12-of-15 stealing bases. Sophomore third baseman Greg Sherry, junior right fielder David Mills and senior shortstop Jeremy Barnes all hit over .350 as well. 
Pitch selection, Schrage said, has caused the Irish problems this season. The team swings at too many bad pitches early in the count. 
"We've been doing that all year, and that's been our biggest thing, swinging at pitches out of the zone with two strikes," he said. "Not real good pitches early in the count. It makes a big differ­ence." 
·Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Available at 
One-four 
continued from page 24 
overtimes to dispose of No. 4 Alabama-Huntsville. 
The Beavers (18-15-1) play in the CHA, the same conference as Alabama­Huntsville, so that bit of symmetry has Notre Dame aware of the possibility of a first-round upset. 
"I have enough confidence in this group that they're going to make sure our team's ready to play, 

a little bit two years ago, but I think we showed against Michigan that it's not going to happen this year." 
The Irish got a big taste of playoff hockey at the CCHA tournament in Detroit last weekend, when Notre Dame overcame a two-goal deficit to beat the Wolverines (29­11-0). 5-2. for the confer­ence title. While the Beavers don't boast the same top­level talent that Michigan does, Jackson said his team's first­round oppo­nent plays a 
regardless of similarly up­
"Ifwe start looking 
who the oppo­tempo style. nent is," Irish ahead, we'll be "They real­
ly pursue the
coach Jeff looking behind us." 
Jackson said. puck hard, 
Condra said and thp,y're a he and his fel-Jeff Jackson fast team," low seniors Irish coach Jackson said. have shared "They're the their tourna-kind of team ment experi-that can get ences of the past two sea­underneath your skin if sons with the underclass­you're not smart with the men, and that those should puck or you're not good help in preparing for defensively." Bemidji State. Puck control was an issue 
"There's two things that against Michigan early in can happen, and we've seen the game, and an Irish them both first hand. You turnover led to the can underestimate a team Wolverines' second goal. like we did Alabama­The Beavers will try to force Huntsville two years ago, Notre Dame's high-powered and we can't do that, and I attack into playing faster don't think we're going to do than it would like, with the that this year," Condra said. hopes of turning turnovers "And if you get down, you into goals. have to stick to what's going "They're feisty, they're right for you, and not get high flying and they're not individualistic. It happened going to lay back at all," Condra said. "They've got some speed, and they're going to be a tough team to play." 
Leading the Irish, per usual, will be goaltender Jordan Pearce. The senior, who took Tournament MVP honors at the CCHA finals last weekend, is the nation's leader in victories, shutouts and goals-against average, and he made several big saves to keep it close.before the offense got going against Michigan. 
"You don't win a champi­onship without great goal­tending," Jackson said. "Without him, we wouldn't be where we are in the NCAA Tournament, and we wouldn't have won in Detroit. He's been the rock back there, he's been con­sistent from Day 1, and he does it on a nightly basis." 
The winner of Saturday's matchup would play either No. 3 Northeastern or No. 4 Cornell on Sunday night for the Midwest Regional crown and a trip to the Frozen Four in Washington, D.C. on April 9. And while the Irish are heavy favorites to make a run to the nation's capital, Jackson said he isn't buying the hype just yet. 
"We can't worry about a national championship until we focus on Bemidji," Jackson said. "If we start looking ahead, we'll be look­ing behind us." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 



service discount on lified wireless plans. 
AT&T representative how)'cUQ!l'l earn back foryour old wireless phone· · you buy anew BlackBeny• smartphone from AT&T!. 
6501 N Grape Rd., University Park Mal!, Ste. 5648, Mishawaka, IN 46545-(574) 243-8069 4170 Grape Rd., Suite B, Mishawaka, IN 46545-(574) 252-2328 
·~·~ 

·::BlackBerry.
~at&t • 
'Wi· fi included wirh a fllar.i<Beny'" service pbn for use with a B\J{kSe~ry-* Bdd'.. wHrtphone, 
•* Facebookw for Slack!lerry and Naptu Motile<~> rt>quire a U!a(kSer ry((> P.~1sonai dar;; pian_ 
Covera9e not oviiila!Ji~ mJfi <1reas end nay ;mry ;;n ;;ervicetype, d;;vice and 1at€. pla:~. for compiet~ terms Jnd cond:t;ons, >e<i Daw Rate P\H< tmx:hure. 
~ 2009 Al&T lnreHectua! Property. AI! fight<.; reserved. Al&T am:! t!1e AIM logo i!lf trade;n¥~> of .Ai&llrteilectual Pto(lfrl.y. BlackBmry*. AiM*, Researr.h !11 Motion"', Swelype*. Sur;;Fre.~;'" and related uade,Y•<lrk>, ncmes «nd !ca ;,1e \1\t 
proven~' of Research ln. Mm.ion Limi:ed ill10 are reg1stemo ;mdlf.llli5<'ri 111 the US and ccun!iies amund the world, Used ~nrie1 license frcm fhsean;h In Mo.tJO!J i.imited arlo 31e egis-tereo a1 iJO< used in the US. Jnd ,o.,ntne; ,JCD .. :~, ':,, world_ 
page 22 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, March 27, 2009 
I ' I I I 
I ~ 
I 
I 
I 
I I I 
! ­
I 
I I 
i
I ­
I 
I 
I, I 
! 
I 
I 
f 
I I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I I 
II • 
[ I 
I 
Dear Notre Dame Students, 
The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops has asked Campus Ministry at Notre Dame to provide a pre...recording of the Liturgy of Easter' i'\ Sunday to be broadcast to a national audience on NBC on Easter 
•

momtng. 
The estimate is that between 90 and 112 million viewers will watch this special Mass, including the elderly and those Who cannot attend Mass on a regular basis. Notre Dame has an opportunity to offer a unique moment of evangelization for people across the country. 
We invite you to attend this special Mass. Please come to the Basilica this coming Saturday morning, March 28, at 11:30 a.m. 
A special brunch will follow the Mass in the east side of the South Dining Hall at 1:15 p.m. 
' 
'· 
' 
:'*· 
~-:--"' ..·:·:.;:.;:, 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 


Friday, March 27, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

DAVID CAVADINI 
--------------11 Cave ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Pet with short legs 
and a hard coat, informallY 
13 Big Apple excursion operation 
repeatedly 
22 Court figure: Abbr. For answers, call 1-900-2.85·5656. $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit •••23 Words after "if" or card, 1-800·814-5554. 
~+::+==-~+=+==--iiii-.,:'-1-==+=::..t.iiooi betore "as well" Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday . • crosswords from the last 50 years: t-888·7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzz.les. or visit 25 Measure of a nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. newborn's health Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past 
. • puzzles. nytimes.comlcrosswords ($39.95 a year). 
named for t1s Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. 
developer Crosswords for young solvers: nytlmes:comllearnlng/xwords. 
WILLSHORTZ 
52 Loch _, on the River Shannon 
53 Recyclable 
54 Not be on target 55 Components of some alarms 
Down 1 Bailiff's concern 2 Strauss's "~~ Nacht in Venedig" 
Abbr. 4 "The Tudors· airer, briefly 5 Like straight shooters 6 Square, in 1950S slang, indicated visually by a two­hand gesture 7 High on amphetapines a Dedicated compositions 
9 TV pooch 
10 Decoy accompanier 
PUZZle by Paula Gamache 
26 Extension of the 34 Juniper product 44"Real-estate ad terms of a 36 One of abbr. marine Judaism'sfour 45_Rivera.• inSt.lranee policy matriarchs Calif. 
27 American, tor 37 It can be a 46 Lead one stunner 47 Hyphenated IDs 28 "Nicer 39 Slowing, in mus. 
50-·.-· sponte (of 30 Bitter 40 Private detective its own accord, 33 Wealthy Cayman Mike of Brett at law) Islands resident, Halliday novels 51 Real-estate ad maybe 42 Round of four abbr. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Raven·Syrnoue. 23; Nia Peeples.47: Kenneth Hmnagh,48: Mteh~el ClarlaiDu~~t.,an, 51. 
H;~ppy Birthday: tk• thi11g~ that willlwlp y<mr <iak of mimi and build yout ,-.,,ntlden•·e. 
Thh !.a great y€ar for restructuring your gm>l<' J>lau to fit y<Jur life>tyle and your ba•ic 
needs. It will he you who mal:e ymtr l""ilive Ute change<. Be ltone<\t about your e:s:pe<:· 
t~uim1.< ;md you willac>:omplisb your goals. \'<illr numbcu are:::. 4. 17,21. Z4.;>Z, Jl! 
ARIES (M.at'Ch Zl·April 19): A <urprire i.< headin~ your wuy. Contaet pe<>ple you haw worked with in tlw past ami you wUI get an inkreol.lng lead on •omdhing you want to pursue.li!kc advantage t>f ;:vccytblng and anything. 3 stt~rs 
TAURUS (April20-May 20}: Stress levds are high at thi< time of tlw ye-"1', with so 
much to doJ and w little time 10 do it. Calm <hY-''U. makt' vour tt>·do list and d<;•l't let anv~ 
ont''~ nagging d"tcr you. L~" talk "nd more w<.>rk will p;\y off.~ '\'~" " 
GEMINI (May 2Hu•w 20): M<~kc k><l~y a: fun·fillctl day. Cb,,ck out your travel plru~> ft•dlw ho!.lday ><:ru<()ll t>r pick up gith for special p<.~:'l'k. You ~hould make a point of planning dinner with wmenu~ you lind >timulaling, Don't volunte.:.-r for <<>mething if you dml't really have tlw tim.,, J st;m; 
CANCER (JlUlC Zl·July 22); Don't l>c tempttd to pw:cha..: S<!mcthing lbai dairn~ I<> 
do tlw impossible. Usc discretion. A clung.:-a! work may ups<:t you but, Ill the end, ynu 
will real.l:!:c it's l<i your advantage. 4 •tars 
._, 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Make todar a mcmnrable ~ffair. tndudc tlw ones you low in 
;;om~thlit~ !It'll will cnh.m.:e tile Ujl<:oming f<JStive holid•y ~«;awn. l:ly mming up with 
cost--etfieicltt ldea'l,.you will gain potlularity. 2 ~tars 
VIRGO (Aug. :U·&lpt. 22): There h no time !<.> waste. Finish all the things lha! need 
t<J be doJre h<:f<Jre the year come;; to a dnse. Ynu don't want to be kft in a \-ulnerable H­
nanciall_)<nilion. Harsh tafb '"ill kad to isolation nnl rewlution. 5 ~urs 
LffiRA (Sept. Z3·0ct. 22): J.h"m't kt anyone wca,;d hi~ or her way inw your ~ffain~. 
Maintaiu c-.:1ntmL Thh is om the time In <werreact. Keep the peue bm be houe>t. not 
;;tuboom, aoout "'hat you want. 3 ,,.... 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Somwne will try torau"" trouble for you.lt is dtru that you do "'-hat bt-udit• ynu innst and take a pas< on things that don't. You are hcuer off sticking with .likc·mindcd penplc who have simibr goak 3 stars 
SAGlTTARIUS (Nov. 22-De<:. 21): Trawl fo~ business will pay off in terms of what y<>u kam. Anger wiU be your downfall; diplnma~y will lead to your •uc<:ess. Soow rour talents, nnl wm.,one doo'~ shortcomings and you will excel. 3 star:> 
CAPRICORN (l:)ec. 22-Jan. 19): Make :odjulit<:nellts <U home lhat will ~nit your neffis 
<hiring the killi.ve wasou. lklp out •omem1e d®tly ;;ud you will lkndit fm<n yom· 
g<xxl will thrt)U)?h. the inflmnal:km !ll1d (Xpcrience thh tx.·uon.:au niter, Make adju>t­ments thai may """"you money iti the futur<,. 5 »tan 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb, 18}: Don't make changes ba.ctl on S<l!llctlne ebe's emo· ti<m:l! whinls. Stick t<) your t;lans lf )'<JII w:.m tn get thing• fini$bcJ. "'* time. (\msidcr rnnr mc•tiws ruod he"'"" lite reaM>ning hcbiud your action is -;,mnd. Act fa't hut smartly regarding nwuey. 1 $!aN 
PISCES (feb. 19·MMch 20): Past acquaintances will he your ticket to future opportu-· nihes. &t up talks or plan tt> allend J ftmetion that will allow you lo network with people \dm haw c<J>nmon goals. 'r'im will get lwlp if you •hare your ideM. 4 sttus 
Birthday Baby: You are curi"us. in>·enhve and hav" a v-ivid imaginarion. r<m mv sen•i· tiw and inhmt <>n bdpiug othec;. You """ unprcdi.tabk and impulsive but ah<> accom· plbb a l<>t throughout lik. 
Eugmia'> 1\hb sitn: i'IIJi~tHi<llasl.comfi•r cmifidmrial cmtsultmiom, · IJ<)'SfJt1<:e..,;mtlfettgi!.tlililtwfar fugnlla\ Mt!J!. ttstmadvice-"'"'' fm-ftm 
MIKEARGIRIONMICHAEL MIKUSKA 
JUMBLE 

JEFF KNUREK 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jell Knurek
~~~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 


·t'-2009 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
AH flights ResefVlld. 
RUFOL 
j

I I r () 

7..7 
WHAT THE SKIN OOC.TOI< DID WHEN HE SXAMINEO THE PATISNT. 
Now arrange the circled letlers to form the surprise answer. as 



J I r I I ---­
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Ans: II[ I IIIJ" rI I I JHIM 
(Answers tomorrow) REBEL AGATE HOTBED REALTY
Yesterday's j Jumbles: 

Answer: When he took a stab at new sports, he became a -"TRY• ATHLETE 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ _ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City _____.______ State ____ Zip______ 
CROSSWORD 
Across Aids in artful deception 12 Knowledge base?: Abbr. 15 Correctly positioned 16 Org. in the 1982 film "Enigma" 
17Babble 
18 Where people wear gowns, for short 19 "The Daughter of llme" novelist 20Big Daddy player on 1950s 
Broadway 21 Gabfest 23Hit 24Sink 25 How Viola is 
disguised in "Twelfth Night" 28 Crude dwellings 
29 _ of Galadriel (gift to F rodo Baggins) 
30Gofor_ 
31 "LMn' Thing" group, in brief 32like some details 33 Antigen attacker 
34 Year of the last known Roman gladiator competition 
35 Plot line 36 Street show 37 2003 memoir of 
a TV executive 38Back out? 400nemaybe 
backed up 41 Wrote 42 Something fit to' 
be tied? 
43~nterof 
learning 44 Switch 45 Followers of 
closings: Abbr. 48 Duct opening? 49 1970S·'80s 
sitcom put­downlcatchphras 
e 

WWW. 8LACK00GCOMIC.COM 
HI!Y SCRIMP, HOW ARI YOV KIPPINGP AWESOME WAS rHAf 3 K6GS ANP I'RIE PARTY l.A51' NIGHT? UNtr.-R/IS FOR 
EVERYONI!? I HAl) A 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Ob.server an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
THE. OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, March 27, 2009 
page 24 
HOCKEY 
Third time's a charm 
Irish to play in first round of NCAA's 
By MATT GAMBER Spans Editor 
A year after skating all the way to the Frozen Four as a No. 4 seed, No. 1 Notre Dame won't overlook No. 4 Bemidji State when the teams open NCAA Tournament play Saturday at 7:30 p.m. in Grand Rapids, Mich. 
"We realized that it doesn't matter -first or fourth seed, it's a one-game shot every game, and four seeds can make a run for it," senior captain Erik Condra said. "They've got nothing to lose, and they can put it all on the table like we did last year." 
The Irish (31-5-3) have been on both sides of the one-four matchup in recent years. Last season, Notre Dame upset New Hampshire, and two years ago, the top­seeded Irish needed two 
see ONE-FOUR/page 21 


Ryan scores winning goals in two straight· 
By SAM WERNER Associate Spans Editor 

Back-to-hack game-win­ning goals in the CCHA semi­finals and finals would be a special moment for any play­er, but for Detroit native Ben Ryan, the moment was even sweeter. 
"It's always great playing those guys (Michigan) because you know it's going to be a fun, fast game," he said. "Going back to Joe Louis was awesome just because I love the Red Wings and I'd been there for so many games growing up. That was a great experi­ence." 
The sophomore forward netted goals with 1:00 left against Northern Michigan in the semifinals, and 1 7:5 5 left against Michigan in the championship to put the Irish 
see RYAN/page 20 
ND SOFTBALL 
Squad takes five-game winning streak on the road 
their success along with them as Gumpf said she did not feel six games, all against Big East that," Gumpf said. "But it depends 
By LAURA MYERS 
they travel to Georgetown Saturday Sunday's games were a good start to teams. 100 percent on how we play, not on 
Sports Writer 
and South Florida Sunday. the Big East season. However, she South Florida (27-13, 6-2) is cur­how our opponent plays." 
Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said said she feels the team is looking rently fourth in the Big East, one The doubleheader at Georgetown 
After a successful homestand, the she thinks the recent wins prepared better. spot above the Irish. begins at 11 a.m. Saturday with the Irish will take to the road to face two the team for the road trip. 'We know what we've got to do," Bulls catcher Cat Olnick and second game following directly after, Big East opponents this weekend. "I think the girls feel good right she said. 'We have to keep playing pitcher Cristi Eck were named to the and the USF doubleheader will 
Notre Dame (14-11, 1-1 Big East) now," she said. hard." · Big East weekly honor roll Monday begin at 11 a.m. Sunday with the has won six of seven at home since This will be the first Big East road The Hoyas (5-20, 0-6} just joined for their performances in six confer­second game right after. March 18, and currently holds a trip for the Irish, who split a double­the Big East this season and cur­ence games in the week before. five-game win streak. header against conference foe St. rently sit last in the conference "The reality is we're good enough Contact Laura Myers at 
Now, the Irish will try to bring John's on Sunday. standings. They have lost their last to beat anybody and we've proven lmyers2@nd.edu 
ND BASEBALL 
Pitt bats present challenge 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
This is not the weekend for Notre Dame's pitching to be struggling -the Irish head to Pittsburgh for a three-game series starting today. 
The Panthers (13-6, 2-1 Big East) hit .321 as a team and have nine batters hitting .300 or better. 
"They're an extremely good hitting club when they're at their field," Irish coach Dave Schrage said. "The main thing is our pitchers need to step up this weekend and shut down their hitting." 
Their leadoff hitter, junior second baseman Chris Sedan, hits .444 and has a .753 slug­ging percentage and a .478 on­base percentage. He has suc­cessfully stolen 12 bases in 13 attempts and hit two home 
see PITT/page 21 


ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
No. 3 ND blanks No. 27 Indiana inBloomington 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Writer 

In familiar fashion, No. 3 Notre Dame rolled to victory over No. 37 Indiana 7-0 Thursday in Bloomington, Ind. The win is the fifth vic­tory this season in which the Irish have swept all of the matches. 
The No. 3 doubles tandem of senior Kelcy Tefft and freshman Kristy Frilling got the irish off to a good start with an 8-1 victory over their opponents in the No. 1 doubles match. 
Juniors Kali Krisik and Cosmina Ciobanu followed suit, claiming a second 8-1 victory to clinch the doubles point for Notre Dame. Junior Colleen Rielley and freshman Shannon Mathews completed an Irish sweep in doubles competition with an 8-6 victory in the No. 3 dou­bles match. 
In singles competition, Notre Dame quickly built its lead to 2-0 after Frilling overwhelmed her opponent in the No. 2 singles match 6-0, 6-1. Soon after, Ciobanu claimed her 13th straight singles victory with a 6-2, 6-2 win in the No. 3 singles match to give the 
Irish  a  commanding  3-0  
lead.  
Not  to  be  outdone,  

Mathews clinched the match for the Irish with her con­vincing 6-2, 6-1 victory in the No. 4 singles match. Tefft cruised to a 6-2, 6-1 victory in No. 1 singles and sophomore Kristen Rafael 
see SWEEP/page 20 





