
Friday, December 4, 2009 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 2 
Underclassmen carry Irish through rough start 
Henderson, Fowlkes and Augustin fill in for injured seniors with goals, assists and leadership 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
Entering the season, all signs pointed towards another Notre Dame run at an NCAA Championship. 
Sure it didn’t help to lose one of most talented senior classes in program history, but as is true of all great programs, there would be no rebuilding, just reloading. The third-ranked Irish not only boasted a strong senior class, who could not have come closer to a title in its previous tries only to be denied in three College Cup appearances, but also a collection either match, falling 2-0 in both contests. 
“When we were struggling to find the right lineup early in the season, injuries really com­pounded our problems,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. “Early on we just didn’t have a solid back line and it took us a while to establish that.” 
For some teams, these losses might have just been a case of running into a better opponent. But this Notre Dame team wasn’t accustomed to losing. Prior to the North Carolina loss, the Irish had been riding a 30-game regu­lar-season winning streak follow­ing last season’s undefeated regu-


of talented underclassmen ready to step into starring roles, whatever they  “Early on we just didn’t have a solid back line and it took us awhile to establish  lar season. This season, they already had three defeats. “You are trying  
may be. “At the begin- that.”  to find your way as the season  
ning of the sea­son, you are still  Randy Waldrum  goes that’s  on why  and you  
trying people at  Irish coach  play those hard  
different  posi­ games early on in  
tions using dif­ the season,” jun­ 

ferent rotations,” junior forward ior forward Lauren Fowlkes Rose Augustin said. said. “It exposes what you need 
While still trying to find the to work on the rest of the sea-right lineup as injuries depleted son.” the team, top-ranked North While Notre Dame was able to Carolina came to town. find its rhythm in time to turn its 
The Irish had high expecta-season around, and thus reach tions heading into the rematch of its fourth consecutive College last season’s College Cup final, a Cup, things might not have 2-1 Tar Heel victory, hoping to panned out so nicely had christen the brand new Alumni Waldrum not made a number of Stadium with an opening night crucial personnel changes. victory. During the blowout loss to 
However, an energetic crowd North Carolina earlier in the sea-of 3,000-plus fans weren’t son, Waldrum made the decision enough to will the Irish to a win to move Fowlkes from the mid­as the Tar Heels dominated early field into the central forward and often on their way to a 6-0 position. shutout. “When we made that move, 
Things continued to worsen for there’s no question that’s when the Irish. things started to really click,” 
Just a week later, Notre Dame Waldrum said. “We made a few traveled out west for a pair of moves and that was probably showdowns with highly ranked one of the biggest.” opponents Stanford and Santa No stranger to the position Clara. The offensive woes contin-having played it in high school, ued as the Irish failed to score in Fowlkes has shined scoring 10 goals and adding four assists this season on her way to collecting Big East co-Offensive Player of the Year honors. 


“[I’m willing to do] whatever is needed for the team and coach thought that it was a good fit. I was excited about it and it just kind of worked out,” Fowlkes said. 
Possibly the biggest beneficiary of Fowlkes’ transition has been sophomore forward Melissa Henderson. Henderson has real­ly come on in the NCAA tourna­ment, scoring seven goals in four contests, bringing her season total to 18 tallies and five assists. 
“It’s awesome having [Fowlkes] up there,” Henderson said. “All of our forwards are tremendous. But she has been doing really well, to come in there and score the goals that she has and setting up the plays that she has.” 
Toward the end of last season, Henderson was slowed by a lin­gering knee injury that took its toll down the stretch as the Irish got deeper into the tournament. Henderson admitted to feeling much better and it having a posi­tive impact on her performance. 
“I’m definitely excited [to be healthier] this year,” she said. “Last season I never really knew how much I could give on the field. Now I know I can give 100 percent and still have energy to go into overtime and actually be able to help my team.” 
While Fowlkes and Henderson have had outstanding seasons in their own right, they have junior midfielder Rose Augustin to thank for many of their offensive opportunities. Augustin, in her second season as a regular starter, leads the team with 10 assists and has seven goals of her own. 
“[Augustin] has been one of our most consistent players all year,” Waldrum said. “I think she’s having an All-American type year. I think she’s made great improvements in her defending and she’s really become a leader for us on the field.” 
Augustin’s emergence became possible when last year’s talent­ed class graduated, creating an opening that Augustin has filled ably. 
“Rose has definitely come into her own this season,” senior defender Rachel VanderGenugten said. “Last year she had a lot of other people ahead of her in that position.” 
VanderGenugten said necessity spurred the younger players into bigger roles. After Notre Dame’s leading scorer last year, Kerri Hanks, graduated, someone had to pick up the offensive slack. Fowlkes and Henderson have certainly done such. Similarly, Augustin’s leadership was need­ed in the front line. 
“This year it had to be [Rose],” VanderGenugten said. “If Rose didn’t step up, I’m not sure if we would have had an upperclass­man [leading] up there at all.” 
Another change came in the Irish net. Senior Kelsey Lysander, who started every game last year compiling a 26-1-0 record, began the season splitting time with junior Nikki Weiss before Weiss eventually took over for good. 
With all the changes this Irish team has undergone, they find themselves in a familiar position, even familiar to the younger players on the team. 
“It’s good to have [those previ­ous tournaments] under your belt and to experience something like that,” Henderson said. “Coming into next year, you are used to it and more prepared.” 
The Irish have indeed become used to the NCAA Tournament, as the bar has been set at a high level. 
“There is just an expectation to be there [at the NCAA Tournament] every year,” Fowlkes said. “Just having those goals really helps you focus throughout the season.” 
After changes throughout the lineup, Fowlkes, Henderson and Augustin have found themselves in positions where their focus could lead the Irish beyond expectations, to a College Cup title. 
IAN GAVLICK/The Observer 

Juniors Lauren Fowlkes, left, and Rose Augustin, right, have adapted to expanded roles this season. Fowlkes began the season as Contact Alex Barker at a midfelder, but after Notre Dame struggled in the beginning of the season, moved to forward and led the team with 76 shots. abarker@nd.edu 
Friday, December 4, 2009 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 3 



Seven seniors seek one title 
Headed to their fourth College Cup, Irish seniors are seeking an elusive Championship 

By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
Four College Cups. Two national runner-up finishes. Four Big East divisional titles. Three Big East Tournament titles. Ninety-one wins against only 10 losses. 
It is safe to say that Micaela Alvarez, Amanda Clark, Haley Ford, Kelsey Lysander, Courtney Rosen, Rachel VanderGenugten and Michele Weissenhofer, the seven sen­iors in this year’s senior class, have accomplished a lot in the past four years. They would say they have not accom­plished enough. 
“I came in wanting to win a National Championship and play competitively for a suc­cessful team,” forward and captain Weissenhofer said. “We have definitely surpassed my expectations for a success­ful team, and we may have many accomplishments includ­ing four Final Fours, but I still haven’t received a national championship yet.” 
The Irish have indeed gone oh-for-three in the College Cup, and each loss in the final weekend of the season stung more than the previous one. 
In their freshman year, 2006, Notre Dame lost to, of all teams, North Carolina 2-1. Two years later the same thing happened, a 2-1 loss to the Tar Heels after North Carolina scored a goal with only two minutes left in the game. 
“I would say our approach against North Carolina fresh­man year was that we had them on this pedestal that they were this unbelievable oppo­nent and rival that we couldn’t beat,” defender VanderGenugten said of their first experience in the finals. 
In between the two losses to the Tar Heels, Florida State beat the Irish in the College Cup semifinals in 2007. 
“That year we wanted to win so badly after losing to North Carolina the year before,” for­ward and captain Rosen said. “We just felt we had worked so hard the whole season to get there, and then to have it pulled short in the semis was even harder than losing in the championship.” 
Even if all three previous Cup appearances ended in losses, the pure feat of reach­ing four Cups consecutively surpasses any expectations anyone had for the team’s seven seniors Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. 
“It is such a difficult thing to get to a College Cup, yet alone four of them,” he said. “I don’t think I could honestly sit here and tell you that I would have expected this group to get to four. You hope that you have a group that could win a nation­al championship along the way, but I think they have cer­tainly exceeded any expecta­tions that you realistically had when you started out.” 
In getting to the four Cups, and falling short in the first three, the seven seniors went through experiences that few others can fathom. 
“Especially after last year’s loss, we can think of so many times we just sat on our futons back in the dorm and cried because we lost,” VanderGenugten said. “It was such a bonding experience to go through something like that.” 
The three dramatic losses have not been the only thing to bring the seven closer. 
“We have relationships that I can’t even describe, to be able to play on the field as a com­petitor, be a teammate, and also be a roommate. There are so many facets of our relation­ship that I believe we have developed through soccer that go into various areas of our lives,” defender Clark said. “We have learned so much through both the successes and even more through the defeats. You learn more after you lose and have a chance to look back at it.” 
Learning more through a loss does not mean these Irish are willing to suffer another defeat, not at all. If nothing else, the seven hope their pre­vious heartbreaks will con­tribute to a triumph this week­end. 
“This year we are going in knowing we have beaten [North Carolina] in the past and are fully capable of beat-well as to Stanford, both of ing them again,” which are in the College Cup VanderGenugten said. “I think this weekend. we are stronger than we were “It’s kind of an advantage. last season.” Last year we never tailed, so 

Last season’s end is a com-we never had to fight back and mon motivational theme, as come from behind,” well as lesson, among this VanderGenugten said. “This group. The team rolled year we’ve done that all sea-through the regular season son. … We’ve been down late last year, reach-in the half, and ing the NCAA we come back Championship and get the 
“We want to end [our 
final undefeated win. That’s a
four years] with
and untied huge differ-before North winning the final big ence.” Carolina dashed The past four 
kahuna.” 
perfection. years haven’t “Last year I’d only been 
Courtney Rosen 
say it came about fighting pretty easy,” Senior forward back from forward Ford deficits or said. “Most of defeats though. the season, from the very first As made evident by their game to the final, we clicked bounty of wins and trophies, pretty easily. This year we these seniors have had more have had to work a lot harder. good times than most college We had three losses in our first athletes come to know. One of few games.” the highlights of their four 
Tears are no longer shed years was Senior Day on Oct. over those three losses, includ-25. The highlight of the day ing defeats to the Tar Heels as came when Waldrum subbed Alvarez onto the field. Alvarez had torn her ACL that week in practice, and doctors had ruled her out of any competi­tion for the rest of the season, so Waldrum’s move was quite surprising. 
“[Waldrum] sprung it on me on the sideline as we were sit­ting there,” she said. “Just to put on the jersey one more time and to be able to step out there was really an unbeliev­able experience. It was emo­tional, but it was something I’m always going to cherish having that memory.” 
The kind gesture did not only reward Alvarez, but her team­mates, friends rather, got some great blackmail out of the moment. 
“Some quality dance moves were caught on tape,” said Rosen, unable to control her laughter. 
In the long run, the seven seniors will remember moments like Alvarez’s moment, or VanderGenugten’s first two career goals in the first two rounds of these play­offs, more vividly than any College Cup heartbreaks, but in the short term, they all have one common thought. 
“Haley said the other day and it sums it up pretty well. We are tired of someone else ending our season, and are tired of ending the season cry­ing,” Alvarez said. “Let’s cele­brate for once.” 
Goaltender Lysander, who has stepped strongly into a leadership role this season as junior Nikki Weiss has shined in the goal, summed up the senior class’ thoughts concise­ly. 
“We have a job to do,” she said. “Let’s get it done.” 
In the end though, the sen­iors’ long list of accomplish­ments to date cannot be over­looked, no matter how badly they want to add two wins to the list this weekend. 
“We have a lot to celebrate and we have had a great four-year run,” Rosen said. “But we want to end it with winning the final big kahuna.” 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 


Friday, December 4, 2009 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 4 


Familiar foe awaits Irish in College Cup Semis 
when Notre Dame’s current 

By MIKE GOTIMER 
seniors made their first run at a 
Sports Writer 
national title as freshmen. The Irish had a chance to put 

For the second straight year, concerns surrounding this and the third time in four year’s team to rest when the years, Notre Dame and North Tar Heels traveled to Notre Carolina will meet again in the Dame for the first time in a College Cup. decade to open newly-con-
In women’s college soccer, structed Alumni Stadium on No. 5 Notre Dame (21-3-1) and Sept. 4 in a matchup of the top No. 4 North Carolina (21-3-1) two teams in the country. have formed the premier rival-Unfortunately for the Irish, they ry for more than a decade. were the ones whose heels 
“The last 15 years, I think looked like they were stuck in when you think of women’s col-tar after North Carolina dis­lege soccer, I think Notre Dame mantled Notre Dame in a 6-0 [and North Carolina] would blowout. Doubts continued to probably have to come to mind rise after the Irish lost to as that biggest and most storied Stanford, who enters the rivalry,” Irish coach Randy College Cup with an undefeated Waldrum said. “Over time that record, and Santa Clara on an Notre Dame-Carolina rivalry early West Coast road trip. has been one of the best in the Since their early season country, and I know that when struggles, however, the Irish we go there to play, it’s always have been one of the hottest “It’s our time to beat them ing early season losses, the “Rose was pretty good for us a packed house and obviously teams in the nation, rattling off when it counts,” Clark said. Irish made a few key lineup scoring some goals early, and when they come to us it’s a a 19-game unbeaten streak in “They won in the beginning changes that propelled them to then she went through a spell packed house because that’s which they have trailed for just here, but we are ready to take their current unbeaten streak. where she was still playing very the game that everybody wants 16:38. that national championship.” For starters, junior goalie Nikki well but wasn’t scoring as many to see, and I think everybody “They beat us in the begin-Of the four teams still chasing Weiss took over the goalkeeper goals, and then it just seems around the country is always ning of the season when we that national championship, the duties from senior Kelsey like come playoff time she got waiting to see what the score is were a different team. We have Irish are the only remaining Lysander and posted a 14-1-1 hot again, and I think her and the next morning when the changed and developed this two-seed. North Carolina, UCLA record in net with an astound-[Henderson] have a great con­game’s over.” season,” senior defender and Stanford are one-seeds. ing 0.47 goals against average nection with each other.” 
Coming into this season, Amanda Clark said. “We are a “I think, in fact, that [the and 7 shutouts, with a 13-0-1 The Irish hope that the Notre Dame faced questions different team; they don’t know team is] probably feeling that record during the winning changes they’ve made will lead early about their ability to what’s coming to them.” most people think that we’re streak. to a different outcome against replace key seniors after their The streak has given not only the underdogs going into the Furthermore, Fowlkes moved the Tar Heels when they face run to an undefeated national Clark, but the whole Irish team game,” Waldrum said. “I think from midfield to forward and off on Friday at 8 p.m. in championship ended in the confidence, and not only do we’re the only ones that really gave the Irish much needed College Station, Tex. Although College Cup final with a 2-1 loss they expect a better result than feel like we can go there and firepower on offense through Waldrum is unsure about how to the Tar Heels, the same their blowout loss in win and are expecting to do her own goal scoring. Fowlkes’s North Carolina might plan for score that North Carolina September, but a win against that on Friday.” move also freed up sophomore Notre Dame’s changes, he defeated the Irish by in 2006 their rivals. After their three disappoint-forward Melissa Henderson for thinks that his team has an 
more chances in the opponent’s opportunity to catch the Tar half of the field. Henderson has Heels sleeping. scored 10 goals and notched “Well I really don’t think they three assists in seven playoff will change,” he said. “They’ve games. got such a history in their own 
“We made a few moves, and program, I think they’ll contin­[moving Fowlkes] was probably ue to play the way they’ve one of the big moves that we played all year, and I don’t made,” Waldrum said. “I think think just because we’ve moving [Fowlkes] up front gave changed some personnel us two things. It gave us a play-around it will cause them to er who could hold the ball for make any adjustments or us, a bigger stronger kind of changes. target for us to play into that “What will be different is I could hold the ball, and I think think they’re going to have to certainly because she’s a great respect the fact that we are a player in her own right, it now different team than what they gave the opposition another saw when they came to our good player up front to have to place in September,” he contin­deal with, and that’s certainly ued. “What you hope for is that taken some of the pressure off they don’t respect it enough Henderson.” and they don’t take it seriously 
For her part, Henderson has enough, and they remember teamed with junior midfielder the 6-0 win and you can catch Rose Augustin to provide a them a little bit off guard if spark for the Irish offense dur-that’s the case.” ing their postseason run. 
“I think both of them really Contact Mike Gotimer at turned it on,” Waldrum said. mgotimer@nd.edu 



Irish recover from three losses with 19-game unbeaten streak 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
After beginning the season 3-3, No. 5 Notre Dame has gone unbeaten in 19 consecu­tive matches. The streak start­ed with a 4-0 victory over DePaul on Sept. 18, and included two golden goal vic­tories as well as a tie. 
The Irish topped West Virginia in overtime with a golden goal from junior for­ward Taylor Knaack. The con­ference victory broke the Division I record for consecu­tive unbeaten games in con­ference play, previously held by North Carolina at 55 games. The Irish record has now been extended to 66 games. 
Notre Dame used another golden goal, provided by soph­omore defender Jessica Schuveiller, to beat St. John’s 2-1 in the semifinals of the Big East Tournament on Nov. 6. 
On Oct. 4 Notre Dame did not manage a golden goal as it fought Pittsburgh to a 0-0 tie in double overtime. 
Weiss wins 
Junior netminder Nikki Weiss stepped in at goal when senior Kelsey Lysander was battling some nagging injuries. 
Once in goal, Weiss did not come out, going 13-0-1 during the unbeaten streak, including seven solo shutouts. 
Weiss earned Big East recog­nition when she led the con­ference statistically in goals-against-average (GAA) by only allowing one goal in 597:00 minutes of Big East action for a 0.15 GAA. This broke the conference record, previously held by former Irish goalkeep­er LaKeysia Beene. Beene’s mark was 0.18 GAA in 1997. 
Weiss also led the confer­ence with a 0.955 save per­centage and 0.71 shutouts pergame. 
Senior class sets marks 
The Irish senior class has a .886 winning percentage to date and a 91-10-4 record. Both marks are second in the nation, behind only North Carolina’s senior class, at 92­9-4 (.895). 
UCLA’s senior class is third in both categories, at 84-9-5 (.883). 
This is the fourth senior class in Notre Dame history to reach 90 victories. No class has reached 93, which this class still has a chance of doing. 
Only one other Irish senior class has gone to four consec­utive College Cups, the class of 1997. 
Déjà vu 
This year’s College Cup field is made up of the same four teams as last year’s was. Last year, Notre Dame beat Stanford 1-0 in one semifinal, and North Carolina topped UCLA 1-0 in the other before beating Notre Dame 2-1 in the final. 
The way the bracket was set up this year, the pairings switched, and Stanford faces UCLA at 5:30 p.m.Friday. 
Hot Henderson 
In seven postseason games, with up to two more games remaing, sophomore forward Melissa Henderson has already more than doubled her regular season goal output of eight goals. 
She netted a hat trick in the Big East Quarterfinals against South Florida, scored two more goals in the opening round of the NCAA Tournament against IUPIUI before erupting for four goals agaist Central Michigan in the second round of the NCAAs. She raised her postseason toal to 10 goals with a goal against Florida State in the NCAA Quarterfinals. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at 
dfarmer1@nd.edu 





