
• 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Keenan Revue tickets being distributed today 
Cold not causing delays 
Winter weather closures and are based on a variety offactors 
By AARON STEINER News Writer 
South Bend weather continues to reach extremes with tempera­tures dipping to record lows as students returned to campus ear­lier this month. 
While the weather might con-. tinue to test the hardiest of stu­dents, assistant vice president for news and information, Dennis Brown said the University said the decision to delay or cancel classes requires careful consideration by several parties. I 
Students walk to class in the extreme winter weather of see COLD/page 6 South Bend. 



Lecture discusses off-campus activity 
Attorney C.L. Lindsay instructs students on how to organize police free parties 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Last night, Student Government brought speaker 
C.L. Lindsay to campus to inform students of underage drinking laws, ana to share his legal advice on how to throw a police-free party and what to do if the cops do show up. 
Lindsay, the executive director of the Coalition for Student and Academic rights, advised stu­dents to take a few key steps in 


Jenkins speaks on Aquinas' legacy 
Presentation emphasizes saint's work in unifying communities ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's 

By SARAH GUNN News Writer 
University President Fr. John Jenkins in a presentation entitled "Faith, Inquiry and Community" discussed the legacy left by St. Thomas Aquinas for Catholic universi­ties. Jenkins gave his presen­tation to a packed room at the college on the day of the Feast of St. Thomas Aquinas. 
Jenkins emphasized the importance of Aquinas in uni­fying the communities of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Being a Catholic university and college, both institutions have a responsibility to prop­erly integrate faith and inquiry in an intellectual com­munity, he said. The schools are also responsible for teach­ing students how to live a good and virtuous life; he order to throw a police-free party, the most important step being making nice with your neighbors. 
The most common reason for the police to show up at parties is because of a noise complaint from the neighbors, Lindsay said. In order to avoid this, stu­dents should approach their neighbors and let them know about the party beforehand, he said. 
"Let them know that you are having a party and most impor­tantly ... if-there's a problem, [tell them to] tell you. Don't tell the police," said Lindsay. "Don't ever underestimate the power of a crappy gift, [like] a $5 bottle of wine ... Trust me, it's midc night. It's loud. They're angry. But then they say, 'Oh but that's that nice boy who bought us a box of Franzia. "' · 
He also said students should make sure all of their parties are indoors, and in the base­ment, if possible. Not only does this help with noise, but lindsay also said the law states that any signs of underage drinking or alcohol that can be seen in pub­lic give the police reasonable suspicion, which gives them a legal opportunity to enter the residence. 
He also said students need to be careful with invitations, espe­cially online invitations. 
"You don't want to make it a public event," he said. "If every­body's invited, that includes the enforcement." 
Another suggestion when throwing a party is to put two 
see LECTURE/page 6 

said. 
St. Thomas Aquinas exem­plified the role of faith and inquiry through his discus­sions and works done at the University of Paris, where he was engaged in disputations, Jenkins said. In these disputa­tions, Aquinas, students and faculty would discuss ques­tions about a given subject and their correlating objec­tions, he said. The sessions of questioning and objecting were followed with analysis where past theologians and great thinkers were utilized for evidence. 
This is one thing Jenkins stressed as a great impor­tance in an intellectual com­munity -the communion of past and present thinkers for analysis and disputations. Jenkins said that Aquinas had 
see AQUINAS/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Sessions provide support 
'Let's Talk' program offers help beyond St. Liam 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
For students who just want to talk about a problem they are having, but don't know if they need counseling, there is now a room in LaFortune where, once a week, they can consult with' a professional from the University Counseling Center. 
The sessions, part of a pro­gram called "Let's Talk" are free, completely confidential and require no paperwork or appointment, staff psycholo­gist Dr. Megan Brown said. 
"We're aware that not all students are comfortable coming to the University Counseling Center or even need counseling, but they may still want to talk to a professional about issues," she said. 
The 15-20 minute consulta­tion sessions were inspired by a program of the same name at Cornell University, which shared the information with other colleges, including Notre Darpe, at a conference and through e-mails and dis­cussions. 
"Notre Dame is the first 'franchise' of the 'Let's Talk' variety," Brown said. 
The University Counseling Center hopes the program will expand its resources to students who normally would 
see SESSIONS/page 6 

ByJENNMETZ News Editor 
Tickets for one of Notre Dame's most notorious sketch comedy shows, the Keenan Revue, will be distributed today. Last year's allotted tickets were 
. snapped up in 20 minutes. Revue director Danny Wheeland said he is very excit­ed about this year's show, which has a superhero theme. Those seeking coveted Revue tick~ts should come early, he said. "They're usually gone very, very fasi." About 100 men from Keenan 
are participating in "It's a Bird, It's a Plane, It's the Keenan Revue!" on all levels -writing, acting, working back stage and composing music. 
"Superheroes are very in right now," Wheeland said, citing popular·movies like "The Dark Knight" and "Iron Man" as inspiration for the theme . 
"It gives a lot of options for skit ideas and cool artwork in terms of production, programs, T-shirts and posters," he said. 
Besides the usual du Lac­mocking, the Revue will present new content, featuring some 
see REVUE/ page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, January 29, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 
McDonalds 

or·BK? 

Free will or fate? God or no God? The Olicken or the egg? These are all ageless questions that every man must answer before he can call himself a man. 
Our modem society has provided us · with new questions one must answer to be a man (or woman, of course) of the 21st century. Not the least among these is the endless debate: McDonald's or Burger King? A very wise man once told me that the 
most important  
questions are those  Dan Murphy  
that do not have  
answers. This is not  
one ofthose ques- Sports Editor  
tions. VVhenncomes  
to fast food  
supremacy, the  

crown clearly goes to the King. 
Mickey D's brings plenty of competition to the table. The Big Mac is as American as Uncle Sam driving a stock car blasting Toby Keith tunes; the Happy Meal was and still remains a pioneer; and the breakfast selection is second to none in the fast food community. But somewhere along the line the golden arches lost their way and Burger King picked up the slack. 
In the aftermath of Morgan Spurlock's "Super Size Me" documentary and the "Jared Craze," burger joints from coast to coast tried to fat-proof their menus. Words like side salad, veggie wrap, and java mocha latte started sneaking out of fancy French coffee shops and into drive-thru menus. Words that would make Ronald McDonald or Dave Thomas turn over in their graves. 
One place, Burger King, stayed true to their principles and in doing so set itself apart from the rest. VVhile McDonald's was cleaning the grease out of its deep fryers, Burger King introduced the BK Stacker. 
Your choice of up to four beef patties drenched in cheese. bacon and grease that serves as a microcosm of what BK is all about-ifyou can actually call something that massive "micro." 
The King's court understands the role they play in the oxymoron that is the fast­paced and overweight American society. Instead of trying to convince themselves that they were a healthy establishment they went the complete opposite direction. They told their patrons to man up and they deserve to be saluted for it. IfI wanted a salad I would go to Au Bon Pain; when I need a cheeseburger I'm heading to Burger King. 
It's also time to dispel the myth that McDonalds' fries are better. On occasion, if you are lucky enough to snag a fresh batch hot out of the fryer they taste delicious. But more often than not, you are stuck with a soggy mess of potatoes that turn eard­board into transparent tissue paper. They are the kind of fries that make the entire state ofldaho shake its head in disgust. 
Burger King, on the other hand, is a model of consistency. Almost 10 years ago, in a campaign headed by Mr. Potato Head himself, Burger King changed their fry recipe, and since then they have main­tained the right level of crispness and fla­vor. You may win the fry lottery at McDonald's, but the safe bet has to go the King on this one 
Fast food certainly isn't as pressing as of an issue as the economy, our historic new president or getting rid of the BCS. But while you are busy sorting through those issues, you know you can count on Burger King to keep you full. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: DID YOU MAKE A NEW YEARS' RESOLUTION? IF SO, HOW'S IT GOING? 

Claire Davis 
freshman Farley 
"New Years' resolutions are for people who are flawed. I am already perfect." 


Elise Jordan 
freshman Farley 
"My New Years , resolution was to stop putting myselfin embarrassing situations. It has absolutely not been going 
well." 
Michael Kemp 
freshman Keough 
''To be as perfect as Claire Davis. Obviously, it's not quite been successful. " 
Margaret Helen Wydysh 
freshman McGlinn 
"To be 'Ring by Spring ... ofmy freshman year' ... I'm single. " 


Jenn O'Neill 
freshman McGlinn 
"My New Years' Resolution is to make my boyfriend act more human-like. It's going fabulously ...just kidding. , 

Kristy Cloetingh 
freshman McGlinn 
"To stop somersaulting in guys' dorms pretending to be 
a SuperSpy. It's not looking promising. 


ANDREW WEBERfThe Observer The Diversity Reception at the Joyce Center allowed students to network with potential employers and prepare for the Winter Career Fair in a more casual environment. 
OFFBEAT 
Couple strolls down street naked 
SINGAPORE -A couple treated open air diners to a 15-minute naked parade in Singapore, triggering both embarrassment and applause for a scene almost unheard of in the conserva­tive city-state. 
Pub manager Terence Chia told the Straits Times news­paper he saw the couple tak­ing off their clothes Saturday night at a staircase in a block of flats in Holland Village, known for its popular nightspots. 
"Then, clothes in hand, they coolly walked in their flip-flops toward the market," he said, adding when the couple did a U-turn a sea of spectators was ready and poised with cameras. 

Cruise ship passengers party despite Ice 
TORONTO -A cruise ship earrying nearly 400 people has been stuck in thiek ice in the St. Lawrenee River in Eastern Canada for over a day, but passengers are nonetheless having a "fes­tive" time, the company that owns the vessel said Tuesday. 
The ship, CTMA-Vaeancier, chartered by a group travel­ing from Montreal to the Gaspe Peninsula for a cross­eountry skiing trip to cele­brate the 475th anniversary of the region's settlement, is now inching through the heavy ice, said Leonard Arsenault, a spokesman for MTMAGroup. 
A Canadian Coast Guard icebreaker that was already in the area tried to assist the ship, but was also having dif­ficulty getting through the thiek ice, Arsenault said. 
He said the 300 passen­gers, along with a crew of nearly 100, were in no dan­ger and that there was plen­ty of food on board. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRlDAY SATURDAY a: 
U.l 
:c !;( 
U.l 
~ 
0.
.... 
~

e.
<( (,) 
*** .
* * * * 

**• * 
0 HIGH 30 HIGH 15 HIGH 23 HIGH 30
...I LOW 15 LOW 10 LOW 10 LOW 22 IN BRIEF 
There will be an engineering blood drive today from 10 
a.m. to 4:30 p.m. in the Engineering Lounge (2nd floor Cushing Hall) Room 217. Doners may sign up by calling Donna Fecher at 574-631­5432 or by going to the AME office in 365 Fitzpatriek Hall. This event is sponsored by Pi 
Tau  Sigma  Mechanieal  
Engineering  Honorary  
Fraternity.  

Diavolo will perform Foreign Bodies, an original new work co-commissioned by the University tonight, Friday, and Saturday at 7 p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, Decio Mainstage Theatre. Tiekets for this event are $40, $32 faculty/staff, $30 seniors, and for $15 all stu­dents. They can be purchased online, or by visiting or calling the Tieket Office at 574-631­2800. 
"Le plus heureux des trois," a play by Eugene Labiche will be performed at 7 p.m. on Friday at the Snite Museum of Art. Although the play wil be in French, an English synopsis will be provided. Tickets are $5 cash only and can be bought at the Center for the Study of Language and Culture, 329 DeBartolo Hall or at the door. 
The film "Happy Go Lueky," is being played at 6:30 p.m. on Saturday at the Browning Cinema in DeBartalo Performing Arts Center. Purchase tickets at performin­garts.nd.edu or call 574-631­2800. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SUNDAY MONDAY 
0. 
e.

***.* *
* * 
**• * HIGH 27 HIGH 28 LOW 18 LOW 12 
Atlanta 52 I 30 Boston 36 I 29 Chicago 28 I 17 Denver 36 I 16 Houston 62 I 39 Los Angeles 70 I 50 Minneapolis 18 I 11 New York 36 I 30 Philadelphia 37 I 30 Phoenix 70 I 44 Seattle 48 I 36 St. Louis 38 I 21 Tampa 70 I 63 Washington 40 I 30 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, January 29, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 
Student govern111ent discusses off-ca111pus safety issues 
Schimdt proposes creating Web site for students to voice concerns about relations with South Bend residents 
than other dangers associat­ernment is also looking into 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
ed with South Bend. creating a Web site that News Writer 
Siegfried Hall senator Ryan would act as an open forum Hawley said he believes most for students to air grievances 
Student body vice president students don't worry about and state their concerns Grant Schmidt said off-cam­the safety of going off-cam-about "town-gown" relations pus safety is pus as much and their safety off-campus. an important as being pun­"We are looking more to student con­ished by South separate from telling specific cern, and he "In terms ofgoing Bend police stories and have more of a looked to sen­offcampus at night, for underage student poll on issues that ators for feed­drinking. have been going on," he said.
the general consensus, 

back on stu­"It's the pos­Another idea that has been dent govern­at least among my sibility of get­broached is implementing a ment's role in friends, is that ting caught," system where students can addressing he said. "I use prepaid cards to pay for
[students] feel unsafe.,,

this issue at think that's cabs when traveling off-cam­Wednesday's most students' pus, Schmidt said. However, Student Sarah Rodts number one this idea is complicated by Senate meet­Student Outreach concern." the numerous cab companies ing. Chief execu­that operate in South Bend.
committee chair 

"In terms of tive assistant Regarding other trans­going off cam-Karen Koski portation options, senators pus at night, said student asked why Notre Dame does the general consensus, at government's role in not have its own bus that 

ANDREW WEBER/The Observer 

least among my friends, is addressing these concerns so shuttles students to and from 

Student body president Bob Reish and student body vice
that [students] feel unsafe," far has primarily been rais­locations off-campus. 

president Grant Schmidt at Wednesday night's meeting. 
Student Outreach committee ing student awareness. Schmidt said Notre Dame's chair Sarah Rodts said. "Encouraging students to non-central location in South Lewis Hall senator Robin be proactive Bend makes a 
said. + Student body presidentBrown agreed, stating that in about their bus system not The booklets will be sold Bob Reish said he has spoken
her personal experience, safety is some­feasible. 
for $10 at the LaFortune box with the student governmentgirls are cautious to venture thing that real­"Encouraging Schmidt said 
office on Feb. presidents of 
off campus. ly has been a students to be improving stu­1. Northwestern "Some of my girlfriends focus of ours," dent relations
proactive about their "Ultimately, University and 
hesitate to stay off-campus she said. with South 
there will be a Washington
"Ultimately, there will pretty late because if you call Koski indicat­safety is something Bend residents 
more estab­University
the cabs, they say it's an ed last night's that really has been a is a step in the lished rela­be a more established about the hour wait, and then students talk by attor­focus ofours.,, right direction tionship relationship [between Midwest 
walk back to campus," she ney C.L. to achieving a [between Intercollegiate
Notre Dame and South
said. Lindsay about safe situation 
Notre Dame Council, which 
Brown said she knew sev­students' legal Karen Koski for students off Bend] and you won't
and South will take placeeral girls who have been in rights off cam­chief executive campus. The Bend] and you see as many issues. late March or 
the uncomfortable position of pus as student off-campus dis­
assistant won't see as early April.
having to walk back to cam­government's count booklets, 
many issues," + Gender 
pus alone at 4 a.m. most recent which give dis­
Schmidt said. Grant Schmidt Issues com­
However, several senators effort in edu-counted prices 
mittee chair


student body
said students are willing to cating students about off­for students at businesses in 
In other Patrick Tighe

vice president
go off campus at night, and campus safety. town will foster better Senate news: 
said he will 

actually fear the police more Schmidt said student gov-"town-gown" relations, he participate in 


Build Stronger Relationships with Your Family 
+ Student a steering
Senate passed 
committee 

a resolution formally com­created to examine the mending the Office of 
University's policies for deal­
Information Technologies for ing with sexual assault. 
working with student govern­ment to put printers in every Contact Madeline Buckley at dorm on campus. mbuckley@nd.edu 

Want to better understand your teen? 
How about your significant other? 
Are you interested in what's going on in their lives but find yourself unable to communicate with them? Or are you just looking for some more family time? 
If so, yotlre not alone! Consider The family Commuhication Project in the Family Studies Center to be a great resource! Couples with teens between the ages of 11-16 are encouraged 
to call: 
Ore Julia Schatz@ (574) 631-0954 or 
Jackie Bauters ahd Patrida Kriegel@ (514) 6l1-0881 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 29, 2009 




Students work with Uganda schools 
By MOLLY MADDEN News Writer 
About a dozen upper-level architecture students have teamed up with non-profit organization, Building Tomorrow, and are designing and raising money to build a sehool in Uganda. 
"With this project we're act­ing on two fronts," said 

"We're trying to
Elijah Pearce, a always great fifth-year archi­fundraise for a school when more stu­
tecture student in an underserved dents get 
and proponent involved with
area of Uganda, and
of the the project." University's we're also looking, as The group's 
involvement architects, to see if main organized 
with the project. fundraised is
we can improve the 
"We're trying to the Best Gift fundraise for a school's design. " Campaign, school in an which allows underserved people to donate
Elijah Pearce 
area of Uganda, money for spe­

fifth-year architecture 
and we're also cific items that 

student
looking, as will be used in 
architects, to see if we can improve the school's design." 
The project was conceived last year when Pearce found out about Building Tomorrow's efforts to raise money for another school in Uganda. Pearce attended a talk where the president of the organiza­tion, George Srour, spoke about how the group had raised enough money to fund past projects in Uganda. 
"I went up after the talk and spoke with George about possi­bly teaming up with the archi­tecture program," Pearce said. "George said he thought that it would be a good idea." 
After talking to Srour, Pearce started working on the project first semester. he said. 
"Everything really got under­way around September last semester," Pearce said. "George and I spoke over the 
summer and then things real­ly got off the ground." 
On the archi­tecture end of the project, the group of student 
architects  are  
working  on  
designing  a  

school that will be both practi­cal and comfort­able for the Ugandans. 
"We're looking at any and every way to improve the. school design," Pearce said. "There's very simple things that can 

"In working on this project, it's impossible not to see the huge gaps in disparity between where you and I went to school and where these Ugandans go to school. We didn't have to walk three hours to get to school." 
Elijah Pearce fifth-year architecture student 
be done in order to make the school more comfortable." 
They've spent months learn­ing about the country of Uganda and its climate, he said. 
"We've done a lot of research on the dimate in Uganda and have been gathering data along the lines of where the sun shines brightest in that particular area. This aids us in our design as to where the windows face, things like that." he said. 
HowP.ver, the school cannot be built without proper fund­ing and this all comes from money raised by people involved in the projeet as well as others. 

"The organization won't even pick a site until all the money, which is about $40,000, is raised. This makes designing the school very difficult because we have to make sure our design is adaptable," he said. "Luckily, we've been very fortunate to have had a dedi­cated group of students who have been very committed to the fundraising effort, but it's 
the school. 

"Instead of donating just to the school, the campaign makes the donation more tan­gible for those donating. Someone can give five dollars for a brick, or fifty dollars for a desk. It's been very success­ful," Pearce said. 
There is even a Web site through Building Tomorrow that allows people to purchase these items and even entire classrooms for the school. 
Once the total sum is raised and a site has been selected, it only takes a couple of months of construction until the school is completed. One of the rea­sons for this short amount of time is the support that the contractors receive from the community in Uganda. 
"One of the key aspects to Building Tomorrow is commu­nity support," Pearce said. "Members of the community 
come in and perform the unskilled labor voluntarily. They do it because the school is their community's school." 
Working on the project has taught the stu­dents a great deal about Uganda as a country, said PearcP.. 
"This project has been a great educating experienen for all of us," he said. "In our research. we 

studie·d the political struct.urP of Uganda and how this a!Toels the school syst1:.m; it's !wen a real eye-opener. 
The students have also been given a morn realistic viPw of what life is like for thmnsnlvns in comparison to students liv­ing in Uganda. he said. 
"In working on this projnet. it's impossible not to sen the huge gaps in disparity between where you and I went to school and where these Ugandans go to school. We didn't have to walk three hours to get to school," Pearce said. 

Me111orial honors SMC vvorkers 
Mass held commemorating two community members who passed away 
By MEGAN LONEY News Writer 
Students and staff members commemorated two women of the Saint Mary's community who passed away recently. 
Juanita Beasley, who died Dee. 25, and 
"You could be sad,
Katherine Jones, who died but ifyou talked to Jan. 15, were 
Juanita, she could 
honored in a 
make you smile no
memorial mass Wednesday at 9 matter what." pm in Le Mans' Holy Spirit 

Becky Woods 
Chapel. 

SMC building services 
"Since the stu­dents were on break when meant to them personally with one another during the small reception. Pat Szalewski and Becky Woods were friends with Beasley for 28 years, since she started work at Saint Mary's where they work as well. Beasley worked in Saint Mary's 
Building Services. 
The two w o m e n described Beasley as a woman of strong faith and a great sense of humor. 
"You could be sad, but if you talked to Juanita, she could make you smile no matter 
Juanita Beasley died and what," Woods said. Katherine Jones died soon after Beasley did not have children the semester began, it seemed of her own, but considered the very important to have an students of Saint Mary's to be Szalewski said. 
Katherine Jones worked full time in Holy Cross Hall as a Night Assistant for 18 years. Katherine worked at the front desk at night to keep the hall running effectively and was a welcoming face to all the stu­dents and their guests, senior Anna Hoefer said. 
"I really got to know Katherine last year," Hoefer said. "As an RA in Holy Cross, I worked closely with Katherine and spent a lot of time talking with her at the front desk. I will miss Katherine because she had such a presence in Holy Cross. She always has a smile or a kind word for everyone who walked past her. Katherine understood that the community of Saint Mary's extends far beyond the classroom and she played an integral part in teach­ing the residents of Holy Cross the importance of our communi­

''These women dedicated much of their lives to the development ofSaint Mary's women. It is so important that we remember them and honor them as a community. " 
Anna Hoefer SMC senior 
ty." 
Hoefer believes that having this memorial mass was important because the influence of these women on the community of Saint Mary's needed to be recognized. 
"These women dedicat­ed much of their lives to the development of Saint Mary's women," Hoefer opportunity for students to gath­er in prayer at the Eucharist," Director of Campus Ministry Judy Fean said, "since many who might have wanted to attend the serviees held locally were not able to attend." 

Campus Ministry planned the memorial mass and a small reception with input from stu­dents and members of the stafl' who were familiar with Beasley and Jones. 
"The readings, preaching and music were selected with these women in mind," Fean said. "We as a community have shared stories of each of these women and we will remember how they have impacted the community and been a witness of Jesus to many." 
Those who attended mass stood outside the ehapel, in the hallway of LeMans reminiscing and sharing what these women her own kids, Szalewski said. 
"Juanita was an amazing woman," said Shelly Michalski, LeMans building leader in build­ing services. "If you met her, you would never for­get her." 
Money is being raised to pay for a tree to plant on campus dedi­cated to Juanita for her service to the school, the students, said. "It is so important that we remember them and honor them as a community." 
Contact Megan Loney mloneyO1@saintmarys.edu 

and her fellow staff, Szalewski said. 
"We almost have enough money. The tree will probably be planted near McCandless and dedicated in the spring," 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies presents 
5 Rare Films by Master Russian Animator 



Yarl Norsteln 
The Ft1ms ofYuri Norstein: An Animator's Journey 
The fox and the Hare (1973) 
fate of Tales (1979) Hedgehog in the Fag (1975) The fferon and the Crane (!914) Baule by rhe Keuhenets (1971} 

6:30 pm screening will feature Film Expert 
C L 4 {'E K I/5cJ II 
Winner of the 2008 Zagreb Animation Festival Award for Outstanding Achievement in Animation Theory 
Tickers: $6, SS faculty/staff. $4 seniors citizens, and $3 all students Call574-631-2800 or visit performingarts.nd.edu 
~DEBARTOlO 
~ l'UfORMING ARTS CENffR 



ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, January 29, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
.INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iceland to appoint gay female minister 
REYKJAVIK, Iceland -Iceland's next leader will be an openly gay former flight attendant who parlayed her experience as a union · organizer into a decades-long political career. 
Both parties forming Iceland's new coalition government support the appointment of Johanna Sigurdardottir, the island nation's 66­year-old social affairs minister, as Iceland's interim prime minister. 
"Now we need a strong government that works with the people," Sigurdardottir told reporters Wednesday, adding that a new administration will likely be installed Saturday. 
1.• Sigurdardottir will lead until new elections are held, likely in May. But analysts say she's unlikely to remain in office -chiefly because her center-left Social Democratic Alliance isn't expected to rank among the major parties after the election. 

Sudanese man convicted of spying 
KHAHTOUM, Sudan -A Sudanese man was convicted Wednesday of spying for the International Criminal Court ahead of its expected decision on whether to seek President Omar al-Bashir's arrest on charges of war crimes in Darfur. 
Mohammed al-Sirri was convicted Wednesday of collecting and intending to leak police records and documents to tlie Netherlands-based court and was sentenced 
to 17 years in prison, Sudan's state-run news agency reported. 
He is believed to be the first person any­where convicted on charges of helping the international court, which is investigating war crimes allegations in Darfur. 
Al-Sirri was a volunteer with government troops in Darfur, but no other information about him was immediately available. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Obama facing hard choices in wars 
WASHINGTON -Emerging from his first Pentagon briefing as president, Barack Obama said Wednesday that his administra­tion faces "difficult decisions" about Iraq and Afghanistan. But the new commander in chief offered no further details about his plans as the U.S. carries on wars in both countries. 
"Our efforts to continue to go after extrem­ist organizations that would do harm to our homeland is uppermost on our minds," Obama told reporters after spending about two hours at the Defense Department's head­quarters. 
Obama underscored that troops and their families have his support and said the U.S. military has carried out its mission under enormous pressure. 


Food safety experts call for testing 
LOS ANGELES -Billy the elephant is staying put, and Bob Barker isn't happy about it. 
The City Council voted Wednesday to fin­ish a $42 million elephant exhibit and keep its lone pachyderm at -the zoo, despite pleas by the "Price is Right" host and other celebrity opponents to scrap the project. 
The decision came after an emotional hearing attended by several hundred peo­ple. Barker was among them after pledg­ing $1.5 million earlier this week to move Billy to a sanctuary in Northern California. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Record snowfall covers central Indiana 
INDIANAPOLIS -The heaviest snowfall in 13 years buried central Indiana under a foot of snow Wednesday, shuttering schools and stores while tens of thou­sands of southern Indiana residents faced days without power after ice brought down power lines. 
More than 100,000 homes and busi­nesses in the state's Ohio River counties remained without power Wednesday afternoon after power lines buckled under up to .three-quarters of an inch of ice. 
ISRAEL 


US envoy urges stronger.Gaza truce 
Amidst air strikes, regional leaders held talks, asking for more than just cease-fires 
Associated Press 

JERUSALEM -President Barack Obama's new Mideast envoy promised a vigorous push for Israel­Palestinian peace, saying Wednesday that Gaza mili­tants must end weapons smuggling and the territory's blockaded borders must be opened if the cease-fire is to last. 
George Mitchell held his first round of talks with regional leaders to deter­mine the next steps the Obama administration would take toward reviving peace negotiations after Israel's blistering military offensive against Gaza 's Hamas rulers. 
But a flare-up of violence underscored the more immediate priority shoring up the 10-day-old cease-fire. Hours before Mitchell arrived in Jerusalem, Israeli warplanes pounded Gaza smuggling tunnels in retaliation for a Palestinian bombing on Tuesday that killed an Israeli soldier. 
After talks in Jerusalem with Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, Mitchell said consolidating the cease-fire was "of critical importance." 
He said a longer-term truce should he based on before returning to ade of the coastal territory, an Olmert aide said on con­"an end to smuggling and Washington. which has deepened the dition of anonymity because reopening of the crossings" "The United States is com­deprivation of the 1.4 million the meeting was closed. into Gaza. Israel and Egypt mitted to vigorously pursu­Gazans trapped inside. Olmert said crossings have kept their borders with ing lasting peace and stabili­Mitchell said crossings between Israel and Gaza Gaza largely closed since the ty in the region," said should be opened on the "will only open permanent­Islamic militant Hamas Mitchell, who launched his basis of a 2005 agreement ly" after the freeing of Sgt. seized control of the territo­diplomacy earlier brokered by the U.S. that put Gilad Schalit, an Israeli sol­ry in 2007. Wednesday with Egyptian the main border -between dier Gaza militants captured 
Mitchell embarked on his President Hosni Mubarak in Egypt and Gaza -under the in 2006, the aide said. Israel Mideast foray just a week Cairo. management of Abbas' has been trying to negotiate after Obama took office. He was expected to hold Palestinian Authority, with a prisoner swap with Hamas After fmishing his consulta­talks with pro-Western European monitors deployed to secure Schalit's release. tions in the region and with Palestinian President to prevent smuggling. In Qatar, Barnas' supreme European leaders, he said Mahmoud Abbas in the West Hamas, which routed leader, Khaled Mashaal, said he would report his recom­Bank on Thursday. Mitchell Abbas loyalists when it took the group would not link the mendations to the president has no plans to meet with over Gaza, has said it also opening of crossings to the and Secretary of State Hamas, which the U.S., wants a role at the crossings release of the Israeli soldier. Hillary Rodham Clinton. Israel and European Union in recognition of its power in "We reject these Israeli 
But the envoy was silent consider a terrorist group. Gaza. Israel and Abbas do conditions. We will not on details of his meetings, It would be hard for the not want Hamas there. accept them," Mashaal said. and he has no news confer­cease-fire to hold unless Olmert told Mitchell that Hamas wants Israel to free ences planned during his 7-arrangements are made to Hamas' power in Gaza hundreds of Palestinian pris­day tour, suggesting he stop the flow of arms to "rriust diminish" and Abbas oners in exchange for would say little publicly Ham as and to end the block-must "gain a foothold" there, Schalit. 

Expertscurious as to last Blagojevich acts 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO -With Gov. Rod Blagojevich entering what could be his final hours in office, some politi­cians are watching closely to see whether he attempts some last­minute mischief by spending state money, issuing executive orders or granting pardons. 
"I try never to be surprised any­more by anything he does," said Republican former Gov. Jim Edgar. 
The Illinois Senate could vote as early as Thursday on whether to remove the governor by impeach­ment on charges that include trying to sell Barack Obama's U.S. Senate seat for campaign cash or a plum job for himself. 
On Wednesday, Blagojevich sur­prised lawmakers by asking to make a clos'ing statement Th1,1rsday at his Illinois Senate trial. Until now, the governor has refused to participate, complaining he was being railroaded. 
Until Blagojevich is removed, he retains all the powers of his office, and he has not been shy about wield­ing them, even after his Dec. 9 arrest on federal corruption charges. 
Just weeks after the arrest, Blagojevich picked former Illinois Attorney General Roland Burris for the Senate seat, brazenly defying politicians in Illinois and Washington who warned that any such choice would be tainted. After much hand-wringing, the Senate decided to seat Burris. 
For his final act, the governor can still spend previously approved state money, issue executive orders, even pardon state prisoners. 
However, Blagoj evich's pardon powers do not extend to members of his inner circle who have already been charged or convicted in the continuing federal investigation of political corruption in Illinois. The governor can intervene in state cases only. 
Blagojevich spokesman Lucio Guerrero said that anything Blagojevich does will be well within his rights as governor, but that he doesn't plan anything "grandiose." 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 29, 2009 
Lecture 
continued from page 1 
signs outside the party. The first 
should say, "This is a private 
party. No one is permitted to 
enter unless they have been 
specifically invited," Lindsay 
said. The second one should say, 
"You must be 21 or older to 
drink alcohol,'' he said. 
Off-campus junior Steve 
DeLaurentis, who attended the 
lecture, said posting signs like 
this "was something I had never 
heard of before," and something 
that could be useful when throw­
ing off-campus parties. 
Lindsay also warned that it is 
illegal to have an entry fee to get into the party, or to charge for · the liquor. He added that claim­ing to charge for a red cup but the alcohol was free will not pass 
in any court of law. 
Despite following all these sug­
gestions, Lindsay said the police 
may still show up. If that hap­
pens he said no more than two 
people, who are sober, should be 
sent outside. They should move 
the discussion away from the 
door and close the door behind 
them. 
The most important rule to 
remember when dealing with the 
police, though, is "don't be a 
jerk," he said. 
"So many people come out, 
want to be a hero, and say 
'Screw you. You don't have a 
right to be here,"' said Lindsay, 
who went on to suggest thinking 
of dealing with the police like 
taking a test. 
"You would never open up 
your bluebook and write, 'Dear 
Professor I think professors
00. 
suck. I resent your authority. You can't get me!. Essay one,
000 
Agriculture,"' he joked. He also mentioned that if the police ask to search the house, 


the owner does not have to give their consent. 
"You absolutely have a right to say, 'I don't agree to a search,"' Lindsay said. But if the poliee insist on searching, you should allow them to do so. 
The majority of the lecture was focused on off-campus parties, but Lindsay also mentioned on­campus parties. 
"The one thing I can tell you is it really is pretty lenient," he said. "Don't complain, don't rock the boat. I know that's not what you want to hear, [but] it's not that bad." 
Lfndsay also said that the Fourth Amendment, protecting unreasonable search and seizure, only applies to govern­ment officials. 
"Your [resident advisor], your rector, they don't have to follow the bill of rights [because they are part of a private insitution]. 
Police do," Lindsay said. NDSP must abide by the Fourth Amendment, he said. 
While DuLac creates a eontract between students and the University and students therefore need to follow it, he said, but that contract can't override the Fourth Amendment. 
Freshman Christi Chelsky, who attended the lecture to learn what the drinking laws were in Indiana and how they differed from her home sate, said much of the lecture didn't apply to her because, "a lot of the stuff was geared towards the people who are 21 and throwing the parties." 
But she said that Lindsay ~·was really informative and he pre­sented it in a way that got peo­ple's attention and that was amusing." 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 

Sessions 
continued from page I 
not usc them. 

"That's our visiOn here," Brown said. "To be able to make our services and our skills more accessible to students." 
"Let's Talk" provides sup­port for undergraduate and graduate students experi­encing any number of prob­lems, Brown said, from anx­iety and depression to fami­ly problnms or relationship struggles. During a "Let's Talk" snssion, Brown can suggest problem-solving options, provide information about resources or recom­mend counseling if that would be beneficial. 
"That's really what it's all about," Brown said. "Let's find a solution, or let me tell you what counseling is like and how to pursue it." 
The "Let's Talk" sessions, which run from 2 to 4 p.m. each Thursday in the Green Hoom on the second floor of LaFortune, started Sept. 4. The Cornell staff warned Brown that the first semes­ter they started the program almost no one ca.me to the ses.sions, but Brown said Notre Dame had better luck in its first semester. 
Fourteen students visited Brown during the "Let's Talk" hours, 11 of which were unique visitors. 
"What we hope is that anyone hesitant about coun­seling but feels they need to talk to somebody would come over to 'Let's Talk,"' Brown said.­
Approximately 1,000 stu­dents used the University Counseling Center last aca­demic year, she said. Most students who go to the third floor of Saint Liam Hall are struggling with stress and anxiety or depression or symptoms of depression. 

"This is a high-achieving university with high-achiev­ing students ·who are under a lot of pressure," Brown said. The Counseling Center is always looking for "innov­ative" ways to be proactive with problems students have, such as by starting the "Let's Talk" program. 
Brown hopes the "Let's Talk" sessions will eliminate barriers some students face in seeking help for prob­lems, including the per­ceived stigma for some have of going to the Counseling Center, the paperwork requirements and the need to make an appointment. 
Brown said "Let's Talk" could help the Counseling Center serve underrepre­sented groups, like men, international students, first year students and people of color, who are statistically less likely to seek out its services. 
Going to "Let's Talk" is, for some, an easier step than going to Saint Liam, Brown said. 
"Let's Talk" takes place on Thursdays during the school year from 2-4 p.m. in the Green Room on the second floor of LaFortune. Students can go to the reception area of the Office of Multicultural Student Services and Programs and International Student Services and Activities and ask to see the "Let's Talk" consultant. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 


Revue 
continued from page 1 
songs that are "a little different from what we've usually done," Wheeland said. 
He said the show will also feature some "useful" advice. 
"There will be some great pick-up lines that you can maybe use in your real life," WheelaQd said. 
When pressed for detail about the show's content, Wheeland wouldn't give anything specific away. 
"There's a lot of social com­mentary ... some very highbrow stuff," he said, sarcastically. 
"It's going to be a very funny show -there is a good mix of material that is specific to Notre Dame and broad humor that pulls on pop culture references and slapstick comedy," Wheeland sai(l. "It's such a broad range that everyone will find something to like." 
The Keenan Revue, in its 33rd year, is the Hall's signa­ture event and one of the biggest dorm-run events. Material for the final show, which will be performed Feb. 5­7 at O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's, is still being final­ized. 
Revue tickets will be distrib­uted between 5 p.m. and 7 today at the Joyce Center box office. Wheeland said the exact number of tickets available for Notre Dame students depends on the amount left over from the Saint Mary's distribution, as well as the number reserved for residents of Keenan to distrib­ute. 
ContactJenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

how well roads ean be cleared, · and the weather forecast. But, he said, there are no definitive guidelines. 
"Every situation is different," he said. "There isn't a specific snowfall amount, for example. It would depend on a variety of issues -it might depend on wind, for example, or how fast snowplows can clear the roads." 
Ensuring the safety of stu­dents, faculty and staff is para­mount, he said, noting that if the roads around campus weren't passable and staff could not safely come to work. that would be a factor in the decision. 
Brown did say that while the University does watch the clo­sures of area schools and busi­nesses, Notre Dame makes inde-

Aquinas 
continued from page 1 
"an und~rstanding of the inextricable connection between inquiry and commu­nity," and this is shown in his works and records of the dis­putations. 
The responsibility of Catholic institutions of educa­tion to provide moral and spiritual growth of its students and community was another critical point of the discussion. This can be done in many ways according to Jenkins, one being "holding students accountable." 
Students and the University should be committed to "seek­ing further truths" by inquiry and culminating past and present thinkers. Jenkins also said they must do this by "accepting key texts" and moving forward with them to "enhance the intellectual com­munity." 
This search for truth ean help lead students to live a good and virtuous life as understood by the Catholic eommunity. According to Jenkins, it is not necessary that all members of the University community be Catholie, for their diversity adds richness to the existing environment. 
·Prudence, justiee, fortitude, temperance and theological virtues are "outlines of an educational ideal we strive to cultivate" Jenkins said, and added that all are a part of the growth he feels is neces­sary for students at Catholic universities to attain. 
"Good human life cannot be understood except in light of 

Cold 
continued from page 1 
For weather related closings, particularly snow and ice, Brown said, the decision is made by vice' president for business operations Jim Lyphout and provost Tim Burish, in consulta­inquiry," he said. 
This is why Aquinas' legacy is so integral to the Notre Dame community, because it is a manner of inquiry where questions are resolved in the intellectual community with current minds and the power of important texts and thinkers from the past Jenkins said. Previous key figures have shaped the tradition and their works an~ studied, not held as complete truths, but looked at seriously and add many dimensions to a ques­tion or a certain subject, he said. 
Students, faculty, staff and community members were all present at Jenkins discussion. 
An enthusiastic group of students from a fall class enti­tled "Aquinas's Search for God -Faith Meets Philosophy" sported matching green T­shirts emblazoned with the words "Team Aquinas." 
Allison Greene, a junior member of the group, said "It was cool to be here at the lec­ture and have people recog­nize Aquinas's impact on [Catholic] colleges and m1iver­sities where we're studying how faith meets philosophy." 
Junior, Lizzie Pugh added, "We've been anticipating this for months," as she described Jenkin's presentation to have a "Super Bowl-like" hype and excitement for their class. 
Mary Gross, a junior, thought it was important because of Aquinas' "inspira­tion for higher education." 
This group of students felt that Jenkins successfully com­municated the purpose of their studies. 
Contact Sarah Gunn at sgunn1@nd.edu 

pendent decisions. 
In some eases, other area col­leges may close while Notre Dame remains open. 
"Notre Dame is dill(went than Bethel, different than !Indiana University-South Bend!," he said. "We're a residential cam­pus, so [the comparison! is not apples to apples." 
"We've looked at other schools 

tion with Notre 
· Dame Security Police (NDSP) and grounds keeping crews, and may include execu­tive vice presi­dent John Ailleck -Graves. Brown said the groups must "evaluate condi­tions" and con­sider a number of factors, including how well campus roads and paths ean be cleared, 
"There isn't a specific snowfall amount, for example. It would depend on a variety ofissues -it might depend on wind, for example, or how fast snowplows can clear the roads." 
Dennis Brown assistant vice president of news and information 
around the Midwest," Brown said, and Notre Dame's policies com­pare to other residential cam­puses. 
In the event of a elosure or delay, Brown said the University would utilize the Connect-ED sys­tem, which can reach students, faeulty and staff through a vari­ety of methods 

including text message, e-mail and phone call. 
"We still would rely on radio and TV broadcast" in addition to the Connect-ED alert, he said. 
. The last campus closure oceurred in December 2000 during linal exams week. 
"It snowed hard," Brown said of the incident, stating that exams were rescheduled during the evenings of the three remaining exam days. 
In the past 90 years, Notre Dame has closed the campus due to severe winter weather conditions only eight times, according to a Feb. 13, 2008 Observer article. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 
Thursday, January 29, 2009 
MARKET RECAP 
-Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 8,375.45 +200.72 
Up: Same: Down· Composite Volume: 3,247 92 563 2,861,824,718 
AMEX· ·t,42,Q;Q4, Jl')lfJl,~o··· NASDAQ 1,.~~~·:3.4 •. +53:41
't 

NYSE 5,501;46 :bri8~;Q~ S&P SOD 874.09 +28.38 NIKKEI ('Tokyo) 8}269>15. %1:183.16 FTSE 100 (London) 4,295.20 +100.79 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
OTIGROUP INC (C) +18.59 +0.66 4.21 BK OF AMERICA (SAC) +13.69 +0.89 7.39 SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) +3.38 +2.86 87.39 FINANCIAL SEL (XLF) +12.80 +1.17 10.31 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +5.44 +0.137 2.656 13-WEEK BILL +38.46 +0.050 0.180 30-YEAR BOND +6.18 +0.200 3.434 5-YEAR NOTE +7.89 +0.123 1.681 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.58 42.16 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) ·11.40 890.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.75 78.50 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 90.3150 EURO 1.3158 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2159 BRITISH POUND 1.4232 
IN BRIEF 
House defeats bill delaying 1Vtransition 
WASHINGTON -Bucking the Obama administration, House Republicans on Wednesday defeated a bill to delay the upcom­ing transition from analog to digital television broadcasting to June 12-leaving an estimat­ed 6.5 million U.S. households unprepared for the switchover. 
The 258-168 vote failed to clear the two-, thirds threshold needed for passage in a victo­ry for GOP members, who warn that postpon­ing the transition from the current Feb. 17 deadline would confuse consumers. 
House Republicans say a delay also would burden wireless companies and public safety agencies waiting for the spectrum that will be freed up by the switch. and create added costs for television stations that would have to con­tinue broadcasting both analog and digital sig­nals for four more months. 
Fed ready to provide fresh aid 
WASIIINGTON -The Federal Reserve sig­naled Wednesday that it stands ready· to use new unconventional tools, or expand existing ones, to spur lending and consumer spending that could help lift the economy out of a painful recession. 
The Fed also agreed to keep the targeted range for the federal funds rate between zero and 0.25 percent for "some time" to help brace the economy. Economists predict the Fed will keep the funds rate, the interest banks charge each other on overnight loans, at that record low level through the rest t'lf this year. 
With its key lending rate to banks already near zero, the Fed pledged anew to use "all available tools" to revive the economy. 
Specifically, the Fed said it is "prepared" to buy longer-term Treasury securities if the cir­cumstances· warrant such action. At its previous meeting in Deeembm·. the Fed said it was merely evaluating that option. 
Jeffrey Laeker, president of the Federal Heserve Bank of Richmond, was the sole dis­senter on this point. lfe wanted the Fed to move forward on buying the securities. 
Doing so would lwlp drive down mortgage rates and providn help to the stricken housing market. economists said. 

THE OBSERVER 


USINESS 
page 7 

House passes record stimulus package 
After much prodding by Obama, Senate and House approve $819 billion bill 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -In a 
swift victory for President 
Barack Obama, the 
Democratic-con trolled 
House approved a histori­
cally huge $819 billion 
stimulus bill Wednesday 
night, filled with new 
spending and tax cuts at 
the core of the young 
adminstration's revival 
plan for the desperately ail­
ing economy. 
The vote was 244-188. 
"We don't have a moment 
to spare," Obama declared 
at the White House as con­
gressional allies hastened 
to do his bidding in the face 
of the worst economic cri-· 
sis since the Great 
Depression. 
The vote sent the bill to 
the Senate, where debate is 
expected to begin' as early 
as this week on a compan­
ion measure already taking 
shape. Democratic leaders 
have pledged to have legis­
lation ready for Obama's 
signature by mid-February. 
A mere eight days after 
Inauguration Day, Speaker 
Nancy Pelosi said Tuesday's 
events heralded a new era. 
"The ship of state is diffi­
cult to turn," said the 
California Democrat. "But 
that is what we must do. 
That is what President 
Obama called us to do in 
his inaugural address." 
With unemployment at its 
highest level in a quarter­
century, the banking indus­ing, much of it wasteful The White House-backed the states, which confront try wobbling despite the and unlikely to help laid-off legislation includes an esti­the prospect of deep budget infusion of staggering sums Americans. mated $544 in federal cuts of their own. That of bailout money and states The party's leader, Rep. spending and $275 billion money marks an attempt to struggling with budget John Boehner of Ohio, said in tax cuts for individuals ease the recession's impact crises, Democrats said the the measure "won't create and businesses. on schools and law legislation was desperately many jobs, but it will cre­Included is money for enforcement. With funding ·needed. ate plenty of programs and traditional job-creating for housing weatherization 
"Another week that we projects through slow-mov­programs such as highway and other provisions, the 
delay is another 100,000 or ing government spending." construction and mass bill also makes a down pay­
more people unemployed. I A GOP alternative, com­transit projects. But the ment on Obama's campaign . 
don't think we want that on prised almost entirely of measure tickets far more promise of creating jobs 
our consciences," said Rep. tax cuts, was defeated, for unemployment benefits, that can reduce the 
David Obey, D-Wis., chair­266-170, moments before health care and food stamp nation's dependence on for­
man of the House the final vote. .j,ncreases designed to aid eign oil. 
Appropriations Committee On the final vote, the leg­victims of the worst eco­The centerpiece tax cut 
and one of the leading islation drew overwhelm­nomic downturn since the calls for a $500 break for 
architects of the legislation. ing support among Great Depression of the single workers and $1,000 
Republicans said the bill Democrats while all but a 1930s. for couples, including those 
was short on tax cuts and few Republicans opposed Tens of billions of addi­who don't earn enough to 
it. .

contained too much spend-tional dollars would go to owe federal income taxes. 


Mail days may be cut due to deficit 
Associated Press Senate Homeland Security and and our processing and distribution 
Governmental Affairs subcommittee. networks. I do not make this request 
WASHINGTON -Massive deficits Total mail volume was 202 billion lightly, but I am forced to consider 
could force the post office to cut out items last year, over 9 billion less than every option given the severity of our 
one day of mail delivery, the postmas-the year before, the largest single vol­challenge," Potter said. , ter general told Congress on ume drop in history. That doflsn't mean it would happen 
Wndnesday, in asking lawmakers to lift And, despite annual rate increases, right away, he noted, adding that the 
the requirement that the agency deliv­Potter said 2009 could be the first year agency is working to cut costs and any 
er mail six days a week. since 1946 that the actual amount of final decision on changing delivery 
If the change happens, that doesn't money collected by the post office would have to be made by the postal 
necessarily mean an end to S.aturday declines. governing board. 
mail delivery. Previous post office "It is possible that the cost of six-day If it did become necessary to go to 
studies have looked at the possibility delivery may simply prove to be unaf­five-day delivery. Potter said, "we 
of skipping some other day when mail fordable," Potter said. "I reluctantly wquld do this by suspending delivery 
llow is light, such as Tuesday. request that Congress remove the on the lightest volume days." 
Faeed with dwindling mail volume annual appropriation bill rider, first The Postal Servien raisPd 1hP issue 
and rising costs, the post otlice was· added in 1983, that requires the Postal of' cutting back on days of service last 
$2.8 billion in the red last year. "II' cur­Service to deliver mail six days each fall in a study it issuncL At that timr 
nmt ti·ends continue, we-could experi­week." the agency said the six-day rulP should 
ence a net loss of' $6 billion or more ''The ability to suspend dnlivery on }J(~ eliminatPd, giving the post offici', 
this fiscal year," Postmaster General the lightest delivery days, for example, "the llexibilitv to mPPt futurP rwt>cls lilr 
John E. Potter said in testimony l'or a could save dollars in both our delivery delivery frP\l~Pm~y. 


The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, January 29, 2009 
Blagojevich travels to Illinois for impeachment trial 
Governor returns to home state to offer closing argument before the final vote; conviction all but certain 

Associated Press 
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. -Illinois Gov. Hod Blagojevich will leave Chicago as a governor Thursday morning. He may come home just an average cit­izen.· 
Blagojevich plans to fly to Springfield and address the Senate before the final vote in his impeachment trial. Even Blagojevich predicts he'll be convicted, costing him his job and all the perks of being gov­ernor. 
"I hope he has a ride home because I don't think he'll have the state police to take him," joked Senate Minority Leader Christine Radogno, R-Lemont. 
A buzz swept through the Senate chambers Wednesday wlten Senate President John Cullerton announced that Blagojevich wanted to speak at the triaL which he has boy­cotted so far. 
"It's my understanding that the governor wishes·to file an appearance to give a closing argument, not to testify or to submit himself to cross-exami­nation," Cullerton, D-Chicago, announced. "Just to give a clos­ing argument." 
The prosecution rested its ease Wednesday, the third day of an unprecedented trial on whether Blagojevich has abused. his power. 
A conviction is all but certain. Blagojevich presented· no defense, and virtually the entire Illinois political estab­lishment has turned against him. The House voted 117-1 to impeach him, and the.lone "no" vote came from his sister-in­law. 
Despite the slim odds 

Blagojevich faces, one of his few friends in the Senate scoffed at the idea of the gover­nor using the statement to announce his resignation. It's just as likely senators will see the Easter Bunny hopping through the Capitol, said Sen. James DeLeo, D-Chieago. 
"I think he wants to be heard," DeLeo said. A Blagojevieh spokesman agreed. 
"I don't think he's going down there to resign, 1 think hfl's going down to make his appeal to the senators," Lucio Guerrero said. 
Blagojevich repeatedly has said he won't resign. But hP also said he wouldn't take part in the trial. 
While the Senate has consid­ered accusations that Blagojevich is corrupt, the gov­ernor appeared on one news show after another to proclaim his innocence and declare tlw trial rigged against him. 
"It's a kangaroo court," Blagojevich said Tuesday on Fox News Channel. "My lawyers and I believe that to be part of a process like that is to dignify a fraudulent impeach­ment process that sets a dan­gerous precedent for governors in Illinois and governors across America." 
But Wednesday afternoon, Blagojevich's acting chief of' staff contacted Cullerton's chief of staff to ask that the governor be allowed to make a statement before the trial concludP.s. 
The impeachment prosecutor called ·his last witness Wednesday and is scheduled to make his closing arguments Thursday morning. Blagojevich could be ousted from ol'lice by afternoon. 
By making his own closing sttttcment instead of testifying under oath, Blagojnvieh avoids taking questions from senators and the impeachment prosecu­tor. 
Sen. Dan Cronin, H-Elmhurst, called it "cowardly, but consis­tent with the way he has gov­erned." 
Cullerton, joinea by the Senate's top Republican, rec­ommended Blagojevich's unusual request be granted. lie said the governor would be given 1)0 minutes to make a dosing statement -in effect, acting as his own attorney. 
Ironirally, Blagojevirh often has talknd about how ptiorly he did in law school, joking that ht~ barely knew where the law library was. 
The two-tnrm governor has denied any wrongdoing since bPing arrested last month on a varinty of corruption charges, inrluding scheming to berwfit from appointing President Barack Obama's u.:s. Senate replaeenwnt and demanding campaign contributions in ext~hange for state services. 
No other Illinois govnrnor has been irnpnached, let alone con­victed in a Senate trial. 
I(' Blagojevich is convicted, he will be removed from office and replaced by Lt. Gov. Patrick Quinn, a fellow Democrat. 
Earlier Wednesday, Cullerton challenged Blagojevich to show up and explain himself and objected to the governor's tour of national media. Blagojevich insists the wiretapped conver­sations released when he was arrested on federal corruption charges are being taken out of context. 
"If he wants to eome down here instead of hiding-out in New York and L1aving Larry King asking questions instead ol' the senators, I think he's making a mistake," Cullerton said. "lie should come here and answer the questions and pro­vide the context he elaims that these statements are being taken out of." 
The case against Blagojevich, presented by House-appointed prosecutor David Ellis, inducted audio of secretly recorded eon­versations in which the gover­nor appears to discuss demanding a campaign contri­bution in exchange for signing legislation. Senators also heard from an FBI· agent who vouched for the accuracy of eye-popping Blagojevich quotes that were inducted in the crimi­nal eomplaint against him. 
And on Wednesday, senators heard testimony that Blagojevich and his aides agreed to pay $2.6 million for doses of a 11u vaccine that they knew couldn't be brought into the country. Auditor General William Holland also testified to a long list of management irregularities under Blagojevich -sueh as giving a luerative contract to a company that did­n't ol'licially exist. 

Announcing the Year 2009 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
fhanh t<> :1 gcn"I"Oil5.gift fmm ll1c Albert Ravadno tinnil>·· the Italian Studies l'ru~:ram i!'J J'lca~d tu announce the year ::!009 nnnmd compcliti.un for tr<.tvcl in supputi ofsummer research anu tbrdgn stud}" in Italy. Grants will be ma!lc in amounts not ltl exceed $3.000. und will not nummll~ cover all""~"'"'"'· Notre Dame gmduntc tmJ undergradu~tc >tud«tls who urc planning 10 pllrsue rc>;enrch or a lonna! program M'· 'um111cr sntdy in Italy are in,·ifed to apply. Stud"m~ nt«st haw cwnpleted ut least tlne year llf ltalianlanguag<·. lhc cuursc wort. \\·ill n<mna!ly" t>e in Italian: "ill hlVt>l\c the study of Italian language. literature. and culture: and must he UJlplkablc Ill a student's <.lcgn:c J'l'ogrmn at the Unih..-.ityofNotrc Dante. 
R«<}llllllend~<l pn,gnun• fi;lr f<Jreigo study il!dt<de, hut~·~ 11<>! limited 1(>: l.(l~'(lla t.:nin:rsil) in Rome. Boshln University in Pa"ua. UClA in f>isa. Miami l 'nivcr.lty in l'rbino, Cplumbia lfniwrsity in Scandimw. Intel'l!sted S!lld~<\1; are ~ncourag<ld 1o .:onsul! the m~tcrials <>11 ltaliun foreign shtdy in the lkpanmcm 11f lh1111an.:c l..nnguagcs. 343 O'Shaughnc"-':' Hall. 
Students urc invited to submit u lcllcr \\bkh should include: • II an explanation ofhow the pmposed research or foreign <tudy will enhance thdr 
degree program at Notre Dame; .:2) u pcrnmal sta~cmcn1 indicating tht-ir backgrmmd~ intercsh. and lnng.-h:nn goals; 51 a description ofth<-research p~"!ie<:l or the t>rogram th~y intend 10 folluw: 
4) a hudgd iiHii<:aling th<:c'"" involh'<l: 

5) t\\U k-ners oftttolnlll<'ndation tn a tn:H'Is..cript sho\\ ing aU gntd~s und \:'OU~-.:-s comph:tcd . 7! ;tli•t of<~tbcr ·""'"~'" t>f l1n1ding (being •uught <lr eunfirmcd 1 fnr the ><1111<' pf<~c(l 
{i.e. Otlk<' <1flnh.•matinnal Studie$. N:movk lnstilut~. etc.) 
Applicatlun ne,.dlinc: Friday, !\larch C't, 21lll9 Albt?rt lb\'arino Ualian Sludi<'S Tra\cl Scbularsbip Program in ltalhln Studies 343 O'Sbaugbnc•~·y Hall l'niYenity uf Noln Uamc 
Remember that you con help your LNO team earn points by just attending Late Night Olympics! Will Keough and Welsh Family win again? That may be up to you! 

1.31./.[]~ g 


lATt NIGHT 


Competing for the cause. ProcBmls to t>r-nmfit tht:: S1. J[!seph County Spec1al Dlyrr:;llcs. 
ker.!;~;h h-r.;her
TEAMS Saturday, January 31. 2009 
Sltl!1f1it:d Stad1)rd 
l<m:Jf S::uin 
Bp.m. to 2a.m.
St ttli'•anh MmnS51lV 
lahm Om11~11niU'Nt!tH 
Oillo11 Kmmanlt1:umm 
f~undi 


Thursday, January 29, 2009 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Associated Press 
BELLFLOWER, Calif. -The nation's second set of live-born octuplets were all breathing on their own Wednesday, 48 hours after a wDman gave birth to the surprising bunch in Southern California. 
Two of the babies were still receiving supplemental oxygen but were inhaling and exhaling on their own. 
'They're doing amazingly well," said Socorro Serrano, spokes­woman for Kaiser Permanente's Bellflower Medical Center, where the babies were born nine weeks premature. 
The mother. whose identity n~mains a secret, had not yet been able to hold any of the delicate babies -six boys and two girls ­who were born weighing between 1 pound, 8 ounces and 3 pounds, 4 ounces. However, she was able to see them in their incubators Tuesday night. 
In lieu of names, the babies have~ been assigned lettors A through 1-l, in the order of their birth Monday morning. The babies' incubators were being kept near one another in the same room for bonding. said Miriam Khoury, clinical director of inpa­linnl obstetrical nursing at thn hospital. 
Four of tlw babies were n~ceiv­ing tube-feedings of donated lm~a-,t milk, said Khoury. 
The stomach of a fifth baby did­n't absorb tho milk he was given Wednesday and now was being fed intravenously, said Khoury. Two of the babies that were receiving milk also were being fed through a vein. 
The mother has begun pumping 
I 
tJ·' 
Offshorefish fanning allowed inGulf

Nation's second set 
Bates, who represents about anthrax. Where would we get
Associated Press 
200 commercial fishermen in our protein from?" he said. 
BAY ST. LOUIS, Miss. -Alabama, said there was fear Supporters of farms esti­Offshore fish farming would that foreign companies would mate that it would take only 

of octuplets born 
be allowed in the Gulf of buy permits to farm fish off­2,000 acres of fish farms in 
breast milk in anticipation of eight 
Mexico under a plan approved shore and then sell the fish at the Gulf to match the amount 
hungry babies, said Serrano. 
Wednesday by the agency that reduced prices, undercutting of fish caught every year in 
Dor,tors were surprised by the 
sets the body of water's fish­U.S. fishermen. the wild. but sport and com­
birth of the eighth baby, because 
ing rules. llarlon Pearce, a council mercial fishermen lined up 
they were only anticipating seven, 
Fishermen complained that board member, said farming against the plan being consid­
said Dr. llarold Henry, one of 46 
making the would create ered by the Gulf of Mexico 
staff members who delivered the 
Gulf the first jobs for strug­Fishery Management Council, 
babies by cesarean section. 
federal waters gling fishermen. which sets fishing rules. The 
Khoury said the addition of 
off the U.S. to "Do not allow this. Fishermen, he offshore farming plan still 
eight babies to the neonatal unit 
allow the farm­said, "have been needs final approval from the
I don't care who's 
had not stressed the hospital. 
ing would over-regulated Commerce Department, which
pushing your 
"This is history for us, so of 
cause pollution to death and we hasn't taken a position yet. 
course we're happy," said Khoury, 
and drive them buttons ... Don't put don't have The earliest Commerce could 
who helped coordinate the mate­
out of business. enough wild pro­weigh in would be three
us out ofbusiness." 
rials needed for the labor. 
Supporters, duction because months from now, after a 
Details about how the octuplet.-, 
though, say the of regulatory comment period. 
were conceived have not been 
farming would Avery Bates problems." Charter boat fishermen also 
released, but doctors not involved 
give the coun­vice president The United were opposed, saying it would 
in the delivery believe the mother 
try a bigger Organized Seafood States takes in limit the fishing waters, said 
was likely on fertility treatment. 
piece of a about $10 billion Bob Zales II, the executive
Association of Alabama 
shore farming has taken off. Board mem­
"Just think if
ber Pearre agreed. saying someone was able to it was time for 
wipe out our cows
the United 
and other land 
States to "catch up with the creatures with an rest of the 
anthrax. Where 
world." Some 
would we get our
states do allow fish farming protein from?" dose to shore. 
Ericsson said 
John D. Ericsson
his company, 

commercial seafood
Florida-based BioMarine company owner Technologies Inc., is looking 
SP\ L 0 N RoU G E \ · -· 
Spec~ah;r.ing'" 5eautifut Color'-'elf· 
for opening 
U.S. waters to fish farming and SUC<"l'Pded in drawing sup­port for the idea. 
Opponents said after Wednesday night's setback they were hopeful the new Obama administration would see the issue different­ly. 
"The (Obama) administration 

Dr. Daniel Mishell, professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of Southern California's Keck School of Medicine, recom­mends carefully monitoring preg­nancies involving fertility drugs by ultrasound. 
Multiple births can be danger­ous for babies and their mother, and in some cases, may result in lasting health problems. However, in cases where a woman insist-, on having multiple births, there's a limit to a doctor's role. 
"You can't mandate a reduction of pregnancies," Mishell said. "You can advise them. but you r.an't mandate them." 
The babies were expected to remain hospitalized for several weeks and could face serious developmental delays because of their small size. 
The nation's first live-birth octu­plet.<> were born three months pre­mature in Houston in 1998. The tiniest baby, who was born at 10.3 ounces, died of heart and lung failure a week after being born. 
multibillion­dollar industry. 
The Gulf of Mexico Fishery Management Council voted 11-to-5 in favor of allowing the farming. One member involved in aquacul­ture research abstained. The 
U.S. Commerce Department has final say on the rules. 
Those against the plan claimed the large cages and pens that would raise fish far offshore would pollute the oceans with fish waste and chemicals. Farmed fish, which often get heavy closes of antibiotics, can also escape into the wild and interfere with native species. 
"We simply do not want this," Avery Bates, vice presi­dent of the Organized Seafood Association of Alabama, told the council before the vote. "Do not allow this, I don't care who's pushing your but­tons ... Don't put us out of business." 
in seafood 
imports a year 

and exports only about $2.7 billion, according to data from the Commerce Department. About 80 per­cent of all seafood consumed in the United States is import­ed. 
Commercial seafood compa­ny owner John D. Ericsson favors the plan. He said the United States has fallen behind countries like Greece, Norway and Chih~. where off­director of the Conservation Cooperative of Gulf Fishermen. 
"They're going to take an area and put their cages there and I can't fish there any­more," Zales said. 
Fish farming has so far been limited close to shore, but the Gulf council's proposal would establish sweeping reg­ulation that would open up waters far offshore. 
Former President George W. Rush's administration pushed 
at growing fish in cages that could contain up to 60,000 cobia, also known as king fish in the Northeast, and amber­jack. He said it would take about $10 million to set up an offshore fish farm. 
"It's a serious business com­mitment," he said. 
Besides creating jobs, fish farming is important for the nation's food security, he said. "Just think if someone was able to wipe out our cows and other land creatures with an is dedicated to protecting the marine environment and I hope it says, 'Not on my watch,"' said Zach Corrigan, a staff attorney with the Food & Water Watch, a Washington­based group that fought off­shore fish farming. 
In the Gulf, there is interest in transforming unused off­shore oil and natural gas plat­forms into fish farms. Some oil companies have experi­mented with platforms to anchor underwater pens. The 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, January 29, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
The lmkpnulent. IJdily Newspaper Servi,g Nom Dame anti Sa;,, MtJry's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither insrirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lerters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Th.:-Observer {USPS 599 2.-400fl) 1~ publli.h...-d Monday duuugh FriJo~y except dunng ~::xam and vacuion periods. A subscription ID Tht: Obsen>cr is $100 fur one academic r<:ar: S55 for one M:.mcstcr. 
1k Observer is publish..d Jt. POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send addn:ss currtttitms to: 
Norre Dame. IN 46')56-0779 TheObst'IVCr 

Periodical posragc ~nid at Nt'H"' Dame 1':0. BOJc779 and additional mailing offia:s. 024 SQuth Dining Hall Notre Dame, IN 46'S%-o779 
The O~rver is a mcm~r of the ~.!.red Pn:ss. .-'.11 reprodm:tinn nglw. arc n=v<d. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Mandi Stirore Fran Tolan Ashley Charnley Michael Bryan Amanda Gray Michael Blasco 
Graphics Scene Mary Jesse Michelle Fordice Viewpoint 
Patricia Fernandez 

Good luck, Mr. Daschle 
Over Christmas break, I was afl'orded the opportunity to spend a few weeks interning in a hospital working on some business projects. I spent some time analyzing and writing a report of the 
anesthesiologists' revenues and pay­ments, their patient volume, and other meas­ures of productivi­ty and profitability. While the analysis 


was fairly  Jason Coleman  
straightforward,  
and the report  
was similarly cut  Man at Large  
and dry, the impli­ 

cations that followed were murky, opaque, and difficult. 
These days, the media senms to divide health care policy into just two camps. On one side is the Liberal assoeiated national health care plan, a Ia Canada or England's system. This system would entail universal coverage, little or no cost per visit, but also possible problems for choice of treatment or doctor. It could also be quite expensive. 
On the other is the Conservative asso­ciated idea of free market health care, with very little government intervention, and a considerable weakening of the Medicare/Medicaid system. This option points to the necessity of' doctor choice, treatment quality, vis-a-vis survival of the best doctors, but also leaves a great many people, possibly as many as 40 million, out of the health care loop. 
The one debate that nobody is having right now, however, is the need for a better, more cost effective health care system. Research by the economist David Cutler indicates that only around 17 percent of Americans are currently satisfied with the health care system. The doctors and administrators gave personal weight to this number within just a few days of my arrival. There are issues with just about every facet of the business of providing health care, which in turn, makes it difficult for doctors to provide easily and effectivnly the care 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
that people need. 
The lirst morning of the internship I sat in on a meeting my boss, a depart­ment administrator, was having with one of' his anesthesiologists. Instead of' tnmting patients or working on a diffi­cult case, she had spent the morning scanning through a 1 00-plus page audit of' their compliance with insurance pay­ers. Then, she had no li~wer than four other meetings during which she had to explain particular compliance errors and explain why the department still deserved to be paid. Immediately, I understood why the administrative overhead costs of one patient in Amnrica exceed $1000 yearly. 
The more I worked the better I could sec the problems in health care. The greatest problems, and the reason for such exorbitant costs, for the doctors and patients are all focused around poorly aligned incentives, economically, not medieally speaking. Patients, doc­tors, and insurers are all in agreement that a healthy patient is the best out­come. But when it comes to the question of who will pay for it, and for what will they pay, the three groups turn into a Seylla like creature, with every head pulling health care in a dill'erent direc­tion. 
Patients are most concenwd, natural­ly, with their health and quality of life. For this reason, they will commonly choose the option that will provide the best ehance of survival, regardless of the actuarial odds or tables. Sometimes these battles provide great stories of courage and strength, and sometimes they involve spending exorbitant amounts of money to extend a life by days if' not hours. Often times, the eosts of' a particular eourse of aetion are not even clearly articulated or acknowl­edged. While patients and families shouldn't be faulted in the least for this mentality, the system cannot be improved if this issue is not addressed. 
Doetors represent another difficult business issue. Atul Gawande, a Harvard educated surgeon at Brigham hospital spends an entire chapter of his newest book, Better, pondering the inherent dilemmas in physician pay. Most doctors are chiefly concerned with the care of their patients, and with the amount of eare they ean provide, even to those with little means to pay. And while good intentions go far, there will always be the necessity, as Rod Tidwell would say, to "show me the money." 
After all, most doctors have endured four to six years of strenuous schooling, beyond the undergraduate years, with six plus years of resideney, and arc still exposed to 60-plus hour workweeks in a high stress environment. Who would want to go through all of that and not be paid decently, despite best inten­tions? 
The third head of this monster is the health insurance industry, including government insurance programs. They are burdened with the majority of costs of health care, and have to find ways to pass these costs on to their users. Unfortunately, they are also the only major player that is seriously compelled to turn a profit even while trying to pro­vide insurance. An in-depth analysis of insurance in this country would take pages and pages, but suffice it to say that it is perhaps the most complicated, costly, and interesting problem of the bunch. 
That's also why I will have to leave my diseussion on that note. The issue is complicated, and even with a few weeks of observation under my belt; I still probably don't understand half of the problems with the system. One morn­ing, while I was asking my boss about some of the issues I have noted, he said to me, "You know what Jason, you could stick 10 of the smartest people in the country in a room, and they would solve social security in a few days, but could­n't solve health care in a lifetime." 
Jason Coleman is a junior majoring in management. He can be contacted at coleman. 70@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Call it a clan, call it a network, call it a tribe, call it a family. Whatever you call it, whoever you are, you need one". 
Jane Howard Countess of Westmoreland 
Submit a Letter to lQe Edtto 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"I may not have gone where I intended to go, but I think I have ended up where I needed to be". 
Douglas Adams english author 


THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Thursday, January 29, 2009 
March for life: a fragile journey 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
lnterhall Ice Hockey is a Joke 
I have played ice hockey for almost my less than an hour, and they do not accommo­entire life. I am pretty good, but obviously date players who have experience. It's great you will not find me on the roster of the that people want to learn how to play, but nation's No.1 ranked ice hockey team. For tllis is the only chance I get to relive playing the many of us hockey lovers that attend this competitively after high school and I don't University (a school which is growing in think it is fair to anyone for players sinlilar to hockey tradition) and are not NHL prospects, me to skate with kids that have never skated it is really disappointing that the only playing before. time we have to look forward to are the 5 I don't see why it would be difficult to short hockey games over tl'ie next two make the inter hall season at least one game weeks. per week, and have it last six to eight weeks 
The Interhall ice hockey here is a joke. Our at least, and then playoffs. Of course, the season starts tomorrow night, and ifwe do games should be a little longer so everyone not make the playoffs it will be over in exact­can get more than five minutes of playing ly two weeks. How does this school have the time. It would give hockey players something top ranked varsity team in the country and really to look forward to during second then the next level down is this? There is no semester. club team, and unless you fork over the hun­dreds of dollars it costs to join a men's Matthew McManus league in South Bend you are out ofluck. sophomore 
The games are played after midnight (not Fisher Hal very helpful for academics), they last well Jan. 27 
Batm_an 
Miss Jess Shaffer is a wonderful friend which makes him even more heroic. In and writer, but she is absolutely wrong. Christopher Nolan's most recent interpreta­Batman should never be kicked out "the tion the Caped Crusader sacrifices the Superhero club" (Inside Column "Ifl Were a opportunity oflove, taints his reputation by superhero ... "). While our allegiance has using the cover of an egotistical billionaire, always been to Superman, Batman deserves and even allows the people of the city to see the utmost respect and admiration. Miss him as a 'dark knight' and murderer. That Shaffer tries to say that Batman does not fit is a true superhero; one that is not looking the term "superhero." Hah! Having saved for praise or worship but simply has the Gotham and its peoples from various nefari­best interest of the community at heart. ous foes, he is most certainly a "hero." And While people like Miss Shaffer may abuse . as a mere human man his ability to perform superpowers for Sl}.perficial things like these feats while risking his own mortal life crepes others have a strict adherence to a it was makes him "super." Contrary to Miss code of justice like Batman. Bruce Wayne is Shaffer's claim that "clearly the etymology intelligent, caring and selfless. And while of superhero is a combination of supernatu­Christian Bale's voice is admittedly humor­ral and hero" the OED tells a different story. ous in his portrayal, that does not prevent The prefix of 'super' does not relate to the him from being a total badass. Batman supernatural but rather to designate some­should definitely be included in "the thing that surpasses all others. Therefore, Superhero club," and we would even nomi­Batman does not need supernatural abilities nate him to be appointed president. to be classified as a superhero. Furthermore, Miss Shaffer admits that Superman and Wonder Woman are super­Caitlin Ferraro heroes. Funny, we believe they are in the sophomore Justice League with none other than Farley Hall Batman himself. Cornelius Rogers 
Bruce Wayne did not simply fall into this sophomore lifestyle by being bitten by a spider or born Keenan Hall on Krypton. He chooses to help others, Jan. 27 

For your consideration ... 
I am writing to add my voice to the result from such recklessness? I agree recent Viewpoints published regarding with the gentlemen previously men­the great squirrel quandary present on tioned that Ms. Adam's suggestion of our campus. The latest submission from "working with nature, not against it," is Sirs Helgesen and Stein suggested that an insult to this university. we create a special taskforce of felines I propose that the only viable solution trained to specifically target Notre to the squirrel issue is an administra­Dame's squirrel problem. tion-coordinated squirrel fight. Each 
I say that this solution would be both dorm could sponsor one or two of our irresponsible and downright unintelli­little "friends" in a campus-wide, brack­gent. It is highly likely that these well­et-style tournament. This would not trained and highly-disciplined cats only take care of our ·problem, but it would dispose of their big-eyed prey would also be a clean, fun-filled occa­quite quickly, leaving them with nothing sion for the whole family. The proceeds else to engage their energies. When this from this event could be donated to happens, who will become their next charity, such as the local animal shelter targets? or the Humane Society of St. Joseph 
It is well-known that cats are incredi­County. bly fickle creatures that show little to no Having weighed all of the options pre­actual love for their masters. Their spe­sented, I humbly submit this proposal cial training and experience may give for the consideration of Our Lady's them the confidence to turn to larger University and the surrounding commu­prey. Namely, us. Instead of writing nity. Only by taking decisive action can about "Our big-eyed bushy-tailed prob­we persevere in this struggle. lem" we would be discussing a new "sharp-clawed, lightning-quick prob­Patrick Gill lem." This, my friends, is unacceptable. freshman 
Who knows what manner of grievous Alumni Hall scratch-or allergy-related injuries may Jan.28 


Unnecessary Aggression 
I was immensely distraught after money go to something that directly reading Mr. Helgensen's and Mr. benefits the students of this University, Stein's proposed solution to the squir­such as leaving onthe lights in rel problem in their letter "Seriously?" Nieuwland. (Jan 28). Their proposed feline task By this point, the Notre Dame com­force is utterly at odds with common munity has let the squirrel problem go sense. unchecked for too long. A task force or 
It is cruel to subject innocent cats to any similarly aggressive measure will the thankless task of defending our only increase squirrel hostility and quads from squirrels. The stresses of waste our tuition money -it is time hunting down these squirrels will for divine intervention. make it difficult for participants in this Let's take advantage of our universi­"task force" to readjust to domestic life ty's Catholic identity and call in some when the squirrel problem is taken favors. I propose a candlelight vigil at care of, ifever -the sheer scale of the the Grotto as we pray for the souls of problem could mean that this task these squirrels, that they may realize force is out patrolling for years before the error of their ways, stop their hos­we see any real results. tility, and move on to better feeding 
Additionally, the amount of funding grounds. Or that God will take care of needed for such a job will be phenom­it Old Testament-style and smite them. enal -providing adequate shelter for At this point, we can't be picky. the cats, food to supplement their diet of squirrels, and medical care for Laura Schmoe when the squirrels fight back. freshman 
In this current economic climate, Pasquerilla WestHall would much rather have my tuition Jan 28 
Jesus said to his disciples, "What shall we say the kingdom of God is like? It is like a mustard seed, which is the small­est seed you plant in the ground. Yet when planted, it grows and becomes the largest of all gar­den plants, with Fr. Lou DeiFra, such big branch­
esc. 

es that the birds of the air can 
Faithpoint

perch in its shade." 
When I think about my own life, and the greatest signs of God's love in my life, I realize that none of them just descended on me, dropping forcefully out of the sky and into my lap. Rather, they almost all started out as small, precious, even fragile signs. I think of my 2nd grade teacher, Sr. Thomas Edward -she was a mustard seed her­self at 4-foot-8. But she also prepared us for 1st Communion with the most extraordinary lessons and powerful per­sonal witness. A love for the Eucharist is a very fragile thing, and she planted it within us 25 years ago. 
My vocation to be a Catholic school teacher, to be a priest -did not drop upon me out of the sky. It was much more-tenuous, and up-for-grabs. It took a friend, who knew I was lurching about trying to find my way after col­lege, telling me that I should apply for a teacher opening at my old high school. It took my girlfriend, sitting next to me at St. Patrick's Cathedral in Manhattan before we went to see Cats (yes, I admit it-but I didn't like it), telling me she thought I'd give a great homily (talk about a date-stopper}. It took a lot of nights of holding on to what seemed to be a whisper of a calling, until the voice within grew stronger and stronger. 
Even our Church itself began as a small town in Capernaum, gathered at the door to hear a former neighbor sud­denly, surprisingly, preaching a new message. And after his life was over, he left his new Church in the hands of a handful of uneducated workers living in the middle of a desert. 
The things that have come to repre­sent the most certain presence of God in my life have almost without exception begun as very small, fragile, precious things. 
We see this powerfully in the mystery of the Incarnation. The greatest sign of the presence of God in the world ­God's own Son-came as a little baby, his life hanging by a thread, born in a manger, willed to life by the courage of Mary and Joseph. But it all hung by a thread -and God did not choose to seek a more secure way of sending him to us. 
Perhaps, in all this, is one way to understand the Church's stance on the Right to Life: as a deep realization of how precious and delicate are the greatest signs of God's Presence in the world. They all seem t.o hang by a thread. Like the mustard seed, they're extremely vulnerable -but if they are cultivated, they become our surest signs of the presence of God. 
At its best, the object of the Church's stance on life is not to claim moral superiority, but to bring about a conver­sion of the heart in our culture so that all may see the preciousness of life and come to cherish especially those who are most vulnerable. This includes the vulnerability of young women in crisis pregnancies, who don't have the ~;up­port they need to raise a child. It includes the poor and the homeless, who, because it seems they can't con­tribute to society, are always at the risk of being ignored by society. It includes the elderly, who can be judged as "Their best days are behind them. Why should we waste time and resources on them?" 
All of these groups are mustard seeds -small, vulnerable, even fragile. Yet, if we give ourselves to them, and nourish the gift of life that has been given to them, they can grow into very powerful signs of the presence of God in our world. For it is often by the most fragile and vulnerable ways that God speaks the most important messages to us. 
This week's column is written by Fr. Lou De!Fra, CSC, Director ofCampus Ministry Bible Studies and ACE Chaplain. He can be reached at del­fra.2@nd. edu. . 
The views expressed in this Faithpoint are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 11 
Thursday, January 29, 2009 

By RYAN RAFFIN Scene Writer 

In 2004, Franz Ferdinand released their self-titled debut album to rap­turous acclaim and high sales bol­stered by the success of hit single "Take Me Out." A follow-up came in late 2005 with "You Could Have It So Much Better," which, though an excel­lent album, did not sell nearly as well. 
Since then, the group has been operating Ul'lder the radar, recording songs for movie soundtracks and pro­ducing music by other groups. So more than three years after their last release, where is the group at now? 
Can they maintain their standard of excellence? 
Luckily for fans o.f the group, the answer is assuredly yes. "Tonight: Franz Ferdinand" is the group's most dance-centered effort, at times being only a degree or two removed from straight-up disco. Make no mistake, this is still Franz Ferdinand, only now with an even more pronounced affini­ty for dance music. The nods to fore­bears like the Kinks are mostly gone (except on album closer "Katherine Kiss Me"), replaced with a sleek sheen and dance floor-ready beats. 
An early criticism of the album has been that its songs are too similar and sterile. This displays a fundamen­tal misunderstanding of what "Tonight" is 
trying to accomplish.
Tonight: Franz Ferdinand 
It's a party album, so 
Franz Ferdinand 
the music needs to keep people moving, hence the music will generally be up­
Label: Domino 

Recommended Tracks: "Lucid Dreams," 'What 
and 

She Came For'' and "Uve Alone" 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN Scene Wrirer 

Dia: Greek for "from point to point." Yolo: Latin for "I fly." Diavolo: an abstract dance group under the artistic direction of Jacques Heim who the DeBartolo 
Performing Arts Center will be host­ing this weekend. They will be performing their new and original w o r k "Foreign Bodies." 
The 10­member dance com­pany was founded in Los Angeles 

Diavolo Decio Mainstage Theatre Tonight and Friday ?p.m. Saturday, 2 p.m. and ?:Jo p.m. Tickets: $40, $32 faculty/staff, $30 seniors and $15 for students. 
in 1992 by Heim, and the company carries more than a dozen works in their reper­tempo very dance-oriented. Even within the bounds of dance music. the group experiment, from 8-minute long "Lucid Dreams" to the heavy keyboard use displayed on "Twilight Omens" and "Live Alone." At 42 
toire. Diavolo is not just composed of dancers, but also gymnasts and actors that bring a new dimension to the performance. The performers must be extremely athletic. The sets are creative and surreal and add a critical element to the show. Diavolo's 
minutes, the record is a perfect nitely the most ambitious the group length, leaving an impact without has ever written. Heavily processed;" 
Make no mistake, this is still Franz Ferdinand, only now with an even more pronounced affinity for dance music. 
overstaying its welcome. 
First single, "Ulysses," kicks the album off in style. comparing that mythical hero to the party lifestyle: "You're never going home." It's a strong way to begin, setting the tone from the outset. In fact, the overall "arc" of the album, if one chose to look at it that way, follows the experi­ences of a partier from the beginning of the night to the next morning. It's not a strict concept album in the tra­ditional sense, but the overriding theme of the record works well. 
The midsection of "Tonight" con­tains the killer one-two punch of "What She. Came For" and "Live Alone," where the guitars hit their hardest on the former and keyboards do the same on the latter. As "What She Came For" with its shout-along chorus gives way to the dance-ready beat that introduce the next track, it becomes clear that the group will never completely cut ties with their guitar based post-punk roots, no mat­ter how much their sound evolves. 
The aforementioned "Lucid Dreams" is a standout song, and defi-
Heim doesn't draw the choreography straight from his mind but rather lets it develop by giving his dancers an improvisa­tion period with a certain set. The piece then largely emerges from the dancers' interaction with each other and the set. 
dance routines Diavolo encourages
7Nlo two Diavolo pieces are 
emphasize both trust, community and
created identically, they do
teamwork and indi­brutherhood. The dif­vidual expression. always start with a passionate ferent members of the Heim's mission is company perform
idea born out ofartwork that 
to offer a new per­rather risky moves,
moved me in a certain way, or
spective on everyday but they are supported relationships, an exchange I watched between through the net of actions, troubles, two people on the street. " teamwork. decisions and the Diavolo tours inter­constant struggle of nationally but is most
Jacques Heim

humanity. This is famous in California.
director

why many of the They are one of the 
props used are every day objects like doors and chairs. 
"Although no two Diavolo pieces are cre­ated identically, they do always start with a passionate idea born out or artwork that moved me in a certain way, or an exchange I watched between two people on the street," Heim said. 
leading modern dance companies in the Los Angeles area. Lewis Segal, a dance critic of the Los Angeles Times, said that lleim is "a ereative force in the community, someone with both a eom­pelling vision and the ability to inspire oth­ers to uncompromising performances." 
Diavolo will perfilrm a number of sepa­
with vocals low in the mix, the song segues into a nearly four and a half minute long electronic outro. This sounds like a terrible idea, but the group pulls it off well. They've always been masters of splicing two different song ideas together, even as early as "Take Me Out," and it 
·works again here. 
Many people will be 
disappointed by this 
album simply 
because it's not the 

same as their first. However, the experimentation on "Tonight: Franz Ferdinand" shouldn't deter fans of the group willing to hear growth. They've long threatened to go in a more dance-oriented direction, and if this effort is any indication, doing so was the correct choice. 
After years out of the spotlight, the real deal finally returns to remind us what all the hype was for in the first place. In the world of music, going three for three in terms of producing good albums is remarkable, so here's to hoping Franz Ferdinand can con­tinue their streak in the future. 
Contact Ryan Raffin at rraffin@nd.edn 
rate dances during the show this weekend, all of them contributing to the theme of community and humanity in the modern world. "Foreign Bodies," the piece that will premiere at Notre Dame, will take the audi­ence on a journey through mankind's evolu­tion. The scenery will be constantly shifting and transforming to reflect man's ever­changing environment. Next, Diavolo will perform "Tete en LAir," which iS French for "head in the sky." The theme of this seg­ment is the isolation people feel with the modern world, and the barrier technology creates resulting from a lack of intimacy with fellow humans. "Knockturne" is a love duet centered on a set of a door. D2R-A rep­resents the hardships of war, and the dancers even feign wounds that affect their dancing ability and range of movement. After a twenty minute intermission the company will finish the show with "Trajectoire," which is set on a 21st Century Galleon. This dance explores the ideas of surviving in a rapidly changing society and competing with destiny. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Thursday, January 29, 2009 
page 13 

: Paul Aldrich at the 
•, ,;Arts Center, 7:30 p.m. 
With a mutto of being Pure Comedy-100 The Russian want-to-be painter turned award->· percent clean andlOO percent funny -Paul winning animator Yuri Norstein's film selections ·· ~-•Aldrich promises to tear up audiences this ,•will play in DeBartolo's Browning Cinema this ,\weekend with his stand-up comedy and musi­
'·

. weekend to a crowd that is sure to be entertained .., cal impressions (ranging from Jimi Hendrix to Norstein has accomplished much as an animator,~~Bono to Adam Sandler). Not only does he 
_having studied at an art school before eventually: !,'•promise to deliver humorous lines, but he also finding work at studio Soyuzmultfilm in 1961 :··.;;' guarantees to do it with a Christian mindset .wherehegothisstartintheanimationindustry.I-fis1_"":~ "[I] use humor and music as vehicles to 
use of multiple glass planes to give his ani-<·:·"touch hearts with the good news of Jesus mation.<J a three-dimensional look and decision not,-:.christ," said Morris. His funny parody of the-to u<Je computers to create his animations make his ·-· Beatles' "Let It Be" entitled "Let it Be!Hillary" productions truly unique. Witness a glimpse of his , · ---._about Hillary Clinton's campaign for the presi­
-masterpieces this tonight. Tickets are $6, $5 for fac-: ', :dency is just a sample of the material that is ­ulty/staff, $4 for seniors and $3 for all students. .'' , sure to come Friday night . 
::.! ·:~·,··>'!" ~---,;,·'">-''::-:.: ·<, ,. ,; -~.::..'lL ::.:.::..~·· ··-'il.t' '<:>'"1'··~,.-·.; __.i~:~, ,-~, __-,.,_'" ~-·.·· ~-·=.;.·· '. ' .;·· _..,....... ~,1:'"---·-, __+ ·.... . ... ·;.,;., >.. 
;Sat: Happy Go Lucky (2008), Browning Sun: Thiemo Jansenn: 2008-2009 Organ ~Cinema, 3:00,6:30 and 9:30p.m. · ·· . Recital Series, Reyes Organ and Choral -Hall, 2:30 and 5:00 p.m. 
Sally Hawkins' Golden Globe winning perform--•. ance, as the unnaturally cheerful Poppy in the -., ~-~ Hamburg, Germany's very own lbiemo Janssen Oscar-nominated "Happy Go Lucky," will bring a /~--:will be visiting the Notre Dame campus this week­
•smile to your face as you watch this quirky woman~""::/ end for a special performance of his Organ Recital ·: tackle the challenges life presents her with endless >..:::-Series. After having studied in Hanover, Lyon and doses of optimism. Faced with various tests, such as Hamburg with the famous Louis Robilliard and • the stealing of her bike (her only means of trans-.. . ! Wolfgang Zerer, he became choirmaster and . portation), an unrequited lover's pursuit of her and:. • i ' : organist at St. Nikolaur Kirche in Friedrichshafen. · ; an intense sisterly feud, Poppy still manages to keep _, ' ...· Because of his amazing talent on the organ he has . a bright outlook and refuses to let problems get her :· ·. also been selected to regularly play r,oncerts at the ·down. Take a leaf out of Poppy's book this weekend . . , Basilika in Weingarten, Sanit-Germain-des-Pres in 
and learn how to always have a PMA-positive ~"---Paris and the cathedral in Brussels. Don't miss the mental attitude -no matter what life throws your :; 2..;opportunity to be dazzled by the magic he will ere­.way. Tickets are $6, $5 for faculty/staff, $4 for sen--~-· , ate Sunday afternoon on the Reyes Organ and 
iors and $3 for all students. · •. Choral Hall's beautiful instrument. 
By MICHELLE FORDICE Assistant Scene Editor 
Studies have shown that children who eat breakfast do better in school. Since we are all pretty much just an advanced stage of school­child and we probably need all the help we can get (I know I can), this week Dining Hall Dish offers another breakfast edition. So grab yourself a cup of coffee and get ready to start your day. 
This week's recipes: 
Hash Brown Casserole 
This is basically your aver­
age egg breakfast cooked up into a casserole to make it a little more warm and homey. Layer it all up and enjoy! 
1. 
If you are in North: Head to the make your own eggs bar. Scramble one or two fresh eggs, diced tomatoes, diced white onion and either sausage or bacon. (Feel free to experiment with other ingredient to add into the egg mixture, like green pep­per or salsa.) Put into one of the soup bowls. 

2. 
If you are in South (or don't want to spend time at the make your own eggs bar): Mix the pre-made scrambled eggs, diced white onion, diced tomatoes and bacon (or you can slice 


sausage links) into one of the soup bowls. 
3. 
Top egg mixture with a layer of shredded cheddar cheese. 

4. Top with hash browns. 

5. 
Heat in microwave for about a minute and a half, or until the cheese melts. 


Peanut Butter and Banana Bagel 
This is probably one you've heard off before, but it does­n't make it any less tempting. 
1. Toast bagel. 

2. 
Spread with a layer of peanut butter. 

3. 
Slice bananas on to bagel. 


4. Other toppings to try: 
honey, apple, and raisins. 

Quick Tip 

One of my favorite things my mom used to make for me when I was little was cinna­mon toast, and it's pretty easy to make in the dining hall. Just toast some bread, spread butter over the toast, and sprinkle with cinnamon (you'll probably have to wait for the days when they serve it with applesauce.) You'll have to provide your own TLC. 
Have your own dining hall recipe? We would love to fea­ture it! E-mail mfordice@nd. edu. 
r
I I 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, January 29, 2009 
NBA 


Raptors edge New Jersey for third straight win 
Wade leads Heat to blowout victory over Wizards; Wallace nets 25 points, 10 rebounds asPistons beat Timberwolves 
Graham converted a three­eight 3-pointers, including four
Associated Press 

point play for a 102-90 lead by Carter in the opening four 
TORONTO -Jose Calderon with 4:4 7 to go. minutes, and 12 second­had 17 points and 11 assists Bobby Simmons, who added chances points. and the Toronto Raptors beat 16 points, then hit two 3-point­the New Jersey Nets 107-106 ers in an 11-2 spurt to bring Heat 93, Wizards 71 on Wednesday night for their New Jersey within 104-101. Dwyane Wade knew he was first three-game winning streak Bosh's two free throws with on the cusp of a triple-double. since the start of the season. 2:17 to play pushed the edge He didn't mind getting a break 
Devin Harris had a chance to back to five points, but Parker instead. steal the game for the Nets in only made one of two free Wade had 14 points, nine the closing seconds, but his throws and Carter nailed a 3-rebounds and nine assists step-back jumper from the pointer to close the gap to 107-before sitting out the entire right edge of the foul line hit off 104 with 1:05 to go. fourth quarter, and the Miami the rim at the buzzer. Bosh drove the baseline and Heat pulled away in the second 
Anthony Parker added 21 appeared to be fouled on a half to beat the Washington points, and Chris Bosh had 18 layup attempt but nothing was Wizards 93-71 on Wednesday for the Rap-tors, who shot called. night. 
-· almost 56 percent and had six After a time out, Harris drove "Anytime I can get rest, I'm players in double figures. the left side of the lane for a fine," Wade said. Andrea Bargnani had his layup to get New Jersey within Daequan Cook and Michael streak of 15 straight games of a point. Beasley each had 16 points for at least 15 points stopped, scor­After Calderon missed, Harris the Heat, who've won three ing eight. took the ball upcourt, worked straight, all against Southeast Vince Carter had 27 points to his way for an open shot and Division rivals. Udonis Haslem lead the Nets, who rallied in simply missed it, putting his scored 14 points, and James the final minutes by hitting four hands to his head in disbelief at Jones and Mario Chalmers had of their 15 3-pointers. Harris the buzzer. 10 each for Miami, which added 25 points and _10 assists, Graham added 15 points for closed the game on a 44-21 but he missed the biggest shot the Raptors and Jason Kapono run. of the night after Calderon had and Jamorio Moon had 10 It's the first time since March intermission, giving Miami a -two free throws, a fallaway left the door open by missing a apiece. 2005 that Miami held consecu­41-39 edge at the break. jumper and a 3-pointer -for jumper with about 21 seconds Keyon Dooling had 17 points tive.opponents under 80 points. It wasn't Wade's best offen­Detroit during a 13-3 run to to play. and Brook Lopez 14 for New The Heat beat Atlanta 95-79 on sive night, nor did it have to be. close out the game. Toronto, which opened the Jersey. Monday night, and are a sea­The league's scoring leader was Minnesota led by 11 points season with three straight wins Despite shooting 61 percent son-best six games over .500 a mere 6-for-16 from the floor, with just over four minutes to and then floundered, appeared from the field in the first half, (25-19). Miami's bench finishing with the second­play in the third quarter after to take control late in the the Raptors trailed 54-50. The outscored Washington's fewest points in 44 games this an 11-2 run. fourth quarter when Joey difference for the Nets was reserves 50-14, and the Heat season. But Wallace threw down a had a 26-2 edge in points off weak side dunK and then hit a turnovers. Pistons 98, Timberwolves 89 3-pointer from the wing to help "Our activity level was consis­Rasheed Wallace tied a sea­the Pistons close the period tent pretty much the whole way son high with 25 points and with a 13-3 spurt to make a through," Heat coach Erik had 10 rebounds to lead the game of it going into the fourth. Spoelstra said. "That's what Detroit Pistons to a victory over After Iverson hit one of his we're looking for." the Minnesota Timberwolves on trademark floaters in the lane Antawn Jamison had 21 Wednesday night. and Rodney Stuckey scored on points and 12 rebounds for Allen Iverson added 19 points another drive to the hoop, Washington, an NBA-worst 9-and Antonio McDyess had 14 Detroit cut the lead to 84-83 
36. Caron Butler added 18 points and 10 boards off the with just under five minutes to points, and Darius Songalia had bench for the Pistons, who go before Wallace took over. 10 for the Wizards. snapped a two-game losing It was his 11th double-double 
"We talked about playing skid with a gritty victory over of the season. He had 10 all last with discipline and within our an improving Timberwolves season. design," Wizards coach Ed team. This was the first meeting Tapscott said. "That's critical AI Jefferson had 24 points between the teams since a hall­for us.... And we held that, for and six rebounds for the mark moment for both squads a while." Wolves, who entered the night on Nov. 23 at The Palace: 
For a while, indeed. with the best record (10-2) in That's when a struggling Washington controlled the pace the NBA in January and a Minnesota team came to throughout the first half, hold­three-game winning streak. Detroit and embarrassed the ing the lead for 16:46 in the Rookie Kevin Love had 17 Pistons with a 106-80 romp for opening two quarters. points and 10 rebounds, but just their third win of the sea­
Miami needed Wade to make Minnesota had no answer for son. a play just to send them into Wallace most of the game. The Wolves won once in the halftime with the lead. He Too big for Love and Craig 15 games following that victory, stripped the ball from Juan Smith and a bit too quick for but have turned things around Dixon, dribbled upcourt and Jefferson, Wallace got his shot in 2009 behind new coach found Cook for a 3-pointer with nearly whenever he wanted it. Kevin McHale, Jefferson and 
18.1 seconds remaining until He scored seven straight points Randy Foye. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Volunteers Wanted: The Early 
Childhood Development Center 
(ECDC), located at Notre Dame, is 
looking for volunteers. If you would 
enjoy spending 2 hours per week 
reading to preschool children, building 
with blocks and playing games, 
please attend one of the Volunteer 
Sign-Up Sessions on either Thursday, 
1129 or Friday 1130 from 3:0Q-5:00. 
Volunteering at ECDC is a wonderful 
opportunity to support the develop­
ment of delightful children and is an 
excellent addition to your resume. 
ECDC-ND is located on the NO cam­
pus on Bulla Road, across from 0 
Hara Grace Residences at the corner 
of Leahy and Bulla. For more informa­
tion please call 631-3344 or 
www.nd.edu/--ecdcnd 

.... 

NOTICES 
New pop Christian music by Will of Titus available at www.willoftitus.com or itunes 
JOB­
HOUSE CLEANING.E.ANGELA. 
288-89 
FoR RENT 
Affordable Graduate and Faculty Ott-Campus Housing. Call for Availability 
(574)243-2818 or 
(574)276-6118. 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCASTI Why pay for 12 months? Now offering 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. 
Starts 6/09. · $850/mo. 

574-250-7653. Unfurnished 4-bdrm, 3ba,fpl,sky­lights,2-car garage, FR, deluxe appl, avaiL August 
Call574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038. 
Townhomes at Dublin Village, Irish Crossing, Wexford Place, Ivy Quad. 3 and 4 Bdr. 
Only a few left for 09/10. 
CES Property Management 574-968-0112 CESPM.info 
613 Lafayette Blvd., 6-bdrm & 2-bdrm houses. $350/person. 
Call574-876-6333. 

Houses for the 09-1 o school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Le.,g fast 
Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or www.kramerhouses.com 
NOW LEASING. OBSEVER CORRECTION: LAFAYETTE TOWNHOUSES. $350/PERSON. It was errantly placed in these 3,4 & 5-BDRM UNITS. classifieds that Detroit Pistons have 
2.5 BATHS. no white players. Wa~er Hermann is FREE INTERNET white. Sorry Wa~er and Pistons. NEWLY REMODELED. ---------------­
---------------
CALL 574-234-2436 OR With a stop light, green means 'go' WWWKRAMERHOUSES.COM and yellow means 'slow down'. With a banana, however, it is quite the oppo-Student rentals 2009/2010. site. Yellow means 'go', green means St. Peter/SB Ave. 'whoa, slow down', and red means Homes. $1300-$2000/month. 'where the heck did you get that 5-7 bdrms, 1st or 2nd floor. banana?' Contact Bruce Gordon ---------------­574-876-3537. I like an escalator because an escala­
tor can never break, it can only become stairs. 
PERSONALS 

There would never be an escalator Quotations by Mitch Hedberg, RIP. temporarily out of order sign, only an ---------------escalator temporarily stairs. I like rice. Rice is great if you're hun­gry and want 2000 of something. Sorry for the convenience. 






OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, January 29, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OssERVE!ts wntE SERVICES page 15 
MLB 

NCAA Men's Basketball AP Top 25 
team  points  record  
1  Duke (62)  1,789  18-1  
2  Conneclicul (6)  1,694  18-1  
3  Pittsburgh (3)  1,647  18-1  
4  Oklahoma (1)  1,539  19·1  
5  North Carolina  1,529  17-2  
6  Wake Forest  1,509  16·1  
7  Louisville  1,351  15·3  
8  Marquette  1,209  17-2  
9  Michigan State  1,136  16-3  
10  Xavier  1,084  17-2  
11  Texas  1,017  14-4  
12  Clemson  929  17-2  
13  Buller  916  18·1  
14  Arizona State  834  16-3  
15  Syracuse  808  17-4  
16  Purdue  724  15-4  
17  UCLA  544  15-4  
18  Memphis  530  16-3  
19  Illinois  401  17-3  
20  Gonzaga  381  14-4  
21  Villanova  276  15-4  
22  Saint Mary's  247  18-1  
23  Washington  218  15-4  
24  Kentucky  217  16-4  
25  Georgetown  189  12-6  
NCAA Men's Basketball  
ESPN/USA Today Poll  
team  points  record  
1  Duke (30)  774  18-1  
2  Connecticut (1)  733  18-1  
3  Pittsburgh  706  18-1  
4  Wake Forest  666  16-1  
5  Oklahoma  663  19-1  
6  North Carolina  636  11-2  
7  Louisville  547  15-3  
8  Marquette  538  17-2  
9  Michigan Slate  475  16-3  
10  Xavier  458  17-2  
11  Clemson  425  17~2  
12  Texas  402  14-4  
13  Butler  384  18-1  
14  Arizona State  378  16-3  
15  Syracuse  321  17-4  
16  UCLA  311  15-4  
17  Purdue  267  15-4  
18  Saint Mary's (CA)  212  18-1  
19  Memphis  193  16-3  
20  Illinois  181  17-3  
21  Villanova  113  15-4  
22  NOTRE DAME  97  12-6  
23  Georgetown  92  12-6  
24  Minnesota  84  17-3  
25  Gonzaga  60  14-4  
NCAA Swimming  
CSCAA Rankings  
Men  Women  

1 Texas 2 Michigan 3 Stanford 4 Arizona 5 California 6 Florida 7 Auburn 8 Indiana 9 Minnesota 10 Ohio State 
Georgia Stanford Texas California Auburn Florida Arizona Texas A&M Minnesota Tennessee 

around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL Saint Mary's (CA) at Gonzaga 11 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA Basketball 
Cleveland at Orlando 8 p.m., TNT 
IN BRIEF Federal agents raid home 
of Bonds' trainer's family 
SAN FRANCISCO, Calif. ­Twenty federal agents raided tho home of the mother-in-law of Barry Bonds' personal trainer on Wednesday. 
Madeleine Gestas and her daugh­ter Nicole Anderson, the trainer's wife, are the target of a tax investi­gation that the lawyer for Greg Anderson said is aimed at pressur­ing the trainer to testify at Bonds' upcoming trial. 
Bonds, baseball's career home run leader and a seven-time MVP, has pleaded not guilty to charges he lied to a federal grand jury in 2003 when he denied knowingly using performance-enhancing drugs. 
"Even the mafia spares the women and children," said Anderson's lawyer, Mark Geragos. 
Lead prosecutor Matthew Parrella didn't immediately return a telephone call Wednesday. 
Cardinals' Fitzgerald offers 
to pitch in to keep Boldin 
TAMPA, Fla. -Larry Fitzgerald would look at restructuring his con­tract if it would help keep fellow Arizona Cardinals wide receiver Anquan Boldin on the team. 
"Someone asked me a question if I would be willing to do something to help the team, and I said, 'No prob­lem,' " Fitzgerald said Wednesday. "This opportunity right here to be playing deep in the postseason, this is an amazing feeling. I'll do whatever it takes to get back to this point going forward in my career." 
The question came up as the Cardinals prepared for Sunday's Super Bowl matchup with Pittsburgh. 
Fitzgerald and Boldin form arguably the best receiving tandem in the NFL. Fitzgerald caught 96 passes for 1,431 yards and 12 touchdowns in the regu­lar season. Boldin, despite missing four games with injuries, caught 89 passes for 1,038 yards and 11 scores. Both players made the Pro Bowl. 
Wings lock up Zetterberg
with 12-year, $73m deal 
DETHOIT, Mich. -Looking to keep one of hockey's top teams on steady footing, the Detroit Hed Wings knew exactly where to start. 
The Stanley Cup champions mmow1ced Wednesday tlmt they signed llenrik Zetterberg to the longest con­tract in team history, a 12-year, $73 million deal that could keep the star for­ward in Hockeytown until 2021. 
"Henrik is one of the world's premier players at both ends of the ice," general manager Ken Holland said. "This is a tremendous commitment on the part of the organization as well as by llenrik .... We are thrilled that a player we drafted and developed will play out his career in Detroit with this lifetime contract." 
Zetterberg could have become a free agent at the end of this sea..<;on, his sixth in the NI-IL, but Holland said the team decided Zetterberg was "one of the players we wanted to build our fran­chise around." Negotiations began last June. 

Associated Press 

CHICAGO, Ill. -Aaron Heilman needed a change of scenery after his strug­gles last season with the New York Mets. He's got­ten it. Twice. 
Heilman was traded from Seattle to the Chicago Cubs on Wednesday, seven weeks after the Mets shipped him to the Mariners as part of a three-team swap. Chicago gave up utility infielder Ronny Cedeno and left­bander Garrett Olson, who had just been acquired in a trade with Baltimore. 
The Cubs will give Heilman a chance to become their fifth starter 
but he could land in the bullpen, where he's been used exclusively the last three seasons. A year ago, when the Mets had their second straight late-sea­son swoon, Heilman went 3-8 with a 5.21 ERA and three saves in 78 games. 
He blew five of eight save chances and heard steady boos from the dis­enchanted fans at Shea Stadium. 
"Categorize last season as kind of an aberration. I dido 't throw the ball the way I was capable of and didn't have the results I would have liked," said Heilman, a 6-foot-5 right­hander. "I don't think there was one thing that was the sole cause of last year. I think there were a lot of different factors that played into it." 
The 30-year-old Heilman grew up a Cubs fan in Indiana and graduated from Notre Dame. lie said he mostly enjoyed his six seasons in New York and acknowledged that going back could be an interest­ing experience. 
"I didn't have any ill feel­ings toward anyone or anything there in New York. I enjoyed my time there," he said. "The fans treated me pretty well for the most part. They're a fickle crowd. They know what they like and they want to see their team do well. Sometimes they let it be known." 

Seattle general manager Jack Zduriencik said Cedeno could compete for a job at second base and shortstop, prodding incumbents Jose Lopez and Yuniesky Betancourt. 
"Ronny's young. My goal for Ronny is to come in and push these guys and not have any thought other than, 'I have a shot for one of these two spots,"' Zduriencik said. 
The new GM has put Mariners veterans on notice that past perform­ance doesn't necessarily guarantee starting jobs. After all, Seattle is coming off a 101-loss season. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, January 29, 2009 
NBA 

House's 3's carry Boston over Kings 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Eddie House is all warmed up and ready for the 3­point shooting contest on All-Star weekend. 
All he needs is an invitation. 
The Boston sharpshooter scored 28 points on a career-high eight 3-pointers, going 8-for-9 from beyond the arc on Wednesday night to lead the Celtics to their ninth straight win, 119-100 over the Sacramento Kings. 
"He needs to be in the 3-point contest," forward Kevin Garnett said afterward. "That's what this press conference is about: Paul Pierce and Kevin Garnett are here to say that we think Eddie House needs to be in the 3-point contest." 
It was the seventh straight loss for Sacramento. which opened a 10-point lead in the first quarter. Boston scored the next six points and went on a 25-9 run to start the second quarter that turned a two-point deficit into a 14-point lead. 

The Celties led by 24 in the fourth, when House was 4-for-5 from 3-point range. 
"I wish I could have thrown a net out there and held him on one end of the !1oor," Kings coach Kenny Natt said. "Give the guy credit: lie is a great shooter and his teammates looked for him and he moved well without the bas­ketball." 
Ilouse has hit at least seven 3­pointers in three of the last four games and his teammates aren't the only ones campaigning for him to be invited to All-Star weekend. The crowd chanted "Ed-die! Ed-die!" whenever he touched the baH in the fourth and gave him a standing ovation when he left with 4:02 left and Boston leading by 23. 
"Any given night it could be anyone," House said. "If they invite me, brreat. If they don't, it's a chance to rest up." 
One of the players standing in the way of House's free weekend in Phonnix is tnammatn Hay Allen. who is second in the league with 112 3-pointnrs. 
SMC SWIMMING 

Six seniors lead Belles heading to MIAA meet 
By ERIC PRISTER Sports Wri rer 
As the Saint Mary's enters the last month of its 2008­2009 season, six seniors like­wise enter the last month of their collegiate careers. Leah Bocinsky, Katie Carroll, Mary Kate Daday, Melissa Gerbeth, Jennifer Nicol and Kate Orbon have each posted a team top­five time (or score, in the case of diver Bocinsky) and has con­tributed to the team in some way. 
Bocinsky, the lone diver among the seniors, has posted top scores for the Belles in both the one meter and three meter dive competitions. She set the school record for one meter (six dives) last year, and is second all-time for the Belles in three meter ( 11 dives), the format for the MIAA championships. 
"As a diver, it feels so great to be able to contribute to the swim team and help make SMC competitive for the first time in over a decade," Bocinsky said. 
Gerbeth, a distance swimmer for the Belles, has put up top times for the Belles as well. She has the best time on the team in both the 1000 yard and 1650 yard freestyle events. Gerbeth also holds the Saint Mary's record for the 400-yard individual medley and was a part of the school record-setting 800-yard freestyle relay team from last season. 
Orbon is the only other sen­ior to have recorded the top time for an event this season, doing so in the 200-yard freestyle event. She was a member of both the top 200­yard freestyle relay and the top 800-yard freestyle relay teams for the Belles this sea­son. Orbon was also a part of the 400-yard freestyle relay team who finished in first place in the dual meet against Calvin earlier this season. 

Daday competes in the back­stroke competitions, holding the 4th best time this season for the Belles in both the 50 yard and 200-yard backstroke. Daday said the Saint Mary's team has improved in her three seasons on the squad. 
"The tr~am has dramatically improved during all of the sen­iors' time here," she said. "Each new class brings so much to the program and each class is getting faster and faster." 
Carroll swims the breast­stroke for the Belles, and she recorded the 4th best time in the 100-yard breaststroke competition in Saint Mary's dual meet against Hope. 
Nicol, a butterfly competitor, holds the 4th best time for the 200-yard f1y this season. She said she thanks her fellow swimmers for giving her the motivation she needed to con­tinue competing. 
"I could not have survived all this butterfly if it were not for my fellow flyers; they give me strength when I am worried I cannot finish," she said. 
All of the seniors look to fin­ish the season on a good note, with two dual meets left before the MIAA championships. 
'Tm confident that all of the girls will continue to push each other at practice, our last two dual meets, and the conference championships February 19­21," Daday said. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles edge Knights in overtime 
By ALEX WEST 
Sports Writer 
It look overtime for Saint Mary's to win the third game on its currnnt four-game road trip. The Belles (11-7) defeated Calvin (10-7) 72-68 in the extra period. 
The Belles and thn Knights played dose in the first half, with neither team being able to take control early. Jill Thomas for the Knights hit a 3-pointor as time expired before hall'time to give Calvin a 32-31 advan­tage. 
The contest remained close until the Belles took a seven point lead with just over four minutes to play in the game. 
The Knights fought back but the Belles extended their lead to three points when senior Erin Newsom hit a free throw with just over a minute to play. It took another Thomas 3-pointer with four sneonds to play to send the game into overtinw. 
The Belles got ofT to a slow start in the extra period as they fell behind by three points. But they responded and took the lead with two and half minutes to play. Belles junior forward Anna Krammrath made two free throws with four seconds to play to ice the game. 


Newsom, Krammrath, and freshmen Patsy Mahoney and Kelley Murphy each scored 13 points for the Belles as their bal-anced offense continued to roll. Maggie Ronan added 12 points. 

The Belles will finish their four game road trip Saturday against Hope College (15-1) in a game that might decide who wins the MIAA regular season title. The Belles handed Hope their only loss on Jan. 3. 
Contact Alex West at awest@hcc-nd.edu 
Thursday, January 29, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

. 

...--------------­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, January 29, 2009 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Ceremony held in honor of Kay Yow 
Associated Press 
RALEIGH. N.C. -Bob Davis and his wife, Judy, always fol­lowed the North Carolina State women's basketball team, from buying season tickets to making the hourlong drive to Greensboro each year for the Atlantic Coast Conference tour­nament. 
It was for the same reason that they showed up at Heynolds Coliseum on Wednesday night: Kay Yow. 
"She's an angel walking among men," the Raleigh retiree said before a campus tribute to Yow, who died Saturday after a long fight against cancer. "She was so much more than human and so much more than basketball." 
Davis, like many of about 2,500 fans who attended the hourlong ceremony, came wearing a pink T-shirt and a pink ribbon -the color of breast cancer awareness ­afiixed to his red N.C. State hat. The tribute was designed to be a celebration of Yow's life, and even included the pep band playing the Wolfpack fight song and featured a eampus a capel­la group that was a favori!e of Yow's. 
"She was a teaeher as much as she was a coach, and this was her classroom," N.C. State athletics diretor Lee Fowler said. "She was N.C. State through and through.... This is a celebration tonight and let's make it that." 
Still, it was an emotional night, starting with the sight of seeing an N.C. State jersey hanging on Yow's empty seat on the Wolfpack bench. Soon, the team and coaching staff filed in wearing pink N.C. State T-shirts and carrying pink roses that they placed one-by-one on Yow's chair. 
At the end, the players and coaches Yow left behind stood on the court that bears her name to mingle with fans who offered hugs, consoling words of support and their own stories of how Yow had inspired them. 
It was appropriate, interim eoach Stephanie Glance said, considering how important the fans were to Yow. 
"She won't be able to say that to you anymore," Glance told the crowd, "but I hope you will, as we will, hang onto her words and know how important all of you have been in her life as well." 
Yow won more than 700 games i.n 38 seasons, 34 coming with the Wolfpack. She also coached the U.S. Olympic team to a gold medal in 1988, won four ACC tournament champi­onships, earned 20 NCAA tour­nament bids and reached the Final Four in 1998. Her resume was good enough for her to be inducted into the Naismith Hall of Fame. in 2002 and for the school to dedicate "Kay Yow Court" in Heynolds in 2007. 
But for many fans, Yow was best defined by her unwav<~ring resolvP while fighting rancer, from raising awareness and money for research to staying with lwr team through the debilitating el'f'<H:ts of tlw dis­ease and ehPmotherapy trPat­ments. She-was first diagnosed with breast canePr in 1987: the disease rneurrPd during the 
2004-05 season and lingered 
until her death over the week­
end. 
Assistant coach Jenny 
PalmatePr, who playnd for Yow 
in the 1990s, remembered her 
coach as "the kind of person 
who wrote a thank-you note for 
a thank-you note." She then 
read a poem Yow gave her 
about five years ago that ended 
with the line, "God broke our 
hearts to prove to us, he only 
takes the best." 
"Kay Yow lived in a way most 
of us can only aspin1 to," ehan­
cellor James Oblinger said. 
"And because she chose to do 
so, North Carolina Statr~ 
University and all the lives shn 
touched will be forovnr 
ehanged.... Thank you Coaeh 
Yow for bi1ing you and sharing 
with us the inrrPdible girt of 
your life." 
The tribute is part of an emo­
tionally wrenching wenk for tlw 
Wolfpack. The team n1turned to 
practice Tuesday for the first 
time since Yow's death and will 
play its first game Thursday 
night against Boston College. 
Yow's funeral is scheduled for 
Friday, with the burial coming 
the next day in hnr hometown 
of Gibsonville. 
BC assistant eoach Stephanie 

Lawrence Yelton, who played at · rival North Carolina, and direc­tor of basketball operations Chris Brann were among those who attended the tribute 
Wednesday night. 
"She was a role model for all 
of us in the coaching profession: 
how to treat your players, how 
to treat the people around us, 
how to motivate each other and 
how really to care for each 
other and be a team and a fam­
ily," Yelton said. "Obviously, all 
of us respect her for that and 
living the example of how to do 
that." 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Wake Forest takes out No. 1 Duke 
Associated Press 
WIN.STON-SALEM, N.C. James .Johnson's layup with 
O.H seconds remaining helpnd No. 6 Wake Forest upended No. 1 Duke 70-68 on Wednesday night. 
Johnson l'inishnd with 13 points and 11 rebounds and freshman Al-Farouq Aminu had 15 points and 10 rebounds for tho Domon J)naeons ( 17-J. 4-1 Atlantic Coast Conference), 
They bounced ba<~k from last week's home loss that knocknd them from No. 1 by leading the Hlue Devils for nearly the entire way -bnfon1 letting a late 13-point lead slip away and rocovnring just in time to claim the nnh victory over a top-ranked team iq school his­tory. 
Kyle Singl11r had 22 points and 12 rnbounds for DukP (18­
2. 5-1), which had its 10-ganw winning streak snapped. 
Gerald llenderson added 20 points. and his jumper ovPr .Johnson with 10 snconds ldt tind it at 6R, and cappnd the lat<' 20-7 rally that got them baek in tho game. 
WakP Forest racPd down­court. and Toagun and Aminu missed layups in traffic., but during the rebound, llonderson was called for trav­eling. That gav<l tho back to Wake Forest with 2.6 seconds left, and L.D. Williams inboundta:d it undnr the ba:;ket to Johnson, whoso layup in the final second banked through to tim delight of a packed crowd at Joel Coliseum. 
Singler's full-court inbounds pass for Henderson was tipped by Williams, sending Wake Forest's tie-dye-clad student section spilling onto the court for the seeond time this month.• They whooped it up in similar fashion 2 1/2 weeks ago when they knocked off then-No. 3 North Carolina. 
Jon Scheyer had 13 points and McClure finished with 12 rnbounds for Duktl, which was playing its first ganm as No. 1 since 200(> and wound up becoming tl'w latest top-ranked team to fall in Winston-Salem. 

Jllfl' Teague seored 11 points -10 fewer than his average -on 4-ol'-14 shooting for the Demon Deaeons, who were playing for the first time since their loss to Virginia Tech a weok earlinr cost them the sec­ond No. 1 ranking in school history. 
Henderson's jumper capped a remarkabl(l rally for the BhtH Devils, who trailnd 61-48 with 
8:49 remaining. 
Singler had 10 points during thn burst, which ended with a flurry in the final soconds. Scheyer's :{-pointnr !'rom tlw corrHlr ovnr Johnson hit tho front of the rim. but the Duke guard hustled for the rebound and called the Blue Devils' final timeout with 17.4 seconds left. llnnderson inbounded the ball to David McClure, who got it baek to Henderson for his big jnmper. 
Wake Forest took its first double-figure lead of the game after a pair of spectacular plays in the open court. · 
Johnson put the Demon Deacons up 54-43 with 11 1/2 minutes left when his steal from Nolan Smith led to a breakaway dunk. That came seconds after Aminu's high­light-mel jam when he took a bfltweon-the-legs fend from Ishmael Smith. They later stretched their lead to 13 when David W11aver laid in Smith's alley-ooP. pass with 8:49 remaining to make it 61-48. 
1/31 State Theatre 2/6 Czar's 5U5 2120 Backstage Brill South Bend Gizzae 2128 Stage Coach B~rn Richland Zion lion 3/7 Weafthy Theatre G. Rnotstand 8Gizzae 


Thursday, January 29, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Holm.es' life a turnaround story 
Associated Press 
TAMPA. Fla. -Steelers wide receiver Santonio Holmes' childhood was much like that of any other youngster in rural south Florida. lin played back­yard football. Chased squir­rels. Han around with his friends. 
This was different: Despite being a promising athlete, Holmes also spent a year sell­ing drugs on a street conwr in his small honwtown. 
lie chose to make his sur­prising admission at the Super Bowl. knowing millions of impressionable youngsters will be closely following the game and its players. By revealing his secret, Holmes hopes he may persuade other at~risk youth to choose a path that leads to the athletic field and a classroom, not to a detention center or a jail cell. 
''I've only told three or four people about it," Holmes said Wednesday. "I fp,el it's time to share things. I'm on the biggest stage, everybody's going to be watching. I'm pret­ty sure some kids can get a feel for changing their lives and not doing those type of things, and can get an oppor­tunity to get out of the ghetto, the 'hood, to be successful." 
Holmes, who initially made the admission in an interview with the Miami Herald, became exposed to the lifestyle while growing up in Belle Glade, Fla. Some family members and friends made money selling drugs, he said, and he found it an easy way to make money, too, though he didn't specify exactly what he sold. 

Holmes avoided detection by his mother by going to school, then leaving and going to the street corner. He and his fami­ly didn't need the money for food or essentials, and he used it mostly on gifts for himself, like sho~s. 
"My friends were always doing it and I felt comfortable doing it at the time," Holmes said. "As the years grew older, I just felt like that wasn't what I wanted to do. I wanted to play football. I don't want to end up like a lot of my friends, in jail, standing on the corner, not going to school." 
Several pivotal events turned Holmes away from selling and pushed him to football, where he starred as Glades Central High won Florida state titles during his sophomore and jun­ior seasons and went 12-1 during his senior season. 
Holmes and his mother became worried as they repea.tedly returned home to find bullet holes or broken locks in their apartment. Another time, Holmes' mother found cocaine in the young­ster's dump truck. That seemed to be what prompted her to relocate to another area. 
The move, Holmes said, was pivotal in turning his life around. 
NCAA MEN's BASKETBALL 
Vaughn leads UC to upset of Hoyas 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI-Turns out then~ are still new depths for No. 25 Gnorgetown to fmd. 
Deonta Vaughn scored 20 points Wednesday night, and Cincinnati extended the Hoyas' midseason misery by sending them to a 65-57 loss; their fourth in a row. 
The Hoyas (12-7, 3-5) were eoming ofl' a deflating 65-60 loss at Seton Hall, which hadn't won a game in the Big East until Sunday. Aftnrward, coach John Thompson III proclaimed that his team was in a "bad situation right now." 
It got a whole lot worse against Cincinnati (14-7, 4-4 ), which finally got a distinguishing win. The Bearcats were 0c2 against ranked teams this season. 
It's Georgetown's longest losing streak since 2004-05, Thompson's first season. 
"We have to evaluate, re-eval­uate everything," Thompson said. "We have to do everything significantly better than we are right now. We're missing shots." 
Chris Wright scored 15 points for Georgetown, which saw its usually dependable defense fold down the stretch. Cincinnati shot 
45.8 percent from the field, only the 14th time in the last 90 games that an opponent shot so high. 
And, there was one new worry for a team with already more than enough: DaJuan Summers twisted his left ankle, leaving the Iloyas uncertain how much he can play the next few games. The junior forward is Georgetown's leading scorer at 
16.1 points per gamn, but sat out the second half and finished with seven. 
"We will figure this out, regardless of how bad DaJaun's injury is," Thompson said. "We are in a bad place, but I told the guys, we will figure this out." 
The Bearcats are on an unex­pected upswing. They've won four of their last five, overcoming a limited offense and poor ball handling. They had 1 0 turnovers in the first half on Wednesday. 
"It means a ·Jot to us," Vaughn said. "We're getting our feet on the ground. We're letting every­one know we're coming out to play hard." 
Neither team played very well in a sloppy 11rst half, setting a bar.k-and-forth pace that held until the closing minute. Cincinnati's final lead was the biggest of the game. 
"Aftnr the game, we arn all dis­appointed about the loss, but we've got to keep fighting," said Wright, who wnnt 7 -for-12 from the field. "That's the only' thing we can do. We ean't get mad or feel bad about ourseJves now because we've got a lot of games left in the Big East. Today, again, unfortunately, our shots didn't fall." 
Many of them did Georgetown shot 40 percent ­but the Hoyas missed several open shots in the closing min­utes, helping Cincinnati pull away. 
"We got the shots we wanted; just didn't go in," Thompson said. "A bad time for bad bounces." 
Omar Wattad and Nikita Mescheriakov hit 3-pointers to cut Cincinnati's lead to 27-26 at halftime .and gave the lloyas a sense that they were finally shooting their way out of their slump. In the last two games, Georgetown went 5-for-38 from behind the arc. 
Didn't last long. The lloyas fin­ished 5-of-17 on 3-point attempts. 
By that point, it was apparent that Cincinnati's stagnant offense was going to need another big half from Vaughn to get another win. The junior guard had 20 points in the second half of a 71­60 win at St. John's last week. He had eight points and four turnovers in the first half against Georgetown. 
Vaughn hit a 3 from the left wing to open the second half, an indication he was willing. 
Each basket brought another lead change or tie over a six­minute span in the second half. Both teams tried something dif­ferent on defense to try to change the pace -Cineinnati went to a full-eourt press. 
Georgetown  to  a  2-3  zone  
defense..  
Yaney  Gates'  tip-in  and  

Vaughn's two free throws put Cincinnati ahead 54-49 with 6:02 left, the biggest lead by either team in the second half up to that point. That lead didn't last long, either, taking it down to the final minute. 


Wed~ Jan 28 IThurs, Jan 291 Fri, Jan 30 Washington Hair I 7:30 p.m. Full Price $20 I Faculty/Staff $18 I Students $12 
574-631-2800 I www.performingarts.nd.edu 
PRESENTED RY SHAKESPEARE AT NOTRE DAME 
L_________________ --­
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, January 29, 2009 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Villanova, Providence pick up upset victories 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA-A Philly guy had a .career night in the last college basketball game to be played in the Spectrum. 
That will be Reggie Redding's only memory of the place as he never saw a game in the build­ing where he had a career-high 18 points and grabbed seven rebounds as No. 21 Villanova beat No. 3 Pittsburgh 67-57 on Wednesday. 
"My father is a big basketball fan. When I was younger, he would talk to me about Dr. J, Moses Malone. Andrew Toney. I never got the chance to watch a game here. But I knew about it coming from a basketball back­ground," the junior guard said of the building that opened in 1967 and will be torn down later this year. "But coming from Philly, it's the Spectrum. Everyone loves the Spectrum, respects it. It's just great to fin­ish it off like that." 
Dante Cunningham added 15 points for the Wildcats (16-4, 4­3 Big East), who beat a ranked team for the first time in five tries this season and they did it by coming up big on the boards and playing good perimeter defense in the second half. 
"The reason we wanted to get this was because they're really good," Villanova coach Jay Wright said. "It wouldn't have got us down if we didn't come back and beat a ranked oppo­nent. We pride ourselves on not letting one game turn into a problem." 
Sam Young had 14 points for the Panthers (18-2, 6-2), who 
had one field goal over the game's final 5 minutes and were outrebounded 19-16 in the second half. Pittsburgh entered the game averaging 
40.6 rebounds per game and it lead the Big East with a plus­
9.3 rebound margin. 
Redding made two free throws with 8:03 left to break the game's final tie and start a 7-0 run that gave the Wildcats a 55-48 lead with 5:26 to play. 
Pittsburgh. which came into the game fifth in the conference in 3-point shouting at 35.4 per­cent, missed all 10 of its attempts from behind the arc in the second half and with center DeJuan Blair saddled with foul trouble throughout the game, the Panthers didn't have an inside or outside game. 
Blair finished with seven points and eight rebounds in 23 minutes. lie entered the game fourth in the nation in rebound­ing with a 12.7 average and he was limited by foul trouble in the Panthers' other loss, at Louisville. 
"We missed DeJuan a lot, just his presence helps," Pittsburgh guard Levance Fields said. "Obviously the two losses have been with him in foul trouble. We've got to do a better job of playing without him." 
Panthers coach Jamie Dixon agreed with Fields. 
"All our guys were in foul trouble and we just had to play through it. You can't put your­self in that situation," he said. "We have to learn after a loss and we did after Louisville. Tonight we just couldn't play our game and do the things we do. That's for us to figure out." 
Pittsburgh closed within 59­53 with 2:32 to go on a free throw by Fields, but the Wildcats, the best free throw shooting team in the Big East, went 8-for-1 0 from the line over the final 2:17 to seal the win. Redding finished 10-for-10 from the line and the Wildcats were 19-of-28. 
"The home team wins that game. Just two really tough teams," Wright said. "We were really tough tonight, we were physically tough." 
The Spectrum opened in 1967 and was the home for almost 30 years for the NBNs Sixers and NIIL's Flyers. It hostP.d two Final Fours (1976 and 1981, both won by Indiana) as well as what many consider one of tho best NCAA tournament games. the 1992 East Hegional final whim Christian Laettner hit a turnaround from the top of the key at the buzzer to give Duke a 104-103 victory over Kentucky. 
Villanova played 59 games at the Spectrum, winning 31. Pittsburgh and Villanova had met here one other time, a 75­72 victory for the Wildcats on Jan. 30, 1991. 
The Wachovia Center opened across the parking lot from the Spectrum in 1996. 
"I know it was a big night in this building," Wright said. "I looked up at the end and it was awesome." 
Providence 100, Syracuse 94 
PHOVIDENCE, H.I. Providence coach Keno Davis knew his 3-point shooters would eventually force strug­gling Syracuse to come out of its usually steady zone defense. 
Sharaud Curry scored a 'sea­son-high 22 points to lead six players in double figures, carry­ing Providence to a victory over the 15th-ranked Orange on Wednesday night. 
"When you're a 3-point shoot­ing tp,am and you can put three, four players on the court that can shoot from the outside, then you can get them to extend and get the ball inside more," Davis said after his Friars shot 6 7 percent from the floor in the second half. 
Marshon Brooks scored 17 points, and GBoiT McDermott and Jonathan Kale each had 15 for Providence (14-6, 6-2 Big East), which won for the sev­enth time in nine games and matched its best Big East start since 2000-01. Handall Hanke and Wnyinmi Efejuku had 12 points apiece for the Friars. 
Curry thought his team had a good idea how to attack Syracuse. 
"We've play0d zone for a few years so we knew where we could get our shots against them," Curry said. 
Jonny Flynn led Syracuse (17­5, 5-4) with a career-high 35 points and Erie Devendorf had 
27. The Orange lost their fourth in live games. 
"I told Jonny and Erie before the game that they were going to have to be somewhere in the neighborhood of 25-30 points for us to win," Orange coach Jim Boeheim said, expecting that Providence's offense would be tough to contain~ "I knew it was going to be a high-scoring game. They get up and down the floor and have good perime­ter guys. They shoot the ball well." 
Providence opened a 14-point lead after consecutive 3s by Curry and Brooks 22 seconds apart midway into the second half and Syracuse never got closer than five points the rest of the way. 
"If we don't stop anybody and we don't play better D, we can't be the team we want to be," Flynn said. "It was just a lot of' things that killed us this game." 
The Providence students stormed the court when the game ended despite many requests from the public address announcer to stay off "for their safety." 
Providence scored 10 straight points and 16 of 19 during a 4­minute stretch early in the sec­ond hall', opening a 63-51 lead on Hanke's layup with 14:24 to play. , . 
The Orange dosed to 73-65 on Flynn's three-point play. but Curry and Brooks hit their con·· secutive 3s to spark a 10-4 run that made it 83-69 with 6:4 7 to go. 
The Friars came out shooting in the second half. hitting 15 of their first 20 shots from the floor. Many came on short jumpers in the middle of Syracuse's zone. 
In the first half, the Friars also didn't have any trouble solving the Orange's zone, get­ting the ball inside for several easy baskets, while Syracuse relied on Devendorf's outside shooting and Flynn's transition game to keep it tight. 
FSU 
continued from page 24 
in the match, and after falling behind 4-1 early, fought back and made the match close before falling 9-7 to the Seminoles doubles team. 
"Our freshmen are very tal­ented yet untested," head coach Bobby Bayliss said. "Casey Watt is a tremendous shot maker, as is Niall Fitzgerald. Sam Keeton has the ability to flat out rip the ball from the backcourt. Each has skills that rank up there with some of the better play­ers we have ever had here. The question with our young guys is whether or not they can each adopt the practice and daily life habits." 
Stephen Havens and Casey Watt also had a tight doubles match in which the lead shift back and forth before the Irish pair fell to the No. 47 doubles team of Andrew Bailey and Maciek Sykut in a tiebreaker. 
The Irish were able to secure one doubles win on the day when No. 37 senior Brett Helgeson and sophomore Tyler Davis teamed up to defeat the No~ 23 doubles team of Jean Yves Aubone and Clint Bowles by a final score of 8-7 (8-6). 
No. 112 Irish sophomore Dan Stahl fell to No. 72 Sykut by a final of6-1, 6-3. 
Fitzgerald was the next to come off the court after falling 6-2, 6-3. 
"Fitzgerald is brimming with talent," Bayliss said. "The No. 5-6 spots will likely come from a nucleus of Tyler Davis, Sam Keeton, David Anderson, and Niall Fitzgerald, with Matt Johnson right there with them. Daivs and Keeton are lefties; Anderson is very solid." 
Keeton earned the first Irish singles win over Bailey by a score of 7-5, 6-2. Watt played the No. 4 singles match for the fourth straight match and won 
by a score of 6-4, 6-2. Havens took on No. 29 Bowles and lost 7-6, 6-4. 
No. 20 Helgeson matched up against No. 30 Aubone. Helgeson battled with Aubone all the way through the match through three sets before win­ning 6-4, 4-6, 6-2. 
The Irish will travel to Tulsa, Okla., for the ITA.National Indoors on Saturday. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Thursday, January 29, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
that only makes you better." 
pretty much is." keeps it exciting." As a freshman Lytle made an 
In fact, they said, gymnas­"Then when it's time to
Schippers

Lytle 
tics is still a large part of their practice, we're ready to go," individual wins and placing first instant impact, collecting five continued from page 24 training. Kevin added. 
continued from page 24 
among Notre Dame swimmers 
"We do as much gymnastics With all of the work in and From the age of six Lytle com­in the 100-and 200-meter 
pulled him over to pole vault as we can," Kevin said. "They out of practice, the brothers peted in Clearfield, Penn., and freestyle at the Big East cham­
and said 'Try it.' So he did. In have a high bar and rings spend a lot of time together. fell in love with the sport. As pionships. 
a couple of years, he ended up over in Loftus, so we'll stay They are also both residents Lytle continued to swim com­Lytle continued to rack up 
doing really good, went to after practice sometimes and of Fisher Hall. petitively, he immediately made wins as one of the Big East's 
nationals a few times ... get in some time on those." This would put a strain on a a large impact on his high best freestylers as a sopho­
Everyone else just decided to Along with that, their train­lot of fraternal relationships, school team. Lytle was named more, and set school records in 
try it, too." ing consists of vaulting twice a but the Schippers said that's freshman of the year on the the 100-and 200-meter 
The pair still does not week, lifting weights three not the case. Clearfield Area High School freestyle. 
acknowledge pole vault as the times a week and running six "Honestly, we get along like team, and the next three years The highlight thus far of 
family sport, however. days a week. 95 percent of the time," said was earned team MVP honors. Lytle's 2008-2009 season was 
"We're actually a family of However, Matt said, they Kevin. "I was fortunate enough to the team's winter training trip 
gymnasts," Kevin said. maintain a good tone at prac­And the other five percent of swim well and make some to Puerto Rico. 
"Coming from gymnastics is tice despite the hard work. the time just helps to fuel major improvements from sea­"The workouts were demand­
good for pole vaulting because "Before practice, we throw a their competition. son to season in high school," ing on the winter trip, but 
it's kind of the same thing. A football around, try to keep Lytle said. "Eventually I was everyone was in good spirits 
lot of people says it's like gym­the team together," he said. Contact Laura Myers at lucky enough to be noticed and and had a great time," Lytle 
nastics on a stick, which it "We mess around a lot. That lmyers2@nd.edu 
recruited by Notre Dame." said. "The weather was perfect, Once he arrived on campus, and we were even able to make Lytle enjoyed the tougher chal­it to the beach in between prac­
works really well with aggressive than anyone I lenges both in the pool and tices." 
Kelcy's game, which is more have ever played with," Tefft
No. I 
of a touch game." said. "She is also the only "I wanted to be surrounded Irish as a junior, Lytle hopes to classroom. After another year leading the 
Tefft credits their off-court left-bander that I have ever
continued from page 24 
by the best, not only athletical­help the Irish defend their Big 
relationship as well. partnered up with." ly, but academically as well," East championship Feb. 18-21. 
started playing together," "We are very close friends, As for the rest of the Lytle said. "It was exciting to 
Louderback said. "Kelcy is so that helps our chemistry spring season, Tefft has high race against fast guys everyday Contact Michael Bryan at 
really easy to play with on the court," she said. "As hopes for Frilling, herself in practice, and it's something mbryan@nd.edu 
because she is not only a a whole we are also very and the rest of the Irish good player, but she has a confident doubles players. squad. great mental attitude." That has helped us start off "Hopefully Kristy and I can 
The combo went 13-1 in strong from the beginning." continue to improve doubles play during the fall Tefft's experience has been throughout the semester to season, earning them the beneficial to the team, espe­help the team and win No. 1 doubles ranking head­cially the freshman Frilling. NCAAs," she said. "We have ing into the spring dual­"[Tefft] is like a coach on three very solid doubles match season. They are the court," Louderback said. teams so we should not lose already off to a good start "She has really helped many, if any, doubles points after putting away Ohio Kristy with her patience and this semester." State 8-3 in the season's talking her through the dif­Notre Dame's spring dual­opening match. ferent formations and strat­match season continues this 
Louderback said the early egy." weekend as they take on success can be attributed to Through all the years that Pepperdine in Fayetteville, the players' complementary Tefft has played, she said Ark. styles. she has never played with 
"Kristy has a big [hard-hit­someone like Kristy. Contact Alex Barker at ting] game," he said. "It "[Frilling] is much more abarker@nd.edu 


page 22 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, January 29, 2009 

Thursday, January 29, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
Across 31 Narrows: Abbr. Windshield 32 Directory data: wipers Abbr. 

1 0 "Unbelievable!" 
34Clam 36 Bluster

15 Darwin's home 40 Hardly humble
16 Superrealist homes
sculptor Hanson 41 A bit much

17 Zip 43Call in a
18 They stand lor calamity
something: Abbr. 44 No longer doing 

19 Station info, 
the job?: Abbr.
briefly 45 Bombards with

20 Checks out junk21 1984 hit parody 4 7 Become active
of a 1983 hit song 50 Pull out of _ 22 Get moving, with (produce "up• suddenly) 23 Four-time 52 Makes out Vardon Trophy 54 Fat cat, in winner England 25 Area below the 56 PaCks in stacks hairline 58 Short distance 26 Lock changer? 59 "Eight Is 29Tum out-Enough" wife 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

WILLSHORTZ 

60 Creator of lofty lines 
61 Freshening naturally 
a kick out of 64 Park gathering 
place . 65 Starters 66Garb 
symbolizing youth 
Down Not as touched 2 Like successful orators 3 James Forrestal was its last cabinet secy. 4 Portions of les annees 5 Stat for a reliever 
6 Slalom targets 7 Comic Boosler 8 Astronaut Collins 
and others 9 Toasted triangle topper 10 One of Jon Arbuckle's pets 11 Changsha is its 
capital 12"Hang on!" 13 Eager 14 Things that may 
be sflot in stages? 24"La Reine Margot" novelist 

Plll:$l)y ffedefic:lc J. Healy 

27  'acte  37 Cry before  49 In the pink  
28Waystogo  storming out  51 1 0 kilogauss  
30 Some shirts 33 Dishes out undaintily 35 Trailer's place  38 "Lighten up, will ya?!" 39 Hiking aid 42 Hate, say 46 "Tristram  53 Relish 55 Disk units 57 Bring to a standstill  
36 South Pacific  Shandy" author  59 Mar makeup  
island  48 Natural  62 Letter run  

For answers, callt-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or. with a 
credit card, 1·800-814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today•s puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles. nytimes.com/crosswords ($39,95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Chelsea Brummet, 22; Elijah Wood, 28; Nick Carter, 29; Sarah McLachlan, 41 
Happy Birthday: Be passionate about everything you do and you will make your way through the challenges you face each day. Follow your own path, even if it's easier to go along for the ride. Someone from your past is likely to influence your decisions. Make sure everyone's intentions are good. Your numbers are 2, 9, 16, 23, 29, 37, 43 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Don't be fooled by what people say they want. Read be­tween the lines to understand what will work for everyone influenced by your decisions. Secret talks will disclose surprising information and change the way you feel about someone. *** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Speak from the heart. You can make an impact on others but only if you are reasonable. Someone will try to entice you to do things on too large a scale when what you need to do is size down. Be genuine about your cause. **** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Deal with pressing issues that others have or you will lose ground and accomplish little. Pay off an old debt and you may be able to avoid emo­tional embllffassment. A change in pecking order is about to take place. ** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): A force play within a partnership may take you by sur­pnse but, 1f you act fast, you will counteract any negative response. You can turn things around and position yourself as the good guy who wants to make things work. ***** 
LEO (July 23·A~g. 22): Nothing will be simple if you keep w:mting to turn everything mto a b1g production. Keep things small and efficient. There will be changes within your peer group that will help you see your place and potential better. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): So much will depend on your interaction with others. You have to express your needs and desires if you want others to pitch in and help. A change at home will have an emotional impact on the way you do things from now on. *** 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't be shut down by an aggressive partner or friend or relative who wants to have things his or her way. Stand your ground. Now is not the time to procrastinate when you should be making a satisfying move. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't spread yourself too thin. You have more to deal with than you realize so say no to extra demands before your own goals fall short. Focus on your creativity and you will sidestep manipulation. ** 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Do what you must to keep the peace, your job and anything else that will help to stabilize your future. This is not the time to argue or damage relationships. Don't overspend or make prontises you cannot keep. ** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Put things in order quickly and efficiently. Once you know where you stand financially, emotionally and personally, you can reassess your situation and determine what projects are possible. It's time to resolve issues so you can move forward. **** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You have so many good ideas and opportunities to pursue but, if you try to do them all, you will spin your wheels with little progress. A false move now ntight cost you later on. Offer your services but not for free. *** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): Take the iuitiative and do your best to help someone out whom you respect. Your good will and actions will bring you benefits when you least expect them but need them most. Don't be fooled by people talking big or bragging about the gains being made. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are ambitious, giving and sensitive. You have stamina and deter­mination and will never do things in a small or insignificant fashion. 
Eugenia's Web sites: eugenialast.comjor confidential consultations. myspace.comleugenialastfor Eugenia1s blog, astroadvice.comfor ftm 

PATRICK GARTLAND 
omebody should call them out 
on it, it's not like they haven't seen a team Jose before. 

wWw.8LACK00G.COM 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
JUMBLE 
~J! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words.
rrsxj u 
<fl200S Tribune Media Services, Jnc,
All fl1 his Reserved. 

I~URTUEj
I [I [] 


HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
I love your outfit 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: II ( 

I I I I I I J' ( I I I I ) 
(Answers tomorrow) PROVE MADLY GENTLE WHALERYesterday's I. Jumbles: 
Answer: When his wife stormed out after their argument, she took -HER "LEAVE" 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ________~--------------------------­City ______________ State _______ Zip___________ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, January 29, 2009 
page 24 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 

It takes two, baby 
Doubles pair is top­ranked duo in country 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Wri[~ 
A battle-tested veteran is exactly what you want lead­ing your team at the No. 1 spot. Pair her with a super­talented freshman who has a promising collegiate career ahead of her and you really have created something spe­cial. 
Irish head coach Jay Louderback found that out clearly this past fall. When he paired returning senior Kelcy Tefft and freshman Kristy Frilling together as the No. 1 doubles team, even he couldn't have predicted how fast the duo would become the best doubles team in the country. 
"They seemed to mesh really well as soon as they 
see NO. 1/page 21 


MEN'S TRACK 

Schipper twins push each other to go higher in pole vault 
brothers. Both brothers have already son. My height is better." that you can go through thatBy LAURA MYERS "It's something I've never set marks high enough to qual­Matt said he hopes to contin­pain and not get injured ­
Spans Wri[er 

experienced before," said ify for the Big East indoor ue to do well into the outdoor that's the fun part." freshman Kevin Schipper about championships in March, but season. Pole vaulting is not new in 
Notre Dame's top two pole competing and training with each has diffMent goals for "If J do beat the indoor school the Schipper family. which con­vaulters are not your typical his older brother, Matt. "We that meet. record, I just want to stay at sists of nine children -one girl athletes. push ea.ch other. It actually "I don't know what the Big that level," he said. . and eight boys ranging in age 
One is a junior that has helps a lot because we're both East meet record is," Matt said. Kevin said that seeing the from seven to 27. worked hard to go from slightly really high level. It works out "But I want to win the Big East progress he's making is his Both of the Schippers' older above average to winning two well." and set the meet record. I also favorite part of vaulting. brothers were All-American of his first four meets this sea­The older Schipper has beat­want to make it to nationals." · "When you make a height vaulters at Div. III Rose­son. The other is an upstart en his brother three times this Kevin's goals are not quite as that you've never made Hulman, and Kevin said that freshman who vaulted 17 feet season, while Kevin has topped high -for the indoor season, before," he said. "It took me 35 their younger brothers will in high sclwol, finished fourth Matt once. at least. attempts, ·over the course of probably try it in high school as at the Junior Nationals meet "One of us hits a big height, "I haven't done as well as last years, to hit 17 feet. It gave me well. and has already won his event the other one comes back and year," he said. "But I'm work­chills. It was really exciting." "Our oldest brother was a at one meet. hits a bigger height," Matt said. ing on it. I want to compete in Matt, on the other hand, distance runner [in high 
The two are fierce competi­"We just keep getting better, the Big East, and give it my enjoys messing up. school]." Kevin said. "His coach tors and often each other's top both of us, until eventually one best shot to go to nationals ... I "You just do front 11ips off of competition -and they're has to win. You can't both win." jump better in the outdoor sea-the pole," he said. "The fact see SCHIPPERS/page 21 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

John Lytle leads Irish in team's Big East season 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Spans Wri[er 
Irish junior swimmer John Lytle earned all-Big East honors in five events as a freshman and six events as a sophomore. But heading into this season's Big East championships, Lytle said he is only focused on is the performance of his team. 
"If I miss my personal goals, but we still win the Big East meet and send guys to the NCAA Championship, the sea­son will be successful to me," Lytle said. 
The season has already fea­

' 
tured several successes for 

I
l, I ' 
Lytle, who has 10 individual wins on the year. The freestyler recently won Big East athlete of the week honors fot swimming and diving after winning the 50-and 100-meter freestyle events in a dual meet with Northwestern. 
Lytle's career in the pool began at an early age, and as the youngest of three siblings he had little choice in the mat­ter. 
"My older brother and sister both swam, and my parents fig­ured that I might as well swim sinee I would have to be at their meets anyway," Lytle said. 
see LYTLE/page 21 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Squad falls to Seminoles 
By KATE GRABAREK Spans Wri[er 
No. 30 Notre Dame dropped a 4-3 decision to No. 11 Florida State Wednesday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The Irish fell behind early by losing th~-doubles point. 
While the home team grabbed early leads on all three doubles courts, the Seminoles tied the score back up and made the Irish fight. 
Freshman Niall Fitzgerald and sophomore Matt Johnson were the No. 3 doubles team for the Irish 
see FSU/page 20 



page 2 The Obserr,er +IRISH INSIDER Friday, January 30, 2009 
Ruth, Cole play for U.S. in World Junior tourney 
Irish defensive duo helps Team USA earn fifth-place finish 
By SAM WERNER Sports Wrirer 
While the rest of the Notre Dame hockey team got some well-deserved recovery time over the Christmas break, there was no such breather for sophomores Ian Cole and Teddy Ruth, who played on the United States National Junior team in the 2009 IIHF World Championships in Canada. 
Cole tallied two goals and two assists in six games for the U.S. team, which finished in fifth. Ruth didn't score any points, but managed to lead the team in penalty minutes, thanks largely to a 20-minute game misconduct he received in the third period of the Americans' overtime win against the Czech Republic in the fifth-place game. 
Both players said the speed of the international game was the most noticeable difference from American college hock­ey. 
"It's just so much faster up there," Ruth said. "You've got to think faster and move the puck quicker." 
Team USA started the tour­nament hot, beating Germany 8-2, the Czech Republic 4-3 and Kazakhstan 12-0 before its much-anticipated group 

stage finale against Canada. Both Cole and Ruth said that game was the highlight of their World Junior experi­ence. 
"[My favorite moment was] coming out of the tunnel and getting on the ice surface for the Canada game," Cole said. "And seeing that sea of red, except for the small pocket of maybe 50 people, mostly just our parents. It was absolutely electric." 
"It's probably the biggest game I'll ever play ia," Ruth said. "Unless I play in the Stanley Cup finals someday." 
Team USA jumped out to a 3-0 lead in the first period, but Canada tied the game up before the stanza was over. The teams traded goals at the beginning of the second, and Canada scored again to take a 5-4 lead going into the third. USA pushed hard to tie the game in the third, but two empty netters from the Canadians put the game out of reach. 
"Even though we lost, the atmosphere up there was unbelievable," Ruth said. 
In the quarterfinals of the medal round, the U.S. fell 5-3 to Slovakia despite a power­play goal from Cole. Canada ended up winning the gold medal. 
"Obviously we would have liked to finish better than fifth," Cole said. "I think we were the best team there, we just didn't put it together when it counted in the medal roJ.Ind." 
Despite the disappointing result, Cole said he would take some things away from the international tournament, most notably the ability to approach all games the same way. 
"Against Canada, there were 22,000 people screaming, but it was just another game," he said. "So I'm trying to take that back here, too. Hopefully we'll make it farther and play in some bigger venues. I love the Joyce Center, but it's not exactly where you want to end your season." 
This was Cole's second year on the team; he also played on the U.S. team that finished fourth in the Czech Republic last year. 
"Last year, being an under­age guy, I didn't have as big a role as I did this year," he said. "It was definitely a dif­ferent role for me, but I just approached it like I do any other game. I just try and make plays when I can." 
It was Ruth's first year play­ing on the team, and Notre Dame coach Jeff Jackson said he can already see improve­ment. 
"Last year, when Ian played in the World Juniors, he came back a little bit better," Jackson said. "And I'm sens­ing that from Teddy right now." 
Joining Ruth and Cole on the U.S. team were two play­ers the Irish will be facing this weekend. Michigan for­wards Matt Rust and Aaron Palushaj notched four and five 

WU YUE!The Observer 

Irish defenseman Jan Cole plays the puck during Notre Dame's Oct. 17 3-0 win over Sacred Heart. 
points, respectively, for team Wolverines in points with 31, USA. Not to worry, though, and Rust has netted five goals Ruth said that any cama­of his own this year. raderie between the players Cole said that he planned to would stay off the ice this take advantage of tendencies weekend. he noticed while playing with 
"Me and Palushja and Rust the duo in Canada. are pretty good friends," he "Palushja likes to dangle a said. "But when you get on little bit," he said. "So I've the ice you don't have any just got to make sure to watch friends. I mean, me and the body on him or he'll make Palushaj probably hate each you look stupid." other more than anybody else when we're on the ice." Contact Sam Werner at 
Palushaj is leads the swemer@nd.edu 
COMMENTARY 

Irish winning streak faces true test vs. UM 
Despite Notre Dame's win over Michigan in last year's Frozen Four and the No. 1 national ranking the Irish now boast, there still lingers a sense that the road to CCHA dominance ulti­mately runs through Ann Arbor. 
"It doesn't matter where they are in the national polls or in the CCHA," Irish senior center Christian Hanson said. "You know they're going to bring their 'P: game. Year in and year out, they're one of those teams that's always in the Frozen Four." 
So ifit were possi­ble for the nation's top-ranked team to have a pair of must-win (or tie) games in the midst of a 20-game unbeaten streak ­which it's not, by the way -this would be that weekend for the Irish. 
Notre Dame has topped both national polls for eight straight weeks, but skepticism still exists in the unforgiving world of the online message board. Certain BCS-like formulas rank the Irish behind several teams with less­impressive records, and the gen­eral consensus of non-Notre Dame fans on these boards is that the Irish may be the best team in the nation, but they haven't proved it yet. 
The Irish could silence some of those critics by beating No. 7 Michigan -a team Irish coach Jeff Jackson called the "fastest. .. most potent offensive team in the country." 


But, on the flip side, a disap­pointing showing, especially at home tonight, could stop Notre Dame's momentum dead in its tracks. 
It's hard to doubt a team that's gone three months without a loss, but the Irish have played just two ranked teams during that stretch. Notre Dame's only impressive road win of the year came at Boston College on Nov. 
7. The Golden Eagles were then ranked No. 2 but have since fall­en to No. 11 in the polls while sputtering to an 11-8-3 -record. 
The Irish didn't allow a goal in a But the losses are still on the books. 
Notre Dame is a team far superior to the one it was when it lost those early-season games. 
Senior captain Erik Condra has recovered from a knee injury that ended his season a year ago, and he has begun to heat up with points in seven of his last eight games. Hanson has estab­lished himself as a powerful offensive force and leads the team with 14 goals and 12 assists. 
And the Irish have found a pair of young dynamic scorers in sophomore Calle Ridderwall (1 0 goals, 13 assists) and freshman Billy Maday (9 goals, 9 assists). 
To discredit Notre Dame's 
incredible run 
based on its 

pair of convinc­A disappointing opponents would ing home victo­be ridiculously 
showing, especially at
ries over then­unfair. Likewise, 
No. 19 Alaska on home tonight, could to dismiss the Jan. 9-10, but the stop Notre Dame's Irish if they were Nanooks have to drop a pair
momentum dead in
since dropped against the out of the polls. its tracks. Wolverines ­
That leaves Notre Dame at 1­3 against currently ranked teams heading into a stretch of four straight against top-15 foes, as the Irish travel to No. 14 Ohio State next weekend for a pair of crucial conference games. 
Of course, it should be noted that those three losses came in the season-opener at No.6 Denver on Oct. 11 and in the first two CCHA contests, at home against No. 10 Miami on Nov. 24­25 -the last time the Irish lost. 
arguably the 

nation's most tal­ented team with the added incentive of getting revenge on the team that ended their season a year ago -would be ridicu­lous. 
That doesn't mean Irish detractors won't do it anyway. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd. edu 



Check out The Observer sports blog, The Casual Observer, at: 
www.observersportsblog.wordpress.com 
....... . ,:..w::: 

.. 

Friday, January 30, 2009 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Culture shocker 

By DAN MURPHY Sports Editor 
In the four years before sen­ior captain Erik Condra arrived at Notre Dame the hockey team won 58 games. Since then, the No. 1-ranked Irish have racked up 97 wins and counting -·an average of almost 10 more per season. 
Condra's freshman year saw a new coaching staff and the beginning of a new culture for Notre Dame hockey. 
"Erik has had as much of an impact on the culture of this program in the last four years as anyone, including myself," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. 
Serious praise from a generally tight-lipped 
coach who in Notre Dame's
"Erik has had as 
already has two record books
much ofan impact on
national champi­ranked in the onships under the culture of this top 10 in both his belt and a program in the last goals scored (76) 
.708 career win­and game-win­
four years as anyone,
ning percentage. ning goals (9). Jackson ended including myself" Bjork's influ­a nine-year hia­ence along with tus from college the atmosphere
Jeff Jackson 
hockey by at Notre Dame
Irish coach 
returning to coach the Irish in 2005. He said that players like Condra were the reason he returned. 
"That's the reason I came back to college hockey, because of kids like him," Jackson said. "He's got great personality and he works extremely hard." 
When Condra and his class­mates came to South Bend four years ago the team was coming off a 5-27-6 season. 
The Irish lacked the attitude, work ethic and discipline to be a serious threat in the world of college hockey. Three years, two NCAA playoff appearances and a CCHA championship later, the No. 1 Irish have found that attitude. 
Condra said he never doubted they would. 
"The year before I came was a rough year because I was get­ting made fun of with my junior 
Notre Dame's captain has taken his team from worst to first in his four-year career 
team because [the Irish] were the worst team in the league. Coach Jackson took over and I was a little nervous because I committed to Coach [Dave] Poulin," he said. "But I just thought they were a program on the rise." 
Like so many Domers, Condra also had family ties at Notre Dame. His uncle Kirt Bjork played hockey for the Irish in the early 1980s. 
"He didn't push [coming to Notre Dame] too much. I just always heard him talking about it growing up," Condra said. 
Bjork's picture still hangs out­side the Irish locker room in the Joyce Center honoring him as one of the eight All-Americans to skate for Notre Dame. Bjork is also still 
were enough to 
pull the Livonia, 

Mich. native away from the Wolverines and Spartans who he had been watching his whole life. 
Big skates to fill 
Condra had a lot to live up to on campus, but he has no prob­lem keeping the family legacy alive. 
Three weeks ago in a pair of shutout wins over Alaska the senior picked up both his 40th goal and his 100th assist. 
"It just means that I've played with great players and that coach Jackson has given me great opportunities while I've been here," Condra said. 
He has added a goal and an assist since then but still needs 19 more points down the home stretch in order to catch Uncle Kirt's career mark of 161. 
Condra's numbers are 
impressive, but even more important has been his ability to improve the team as a whole. 
"He just makes everyone around him better," junior Ryan Thang said. Thang has been a linemate of Condra's since join­ing the team as a freshman and has already racked up 46 goals in his first two and a half years. 
"He's a really versatile play­er," Thang said. "He knows where everyone is going to be, he just has a second nature of finding people." 
Condra agreed that his vision his most important tool. 
"That's my skill," he said. ''I'm not a great skater. I don't have the hardest shot, but I can see the ice well and I'm smart enough to know what to do out there and where to be at the right time. I think that's what has led to my success." 
Condra has led the team in scoring in his first three seasons at Notre Dame and is currently in third place this season behind fellow senior Christian Hanson and sophomore Calle Ridderwall. 
His 101 career assists cur­rently leave him one behind 1996 graduate Jamie Ling for ninth-place all time. With 10 games and the postseason remaining he probably won't reach the top of the list (145), but he has a good chance to catch assistant coach Mike McNeill who is currently in fifth with 115 career helpers. 
Condra couldn't care less. 
"Numbers really don't mean much now that I'm a senior. I really just want to win a nation­al championship, that's really the goal now," he said. 
Sidelined 
Last year Notre Dame came within one game of reaching that goal, losing to Boston College 4-1 in the national championship game. Unfortunately, Condra could do nothing but watch his team­mates as the clock finally struck midnight on their Cinderella run. 
In the third game of the CCHA playoffs Condra suffered a left 
knee injury that "/ qould just sit and the toes of the 
ended his sea­seniors ahead of
watch them get 
son. He was him. 
leading a rush dressed and watch "He has been down the ice them tape their the leader of this when Ferris team for three,
sticks, for my own
State's Mike four years, but Embach hit benefit really. " he didn't want Condra low, bypass some of directly on the the upperclass­
Erik Condra 

knee. The hit men before it
Irish senior 

sent him flipping through the air and knocked him out for the remainder of the postseason. 
"It was one of the hardest things I've ever gone through," he said. "It was just a battle watching everyday." 
The Irish lost in the CCHA semifmal but were able to pick up a fourth seed in the NCAA Tournament. The underdogs went on a remarkable run with­out their playmaker before los­ing to the Eagles, including a 5­4 overtime win over No. 1 Michigan to reach the champi­onship game. 
"I was so proud of how far they went. It was hard seeing that last game, though, knowing I couldn't do anything to help," Condra said. 
In order to keep his sanity, Condra said he spent as much was his time and 
you have to respect that," Jackson said. "He can lead by example, but he is also always one of the guys, I think the team respects that." 
There is no doubt that Captain Condra has earned the respect of his teammate, but that doesn't mean they won't take some shots at him. 
"We usually make fun of him for having an old man's body," Thang said. "We call him Jacked 200. You look at him off the ice and you think there's no way you're a hockey player. He really is a pretty strong kid, you just can't tell." 
Condra said that Jackson has been bugging him about getting into the weight room since the first time they spoke. 
After Jackson was named Notre Dame's new head coach 
WU YUE!The 

Notre Dame captain Erik Condra, right, and his teammates fight for a loose puck during the team's 2-0 loss to Miami on Oct. 24. 
time in the locker room and around the team as he possibly could. 
"I would just sit and watch them get dressed and watch them tape their sticks, for my own benefit really," he said. 
His teammates were happy to have him. 
Condra has always been a welcome presence in the locker room, where his tireless work ethic and goofball antics have made him a leader since day one. 
So much of a leader that last season Jackson asked his play­maker to captain. the team as a junior. Condra declined, saying that he didn't want to step on 
in 2005, Condra said he got a phone call from his new coach within a week. 
"The very thing he said to me was checking to see if I was in the weight room after my junior season had finished up. He said, 'You have to get stronger, you're going to be playing against 21 and 22 year old men out there,"' Condra said. 
"He was all business. I think that's just what this program needed." 
Condra's own business-like work ethic has helped bring his team to the next level. He also takes that attitude into the classroom. 
After spending hours on the ice, and in the weight room, the senior has a heavy workload as a pre-med major. 
"It really helps that [Irish goalie] Jordan Pearce is pre­med as well. We kind of manage our time together," he said. 
Condra will graduate this May and currently holds a 3.56 GPA -so much for the dumb hockey player stereotype. 
"He's one of those very rare kids that can be a grade A play­er on the ice, get grade As in the classroom, and still have a great personality," Jackson said. 
Condra's work on the ice and in the classroom has earned him a nomination for the Lowe's Senior CLASS Award this year. The award is given to one play­er across the country in each sport who excels in sports, aca­demics and service to the com­munity. 
His teammates may not think he looks the part but they all know he is the complete pack­age. 
"There's really nothing bad you can say about the kid," Thang said. "He's a poster child." 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
WU YUE!The Observer Irish center Erik Condra picked up his 100th career assist in a 2-0 win over Alaska on Jan. 13 in the Joyce Center. 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, January 30, 2009 
Irish look to run streak to 21 vs. Wolverines 
By SAM WERNER Sporrs Wrirer 

When these two teams last saw each other, the Irish were piled on the center of the Pepsi Center ice after Calle Ridderwall's overtime goal gave Notre Dame a national semifinal win over Michigan and sent the No. 1 overall seed Wolverines home for a long summer. 
Now the roles are reversed. Notre Dame is the near-unan­imous No. 1 team in the country, and looking all but invincible riding a 20-game unbeaten streak that dates back to an Oct. 25 loss to Miami (OH). No. 8 Michigan, on the other hand, started the season a bit slowly, going 11-7-0 in their first 18 games. Since then, though, the Maize and Blue have reeled of eight of their last nine, including a sweep over the CCHA second-place RedHawks. 
"Their team is good," Irish sophomore defenseman Ian Cole said. "They might not be having the best year, but they have the players to be a dom­inant team." 

Notre Dame coach Jeff Jackson also said that the Michigan team coming to the Joyce Center on Friday is similar to the one the Irish lost to twice during the regu­lar season last year, despite losing some key players. 
"They just seem to reload," he said. "They don't appear to be a whole lot different to 
me." 
The Wolverines lost three of their top four scorers from last year's Frozen Four squad, with seniors Kevin Porter and Chad Kolarik graduating and freshman Max Pacioretty leaving early for the NHL. 
Also since the teams' last meeting, Michigan netminder Billy Sauer has all but offi­cially lost his starting job to sophomore Bryan Hogan. In last year's national semifinal, Sauer was pulled after giving up three first-period goals to the Irish, and replaced with Hogan, then a relatively untested freshman. This sea­son, Hogan has played in 18 games to Sauer's 9, and has a 
1.91 GAA to Sauer's 2.33, third and fourth in the CCHA, respectively. Jackson said he expects to see Hogan in net both nights this weekend. 
The Irish coach also said that the key to both games would be to withstand Michigan's trademark early attack. So far this season, the Wolverines have outscored opponents 16-5 in the first period of games. 
"In the first period, they try to blow things out," Jackson said. "They blitz you, and that's the nature of their game. They try to intimidate you with their speed. When they come at you with their pressure, you just have to make sure that doesn't break you." 
That pressure could be 


especially effective Saturday night, when the teams play at Michigan's Yost Arena, dubbed by Jackson as "one of the greatest buildings in col­lege hockey as far as atmos­phere goes." 
The trip to Yost will be especially meaningful for Cole, an Ann Arbor native. 
"It'll be a great place to play and I'm excited to get back," he said. "Growing up watching them, and now I get to play against them, it's just awesome." 
Jackson also said, though, that he didn't want to get his 

team to get ahead of them­selves. 
'Tm not going to blow it out of proportion," he said. "It's still January. This is a big weekend, but the two points on Friday night are no differ­ent than the two points we got last weekend against Lake Superior. I don't look at last weekend's games any dif­ferent from this weekend's games, except for the fact that it's Michigan and you have that rivalry factor." 
Senior Erik Condra and junior Ryan Thang have been doing their part to add to the intensity of the rivalry, as the two have been wearing tem­porary Michigan face tattoos during practice this week. Condra said the team has also been playing Michigan's fight song in the weight room this week. 
"Me and Erik Condra did [the tattoos! after workouts today," Thang said. "We sur­prised everybody with them on our facP to get everybody fired up a little bit and it worked." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
Where God left His Shoes • ftbmmy19 Divided We faU • Marcl\19 • Directors Shant Raju aad Valerie Kam will be present 
World V"rew IS an initiative from the Office of the President to promote constructive F;hll1NJV£RSITYOF 
~DEBARTOLO

iJ.iiJ~ dmlogue about issues of race. class. ethnicity. religion. and gender through the arts, WNOTREDAME ~PERFORMING ARTS CfNTER O.!Jke ofthe President 





