
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 43: ISSUE 97 THURSDAY. MARCH S. 2009 

Exdusive off-campus housing offered 
Townhomes, houses, apartments available to students 
By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 

Students looking to move off cam­pus have a plethora of options for housing, most of "-'hich cluster stu­dents together in all-student neigh­borhoods. 
Options include Clover Ridge, Irish Crossings and Irish Row and the wide variety of Kramer Properties rentals. 
The amenities offered at these complexes vary. 
Clover Ridge provides its 300 resi­dents with a swimming pool, exer­cise room, tennis court, tanning bed 

Groupplans to present petition to Fr. Jenkins 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 

Student members of the Campaign for Human Dignity plan to present a petition to University President Fr. John Jenkins the Wednesday after spring break to urge the University to include "sexual orientation" in its nondiscrimi­nation clause. 
"Notre Dame claims that they don't discriminate against gay and lesbian students," sopho­more Mary Dewey said. "So this is a challenge for them to put that commitment in writing. We believe it would go a long way to make Notre Dame a more welcoming place for all its stu­dents." 
The University's nondiscrimi­nation notice states the follow­ing: 
"The University of Notre Dame does not discriminate on the basis of race/ethnicity, color, national origin, sex, disability, veteran status or age in the administration of any of its employment, educational pro­grams, admissions policies, scholarship and loan programs, athletics, recreational and other school-administered pro­grams." 
As of last night, the Campaign for Human Dignity, composed of students from other campus groups like the Progressive Student Alliance, College Democrats and Human Rights NO, had collected just over 2,700 signatures of students in 
see SEX/page 8 
and courts for tennis, basketball and sand volleyball. Free cable, internet, water utility and parking are includ­ed. 
Kristie Nozykowski, property man­ager for Clover Ridge, said, "The thing that students really like about Clover Ridge is that we try to put them near their·friends. They can get off-campus living but still have friends close by." 
Irish Crossings, with 84 residents, and Irish Row, with 185, are the newest of the properties. They include all utilities except gas and electric, and offer full furnishings with each unit. 
see HOUSING/page 4 
offcampus housing 

building  
Clover Ridge  200  
Irish Crossings  84  
Irish Row  185  
Kramer  850  

Observer Graphic by Mary Cecilia Mitsch 



Recession affects potential jobs· 
ByJOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
The economic recession is affecting students looking for jobs in a variety of indus­tries, according to Ray Vander Heyden, assis~nt director for business career programs at the Notre Dame Career Center. 
"This is affecting the whole economy, and a wide range of organizations," he said. 
Assistant Professor of Economics Abigail Wozniak agrees that the recession, which initially only affected the financial sector, is now an issue for the entire job market. 
"What's surprising is· how wide ranging it has been," Wozniak said, citing the effects of the recession on 
the consulting and legal industries." 
Both Vander Heyden and Wozniak also cited non-prof­its as being affected by the recession. "Funding isn't flowing into non-profits as much," Vander Heyden said. 
Wozniak views the legal sector as another industry that will be hit by the reces­sion because of its close rela­tion to the fmancial sector. 
"I think the financial sector is going to be different long­term," she said. "The legal profession is somewhat tied to that. When you're under­taking a lot of acquisitions, you need a lot of lawyers to help you with that. If you're really on the fence and never really wanted to go to law school, you shouldn't go because you can't get a job," she said. 

Wozniak cites the health­care and education sectors as ones that she sees with potential to grow. Growth in education would be helpful for the long-term future of the country, according to Wozniak, who is currently on leave from Notre Dame at Princeton University for the academic year. 
"I really would like to see the United States commit itself to increasing education throughout its population. In terms of returning the U.S. to competitiveness with other countries, that's the route we have to go," she said. "It seems to be a sector that helps· us in the long run and the short run." 
It's important for students to consider opportunities in 
see JOBS/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Parry top of class at &1intMary's 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY Assistant News Editor 
Saint Mary's valedictorian, senior Courtney Parry, said she is very grateful to her professors and the faculty who have helped her throughout her four years on campus. 
"I owe. a great deal of gratitude to the professors and faculty I have learned from over the past four years. My professors have inspired me to want to learn more about their disci­pline, and have excited me about my own ability to make a difference in the world," Parry said. 
Parry, a mathematics and economics double major with a 3.99 GPA according to a press release, was not planning on becoming vale­dictorian. 
"I was not working toward this goal specifically, and was very surprised when I first learned about the des­ignation. I had honestly given my class rank very lit­tle thought prior to learning 
about  my  status,"  Parry  
·said.  
Parry  has  also  been  
involved  in  many  other  

organizations on campus. She is the student member of the Board of Trustees and is currently administrative resident advisor for Holy Cross Hall after two years of being a resident advisor in 
see PARRY/page 3 



Franks discusses Sanger, euthogenics 
By ROBERT SINGER News Writer 
Angela Franks, author and Ph.D. of theology, linked the founder of Planned Parenthood, Margaret Sanger, to the eugenics movement of the first half of the 20th cen­tury, while arguing that elements of eugenics ­which attempts to improve the quality of the gene pool through selec­tive fertility -are still present in today's organi­zation. 
"We know Margaret Sanger because she estab­lished an institution and gave eugenics staying power inside an institu­tion," Franks said. 
Franks lectured on "Margaret Sanger and Planned Parenthood: The Eugenics Connection" Wednesday night in DeBartolo Hall. According to Franks, Sanger, who is popularly known for her efforts to provide women with contraception, was also a prominent figure in the eugenics movement, which saw overpopulation as a problem on the hori­zon. 
"Sanger is a eugenicist," she said. "Basically she believed that birth control limits the bad genes and 
see SANGER/page 8 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Bulls 

Extravaganza 
This past weekend I had the pleasure ~ending an evening with a lovely young lady at a Chicago Bulls extrava­ganza. I don't want to call it a game, because that was far and away the least interesting part. 
The Bulls won, Dan Murphy beating the red hot Denver 
Sports Editor 
Nuggets. The score (116-99) was relevant for one reason -Chicago broke the century mark which meant that each fan in attendance won a free 
Big Mac. 
With the shot clock running low and a hand in his face Chicago's Tyrus Thomas nailed a clutch jumper late in the fourth quarter. The shot gave the Bulls a two­point lead and all the momentum they would need to pull away. 
Thomas's shot was celebrated with smattered applause and a few screams from circular, furry men in the upper deck. A few seconds later the United Center erupted. Fans jumped to their feet and pulled at their hair in excited anticipation. I followed their eyes towards the rafters to see what was going on. It was T-shirts. 
During the TV timeout, free shirts attached to parachutes cascaded down from the ceiling. They might as well have been coming from heaven. Thousands of fans groped hopelessly at the sky like newborn birds looking for a worm. When they brought the T-shirt cannon out the growing fervor became full blown ecstasy. People love free stuff. 
By this time in the extravaganza, I shouldn't have been shocked; the biggest cheers all night were coming during TV timeouts. And I have to admit, the sideshow acts were more deserving. 
Benny the Bull and his troops paraded act after act onto the parquet. It was the first time I'd ever seen fans wait until the game started up to hit up the snack bar. 
Leading the way were the half-cheer­leader, half-strip-tease squad known as the Luvabulls. Even during the game they were hard to keep your eyes off of. The girls went through several different dances and four costume changes dur­ing the four quarters. 
Their moves were second to one, the Swinging Seniors -the only dance crew that you need an AARP membership to join. The seniors didn't shy away from any booty-bumping, air-humping mod­em moves during their two minute med­ley ofhardcore rap songs. If you don't believe me, I'm sure it's on YouTube. 
Other highlights included the Stampede drumline, the trampoline dunk team and a half-time karaoke con­test. The guy who lost got booed more than Carmelo Anthony. 
The true star of the show, however, was the world's smallest cowboy. The well-trained monkey complete with his own miniature bandana rode proudly around the arena on the back of an Irish setter steed. He finished at halfcourt by giving a fist-pump while his dog went up on his hind legs. 
The cowboy was in town to promote Saturday night's rodeo at the United Center. Rumor has it Kirk Heinrich vol­unteered to wear face paint and an empty barrel so he could get some attention. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Dan Murphy at 
dmurphy6@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a reporting error in me Mar. 3 edition of The Observer, me new student center was called the Stayer Center. The new Executive MBA building will be called Stayer and as of yet there are no names or funds for the new student center. The Observer regrets this error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, March 5, 2009 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT MOVIE WILL BEST DESCRIBE YOUR SPRING BREAK? 








Leon Zhou Colin Sullivan Lei Lei Theresa Nguyen Grayson Duren Andrew Diaz· 
freshman freshman freshman junior freshman freshman Stanford O'Neill Badin Lewis Keenan Keough 
"Harold and "It's a "Catch Me if "Rush Hour 2." "Dances Wzth "Animal 
Kumar Go to  Wonderful Life.  You Can."  
White Castle."  I'm not going to  
leave my  
couch."  


JESS LEEfThe Observer 

Casey Watt meets his opponent at the net after his win clinched the match for Notre Dame against Michigan Wednesday. ' 
OFFBEAT 
Eagle survives crash through truck windshield 
RENO-The eagle has landed -with a thud ­after crashing through the windshield of a tractor­trailer on a Nevada high­way. State wildlife officials said Wednesday that a 15­pound golden eagle with a 7 -foot wing span has a swollen head but otherwise appears unhurt after crashing into a Florida truck driver's big rig on Monday. 
Matthew Roberto Gonzalez of Opa Locka, Fla., was driving on U.S. Interstate 80 in northeast Nevada near Wells, about 60 miles west of the Utah line, when the eagle came crashing into the cab of his truck. 

"I heard a loud thump like a brick or something coming through the glass," said Daryl Young of Miami, the co-driver who was doz­ing in the sleeper berth when it happened. "I woke up, and the windshield was all over me. Next thing I know there was a big bird lying on the floor." 
Man uses debit card to buy drink In alleged holdup 
CHARLESTON -Would­be robbers take note: Don't use your debit card during a holdup. A West Virginia man who police say attempted to rob a convenience store instead ended up buying a soft drink with his debit card -ultimately leading to his arrest. 
Shawn Thomas Lester, 33, told the store clerk Monday he had a gun and wanted all the money in the register, police said. But the suspect got flus­tered when a customer walked in and the clerk told him to pay for the soft drink. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
0::: 
LLI 
:::c !c;: 
LLI 

3: . 




0,,,,,,, 
.
..... 

,,,,,,, 
~ 

ec( 
(,) 
0 

HIGH 50 HIGH 42 HIGH 52 HIGH 50
.... 

LOW 42 LOW 32 LOW 38 LOW 33 
Wolves. , House. , 
IN BRIEF 
Notre Dame faculty mem­bers will give a presentation titled "In the Wake of the Beagle: Darwin in Latin American 1831-1836" today at 4:30 p.m. in the Suite Museum of Art. The presen­tation is offered as an aca­demic investigation of Darwin's "On the Origin of Species" to mark the !50th­anniversary of its publica­tion. The event is free and open to the public. 
The ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Club will hold a beginning dance class in room 205 of the Rockne Memorial Building tonight from 7:00 p.m. to 8:15. The class costs $4 per lesson. 
The film "Siumdog Millionaire" will be shown at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center tonight, Friday and Saturday at 6:30 and 9:30 p.m. 
Student Stand-ups of Notre Dame will be per­forming tonight at 10 p.m. at Legends. Performers include Bill Ehrlich, Ryan McCune, Patrick Hernandez, Michael Mikuska and Danny Cox. 
Nanovic Institute for European Studies will be sponsoring the keynote speaker for the Graduate Student Conference, Paul Franks, who will give his lecture Friday at 3:30 p.m. in the Mckenna Hall Auditorium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SUNDAY MONDAY 
e 
e 

HIGH 43. HIGH 
48 

LOW 35 LOW 
35 

Atlanta 66 I 35 Boston 37 I 19 Chicago 53 I 33 Denver 60 I 38 Houston 81 I 59 Los Angeles 62 I 49 Minneapolis 41 I 29 New York 41 I 22 Philadelphia 43 I 22 Phoenix 79 I 58 Seattle 46 I 39 St. Louis 64 I 32 Tampa 75 I 49 Washington 54 I 26 
Thursday, March 5, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC· offers spring
Students seek out service 
University provides philothropic programs for interested Darners 
break alternatives 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
Next week, while their classmates jet off to exotic locales, spend time at home or remain on campus, some Notre Dame students will spend their spring breaks serving others by partici­pating in one of the many service pro­grams offered by Notre 
·Dame's Center 
prevention. 
The Environmental Justice and Human Rights in the Aftermath of Katrina seminar examines how impoverished Louisiana communities were affected by the hurricane from a theological and environ­mental standpoint. 
The Cultivating 
Community: Faith, Culture and Work sem­inar sends stu­dents to Coachella, 

for Social Calif. to work
"After having a really

Concerns. alongside
fun fall break when I 

According to Priests of the Connie Snyder was abroad, I felt like Holy Cross Mick, the aiding people
I should do something

assistant afflicted by
productive for 

director of the economic chal­Center of this break. " lenges. Social The L' Arc he Concerns, a seminar has
Michelle Romeu 

total of 240 two locations:
junior

students will Washington, be participat­D.C. and ing in spring Toronto, break service Canada. programs. L'Arche communities pro­
The Appalachia seminar vide a place for people with focuses on the problems disabilities to live and work facing the people who alongside other people with reside in the Appalachian disabilities. The seminar Mountains. Each site offers provides students with the • a different slate of activi­opportunity to see how liv­ties for the week -stu­ing in such a community dents can help with any­has influenced members. thing from home repair to The Migrant Experience helping teach children focuses on the social issues about environmental con­involved with migrant farm servation. labor. Students will travel 
The Children and Poverty to Immokalee, Fla. to gain a Seminar takes place in New firsthand look at these York City. The seminar issues. focuses on the lives of The Changing the Face of youth affected by poverty, American Healthcare semi­with a focus on community nar will send students to outreach, education and Washington, D.C. to exam­ine the declining health care system by visiting gov­ernment agencies and health care organizations. 
No matter which seminar they choose, all Notre Dame students participating are looking forward to spending a week helping others. 
Junior Michelle Romeu will spend next week help­ing teach high school stu­dents at the David School in David, Ky. She is looking forward to spending her spring break doing some­thing worthwhile. 
"After having a really fun fall break when I was abroad, I felt like I should do something productive for this break," she said. 
Sophomore Lindsey McAlarnen is participating in the L'Arche seminar. She said she is looking forward to broadening her horizons and forming connections both with the people she will meet at the site and her fellow students. 
''I'm going on the trip because I want to do some­thing meaningful with my spring break, experience something new and meet new people," she said. 
McAlarnen is giving up a week ai: home in sunny Florida to travel to Toronto to volunteer, but she said that the experience is worth it. 
''I'm missing out on being warm," she said. "But in the long run, this experi­ence will definitely be worth it." 
Contact Irena Zajickova at 
izajicko@nd.edu 

By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 
The Office for Civic and Social Engagement (OCSE) at Saint Mary's is offering a substitute to the tradi­tional spring break trip for students. The program is called Women's Issues in the City: Alternative Spring Break, and will take students to Indianapolis to work with the Indianapolis Peace Institute (IPI). 
Carrie Call, director of OCSE, said, "The trip is offered in conjunction with the Indianapolis Peace Institute in Indianapolis." Students had to apply to the program through OCSE. 
During the trip, students will work with Kate Williams, a member of IPI. Williams is a Saint Mary's alumna. 
Throughout the trip, stu­dents will learn about women's issues and will also participate in service projects. 
"On the trip, students will live together in the restored mansion owned by IPI, visit sites in the city to learn about issues that affect women, do some direct service with a few agencies and share in meals and reflection together," Call said. 
One such project gives students the opportunity to work at a soup kitchen in Indianapolis. 
"One of the service proj­ects includes serving meals 
Parry
It'sYourFuture... 

continued from page 1 the same building, accord­



Investin lourse[ 

ing to a press release. Parry has also been a
We offer avariety of options to assist you with 

member of the math honor 
about Saint

'7 would certainly 
Mary's tradi­

say that, in general, I tions," Parry 
have enjoyed the said. While Parry
tight-knit math 
has not yet

department. Math decided what 
majors can frequently she is doing after gradua­
be found in the math 
tion, she did 

resource room 
have some working in small advice for underclassman
groups, trying 
at Saint

different problem­
Mary's. 

solving techniques. " "I would encourage upcoming stu-
Courtney Perry 
dents · to

Saint Mary's ' 
always try

valedictorian 
-their hardest 

urce room working in small groups, trying different problem-solving tech­niques," Parry said. 
She also recognized that her four years here have gone by very quickly. 
"Though it sounds a bit cliche, I would certainly advise upcoming students to make the most of every minute of their time as a 
at the Cathedral Kitchen which is run by the Sisters of Providence," Call said. 
This year, students will learn about issues relating to women and the criminal justice system, women and violence, the reality of human trafficking and var­ious other topics. 
The trip begins March 7 and will conclude on March 13. 
"The trip provides stu­dents with an opportunity to combine service and learning during their spring break," Call said. 
According to !PI's Web site, the program will allow students to "examine issues facing women in Indianapolis, and how we can seek to address them as a community." 
IPI .offers several trips during spring break and fall break each year. 
"I think students are par­ticipating because they care about women's issues, they want to learn more about how to make a dif­ference, and they want the opportunity to do some hands-on service," Call said. 
According to the IPI Web site, it offers these trips to give students "the opportu­nity to delve into various issues related to the field of peace building in an intense short-term set­ting." For more informa­tion about IPI and its pro­grams, visit www.indi­anapolispeaceinstitute.org. 
Contact Alica Smith at 
asmithOl @saintmarys.edu 
student. Four years goes by so quickly," Parry said. 
Parry's fondest memories were not neceS'Sarily found in the classroom. 
"I have always enjoyed the Heritage week dinner as it is such a wonderful bond­ing opportunity for students to come together and learn more 
the financing of youreducational goals. 
Plus, you~ll receive the answers you need to decide which.opti()n is right for you. 

Contactus Today! 
.. 

society, Pi Mu Epsilon, since her sophomore year and is now presi­dent of the Saint Mary's chapter. She said she enjoyed her math classes and fellow math stu­dents. 
"I would certainly say that, in gen­eral, I have enjoyed the tight-knit math depart­ment. Math majors can frequently be found in the math reso­
and work to 
make each day 

better than the day that came before," Parry said. 
Parry graduated from Marquette High School in Michigan City in 2005. 
Saint Mary's commence­ment will take place May 16 at noon on the LeMans Green. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 5, 2009 
STUDENT SENATE 

Senate debates new library renovation 
Student leaders discuss possible updates to Hesburgh facade, concerned with lighting, new cafe and added noise 
vation is that we want the
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
Hesburgh Library to be a hub 
Assistan[ News Editor 
of academic life," she said. 
There will be a cafe in the Student Senate discussed library and the first floor will possible improvements and be more centrally oriented, concerns regarding the reno­Weber said. The committee 
vation of the  has  also  dis­ 
first and  sec- cussed putting a  
ond  floor  of  "new books and  
the Hesburgh Library at Wednesday's meeting.  "Basically, the library is ugly and doesn't give me any incentive  popular maga­zines section" near the cafe to draw students in,  
A committee is currently examining the best way for  to go there, especially when I live in O'Neill. There are also  she said. O'Neill senator Kimberly  Hall Kevin said  
renovations to  no windows. I feel  aesthetics should  
utilize library study  the as a space  like I'm not even liv­ing in the world. "  play a major role in the renova­tions.  
for students,  "Basically, the  
according to sophomore class presi­ Kevin Kimberly O'Neil Hall senator  library is ugly and doesn't give me any incentive  
dent Cynthia  to go there, espe­ 
Weber.  cially when I live  
Weber,  the  in  O'Neill,"  he  

only undergraduate student said. "There are also no win­on the committee, said the dows. I feel like I'm not even renovation is slated for com­living in the world." pletion sometime during the Several senators said a lack 2010-2011 school year. of proper lighting is a prob­
"The key theme in the reno-lem many study areas in the library currently face, and committee should make this they suggested the committee concern a priority and some­look into the issue. how make it clear which 

"Lighting is huge," Lyons areas of the library are desig­Hall senator Catherine Flynn nated for group study and said. "I need bright lighting to which are for quiet study keep me when renovat­awake." ing. 
Morrissey Hall Weber said senator Austin the committee Holler suggest-"There should be a is currently in ed installing 24-hour study space. the phase of individual lights There's nothing worse mapping out 
at study desks the physical 
to remedy the than being kicked out space of the lighting prob-of the library at two." library and lem. looking at dif-
Several sena-Ryan Brellenthln ferent program tors voiced a concepts that concern that the chair fit with the addition of a Senate Academic Affairs a v a i 1 a b 1 e 
cafe in the committee space. library would "When you create a prob-walk into the lem with noise. library, it will 
Weber said the cafe is sup-be completely different," she posed to draw students into said. the library, but an increase Badin Hall senator Kaitie noise level is a concern. She McCabe asked if the whole said the plan includes study first floor would be under areas in the library that are construction all at one time, designated for both quiet and if so, how much study study and group study. • space would be lost in the 
Student body president Bob process. Reish said he believes the Weber said she does not know when or how the con­struction will happen. 
Ryan Brellenthin, chair of the Senate Academic Affairs Committee, asked about the possibility of a 24-hour space in the library. 
"There should be a 24-hour study space," he said. "There's nothing worse than being kicked out of the library at two." 
Weber said a 24-hour space is a huge issue that is under consideration, but she said it presents several problems. 
"It's a safety concern, ·find­ing an architecturally safe environment for 24-hours," she said. "Also, it has to then be staffed." 
In other Senate news 
+ Student body vice presi­dent Grant Schmidt said despite the demand from stu­dents, there is no chance the price of Subway footlongs will be lowered to $5 because the budget is already fixed for next year. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@saintmarys.edu 


Housing 
continued from page I 
Karie Miller, property man­ager for Irish Crossings and Row, said, "Our location is great. We're just one block east of the 
·students," Kramer said. "There's less potential for problems if they're with like-minded people on the same schedule." Junior Jacqueline Livaudais will live off cam­pus next year with two of her friends. Instead of renting a 
unit in one of
Notre Dame 
"There's less com­
sports field." these 
The Kramer potential for plexes, how­ever, she will
propertJes, problems if they're 
live in an
which serve 
with like-minded 
independent­
850 student 
residents, people on the same ly-owned include apart­schedule." house. 
Finances are
ments, town­
a major rea­
homes and 
Mark Kramer 
son for her owner of Kramer decision to 
houses in all 
sizes and at 
move off.
varying dis-Properties 
"It's signifi­
tances from 
campus. cantly cheap­Kramer-owned 
er to live off Lafayette apartments pro­campus. It's vide water utility, but most about half the price, at 
Kramer properties, the least for us," Livaudais houses specifically, leave said. "We also wanted to 
residents responsible for live in a house as opposed their own utilities, Kramer to an apartment." 
Livaudais and her friendssaid. 
Mark Kramer, owner of found the house through a 
Kramer Properties. said, friend who lived there last "What's unique to Kramer year. Properties are the houses. Sophomore Octavia Ratiu Not many have the options has already begun looking 
we have, with the number at housing options for her of houses and the different senior year. 
"I think living off campus
sizes available." One feature all th·e rental can give a little taste of 
companies share is that what it's like to live in the real world," Ratiu said.
students in these properties 
will only have other stu­"The Notre Dame campus is a bubble, and while that is
dents as neighbors. "Our properties allow stu­nice in some respects, it 
dents to cluster together fosters a disconnect from and have their own neigh­reality that makes the tran­borhood. Our townhomes sition to life after college more jarring than it should
and apartments are 100 
percent student occupied," be. I'm not saying that liv­ing on campus senior year
Kramer said. 
would be a mistake, but it's
The reasons for this are 
obvious, Kramer said. an experience I want to "Students typically study try." late, they stay up late, they party. That can be disturb­Contact Tess Civantos at ing to residents that are not tcivanto@nd.edu 





ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, March 5, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE O.ssERVER:s WIRE sERVIcEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Prime minister bungles words TOKYO-Reading Japanese isn't easy-even for the Japanese. 
Take Prime Minister Taro Aso. He's made so many public blunders that an opposition law­maker tried to give him a reading test during a televised session of parliament. 
The Japanese leader bungled the word for "frequent," calling Japan-China exchanges "cumbersome" instead. Another time, he mis­read the word "toshu" (follow), saying "fushu"­or stench -and sounded as if he were saying government policy "stinks." 
While the media and Aso's political rivals have been quick to heap ridicule, many Japanese have seen a bit more of themselves in Aso's goofs than they would like to admit. Since his missteps, books designed to improve reading ability have become all the rage. 
Aso's nemesis is his mother tongue's notori­ously tricky mishmash of Chinese characters and its two set<; of indigenous syllabaries. 
Afghan election to stay in August 
KABUL -The Afghan election commission rejected President Hamid Karzai's request to move the presidential elections to the spring, saying the country won't be safe enough or have enough money by then to hold a vote. 
The commission's decision came Wednesday as a car bomb exploded outside the main U.S. base at Bagram, underscoring the shaky security situation the country faces as a resurgent Taliban militia increases its attacks. 
Karzai had asked the commission to move the elections from Aug. 20 to spring, but the commission said it could not because of bad spring weather, lack of funds, security issues and logistical problems like the distribution of ballots. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Violence leads to precautions 
SAN ANTONIO -The drug violence in Mexico has gotten so bad that booming numbers of Mexican and American professionals are having their cars fitted with armor plates, bulletproof glass and James Bond-style gadgets such as electrified door handles and push-button smokescreens. 
Until recently, it was mostly movie stars, busi­ness moguls and politicians who took such precau­tions. But now, industry officials say, the customers include factory owners, doctors, newspaper pub­lishers and others who have business on both sides of the border and fear killings, kidnappings and carjackings by drug dealers or people in their debt. 
The customers "don't have to be very big," said Mark Burton, CEO of International Armoring Corp. of Ogden, Utah. "This becomes almost a necessity." 
One San Antonio company said it expects a 50 percent increase in business this year. 
Judge overturns conviction 
NEW HAVEN -A federal judge on Wednesday threw out a conviction against a former Navy sailor accused of passing along information about ship movements, dealing a post-mortem blow to a Bush administra­tion that had praised the case as a success. 
U.S. District Judge Mark Kravitz over­turned last year's conviction of Hassan Abu­Jihaad, of Phoenix, on a charge of providing material support to terrorists, citing the lan­guage of the law. He upheld his conviction for disclosing classified national defense information. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Senator develops proposal for fund 
INDlANAPOUS-A top state senator is develop­ing a proposal for fixing Indiana's bankrupt unem­ployment insurance fund that he said Tuesday is likely to include higher taxes lm employers and cutting benefits paid out to the jobless. 
Republican Sen. Denni<; Kruse of Auburn, chair­man of the Senate Pensions and Labor Committee, is taking the lead on the issue in the GOP-con­trolled Senate. The Democrat-led House failed to pass a bill to fix an unemployment system that has been paying out millions of dollars more in bene­fits than it has been collecting from employer taxes. 
THE NETHERLANDS 

ICC charges president of Sudan 
Omar al-Bashir's government removes 10 humanitarian groups from Darfur 
Associated Press 
THE HAGUE -The presi­dent of Sudan became a wanted man Wednesday when the International Criminal Court charged him with war crimes and crimes against humanity in Darfur -its first action against a sitting head of state and one that could set the stage for more world leaders to be indicted. 
President Omar al­Bashir's government retali­ated by expelling 10 humanitarian groups from Darfur and seizing their assets, threatening lifesav­ing operations, a U.N. spokeswoman said. 
Susan Rice, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, said the United States supported the court's action "to hold accountable those who are responsible for the heinous crimes in Darfur." Up to 300,000 peo­ple have died and 2.7 mil­lion have fled their homes in the region. 
U.N. 
officials in Sudan will continue to deal with al­Bashir because he remains the president of the country, 

U.N. 
spokeswoman Michele Montas said in New York. 



In the Sudanese capital of Khartoum, the government denounced the warrant as the capital after the war­national law professor at niques amounted to torture, part of a Western conspira­rant was announced, wav­Syracuse University and a contention that Bush and cy aimed at destabilizing ing at crowds. Security was foriner prosecutor of the other officials rejected. the vast oil-rich nation tightened at many Sierra Leone tribunal that The prospect of The south of Egypt. "There will embassies, and some diplo­indicted exiled Liberian Hague-based court ever try­be no recognition of or mats and aid workers President Charles Taylor ing Bush is considered dealing with the white stayed home amid fears of and put him on trial in The extremely remote. The U.S. man's court, which has no retaliation against Hague. After he left office, government does not recog­mandate in Sudan or Westerners. Serbian President Slobodan nize the court and the only against any of its people," The decision by the court Milosevic was indicted by other way it could be inves­the Information Ministry lays the groundwork for the tribunal for the former tigated is if the Security said. potential indictments of Yugoslavia. Council were to order it, 
Several thousand people other heads of state who Crane said the principle something unlikely to hap­waving pictures of al-Bashir have been mentioned as could even extend to former pen with Washington a and denouncing the court possible targets of war U.S. President George W. veto-wielding permanent turned out in a rally in crimes investigations, Bush over elaims officials member of the council. Khartoum. Some waved including leaders of other from his former administra­The Security Council posters of chief prosecutor African nations and Israel. tion may have engaged in adopted a resolution order­Luis Moreno Ocampo's face "Head of state immunity torture by using coercive in·g the International with pig ears superimposed no longer is a bar to prose­interrogation techniques on Criminal Court to investi­to chants of, "Cowardly pig, cuting heads of state who terror suspects. gate Darfur in 2005, lead­you will not get to the commit war crimes and Congressional Democrats ing to the charges against Sudan." crimes against humanity and other critics have al-Bashir even though 
AI-Bashir, who denis the during their time in office," . charged that some of the Sudan does not recognize accusations, drove through said David Crane, an inter-harsh interrogation tech-the court's jurisdiction. 

State lawmakers seek embryo limit 
Associated Press medical director of the Atlanta­woman already has six children. 
based Reproductive Biology She's unemployed, and she's going 
ATLANTA-Lawmakers in two Associates. "Not every couple and and having 14 children on the backs states, outraged by California's not every patient is the same." of the taxpayers of the state of "Octomom," are seeking to limit the Infertility doctors argue that deci­California." number of embryos that may be sions on how many embryos to Hudgens, a Republican, has pro­implanted by fertility clinics. transfer should be left up to medical posed legislation that would allow no 
The legislation in Missouri and experts familiar with a patient's indi­more than two embryos to be Georgia is intended to spare taxpay­vidual circumstances. implanted at any one time in a ers from footing the bill for women Debate has raged since Nadya woman younger than 40. For women having more children than they can Suleman gave birth to octuplets in older than 40, the legislation would afford. But critics say the measures Bellflower, Calif., on Jan. 26. She has limit the number of embryos to three also would make having even one six other children, lives in her moth­to account for increased difficulty child more difficult for women who er's three-bedroom home and has getting pregnant. desperately want to become moth­relied on food stamps and disability Supporters say the measure is ers. income to provide for her family. needed to rein in lucrative baby­
"What they are proposing is a "It's unforgivable," said Ralph making businesses often more con­cookie -cutter, one-size-fits-all Hudgens, a state senator who is cerned with success rates and profit approach," said Dr. Andrew Toledo, sponsoring the Georgia bill. "This than with ethics. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 5, 2009 
Jobs 
continued from page 1 
growing sectors, even if they would not have considered those options two years ago, Vander Heyden said. 
"Students should look to apply their education to these rgrowing] fields," he said, cit­ing healthcare, energy and the federal government. "You can become an accountant for a hospital, instead of an account­ing firm." 
Long-term outlook 
Wozniak views the recession as being rele­vant for years to come. 
"In terms of 
"Students should look 
getting back to 
... where we to apply their 
were two years education to these ago, that might 
[growing] fields. You
take 10 years," 
can become an
she said. "A 10­year recession accountant for a would be 
hospital, instead of 
extremely long, 
an accounting firm." 
but a 10 year recovery is not at all unrealis­Ray Vander 'Heyen tic." 
assistant director for 
Despite the 
Business Career 
pessimistic esti­
Programs
mates, Wozniak 
said the current recession is not as bad as the recession of the early 1980s, at least according to unemploy­ment numbers. "We have seen serious downturns in the past and we still have not reached those numbers," she said. "There are a number of rea­sons to expect that growth won't come back in the same way as in the 1980s, but the present still isn't entirely unprecedented." 
While the current recession is often compared to the Great Depression, Wozniak said the recovery will not need to be as severe as it was in the 1930s. "We learned a lot from the Great Depression," she said. "Even if the downturn does become that severe, the recov­ery will be a lot faster." 
What can I do? 
Wozniak said current juniors looking to graduate in May 2010 will be the most affected by the recession. "They should think about a long-term strate­gy for themselves," she said. "They should be thinking of a challenging labor market for the next five years and should ask: What can I do now to get on some sort of career trajec­tory?" 
The job market no longer has a focus on high-paying, short­term careers, according to Wozniak. 
"Any student who is thinking of going into a high-paying career temporarily should probably start thinking about how to get into what they real­ly want to be doing right now," she said. "I don't think that's going to ever come back. If stu­dents really want to go into teaching or something else, 
they should just start looking for jobs in those industries." Vander Heyden urges stu­

Chicago may host Olympics 
dents to make sure that they 
are putting a good effort into their job searches. "Positions are still out there 
By BECKY HOGAN
for students with the time and NewsWrirer
energy to find them," he said. "The economy is having an impact and it takes more time 

Chicago is rallying for the and energy." 
2016 Olympic and Notre Dame graduates have 
Paralyrnpic bid, and the a leg up on graduates from 
Notre Dame community is peer institutions, Vander 
trying to help make that a Heyden said. 
reality. "Our graduates are more 

Senior Kelly Kapshandy, well-rounded than their peers 
who· has been working on the due to our method of educa­
Chicago 2016 Olympic and tion," he said. 
Paralympic bid for more than 
Notre Dame 

a year, sought the support of 
students are 

the Notre Dame community 
often more hard 

Wednesday in the LaFortune 
working than 

Student Center where she 
their peers and 

registered more than 425 
have "reasonable 

students, faculty and mem­
expectations," 

bers of the campus commu­
according to 
nity in support of the bid. 
Vander Heyden. 

Kapshandy said because 
"They apply 

much of the campus commu­
themselves and 

nity is connected to Chicago, 
are quick learn­

she wanted to help bring the 
ers," he said. 

Olympics to the city by rally­
Vander Heyden 

ing the support of Notre 
cited a survey of 

Dame students, faculty and 
employers con­
alumni. 
ducted about two 

"The Olympic committee 
and a half years 

comes in one month, so we 
·ago as the 

are trying to get students 
source for his 

involved in raising support 
claims about 

for the Olympic bid. So many 
Notre Dame 

people at Notre Dame are 
graduates. 

from Chicago originally, so 
Wozniak agrees that Notre 

getting the campus involved Dame students may have a bet­
is a great way to build posi­ter time finding jobs than other 
tive hype for the games," she college graduates. "A Notre 
said. Dame candidate is potentially 

Additionally, since Chicago going to displace another can­
is the only city in the United didate," she said. "I wouldn't 
States in the. running to host say it's the time to completely 
the 2016 Olympics, stop looking, especially for stu­
Kapshandy said it is impor­dents coming out of a place 
tant for the country to sup­like Notre Dame." 
port the bid as well. "We want to show not only Contact John Tierney at 
that Chicago supports the jtiernel@nd.edu 
bid, but that America does," she said. 
Kapshandy said Chicago would be a great venue for bringing people from all over the globe together. 
"As of today, over 1.1 mil­lion people have registered their support on the Chicago 2016 Web site," Kapshandy said. 
The International Olympic Evaluation Committee is vis­iting the four candidate cities starting with Chicago in April and continuing through May, Kapshandy said. The 
International  Olympic  
Committee will  announce  
who  will  host  the  2016  

Summer Olympic and Paralyrnpic Garnes on Oct. 2. 
The other three candidate cities are Madrid, Spain; Tokyo, Japan; and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. 
According to Kapshandy, the Olympic committee's decision about where to host the summer games involves much scrutiny. 
"The committee is looking at everything: is city able to host one million people in the span of several weeks, are citizens of the city also sup­porting the bid, do they have adequate transportation?" she said. 
While Kapshandy could not disclose specifics about how Chicago 2016 is planning to prepare for the Olympics if it is chosen as the host of the 2016 summer games, she said the city will make sure that everyone from residents to visitors are accommodat­ed. 
" ... Chicago is trying to make ·sure that the Olympics are held the best way to 
accommodate residents, ath­letes, and spectators," she said. 
Plans are in the works to hold another registration drive on campus later this semester, Kapshandy said. 
Notre Dame's involvement in bringing the Olympics to Chicago doesn't end on earn­pus. Today the Notre Dame Club of Chicago will host its Hesburgh Forum, which will feature three Notre Dame Alumni speakers and a luncheon at the Union League Club in Chicago. The Notre Dame alumni speakers include Notre Dame athletic director Jack Swarbrick, Director of Marketing and Communications for the Chicago 2016 committee Valerie Waller and Chairman of the McDonald's Corporation Andrew McKenna Sr. . 
Kapshandy said she first got involved in bringing the Olympics to Chicago to keep herself busy over Christmas break. 
"During Christmas break in 2007, I decided to do some­thing with my break and I sent a few e-rnails to people on the Chicago 2016 commit­tee. I connected with a Saint Mary's alum who. was work­ing on the 2016 Olympics and I've been there for over a year now," Kapshandy said. 
I'd heard about it before it became popular, I grew up in Chicago, and I love sports ... so I decided to do what I could to bring the games to Chicago in 2016." 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 

DRUMMERS NEEDED 
WANT TO BE A PART OF THE NOTRE DAME GAMEDAY TRADITION? .DON'T HAVE TIME FOR THE MARCHING BAND? 


.JOIN THE NOTRE DAME BAGPIPE BAND! 
• 
TIME COMMITMENT IS APPROX. TWO HOURS A WEEK PLUS SATURDAY MORNINGS DURING FOOTBALL SEASON (DON'T WORRY, YOU WILL NEVER MISS A KICKOFF) 

• 
POSITIONS AVAILABLE FOR ALL DRUMS (SNARE, BASS, TENOR) 


CONTACT DAVE WARTKO FOR MORE INFORMATION 
dwartko@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Thursday, March 5, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 6,875.84 +149.82 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 3,014 86 813 272,845,108 

NASD~Q .w. "'§''"''"''""~""~· .··.4·.1, ... .. ·..•.·•.zt'.'S.·.·.·.·i.)f3··.".·.·.·· '.·.;··••. ·.:.• ·.··i····.i'i·4···.•.·.·.·.·.·.·.· ..•...•.·.•..• • •.··.•."••~'··.·•.•.... .•.~.· ...·.·.:.·.•......•.···..·'.··.
.. ... ·1,'.'.',•.••.•.•..•.;,.~ ..••.•. •••.··~·.·······.'···7····"'·''.·,•,·.':.·"·.:·'.: ..
·,t.·.·.·..;n3.-.··.·.· .• ....•~.·· ... ••·•.••..• ·.••.•.• ·.••. •.+• ..•.t:'i·.-.? · '•

NYSE::::-:;~itijilllJJjfi~Cif!l~if~f~i:~!:~~;~:.::= mTT-.o:z ,; 1r~~ ~Thl.~~,,~ 
S&P 500 712.87 o.oo NIKKEI (TolcyOJ .. :.ww7i4s9roa•;l'111il~lll FTSE 100 (London) 3,645.87 +!33.7R 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
GEN ELECTRIC CO (GE) -4.56 -0.32 6.69 CITIGROUP INC (C) -7.38 -0.09 1.13 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +2.37 +1.66 71.73 BK OF AMERICA CP (SAC) -1.37 -0.05 3.59 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +2.48 +0.073 3.011 13·WEEK BILL ·5.66 -0.015 0.25 30-YEAR BOND +0.60 +0.022 3.698 5-YEAR NOTE +4.01 +0.076 1.969 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +3.73 45.38 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) ·6.90 906.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +3.00 81.55 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 99.2350 EURO 1.2608 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2780 BRITISH POUND 1.4158 
IN BRIEF 
Swiss bank maintains secrecy 
WASHINGTON -UBS AG now says it had about 4 7.000 accounts held by Americans who didn't pay U.S. taxes on their assets, but Switzerland's biggest bank is providing the names of only 300 American clients to the U.S. government in a showdown over secrecy. 
Lines were drawn in the burgeoning cross-bor­der dispute at a hearing Wednesday by a Senate investigative panel. 
A Justice Department official signaled that UBS could still be subject to criminal prosecution if terms aren't met under the bank's recent agree­ment with the U.S. government. A key senator, meanwhile, noted improving prospects, including the backing of President Barack Obama, for U.S. legislation to fight offshore tax-haven abuses. 
"The rest of the world is getting fed up with off­shore tax havens that turn a blind eye to tax eva­sion and allow their financial institutions ... to profit from tax dodging," said Sen. Carl Levin, D­Mich., chairman of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. 
Businesses say economy growing worse 
WASHINGTON -The businesses on the front lines of the dismal economy say the recession is getting worse in almost every part of the country, and in a bleak new forecast they see no improvement until late this year at the earliest. 
A Federal Reserve snapshot of business activity issued Wednesday showed wide­spread declines in production, from th.e factories of Cleveland to the high-tech firms of Texas and California, in blue-col­lar construction jobs and at white-collar accounting firms. 
The survey, known as the Beige Book, rated the prospects for economic improve­ment anytime soon as "poor, with a signifi­cant pickup not expected before late 2009 or early 2010." 
Factories exposed to the housing indus­try were hardest hit. Construction equip­ment and materials, such as primary met­als, wood products and electrical equip­ment, saw especially steep drops in pro­duction. So did makers of furniture and cars. 
Ford offers to exchange debt 
Company takes step as an effort to stay cost-competitive with other automakers 
Associated Press 
DEARBORN, Mich. -Ford 
Motor Co. took another step 
Wednesday to stay cost-com­
petitive with other automak­
ers receiving government 
help when it offered to 
exchange up to 40 percent of 
its debt for cash and stock. 
The company and its finan­
cial arm are putting up $2.2 
billion in cash to entice hold­
ers of $10.4 billion in con­
vertible notes, other unse­
cured debt and secured term 
debt to take the offer. The 
company said reducing the 
debt will cut the amount it 
pays in interest and put it in 
better position to compete 
with General Motors Corp. 
and Chrysler LLC. 
"This is all part of a 
restructuring plan to make 
the company healthier in the 
end," said Ford spokesman 
Mark Truby. 
GM and Chrysler also are 
trying to swap debt for equity 
as a requirement of the $17.4 
billion in government loans 
they have received. 
Ford, which also is trying to 
restructure amid a severe 
automotive sales downturn, 
said Wednesday that it still 
does not intend to seek feder­
al aid. 
The company said it will 
offer a cash premium to get 

debtholders to exchange up AP 
to $4.9 billion in convertible Unsold 2008 Ford vehicles remain in dealership lot in Castle Rock, Colo., in February. The 
notes issued in 2006. Every company offered to exchange debt for cash and stock Wednesday. 
$1,000 in notes is already 

convertible into about 108.7 for the nonconvertible debt in interest expense if it got match the debt restructuring 
shares of common stock, but will drop to 27 cents after debtholders to take the terms requirements imposed on 
Ford will offer an additional March 19. outlined. But he said only an Chrysler and GM under the 
$80 in cash to sweeten the Ford also said it will pay increase in consumer terms of their government 
deal. $500 million in cash for up to demand for automobiles loans. GM's terms, for 
In addition, the company $1.3 billion in senior secured would save the struggling instance, set a target for the 
will use up to $1.3 billion in term loans through an auc­company. company to swap two-thirds 
cash from Ford Motor Credit tion process. That offer Penniman said the offers of its unsecured debt for 
Co. to buy back as much as expires March 26. may only be a starting step in equity. 
$4.2 billion in unsecured, Ford also said it will defer opening discussions with Ford had $25.8 billion in 
nonconvertible debt. The dividend payments on its 6.5 bondholders, who might be debt at the end of 2008. 
company said it would pur­percent preferred securities looking for more cash. As debt is converted to 
chase those bonds for 30 starting in April, which will "I think it's just the begin­shares, current stockholders 
cents on the dollar, when they help the company conserve ning of negotiations," he said. will hold a smaller piece of 
are now trading at around 20 cash at a time when U.S. auto "The efforts are beneficial for the company's equity. The 
cents because of deep worry sales are at their lowest level the company, but there's still 500 million shares that are 
among investors about the in more than 27 years. a question of whether it's part of Ford's conversion 
automaker's health. Kip Penniman, credit ana­enough to keep them out of offer will make a large addi­
The offers expire at 9 a.m. lyst for KDP Investment Chapter 11." tion to the approximately 2.3 
EDT on April 3. However, the Advisors, estimated Ford The Dearborn-based billion shares of common 
offer of 30 cents on the dollar could save up to $600 million automaker said it is trying to stock already outstanding. 

Notallborrowers qualifyfor refinancing 
Associated Press Modesto and Merced, more than one Government officials acknowledge 
out of every 10 homeowners with a that the initiatives are only a partial 
WASHINGTON -The Obama mortgage won't qualify for any help fix for a sweeping problem that has administration's housing plan is because they owe more than 50 per­helped plunge the U.S. economy into intended to help 9 million struggling cent more than their house's current the worst recession in decades. homeowners avoid foreclosure, but it value, according to data from real­"This is not going to save every leaves out tens of thousands of bor­estate Web site Zillow.com. person's home," said Robert Gibbs, rowers in the most battered housing The ineligible households are con­the White House press secretary. markets who won't qualify because centrated in speculator-driven mar­"The plan is not intended to ... aug­their homes have lost too much kets in California, Florida, Nevada ment somebody's loan for a house value. and Arizona, but can also be found in that they couldn't afford under any 
The program detailed Wednesday struggling cities such as Detroit and economic situation, good or bad." offers refinanced mortgages or modi­Grand Rapids, Mich. Even houses in Of the nearly 52 million U.S. home­fied loans with lower monthly pay­the outlying suburbs of the nation's owners with a mortgage, almost 14 ments. Yet its refinancing plan is lim­capital, where the economy is rela­million, or nearly 27 percent, owe 
ited to borrowers who owe up to 5 tively healthy, have dropped substan­more on their mortgage than their percent more than their home's cur­tially in value. house is now worth, according to rent value. Loan modifications, sup­For a homeowner who borrowed Moody's Economy.com. Nearly half of ported by $75 billion in federal fund­$380,000 and now has a house worth all borrowers in Nevada were "under ing, are unlikely for severely "under­$270,000, "I just don't know what water" on their home loans as of water" borrowers. you do with that," said Jared Martin, December, according to First 
In the California cities of Stockton, a mortgage broker in Bethesda, Md. American CoreLogic. 
page B The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 5, 2009 
====================================~~~=--~------­
Sex 
continued from page 1 
favor of' adding snxual orinnt.n· t.ion to tho elauHo Hineo tlwy hogan drculut.ing tho potitionH about u month ngo. 
Sophomot'tl Brldgnt Florns, t hll ('0. pl'llS I d 011 t () f' th(l 
I' r o g r 11 s s I v 11 Studont Alliunco ( PSAl, suld thn group ohtuinHd pnrm ission f'mm tlln Studonl. AetlvltillH Ol'l'ico (SAO) to pass lll'OUIHI l.hn pnti· tlons, lltHl thny huvtl btHln bring­ing thorn to dass· tlS, dub rnootings, LaJiortuno, tlw dining halls nnd rosldnnetl hu.lls. 
Tlwy plttn to bring t.hn pHtl· lions to Fr. .ltlllklns' olllen on Murl'h IH, ulong with n lt~ttnr that outllnus tlllllr ohjot~ tiVtlS. 
·• By not lndud· iug soxuul orlen· tu.t.ion lu Its Non· DiHer·lmlnutlon Cluuse, t.hn 
Unlvurslty or Notro Dame l'llHervoH th11 right to dlserirnl­nutt1 on the busts of sHxuttl or·l­ontntion In thfl administration ol' Its fldtwatlonul pt·ograrns, udrnlsslons pollclos, sdwlur· shipH and Joan prognms, nmployment, and at.hletle nnd othnr sehoul ndmlnlstnrnd pro­grams," thll lllttor said. 
A similar potltlon was dtJIIV· nrfld to Fr. Jnnklns last April. At 
that time, ussls· tnnt vlen prllsi· dHnt f'or N~:~ws and Information Dennis Brown said in an email Wodnnsduy, "no m~w Information WUS prClHilntnd that would havll t~uused us to drangn our posi· tion rngardlng Lh(l utldltlon of SIIXUIII Ot'illlltll· tion to tho non· d ist:r lm in atlo n 
dlllllill. JJ 
Tho jiiiHition of' thn llnlvor·sily In not. in•~luding tHIXUU( Ol'illlltll· 
Lion  in  tho  
duuso  was  
r ouelw d  lll'ttll'  

luglll and tlwo-
We wt~lcome all 
snvoru.l gr·oupspeople. regardless q/' had aslwd tho Unlvor·slty to
color. gender, 
eonHidor mnk­
religion. ethnicity. 
lng dHtll!.(tlH t.o sexual orientation. ii.H llOtHJIHerlrni· nul.lon l'lnuHo,
social or economif.• 
inducllng tlw Ad
class, and 
hoe C:ommltl.tHI nationality jbr on (;ny und Lnl'ihiu.n Studont
example, precisely 
Noods, thn
because l!/' Christ's 
Faculty und calling to treat Studont Sonut1~s and tho Collogo
other,c; a,c; we desertJe 
)) 0 Ill 0 I~ I' It t H ,
to be treated. " 
which Huhmit· tiHI n pntlt.lon Spirit of Inclusion slgnnd by slll· donls In f'ttvor· of'
Document 
"We want student."l to be aware of U'hat is going on. ofhow unwelcomtng l~/' a place Notre Dame can be to students qf alternative l{f'e."ltyle.';, but how we recognize that Notre /Jame i."i a great plact~ and wt~ want to make it a better platt:~. " 
Bridget Flores aophomore 
loglt\u( untdysls, and is statod in Notr11 l>urnn's Spirit of lnduslon documnnt and accompanying 11J1J7 ltlttor l'rom thon·pt'HsidtJnt Fr. Edwnrd A. "Monk" Malloy to tlw Nott·o l>arnll community. 
Tho dol:tllll!lllt statos thut Notr·n lhtlllll strlvns t.o cr·eutl1 an "nnvironmnnt of mutual rnspeet, hospitality und warrnt.lr. 
"Wtl wnltHilllll all ptwpltl, l'tlgat•dlnss or eo)or, gondtll', rHII· glon, othnldty, sflxunl orlnntu­tlon, soeinl or tH~orwmle duss, und nationality f'or nxnmplo, proeisoly boeaustl of' Chl'lsl's enlllng to t.roat othors as wo dnstli'Vtl to bo tnllttod," t.lw doe· urnnnt says. 
Tho Ollkors of' tho llnlvnrsll.y udoptml t.ho inelusion statomnnt on Aug. 'd-7, IIJ1J7, tho sarno duto Mulloy sont nn opnn lnttor on tho iHI'iliO to tlw Notro llnmn eommunlt.y. Tho lnttor notnH thut 
the chango. 
Mulloy wrot.o 
that tlw 
UnlvnrHlty t~on· 
s I d tll't1 d t h nso rt1qunsts over tho t~our·sn ol' t.hH 1 'J'J6-1Y 1J7 school your· and dHddtJd not to udd sBxurd orltm· tatlon to tho nondlt·wrlmlnutlon ehtUSfl. 
"Within soeltlty nt largo, tlw phrtuw 'sexual orltllltutlon' sonwtimos btleomoH a tnrm t.hnt duos not admit ol' diHtlnctlon botwn1m soxual orltmtatlon und tho rnannor In which pooplt1 llvo out thlllr sflxual orientu.t.lon -u 
distinction that Is erltienl t.o us us a Cntholle lnstltu· tion," Mulloy wrotn In thn lfll.ttll', 
Dewey su.ld thnt sho thinks lnst~rtlng "sexual orlontatlon" Into thn nondiH· t~rlminatlon eluustl Is "vnry mu!\11 In th11 Cntlwlh~ chanu:tnr of' thn Unlvorslty." 
Hn p rn sn n tatI vns of tht! Campulgn l'or· llumnn Dignity havn st:hndulnd tl muutlng with Fr·. JHnkins on Mur·eh :10 to diHtatHH thoir petition. 
'l'lw point of' thn pntltlon Is not Just to gnt soxual orlnn­tutlon uddtld to tho non ·d 1st~ rlmln u tlon 
dausu, Floros said. 
"Wo wnnt Htudnnts to bo uwnrn of' whiLt is going on, of how unwoleoming of' 11 plu.en Notrn Dnnw ean bo t.o HtudontH ol' ulttlrnat.lvn lif'tlsLyloH, but how Wtl r·nt·.ognlzH tlmt Nntrn l>amo Is a groat plu.eo und Wll want to rnaku It u hntl.tlr pluetl," Hhn suid. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
Please recycle The Observer. 
Sanger 
continued from page 1 

slw suw II. holplng t.o knnp th11 unl'lt. f'rom roprodue­lng. Tho llii!.(Olli!~ world­viow doosn't. say t.hnt nil poopln U.l'll •~rnut.lld nquul­ly. JJ 
In linking Sanglll' to tho nugnnies movnmo11t., F r·un k s m u. do lllllll 11 r o us 
othor 1~ lulmH. 

"Shn Htt.id hnr· wor·k was nothing mor·n or· IHHH than t h n f' U. I~ ill I. II I. i o II II I' t h II Jli'OI~IlSH of' Wllflclillg Olll thll Ullf'lt. u.nd provonting tho birth of' dt~f'nt~tlvnH or t.hos11 who will bocomo del'oe· tiVtl," Frnnks snld. 
Fr n n k s n Is o g tl v o h o r· pn r s ptH~ ti v o o n S un go r 's rnutlvutlons -which Hho snw not only as llllJll'odue· tlvo hut hu.rmf'ul. 
" Su. n g o r· h o I Io v o d In tt s(l X uIt I II (~ ­tl II S ll , " Hh ll said. "Sho thnlr· f'nrtllity." "You got this 
ublllty to dohurnanlzo tho poopln sho !'indH 
I II (~ 0 11 v ll II ­
lnnl.," Frunks ~~ ontlnuo d . But 11t'ttn ks also mado a 
d I H I i 11 t: t i II 11 b ll t w ll ll 11 
whut sho vinws us Su.ngnr's oxtr·nrnism u.nd Plunnnd Pu.r·onthood's e II I' I' II 11 I orgnnl:t.al.lon. 
"I'm not going to hn Hilly und suy Plunnod Paronthood 

worknrs know about this 
hlHI.Ili'Y," 

",\'angor lwlievm;
rnully holiovnd 

that tr WOlllllll women are oppressed e o u I d I I v11 Iik 11 by their own bodies,"hnr and havo 
slw said. "She talks 
lllUII.ipl11 IOVOI'H 

und no chll· about sex servitude. d 1'1111 J t h 0 y What she means is (: 0 II I d h u. v(l 
that women have a
fro11dom." 

Jiru.nkH guvn reproductive ,';ystem, h11r VillW llll which tends toward 
Sungnr'H phi· 

women are oppressed
losophy ol' l'orn· 

by their fertility." 
in ism. "Snngnr b II I I 0 v (l H 

AnJela Franks 
wornun aro 

author and Ph.D. of
opprllSHOd by 

theology
tlwir own bod· lllH," shu said. "Sho talks nbout HllX poor aro tho rnnJor rncipl· tllt s n , t h I s n n ts of' subsldlzod abor­

"It's important to under:·;tand that Plaruwcl Parenthood advocatm~ ,/(Jr abortion. {/'you have Planned J>arentlwod in your state. you have the premier 
lohhyi.t.;t j(Jr abortion. " 
An&ela Franks author and Ph.D. of theology 
i•'rankH HnJtJ. "T h 11 y' r· o eortnlnly not eon­selouH 
'' ugo n k IHt s . 
But I do think that t ho ou go n It: 
nttltudtl thut Margur·11t Sangor hu.d hus trlt~klod d () w 11 todny." 
To support her· clulm 
t h u t 
Plannnd Parenthood HUppot'tH modorn dny 
nug1~nlelsts, 
Franks polntod to thtl lntorna· tlonul orgu­
Hlli'Vi tu dtl. W h 11 t ShI! Ill llllllH nlntlon's l'lnanclal sup· Is thut womnn havll a port of' China's of'f'orts to r·nproduotlvn HYHtom, control Its booming popu· w Ill ~~ h tfl n d s tow a r d latlon. wornHn urn opprnssod by Sho uiHo noted that tho 
tions f'rorn Plan nod Purnnthood. Prnsumably, F r a 11 k h II I I II v (l s 
l'lunnod I' u r 11 n t hu u d Is nl II ti Va t IHJ t ll 
limit birth I' II t II S a Ill II n g' tho poor to 
f'u I!'I II  11  
ougnnle  mis­ 
sIon.  
(; i vIn g  h 11 r  

vlnw on abor­tion, Snngnr said, "t.h11 d11ut.h toll Is 
s t II g g (l ,. I n g . 
Birthrttl.ns of' A r ,. 1 ~~ u n A m 11 r I ~~ u n s 
h a v 11 r 11 m n i n t1 d st n rt d y, whi Io II Is panl ~~ s hrtV o bn n n t'IHing. Thoy'vo lwnn tur­gotnd." 
Franks tdso t'llSpondBd to nn ur·gurn11nt of' Plunnnd Pttt'tlllthood udvot·atns who btllit~VIl thul hnlplng to provldll nhor·tions to th11 poor will loWtll' tho amount of' puhllc mnnny HJHlllt on wnll'urn progrums. 
At'.(~ording to FrankH, this urgumnnt IH not truo hnettust1 of' upw11.rd mohlli· ty. Amerleuns born into povnrty, sh11 HtLid, huvn a chnnen to bncome produc· tlvn, tuxpuying eltiZtlns. 
Sangfll' uiHo ol'l'llrlld some lnHight to thn untl·abor­l.ion movemont. 
"It's important to undor· st a n d t h a t PIn n n tHi Pnrnnthood udvoentns f'or abortion," shtl said. "If you havo Planned Puronthood In your state, you havo the prnrnlfll' lobbyist l'or abor· tion." 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 

. or !lomcunc rou Ion• IWt•ds hdp please call. Notre Dallll' nan1nrn•q:"llrt'C.'S in plan• to assi~ol you. 
ConiNfmtitll1upportIUid &uis/Jmce Mwable IllNotre Dame: 
Sr. Sue Dunn, (W, Studt•ul Alhrirli, Wll·7K 1!1 .\1111 Firth, Sluclt•ut Allitir~. lial ·lltiK.~ S)'l\'iu llillcm, Ciunpu~ MiniNtr)',liHI·? IWi .fuhn Dillon, l'iiiii(IUl Miui~try, lilU -71 (~I llr, Susuu Sh'ilw-Pa~ulkh, l'uuusl'iiul! ( 'tr., li:i 1-l,IJWi Aunl•:. Kl.:\'it, lh•;tlth .'it·rvin·~. Wli·H~Hii 
South Bend Community Rt:aOUrces: 
• Wnmcm'~ Ctu'C l'enlcr: :m l..(li\fh'l Catltolk (.'lmlitit·~: ~a (...;'!Ill 
, Vi11i1 our IWbMitt· fit r · .· ()lla.ntl.t•thtlltealt h·snlt'l)'/lls~ihtntln··Ji,I'·IIH'W llllll·~•••!lt•Jtls 
Thursday, March 5, 2009 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Overbudget, NASA gets more 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -NASA can land a spacecraft on a peanut-shaped asteroid 150 million miles away, but it doesn't come close to hitting the budget target for building its spacecraft, according to congressional auditors. NASA's top officials know it and even joke about it. 
This week auditors found that on nine projects alone NASA is nearly $1.1 billion over cost estimates that were set in the last couple of years. 
Congress' financial watch­dog, the Government Accountability Office, reviewed NASA's newest big­money projects and found most were either over budg­et, late or both. That doesn't include two of NASA's largest spending projects whose costs have wildly fluctuated and still aren't firm ­replacements for the space shuttle fleet and Hubble Space Telescope. 
Historically, overruns have caused NASA to run low on money, forcing it to shelve or delay other projects. Often, the agency just asks taxpay­ers for more money. 
In fact, NASA got $1 billion from the new stimulus pack­age. It's to be spent on cli­mate-watching satellites and exploration among other things. 
"Getting an extra infusion of money doesn't necessarily mean you have a capability to spend it well," said Cristina Chaplain, GAO's acquisitions chief who wrote the study. 
A ~econd GAO report used NASA as one of its leading poster children for bad prac­tices in estimating costs. The space agency, which has a budget of about $18 billion, needs "a more disciplined approach" to its projects, the GAO said. NASA spending has been on GAO's "high risk" list since 1990. Its cost overrun problems will be the subject of a House Science Committee hearing Thursday. 
"A cancer is overtaking our space agency: the routine acquiescence to immense cost increases in projects," NASA's former science chief Alan Stern wrote in an op-ed piece in the New York Times in 2008. He quit last year over the shifting of money to pay for cost overruns. 
NASA's spending problems are so predictable and big that two years ago Congress put it under the same tough budgeting rules as the Defense Department. That means NASA must notify Congress if a program's cost rises by more than 15 per­cent. The GAO report issued Monday was the first using NASA's new requirements. 
In a statement to The Associated Press, NASA said its missions "are one-of-a­kind and complex, which always makes estimating challenging... We do believe NASA is a good investment of federal funds and strive to provide the best value." The agency statement said exter­nal forces, such as launch availabilities, also cause delays and cost increases. The agency says it has improved its cost estimating. 
Last December then-NASA administrator Michael Griffin tried to compare cost over­runs -like the $400 million extra needed for the Mars Science Laboratory -with do-it-yourself projects that keep requiring extra trips to the hardware store. When a reporter quipped that his do­it-yourself projects use his own money, Griffin drew laughter with his response: "And we are spending your own money for this." 
Imposing financial disci­pline, as GAO urges, "is an uphill fight," said Smithsonian Institution space scholar John Logsdon, who is on NASA's advisory coun~. 
In the latest report, NASA couldn't provide the GAO with current accurate esti­mates on two of its hugest projects so the watchdog agency merely cited ballpark guesses: 
-The program to build new spaceships to send astro­nauts back to the moon would cost somewhere around $37 to $49 billion and already has financial and technical risks, the GAO found. 
-The multibillion-dollar James Webb Space Telescope, whose current cost is unknown, was at least $1 bil­lion over estimates three years ago, before NASA began its new cost accounting methods. 
NASA has cost overruns for several reasons, said the GAO's Chaplain. Those include poor cost estimating at the beginning, trying to do cutting-edge science, con­stantly changing designs, and poor contractor performance. Six of the projects had prob­lems with contractors, includ­ing lack of experience, that led to delays or higher costs. 
In his December news con­ference, Griffin said there isn't a very good way to esti­mate at the front end of a mission what it's going to take to achieve scientific pri­orities. 

'Normal' child shoots and kills step-1110111 
Associated Press 
NEW CASTLE, Pa.-Good student. Starting quarterback. Aspiring hunter. By most accounts, 11-year-old Jordan Brown was a typical boy in his rural Pennsylvania community, albeit raised mostly by his father after his mother gave him up. 
So it baffies Jordan's friends and neighbors that he is accused of taking a 20-gauge youth shotgun he got from his father for Christmas and fatally shooting his father's pregnant fiancee, the woman who tried hardest to be a mother to him. 
"There were no red lights, there were no indications that we should have done something differently," said Timothy McNamee, superintendent of the Mohawk Area School District, noting there were no reports Jordan was bullied or was having problems in school or at home. 
Authorities say the Feb. 20 killing of 26-year-old Kenzie Marie Houk in Wampum, a small community about 50 miles north of Pittsburgh where near­ly everyone knows everyone, was premeditated. Police say Jordan threw the spent shell casing in the woods, got on the bus and went to school. 
Jordan has been charged as an adult with double homicide. If he is convicted as an adult, he faces life in prison. If his case gets moved to a juvenile court, he would probably spend the next 10 years in a secure juve­nile facility. 
Jordan's mother, Mildred Krause, was just four months pregnant with him when she first entered a courtroom to bat­good father and spent a lot of quality time with his son. 
The instability that character­ized Jordan's formative years, including the fact he might have felt rejected by his biological mother, could have influenced his later behavior, said Daniel Shaw, chairman of the psycholo­gy department at the University of Pittsburgh. 
"You can easily say it's a risk factor, a very important one, in early childhood that has been linked to ... antisocial behav­iors," Shaw said. However, "it's not usually going to result in the child killing someone at age 11." 
Christopher Brown, Jordan's father, refused to be interviewed for this story but answered a few questions through his attor­ney. A phone call to a phone number for the boy's mother's family rang unanswered. A per­son answering a phone at an address listed for the Krause family said she no longer lived there. 
Through Elisco, Brown said Jordan was a good student, pulling mostly As and Bs, his favorite subjects being math and science. In the past two years, Jordan was the starting quarterback for his midget foot­ball team and also played base­ball. 
Jordan's school district serves about 1. 7 85 students in the rolling farmland of rural west­ern Pennsylvania. There were about 20 students in his class, and he probably knew many of the other 125 fifth -graders through baseball and football, said McNamee, the superintend­ent. 
In May 2008, Jordan's father began dating Houk. By 
tle his father, Christopher Brown. 
At that time, in March 1997, Krause filed a protection of abuse order against Brown, claiming he drank, did drugs and had threatened to harm her. Apparently unaware Krause was pregnant with his son, Brown was ordered to stay away from her, an order later expunged, according to court records and Brown's attorney, Dennis Elisco. 
Immediately after Jordan was born on Aug. 30, 1997, Krause contacted Lawrence County Children and Youth Services requesting that they take cus­tody of the child so her mother could adopt him, according to court documents. Not having the father's consent, the agency declined her request. 
Brown, meanwhile, tipped off by Krause's grandmother and brother that she was having his baby in secret, filed an emer­gency petition with the court, opposing the move to have the child put up for adoption and demanding full custody of his son. 
In a back-and-forth battle resolved when Jordan was about 2 months old, a court ruled Krause and Brown would share custody, with the mother getting him four days a week and the father three. 
But on Feb. 5, 1999, with the consent of both parents, Christopher Brown was award­ed full custody of his 18-month­old son. Court records don't indicate why. 
Friends and family say that from February 1999 on, Krause had little contact with her son, entering and exiting his life at will. They say Brown was a Christmas, they W!')re engaged and had moved into a farm­house together, along with Jordan and Houk's two daugh­ters, ages 7 and 4. Houk was already about six months preg­nant. 
Houk's family said their daughter tried to include Jordan in everything, in part to com­pensate for the missing mother figure in his life. 
Willard Houk, Kenzie's uncle, said he stopped at the farm­house a short time after Kenzie and Christopher moved in. He took Kenzie's girls for spins on his motorcycle. Then, Kenzie's 7 -year-old reminded him that Jordan needed to get a ride too, "because he's a part of our fam­ily now," he said. 
Jordan got his ride, but Houk said it seemed strange to him that unlike the girls, who were "bubbly and jumpy," Jordan was barely excited. lt made Houk think Jordan needed more men in his life, and he was determined to help. 
So at Christmas, Willard Houk bought Jordan a present, like he did for the girls. And Jordan got a 20-gauge youth model shot­gun from his father, the one police said he used to shoot Houk in the back of the head. 
Like many other kids in the area, Jordan began .target shooting with his dad in prepa­ration for the 2009 hunting sea­son, when; at age 12, he would be old enough under Pennsylvania law to get a hunt­ing license. 
Father and son would shoot targets in the back yard, which police say helped Houk's 7 -year­old daughter identify the sound of the gunshot she heard the morning her motl1er was killed. 

CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 
University Resources for ~ay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and lesbian Students 
(Information, education. and resources) 
Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Eddie Velazquez at evelazqu@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) 
Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at m!affert@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 
http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 


page 10 Thursday, March 5, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Norre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHJEF Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOru Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROllER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoinr@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content: 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to aU readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies shouldbe directed to Editor in Chiif]enn Metr, 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The O~rver (US.PS 599 2-4000) is published Mond,_y lhrough Ff)d.ay ex<%p[ dur~ng c.um and vaauiun periods. A subscripcion to nte Observer ill $lf)O for nne ac.ademk year; SS5 fi.u one semester. 
The Obs-erver is pubHshed .ar: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining HaU Send address corrections to: 
Nom Dame, IN "i6556-0779 The0b$erver Periodical postage= paid at Notre Dame P.O.Box779 and :additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notte Dame. IN 46556-0779 
~ Observer is a member ofthe As.soctated PreiS. All rqttoducrion rights att: r~rved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Fran Tolan Mandi Stirone Douglas Farmer Emma Driscoll Molly Sammon Graphics Scene Mary Jesse Mark Witte Viewpoint Patricia Fernandez 

The Observer, and other good things 
The funniest thing I've ever seen in The Observer was publish.!QL a few months ago. On the page typically dedicated to national and mternation­al news, the full-page-width headline said this: 
"9/11 Masterminds Prepared to Confess." 
Don't worry, we're not to the funny part yet. 
The headline was right-9/11 masterminds were, in fact, prepared to con­fess. And the article was com­plete, and didn't continue on the wrong page or anything. 
Beneath the headline, though, was a picture. Unfortunately, as far as I know, the people pictured were not, in fact, 9/11 masterminds. No, they were a lesbian couple from Iowa City, Iowa, and their three lovely young children. 
And you thought not having a recog­nized Gay-Straight Student Alliance was as bad as Notre Dame got. 
Newspapers have long been known to navel-gaze, a: bit. It's not unusual to see front-page newspaper stories about the decline of the newspaper, as if those outside the paper cared as much about the solvency of the Sacramento Bee as they do about Iraq, Obama and other front page news. 
But this is not an example of gazing at my own navel. To be clear, I'm not really part of The Observer. I mean, yes, I get invited to the parties, and mooch off the paper's budget for a delicious dinner at The Vine each semester. But other than that, all I do is send in an e-mail once every other week. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


Until there was free Heavenly Ham in The Observer offices at the end of last semester, I had never met then­Editor-in-Chief Chris Hine. I only knew Kaitlynn Riely, another editor, from class and her embarrassing spam-post (a new noun) on my Faceboolf wall about a cool new Web site I could go to find about all of my crushes. And I only knew Deirdre Krasula, yet another editor, because she was a mediocre defensive back on the Badin interhall football team that I helped coach. Last week, they all left office, leaving the keys and responsi­bility to a whole new set of budding liberal media elites. 
So all of that aside, there's some­thing most people on this campus don't realize about The Observer staff: 
These people work damn hard every single day and night to get out a full paper. That's not something that most school newspapers even dream of doing-once a week, maybe three times, that's more standard. But every day? We're in pretty good company. 
They catch a lot of flak on this cam­pus for their faults. I've had at least three professors who have shared with the class that they avoid The Observer as much as possible. Another suggested that reliable source of news would be to read The Observer, and believe the opposite. And granted, many students on this campus would be perfectly happy if, instead of a full newspaper, The ObserverJ'ust printed a word jumble, crosswor puzzle and horoscopes every day. 
The hyperbole aside, I understand all of that. And importantly, from my impression, so does The Observer. 
Yes, sometimes they make hysteri­cally funny mistakes. 
And yes, sometimes, their articles are incomplete. Sometimes their quotes are basically fabricated. 
Sometimes their pictures imply that lesbian women were the masterminds of the 9/11 attacks. 
And no, they don't always-or, ever -do the hardest-hitting, investigative journalism. 
But compared to many school news­papers, they dn an incredible amount of hard work to make it all happen, and it's really impressive. 
At the risk of sounding remarkably ignorant, this is something that it's taken me until my senior year to real­ize: by and large, we don't give stu­dent leaders on this campus enough day-to-day credit for the remarkable amount of work they do. Within their organizations and groups, of course, they get due credit. But from the out­side, that's often ignored. 
It's not just Chris, Kaitlynn, Deirdre, and countless others at The Observer. It's Bob, Grant, Cynthia and countless others in Student Government. It's even Andrew, Greer, Brandon, and countless others at The Irish Rover. 
Whatever we think of the content of their work or their attitude towards it, these people all do remarkable things around this campus. They work hard so that we can all be part of a more engaging, interesting, worthwhile campus community. Do they miss the ball sometimes? Of course. And it's fine to make fun of them when they do. 
But I owe them all a thank you, too, and an apology for not saying it soon­er. 
Andrew Nesi is a senior American Studies major from Fairfield, Conn. As you can tell from this column, he ­unlike the people he describes -does not always do the same remarkable amount of work. He can be reached at anesi@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL RESULTS 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You can't turn back the clock. But you can wind it up again." 
Bonnie Prudden American rock climber 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, March 5, 2009 page 11 
Change vve should believe in 
If you're really lucky -or somewhat irresponsible -perhaps you're reading today's Observer on your way out of town. On your way home? On your way to someplace warm? On your way to 
someplace that  
should be warm  Kate Barrett  
but recently  
received 10" of  
snow? Maybe you're  Faithpoint  
here till tomor­ 

row, or you're here for the whole break. Whether you have to study, work, grade papers or exams ... or if you're fortu­nate enough to travel to Appalachia, New Orleans;Washington D.C., Coachella or Cancun, the week does feel like a break. It's different. It marks the (more or less) halfway point of the semester and helps us turn the corner from winter to spring, from the starting point of the beginning of the semester to the finish line of finals and summer. No matter how you spend it, spring break refuses to be ignored. Spring break means change is on the way. 
Cool coincidence, then, that every year the second Sunday of Lent, which happens.to be this first Sunday of spring break, offers us an unusual, or some might say kind of weird, reading about ... change. The second Sunday_ of Lent always proclaims the story of Jesus' Transfiguration, this year from Mark's Gospel (Mark 9:2-10; go ahead, look it up if you like). In each of the three "eyewitness" Gospels-Matthew, Mark and Luke -we can find this event reported, and it always follows Jesus' prediction that he will suffer and be crucified. The basics of'the story go as follows: Jesus has invited Peter, James and John to come up Mount Tabor with him. Suddenly the disciples see what seems to be a vision: Jesus looks dazzlingly different, brilliantly lit, dressed in eye-popping white and con­versing with two men whom the disci~ ples would have immediately recog­nized: Moses and the prophet Elijah. Peter, befuddled, suggests that maybe they should just stay up there on a per­manent basis. A cloud overshadows the scene, which for a Jew would instantly signify the presence of God. A voice from the cloud says, "This is my beloved Son. Listen to him." 
Now this story doesn't mean a whole lot beyond its admittedly high "wow" factor unless we realize that it's not about a change in how Jesus looks or acts. After all, he soon looks just like himself again, and he orders them not to tell anyone about the incident (a command he repeats, and which is usu­ally ignored, throughout the Gospels). But God has given the three disciples the gift of a new understanding. Not only is Jesus now irrefutably linked to two central figures in Jewish salvation history, but God (in the cloud) has com­manded respect for Jesus. The story doesn't focus on the fact that Jesus has changed, but that now the disciples have the opportunity for change. They have seen a vision, and they can now see with new vision. Peter, James and John became transformed by a clearer understanding of Jesus' whole identity and therefore a deeper sense of their own purpose as disciples. 

This doesn't mean they got it right away. As they came back down the mountain, Peter, James and John remained confused (in Mark's Gospel, the disciples are confused a good bit of the time). But events like the Transfiguration peel away layer upon 1ayer from their hearts and minds until with the grace of the Holy Spirit they have gradually become able to follow with their whole lives the command of God, "This is my beloved Son. Listen to him." 
Just as the disciples neeped moments of transfiguration in their lives to begin to comprehend both Jesus' identity and their roles as disciples, we too can change if we will "listen to him." The voice of God will become audible to us this Lent if we can approach our prayer, fasting and almsgiving as whole-heart­ed opportunities for our own transfigu­ration, our own "new vision" of Jesus Christ. Though we too may feel con­fused a good bit of the time, we can certainly believe that God wants us to have every chance possible to turn a new corner, to move from winter to spring in our lives of faith. As we pre­pare to approach Easter and come face to face with the heart of our salvation through Jesus' suffering, death and res­urrection, we can see Christ at work anew in our lives. This week and each week that follows will bring change, growth and signs of new life. It's spring. Listen to him! 
This week's Faithpoint is written by Kate Barrett. Kate Barrett is the .director ofthe Emmaus program in Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Must not m_arginalize m_ale sexual abuse victim_s 
This past week was sexual assault awareness week at Notre Dame. It was a much needed event. The surprisingly low amount of reported cases of sexual abuse at Notre Dame is not due to a lack of sex­ual abuse but rather a lack of reporting. Women and men are raped and sexually abused at Notre Dame -there is just a multiplicity of factors that deter abuse vic­tims from speaking out. 
I attended the awareness dinner "A • Time to Heal" at Legends this past Friday night. It was truly a remarkable event. The dinner guests were addressed by a panel of five speakers: two female rape survivors, the president of Men Against Violence, Anthropologist professor Carolyn Nordstrom and Theology chair John Cavadini. The bravery and courage of the two young women who spoke about their experiences stunned the audience. They spoke poignantly and articulately, announcing that they would not be silent -announcing that sexual abuse is a real issue for the students of Notre Dame. 
I applaud this much needed movement at Notre Dame. Even though this move­ment will resUlt in more reported rapes and abuses, and therefore a smudged public image, the University must push this initiative forward. Thankfully, this is slowly being done. I would now like to add to the momentum of this movement by offering a constructive critique. 
Male sexual abuse survivors are a nationally under-acknowledged demo­graphic-Notre Dame's sexual abuse awareness campaign is potentially falling victim to this same problem. While sexual abuse done towards women is statistically greater then that done towards men, it ought not to overshadow the reality of the tragedy of male sexual abuse. For instance, the Feb. 26 edition of "Scholastic" chose a regrettable wording that plays to this unfortunate trend of marginalization towards male sexual abuse survivors. "Scholastic" reads: "According to the U.S. Department of Justice, an estimated one out of four col­lege women will be victims of an attempt­ed or completed sexual assault in one school year alone, whereas only one out of six men will be sexually assaulted in his entire lifetime." There are several prob­lems with this sentence. 
Firstly, the sentence structure is com­paratively exploring two different statis­tics. This is deceptive because these two different statistics cannot truly be meas­ured to each other. The first statistic regarding women quantifies the likelihood of an "attempted or completed sexual assault" whereas the statistic for the males is only addressing completed sexual assaults and not attempted sexual assaults. If the sentence must be compar­ative at all, why couldn't it compare th~ same thing? 

Secondly, the wording of the sentence diminishes the importance of male sexual abuse as compared to female sexual abuse. The key word here is "only." The sentence first gives the statistics for females, then uses the word "whereas" in order to make a comparison, then uses the word "only" to minimize the second­ary statistic of male sexual abuse. Why did that word need to be in the sentence? The sentence would have read fine with­out it. 
There is no "only" when speaking about sexual abuse. It does not matter how much the second statistic is less then the first, when speaking about an issue with the gravity of sexual abuse there is no "only." One male who is sexually abused is a tragedy that must not be brushed aside. 
The dinner, "A Time to Heal" was an important event that had many powerful moments. Unfortunately, it only gave a polite "nod of the head" towards male sexual abuse victims and focused almost exclusively on female sexual abuse. It would have been great ifthere could have been a representative speaker for males who had been sexually abused. If the sta­tistics are correct, that room had plenty of male sexual abuse survivors sitting there as their painful experiences were largely being ignored and minimized. The talk from the president of Men Against Violence, telling his "lads" that this is a man's problem, certainly did not help either. The issue of sexual abuse is not a "female issue" or a "male issue." It is a person issue. Whether or not we know who they are, we all know people who have been sexually abused. 
The Notre Dame sexual awareness movement is important, absolutely neces­sary, and making a good start. It must be attentive though not to marginalize the male minority group of sexual abuse sur­vivors. 
Michael Clemente 
senior 
off-campus Mar. 2 
Coach Jackson thanks students 

Dear Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and and to prove once again that we have Holy Cross College Students: one of the best student sections in all of 
Throughout this hockey season, one college hockey. In addition, 250 tickets of our team's greatest inspirations has for Sunday's (if necessary) game will be been the enthusiasm of their fellow stu­issued in the Dooley Room of LaFortune dents in section six. Because of your from 11:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. today. The vocal support, the Joyce Center has remainder of the tickets will be given become a tough venue for opposing out at 6 p.m. on March 15 on a first ttlams to enter, and you have given us a come, first serve basis. Thank you for great home ice advantage all season. your support all season, and we hope to Now that our regular season has ended, see you at the Joyce Center for the we need your continued support as we CCHA Tournament. enter tournament time. Our team has Go Irish! earned a first-round bye in the CCHA tournament, but we will host the second JeffJackso{l round at the Joyce Center March 13-15. Head Coach If your spring break plans allow it, I Notre Dame Hockey encourage you to come to the games Mar. 4 
Increase ·m tuition 
I read your story ("University To say we are setting aside up to 10 increases tuition for 2009," March 4) percent for subsidies for need is spit­about the new increase in tuition with ting in the ocean. great sadness. The last time I attend­Someone needs to say enough ed Notre Dame, my last year, the building-enough expansion. No tuition was $9,000, for law school. more expansion -keep enrollment 
In the 23 years since 1986, there down, and here is a thought ­have been increases yearly totalling reduce the tuition. If you are interest­327 percent, for an average of 14 ed in building an endowment for the percent per year, or $29,477 more. I future, then set up one to cover understand some costs will rise and tuition, or reduce it to the cost of you have to recoup them. state universities. 
You cannot convince me that costs I would not raise this if I did not necessary to teaching students have think there was value in a Notre risen at an annual rate far greater Dame education. However, no student than any stock or bank would ever should start his adult career saddled pay. Those rates have been paid on with over $200,000 in college costs. the backs of students and their fami­lies. Michael H. Maguire 
If the goal is to create an elite insti­alumnus tution made up of rich eligible stu­Class of'74 dents, then we are well on the way. Mar. 4 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Thursday, March 5, 2009 

In the fall of 1997, Frank and Rebecca Polito opened a restaurant on Grape Road to moderate success, especially considering their national chain competition on the main drag of Mishawaka. On Aug. 8, the Politos woke up to find that their restaurant of almost 11 years had caught fire, along with the adjacent business. 
Fortunately for the Politos, they had been planning on opening up a new branch of their restau­
rant on Hickory Road, just off McKinley Polito's affirms itself 
Avenue, in the former home of Rathskeller , asfiamousfior its Pizza. That morning, the family decided to sign the lease and begin immediately on 'secret family vodka 
building up their replacement restaurant. By .Sept. 5, the new Polito's was open for •. sauce,' and with good 
business. 
It is difficult to see how exactly Polito's has changed. Beyond the unpretentious front room, the standard back room seems like a place for more of a bar-restaurant feel, but it isn't. There's certainly an atmos­
re of establishment; servers and chefs 
seem to have been doing their jobs for years, or at least have watched their par­ents do theirs. The decor is hackneyed, with posters of The Three Stooges, football teams, Miller, Coors and "Hoosiers." Three 

MTHE 
and Blue Moon $7), things like families with young chil 
dren and a gameroom/arcade keep the restaurant from 
achieving sports bar status. 
Getting past these incongruities, Polito's aflirms itself as 
famous for its "secret family vodka sauce," and with 
reason. Our waitress offered this creamy, peppery mix as 
sample with rigatoni, and our small taste did not disap 
point. Thick as alfredo, enough of the sauce leaves a pep 
pery after-kick in the back of the throat. However, lo 
onto the penne graciella with chicken, the sauce uv\JU""'" 
reason. Our waitress oFFered this creamy, 
'JJ' 
peppery mix as a 
sample with rigatoni, and our small taste did not disappoint. 
TVs sit in the corners, playing programs from sports and news to "America's Funniest Videos." Despite the sports posters and beer pitcher specials (Miller Lite $6, Killian's 
Polito's Italian Family Pizzeria 
401 N. Hickory Rd. (574-243-5385) 
Hours: 11-10 M-Th, 11-10:30 F-S, 10-8:30 Su Prices: Apps $3-8, Entrees $9-15 10 Words or Less: Incredible chicken parmesan sandwiches, family atmosphere with sports bar aspirations 

the main element of the dish. Although chicken was a bit dry, it was a fitting addi tion to the pasta, sun-dried tomatoes, broc coli and mushrooms. 
A friend was quick to tell me that serves the best chicken parmesan he's ever had, so my selection was pre dained. And to his credit, the sub was most satisfying part of the meal. Served 
a breadstick-like roll, the massive amou 
of chicken and mozzarella cheese ar rounded out by a smaller amount of fla ful sauce. Perhaps the best part of the sub the bread -firm but chewy. I only ate h 
of this huge sandwich that night, and to surprise, I enjoyed the second half just much days later. 
The pizza is popular (especially th weighty stuffed pizza), but the thin 
thick pizzas were disappointing. The pepperoni was greasy and the ground sausage was seemingly witho effort. To qualify, because the half-sandwich was so I tried the pizza a short time after we left, but I that the dull flavor and poor texture were results of than a short wait. 
A strange aspect of our meal was that the service quiekest for our entrees. Otherwise, our server see bogged down by a busy section. It was understandable wait a few minutes on orders, but processing the chec caused one of the longest delays. 
All things considered, I don't recommend again Polito's. Sure, skip the pizza and head to Bruno's. May gnt a pitcher of beer and try some pasta or one of the ru of-thn-mill spneials. Bear in mind the penne graeiella, long as you don't mind shoveling away some of the deli­cious vodka sauce. But if you've ever enjoyed a chicken parmesan sandwich, do consider Polito's. And make su tlw TVs are tunnd to something fitting, like "Amnrica Funniest Videos." 
MARK WITIE I Observer Graphic 

~ 
Thursday, March 5, 2009 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 2 
Recipe for success for Irish in tourney: toughness 
If Notre Dame wants to do well this weekend, it is going to have to be the toughest team in Connecticut for at least four days. 
That isn't 
to say the Irish aren't a talented team. Their 21 wins ­including 10 in the always com­petitive Big 

East -and Jay Fitzpatrick four players in double 
Managing
figures speaks for Editor itself. But so does the play of Notre Dame's potential opponents in the tournament. 
Even though Notre Dame's first game is against two teams limping into the conference tournament -St. John's has lost six of its last seven and Syracuse has only three wins in its last 13 games -Irish coach Muffet McGraw said her team's games against those two were both tight matchups. 
"They were both really good games. The St. John's game we had to defend the 3-point line to win and that was a very close game," she said. "And the Syracuse game was close throughout." 
Notre Dame beat the Red Storm 70-67 on Jan. 17 and the Orange 90-79 on Feb. 24. 
But in the conference quarter­finals, things start to get inter­esting. The Irish replay Villanova, which had a murder­ous finish to its conference sea­son. 
The Wildcats waited until the end of February before playing Pitt, Louisville and Connecticut -the top three teams in the conference -and two of those games were on the road. And after a disappointing loss to South Florida to end the regular season, Villanova will no doubt be hungry for a win to flash in front of the NCAA Selection Committee. 
And even if the Irish make it past Villanova, there looms UConn -the undefeated, top­ranked, seemingly unstoppable juggernaut of women's basket­ball. 
The Irish have put up the best Davidic fight against the goliath Huskies, losing by only 10 points in Hartford on Feb. 22. Although McGraw hesitated say­ing her team played close with Connecticut, that was UConn's smallest margin of victory for the season and Notre Dame's 6­0 lead early was its largest deficit all season. 
But that's what Notre Dame has going for it. The team is made up of, in McGraw's own word, fighters. 
"When they get down by a few points it doesn't bother them. They can take a punch and give punches," she said. "They can get that killer instinct." 

No more evident was that when the Irish played Vanderbilt earlier this season, overcoming an 18-point deficit to win by two on the road. 
"We just don't want to lose," Irish forward Becca Bruszewski said. "You wouldn't be playing college basketball if you wanted to lose." 
The fighter's attitude goes throughout the entire team. 
Center Erica Williamson's" self­professed favorite thing about playing defense is taking charges. 
McGraw said guards Lindsay Schrader and Melissa Lechlitner play with a great deal of pas­sion, all of which trickles down to the rest of the team. 
Anyone who has seen junior guard Ashley Barlow play in the last few years knows she must be closing in on the NCAA record for most times falling down in a career. But she always gets up and gets right back to work, no matter how many different bags of ice she has to schlep to the interview room after the game. 
McGraw said that this "blue­collar attitude" is not a new development, and she's right. 
Last year's starting point guard Tulyah Gaines would do what it took to get the ball in the hoop, if that meant dishing it oiT or knowing when to control of the game -just like Lechlitner. 
Former guard Breona Gray did a lot of things that wouldn't show up in the stats, things like accepting defensive responsibili­ties against the top scorers from the other team -just like McGraw will soon ask freshman Fraderica Miller to do. 
The Irish need to make sure they bring this mindset with them to Hartford, because it is the best cure for what has ailed the Irish all season long. 
When they have failed to score, tough, gritty defimse has kept them in games. When they have needed an extra rebound or two to secure a lead, some-one -usually Barlow or Schrader -has found a way to rise above the rest and grab the board. When they have played teams they seemingly had no business running with -like Connecticut -they have found a way to grind it out for 40 min­utes and hang with some of the top teams in the nation. 

And when they've gotten punched, they punch back. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at 
jfitzpaS@nd. edu 

Bruszewski' s ability to shoot the 3 helps Irish offense run 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Managing Editor 
When Irish forward Becca Bruszewski started shooting 3s this season, it didn't surprise coach Muftet McGraw. 
Sure, the sophomore had only taken two shots from beyond the arc during her freshman season (making one of them), and so what if she was supposed to be a post player for the Irish. 
The thing that surprised McGraw was that Bruszewski hadn't been taking that shot all along. 
"Last year, we were at practice and we were doing this -drill that requires you to shoot a lot of 3s and [BruszewskiJ didn't take any," McGraw said. "In high school she had shot 3s, in MU she had shot 3s. And I said to her, 'How come you never shoot 3s? It's practice, now's the time to shoot them.' And she kind of was like, 'Oh, I didn't know I was allowed.'" 
Bruszewski (pronounced brew­SHEFF -ski) herself admitted to being unsure of knowing exactly how she fit into the offense last sea­son. 
"I didn't know my role on the team. And then I talked with coach and she kept telling me that I can go 
It's been a good thing for Notre Dame's offense that Bruszewski fig­ured that out, because she has been one of the top producers for the Irish this season, and her 10.9 points per game is third on the team. She is also making 38.3 per­cent of her 3s. 
McGraw said it is good for the team that she hangs out on the edge because she is more comfortable facing the basket. 
"She's not a back-to-the-basket, drop step, power player. She's a finesse player. And her strength is in her versatility that she can face the basket, it makes her harder to guard," McGraw said. "She has shot the ball well and that has helped her, because she's shot the ball well and gained some confidence." 
Recently, McGraw said, the Irish playbook has been reconfigured to add plays designed for Bruc;;zewski. That's panned out well for the 6­foot-1 forward, who has averaged 
15.2 points and 6.6 rebounds in the last nine games. 
"I think coach gave me the green light. She wants me, if I'm the first post down there, to post up and drop from there or take it off the drive. She has given me a lot of free­dom," Bruszewski said of her play since the reins have been taken off. 
McGraw said she saw glimpses of 


out of the offense," Bruszewski said. 'Tm more of a creative player, I look for openings and try to get the ball there and attack. She basically gave me permission to go outside of the offense, and I didn't know I could do that." 
As for the 3-pointers, that's some­thing she worked on over the sum­mer during pickup games with her teammates. 
"I started shooting them in pickup in last summer and my teammates told me I could shoot them and had confidence in me, and they would actually get on me for not shooting them, so I started shooting them," she said. 
what Bruszewski could do during Notre Dame's games against top­tier opponents last sea.Son. 
"I remember thinking she plays best in the big games," she said. "We were at Maryland, she played well. We had Connecticut, she played well. Rutgers, she played well. All the top teams, she was playing well." 
But Bruszewski saved her best performance during her rookie campaign for her last: a 16-point effort'during Notre Dame's Sweet 16loss to Tennessee. 
"And then in the end of the year in the NCAA Tournament, she went career-high, another game career-
ALLISON AMBROSEffhe Observer 

Irish sophomore forward Becca Bruszewski dribbles during Notre Dame's 62-59 win over DePaul on Feb.· 8. Bruszewski had 14 points and 12 rebounds in the game. 
high. You have a lot of respect (or more confident," she said. She impressed the coaches with her somebody who can get their career McGraw saw that confidence play and has played well all year." high against a team like early in the preseason, and said But even with the increased play­Tennessee," McGraw said. Bruszewski's improvement helped ing time and scoring, Bruszewski 
Bruszewski said playing well as a her and her assistant coaches make said she understands that this Notre freshman against those teams has an easy decision about the rotation; Dame team's success lies in its ver­given her confidence going into this "Coming into tllis year I think she satility. season because she has the knowl­was determined to play a bigger "We have so many options for edge that she can hang with any role, to get more playing time," everyone now," she said. "We have team in the country. McGraw said. "She worked on her three people doing different things 
"Now I know I can play with 3-point shot and really right from and it all works." them. If I knew I could play with the beginning of the year, at least as them as a freshman, and now I've far as the post . . . she was the first Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at evolved my game so much, I'm one we said she's definitely starting. jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
Thursday, March 5, 2009 The Observer+ IRISH INSiDER page 3 
Fun and games 
Lindsay Schrader balances intensity with a positive attitude towards basketball 

love it." 

By BILL BRINK 
It's not all fun and games, Sports Editor 
however. McGraw said 
Schrader's confidence infects Blue-collar? the other players and that her Notre Dame coach Muffet vocal leadership has improved. 

McGraw said the phrase "She's been kind of a leader described her senior guard by example during her time pretty accurately. here and even at the beginning 
Lindsay Schrader wasn't sure of this year, but I think now about that. Sure, the collar on she's really seeing a sense of her No. 24 Irish jersey is urgency," McGraw said. "She's indeed blue, but she couldn't playing with so much confi­envision the term "blue-collar" dence that it's exuding from applying to a basketball player. her now and I think she's really 
"The way I show emotion on enjoying being in that role." the court, that's one thing that Schrader said being energetic really helps me get going and on the court helps both her and everything," she said. "Some her-teammates, and that she games I'm just not feeling it, carries confidence into every and its hard, and my other game and expects to outper­teammates pick it up." form her opponents. She paused, thinking. "I have the mentality that "Blue collar?" we're good, and they're going Whatever phrase Schrader to have to stop us instead of the 
feels will accurately describe other way around," she said. he~ Schrader~ production on "We're going out there with a the court this season necessi­chip on our shoulder because tated a lot of hard work. A we are a good team and we reworking of her jump shot and just have to prove it." a motivational session with a coach got her on track to suc­Revamping her game cess. Schrader leads the team in 
scoring with 12.9 points per Having fun game and in rebounding at 7.4 
Schrader has fun on the per game. Part of that comes court. She's intense, but enjoys from a retooled jump shot that herself. Schrader spent all of last sum­
"She just looks like she's hav­mer perfecting. ing so much fun," McGraw The reason for the recon­said. "She's enjoying every struction: the old way wasn't minute. She's upbeat at prac­working. tice, she's upbeat at film ses­"It wasn't going in," she said. sions." The ball was falling too far 
That attitude carries over behind her head, she said, 

into  postgame  which threw off­ 
press  confer- her  motion.  
ences,  where  She focused on  
Schrader will elaborate on other players'  "Ifyou're going to play college  shooting the ball from in front of her  
answers, interject her opinion and pressure her  basketball you've got to love it."  face. "It helped me tremendously,"  
teammates respond  to well  Lindsay Schrader  she said. "I just got into a bad  
when asked about her. All in  Irish guard  habit. That's all I did this sum- 
good fun.  mer is my jump  
"Why  would  shot."  
you do something  Her  overall  

if you're not having fun with game changed in one moment, it?" she said. "Why would you she said: a meeting with assis­do something you hate? You're tant coach Jonathan Tsipis. never going to survive that "Coach Tsip and I had a Happy, sad, angry? 
"A face-to-face moment. Between a coach and a player who really wants to succeed," she said. "After that it was just a 360." 
"Night and day" 
Schrader had the skills and confidence since her freshman year. Against Boston College her freshman year in the NCAA Tournament, she dropped a career-high 29 points. Four days into practice sophomore year, however, she tore her anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) and missed the entire season. Junior year, she came back and scored 10.3 points per game. This season, her game has flown to new heights. 
"It's been night and day," McGraw said. "She's become so much more vocal. She's playing a bigger role within the team in terms of leadership. She's been our go to player." 

Before, McGraw said, 
Schrader had a business-like 
approach to the game and did­
n't take it as lightly as she 
could have. Now, McGraw said, 
Schrader understands that 
enjoying the game will allow 
her to play better. 
"I think before it was all bas­
ketball," she said. "I think now 
she's just as serious about bas­
ketball, but there's an edge of 
fun to it, which has helped her 
game." 
The fact that Schrader can 
get a medical redshirt arid play 
next year with the same team­
mates has created better con­
nections with the team, 
McGraw said. 
"She's closer to this team. I 
think there's a chemistry, like 
its' a better chemistry than it 
has been," McGraw said. "She 
was a little more aloof in her 
first couple years. I think she 
sees her role a little different­
ly." 
Don't let all this talk of a fun­
loving player fool ybu: 
Schrader is as intense as they 
come. Watch her drive the lane 
with the shot clock winding 
down or out-rebound an oppos­
ing post player three inches 
taller than her and it's immedi­
ately apparent. 
"[Her teammates] always 
respected her leadership by 
example but they love her 
intensity," McGraw said. "They 
love when she makes a big shot 
and gets excited and looks 
excited after making a shot, I 
think that fires them up. They 
really like in the huddles when 
she can bring some intensity." 
In fact, McGraw said, Schrader's intensity makes her the go-to player in a close game. McGraw used words like toughness, intensity and com­petitiveness to describe .Schrader, but her analysis of Schrader's ability to play well 
under pressure says it all. 
"When we're down, she 
wants the ball, and when we 
absolutely have to have a bas­
ket, she wants the ball," 
McGraw said. 
Off the court 
Schrader said people would be surprised to see how relaxed she is when not playing basketball. 
"Everyone probably thinks I'm so focused, mean, stuck up, b****, stuff like that, but off the court I am so relaxed, easy­going, I try to be a liitle funny," she said. "I have a totally dif­ferent aspect outside the court. And I think that's good to have." 
Schrader enjoys "Grey's Anatomy" ("If I have a game Thursday I have to record it and watch another time") and "Life." If she gets the chance when the team has two days off, the Bartlett, Ill. native will go home. 
"I just go home for a night just to get away from it," she said. "Seeing these girls all the time, don't get me wrong, I love them. I love my coaches. But it's good to get away for a while. It just helps you clear your mind." 
Schrader has '"torn defenses apart on the court lately. She's led the team in both scoring and rebounding in Jour of the last five games, including a 23­point performance in a win over Syracuse on her birthday. 
She said she knows what to expect this weekend at the Big East tournament in the XL Center in Hartford, Conn., and she doesn't care who she plays -except for the teams the Irish lost to. She's well aware that with a win Saturday over the winner of Friday's Syracuse-St. John's game, Notre Dame faces Villanova, whom the Irish lost to on the road. Should they win that, they get No. 1 Connecticut. 
"I know the atmosphere, I know what ittakes to win," she said. "We're going to come in with confidence, at least I am, and have some fun." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

·' 
way. If you're going to play col­moment," she said. Senior guard Lindsay Schrader goes for a layup during Notre Dame's 96-61 win over Evansville on Nov. lege basketball you've got to What kind of moment? 19, 2008. Schrader tied a record this season for Notre Dame guards with six double-doubles. 
.------------------~-------­
Thursday, March 5, 2009 The oCserver +IRISH INSIDER page 4 
No.5 seed Irish face winner of Syraruse-St John's 
Team has first-round bye, plays its first game on Saturday 
By BILL BRINK Sports Editor 
The Irish need rest, and they earned an extra day of it. No. 20 Notre Dame enjoys a first-round. bye in the Big East champi­onship this weekend at the XL Center in Hartford, Conn. 
Notre Dame (21-7, 10-6 Big East) got the No. 5 seed in the tournament, which in the new 16-team format gives it a bye. On Saturday at noon, the Irish play the winner o( Friday's matchup between No. 12 seed Syracuse· and No. 13 seed St. John's. 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw said she likes the new tourna­ment format. 
"I think it's a good format," she said. "We'll have to go through it a couple of years before we can really tell, but I think it's a great idea." 
Notre Dame has won four of five heading into the tourna­ment with the only loss coming to top-ranked, No. 1-seed, unde­feated Connecticut at home. 
"''m kind of looking at it as we played five good games in a row," McGraw said. "We have a lot of offensive momentum, I would say." . 
More than that, McGraw said everyone on the team, freshmen to senior, has contributep of late. She said while the senior guard Lindsay Schrader and sophomore forward Becca Bruszewski have gotten most of the attention, everyone else has chipped in. 
"I feel like all the starters are playing well, and it's a really good feeling going in. every­body's contributing," McGraw said. 
Freshman forward Kellie Watson, McGraw said, has passed the ball well recently. Watson turned down several open looks in Notre Dame's last game, a 72-66 win over West Virginia at home Monday, to pass to teammates. 
"She's a fantastic passer, and that's something that I thought when I saw her in high school is really her greatest strength," McGraw said. "She has great visions and can get the ball out of her hands so quickly." 
Watson had three assists in each of the last two games. She also broke a four-game stretch without hitting a 3-pointer when she sank one against the Mountaineers. 
McGraw also mentioned junior guard Melissa Lechlitner, who went through a scoring drought recently, as someone who's play­inff better. In the five games before the West Virginia game, Lechlitner shot 29.7 percent from field goal range, but made 4-of-9 shots Monday. 
Finally; junior center Erica Williamson has surged in the past three games. She scored 20 and 21 points back to back against DePaul and Georgetown in early January, but never topped six points for the next 10 games. Against Syracuse, how­ever, she scored 18 and had 11 rebounds, and s6e scored 13 against West Virginia. 


The Irish have faced both the Red Storm and the Orange recently and won both times. They beat St. John's 70-67 at home on Jan. 17, and the Orange 90-79 at home on Feb. 24. 
"They were both really good games," McGraw said. "The St. John's game we had to defend the 3-point line to win, and then the Syracuse game was very close throughout." 

That defense, McGraw said, still leaves something to be desired. The team worked on it during practice Wednesday, McGraw said. She did say, how­ever, that she was happy with where the offense was. 
Both teams present similar challenges to the Irish, McGraw said. 
"They're both really athletic, they both have quickness ­they're a little bit quicker than we are," McGraw said. "They'll both play some zone and some man. We're trying to find some new wrinkles and new things to do coming into the tournament, but it's nice that we've played them both recently so we have some film on them." 
Note: 
uMcGraw said the team need­ed rest, so they took practice off on Tuesday and will take prac­tice off again today. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE 
page 13 


"Siumdog Millionaire" (2008), 6:30 and ·. '.Organissimo at Trio's Restaurant & Jazz 
9:30 p.m., Browning Cinema .. Club, 9 p.m. 

If for some odd reason you have been living·.· With minimal partying taking place on the other side of the planet (which is not •·•on Notre Dame's campus this weekend, an excuse because then you're practically in take advantage of the opportunity to India) and have missed the chance to see the '·· venture into the unknown corners of fabulous film "Slumdog Millionaire," here's ~Sol!th Bend and visit Trio's Restaurant your chance! Jamal Malik, a poor Indian:~·'& Jazz Club. Don't miss out on the orphan, lands a spot on "Who Wants to Be a ,.. 1,chance to relax after a tough week of Millionaire" in hopes of reuniting with his j ""midterms with Organissimo, a band true love and winning enough money to pull .·:;that incorporates the tradition of clas­both of them out of poverty. This story is · sic 1960s jazz with modern twists. The packed full with enough adventure, excite-·~ ·event is free, but bring a few extra ment, romance and the necessary heart-·:bucks to indulge in the upscale, casual warming ingredient to ensure this movie is·'. dining experience Trio's promises to worth your time. · provide . 
. , "'-~~' .~~.. 
,·.~· ::.~_._ 

,·~.:·.>·~~~v·_·<..-~;_·;:~:·::.·>~ >~\.·'~~ "<~¥~·::·; :~·.. ·~.:.:W:~·,A~,5 ::. -=·~· 
Riely O'Connor's Songwriters Spotlight, . Feel the Spirit! Pr~sented by the South · · 8:30p.m., The Beanery Gourmet Coffee .·Bend Symphony Orchestra, 2:30 p.m., and Cafe Leighton Concert Hall 
Known for his powerfully thematic Wind your weekend down with the South and insightful songs, Riely O'Connor -~Bend Symphony Orchestra. Not only will wi II be taking the stage at The , :you get to see the show for the extremely Beanery restaurant for an all-original•, .low student price of $5, but you will also performance that will have audiences:: 'get to listen to the beautiful voices of The humming along to both his energetic;< South Bend Chamber Singers. Pieces per­rock songs and his heart-felt ballads.:. ;,•formed will range from Benjamin Britten's O'Connor is a native of South Bend, ·,"Suite on English Folk Tunes" to a unique and released his first album,. ·take on the American spiritual in John "Working on a Memory," in 2004. Rutter's "Feel the Spirit." Tickets are $25 Enjoy the cozy atmosphere of this cof-·."for faculty and staff, $23 for seniors and $5 fee bouse a.s you snuggle in for a;;\for all students. ·..· .. relaxin'g and entertaining Satur,e:Iay ·':·~ · night. Tickets are $5. 
By MICHELLE FORDICE Assistant Scene Editor 
Lent brings certain challenges to the student who frequents the Notre Dame dining hall. What to do on those meatless Fridays? You have two choices: Embrace it or work around it. This week's column is geared towards giving you tips about what to make on Fridays for the next couple of weeks (without simply abandon­ing the dining hall for Subway). Never fear, the Dining Hall Dish is here to help. 
1. Know your proteins. Without the obvious choice -meat -you may be looking for another option. Other foods high in pro­tein are: fish, and especially tuna, eggs, nuts and seeds (try peanut butter or adding seeds and nuts to your salads), beans (try tofu or the various beans available at the salad and Mexican bars), cheese and yogurt. · 
2. Think up new ways to serve the above protein-packed items with these ideas: 
Mash up black beans and mix with olive oil in order to make a great spread to add to your sand­wich. 
Take a sweet or a baked potato and add a mixture of black beans, tomatoes and a little bit of sour cream and cheese. For an even quicker meal, just pour a little chili over a baked potato. 
Don't stick with plain tuna, kick it up. Try taking either the salad bar tuna or the sandwich bar tuna spread and mixing in ingre­dients like olives and even corn. Then layer on cheese and spinach and give it a good toast in the Panini maker to make it into a great tuna melt. If you're not a tuna fan, you can take the same idea and apply it to egg salad. 

Instead of adding meatballs to your spaghetti, look for other options. Try adding in some cooked vegetables and extra cheese to make it a little heartier. 
3. Make an excellent salad. Salad is so much more than just a bunch of green stuff. Try out all of those things on the salad bar and load it up with lots of flavor and vitamins. 
4. 
Take advantage of the new things in the dining hall. The North pizza bar usually offers pesto sauce more often, both din­ing halls try out sushi and usually crab meats appears at the stir fry bar (You can even request it to use in other things. It would make a great addition to a salad or pasta). Keep an eye out and you might find something really worth the try. 

5. 
Deal. It might be annoying sometimes, but hey, it's only one day a week. Listen to your mom's good advice and eat your vegeta­bles instead. 


Have your own dining hall recipe? We would love to feature it! E-mail mfordice@nd.edu 
-------------------------------, 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, March 5, 2009 
NFL 

Warner gives Cardinals hometown discount 
Initially, Warner had sought to 
Associated Press 
be among the top five paid quarterbacks in the NFL, about TEMPE, Ariz.-Kurt Warner $14.5 million a year. But on wound up right where he want­Tuesday, Bartelstein offered ed to be, with a hefty pay raise Arizona a two-year, $23 million to return to the Arizona team deal. The Cardinals initially had he led to the Super Bowl. offered two years and $20 mil­
The 3 7 -year-old quarterback lion. agreed to terms Wednesday on The deal was essentially a two-year, $23 million contract reached on Tuesday, Cardinals with the Cardinals. general manager Rod Graves 
"I love what we've been said, with only a few details to doing," Warner said. "I love be ironed out on Wednesday. what we've been building "We wanted to come up with here." a number that was fair to Kurt, 
The deal includes a $15 mil­and to be able to do that within lion signing bonus. Combined the context of other team objec­with a $4 million salary for the tives," Graves said. first year of the contract, $19 The Cardinals now turn their million is guaranteed. attention to possible free agent 
"We're ecstatic about the signings and new contracts for commitment the organization some of their current players, has made to us," Warner said. including safety Adrian Wilson "Now it's my job for the next and linebacker Karlos Dansby. two years to go fulfill my part of Earlier in the negotiations, the deal." Warner had offered to give $1 
He believes it's his final NFL million a year of his contract contract. toward a new deal for Boldin, "You never say never," but that provision wasn't in the Warner said, "but I'm old." linal agreement. 
He had talked about needing Boldin has asked to be traded time after the season to decide because he feels the Cardinals whether to retire, a thought failed to follow through on a that turned out to be fleeting. promise for a new contract a 

"Probably two days after the year ago. Pro Bowl all that was on my Graves said the team still mind was football," Warner plans to eventually address said. "I told my wife, 'Sorry Boldin's desire for a long-term job after an injury to Trent "To add a player like Matt, n't have to pay $6 million that honey, it's not time."' contract. Green. who will also give us outstand­was guaranteed him this sea­
He said he understands that Warner has been with the Warner led the Rams to two ing leadership, makes us a bet­son. he's getting a lot of money in a Cardinals for four seasons but Super Bowls, winning one of ter team," coach John ESPN reported that the deal time of financial hardship for so had to win the starting job from them, but lost his starting job to Harbaugh said. "We're not with Cincinnati was worth $28 many. Matt Leinart in training camp a Marc Bulger and left as a free standing pat. We're moving for­million, another indication of 
"You know the numbers are year ago. He went on to have a agent for the New York Giants, ward and getting better." how badly the Bengals wanted staggering, and to add to that Pro Bowl season that rivaled his where he was displaced by Lewis earned his lOth Pro him. Coles also visited Buffalo the economy and where people league MVP days with the St. rookie Eli Manning. Bowl this season after leading last week. are struggling, it's tough," Louis Rams. Then it was off to Arizona, the NFL's second-ranked "Clearly, Laveranues gives our Warner said. "But all I know is He started all 20 games for where he went from backup to defense with 160 tackles. He passing game another proven I've worked hard to get to the Arizona last season. In 16 regu­the leader of a franchise that also had 31/z sacks, three inter­weapon," coach Marvin Lewis point that I'm at, to be in this lar-season games, Warner com­rocketed from nowhere in 2008. ceptions and two fumble recov­said. "He's been durable and position and have opportunities pleted 67 percent of his throws eries. reliable, with high production in like this and I don't regret that for 4,583 yards and 30 touch­Lewis resigns with Baltimore catches, yards, yards-per-catch fact. downs, with 14 interceptions. OWINGS MILLS, Md. -The Coles joins Bengals and· touchdowns. He's also a 
"The fact is that's the market He finished second in the NFL Baltimore Ravens brought back CINCINNATI All the passionate player, a guy who for what I do. I'm fortunate for in completions, completion per­a famous Pro Bowl player and Cincinnati Bengals needed was will bring a very positive chem­that and I'm blessed in so many centage and yards passing. added another one, too. one day to replace their top istry to our locker room." ways." In four playoff games, he was Linebacker Ray Lewis will fin­receiver. In the past two days, the 
Warne,~;. and his wife Brenda even better, completing 68 per­ish his career with the Ravens The Bengals agreed to a four­Bengals shored up two glaring made a highly publicized visit to cent of his passes for 1,147 after reaching agreement on a year deal with former Jets needs. the San Francisco 49ers on yards and 11 touchdowns, with multiyear deal with Baltimore, receiver Laveranues Coles on They re-signed running back Monday, but he said he knew· three interceptions. which also agreeed with center Wednesday, a day after T.J. Cedric Benson to a two-year quickly that he wanted to But for one extremely costly Matt Birk on Wednesday. Houshmandzadeh left for de4ll on Tuesday, when return to the Cardinals. interception, Warner was bril­"From beginning to end as a Seattle as a free agent and sug­t{oushmandzadeh was being 
"I told my wife probably 45 liant in Arizona's 27-23 loss to Raven.... Wow!" To be with the gested that Cincinnati wasn't introduced in Seattle. The two minutes into it that I just felt Pittsburgh in the Super Bowl, same team with the same fans sincere about trying to keep of them were the only bright God say 'You're supposed to be tcompleting 31 of 43 passes for for an entire career, that does­him around. spots last season in an offense in Arizona,"' Warner said, "and :H7 yards and three touch­n't happen in the NFL," Lewis Coles got the opposite impres­that finished last in the league. I told her that. She tried to tell downs. said. "I don't think an athlete sion. The Bengals could have used me to stay open, but He just In addition, Warner was can have a greater legacy than "The Bengals were very their ft:.anchise tag on continued to confirm it." named the NFL man of the year to be able to stay in one place aggressive right from the start Houshmandzadeh, who said 
While the 49ers are planning for his off-the-field contribu­for an entire career." in talking to us," Coles said, in a repeatedly last season that he a run-oriented offense, the tions, as well as his playing By keeping Lewis, the Ravens statement released ·by the team. was willing to stay if he got a Cardinals were among the best excellence. fill the void created at inside "And when a team makes you long-term deal. By using the tag passing teams in the NFL, with Graves called Warner "an linebacker when Bart Scott feel really wanted, that's a fac­on kicker Shayne Graham, the a trio of outstanding receivers elite player, a class act, and signed with the New York Jets. tor you're not going to ignore. Bengals opened the way for him in Larry Fitzgerald, Anquan truly a professional." "We got better today. Our They said, 'Let's get this worked to leave as an unrestricted free Boldin and Steve Breaston. Warner's return to the top football team got better. I am out,' and we did." agent. 
Warner said the 49ers made was one of the best stories of very happy," general manager The Jets let the 31-year-old Houshmandzadeh visited him an offer that was larger last season, an intriguing chap­Ozzie Newsome said. "This will receiver leave as a free agent Minnesota and Seattle, and also than the one he agreed to in ter to his storybook career. !lis allow Ray to finish his career as last week, restructuring his got a multiyear offer from the Arizona. But on the flight back well-known tale includes stock­a Raven." contract to make it easier. Coles Bengals. from San Francisco, he said he ing shelves in a supermarket, Birk replaces last year's start­had another year left on his "If Cincinnati wanted, they called his agent Mark then working his way through ing center, Jason Brown, who deal, but wanted a multiyear could have had me," Bartelstein and told him to do the Arena Football League and signed a live-year, $37.5 million extension. As part of a compro­Houshmandzadeh said in what was necessary to get the NFL Europe to the Rams, where contract with the St. Louis mise, he became an unrestrict­Seattle. "They wanted me, but Cardinals deal done. he was thrust into the starting Hams. ed free agent and the team did-at their convenience." 

WANTED 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: 
Make a difference in the life of a child! Summer therapy camp for children with physical disabilities. Located on shore of Lake Superior in Big Bay, MI. Positions available for Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/Arts & Crafts/Recreation, Nurses, Therapists, Food Service, and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and love children. June 14 through August 9. Salary, room & board, and experience of lifetime pro­vided. Call or write for application and information. Bay Cliff Health Camp, 
P.O. Box 310, Big Bay, Ml49808, 
(906) 345-9314, e-mail · BayCiiffHC@aol.com. Visit us at www.baycliff.org 
FoR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer­ing 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 
T 4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Starts 6/09. $850/mo. 574-250­7653. 
Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or www.kramerhous­es.com 

NOW LEASING. LAFAYETIE TOWNHOUSES. $350/PERSON. 3,4 & 5-BDRM UNITS. 2.5 BATHS. FREE INTERNET. NEWLY REMODELED. CALL 574-234-2436 OR WWW.KRAMERHOUSES.COM 
1-3BR Contemporary Urban APTS across from Notre Dame Stadium. The Foundry features private baths for every bedroom, washer/dryer, fitness center, theater room, tanning salon, game room. Preleasing for August. Call574-232-1400 or lease online www.foundryliving.com 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs con­fidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NOs Assistance for Pregnant Students//Office of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd.edu/health-safe­ty/assistance-for-pregnant-students. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: http://osa.nd.edu/health­safety/assault/ 
Fran is the man 
It's the hardest thing in the world to believe in something, if you do it's a miracle... I believe in myself. 
54 days 


OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, March 5, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S wrRE SERVICES page 15 
NCAA Softball Div,sion 1 Top 25 
team  points  record  
1  Alabama  653  13·1  
2  Florida  644  19·2  
3  Washington  630  17-0  
4  UCLA  601  19-2  
5  Stanford  567  18·1  
6  Oklahoma  536  15·3  
7  Arizona St.  497  18·4  
8  Tennessee  489  11·1  
9  Michigan  429  13·5  
10  California  418  14·3  
11  Georgia  378  12·1  
12  Missouri  360  13·2  
13  Arizona  345  14·4  
14  La.· Lafayette  297  1D-2  
15  North Carolina  288  14·3  
16  Northwestern  227  10·6  
.11  TexasA&M  189  13·8  
18  Southern Ill.  174  11-1  
19  LSU  173  11-4  
20  Massachusettes  173  8·4  
21  Ohio St.  148  15·3  
22  Louisvitle  143  14·2  
23  DePaul  135  9·4  
24  Fresno St.  84  8·6  
25  Mississippi St.  41  1H  

NCAA Women's Tennis Divlsion1 
team points 
1 Northwestern 91 2 Georgia 84 3 NOTRE DAME 74 4 Duke 72 5 Baylor 67 6 Miami (fl.) 61 7 California 60 8 Georgia Tech. 57 9 Clllm$on 56 10 Sothem California 56 11 UCLA 53 12 Tennes$ee 46 
.:::;:~::·::,. 
12 Stanford 46 14 Kentucky 45 15 North Carolina 44 16 Arixona St. 40 17 Florida St. 36 18 LSU 35 19 Michigan 35 20 Virginia 35 
NCAA Women's Swimming Division 1 
tearn points 
1 Stanford . 297 2 Georgia 293 3 Texas 215 4 Arizona 274 5 Florida 261 6 Auburn 250 7 Tennessee 233 8 TexasA&M 226 9 California 219 10 Southern California 216 11 Minnesota 205 12 Virginia 190 13 Indiana 181 14 Wiscortsin 167 15 Penn.St 156 
around the dial 
NCAA Basketball 
Prividence at No. 16 Villanova 7 p.m., ESPN 
MLB Exhibition 
White Sox at Cubs 
4:05 p.m., WGN 
... 
MLB 


Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -The 
winter of discontent in 
Mannywood is over. 
Manny Ramirez and the 
Los Angeles Dodgers official­
ly agreed Wednesday on a 
$45 miRion, two-year con­
tract that keeps him with the 
NL West champions. The 
slugger can void the second 
season ofthe deal and again 
become a free agent. 
The stalemate was broken 
during a 6 a.m. meeting that 
brought the sides face-to­
face at owner Frank 
McCourt's Malibu home. The 
gathering came after weeks 
of protracted negotiations 
that led to starts, stops, 
offers and subsequent rejec­
tions. 

At times, McCourt's frus­tration with Ramirez's agent Scott Boras surfaced, with the owner describing the agent as "challenging to work with." 
All that was forgotten on a rainy late-winter morning when Ramirez surfaced in the Malibu mist to rejoin the team and city that embraced him after he left Boston at the July 31 trade deadline. 
"We got a great meeting," Ramirez told KCAL-TV as he emerged from a mandatory physical in suburban Inglewood. ''I'm happy to be here. We got some unfin­ished business, and that's why I'm here." 
The Dodgers confirmed the deal shortly after Ramirez passed the physi­cal. He is set to meet with the media Thursday morn­ing in Phoenix. 
Ramirez gets $10 million this year, and $15 million in deferred money with no interest, payable in $5 mil­lion installments each Jan. 15 from 2010 through 2012. If it winds up as a two-year deal, he gets $10 million each season, with three pay­ments of $8,333,333 each Jan. 15 from 2011-13. 
Ramirez has until November to decide whether to void the second season. 
Los Angeles' original offer was for $45 million in guar­anteed money, including a $4 million buyout of a 2011 option, and gave the Dodgers the ability to main­tain control of Ramirez through 2012. It also did not include the no-trade provi­sion. 
Ramirez will make a $1 million commitment to the Dodge~ Dream Foundation as part of the deal. 
"We are thrilled that Manny wants to be a Dodger and that he has made such a tremendous commitment to the Los Angeles communi­ty," McCourt said in a state· ment. "We witnessed some­thing very special last year in the way that. our fans con­nected with him and the manner in which the team came together. Now, we focus our complete and undivided attention on our primary goal, winning a world championship." 

IN BRIEF Alex Rodristuez gets hip NFL's Cooper and Penguins' Shero signs
checked oy doctor Smith still missing forward Bill Guerin NEW YORK -Alex Rodriguez has TAMPA, Fla.-Family and friends PITTSBURGH -This is becom­a new problem. refused to give up the search for two ing a recurring theme: The f 
Hours after Rodriguez played NFL players and a third man missing Pittsburgh Penguins, badly in Tuesday for the Dominican Republic four days in the Gulf of Mexico, enlist­need of a linemate for Sidney in a tuneup for the World Baseball ing private boats and planes to comb Crosby, add one of the best for­Classic, the New York Yankees the waters off the Florida coast. wards available at the trading announced he would get his ailing The Coast Guard called off the offi­deadline. hip checked by a specialist. cial search Tuesday for Oakland General manager Ray Shero 
An exam Saturday revealed a q,:st Raiders linebacker Marquis Cooper, made a second significant dead­in Rodriguez's right hip. The 33-free-agent NFL defensive lineman line move in two seasons, picking year-old slugger is scheduled to visit Corey Smith, who played for the up forward Bill Guerin from the Dr. Marc Philippon on Wednesday in Detroit Uons last season, and former New York Islanders on Vail, Colo. South Florida player William Wednesday for a conditional draft 
"Alex has proven his durability Bleakley. The friends have been miss­pick. Guerin, 38, once was one of throughout his career, and we will ing since their boat overturned the NHL's top power forwards take every precaution and step nec­Saturday in rough seas. and was the Islanders' second· essary to ensure his health as we Authorities were done, but about a leading scorer with 16 goals and near the start of the 2009 regular dozen charter boats motored out 20 assists in 61 games. season and beyond," Yankees gen­Wednesday, some with friends of the "I think it's worth a chance eral manager Brian Cashman said families aboard, to try to locate some with a Billy Guerin, that playing in a statement. signs of the men, according to dock with good players he will be able 
Rodriguez's status for the WBC workers at John's Pass near St. to score goals. I'm hoping he can was uncertain. The Dominicans' Petersburg. Three private planes also re-energize his career here in first game is Saturday against t~e flew over the endless stretch of water, Pittsburgh," Shero said. "I think Netherlands in Puerto Rico. according to Cooper's father. it's a good move for both of us." 
-

page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, March 5, 2009 

I
I ­
I 
' 
Thursday, March 5, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
Cavs' win earns them playoff spot 
Anodated Preu 
CLI\VI\LAND -LnBron .J a m o s s e o r o d 2:J poInt s , Dol unto Wost hud I:~ und u t:at'tHII'·hlgh eight stouls und t hn C I o v n Ia n d Ca v a Ii tH s IH~eumn tho t'irst toum to elineh a spot In tho NBA pluyoff's by bnatlng tho Milwauken Bueks 1J 1-7:1 on Wt1dnnsdn.y night In u poton­tial first-round snrins prn­viow. 
At 4H-12, tho Cnvuliers wrappod up their f'our·th strnight postseason btHth with moro than otHI month loft in tho rtigulur souson. But Clnvoland hus botH! doing nvnrything at an uct:niA r a tnd ra to. T h 11 Ca vs movnd :H1 gnmns ovor. 500 for thn f'lrst timn and lmproVtld tlHlir Joaguo-bost rneord at homn to 27-1. 
Mo Williams scornd 15 against his fot·mor Loam anu Zydrunas llgauskus nddBd 14 for ClevAiunrl, which low­tHAd its magic for winning tho Contrul Division to six. 
Hit:hurd .Jef'l'Br!Hin seurorl 21J for tho Bucks, currently dinging to thu No. H spot in tlto EastArn Cont'erotwo. 
CIAvA!and swnpt thn four­gamo s1:1usun snrios botwo11n thn toums, who could mnnt again in April with morA more at Htuko. 
MilwaukAfl was still within striking diHtanell latA in tho third quarttH, but Wally S:wznrbiuk hit a :~-pointAr and .lamAs f'ollowod with ono of his own as thu Ca.vs, w ho s o A m n d d I sIn ttil' tl s ttHI for mudt ol' thtl night, took a 14-point. lnnd into thn follt'th. 
Thn But~kH fought luwk und do stHI wI 1. hI n I o wh on .lamns, who seort~d 55 in tho last mnoting botwoen thtl clubs, droppod a stop-back 3-puintnr ovlll' Lue Mbah u Moutn in tho doop cornor ntlar Milwauktlll's bnnch to mako it ~1-6H with 6:45 lnl't. .larnos puusod to udmiro his mukll boforo houding down tho !'lour. 
Clovolund was baek homo following a gru!lling, four­gumos-in-l'ivo-nights road trip during whieh tho Cnvs wont :J-1 against Houston, Sun Antonio, Atlanta and Miami -all likoly pluyoff' toums. Clevolund had to t•ally to win tho Just two games, and ovtHcamfl longthy trnvol dtllays nn routo to South Florida. 
Thn C1tvs didn't huve to work noarly as hard ngainst tho Bueks. 
As hn Wits bAing strotchod out by a trainer on th!l loek­!lr room l'loor beforo tipoff', .Jurnos, Williams and teum­matn Turoncn Klnsoy wutehed th~:~ vidtlo of' .!amos' 55-point pnrformancfl ugainst tho BuckH on Fob. 
20. .lamHs st1nmed to roeall uvory dribbln, puss and shot and was most impressod by his 24-polnt, third-quurtlll' nxplosion. 
"That's thn bt~st quarter l'vo nvor sAfln," hfl said. 
Thtlrn would btl no eneoro for .JanHlH, who attomptt~d just 11 shots and sat out the l'i nul !'out· min u tos. 
Ahead by just thrtlA polutH in the sneond quartnr, th11 Cuvuliors wont on It 'J-0 run euppnd hy a :~-polnt.nr from .I ll llltls U.ll d () IHHitHI ll 4 H -:~ I) hnlf't.inw )Had. 
,Jnl'l'tlt'son kopt thn Buds d osA nil by hI m s td f' n s h11 He or nd I 7 po In t s In I. h11 oponing hull'. 
AP 



Aasocilued l'ress 

PITTSBUIHiH -Not many t!lams nre eapubln of' hitting No. :-J Pittsburgh with a 21-5 run like No. I:-J Murqufltltl did to sturt t.hn second half', thtl kind of ean-yuu-nnswer-this surgn t.ltnt. shifts monwnt.um and loads to upsnts. 
T h tll' 11 pr o bab I y a r n n ' t lllllllY tnums in tho eountry that 1~un rospond t.lw wny the l'anthors did, with a 10­m i n u t 11 st 1'11 t t:lt so o v nr ­wlwltulng that it loft. oppo!l­1ng I' oa r h II u1. z Wi II I am s shu.king his hAad in admir·u­t.lun. 
Dn.luttll lllnir st~ornd 2:J points und was dominating insldn dul'lng tlw l'nnthors' dnclsiVtl 21-2 run ni'LM t.hoy t'nll bnhind by nino polntH nurly in thn sneond hall', nnd rallit1d for u 1)0-75 vietory WtHintl!idny night. 
Pitt snt up It Big East show­down against No. I ConntH~tieut on Saturday that nvtHttuully rn igh I. dnc:idA ono -or two -of tho four· top HAnds in tlw NCAA t.ournn­nwnt.. 
Tlw (;o!don Euglns t2:~-7. 12-5) startlnd Pitt by surging to a fi7-4S load with 15;56 rHmttlning. llownvnr·, thtl l'unthtll'!i (27-3, 14-:~) Wtlrtlll't f'luHlnl'l~d by the kind of' turn­uround t.hny may son again in postsnason plu.y, quiekly unswnring with 11 9-0 run f'in­l!ihfld off by Blnit•'s dunk to l.itl it. Ill 57. 
"Wn runliznd thut nvnn wlwn thny mad1:1 that run nnd wtHlt u.hnad, thut. wn wnrn nxneuting and doing things rig hI.," I' it l I~ 0 IW h J ll Ill ifl Dixon suid. "Wn took good shots and didn't makn thnm and, ovnntuully, thosn good shots hneamn mukns and wn w11rn uhln to pull away." 
Marqunttn eouldn 't llnd an answtll' to Pitt's Inside-out gamfl, with point guard LHvancn FieldH pulling up for jurnptii'H or making outlflt pu.ssos to Blair and Sum Young for qulek buskllts bnl'ot·n thn Puntlwrs mudn Murqunttfl work for polntH ut the otlwr tmd. 
"I thought wn worn right. whtll'n we ntHlllnd to bn," Willlums rmld. "For thut I 0­minutn strntc~h. wn t:nuld not muko a hasknt und ovnry­thing l.hoy mudn, it snnnwd, wns in thn paint. Tlwy'rn tho host tn1tm l'vn nvor t~oudwd against in Uw tniddltl ol' the paint. Thut'H how thny'rn built, that's how thoy'rn emwlwd." 
Fiolcls had 17 points and I 0 Its sIs t s' y 0 u 11 g s1: ()I' (l d I s points, Jtlt'mainn Dixon had 
I :J points and Gilbnt·t Brown uddnd 11 as l'itt won its 20th in a r·ow at ltornn nnd moved to I H-0 at tho l'nttlt'snn llvt1nts Cllntnr thiH snuHon. 
.lernl MeNnul seortld 2:~ points u.nd Luzar lluywurd had 22, but Marqunl.ttl lost itH third straight to a tnam rttnk!ld in thn top Hix, all sI nen st1 nI or· poI nt g u n nl Dominie Jnrnns brok1:1 a bono in his l'out. WosiAy Mnttlwws uddod 16 points but Maurlt\tl A<:knr, f'llling It for JamtlS, was hnld to six in 21J min­utos. 
"Out mind -snt is l'i tw. Wn might not huvo btllttnn UConn with 'Nie, Wtl might not huvo bouton l.ouisvillo with 'Nie, Wtl might not huvA benton Pitt with 'Nit:," Huid Williams, rnl'usi ng to blanw tho lossns on tho injury. 
MeNnal wns ~-ol'-24 l'rom thfl l'inld al'tnJ' going :l-of-1 1) whiln scoring 10 points in tlw 62-5H loHs to No. 6 Louisvilltl on Sunday. 
Tyrell Biggs put Pitt ahead to stay by scoring inside with 
11:04 rnmainlng, making it 63-61, and Fields converted a threfl-point play ahead of' anothnr close-range basknt by Blair to makA it 69-6:·L Al'ttw that, Brown hit a 3 and udded two long jumpnrs, Finlds hit It l'allaway and Blair nwdo two frtw th1·ows us a snllout nowd hogan rhunt.ing, "Wn Want UConn, Wn Wunt UConn!" 
"You lwurd Llw erowd, tlwy want UConn. Wn want l.hnm, too," Bluit· snid. 
Tho Panthtll's will gnt tlw lluskins agnin, tho sncond timo thtly havtl had u !~han('tl to knnt~k ofT lJConn whiln top­runknd this stHtson. 
Pitt nsenndnd to thn Nu. 1 t'a.nking al'tnr hnatlng Connndieut 76-6~ buhind Blair's 22 points and 2:~ t'tlbounds on Fob. 16 -thn f'lrst win in st·.hool history ovnr a No. 1 ttlam -but !'nil out of tho top spot this wnnk nl'tnr losing at Provldtmen night days lutnr. 
Thtl Panthlll's lnd by Its mnny us 10 points in Llw 11rst half nguinst Murqtwttn and wnt'tl up 4:~-:l6 at hnlf'tinw lwl'ortl Marqunttn's big run. 
"Basklltball is a gumo of' runs, and Wtl knnw wo had it in us to eomo buek," Brown Hnid. "You'vn just got to know as a tnam, dnl'tlllHivnly and ol'ftlllSivnly, whnn it eomtHi down to it, wn'rn going to bu bu.ck in thtl g~tmo and havA u ehu.nen to win it." 
Thn surgn hrinlly quh1tnd a loud, sign-waving sBIIout 1:rowd thut wns rnvvod up by th n sur p r·isn prnganw ann o u 111~ n m o n t t h n t P I tt ttsslstnnt eoneh Brundin Knight's No. 20 jnrsny woulu hoc onw on n oI' on I y I'our rnt.irnd by thn school. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 5, 2009 
NBA 
Carmelo vows to adhere to coach's policies 
After blatantly ignoring Nuggets head coach George Karl, Anthony was suspended one game this week 
Associated Press 
DENVER -Nuggets star Carmela Anthony says he wish­es George Karl would have kept his insubordination a secret but promises next time his coach tries to sub for him, he'll sprint right to the bench like a kid lunging for an empty seat at musical chairs. 
"I'm going to run. I'm going to run to the bench. I'm going to run hard to the bench," Anthony pledged Wednesday after practicing with the team for the first time since his one­game suspension for refusing to come out of Denver's game at Indiana on Sunday night. 
Anthony, who had been mired in a shooting funk, had just hit a couple of shots late in the third quarter against the Pacers and said he felt his hot hand merited his staying in the game, so he refused to be subbed for Linas Kleiza. 
Karl was incredulous. 

"There was not much anger there. It was more of a shock when it happened," Karl said Wednesday. "We sat down and decided that was kind of the mantra of our season, to be more focused, more disciplined, more professional. 
"And that crossed the line." 

So, after conferring with the team's brain trust, Karl sus­pended Anthony for the Nuggets' game Tuesday night at Detroit. 
Anthony watched the Pistons' 100-95 win from the team hotel and rejoined his teammates afterward for the flight home, then met with Karl before Wednesday's workout. 
"It was just me wanting to be in there, wanting to play, want­ing to finish that run that we just had," Anthony explained in his first public comments about the incident. ... If I was wrong, I was wrong. .I don't think I can be wrong for wanting to win a basketball game and trying to help my team win." 
Karl said there was a thin line between passionate play and insubordination and his star player crossed it by cross­ing the coach. 
"I didn't want to come out," Anthony said. "If you look at it that deeply, then yeah, I maybe was wrong. I should have come out of the game, but if you're a basketball player, you know how you feel when you get something going finally and you're about to sit, your com­petitiveness all comes out." 

What Karl wanted was for Anthony to come out. 
"I think it was a combination of different feelings, he wasn't playing very well and he finally made some shots and his reac­tion was overboard," Karl said. 
"And I get to play policeman." Anthony said he should have gotten off with a warning. 
"Well, I mean, when some­body comes to sub you out, I guess you're supposed to go out. Like I said, it was one of those things where I felt like I wanted to stay in the game and make a run and try to win that game," Anthony said. 
"In my eyes I thought the sit­uation was minute," he added. "Nobody knew what happened. ... Some of my teammates didn't even know what happened. The only people who knew was me, George and the person that was 
coming to sub me in." That's not the point, Karl said. 
To understand Karl's reac­tion, it helps to remember that he found himself in a somewhat similar situation in Milwaukee several years ago when he was coaching the Bucks and Tim Thomas refused to return to the court in the final minute of a blowout at Dnnver. 
Karl wanted to suspend Thomas, but team owner llerb Kohl wouldn't go along with it, reasoning that nobody had seen him refusing Karl's instruc­tions, so it was best to keep a lid on it. Karl lost that argu­ment and his relationship with both Thomas and Kohl cooled after that. 
This time, the Nuggets backed Karl 100 percent, and Karl made his point loud and 

dear. 
"As an organization, we talked about it and we had to ... come down in a strong way," Karl said. 
''I'm not a big believer in sus­pensions. I don't necessarily like them. I think they're prob­ably more uncomfortable to me than anybody," Karl said. "But I think there's certain situations where they are necessary." 
Interestingly, Anthony never apologized for his actions, either in his chat with the media or his 20-minute meeting with Karl. 
"I think there was just a mov­ing on kind of conversation," Karl said. "I don't know if the word 'apology' was there, but I think we all foe! that we're in a good place. We're excited about the challenge and it's best right now to forget about it and move on." 
Anthony, who will return to action Thursday night against Portland, and Karl both said there was no rift between them. 
"I never had any words with George. We never had an argu­ment. It was just, you know, he took a stance on what hap­pened and the result was a sus­pension," Anthony said. 
And he said he understands Karl's position. 
"lie's got to do his job. lie's got to coach. We've got to play. I mean, at all times during the 82-game season, everybody's not going to always agree, and that was just one of them times I didn't agree," Anthony said. "I didn't want to come out of the game." 
Anthony said it won't happen again, and Karl said he believes him. 

Con erence 
http:/jundergradresearch.nd.edu 
Thursday, March 5, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
UNC holds onto victory over Virginia Tech 
Coble leads Northwestern to upset at Purdue; MSU head coach Izzo vows to shave his head after IU victory 
10-0 burst with two free Northwestern 64, Purdue 61 

Associated Press 
throws to make it 73-62. WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. ­
Ty Lawson added 22 Kevin Coble scored 16 

BLACKSBURG, Va. points for the Tar Heels and points and Northwestern Tyler Hansbrough had 2 2 Wayne Ellington had 15. defeated No. 19 Purdue 64­points and 15 rebounds and Trailing 42-36 at half­61 on ·Wednesday night to No. 2 North Carolina stayed time, the Hokies gradually ena the Boilermakers' on track to win the Atlantic closed the gap, finally seven-game home winning
Coast Conference regular pulling even for the first streak. season title with an 86-78 time since the opening min­Michael Thompson and victory over fading Virginia utes on Vassallo's runner Craig Moore both scored 12 Tech on Wednesday night. that made it 50-all. points for the Wildcats (17­The Tar Heels (26-3, 12-But Green answered with 11, 8-9 Big Ten), who ruined 
3), who lead Duke by one his first field goal, a 3-Senior Night for Purdue. game heading into their pointer from the left cor­It was Northwestern's regular season finale on ner. third victory over a ranked 
Sunday in Chapel Hill, N.C., When Vassallo hit consec­team this season. The led almost throughout and uti've 3s later in the half, Wildcats beat Minnesota on took command with a 10-0 the latter tying it at 56 with Jan. 18, then won at run that started with 5:03 9:24 left, Green followed Michigan State on Jan. 21. to play -after the Hokies two free throws by Keaton Grant and E'Twaun closed within one. Hansbrough and a Hokies' Moore both scored 14 points
Virginia Tech (17-12, 7 -8) turnover with another 3-and JaJuan Johnson added lost for the fifth time in six pointer, this one from the 11 for the Boilermakers (22­games, and once again saw left wing, to give the Tar 8, 11-6). Purdue had won their hopes of an at-large Heels a 61-56 lead with five of its past six games,bid to the NCAA tourna­8:35 left. and had won five straight in ment dashed. The Hokies got it back the series with 
The Hokies have lost within one, but the Tar Northwestern. seven of their last 10 games Heels then pulled away for Purdue overcame a 14­and they finish the regular good. point deficit to beat season at Florida State on The Tar Heels opened the Northwestern 63-61 in Sunday. game with a 17-8 run and Evanston, Ill. on Jan. 15. 
A.D. Vassallo led Virginia led throughout the first The Boilermakers were Tech with 25 points, while half. Tech closed to 39-36 eliminated in the Big Ten Malcolm Delaney had 19 on Allen's dunk 43 seconds race on Tuesday, when and Jeff Allen added 18 before halftime, but Michigan State beat Indiana. points and 12 rebounds. Hansbrough hit a 3-pointer Northwestern led 20-17 in 
The Hokies got within 63-with 4.5 seconds left in the the first half before Purdue 62 on Vassallo's floater in half for the 42-36 lead. went on a 12-5 run, includ­the lane with 5:16 left, but Hokies seniors Vassallo ing two 3-pointers by Grant. Hansbrough hit two free and Cheick Diakite. were The Boilermakers led 35-28 throws and an 8-foot honored before the game, at halftime. Northwestern jumper, their last appearances at shot 50 percent in the first 
Lawson made two free Cassell Coliseum unless the half, but Purdue countered throws and a layup and Hokies wind up with a by making four 4-pointersDanny Green finished the home game in the NIT. and outscoring the Wildcats 
With This Special O~er.··..;Nblk·t·····••..•.•••.• ;.•.••.;.;.•.;.•.;.;.•;.;·. 
Yeur Chariot Awai.,....;. 
An Auto Loan from Notre Dame Federal Credit Union comes fully equippedwith agreat low,rate 
a full1% Cash Back. 
Apply Today! 


9-0 from the free-throw line. 
Purdue struggled offen­sively early in the second half, allowing Northwestern to rally. Coble tied the game at 47 on a fast-break layup, then Northwestern took its first lead of the half on a layup by Jeff Ryan. 
Sterling Williams followed with a layup to give the Wildcats a 51-47 lead. Williams missed the free throw on the three-point play, but the ball went out of bounds off a Purdue play­er, and Williams hit a jumper on the possession to make it 53--47. 
After Purdue failed to score, Northwestern's Thompson drained a 3­pointer to give Northwestern a nine-point lead with 5:34 to play. 
Grant made a 3-pointer to cut Northwestern's lead to 56-52 with just over 2 min­utes remaining. 
Purdue cut the deficit to two points and had several chances to get closer, but missed three free throws in the final 1:04. 
Northwestern led 64-61 in the closing seconds, and the Boilermakers put Thompson at the line with 6. 7 seconds to play and he made both. 
lzzo keeps promise _ 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. ­Tom Izzo is ready to pay the price for winning the Big Ten title. 
With his hair. 
After the No. 8 Spartans held off Indiana 64-59 on Tuesday, clinching their first outright conference crown in a decade, Izzo said he would fulfill the promise he made to students last fall by shaving his head -after the NCAA tournament. 
"I lie to my other people, but I don't lie to my stu­dents, which will be embar­rassing," the Spartans coach said. ''I'm not going to embarrass my team in the 
NCAA tournament. I'm going to wait till it's all over and embarrass my wife then." 
His players, of course, are ready to pull out the razor now. 
But Izzo thinks the Spartans (24-5, 14-3) have plenty of work ahead to get ready for next week's Big Ten tournament and the NCAAs the week after that. 
He was disappointed with his team's inability to put away a short-handed Hoosiers team that has now lost eight straight and played most of the game without leading scorer Devan Dumes, who appeared to injure his right knee less than four minutes in and did not return. 
Kalin Lucas scored 15 points and Raymar Morgan had 14 points and seven rebounds, including a thun­derous dunk off a rebound with 27.5 seconds to pre­serve the victory. The two also combined to make three free throws in the final 16 seconds to seal it. 
"We struggled, we just didn't have the energy tonight and maybe I should u n d e r s-t a n d t h a t .... b u t I don't," Izzo said. "They had a lot to do with it. They just played hard and they hurt 
us." 
Indiana (6-23, 1-16) was led by VerdeII Jones with 15 points. 
Nick Williams and Malik Story each had 11, and the three combined to lead tbe Hoosiers back from a 13­point deficit with 9:10 to go. Indiana was within 59-57 with 3:31 left but failed to convert on four opportuni­ties to tie the score or take the lead. 
Instead, they finished their home season with the fewest wins (5) since 1969­70 and tied the school record for worst home win­ning percentage (.333), set by the 1943-44 team that went 3-6. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 5, 2009 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Athletes tune up before nationals 
By NATHANIEL LEE 
Sports Writer 
Coming off of its unprece­dented 13th consecutive Big East championship, Notre Dame traveled to West Lafayette, Ind. for the Purdue Boiler-Make-It Invitationals, a final qualifier and tune-up before the NCAA Zone Diving and Swimming Championships. 
"We went out there to try and improve times in order to possibly make the NCAA Championships," Irish coach Brian Barnes said. "The 200 relay team accomplished that." 
Early in the Boiler-Make-It lnvitationals, Irish juniors Megan Farrell and Ashlee Edgell made an impact, finish­ing first and second, respec­tively, in the 200-meter indi­vidual medley. But their times of 2:01.10 and 2:04.11 were short of the NCAA B-cut. 
In the 100-meter backstroke, Irish junior Maggie Behrens swam to a second-place time of 55.41, but also came just short of a qualifying time. 
In the 100-meter butterfly time trial, sophomore Kellyn Kuhlke found her stroke, 200-meter medley relay also fell this season at the hands of Kuhlke, freshman Colleen Fotsch and sophomores Samantha Maxwell and Amywren Miller. Their first-. place time of 1:39.29 was good enough to land the final Irish NCAA B-Cut. 
"For the NCAA Championships, an A-Cut is an automatic berth, and then the rankings [of times] determine which B-Cut qualifiers will make it," Barnes said. Right now we have between two and four athletes that are hoping to get that opportunity." 
Next on the schedule for the Irish is the NCAA Zone Diving Championships, where divers Natalie Stitt, a junior, and Heidi Grossman, a sophomore, will look to make a splash. The qualifying divers will (ravel to Minneapolis, Minn., March 13 to compete. 
"Right now the athletes who might continue are training hard to just get faster," Barnes said. "We just focus on getting better in order to swim fastest at nationals and being able to make an impact there." 
The Irish swimmers will have to wait an extra week, before leaving for College Station, Texas, to compete for 

MEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Dive,rs prepare for Zone C co111petition 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 

Notre Dame's divers will look to continue their strong season at the NCAA Zone C Diving Championships in Minneapolis on March 13. 
The Irish will boast a good deal of experience in the meet, as four of their five participants competed in the event last year. 
Senior captain Michael Bulfin leads the way for the Irish and will be com­peting in the Zone Championships for the fourth consecutive year. Bulfin is coming off a strong performance a't last month's Big East champi­onships in which the All­American finished second in both the 1-meter and 3­meter diving events. 
Last season, the Fort Lauderdale, Fla., native finished in sixth place in the 1-meter at the Zone Championships and later moved on to beeome to the first diver in Notre Dame history to scorn points at the NCAA championships. 
Sophomores Erie Lex, Wesley Villaflor and 
Nathan Geary will each return to the event for the second consecutive season. Each diver performed well in Notre Dame's first-place finish at the Big East championships. 
Lex was consistent at the event, finishing fifth in the 1-meter event and third in the 3-meter event. Villaflor finished fourth in the 1-meter and seventh in the 3-meter while Geary finished ninth in the 1­meter and fifth in the 3­meter. Each diver is look­ing to advance to the finals for the first time in his career. 
Irish junior Caleb Dunnichay will make his first trip to the event. The Elwood, Ind., native was the most consistent Irish diver at the Big East championships besides Bulfin. Dunnichay finished third in the 1-meter and fourth in the 3-meter. 
Competition at the NCAA Zone C Championships begins at 1 p.m. at the University Aquatic Center on the campus of the University of Minnesota. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
NBA 
Wade's Heat beat Phoenix 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Shaquille O'Neal knocked Dwyane Wade to the ground, then stood over him for a few seconds, seeming almost unsure of what to do. 
Didn't matter. Wade was great once again -and his teammates picked him up when he needed the lift. 
Wade scored 35 points and tied his career high with 16 assists, Michael Beasley and Daequan Cook both had career highs on the way to a combined 55 points off Miami's bench. The Heat spoiled O'Neal's first trip back to South Florida since last year's trade with a 135-129 win over the Phoenix Suns on Wodnesday night. 
"It wasn't about the story line of Shaq coming back for us," Wade said. "We really needed this win." 
Beasley scored 28 points ­the most by a Heat player besides Wade this season ­and nine rebounds. Cook added 27 points and Miami led for all but a portion of the opening minutes on the way to the sec­ond-highest point total in fran­chise history. 
touching the wall at 53.96 sec­individual and national recog­onds to earn an NCAA B-cut. nition in the three-day NCAA Sophomore Katie Casey also Championships from March managed a s:cut time in the 19-21. 200-meter butterfly prelims with a time of 1:59.35. Contact Nathaniel Lee at 
The school record in the nlee5@nd.edu 

RUNAW\YBAY 
lUXURY 1-2 BEDROOM APARTMENTS ·SAUNA ·POOL ·2 LAKES W/ WATERFAll ·VOLUYt\ALL BASKETBALL. TENNIS COURTS ·WALK-IN CLOSETS ·FIREPLACES 
•WID 
CONNECTIONS ·7 MIN. TO NOTRE DAME 

•fiTNESS 
CENTER •HOTTUB 


l'N!OY THE ATTRACTIVE SURROUNDINGS AND AFFORDABLE RATES 
CALl TODAY FOR OUR SPECIALS (574) 256-1350 
Student Affairs 

is now accepting nominations for the ­
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates n1ust be seniors who exen1plify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, comn1itment to Notre Datne, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff, or fellow students. 
For a notnination forn1, please visit our website at: 
http://osa.nd.edu/get-involved/student-activities-and-awards/denny-moore-award/ 
Nonzinations are due by Thursday, March 5, 2009. 
Thursday, March 5, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE

N D TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish look ahead to 
Laxers set to hit-the road 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK

end of indoor season 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will finish up the indoor season with two meets over break. This weekend, the Irish will compete in the Alex Wilson Invitational, held at Notre Dame's Meyo Field. Although the Big East Championships have already been completed, the Invitational still has major ramifications for 
assist from junior attack Gina
"A lot can change this 

some athletes. "This time is 
Sciosia and three goals from
"The Alex coming weekend., kind of a 
sophomore midfield/attack
Wilson meet pro­strange time 
Shaylyn Blaney. Senior goal­
vides Notre Dame because for 
keeper Erin Goodman made 13
Mary Saxer 

athletes a last much of the 
saves.
Irish senior pole vaulter 

chance to qualify team their 
for nationals. It is an essential meet for those looking to secure a provisional or auto­matic mark that will advance them to the NCAA Indoor Track and Field Championships," jun­ior pole vaulter Matt Schipper said. 
Those who succeed in qualify­ing for nationals will take a trip down to Texas in two weeks. So far, senior pole vaulter Mary Saxer is the only Irish athlete to officially punch her ticket to the meet. Schipper, with his per­formance in the Big East Championships, also qualified, but will have to wait until the Invitational to know whether or not he will be taken. 
"The rankings change so fre­quently each week that it's diffi­cult to tell exactly who will be 
Sports Writer 
making the trip down to Texas 

The No. 11 Irish (3-1) start 
as of this moment ... A lot can 

out on the road this break as
change this coming weekend," 

they take on No. 13 Dartmouth 
Saxer said. 

(2-1) in Hanover, N.H., this
A few Irish athletes on the · 

Saturday -Notre Dame's sec­
bubble for nationals include his, 

ond away game of the season. 
younger brother, pole vaulter 

The Irish went 2-1 in their
Kevin Schipper, and senior dis­

recent three-game homestand,
tance runner Patrick Smyth. 

losing to No.1 Northwestern
As for the rest of the team 

and defeating Ohio State and
that is not in positiGn to qualify, 
No. 16 Stanford.
the next few weeks mark a 

The Irish won 17-8 over
transition peri­

Stanford last Saturday, with
od from indoor 

five goals from senior captain
to outdoor 

Jillian Byers, four goals and an
track. 

Byers' five points gave her aindoor season is 
career total of 238 points,
finished, but there are also a 

breaking the previous Notre Dame record that was set by former teammate Christi Foote. Coming into the 2009 season, Byers had 225 points, third in the Irish record books. 
"You always hear people talk about Crysti and the incredible player that she is, so to be rec­ognized with the best of the best is an incredible feeling," Byers said. 
Notre Dame hopes to keep up its winning streak over the break as they will play three games, two of them away and against ranked teams. After facing Dartmouth, the Irish will travel to Disney World to take on No. 19 James Madison Wednesday. They finish up the week back home with a match against Hofstra next Saturday. 
Notre Dame has won its only road game, defeating Duquesne 22-7 in the season opener. The only loss this sea­son was against No.1 Northwestern, who beat the Irish 21-5 in Notre Dame's home opener. The Irish came back that same weekend against Ohio State, winning 14-11. 
The Irish have had an over­all strong showing on the field this season, both offensively and defensively. Sciosia leads the team in points with 15 ­10 goals and five assists. She's followed by Byers (13), Blaney 
(11) and sophomore midfielder Kailene Abt (10). In the net, Goodman has made 33 saves in over 200 minutes of playing time this year. 
Notre Dame, who will try to keep its winning streak going, will face Dartmouth this Saturday at 12 p.m. to start off spring break play. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
handful still competing for indoor," Saxer said. "Those 
FENCING
whose indoor seasons are fin­ished are running and lifting hard here for a few weeks, get­ting ready for outdoor which 

Team faces reigning NCAAchamps
kicks off around the beginning 
of April." The athletes competing in the Alex Wilson Invitational and the 
By CHRIS MASOUDNCAA Championships will con­
Spor~Writer
tinue their in-season routines. The Invitational will begin at 5 
p.m. Friday and continue 

The NCAA Midwest region­through Saturday. The national 
al will be the make-or-break championships will take place 
event for the Notre Dame at Texas A&M University the 
fencing teams this weekend next weekend. 
as they head into the final qualifying event before the Contact Chris Michalski at 
NCAA championships. jmichal2@nd.edu · 

The only thing standing 
:Now £easina Por 2009-2010 .Jlpp{y tz'oaay £imiteaSpace .JLvaiCa6Ce!lI 
Offerine <J1i.e CJ3est <Bgnta{rf@t.es in Tcrwn! $99 Por 1..,_ :.Montfr.s <R§nt 41/itli 12 :M.ontli Lease! $300 OjJ"1n :M.ontlis <R§nt 'Witli 9 :M.ontli Lease! Pree.Jlppfication Pee Por Studimts 'Witli /.CD.! CCose to Campus! 

between the Irish and a full qualifying squad is reigning national champion Ohio State, who will be hosting the regional in Columbus, Ohio. 
"The problem is the differ­ence between us and them is so low that one day victory will be for them and another it will be for us," Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. "It was this way the whole year; our victories were minimal and their victories were minimal." 
Bednarski believes the outcome will once again be very close this weekend, but he said the team that exhibits the best form and the best technique on the strip will finish the regional on top. 
Both the Irish male and female squads will send full teams to the event after qualifying the maximum number of fighters. According to NCAA regula­tions, the Irish can send twelve men and twelve women as a result of the fencers' highly successful individual and team sea­sons. 
But the Buckeyes will also likely be sending full squads in both the men's and women's individual competi­tions. The best twenty-four fighters from both universi­ties will advance to repre­
sent the Midwest region in the championships in Pennsylvania. 
"We will have to qualify the full team to the final if we want to be in the top four in the future," Bednarski said. "That is the main goal." 
The Irish have a golden opportunity to exact revenge on their regional rival fol­lowing last weekend's sec­ond-place finish at the hands of the Buckeyes. More importantly, the fencers need a convincing win in Columbus to ensure the highest possible chance of success in the finals in late March. 
As they have done all sea­son, the fencing teams will look to their cast of talented yet inexperienced under­classmen to carry them to the finals. 
"Our kids are doing very well in their relation to stress and tension during the matches, when one touch decides history," Bednarski said. "I believe we can get our rivals one day and win a big event, but they have to grow. They have to learn and get more experience in how to behave in the stressful moments in our sport." 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
' 


.----------------­
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, March 5, 2009 
Break 
continued from page 24 
allure of Florida sunlight. 
"We played them outside at their place last year," senior Kelcy Tefft said. "And they have the core of their team back." 
After the match against the Hawkeyes, the Fighting Irish will play South Florida Wednesday. 
"South Florida is always tough for us," Tefft said. "We go down to their place and it's usually pretty hot and humid, when we haven't played out­side at all." · 
In facing two more top-ten teams within a week, after just defeating two top-25 teams last weekend, Notre Dame will not receive much of a break, despite the nice weather. Duke is playing especially well, hav­ing won at No. 1 Northwestern this past Saturday. 
"Duke is always great," Tefft said. "And they are very, very good this year." 
Leading the Irish into this 
Texas 
continued from page 24 
year. A lot of that is experience and getting comfortable in your environment." Pollock said Tate adapted well to the indoor practices because he can still manage to crank up his skills during games. 
"I know Golden will be in here and strike out a bunch of times, then go out and get four hits," Pollock said. "He's just a gamer." 
Pollock has hit .333 and is 4­of-4 in stolen base attempts. He said slow starts in previous seasons motivated him to play well early this season. To help him achieve that, Pollock said he's taken more batting prac­tice to work on getting game­ready rather than working on fundamentals with a batting tee. 
Pollock also said his team 
UNLV 
continued from page 24 
ment, where the Irish will have three full days of playing, facing Texas Tech twice, UNLV, UC-Santa Barbara and UCLA. 
"We need to have a competi­tive edge. It's 
match will be Tefft, ranked 
No. 31 for singles pli).y and 
ranked second in doubles, 
along with freshman Kristy 
Frilling. 
While four matches in eight · days over a break may seem 
excessive, the Irish are accus­
tomed to such tests. 
"We just like to get outside 
and play some matches. Every 
year we know we are going to 
have to play over break," Tefft 
said. 
But while the trip south 
could carry heavy implications 
for the team's season, the 
break will not be all competi­
tion. 
"It is really good for us to 
get in three outdoor matches 
ove.r break, as long as we get 
to see the sun and it is 
warmer than twenty degrees," 
Teftt said. 
Notre Dame begins spring 
break Friday, but for the ten­
nis team the break will only be 
from academics. The team 
begins its tough stretch Friday 
when it hosts Iowa at 3 p.m. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer 1 @nd.edu 
has speed, and will begin to utilize it soon. 
"We've done a pretty good job, I think we're going to start turning that on the next couple of series," he said. 
The team knows what they have to do to win, Pollock said. 
"It's not so much the high average, it's going out there and being willing to be the guy to drive in the run," he said. 
Schrage said the team is closing in on a lineup after playing most of the team in the first two series to get everyone some live at-bats. He also said the pitching staff has battled injuries, which makes the search for a closer difficult, but he's happy about the depth of the staff. 
"That's fun as a coach, we can manage the game," Schrage said. "We have lefty­righty matchups we can use." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
sure  they'll  all  be just  as  
tough."  
With the last few days  on  

campus before these back-to­hack tournaments, the team has been focusing on getting in as much practice as possible. 
"We've been hitting a lot, taking a lot of ground balls, hitting off live pitching, and 
having the 
more fun to coaches pitch to
"Our pitching and the 
play against us, so we can 
them because fact that we improved see as many 
they are much so much from the first pitches as we better competi­can," Fleury
weekend to the second 
tion," Fleury said.
weekend makes us
said. "It's much Last time the more of a chal­ready.'' teams played, lenge." the Irish beat The team will Sacramento
Katie Fleury 
then travel to State 11-0 at 
Sophomore shortstop 
Fullerton, Stanford's Nike 
Calif., to com­pete in the Judi-Garman Classic, where the Irish will play Penn State, Oklahoma, Pacific, Arizona and Arizona State to conclude their spring break tournaments. Much of the season's major competition will be seen at this tourna­ment, as Arizona, Oklahoma, Arizona State and UCLA all finished in the top 20 last sea­son. 
"Arizona State will be our biggest challenge. They've won the national champi­onships the most over the years," Fleury said. "But I'm 
Invitational in Palo Alto, Calif. Fleury said that tournament boosted Notre Dame's confidence. 
"Our pitching and the fact that we improved so much from the first weekend to the second weekend makes us ready," Fleury said. 
This spring break trip marks the last consecutive tourna­ment away from South Bend, as the team will begin to host teams the week after spring break. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
Seniors 
continued from page 24 

for the Irish when they take the Joyce Center court against St. John's. Friday's game will serve as Senior Night, and the team's four graduating seniors -Kyle McAlarney, Ryan Ayers, Zach Hillesland .and Luke Zeller ­will all be honored before the game. 
For a group that has grown particularly close over their· four years in South Bend, Friday's game will be an emo­tional experience. 
"I got sick to my stomach. I actually almost threw up the other day thinking about it; lit­erally," McAlarney s·aid. "It's crazy. This place really means a lot to me. This program really means a lot to me. It's pretty r:nw:;h been my whole life in the time that I. was here. Emotions are going to be flying high on Friday." 
"It's going to be all team­mate-based," llillesland said in reference to how he'll remem­ber his four years at Notre Dame. "Certainly I have some on-court memories here and there, but if anyone asks me about my time at Notre Dame, what my favorite thing was, it's always going to be the team­mates that I've had and the friendships that I've developed. 
Hillesland added: "I don't usually view myself as very sentimental. But I can say that now, but who knows what's going to happen when they call my name and I walk out with my mom and sister and I'm kind of treating it like any other game. I think I'll have my emo­tions in check, but you never really know until you get out there." 
Despite Notre Dame's strug­gles this season, this year's group of !ieniors has a lot to be proud of about its time in South Bend. In 2007, they were part of the first Irish team to make the NCAA Tournament since 2003. One year later, all four played major roles in helping Notre Dame back to the NCAA Tournament and challenging for the Big East regular season title in the process. 
They were also major pa.rts of the Irish teams (2006-2009) that put together the nation's longest home winning streak of 45 that ended earlier this sea­son against Connecticut. 
"It's probably the total pack­age of guys that have been a part of a lot of winning overall ... but how they've handled their business academically and how they represented their business and the University, I'm really proud of," Brey said. "Four really, as they say, class acts, who've had great runs for us. Been through a lot of highs and a lot of lows." 
For the seniors, ending their home careers on a high is not a given. Despite the fact that St. John's currently sits tied for 12th place in the conference standings -two spots behind Notre Dame -the Red Storm defeated the Irish 71-66 when the two teams met in New York on Jan. 3. 
In that game, Notre Dame was unable to stop St. John's guard D.J. Kennedy, who racked up 20 points on 6-of-10 shooting to go along with 10 rebounds. The Irish offense was plagued by poor shooting in that contest as the team made only 4-of-17 three-point field goals. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish look to capitalize on victory 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame finished a stretch of six games in two weeks with a 5-2 win over Michigan Wednesday. Strong singles play was the key to the victory, with the Irish taking first through fifth singles. 
The Wolverines swept the three doubles matches, giving them an early 1-0 lead. Irish sophomore Tyler David played his first singles match since Feb. 21 against Ohio State, but fell in a second set tie-breaker to Michigan's Drew Daniel. The rest of the Irish players won their matches, ineluding No. 21 Brett Helgeson, who came from behind to defeat Jason Jung 2-6, 6-1, 6-2. 
Irish sophomore Stephen Havens defeated Michigan's 
Heels 
continued from page 24 

the third quarter and a late Irish rally came up short. Corrigan said North Carolina goalie Grant Zimmerman, who made 18 saves, was the key player in that game. 
"I thought that was the differ­ence in the game last year," Corrigan said. "This year we have to make sure that we take good shots, keep the pressure on him, and see if we can't get some more by him." 
That shouldn't be a problem for the Irish offense if they can replicate their performance from last weekend, a 19-goal outburst against Dartmouth. Notre Dame has spread the points around, as 14 different players have scored this season. Senior Duncan Swezey was the man against the Big Green with five goals, but juniors Neal Hicks and Grant Krebs have also reg­istered hat tricks for the Irish this year. 
"That, to me, is a sign of not just the quality of our depth but Andrew Mazlin, who coach Bobby Bayliss described as having "one of the biggest serves in college tennis." 
With the win, Notre Dame rose above .500 with a record of 8-7. The Irish will now gear up for a four-day spring break trip to California starting today. 
"The biggest thing we try to get in California is outdoor play. The· college tennis world by this time is pretty much an outdoor one, but South Bend does not always accommodate that schedule," Bayliss said. 
The Irish will have to adjust to wind conditions and alter their footwork, as the ball tends to change. directions more outside. The Irish will be attending Pacific Coast Doubles, a prestigious event featuring big-name schools like UCLA, USC, California, 
also the way that we're play­ing," Corrigan said. "We're play­ing very unselfishly, we're play­ing in a manner that's allowing a lot of people to contribute, and I think that makes you harder to defend because there's not just one guy they can look at." 
The Tar Heels, though, are similar to the Irish in many respects. Twenty-three different players have notched at least a point for them this season, with 19 different goal-scorers. Senior attack Bart Wagner leads the way with 16 goals and 7 assists, but sophomore attack Billy Bitter and redshirt junior attack Gavin Petracca have also notched 22 and 21 points, respectively. 
"They're very balanced offen­sively," Corrigan said. "Their scoring is pretty well-distributed among their attacking midfield. Their attackmen have got a lot points, but they don't generate most of their offense, a lot of that comes from the midfield." 
Zimmerman will be back in net for the Tar Heels, posting a 
6.40 GM so far on the season. For the Irish, the man between the pipes will be senior Scott Stanford and Pepperdine. 
"Our guys are pretty excited about [the Pacific Coast Doubles], so motivation will not be a problem," Bayliss said. 
As the season progresses toward playoffs, Bayliss said his team must improve its doubles play and get more production from the lower portion of the lineup. The team is inexperienced, and maturity may be a factor come playoff time. 
"Our young guys are quite capable, but predictably have difficulty playing as well in matches as they do in prac­tice," Bayliss said. 
The Irish return home March 28 and 29 against South Florida and Illinois. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 
Rodgers, who has made 39 saves in just three games this season, good for an 8.08 GM. Corrigan said, though, that it would be up to the rest of the squad to make sure Rodgers is able to do his job. 
"They're playing very well offensively," he said. "And I think it's going to take a good team defensive effort to stop them." lA stingy defensive showing combined with the explosive offense of last weekend could result in a good weekend for the Irish. 
"I think we have to play well across the board," Corrigan said. "We can't falter in some area of the game because with a team as talented as they are at every position, you just can't have an area of the game where you perform poorly or they'll be there to take advantage of it." · 
The opening faceoff is set for 1 p.m. Sunday at Loftus and the game will be aired on tape delay on CBS College Sports network at 4:30 p.m. Sunday. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 

Thursday, March 5, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
Across 39 Ringo's drummer Suffix with social 
son 
Best in mental 40 Plunders combat 

42 Soma eggs I Soma rain gear 
43 Products once 

~Hold one's __ 
pitched by U2 i Time magazine's and Eminem 2007 Invention 
45 See 66-Across
of the Year 49 Basilica part 

I Jacques Cousteau's 50 Riga resident middle name 
51 Start of caesar's 

' See 66-Across 
boast I Cockpit datum 54 Texas panhandle I Bridge 
citydeclaration 
58 See 66-Across 

! They're inserted in locks 61 Related 
1 City on the Nile 62 Soldiers may be i See 66-Across 
on it r Influential Greek 63 Abbr. in French physician mail ! 11100 of a krone 64 TV heroine who 1 Roof projection wielded a I Sch. with a chakram as a Providence 
weapon 

campus 65 Sixth graders, i See 66-Across e.g. 
NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

WILLSHORTZ 
66 Word defined by 17-, 25-, 35·, 45­and 58-Across 
Down Seat of Allen County, Kan. 2 Deux : France :: 
._:Germany 3 Technician: Abbr. 4 Artist's 
application 5 AmP.hetamines, e.g. 6 Separate the · wheat from the 
chaff 7 Golf club 8 Like 
Beethoven's Sixth Symphony 9 Place to start a hole 
10 News Corporation acquisition of 


2005 11 New Balance competitor 12 Business 
honchos 13l.A.S. data: Abbr. 18 In harmony 19Tag Info 23 Greek restaurant 
offering 24 Logk:al Introduction? 25 Captain of 
industry 260ut 27 Hole-making tool 28 Shadow remover 29 Duck 30 Mice might elk:lt 
them 31 Wise guy 
Pilule by Barry c. Slllc 

36 Pet sounds 46 Crude letters? 54 Chip Without dip?
37The Swiss 47 "Get Shorty" Guards guard novelist __ 55 An arm or a leghim Leonard 

38 Cold northerly 48 George who 56 __ Linda, Calif. winds of directed "Miracle southern France on 34th Street" 57 Humdinger 
51 Big film shower 
41 Endurance 59 Fitting 
52 Salad veggie 

44#_down!" ("Drop the gun!") 530 __ queen 60 66-Across topic 
For answers. call1·900·285·5656. $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card. f·SQ0-814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best ol Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: H!S&-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobi~xword tor more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2.000 past puules, nylimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytlmes.comlwordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/teaming/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Justin Jeffre, 36; Sean Astin, 38; Tom Courte­·nay, 72; Sally Jessy Raphael, 74 
Happy Birthday: Take care of emotional matters this year. Your creative spin to an old 
idea will interest someone you have not talked to in a long time. Reconnect by making 
the first move. The results will positively affect how far ahead you get this year. Your 
numbers are 10, 12, 16, 21, 26, 34,49 

ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Judge your next move based on your own position and 
what you want to see unfold. Talks will help but only with those who are already on 
board. It's OK to sit back and observe. *** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A past problem at work will surface again if you didn't 
take care of it the first time around. Rely on your allies in order to win a better position. 
It's all about standing up for your rights. **** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Someone will pull a fast move that could derail your plans. Uncertainty regarding some of your social and family relationships must be put aside and not be allowed to influence what needs to be done immediately. ** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You've got more going for you than you realize. Take a stab at something you enjoy doing. Changes to your environment will enable you to find a space that contributes to your comfort and peace of mind. ***** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Love is skyrocketing and solid ground can be found on which 
to build your life. Past connections that were never allowed to develop will now help to 
fulfill your dreams, hopes and wishes for the future. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept 22): You've got a lot at stake and if you don't resolve past issues first, you may lose out on something good. A little fancy talking and a few crucial maneu­vers and you should be in the ballpark for an opportunity that develops. *** 
LmRA (Sept 23-0ct. 22): Your best offers will come from the past and, with your abil­ity to develop and creatively and intelligently put things together, you will fmd yourself placed in a key position. Social activities and networking will be to your advantage. 
*** 

SCORPIO (Oct 23-Nov. 21): Get out and about where you can breath easy and discover what it is you really want to see happen. Get away from your normal routine and negative people. It will help you gain a clear picture of what you must do. ***** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Someone will try to outmaneuver you by making last-minute alterations, or decisions. Don't fall into an unstable trap. Follow your heart and stay within your means financially, mentally and emotionally. Positive changes should be made at work and at home. ** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Everything will be dependent on how you feel and 
what you do. Don't let an emotional relationship cause you to second-guess your next 
move. An interesting change in what you do to earn a living will allow you to go in a di­
rection that has always interested you. **** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You'll be looking through rose-colored glasses and must give yourself a reality check. Put things in perspective. You may be surprised to find out who's been watching and waiting for you to notice him or her. *** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Be forgiving, open and respectful of others. Consider your own faults and fix anything you have left urumished. Change will bring about stability and a better future. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, caring and compassionate. You have great faith in 
who you are and what you can do. You are a humanitarian and a good friend. 
Eugenia's Web sites: eugenialast.comjor confidential consultations, 
myspace.comleugenialastfor Eugenia's blog, astroadvice.comjor fun 
WWW. BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

THE FoRBIDDEN DouGHNUT 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
JUMBLE 

~ 
Unscramble these tour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
WOSON 

rJ lu
1 

©2009 Tribune Media Servlces. Inc, 
r~ffl] 
YARLIF 
j

rJ r I I 
tKLEECH I

J rJ I I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKEARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WOAD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurel 

C.OMPUTEI<.S AND 
I<.AC.E C.Ar<S HAVE 
THIS IN C.OMMON. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer. as suggested by the above cartoon. 


Ans: 

THEY l I I ) " ( I I I I )" 
I 
(Answers tomorrow Jumbles: ' STOIC HUMID OCCULT NICET't Yesterday's Answer: I What the crafts class said when ttwy learned to make a bell -IT'S A "CINCH" 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
-.,. 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name _______________________________________ ___ Address ______________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip_______ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, March 5, 2009 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Going out in style? 
Hoopsters hope to win Senior Night contest against S ]U 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
After Monday's demoralizing loss to Villanova, many have accepted that Notre Dame's hopes of making the NCAA Tournament are slim, but the Irish players haven't. At the very least, that's the team's party line as it prepares for the final game of the regular season Friday against St. John's. 
"I don't think we're accepting anything," senior Ryan Ayers said about the team's postsea­son possibilities. "Anything could happen from here, so why would we give up now. We're going to come out with a lot of pride and play with a lot of heart on Friday." 
Besides the fact that their postseason lives will be on life support, emotions will be high 
see SENIORS/page 22 


ND SOFTBALL 
Squad set for return to action 
By MOLLY SAMMON Sporrs Writer 
With spring break approach­ing, Notre Dame anticipates a long week of play in the south­western portion of the coun­try, playing a group of teams with different abilities. 
The Irish traveled to North Carolina State for the Wolfpack Invitational last weekend, only to later find out all games were cancelled due to excessive rain. 
"Not being able to play was really boring because we were just sitting in the hotel room," sophomore shortstop Katie Fleury said. "You can't do any form of activity at" all." 
The first stop for the team next week will be the University •of Nevada-Las Vegas's invitational tourna­
see UNLV/page 21 

BASEBALL 
Notre Dame heads south to take on No.7 Rice and others 
"Right now, we're concerned ticed outside more this season Despite the fact that the Junior A.J. Pollock and soph­By BILL BRINK more about how we're playing than in the past, but sporadic team hasn't spent much time omore Golden Tate have also 
Sports Ediror 
than who we're playing," he indoor practices prevent the outside, some players have had success at the ·plate. Tate said. "We only really get three team from practicing fly balls. started the season hot at the is batting .385 with a .429 on­
The Irish will get a tough test days of practice and then When indoor on the football plate. Sophomore infielders base percentage from the lead­this weekend when they face we're on the road again travel­field at the Loftus Sports Mick Doyle and Greg Sherry off spot. No. 7 Rice, one of three teams ing." Center, the team practices fun­lead the team in hitting with "I think Golden has matured Notre Dame will play in Notre Dame (3-3) will play damentals and footwork. averages of .438 through the as a player," Schrage said. Houston, Texas, but Irish Oral Roberts Friday, Rice "We can take a lot of ground first six games. "Very similar to football, where coach Dave Schrage said he's Saturday and Washington State balls, and I think that's shown "[Doyle] didn't play much last he had a little better second not concerned about who his Sunday. Because of warmer in our infield defense," year as a freshman but he's off team faces. weather, the Irish have prac-Schrage said. to a great start," Schrage said. see TEXAS/page 22 
N D WOMEN's TENNIS 
Irish set for tough stretch 
ol-­
Squad will face No.4 Duke in Orlando, Fla. 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
Before Notre Dame heads south to Florida and Georgia for spring break, the No. 3 Irish will host Iowa (6-5) 
·Friday at 3 p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavillon. 
Starting with this match, the Irish (11-1) will have four matches in eight days during spring break. The team will also face South Florida (1-5) in Tampa, No. 4 Duke (9-1) in Orlando, and finally, No. 8 Georgia Tech (5-4) in Atlanta. 
But first and foremost, the team must face Iowa, a match not to be over-looked amidst the high rankings and the 
see BREAK/page 22 


MEN'S lACROSSE 
ND prepares to host No. 3 UNC at Loftus 
By SAM WERNER Sports Writer 
The No. 7 Irish will face their toughest test of the young season this weekend when they wel­come third-ranked North Carolina to the Loftus Sports Center Sunday. 
Notre Dame coach Kevin Corrigan said that, while he rec­ognizes the Tar Heels (6-0) are a very talented team, he didn't want to get caught up in the rankings. 
"I don't think anyone's oblivi­ous to the fact that they're No. 3 in the country," he said "But I don't think it's something we'll spend much time talking about."· 
Irish senior captain Peter Christman said that, at thislevel, all the teams are virtually equal, and rankings don't matter much. 
"Lacrosse has become such a competitive sport, especially in the top 10. There's really not one team that has separated itself this year," he said. "When you get a matchup with someone such as North Carolina, the rank­ings sort of go out the window and you're just trying to fmd your advantages on both sides of the field." 
Corrigan said North Carolina's biggest strength is its depth at every position. 
"They really don't have a hole in their lineup right now." he said. "They've got experienced guys playing at every spot in their lineup." 
The Tar Heels beat the Irish 8­6 last year, thanks to five goals from then-junior Ben Hunt. North Carolina built a 5-0 lead by 
see HEELS/page 22 






