Photo by Ian Gavlick and graphic by Andrea Archer 

THE OBSERVER 
Brian Kelly ‘the right man’ for ND 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 


ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 

OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 

SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

Sports Graphics 
Matt Gamber Andrea Archer Sam Werner Photos Ian Gavlick 

IAN GAVLICK/The Observer Brian Kelly addresses the media Friday at the Guglielmino Athletics Complex as Director of Athletics Jack Swarbrick looks on. Kelly was announced as the new Irish head coach Thursday night. 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Associate Sports Editor 

After weeks of rumors and specula­tion, Brian Kelly was officially intro­duced as Notre Dame’s 29th head coach Friday. 
Kelly has signed a five-year deal to coach the Irish after leading Cincinnati to consecutive BCS appearances. The 47-year old Kelly went 34-6 in three years with the Bearcats, and was named Big East Coach of the Year all three seasons. Kelly also won the national Home Depot Coach of the Year award Thursday night. 
“Nobody does it like Notre Dame,” Kelly said. “There’s a chapel in every dorm, and there’s a leader around every corner, and we will cultivate that leadership here at Notre Dame, and we will continue to move towards excellence both in the class­room and on the football field.” 
A veteran with 19 years of head coaching experience, Kelly will not coach Cincinnati’s Sugar Bowl game against Florida. He informed the Bearcats team of his decision Thursday afternoon before the team’s banquet. 
“I’m forever grateful to the players at the University of Cincinnati for what they gave me. They gave me this opportunity here at Notre Dame. Their work on the field gave me a great opportunity for my family, and for that I’m forever grateful,” Kelly said. “But transition is difficult. Emotion gets involved, and I only wish all of them the very, very best.” 
Director of Athletics Jack Swarbrick said he had a timeline with the goal of hiring a new coach by this weekend, and was excited to finalize the agreement with Kelly Thursday. 
“We followed our criteria, we stuck to it, and at every step along the way, it kept taking me back to the same place. It kept taking me back to the conclusion that Brian Kelly was the right person to lead this program,” Swarbrick said. “He was the first person I talked to. He was the only person I offered this opportunity to. And it was a compelling case throughout.” 
The news of Kelly’s hiring broke Thursday afternoon and was official­ly announced through a university release that night. 
“Growing up as an Irish Catholic in Boston, Massachusetts, I’d come home from church after driving my parents crazy and listen to the reruns or the replays of Notre Dame foot­ball, and indelibly etched in my mind, in my vision was the great Lindsey Nelson 
“They want to win 
talking about as we what it used to be. You move further into the football games, and weren’t in my shoes,” third quarter, the Swarbrick said. “The 
they want to be led.” 
action, and Notre interest in being the Dame playing that leader of this program day,” Kelly said. “That Brian Kelly was extraordinary, and was all that was on the Irish coach I was so buoyed by the want to win football games, and they want to be led. They want to be developed. I could tell that immedi­ately. 
“You do not come to the University of Notre Dame because you want to be average. You want to be the best of the best. And that’s why I’m here. It inspires me to be around young men like I had in front of me today.” Swarbrick said that throughout the process he sought the advice of sev­eral members of the team, who helped the director of athletics with the search. 
“I read a lot of things about people saying that this was a less attractive 
job than it used to be, 
or the interest was not 
TV in the Kelly house.” 
Kelly said the Notre Dame job has been a dream of his for years. 
“The story is like this: You come home as a parent and you’re going to tell your kids that they’re moving and they love the friends and they love the community, and as we started to tell them, tears began to well up in their eyes, and Gracie came up to me, grabbed me, hugged me and said, ‘Dad, I’m so happy for you. I know this has been your dream. And I’m sad for me just for a little bit. Is that okay?’ And I kissed her, and I said, ‘You know what, that’s what is so magical about this is that my kids know that this was a dream for me,’” Kelly said. 
Kelly also met with the Notre Dame team before his press conference Friday, and had a strong initial impression. 
“They want to win,” Kelly said. “They’re like any other football pro­gram that I’ve been around; they level of that interest 
and the way many of the best coaches in the country were really interested in being part of our program.” 
One trait that stood out to Swarbrick was Kelly’s appreciation for the tradi­tions of Notre Dame, and he honored the new coach with a unique gift. 
“There’s a tradition that we didn’t discuss that you may or may not be familiar with. The last element of that team Mass frequently as celebrated by Fr. Doyle, who’s with us today, is to identify a saint that we’re honoring that day, and every player as they leave the mass and head across the walk or get on the bus for an away game, gets a medal to take with them. Many of our players figure out a way to affix that to their uniforms or other­wise have it with them. And yes, we do keep of the saints’ won loss records. We’re careful about that,” Swarbrick said. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 





THE CINCINNATI STAFF 


Kelly has ‘plan in place’ for coaching staff 












Kerry Coombs Mike Elston Bob Diaco Jeff Quinn Greg Forest Lorenzo Guess Tim Hinton William Inge Charley Molnar 
Associate HC, Special Teams, Defensive Off. Coordinator, Recruiting, Passing Game, 
Quarterbacks Tight Ends Linebackers

Def. Backs Defensive Line Coordinator Offensive Line Running Backs Receivers 
Interim head coach Rob Ianello Kelly. He was a sports manage-success of Notre Dame’s running three seasons. 
By BILL BRINK 

has taken the head coaching job at ment intern in 1991 at Grand backs coach, Tony Alford, in Coombs would replace Corwin 
Sports Writer 

Akron, leaving the positions of Valley State, Kelly’s first year. improving the run game and the Brown, the associate head coach 
receivers coach and recruiting Forest has had great success this fact that Hinton was the only and defensive backs coach. Notre 
Charlie Weis is gone, Brian Kelly coordinator open. year with both quarterbacks Tony coach Kelly inherited at Dame’s defensive backs underper­is here, but there are two groups Bearcats offensive coordinator Pike and Zach Collaros. Notre Cincinnati, Hinton is less likely formed this season based on pre­of assistants and coordinators Jeff Quinn has been with Kelly the Dame’s quarterbacks coach, Ron than others to make the jump. He vious performance and perceived whose job situation remains longest, back to Kelly’s days at Powlus, has helped develop has coached multiple positions, level of talent. uncertain. Grand Valley State. Quinn played Clausen into one of the nation’s however, which adds to his Cincinnati’s linebackers coach, 
Some Irish assistants led their football and wrestled at Elmhurst top passers. appeal. William Inge, has coached at departments to success this sea-College and was a third-team All-Charley Molnar has run the Lorenzo Guess, Cincinnati’s tight Cincinnati for two years but in son and coached their players to America selection in football in Bearcats passing game for the ends coach, has a background in 2008 three of the team’s top four drastic improvement, but other 1993. He coached football and past four years and worked with strength and conditioning in both tacklers were linebackers — not position groups took steps back. wrestling at DePauw starting in Kelly while he was at Central football and basketball. He has not the case at Notre Dame. Notre Kelly has not yet announced who 1984 and moved to Ohio Northern Michigan, where he coached Dan coached with Kelly long. Bernie Dame’s linebackers coach Jon he would bring with him and who, in 1986. LeFevour during his freshman Parmalee, Notre Dame’s tight ends Tenuta has enjoyed great success if any, of Notre Dame’s assistants Quinn has coached alongside year. At Cincinnati, along with the coach, helped Anthony Fasano elsewhere, but his blitz-happy he will retain, but did say he Kelly for 19 years and joined success of Pike and Collaros, and John Carlson reach the NFL. style of defense hasn’t produced would interview all of Notre Cincinnati’s staff for the 2007 sea-Molnar coached receiver Mardy Given Notre Dame’s struggles on results during his tenure at Notre Dame’s assistants. son. He also served as the offen-Gilyard to a great season. defense, Kelly will likely make Dame. 
“I’ve got a plan in place. I clearly sive line coach. Weis functioned as The closest parallel at Notre changes to the defensive staff. Bob Defensive line coach Mike Elston know where I want to go,” he said. Notre Dame’s offensive coordina-Dame is Ianello, who previously Diaco took over as the Bearcats’ spent his first year coaching the “I want to make sure I talk to tor. served under Weis as receivers offensive coordinator before this linemen after two years as the everyone involved in the process.” Quinn’s offensive line counter-coach and recruiting coordinator. season. Previously he served as tight ends coach. Elston would 
Kelly said he would begin the part, Frank Verducci, joined the Ianello helped receivers Michael defensive coordinator at Virginia replace Notre Dame defensive line process Monday. staff this season and helped the Floyd and Golden Tate flourish and as linebacker and special coach Randy Hart, who has 39 
“That’s a process that won’t take line’s play, keeping junior quarter-during his tenure and also knows teams coach before that. years of college coaching experi­very much time,” he said. “I’ve got back Jimmy Clausen off his back Notre Dame’s recruiting inside Kerry Coombs, Kelly’s associate ence, 21 of them at Washington. a lot of those pieces already put and allowing the running game to and out, giving him a strong case head coach and defensive backs Notre Dame recorded 20 sacks together.” improve. The Irish rushed for 3.8 to stay around. coach at Cincinnati, may make the and 73 tackles for loss this season. 
Some seem like logical choices yards per carry this year. Cincinnati’s recruiting coordina-trip with him. Coombs started in to keep; others seem as though Quarterbacks coach Greg Forest tor, Tim Hinton, also serves as the the high school ranks and has Contact Bill Brink at their jobs might be in jeopardy. has also spent a long time with running backs coach. Given the coached with Kelly for the past wbrink@nd.edu 

PLAYER REACTION 

Irish players impressed by new coach’s energy, passion 
Notre Dame, said he’s talked 
By BILL BRINK 
to friends of his on the 
Sports Writer 
Bearcats and even a manager of the team throughout the 

One word emanated from process. He’s heard nothing the players and resonated but positive responses and throughout the Guglielmino saw it himself Friday morn-Athletics Complex Friday ing. afternoon. “The way he carried him-
The word stemmed from self, very passionate, he has a new coach Brian Kelly’s meet-love for the game,” Rudolph ing with the players that said. morning and came to light Rudolph said the Cincinnati when Kelly started speaking. basketball team used to be 
The word was energetic. the main attraction in town, 
The players echoed it and but Kelly had turned the foot-Kelly broadcast ball program it, reminiscing into a front ­about listening runner. He 
“Coach Kelly is a lot
to Notre Dame hopes Kelly can 
more energetic and
football as a kid do the same for in Boston, his outgoing.” Notre Dame. voice crescen -“When we doing as he were being 
Kapron Lewis-Moore 
answered ques-recruited it was 
Irish defensive lineman
tions. back -to -back 
“Coach Kelly BCS bowls,” is a lot more Rudolph said. energetic and outgoing, ” “That’s where we want to get sophomore defensive lineman back to.” be more upbeat, more excit-getting to work and making a Kelly’s energy shone through, Kapron Lewis -Moore said Sophomore receiver Michael ed,” he said. great impression.” but that wasn’t what really when asked about the com-Floyd said Kelly conveyed his That high-energy style also Kelly’s ability to motivate caught his ear. parison between Kelly and expectations to the team and carries over to the field. players, Crist said, will bene-“It’s really something else to former coach Charlie Weis. they weren’t much different Sophomore quarterback fit the Irish. hear a coach that’s been win-
Kelly met the team Friday from his behavior. Dayne Crist said although he “I feel that everyone fed off ning all these games to say morning to introduce himself “Just him coming in, just hadn’t watched tape of of his energy in the team it’s been his dream to coach and allow the team to get to wanting to talk about what he Cincinnati, he saw enough of meeting,” he said. His passion Notre Dame,” Johnson said. “I know him, he said. wanted in the team, us being the Bearcats to get excited was very contagious, his com-guess I’ll be a part of that 
“Basically, it was getting to a high -energize team and about the fast, quick-strike petitiveness tow in was very realization of his dream.” know him and how he does being passionate about the offense. contagious. I think it will have Johnson said he knew, how-things,” Lewis-Moore said. game,” he said. “It’ll be a little bit of a some great effects on the ever, that Kelly’s energy was 
Sophomore tight end Kyle The attitude, Floyd said, can change but I think we have team and we’re just excited only part of the equation. Rudolph, who is from carry over to the team. the guys on the team to do it,” about the whole situation.” Cincinnati, where Kelly “New coach coming in here, he said. “Everyone’s more Sophomore defensive line-Contact Bill Brink at coached prior to coming to different mentality, guys will excited than anything about man Ethan Johnson said wbrink@nd.edu 


“He has won at every level with every kind of team. He is a winner.” 
Jack Swarbrick director of athletics 


“You do not come to the University of Notre Dame because you want to be average. You want to be the best of the best.” 
Brian Kelly Irish coach 



“I want tough gentlemen.” 
Brian Kelly Irish coach 




“We can’t trade anybody. There’s no waiver wire. We’re going to develop our players, and they’re going to play their very best for us.” 
Brian Kelly Irish coach 

Photos by 
IAN GAVLICK 


COMMENTARY 

Holtz’s ‘93 squad a model for success 
Notre Dame message boards have been a free-for­all for the past month, and perhaps none more than ND Nation — the final destina­tion for dis­gruntled and 
often bois ­terous Irish fans to voice their opin ­ions, espe ­cially in times of coachi ng transition. And with F r i d a y ’s formal announce ­ment that Brian Kelly would man the Notre Dame sidelines next year, the boards went hay­wire. 
In sifting through the rub­ble of questions and com ­ments on the Kelly hire, I stumbled across one nostal­gic post that linked to an archived Sports Illustrated cover story that ran after the blitzes, but on linemen to generate pressure up front, linebackers to contain the run and defensive backs to keep plays in front of them and go after balls in the air. 
N o .  2  I r i s h  t o p p l e d  t o p  - 
r a n k e d  F l o r i d a  S t a t e  i n  a  
c o l o s s a l  c l a s h  
of unbeatens at  
N o t r e  D a m e  



The coaches publicly respected their gifted oppo­nent but privately exuded the kind of contagious confidence that sparks players and wins games in college football. They challenged their players to succeed “what though the 
odds, ” and then they put them in position, mentally and physically, to succeed. And they did it despite losing several stars to the NFL and other key players to injury. 
In that epic showdown, it was the Seminoles’ offense that mysteriously abandoned a successful running game and inexplicably disappeared for two quarters after utterly dominating on their opening drive. It was the Seminoles’ defense that lamented count­less missed tackles and couldn’t muster an answer for a downhill ground attack. It was the Seminoles’ coach­ing staff whose poor time 
management resulted in no timeouts for a 


Stadium in last-ditch
This is Notre Dame, 
1993. comeback
and there’s no 
I was only attempt that four years old denying that Kelly’s eventually fell then, and while short. And as 
new job presents an
I’ve read plenty Seminoles
unmatched set of
about the ‘93 coach Bobby Irish getting challenges and a Bowden put it robbed of a at the time, it 
glaring national
national title, was Florida 
spotlight that only his
this Austin State that let Murphy article predecessors can “the big one ” from 16 years fully comprehend. get away. 
ago was my first real foray into the way Lou Holtz’s team played that year. 
It was eye-opening. 
The cover headline — “WE DID IT! Jim Flanigan and Notre Dame outmuscle Florida State” — and the tri­umphant photo of the Irish stud defensive tackle turned me on to that ‘93 squad and convinced me that the next Notre Dame head coach should look to that team, and that game, as his model. 
Holtz was the last success­ful Irish coach, at least by Notre Dame’s lofty standards. And while every coach has his own strengths, his own style and his own approach, Kelly would be well-served to make note of what Holtz’s ‘93 team did, especially in that “Game of the Century ” against the Seminoles. 
The offense dominated the line of scrimmage, starting with All-American left tackle Aaron Taylor, a physical specimen who hustled all over the field, sold out on every play and helped spread that approach to his team­mates. They punched people in the mouth and would grind teams out with a power run­ning game for four quarters. They didn’t turn the ball over or suffer mental lapses. 
The defense played funda­mentally sound football, did-n’t allow big plays and forced turnovers. It relied not on complicated stunts and 

Stop. Reread that last para­graph, but replace Seminoles with Irish, Florida State with Notre Dame and Bobby Bowden with Bob Davie, Tyrone Willingham or Charlie Weis 
— no offense to the just ­retired Bowden, whose 388 wins at the Division I level rank second all-time. 
Now, how often have we heard that over the last 12 years? Too many, and that’s why Kelly is here now. 
He’ll do it his own way, as well he should, and I hope it works. For the record, I think it will, considering the way in which Kelly built and sus­tained successful programs at Grand Valley State, Central Michigan and Cincinnati. 
This is Notre Dame, and there’s no denying that Kelly’s new job presents an unmatched set of challenges and a glaring national spot­light that only his predeces­sors can fully comprehend. But it also presents an incred­ible array of opportunities, from elite resources to the promise of legendary status that accompanies all those who bring success to South Bend. 
Holtz was the last man to accomplish that feat, and, in truth, it’s no real secret how. The blueprint is right there in that Sports Illustrated article. 
I’ll give you the link — I wouldn’t want you to have to sift through the message boards for it. 
STUDENT REACTION 
Students hopeful with Kelly hire 
By JOSEPH McMAHON 
Associate News Editor 
Within minutes of news breaking that Brian Kelly would become Notre Dame’s 29th football coach, students started talking about how the former Cincinnati coach rep­resents a new hope for the Irish. 
“After suffering three years 
of mediocre football, I’m hopeful that Coach Kelly can restore Notre Dame’s win­ning tradition,” junior Richard Paulius said. “I guess this means the shirt next year will be Kelly green.” 
While watching Kelly’s introductory press confer­ence, junior Scott McIntosh said he was really impressed with how the coach handled the media’s questions calmly and politely — a departure from former coach Charlie Weis’ gruff handling of the 
media.  
“  E  v  e  n  
t h o u g h  h e ’s  

just taken over the pro­gram, Kelly has really impressed me with the pas­sion that he has for coaching at Notre Dame,” he said. “For not having gone here, Brian Kelly fits the Notre 
“I only hope that this passion will translate into landing recruits and winning games over the next few years.” 
Scott McIntosh junior 
Dame type. He’s very affa­ble.” 
McIntosh said he hopes Kelly’s passion for the Irish can help land top -flight recruits to build a winning Central Michigan is a strong football team. indicator that he can snap 
“I only hope that this pas-Notre Dame football out of sion will translate into land-its decade-long malaise. ing recruits and winning “Ultimately, I’d like to see 
games over the  them build to a  
n e x t  f e w  c h amp ionship  
y e a r s , ” h e said. J unior Riley  “I just hope Kelly can turn the program  b y m y s e n i o r year,” he said “He’s built pro- 
Orloff was par- around before I  grams very fast  
t i c u l a r l y impressed with t h e h i g h - graduate. I’d like to see at least one  in the past, so I don’t think it’s u n r e a s o n a b l e  
octane offense K e l l y r a n a t Cincinnati, and  winning regular season.”  to win in three years.” H o w e v e r ,  
said he hopes  junior Marcus  
the  new  coach  Mike Delach  P e r e z  i s  n o t  
c a n  d e v e l o p  junior  c o n v i n c e d  

Notre Dame ’s talented play­ers into national award-win­ning stars. 
“If he can turn [Cincinnati quarterback] Tony Pike into a BCS quarterback, [Irish quarterback] Dayne Crist is going to win the Heisman,” 
Orloff said. 
Freshman Adam Schmitz said although his first Notre Dame football season was dis­appointing, he thinks Kelly pos­sesses the quali­ties of a suc ­cessful Notre Dame coach. 
“He ’s very charismatic and he’s pumped up about our foot­ball team, ” he said. “Plus, he 
knows the tradition.” 
Schmitz said Kelly’s record of quickly turning around historically losing programs such as Cincinnati and Kelly may be 
the perfect coach for Notre Dame, noting that Kelly is known as an 
offensive guru while the Irish’s biggest problem under Weis was an anemic defense. 
“I would have liked to see a more defensive -minded coach, but I trust that Kelly will be able to lead the team to a great season next year,” Perez said. 
For the Class of 2011, next year represents their last opportunity to see a winning regular season while at Notre Dame. Junior Mike Delach said he would like to see Kelly have a successful first year to help heal some of the worst scars of the Weis era, including avenging loss­es to Navy. 
“I just hope Kelly can turn the program around next year before I graduate,” Delach said. “I’d like to see at least one winning regular season.” 
Contact Joe McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

BRIAN KELLY PROFILE 

Coach brings winning history to Notre Dame 
Résumé highlighted by 19 years of head coaching experience at Grand Valley State, Central Michigan, Cincinnati 
By SAM WERNER 
Associate Sports Editor 
Brian Kelly comes to Notre Dame with more collegiate accolades and achievements than any other Notre Dame coach in recent history — at least in the last decade. 
From Grand Valley State to Central Michigan to Cincinnati, Kelly has blazed a trail of foot­ball success all the way to South Bend. 
After four years playing line­backer, Kelly graduated from Assumption College in 1983. Four years later, he joined the coaching staff at Grand Valley State as a graduate assistant and defensive backs coach. He was promoted to defensive coordinator in 1989, and then to head coach in 1991. 
Kelly led the Lakers to win­ning seasons in each of his 13 years at Grand Valley State, compiling a 118-35-2 overall record. In his final three sea­sons in Grand Rapids, the Lakers went 41-2, at one point winning 20 games in a row. Kelly’s 2001 team set a Division II record by averaging 
58.4 points per game. 
In 2002 and 2003, Kelly led Grand Valley State to back-to­back Division II national championships, and was named AFCA Division II Coach of the Year in both seasons. 
Kelly was hired by Central Michigan in 2004, and imme­diately turned around a pro­gram that had won more than three games only once in the previous four seasons. 

After a 4-7 record in his first year, Kelly led the Chippewas to a 6-5 mark in 2005, Central Michigan’s first winning sea­son in seven years. 
The next year, Central Michigan went 9-4, won the MAC and qualified for the Motor City Bowl. Before Kelly could coach the team in the bowl game, though, he accept­ed an offer from Cincinnati to take its head coaching posi­tion. 
In his first full season with the Bearcats, Kelly led the team to their first 10-win sea­son since 1949, and was named Big East Coach of the Year. 
“[Mark] Dantonio left, and everyone was kind of like, ‘What’s going to happen now?’ Are they going to go back to just mediocrity?’” Garrett Sabelhaus, Sports Editor of the Cincinnati News-Record stu­dent newspaper, said earlier this week. “Then Brian Kelly came along, picked up right where Dantonio left off and just took it to heights nobody had ever imagined could hap­pen at UC.” 
Sabelhaus said a big part of the transition was getting the team used to Kelly’s potent spread offensive scheme. 
“He just installed his system over the offseason, and then the next year they started to be that machine on offense that you see now as pretty pol­ished,” Sabelhaus said. 
In 2008, Kelly led the Bearcats to their first ever Big East title and BCS berth. This year, Cincinnati is currently undefeated and will play Florida in the Sugar Bowl. Sabelhaus said that Kelly’s decision to not coach the Bearcats in arguably the biggest game in their history could irk some in the Queen City. 
“I think what people might be a little concerned with, and maybe turn on B.K. a little bit, is if he leaves before the bowl game,” Sabelhaus said. 
While Kelly brings a potent offensive attack to Notre Dame, Sabelhaus also said that the defense was likely to improve under the new regime. 
“The thing is, [Cincinnati’s defense] is a motivated group of guys,” Sabelhaus said. “You’ve got to think that if Brian Kelly gets the kind of recruits that Notre Dame gets, he’s going to do something with them, whether it’s on offense or defense.” 
Sabelhaus added that Kelly was savvy enough with the media to handle the intense spotlight in South Bend. 
“The way he handles the media is almost kind of a genius way,” Sabelhaus said. “He gets everybody on his side.” 
Kelly will get to face the media scrutiny right away, as a talented roster has many Irish fans hoping for a BCS berth in 2010. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 









