
THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Tournament raises funds for Africa 
Irish men's soccer team hosts 'Lose the Shoes' games to help Grassroot program 

By LAURA MYERS 
News Writer 
No shoes? No problem. 
This weekend Notre Dame will become the latest school to host Lose the Shoes, a 3­on-3 barefoot soccer tourna­ment to benefit Grassroot Soccer. 
The tournament -organ­ized by the Irish men's soc­cer coach Bobby Clark and MBA student Luke Scullion -will feature 32 teams of three players each. The teams will play soccer Saturday afternoon on South Quad, and the championship will be played Sunday dur­ing halftime of Notre Dame's game against Cincinnati. 

GRC launches poster campaign 
Week-long effort to raise awareness of eating disorders, help improve students' self esteem 
By MEGAN HEMLER 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students may soon be seeing their friends, classmates and themselves in a whole new way. The Gender Issues Committee of student government is launching the "Love Thee Notre Dame, Love Thyself" poster campaign, which is co­sponsored by the Counseling Center, The Gender Relations Center (GRC), Feminist Voice and the Snite Museum. 
The campaign posters fea­ture pictures of body parts of anonymous volunteers that 
are accompanied by phrases emphasizing what their bod­ies can do other than just their appearance. 
"With the publicity sur­rounding the "Thin" exhibit at the Snite, we wanted to circulate examples of positive body image," Robyn Grant, co-director of the Gender Issues Committee, said. "Most advertising is not truly repre­sentative of the average human body." 
Grant also said that the goal of the campaign is to "dissociate emotions with physical appearance, and reclaim the body as a tool that does amazing things." 
The posters will be unveiled all over campus on Oct. 1 to kick off "Body Image and Eating Disorders Awareness Week 2009" at Notre Dame from Oct. 1-8. The goal of the campaign as well as the overall event is to raise awareness of body image and eating disorder issues. 
Along with the poster cam­paign, a screening of the movie "Mean Girls," a Mass and Coffee House Open Mic Night are all among the events planned for that week. 
"Both women and men at the University struggle with eating disorders," Grant said. 
"We hope to alleviate some of the pressure to maintain a 'perfect' body." 
The photo shoot with volun­teers took place Sunday afternoon. Twelve models participated, and the Gender Issues Committee created the positive captions for the posters. Model Aidan Gillespie said the photo shoot "was a fun experience. I can't wait to see my leg on a poster somewhere in O'Shaugnessy." 
Grant hopes the posters will help improve self esteem on campus. 
"Everyone came away with 
see GRC/page 4 
"We want to get it started this year, and hopefully do it every year," Scullion said. "Like Bookstore Basketball, we want to make it part of Notre Dame tradition." 
Each participant must donate at least $10, though more donations are wel­come. 
Prizes will be awarded to the winning team as well as to the team that raises the most money and to the team that scores the most points in a single game. Scullion said the prizes are not final but may include basketball tickets and Grassroots gear. 
Scullion said other fundraisers will be held 
see SHOES/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


NDalmnni speakabout real estate business 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
Notre Dame's Entrepreneurship Society has hosted speakers that have graced the cover of Forbes Magazine. But co-pres­ident Michael Streit wanted to feature something a little clos­er to home this year. 
So when a group of recent alumni who started a business in South Bend contacted Streit about speaking to the Society, he saw an opportunity. 
The 2001 Notre Dame grad­uates founded Rent Like a Champion, which restores run­down houses surrounding campus and rents the homes to students and visitors during home football weekends. 
"I think this is an interesting case. These Notre Dame guys are true entrepreneurs, taking land lording and trying to do it a little differently," Streit said. "This is cool because it's very real and a little more close to home." 
Streit said he is expecting about 140 students to attend the talk at 7 p.m. Tuesday night in room 155 of DeBartolo Hall. 
Co-founder of the company Jordan Curnes said he, along with two college friends, bought a house in foreclosure in 2005 and spread the word to family and friends that they had a space available during 
see BUSINESS/page 4 

Australia program students injured 
Observer Staff Report 
Two Notre Dame students studying abroad in an Australia program were injured while rock climbing, according to Bill Kirk, asso­ciate vice president for Hesidence Life. 
Kirk said he cannot com­ment further on the injuries without permission from the families of the students. 
The Office of International Studies, Student Affairs and the host university in Australia have been corre­sponding and offering assis­tance to the families and will continue to do so, Kirk said. 
He said the families are asking for the prayers of the Notre Dame community. 
The University has two Australia study abroad pro­grams, according to the Office of International Study's Web site. 
One program is located in Perth, Australia and the other is in Fremantle. Both are semester-long pro­grams. 
One arrested at MSU game 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Associate News Editor 
While Notre Dame fans held their breath hoping the Irish would pull out a victory against Michigan State, six people were arrested and 26 people were removed from Notre Dame Stadium. 
According to the director of the Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) Phillip Johnson, most of the incidents were alcohol­related. 
However, one man was arrested for assaulting three 
see ARRESTS/page 4 


INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER SGA to work on accessiblity page 3 • Interhall opening weekend page 24 • Joel McHale interview page 12 • Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, September 22, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 
The n1eaning of life 
Taking up the torch from my illus­trious forebears, I will now endeav­or to set forth a theory of the mean­ing of life. Unlike them, however, I will reach my conclusion in only four hundred 
words, proving my superior intellect and defying the strictures of this column. 
First hypothesis: life is for yourself. Model: a single, free-floating 


point. Epicurus Joey Kuhn and his follower Lucretius were 
Assistant 
proponents of the 
Scene Editor 

doctrine that the goal of life is to seek pleasure and to avoid pain. Seeking pleasure does not necessarily mean binge drink­ing, stuffing your face with McDonald's, and smackin' hoes every night; Lucretius admirably held knowledge to be the highest pleasure. Nevertheless, theory fails because it makes for a very cold, lonesome life. 
Second hypothesis: life is for you and your soul mate. Model: two points attached by a line. Belief cur­rently in vogue in certain circles of Hollywood and among writers of books about teenage vampires. Respectable and much cozier than the first theory, but many brains (Ovid, Augustine, Dante, Shakespeare, among others) have pointed out the fallacy of this path. Theory fails because two hopeless lovers become cut off from everyone and everything else, leading to dis­aster. 
Third hypothesis: life is for every­one. Model: triangle. Belief that love must extend to all humans as well as God. Christian writers such as St. Bonaventure and St. Anselm rea­soned that three is the smallest number of persons possible for a God who loves us. A one-person God would be wrapped up in Itself. A two-person God would be wrapped up in Its love between the two. When a third person is added, the love is opened up to extend out­ward, overflowing into everything. Evidence: a three-sided figure is the simplest polygon that can contain any area, i.e. that can encompass anything else. Furthermore, the number pi is built fundamentally into the fabric of the universe by means of circles, historically consid­ered the most perfect and divine of shapes. Pi equals three (the three persons of God) plus an infinite dec­imal tail (the endless overflow of love from those three persons). Pi also sounds like pie (pizza or other­wise), a circular and arguably per­fect food that can contain any other food as a topping and still taste amazing. 
And so without further ado, here is the answer for which you have been seeking your entire life. The meaning of life is: pi. 
Q.E.D. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Joey Kuhn at jkuhnl@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publiation and strives for rhe highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize rhat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please comact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR DREAM CAR? 






Matt Madonia  Katie Buetow  Jessica Riese  Andy Spangler  Tom Haunert  
sophomore  sophomore  senior  senior  senior  
Dillon  Lewis  McGlinn  O'Neill  Duncan  
"Bullitt's green  "An orange  "A yellow '76  "It's not about  "Anything with  
Mustang  Lamborghini  Camaro that  the car, it's  a blonde in the  
fastback. "  convertible."  transforms into  about the man  passenger  
Bumblebee. "  behind the  seat."  

wheel." 
Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

GRACE KENESEYfThe Observer Notre Dame students Blair Rashbus and Nathan Trembly take a break and play football-Monday. 
OFFBEAT 
Nimbin -a center of hip­pie culture where members of numerous communes annually celebrate a festi­val to promote cannabis use. 
The teenagers contacted police on Friday, after revealing the find to an unidentified adult they know and getting some legal advice, police said in a statement. 
Inspector Greg Moore said police were investigat­ing whose money it might be, and whether the stash of cash was linked to crime. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
White officer ordered by superior to get haircut 
PHILADELPHIA -Police in Philadelphia say a white officer who came to work with cornrows was ordered by a black superior to get a haircut because the braids violated department stan­dards. The Philadelphia Daily News reported Monday that Officer Thomas Strain was put on desk duty this month because of the braids, even though the paper reported dozens of black officers wear cornrows. 
Police spokesman Lt. Frank Vanore says Strain's boss told the officer to cut his hair to look more "pro­fessional." 
Vanore recalled only one black officer with braids in the past several years. He says that officer also was told to get a haircut. 
Teens find money in fish net, hand over to pollee 
SYDNEY -Two Australian teenagers who found almost 100,000 Australian dollars ($87 ,000) in cash during a fishing trip have handed it over to police ­after spending some time thinking about it. The pair discovered the money earli­er this month near the New South Wales town of 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
0:: 
1&.1 :::1: 
s 
3: 




0,,,,,,,
..... 
,,,,,,,
c:r: 


0,,,,,,, 
0,,,,,,, 
0,,,,,,,
,,,,,,, 
,,,,,,, 
,,,,,,, 
(,) 
0 
HIGH 81 HIGH 75 HIGH 81 HIGH 81
.... 
LOW 62 LOW 62 LOW 61 LOW 56 
IN BRIEF 
Free seasonal flu shots will be provided for students, fac­ulty and staff, as well as retirees and their spouses. Shots can be obtained in the Stephan Center today. Current Notre Dame ID cards as well as short sleeves are required. Shots will be given from 1 p.m. to 8 p.m. 
A seminar entitled "Oxidation and Reactivity of Transitional Medical Surfaces" will be held in 129 DeBartolo Hall. The seminar will be held at 3:30 p.m. today. 
The College of Science will be having Mass today at 5 p.m:Mass will be held in 101 Jordan Hall of Science. 
A meeting will be held for the Entrepreneurship Society. The meeting is entitled "Rent Like a Champion," and will be held at 7 p.m. in 155 DeBartolo Hall today. 
A lecture entitled "What Difference Does it Make?" will be held at 7 p.m. at Saint Mary's College in the Stapleton Lounge in LeMans Hall today. 
A reading of the works of Alicia Ostriker will be held in the Hammes Bookstore at 7:30p.m. today. 
The Catholic Culture Literature Series lecture "Close to Catholic: A Celebration of Kindred Spirits" will be held at 8 p.m. in 155 DeBartolo Hall today. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 



0,,,,,,,

,,,,,,, 
HIGH 80 HIGH 76 LOW 54 LOW 51 

Atlanta 79 I 68 Boston 76 I 61 Chicago 82 I 64 Denver 48 I 41 Houston 91 I 75 Los Angeles 89 I 63 Minneapolis 68 I 61 New York 77 I 65 Philadelphia 78 I 66 Phoenix 99 I 73 Seattle 87 I 58 St. Louis 77 I 65 Tampa 91 I 75 Washington 77 I 69 
Tuesday, September 22, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Rickey dies at 95 in his Minn. home 
Special to The Observer 
George Rickey died at his home in Saint Paul, Minn., on July 17, 2002, at the age of 95. As seems appropriate for a "kinetic" sculptor, an artist whose work needs motion no less than forged steel, his previ­ous addresses were numerous and far flung, including Santa Barbara, Calif.; East Chatham, N.Y.; Galesburg, Ill.; New York; Chicago; Paris; Oxford; and Helensburgh and Glenalmond in Scotland. 
But the very first of them was 1005 W. Washington St. in South Bend, Ind., not three crow-flight miles from the University of Notre Dame's Snite Museum of Art's Dillon Courtyard, where two of his sculptures, "Gyratory II" and "Two Lines Oblique," belie their ungainly titles, ele­gantly and continually dancing with every breeze, gust or gale that comes across campus. 
There are other Rickey works to be seen at the Snite, such as the six that sail the thermal air currents of the museum's atrium, and there are soon to be many more, gifts from his estate to the University, along with the volu­minous correspondence accumu­lated over the course of his unique artistic career. 
Something of that uniqueness was evident during one of his frequent return visits to South Bend, when Rickey provided a Notre Dame audience a glimpse of improbable artistic inspira­tion. Recounting his military service during World War II, he spoke of his assignment to design machine gun turrets for aircraft. It was this grim but intriguing work, he said, that taught him so much about the ball bearings, balancing weights, metal struc­ture, construction techniques and hardware that he would later put to a far less lethal use in his artistic contrivances. 
According to Charles R. Loving, director of the Snite Museum and curator of its George Rickey archive, "the promised gift of 20 George Rickey sculptures from the Rickey Foundation, as well as the future gift of his entire busi­ness and scholarly archives to Notre Dame's Archives, is a coup for Notre Dame because of Rickey's international standing as a major modern artist." 
In gratitude for these gifts and in appreciation of that standing, the Snite Museum will host a symposium Sept. 25 and 26 (Friday and Saturday) for a renewed appraisal of Rickey's works. 
The symposium, "Abstraction in the Public Sphere: New Approaches," will bring together artists and art scholars for dis­cussions of kinetic art in general and George Rickey in particular, and it will include major addresses by Nan Rosenthal, for­mer senior consultant for mod­ern and contemporary art at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and author of a biography of George Rickey, and Mary Miss, an artist whose work merges sculpture, architecture and landscape design. Concurrently, two other celebrations of Rickey's artwork will be held off campus. The Community Foundation of St. Joseph County will install five large Rickey sculptures in down­town South Bend for a year, beginning Sept. 26. 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 
SGA discusses visibility 
Plans are made to get the word out about the organization to students 
By NIKKI TAYLOR News Writer 

Saint Mary's Student Government Association (SGA) Board members decided to make themselves more trans­parent and visible to the stu­dent body at their meeting Monday night. 
"I think last year one of our main issues had to do with a lack of transparency within our organization. My hope this year is that by communication stu­
dents will be more aware of us and place their trust in us," student body president J e n n y Hoffman said. 
Ideas to get the word out about SGA, who they are, and what they do include mak­ing a Facebook page. The page would include links to the SGA Web site and 

"! think last year one ofour main issues had to do with a lack of transparency within our organization. My hope this year is that by communication students will be more aware ofus and place their trust in us. 
Jenny Hoffman President 

Caitlin O'Brien and Off-Campus gynecologist readily available Coordinator Lauren Theiss to students. One day a week hope to have the Facebook isn't very acceptable." Ravasio 
page up and run­ning by the begin­ning of next week. 
Other potential efforts include: an SGA promotional video in the dining hall, breakfasts to meet and get to know the SGA board and the increase of word of mouth. · Board 
members are all looking to find new ways to reach the students 
"! heard people complaining that we are an all women ,s school and we don ,t have a gynecologist readily available to students. One day a week isn ,t very acceptable. ,, 
Mia Ravasio Women's Issues Commissioner 
said. "I just thought there was a need on campus for students." 
Currently students can make appoint­ments to see the gynecolo­gist between the hours of 9­11 am on Tuesday morn­ings, Ravasio said. Since doc­tors come to Saint Mary's on their time off from their reg­
without adding to the barrage of e-mails that already fill their inboxes. 
"Student govern­ment is only as strong as its students," Hoffman said. "With more participation from the student body we can be even bet­ter." 
Women's Issues Commissioner Mia Ravasi, is working with the Women's Heath Center to possi­bly have additional ular offices it might be difficult to get additional times. 
The Women's Heath Center is ready to make themselves available to help students. They offer STD testing now as well as setting up a booth in the dining hall every Thursday to answer questions on every­thing from the gynecologist to strep throat, Ravasio said. 
Saint Mary's T-shirts will be sold in the Student Center atri­um this coining Wednesday through the following Tuesday. The thermos style cups that can be taken in the dining hall are on order and SGA hopes to have them for sale by October, vice-president Megan Griffin said. 
Contact Nikki Taylor at ntaylo@saintmarys.edu 

ACE program leader for Catholic service 
Special to The Observer 
In 1994, Rev. Timothy R. Scully, C.S.C., and Rev. Sean D. McGraw, C.S.C., founded Notre Dame's Alliance for Catholic Education program (ACE) in response to the urgent need for talented teachers and adminis­trators in under-resourced Catholic schools, which contin­ue to offer high quality educa­tional opportunities to low­income families across the nation. 
Since its inception, ACE has grown from a service initiative composed of a handful of Catholic school educators to a movement that has commis­sioned 1 ,200 teachers and more than 125 administrators to serve Catholic education in the United States. ACE actively sup­ports Catholic schools to ensure that they remain vibrant signs of hope. 
Today, ACE encompasses sev­eral initiatives aimed at strengthening Catholic schools, which function as hopeful solu­tions for more than 2 million children. 
Passionate and generous col­lege and university graduates join ACE Service Through Teaching, a two-year post-grad­uate service program in its 16th year of preparing teachers to serve in needy Catholic schools. ACE annually places some 175 
· event calendar as well as post­ing reminders about events around campus that would appear on the news feeds of Facebook fans or friends. Public Relations Commissioner times when students can see doctors, specifically gynecolo­gists. 
"I heard people complaining that we are an all women's school and we don't have a 
teachers in 31 communities throughout the United States. The program's three pillars ­professional education, commu­nity, and spirituality -encour­age new ACE teachers to grow as well-formed Catholic school educators, committed commu­nity members and dedicated role models. 
The Mary Ann Remick Leadership Program prepares leaders to serve Catholic educa­tion as principals and superin­tendents. Quickly becoming the largest program of its kind in the United States since its inception in 2002, the program has prepared some 125 faith­filled candidates who now serve in leadership positions in 28 states and 52 dioceses. In its preparation and formation of transformative leaders, the Mary Ann Remick Leadership Program quickens the nation­wide renewal of Catholic schools. 
The ACE Fellowship unites and forms a leadership force of alumni, families and friends of ACE eager to serve Catholic schools and support Catholic educators. Currently, 25 ACE Fellowship regional networks gather the talented ACE gradu­ates and numerous advocates of Catholic education to promote continued service for Catholic schools in the United States and internationally. 

Information Session on Study Abroad Programs in Angers, France 
Wednesday, September 23, 5:30 p.m. 229 Hayes-Healy Center 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2009 For Academic Year 2010-2011 Fall 2010 or Spring 2011 More information available at www.nd.edu/"'ois/ 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 22, 2009 
Africa. dren and its partners then "We went out to the vil­provide counseling and other
Shoes 

lages, worked with the kids, services to those who test 
held tournaments," he said. positive.
continued from page 1 

"I spoke with some of the Lose the Shoes was started throughout the afternoon, coaches, who said if they did­in 2006 by Zak Kaufman, including a heading tourna­n't have these then a student ment and a shoot-out in tournaments at Dartmouth,
"People I was playing
which students go against a the kids would as a way to goalie. be out on the with and teaching spread aware­Grassroot is an organiza­streets, and we with ended up dying ness about tion that raises AIDS aware­wouldn't know Grassroot to
with AIDS. I wanted 
ness in Africa through chil­what they were colleges and dren's soccer programs. up to." to do something high schools. Founded in 2002 by Tommy Scullion said about it.'' It has already Clark, son of Bobby Clark, the tourna­held tourna­the program has already ments also ments in 80
Tommy Clark 
spread to 14 countries in served as cre­schools and Africa and two in Latin ative ways to founder of has raised America. teach kids Grassroot more than 
Tommy Clark said he felt about AIDS $150,000. the need to start the organi­while playing "All I did zation after playing profes­soccer. For example, children was give a little talk at sional soccer in would have to Dartmouth and Zak Kaufman Africa and see­answer a ques­was one of the young people
"It gave kids someone
ing the effect tion about the in the crowd who wanted to 
to talk to. Over there 
AIDS had on disease before do something," Tommy Clark the community. there's a bit ofa shooting a said. "His idea was to engage "People I was goal. people who like playing soc­
stigma, they just try
playing with "It gave kids cer. It was a way to gather
to hush it up, sweep it 
and teaching someone to people." with ended up under the rug. This talk to," An e-mail will be sent to dying with Scullion said. students today with instruc­
opens up the lines of 
AIDS," he said. "Over there tions on how to sign up; spots
communication."
"I wanted to do there's a bit of are limited because of the something a stigma, they small number of teams. about it." Luke Scullion just try to hush "Maybe next year everyone 
Scullion, who it up, sweep it will be talking about it and
organizer of 

played semi­under the rug. want to get involved, so we
"Lose the Shoes" 
pro soccer in This opens up could have more teams," England before the lines of Scullion said. a broken leg cut his career communication." short, spent his summer Grassroot also provides Contact Laura Myers at interning with Grassroot in AIDS screening for the chil-lmyers2@nd.edu 
was away between 1 a.m. and ed by ambulance from the 4 a.m.," an e-mail sent to the public safety office to a local

Arrests 

Notre Dame student body said. hospital for possible alcohol "Entry to the apartment overdose."
continued from page 1 

appeared to be made by One man inside the Stadium 
removing a screen and open­was arrested for an alcohol people, including an NDSP offi­ing an unlocked window." violation, while 27 were cer, outside of the Stadium. According to the e-mail, removed from the Sept. 5 One underage person was also "valuable property" was stolen game. issued a summons for intoxica­from the apartment. tion but was released to an Johnson would not elaborate Contact Joseph McMahon at adult. on the incident, although he jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
Johnson said one person was said NDSP does not currently transported from the Stadium have any suspects. 
students a chance to get some real estate experience.


Business 
"We feel a strong obligation continued from page 1 to help out students," he said. "We got so much out of our 
home football weekends. experience at Notre Dame." 
When they were able to rent Sophomore. Stephen Shin it for five football games in worked as an intern at Rent the first year of owning the Like a Champion this summer, house, it dawned on the three and he said the internship friends that they had a real offered hands-on experience business opportunity. buying and rehabbing houses. 
"There was a big risk. "For students interested in People thought we were crazy real estate, you don't always for going into real estate in get an experience like this," 
South  Bend,"  he said. "They  
Curnes said. "We had a lot  "It's justfun for us.  took the interns to tax sales and  
to learn. There  We love Notre Dame  we  really  
are a lot of real estate rules, but we pooled  and this is a fun, interactive thing we  learned a lot about real estate develop­ 
all of our sav­ can do with the  ment."  
ings." Now,  the  students."  Curnes said the company is  
company owns and rents 30  Jordan Curnes  trying approach  to the  
properties  - co-founder of  business  of  
some  to  stu­ Rent Like a Champion  renting houses  
dents living off­ in  a  different  
campus for the  way.  He  said  

year and some to football fans they struck up a partnership for a weekend. with the Entrepreneurship 
"That's part of entrepre­Society on campus to help neurship," he said. "You have educate as many students as to be willing to take a risk." possible about starting a busi­
Curnes said the company ness. aims to buy one house about Although Curnes lives in every two months, usually at Chicago -Rent Like a St. Joseph County tax sales. Champion is a side business He said they have bought -the South Bend company houses for as little as $8,000. allows him to return to the 
The company follows the area every few weeks. city's zoning laws, and the "It's just fun for us," he student houses aren't clus­said. "We love Notre Dame tered together to avoid prob­and this is a fun, interactive lems in the neighborhood, thing we can do with the stu­Curnes said. dents." 
"We rehab them to make Streit said he thinks the them look nicer. We put in Entrepreneurship Society will new kitchens, new floors," he learn a lot from Curnes and said. "We can teach students his colleagues. how to do it. This is a very "Everybody kind of dreams realistic business you can get of starting their own business into with relatively low and we think they can really amounts of money." help us out," he said. 
Curnes said the company started an intern program this Contact Madeline Buckley at summer to give Notre Dame mhuckley@nd.edu 

to St. Joseph County Hospital At the Nevada game two 
~·[]

"for possible alcohol over­weeks earlier, only one man dose." was arrested outside of the 
•o•

Johnson said police are also Stadium, while four people investigating an incident that were issued summons "for 
o•o

occurred at the Fisher alcohol violations including Graduate Residences early underage drinking and sale of 
The Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business and The Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide 
Saturday morning. alcohol without a permit," "A student reported to NDSP Johnson said. that an unknown person or Johnson said a total of three 

Proudly Present 
persons entered an apartment people, including two inside of bedroom while the student the Stadium, "were transport-

Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
those struggling with eating disorders or other issues 
(Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment) 
GRC 

related to body image. The continued from page 1 
University Counseling Center 
in St. Liam Hall can be a renewed sense of confi­reached by phone at 574-631­dence," Grant said. "We hope 7336, and the GRC in 

''The Importance of Ethical Leadership" 
that for those who view the LaFortune Student Center at posters, the confidence is con­574-631-9340. tagious." 
There are a number of Contact Megan Hemler at resources on campus for mhemler1 @nd.edu 
John E. Rooney President and CEO 

U.S. Cellular 

Wednesday, September 23,2009 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 







ORLD &NATION 
Tuesday, September 22, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Ex-president defies arrest 
TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras -Deposed President Manuel Zelaya made a dramat­ic return to Honduras' capital on Monday, taking shelter from arrest at Brazil's embassy and calling for negotia­tions with the leaders who forced him from the country at gunpoint. 
The interim government ordered a 15­hour curfew, but thousands of Zelaya supporters ignored the decreed 4 p.m. (2200 GMT) shutdown and remained out­side the embassy, dancing and cheering. 
Others in the capital started rushing home, lining up at bus stands and franti­cally looking for taxis. 
The leftist leader's homecoming cre­ates a sharp new challenge for the inter­im government that has threatened repeatedly to throw him in jail if he returns. 
Guantanamo trials delayed 60 days 
GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE, Cuba -A military judge agreed Monday to another delay in the war crimes trial of five Guantanamo prisoners charged in the Sept. 11 attacks to give U.S. officials more time to decide how to try them. 
Army Col. Stephen Henley granted the 60-day continuance at the request of President Barack Obama's administra­tion, which has said it will decide by Nov. 16 which Guantanamo cases will be tried in a revamped military court and which ones moved to civilian courts. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Killer had run-ins with the police 
FARMVILLE, Va. -An aspiring California rapper who is suspected of killing a VIrginia pastor and three other people had two run­ins with police in the days before his arrest, but authorities said he never acted strange or raised suspicions. 
Richard Alden Samuel McCroskey III, 20, answered the door of a home the day before the four bodies were discovered there and calmly told police looking for a teenager from out of town that she was at the movies with a friend. A day later, McCroskey was ticketed for driving the pastor's car without a license -12 hours before the reportedly decompos­ing bodies were discovered. 
The car hadn't been reported stolen, and police said they didn't realize until later that day they had let a suspected killer go free. 
McCroskey, of Castro Valley, Calif., was an aspiring rapper in the horrorcore genre, which sets violent lyrics to hip-hop beats. He is accused of killing Mark Nieder brock, a pas­tor at a small Presbyterian church in central Virginia, and three others whose bodies were discovered Friday at the home of a Longwood University professor Debra Kelley. Niederbrock and Kelley had been separated for about a year and had a 16-year-old daughter, Emma Niederbrock. 

Accused sex tourists deny guilt 
LOS ANGELES-Three men charged with traveling to Cambodia to engage in sex acts with children have pleaded not guilty in Los Angeles. 
Ronald Boyajian, Erik Peeters and Jack Sporich entered their pleas Monday in federal court. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Child porn collecters arrested 
CHICAGO -Four men have been arrested in an FBI sting aimed at shutting down what agents said was an informal group of child pornography collectors focusing on underage boys. 
Two of the men, 22-year-old Jose Carlos Garcia of Schererville, Indiana, and 40-year-old Neal Maschke of West Chicago, ill. were arrested Saturday when they met with an undercover agent and a cooperating witness at a suburban hotel. 
Agents arrested 27-year-old Corey Stinefast in Kenosha, Wisconsin, where he lives, Saturday and 24-year-old Mark McGill of Crest Hill, Ill. on Monday. 


ClllnatUkesflleenvllonrnnen~lead 
U.N. chiefsays China is poised to become front-runner in global warming initiatives 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS China's ambition to grow quickly but cleanly soon may vault it to "front-runner" sta­tus -far ahead of the United States -in taking on global warming, the U.N. climate chief said Monday. 
China could steal the show by unveiling new plans Tuesday at a U.N. climate summit of 100 world leaders. India has also signaled that it wants to be an "active player" on climate change. 
"China and India have announced very ambitious national climate change plans. In the case of China, so ambitious that it could well become the front-runner in the fight to address climate change," U.N. climate chief Yvo de Boer told The Associated Press Monday. "The big question mark is the U.S." 
The development would mark a dramatic turnabout. The United States, under for­mer President George W. Bush's administration, long cited inaction by China and India as the reason for reject­ing mandatory cuts in green­house gases. 

Tuesday's meeting is intend­ed to rally momentum for crafting a new global climate pact at Copenhagen, Denmark, in December. Bush environment minister, said his other industrial warming five-year plan for develop­rejected the 1997 Kyoto nation was also committed to gases. ment until 2015. China Protocol for cutting global reaching a global climate At Tuesday's summit, already has said it is seeking emissions of warming gases accord. Chinese President Hu Jintao is to use 15 percent of its energy based on its impact on the "India wants a deal at expected to lay out new plans from renewable sources by 
U.S. economy and exclusion of Copenhagen. And India is pre­that focus on extending 2020. major developing nations like pared to be an active player in China's energy-saving pro­A key point of dispute China and India, both major working towards an agree­grams rather than commit­remains whether developing polluters. ment ... It is in our interests ... ting to a cap on its green­countries would agree to be 
Su Wei, director of China's because we are very climate­house gases, at least not until legally bound to a climate change department, vulnerable," Ramesh said. the fast-growing nation Copenhagen accord. The pledged a "pro-active" Todd Stern, the top U.S. cli­reaches a higher level of House of Representatives approach to make mate envoy, said the Obama development. passed a climate bill this sum­Copenhagen a success. administration also is moving Experts say they expect as a mer that would set the first 
"China takes the threat of "full speed ahead" toward first step that China will mandatory limits on green­climate change very seriously helping craft a deal. announce targets for reducing house gases and impose trade and fully recognizes the But with Congress moving the "intensity" of its carbon penalties on countries that urgency to take actions," he slowly on a measure to curb pollution -not shrinking don't cap their emissions. said, flanked by top climate emissions, the United States emissions overall, but reduc­Factories, power plants and negotiators from the U.S., could soon find itself with little ing the carbon dioxide emit­other sources would be India and Denmark at a news influence when 120 countries ted per unit of economic required to cut emissions by conference on Monday. convene in Copenhagen. growth. about 80 percent by 2050. "China will continue to play China and the U.S. together For the past four years But action in the Senate has certainly an active and con­account for about 40 percent China has been cutting energy been delayed as lawmakers structive role." of all the world's emissions of intensity and could include a wrestle with overhauling the 
Jairam Ramesh, India's carbon dioxide, methane and new carbon intensity goal in a health care system. 

INDIA 


Earthquake kills at least 11 in Bhutan 
Associated Press telephones. on collapsed, Tenzing said, adding that at 
"We're trying to piece together infor­least 15 people had been injured across 
GAUHATI, India -A 6.3-magnitude mation to assess the damage," Ugyen the earthquake zone. earthquake shook the remote mountain Tenzing, the country's director of disaster In the Trashigang district, more than nation of Bhutan on Monday, killing at management said from Thimphu, 200 Buddhist monks and 100 local offi­least 11 people, damaging an ancient Bhutan's capital. cials were forced to flee an ancient monastery and forcing hundreds to flee, He said at least seven people were monastery when it was left damaged by officials said. At least 15 people were also killed when their houses collapsed in the the quake. For centuries, much of injured. eastern districts of Munggar and Bhutan was governed from fortified 
The afternoon earthquake was initially Trashigang, and rescuers were searching monasteries, and today many of those reported in Gauhati, the capital of India's for survivors under the debris of other buildings are also used as government northeastern Assam state, but it was cen­buildings. Most buildings in that region offices. tered in a little-populated eastern region are small farmhouses made by hand The U.S. Geological Survey reported of the tiny nation of Bhutan. from mud and stone. the quake's magnitude as 6.3 and said it 
Much of Bhutan, a Himalayan nation Four Indian highway workers were was centered about 80 miles (125 kilo­sandwiched between India and China, is also killed in Bhutan's Samdrup meters) north of Gauhati and 115 miles sparsely populated, reachable only by Jhongkar district, near the border with (180 kilometers) east of Thimphu at a walking paths and without electricity or India, when the road they were working depth of 4.5 miles (7.2 kilometers). 
---
-~ ~------------­
page 6 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September 22, 2009 
Prosecution will not retry convict 
Decision comes after man spends 2 6 years zn prison for mother's stabbing in 1983 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Prosecutors will not retry a man whose murder conviction was over­turned after he spent 26 years in prison for his mother's stab­bing in Los Angeles. 
The decision was announced during a court hearing Monday. Retrying Bruce Lisker would be difficult because much of the evidence had been destroyed, authorities said. 
Lisker, 44, said he was shocked and speechless when Deputy District Attorney Pat Dixon moved to dismiss the charges. 
"I had a feeling, but you can't go on that. You have to stay on the side of caution and assume that they'll take this thing to the bitter end," Lisker said. "Justice and truth finally won out today." 
Lisker was convicted and sentenced to life in prison in the beating and stabbing of his 66-year-old mother, Dorka, in 1983 in her Sherman Oaks home. A Los Angeles Times investigation in 2005 raised questions about some of the evidence against him and his defense lawyer. 
U.S. District Judge Virginia 
A. Phillips overturned his con­viction in July, saying the trial was tainted by false evidence and Lisker's attorney did not adequately represent him. He was freed on Aug. 13 and pleaded not guilty at an arraignment. 
Dixon said he believed Lisker was guilty, but the passage of time had hurt the memories of witnesses and led to the destruction of evidence, mak­ing it difficult to proceed with a retrial. 
Lisker said he felt like his murdered mother and his father, who died while he was in prison, and other supporters were in the courtroom when the prosecutor announced the decision. 
"The people who worked so selflessly on this for so long, just because they believed in the justice of our cause, they gave me my life back and I told them that after court," he said. 
Lisker was 17 and had a his­tory of drug abuse and fighting with his mother when she was murdered on March 10, 1983. 
He lived nearby and claimed he was going to his mother's house when he looked through a window, saw her bleeding on the floor, broke into the locked house and tried to help her. 
Investigators doubted the story, saying he couldn't have seen her. At his murder trial, they claimed a bloody shoe print belonged to Lisker. 
Lisker confessed to the mur­der in prison but said he only did so in hopes of getting parole. 
The Los Angeles Times reported a new analysis con­cluded the bloody shoe print wasn't Lisker's. 

Companies able to be 
sued to cut en1issions 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -A federal appeals court ruled Monday that states trying to combat global warming can sue six electric utilities to force them to cut the greenhouse gases emitted by their power plants in 20 states. 
The 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Manhattan rein­stated the lawsuits after a lower court judge tossed out the actions brought in 2004 by eight states, New York City and three land trusts. 
The lawsuits accuse the companies of being among the largest emitters of carbon dioxide in the world and sought to force them to reduce their carbon dioxide emis­sions. 
The appeals court said the lower court judge erred in rul­ing that the issue was a politi­cal one that was not meant to be decided by the courts. 
The court said that not every case with political overtones has to be kept out of the courts. 
"It is error to equate a politi­cal question with a political case," the court wrote. "Given the checks and balances among the three branches of our government, the judiciary can no more usurp executive and legislative prerogatives than it can decline to decide matters within its jurisdiction simply because such matters may have political ramifica­tions." 
The appeals court noted that the legislative b,ranch was free to amend the Clean Air Act to regulate carbon dioxide emis­sions, and the executive branch can regulate emissions through the Environmental Protection Agency. 
It also rejected arguments by the companies that any pollu­tants must be "poisonous" or "noxious," local in nature and capable of producing immedi­ate harm to be challenged in a lawsuit. 
"The touchstone of a com­mon law public nuisance action is that the harm is widespread, unreasonably interfering with a right com­mon to the general public," the court wrote. 
The ruling was made by two judges rather than the usual three because the third judge was supposed to be Sonia Sotomayor, who is now a Supreme Court justice. 
The states bringing the law­suit are California, Connecticut, Iowa, New Jersey, New York, Rhode Island, Vermont and Wisconsin. New York City and three nonprofit land trusts also are part of the litigation. 


Grizzlies return to endangered list 
Associated Press 
BILLINGS, Montana ­Facing the combined pres­sures of habitat loss, hunters and climate change, 600 griz­zly bears in and around Yellowstone National Park are going back on the threatened species list under a federal court order issued Monday. 
The ruling highlighted cli­mate change's devastation to whitebark pine forests, which produce nuts that some griz­zlies rely upon as a mainstay. 
With hundreds of thousands of the trees dead or dying over the last two decades, bears striking out in search of new food sources increasingly are being shot in conflicts with humans. 
"There is a connection between whitebark pine and grizzly survival," U.S. District Judge Donald Molloy wrote in Monday's ruling. 
Hunting for grizzlies is ille­gal. But at least 20 were killed last year by hunters acting in self-defense or after mistaking them for other ani­mals. 
The greater Yellowstone area of Montana, Idaho and Wyoming has one of the dens­est concentrations of grizzlies in the mainlaind U.S. The ani­mals were declared recovered in March 2007 after bouncing back from near-extermination last century. 
At the time, the grizzly bear program was touted by the Bush administration as a model framework for restor­ing at-risk species, success­fully balancing conservation and the pressures of human development. 
But in his ruling, Molloy sharply criticized the ration­ale behind the decision and ordered the Obama adminis­tration to immediately restore the animal's threatened sta­tus. 

The 46-page ruling resolves a lawsuit brought by the Greater Yellowstone Coalition, a Bozeman, Montana, group that had argued the bruins' recovery remained tenuous. A separate lawsuit in federal court in Idaho still is pending. 
Molloy cited as a key factor in his decision the decline of whitebark pine, which has suffered widespread damage from forest fires, pine beetles and other factors that researchers say are exacer­bated by a warming climate. 
Government researchers have made similar links. However, those results were downplayed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service in its 2007 decision. 
"There is a disconnect between the studies the agency relies on here and its conclusions," Molloy wrote. 
Molloy also said that state and federal conservation plans meant to protect Yellowstone-area grizzlies were inadequate. He said the government relied too heavily on population monitoring and failed to spell out what steps would be taken if grizzly numbers started to fall. 
A Fish and Wildlife spokesman said Monday that Molloy's ruling was under review. Grizzlies were first listed as endangered in 1975. The government has spent more than $20 million on its effort to restore the species. 
"We're going to take some time with this ruling because it's so significant," Fish and Wildlife spokesman Matt Kales said. "This is obviously a pretty big policy matter for us. Our first and foremost concern remains with the sta­tus of the bear." 
Wyoming U.S. Rep. Cynthia Lummis called Molloy's ruling an "abuse" of the Endangered Species Act. 
"Subverting the Endangered Species Act through judicial activism under the auspice of climate change would be laughable if the impacts weren't so dire for Wyoming's public land users," she said. 
The conservation director for the Greater Yellowstone Coalition, Craig Kenworthy, said threats to grizzlies "are likely to accelerate" as cli­mate change intensifies and more tree-killing beetles sur­vive milder winters. 
It's unknown how many of Yellowstone's grizzlies are heavily dependent on white­bark pine, said Gregg Losinski with Idaho Fish and Game. 
"Yes it was a concern, but as far as a food source it never was found universally across the ecosystem for all the bears," said Losinski, member of a federal-states coordinating committee that oversees the region's griz­zlies. 
Four other groups totaling about 900 grizzlies -all in the Northwest have never lost their threatened status. 
Full grown male grizzlies can weigh 800 pounds (362 kilograms) and stand 8 feet 
(2.4 meters) tall. Most are omnivores, meaning they eat both plants and animals. 
As many as 50,000 of the animals once ranged the western half of the United States -striking terror in early European settlers who routinely shot, poisoned and trapped grizzlies until they were reduced to less than 2 percent of their historic range. 


Meet the Author 
Harlan Cohen 
The Naked Roommate: 
And 107 Other Issues You 
Might Run into in College 

September 24 
5pm -7pm Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
From sharing a bathroom with 40 strangers to sharing lecture notes, "The Naked Roommate" is the behind-the-scenes look at everything students need to know about college (but never knew they needed to know). 
Books available before and at the event. 

MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 9,778.86 -41.34 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 

1,225 116 2,512 1,015,205,660 

AMEX  
NASDAQ  2,138.04.  +5.18  
NYSE  6,96SlSI;Iiii! i1~8.33  
S&P 500  1,064.66  -3.64  
NIKKEI (Tokyo) 10,370.54~  ···  ~7326  

FTSE 100 (London) 5,134.36 -2959 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP (C) +3.99 +0.17 4.43 E*TRADE Financial Corp (ETFC) +8.15 +0.15 1.99 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -0.25 -0.27 106.45 BK OF AMERICA CP (BAC) -2.16 -0.38 17.25 

Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.37 +0.0130 3.49 13-WEEK BILL +12.50 +0.01 0.09 30-YEAR BOND +0.33 +0.0140 4.25 5-YEAR NOTE 0.00 0.00 2.46 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -2.33 69.71 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -5.40 1,004.9 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -2.00 84.60 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 92.0550 EURO 1.4676 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0792 BRITISH POUND 1.6197 






IN BRIEF Unfinished condos to be demolished 
BROWNSVILLE, Texas -Touted as the Texas Gulf Coast's most luxurious tower and later ridiculed as the "leaning tower of Padre Island," an incomplete 31-story condominium project on South Padre Island will be demol­ished. its developer announced Monday. 
The Ocean Tower, a 151-unit luxury project slated for a spa and other amenities, started construction in 2006, but stopped last summer when it became obvious the tower was sinking more rapidly than attached parking garages, causing cracks in beams and columns. 
A lawsuit filed by developer Ocean Tower LP last year said the tower's core had sunk 14 to 16 inches. while the attached garages sank less than half that amount. Ocean Tower is seeking $125 million in damages from two engineering firms. 
"Unfortunately, multiple engineering studies have led us to the conclusion that it is not eco­nomically feasible to complete the building and to provide the caliber of condominium tower that we intended to build," a prepared Monday statement from Ocean Tower LP said. 
Call for end to offshore drilling 
WASHINGTON -Opponents of offshore drilling -including some dressed as salmon and a polar bear -delivered more than 250,000 postcards and letters to the Interior Department Monday on a proposal to open vast waters off the Pacific and Atlantic coasts to oil and gas drilling. 
Interior Secretary Ken Salazar invited public comments on a sweeping blueprint for expand­ed offshore drilling that was initially proposed in the final days of the Bush administration. He didn't rule out expanded offshore drilling. But he criticized "the enormous sweep" of the Bush proposal, which envisioned energy development from New England to Alaska, including lease sales in areas off California and in the North Atlantic that have been off-limits for a quarter century. 
The proposed five-year plan includes newly identified areas for drilling in the Beaufort and Chukchi seas off Alaska's northern coast, which arn home to polar bears, whales, seals, walrus­es and other wildlife. It also would allow drilling in Alaska's Bristol Bay watershed, home to the world's most productive wild salmon streams. 

Facebook quits Beacon program 
Concerns over user privacy lead company to end use of the marketing system 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Facebook is shutting down its much­maligned Beacon marketing program, launched nearly two years ago amid fanfare only to generate a storm of privacy complaints over the tracking of user activities at partner Web sites. 
Facebook agreed to end Beacon and create a foun­dation to promote online privacy, safety and security as part of a $9.5 million set­tlement in a lawsuit over the program. A federal judge in San Jose, Calif., still must approve the terms. 
Meanwhile, Facebook is teaming up with the Nielsen Co. to help advertisers grab the attention of the hordes that are spending more of their time at the Internet hangout. Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's chief operating officer, is expected to unveil the new marketing pro­gram, called "Nielsen BrandLift," at an advertis­ing conference Tuesday in New York. 

Facebook thought the Beacon marketing program would help users keep their friends better informed about their interests while also serving as "trusted referrals" that would help drive more sales to the par­After an uproar, Palo Alto, spokesman Barry Schnitt The multiyear partner­ticipating sites. Sprinkled in Calif.-based Facebook ulti­in a statement. "For one, it ship with Nielsen marks with status updates and mately let users turn was underscored how criti­Facebook's latest attempt to photos were alerts on what Beacon off, and CEO Mark cal it is to provide extensive persuade advertisers to items their friends had Zuckerberg publicly apolo­user control over how infor­spend more money promot­bought or reviewed. gized for it. mation is shared. We also ing their brands on the site. 
But users complained that The service never really learned how to effectively Among other things, friends could learn of holi­caught on, though, and communicate changes that Nielsen will develop opt-in day gifts they had bought at Facebook said late Friday it we make to the user experi­polls that attempt to meas­the online retailer agreed to end it as part of ence." ure Facebook users' Overstock.com or learn of the proposed settlement. While Beacon was unsuc­responses to the ads that the mindless movies for The lawsuit was filed in cessful, out of the experi­show up on their pages. which they had purchased August 2008 on behalf of 19 ence grew Facebook Facebook's huge audience tickets through Fandango. users against Facebook, as Connect, which lets the already has been luring 
Users were able to well as Blockbuster Inc., online hangout's 300-mil­more advertisers to the site. decline tracking on a site­Fandango, Overstock.com lion-plus users access other The company is expected to by-site basis, but not sys­Inc. and other companies sites using their Facebook bring in more than $500 temwide -at least not ini­that used Beacon. It log-ins and share with million in revenue this year, tially. Many users simply claimed the defendants dis­Facebook information on according to Facebook didn't notice a small warn­closed users' personal activities elsewhere. board member Marc ing that appeared on a cor­information for advertising Unlike Beacon, however, Andreessen. The money ner of their Web browsers; purposes, without their Facebook Connect gives cascading into Facebook is the box disappeared after consent. users, rather than enough to cover the 5-year­about 20 seconds, after "We learned a great deal Facebook and advertisers, old company's operating which consent was from the Beacon experi­control over the information expenses, a major mile­assumed. ence," said Facebook they share. stone for startups. 



Nevv Univision president embodies future 
for the spare change and the to 2003, said he quickly noticed
Associated Press clothes they had on their back," something special about the young MIAMI -When Cesar Conde according to their son. He is also a businessman. walks into a room, his youthful Harvard graduate with an MBA "It was clear to me that he had looks and earnest countenance from the University of great potential," Powell said in an have at times led people to confuse Pennsylvania, embodying not only e-mail to The Associated Press. "I the trim executive with an intern. the immigrant dream but also the believe a person's early accomplish­But such confusion is increasingly network's future -including sec­ments are an important signal of rare. The 35-year-old was tapped ond-and third-generation Hispanics their future success, and Cesar has last month to head Univision drawn to the network because of had many of them. His sense of Networks, the most prominent hold­cultural, as well as language ties. purpose and maturity allow him to ing of Univision Communications It is his Gen X ability to move lead by bringing out the best in Inc. -the largest Spanish-language from talk of political empowerment those around him despite his young media empire in the U.S. Its signa­to market statistics to the compa­age." ture network regularly ranks fifth ny's latest reality TV offerings that Univision, and Spanish-language among all broadcast and cable net­makes Conde such a force in shap­·media in general, have long works, English or Spanish. ing the future of one of the nation's embraced advocacy journalism pro­Conde, who takes over Oct. 1, is fastest growing networks. viding a "we're on your side" ethos the Miami-born son of Peruvian and Former Secretary of State Gen. for its audience, but Conde is part Cuban immigrants who came to the Colin L. Powell, whom Conde served of a new leadership looking to 
U.S. "with absolutely nothing except as a White House Fellow from 2002 expand the tradition. 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September 22, 2009 

Floo·d kills 2-year-old boy 

Son swept away from father's arms after downpours hit Atlanta 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Surging floodwa­ters ripped apart a west Georgia trailer home, drowning a 2-year­old boy swept from his father's arms. In Atlanta, stranded motorists scrambled to the tops of their car as waters rose on one of the city's busiest highways. To the north, crews worked furiously to shore up a levee holding a surg­ing river back from an isolated town. 
Storms that pounded the Southeast on Monday turned sleepy creeks into rivers, and rivers into raging floodwaters. Six people were killed across the region, including five in the Atlanta area. Aerial shots showed schools, football fields, even entire neighborhoods submerged by the deluge, sending some unlucky residents scurrying for higher ground. 
"It's a mess all over," said Lisa Janak of the Georgia Emergency Management Agency. 
At least two people were miss­ing, including a Tennessee man who went swimming in an over­flowing ditch on a dare and a 15­year-old Georgia teen who never returned from a swim in the surg­ing Chattooga Riiver. 
The storm came after days of rain pounded most of the region and saturated the soil. Some parts of Georgia have had more than 20 inches since Friday. 
"Any rain that fell has no place to go," said Georgia climatologist David Stooksbury. "This rainfall on top of already saturated soils really made the situation worse." 
Many parts of north Georgia have experienced "historic" amounts of rain well in excess of so called 100-year predictions, which describe a storm with the likelihood of happening once every century, said Stooksbury. The downpours come just months after much of the region emerged from an epic drought that plagued the region since 2007. 
As the storm front rumbled through west Georgia, it turned a normally docile creek into a surg­ing headwater that tore apart 2­year-old Preston Slade Crawford's mobile home around 2 a.m. The boy's body wasn't found until hours later, but his parents had been rescued as another son, age 1, clung to his mother's arms in the county west of Atlanta. 
"By the time we got into our vehicle, they were screaming at the back of our house," said Pat Crawford, the boy's grandmother, who watched as the family's mobile home was whisked away. "We could see them, but the cur­rent was so bad, we couldn't get to them." 
Crawford said she was on high­er ground, unable to help her family members. Craig Crawford clung to his 2-year-old son, but the boy was pulled away in a strong undercurrent. 
To the northwest, crews in the tiny Georgia town of Trion worked to shore up a levee breached by the Chattooga River and in danger of failing. The town evacuated more than 1,500 resi­dents, and Red Cross workers quickly set up an emergency shel­ter able to help hundreds nearby. 
"It's a grave situation for us," said Lamar Canada, Chattooga County's emergency management director. 
Most of the dead were motorists trying to navigate the treacherous roadways. Seydi Burciaga, a 39­year-old woman from Georgia's Gwinnett County, was found dead in her vehicle after it was swept off a road by flooding, said Gwinnett County Fire Capt. Thomas Rutledge. 
But the surging waters weren't just dangerous for drivers. A 22­year-old Alabama man, James Dale Leigh, drowned when a pond's rain-soaked bank col­lapsed beneath him, said Etowah County Sheriff Todd Entrekin. 
Among the hardest-hit areas was Georgia's Douglas County, where as much as a foot of rain fell Monday. Flooding there was blamed for the deaths of a man and two wornen in three separate situations, said county spokesman Wes Tallon. 
Emergency officials were often forced to improvise to rescue dozens of people stranded in their homes and cars. 
"We're using everything we can get our hands on," Tallon said. "Everything from boats to Jet Skis to ropes to ladders." 
Other southeastern states were hit less severely. 
In Kentucky, rescue crews went on more than a dozen runs to help stranded people after 4 inch­es of rain fell on parts of Louisville Sunday, said Louisville fire department spokesman Sgt. Salvador Melendez. 
Water rose as high as window­level on some houses in North Carolina's Polk County, forcing emergency officials to evacuate homes along a seven-mile stretch of road. Flooding in more than 20 counties in western North Carolina closed roads, delayed school and forced evacuations. 
The forecast held little good news for Georgia: Another round of storms was expected to move in Tuesday from the west. 

Terror suspect faces charges for possession 
Associated Press 
DENVER -The attorney for a Colorado man suspect­ed of being involved in an alleged terror plot faces a marijuana possession charge in northern Colorado, but he says the drugs in question weren't his. 
Court records show Arthur Folsom, 37, was cited in June in Larimer County with possession of less than 1 ounce of marijuana, a petty offense that typically carries a fine of no more than $100 if convicted but no jail time. 
Folsom spokeswoman 
Wendy Aiello (eye-EHL'-oh) says he was cited because he was the owner of the boat where the marijuana was found during a safety inspection. She says the marijuana belonged to one of Folsom's friends who was a guest on the boat. 
A pretrial conference in the marijuana case is sched­uled for Oct. 13. 
Folsom's client, 24-year­old Najibullah Zazi (nah-jee­BOO'-lah ZAH'-zee), faces charges of lying to the gov­ernment in a matter involv­ing terrorism. He has denied being involved in a terror plot. 


THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF 

presents 
Keeping the Wolffrom the Door: Remembering El Salvador's Martyrs in America, the University and the Church 
Michael E. Lee Fordham University 
Wednesday, September 23, 2009 4:30p.m. Room 207, DeBartolo Half 


Dept. of Justic commits to stop violence, gangs 
Associated Press 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. -The 
U.S. Department of Justice is committed to helping American Indian communities battle a rising tide of violence against women and children, gang activity and other crime, a top agency official said Monday. 
Associate Attorney General Tom Perrelli said Indian com­munities have done a tremen­dous job fighting crime consid­ering their limited resources, but it's clear more needs to be done. 
"We all recognize the only way to address these problems is through a long-term and sus­tained effort," he said. "That's what we at the Department of Justice are committed to doing -finding concrete solutions that we can implement right away and deeiding what are the best long--term strategies we can work on together as partners." 
Perrelli and other agency officials were meeting Monday and Tuesday in Albuquerque with Indian leaders and law enforcement experts as part of a national initiative to address tribal justice. The meetings will set the stage for a listening ses­sion that Attorney General Eric Holder has planned for all trib­al leaders next month in Minnesota. 
The Justice Department's renewed attention to issues that have plagued Indian coun­try for decades has instilled hope in Navajo Nation President Joe Shirley Jr. and the governors of several New Mexico pueblos. 
"Every time there's an elec­tion, new leadership comes in and that new leadership some­times doesn't know what's going on out there in Native America," Shirley said. "They have to get educated, and I think that's what these work sessions are about. The more they know, the better position they're in to help us." 
On the sprawling Navajo Nation, which spans parts of Arizona, New Mexico and Utah, Shirley said gangs are running rampant and alcoholism and substance abuse have led to domestic violence, drunken driving and other crimes. 
"The crime rate is high on Navajo land. We've done every­thing we can ourselves to try to address those issues, but we need more help," he said. 
Some help came Monday with Perrelli announcing more than $82 million in federal grants for public safety and criminal justice initiatives on the Navajo Nation and at several New Mexico pueblos. 

Information Sessions on Study Abroad Programs in China: Beijing, Shanghai & Hong Kong 
Tuesday, September 22, 7:00 p.m. 117 Hayes-Healy Or Wednesday, October 7, 5:30 p.m. 229 Hayes-Healy 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2009 For Academic Year 2010-2011, Fall 2010 or Spring 2011 

Tuesday, September 22, 2009 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Fla. man accused of killing wife, kids 
Husband detained in Haiti after being named person of interest in murder case 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. -A Florida woman slain along with her five children endured regular abuse from her husband but seemed overwhelmed by trying to raise the kids herself and wanted him around as a father figure, Department of Children and Families records show. 
Police in Haiti on Monday detained Mesac Damas, wanted for questioning in the slayings of his wife, Guerline Damas, and the couple's three boys and two girls in their Naples, Fla., apartment. A relative said detectives told them their throats had been slit. 
Collier County Sheriff's deputies have called Mesac Damas a per­son of interest in the slayings. The 33-year-old boarded a flight to Haiti from Miami International Airport on Friday, a day before police found the bodies. 
Mesac Damas told The A'isociated Press at the police sta­tion where he was being held in Port-au-Prince that he had planned to surrender and that he returned to his native Caribbean nation "to say goodbye to my fam­ily." 
"I was going to turn myself in. You see I've got my suit on and everything," Damas said as police led him from a backroom where he was interrogated to a jail cell. 
He did not respond when asked ifhe killed his wife. 
Just days before he left the country, a Department of Children and Families caseworker assigned to the family had made an unannounced visit to the apartment and noted in a report that the children, ages 11 months to 9 years, seemed healthy and safe. 
Mesac Damas was home and dinner was cooked. The toddler was wearing a sundress and play­ing with her doll while the older daughter, dressed in pink, asked the caseworker if she had brought her a pink book bag, because she was going to school next year. The boys were in T­shirts and shorts and the worker didn't see any bruises or marks. 
Mesac Damas was due to finish a court-ordered battery interven­tion course in November. 
"There is no safety concern," the file reads. "Children are doing fine." 
But relatives of Guerline Damas, 32, said her husband was a "loose cannon" who would take away his wife's cell phone and be rude to her family. 
"You'd never know what he'd do," said her younger brother, Mackindy Dieu, 23, who lived with the couple several years ago. 
Dieu said his sister wasn't open about the details of her personal life and her family didn't know she was being abused until January, when Mesac Damas was arrested and charged with misde­meanor battery after he hit his wife as she held their baby daughter in her arms. 
According to DCF records, he choked her and ripped her shirt off. 



Man pleads guiltyto student's murder 
Associated Press 
CORVALLIS, Ore. -Five years after college student Brooke Wilberger disap­peared, a man arrested in her abduction pleaded guilty to murder and pointed police to the spot near the rugged Oregon coast where he had dumped her body. 
Defendant Joel Courtney, 43, avoided a possible death sentence by pleading guilty Monday to aggravated mur­der after revealing the loca­tion of Wilberger's remains. 
The developments ended one of the most publicized murder investigations in Oregon history and brought long overdue relief to the family of the 19-year-old vic­tim. 
"It might be hard for you to understand, but at this time we really feel gratitude, even to Mr. Courtney," said Cammy Wilberger, the moth­er of the teenager. 
Courtney was sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole after entering the plea in Marion County Circuit Court in Salem. 
Benton County District Attorney John Haroldson made the surprise announce­ment in the case of the Brigham Young University sophomore who vanished in May 2004 from an apart­ment building near the Oregon State University cam­pus in Corvallis. 
"He abducted her, he raped her, he murdered her and left her body in the woods," Haroldson said. 
The prosecutor once vowed to seek the death penalty in the case, but Wilberger's family said they would sup­

port a plea deal if Courtney would reveal the location of the her remains. 
"Our family has kind of likened this to an iceberg experience," Cammy Wilberger said. "Although what the public sees seems raised and maybe devastat­ing, it's nothing compared to what we see on the inside." 
Police found strands of Wilberger's hair among evi­dence collected from Courtney's van when he was arrested in 2005 in the rape of another student in New Mexico. 
He was eventually convict­ed in that case and extradited to 
her with a knife and forced her into the van, Haroldson said. 
Courtney bound her with duct tape and drove into the remote Coast Range but returned to Corvallis when he got hungry, with Wilberger in his van. 
He went back to a remote spot in the mountains and raped her, and when she tried to fight him off, Courtney killed her by bludg­eoning her skull, Haroldson said. 
Courtney's sister told investigators Courtney began using drugs at age 11, devel­
Oregon to "Although what the public 
stand trial 
sees seems raised and
for the killing 
of Wilberger. maybe devastating, its 
But it wasn't nothing compared to what until last 
we see on the inside. " 
weekend that Courtney admitted the Cammy Wilberger 
crime and victim's relative 
oped an interest in Satanism by the age of 15, and once had to be hit over the head with a clock to pre­vent him from raping her. 
He served 

revealed the location of the body. 
Wilberger disappeared from an apartment complex managed by her sister. Before she was kidnapped, she had been scrubbing lampposts outside the apart­ment building. Her flip-flop sandals were left behind. 
Haroldson said Courtney has admitted approaching two other young women in Corvallis before abducting Wilberger. Those two women became alarmed and were able to avoid abduction. 
Courtney approached Wilberger, trying to make it appear he was delivering an envelope, then threatened 
time in jail 
in Oregon 

for a 1991 sex abuse conviction in Washington County, where he grew up. 
Courtney grew up in the Portland area before moving to Alaska, Florida and New Mexico, working at times as a fisherman, mechanic and janitor. 
He eventually married and settled in Rio Rancho, N.M., an Albuquerque suburb. 
As part of the plea deal, Courtney will be returned to New Mexico to serve the remainder of his 18-year sentence there before being returned to Oregon to serve the life sentence. 
1) 2) 3)  Information Session Trinity College Dublin, Ireland Study at prestigious Trinity College Dublin Advice on how to complete the Trinity hard copy application Immerse into an Irish University and still be part ofa Notre Dame Community VVednesday,Sept.23,2009 6:00pm 117 Hayes Healy Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15, 2009 FOR ACADEMIC YEAR 2010-2011 APPLICATION AVAILABLE: WWW.ND.EDU/--QIS  

Deputy caught after killing wife, laborer 
Associated Press 
DECATUR, Ga. -A former DeKalb County sheriff's deputy who Oed after he was charged with killing his wife and a day laborer has been caught in Central America. 
Special agents from the U.S. State Department located Derrick Yancey in Punta Gorda, Belize on Saturday. Yancey was arrested by Belize law enforcement and is await­ing return to the U.S. 
Authorities say Yancey was under a $150,000 bond when he boarded a westbound Greyhound bus April 4 and disappeared somewhere between Phoenix and Los Angeles. 
He is accused in the 2008 shootings of Linda Yancey, 44, and Marcial Cax Puluc, a 20­year-old Guatemalan immi­grant he had hired to work at his home in the suburban Atlanta community of Stone Mountain. Yancey told investi­gators that Puluc had killed his wife and he killed Puluc in self-defense. 
He resigned from his job with the sheriff's department shortly before he was indicted on murder charges in August. 
Yancey was under orders to stay at his mother's home in Jonesboro, just south of Atlanta, when he removed his ankle monitor and left. The monitoring firm BI Inc. of Colorado received an alert on Yancey's bracelet at 5:41 a.m. April 4, but the sheriff's office was not notified for hours, DeKalb County Sheriff Thomas Brown said. 
Authorities said that Yancey had cashed out his $18,000 pension and paid cash for his bus ticket. Video from the bus station showed him with a new mustache, longer hair and the beginnings of a new beard. 
Jeffrey Mann, chief deputy for the DeKalb Sheriff's Office, said officials have some indi­cation that family members might have been helping Yancy but no charges were pending against any of his family. 
Yancey was featured on "America's M,ost Wanted" soon after his disappearance. 
State department agents in Belize got a tip on Yancey's whereabouts and tracked him to a local bar on Saturday evening. Authorities said an agent tapped him on the shoulder and told him, "It's time to go." 
Authorities refused to identi­fy the tipster, who stands to collect a $20,000 reward. 
Yancey is expected to be returned to the U.S. within days. 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, September 22, 2009 
TH1E OBSERVER Omission not a cure-all 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AsST. MANAGING, EDITOR: Kara King AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
N~. EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR! Man Gamber SCENic EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER! Jaclyn Espinoza CoNTROLLER: Patrick Sala SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmerz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-432-i kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 6:11-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-·1543 observersporrs@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO1 @saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTI:MS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independenr, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe srudents of rhe University ofNmre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editoria. content, including advertisements, is not governed by IJOlicies ofrhe administration ofeirher insrirurion. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigm·d editorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views ofrhe aurhors and not necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. Letters to rhe Edi.ror must be signed and must include contact informatton. 
Questions .-egarding Observa policies should be directtd to Editor-in-Chiifjenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer {USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday exccpr during aam and r.leation periods. A subscrip£ion ro The Observer is $120 for one acu:lemic year; $65 for one scmtste~~ 
Tile Oba:rvu is publish~ Iar: POSTMASTER 024 South Oining Hall Send address concaions ro: Notte Dwle.lN 465~1n9 The Observer Periodiol postage paid .at Notre Dame P.O. Bo, 719 and additional mailing ofkes. 024 Sollth Dining HaU 
Nmre Damc:.JN 46556-0779 
Tile Obsc:~r is. .a member ofthe Associated Press. AU Rproduction rig_hu are reserved. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Ashley Charnley Matt Gamber Alicia Smith Mike Gotimer Tess Civantos Chris Michalski Graphks Scene Sofia lturbe Kaitlyn Conway 
Viewpoint Lauren Brauweiller 
The abortion issue has reduced the health care debate to confusion. Let's try to put it in focus. 
When Congressman Joe Wil'ion (1'1.-SC) shouted "You Lie!" to Prnsident Baraek Obama's denial, in his address to Congress, that his health care reforms "would insure illegal immigrants," Obama retorted, "It's not true." Wilson later properly apologized to the president for dis­rupting the session but he reaffirmed his accusation. In the very next sentence of his speech, however, the president lent credibility to Wilc;on's accusation by claiming that "under our plan, no feder­al dollars will be used to fund abortions." Amherst Professor Hadley Arkes fhirly described that statement as "a manm~st lie." (www.catholiething.org, Sept. 15). Let's evaluate it by looking at the main health care bill, II.B. 3200, which Obama has endorsed. 
The Capps Amendment to I J.Jt 3200, approved by the House Energy and Commerce Committee by a 30-28 vote, states: "The public health insurance option shall provide coveragn lhr ... abortions li>r which the expenditun~ of Foderall'unds appropriated for the Department of Health and Human Services is permitted." That Limitation refers to the Hyde Amendment, a rider to the annual Labor/llnalth and Human Services Appropriation, whieh pro­hibits use of those funds to pay for abor­tions except to save the life of the mother or where the pregnancy is the result of rape or incest. The Hyde Amendment, however, is not itself a restriction on the use offunds under I l.R. 3200 which itself appropriates the funds for its own operation. The Capps Amendment further states that "Nothing in this Act shall be construed as preventing the public health insurance option from providing for or prohibiting eoverage or ... abortions for which the expenditure of Federal funds appropriated li.Jr the Department of Health and Human Services is not permitted." That refers to elective abortions other than those f(>r life of the mother, rape or incest. 
The Capps Amendment further roquires that, among the health benefit plans "offered in each premium rating area of the Health Insurance Exchange ... thoro is at least one such plan that provides coverage" and "at least one such plan that dues not provide eoverage" of tho abortion serviens permitted, and also those forbidden, by the Hyde Amendment. 

Charles E. Rice 
Right or Wrong? 

Obama has proposed no "plan" of his own separate from the bills he has endorsed, inducting chiefly H.H. 3200 and other bills whieh aiJow fedora! funding of abortion. The question remains: Is he eor­reet in claiming that, "under our plan, no li1dcral dollars" will be used to fund abor­tions? The Capps Amendment is compli­catod. It provides that the fi'ldcrally funded subsidy for individual publie option health care premiums known as an "aflordability credit," li.Jl. 3200, See. 241, "may not be used for payment for" abortions for which the Hyde Amendment forbids federal pay­ment. I Iowever, the llealth Carn Commissioner "shall estimate the basic per enrollee, per month cost, determined on an average aetuarial basis, I(Jr including cover­ago" lbr such elective abortions. The pre­miwn charged to all enrollees in the feder­ally operated public option would be incroased by the proportional amount (at lmL'it $1 a month) roquired to pay for all those elective abortions. The abortionist<; would bill tl1e federal agency for such abor­tions perf(mned on subscribers to the pub­lie option. The abortionists would be paid by cheeks drawn on the United States Treasury. Everyone subscribing to public option health insurance would bn required to pay the premium surcharge to support all the abortions lor which the Treasury would pay the abortionist'>. The dollars paid to the li1dcral government undnr that sur­charge would obviously beeome "federal dollars" which would then be disbursed by the Trnac;ury to tho abortionist'>. Obama's flat statement to Congress and the American people that "under our plan no federal dollars will be used to fund abor­tions," L'i either evidence of an inconceiv­able ignorance of what is in II. H. 3200 and similar bills or it is knowingly faL'>e, that is, to borrow the words ofCongressman Joe Wilson, "You lie!" 
The nation's Catholic bishops, including prineipally Cardinal Justin Rigali and Bishop William Murphy of Rockville Center, New York, view health care "as a ba'iic right" and "have long supported health care refonn that respects human life and dif.,rnity !rom conception to natural death; provides access to quality health care for all, with a special concern for immigrants and the poor; preserves pluralism, with respect to right'> of conscience; and restrains eosl'i while sharing them equi­tably." The bishops rightly insi'>t that pay­ment for abortion must be excluded from any health care reform. 
It would be a mistake, however, to con­dude tlmt merely excluding abortion cover­age would make the proposed "reforms" acceptable. Other problems are involved. One is the defmition of abortion. Many so­called contraceptive pillc; can operate as abortifacients. The "morning after pill," which can cause abortion, is sold over-the­counter as an "emergency contraceptive." A prohibition offunding for "abortion" would not prevent funding ofsuch abortifa­cient "contraceptives." On another point, consider H.R. 3200, Sec. 1713, page 768, which provides funding for "home visits by trained nurses to families with a first-time pregnant woman, or a child (under 2 years of age), who is eligible for medical assis­tance." One oftl1e preconditions for such home visits is that they "are effective" in "[i]mproving maternal or child health and pregnancy outcomes or increasing birth intervals between pregnancies." A federal functionary, therefore, would come into a low-income home to improve "pregnancy outcomes," one of which could be abortion, and to "increase birth intervals between pregnancies." By the time the bureaucrats get tlu-ough writing the regulations for this, it could operate as a covert version of China's "one-child policy." 
In a joint statement, "Principles of Catholic Social Teaching and Health Care Heform," the Kansas City bishops, Archbishop Joseph F. Naumann and Bishop Hobert W Finn, analyzed both the inade­quacies and strengths ofour current health care system. Significantly, they emphasized that the principle of subsidiarity requires that "health care ought to be determined at the lowest level rather than at the higher strata ofsociety ... The writings of recent Popes have warned that the neglect of sub­sidiarity can lead to an excessive centraliza­tion of human services, which in turn leads to excessive costs, and loss of personal responsibility and quality ofcare." 
"The right ofevery individual to access health care," said Naumann and Finn, "does not necessarily suppose an obligation on the part of the government to provide it. Yet in our American culture, Catholic teach­ing about the 'right' to healthcare is some­times confused with the structures of 'enti­tlement.' The teaching of the Universal Church has never been to suggest a govern­ment socialization of medical services. Rather, the Church has asserted the rights of every individual to have access to those things most necessary for sustaining and caring for human life, while at the same time insisting on the personal responsibility ofeach individual to care properly for his or her own health." 
Here, as eL'iewhere, the social and moral teachings of the Church offer principles supportive of human dignity, freedom and common sense a'i well as the right to life. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. He may be reached at rice.l@nd.edu or 574-633-4415. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 



OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Who will be the second leading receiver for the Irish now that Floyd is out for the season? 

Kyle Rudolph "Between two evils, I always pick Robby PatTis the one I never tried before. " Duval Kamara 

Mae West 
Jimmy Clausen 
U.S. movie actress 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 




THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 22, 2009 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
No laughing tnatter 

Dear "Toolman," 
Thank you for providing your comedic enthusiasm to the Notre Dame community via our Observer comic strip. Yes, I realize the point of a comic strip is to make fun of groups of people. 
However there is one thing that is socially unacceptable to mock: women and their weight. If you haven't seen the Snite Museum already, there are images full of women who struggle with their body image because media, society, and peers have convinced them that they need to look a "certain way." Unfortunately, these women have taken their body images to an extreme. But women with eating disorders are not the only ones who struggle with their appearance; women on this campus and worldwide also have issues with their weight. A size 0 is not attainable for every shape and frame. Nor can you expect every woman to have the body of a Victoria's Secret model. You may have been "joking" but your senseless comments affect many of us. Please watch what you ridicule. 
Erica Severson junior Lewis Hall Sept. 21 

Knovv thine enem.y 

I myself was not altogether pleased by the arguments put for­ward by Mr. Damian in his earlier letter ("The sexist church," Sept. 16). Although he shares my belief that women cannot be ordained, he incorrectly assumes that arguments citing "nature" or "the Church" would be effective in an increasingly secular environment such as Notre Dame. 
There are two separate currents of popular thinking which meet under the shade cast by this question. The first is that no one but oneself is the authority over oneself. It is individualism gone wrong. We, as a society, perpetuate the myth that we can determine our final state in life absent any serious inquiry as to the quality of that final state. If one by some miracle does inquire, radical individualism would dictate such inquiry be limited to the realm of ones experiences. "No one else can tell me how to be happy." 
The second current, related to the first, is that we all have "rights" which undermine any authority's attempt to direct our lives. While in many cases, these rights have helped liberate an oppressed minority, these rights have also given rise to another myth: that we can do whatever we want because we have a right to. Want something? Make up a right. In this line of think­ing, many opponents of Mr. Damian'soriginal letter have implicitly stated, in one way or another, that women have a "right" to become a priest. No one will point out in the public conversation, however, that priesthood is not a right. Because that would be the oppressive Roman Catholic Church, perpetra­tor of the Inquisition and the Crusades, rearing its ugly head again. 
Mr. Damian and many others may hold the views they wish to hold but, to be persuasive in a public forum, must understand their opponent. Citing any authority (even nature). especially in this debate over women ordination, will cause the rivers of indi­vidualism and "rights" to flow with passion. 
Daniel Amiri alumnus class of 2009 Sept. 21 



Priesthood 101 
In response to Malcolm Phelan's letter ("Bless me Father, for I have questioned," Sept. 21), here is the Church's answer. 
From the Catechism of the Catholic Church, paragraph 1577: "'Only a baptized man (vir) validly receives sacred ordination.' The Lord Jesus chose men (viri) to form the college of the [12] apostles, and the apostles did the same when they chose collabora­tors to succeed them in their ministry. The college of bishops, with whom the priests are united in the priesthood, makes the college of the twelve an ever-present and ever­active reality until Christ's return. The Church recognizes herself to be bound by this choice made by the Lord himself. For this reason the ordination of women is not possi­ble." 
The Church cannot make women priests because Christ instituted a male priesthood. It is a doctrinal issue and it cannot change. Neither Pope Benedict XVI nor University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh can create a female priesthood. 
Doug Carder sophomore Keenan Hall Sept. 21 


A true Atnerican hero 
I was disappointed this past week to find that The Observer omitted the newsworthy passing of not just an American icon, but a world hero: Norman Borlaug. Borlaug, a sci­entist and humanitarian from Cresco, Iowa, put his Midwest farming background to good use and focused on feeding the hungry people of the world. He helped develop new forms of wheat that enabled famine-ravaged countries like Mexico and India to feed their own population and eventually produce enough to export food to other nations. 
His contributions are widely credited with helping save over one billion lives ("Forgotten Benefactor of Humanity," 1997). He founded the World Food Prize, which recognizes individuals and groups that help to eradicate famine and hunger across the world. Among his many accomplishments, he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom, a Congressional Gold Medal and a Nobel Peace Prize. Borlaug joins six others, including the likes of Mother Theresa, Nelson Mandela, and Martin Luther King Jr., as the only people to have been awarded each of these distinctions. 
It is incredible to think that, while many people dream of being doctors, police offices, firefighters, or other professions, in hopes of saving or impacting lives, that Norman Borlaug did just that, and more. Perhaps the World Food Prize website characterized his contributions best by recalling him as, "the man who saved more lives than any other person who has ever lived.'' 
John Whitty senior off campus Sept. 21 
U-WIRE 

Am.erican PC goes overboard 
Old Western films were always my dad's favorites, but never mine. More and more though, I find myself watching them for a reason that took until now to materialize. I find it amazing that those old films can be showing the same ground we live on today. America has become a power­house in the world with its booming, metropolitan cities, filled with some of today's best and brightest people. Sure, problems plague us like any other country. But overall, I would say our 
country is in a good state on the surface. But that's on the surface. What is 
Chris Nelson happening to the people of this country? Forget about the economy. Forget 
about immigration issues. Forget about the rising price of your cappuccino. 
Indiana 

The quandary is one that is developing, day-by-day, inside of all of us. 
University Here it is: You're too damn sensitive. Now, don't take this term the wrong
The Indiana way. When your mom says, "It's good that you're sensitive," she's right. It's 
Daily Student nice to have emotions. I wish I did. Also, don't think I want to disregard any 
humanity. Issues such as racism or women's rights are issues that one 
should be sensitive about. 
I'm talking about the everyday, little things that people -you and I included -get pissed about. Someone bumps into you. The bus is crowded. They were out of your favorite muffm at Starbucks. One, muffms are gay ... but not gay in the homosexual way. I have no problems with homosexuals, I love homosexuals ... but not in that way ... not that would be a problem or any­thing ... 
See? That sentence is the physical manifestation of the problem. No one in their right mind actually thinks a muffin can have an agenda and be homosexual, even though it is from Star bucks. The problem is that someone, somewhere, was just offended when I called his or her muffin gay. I'll do it again. Your muffin is gay. 
That someone is an example of the sensitive people making decisions for the rest of us. One per­son's dissenting voice can bring down the whole lot of us. Just because they feel that gay is being used in a derogatory manner, the rest of us have to watch what we say everywhere we go. 
Not me. Not anymore. If I thought I was deeply hurting someone, of course I'd stop. You and I both know that's not that case though. America, get it together. What happened to you? What happened to our leather skin? What happened to whiskey instead of appletinis? What happened to having fun and worrying about the consequences later? We need a little more of that old west­ern feel back in our lives. That doesn't mean everyone needs a six-shooter on them at all times. But we do need to get our spines back and fight for what we believe in. We need to get back on the horse and show people that America still has a little Wild West in them, that we still have our balls. 
Or ovaries if any ladies are reading. 
See? 

This column first ran in the Sept. 21 edition ofThe Indiana Daily Student, the daily newspaper serving Indiana University. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE

page 12 
Tuesday, September 22, 2009 
By COURTNEY ERCKERLE Scene Writer 
The new NBC comedy "Community," starring comedian Joel McHale ("The Soup") is surpris­ingly funny, considering the ideals it has pitted itself against. At first glance it looks like the latest install­ment of "The Office" spin-offs, espe­cially since it premiered right after the hit show on NBC's exclusive comedy powerhouse Thursday nights (also featuring a weekday edition of SNL's "Weekend Update", "Parks and Recreation" and "30 Rock" when ilt starts up in October) and on second glance ... it still kind of looks like that. The surprising part is that it is not a bad thing -a group of quirky misfits who are thrown into a boring environment, stir in some clever dialogue and awkwardness and voila, comedy fiesta. 
"Community" centers around smooth-talking (he makes a tear jerking argument that begins, "We're the only species on Earth that observes Shark Week,"), recent­ly disbarred lawyer Jeff, who has essentially been sentenced to com­munity college if he ever wants his license back. While trying to seduce a Spanish classmate, he accidentally forms a study group of the school's strangest, where the culture clash archetype works it's magic for this show. Characters that hail from nearly every stereotype possible: the uptight girl, the washed-up jock, the sassy black woman, the smart unat­tainable girl, the skeezy old man, the kid who can't control anything he's saying and the guy who is all­too in control of what he's saying. 
With "Arrested Development" alums Joe and Anthony Husso directing a lot of the episodes, the style has the majority of the same dry comedy that needs to simmer for a little while to have it's full effect, like a background quote by Donald Glover's character Troy, "I am the Barack Obama of this group!" "Community" also catches several references that are meant to embrace a middle aged demograph­ic with some hilarious "Breakfast Club" and "Dirty Dancing" lines. 
There are several outset stars of this stellar ensemble, aside 

British twit," and he is totally right -that is, until he is comically wrong. Pudi's lanky, loveable Abet has probably twice the dialogue of the other characters and delivers it all with such dead pan sincerity and innocence that his constant chatter becomes hardly noticeable. 
The "Community" pilot didn't totally dazzle, but truly talented comedies rarely do -it's hard to introduce a whole talented cast in a half-hour show, especially with so much expectation. This quirky com­bination of all of comedy's favoritBs has not earned its place among them yet, but is definitely one to keep an eye and ear on. Look for comedy favorite Km1 Jeong ("The Hangover," "Knocked Up") in upcoming episodes. 
Contact Courtney Erckerle at cerckerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
from lead Joel McHale who 

'Community'
seamlessly makes the leap from stand up to prime time, and they are John 
Directed by: Joe and Anthony Russo
Oliver and Danny Pudi. "The Daily Show" fans will 
Starring: Joel McHale, John Oliver, recognize mock correspon­dent Oliver, who has a small role as a friend of McHale's character Jeff, a professor at the college, whom Jeff himself describes as a "spineless 


the "Community" depiction of their schools? 
JM: I personally think this show will show, that is that this I hope, and in it's suc­cess will do what, you know, "The Office" has done for people who, you know, in the workplace that this will do for what, you know, the six million people that go to community college. And so I kind of see that the backdrop of school is the same way like a bar is a backdrop for "Cheers" and the Korean War was a backdrop for "MASH." So, you know, in no way is this show going to, you know -it's not like going to be a show about making fun of community college in any way. But my character will definitely lash out about it because he doesn't want to be there and this group of misfits, this study group that he's in, slowly kind of shows him that, you know, you can be a human being. 
Q: How do you see 
By COURTNEY ERCKERLE Scene Writer 
Question: How similar is your character to yourself? 
Joel McHale: Well, you know, with any -with any acting role you have to kind of go, "how do I relate to this person" and how do I make this and how do I not and how do I-how do I commu­nicate, who this person is on screen. And so I -boy, how is he similar to me? I guess he -this guy -I mean simi­lar to me in that I did every­thing I could not to, you know, work hard in school because I was much more interested in acting and try­ing to do that. And I always felt like I was kind of putting in -you know, just kind of clocking time at school until I could get out and do some­thing, you know, and per­form. But that's not the greatest parallel. I mean my -this guy is -he starts off very selfish. I hopefully am not that way. And he cheats and he lies to get what he wants. And I don't really-I have not done a lot of that. But I've -I have -I have cheated in a math class or two. But ... Right. I was so bad. I literally had to take a math class in college that was for no credit. It was lit­erally just to get into college while I was already in col­lege. And they were like just -they basically were like look, you're going to pass. You just don't ever take math again, you moron. So, you know, it's fun to play a guy who has kind of-he's kind of -he's kind of reckless in how he approached life in that he just kind of did what he wanted to do. And people kind of let him get by with it. And this is the first time that he actually has to do work. And it's a change in his world completely. 
Q: How do you think people who are actually in commu­nity college are going to view "Community" fitting into the line up of the other NBC Thursday night shows? 

JM: I mean from the nature of, you know, what it is is it's a character-driven show that, you know, takes place at the community college which obviously is in setup is different from the other shows. But as far as -as far as, you know, the format, it's strong characters in a situa­tion that would be similar to those shows, which, you know, if people will compare us to those, I would be hon­ored ... I feel like, you know, hopefully it has the same sort of vibe for Thursday night comedy on NBC and I cannot believe I'm even on that night. I mean it's so strange to think about it. So let's hope -let's hope that it's different enough that it sepa­rates itself and that it's simi­lar enough that people will tune to it. 
Q: What does it feel like to have this great cast and crew 
behind you right out of the gate? 
JM: Oh it's crazy. It's, you know, it's a dream come true. It's something I never imag­ined. It's -you know, I feel like, you know, I can really phone in my performances because everyone else is amazing. And no, but, you know, it's really is ideal because Dan Harmon is such an incredible writer. The Russo brothers who did "Arrested Development" and they're directing most of the episodes. And then you've got this cast of, you know, from Chevy Chase to John Oliver to Ken Jeong to Jim Rash to everyone in, you know, everybody. I mean it's really ideal. And I can't, you know, it's one of those things where it's like yeah, it's awe­some and I'm so excited. That's kind of like I can't believe it. 
Contact Courtney Erckerle at cerckerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


THE 0HSERVER 


CENE 
page 13

Tuesday, September 22, 2009 


By ALEXANDRA KILPATRICK Assistant Scene Editor 
Pearl Jam was once considered to be the most popular American rock 'n' roll band of the decade. Back in the early '90s, the Seattle-based band was well known as the quintessential grunge band and part of a com­plex called the Seattle Sound. With such hit singles as "Alive," "Jeremy," "Daughter" and "Better Man," the grungy surfers rose to critical and commercial success writing rock 'n' roll anthems that dealt with such heavy issues as physical abuse of children with learning disabili­ties, teenage suicide and abusive relationships. The alternative rock band quickly grew uncom­fortable with the fame that came along with commercial success and shied away from the spot­light but continued to make exceptional records and took on an overwhelming sense of politi­cal responsibility. 
Today, Pearl Jam is still well respected, however culturally irrelevant they have become, as one of the few bands with a good raw sound and minimal electron­ic amplification of vocals. Avid Pearl Jam fans can certainly see that the Seattle-based band has renewed that juvenile, raw, hon­est, rock 'n' roll sound, although much of the album is actually influenced by punk, New Wave and pop. 
"Backspacer" finds Pearl Jam seizing the moment with President Barack Obama's entry into the White House and moving away from bellyaching political activism. Frontman Eddie Vedder has even credited Obama's election as inspiration for the new album's optimistic lyrics and the shift in the direc­tion of his songwriting towards the positive, saying in an inter­view with "Rolling Stone" maga­zine: "I've tried, over the years, to be hopeful in the lyrics, and I think that's going to be easier now." There's no doubt that Vedder and company take carpe diem to the next level with the new LP. 

The album gets rolling right off the bat with opener, "Gonna See My Friend," a three-minute track thickly packed with rocking gui­tars, pounding drums and loud lead vocals in which Vedder belts out nonsensical lyrics, "I'm gonna see my friend, make it go away I I'm sick of everything." "Got Some," which made its debut on Conan O'Brien back in June, follows with punk-influ­enced electric guitar riffs, along with intense vocals and lyrics enticing the audience to get up and live their life, "Get it now, get it on, before it's gone, let's every­body carry on, carry on I Turn it up, set it off, before it's gone, let's everybody get it on, get it on." 
"The Fixer," the first single off "Backspacer," is a catchy rock tune clearly influenced by pop and punk alike, as the rampant use of hand claps as instrumenta­tion during the verses demon­strates. The insightful lyrics point toward relationship issues, "When something's broke, I wanna put a bit of fixin' on it ... I If there's no love, I wanna try to love again," and as Vedder com­mented in "The Globe and Mail," "Men, we all think we can fix anything. It's not necessarily a good thing ... These wonderful people, the woman you're in a relationship with, they don't want you to fix it. They just want you to listen to what's happening ... This is a reminder song to me, to stop fixing." 
"Just Breathe" is a much slow­er number than the first few fast-moving punk-sounding tracks. The folk-pop ballad tack­les relationship issues and has all the makings of a wedding dance song with romantic lyrics, "I wonder everyday, as I look upon your face, everything you gave." The quiet love song sounds very similar to many of the tracks on Vedder's 2007 soundtrack to "Into the Wild." "Amongst the Waves" serves as another reminder that the band is back to their fun-loving surfing days with excellent rock and roll riffs, a rockin' guitar solo, pas­sionate vocals and image-evok­ing lyrics, "Love ain't until you feel it I Up riding high amongst the waves." 
Vedder's lead vocals through­out the album are passionate indeed and seem to want to prove that the Seattle boys are back to their surfing days, but at times, the vocals strain to such an unnecessarily loud and high­pitched level that they go from sounding endearingly juvenile and raw to simply sounding like out of tune noise. "Backspacer" certainly won't be remembered as one of Pearl Jam's best albums, but overall, the album is certainly a solid effort and fun to listen to. 
'Backspacer' Pearl Jam 

Noteworthy Tracks: "The Fixer," "Gonna See My Friend," "Just Breathe," "Amongst the Waves" 

Contact Alexandra Kilpatrick at akilpatr@nd.edu 

By JESS SHAFFER Scene Editor 
You may have spotted Vince Vaughn, beloved comedian, wandering the Notre Dame campus last weekend. Hopefully you had your very own Vince Vaughn sighting, whether that be in the form of a furtive glance during his LaFortune Huddle run or blatantly gawking at him as he stood on the sidelines with the Miller Highlife Guy at Saturday's game. 
Still, you didn't have to have a personal viewing of Vaughn to know he's a cam­pus figure ... his image from the 
'Wedding Crashers" cover dorm room walls and DVD boxes that seem to be ever-present on campus, his great one­liners inundate our conversation, and many of us still debate his relationship with Jennifer Aniston on and off the screen. Recently, I got a chance to talk to Vaughn during a phone interview and got the inside scoop on his new film "Couples Retreat," the affect of his Midwest upbringing, and his current emphasis on family values both in and out of his work. 
"Couples Retreat," Vaughn's new come­dy premieres Oct. 9 in theatres, centers on four Midwestern Couples that retreat to a Tropical paradise for and sun, unaware that that couples' therapy is less than optional. As Vaughn explained, "It was an idea I had about of Midwestern Couples ... makes four archetypal couples with all seemingly prominent problems with their relation­ships." The film on the whole, "comes back to the basics of family and relation­ships. So that was sort of the mission: to take some regular folks from the Midwest and put them in an extreme type of circumstances." The trailer prom­ises plenty of "extreme circumstances," previewing scenes fully equipped with sharks, beaches, and oversexed yoga instructors. 
Vaughn was highly active in the new picture, not only creating the basic con­cept and plot, but also helping to assem­ble the cast, which includes Jon Favreau, Jason Bateman, Malin Ackerman and Kristin Bell, and co-writing the film's script. This active role in film making is not unusual for the actor, who in the past has contributed heavily to "The Break­Up, "Made," "Wedding Crashers" and "Swingers" without screen credit. He elaborated on the creative process behind "Couples Retreat" saying, "Jon [Favreau] wrote the first draft, and then I wrote it from there as he started to get busier with "Iron Man II." He also added that "actors would bring their ideas and sometimes we do two or three takes and sort of improvise, but we had a pretty good screenplay." 
The creative process behind "Couples Retreat" was clearly driven heavily by Vaughn's comedic talent and his relation­ship with people he'd worked with in past films, like Favreau, who's costarred with Vaughn on numerous films through­out their careers, or director Peter Billingsle.r, who notably directed "The Break-Up. ' He seemed to express confi­dence in the talent of his costars when he said "It's good to be funny. But when you can be an actor too and be believable with stuff ... in our comedy there's always a story to it or hopefully circum­stances that you are buying into. So that when things go awry you can laugh hard­er because you're invested in the charac­ters rather than just being a series of scenes or sketches." 

Vaughn's motivation and inspiration behind the new release was affected by his personal life, specifically his recent engagement to 29-year-old Canadian real estate agent, Kyla Weber. Vaughn clari­fied that "a lot of stuff coming out of Hollywood I've always found, being from the Midwest and comin~ from the back­ground that I did" didn t match up with his concept of healthy lasting relation­ships. Instead he "wanted to make some­thing that was pro-marriage and pro­family and pro-staying together. That was the concept of 'Couples Retreat.' I'm now engaged and getting ready to start a family. I wanted to make fun and have fun with the concept of new age, always looking for answers, far out ideas of how to handle a relationship." 
But don't be fooled by all the talk of traditional Midwest family values and 
SOFIA ITURBE I Graphic 

emphasis on starting a family in healthy relationships, "Couples Reatreat" will not be in the same vein of Vaughn's recent PG works, "Fred Claus" and "Four Christmases." Vaughn warned "'Couples Retreat' is more like 'Dod~eball' and those movies than 'Four Chnstmases' or 'Fred Claus.' ... This is very dialogue driven and has adult themes that are done in a take that's kind of hip and fun. When I say family values, it's not that the movie is PG or saying this is how people should live their life. I think that it's more contemporary with real relationships and what people go through." 
While inspired by his Midwestern upbringing, upcoming marriage, and relationship with his costars, Vaughn noted that he got his start on Notre Dame's campus durinq, the filming of "Rudy.'' He explained 'Growing up in Chicago, I was always a fan of Notre Dame. And going to shoot Rudy was one of the first films I did, was a special expe­rience for me being there. And playing a football player gave me access to the locker room and some of those things just made me a bigger fan. It is different there ... it's a great history a great tradi­tion. It's fun to go and be a part ofit." 
While Vince Vaughn loves Notre Dame, we all know that Notre Dame loves Vince Vaughn, and looks forward to his new film and future visits to the campus. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffel @nd.edu page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 22, 2009 
MLB 

Bra,res smash three homers in rout of Mets 
Cardinals continue run towards NL Central title; Blue Jays down Orioles in front of nearly record low crowd 
14 games. beforP. each of his at-bats. 
\ssociated Press 
Atlanta jumped all over Pat Lowe allowed three runs and 
NEW YORK --Chipper Jones Misch (1-4). scoring four times six hits, and helped himself at homered and drove in four in each of the first two innings. the plate with his sixth career runs to power the Atlanta Anderson capped the scoring two-hit game. Kenshin Braves to an 11-3 victory over in the first with a two-run Kawakami pitched four the New York Mets on Monday drive into the second deck in innings of one-hit ball for his night. right and Diaz started the sec­first career save. 
Garret Anderson and Matt ond with a liner into the seats Lowe left his previous start Diaz also connected for the in left-center. Wednesday against the Mets Braves, who have won nine of Jones, who has been both­after two innings because of a 11 to keep a grip on their faint ered by a slew of physical ail­blister on his right ring finger. playoff hopes. They moved ments during a disappointing The right-hander reached the within five games of idle season, said before the game 15-win mark for the fourth Colorado for the NL wild-card he was feeling better but his time in his career and first lead with 12 games left. swing was still off. He also since he went 16-8 for the 
Atlanta opened a six-game reiterated he could retire if he Dodgers in 2006. trip with its most runs since it struggles again next season. set a season high in a 15-2 win "Money will not keep me in St. Louis 7, Houston 3 at New York on Aug. 19. this game," he said. "Nor will Mark DeRosa homered twice Martin Prado had three hits, numbers. When I stop having at Minute Maid Park for the Nate McLouth scored three fun, when I stop feeling like second time this season and times and Derek Lowe (15-9) I'm productive, I will walk the St. Louis Cardinals beat pitched five innings to help the away." the Astros on Monday night, a Braves improve to 11-5 Jones sure looked all right few hours after Houston fired against the Mets this season. while adding to his stellar manager Cecil Cooper. 

Daniel Murphy homered and career numbers against New Third-base coach Dave Clark Luis Castillo had two hits for York. was named Houston's interim New York, which has lost The 37-year-old third base­manager for the last two seven of nine. Castillo was man drove in the Braves' first weeks of the regular season, innings to earn his first win one off Rodriguez, in an 11-6 replaced by Anderson run with a groundout and but the Astros lost their eighth since Aug. 10. Houston win. The third base­Hernandez with Atlanta lead­chased Misch with a towering straight game in Clark's major­Houston starter Wandy man has 10 homers since the ing 11-1 in the fourth and All­three-run drive to left in the league managing debut. Rodriguez (13-11) had given Cardinals acquired him from Star third baseman David second for his 17th homer and DeRosa also had a two-run up no more than one run in 11 Cleveland on June 27. Wright was taken out in the first since Aug. 29, at double for the Cardinals, who of his previous 14 starts, but Berkman homered to left­sixth. Philadelphia. reduced their magic number trailed 3-0 after the first center in the sixth, his 23rd of 
Murphy, who doubled and Jones has a .324 batting for winning the NL Central to inning in this one. the season and fifth in the last scored in the second, is batting average, 42 homers and 133 three. Albert Pujols doubled to 10 games. .358 (19 for 53) with three RBis in 203 games against Kyle Lohse (6-8) allowed right center with two outs and The Cardinals' bullpen gave homers and 12 RBis in his last New York. He was booed three runs and five hits in six scored on Matt Holliday's sin­up only one hit over the last 
gle to left. Ryan Ludwick sin­three innings. gled and DeRosa drove in two with a double off the right­Toronto 9, Baltimore 2 field walL Ludwick beat the Lyle Overbay and John throw home, but DeRosa was McDonald homered, David tagged out trying to stretch his Purcey won for the first time hit to a triple. in more than a year and the 
Miguel Tejada homered off Toronto Blue Jays beat Lohse in the bottom of the Baltimore on Monday night, first, his 12th of the season. handing the Orioles their fifth 
Jason LaRue and Skip straight loss. Schumaker led off the second Toronto has won 11 of 13 with singles and LaRue scored home games against Baltimore on Julio Lugo's fly ball to right. and 25 of 35 dating to 2006. Brendan Ryan beat out an Adam Lind, Edwin infield single and Schumaker Encarnacion and Travis Snider scored for a 5-1 lead. each hit a two-run single for 
DeRosa homered to left in the Blue Jays, who batted the third off Hodriguez, who around in the third and eighth. came in with a 1.58 EHA at Attendance was 11,598, the home this season. third straight game Toronto 
Lohse retired nine straight has drawn fewer than 12,000 before Lance Berkman's one­fans. Toronto's all-time low is out single in the fourth, but 10,074, set April 17, 1979, Carlos Lee grounded into a against the Chicago White Sox. double play. Purcey (1-2) had not won 
Geoff Blum doubled in the since pitching eight shutout fifth and scored on llumberto innings on Sept. 7. 2008, Quintero's one-out single to against Tampa Bay. The left­left. Lohse struck out bander allowed one run and Houston's next two hitters to four hits in a season-high 7 2/3 end another quick inning. innings. He walked four and 
Chad Paronto relieved struck out four. Rodriguez for the sixth and Baltimore loaded the bases DeRosa led off with a homer to with two outs in the eighth but left Shawn Camp came on and got 
DeHosa hit two homers at Melvin Mora to ground into a Minute Maid Park on July 21, fielder's choice. 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for conrenr without issuing refunds. 
CLAS~iiFIEDS 
LOST & FOUND 
LOST: Womans silver link Citizen eco-drive watch. Round face encircled by crystals. Lost outside 
LaFortune Saturday, Sept. 5, follow­ing the band to the stadium. 
High sentimental value. $50 reward. 
Cheryl 574-272-9037 
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK 
$14.25 base-appt.,no experience needed, 
customer sales/service, 
57 4-273-3835. 
FoR SALE 
12 x 65 mobile home, 3 bdrm, car­port, patio, all appliances, low utili­ties, new roof. $300/mo for lot rent. Extra storage. $6,500. Call 269­683-7506. 10 minutes from ND. 
FoR RENT 
andersonND rentals.com. HOUSES 
TICKETS 
HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top$$. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FBnx. Victorytickets.net 574-232-0964. 
Need 2 MSU & USC tix & parking pass. 
57 4-276-8507. 

PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND s website 
at: 
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. 
For more information, visit Notre Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu 
Men of the Fisher Junior House: I hereby sincerely apologize for the antics bestowed upon your humble abode on Saturday evening. I behaved rather unDilligently and will accept responsibility and retri­bution for my actions. I hope the flooding in your basement subsides. 


OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, September 22, 2009 page 15 
NFL 
AP College Football Top25 
team 
1 Florida 
2 Texas 
3 Alabama 
4 Mississippi 
5 Penn State 
6 California 
7 LSU 
8 Boise State 
9 Miami (Fla.) 
10 Oklahoma 
11 Virginia Tech 
12 Southern California 
13 Ohio State 
14 Cincinnati 
15 TCU 
16 Oklahoma State 
17 Houston 
18 Florida State 
19 BYU 20 Kansas 
21 Georgia 
22 North Carolina 
23 Michigan 
24 Washington 
25 Nebraska 
record 
3·0 3·0 
3~o 
2·0 
3·0 3·0 3·0 3·0 
2·0 
2·1 2·1 2·1 
2·1 
3·0 
2·0 2·1 2·0 2·1 2·1 
3·0 
2·1 
3·0 3·0 
2·1 2·1 
previous 
1 2 
4 5 5 8 9 
10 
20 
12 13 
3 11 17 
15 
16 
21 NR 
7 22 
23 24 25 NR 19 


USA Today FBS Coaches' Poll 
Top25  
team  record  previous  
1  Florida  3-0  1  
2  Texas  2-0  2  
3  Alabama  3-0  4  
4  Penn State  3-0  5  
5  Mississippi  2-0  6  
6  California  3-0  7  
7  LSU  3-0  7  
8  Boise State  3-0  10  
9  Oklahoma  2-1  12  
10  Southern California  2-1  3  
11  Ohio State  2-1  11  
12  Virginia Tech  2-1  14  
13  Miami (Fla.)  2-0  22  
14  TCU  2-0  15  
15  Cincinnati  3-0  21  
16  Oklahoma Slate  2-1  17  
17  Georgia  2-1  20  
18  North Carolina  3-0  19  
19  Kansas  3-0  23  
20  BYU  2-1  9  
21  Missouri  3-0  25  
22  Michigan  3-0  NR  
23  Houston  2-0  NR  
24  Nebraska  2-1  18  
25  Florida State  2-1  NR  

Golf World/NIKE Division I Men's Golf Top 10 
team  previous  
1  Oklahoma State  5  
2  Washington  5  
3  Georgia  3  
4  Alabama  15  
5  Stanford  20  
6  Arizona Slate  5  
7  TexasA&M  1  
8  Arkansas  2  
9  Florida  19  
10  Southern California  5  


around the dial 
Minor League Baseball 
AAA Championship Game 7 p.m., ESPN2 
Auto Racing 
Grand-Am Rolex Series 12 p.m., SPEED 
Associated Press 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. The 49ers have filed tam­pering charges against the New York Jets regard­ing top San Francisco draft pick Michael Crabtree, Jets coach Rex Ryan confirmed Monday. 
"My understanding is they filed charges with the league," Ryan said. ''I'm saying my response is it's not true. I mean, it's not accurate. It's not true, but, hey, we'll let the league figure this out." 
When asked Monday if his team filed charges, 49ers coach Mike Singletary said it's a situ­ation "the league is going to handle internally." 
IN BRIEF 
NASCAR requests
evaluation of Mayfield 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -NASCAR asked a federal judge Monday to order a mental and physical exami­nation on suspended driver Jeremy Mayfield to determine if he has a substance-abuse problem and/or attention-deficit hyperactivity disor­der. 
The filing in U.S. District Court includes three affidavits and one deposition from four different people who claim to have witnessed Mayfield using methamphetamines multiple times since 1999. 
The deposition is from former brother-in-law David Keith, who tes­tified he witnessed Mayfield snort methamphetamine in his house, garage and car from 1998 through 2000. The deposition was taken Aug. 19, with attorneys for NASCAR and Mayfield in attendance, and Keith testified the drivers' drug use esca­lated to daily usage. 
''I'm not going to get into that. We'll let that play out, the process," Singletary said. ''I'm not even going to go there. We'll let the league han­dle that and go from there." 
The 22-year-old Crabtree, selected No. 10 overall by the Niners in April's draft, is the last draft pick not signed. The wide receiver is seeking money comparable to higher picks and hasn't accepted the 49ers' offer for approximately five years and $20 million, with a reported $16 mil­lion guaranteed. 
The Jets, in need of a game-changing wideout, declined comment. The 

tampering charges were first reported by the New York Daily News. 
Earlier, Ryan comment­ed during a radio inter­view that he wished the Jets played the 49ers this season. 
"Yes, and I'll stand by that comment," he told reporters later in the day. "That means we're in the Super Bowl, so I'll defi­nitely take that. " 
NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said in an e-mail to The Associated Press the league doesn't comment on alleged tampering, but would announce any dis­ciplinary action taken against a team found in violation of the NFL's tam­pering policy. 
While Crabtree falls fur­ther behind with each passing day -former 49ers great Jerry Rice questioned Sunday what kind of impact Crabtree would have if he did final­ly show up -Singletary isn't ready to say he's bet­ter off without the Texas Tech star in San Francisco's run-oriented offense. 
"I would never say that. ... We need every football player that can help us win that's supposed to be here, here," Singletary said. "I think he's a tal­ented guy. Hopefully it works out that he gets here. If he doesn't, I feel comfortable with what we have." 
Kevin Kolb to start if McNabb 
cannot go for Eagles 
PHILADELPHIA -Kevin Kolb will make his second straight start for the Philadelphia Eagles if Donovan MeNabb can't play against Kansas City. 
Coach Andy Reid isn't sure whether Jeff Garcia or Michael Vick would be the backup quarterback in that sce­nario. Vick is eligible to play for the first time after serving a two-game suspension as the final league penalty for his role in running a dogfighting ring. 
"Is he 100 percent back and ready to play a whole game? I can't tell you that, I don't think so, and I don't plan on putting him in that position right now," Reid said. 
McNabb missed Sunday's 48-22 loss to New Orleans with a cracked rib. Kolb made his first NFL start, throw­ing for 391 yards, two touchdowns and three interceptions. Garcia, signed last week as insurance, was the backup. 
Giants prospect Villalona 
charged with murder 
SANTO DOMINGO, Dominican Republic -A top prospect for the San Francisco Giants was charged with murder in the death of a 25­year-old man last weekend at a bar in his Caribbean homeland. 
Angel Villalona, who received a club-record $2.1 million bonus when he was signed by the Giants in 2006, wore a bulletproof vest Monday to his hearing at a court in the city of La Romana. He pleaded innocent to the murder charge. 
The 19-year-old Villalona could face up to 20 years in prison if found guilty in the Saturday night shooting death of Mario Felix de Jesus Velete. 
Judge Aranibal Manzano Zapata ordered Villalona jailed for two months while authorities prepare their case in the Dominican Republic. Villalona turned himself in 12 hours after the shooting at a La Romana bar. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 22, 2009 
MLB 
CooF,er fired vvith 13 gan1es to go 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON --The Houston Astros fired manager Cecil Cooper on Monday with 13 games left in another disap­pointing season. Third-base coach Dave Clark was named interim manager. The Astros were 70-79 headed into Monday's home against St. Louis. 
General manager Ed Wade said the change couldn't wait until the end of the season. He added that more changes could be coming for a franchise just four years removed from its only World Series appearance. 
"We're tasked with evaluating all aspects of our situation," Wade said. "At the end of the day, we're going to try to address those off-field issues that exist. We're not walking away from it. The issue we had to address here, in the short term, was the managerial issue and that's why we moved for­ward today." 
The 59-year..old Cooper was hired on Aug. 27, 2007, to replace Phil Garner. Houston went 171-170 under Cooper, who was the bench coach under Garner between 2005-07. 
Cooper became the fourth manager to get fired this season, all of them in the National League. Arizona dismissed Bob Melvin on May 7, Colorado replaced Clint Hurdle on May 29 and Washington fired Manny Acta on July 13. 
Wade said Clark would be con­sidered a candidate during the search for a new manager. Cooper did not answer calls to his cell phone and his voicemail was full. 
Wade, owner Drayton McLane and president of baseball opera­tions Tal Smith met with Cooper in his office on Monday after­noon to give him the news. 
While Cooper took the blame, he could not be blamed for all the Astros' shortcomings in 2009. 
A number of offseason moves fizzled and All-Star first base­man Lance Berkman and pitch­ing ace Roy Oswalt have had subpar seasons. 
"It stinks when you know that your performance, that you're responsible for somebody else's job security," Berkman said. "Say what you want, we didn't get it done on the field. The players have to take the full responsibility. Coop never threw a pitch or batted with runners in scoring position." 
McLane pointed out that the Astros' payroll -almost $103 million -is among the highest in baseball and that he thought the assembled roster was capa­ble of having a better season. 
"We felt, at the time, and with the investment we made, that there was the potential to have a winning team here," McLane said. "We'd love to have had dif­ferent things occur with the players we selected. It's just a very complicated process. It's not easy to say the manager, the coaches or the players or man­agement (can be blamed). It all weaves toegther." 
Cooper's initial contract ran through the 2009 season and the Astros picked up his option for 2010. Houston won 86 games in 2008, a 13-game turnaround from 2007. But this season, the Astros are almost guaranteed their second losing record in three seasons and only the third since 1991. 
Wade said the extension was the right decision at the time, but "things changed" as the sea­son unraveled. 
"You don't have control over a lot of things that changed," Wade said. "We felt, at the time, that exercising the option sent the right message to our club, and to Coop about how we viewed our overall situation at that particular time." 
Cooper was a first-time major league manager and the first black manager in A'itros history. He played 11 seasons for the Milwaukee Brewers and his hir­ing as Houston's manager got the personal blessing of commis­sioner Bud Selig, who owned the Brewers from 1977-87. 
Houston scored only 15 runs during their latest losing streak. The Astros are 28-46 away from Minute Maid Park this season and the problems went beyond Cooper. 
Oswalt (8-6, 4.12 EHA) has been hampered by back arid hip pain most of the season and won't pitch again in 2009. His EHA is a career high and his win total a career low. 
Berkman is hitting .270 with 22 home runs and 73 RBis, but he came into the season with a career average of .302 and had reached 100 RBls the past three seasons. 
The Astros hoped Russ Ortiz and Mike Hampton would bol­ster the pitching staff, but Ortiz was released on July 30 and Hampton's season was cut short by more injuries. 
Houston is 311-323 since win­ning the NL in 2005, and Berkman feels the franchise has been heading in the wrong din1ction. 
"We haven't been to the play­oil's in four years and it seems like we've been on a gradual downward spiral," he said. "You can't just point to one thing, I think there are several factors involved in that. But, if there was an environment for sweep­ing change or reform, this would be it." 
Clark will become a major­league manager for the first time. He managed the Astros' Triple-A affiliate in Round Rock in 2008 and was in his first sea­son as Houston's third-base coach. 
"The main thing is to fmish the season on a strong note, bring out the best in these players and get back to that winning-type attitude," Clark said. 

NFL 

Turner says San Diego needs work 
SAN DIEGO -Whether he's young guys play, and in a lot of trying to deflect criticism of his casfls, those young guys came play-calling or delivering some in and played pretty good. kind of pre-emptive strike, Obviously we're playing an out­coach Norv Turner has a mes­standing football team, you sage for fans -the San Diego know, and as I said, I thought Chargers aren't as good as out­we did a lot of good things. We siders think they are. let some things get away from 
Turner said he thinks he has us. They did a lot of good a good handle on where the things. They let some things get Chargers are after two games away from them. -a close call against the "We've got to play better, and Oakland Raiders in the season that's going to be our opener and a 31-26 home­approach." opening loss to the Baltimore Philip Rivers, who threw for a Ravens on Sunday. career-high 436 yards, agrees 
"I don't think right now we're with the coach. as good as you that cover us "I guess it kind of seems that think or expect us to be; I don't the expectation outside of the think we're as good as what our building is that we never should fans want us to be," Turner said lose a game, we should score Monday at the start of his every single time in the red weekly news conference. "But I zone, we should never punt," believe we can get there. We've Rivers said. "It's just a little bit got a lot of work to get there." unrealistic. 
The Chargers went into the "We aren't as good as we season having been picked by want to be or that we can be, some as Super Bowl favorites. yet," Rivers said. "You can look The players themselves have at that negatively or positively. Super Bowl expectations, On the positive side, if we're although they're not as chatty peaking at Week 2, sitting at 1­about them as they have been 1, we'd be in trouble. But we're the last three seasons, when here climbing the mountain their playoff runs ended short right now, early in the season, of the NFL championship game. just took a team that was in the 
There are some in the media AFC championship to the wire who believe the Chargers have and had opportunities to win. the most-talented roster in the There's nothing to hang our NFL. The Chargers organiza­head about. There are definite­tion often brags about the depth ly things to correct, that we did­that's been stockpiled via long­n't do so well. Our mindset is term contracts. very positive." 
Naturally, the Chargers are Fans booed when Turner expected to mop up the anemic called for a field goal on third­AFC West, with many feeling and-goal on the Baltimore 5 they can clinch their fourth with 10 seconds to go before straight division title by halftime. Thanksgiving. Turner said he knows the 
Two games in, they're not Chargers can get a play off in even leading the division. 10 seconds, but didn't like what Denver, which collapsed down had been going on inside the the stretch last year, allowing Ravens' 20-yard line, including San Diego to win the title at 8-8, Rivers getting sacked prior to is 2-0. San Diego is tied with an earlier field goal by Nate Oakland at 1-1, and Kansas City Kaeding. is 0-2. "We were having a tough 
The Chargers came out of the time with a particular blitz they Raiders game looking like were running up the middle, they'd lost a street brawl. and I wasn't going to take the LaDainian Tomlinson, center risk on a ball being tipped and Nick Hardwick, right guard batted up in the air and inter­Louis Vasquez and defensive cepted; a ball being completely tackle Jamal Williams all were short," Turner said. "We didn't hurt. have a timeout. I was more 
Williams, a run-stuffer, was comfortable taking the three put on injured rnserve on points. Saturday, meaning he's done "No one more than me would for the season. Tomlinson, have liked to throw a touch­Hardwick and Vasquez all down pass in that situation, but missed the Baltimore game, I also felt that at that time we and there's no word when had to regroup because we they'll be back. weren't handling some of the 
"We obviously went through a things they were doing." lot of change last week," Turner San Diego got to the Ravens' said. "We had an assortment of 5-, 2-, 1-and 10-yard lines, and 
Write Sports. Contact Matt at 
,:mgamber@nd.edu 
-~---­

Science, Engineering and Math Students: Would yon like to study at the University of (;aiDhridge? 
Come learn ab(mt the Churchill Scholarship which provid<'s one year of support for a postgraduate d«~grt'«' in the seienecs, euginePring. and mathematics at the Uuivnsity of Carnbridg«•. Tlw Scholarship eovers all University and Collcg«· fN•s, a living allowanc«", a tnn't•l and \'i~a allowancP, and tlw pos~ihility of a Sp1'eial Hesl'aJTh Graut fi1r a total of $:U.000-$4LOOO. Fields include but are not limited to: Biochemistry; Biological Anthropology: Chemi~t.ry; Clinieal Biochemistry; Computational Biology; Computer Science; Earth Seiences and Geography; Engineering; Epidemiology; Genetics; \1athematics (Applied, TheoreticaL and Statistics); Pathology; Pharmacology; Physics (Experimental and Theoretical), Astronomy. 
and Astro  .Physiology, Development, ami Neuroseicnce; Plaut Sei.-nees; and Zoology.  
.  ·.  For mqrl' information see tt7{'W. winstondwrrhil~f'oundat ion. org and ema1~l fellows@nd. ed u.  
/  Sponsorsd by ~'VDCU.SE and the FelloH'ships Office.  
\Vim,tnn Churehill Foundation  
of th(' l"nited States  
Wcdtwsday, s..,,tembt•r 23  
4:00 and again at 5:00  
Andrews Auditorium  
( Louw Lt•l:elt!f G<•dtl.s lla/l)  

-

Tuesday, September 22, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
Marion excited to play vvith Kidd 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -Shawn Marion had it easy when he broke into the NBA. All he had to do was grab rebounds for Jason Kidd to start fast breaks, then hustle to the other rim to try finishing off those quick scoring chances. 
It's been eight years since they were last together in Phoenix and a lot has changed. Marion has gone from rookie to All-Star to journeyman, while Kidd has gone from All-Star in his prime to elder statesman polishing off a Hall of Fame resume. 
Now they're teammates again, reunited as part of a new Dallas Mavericks lineup built around versatile 30-somethings seeking their first championship. The master plan would get a big boost if Kidd and Marion can rekindle their old Suns success. 
"You will see it," Marion said. 
Kidd, Marion and fellow new­comers Drew Gooden, Tim Thomas and Quinton Ross were introduced on their new home court Monday as part of a news conference/fan event that also included the unveiling of a new alternate uniform and upgraded video boards. 
Most of the talk was about all the different lineup combinations, with Gooden joking about coming into the league as a small forward but now being viewed as a center. Marion, of course, is nicknamed "The Matrix" because of how many roles he can play. 
"Shawn makes the game so easy, especially above the rim, he gets easy baskets," Kidd said. "He can get out there and defend (point guards) through (centers). He's a great teammate in the lock­er room, so I'm glad to have him by my side." 
Kidd spent the last 1 1/2 seasons in Dallas, but was considered an offseason addition because he was a free agent and could've signBd anywhere. 
Once he decided to stay, owner Mark Cuban, team president Donnie Nelson and coach Rick Carlisle began putting together a supporting cast for Kidd and Nowitzki, players who are certain­ly in the win-now part of their careers. 
The Mavs pried Marion from Toronto as part of a blockbuster trade that didn't cost any key play­ers. Nowitzki, Josh Howard, Jason Terry and Erick Dampier are all back from last season's squad that knocked off San Antonio in the first round, but of course many of their Western Conference foes are improved, too. 
"It excites me to have our quar­terback (Kidd) back, to have 
· Shawn Marion on one wing, Josh Howard on the other," Nelson said. "We're ready for any chal­lenge that comes our way." Carlisle figures he already has a better defensive team than last season, calling Marion "one of the best in the league the last 10 years." Marion averaged 21.8 points 
and 11.8 rebounds in 2005-06, when the Suns lost to the Mavericks in the Western Conference finals. He was 27 and made the All-Star team for the second year in a row and third time in four years. 
Since that peak, Marion has dipped to 12.9 points last season, which began in Miami and ended in Toronto. He's gone from being a franchise player in Phoenix to a role player. It was a tough adjust­ment, but now that he's been through it he understands how to fit in with the Mavericks. 
"Regardless of what I'm doing, what the situation is, I'm a better basketball player than I was before," Marion said. ''I've defi­nitely learned the game and I'm going to help everyone around me. That's what it boils down to." 
Marion and Howard will trade off as the shooting guard and small forward, perhaps every pos­session. If they can mesh with each other and with Kidd, defens­es will have a harder time loading up to stop Nowitzki. 
"Everybody's got to get the chemistry right," Marion said. "That's the most important thing, getting a feel for each other and learning to have fun playing with each other." 
Training camp starts Monday, but being on center court with his teammates had Marion ready to lace 'em up. He'd come straight from a workout and was eager to start catching alley-oops from Kidd again. 
NFL 

League says game will not be moved 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS -The NFL said Monday it will not swap sites for this season's Packers­Vikings games in case the base­ball playoffs get in the way at the Metrodome. 
Green Bay plays at Minnesota on Monday night, Oct. 5, pitting Brett Favre against his old team in front of a national TV audience. 
Meanwhile, the Minnesota Twins trail Detroit by three games in the American League Central with 13 games left to play. Ifthe two teams finish tied for first place, the Twins will host a tiebreaker game if they beat the Tigers in the overall season series. Minnesota leads 9-5, with four games remaining in Detroit next week. 
The Twins and White Sox needed a 163rd game to decide the division last year, a game that was played in Chicago. Major League Baseball typically schedules tiebreaker games for the Monday right after the reg­ular season because playoff series begin that week. 
NFL spokesman Dan Masonson said the Packers­Vikings game next month will not be moved, however. Green Bay later hosts Minnesota on Nov. 1. 
"There is no swap under con­sideration," Masonson said in an e-mail to The Associated Press. "We are closely monitor­ing the situation." 
Potential conflicts like this are nothing new for the Twins, who have shared the Metrodome with the Vikings since 1982 and will move to their own ballpark next spring. 
"It would certainly be a fitting way to end our time in the Metrodome," Twins president Dave St. Peter said of the potential hassle. 
Until this fall, the University of Minnesota also played foot­ball at the dome, forcing the Twins into plenty of 11 a.m. game times over the years. In 2004, a game was halted in the 11th inning during a September pennant drive because crews needed time to convert the field for football later that night. 
St. Peter said he wasn't wor­ried about this season, though. 
"There's a long way to go before that's going to be a reali­ty. That's the first thing I'd say," St. Peter said. "I suspect it'll sort itself out over the next week or so. 
"We're more concerned about getting home-field advantage than what day the tiebreaker game would be played on." 
Fremantle, Australia 
Information Session 
Wednesday, September 23, 2009 5:30PM 140 DeBartolo Hall 

Students in the Colleges of AL &BA Only 



APPLICATION DEADLINE IS NOVEMBER 15, 2009 APPLY ONLINE: www.nd.edu/Nois 
.---------------------­
~---­

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 22, 2009 
NFL 
Jets' defense turning heads early 
Associated Press 
FLORHAM PARK, N.J. -The New York Jets' stifling defense has made the end zone unfamil­iar territory for opposing offens­es. 
Two games down, and no touchdowns allowed. The Jets can't possibly remain this stingy, could they? 
"Hey, the New England Patriots went undefeated during the regular season," cornerback Darrelle Revis said with a laugh Monday, "so I don't know." 
The fact is, Rex Ryan's big­talking. aggressive defense has already caused fits for two high­powered offenses in shutting down Houston 24-7 -the Texans' only TD came on a fum­ble return off an interception ­in Week 1. and New England 16-9 on Sunday. It's the first time since 1993 that New York didn't allow an offensive touch­down in consecutive games. 
"There's two ways to handle pressure: either feel it or you apply it," Revis said. "We want to apply the pressure as a defense." 
That's exactly what the Jets have done so far, and it has them ranked second in the NFL in total defense. They're behind only Indianapolis, which still had to play at Miami on Monday night. And they're doing it with­out perhaps their best pass rusher in Calvin Pace, suspend­ed the first four games for vio­lating the league's performance­enhancing substances policy. 
"This is one of the more tal­ented defenses I've played on, just across the board," corner­back Lito Sheppard said. "It seems that everybody's doing their job and doing it well. When plays are presented for guys to make, we've been mak­ing them right now. I think that's the biggest change for me from any defense I've been on." 
The Jets kept Tom Brady off­balance for most of the game, with 23 combined hits and pres­sures. They constantly disguised coverages and blitzes out or their 3-4 base defense, and the Patriots quarterback never real­ly had much time to find Randy Moss -or anyone else ­downfield. His longest pass was a 29-yarder to Julian Edelman that began as a short toss over the middle. 
"That was the key to that game," Ryan said. "We had to get pressure on him. If you can bring three to get there, great. Four, five, six, seven. eight. whatever it takes. You can't let Tom Brady be comfortable back there." 
The Patriots went 0 for 3 in the red zone, marking the first time New England had throe or more chances inside the 20 and failed to score since 2003. 
"Our defense showed a Jot of pride, showed a lot of guts keeping New England out of the end zone," Ryan said. "That's critical in that type of game. You've got to keep them out." 
With Brady given a final chance to tie it and facing a fourth-and-H) from the Patriots 28, the Jets kept rushing the passer. 
"No prevent," Revis said. "We don't even have that in our playbook." 
The Jets had no sacks against the Patriots, but Brady was knocked on his back often. 
"It's definitely exciting when you know that you can rattle arguably the No. 1 QB, and we know offenses are going to look at that," defensive back Donald Strickland said. "Even though we didn't get a sack, we got 23 hits on him and we rattled him. lie didn't make the clutch throws that he usually makes. It was definitely exciting. We're going to take that into the next game." 
That would be at home against Tennessee, which had Chris Johnson run for 197 yards and two TDs and catch nine passes for 87 more and another TD in a 34-31 loss to Houston. While the Titans might not have the reputation the Jets' first two opponents have on ofl'ense, New York intends to keep the heat turned up. 
"A lot of teams don't really know how to handle it, but we'll see how they catch on to it," Hevis said. "If they don't, they don't, and if they do, we're still coming." 
NFL 

Seahawks' QB fractures rib in loss 
Associated Press 
RENTON, Wash. -The Seahawks are preparing to play without Matt llasselbeck on Sunday against the Chicago Bears, though the three-time Pro Bowl quarterback is hop­ing to start despite a broken rib. 
Seattle coach Jim Mora con­firmed Monday that Hasselbeck has a fractured rib from a hard hit in the back by 49ers linebacker Patrick Willis while the quarterback dived for the goal line late in the first half of San Francisco's 23-10 win on Sunday. 
Asked if he had to plan to face the Bears without Hasselber.k, Mora said. "Hight now, we'll probably do that­unless we get word otherwise." 
Mora did say Hasselbeck "seems to be doing a lot better today." · 
Baekup Seneca WallaeH, who started eight games last season when llasselbeck was out with a bulging disk in his back, would make his 13th career start if Ilasselbeek can't go. Wallace completed 15 of 23 passes for 127 yards with a touchdown and interception while finishing Sunday's loss. 
Hasselbeck, who turns 34 on Friday, said the fraeture is on the back of a top rib and that the pain is near the shoulder. He said he broke a rib once before while with the Seahawks and played the next game. He didn't specify when. 
"1 have definitely felt worse. I have definitely woken up on a Monday and felt worse," Ilasselbcck said Monday in an empty locker room, standing stiff1y with his hands on his hips. 
''I'm absolutely hoping to play.... I think it's one of things you just got to suck it up." 
Hasselbeck struggled toward the sideline after Willis' hit, making it look as if he was loopy. He said he was light­headed because he couldn't breathe. He took a trainer's advice to go to the ground before leaving the field, while Wallace scrambled to enter the game. 
An X-ray at the stadium was negative. The Seahawks then had him rushed to Stanford Medical Center, because they feared blood in his urine or internal injuries such as a damaged lung. He underwent an electrocardiogram test and a CT sean. The scan showed the fractured rib. 
"Never had to go to the hos­pital during a game. That was dill'erent," he said. 
The Entrepreneurship Club presents: 

3 I'~D •o1 Alums Create a Nevv Option "fo1r O"f"f-Carnpus ND Student Housing 
www.RentLikeAChampion.com 

From 0 to 30 properties in just 4 years 
Alsc• offer ND Football \Neekend Rentals for parents and fans. Nice homes near campus for half the price of hotels. 
Cc>me hear their story at the Entrepreneurship Club meeting. Tuesday 7:00PIVI, Sept:. 22 in DeBart: 155 
Free Pizza provided!!!! 

Tuesday, September 22, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL PROGRAM IN 
PARIS, FRANCE 
ACADEMIC YEAR 2010-11 For Social Science and History majors with a good level of French 
INFORMATION MEETING Wednesday, SEPTEMBER 23, 6:00pm 201 DBRT STUDY IN THE MOST BEAUTIFUL CITY IN THE WORLD! 
APPLICATIONS: http://www.nd.edu/---ois 
Information Sessions on Study Abroad Programs in Japan: Nagoya & Tokyo 
Tuesday, September 22, 5:30 p.m. 117 Hayes-Healy Or Wednesday, October 7, 7:00 p.m. 229 Hayes-Healy 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2009 For Academic Year 2010-2011, Fall 2010 or Spring 2011 


they've saved us on a number of occasions," Weis said.
Weis 
"Obviously, the play at the end continued from page 24 
of the game, nothing was more 
critical than that one." the end of the game. Instead, it Still, there exists some con­took a late interception by sen­cern about the defense's play ior safety Kyle McCarthy to against a Michigan State hold off a potential game-win­offense that wasn't supposed to ning drive for Michigan State. dominate by any means, par­
"You  get the  ticularly  
ball with a little less than five minutes, some­ "We put ourselves in the same position  through the air yet the Spartans threw  
where  in  that  that we did the  for  more  than  
mark right there. The intent is to try to  previous week. But the difference  300 yards. "I think first thing  the we  
use  it all up,"  between one week  have to do bet­ 
Weis said. "We put ourselves in the same posi­ and the next week was somebody  ter on defense, to be perfectly honest with you,  
tion that we did  making a play.''  is be better fun­ 
the  previous  damentally,"  
week. But the difference between one  Charlie Weis Irish coach  Weis said. "There's just too many easy  
week  and  the  yards, too many  

next week was somebody mak­easy yards that we're giving up ing a play." that we have to make those 
That play -McCarthy's third yards tougher." interception in as many games How the Irish will do that -may have been the biggest remains to be seen. for Notre Dame in the early ''I'm not saying cut down or portion of this season. In fact, simplify, but I think you got to it may have been the difference be able to hang your hat on between a 2-1 record and a 1-2 something that's working on a mark for the Irish. regular basis," Weis said. 
"If it weren't for Kyle McCarthy and sometimes Contact Matt Gamber at Harrison Smith, as well, mgamber@nd.edu 
NBA 

Replace111ent refs don't worry Hornets' Paul 
Associated Press 

Because of his size, many teams will always try to be physical with Chris Paul. 
Yet the All-Star guard isn't worried about play getting out of hand if his games are being called by replacement officials. 
"No, no," Paul said Monday. "I don't worry about replacement referees. End of the day, you're reffing the game." 
The NBA and its referees union have failed to reach agreement on a new contract and the league announced last week it will begin training 
"The book is about basketball, but it's a bigger story than that," Paul said. "It may be in the work force, it may be anywhere that you want to succeed, there's going to be people that doubt you and think that you can't do it. But if you believe in yourself and things like that, the sky's the limit." 
It has been for Paul, who went on to become Rookie of the Year, a two-time All-Star and a member of the gold medal-win­ning U.S. Olympic team in 2008. There was even some question if he would make that team because of his size, since coach 
replacement Mike Krzyzewski
"/ don't worry about 
officials. Without wanted his back­a new deal soon, replacement referees. court to have replacements players who
End ofthe day, you're 
will be used could deal with
reffing the game. " 
when preseason the bigger and play opens Oct. more physical
1. . 
international 

The league guards. 
Chris Paul 
Hornets guard 
hasn't begun a Paul's New season without Orleans Hornets its regular refer-struggled at the ees since 1995. end of last season because of 
"They probably won't know us injuries and were quickly elimi­as well and we won't know nated from the playoffs. They them on a first-name basis like made a big trade over the sum­we do the regular referees, but mer, dealing starting center you've got to play the game," Tyson Chandler to Charlotte for Paul said. Emeka Okafor. 
The 6-foot Paul is one of the Chandler had his best offen­NBA's shortest players, but his sive seasons in New Orleans, size has never stopped him. And where Paul often set him up for he wants kids to know it doesn't easy dunks with alley-oop pass­have to stop them, either. es. Paul said he won't have the 
Paul was at the NBA Store same relationship with Okafor reading and signing copies of -but doesn't want one. his new book, "Long Shot: Never "Tyson's a totally different Too Small to Dream Big," a chil­player from Emeka, Emeka's a dren's book Paul wrote about totally different type. They play overcoming his height to try out two totally different style and make ateam as a youngster games," Paul said. "I don't want growing up in North Carolina. Emeka to come in and try to be 
Paul said he has faced skepti­Tyson. And I think starting from cism throughout his career, and day one in training camp, me hopes the book teaches children and Emeka have the opportuni­how to deal with it. ty to start our own thing." 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 22, 2009 
Watt 
continued from page 24 
add better net skills, the ability to counter well with his slice backhand, playing more up in the court and the ability to use the width of the court into his comfort zone in order to handle the load at No. 1." 
Junior Dan Stahl also proved vital for the Irish last season moving up to play No. 3 singles and also spent some time in the ITA rankings during last sea­son. 
Bayliss also noted his success last year while at the No. 3 position, and notes that Stahl is good at taking the ball early but needs to work on taking advan­tage of his opportunities to come in and finish off the point. 
The most likely candidate it seems to take the No. 1 position this season is junior Stephen Havens, who played in the sec­ond slot for the Irish last sea­son. Havens also joins Watt in the ITA rankings this season debuting at No. 98. 
"Last year Stephen Havens at times played like that player, but he needs to demonstrate the match-to-match consistency that was missing a year ago," Bayliss said. "Certainly he has the ball-striking ability to win at the top. Adding a stronger pres­ence at the net will give him a chance to see just how good he can become." 
When comparing last season's No. 1 Helgeson to Havens, Bayliss said that what proved key for Helgeson was his ability to bounce back after some tough losses. 
Helgeson lost at least 10 dual matches last season and with integrates them into his overall the tough schedule the Irish scheme, how quickly he reads face, the No. 1 for the Irish this opportunities to come forward year will also face a tough chal­and how well he assesses situa­lenge. tions." 


"The results you will be able While the Irish don't have a to achieve will be based on your clear cut No. 1, they will work ability to respond to adversity," towards finding that person Bayliss said. "Stephen has when they next take the court added some new weapons to his on Oct. 9 in Cambridge, Mass., arsenal -a better slice back­at the Harvard Invitational. hand, more punch on the volley, better variety on his serve. Now Contact Kate Grabarek at the challenge is to see how he kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
• ·State of the ArtBrand New High Line Fitness Center and Conununitr.Club House 
• Free 'J.anning~ 
• 
Private ~Eb'Jlies and Free Parking 

• 
Swimming Pool, Sun Deck, Hot Tub and 'Basketball Court 

• 
OnSite Management and 24n Maintenance 

• 
,On Site Security Officer 


574.272.8124 
1710 Turtle Creek Drive • South Bend, IN www.clovervillageapartments.com 

• 
Swimming Pool, Tennis Court, 24 Hour Fitness Center, Basketball Court · 

• 
Free Tanning Beds 

• 
Free Washer and Dryer in each unit 

• 
High Speed Wireless Internet and Comcast Premium Cable Included 

• 
On Site Management and24/7 Maintenance 

• 
On Site Security Officer · 


574.272.1441 
180 I Irish Way • South Bend, IN www.clovcrridgeapartments.com 
Want to cough, run a .,ever, have .,atigue and .,eel miserable .,or 10-21 days this lNinter? Then DON'T get a flu shot! But ifyou'd like at least an 85% chance ofpreventing it, then wash your hands frequently, don't share eating or drinking utensils, and get the .,ree "u vaccine/ 

Free (Seasonal) Flu 
Shots 
FOR 

Notre Dame students, faculty, staff, retirees, & spouses of retirees 
(NO 10 card and short sleeves REQUIRED) 
THERE IS A LIMITED NUMBER OF SHOTS AVAILABLE TO THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY. A LIMITED AMOUNT WILL BE GIVEN EACH DAY UNTIL THE TOTAL ALLOTMENT IS GONE. 
Tuesday Wednesday Thursday ~:»eptember 22 September 23 September 23 11 :OOpm -Spm 9am-4pm 1 :OOprn -Sprn 
AT 
Stepan Center 
Enter south side 

For further inforrnation regarding Seasonal or H1N1 Influenza and vaccines, please go to http://uhs.nd.edu 
When the novel H1 N1 vaccine becomes available later, the campus community will be notified. 
Offered by University Health Services and the Office of Human Resources 
Tuesday, September 22, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 

.--------------------­
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 22, 2009 
striking distance. 
Otter~s After the fumble on the goal line, Duncan was left with one last possession to try and tie the
continued from page 24 
game. The drive held promise as of field goal range. it began with an athletic 20-yard 
As time ran down in the first catch over the middle by sopho­half. Spinelli marched Sorin more receiver Adam Zaabel. A down the field, turning several 10-yard sack of Palmquist two broken pass plays into long plays later forced a fourth-and­scrambles, a skill he used long, killing any momentum throughout the game. Duncan had gained, and thus 
"I did a lot of running in high essentially sealing the outcome. school," Spinelli said. "I have a "Throughout the day we were thumb injury which affects my scattered on play making," said passing, so I took that into Zaabel. account. We were lucky on a Duncan was also foiled several couple big plays." times by costly mistakes. The 
One of those big plays came at Highlanders fumbled three times the end of the drive, as Spinelli throughout the day, twice in their hit the freshman Robinson on a own territory. Though Knott 50-yard touchdown pass to put never directly scored following Sorin up 14-0. the turnovers, they clearly played 
"I looked off the safety and a role in the battle of field posi­threw it up," Spinelli· said. tion. "[Robinson] is a. big guy and I None were more costly than a knew he would make a play." swing pass by Palmquist that 

Sorin closed out the victory flew behind his receiver and the with a strong defensive effort in line of scrimmage. The ball the second half. The Otters rolled back seven yards, until it kicker Pablo Martinez. third and final touchdown. The Gentlemen have a bye employed a "bend but don't was recovered by the "[Freshman] Robert 'Paint Can' "By the end of the game we week coming up, giving them break" mentality, giving up a few Juggernauts at the Highlander Toole was a force at defensive were pretty tired, but we hung in two weeks to prepare for Fisher. first downs but preventing big 25-yard line. end," sophomore co-captain there and secured a nice win," "We just have to work on our plays. This enabled them to con­"It felt like we were trying to Sean Mullen said. Yuhas said. "Our defensive sec­coverage a little bit, maybe spice trol the whole second half en find a rhythm all day on offense," Toole finished the game with ondary was especially tough it up a little as it was a little route to the victory despite the said Zaabel. several sacks for the Kangaroos, today, suffocating their passing vanilla," Nester said. "I was pret­noted absences of highlight-reel The Highlanders, coming off a ineluding one which effectively attack." ty pleased with our defense." playmakers Jon Beckerle (family disappointing inaugural year, ended Keenan's final drive. With their first game under The Vermin will play Fisher wedding) and Bobby Sullivan were able to take some positives "The defensive secondary also their belts, the Dawgs now look next week while the Gentlemen (personal reasons). from the game. came in big late in the game," to improve for their next chal­have a bye week. 
"We know that in this league, "Palmquist showed good com­Mullen said. lenge. big plays win the game," Spinelli posure in his first game as a The defenses held both teams "We thought we actually Dillon 23, O'Neill 0 said. "We let up some little ones freshman," said sophomore cap­scoreless in the second half. played well and we have a lot of Dillon routed O'Neill 23-0 in a but in the end we were fme." tain Paul Scheel. "I was frustrated with our per­talent," freshman Dan Finan game featuring different offen­
"It wasn't a bad game," said formance," Keenan sophomore said. "We just nPed to get on the sive styles and expectations. Knott 7, Duncan 0 Zaabel. "Our defense delinitely captain Terry Mahoney said. "We same page and perfect our plays The Big Red dominated every 
Knott senior quarterback made some plays and we stuck couldn't push [the ball[ inside the in practice this week." aspect of the game as it blended Aidan Fitzgerald's first-half with them." live." Next week Alumni faces hard-hitting, opportunistic touchdown pass to fellow senior Mahoney remains optimistic Duncan. Morrissey has a bye defense with an overpowering Jeff Skorup produced the only Keough 7, Keenan 3 that the Keenan squad will week, and will play the running attack that was just too points of the game in Knott's 7-0 Keough started its season in recover from this game and Highlanders in two weeks. much for the Mob to handle. win over Duncan. terrific form with a 7-3 victory make a run lor the playoll's. "Our defense and offensive line 
The two defenses dominated over Keenan in both teams' sea­"We won't make the same mis­Carroll 7, St. Edward's 6 really set the tone for the day," the game, with both teams forc­son opener on Sunday. takes next week against Dillon," A blocked extra point separat­said junior captain Jordan Smith. ing multiple turnovers on downs. Senior Matthew Bruggeman he said. ed Carroll and St. Edward's in a The Dillon defense set the tone Knott's high-pressure defense, persevered at quarterback for Keough will try to carry their defensive battle Sunday as the on just the third play of the led by senior Joe Raupp and his the Kangaroos, completing a momentum from Sunday's win Vermin were victorious, 7-6. game. Freshman linebacker Dan several big hits, made things pass to senior wide receiver into next week's game against Carroll scored in the second Balcarcel intercepted Mob fresh­hard on the Highlanders and Kevin Nosek for the only touch­Stanford while Keenan faces quarter on a quarterback sneak man quarterback Chris Delillo. starting freshman quarterback down of the game. Sophomore Dillon. by junior Brian Vaio. The score The Big Rnd defense continued to Chris Palmquist all game long. running back Reed Looney ran was set up by a clutch 15-yard harass O'Neill's offense the rest 
"Our defense really picked us for many key gains on the scor­Morrissey 22, Alumni 0 catch by freshman Bo Brinkman of the day, not allowing a first up today," said Fitzgerald. "It's ing drive. While Morrissey's defense shut at the one-yard line. The play down through the first three great to start out with a shutout." Trailing 7-3 in the third quar­out Alumni, its ofl'ense cruised to gave momentum back to the quarters and forcing four fum­
Both offenses struggled to ter, sophomore PJ McHugh kept three touchdowns in a 22-0 vie­Vermin following a St. Ed's sack bled snaps and three sacks. move ball for the majority of the Keenan's hopes alive with a tory. ofVaio. Along with the Big Red's out­game. Knott held a sizeable edge clutch interception. The Knights' Morrissey's defense not only "The offensive line gave me standing defensive performance, in total yards by the end of the offense tried one last time to held Alumni to one first down the time to work and the guys made the story of the game was game, but only converted on one score on the Keough defense as entire game, but also outscored some nice plays," Vaio said of the Dillon's offensive line. They capi­of three scoring chances. freshman quarterback Trevor the Dawgs by forcing a safety in touchdown drive. talized on the Mob's mistakes by 
"We executed pretty well at Yerrick led Keenan to some short the first half. The Gentlemen struck first, controlling the line of scrimmage times, but we had a couple mis­gains. "Bend not break: that's our reaching the end zone through and creating holes for running cues," said Fitzgerald. Ultimately, it was the motto," said Morrissey senior the air early in the second quar­backs Smith, sophomore Eric 
The miscues, a fourth quarter Kangaroos' defensive line that John Saulitis. "We were happy ter. The extra point was blocked Herbert, and freshman Terry fumble on the goal line and a overwhelmed the Keenan with our performance." by junior defensive end Kris Howard. Smith scored two missed 35-yard Held goal a quar­offense. The Knights' only points "I think the team played pretty Kast, and that play created the touchdowns in the game. ter earlier, kept Duncan within came on a field goal by junior well. It was kind of sloppy, but diil'erPnce in the final score. "Our offensive line was the key 
we did well considering it was St. Ed's took over on offense for us. [Freshmen I Dan our first game," senior quarter­with 7:20 remaining in the game, McGeever and Bob Burkett, back Dan Deveny said. hoping for a game-winning drive. [juniors] Andrew Watkins, Mike 
In the first half, Morrissey com­They converted on a third down, Belatti, and [tight end] Jonathan pletely shut down the Alumni but then threw four consecutive Liedl, and [senior] Pat Jackson offense, keeping them from incomplete passes to give the ball get the credit for this game," said obtaining any first downs all half. back to Carroll. The Vermin pro­Smith. Both Morrissey's passing and ceeded to run out the dock. "We had to cut some talented running game looked strong, "It was a good game," Carroll linemen this season and have with Deveny running and throw­coach sophomore Patrick ended up with a really good ing the ball successfully. Shanley said. "We stayed classy group here," Jackson said. 
Near the end of the lirst half, the whole game and it showed For the Mob, it's time to go Morrissey moved the ball down when we pulled out the win. back to the drawing board. the field and scornd their second Vermin captain Nick Ruof was "It's tough," says senior captain touchdown with two minutes left also very encouraged by the vic­Charles Johnson. "We have a in the half with a run by Dewmy. tory. completely new offense and 
The second half began with "Our defense looked real defense. Everybody on this team Alumni in possession, but after a good," the junior wide receiver works hard. most guys play both sack and two incomplete passes, said. "On offensn we got our stull' ways. No matter what, we're the Dawgs were forced to punt. together when we needed it to going to come ready to play in An interception gave Alumni the happnn. We caught the ball when two weeks against Keenan." ball back, but a bad snap quickly we threw it, and we ran the ball Dillon plays Keenan this week, returned possession to Morrissey. well." while O'Neill has an bye week 
After failing to convert to a first The dose loss is the first in before encountering the Knights. down and punting, Alumni awhile lor St. Ed's, who finished regained possession. With less the regular season undefeated in Contact Chris Allen at than seven minutes left in the 2008. callenlO@nd.edu, John Helms at fourth quarter, Morrissey senior "We didn't come out like we jhelms2@nd.edu, Kevin Baldwin Phillip Yuhas intercepted the ball hoped to," St. Ed's senior captain at kbaldwi2@nd.edu, Megan and returned it to the seven-yard Andy Nester said. "We didn't Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu, 
IAN GAVLICK/The Observer line. practice the way we wanted to Andrew Owens at 


Duncan freshman quarterback Chris Palmquist rolls out as Deveny soon ran the ball into this week. The offense just aowens2@nd.edu and Colin defenders pursiUe during Knott's 7-0 victory Sunday. the end zone for Morrissey's stalled." King at cking6@nd.edu 
Tuesday, September 22, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
Across 37 Relative of a Short 
certain cobbler 7 Hideout 41 Idiosyncrasies 11 General on a 43 Batman and 
Chinese menu Robin, e.g. 14 Plugs 44 Game keeper? 15 Right-hand 47 Setting for TV's person "Newhart" 16 Help in a heist, 48 Sharif of "Doctor say Zhivago" 17 Fountain treat 50 A little scared 19 Bearded beast 51 Candy bar with 20 Bearded bloom 
maraschinos 
21 "Just watch me!" 54 Big stingers 23 Type size used 55 Show deep 
in typewriters respect (to) 27 Tangy pie filler 56 Make 30 Goes postal 58 Vermeer's 
"Woman With a
32 Penlight batteries 59 Popular Fanta­
33 Patty Hearst like soda 
kidnap grp. 34 He flew too 
66 Those, in Toledo close to the sun, 67"_Cop" in myth 68 Robert Ludlum 
35" du Iieber!" hero searching 36 Abbr. on an 
for his identity envelope 69 Hideout 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Tony Orbach 
38 Dutch dairy 48 _y Plata 60 v. Wade product (Montana's 
61 Actor Vigoda 
39 Aid in locating a motto) pirate's treasure 
49 "Dear me!" 62 Lament 40 Root beer float 
50 Thick carpet 
with chocolate 63 http://www.yahoo ice cream 52 66 and others: .com, e.g. 41 Amused 
Abbr. 
64 Skit-filled NBC42 Not farmed out 53 Guadalajara guy 
show, for short 45 Passbook abbr. 
57 Confederate 46 Masthead soldiers, for 65 "For _ a jolly contents, briefly short 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 


DAN POHLMAN 
SCHAD & FREUDE 
T.I.N.D. 
Goldydomer and the three boys... 
Hi, I just wanted to pay you a 
genuine compliment because 
really thought your corromeo1tsll 
in philo this 
I. 
70 Carriers of Lyme ticks 71 Balloons 
Down Alert, for short 2 Thing with cups 
and hooks 3 Harry Potter's 
best friend 4 Actress Thurman 5 Pays what's due 6 Peter I, II or Ill 7 Run out, as a 
subscription 8 Feel ill 9 Uganda's_ 
Am in 10 Eye part 11 Rib-eye 
alternatives 12 Natural seasoning 13 Club chair companion piece 16 Biology lab supply 18 Buildup at a 
river's mouth 22 IV amounts 23 Yale student 24 Tone_ (early 
rapper) 25 Scientist who experienced a great fall? 
26 Maryland squad 
28 Lens type 
29 Diamond Head locale 31 Archipelago unit: Abbr. 35 Lexus competitor 36 Big name in metal foil 
Oh Dude II Sick totally gnar· gnar. They got pong here! 
That's soo Buttery Gnar·Gnar. 

HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TffiS DAY: Joseph Mazzella, 26; Nicole Richie, 28; Liam Gallagher, 37; Faith Hill, 42 
Happy Birthday: You may uot be happy with the way things have gone in the past but only you can make the changes that will bring you peace of mind. Look at all the nega­tives and positives in your life so you can adjust your course of action. Yon can be suc­cessful iflet go of the things that are holding you back. Ymrr numbers are I, 12. 16, 25, 28,32,41 
ARIES (March 21-Apr1119): You need to be precise in order to avoid misinterpretation. Put more energy into your partnerships and your home. Someone who lives a distance from you will see clearly a problem you face.*** 
TAURUS (Apr1120-May 20): The more intense you are and set in your ways, the more you will accomplish. An emotional situation will catch you off-guard. Au affectionate gesmre will help you bypass any conflict. *** 
GEMINI (May 21-Jlllle 20): Someone will he waiting for you to make a mistake. Expect criticism but don't let it get you down. Instead. use it to improve whatever you are wmking on. It's how you react that will make the difference. * * 
('ANCER (Jtllle 21-July 22): Take hold of your personal life and settle any simation that has been plaguing you. The longer you let things linger. the harder it will be to tnrn them arotmd. A relationship you chetish can he enhanced with care and attention. ** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't give in to emotional blackmail or anyone who is trying to take advantage of your generous nature. Explore different culnrres.lifestyles and philoso­phies. Make changes based on your needs. not someone else's. ** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Offering your time or sen~ces "ill open up opportunities to expand what you do into areas you never thought to venrure down in the past. An oppomt­nity to fonn a partnership or a business should be considered. Romance is in the stars.*** 
LIRRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): There are changes going on in back rooms that could leave you in an awkward position ifyou haven't made a point to stay in the loop. Look out for your own interests but don't feel compelled to make a fast decision. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Yon11 he drawn to an uuusual al'!ivity or event that will help you get a better picmre of the way ilrings are tmfolding in your conummity. industry or orga­nization. A cmmection with someone who has similar interests will lead to crucial changes to a project you've been trying to get off the ground. *** 
SAGmARIUs (NO\', 22-Dec. 21): You'll get caught in a trap ifyou make protnises with­out thinking. Time \\ill not allow you to fit in everything you have scheduled. so ask for help. You'll live up to your word and make some new friends. *** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): There isn't anything you can't accomplish if you put your 
mind to it. Visiting fiiends. clients or anyone you fmd interesting, infomtative or productive will work to your benefit. Titere is money to be made and a relationship will be enlumced. 
**** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb.18): Don't pay for others or give or donate to something you know little about. Visit a friend or peer who can offer advice or knowledge that will help you further your interests or find your niche.** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-MaiTh 20): You can raise your position personally or professionally 
through the people with whom you align yourself. Choose wisely and yon can fmm a part­nership. enabling yon to explore areas of interest you have developed lately. ***** 
Blrthda:r Baby: Yon are caring, set in ymrr ways, compassionate and willing to lend a help­ing hand. You have smmd jud!!ment and you give good advice. 
Eugenia'.,·lli•b sites: euw~nia/asr.comfhrcorifidential consultations, myspace.com/eugenialo.stfor Eugenia's blog, astmadri.ce.comforfu.n 
JEFF KNUREK 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek
Jl&M~J! 

WHAT THE: L.A"Z.Y 

STUOE:NT SAID WHE:N
NEW Jumble iPhone App go 10: htlp:lltr.imjumbleapp HE: FL-UNKE:D THE: SPE:L-1-ING TE:ST. 
I I 
I SIDURA j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

I (I (J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Ans: rI I I I JrI I I Jrn 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: SNORT CEASE SOIREE BEFALL Answer: You can find this marked down in a department store -AN ESCALATOR 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ______________ State _______ Zip___________ 
I 
I 
I 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Tuesday, September 22, 2009 
page 24 
MEN'S INTEIRHALL FOOTBALL 
Week 1: Domination 
Four shutouts posted in six season openers 
touchdown pass. 

By CHRIS AlLEN, JOHN 
"We've got a couple youngHELMS, KEVIN BALDWIN, studs on this team. We're lucky
MEGAN FINNERAN, ANDREW they let the old guys play," Bruck OWENS and COLIN KING said. "The quarterback put the
Sports Writers 

ball right where it needed to be." Fisher appeared to have Sorin 14, Fisher 0 answered on a 30-yard touch­Sorin rode two big pass plays down pass from Erickson to sen­to a 14-0 victory over Fisher in a ior wide receiver Pat McHugh on game that saw both teams strug­the following drive. However, the gle to build strong drives. play was called back due to 
Fisher looked poised to score offensive pass interference after the first touchdown of the game McHugh made contact with the in the beginning of the second defending Bruck, a call that quarter, driving to the Sorin 20 drew the ire of Fisher's sideline. yard line. However, a tipped ball "I was definitely interfered thrown by junior quarterback with," Bruck said. "If there's a Grant Erickson was intercepted flag on the field, there's a foul on by senior defensive back Rob the play. He ran me over." Gallic, giving Sor:in their first and Fisher's drive stalled after the only takeaway of the game. penalty as the workmanlike 
Sorin turned the interception Ryan Robinson and lightning­into points two plays later when quick Matt Gamber combined to freshman quarterback Ted sack Erickson to put Fisher out Spinelli hit senior wide receiver Jeremy Bruck on an 80-yard see OTTERS/page 22 

SMC VOLLE~YBALL 
Belles try to get back on track against MIAA's Olivet 
hard for the first set," Belles team looking to return to form Stephanie Bodien, whose 88 She joins Slupszynski andBy CHRIS MICHALSKI coach Toni Kuschel said. "We after a solid season-opening kills are second to Bodien as the only three Belles 
Sports Writer 

need to focus on continuing to showing at the Capital Slupczynski's 141. averaging at least two kills per 
cut down on errors and play University Tournament in "Stephanie has really come game. 
Saint Mary's will return to our game." Columbus, Ohio. on strong," Kuschel said. "If Sophomore setter Danie the court after a weeklong Saint Mary's (4-5, 1-3 MIAA) "This year means a lot to you watch her play she does Brink has also provided con­break looking to turn the tide will challenge conference foe our seniors, " Kuschel said. not look or act as a freshman." sistent performances, averag­from a tough stretch that has Olivet, a team coming off a "They work very hard every Junior Andrea Sasgen, the ing 8.61 assists per game. seen the Belles drop three of three set loss to Hope College day in practice and set great team's tallest player at 5 feet, Tonight's home contest their last four matches, with last week. As she has all sea­examples for the underclass­10 inches, has also made her begins at 7 p.m. at the Angela each loss coming in a five-set son, Kuschel will rely on her men." presence felt in the early part Athletic Center. battle. three seniors Lorna One underclassman that is of the season. 
"It is very vital that we start Slupczynski, Liana Rohr and turning heads on the coaching She leads the team in blocks Contact Chris Michalski at out our games strong and fight Kathleen Mills -to lead a staff is freshman outside hitter and is third in kills with 76. jmichal2@nd.edu 
MEN'S TEN~US 
Teant looks to fill No. 1 slot 
By KATE GRABAREK Sports Writer 

Notre Dame may not have a clear-cut No. 1 player to replace the graduated Brett Helgeson, but the Irish have enjoyed early season success with a balanced lineup full of improved players. 
Junior captain Tyler Davis was the latest to impress with three singles victories at the Illinois Invitational over the weekend, and the lineup as a whole performed well in both singles and doubles. 
Sophomore Casey Watt has shown steady improvement after posting a 25-8 singles record last season, and he debuted at No. 90 in the ITA's preseason rank:ings. 
"Casey Watt had an outstand­ing record for us, but at a lower lineup slot," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "He will need to 
see WATT/page 20 


FOOTBALL 
Penalties still a concern after narrow victory 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Editor 
The dust has settled after Notre Dame's nearly heart­attack-inducing victory over Michigan State Saturday, but coach Charlie Weis said Sunday there are still a few things the Irish need to clean up before this week's contest at Purdue. 
And it's not just the defense. Offensive penalties could have killed Notre Dame Saturday, and the Irish can't afford to continue to take 10-and 15­yard infractions on such a reg­ular basis, Weis said. 
"[Two holding! penalties did­n't bother me nearly as much as the false start, a line of scrimmage penalty at home, which you should never have, and the late hit at the end of the game," Weis said. "They're the type of things that happen in the game that frustrate you more than something that hap­pens during the game.". 
The late hit call on senior right tackle Sam Young was especially troublesome, as it nearly kept Notre Dame from advancing the ball as it tried to run out the clock late in the game. 
"Fortunately, Golden [Tate] goes and bails us out of that one," Weis said of the junior receiver's reception that went for a crucial first down. "When you're trying to stress running out the clock at the end of the game, finishing out of the game, you can't have a penalty like that." 
Though the Irish did pick up a few big flrst downs late in the fourth quarter, they still weren't able to bury the Spartans and hold the ball until 
see WEIS/page 19 




