the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Student enrollment balanced across Colleges 
Arts and Letters numbers drop in 2009-10; Science, Engineering, Business see increases, changes reflect 2003 strategic plan 

ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
The College of Arts and Letters noticed a drop in enrollment this year, but this decrease actually marks a success for the University as it creates more balanced numbers among the various colleges 
— a priority outlined in the University’s 2003 strategic plan. 
Less students enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters because more chose the College of Engineering and the College of Science, two programs that the University sought to expand. 
“There are more under­graduate students enrolled in the Mendoza College of Business than the College itself thinks desirable, while the College of Engineering suffers to a degree from under-enroll­ment that is part of a national pattern,” the plan said. 
Six years later, the College of Engineering increased its enrollment by about 15 percent. It noticed an 18 percent increase this year alone, Assistant Dean 
of Academic Affairs in Engineering Catherine Pieronek said. 
Pieronek attributed 


CampusanticipatesclashwithTrojans 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
The level of football fervor 
on campus has been unprecedented in anticipa­tion of the toughest test yet for the Notre Dame Fighting Irish against the USC Trojans on Saturday. 
“You can feel the excite­ment, from people talking about it in the dining halls to the chalk messages all over the sidewalks,” senior Caitlin Harrington said. “Campus is buzzing.” 
Part of the reason students 
see USC/page 6 





Studentgovt.hosts Farmers’ Market 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Student government ’s Social Concerns Committee will be hosting a farmers’ market on campus on Thursday at the Field House Mall from 3 p.m. to 
5:30 p.m., Committee chair Rachel Roseberry said. 
“We are bringing vendors from the South Bend Farmers’ Market to cam­pus. These vendors will be selling a variety of mer ­chandise from pumpkins, apples and other fresh pro­duce to breads, homemade salsa, caramel corn and jewelry, all from local busi­nesses and farmers, ” Roseberry said. 
Committee members said the market is being held to inform students of the local South Bend Farmers ’ Market, a place few stu ­dents visit. 
“South Bend is home to one of the largest indoor 
see MARKET/page 8 

STUDENT SENATE 



FLEX program’s goals discussed 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Student body vice president Cynthia Weber informed sen­ators of the goals of this year’s Freshmen Leadership Experience (FLEX) program at the Student Senate meeting Wednesday. 
“It’s kind of like your stu­dent government-student union crash course,” Weber said. 
FLEX will have three main aspects, Weber said. 
“One of them is a mentoring aspect,” she said. “Each per­son in FLEX will be assigned and grouped with another older member in student gov­ernment who will show them things like how to be with administrators, meeting eti­quette.” 

The other aspects will be hearing experiences of mem­bers of student government and working on a project, Weber said. 
There will be four commit­tees and each will be assigned a project, she said. 
see SENATE/page 8 
Engineering’s smaller size to the rigidity of schedules and because it is regarded on campus as one of the most difficult areas of study. 
“I don’t think it’s any secret that Engineering is very challenging and is in some ways a rather rigid curriculum, where other majors are less challenging, have a more flexible cur­riculum and still provide a Notre Dame degree,” she said. 
Although there was a national trend away from engineering, Pieronek said Notre Dame faired better 
see COLLEGES/page 10 

ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 


So. Cal. pep rally set for Irish Green 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
If Troy fell to a horse, USC stands no chance against the Irish mob that awaits them. 
Notre Dame students, alum­ni and visitors will be out in full force at the football pep rally tomorrow night. The rally, which lasts from 6:30 
p.m. to 7 p.m., will be taking place on Irish Green, the area just south of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
“Everybody on campus is extremely excited and pumped,” student body presi­dent Grant Schmidt said. “We really hope to build on this excitement and carry it into the game on Saturday.” 
see RALLY/page 6 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Free Chipotle burritos page 3  Mythical Matchups round 3 page 16  Men’s soccer falls to Indiana page 32  Viewpoint page 14 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Thursday, October 15, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 

You should care 
When asked if his high number of strikeouts bothered him, 1970s New York Yankees slugger Reggie Jackson said, “A billion people in China don’t care.” 
After the last two meetings between Notre Dame and USC have gone the Trojans’ way by a combined score of 76-3, many Irish sup­porters might try to borrow Jackson’s quip in hopes of mini­mizing embarrass­ment. 

They could likely Douglas Farmer add to the list the populations of 
Assistant 
Honduras and 

Sports Editor
Colombia, high schoolers in fly-over states such as Kansas and Montana and even a percentage of Notre Dame stu­dents. 
But that last group, the students here at Notre Dame, as Eric Prister first said in this space in Tuesday’s paper, should care, even if from Honduras or Columbia, Kansas or Montana. 
If you weren’t dressed in Domer dia­pers, one of your better friends on campus was, and aren’t we supposed to support the passions of those close to us? 
Even if you are too selfish to consider the guy across the hallway, think of your­self. People associate Notre Dame with football as much as anything else, if not more so. Do you really want your first interviewer to crack a joke about Charlie Weis’ decisive digestive advantages, and you not have anything more than an embarrassed ignorant laugh as a come­back. 
Oh, you’re going to own your own busi­ness right out of school? Fine, be difficult (and unrealistic). As that business owner, won’t you hate the big corporations such as Wal-Mart and Bank of America? Isn’t it kind of nice to hate things like that? Yet, some would argue hate is an unhealthy emotion, but sports is one area that hate can be channeled with positive results. I hate the Boston Red Sox, the Minnesota Vikings and USC, and I enjoy saying such. 
When I undoubtedly tank my mid-term today, instead of hating my professor or the honors program kid who ruined the curve, I will channel my hate toward Pete Carroll and USC. Try it out. You’ll be pleasantly surprised by its effectiveness. 
So let the billion people in China, 50 mil­lion in Honduras and Colombia and two thousand in Kansas and Montana remain indifferent. 
But those of us here should care, should be proud of our school’s most public rep­resentatives, as we eat the same meals and walk the same campus as they do. 
Do I think the Irish will win Saturday? Well, USC is ranked sixth for a reason. But will I still care? Assuredly. 
So don’t let the game this weekend sim­ply be a social event. Pay attention. Care. 
Be worried about Jimmy’s toe, Armando’s ankle and the defense’s tack­ling. Enjoy Golden Tate’s hurdling and Manti Teo’s exuberance. 
After all, if you don’t care this year, you’ll be hypocritical if you claim to care next year, and by the end of the 2010 edi­tion of this rivalry, perhaps Notre Dame will be riding a lopsided two-year winning streak of its own. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at 
dfarmer1@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to a production error, an Oct. 14 Observer article titled “Official discusses financial aid status” contained the wrong text. The correct version of the story can be viewed online. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU DOING FOR FALL BREAK? 






Mark Welsh  Ming Archbold  Charles Johnson  Wing Yan Wong  Johnny LaBarge  Tim LaBarge  
sophomore  freshman  senior  sophomore  junior  senior  
O’Neill  O’Neill  O’Neill  McGlinn  Fisher  Fisher  
“Meeting with  “Going home to  “Going to  “Staying here  “Watching  “Hanging out  
my parole  New Jersey to  Appalachia to  at school and  Clausen lead  with my  
officer.”  stay with  help the poor  going in to  the Irish to a  wonderful  
family and  people.”  Chicago.”  victory in  cousin Johnny.”  
relax.”  Heisman  

fashion.” 
Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer The Air Force Color Guard honors the flag during the national anthem before the soccer game versus Indiana University on Wednesday. 
OFFBEAT 
Robber loses wallet, then asks victim to return it 
LITTLE ROCK — Police said a would-be robber was in jail after losing his wallet during the attempt­ed robbery then phoning the victim and asking for it to be returned. Little Rock police said the 23-year-old man was arrested on rob­bery charges Tuesday. 
Police said the man tried to rob a man at gunpoint at his home but fled and dropped his wallet then later called and told the man to return the wallet at a service station in North Little Rock. 
Little Rock police were interviewing the victim when the call came and notified North Little Rock police who found the sus­pect outside the service station and arrested him after a short foot chase. 
Ark. officer forced to use stun gun on brother 
CONWAY, Ark. — Authorities said a Vilonia police officer involved in a fracas at a private club in Conway has been taken into custody only after he was Tasered by his own brother, who is a Conway officer. Vilonia officer Jeremy Smith, 32, faces charges of disorderly con­duct and public intoxica­tion. 
Conway police reports say that when Conway offi­cer Lloyd Smith arrived on the scene after midnight Wednesday morning, he found his brother Jeremy resisting arrest by another officer. 
Lloyd Smith wrote in his report that when his broth­er continued to “raise his fists as if he was ready to fight, I pointed my Taser at Jeremy and pled with him, ‘please don't make me Tase you.’” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight Friday Saturday 

IN BRIEF 
The Notre Dame Energy Center is hosting a lecture 
on “Carbon Capture and Sequestration: Progress, Challenges, and Opportunities” today at 4 
p.m. in 129 DeBartolo Hall. Dan Connell, Research and Development Engineer for CONSOL Energy, Inc., will be speaking. 
Xiao Qiang , Editor in Chief of the China Digital Times and Adjunct Professor of Journalism at University of California, Berkeley, is delivering a lec­ture on “The Rise of Online Public Opinion and Its Political Impact” today at 
4:15 p.m. in Room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
“It Might Get Loud, ” a film about the personal sto­ries of electric guitar leg­ends, is showing today at 
9:30 p.m. in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
The Football Pep Rally for Saturday’s game will start Friday at 6 p.m. on Irish Green , south of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Players and coaches arrive at 6:30 p.m. Tickets are not necessary. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will be holding its Fall Concert Friday at 8 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center . Tickets are $3 for students. 
To submit information to be included in this section 
of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Sunday Monday 

Atlanta 62 / 54 Boston 51 / 31 Chicago 47 / 42 Denver 62 / 45 Houston 88 / 75 Los Angeles 70 / 60 Minneapolis 45 / 36 New York 53 / 41 Philadelphia 55 / 42 Phoenix 89 / 69 Seattle 59 / 48 St. Louis 47 / 42 Tampa 90 / 75 Washington 52 / 47 

Thursday, October 15, 2009 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Second free burrito day succeeds 
By NICHOLAS COOPER 
News Writer 
A second Free Chipotle Burrito Day allowed students and South Bend residents another chance to sample some of the food options offered by the restaurant on the recently completed Eddy Street Commons. 
Crickett Karson, a Chipotle pub­lic relations representative explained the reasons behind a second free burrito day. 
“We feel as though there was some confusion on behalf of the students and communities mem­bers for the event. Some people weren’t sure of the time of the event and weren’t able to partici­pate.” 
Karson went on to say how the second free burrito day fixed this problem. 
“We have a history of holding free burrito days at colleges throughout the United States. For the second day, we are planning on making the time of the event more clear. Anybody in line from 2 to 4 p.m. is guaranteed a burrito.” 

Students who participated in the first free burrito event generally had positive things to say about it. Cameron Dow, a Knott Hall resi­dent and self-proclaimed burrito enthusiast, described the event. 
“I had to wait in line for 45 min­utes, but then I got my burrito, double meat chicken fajita. The burritos were the same quality and size as the normal ones. If I didn’t have class, I’d go again Wednesday.” 
But not all students had such a positive experience. Many stu­dents were denied the opportunity to participate in the first burrito event on Sept. 24. Freshman Danielle Arthur was in that exact situation. 
“I got to Eddy Street Commons and saw this huge line for burri­tos. A manager was standing at the end of the line saying no more burritos, that they were out. I was pretty mad. I had walked all the way to Eddy Street, and I didn’t get a burrito.” 
Arthur’s situation was similar for several of the students. But Chipotle’s motto “food with integrity” focuses heavily on com­munity outreach, Karson said, and the restaurant wants to main­tain positive relations with the surrounding area. 
“Chipotle is more than burri­tos,” Karson said. “Chipotle suc­cessfully makes the effort to help family farms and other locally-run businesses in each of their fran­chises. Obviously it is difficult to find locally grown lettuce in Indiana in December, but we try wherever we can to incorporate local farms in our businesses.” 
After attending the second bur­rito day, Arthur was much more pleased with her experience. 
“The crowds were handled a lot better this time, and I got my bur­rito.” 
Contact Nicholas Cooper at ncooper@nd.edu 



Mendoza to host case compeition 
Business College to hold GE-sponsored contest between Notre Dame and USC 
By KATIE PERALTA 
Assistant News Editor 
Football will not be the 
only rivalry between the Universities of Notre Dame and Southern California this weekend — the two schools also lay claim to reputable business schools. 
Before the two football teams take to the field on Saturday, 15 first-year busi­ness students from each school will compete in the first-ever case competition Friday morning at the Mendoza College of Business. 
Mark Pienkos, assistant vice president of Originations of General Electric (GE) Corporate Retail, a 2007 Notre Dame MBA graduate who organ­ized the event, said the idea for the competition is not a new one, but it is the first time that the event has taken place on Notre Dame’s cam­pus. 
The timing of the daylong competition is not coinciden­tal. 
“My hope is that the [the competition] can bolster the idea that while rivalry exists between the two schools it is collegial at heart,” Pienkos said. 
“A competitive “From a recruiting said. 
bond is a good standpoint, this is a Since several thing especial-GE profession-
great opportunity for
ly when it ’s als and 
productive.” us to see the best and recruiters will 
The competi-the brightest be present at tion, which the competi ­
competing.” 
will begins at tion, it will also 
8:30 a.m., is be a viable net-sponsored by Mark Pienkos working oppor-GE ’s assistant vice president tunity for par-Experienced ticipants. 
of originations
Commercial “From a
General Electric 
and entrepreneurship Jim Davis, GE Global Manager of Sales in Transmission and Distribution Mark Hura, GE Product Marketer Steve Richards, GE Executive Director for Global Marketing Steve Liguori and Berry Wiard of American Electric Power (AEP) in South Bend. GE is currently running a pilot program in South Bend with AEP. 
Joe Kindt, a 2009 Notre Dame MBA graduate, also played an instrumental role in connecting the Notre Dame team with GE Energy, “fostering the opportunity to develop a poignant case,” Pienkos said. 
The competition ’s case, written by GE Market Programming Manager Bernard Lecours, deals with Smart Grid Technology aims to “reduce energy, lower cost and increase reliability and transparency,” Pienkos said. 
“This is a great opportuni­ty,” he said. “It can benefit people by reducing cost and saving energy.” 
The competition not only will give students the educa­tional opportunity to put into practice what they have learned in the classroom, but also will help GE to “use technology that’s still dor­mant,” Pienkos 
Leadership Program and is aimed at determining the best market strategy for its Smart Technology Grid platform. 
The Experienced Commercial Leadership Program, Pienkos said, is a global two -year post MBA leadership development pro­gram in which participants spend time in three 8-month rotations in different busi­ness fields. Additionally, Pienkos said, the program includes one month class­room training. 
“All rotations will be doing work that falls across the commercial spectrum, ” Pienkos said. 
The competitors, he said, will be given a case relevant to GE and each of the three 5-person teams from each university will deliberate the problem during the morning and present their solution to a panel of five judges in the afternoon. 
The judges include Notre Dame professor of strategy recruiting 

standpoint, this 
is a great opportunity for us to see the best and the brightest com­peting,” Pienkos said. 
Competitors, who had to qualify for the event, have been preparing for Friday’s competition for more than two weeks by conducting research and exploring background information about the technology, Pienkos said. 
“What really excites me is the opportunity for GE to demonstrate how it bridges the gap between academia and the real world,” Pienkos said. “This can really make an impact on the broader community.” 
Pienkos said he hopes that the competition will take place next year before the USC game in Los Angeles and also that it might extend to undergraduate students as well. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer  NEWS Thursday, October 15, 2009 
SMC to show silent film for Halloween 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s College is getting their frights the old-fashioned way this Halloween: The College is showing a classic silent horror film complemented by a live score. 
“Nosferatu,” a silent Dracula­esque movie, will be shown at the College today at 7:30 p.m. in the Vander Venet Theatre in the Student Center, accompanied by a live performance by the band bLuE daHLia, according to Chris Sallak, patron services and mar­keting manager at Saint Mary’s College. 
“Nosferatu is the earliest sur­viving film version of Bram Stoker’s ‘Dracula.’ Hailed as a ‘masterpiece in terror,’ this unau­thorized film directed by German filmmaker Frederick Murnau, captures one of the most chilling portrayals of the Stoker legends to date,” Sallak said. 
bLuE daHLia will engage the audience by adding a layer of emotion to the screening, Sallak said. 
“Using a broad range of instru­mentation and style, bLuE daHLia has developed an extensive repertoire of silent film scores for live performance,” Sallak said. “Varying in emotional tenor from slapstick romantic comedies to drama and horror, these intri­cately orchestrated works are forging connections with great films, music and generations of audiences everywhere.” 
According to Sallak, the band began to perform in collaboration with silent films and other visual arts when they received commis­sion form the Sound of Silent Film Festival in 1999. Since that time the band has continued to per­form throughout Michigan, their home state. 
Sallak said “Nosferatu” and bLuE daHLia are the “combina­tion of a great classic film with a hybrid mix of world fusion and adult alternative music.” 
The event is co-sponsored by the Saint Mary’s Student Activities Board and the Office of Special Events. 
“This event is something differ­ent than we have done on cam­pus before and is a great way to kick off the fall [and] Halloween season. There will also be plenty of fall themed refreshments,” Sallak said. 
Tickets can be purchased by visiting the Moreau Center Box Office, calling 574-284-4626 or online at MoreauCenter.com. Tickets will also be on sale in the Student Center Atrium during lunch today. Tickets cost $12 for adults, $10 for senior citizens, $8 Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross faculty and staff and $5 Notre Dame and Holy Cross students. Tickets for Saint Mary’s College students are free. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
U.S.EnergyexecutivetospeakatND 
Special to The Observer 
Energy executive T. Boone Pickens will conduct a town hall meeting to discuss his Pickens Plan for U.S. energy independence from imported oil at 5 p.m. Oct. 26 (Monday) at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at the University of Notre Dame. 
Sponsored by the Mendoza College of Business and the Office of the Provost, the talk is a free but ticketed event that is open to the campus and local communities. It will include a 30-minute presenta­tion by Pickens, followed by a 30-minute question-and­answer session. Tickets will be distributed on a first-come, first-serve basis beginning at 3 
p.m. Oct. 26 at the performing 
arts center. “We look forward to hosting Mr. Pickens and learning first­hand of his ideas pertaining to alternative forms of energy,” said Carolyn Y. Woo, Martin J. Gillen Dean of the Mendoza College of Business. “Mr. Pickens is a forward thinker on energy, and we are eager for Notre Dame students to engage him on this important subject.” 
Launched in July 2008, the Pickens Plan is a U.S. energy policy proposal that promotes alternatives to oil, including natural gas, wind power and solar energy. Pillars of the plan include: 
u Creating millions of new jobs by building out the capac­ity to generate up to 22 per­cent of U.S. electricity from wind 
u Adding solar generation capacity 
u Building a 21st century backbone electrical transmis­sion grid 
u Providing incentives for homeowners and the owners of commercial buildings to upgrade their insulation and other energy saving options 
u Using America’s natural gas to replace imported oil as a transportation fuel in addi­tion to its other uses such as power generation and chemi­cals 
A graduate of Oklahoma State University, Pickens began his career with Philips Petroleum. In 1954, he found­ed Mesa Petroleum, which by the 1980s was one of the largest independent oil com­panies in the world. In the mid-1990s, he founded BP Capital, which operates ener­gy focused commodity and equity funds, and Clean Energy, the largest provider of vehicular natural gas in North America. 
Gurulé elected to national academy 
Special to The Observer 
Jimmy Gurulé, professor of law at the University of Notre Dame, will join the ranks of for­mer U.S. Cabinet officials and other distinguished national leaders—including former Secretary of State Colin Powell, former Secretary of Health and Human Services Donna Shalala, former Attorneys General Edwin Meese III and Dick Thornburgh, and former Treasury Secretary Paul O’Neil — as a fellow of the National Academy of Public Administration (NAPA). 
Gurulé’s election to the acade­my by its board of governors and other fellows is a result of his work and accomplishments as a senior public administrator, especially as assistant attorney general and undersecretary of the U.S. Department of Treasury. 
Established in 1967 and char­tered by Congress, NAPA is a non-profit, independent coali­tion of top public management and organizational leaders who tackle the nation’s most critical and complex challenges. 
Gurulé is an internationally known expert in the field of international criminal law, ter­rorism, terrorist financing and anti-money laundering. He played a pivotal role in develop­ing the U.S. government’s global strategy to combat terrorist financing after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on the United States. 


World & Nation 
Thursday, October 15, 2009 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Clinton disappoints Russians 
MOSCOW — Russia’s leading gay activist said Wednesday that he was disappointed that Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton met with an outspoken foe of gay rights during her two-day trip to Russia and did not decry homophobia in the country. 
Clinton attended a ceremony unveiling a statue of Walt Whitman at Moscow State University with Russian officials including Moscow Mayor Yuri Luzhkov. Luzhkov has blocked all attempts to hold gay pride marches in Moscow, once saying they “can be described in no other way than as satanic.” 
Clinton did not mention of the issue during the ceremony. Some biographers have described Whitman as homosexual and U.S. gay activists have claimed him as symbol of their movement. 
Record one billion go hungry 
NAIROBI, Kenya — Parents in some of Africa’s poorest countries are cutting back on school, clothes and basic medical care just to give their children a meal once a day, experts say. Still, it is not enough. 
A record 1 billion people worldwide are hungry and a new report says the number will increase if governments do not spend more on agriculture. According to the U.N. food agency, which issued the report, 30 countries now require emergency aid, including 20 in Africa. 
The trend continues despite a goal set by world leaders nine years ago to cut the num­ber of hungry people in half by 2015. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Women convicted in forced labor case 
NEWARK, New Jersey — A Togolese woman accused of forcing girls from Africa to work in New Jersey hair braiding salons for no pay has been convicted of human traf­ficking and visa fraud in a case her lawyer says highlighted African cultural norms that failed to translate in America. 
Prosecutors argued that Akouavi Kpade Afolabi, called “Sister” by the women she oversaw, helped bring at least 20 girls between the ages of 10 and 19 from the West African nations of Togo and Ghana on fraud­ulent visas to New Jersey starting in 2002. 
They said she manipulated the impover­ished young women, who aspired to live bet­ter lives in America, and kept them in slav­ery-like conditions while stealing all their pay — even tips as meager as fifty cents. 
Census 2010 to include six languages 
SAN FRANCISCO — The Census Bureau plans to conduct outreach efforts in more lan­guages this year to ensure that immigrants are accurately counted for the 2010 Census. 
Census Bureau Director Robert Groves said Wednesday postcards in six languages 
— English, Vietnamese, Korean, Chinese, Russian and Spanish — will point users to a Web site in their language. Assistance guides and over-the-phone help will be offered in up to 59 languages. 
The outreach efforts will also include a media campaign and partnerships with com­munity groups. 
Studies have shown the Census Bureau has historically undercounted minority and immigrant groups because of language bar­riers and distrust of government. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Medical practice pleads guilty 
SOUTH BEND — An eye surgery prac­tice that federal officials continued to prosecute after the death of the doctor and his wife is pleading guilty to making false statements to obtain payments for health care. 
Gabriele Eye Institute PC agreed to pay $205,000 in restitution as part of the plea agreement with federal prose­cutors filed Wednesday in U.S. District Court in South Bend. The corporation also will forfeit half the net proceeds from the sale of the medical office in Mishawaka, estimated at $300,000. 
TURKEY 
Soccer plays role in diplomacy 
World Cup qualifying game brings Armenian and Turkish leaders together 
Associated Press 
BURSA — Turkey defeat­ed longtime foe Armenia on a soccer field Wednesday — an event that had little sig­nificance in the world of sports but meant a lot in the arena of international politics. 
Armenian President Serge Sarkisian arrived in Turkey to attend the World Cup qualifier after a dinner hosted by Turkish President Abdullah Gul in Bursa, a former Ottoman imperial capital. Gul attended an ini­tial game in Armenia in a goodwill gesture last year, kicking off a round of “foot­ball diplomacy” that led to the signing last weekend of an agreement to establish diplomatic ties and open their border within two months. 
Turkey’s Halil Altintop scored with a header in the 16th minute, and Servet Cetin fired the ball into the Armenian net in the 28th minute to make it 2-0, a lead that held until the end. After the first goal, Sarkisian shook Gul’s hand to congratulate him. 
The game, televised live in both countries, began after Turkish fans booed and whistled as an announcer read out the Armenian lineup, and He also said Armenia was Micheline Calmy-Rey of ahead of Wednesday night’s cheered the Turkish play-taking all opinions into Switzerland, along with the match for fear of protests ers. Some fans released account but was pressing foreign ministers of Turkey from Turkish nationalists white doves in a gesture of ahead with its reconcilia-and Armenia, also attended who oppose reconciliation peace that drew applause tion agenda. He was refer-the match. All three partici-with the country’s eastern in the stadium. ring to fierce opposition pated in last weekend’s neighbor. Both teams have 
The announcer urged from some Armenian signing in Switzerland of already been knocked out fans to show “traditional groups, including sectors of the agreement, which of the World Cup qualifying, Turkish hospitality” to the the powerful Diaspora. needs to be approved by so neither can deliver a visiting team and not to Gul sounded a similar note. the parliaments of both killer blow to the other’s jeer or whistle during the “Try and remember two countries. athletic hopes. Turkey won playing of the Armenian years ago and you will see The deepest dispute is the first game against national anthem. His the distance that we have over history and has yet to Armenia 2-0 in Yerevan in appeal was mostly ignored. covered in relations,” Gul be resolved: Armenia and September 2008. Police in riot gear stood said. “What’s important many historians allege that Turkish Prime Minister outside the stadium. here is to make the region Ottoman Turks committed Recep Tayyip Erdogan has 
A bus taking Armenian into a region of coopera-genocide against warned against “provoca­journalists to the stadium tion.” Armenians early in the last tions that might come from was pelted with stones by Earlier, Turkish diplomats century, a charge that people who desire to abuse Turkish fans, but there who attended a meeting Turkey denies. The coun-the process between Turkey were no injuries or broken between Gul and Sarkisian tries have agreed to set up and Armenia.” windows. quoted the Turkish presi-a commission to study the The agreement has 
After the game, Sarkisian dent as saying: “We’re not issue, though they are strong support in the two told reporters: “Both sides writing history, we’re mak-unlikely to give much countries’ parliaments but have achieved a lot and this ing history.” ground on their positions. faces stiff opposition from is the evidence.” Foreign Minister Police intensified security nationalists. 

Slain game warden honored 95 years later 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY — Nearly a centu­ry after he was gunned down, buried in an unmarked grave and forgotten, Utah’s first game warden killed in the line of duty has been recognized with a memorial service and a niche in state history. 
Ernest Berry’s killer was never found. The 35-year-old Swiss immi­grant was shot to death in 1914 as he gave chase to a suspected poacher in a marsh outside Salt Lake City. 
When his body was found several days later, the full-time city employee was quickly laid in a grave in his brother-in-law’s family plot with little 
fanfare and no marker. On Wednesday, a memorial service 
— complete with a color guard and gun volley — was held for Berry at one of Salt Lake City’s oldest cemeteries. 
“Today, we finally give Ernest the honor, the respect, the love he deserves,” said Robert Witt, a pastor and former Utah game warden. 
The ceremony included more than two dozen law enforcement officials, bagpipes, a bugler playing “Taps” and a ceremonial flag-folding. 
His grave now has a granite marker that reads, in part, “First Utah Game Warden Killed in the Line of Duty.” A bronze plaque with his name is also now included at the Utah Law Enforcement Memorial at the Capitol. 
Few people knew Berry’s story until recently. Salt Lake Tribune columnist Robert Kirby, who chronicled slain officers in his 2004 book “End of Watch: Utah’s Murdered Police Officers 1858-2003” came across it while combing through newspapers. 
Kirby and officers at Wednesday’s ceremony were determined not to leave him forgotten. 
“This kind of thing is really impor­tant,” said Sgt. Stacey Jones, presi­dent of the Utah Conservation Officers’ Association. “When some­body goes down, it affects all of us.” 
No one’s been able to find any of Berry’s descendants. 

page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 15, 2009 
Rally 
continued from page 1 
The leprechaun Dan Collins said many activities are planned for the time leading up to the rally. 
“There will be events on the Green going on during the day,” Collins said. “And the team requested that the stu­dents begin to show up around 5:30 p.m. so that the visitors can arrive to a crowd.” 
Originally, there had been talks about holding the rally in the Stadium or possibly having two separate rallies. One rally would have taken place Thursday night and been sole­ly for students and the tradi­tional rally would have taken place Friday. However, these ideas were thrown out after talking to Irish coach Charlie Weis and the team. 
“Coach Weis talked to the team about our suggestions and the team said that they really wanted to have one rally; they wanted to have that one final push before the game on Saturday,” Collins said. “Wanted a tighter space so that everyone could be packed in and the student body could make a good spec­tacle.” 
Collins said the students will still occupy a place of promi­nence during the rally. 
“There will be a student-only section that will be front and center and right next to the stage,” he said. 
Schmidt said the attention paid to the student body is largely a result of their desire to have a more important role during the rallies. 
“The students don’t want the rallies to be about anything other than the game,” he said. “They want to focus on the team and continue to be a part of the tradition.” 
The rally will feature several speakers from the current team as well as from Notre Dame football history. 
“The entire team will be there and all the captains will be speaking as well as coach Weis,” Collins said. “We’re also real excited because Joe Theismann and Rocket Ismail will be talking as well.” 
In addition to notable speak­ers, attendees will also see a special addition brought in for the rally. 
“We’re going to have a full-size Trojan horse there,” Collins said. “What we’re planning to do with it is going to remain a secret until then.” 
Schmidt said more work went into creating an ener­gized atmosphere for the rally, because of the significance of the opponent. 
“I’m a senior and this is the biggest game that I will see throughout my time here at Notre Dame,” he said. “There’s a lot riding on this game because of the rivalry and also because of where we are in the season. The pep rally is a tradition and is a way of bringing people togeth­er.” 
Collins said there is a higher level of energy because of the “special feelings” many Notre Dame football fans hold for USC. 
“We really wanted to make this rally more up-tempo and to play on the raw emotions,” Collins said. “We want those emotions to serve as a call to arms and to rally all members of Notre Dame nation.” 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 
USC 
continued from page 1 
are looking forward to this game so much is because of the football team’s improved performance from past years, Dan Scime, a junior from Siegfried Hall, said. 
“I think every Notre Dame student is pumped up for this game,” Scime said. “Most people see it as our best shot to beat USC since the Bush 
Push game in  students would  
2005.” Tim Powers, a j u n i o r i n  “Most people see [Saturday’s game] as  w e a r K e l l y green apparel instead of The  
M o r r i s s e y H a l l , w a s a t the 2005 game w h e r e N o t r e  our best shot to beat USC since the Bush Push game in 2005.”  Shirt. A n o t h e r involves going t o “ g r e e t ”  
D a m e  Trojan players  
a p p e a r e d t o have eked out a victory only  Dan Scime junior  a n d c o a c h e s w h e n t h e y arrive on cam- 
to be defeated  p u s F r i d a y  
3 4 -3 1 w i t h  afternoon.  

“We’re planning an uncut, unscripted version of a pep rally on Irish Green with the whole team in attendance and some special guest this season and the emotion that comes with the USC rivalry. 
“I think we have a good chance of winning because ing the Irish defeat USC since that game. 
speakers that  our offense has  
p e o p l e w o n ’t  r e a l l y c o m e  
want to miss,” C o l l i n s s a i d .  “You can feel the  t o g e t h e r a n d our defense is  
“ T h e r e w i l l  excitement, from  s t e p p i n g u p , ”  
also be a spe­c i a l c a l l t o a r m s v e r s i o n of drummer’s  people talking about it in the dining halls to the chalk messages  H a m m a s a i d . “ N o t t o m e n -t i o n t h e extreme hatred  
c i r c l e w i t h  over the sidewalks.”  b u i l t u p  
s p e c i a l  t o w a r d s t h e  
guests.” G r o u p s o f s t u d e n t s a r e  Caitlin Harrington senior  opposition.” P o w e r s a g r e e d , a n d  
e a c h f i n d i n g  s a i d a w i n  
t h e i r o w n  w o u l d r a i s e  

“I’ve been waiting for this game since the 2005 Bush Push game,” Powers said. “It was such a tough loss.” 
All week, students have been hanging banners and posters, writing chalk mes­sages on the sidewalks and circulating Facebook mes­sages with other suggestions about how to prepare for the game. One such suggestion involves a “green-out” of the student section, in which all ways to get excited for this game. 
“I don’t think I have ever been more excited for a game,” Christine Hamma, a sophomore from Lewis Hall, said. “My friends and I are going all out, including painting head-to-toe, dyeing our hair green, and singing the Fight Song every hour on the hour, starting 24 hours before kickoff.” 
Hamma is hopeful about the team’s shot at winning, based on its performance quarterback Jimmy Clausen’s standing in the Heisman Trophy discussion. 
“If the team plays to its strengths and Jimmy plays like he has been and the defense steps up this will be a huge win,” Powers said. “I think then Jimmy could be the frontrunner for the Heisman.” 
The game kicks off at 3:30 
p.m. Saturday. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 
seven seconds remaining on a controversial play when USC running back Reggie Bush pushed quarterback Matt Leinart into the end-zone. Powers said he has been looking forward to see-
In addition to unofficial events planned by the stu­dent body, the athletic department is planning events as well, according to Dan Collins, better known as Notre Dame’s leprechaun. 

The Observer 
Business

Thursday, October 15, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Mattel agrees to settle consumer lawsuit 
SAN DIEGO — Mattel Inc. and its Fisher-Price subsidiary have agreed to settle a con­sumer lawsuit for what could total more than $50 million over the 2007 recall of millions of toys made in China that were found to contain high levels of lead. 
The proposed class action settlement, filed in Los Angeles on Tuesday, will resolve 22 suits filed against Mattel and Fisher-Price and major retailers on behalf of millions of families who purchased or received the defective toys as gifts before they were later recalled or withdrawn from market. 
In the settlement Mattel and Fisher-Price agreed to provide refunds or other reimburse­ment to those who purchased the Chinese-made toys, said John J. Stoia Jr. of plaintiff law firm Coughlin Stoia Geller Rudman & Robbins LLP. 
Plaintiff law firm Whatley Drake & Kallas said Mattel will provide toy buyers who are part of the class-action lawsuit either 50 per­cent of the total amount of vouchers Mattel has sent out following the recalls or $10, whichever is greater. 
Obama commits to creating jobs 
SPRINGFIELD, Va. — Standing at the site of a highway project funded by his economic stimulus plan, President Barack Obama said Wednesday he is committed to exploring all avenues to create jobs. 
Obama said his administration is going to keep going until “every single American in this country who’s looking for work is going to be able to get the kind of well-paying job that supports their families.” 
Obama spoke from the top of a large mound of dirt and gravel, the site of a highway con­struction project in the Virginia suburbs out­side Washington. He chose the site of the Fairfax County Parkway Extension project to feature the progress of the stimulus package passed earlier this year. 
The project is the state’s largest stimulus-funded project. When completed, it will con­nect both ends of Fairfax County. 
While some businesses have credited the stimulus bill with preventing layoffs, the national unemployment rate stands at 
9.8 percent. 
CANADA 
Da Vinci fingerprint adds value 
Young woman’s portrait now attributed to Leonardo, worth $150 million 
Associated Press 
TORONTO — A portrait of a young woman thought to be created by a 19th century German artist and sold two years ago for about $19,000 is now being attributed by art experts to Leonardo da Vinci and valued at more than $150 million. 
The unsigned chalk, ink and pencil drawing, known as “La Bella Principessa,” was matched to Leonardo via a technique more suit­ed to a crime lab than an art studio — a fingerprint and palm print found on the 13½-inch-by-10-inch work. 
Peter Paul Biro, a Montreal-based forensic art expert, said the print of an index or middle finger matched a fingerprint found on Leonardo’s “St. Jerome” in the Vatican. 
Technical, stylistic and material composition evi­dence — including carbon dating — had art experts believing as early as last year that they had found another work by the cre­ator of the “Mona Lisa.” 
The discovery of the fin­gerprint has them con­vinced the work was by Leonardo, whose myth and mystery already put him at the center of such best­sellers as “The Da Vinci Code” and “The Lost Symbol.” 
Biro examined multi-spectral images of the drawing taken by the Luminere Technology labo­ratory in Paris, which used a special digital scanner to show successive layers of the work. 
“Leonardo used his hands liberally and fre­quently as part of his painting technique. His fin­gerprints are found on many of his works,” Biro said. “I was able to make use of multispectral images to make a little smudge a very readable fingerprint.” 
Alessandro Vezzosi, director of a museum dedi­cated to Leonardo in the artist’s hometown of Vinci, Italy, said Wednesday he was “very happy” to hear about the fingerprint analysis, saying it con­firmed his own conclusion that the portrait can be attributed to Leonardo with “reasonable certain­ty.” 

“For me, it’s extraordi­nary there is confirmation” through the fingerprint, although “it’s not like I had any doubt,” he said in a telephone interview with The Associated Press. 
Even before the finger­print discovery, Vezzosi said several experts agreed with his conclusion, which was based on “historical, artistic, stylistic (and) aes­thetic” considerations. 
Based on its style, the portrait has been dated to 1485-1490, placing it at a time when Leonardo (1452-1519) was living in Milan. 
Canadian-born art col­lector Peter Silverman bought “La Bella Principessa” — or “The Beautiful Princess” — at the gallery in New York on behalf of an anonymous Swiss collector in 2007 for about $19,000. New York art dealer Kate Ganz had owned it for about nine years after buying it at auction for a similar price. 
One London art dealer now says it could be worth more than $150 million. 
If experts are correct, it will be the first major work by Leonardo to be identi­fied in 100 years. 
Ganz still doesn’t believe it is a Leonardo. 
“Nothing that I have seen or read in the past two years has changed my mind. I do not believe that this drawing is by Leonardo da Vinci,” Ganz told the AP on Wednesday. She declined to comment further. 
Silverman said he didn’t expect Ganz to acknowl­edge it’s a Leonardo because that would dam­age her credibility, adding that if she wants to “go against science and say the Earth is not round,” then that’s her prerogative. 
“Thank God, we have the fingerprint because there will still be those doubting Thomases out there saying it couldn’t possibly be and giving all sorts of reasons for it. We not only have a fingerprint, but a palm print.” 
NewYork Times calls off Boston Globe sale 
Associated Press 
BOSTON — The Boston Globe is off the market. 
The New York Times Co. said Wednesday it won’t sell the newspa­per after all, following “careful con­sideration and analysis.” 
In a regulatory filing, the company said it was still weighing its options for its other major New England property, the Telegram & Gazette in Worcester, Mass. 
In a memo sent to Globe employees late Wednesday, Times Co. Chairman Arthur Sulzberger Jr. and CEO Janet Robinson acknowledged the “long and painful process” that led to the decision to keep the paper. 
“The Globe has significantly improved its financial footing by fol­lowing the strategic plan it set out at the beginning of this year,” Sulzberger and Robinson wrote. “All along, we explicitly recognized that a careful restructuring of the Globe was one possible route and, thanks to your hard work, that is precisely what has been done.” 
The memo alluded to a series of steps taken by the newspaper, including a restructuring of labor contracts that is projected to save $20 million on an annual basis, con­solidation of printing facilities and price increases for both newsstand and home delivery. 
The Globe is also exploring ways to charge for online content on its Web site, Boston.com. 
“The great things you have accom­plished both on the financial side and the editorial side of the Globe and Boston.com have solidified their positions as the lead­ing media vehicles in the region.” 
The Times Co. disclosed in August that it had retained Goldman, Sachs & Co. to explore a potential sale of its New England Media Group, which includes both newspapers. Company executives later told Globe employees that the newspaper’s finances had improved significantly and that a sale was no certainty. 
The Globe reported that two groups made preliminary bids and visited the newspaper’s headquarters in September. 

page 8 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 15, 2009 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
The first committee will col­lect anecdotes and advice from upperclassmen and compile a booklet to be sent to freshmen over the summer, Weber said. This project was started last year, but never finished. 
Student body president Grant Schmidt said the booklet will contain advice on how students can make the most of their time at Notre Dame. 
“It’s more like make sure you go to an away game before you graduate. Make sure you climb on top of Stepan,” he said. 
Nika Giger, multicultural affairs chair, said she the book­let will be helpful for freshmen and generate enthusiasm. 
“I know the summer before I came, anything I got from Notre Dame, I was excited,” she said. 
The second committee will be a student outreach committee, and be responsible for talking to students and listening to their opinions. 
“What we really wanted to do … is kind of have a grassroots campaign,” Schmidt said. “Really kind of go out and find out what students are frustrat­ed with, find out what students want to do.” 
“It’s point is to seek our opin­ion and seek out students,” he said. 
Another committee will gath­er opinions about the Freshmen Orientation experience, Weber said. The point of the commit­tee will be to have the students with the freshest memory of the experience working on next year’s freshmen orientation. 

“Often times the ones evalu­ating it have had a couple years and can kind of see things in hindsight,” she said. 
“The idea is not just to talk about it but to do some out­reach to other students to form sort of a comprehensive response to other students,” Weber said. “Things they liked, things they’d like to change.” 
The final committee will work on the idea of getting off-cam­pus discounts, Weber said. 
Last year, student govern­ment created a booklet of dis­counts that students could use off-campus if they bought the booklet, she said. 
“Whether it be more looking at Domer Dollars off campus, whether it be looking at a card that’s easy to carry, or looking the booklets again, this com­mittee would be working on that,” she said. 
Though freshmen may not be as interested in going off cam­pus as older students, Schmidt said the point will be to get freshmen involved in a legiti­mate project. 
“The off-campus concept of having discounts is appealing to many students,” he said. 
Gender issues chair Robyn Grant commended the FLEX program. 
“The nature of FLEX is geared toward freshmen,” she said. “It would be nice if they took initiatives that might be more easily achieved and tangi­ble.” 
“It’s another way for fresh­men to get involved other than Freshman Class Council or a Senate committee or Student Union Board,” Cristi Yanker, who was a member of FLEX last year, said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
Market 
continued from page 1 
Farmers ’ Market in the Midwest. It’s located just minutes from campus, yet few students know about it,” Kaitlyn Maloney, junior and Committee member, said. “The large indoor market has fruit and veg­etable stands, baked goods, flowers, meat and cheese stands, handmade jewelry 
and other crafts all produced and sold by local farm ­ers and artists.” 
“The pur ­pose of a farmers’ market is to 
open the eyes of the students to the avail ­ability of quality pro­duce that if bought will help the community,” Ashley Baca, sophomore and food, which is in line with the Social Concerns com­mittee’s environmental mis­sion, ” Maloney said. “Because of the environ­mental component of this event, GreeND and Students for Environmental Action are co-sponsoring the market.” 
This isn’t the first time the market vendors have visited, Maloney said. Last spring the Committee brought vendors to campus, but the vendors were reluc­tant to attend because 
“The purpose of a farmers’ market is to open the eyes of the students to quality produce that if bought will help the community. It is a great place to go shopping, take a break and engage with the community” 
Ashley Baca member Social Concerns Committee 
Committee member, said. “It is a great place to go shopping, take a break and engage with the communi­ty.” 
The Committee hopes that the nine vendors coming to campus from the South Bend Farmers’ Market will encourage students to visit the market, Maloney said. 
“The purpose of bringing the vendors to campus is both to encourage students to visit the actual South Bend Farmers’ Market and to promote locally-grown crops were not in season. 
“I think this market will be even better than the first, for local farm­ers have a diverse range of crops to 
offer, includ ­ing seasonal favorites like pumpkins and gourds. Even if students don’t prepare their 
own meals, they might want to con ­sider buying produce for some fun fall decorations.” 
Maloney said. 
“This has been in the planning stages since the end of last year when we held our first Farmer ’s Market on campus, ” Roseberry said. “We ’re excited to be bringing the vendors back because they got such a great reception last year.” 
If it rains, the market will take place in the Concourse of the Hesburgh Library. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 




Thursday, October 15, 2009 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 page 10 The Observer  NEWS Thursday, October 15, 2009 
Colleges 
continued from page 1 
than most schools. 
“Overall trends in Engineering enrollment have been declining for more than two decades,” she said. “Our enrollment has increased by about 130 students over the past two years, which is ter­rific, but we’d still like more.” 
The College of Science also increased its enrollment this year, Assistant Dean for the College Steven Buechler said. 
“Our enrollment numbers have been going up and there was a sharp increase in the first year class this year,” he said. 
He also said the College plans to continue to expand. 
“I think we can easily accommodate more students and there will be more stu­dents interested when the college grows a little more,” Buechler said. “We will be adding faculty over the next five years or so, and expand­ing programs and opportuni­ties for students.” 
As enrollment growth in Engineering and Science cre­ated more desirable balance, the number of students enrolling in the Mendoza College of Business contin­ued to expand, which could potentially be detrimental to the University, Assistant Dean to the Mendoza College of Business Samuel Gaglio said. 
“The fact is that we’re con­tinuing to grow. We hope to stabilize and that’s not what’s happening,” he said. 

“It’s important for Notre action yet. Dame to have the appropri-“I think the solution lies in ate mix. Any one program what all four colleges do. that would get out of balance Engineering and Science are is not necessarily a good trying to maintain their thing for the university.” share. Arts and Letters are 
Gaglio attributed the popu-trying to maintain their larity of the business school share,” he said. “With a fixed to many possible factors, pool that students can including the choose from, economy, the any one pro ­No. 2 ranking gram that gets 
“The College of Arts 

of the busi -too large is ness school, and Letters saw a lot going to cause satisfaction problems for 
of growth in the late

with the other pro ­
90s. In some sense, 

courses grams.” 
offered and an it’s our turn to grow.” The College increased of Arts and interest in Letters felt the 
Steven Buechler 

business. effects this 
assisant dean

T h e year of the Mendoza College of Science growth in pop-
College of Business is the second most popular col­lege on campus, Gaglio said. Arts and Letters holds the majority of students, but it is equipped to handle the high numbers, Associate Director 
of Arts and Letters Ava Preacher said. 
Business, however, will not be able to accommodate its high volume of students if it continues to grow, Gaglio said. 
Gaglio said the growth does not pose an immediate prob­lem, but if enrollment does not stabilize, it could become a problem in two or three years. 
“We would have to have more faculty, more sections and more classrooms,” he said. 
Gaglio said he discussed possibilities for the school if it continues to grow, but did not decide on a course of ularity of the 
Business, Engineering and Science. 
“It’s been a slight drop in enrollment,” Preacher said. “Actually it’s one of the our lower numbers in some time.” 
But Preacher said she was­n’t worried. Arts and letters still enrolls the highest num­ber of students at the University. 
“The College is fairing extremely well. We serve a ton of students,” she said. 
Buechler said the shift in enrollment numbers among colleges could be due to a natural rebalancing over time. 
“The College of Arts and Letters saw a lot of growth in the late 90s,” he said. “In some sense, it’s our turn to grow.” 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
Woman sentenced for runningprostitutionring 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY — A Chinese woman who sought political asylum in the U.S. claiming religious persecution was sen­tenced Wednesday to eight years in prison for running a prostitution ring out of two suburban Kansas City massage parlors. 
A tearful and trembling Ling Xu, her hands and feet shack­led, bowed several times and apologized to prosecutors, U.S. District Judge Fernando Gaitan Jr. and her defense attorney. 
She and two other people pleaded guilty last year to coercing women to engage in prostitution at two Overland Park, Kan., massage parlors and at a nearby residence. The women, originally from China, were brought from California, New York, Nevada and Arizona to work as masseuses. 
Xu, 48, was sentenced to 74 months in prison on prostitu­tion charges and two years for aggravated identity theft, the result of using her workers’ IDs to wire proceeds from the oper­ation to China. 
Prosecutors initially charged Xu, her boyfriend Zhong Yan Liu, and her son, Cheng Tang, with human trafficking after raids on 12 businesses and four homes in Johnson County, Kan., in May 2007. 
Gaitan said the case appeared to be one of prostitu­tion instead. Liu and Tang both were sentenced Tuesday to five years in prison. 
The three were ordered to forfeit $452,000 in proceeds from the prostitution ring and $60,497 seized by the FBI while executing search war­rants on their homes and busi­nesses. 
At sentencing Wednesday, Gaitan said Xu “appears to be a professional pimp,” but said the more than 12-year sen­tence the government was seeking was too much. 
“Serious drug dealers don’t get sentenced to that amount of time,” Gaitan said. 
Xu’s attorney, Melanie Morgan, argued that Xu’s workers and customers were consenting adults and that she wasn’t the only one who should be held accountable. 
While the workers didn’t get paid by the massage parlors for massages, the women received tips and thus weren’t really vic­tims, Morgan said. She argued that the hundreds of customers who received sexual favors at the parlors also should be held accountable. 
“The demand (for sexual services) is still there, it’s been there since biblical times,” Morgan said. “And the supply is still there.” 
With credit for the 29 months Xu already has served and time off for good behavior, she said, Xu could be released in 4 1/2 years. Xu faces deportation after that. 


Thursday, October 15, 2009 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Mudslidethreatlessensasstormquiets 
Associated Press 
LA CANADA FLINTRIDGE — A powerful fall storm packing strong winds and rain eased Wednesday without causing the widespread mudslides and debris flows that California resi­dents had feared. 
The storm delivered its biggest punch to northern and central areas, knocking out power to nearly 700,000 utility customers from Bakersfield in the southern San Joaquin Valley to Eureka on the north coast. 
A mandatory evacuation order remained in effect for res­idents of about 40 homes in central coast mountains near Watsonville, east of Monterey Bay, due to mudslides, said Chris Hirsch, a spokeswoman for Santa Cruz County emer­gency services. 
A house in Corralitos was left surrounded by mud that buried cars up to their windows and a basketball hoop up to the net. 
A dozen other homes were isolated because fallen trees and debris blocked roads. 
“We can’t get in, they can’t get out,” Hirsch said. 
A snarled commute was storm’s biggest immediate impact in Los Angeles County, as vehicles collided on wet pavement and water pooled on some routes. The California Highway Patrol tallied 186 crashes between midnight and 6 a.m., nearly 10 times more than in the same period a week earlier. 
The storm, however, lost momentum by the time it reached Southern California, where up to 5 inches of rain had been forecast, and there were no thunderstorm down­pours. 
“This strong system sort of just rained itself out over Central California and as it moved down lower it had already started to exhaust itself slightly,” said Jamie Stern, a National Weather Service spokeswoman. “As it moved on downward we didn’t get the full effect of what the storm origi­nally was.” 

Mountainsides made bare from summer fires have raised fears of mudslides and debris flows. 
Many parts of the state remained under flash flood watches, meaning conditions were favorable for flooding. 
Two inches of rain had fallen by midmorning in La Canada Flintridge, one of a string of Los Angeles suburbs on the foothills of the San Gabriel Mountains, where the Station Fire burned 250 square miles this summer. 
Residents began breathing easier as drizzle fell on the foothill suburbs, but it contin­ued to rain harder at higher elevations. 
“From our standpoint, we’re in pretty good shape, unless we have a huge increase in rain,” said retired geologist Jim Conel outside his home near a damp hillside blackened by the flames. “Thank the Lord, or whoever: it’s OK.” 
Crews continued to put mov­able concrete barriers and sandbags in place in communi­ties to contain potential debris flows and direct them away from properties. The thousands of feet of barriers, called K-rail, may have to remain in place for years until the slopes stabilize. 
In nearby La Crescenta, Sandra Burch waited in the rain under a blue and white golf umbrella for crews to deliver railing to protect her home. In the meantime, she and her fam­ily had placed 75 sandbags to divert water. 
“I feel good that the storm wasn’t as big as we thought it would be,” Burch said. “I feel we are out of the woods right now.” 
Next door in Glendale, authorities had kept watch through the night, ready to order 65 homes evacuated if the rate of rainfall reached a half-inch an hour. Instead, the most was .2 inch an hour, said city spokeswoman Vicki Gardner. 
“We’re on the trailing edge of it now,” she said. 
Northwest of Los Angeles, Santa Barbara County resident Cherie Topper could see little flow in a creek running through her San Roque Canyon property within the steep Santa Ynez Mountains, close to where a wildfire early this year burned thousands of acres below. 
“It’s a warm, very gentle rain,” she said. “There doesn’t appear to be much in the way of drainage.” 
About 76,000 Pacific Gas & Electric customers were without power Wednesday, down from 686,000. 
The storm damaged 140 poles and more than 102 miles of power lines, PG&E spokesman Joe Molica said. 
Residents in rural areas may not have their power restored for a few more days, Molica said. 
While the storm brought heavy rainfall to some parts of the state, it did little to boost California’s reservoirs in the Northern Sierra, which are the starting point for state and fed­eral water supplies. That’s because snow fell higher than 9,000 feet and above the snow-pack that feeds the state and federal reservoirs, said Elissa Lynn, a meteorologist at the Department of Water Resources. 
S.C. pardons men executed in 1913 
Associated Press 
COLUMBIA — South Carolina pardoned syndicated radio host Tom Joyner’s great-uncles Wednesday, nearly a century after they were sent to the elec­tric chair for the 1913 murder of a Confederate Army veteran. 
Officials believe the two men are the first in the state to be posthumously pardoned in a capital murder case. 
Black landowners Thomas and Meeks Griffin were executed 94 years ago after a jury convicted them of killing 73-year-old John Lewis, a wealthy white veteran living in Blackstock, a Chester County town 40 miles north of Columbia. Two other black men were also put to death for the crime. 
“This won’t bring them back, but this will bring closure. I hope now that they rest in peace,” Joyner said. “This is a good day.” 
Joyner, who lives in Dallas, and his attorney made a presentation to the state parole and pardon board on Wednesday, then left the room while the board voted. Family members who flew in for the hearing included his wife and sons, of Dallas, and brother and his family, from Jackson, Miss. 
Though he talks to roughly 8 million listeners on the radio daily, Joyner said facing the seven board members “scared me to death.” When he was told how they voted, he said he waved his hands and hugged family members in a flood of relief and joy. He also called in to his radio show. 
Joyner learned about his uncles’ fate two years ago during filming of the PBS documentary “African American Lives 2,” which traced his lineage and 11 others’ through the research of Harvard scholar Henry Louis Gates Jr. 
The talk show host, Gates and legal historian Paul Finkelman then began to work to clear the Griffins’ names because records indicated they were framed by another man who was linked to the victim’s stolen pistol, but claimed he was only the lookout. 
“These were hardworking, outstanding community citizens,” Joyner said, noting the family owned about 130 acres. “Out of nowhere it seems, they were accused of murder.” 
John “Monk” Stevenson, who was known to be a small-time thief, testified against the others in exchange for a life sentence. According to sworn statements, he later told fellow inmates and a detective the four men had nothing to do with the crime, but he pointed his finger at them to save himself. 
Stevenson told at least one inmate he chose the Griffin brothers because he thought they were wealthy and could afford a lawyer. 
The Griffins had to sell their land to pay for their defense. After the execution, Joyner’s grandmother fled to Florida, but did not say why. Joyner said even his father knew nothing of his uncles until Gates uncovered the family secret. 
The case was about class and economics as much as race, Gates said. 
“They were framed because they were the richest black peo­ple in the county,” he said. “I as a historian am honored to see something rectified in the pres­ent.” 


page 12 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, October 15, 2009 
Tax evaders apply foramnestyprogram 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Some 7,500 international tax dodgers have applied for an amnesty program that promises no jail time and reduced penalties for tax cheats who come forward, the Internal Revenue Service announced Wednesday. 
The tax dodgers were hiding money in more than 70 coun­tries and on every continent except Antarctica. Accounts ranged from just over $10,000 to more than $100 million. 
Response to the program has been unprecedented, IRS Commissioner Doug Shulman said. 
“The whole idea of this pro­gram was to get people in and get them on the right side of the law,” Shulman said. 
The IRS long has had a policy that certain tax evaders who come forward before they are contacted by the agency usually can avoid jail time as long as they agree to pay back taxes, interest and hefty penalties. Drug dealers and money laun­derers need not apply. But if the money was earned legally, tax evaders can usually avoid crimi­nal prosecution. 
Fewer than 100 people apply for the program in a typical year, in part because the penal­ties can far exceed the value of the hidden account, depending on how long the account holder has evaded U.S. taxes. 
In March, the IRS began a six-month amnesty program that sweetened the offer with reduced penalties for people with undeclared assets. The program was extended once, until Thursday. Shulman said it will not be extended again. 
The program is part of a larg­er effort by the Obama adminis­tration to crack down on Americans who evade U.S. taxes by hiding assets in overseas accounts. In August, the U.S. and Switzerland resolved a court case in which Swiss bank­ing giant UBS AG agreed to turn over details on 4,450 accounts suspected of holding undeclared assets from American cus­tomers. 
Shulman said the IRS is step­ping up efforts to track the flow of illicit money from Europe to Asia, Central America and the Caribbean. The agency is also opening new offices in Beijing, Panama City and Sydney to pur­sue criminal cases. Staffing is being increased at other offices, he said. 
Shulman said the IRS is still processing applications for the amnesty program. It is too early to know how much money will be recovered, he said. 
Shulman said accounts includ­ed money from inheritances, profits skimmed from U.S. com­panies and profits earned over­seas. Some of the tax cheats had single accounts while others had multiple accounts in different countries. Some set up corpora­tions to make it harder to identi­fy them, he said. 
“These taxpayers are now back in the U.S. tax system,” Shulman said. 
Shulman said the IRS will use information from the tax cheats who have come forward to go after bankers and tax advisers who helped them hide assets. The IRS is prohibited by law from disclosing the identities of the tax cheats unless criminal charges are filed. 
Tax advisers have said the program, combined with the high-profile UBS case, has gen­erated a lot of calls from nerv­ous tax dodgers. Shulman said applications steadily picked up as the latest deadline approached. 
Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich., applauded the IRS program but said Congress needs to do more to crack down on international tax dodgers. Levin has worked on the issue as chairman of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations. He estimated the U.S. loses $100 billion a year in tax rev­enue because of international tax cheats. 
At least one advocacy group was unimpressed with the results of the IRS program. 
“The IRS needs to put away the celebratory firecrackers,” said Dean Zerbe, special coun­sel for the National Whistleblowers Center. “The amnesty program has gotten at best a thimble of the offshore tax cheats.” 
The center is unhappy with the way the IRS and the Justice Department handled the case of UBS whistleblower Bradley Birkenfeld. In August, Birkenfeld was sentenced to more than three years in federal prison, even though prosecutors said the information he provid­ed was crucial to the UBS case. 
Mo. towns crack down on meth use 
Associated Press 
UNION, Mo. — The meth problem in Union has gotten so bad that someone with a drug habit stole the light shades out­side Marilyn Roark’s house. She got them back, but they were unusable. 
“They had made them into bongs for the meth,” she said. 
Another time, Bob Barton Jr., working as a carpenter on a homebuilding project, couldn’t find his boss. “I came around the house and there he was, with a lighter and aluminum foil and a straw, smoking meth,” Barton said. 
In small Midwestern towns in the middle of meth country, folks are frustrated with the failure of many measures to control the scourge: putting cold medicines with the key methamphetamine ingredient pseudoephedrine behind phar­macy counters, requiring cus­tomers to show IDs, and limit­ing the number of cold pills someone can buy. 
So some communities are taking bolder steps. 
This week, Union became the second U.S. town to pass a law requiring prescriptions for cold and allergy medications like Sudafed, Claritin D and Aleve Cold & Sinus that contain pseu­doephedrine. Washington, Mo., another meth-cursed town nearby, passed its own such law back in June. 
They and other towns are try­ing to keep up with meth cooks who deftly exploit loopholes in the law or shift to the simpler new “shake-and-bake” method of production that requires only a small amount of the decon­gestant. 
Union Mayor Mike Livengood said he would prefer a statewide prescription-only law. “But they don’t seem like they want to address it,” he said. “We figured at the grass-roots level we’d start at the bottom and work our way up, and maybe they’ll realize we’re serious about this issue.” 
The new law’s critics include the Missouri Medical Association, Missouri Retailers Association and the Missouri Pharmacy Association. Many in the pharmacy industry say such laws will make it more difficult and expensive for those who are sick to get relief. 
Some residents of Union, with a population of about 8,000, aren’t happy either. 
“It’s going to be a hardship for people who use the medi­cines,” said retiree John Wittrock, fighting a case of the sniffles. “I mean, I need it right now.” 
“Meth is definitely a prob­lem,” he added, but meth mak­ers “can just go to the next town to get what they need.” 
Washington and Union, six miles apart, are fast-growing towns in a scenic part of the state about 50 miles from St. Louis. A growing number of suburbanites are moving to the area in search of small-town life that is still near enough to the amenities of a metropolitan area. 
Drug Enforcement Administration statistics show that Missouri annually has far more meth lab incidents — arrests, dump sites and seizures — than any other state. Last year, there were nearly 1,500 — more than twice as many as in Indiana, the No. 2 state. 
Through July 31, Missouri already had 966 meth lab inci­dents this year. For many years, Franklin County — home to Union and Washington — has been at or near the top of the list. The mayor cited three meth crimes in Union just last week. 
Five years ago, Oklahoma became the first state to put medications containing pseu­doephedrine behind pharmacy counters and to require people who want to buy it to show photo identification and sign for the medicine. More than 20 other states and the federal government followed suit. 
In 2006, Oregon became the first and only state with a statewide prescription-for­pseudoephedrine law. It has been a huge success, said Craig Prins, executive director of Oregon’s Criminal Justice Commission. Before the law, Oregon had about 400 meth lab incidents annually, Prins said. Last year, it had 20. 
“Meth is still our No. 1 prob­lem because it’s still smuggled in,” Prins said. “There’s no question it still fuels crime in Oregon. But in the past, cops spent a lot of their time in cleanup suits, cleaning up meth sites. Now, they’re concentrat­ing on going after the crimi­nals.” 
Other states, including Oklahoma and California, are considering similar laws. In Oklahoma, a state lawmaker plans to introduce the legisla­tion next year. Many in Missouri are also pushing for a statewide prescription-only law. The state attorney general’s office said 95 of Missouri’s 115 county prose­cutors have signed a petition supporting such a measure. 
Mary Frances Faraji, a spokeswoman for Claritin D maker Schering-Plough, said the company opposes laws requiring a prescription for pseudoephedrine products. “We feel this places an added bur­den on patients who need an effective decongestant,” she said. 


Thursday, October 15, 2009 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 14 Thursday, October 15, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 

Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
Though my parents raised me in the orthodox way, I never found it easy to understand the Roman Catholic devo­tion to saints. It was not that I did not see them as moral exemplars: for the lives of integrity and compassion Daniel that they led I had Sportiello an honest respect. But the veneration Bound that many showed Variables them went a good deal beyond this: Saints, for them, were objects not just of admiration but of devotion, a devotion that seemed often to border on the obsessive. Saints were great men and women, no doubt, but they were nonetheless men and women: Why were they accorded a place in our lives that was supposed to be reserved for the transcendent? 
I achieved an insight into the answer to this question when I began to consid­er more seriously my attitude toward classic rock. In raising me in the ortho­dox way, my parents taught me their appreciation for the popular music of the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s — and, whether through the poverty of con­temporary culture or through some freak failure of teenage rebellion, I came to listen to the same music as they did. But it was not long before my love for their music outstripped any­thing that they had taught me: it was not long before my love for classic rock became a veneration, a devotion that bordered on the obsessive. 
But it was only recently that I began to realize how strange this attitude is 
— and how much it is, in certain respects, like the veneration toward saints that had always baffled me. At 
Music 
least part of my attitude, I suppose, derives from an enthusiasm for these artists as, well, moral exemplars — for their belief that they, or at any rate rock and roll, could change the world. And while the changes for which they struggled often bordered on the absurd, the integrity and compassion that they often showed in so struggling is inspiring indeed. 
But there is more to my devotion than that, far more: These artists were not only moral exemplars but also visionar­ies, geniuses who struggled to express, in their music, that which cannot be expressed in the words of ordinary men. Like saints, they caught a glimpse of a transcendent reality beyond our own. And like saints, they tried with desperation to show the rest of us just how much we are missing. 
Wittgenstein held that whatever can be said at all can be said clearly — and that which cannot be said must be passed over in silence. No doubt — and yet both saints and artists spend so much of their lives attempting to speak the unspeakable, to grasp that which lies forever beyond us, indeed beyond space and time and the very categories of our cognition. Do they grasp at mere phantasms? Or does the abyss, when they stare with Nietzsche into it, stare back? 
The whole of classic rock, I think, is a tribute to what lies beyond the bounds of language. It stands as memorial to the knowledge of beasts foregone — to knowledge of things without concepts, to knowledge of things in their full par­ticularity. It is a tribute to the time, if ever there were such a time, before we were caught with Mitchell in the devil’s bargain, burdened with the awful knowledge of good and evil. It is a trib­ute to the time when we could still find it within ourselves to stop doing philos­ophy and simply be. 
Quine held that to be is to be the value of a bound variable. No doubt — but the irony is that we will ever strain against these bonds, strain against the cold chains of logic, even though we forged them ourselves. For we are no more content with the knowledge of men than we were with the knowledge of beasts. Man is a rope, Nietzsche held, a rope between beast and over-man — and what is great in man is that he is a bridge and not an end. If this is so — if the knowledge of men, the knowledge of good and evil, is but a means to our final end — then classic rock is a tribute not just to what has come before but also to what will come after. 
Those worthy of love, Nietzsche held, are those who cross over. I hope with all of my heart that, somehow, we may live to see that day — the day when we transcend the knowledge of men, when we pass beyond concepts and the chains of logic fall away. May we come at last, like the saints and artists before us, face to face with the transcendent. May love, as Townsend prayed, reign over all of us before the end. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his second year of the Ph.D. program in philosophy. Listen to his radio show every Sunday at 3 p.m. He can be contacted at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


News Sports 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Robert Singer Michael Bryan QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Irena Zajickova Mike Gotimer 
Megan Loney Berrick Bollman 
Viewpoint Graphics 
“It takes only one drink to get me

Stephanie Vossler Andrea Archer 
drunk. The trouble is, I can’t “First secure an independent remember if it’s the 

Scene 
income, then practice virtue.” 
13th or the 14th.” 

Alexandra Kilpatrick Greek proverb 
George Burns
U.S. comedian 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Thursday, October 15, 2009 page 15 
A mid-semester evaluation that won’t affect your G.P.A. 
If you’re counting, you already know that we’re approaching the halfway point of this semester. Yes, week eight of Fall Semester 2009 ends tomorrow, as you may well have already gathered by the load of midterm exams 
Katharine 
and papers 

Barrett 
demanding your attention this 

Faith Point 
week before fall break begins. 

So isn’t it time for a little mid-semes­ter progress report? Have you taken a moment to look back on where you’ve come since Aug. 25, and where you hope to go by Dec. 19? For so many of us who live on academic year calen­dars, we approach the beginning of the school year with a mini-New Year’s Day mentality: We set goals for ourselves, we re-align our priorities, we promise ourselves (or our roommates, col­leagues, friends, professors or spouses) that this year, we’re really going to do better at ... or that is definitely, for sure, absolutely going to happen this semester. You can probably fill in those blanks! 
Looking back on the past eight weeks only helps if you then gain a better per­spective on the weeks to come. Don’t spend too much time, therefore, bemoaning that which you’d like to change, except to look ahead with greater insight into the opportunities before you. Go ahead and re-state, or re-set, your goals. Make promises about your faith, your studies, your friendships, your hopes for the future. 
I had a professor here at Notre Dame who regularly used to say, “Every moment in time is a gift from God. What are you going to do with that gift?” So, as a start at least, think of the second half of this semester as a gift from God. What are you going to do with that gift? 
Remember the gospel story of the “rich young man?” An obviously devout young Jew, a man of some wealth, comes to Jesus and asks how he can attain eternal life. He wants to know how he can do better. He’s been a con­scientious believer during his life, and Jesus learns that he already faithfully follows the commandments. So Jesus challenges the young man, in a most loving and caring way, to take a much bigger step in his life, to “take it to the next level” (although Jesus wouldn’t actually say that unless he lived today and was regularly interviewed on ESPN). The sad part of the story unfolds when the rich young man can’t come through. Jesus tells him, “Go, sell what you have, and give to the poor … then, come follow me.” And here it is, the one, the only time in any of the gospels when Jesus makes such an offer and is rejected. The young man’s “face fell, and he went away sad, for he had many possessions.” 
Perhaps these halfway weeks are the perfect time for each of us to treat our­selves to a progress report. After all, couldn’t almost any Notre Dame stu­dent today be the “rich young man” encountering Jesus? Any one of you could be the faithful, poised, committed young person who questions the Lord, “How can I do better?” You all have a wealth of talents, experiences and knowledge. Some of you may also have the “many possessions” we hear of in the story. Jesus acknowledges to his disciples the great difficulties involved in giving everything up to follow him. He also tells them a truth we need to hear today: “All things are possible for God.” 
Choosing a halfway point to mark our progress, whether in academics, careers, or in our faith, can be an arti­ficial exercise — just like setting goals at the beginning of the school year or on New Year’s Day. We should never take for granted, however, the constant passing of time. Stopping for a quick progress report serves as a reminder to us to ask Jesus Christ, “How can I do better?” knowing that we have an abundance to offer, if only we dare take risks the rich young man simply did not have the courage to take. 
Every moment in time is a gift from God. What are you going to do with that gift? 
This week’s Faith Point was written by Katharine Barrett, director of the Emmaus Program. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Buying power 
With all due deference to the current homosexuality debate raging within these pages (which surely has joined “The Vagina Monologues,” women in the priesthood and Saint Mary’s bashing as a verbal roshambo with inescapable hurt on both sides), I address a topic which hits a little bit closer to home — in my stomach and wallet. In the Oct. 13 article “Huddle Mart unable to compete with retailers,” Liz O’Donnell attempts to explore the enigma which is the Huddle’s insane price markup which continues Notre Dame’s tendency to fleece their students out of all the money it can. Although I live off-campus and can enjoy the wonder that is Martin’s Supermarkets’ sales specials, the Huddle still remains a convenient purchasing choice while on campus. 
I was dismayed to hear the Huddle’s response, character­izing themselves and food services as a beleaguered mom-and-pop shop that can’t compete with big box retailers like Meijer. Well boo-hoo and bull I say to that. First of all, Food Services as a whole has the purchasing power of a small city. Surely their distributors, from whom they purchase the necessary foodstuffs for the dining halls (whose meal prices are another classic Notre Dame bendover tactic), can supply them with the retail items at comparable cost, or at most a bit higher, to “big-box” retailers. Not only does Food Services mischaracterize their size, Mark King tries to justi­fy their insane markup by consoling us with the fact that name-brand medicine prices might be slightly cheaper than CVS’s. Ignoring the fact that name-brand medicine is chemi­cally identical to much cheaper generic alternatives, this small fact in no way compensates for ridiculous 100 percent markup on a bag of Oreos. More frustratingly, the same manager then goes on to explain why the Huddle isn’t affected by the current recession, acknowledging the inher­ent monopoly they hold on the student body, which ensures they will never need to worry about their bottom-line like grocers on Main St., U.S.A. 
Seriously, Food Services, even though I know you won’t change any of your insane pricing policies, in the spirit of Our Lady, at least be honest about it. 
Steve DeLaurentis 
senior off campus Oct. 13 


Think about it 
Homosexuals and Notre Dame: Frankly, half when we do not also talk about prayerfully of the opinions printed on this issue have been encouraging heterosexuals to live chastely. absurd. Let me focus on the “Fair When we do not live chastely we are all, homo-Compromise?” letter (Oct. 13). The author is sexual or heterosexual, failing to respond posi­dismayed at the responses to Sean Mullen’s let-tively to the same call to live chaste lives. Also, ter. One reason: “Others sought to justify let us not forget that homosexuality is not cho­homosexual sex by referring to the fact that sen, but genetically determined. pre-marital heterosexual sex is common on As far as the compromise of adding the campus — as if Mullen, or anyone else, for that phrase “non-practicing homosexuals” to the matter thinks such sex is okay from the nondiscrimination clause, I’m ashamed that I Church’s perspective. Two wrongs don’t make have to dignify this with a response. Please, a right.” No. This comparison was not made to think about the implications of the proposed “justify” homosexual sex. Rather, it was meant phrasing. Essentially it means we will not dis-to illustrate the hypocrisy of criticizing some-criminate against anyone based on gender, one for not practicing homosexual chastity race, religion, etc., regardless of sin level, but while very few of us are successful at practic-when it comes to homosexuals only the chaste ing heterosexual chastity. are protected. It implies that if they are 
When it comes to premarital sex and mastur-unchaste, then we can discriminate away! This bation, we think “kids will be kids” but when it phrasing is guilty of the same hypocrisy comes to unchaste homosexuals, we take up described above. It qualifies the nondiscrimi­arms and flood the Viewpoint with letters. nation of one group while leaving the others Remember, Jesus tells us not to point out the unqualified. splinter in our neighbor’s eye when there is a log in our own. It sounds rather arrogant to Paul Leuck tell people to prayerfully encourage their senior homosexual friends to change their ways off campus (assuming out of hand that they are not chaste) Oct. 13 
What this rivarly is all about 
I had a revelation today. On my Facebook was another comment from my trash-talking medical school classmate from USC about how they are going to crush us this year as per usual. I referred him to the series record on Wikipedia, but then I got to thinking. I thought about how my mom told me she felt at her first Notre Dame football game, the 1977 “Green Jersey” game (4-1 Irish vs. 5-1 USC; Notre Dame victory, National Championship that year). I noticed the span from 1983-1995 without a Notre Dame loss in the series. I remembered the best football game I have ever attended, the 2005 Notre Dame-USC game. Then I remembered that the last class present at that game graduated in May. 
My revelation: No current undergraduate has experienced firsthand what this rivalry is sup­posed to be like. None of you saw Matt Leinart’s face duct-taped to sidewalks all over campus, a pep rally of over 40,000 people, or ESPN GameDay on Library Quad. You don’t remember the deafening noise in the Stadium, the bliss of running down the bleachers when we thought we had won, or the heartbreak of being called back only to stand there, nearly in tears, after the Bush Push. You didn’t feel about as good as if a longtime girlfriend had dumped you for your entire Fall Break after the game. You haven’t experienced campus with the usual incredible excitement leading up to this game or the high expectation of victory. 
This rivalry is one of the biggest in college football, and has not always been characterized USC blowouts. I am writing to tell you, current Domers, to come to the Stadium ready to pour your heart and soul (and lungs!) onto that field. Show the Trojans we are never the “little guy” in this rivalry. Our team needs our support. I’m taking time from medical school to be in the stands on Saturday. So all of you, who aren’t as far from your home under the Dome, as I am, had better show up ready to rock the House that Rock built, too. Blake Jones alumnus Class of 2008 Oct. 13 
Blake Jones 
alumnus Class of 2008 Oct. 13 
The Observer 
Scene

page 16 Thursday, October 15, 2009 

By ERIC PRISTER, MATT BROWN, COLIN RICH and SZYMON RYZNER 
Scene Writers 
Cerberusdef.Kraken 

In a match that went to the dogs, the massive three-headed canine Cerberus bested the top-seeded Kraken in a fight that proved as much to dowithenduranceassheerstrength. 
Kraken, the tentacle-bearing, razor-toothed sea creature of Scandinavian descent, found his match in the tenacious jaws and paws of the Greek underworld’s guard dog. The mangy Cerberus latched on to two of the mighty Kraken’s tentacles after drawing it into shallower waters, which provided enough leverage to drag the sea beast out of its watery lair and onto the sun-dried beach. 
From there Cerberus had only to prevent it from crawling back into the sea as it quickly ran out of stamina in such an unfriendly terrain. Suffering only one large bite on his left haunch, a confidentCerberusdescribedthematch. 
“Notthatruff,”Cerberussaid. 
TheManticoredef.Scylla 

The aerial advantage of the Manticore proved too much for the higher ranked Scylla, who lost 

The match was held on rocky ground near the shore, however Scylla could not get a solid footing in the battle. She was hounded all day by the poi­sonous spines of the Manticore, who took special delight in dive-bombing and firing at her with exceptional accuracy. It soon became apparent that Scylla’s edge came in ground-to-ground and ground-to-water combat, and that flight and speed proved immeasurably valuable for those up against such a creature. This also sets up a Cerberus-Manticore quarterfinal, a clash destined to be legendary. The Manticore declined to com­mentafterthematch. 
Sphinxdef.Medusa 
It was mind over matter in the 3-6 match-up as the mighty Sphinx outlasted Medusa in a battle of Mediterraneanmythology. 
The Sphinx lured Medusa into the valley by promising to show her Colin Sullivan, but instead hid herself in the high tide of the creek. Employing a clever blend of common sense and rudimentary physics, the Sphinx waited until Medusa looked into the water and her own reflection before springingforthandswipingoffherpetrifiedhead. 
“IpostulatedthatIcouldglimpseintoheroptical opals after I calculated the water’s index of refrac­tion,” the Sphinx said afterwards. She also had moretosay,butwestoppedlistening. 
Hydradef.Chimera 
Move over, Bellerophon! As the second round 
witnessed the takedown of the seventh-seed 
Chimera in a rather brief battle, the second-seed­
ed Hydra proved equally adept at slaying lion­
goat-snakes, and made a formidable statement 
intheprocess. 
Its towering size and rocky dwellings allowed the Hydra to snatch the body of the Chimera and cast it off the volcanic cliffs several hundred yards to its igneous demise. The feeling of domination was palpable, and with the Kraken now out of the picture, it’s apparent that the reins of power in the 
Mythology bracket have been handed to the 
Hydra. The impending Hydra-Sphinx match-
up will be the apotheosis of physical versus 
mental strength in this tournament. It was an 
unflinchingly authoritative showing from him, 
ashedidn’tlosehisheadonce. 


The Balrog def. the Giant 

The lack of intelligence of the Giant served as his downfall in his second-round matchup with the top-seeded Balrog. 
Both outrageously large creatures faced each other to start the match, each hoping to use his brute strength to his advantage. The Balrog received a pleasant surprise, however, as the Giant was extremely distracted by the flames that surrounded the Balrog’s body. 
With a few flourishes of his fiery whip, the Balrog was able to completely befuddle the Giant before lassoing the brute and throwing him off a cliff into the water below. 
“I was expecting a much more difficult bat­tle,” the Balrog said. “I didn’t realize that any­thing could be quite that dumb. Except maybe a Trojan.” 
Merlin def. the Ent 

Despite the size advantage, Merlin’s magical powers were enough to burn the Ent to the ground in one of the more highly contested battles of the second round. 
The Ent acted quickly once again, attempt­ing to grab hold of Merlin and manhandle him. Merlin reacted faster and, anticipating this move, created an impenetrable force field that blocked the Ent’s path. More speedy spell work from Merlin brought forth a flame that engulfed the Ent and brought the giant tree-herder to the ground. Adding insult to injury, the now-overly confident Merlin spat on the ashes. 
“I don’t see who could possibly match my power,” Merlin said. “Now that the Genie has been defeated, I see no reason why I won’t walk to the championship.” 
Grendel def. Centaur 

Grendel once again proved his worth, using speed and ferocity to tear apart the less-sav­age Centaur, who did not act quickly enough to take down his foe. 
The Centaur struck first, connecting with a well-placed arrow to the chest of Grendel. Grendel howled in pain, and looked like he was finished. 
The Centaur sprinted over towards Grendel, but wasted time taunting as he nocked another arrow. Grendel, in a moment of rage and adrenaline, was able to leap and grab hold of the Centaur and forcefully remove the bow from his hands. 
“I couldn’t believe my luck and I realized that it was my only opportunity left to strike,” Grendel said, nursing his wound after the match. 
In three quick bits, Grendel was then able to remove the limbs and head of the Centaur, sealing the victory. 
The Dragon def. the Elf 
In a combination of brute strength and intelligence, the Dragon was able to draw the Elf out of hiding before utilizing an aerial attack to defeat the outmatched Elf. 
Using the same strategy that he used against the Basilisk, the Elf hid in the forest, trying to lure the Dragon into a crowded area that would not allow it to spread its wings. The Dragon was not fooled, however, and breathed fire on the trees, setting them ablaze. 
Realizing that his cover was slowing being destroyed, the Elf tried to circle around the Dragon, and loosed an arrow that struck the Dragon on its hard-scaled back. The Dragon immediately took off high into the air before diving back to the ground with so much speed and ferocity that the Elf had little time to react. The Dragon knocked the Elf to the ground and once again used his fire-breath to char the Elf to a crisp. 
Paul Bunyan def. the Boogeyman 
Paul Bunyan — who has yet to notice that he has been in any such tournament — quick­ly dismantled the Boogeyman’s offense on his way to the victory. 
The Boogeyman, confident from his previ­ous victory, was stunned to find that Paul Bunyan was simply not afraid of the Boogeyman’s shenanigans. The Boogeyman’s endless attempts at scaring the great Paul Bunyan fell on ignorant ears. 
“I’m not afraid of anything,” Bunyan said. 
This lack of fear cosmically nullified the Boogeyman’s existence, creating a quick, stunning and relatively uninteresting win for the big boy from the Midwest. 
Gremlin draws with Werewolf 
The Gremlin capitalized on yet another chance at an upset, defeating the Werewolf when the outcome looked bleak. 
The Werewolf scheduled a night game, knowing the Gremlin’s hatred of light, and due to the Gremlin’s frequent transforma­tions, prepared a game plan that avoided moisture. The Gremlin became mighty hun­gry as the clock struck midnight, however, and while the Werewolf was howling its threats to the hidden Gremlin, the Gremlin got down and chewed up some greenery. As the Gremlin accidentally broke another one of its rules, the Werewolf chomped down and devoured it. 
The Werewolf assumed victory, but the Gremlin, due to its consumption of anything after midnight, had already begun to mutate and upon contact with a nearby river, multi­ply. Within a matter of minutes Gremlins were everywhere, nasty clawed scaly beasts that de-clawed and de-furred the Werewolf until it was just a pair of fangs and a patch of fur. 
After devouring the Gremlin, the Werewolf was declared the victor, but due to his con­sumption moments later, will no longer be able to compete in the third round, giving a bye to the top-seeded Paul Bunyan. 
Leprechaun def. Yeti 
The Leprechaun, after accidentally ending up in the second round, found its stride in a legendary upset of the ferocious Yeti. 
The poor Leprechaun, while freezing in the snowy terrain created by the Yeti, had no idea of the Abominable Snowman’s approach. After being clubbed in the head, the uncon­scious Leprechaun was dragged to the Yeti’s cave and hung upside down from the ice above. 
Upon awakening with a terrible migraine, the Leprechaun summoned its jeweled shille­lagh, broke itself from the ice, turned around and bludgeoned the surprised Yeti into obliv­ion. Another week, another upset for the end­lessly entertaining Leprechaun. 
“Now I have another upset to deal with,” the Leprechaun said. “Go Irish, Beat Trojans!” 
Sasquatch v. Genie 
Despite the Genie’s profound mystical pow­ers, the match boiled down to his sheer impossibility of finding the Sasquatch in the woods. 
Despite the Genie’s greatest efforts to find the Sasquatch, it proved impossible. At first the Genie followed the tracks that led to noth­ing. The droppings he found were sampled and investigated, but it once again brought no conclusions as to the Sasquatch’s location. 

The Gargoyle def. King Kong 
Despite a distinct imbalance of size, the Gargoyle rocked King Kong with an aerial attack on his path to victory. 
Faring better than the biplanes of yore, the Gargoyle was able to use its wings to ultimate­ly overcome the outsized ape. 
“Watching the battle I was reminded of a mockingbird dive-bombing an irritable bear,” announcer Harry Carey said from his heavenly perch. 
King Kong remained in the center of the grassy knoll, trying to draw a bead on the stoic stone sol­dier. 
“I felt like JFK out there,” King Kong said after the bat­tle. 
The Gargoyle eventually wore down the massive monkey’s defenses, swooped in under a furry forearm, dodged a mighty swing and pulled a David to the gorilla’s Goliath. 
Godzilla def. the Mummy 
Godzilla kept the Mummy under wraps on his way to a commanding victory. For the second week running, Godzilla won with a sneeze, sparking controversy as to if he is a fearsome first seed or over-ranked ama­teur with sensitive sinuses. Accidently stepping on the end of the mummy’s wrappings, Godzilla caused him to wander in ever widen­ing circles as he slowly unwrapped himself. The rising dust from the bandages tickled Godzilla’s nose and the G-man let loose an almighty sneeze laden with laser beams. The lasers ignited the Mummy’s loose wrapping, turning him into a flaming beacon bright enough to call to Rohan for aid, ending the match. 
Predator def. Alien 
For once Hollywood got it right as Predator dismantled Alien in the highly anticipated sec­ond round matchup. 
In the fiercest battle of round two, Predator eventually came out on top. Predator stalked 
through the forest, carefully winding his way through the trees. Flickering movement caught his eye as Alien burst from cover, knocking him through the air and breaking off the pulse cannon in the process. Predator came up swinging with his wrist blades fully extended, taking off the right claw of the Alien. Flailing about sending acid blood in all direc­tions, Alien forced Predator dive under cover. Coming up with pulse cannon in hand, Predator fired, destroying the oak to Alien’s left but missing the creature. As Alien turned and charged, Predator calmly reached back and removed his bladed Frisbee and let fly. Alien’s body fell with a crash and the head bounced to Predator’s feet. Raising one leg, Predator set his foot upon the skull, caught the disc on its return and struck a pose to rival 
Captain Morgan. 
“I’ve killed him once, and I’ll kill him again,” Predator said after the slightly redundant battle. 
The Hellhound def. the Wookie 
Hellfire triumphed one of the most anticipat­ed second round matchups, claiming the Wookie’s soul for all eternity. 
Utilizing his underworldly connections, the Hellhound summoned hellfire and brimstone, which swallowed the Wookie into the gaping maw of hell itself. 
The Wookie disappeared, leaving behind the acrid smell of sulfur and burned hair wafting over the field. The Hellhound roared in tri­umph before disappearing back to the bowels of the inferno. 

Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu, Matt Brown at mbrown14@nd.edu, Colin Rich at crich@nd.edu and Szymon Ryzner at sryzner@nd.edu 
ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 
Scene

Thursday, October 15, 2009 page 17 
“It Might Get Loud” @ Browning Cinema, 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. 
This revolutionary documentary details the progression of the electric guitar as a fixture of rock music through the personal accounts of three rock legends: The Edge, Jimmy Page and Jack White. The film revolves around a meeting between the three great guitarists in which they share their life stories, tech­niques and sources of inspiration. The film is especially interesting in that it looks at each performer in terms of the way he rebelled against the estab­lished styles of his time, invented new sounds and made an influence on the world of music. Tickets are $6 for the general public, $5 for faculty and staff, $4 for seniors and $3 for stu­dents. 
Glee Club Concert @ DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, 8 p.m. 
The Glee Club presents its annual fall concert Friday night at the Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. It promises to be an excellent show as always, including selections of both religious and secular choral music. Continuing a tradition that spans nearly 100 years, the Glee Club will also perform all the traditional school songs. Though the group works from a somewhat standard program, there are sure to be new additions to the performance. Tickets are $8 for the general public, $6 for faculty and staff, $5 for seniors and $3 for stu­dents. They can be purchased through the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Box Office and are hot sellers. 
Scholar Series “Shakespeare in the 21st Century” @ Annenberg Theater, Snite Museum, 12 p.m. 
The Saturday Scholar Series has been taking place at Notre Dame for the past three years at noon on game days. The lecture and ques­tion/answer sessions are designed to give participants an intimate experience with experts in various academic fields. Saturday, Peter D. Holland and Scott Jackson will be discussing “Shakespeare in the 21st Century.” The two professors intend to discuss the different ways in which Shakespeare is being performed around the world, on the Internet and here at Notre Dame in a modern context. No tickets are required for this event. 
South Bend Symphony Orchestra “German Romance” @ DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, 3 p.m. 
The South Bend Symphony Orchestra presents “German Romance,” a pro­gram of music from the Romantic era by Wagner, Strauss and Weber. The pieces selected from each composer are slightly less well known, but will still provide the audience with a general idea of what German romantic music is about. Strauss’ “Horn Concerto No. 1” will fea­ture principle horn player Aaron Brant as soloist. 
Tickets are $25 for the general public, $12.50 for faculty and staff, $23 for seniors and $5 for all students. There are still plenty of seats available, so if you are planning on being on cam­pus Sunday afternoon, this is an excel­lent campus event to consider attending. 
Contact Genna McCabe at gmccabe@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, October 15, 2009 
NHL 

Prospal scores 200th goal 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Vinny Prospal scored two goals — including his 200th in the NHL — during first-period power plays and the New York Rangers stretched their winning streak to six games with a 4-2 victory over the Los Angeles Kings on Wednesday night. 
Prospal added an assist on Marian Gaborik’s sixth of the season that made it 4-2 at 4:22 of the third. Gaborik has 10 points in the young season and at least one in all seven games. 
The Rangers swept a three-game homestand in four days and improved to 6-0 since a season-opening loss at Pittsburgh. Former Kings for­ward Brian Boyle scored a sec­ond-period goal, and Henrik Lundqvist stopped 34 shots for his fifth win in six games. 
It is New York’s longest win­ning streak since another six-game run in the 2005-06 sea­son. 
Ryan Smyth and Michal Handzus scored for Los Angeles, which had won four in a row after losing on opening night to Phoenix. Erik Ersberg, making his first start of the sea­son in relief of No. 1 goalie Jon Quick, stopped 17 shots. 
Smyth has been quite an addition to the Kings’ top line after being acquired in the off­season. He has five goals and nine points in six games, reach­ing the score sheet in each con­test. Los Angeles, however, dropped to 2-1 on its six-game road trip that began with wins at St. Louis and the New York Islanders. 
Prospal gave the Rangers a 1­0 lead 3:11 in when he tipped in defenseman Michael Del Zotto’s shot for his milestone goal in his 15th NHL season. Smyth answered 1:10 later with a similar deflection in front. 
Prospal struck again for goal No. 201 — his third of the sea­son — during New York’s 5-on­3 power play at 13:03. Prospal got some help from video replay which showed that he chipped the puck in from behind the net before the refer­ee’s whistle blew to stop play. 
Boyle, a Kings first-round draft pick in 2003, scored his first goal with the Rangers 2:17 into the second when his drive clanged hard off the left post and bounced in off Ersberg’s leg to make it 3-1. 
The Kings again climbed back within a goal when Handzus deflected in Jack Johnson’s long shot, while screening Lundqvist, at 7:18 of the sec­ond. As Toronto did in a loss to New York on Monday, Los Angeles carried play in the middle period, but not enough to get even. 
Los Angeles held a 14-11 shots edge in the second and 10-1 in the third. 
Gaborik sealed the Rangers’ latest win when he calmly skat­ed into the Los Angeles zone, while corralling a pass from Prospal that was behind him, and then unleashing a perfect wrist shot from the left circle that beat Ersberg. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Purdue passing game stays hot 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Purdue started the season with uncer­tainty about its passing game, but the Boilermakers are start­ing to put up some familiar numbers heading into their matchup with No. 7 Ohio State. 
Purdue was known for throw­ing the ball almost at will with quarterbacks Drew Brees, Kyle Orton and Curtis Painter run­ning former coach Joe Tiller’s spread offense. New coach Danny Hope emphasized the run early while protecting new starter Joey Elliott. 
The past three games, Elliott’s numbers have rivaled those of his predecessors: He has com­pleted 59 percent of his passes for 901 yards, eight touchdowns and four interceptions. He now leads the Big Ten in average yards passing, touchdown pass­es and total offense. 
Hope said the passing game has come a long way since the start of the season, and he wants that progress to continue on Saturday against the visiting Buckeyes (5-1, 3-0 Big Ten). 
“We are not far away from being able to really pass the football, and that’s pretty good because six weeks ago, we had a tough time,” Hope said. 
Purdue (1-5, 0-2) has lost five straight games, but with oppo­nents stacking the line to stop running back Ralph Bolden, Elliott has kept the Boilermakers competitive. The defeats have come by a combined 33 points. 
“We have a guy that’s a great competitor at the quarterback position,” Hope said. “When things don’t necessarily go right up front, he fights it to the end and makes some huge plays for us. He accrues a lot of yards and he’s a great quarterback. The spirit that he embodies is really important for our football team right now.” 
Elliott has Ohio State coach Jim Tressel’s attention. 
“Whenever you face a senior quarterback who now has had a chance to throw a whole bunch of balls and who leads our league, our challenge, I think, is great,” Tressel said. 
Elliott will need to be at his best on Saturday. The Buckeyes rank third in the Big Ten in pass defense and second in sacks. 
Elliott has built a strong rap­port with Keith Smith. The jun­ior slot receiver has 42 catches for 585 yards, both second in the Big Ten. He has gained more than 100 yards in five of his past seven games dating to last sea­son. 
At 6-foot-2 and 226 pounds, he’s different from the quick, elusive slot receivers Purdue usually employs. 
“He has great hands and great route-running instincts and good size, and he’s an outstanding teammate,” Hope said. “We are really excited about the year he’s having.” 
Hope said Smith has learned quickly since switching from safety in 2007. He believes Smith is one of the best receivers in the conference. 
Aaron Valentin caught 11 passes last season, but has emerged this season as Purdue’s top playmaker. He has 29 catch­es for 356 yards and five touch­downs, and leads the Big Ten in all-purpose yardage. He has fumbled several times on kick returns, but has been a top receiver. 
Bolden has been active in the passing game, too, with 11 catches for 173 yards and a touchdown to go with his 599 yards rushing. 
Hope said the passing statis­tics have been good, but the potential is even better. 
“We are not a finished product on offense, but we have done very, very well,” Hope said. “We moved the football up and down the field.” 
NFL 
Hall-of-Fame RB criticizes former team 
Associated Press 
ASHBURN, Va. — The booing fans and critical talk-radio yakkers are hardly the only ones giving the reeling Washington Redskins a hard time lately. 
Members of the “Redskins family” are piling on, too. 
Yes, with Washington at 2-3 despite a soft-as-can-be sched­ule, everyone from former stars Joe Theismann and John Riggins to people writing for the team’s official Web site are rip­ping the Redskins. 
“A lot of us have sort of tem­pered ourselves, to be honest with you. The expectations for this team were so much greater coming into the year — and they haven’t come even close to living up to it,” Theismann said in a telephone interview Wednesday. 
“It’s the little things that both­er the living daylights out of me more than anything. ... They waste timeouts at an astound­ing rate. To me that’s disgrace­ful. That’s Football 101,” Theismann said. “Ultimately, where does it have to fall on? It has to fall on coaching and teaching.” 
Don’t think the current play­ers aren’t hearing the verbal shots being directed at them, at coach Jim Zorn, at front office chief Vinny Cerrato. 
“I’ve heard guys come in and say, ‘Can you believe what this guy said or that guy said?’” offensive lineman Chris Samuels said. “Even when we win, it’s all negative.” 
Of course, it’s not as though there isn’t any internal finger-pointing or worrying. 
As cornerback DeAngelo Hall put it Wednesday, “We’re a cou­ple steps from getting ready to panic right now.” 
Moments later, he acknowl­edged, “I don’t know if we’ve got the right personnel in here.” 
Theismann, for one, said the team is “fundamentally not sound at all,” referred to how Washington “mucks along in futility,” called the offense “inept,” and added, “What is unacceptable is the lack of effort to do more than just what is required.” 
Earlier in the week, during his show on a radio station belonging to Redskins owner Dan Snyder, Theismann expressed similar sentiments about the team he quarter­backed to a Super Bowl cham­pionship in the 1980s. 
He’s hardly alone. 
Ex-players such as Hall of Fame members Sonny Jurgensen and Sam Huff — whose framed photos hang on a wall outside the locker room at Redskins Park — have ques­tioned play-calling and individ­ual players’ fitness on game-day radio broadcasts. According to washingtonpost.com, Jurgensen was particularly critical of quarterback Jason Campbell, saying during a pregame show last weekend he would have used backup Todd Collins instead and that, “I think Collins would have won all four of these games.” 
Campbell’s response to such thoughts coming from ex-Redskins? 
“You can’t get mad,” the quarterback said. “You can’t agree or disagree. They’re enti­tled to their opinion.” 
Riggins, a Redskins teammate of Theismann’s and member of the Hall of Fame, spared no one in a diatribe he posted as a video on YouTube, then linked to on his Twitter feed. 
Riggins on Cerrato: “You’re a great guy, Vin, but you’re no GM.” 
On Zorn: “You’re out of your league, Jim,” and “you ... are not a head football coach in the NFL. High school? Definitely. You can coach in high school. You can coach my son in high school any time.” 
Through a team spokesman, Cerrato declined to respond. 
Word of Theismann’s — and others’ — words spread among the Redskins. 
“Riggins, he takes it a little overboard,” receiver-returner Antwaan Randle El said. “I wouldn’t call it fair or unfair. They can say a little bit more than the next person because they’ve played. They’ve been here. They want the team to be great. They were great. But at the same time, they should know there’s a line.” 
It should not surprise anyone that the Redskins would be chastised for their showing so far. After all, Sunday’s game against the visiting Kansas City Chiefs will be Washington’s NFL-record sixth in a row against a team entering the matchup without a victory, and yet the Redskins have not taken advantage. 
Two of their losses came against the otherwise-winless Detroit Lions and Carolina Panthers (the other was against the New York Giants). Their two victories came by a total of five points against the St. Louis Rams (0-5) and Tampa Bay Buccaneers (0-5), teams outscored by a combined 286­102 this season. 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
4 BDRM HOUSE ON 32 ACRES  Home for ND football weekends. 1  If you or someone you care has  
WANTED  FOR RENT  OF NATURE AND SERENITY.  mi. N of Campus. Reasonable. 574­360-0588 or www.gamedayhous- PERSONAL  been sexually assauled, we can help. For more information, visit  
9 MILES NORTH OF NOTRE  ing.com  Notre Dame s website:  
PART TIME WORK  Looking for a quiet place to relax  DAME. $1,200 FOR WEEKEND.  ———————————————  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  http://csap.nd.edu  
after the game? Charming rental  Do not go it alone.  ———————————————  
$14.25  unit for 2-4, beautiful view, free canoe and kayaks with direct access to St. Joe River. Adults only,  CALL GEORGIA PEACH BED AND BREAKFAST @ 269-357-6979. ———————————————  TICKETS  Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or some- FOR SALE  
no smoking, no pets. See pictures  2 BDRM APT.  HELP! Need FB tix for family.  one you love needs confidential  
base-appt.,no experience  on www.TheRiverGetaway.org or  CLOSE TO ND.  Will pay top $$. victory tickets.net  support or assitance, please call Sr.  Ford 79 T-Bird  
needed,customer sales/service,  269-815-3000. Great to stay for  UTILITIES NOT INCL. CALL 313­ 574-232-0964.  Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at  45K Miles  
Notre Dame Events.  382-0536 OR 574-386-3896  ———————————————  1-2685. For more information, visit  Orig Owner  
———————————————  Desperately need USC tix. Please  ND s website at: http://pregnancy­ $8,000  
574-273-3835.  andersonND rentals.com. HOUSES  54684 TWYCKENHAM  help. Call 574-277-1659.  support@nd.edu.  574-299-0925  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Around the Nation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 

Thursday, October 15, 2009 page 19 

NCAA Men’s Hockey USCHO Division I Rankings 
NFL 

Orton makes Denver forget Cutler 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 

team previous 
Miami (Ohio) (28) Boston U. (17) Denver North Dakota Michigan Cornell NOTRE DAME Yale Minnesota Princeton Vermont Boston College Wisconsin Mass-Lowell Bemidji St. Neb.-Omaha Alaska Fairbanks Quinnipiac St. Cloud St. Northeastern Minnesota-Duluth New Hampshire Union Michigan State Minisota State 
4 2 1 6 3 7 5 8 9 10 14 12 13 11 NR NR NR NR 15 20 18 16 NR NR NR 

Women’s Cross Country USTFCCCA Division 1 
team 
Washington Villanova West Virginia Oregon Princeton Stanford Iowa St. Minnesota Florida Virgina Florida St. Baylor Georgetown Duke Syracuse Penn St. Arizona St. Illinois Colorado Texas Tech New Mexico BYU Michigan Michigan St. Providence 

Previous 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 



around the dial 
MLB 
Phillies at Dodgers 8 p.m., TBS 
NCAA Football 

Cincinnati at South Florida 
7:30 p.m., ESPN 
Associated Press 
ENGLEWOOD, Colo. — In Chicago, his many critics suggested the “O” in quar­terback Kyle Orton’s name really stood for “Ordinary.” 
So far in Denver, then, it must mean “Outstanding.” 
Orton’s Broncos are 5-0 for the first time since 1998, when they won their last Super Bowl with Hall of Famer John Elway under center. 
Every week, Orton makes the much-maligned offseason trade of Pro Bowl passer Jay Cutler to Chicago for Orton and a king’s ransom of draft picks look more and more like a wise move for rookie coach Josh McDaniels. 
While Cutler has settled in with the Bears (3-1), nobody in Denver is decry­ing his departure any­more. 
Orton won AFC Offensive Player of the Week honors for leading the Broncos to a 20-17 win over New England and McDaniels’ mentor, Bill Belichick, on Sunday in what was arguably his best game as a pro. 
He completed a career-high 35 of 48 passes for 330 yards and two touch­down throws to cap drives that covered 90 and 98 yards. He then drove the Broncos methodically downfield for the winning kick in overtime. 
“It was a special win, it was a special week,” Orton said Wednesday. 
But can Orton be a “spe­cial” player? 
“I don’t know how elite quarterbacks are judged. I don’t really know that,” McDaniels said. “All I care about is that he can help us win, and I know he can do that.” 
Orton, whose only inter­ception this season was a desperation pass that Randy Moss came down with to end the first half Sunday, has a 26-12 record (.684) as a starter. 
That places him third among active passers with at least 25 starts, behind New England’s Tom Brady (.776) and Pittsburgh’s Ben Roethlisberger (.711). 
Orton’s 18-2 home record as a starter is the best in the league since the 1970 AFL-NFL merger. 
When McDaniels was ordered by owner Pat Bowlen to grant Cutler’s trade wish after an offsea­son of discontent, he knew just who he wanted run­ning his offense. 
“Kyle’s always been a smart guy,” McDaniels said. “You could see that very clearly on the film. Any film. Put on any film of Kyle Orton and you’ll see a smart football player that has always had a lot of responsibility in terms of at the line of scrim­mage, identifying the defense, getting his team in the right situations. 

IN BRIEF 
Larry Brown fined by NBA for actions in ejection 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. — The NBA has fined Charlotte Bobcats coach Larry Brown $60,000 for his actions sur­rounding his ejection from an exhibi­tion game on Monday. 
The NBA fined the Bobcats an addi­tional $60,000 on Wednesday. 
Brown was hit with two technical fouls by replacement referee Kevin Scott, then lingered on the court after being ejected in the third quarter. Scott called for security before Brown left for the locker room on his own accord. 
The NBA fined Brown $35,000 for verbally abusing game officials and failing to leave the court in a timely manner. He was fined another $25,000 for publicly criticizing the referees. 
The preseason incident is one of several involving replacement offi­cials. The NBA has locked out the regular officials in a labor dispute. 
Legendary Coach Wooden 
celebrates 99th birthday 
LOS ANGELES — John Wooden cele­brated his 99th birthday Wednesday. 
The former UCLA coach and Hall of Famer is confined to a wheelchair after a series of minor health setbacks in recent years. 
One of Wooden’s last public appear­ances came in July when he gathered with current Bruins coach Ben Howland and several of his former players at a luncheon celebrating Wooden’s recognition by a national magazine as the greatest coach in American sports history. 
Wooden, whose wife Nell died in 1985, is looked after by his daughter, son, several grandchildren and 13 great-grandchildren. 
“The most important thing in the world is family and love,” he said in July. 
Wooden won a record 10 national championships at UCLA, including seven in a row. 
Vick declines invitation to visit former dogs this weekend 
OAKLAND, Calif. — A Bay Area pit bull advocacy group says Michael Vick has declined an invitation to visit eight of his former dogs this weekend when the Philadelphia Eagles are in town to play the Oakland Raiders. 
The group BAD RAP (Bay Area Doglovers Responsible About Pitbulls) told The Associated Press on Wednesday that it extended the invita­tion through the Eagles to Vick last week to view his former dogs that were part of the dog fighting operation at Bad Newz Kennels in southeastern Virginia. 
BAD RAP co-founder Tim Racer said the group picked a location that would have allowed Vick to view the dogs from behind a window at a distance that satisfied the conditions of his parole that bar him from being near animals. 
Racer said the Eagles informed him Wednesday that Vick would decline. 

page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, October 15, 2009 
NASCAR 

France and son headline 1st Hall of Fame Class 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. — NASCAR founder Bill France Sr. headlined the five inductees into the first Hall of Fame class, a group that drew mixed reactions to the inclusion of France’s son instead of driver David Pearson. 
France, who formed the National Association of Stock Car Racing in 1947, was the first inductee announced Wednesday in a ceremony that followed a lengthy voting ses­sion at the Charlotte Convention Center. 
Richard Petty, the seven-time Cup champion and NASCAR’s all-time wins leader, was the second inductee revealed by current NASCAR chairman Brian France, who received the five envelopes one at a time from an independent account­ing firm. 
Next up was Bill France Jr., son of the NASCAR founder who spent nearly 30 years at the helm of America’s top motorsports series. 
“When I seen the two Frances was in, I knew I didn’t have a chance,” Pearson said moments after the ceremony ended. 
The final two nods instead went to Dale Earnhardt, NASCAR’s other seven-time champion, and Junior Johnson, a former driver and car owner whose early days of running moonshine through backroads of North Carolina stands as a symbol of NASCAR’s start. 
Pearson’s exclusion surprised many, including Petty. 
Ushered into the ballroom moments after the inductees were announced, the King had 
to be told who had been select-The differing opinions creat­ed with him for next May’s ed a strange dynamic through induction ceremony. the convention center, where “That wouldn’t have been my the voters gathered earlier pick,” he said. Wednesday to debate the nomi-Decided upon by a panel of nees before a secret ballot. As 50 NASCAR executives, jour-many of NASCAR’s pioneers 
nalists, former  discussed  the  
participants and  selections,  six  
one combined fan vote from NASCAR’s offi-cial Web site, the  “I’ll tell you, this is a big, big deal to me. It’s the greatest thing  women clad in black dresses, dark sunglasses and fake  
voters had a list of 25 nominees to consider.  that’s happened to me in this sport.”  Earnhardt-like mustaches dis­tributed invita- 
Petty, who was not on the panel,  Junior Johnson  tions to a cele­bratory recep­ 
said he made his  former NASCAR driver  tion hosted by  
own list and had  E a r n h a r d t ’ s  
Pearson  as  his  widow, Teresa.  

top pick. Some of the voters lingered 
“Anybody that won 105 races and described an emotional and didn’t make the cut — two-plus-hour meeting that somebody ain’t adding right,” was moderated by NASCAR Petty said of Pearson. spokesman Jim Hunter. A pres-
Known as the “Silver Fox,” entation was made for each of Pearson ranked second only to the 25 nominees, and then the Petty’s 200 victories on floor was opened for discus­NASCAR’s all-time win list. The sion. three-time Cup champion had a “It was a meeting like I’ve winning percentage of 18.2 never been in in racing, percent in a career that because I think everybody spanned 27 years — but never wanted to do the right thing a complete season. and I think NASCAR was really 
Had he ever run a full sched-nervous about the two Frances ule, many believed he could getting in,” said voter Humpy have challenged Petty’s marks. Wheeler, longtime motorsports 
It was hard to tell if Pearson executive. felt snubbed. He spoke for less “There was definitely a divi­than a minute after the cere-sion there of people who felt mony, citing the need to get fel-‘Hey, lets get the guys in that low nominee Cotton Owens started this thing first, and home to his ailing wife. then we’ll move on from there.’ 
“The same people don’t like That was argued about.” everybody,” Pearson said. “So France Sr., widely known as there got to be some people “Big Bill,” began as a promoter voting for other people. If they of beach racing in Daytona don’t like me, they’re going to Beach, Fla., until he gathered vote for somebody else anyway, several principals at the so that’s all right. I’m happy.” Streamline Hotel to form a gov­erning body that became NASCAR. 
Regarded as one of the most influential figures in the history of American motorsports, he ruled with an iron first from NASCAR’s first race in 1949 until his 1972 retirement, when he handed control over to his son, Bill Jr. 
“Billy” France led NASCAR through a period of extreme growth and was at the helm as the sport began to push past its Southern roots to become a national series. He held the top role until 2000, when he hand­ed control to current president Mike Helton as he battled can­cer. 
But France Jr. stayed on top of the family business as chair­man of a newly created board of directors, a position he held until turning leadership over to his son, Brian, in 2003. 
“There was a lot of discus­sion about having two France family members in the same year,” Brian France admitted after, “so I was surprised, but very, very proud. Look, all the inductees easily could have made first ballot, but I also know how hard my father and grandfather worked. They poured their whole heart into this sport. It’s a proud day for the France family.” 
NASCAR did not release the voting totals and said the order in which they were announced did not reflect the results. NASCAR spokesman Ramsey Poston said Pearson, Cale Yarborough and Bobby Allison were the next three highest vote getters but did not reveal in what order. 
Still, there was a sense that the final slot was a close vote between France Jr. and Pearson, and that the pre-vote meeting definitely factored into the selections. 
“The mood of the room clear­ly shifted a couple times,” said Landmark Newspapers reporter Dustin Long, the pres­ident of the National Motorsports Press Association. “It was very dramatic shifts, and it dealt with the France family.” 
There was still some cele­brating. 
Teresa Earnhardt made a rare public appearance, and invited almost everyone in attendance to a reception to celebrate her husband, who was killed in an accident on the last lap of the 2001 Daytona 500. 
“Everyone who knew him respected him,” she said. “I can’t imagine how difficult it was to choose five. It’s such an honor to narrow it down and include him.” 
Earnhardt’s children did not attend the announcement but released a statement later that included reaction from Earnhardt’s mother, brother, sister, and two of his four chil­dren. 
“He was the man, plain and simple,” said Dale Earnhardt Jr. 
Johnson, meanwhile, didn’t attend the announcement after serving on the voter panel. Winner of 50 races as a driver, and another 132 and six cham­pionships as a car owner, he said in a statement his inclu­sion left him speechless. 
“I’ll tell you, this is a big, big deal to me,” he said. “It’s the greatest thing that’s happened to me in this sport.” 


Thursday, October 15, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
NFL 

Seahawks showing toughness early 
Palmer practices 
Associated Press 
RENTON, Wash. — Quarterback Matt Hasselbeck excels despite two broken ribs, thanks to painkillers shot direct­ly into the fractures by an expert on precise injections the team had summoned to get Hasselbeck to play. 
The emergency left tackle is forced from the practice squad into the starting offense — then plays the final two quarters with a sprained knee. 
Fullback Owen Schmitt is so fired up before that same game against Jacksonville last week­end, he has blood streaming down his face. Before kickoff. From bashing his head with his own helmet. 
Nope, no one is calling the Seahawks soft anymore. 
“We haven’t played our best football, but I really feel like we’re a hard, physical tough team. That hasn’t necessarily been something we’ve been about here,” Hasselbeck said after a 41-0 win over the Jaguars that revived Seattle’s season. 
“I think we’re a physical team, I think we have that kind of a mentality now,” he said. “It’s not that bad of a thing,” 
Known as being a finesse team for a decade with former coach Mike Holmgren and his pass-first West Coast offense, the Seahawks are transforming under Jim Mora. 
Yes, the team the Arizona Cardinals will find opposite them on Sunday is a different division rival than it has been recently, and not just because the Seahawks will again be without a half dozen or more injured starters. 
Mora said he hasn’t explicitly attempted to make his guys tougher in his first season in Seattle, but he doesn’t mind if that’s the perception. 
“I mean, we want to be known as a tough team,” he said. 
Hasselbeck may have to be even tougher this weekend. 
The Seahawks will be starting their fourth option at left tackle when Kyle Williams faces havoc-wreaking defensive line­man Darnell Dockett. That’s 
potentially bad news for Ha ss e lbeck ’s blind side and the ribs that are broken high in his back. 
Some of this increased tough­ness was expect­ed, given Mora’s intensity and the more run-orient­
ed offense that new offensive coordinator Greg Knapp has installed. 
But when Hasselbeck is left speechless by Schmitt’s self-inflicted bloodbath in the spirit of team motivation just before kickoff, it shows a depth of grit more synonymous with Dick Butkus’ Chicago Bears or Ray Nitschke’s Green Bay Packers. 
“It probably wasn’t smart,” Hasselbeck said of Schmitt’s stunt, which the second-year wild man also did while at West Virginia University. “But I really think the mindset of our team has changed.” 
Hasselbeck was in intense pain at the beginning of last week after accelerating his rehabilitation work so he could save a team that had lost three straight. 
Sunday, he threw four touch­down passes, his most in two 
with sore thumb 
years. He also ran for 23 yards and even tried to throw a down-field block. 
“One of the guttiest perform­ances I’ve seen,” Knapp said of Hasselbeck’s week — and he coached Hall of Fame quarter­back Steve Young through con­cussions and a broken rib while both were in San Francisco. 
Williams was on the practice squad Saturday morning. By 
“We haven’t played our best football, but I really feel like we’re a hard, physical tough team.” 
Matt Hasselbeck Seahawks quarterback 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI — With a black glove supporting his left hand, quarterback Carson Palmer went through a full practice on Wednesday, an indication that his sprained thumb won’t be a problem this week. 
Sunday after-
Palmer hurt the thumb on 
noon, he was the 
his nonthrowing hand during 
first-team left 
the fourth quarter of a 17-14 
tackle, after 
win over Baltimore on Sunday. 
Brandon Frye 
He had to hand off using his 
was lost for the 
right hand only for the rest of 
season to a neck 
the game, forcing him to 
injury. 
change how he handled the 
Then Williams 
ball. 
sprained his 
Palmer said on Wednesday 
knee on a field 
that the thumb was much bet-
goal in the first 
ter — it wasn’t taped when he 
half. Doctors and 
met with reporters before 


limitations in Carson Palmer his passing Baltimore after Bengals quarterback elbow. Without 
he hit the ground with his left hand after getting hit, hurting the thumb. 
For the rest of the game, he made all handoffs with his right hand, which could have created problems. Palmer showed his knack for improvi­sation: the exchanges with running back Cedric Benson went smoothly. 
“I broke my collarbone in college one time and needed to do that for a couple of games,” Palmer said. “I’ve done it before and it’s one of those things you do on the fly.” 
It’s not an issue when he gets ready to throw. Palmer led the Bengals on yet another game-winning drive in Baltimore, completing a 20­yard touchdown pass to Andre Caldwell with 20 seconds left. All five of the Bengals’ games have been decided in the clos­ing minute. 
Palmer has led the Bengals on winning drives in each of the last three. He’s been at his best under the most intense pressure, completing 66 per­
warmups, “I’m trying to fnd a cally, but the hurt, the practice squad escapee 
As for Williams now being 
Palmer fum-guy open at the last offensive line said Wednesday, “I’m fine. It 
bled it and was crumbling. 
second in those types
wasn’t a big deal.” 
dropped it, an Last year, he Oh, so don’t throw him into 
indication that of situations where missed all but Seattle’s growing tough pile? 
he’s still a bit the big plays four games “I mean, you can if you want,” 
limited. He because of a
are made.” 
w o r k e d torn ligament through his and tendon in Williams said with a smile. 
cent of his throws for a passer rating of 112.8, which is extraordinary under the cir­cumstances. 
Palmer also has kept drives alive by scrambling on third-and fourth-down plays when defenses drop to take away his receivers. Although he’s never been much of a runner, Palmer has become more of a pocket passer since he got his left knee torn up during the Bengals’ playoff loss to Pittsburgh that ended their 2005 season. 
The 29-year-old quarter­back has been playing the way he did before the reconstruc­tive surgery. 
“I was told way back when I had the surgery that it was going to get better year after year,” he said. “I was going to feel 100 percent, but would realize I was 100 percent until the following year and the fol­lowing year. Body-wise, I feel as good as I felt before I tore up my knee.” 
Palmer didn’t miss a game in the 2006 season even though the knee was still mending. He wore a protec­tive brace and didn’t move around much. By 2007, he was closer to normal physi­
trainers swarmed him on the bench to keep him going. He kept playing. He had to. His team had no one left. 
Monday, it signed Damion McIntosh out of his personal workout room in Kansas City, six weeks after the Chiefs cut their former starting tackle. 
Seahawks assistant Mike Solari has been coaching offen­sive lines since 1976. He said he’s never seen so many block­ers hurt at the same position. 
“It’s different,” Solari dead­panned. 
practice — and shouldn’t affect him on Sunday against the Houston Texans. 
The Bengals (4-1) have won three in a row because of last-minute drives led by Palmer, who has been a key reason behind their dramatic rise to first place in the AFC North. They can’t afford to have him hobbled. 
“Not an issue at all,” Palmer said. 
When a teammate lobbed a ball to him during Palmer, the 
Bengals won only four games. 
They got a scare in the first preseason game, when Palmer suffered a moderate sprain in his upper left ankle. He missed the last three pre­season games and didn’t move around very much during the first couple games in the regu­lar season. 
Now, he’s taking off on a scramble whenever the defense forgets about him. 
“I think he’s finally getting over the ankle injury,” coach Marvin Lewis said. “It seems less and less bothersome to him that way.” 
Even though he’s feeling better, Palmer would rather not run. 
“I’m trying to find a guy open at the last second in those types of situations where the big plays are made,” Palmer said. “Coverages break down after three or four seconds. I’d much rather throw it and get the big-play potential in a throw.” 


page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, October 15, 2009 
NFL 

Raiders re-sign O-lineman Walker 
Associated Press 
ALAMEDA, Calif. — The Oakland Raiders re-signed offensive lineman Langston Walker on Wednesday and waived fullback Oren O’Neal with an injury. 
Walker was a second-round pick by Oakland in 2002 and spent his first five seasons in the NFL with the Raiders. He left to sign a five-year, $25 mil­lion contract with Buffalo before the 2007 season and was cut by the Bills the week before this season started. 
The Raiders need help on an offensive line that has been hurt by injuries to left guard Robert Gallery and right tackle Cornell Green. 
Erik Pears started three games, first at guard and then at tackle last week. Pears has struggled, committing four false starts already to tie for the league lead in that category. 
The Raiders had three players starting at different positions last week than they had in the opener, with center Chris Morris moving to left guard, backup Samson Satele starting at center and Pears at right tackle. 
“We’ll see if he can get in and learn the system, and see if he can do our system,” coach Tom Cable said. “He certainly would-n’t be able to do it this week. Maybe in a week he’ll have a chance to, get enough practice.” 
Walker’s weight is down from 380 pounds to about 362, Cable said, which is still very big for a zone blocking lineman who needs to be athletic enough to get upfield to make blocks. 
Walker came in for a tryout last week and the Raiders wait­ed a week before deciding to bring him back for a second stint. Walker has mostly played in a power-blocking scheme and will have to learn the zone system employed in Oakland. 
“It’s slightly different, but I think I can do it. I’m athletic enough. I guess if I couldn’t they wouldn’t bring me in,” he said. “I think it’s more about learning the playbook. That’s the biggest issue standing in front of me. Different words and signals and nomenclature, and different quarterback.” 
Walker, who was born in Oakland and played in college at nearby California, said it was difficult to leave the Raiders two years ago but he couldn’t turn down the money the Bills offered in free agency. 
“It was real tough. This has always been my childhood favorite team, but business is business,” he said. “We all know how the NFL is.” 
Oakland has struggled mighti­ly on offense the past four weeks, scoring just two offen­sive touchdowns and failing to reach 200 yards of offense in any of the games. The Raiders joined last year’s Cleveland team as the only ones in the past 32 years to go four straight games with less than 200 yards of offense. 
The Raiders are averaging just 3.3 yards per carry and allowed six sacks in last week’s 44-7 loss to the New York Giants. 
“It will be good. He’s a great player,” left tackle Mario Henderson said. “It’s good any time you can add a player this skilled to the team.” 
O’Neal was a sixth-round pick by the Raiders in 2007 and began this season as the team’s starting fullback before losing the job to Luke Lawton. O’Neal then injured his ankle and was waived by the team. If no team claims him on waivers, he will be placed on Oakland’s injured reserve list. 
Lawton missed practice Wednesday with an ankle injury, leaving Gary Russell as the only healthy fullback on the team. Rookie tight end Brandon Myers could get some time at fullback this week if necessary, Cable said. 


NFL 
Ownersholdoffonfreeagencytalks 
have served us well,” he said. 
Associated Press 
“We hold onto the idea of let’s 
BOSTON — For now, the enforce these rules.” NFL won’t be creating an off-McKay made it clear he season window when teams believes the 32 clubs are not can negotiate with free agents at fault if improper contact is even before the players actual-made, saying with a smile: ly become available. “There’s another group not 
Team owners on Wednesday necessarily under our con-tabled discussions until the trol.” winter meetings next March, He was referring to agents, but the issue is not dead. many of whom consider Indeed, there is support for stretching the rules part of the establishing a short period just free agent game. before free agency begins, Last March, the Titans sent usually in early March, when information to the league that teams can talk to, but not the Redskins might have con-
physically meet  t  a  c  t  e  d  
with or sign, players whose contracts have  “There’s no consensus on what  H a y n e s w o r t h and his agent, Chad Speck,  
expired. Such a  modifcations we  before  free  
window could ease concerns  should make and  agency began Feb. 27. No  
about  teams  what the impact  charges  were  
making contact  early with  might be.”  brought, how­ever.  
those players, which consti-tutes tampering  Roger Goodell NFL commissioner  Haynesworth signed a seven-year, $100 mil­ 

— something the Tennessee Titans intimated the Washington Redskins might have done with Albert Haynesworth last winter. 
“We’ve been discussing this for two to three years and haven’t vetted it enough to make sure we’ve got the right system,” said Rich McKay, co-chairman of the competition committee and president of the Atlanta Falcons. “We’ll continue to look at it and bring it up again.” 
McKay said the owners pre­fer stricter enforcement of current tampering rules. 
“The anti-tampering rules lion contract 
with Washington that included $41 million in guaranteed money. 
Recently, the NFL began investigating whether the New York Jets tampered with San Francisco’s first-round draft choice, Michael Crabtree, dur­ing his lengthy holdout. The wide receiver signed with the 49ers earlier this month. 
“They are difficult to enforce because you want to be cer­tain you have a violation before you take any action,” commissioner Roger Goodell said. 
“I think there could be a change in the future, but at the end of the day the clubs focused on ... we have rules in place and don’t make any modification to it. There’s no consensus on what modifica­tions we should make and what the impact might be.” 
Goodell said another negoti­ating session with the NFL Players Association is sched­uled for next week. The sides have met several times, but no major economic negotiations on a new collective bargaining agreement have occurred. 
Goodell noted that if 2010 winds up being an uncapped season, as the current CBA calls for before expiring after the Super Bowl following that season, there will be some uncertainty for players. 
“With the restrictions in place, the game will be really at the same level it has been in the past several years,” he said. “Quality is what we focus on and I don’t see it being impacted. 
“But I think there will be changes that affect players. There won’t be team (salary) minimums, (unrestricted) free agency will go from four years to six. There are lot of factors that will affect the dynamics.” 
The owners also met with George Martin, who has been hired by NFL Alumni, a group that plans to be the lone voice for retired players. Those play­ers have had their representa­tion fragmented by many groups, and Goodell believes working with one organization will be a positive development. 
“We are encouraged this will give us an organization we can work with to address the issues of the men who built the game,” Goodell said. 


Thursday, October 15, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 23 
NFL 

Surgery to sideline kicker Vinatieri 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — The Colts want Adam Vinatieri at full strength later this season, one to two months from now. Until then, they’re content using another veteran kicker, Matt Stover. 
Indianapolis signed Stover on Wednesday, one day after Vinatieri had arthroscopic sur­gery to remove a piece of carti­lage in his right knee. To clear a roster spot, the Colts made a surprise move by waiving start­ing defensive tackle Ed Johnson. 
“Last week, Adam felt his knee was giving him a little bit of a problem, so he had an MRI,” coach Jim Caldwell said. “They saw some loose cartilage in there and we felt we wanted to get that done now with the bye week. In doing that, we had to look for someone to take his spot and we found Matt Stover.” 
Losing Vinatieri, the league’s best clutch kicker, for four to eight weeks is one thing. He missed training camp after hav­ing surgery on his right hip and right knee this summer and though Vinatieri was still hurt­ing last weekend, he managed to make a short field goal in the fourth quarter of Sunday night’s 31-9 rout over Tennessee. 
Cutting Johnson is an entirely different matter. 
He has now been released twice in the past 13 months by the Colts, the first coming in September 2008 after Johnson was arrested on a drug posses­sion charge. He re-signed with the Colts in May as the team tried to beef up its undersized defensive line, and the 6-foot-2, 296-pound third-year player won back his starting job in camp. 
The difference from last sea­son is staggering. A year ago, Indy finished among the bottom third of the league against the run. This year, the Colts are No. 14. 
But after Wednesday’s prac­tice, Caldwell ended speculation that Johnson, who also had a checkered career at Penn State, had run into more problems off the field. Instead, Caldwell said, Johnson was not performing well enough to keep the job. 
“I know some might be won­dering if it was a character issue and it was not,” Caldwell said. “When we get to these types of situations, we have to look at our roster and see where we can get a guy on (the roster). Ed’s was a matter of production.” 
Johnson had started four straight games after serving a one-game suspension in Week 1 because of his arrest, and had nine tackles. 
The two moves are the latest obstacles Indy faces. 
The Colts are 5-0 for the fourth time in five years despite having a new head coach, a new defensive coordinator, a new special teams coach and no Marvin Harrison. Bob Sanders, the 2007 NFL defensive player of the year, still has not played and other injuries forced the Colts into starting two rookie cornerbacks at Tennessee. 
Even the durable Peyton Manning gave fans a scare, say­ing he needed postgame treat­ment on his left knee Sunday night. The MVP quarterback went through a full practice Wednesday and said the knee was fine. 
Vinatieri’s knee, apparently, was not. 
Stover, a 12th-round draft pick of the New York Giants in 1990, played with Cleveland from 1991-95 then moved with the team to Baltimore in 1996, where he spent the next 13 sea­sons. 
He handled every important field goal attempt for the Ravens from 1996 through 2008, but after losing distance on his kickoffs and long field goal tries, Baltimore signed Steve Hauschka last season. The Ravens did not renew Stover’s contract during the offseason. 
Stover worked out for Indy on Tuesday and signed Wednesday morning. 
“That Adam would continue to kick with his knee in that condition, it tells you what kind of guy he is,” Stover said. “What I pride myself on is getting out there and making all of my field goals.” 
NHL 
Penguins prevail in shootout win 
Associated Press 
RALEIGH, N.C. — Chris Kunitz beat Cam Ward on the 12th shot of a shootout to help the Pittsburgh Penguins beat the Carolina Hurricanes 3-2 on Wednesday night and continue their early season road suc­cess. 
Evgeni Malkin and Michael Rupp scored goals for the Penguins, who improved to 5-0 on the road to set a franchise record for most consecutive road wins to open a season. Pittsburgh had won its first four twice before, the last time coming two seasons ago, but bested that with its fifth straight win against the Hurricanes. 
Ray Whitney scored twice for Carolina, helping the Hurricanes rally from a 2-0 deficit to force overtime. 
It was the first meeting between the teams since last season’s Eastern Conference finals, which Pittsburgh swept by a combined score of 20-9 on the way to the Stanley Cup. Carolina shook up its blue line in the offseason to get bigger defensemen to match up with offensive-minded teams like Pittsburgh, only to see the Penguins again find a way to beat the Hurricanes. 
But in the end, it wasn’t Malkin or Sidney Crosby who made the clinching play. Instead, it was Kunitz, who had yet to find the back of the net this season before slipping the puck between Ward’s pads in the shootout for the victory. 
Pittsburgh seemed to have the game in control heading into the final period. Michael Rupp had given the Penguins the early lead when he took a short pass from Malkin to set up a 2-on-1 rush, then skated in on Ward to flip the puck by him at the right post at 14:24. 
Malkin followed with an impressive goal in the second, taking a give-and-go pass from Pascal Dupuis then squeezing the puck between Ward and the right post from a steep angle early in the period. 
But Whitney answered with two quick third-period goals to erase the deficit. First, he slipped a shot underneath Marc-Andre Fleury at 4:25, then redirecting a shot from Tim Gleason to tie it midway through the period and re-energize the home crowd. 
Fleury finished with 27 saves for the Penguins, while Ward had 36 saves — including a key stop of Malkin from between the faceoff circles less than a minute into overtime. 


page 24 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, October 15, 2009 
NFL 

Manning says left knee is fine after practice 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Peyton Manning’s sore left knee is no longer an issue for the Indianapolis Colts. 
The three-time league MVP, who said he needed medical treatment on the knee Sunday night, gave himself a clean bill of health after finishing Wednesday’s practice. 
“No concerns,” he said. “It feels fine. It’s a non-issue.” 
Manning said he hurt the knee late in the first half of Sunday’s victory at Tennessee, on a play Titans defensive end Kyle Vanden Bosch was called for roughing the passer. Manning finished the game, topped 300 yards for the fifth straight time and showed no indication he had been hurt. 
On Monday, coach Jim Caldwell said he had not received a medical report about Manning’s knee, an indication that it was only a scare and not something more serious. 
Since then, team president Bill Polian, Caldwell and Manning have all said Manning was fine. 
The Colts (5-0) may be getting more good news on the injury front after their bye week. 
Safety Bob Sanders, the 2007 NFL defensive player of the year, was a limited participant in Wednesday’s practice though he did get his most extensive work. Sanders had offseason surgery on his right knee and was held out of practice until he gets comfortable with what he plans to return to the lineup last week. he’s doing, we’ll get him in Oct. 25 at St. Louis. 
“He is hungry, there’s no there.” Wide receiver Anthony question about that. I think he’s Cornerback Kelvin Hayden Gonzalez, who has not prac­been preparing diligently,” also practiced after missing the ticed since spraining ligaments Caldwell said. “He looks like last three games with a left in his right knee in the Colts’ Bob, so we’re all anxious. When hamstring injury and has said season-opener, has started run­ning again though it’s not clear when Gonzalez may return to the field. 

“I’m not real sure. I know he feels good about his progress,” Caldwell said. “I know he’s out there running.” 


Thursday, October 15, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 25 
MLB 

NLCS Game 1 starters announced 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — The Phillies and Dodgers are back in the National League championship series for the second straight year, making them the closest thing the NL has to a couple of dominant teams. 
They are the first repeat teams since Houston and St. Louis squared off in 2004 and ‘05, and only the third repeaters since Atlanta and Pittsburgh met in 1991 and ‘92. 
“I heard Joe Torre say the beauty of it is always going back and seeing how many times you can win,” Phillies manager Charlie Manuel said Wednesday of his Los Angeles counterpart. 
“Believe me, we came back here to win. I have more deter­mination probably than I had last year, and I mean that from the fact that that’s how much I want it, and I think I know how much our players want it.” 
A year ago, the Phillies took a 2-0 lead at home and went on to beat the Dodgers in five games in the NLCS before defeating Tampa Bay to win the World Series. 
Now, they’re trying to become the first repeat World Series winners since Torre’s Yankees did so from 1998­2000. 
“When you repeat, you basi­cally have to go through a tougher season to get there,” Torre said. “You’ve got a bull’s­eye on your back. Everyone seems to put on their Sunday best to play you. You always get the best pitchers matching up.” 
The Phillies have won the NLCS in each of their last four appearances, beating the Dodgers last year and in 1980, and winning it in 1993 and 1983. 

This year, the Dodgers own home-field advantage against the team they beat four times in seven games during the reg­ular season. 
“Because we’re the ones that took it away from them, they definitely want to prove some­thing,” Phillies Game 1 starter Cole Hamels said. “If I’m able to go out and execute strikes and really get ahead of them, I can definitely make this a bet­ter game for my pitching.” 
Clayton Kershaw will start for the Dodgers on Thursday in a matchup of left-handers. 
At 21 years and 209 days, Kershaw will be the third-youngest Game 1 starter in postseason history and the eighth-youngest starter overall, according to STATS LLC. The youngest Game 1 pitcher was Fernando Valenzuela, who was 20 years and 339 days when he started for the Dodgers in the 1981 division series. 
“I’ve grown up a lot since last year,” said Kershaw, who worked out of the bullpen in last year’s NLCS. “It’s not obvi­ously the same starting Game 1 of a series or anything like that, but just to have the experience to get out there and pitch against them a little bit is defi­nitely going to help me out.” 
Torre went with Kershaw because he came up big in the Dodgers’ division-clinching win against Colorado on Oct. 3. He pitched six scoreless innings in that game, striking out his first five batters and retiring his first 11 in a row. 
“He’s the most mature 21­year-old kid I’ve run across,” teammate Randy Wolf said. “At the same time, he’s stubborn and that’s good because I don’t want a pushover guy. If he’s throwing strikes, he’s pretty amazing.” 
The rest of the Dodgers’ rota­tion will be Vicente Padilla, Hiroki Kuroda and Wolf, who would pitch Game 4 against his old team in Philadelphia. 
Kershaw will be backed by a starting lineup of Rafael Furcal, Andre Ethier, Manny Ramirez, Matt Kemp, Casey Blake, James Loney, Ronnie Belliard and Russell Martin. 
Ramirez wasn’t a factor in the first two games of the divi­sion series against St. Louis, going 1 for 8, but he broke out with three hits and two RBIs in Game 3 to close out the sweep. 
“I’m comfortable all the time, my confidence level is up all the time,” he said. “I’m just excited and can’t wait to see what happens. The rest of the guys grew up a lot. They’re more ready this time.” 
Manuel wouldn’t disclose his rotation beyond Hamels or his lineup. 
Kershaw was 0-2 against the Phillies in the regular season, but he plans an aggressive approach Thursday. 
“That’s what I try to do every time,” he said. “I’m not trying to sit up there and walk people or try and pitch around some­one else. You can’t go out there with that mindset. They’ve got a great lineup. But the pitcher’s job is just to go right after them with your best stuff.” 
The Dodgers worked out Wednesday in light rain and 89 percent humidity. The rain had ended by the time the Phillies took the field. Thursday’s fore­cast calls for a high of 78 degrees. 


NFL 
Crabtree to debut against Houston 
Associated Press 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. — Michael Crabtree will make his NFL debut in his home state as planned. 
The San Francisco 49ers’ rookie wide receiver is set to take the field for the first time at Houston on Oct. 25 following the team’s bye week. 
“That’s my first game home, so I’m very excited about the opportunity to play at home,” Crabtree said Wednesday. 
Coach Mike Singletary said when Crabtree signed last week he expected Crabtree to be ready by next weekend, and the coach is pleased with the progress he’s made so far in practice. 
“Oh, he will play,” Singletary said. “Michael’s doing fine. He’s working his tail off. I think every day he gets out here and every rep that he takes, it makes him that much better. He’s been studying his tail off and it shows when he’s out here. He doesn’t have a whole lot of questions on the field. He’s running the right routes, he’s doing the right things. It’s just a matter of us taking every step with every second, every minute to get him up to speed and ready to go.” 
Offensive coordinator Jimmy Raye has said he plans to use Crabtree as a slot receiver on third downs against the Texans. Raye and Crabtree stood on the prac­tice field talking football for several minutes Wednesday after others had gone inside to the locker room. 
Crabtree is proving a quick learner as Singletary had hoped. His first game will be merely 2½ weeks after the 10th overall draft pick finally agreed to a six-year contract with $17 million guaranteed. He was the last draft pick to sign, having waited to try to get money comparable to higher picks. 
The 22-year-old Crabtree spent Sunday’s 45-10 home loss to Atlanta on the sideline watching and trying to get a feel for the speed at this level. 
“I wanted to be out there,” Crabtree said. “It’s hard to watch games from the side­line when you’re part of an organization. I was happy to be there and see how things go before I got on the field.” 
The 49ers (3-2) are inte­grating Crabtree into the mix with a small package of plays initially, and he will work out at team headquarters all week while his teammates get a break to go home. 
“It’s a process. I’ve got good teammates helping me do what I need to do to get my job done,” Crabtree said. “We’re working this thing. We’re football players. Everybody’s professional.” 
Backup quarterback Alex Smith, who lives in the area, will throw to Crabtree. Receivers coach Jerry Sullivan will supervise Crabtree’s sessions with help from Wendell Davis, a former teammate of Singletary with the Chicago Bears who has been brought in to aid Sullivan in getting Crabtree up to speed. 
“He’s going to be working. We really want hands-on all the way,” Singletary said. “Crabtree wants to play, so he wants to be here.” 
Also Wednesday, strong safety Michael Lewis was scheduled for a test after sus­taining his third concussion of the season during Sunday’s game. Singletary said an encouraging sign was that Lewis recovered quickly on the sideline afterward and could have returned. 
Lewis said he hopes to play against the Texans. He suf­fered two concussions during an 11-day span in the presea­son. 
“I feel great,” he said. 


page 26 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, October 15, 2009 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Undefeated Bulls, Bearcats square off 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. — The architect of one of the nation’s fastest growing college football pro­grams recognizes a real oppor­tunity when he sees it. 
No. 8 Cincinnati vs. No. 21 South Florida fits Jim Leavitt’s description and is precisely the kind of challenge that can bring out the best in the coach and his rising USF Bulls. 
“How can you not be excited about this? … Cincinnati is one of the best teams in the country. Recognized by everybody,” the only coach in South Florida’s 13­season history said. “It’s neat to be a part of all of it. We’re anx­ious and excited about playing.” 
A packed house, national tele­vision audience and a chance to prove they deserve to be consid­ered among the top teams in the country has always been a stim­ulating combination for the Bulls, who’ve won five straight against opponents ranked in the Top 25 dating to 2006. 
What’s been much more diffi­cult is building on early-season success once USF (5-0, 1-0) gets into the heart of the Big East schedule. 
Beating defending conference champion Cincinnati (5-0, 1-0) on Thursday night not only would bolster USF’s title hopes but stem a tide of disappoint­ment that’s followed the team’s climb in the polls the last two seasons. 
Since jumping as high as No. 2 in the country in 2007, the Bulls have gone 6-8 in league games, with none of the losses to oppo­nents ranked in the Top 25 at the time. A three-game confer­ence slide ruined their aspira­tions two years ago, and they faltered again last October after working their way into the Top 10 in 2008. 
“You’ve got to know that you’ve got to fight, scratch and bleed at all times regardless where you’re ranked,” Leavitt said, playing down the signifi­cance of where the team’s are currently ranked. 
“All coaches always say the same thing, and it’s really true, it really doesn’t matter too much until it all finishes out. It’s always nice, it sells tickets, it’s something to talk about, but it doesn’t really do a whole lot until the end.” 
One of the most potent offens­es in the nation has carried Cincinnati to another strong start, with quarterback Tony Pike and receiver Mardy Gilyard taking up where he left off in helping the Bearcats win 11 games last year. 
An injury-depleted defensive secondary is on the mend fol­lowing a bye week, and Cincinnati coach Brian Kelly spent part of the time off addressing concerns about a time-of-possession imbalance that’s kept his high-powered offense on the sideline for most of the past two games. 
The Bearcats had the ball for 16 and 19 minutes the last two games, mainly because the offense scores so fast—usually under 3 minutes per drive—and the defense hasn’t been able to get off the field on third down. 
“We’ve been talking about this, and the talk has been how do you get more snaps for the offense? Your defense is on the field (too long),” Kelly said. 
“Well, maybe the accountabili­ty needs to be on the offense. Maybe the offense needs to keep the defense off the field and lessen those snaps. … Believe me, if every scoring drive was two minutes or less, that would be fine with me. But we also have to be cognizant of the fact that playing 86, 87 snaps on defense is probably not the best thing.” 
To become more efficient on third down defensively, Kelly suggested the Bearcats may try to be a little more aggressive in some situations. Meanwhile, the offense wants do it’s part by avoiding 3-and-outs that were more plentiful the past two games against Fresno State and Miami (Ohio). 
An interesting subplot that may or may not affect the Bearcats’ ability to correct the imbalance this week is Joe Tresey, the former Cincinnati defensive coordinator holds the same position for South Florida now. 
Tresey helped Cincinnati win the Big East last season, but was fired in February by Kelly, who wanted to shift to a 3-4 defen­sive scheme. 
Kelly has been very compli­mentary in comments about Tresey this week. And, Tresey has played down what it means personally to be going against his former boss and team, say­ing he’s moved on and is focused solely on preparing the Bulls defense for a tough assignment. 
Still, there have been indica­tions coaches on both sides, including Kelly, Tresey and Cincinnati passing coordinator Charley Molnar, view Thursday night as more than just another conference matchup. 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles drop non-conference match 
By KATELYN GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The Belles dropped their final non-conference game of the season to Elmhurst Wednesday, falling 3-1. 
Elmhurst was able to grab an early 1-0 lead, scoring from the 18-yard box in the 20th minute of the game, but was held to without another goal for the rest of the half as the Belles (4­10-1, 1-3) defense shut them down. 
“We came out with the approach to keeping the game close through the first half in order to give ourselves a chance to win in the second half,” coach Ryan Crabbe said. “Although we were down 1-0 at the half, I thought we were on track. Our second half effort was strong but again we came out on the wrong side of the result.” 
Elmhurst was able to score the eventual winning goal of the game in the 50th minute on a poke inside the far post on a cross from the left side of the field. 
Senior Katy Durkin recorded the only goal for the Belles not long after Elmhurst’s second goal to cut the lead in half, with her 10th career goal. 
The Belles had a couple more chances to tie the score up late in the second half but the shots would not fall and Elmhurst would later add an insurance goal to secure the 3-1 victory. 
Adele Bruggeman was strong for the Belles in goal, making six saves while playing all 90 minutes. 
The Belles are looking for a more cohesive effort from everyone throughout the entire game, Crabbe said. 
“With consistency, sometimes we do not start games well, other times we struggle to play 90 minutes of a complete game,” Crabbe said. “Additionally, we have not taken responsibility in front of goal as I have stressed all season long.” 
Contact Katelyn Grabarek at kgraba01@saintmarys.edu 



Thursday, October 15, 2009 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 27 page 28 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, October 15, 2009 
PGA TOUR 

Season never ends for Woods, TOUR golfers 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Tiger Woods sure could use a break from golf. 
He played eight times in the last 11 weeks, his busiest stretch in nine years, and achieved more than some play­ers do in a career. Woods won three times, was runner-up in three other tournaments and capped it off by winning all five of his matches at the Presidents Cup. 
And after all that? He goes back to work in three weeks. 
Such is the never-ending sea­son of golf, which has a sanc­tioned tournament every week until five days before Christmas. 
Two weeks later, another season begins. 
Next up for Woods is a World Golf Championship in Shanghai, where he will be joined by the likes of Phil Mickelson, Geoff Ogilvy, Padraig Harrington and Sergio Garcia. That is followed by the Australian Masters and a $3 million appearance fee. Woods calls it a year with the Chevron World Challenge, a silly-season event only in name because it now awards official world-ranking points. 
“I think that it’s certainly one of the longer stretches I’ve had,” Woods said Sunday at Harding Park. “The only other stretch this long was back in 2000 at the end of the sea­son—or end of the year.” 
That stretch was daunting, indeed. 
Woods played eight times in eight weeks, a schedule that began in Virginia with the Presidents Cup, took him south for Disney and the Tour Championship, then to Spain for the final PGA Tour event and over to Bangkok for the Johnnie Walker Championship. He stopped in Hawaii on the way home for the PGA Grand Slam, then hosted his tourna­ment in California before going to Argentina for the World Cup. 
Whew. 
Still, it’s worth paying atten­tion to the words Woods chose and how he corrected himself. 
Golf no longer is measured by the season, rather the year. Golf really doesn’t end until it’s ready to start. The only time the world is without an official golf tournament is the last weekend of December and the first weekend of January. 
When do these guys ever get a vacation? 
Whenever they want. 
Camilo Villegas simply was expressing a popular senti­ment on Twitter a few weeks ago when he wrote, “I still dont get it, every sport has an offseason but i guess we dont.” 
He knows as well as anyone that the season is only as long as a player wants it to be. Villegas wants to be a global player, which is why he’ll be getting his passport stamped in Spain, China, New Zealand and Dubai over the next six weeks. 
Good for him. 
Steve Stricker? He once took off so much time in the fall that when he arrived at the Tour Championship, Woods asked him why he came out of retirement. Stricker was prob­ably in a deer stand Tuesday and might not come down until Thanksgiving. 
Good for him, too. 
Such is the benefit of being an “independent contractor.” Make your own schedule. Create your own financial opportunity. And considering the economic climate, be thankful you can continue to play tournaments wherever and whenever. 
There is still value in win­ning the FedEx Cup or the PGA Tour money title (Woods won both), or the Race to Dubai in Europe or the Order of Merit in Asia, Japan, South Africa and Australia. That’s not likely to change. 
But as the Asian market matures, it would not be sur­prising to see more players competing year-round. 
The PGA Tour has its fingers in only one tournament at the moment, converting the HSBC Champions—Asia’s major—into a World Golf Championship. Perhaps it won’t be long before the U.S. tour creates another tournament in Asia, with or without help. 
Global travel is nothing new. A generation ago, top players would spend the early part of the season overseas taking appearance money, and some of them didn’t think the PGA Tour started until the Florida swing. 
Now, the time to travel is the fall. 
Nick Watney is going to China twice, for the World Golf Championship and the World Cup. Ogilvy is playing Shanghai and Singapore, along with three weeks in Australia, con­cluding with the Australian PGA on Dec. 13. 
Masters champion Angel Cabrera is playing the PGA Grand Slam next week in Bermuda, which ends on a Wednesday. Then, he’s board­ing a private jet to Spain for a European Tour event that starts Thursday. He likely will end his season Dec. 20 at the South African Open. 
When does a player take his break? 


Thursday, October 15, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 29 

Hoosiers 
continued from page 32 
junior defender Bilal Duckett and into the net. The goal shift­ed momentum in Indiana’s direction, as the Hoosiers retained possession for most of the half after that point. 
In the 78th minute, another miscommunication, this time between senior defender John Schaefer and senior goalkeeper Andrew Quinn, found Quinn out of the goal and unable to do anything as the ball slowly rolled through the goal posts after being tipped by Hoosier Darren Yeagle. 
“The first goal wasn’t great, but I think the bubble really burst with the second goal,” Clark said. 
The Hoosiers’ third goal came just four minutes after the sec­ond, when the defense turned the ball over to a wide open Will Bruin, who beat Quinn to put the ball inside the right post. 
“We scored a goal for them,” Clark said. “Really we scored the first two goals for them to be honest with you, and we helped with the third goal as well. I don’t see any other way to describe it. The first goal was tough but the second goal was the one that kind of killed every­thing.” 

Indiana and Notre Dame both played tight defensive games in the first half with the Irish tak­ing five shots and the Hoosiers just three. The two teams went to the lockers tied 0-0 in what was looking to become a very close game. 
“Statistically I think it was a very even game in many ways,” Clark said. “To be fair I thought we did better in the first half and then in the second half we never really came out hungry the way we did in past games.” 
The Irish have scored 17 goals in the second half this season and before Wednesday had given up just four in that period. However, they were unable to mount any kind of offensive threat in the second half. 
“We came out and I don’t know what we were thinking,” Clark said. “We were flat. The first half we got into the game, we were going places, but the second half we were just very flat. We never really got started and I don’t know why that was.” 
The loss gives Indiana a 24-5­1 lead in the all-time series against Notre Dame in what has become an annual non-confer­ence battle. 
The Irish will resume Big East play Saturday with home game against West Virginia. The Mountaineers are currently fourth in the Big East Blue Division, directly behind Notre Dame. 
Clark said he hopes the team will be extra motivated after Wednesday’s tough loss. 
“I hope they will be affected positively,” he said. “I think we’re all very disappointed tonight.” 
The match against West Virginia is scheduled to begin at 
11:30 a.m. at Alumni Stadium. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
Interhall 
continued from page 32 
McMahon and junior linebacker Libby Koerbel. The team has also seen the offense playing at a high level, led by junior quarterback Simone Bigi, who has her pick of capable receivers. Six different Weasels have caught a touch­down this year. 
Pasquerilla West also antici­pates the return of injured senior co-captain Alyssa Moya. Curley said the return could provide an emotional spark and also attrib­utes Pasquerilla West’s success to a strong team bond. 
“We’ve got wonderful chem­istry,” she said. “We love being around each other and we love coming to practice. That really makes a difference on the field”. 
The Wild Women plan to bring the same intensity to this game, according to senior captain Meghan Hadley. 
“Every single person on our team knows what is at stake and we are ready to play football, Walsh style,” Hadley said. 
Hadley stressed the importance of a consistent offense effort against a clutch Pasquerilla West defense. Junior quarterback Amy Langnecker will look to her tough offensive line for protection. On the defensive side of the ball, Walsh will rely on the leadership of senior captain Molly McCarthy as well as junior safety Amanda Louise Spiegelberg to lead the secondary. 
Both teams plan to bring play­off caliber intensity and spirit to what should be an extremely competitive and physical game. 
“It’s going to come down to who wants it more,” Hadley said. 
Kickoff will be at 7 p.m. tonight at Riehle Field. 
Badin vs. Lyons 
As the playoffs loom, both Badin and Lyons need a win tonight to keep their Notre Dame Stadium hopes alive. 
Lyons has been stricken with health issues and injuries this season. Senior quarterback Claire Connell tore her anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) early in the sea­son and will not return to the field this year. Lyons has been practic­ing with two backups and hopes one of them can pull out a win tonight. 
“We have been working on developing [senior] Maria Petnuch and [freshman] Erica Miller at the quarterback posi­tion,” Connell said. 
Another key contributor on the Lyons roster is junior Julissa Quintero. She has played both ways in key situations for the Lions. 
“Julissa Quintero has done a great job for us on offensive line,” Connell said. “[She] has also stepped in on defense when we’ve needed her.” 
Badin is suffering from losses of a different kind and is hoping that this game will be the Bullfrogs’ turnaround. After losing a devas­tating game Sunday, senior cap­tain Kelley Daniels feels that her team is out for blood. 
“We’ve only had one game where we were outmatched,” Daniels said. “But since then we’ve made serious improve­ments. Our team is really coming together, despite our record.” 
Badin has also been working on its offensive and defensive plays. The Bullfrogs want everything to click and practice really makes perfect for this team. 
“On offense, we’ve improved our line giving our quarterback more time to throw and running lanes for our running backs,” Daniels said. “On defense, we’ve really worked on sticking on girls and fighting for the ball when the play presents itself.” 
Badin and Lyons will meet tonight at 8 p.m. at Riehle Fields. 
Contact Lex Dennis at bdennis1@nd.edu, Kaitlyn Murphy at kmurph28@nd.edu and Kelly Zenere at kzener01@saintmarys.edu 


NCAA FOOTBALL 
Boise State prevents Tulsa upset, wins 28-20 
Associated Press 
TULSA, Okla. — With No. 5 Boise State playing from behind for the first time this season, quarterback Kellen Moore was at his best. 
Moore threw two short touch­down passes to Tommy Gallarda, and the undefeated Broncos sur­vived a late scare from Tulsa to escape with a 28-21 victory Wednesday night in one of the last road tests standing between them and another trip to the BCS. 
Coach Chris Petersen called it a “solid win” but he doubted it would be the kind of impressive statement pollsters were looking for as the Broncos (6-0) had the college football stage to them­selves the same week the BCS standings are to be released for the first time. 
“It’s usually never good enough for a lot of people, usually including us and our team,” Petersen said. “Tulsa’s a good team, and this was going to be a good test for us. I think we bat­tled hard against some really explosive playmakers. 
“The important thing is that we get a little bit better. Teams don’t stay the same, and we won’t either. We either need to get better or we’re going to get passed by.” 
With Boise State down twice early, Moore was perfect on two scoring drives to put the Broncos ahead to stay. He threw an 8­yard lob to Gallarda in the back corner of the end zone for an 8-7 lead, and followed that with a 17-yard TD pass to Austin Pettis as Boise State went ahead 15-14. 
The lead eventually grew to 28-14 on the second of two field goals by Kyle Brotzman. 
“It was good for us because I believe being down like that woke us up,” running back Doug Martin said. 
Tulsa (4-2) got within 28-21 in the fourth quarter when G.J. Kinne and Slick Shelley connect­ed on consecutive passes for 91 yards, including a 55-yarder for a touchdown. The Golden Hurricane had one last chance to tie it in the final 2 minutes, but Boise State forced its fourth three-and-out of the second half to ice the game. 
“There’s a lot of momentum going the opposite way when you’re playing on the road,” Petersen said. “We fought hard enough and responded well enough to do what we needed to do.” 
Moore finished with 187 yards passing and three touchdown passes. 

page 30 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, October 15, 2009 

Big East 
continued from page 32 
tand. 
“I think we’ve got a tough stretch of games here, starting with UConn,” Waldrum said. “They’ve been our rival in the Big East over the past few years, and they’ve got a very good team this year.” 
Waldrum believes that the Huskies present a difficult matchup for the Irish because their style of play and talent level match up very well with Notre Dame’s. 
“The history of the two teams all have been very close games, and I think that’s because we’re very similar,” Waldrum said. “I think UConn matches up very well with us talent wise, and their style of play is very similar to ours. They’ve got a real solid group that matches up well with us.” 

On offense, the Huskies are led by talented freshman mid­fielder Linda Ruutu, whose six goals already tie her for the team lead with sophomore mid­fielder Melissa Busque. Waldrum also said Ruutu can pose challenges for the Irish with her excellent crossing abil­ity. On the defensive side, the Huskies are led by junior mid­fielder Kacey Richards and red-shirt senior defender Brittany Taylor, who received All-American honors after the 2007 season. 
After taking on the Huskies Friday night, Notre Dame will face off against Providence Sunday. Although the Friars (7­5-3, 2-3-2) have the worst record of the four teams remaining on Notre Dame’s schedule, Waldrum still said they can threaten the Irish’s conference unbeaten steak with a different style of play that con­trasts UConn’s. 
“Providence gives you fits with their disruptive style,” Waldrum said. “They’ll try to disrupt what we’re going to try to do, so it’s difficult to play against like with a lot of less talented programs. UConn will try to play soccer with you — it’s two heavy­weights going after each other.” 
The Friars are lead on offense by senior forward Jill Camburn, who has seven goals and three assists for 17 points. Providence has a rotation amongst their three goal­tenders, but junior goalkeeper Jill Schott has played the most, posting a 0.91 goals against average, a 2-3-2 record, and 3 shutouts. 
Notre Dame hosts UConn Friday at 7:30 p.m. before tak­ing on Providence Sunday at 1 
p.m. at Alumni Field. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
Mercedes 
continued from page 32 
little more consistently and every day. We have the talent to do it; we just need to start getting it done, especially in competition.” 
The Irish lineup will not change from the five golfers who competed at the Windy City Collegiate, which includes sopho­more Becca Knoxville, Tenn. starting Oct. 16. 
“I’ve never been to the Tennessee tournament,” Holt said. “It’s a very hard tourna­ment to get into, and we were able to get invited based on the success we had last year. I don’t know specific details, but I do know that it’s a pretty challenging course and it’s a course where you have to hit quality golf shots. I think that players to our advantage. We’ll just have to see what we 
Huffer, who was can do with 
“They all realize that 
recently named it.” 
if they play up to
the Big East Among those Women’s Golfer speed with Becca, the playing in the of the Month. tournament 
team will be very
“[H uff er’s] with the Irish 
successful.” 
been a huge are No. 1 USC, component to No. 7 LSU and our success,” Susan Holt No. 11 Florida. Holt said. “Last Eighteen
Irish coach 
year she came in as a freshman and won Big East Freshman 
of the Year and ended up being one of the best on the team. She’s a good player and I think she gives everyone on the team a reason to try to keep up with her. They all realize that if they play up to speed with Becca, the team will be very successful.” 
In addition to Huffer, sen­iors Annie Brophy and Kristin Wetzel, along with juniors So-Hyun Park and Kaite Conway, will compete for the Irish in Mercedes Benz Collegiate, which will take place in teams in total 
will compete in the three-day tournament hosted by the University of Tennessee this weekend. 
“Every coach would like to think that they have the best players that they could have and that give them a chance to win every time,” Holt said. “We’ve been successful the last few years and had a lot of wins and a lot of success. Typically we tend to rise up to the competition. I hope it car­ries through this week.” 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 

Friars 
continued from page 32 
Riley Sheahan also lit the lamp in Friday night’s game. 
The most successful aspect of Notre Dame’s play in the last series was its power play unit, which accounted for three of the team’s five goals on the weekend. 
“I thought we did a pretty good job moving the puck [on the power play],” Jackson said after Friday night’s game. “Both units did a good job. I know we have one unit that was good last year, but I want two units that are good and can compete against each other.” 
Jackson said he was also pleased with how his team was killing penalties. 
“I’m really liking the way Benny Ryan and Danny Kissel are playing right now and they look like they’re becoming a good pair for penalty killing,” he said. 

Jackson added that one of the strengths of this team is the leadership that comes from the players. 
“We have enough veterans on this team, that they have to take responsibility in a number of ways when they go into that locker room or what they say on that bench,” he said. “We’ve built a culture to this point where their words have more meaning than mine.” 
The Friars have only played one official game so far, a 2-1 win against Holy Cross. Providence went 7-22-5 last season, including a 4-1 loss to Notre Dame on Nov. 8. 
The Friars’ two leading goal scorers from last season, soph­omore left wing Matt Bergland and senior center John Cavanagh, return this season, and sophomore defenseman Daniel New already has two points on the season. 
There may be some question, though, as to who will be fac­ing the shots from the Friars attack. Junior Brad Phillips started Friday night’s game for the Irish, and senior Tommy O’Brien was between the pipes Saturday. Jackson said fresh­man Mike Johnson would get a start at goalie in one of the games against Providence. 
Note: 
uJackson said Saturday that senior right wing Christiaan Minella would miss Thursday night’s game as a punishment for the 10-minute misconduct he took for verbally abusing the officials Saturday night. 
“I can abuse the officials,” Jackson joked. “They can’t.” 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 


Thursday, October 15, 2009 The Observer  TODAY page 31 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 





JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Thursday, October 15, 2009 page 32 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Stating their claim 
Indiana defeats Irish 3-0 in state showdown 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
The usually-prolific Notre Dame offense was unable to get anything going Wednesday against No. 18 Indiana. 
The Irish defense only wishes it could say the same. 
Mistakes on the defensive end of the ball led to three goals late in the game for the Hoosiers (7­4-1) and a 3-0 loss for No. 22 Notre Dame (7-5-1). 
“It was three strange goals we conceded,” coach Bobby Clark said. “You might concede one bad goal in a game but to con­cede all three is strange. We dug a hole for ourselves.” 
The scoring began for Indiana in the 65th minute, when mass confusion in Notre Dame’s box ended with the ball glancing off 
VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer 

Irish sophomore Michael Rose battles for a ball with a Hoosier defender Wednesday in Notre see HOOSIERS/page 29 Dame’s 3-0 loss at Alumni Field. Indiana capitalized on Irish miscues in the second half. 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Irish host conference opponents 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
After playing its past four games on the road, No. 7/8 Notre Dame returns home to Alumni Stadium as it heads down the stretch for its last four conference matches. 
The Irish (10-3-1, 6-0-1), hold­ers of an NCAA-record 59-game conference unbeaten streak, begin their regular season stretch run when they host con­ference rival Connecticut Friday. Although the Irish no longer face any more opponents currently ranked in the NSCAA poll, The Huskies (9-5, 4-3) present the first hurdle for Notre Dame in what Irish coach Randy Waldrum believes should be a challenging four-game homes-
see BIG EAST/page 30 
WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Cavanaugh and Ryan fighting to stay in postseason race 
“We haven’t played for a while,” The Wildcats (1-2) are looking the offense and defense. The Walsh. 
By LEX DENNIS, KAITLYN 
senior captain Sarah Cline said. for a convincing win in order to break in play for their opponents Purple Weasels senior captain 
MUPHY and KELLY ZENERE 
“The biggest challenge on establish themselves as a power-has created a little mystery in the Cynthia Curley is optimistic and 
Sports Writers 
Thursday is going to be getting house throughout the league. Ryan camp, but Bowen is still eager about her team’s prospects back into the swing of things.” Senior captain Kenzie Bowen said confident in her team. in the game and the postseason. However, there was a distinct the team’s record is an unfair “This team is ready to take “This is a chance for us to really 

Both Cavanaugh and Ryan are benefit to the long gap in play for representation of the hard work them,” Bowen said. “We are, show what kind of program we’ve looking for a victory tonight to the Chaos. They were able to her squad has put in this season. most definitely, up to the chal-built,” she said. stay in the playoff hunt. implement a new system of “I’m really proud of our girls,” lenge.” Curley emphasized the multi-
The Chaos (1-2) have been kept offense and rework their defense, Bowen said. “We played tough Ryan and Cavanaugh will kick tude of strong players that pack off the field for a while. After a giving them a fresh look and an against Walsh last week, and off tonight at 9 p.m. at Riehle Pasquerilla West’s offensive and rain-out last Thursday, they sat excellent chance of improving on they’re one of the best teams in Fields. defensive squads. through their bye week in antici-their record. the league.” “We’re hard to predict and hard pation of the upcoming competi-“We really overhauled the There was little room for Pasquerilla West vs. Walsh to stop,” Curley said. tion against the newly-dubbed offensive and defensive systems improvement this week during Unbeaten Pasquerilla West Leading the defense is the com-Wildcats (1-2). This break in play after our two quick losses,” Cline practice for the Wildcats. Besides hopes to hold onto its perfect sea-bination of senior Lindsey may have an adverse effect on the said. “To be honest, we’re really putting in a few new plays, the son in the final game of the regu­well-rested Cavanaugh players. excited to try out our new stuff.” team has worked on fine-tuning lar season against unbeaten see INTERHALL/page 29 
HOCKEY 

ND faces Friars in two-game set 
By SAM WERNER 
Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame will return to the ice Thursday night in a two-game series against Providence. The Irish started off the season last weekend with a split with Alabama-Huntsville. 
“The older guys have to lead the way for the younger guys,” senior defenseman Kyle Lawson said after Saturday night’s win. “I think we did a lot better [Saturday], but we’ve got a lot to do still.” 
Against the Chargers, fresh­man winger Kyle Palmieri made his presence felt early and often, scoring two goals on the weekend. Fellow rookie 
see FRIARS/page 30 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF 
Squad ready for challenging field 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Writer 
Coming off of a solid fourth place finish at the highly-contested Windy City Collegiate, the Irish will compete against a another difficult field at the Mercedes Benz Collegiate Championship this weekend, a tournament which includes five teams ranked in the top 25. 
“We still have to go and play our own game, but we have to realize that we’re doing that against teams that are ranking-wise better than us,” coach Susan Holt said. “We have to really be more aware about what we’re doing and just manage things a little better because there isn’t a lot of room for error.” 
Holt is confident in her team’s ability to win the tournament, but only if each player performs to her abili­ty in all three rounds. 
“I think we need everyone to show up all three days,” Holt said. “We’ve had good quality rounds from every player at different times. We just need that to happen a 
see MERCEDES/page 30 





