
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Group petitions Office of the President 
Campaign for Human Dignity asks that sexual orientation be added to nondiscrimination clause 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
Membflrs of the Campaign for Human Dignity presented the Office of the President a petition asking that sexual orientation be added to the University's nondis­crimination clause Wednesday. 
Currently, the clause states the University does not discriminate based on "race/ethnicity, color, national origin, sex, disability, veteran status or age:" 
Group members and students gathered outside the Main Building to present a unified front, according to sophomore Mary Dewey, chair of the cam­paign. 
Police raid Lafayette Apartments 
Observer Staff Report 
Saint Patrick's Day revelry caused University and state law ·enforcement to crack down on tmderage drinking Tuesday. 
Captain Phil Trent of the South Bend Police Department (SBPD) said the Indiana State Excise Police led a raid at Lafayette Apartments in South Bend Tuesday night. 
Trent said he does not know how the Excise Police were made aware of possible underage alco­hol consumption in the apartment complex. 
He said he does not have details about the outcome ·of the raid because the SBPD was not involved. 
"We were aware of police activi­ty, but didn't go there until after," Trent said. "We were in the area, but we didn't participate." 
The Excise Police could not be reached as of press time. , 
Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) also responded an alcohol­related disturbance Tuesday, according to Dave Chapman, assistant director of NDSP. 
NDSP was received calls that NDSP students were disrupting class with a parade through cam­pus and responded to those calls between 9:30 and 10:00 a.m., Chapman said. 
Senior Nick Hittler organized the parade, which he said includ­ed over 100 students and began at the intersection of South Bend and Notre Dame Aves. and continued through campus. 
see RAID/page 4 

Dewey said the group gar­nered over 2,300 student signa­tures supporting the aims of the petition. 
"We wanted to show solidari­ty," said sophomore Bridget Flores, president of the Progressive Student Alliance. "We wanted to show that this is something a lot of students care about." 
The group took similar action last spring and received about the same amount of signatures, but did not get a response from the administration. However this time, Flores said Jenkins has agreed to a meeting on March 30. 
see PETITION/page 6 

College tuition increases 

By ASHLEY CHARNLEY Saint Mary's Editor 
The Saint Mary's Board of Trustees approved a 5 percent increase in tuition and a 3 per­cent increase in room and board costs for the 2009-2010 school year Tuesday. 
This will make the average cost $38,822, including tuition and room and board fees, according to the College's press release. 
The rise in tuition is a result of the Board evaluating "economic conditions, our current pricing structure and our peer institu­tions," Daniel Meyer, vice presi­dent for Enrollment Management, said. 
Due to the College's costs in employee health care, energy and services, in addition to facili­ty depreciation costs, the Board decided on this tuition increase, Meyer said. 

According to Meyer, the Board considered the impact this increase would have on families who are already struggling to keep up with costs in the current state of the economy. 
"The Board was concerned about the impact any tuition increase will have on families. But they also believe firmly in maintaining the quality of edu­cation we provide and deter­mined that this modest increase is necessary to maintain the 
see TUITION/page 4 


Mary Cecelia Mitsch I THE OBSERVER 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Students oppose abortion­rights bill 
By AARON STEINER NewsWrirer 

In the early stages of the presi­dential candidate, tl1en-candidate Barack Obama made headlines when he told a pro-choice group that "the first thing" he'd do as president was sign a controversial abortion bill that opponents call a radical attack on the pro-life move­ment. 
Responding to a question regard­ing how he would preserve repro­ductive rights in a speech given to the Planned Parenthood Action Fund on July 17, 2007, Obama said, "The first thing I'd do, as president, is sign the Freedom of Choice Act (FOCA). That's the first thing that I'd do." 
The legis]p,tion makes the Supreme Court's Roe v. Wade deci­sion federal law, and allows a woman to "terminate a pregnancy prior to fetal viability, or terminate a pregnancy after Viability when nec­essary to protect her life or her health," among other provisions. 
While the bill has not been signed, or even reached the floor of Congress for debate during the cur­rent session, pro-life advocates have leapt into action since Obama's election, and members of the Notre Dame community have joined the campaign to prevent the passage of the legislation. 
Chief among the opposition to the bill at Notre Da.me is the University's student Right to Life club, which has organized a post­card campaign as part of a national 
see FOCAlpage 6 


Cycling club to host race this weekend 
ByJENNMETZ 
NewsWrirer 
This weekend, the Notre Dame Cycling Club -the "Cyclin' Irish" -will be hosting its first ever race in South Bend. 
The races -a road race Saturday and a criterium, a short course bike race, Sunday -will take place near campus; the first race, on country roads Northwest of Notre Dame, will begin at 10 a.m. Saturday. 
Cyclists will compete in four divisions for men, categories A­D, and two divisions for women, A-B. Each category's race increases in distance. 
Whereas cyclists complete a few number of long-distance laps in the road race, the criteri­um is a "more technical, shorter 
course," senior Andy Steves said. 
"It's much more spectator­friendly. We'd love to have a lot of people there," he said. 
The criterium's reputation for crashes and "blood and guts" might also make the race more interesting for spectators, Steves, who has competed for Notre Dame since his freshman year, said. 
Steves, a senior who has been riding since his senior year in high school, said he became interested in cycling because his grandfather comp~ed in the Ironman. 
The club competes in the Midwest Collegiate Cycling Conference, traveling to schools 
see CYCLING/page 6 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, March 19, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 
NCAA: 

Day One 
No matter what the Super Bowl may claim, the best sports day of the year is really two days. Today and tomorrow. The first round of the NCAA Tournament. Even though Notre Dame didn't get invit­ed to this year's Big Dance, my fridge is stacked and I have enough snacks on hand to last me all 12 hours of college basketball good­ness. I know Douglas Farmer did a March Madness rundown yesterday, but let's take a look at the most Sam Werner interesting 
games of Day Fantasy Sports One: Editor 
+12:20 p.m. 
(9) Butler vs. (8) LSU -Ah, the classic 8/9 matchup to open up the tournament. Bulldogs against Tigers. Midmajor vs. weak major. There's a legitimate chance the Horizon League was almost as good as the SEC this year, and Butler's loss in the conference tournament hurt them more than it should have. Pick: Butler 
+ 2:30 p.m. (12) Northern Iowa vs. (5) Purdue -All the pieces are in place for the textbook 5/12 upset. The Panthers have come excruciat­ingly close to pulling a first-round shocker before, losing by five or less each year between 2004 and 2006, all as double-digit seeds. Purdue is good, no doubt, but it remains to be seen how the Big Ten stacks up in the tournament. Pick: Northern Iowa 

I 
+5:00 p.m. (13) Mississippi State vs. (4) Washington -Two schools coming out of week conferences ­even President Obama said the Pac­10 was down this year. Both teams, 
·though, are coming in red-hot. The 
I Bulldogs are only here because of their run through the SEC tourna­ment, and the Huskies have only lost three games in the past two months. Expect the Bulldogs to make it interesting, but come up just short. Pick: Washington +9:50 p.m. (11) VCU vs. (6) UCLA -Even President Barack "Chalk" Obama picked this upset (if you don't get that last joke, go check out Obama's picks on ESPN). VCU upset Duke in the first round two years ago, and the Rams might have another one in them this year. The Bruins have to travel across 
the country, and a sluggish start will cost them. Pick: VCU 
+ 9:55 'p.m. (12) Western Kentucky vs. (5) Illinois -The last game of the day could end up being the best. The Hilltoppers return almost the entire lineup from a team that stunned fifth-seeded Drake in the first round last year on a buzzer-beating Ty Rogers three­pointer and advanced to the Sweet Sixteen. And, when in doubt, just remember, the Big Ten is terrible. Pick: Western Kentucky 
And that, ladies and gentlemen, is your TV viewing schedule for today's slate. Remember, all the games are on CBS. Games are also available streaming on CBS's Web site, but I'd never endorse neglect­ing academics and watching games during class. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Sam Werner at 
swerner@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for rhe highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please conracr us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S THE WORST THING ABOUT THE DAY AFTER ST. PATRICK'S DAY? 







Carolyn Hersh  Mayra del Rio  Sue Daily  Chris Vanderhurst  Mark Lyons  
junior  junior  junior  senior  junior  
Welsh Fam  WelshFam  PE  offcampus  offcampus  
"Living near my roommate.,,  "Everything.,  "8:30a.m. Spanish class. ,,  "Having to wait until p.m. to  "St. Patrick,s Day,s coming  
drink  up.?"  
acceptably. ,,  


VANESSA GEMPIS!The Observer 

The Notre Dame softball team mobs Christine Lux at the plate after her three-run home run to put the Irish up 15-0 in their game against Toledo Wednesday. 
OFFBEAT 
Women allegedly punches, bites her son's principal 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. -A Rhode Island woman faces charges after allegedly punching and biting her 11-year-old son's school principal after being told the boy was being suspended. Police said 30-year-old Aleyda Uceta also bit an officer trying to arrest her after Friday's inci­dent at Roger Williams Middle School in Providence. 
She was charged with assault on school offi­cials, assault on police officers and resisting 
arrest. 

Principal Rudolph Moseley Jr. was allegedly assaulted after he told Uceta that her son would be suspended for three days for refusing to go to a room for misbehaving students. 
Police said Uceta punched Moseley in the face and bit his left arm. 
Attempts to reach Uceta by phone for comment were unsuccessful. 
NC woman hopes she can cash in after dog's deposit 
APEX, N.C. -A North Carolina family's dog did­n't eat the children's homework, he ate mom's money. Kelley Davis said she had an extra $400 in cash to deposit after working extra hours as a physical therapist. She told the News & Observer of Raleigh that on Friday she planned to deposit the money, but it wasn't in her pocket.· 
She remembered leav­ing it in the bedroom and it occurred to her that the family's 2-year-old greater Swiss mountain dog, Augie, might have eaten it. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
D:: 
L&.l 
:c !;;: 
L&.l 
3: 
..... 
ct 
(,) 
0 



HIGH 44 31 HIGH 46 HIGH 51
...I LOW 29 24 LOW 30 LOW 33 IN BRIEF 

Efren Rivera Ramos, profes­sor of law at the University of Puerto Rico, will deliver a lec­ture titled "Territory, Citizenship, and Rights: The Challenges of Overcoming American Colonialism in Puerto Rico" today at 4 p.m. The lecture will be given in 200 McKenna Hall and is open to the public. It is part of the Institute for Latino Studies' lec­ture series titled "Caribbean Flights: From the First Colonial Cities in America to Metropolis U.S.A." 
A lecture entitled "The USA and the EU: Two Modern Forms of Empire?" will take place in the C-1 03 Hesburgh Center for Inte:.:national Studies today at 12:30 p.m. Lunch will be available after the lecture. 
The Arabic Club will be host­ing "Arabic Cultural Night" Friday at 7:30 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium in Mendoza Business College. The event will feature performances of numer­ous traditions, including poetry, skits and Lebanese dance. 
Gaelic Storm will be perform­ing a concert at 2 p.m. on Saturday in the DeBartalo Performing Arts Center. Purchase tickets online, visit or call the ticket office at 57 4-631­2800. 
Halftime is performing with the U.S.C. a cappella group SoCal VoCals Saturday at 4 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Tickets are $3. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The· Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY  MONDAY  
e,~1, ,I,,1,  0,,,,,,,,,,,,,,  

HIGH 52 HIGH 53 LOW 39 LOW 43 
Atlanta 73 I 44 Boston 45 I 28 Chicago 49 I 27 Denver 62 I 32 Houston 78 I 57 Los Angeles 66 I 55 Minneapolis 47 I 28 New York 50 I 43 Philadelphia 50 I 45 Phoenix 92 I 60 Seattle 53 I 42 St. Louis 57 I 42 Tampa 80 I 61 Washington 58 I 47 
Thursday, March 19, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



MBA fellowships offered 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
The University will offer eight fellowships, ranging from $10,000 to $20,000, to students entering the Executive MBA (EMBA) program this year. 
Barry Van Dyck, the director of degree programs in Executive education, said this will open doors for highly quali­fied applicants who may have trouble financing their educa­tion. 
"We always have highly quali­fied applicants to the EMBA program where funding is a challenge," Van Dyck said. "Our purpose with these fellowships is to provide services to stu­dents." 
The fellowships will be awarded based on a combina­tion of merit and need and will function similar to undergradu­ate awards of the same type. 
The awarding of these fellow­ships has been a few years in the making, Van Dyck said. 
"The program is funded by both contributions from EMBA alumni into the John Cardinal O'Hara Society and by the J.A. Berne! Fellowship awards," he said. "We have had the idea for this program for a little while and now have enough saved to put it into place." ... 
Alumni of the program have donated money to the John Cardinal O'Hara society for this purpose. 
In order for a candidate to be considered for one of the fellow­ships, one must submit a com. pleted application to the EMBA program and then apply for the scholarship. 
Winners will be notified any­time between their acceptance into the EMBA program and the first day of class. 
"When considering applicants for the program, we are looking for them to have a variety of assets," Van Dyck said. "We want candidates who are expe­rienced, performed well as undergraduates, and who are need based. Basically, similar criteria to what is looked at when applying for scholarships as an undergrad." 
After the fellowships are awarded, an allotted amount of the total award will be distrib­uted at the start of each pro­gression. 
Recipients of the award must maintain a cumulative 3.25 grade point average to remain eligible for the fellowship. 
The EMBA program has loca­tions in Chicago, Cincinnati and South Bend. 
Early application to the pro­gram is encouraged. The dead­line for the Class of 2011 appli­cations for the South Bend and Cincinnati locations is June 1 and Nov. 1 for the Chicago loca­tion. 
The average student in the EMBA program is 36 years of age and works full time. Van Dyck also said many enrolled in the program have families. 
"It takes a great deal of disci­pline to complete this program," said Van Dyck. "Not only do these people have full time jobs and families to attend to, but they are also full time students as well." 
Van Dyck said he predicts the biggest pool of applicants will come from the South Bend and Chicago locations, the pro­gram's two largest sites. 
The EMBA program has been around for almost 30 years, graduating its first class at the South Bend site in 1984. 
According to its Web site, Notre Dame Executive Education "provides leaders· in the executive and management ranks the opportunity to devel­op and strengthen their leader­ship abilities and business acu­men skills through both degree and non-degree programs." 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 
UNCERT;\IN ABOUT Tl--IE ECONOMY? BE CERTAIN ABOUT YOUR FUTURE. 
ft;1KtWNfR/IOt~RS mc!Jf:r'""..Metavante • ~"'....,.~ 11·· Tfuei>arH1t'fS 
!.'J.. •£rgyeHmoe!b Delottte,. N"YL!::t.-.~r ~· 
THE UNDERGRADUATE WOMf:N IN I!US!Nh\ CUJfi f'ROUDtY t~IU:SfNT\: 
WOMEN•s PROFESSIONAl 
DEVELOPMENT CONFERENCE 
/jf',n#ftt 7kw£w,f.; l{rc,·lt:t,-r 

Speakers cliscuss role of 


religion in developlllent 
By LIZ LEFEBVRE 
News Writer 

Decisions made toward glob­al development must be informed by a religious under­standing of human nature, Scott Appleby, the director of the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, who spoke Wednesday on "The Impact of Religion on Development," said. 
"Development is a far broad­er and richer category than mere economic and material progress," he said. "A cultural and spiritual dimension must be a basis for informing deci­sions about development," said. 
The Ford Family Program in Human Development Studies and Solidarity presented the second part of its lecture series on "Discussions on Development" Wednesday evening. 
The discussion also featured theology professor Fr. Paul Kollman, who explored the ways in which religion influ­ences that challenge of global development. 
Appleby began his portion of the lecture by explaining the term "theological anthropolo­gy," which is the view that reli­gions should have an anthropo­logical view of what constitutes human nature. 
Appleby said for development to succeed, there needs to be a complete understanding of human nature. 
"Religion comprehends the whole human person." Appleby said. "Religion sees a funda­mental orientation to each per­son as a child of God." 
Appleby made this point in reference to Roman Catholicism, which holds the view of the human in relation to God, rather than seeing each person as an isolated individ­ual. 
In addition, Appleby dis­cussed the ethical orientation of religion to development. He said "religion allows people to ask the question, 'How ought we think about development ethically?"' 
Kollman echoed Appleby's comments and drew on his own experiences of development while living in Eastern Africa. 
"Religion and development is more complex than it initially seems," Kollman stated. "There is no unitary way they inter­sect." 
Kollman emphasized how religion is internally contested and how various religions question different aspects of development. 
"Religion can reinforce devel­opment priorities in theory and practice, and religion can also challenge and contest these priorities," Kollman said. 
The next part of the "Discussions on Development" series will take place April 1. The event will address the topic of "Science, Technology, and Development" and will feature Mary Ann McDowell, professor of biology, and Steve Silliman, professor of engineering. 
Contact Liz Lebevre at elefehvr@nd.edu 

LDS stat~ interviews 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL News Writer 

Loyal Daughters and Sons, the annual play examining gender rela­tions at Notre Dame, does not show again until November, but the writ­ers for the 2009 show have already begun conducting interviews and collecting stories for the production. 
Sade Murphy and Kevin Stein, who are both juniors and former cast members of the show, are the writers for the 2009 production. 
"Content-wise, we are looking for experiences and opinions in the sphere of the following topics: sexu­al assault, eating disorders, homo­sexuality, chastity and healthy rela­tionships," Murphy said. 
Stein said the show is entirely based on real experiences of stu­dents and that the writers are cur­rently looking for students who would like to share their thoughts or stories on the relevant issues. 
'We have conducted a few inter­views already, but anticipate many more to come in," he said. 'We are definitely still looking for students to interview, so anyone should come in and talk to us, even ifthey don't nec­essarily think their story or experi­ence is worth hearing -everyone ha<; something worthwhile to offer." 
After the writers listen to stories from students this semester, they will spend the sununer transform­ing the collected interviews into scenes that preserve the truth behind the experiences, Murphy said. 
"All of the stories we tell are based on testimony from members of the community here," he said. ''While we may change some minor facts and names, we do not change what people are saying to us." 
Approximately half of the 2009 show will be based on the inter­views, while the other half will be come from previous productions of the show, Stein said. 
The Department of Film, Television, and Theatre will help the writers refine the scenes into a final script, which will.be finished by the end of the sununer. Auditions and casting for the show will take place in September for the November show. 
Stein said he became involved With Loyal Daughters and Sons because it was an opportunity to make a difference. 
'We are giving voice to the stu­dents' thoughts and experiences," he said. "It is important to help make this campus a more open place and to get conversation start­ed on sexuality." 
In addition to generating conver­sation, Murphy also said the show promotes a stronger, healthier com­munity. 
"I really hope that people take advantage of this show," sh~ said. "Because it's not just some other play, this show is communal, it requires the participation of the community to survive and be suc­cessful." 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 19, 2009 
DSLC begins at SMC 
By EMILY DABISH News Writer 

SMC's fourth annual Diverse Student's Leadership Conference (DSLC) kicked off Wednesday to address issues of diversity in pover­ty, education, and leadership. 
Senior Sarah Barnes, Vice President of the Student Diversity Board, helped to explain the impor­tant of understanding diversity in today's world. 
"With globalization, the intercon­nectedness among different ethnid­ties and cultures will increase in the future," she said. "There is a need to improve the art of thinking inde­pendently together, and the need to work for social justice to become fully human." 
A more complete understanding of diversity is important because "the more perspectives that are brought to bear, the better the preparation for yovr future," according to College Pr(;lsident Carol Ann Mooney. 
Dr. Jeniffer Fluri, faculty member at Dartmouth's women's studies department, introduced the topic of "everyday leaders." 
Fluri discussed how important it is to critique world leaders. She said these leaders have to question the conventional wisdom about what groups ofpeople are accepted according to political structures and 
Tuition 
continued from page I 

quality of education at Saint Mary's," Meyer said. 
In a letter to students' families, Saint Mary's President Carol Ann Mooney informed parenl<> that she recognizes the many family cur­rently struggle to pay tuition. 
"We are aware of the fmancial hardships faced by many of our students' fanlllies. We realize that many of you make significant sac­rifices in order to allow your daughter to attend Saint Mary's. You can give her no finer gift, nor can you make any better invest­ment in her future," Mooney wrote. 
Raising tuition as well as room and board fees is not the only way Saint Mary's is trying to increase revenues for the College. 
In a press release earlier this week, the College said it is also working to cut expenses in areas that do not affect the classroom experience or student services. They have asked many depart­ments to lower expenses by elimi­nating funding for adnlinistrative 
Raid 
continued from page 1 · 

"Everybody was delighted to see us," Hittler said. "The professors were smiling, the Huddle workers were cheering us on." 
But Hittler conceded that NDSP reacted negatively to the parade. 
"We were spreading merriment on St. Patrick's Day," he said. "Everybody except NDSP loved us." 
cultural norms. 

"It is important to reevaluate what a leader is not," Fluri said, "Leadership is not about destruc­tive and abusive power." 
In such a circumstance, she said it is necessary for individuals to summon the courage to accompli<>h "uncommon acts" to overcome society's power structures. 
Fluri explained that the prefix "un" is typically considered nega­tive. 
"Reconsider the un," she said. '"Un' presents an alternative to the status quo, moments that require and inspire new thinking." 
In daily life, both leaders and fol­lowers are ready for a change and strive for equality through collective action, Fluri said. She explained that effective leaders are able to articulate the needs of their people, rather than trying to impose goals that are out of touch with social problems. 
It is important to remain critical of conventional wisdom and to "reach across the margin of under­standing," Fluri said. 
Fluri urged people to rethink the Golden Rule. Rather than "do unto others as you would have them do unto you" she said it is better to "do or not do unto others as they would have you do or not do unto them." 
Contact Emily Dabish at 
edabisO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
travel, cutting positions and cap­ping salaries, Meyer said. 
The savings will go toward mak­ing tuition more affordable for stu­dents, Meyer said. 
"All money saved from the budg­etary restraints will be put toward fmancial aid. The college will do everything possible to assist our current and future students in these difficult times," Meyer said. 
The Board would like for par­ents to view the tuition increase as a long-term investment that will benefit their daughters for years to come. 
"In trying economic times we want families to understand that this economy will improve and the investment in their daughter's education will pay off," Meyer said. 
Mooney also expressed confi­dence that the College will contin­ue to work to provide a good edu­cation for students in her letter to parents this week. 
"Thank you for the trust you place in us. We do, and will contin­ue to, work hard to merit that trust," she wrote. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Chapman said NDSP did not make any arrest<> when breaking up the parade. 
"All we did was talk to them and tell them ... what you need if you parade through campus," he said. 
NDSP got involved because the parade was disruptive to students and faculty studying in DeBartolo Hall, Cllapman said. 
"They were impeding the free­dom of the community," Chapman said. 'There were people inside [DeBartolo] trying to study and do research." 
STUDENT SENATE 




Senate discusses iTunes U 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 

Manager for academic technolo­gies Paul Turner presented at Wednesday's Student Senate meet­ing ahout using iTunes U -an off­shoot of Apple's iTunes that pub­lishes materials from top universi­ties -to distribute campus lec­tures, sporting events and more for free online. 
Turner said many prominent universities such as Vanderbilt, Duke and Stanford publish content oniTunesU. 
Student government has been working with the administration to create a Notre Dame iTuncs U site. 
Although there is 110 official launch date for the site, Turner said the University has a contract with Apple and material lined up to be published. There is already a Web site, itunes.nd.edu, but the links will not be activated until everything is finalized with the Office of the Provost and the Office of Public Affairs. 
"ITunes U works like the iTunes store, but the main difference is that we have complete control over brand, content and descrip­tions," Turner said. "It's our con­tent, our brand." 
Turner said the University chose 
to have a branch of iTunes U avail­able to the public and a branch that is only accessible to students and faculty. The bulk of the mate­.rial will be in the private sector of 
the site, he said. 

"In my mind, the private site is 
the students' site," he said. "It will 
be a faculty site, but I want stu­
dents to have a major impact on 
what the site looks like and what 
goes out there." 

The site will feature two buttons, 
one accessible to the public and 
one that will require a Notre Dame 
net ID for access, he said. 

Turner said it will be up to facul­
ty to post lecture materials if they 
choose. 

"Our job is to make it easy for 
those faculty members to record 
that content," he said. 

Turner said the material in 
iTunes U will be organized by 
College, subject matter, semester 
and topic to make it easier for peo­
ple to navigate. He said students 
will have the option of subscribing 
to topics that interest them. 
"You can subscribe to individual 
Colleges, like Business or Arts and 
Letters, or even individual sections 
within the College," he said. 
Student Senator Lauren 
Cummings asked Turner how stu­
dents would go about posting con­tent on iTunes U. Turner said this is a process his team is still examining. 
"There's got to be some level of review. The question is, what's that level and who does it," he said. "We really don't want to be in the content-policing business, but we are worried about copyright infringement." 
The University's contract with Apple states that all material pub­lished on iTunes U must adhere to copyright laws, Turner said. 
In other Senate news: 

+ Student body vice president Grant Schmidt announced both of thl'l Last Lectures, delivered by Professors James McKenna and Carl Ackermann, are available online at the student government Website. 
+Student Outreach Committee chair Sarah Rodts said the student survey, set to close Wednesday, garnered about 3,500 responses from students. Rodts said the num­ber is down from the last survey student government conducted, so the survey will remain opened until Friday to receive more input. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 


students are ln1flttHit(f the history of art o, art crltiCIS11rtt.tr in the competition. CASH PRIZES. 
Rules governing the competition are available in the Art Department Office, 308 Riley Hall. 
Due in the Art Department Office by 
5:00 pm, Monday, March 23. 





ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, March 19, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Incestuous father pleads f,fuilty 
ST. POELTEN, Austria -Josef Fritzi abruptly pleaded guilty to all of the charges against him Wednesday -a surprising twist amid disclosures that the daughter he imprisoned for 24 years in a dungeon where she bore him seven children secretly sat in on the trial. 
Adding intrigue to a case that has drawn worldwide attention, Fritzi calmly acknowl­edged his guilt, including to homicide, and said his change of heart came after hearing his daughter's heart-wrenching videotaped testimony. 
"I declare myself guilty to the charges in the indictment," Fritzi, 73, told a panel of judges, referring to what he called "my sick behavior." 
Filipino woman alters testimony . 
MANILA, Philippines -A Filipino woman whose accusations of rape led to the high­profile conviction of a U.S. Marine has altered her testimony, saying in an affidavit that she may have led him to believe she wanted sex. 
The woman moved to the U.S. this week and is no longer willing to talk about the case, her lawyer said Wednesday. Lance Cpl. Daniel Smith, convicted in 2006 of raping the woman and sentenced to 40 years in prison, remains detained at the U.S. Embassy while he pursues an appeal. 
The case strained U.S.-Philippine military relations and became a rallying point for anti-American protesters who have called for the scrapping of a pact that allows U.S. troops to train Filipino soldiers. 
Smith's accuser submitted a five-page affi­davit to an appeals court Tuesday saying she now doubts her own version of events. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Dreyfuss calls attention to battlefields 
WASHINGTON -Oscar-winner Richard Dreyfuss visited the nation's capital on Wednesday to call attention to the most endan­gered Civil War battlefields. 
The actor joined the Civil War Preservation Trust as the group released its annual report on 10 battlefields that it says are deteriorating due to neglect, land development and other threats. 
At a news conference, Dreyfuss said his interest in preserving Civil War battlefields grew out of his love for history and the signifi­cance of the war. 

Suspect of N.C. family slaying dead 
RALEIGH, N.C.-A suspected opium traf­ficker wanted in the slaying of four North Carolina family members shot himself to death after a police chase in Utah and investigators said Wednesday they believe the family killing was related to drug trafficking. 
Authorities also said the surviving husband and father of the slain family may face charges of trafficking drugs, although he is not implicat­ed in the deaths of his wife and three children. 
Authorities named the suspect as Chiew Chan Saevang, 37. They said he killed himself and his girlfriend, Yer Yang, 40, after sheriff's deputies spotted their BMW 325 and gave chase late Tuesday on an interstate highway in Utah. The car crashed and caught fire and deputies who pulled them from the wreckage found them dead. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Sen. Lugar on all-time voting list 
INDIANAPOLIS -Sen. Dick Lugar has cast his 12,000th vote, moving him to 13th place on the all-time Senate voting list. 
Lugar, the longest serving U.S. Senator in Indiana history, cast the vote Wednesday during debate on a bill gov­erning acquisition of public land. 
The six-term senator voted against a motion to table an amendment that would have directed purchases from willing sell­ers instead of eminent domain. The motion was defeated 63-35. 
IRAQ 


War end in sight, lraq's future shaky 
Violence down, but still prevalent; power struggles abundant among sects 
Associated Press  
BAGHDAD -Six years  
after the U.S. invaded Iraq,  
the end of America's costly  
mission is in sight, but the  
future of this tortured  
country is mtJ.ch less clear.  
With violence down  
sharply, most Iraqis feel  
more secure than at nearly  
any time since the war  
began March 20, 2003 - 
March 19 in the United  
States.  
But violence still contin­ 
ues at levels that most  
other countries would find  
alarming. Last week, sui­ 
cide bombers killed a total  
of 60 people in two sepa­ 
rate attacks in the Baghdad  
area, and an American sol­ 
dier was fatally injured  
Monday on a combat mis­ 
sion in the capital.  
Fighting still rages in  
Mosul and other a-reas of  
the mostly Sunni north.  
Competition for power and  
resources among rival reli­ 
gious and ethnic groups is  
gearing up, even as the  
U.S. military's role winds  
.down.  
Both the Sunni and Shiite  
communities face internal  
power struggles that are  
likely to intensify ahead of  
national elections late this  
year. Sunni·Shiite slaughter  
APhas abated, but genuine  
reconciliation remains elu­In this March 10, 2009 photo, eight-year-old Hiba Mohammed is being treated in a  
sive. Baghdad hospital after an attack in Abu Ghraib, Baghdad.  
"If Iraqi leaders don'-t  
reconcile and work togeth­ two years ago.  Missing Saddam in the  neighboring countries - 
er, the situation will deteri­ U.S. commanders suc­ opening moments of the  notably Iran ­and protect  
orate," veteran Kurdish  cessfully lobbied President  conflict set the tone for  itself from a resurgent al­ 
lawmaker Mahmoud  Barack Obama to maintain  what became a war of mis­ Qaida.  
Othman said. "There is no  a substantial combat force  steps and disappointments  Prospects for a reason­ 
harmony among Iraqi lead­ers. Their work depends on  in Iraq through parliamen­tary elections at the end of  before the tide turned in 2007..  ably stable Iraq are cer­tainly brighter than they  
their mood."  the year in hopes of curb­ The war was launched to  were before the U.S. troop  
At the same time, U.S.  ing violence as the coun­ deny Saddam weapons of  surge of 2007; when car  
combat troops are due to  try's religious and ethnical­ mass destruction and when  bombs shook Baghdad  
leave by September 2010,  ly based parties compete  events proved he had none,  daily and gangs of Sunni  
with all American soldiers  for power in the national  the goal shifted ­to estab­ and Shiite gunmen ruled  
gone by the end of the fol­ balloting.  lish a Western-style democ­ the streets.  
lowing year.  Damage control is a far  racy in the heart of the  Violence is down 90 per­ 
In the final stage of the  less ambitious goal than  Middle East. That goal was  cent since early 2007. In  
war, America's challenge  the Bush administration  only partially achieved.  February, the U.S. military  
will be to prevent ethnic  foresaw when the U.S.  Now, the U.S. hopes that  recorded 367 attacks  
and sectarian competition  launched the invasion with  it can leave without the  nationwide, compared with  
from exploding into vio­ an airstrike on Dora Farms  country disintegrating into  1,286 for the same month  
lence on the scale that  in southern Baghdad in a  chaos. The Americans hope  last year, according to Lt.  
plunged the nation to the  failed attempt to kill  Iraq will be strong enough  Col. Brian Tribus, a U.S.  
brink of all-out civil war  Saddam Hussein.  to fend off interference by  spokesman.  



Shuttle crew commences construction 
Associated Press  shuttle payload bay. Discovery's robot arm assisted with  Acaba and Richard Arnold II, shared their space experiences with Channel  
the work.  One, a newscast for teenagers.  
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.  - The  The-$300 million girder -which  Arnold and Acaba, who are making  
astronauts aboard the linked space  has a radiator along with the solar  the first double educator-astronaut  
shuttle and space station began their  wings -is the last major American­ flight, fielded the food and toilet ques­ 
high-priority girder work Wednesday,  made piece of the space station. And  tions. Arnold held up a bag of candy­ 
a two-day job that will culminate with  the pair of wings are the station's last.  /'never go anywhere without a little bit  
the installation of two new solar wings  The new wings will bring the 10­ of chocolate"-pulled a piece out and  
at the orbiting outpost.  year-old space station to full power,  let it float. Acaba grabbed and ate it.  
They cranked up the robot arm on  which is critical for boosting science  As for using the bathroom in orbit,  
the international space station and  research and allowing the crew to  Acaba said it's like camping but takes  
used it to latch onto the 45-foot-long,  double to six.  more effort, and stressed the impor­ 
31,000-pound frame structure that  In between chores, station skipper  tance of a good seal on the commode.  
flew up aboard shuttle Discovery. The  Mike Fincke, shuttle commander Lee  "The last thing we want to have is  
framework, which holds the folded-up  Archambault and the two former  our commander seeing something  
wings, was then hoisted out of the  schoolteachers on  board, Joseph  floating around the cabin," Acaba said.  

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 19, 2009 
Cycling 
continued from page 1 
in Michigan, Ohio and Indiana to race. 
Steves, who will race in the Men's B, is set to complete a 50­mile road race Saturday and a 40­minute cr.iterium Sunday. He has eight individual victories under his spandex belt, and traveled to Nationals his sophomore year. 
He is one of the dozen or so seri­ous riders for Notre Dame who dedicate hours each day to train­ing. 
Senior captain Tim Campbell, an A cyclist, has been racing for Notre Dame since his freshman year. He said he and his team­mates will compete in both of the weekend's events. 
"I ride pretty much everyday," he said. "To be at the top level, you need to ride everyday." 
Campbell's two-day program of a 70-mile road race and a 65­minute criterium is standard for a competition weekend, he said. 
The cyclists, Campbell included, are excited for their first race at home. 
"This is something I've wanted to do since my sophomore year, when I figured out how to go 


FOCA 
continued from page 1 
movement. 
Christine Romero, a junior and Right to Life's legislative commis­sioner, called the bill "extremely radical, really draconian," and said that through the postcard cam­paign, students can "let our con­gressmen know that we feel it is inappropriate." 
Romero said the dub is working with Campus Mini'itry and dorms to facilitate the effort. Postcards, which are produced by the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, are sent to congressmen, stating the constituent's opposition to FOCA. 
The club ordered 12,000 post­cards, Romero said. She noted that each person is able to send three to members of Congress -one to each of his state's Senators and one to his Representative. \ 
Wednesday night, representatives from the club gathered signatures outside both South and North din­ing halls. 
"We had a really great turnout," Romero said. She estimated around 1,200 individual postcards were signed. 
In addition, Romero said that Campus Ministry has facilitated the distribution of postcards to every dorm through Campus Ministry commissioners. 

Petition 
continued from page 1 
Dewey said she believes the group submitted the petition too close to the end of the year, which contributed to the lack of a response from the administra­tion. She said this year, the group sought to present the petition early enough that the adminis­tration has ample time to respond. 
The group's next step depends on Jenkins' response. 
"We want to work with the administration in this matter," Dewey said. "But if we get a neg­ative response, ~ want to demonstrate that there is student support with actions like rallies, but that is really a last resort." 

about having a race at your school," he said. 
Figuring out how to "go through all the hoops" at the University took a while, he said. "Now it's fmally happening." 
Notre Dame cyclists typically compete about seven weekends, or in 14 races, a year in their eon­ference, Campbell said. 
"There are also non-collegiate races people at the top end up doing," he said. "We can race any­where between 12 and 13 week­ends a year." 
Individual cyclists and the team as a whole can earn points in the A division through the season to qualiJY for Nationals, which will be held in Colorado. 
Campbell has been to Nationals twice, but said he's not sure if the team will make the trip this year. 
Because of the team's club sta­tus at the University, they are not permitted to take part in activities after study days. 
"It's hard to have teachers move your tests," he said. 
Another big race for cyclists all across the nation takes place in Arkansas early in May, Campbell said. 
"It's kind of like the Tour de France, but 18 days shorter," he said. "That's the best race going on in the country -hopefully. Notre Dame will be there." 
In addition to supporters who mail their own cards, Right to Life, as well as some individual dorms, will fund the cost of postage, according to Romero and Brett Perkins, director of Catholic Peer Ministry for Campus Ministry. 
"Our mission is one of solidarity with the voiceless and underprivi­leged, both women and unborn children," Perkins said. The post­cards convey a mes.<>age to oflicials that FOCA "is a poor piece of legis­lation, is clearly an offense to life ... and does not promote the well being of women, let along their w1born children." 
Angela Rossi, Campus Ministry commissioner lor Cavanaugh Hall, said that her dorm was provided with 300 postcards, available for residents to sign. cavanaugh will send the cards and pay the postage with discretionary funds, she said. 
Rossi said the postcards coming from Notre Dame could have "a large effect," pointing out that stu­-dents hail from all 50 states and have a diverse mix of congressmen and women. 
Rossi said there has already been a response in Cavanaugh, but "par­ticipation could be greater than what it is." 
"Maybe people are not aware enough, or maybe people don't understand everything about !this act]," she said. 
Mary Daly, a junior and president of Right to Life, said that she knows Right to life supporters are aware of the legislation, but was unsure how much other students knew aboutFOCA 
"My general impression is that people have heard of it. The extent to which people are awarn of the detail<>-pnople aren't as aware of that," she said. 
Daly said some people ar!,rue the bill is unlikely to pass through con­gress, due to the many controversial provisions it indudes, but Daly said there is value in voicing opposition to the bill. "letting [legislators! know that people are against it, despite the smm~!ng impracticality of lit's passage!. 
Romero said the response from Wednesday's postcard drive was mostly positive. 
"A surprising amount of students already knew what FOCA was with­out us explaining it," she said. 
Perkins agreed that he believes most students are. aware "of the potential that FOCA legislation could bn brought before eongrnss, either in its entirnty or piecemeal." 
Overall, he said, "the msponsn to the campaign has been very favor­able." 
Homero said that Hight to Life would be eollecting mmaining eards from dorms that chose not to lund postage, and would mail them in the coming wenk'i. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 

Flores asked group members to be silent when presenting the petition in the Office of the President in order to show respect for the University. When the group arrived in the oflice, Jenkins was not present, but the petition was taken by a repre­sentative of the Oflice. 
In addition to asking for sexual orientation to be a part of the non-discrimination clause, the group outlined two other goals in a letter presented with the peti­tio~: official club status for OUTreach ND and Alliance ND, groups which provide support for gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgen­der and questioning (GLBTQ) students on campus and increased attention to hate crimes directed against GLBTQ memb&s of the Notre Dame community. 
Though the Cycling Club hopes for spectators, Campbell said his expectations aren't that high because of people's misunder­standing of the sport. 
"Everyone knows Lance Armstrong ... I'm hoping, with [him], people are coming back to the sport and trying to understand what the sport of cycling is all about," he said. "It's a good chance to come out and check out what Lance Armstrong really does ... exc~pt we'll be doing it a lot slower. 
Regardless of spectator turnout, for the black and green argyle spandex-dad Notre Dame cyclists, this weekend's races will be a dis­play of their work this year. 
"You're out there, two to three hours everyday, a lot of times by yourself riding into the wind," he said. "This weekend, we'll see the fruits of our labor." 
The club's Facebook event, "le Tour·de Notre Dame du Lac," includes information about volun­teering at the races as well as directions and fliers about each day's events. 
"If someone wants to volunteer or needs a ride out there, we can definitely arrange that," Campbell said. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
"I think these issues are basic common sense," Dewey said. 
Flores said the group generally received positive feedback from students who were asked to sign the petition, but were also met with a few dissenters. Most did not give a reason, but declined to sign the petition, she said. 
The pHtition also in dudes a· small number of faculty signa­tures, Flores said. 
"We asked a few faculty mem­bers who we already knew were interested," she said. 
Flores said many students they approached about signing the petition did not realize how the absence of sexual orientation in the clause affects members of the Notre Dame community. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

!I.Detcial guast 





lfl~r~ziJ. ~lP 
Morris Performing flrts Ccrntcrr South lndiono Tickets on sale now at Morris Box Office. SuperSounds In Goshen, charge by phone574/13,..9190 or online www.morriscenter.org 
Wqltomlfd by Garl~ty Lflp flatomotlvq & BrQndt'l tl<lrtlr)' Povldson-Wolxnh 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Thursday, March 19, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP Stocks 
Dow 
Jones 7,486.58 +90.88 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 3,045 90 740 1,938,122,822 

NASDAQ 11491.22 +29.11 
:ftsf!.;:.; ··N···· ~~-····}·,;,;;.,# ii!lilllll·i';:r•••n 
S&P 500 794.35 +6.31 
•·..Nfi<KSi(1tof4'bl.flli~IRJIIlilll~lii11Jlll 
FTSE 100 (London) 3,804.99 -52.11 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CmGROUP INC (C) +22.71 +0.57 3.08 BK OF AMERICA (SAC) +22.33 +1.40 7.67 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +2.24 +1.75 79.93 FINANCIAL SEL (XLF) +10.02 +0.857 9.408 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE ·15.65 ·0.47 2.533 13-WEEK BILL ·8.89 -0.02 0.205 30-YEAR BOND ·6.10 -0.232 3.572 5-YEARNOTE -23.21 -0.458 1.515 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.02 48.14 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) ·27.70 889.10 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) +0.733 90.23 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 96.4050 
EURO 1.3453 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2489 BRITISH POUND 1.4232 
IN BRIEF Kellogg official calls for revamp 
WASHINGTON -The top official at Kellogg, the giant food-maker who lost $70 million worth of peanut products in the recent salmo­nella outbreak, is urging lawmakers to over­haul the nation's food safety system. 
Kellogg Co. chief executive David Mackay wants food safety placed under a new leader in the Health and Human Services Department. He also called for new require­ments that all food companies have written safety plans, annual federal inspections of facilities that make high-risk foods, and other reforms. 
Mackay's strong endorsement of major changes could boost President Barack Obama's efforts to overhaul the system. Last week Obama launched a special review of food safety programs, which are split among several departments and agencies, and rely in some cases on decades-old laws. Critics say more funding is needed for inspections and basic research. , 


Madoffs accountant arrested on fraud 
NEW YORK -Bernard Madoff's longtime accountant was arrested on fraud charges Wednesday as authorities blamed him for failing to make the most basic auditing checks th.at would have exposed an epic fraud that cost investors billions of dollars. 
David Friehling is the first person to be arrested in the scandal since Madoff turned 
'-himself in, and his prosecution signals that the government is intent on bringing Madoff's associates to justice as they try to figure out who helped him carry out the fraud. Prosecutors say the 49-year-old Friehling essentially rubber-stamped Madoff's books for 17 years, serving as Madoff's auditor from 1991 through 2008 while operating from a discreet building in suburban New York. Authorities said that if Friehling had done his·job, Madoff's financial statements would have shown his company owed tens of bil­lions of dollars to his customers and was insolvent. "Mr. Friehling's deception helped foster the illusion that Mr. Madoff legitimately invested his clients' money," said acting U.S. Attorney Lev L. Dassin. 

Obatna seeks control over institutions 
Urges Congress to pass legislation to govern large financial entities 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Barack Obama 
said Wednesday no one in 
his administration created 
the mess at insurance 
giant AIG, including the 
much-maligned executive 
bonuses, but that "the 
buck stops with me" to fix 
it. 

Standing on the White 
House lawn as he pre­
pared to go to California, 
Obama vigorously defend­
ed his embattled Treasury 
secretary, Timothy 
Geithner. Some have spec­
ulated that Geithner's job 
•could be in danger over his handling of the mil­lions of dollars in bonuses that American International Group Inc., is giving its executives ­even in the midst of a massive federal bailout. 
"There has never been 
a secretary of the treas­
ury, except maybe 
Alexander Hamilton, right 
after the Revolutionary 
War, who's had to deal 
with the multiplicity of 
issues that Secretary 
Geithner is having to deal 
with, all at the same 
time," said Obama, with 
Geithner standing at his 
right elbow. 

"And, you know, he is 
doing so with intelligence 
and diligence. Nobody's 
working harder than this 
guy," Obama said. 

The president told He said he and his eco­the protection of credi­the worst to hit the coun­
reporters that Geithner nomic team have begun tors, depositors and con­try in seven decades. 
"is making all the right discussions with leading sumers without taxpayers The broad outlines of 
moves in terms of playing congressional players to left "holding the bag." the overhaul are expected 
a bad hand." fast-track legislation cre­Obama said this broader to be unveiled before 
In more pointed terms ating another regulatory authority \:VOUld allow the Obama attends the Group 
than before, the president entity to govern the disso­government to prevent of 20 meeting of major 
assailed AIG for its busi­lution of large financial "the kinds of systemic industrial countries and 
ness practices that led to institutions such as AIG, risks that we've seen tak­developing nations in 
the need for an infusion which if merely liquidated ing place" with AIG. London on April 2. 
of tens of millions in tax­could reverberate disas­Obama said the new European countries have 
payer dollars. trously through the finan­authority would be part of pushed the administration 
"I don't want to quell cial system. a broader regulatory to take a tougher • anger. I think people are The so-called "resolu­reform agenda that his approach to financial reg­right to be angry. I'm tion authority" would administration is prepar­ulation, believing it was angry," the president have powers.similar but ing to send to Congress in lax enforcement in the said. "What I want us to not identical to those of an effort to deal with lax United States that led to do, though, is channel our · the Federal Deposit oversight that many the crisis that has now anger in a constructive Insurance Corporation blame for creating the pushed the global econo­way." over banks, allowing for current financial crisis, my into recession. 

Fed to buybillions in long-term bonds 
Associated Press ence long-term interest rates was dur­small business lending could be 
ing the 1960s. expanded to include other financial 
WASHINGTON -The Federal And expanding an existing program, assets. Reserve announced Wednesday that it the Fed said it will buy more mort­The program -which is rolling out will inject about $1 trillion into the gage-backed securities guaranteed by this week -currently is focused on economy in a bold effort to help the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The spurring lending for autos, education, battered housing market and lift the central bank will buy an additional credit cards and loans for business country out of recession. $7 50 billion, bringing its total pur­equipment. The government already 
At the same time, the Fed left a key chases of these securities to $1.25 tril­has announced an expansion to short-term bank lending rate at a lion. It also will boost its purchase of include commercial real-estate assets. record low of between zero and 0.25 Fannie and Freddie debt to $200 bil­Any broadening of the yrogram would percent. Economists predict the Fed lion. be beyond that area. will hold the rate in that zone for the "This is not only going to keep mort­The Fed's action kept Wall Street's rest of this year and for most -if not gage rates low for a long period of big rally alive. After being down earli­all -of next year. time," said Greg McBride, a senior er in the day, the Dow Jones industrial 
In a new program, the Fed said it financial analyst at Bankrate.com. average added more than 90 points, will buy up to $300 billion of long­"The mere announcement may pro­and broader indicators also rose. term bonds, a move that should boost duce a honeymoon effect and bring Government bond prices surged. Treasury prices and drive down their mortgage rates down to even lower The yield on the benchmark 1 0-year rates. That would ripple through and levels in the coming days." Treasury note, which moves opposite lower rates ori other kinds of debt. In addition, the Fed said a $1 trillion its price, fell to 2.50 perqmt from 3.01 The last time the Fed set out to influ-program to jump-start consumer and percent late Tuesday. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, March 19, 2009 
CHINA 


Soldier's story offers a neW" look at Tianantnen 
Associated Press 
TENGZHOU -Even 20 years later, the shooting, chaos and death of the final assault on 11ananmen Square remain vivid in the mind of former soldier Zhang Shijun. Today, he has become one of the few to publicly voice regret. 
In bearing witness about his role in the military crackdown on the 1989 student demonstrations in Beijing, Zhang says he hopes to add momentum to calls for an investigation and reassessment of the protest movement -and to further its ultimate goal of a demo­cratic China. 
"I feel like my spirit is stuck there on the night of June 3," Zhang, 40, said in an interview at his home in the dusty northern city of Tengzhou, referring to the date in 1989 when the final assault began. 
Zhang's tortured memories have gained a global audience among China's dissident community in the weeks since he posted an open let­ter online to the Communist Party leader, President Hu Jintao. In it, he relates some of what he saw when posted on the night of June 3-4, along with an account of the persecution he underwent after asking for an early discharge, and his belief that China must eventu­ally clear its collective conscience of the tragic events. 
"The responsibility can't just be laid on the military," Zhang said. "It's really the responsibility of all Chinese." 
Zhang was just 18 when he' joined the elite 54th Group Army's 162nd Motorized Infantry Division based in the central city of Anyang. Less than three years later, with student-led protests gathering pace, Zhang's units were ordered to Beijing on April 20, 1989. There, they camped on the capital's southwestern edge while citizens erected barricades to block their progress toward Tiananmen, the vast square in the heart of the city where the stu­
dents had established their head­
quarters. 
On June 3, their orders came: 
Drive through to the square and 
get it cleared. 
Heading ea'>t toward the square, 
Zhang and his comrades aban­
doned their vehicles as bricks and 
rocks flew at thoir heads and bul­
lets were fired at them by 
unknown shooters from upper sto­
ries of apartmm1t buildings. 
Members of his unit fired over the 
heads of civilians as a warning, 
according to Zhang, who said he 
was serving as a medic and was 
unarmed in the final assault. 
Zhang said he knew of no deaths caused by the troops of the 54th army-a claim impossible to disprove as long &'> ollicial files on the events remain dosed. Most of 
,the post-crackdown reports pinned the hundreds, possibly thousands of deaths among civil­ians and students on two other units, the 27th and 38th group armies based outside Beijing. 
By daylight the next morning, Zhang said his unit established a cordon along the square's south­ern edge between a KFC restau­rant and the mausoleum of com­munist China's founder, Mao Zedong. 
Zhang said other details were still too sensitive to tell, suggesting atrocities such as the shooting in the back of unarmed students and civilians. While other eyewitnesses have made similar allegations, they remain impossible to inde­pendently confirm. 
After their withdrawal, Zhang said he asked for and eventually obtained an early discharge, never having expected to be sent to fight ordinary Chinese citizens. After returning to Tengzhou he began a discussion group promoting mar­ket economics and politics, but was arrested on March 14, 1992 and sentenced to three years in a labor camp for political crimes. Then, as now, he regarded the charges as trumped-up retribution for his leaving the unit early. 
Leasing now for 2009-2010* 
Lafayette Square Town homes 

Enjoy the good life when you live off campus at a very reasonable price! 
3, 4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 2 1/2 Baths Free Internet Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher Security System Off-Street Parking Located Close to Notre Dame 


Only $350 per mon~h, per student! 
*Our town homes rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our town homes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 


(574) 234-2436 


Suspect dies in murder case 
Associated Press 
HALEIGI-I, N.C. -Answers to what led to the slayings of a mother and her throe ehildren in a western North Carolina homo might have died along with the suspect. who killed himself as police closed in on him along a streteh of Utah highway, investigators said Wednesday. 
For almost a week, Conover poliee detectives W(~rn trying to lind the man witnesses said was lurking outside the home and grabbed one of tho vic­tims, yanking her inside. As sheriff's deputies in south­western Utah Tuesday night eh~tsed that suspect, alleged opium trafficker Chiew Chan Saevang of Wisconsin, he killed his girlfriend, Yer Yang, then himself. police said. 

With no chance to question him in the shooting and stab­bing deaths of Lisa Saophan and hor three children -20­year-old Melanie, 18-year-old Pauline and 4-year-old Cody -what exactly happened on March 12 in the quiet subdivi­sion remains a mystery. 
"It's like trying to put togeth­er a big puzzle," said Coy Heid, ehief deputy with North Carolina's Catawba County Sheriffs Office. "They could've finished the rest of the pieces. We still have a lot to tie up and finish in the investiga­tion." 
Authorities said that investi­gation could ultimately end with Saephan's husband fac­ing charges of traffieking drugs. Although he is not implicated in his family's slay­ings, detectives suggested that Brian Tzeo's involvement in a trafficking ring with the sus­pects may have been behind the attacks. 
"The information we have suggests the father was a drug distributor," Heid said. "He has cooperated with us. And we're not at liberty to talk about that right now. It's an ongoing investigation." 
Tzeo hung up when reached by phone. 
Seven minutes after North Carolina authorities put out a national alert with Saevang's license plate, Utah deputies in Washington County spotted his car on Interstate 15 near the southwestnrn border with Arizona headed west. As deputies gave chase, Saevang's BMW hit another car, went up an embankment, stopped on a hillside and eaught lire. Saevang· had fatal­ly shot himself and the 40­year-old Yang, who authorities said was an accomplice in sell­ing drugs and the killings. 
Detectives in North Carolina learned of tho deaths as they prepared arrest wa·rrants for Saevang for murder and for Yang for aceessory after the fact to murder. Heid said days of poring over notes and tak­ing in tips, including those generated by the case's appearance on "America's Most Wanted," led them to the couple. Both were also expect­ed to have been charged with conspiracy to snll opium. 
Authorities said Tzeo would receive opium through the mail from Thailand, convert it to heroin and give it to Yang who lived in Long View, in Catawba County. She would take the heroin to Saevang in Wisconsin, where he would sell it, they said. 
Kelly 0 Driseoll, spokes­woman for the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin, told the Wisconsin State Journal that Saevang had ties to the Schofield, Wis .. area, about 130 miles north .of Madison. 
"There was some drug dis­tribution that came out of that house," N.C. State Bureau of Investigation spokesman Dave Call said about the North Carolina home. 
Investigators would not dis­euss dntails about what led Saevang to kill Tzeo's family in the community about 40 miles northwest of Charlotte. They havi~ said Tzeo was at work when his family was killed. Cody was found shot to death at the kitchen table, his fin­gers still inside his cereal bowl. 
Funerals were held Wednesday afternoon for the victims in nearby Newton. Tzeo has said he wants to take his family back to California for burial, but authorities have not said whether they would allow him to leave the state. 
Authorities found the victims after a friend of Pauline's called 911, screaming and sobbing as she told the opera­tor Pauline had just been pulled into her home and stabbed by a man. The friend had picked up Pauline for school that morning, but they went back after the friend said she had seen a suspieious man o1:1tside the house. 
Tzeo has said he and his wife had separated and that he had an affair but they were still living together and trying to work things out. 
Yang's criminal history showed convictions ftlr forgery and larceny and several charges related to obtaining property by false pretense. Saevang faced several charges of trafficking in opium in Catawba County over the last six years. 

Thursday, March 19, 2009 The Observer +NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
AIG head says execs are returning part ofbonuses 
called "outrageous bonuses." "already stepped forward and on bonuses, noting that if it was concerned about the safe­
Associated Press 
Still, he said, "The buck returned 100 percent," he applied to existing compensa-. ty of the employees and their 
WASHINGTON -Under stops with me." He said that added. tion contracts it could face a families, and read aloud from intense pressure from the "my goal is to make sure that Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, legal challenge. a death threat received by one Obama administration and we never put ourselves in this D-Md., said the House bill "The alternative was losing, of them. Congress, the head of bailed­kind of position again," and he would be voted on under rules in my view, the entire section Frank said he would be out insurance giant AIG disclosed the administration requiring a two-thirds majori­on executive excessive com­guided in part by security con­declared Wednesday that some was consulting with Congress ty for passage. Democrats are pensation," Dodd told CNN. siderations, but Ackerman of the firm's executives have on the possibility of creating a in comfortable control of the "Given a choice -this is not later noted that Andrew begun returning all or part of new agency to govern the House but do not control two­an uncommon occurrence Cuomo, the New York attorney bonuses totaling $165 million. meltdown of large financial thirds of the seats, meaning here -I agreed to a modifica­general, was already seeking 
Edward Liddy offered no institutions such as AIG. the outcome of the vote would tion in the legislation, reluc­the names with a subpoena. details, and lawmakers were He also gave a strong vote of probably be determined by tantly." Liddy said he had not yet in no mood to wait. He was confidence to Treasury tax-averse Republicans. The legislation does include complied, sidestepped several still fielding their questions Secretary Tim Geithner, who Republicans raised pointed a provision that allows the times when asked whether he · when House Democratic lead­has been the target of growing questions about the extent of Treasury Department to exam­would, and finally said "it ers announced plans for a vote Republican criticism. Geithner's advance knowledge ine past compensation pay­would be our intent" to do so. Thursday on legislation to tax Later, at a town hall meeting of the bonuses, and stressed ments to determine whether Cuomo swiftly issued a state­away 90 percent of the extra in Costa Mesa, Calif., Obama they had been locked out of they were "contrary to the ment saying Liddy's pledge pay for executives at AIG and said that while his administra­discussions earlier this year public interest." Geithner on was "simply too little, too late. many other bailed-out firms. tion was addressing the AIG when Democrats decided to Tuesday said he was using ... Rather than take half-meas­
Liddy, brought in last year to bonuses specifically, he said he jettison a provision from legis­that provision to review AIG's ures, AIG should immediately oversee a company that has wanted to "make sure we lation that could have revoked bonuses. turn over the list, which we received $182 billion in feder­don't find ourselves in this sit­the payments. Liddy's presence in a con­have subpoenaed, of who got al bailout money, said he, too, uation again, where taxpayers "The fact is that the bill the gressional hearing room was what and when." was angry about the bonuses. are on the hook for losses in president signed, which pro­evidence of a bipartisan oppo­Separately, a New York state But he did not respond directly bad times and all the wealth tected the AIG bonuses and sition to the bonuses, although judge ordered Bank of when advised in pungent generated in good times goes others, was written behind his status as a $1-a-year CEO America Corp. to disclose terms to pay to the Treasury to those at the very top." closed doors by ·Democratic called out of retirement last information about bonuses all the money handed out last Obama spoke as congres­leaders of the House and year to try and untangle AIG's given to employees at Merrill weekend in "retention pay­sional Democrats worked on Senate. There was no trans­financial mess made him a Lynch & Co. just before the Jnents." legislation designed to recoup parency," said Sen. Charles less-than-easy target for bank bought the brokerage 
"Eat it now. Take it out of most or all of the $165 million Grassley, R-Iowa, the senior expressions of outrage. company. Cuomo, who has your profits down the road. It's by exposing it to new taxes. Republican on the Senate "No one knows better than I been sparring with the bank a lot sweeter now than it's Rep. Charles Rangel, D-N.Y., Finance Committee. that AIG has been the recipi­over release of the informa­gonna be later," said Rep. chairman of the tax-writing On Wednesday, Sen. ent of generous amounts of tion, said the decision "will Gary Ackerman, D-N.Y. House Ways and Means Christopher Dodd, D-Conn., government financial aid," he now lift the shroud of secrecy 
Liddy slid into the witness Committee,-said the new 90 the chairman of the Senate said. "We have been the bene­surrounding the $3.6 billion in chair at a congressional hear­percent tax would apply to Banking Committee, acknowl­ficiary of the American peo­premature bonuses Merrill ing as President Barack bonus money paid to employ­edged that his staff agreed to ple's forbearance and Lynch rushed out in early Obama sought anew to quell a ees earning more than dilute an executive· compensa­patience," he added, acknowl­December." furor that has bedeviled his $250,000 at firms that have tion provision that would have edging the patience was wear­"AIG should take heed and administration since word of received more than $5 billion applied retroactively to recipi­ing thin. immediately turn over the list the, bonuses surfaced over the in federal bailout funds. ents of federal aid. Dodd told Asked by Rep. Barney Frank, of bonus recipients we have weekend. Mortgage giants Fannie Mae CNN the request came from D-Mass., whether he would subpoenaed," he said. "The 
Obama, who took office just and Freddie Mac are covered officials at the Treasury turn over the names of individ­deadline for responding to our under two months ago, told under the proposal. Department whom he did not uals who received the bonus­subpoena is tomorrow." reporters his administration Liddy said that on Tuesday, identify. es, as well as the amounts, AIG spokesman Mark Herr was not responsible for a lack he had "asked those who have While the House and Senate Liddy said he would do so only said he could not say how of federal supervision of AIG received retention payments in reconciled their stimulus bills if assured the information not many executives had turned that preceded the company's excess of $100,000 or more to last month, the Treasury be made public. back the money. "Bear in demise, nor for the decision return at least half of those Department expressed con­When Frank said he might mind, these bonuses were only made last year to pay what he payments." Some have cern with a Senate restriction seek a subpoena, Liddy said he just paid," he said. 
Lenten Day of Recollection 
In the Ignatian Spiritual Tradition 


Fi,-e Dt)lla•· F (H) t }()11gs. 
A Special Silent Retreat Opportunity for Faculty Members 
Retreat Director: Rev. Brian E. Daley, S.J. 
Catheri11e F. 1Juiski11g Professor ofTheology 

Saturdav, March 28, 2009 
-' 


9:00am-5:15pm, followed by dinner 
Spcmsort~d by the Institute for Clwnh Uf!! 
What is a "Day of Recollection?" It is an opportunity to set some time aside for God. We are all busy! Sometimes in the midst of all our activity, it is good to take an oppor­tunity for some time apart, time for guided prayer and meditation, time with God and one another. The Day is structured around two "conferences" (biblically based reflec­tions} offered by the retreat director, one morning and one afternoon. Each is followed by guided meditative and conversational response ior t-he group, and opportunity for individual prayer and reflection afterward. TI1e day will end with Mass and dinner. 
Who is invited? All faculty members interested in deepening their relation"hip with God, The retreat is in the living tradition of Catholic spirituality. It can be nwaningftdly experienced from a variety of perspectives, inclmiing those with no previous exposure. The only requirement is commitment to the whok! day's ('Xpt~rknce. 
For further information and to register: Tiw Day of Recollection is a project of the Institute for Church Life, which assumes a.ll costs. Simply t>mail: cavadiniJ.@nd.edu. Deadline: Tuesday, March 24, 2009. 
For mt!fe if~_finnwtion, ph'ast visit our websitt•: htlp://id.nd.edtt/!ircully-r!'trent.Mml. 

·4t .~ HONEST! 
\!IJil 

:EY4'"J.Y lhty Yalu.-l\14'"J.UI AYailabl.-At 
:I•a.-ti<iJHttin~ Location~ Iudndiu~: 
1 -o<-t South B.-J.ul _.\..Y4'" "' J)O'\\·uto'\YU ITS .:;1 N"' SR 2.3 -it· IJ."ouwood "'lTJ• 1\.I:.tll *IJ.ulhtu Ritl2:4'" "' \Yall\I~n-t 

~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-------~~---­
page 10 The Observer +NEWS Thursday, March 19, 2009 
Fed to pump funds into housing market 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK --The Federal 
Reserve kept Wall Street's big 
rally alive -and gave the 
Treastrry market a huge boost as 
well. 
Both markets surged Wednesday after the Fed said it would pump more than $1 trillion into the economy to help revive the housing market. The plan includes buying up to $300 billion of long-term government bonds during the next six months. 
Investors expect the move to 
drive down borrowing costs for 
everything from mortgages to 
credit cards. The Dow Jones 
industrial average reversed early 
losses to end up 91 points and the 
yield on the benchmark 10-year 
Treasury note plunged, indicating 
strong demand for the note. 
The dollar also fell sharply as 
investors worried the govern­
ment's actions would eventually 
fan inflation. 
The Fed's move, analysts said, is 
likely to produce an immediate 
drop in mortgage rates, of 0.25 to 
0.5 percent percentage points. The central bank also made clear it would be able to purchase the majority of new mortgage-backed securities for at least the rest of the year, possibly longer. 
That's great news for those bor­rowers with good incomes and healthy credit scores who are able to qualify for a loan. But dramati­cally tighter lending standards have made it tough for many bor­rowers to qualifY. 
Still, it was a plus for the hous­ing industry, which many analysts believe must recover in order for the overall economy to prosper again. Homebuilder and financial company stocks shot higher on the news, which came a day after the Commerce Department reported better-than-expected housing start numbers for February. 
The s"heer magnitude of the Fed's proposal "indicates they have a lot of weapons still in the arsenal," said Bruce McCain, chief investment strategist at Key Private Bank in Cleveland. 
The Fed said it would build on a plan to buy mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. It also will buy an additional $750 billion, bringing its total purchases of these securities to $1.25 trillion. It also will boost its purchase of Fannie and FredcUe debt to $200 billion. 
The Fed's announcement accompanied its decision to keep interest rates at historically low levels. Chairman Ben Bernanke has said in recent weeks that the recession could end this year if the credit and fmancial markets can be stabilized. Bernanke and other officials have said they would deploy whatever tools nec­essary to revive the economy. 
"They are certainly, assertively doing everything they can to inter­vene," said David Darst, chief investment strategist of Morgan Stanley's Global Wealth Management Group. 
The Dow Jones industrial aver­age rose 90.88, or 1.2 percent, to 7,486.58. 
Broader stock indicators also jumped. The Standard & Poor's 500 index added 16.23, or 2.1 percent, to 794.35, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 29.11, or 2 percent, to 1,491.22. 
The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies jumped 14.04, or 3.5 percent, to 417.63. 
More than four stocks rose for every one that fell on the New 
York Stock Exchange, where con­
solidated volume came to a heavy 
9 billion shares compared with 6 
billion shares traded Tuesday. 
The market had traded lower 
ahead of the Fed's decision. 
Stocks have risen for six out of 
the last seven days. Since the 
market rally began last week, the 
Dow has jumped 14.4 percent, 
and the S&P 500 has soared 17.4 
percent. Those are the types of 
gains that would normally make 
tor a great year in the stock mar­
ket. 
Government bond prices surged. The yield on the bench­mark 10-year Treasury note, which moves opposite its price, tumbled to 2.50 percent from 3.01 percent late Tuesday. The yield on the three-month T-hill, considered one of the safest investments, slipped to 0.20 percent from 0.22 percent late Tuesday. 
The dollar fell agai-nst other 
major currencies. Gold prices also 
slid as demand for safe haven 
holdings fell. 
For both the stock and bond markets, the Fed's announcement was a welcome surprise. After th.e last Fed meeting in January, poli­cy makers said they were consid­ering buying government debt. But investors were skeptical the Fed would actually go through with it. 
"We've suffered over the last month or so with disappointment that a lot of the initiatives out of the administration haven't materi­alized, and here is the Fed moving in with very strong actions to get things back on track," McCain said. 
The Fed move -which econo­mists call "quantitative easing" ­is another way to push interest rates lower by essentially adding more money to the financial sys­tem. The Fed is using this tool now since its other main policy lever, the federal funds rate, has already been ratcheted down as low as it can go. 
Bank stocks -including Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp., Wells Fargo & Co. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. -got an extra boost after the Fed announcement. The Fed's actions are intended to keep interest rates low and also to unfreeze borrow­ing activity, which could be a huge help for banks. 
Citi and Bank of America each jumped more than 22 percent, while Wells Fargo rose 17.5 per­cent and JPMorgan added 7.8 percent. . 
Home builders put up huge gains as well. Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. jumped 50 per­cent to $1.44, while Toll Brothers Inc. rose 5.7 percent. Home improvement retailers jumped as well. Home Depot Inc. rose 5.1 percent and Lowe's Cos. added 
4.7 percent. 
Technology stocks rose on news that International Business Machines Corp. is in discussions to buy Sun Microsystems Inc. for at least $6.5 billion in cash. Sun sky­rocketed 79 percent, rising $3.92 to $8.89. IBM fell 96 cents, or 1 percent, to $91.95. 
Investors are growing more hopeful that the rally in stocks might have staying power, though many remain cautious. Stocks gained 20 percent from late November until the start of the year, only to come crashing down to levels not seen in more than a decade as worries grew about the stability of the financial system and the economy's ability to turn higher. 
YEMEN 
Bomber strikffi South Korean officials 
Associated Press 
SAN'A -A suicide bomber on Wednesday struck a convoy carrying South KorPan officials sent to Yemen to investigate a bombing earlier in the week that killed four tourists from the country. 
The well-coordinated attack was specifically designed to target the South Koreans, ofli­cials said. The three-ear con­voy was carrying South Korean oflicials and investigators sent to look into a suicide bombing on Sunday that killed four South Korean tourists and their Yemeni driver at a histor­ical site. No onP was hurt, ofli­eials said. 
The South Korean Foreign Ministry confirmed Wednesday's attack and said the convoy was also carrying rPlatives of the victims of Sunday's attack. They were in the country to recover the bod­ies of those killed in that attack and were headed to the airport for a flight to return to South Korea when the bomber struck. 
Yemen, an impoverished country in the southwestern corner . of the Arabian Peninsula, is Osama bin Laden's ancestral homeland and has long been a center of militant activity. 
A Yemeni security official said South Korea's ambassador to the country was also in the convoy hit Wednesday. but in Seoul, the Foreign Ministry denied that. 
The bomber walked into the road between two of the vehi­cle;; and blew himself up as the convoy was traveling to the airport outside the capital, San'a, the Yemeni official said. He spoke on condition of anonymity because he is not authorized to speak to the press. The blast shattered the windows of the vehicles. 
Yemeni authorities said al­Qaida was behind Sunday's suicide bombing near the ancient fortress city of Shibam and that 12 suspects were arrested. 

:Now £easino Por 2009-2010 )lpp(y 'Today LimitedSpace }fvaifa6fe!JI 
Ofjeri1l[J 11ie CJ3est r]?ptta{(j@tes in rrown! $99 fEar 1st Jdontfis <Rtnt 'Witli 12 <Montli Lease! $300 OffJSI <Montfis <R§nt Witli 9 :M.ontft Lease! f£ree )f.ppfu:ation f£ee Por Students Witft I.CD.! Cwse to Campus! 






eastle1'oint 
nou. CLne.Uad .Rt:l . .so.tJ& .Bead, Ill 4fiU1
Apar.tment.~ .fltM•= u,,..,, ua-11110 l!'.x: us.,.,, 212-1:u4 
I 


.---------------­
Thursday, March 19, 2009 The Observer +NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Actress Richardson ditsofhead injury 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Natasha Richardson, a gifted and preco­cious heiress to acting royalty whose career highlights includ­ed the film "Patty Hearst" and a Tony-winning performance in a stage revival of "Cabaret," died Wednesday at age 45 after suf­fering a head injury during a beginners' ski lesson. 
Alan Nierob, the Los Angeles­based publicist for Richardson's husband Liam Neeson, con­firmed her death in a written statement. 
"Liam Neeson, his sons (Micheal, 13, and 12-year-old Daniel), and the entire family are shocked and devastated by the tragic death of their beloved Natasha," the statement said. "They are profoundly grateful for the support, love and prayers of everyone, and ask for privacy during this very dif­ficult time." 
The statement did not give details on the cause of death for Richardson, who suffered a head injury and fell on a begin­ner's trail during a private ski lesson at the luxury Mont Tremblant ski resort in Quebec. Seemingly fine after the fall, about an hour later she com­plained that she didn't feel well. 
She was hospitalized Tuesday in Montreal and later flown to a hospital in New York, where family members had been seen coming and going. 
Vanessa Redgrave, Richardson's mother, arrived in a car with darkened windows and was taken through a garage when she arrived at the Lenox Hill Hospital on Manhattan's Upper East Side about 5 p.m. Wednesday. An hour earlier, Richardson's sis­ter, Joely, arrived alone and was swarmed by the media as she entered through the back of the hospital. 
It was a sudden and horrify­ing loss for her family and friends, for the film and theater communities, for her many fans and for both her native and adoptive countries. Descended from at least three generations of actors, Richardson was a proper Londoner who came to love the noise of New York, an elegant blonde with large, lively eyes, a bright smile and a hearty laugh. 
If she never quite attained the acting heights of her Academy Award-winning mother, she still had enjoyed a long and worthy career. As an actress, Richardson was equally adept at passion and restraint, able to portray besieged women both confessional (Tennessee Williams' Blanche DuBois) and confined (the concubine in the futuristic horror of "The Handmaid's Tale"). 
Like other family members, she divided her time between stage and screen. On Broadway, she won a Tony for her per­formance as Sally Bowles in a 1998 revival of "Cabaret." She also appeared in New York in. a production of Patrick Marber's "Closer" (1999) as well as 2005 revival of Tennessee Williams' "A Streetcar Named Desire," in which she played Blanche oppo­site John C. Reilly's Stanley Kowalski. 
She met Neeson when they made their Broadway debuts in 1993, co-starring in "Anna Christie," Eugene O'Neill's drama about a former prosti­tute and the sailor who falls in love with her. 
"The astonishing Natasha Richardson ... gives what may prove to be the performance of the season as Anna, turning a heroine who has long been por­trayed (and reviled) as a whore with a heart of gold into a tough, ruthlessly unsentimental apostle of O'Neill's tragic under­standing of life," The New York Times critic Frank Rich wrote. "Miss Richardson, seeming more like a youthful incarnation of her mother, Vanessa Redgrave, than she has before,· is riveting from her first entrance through a saloon doorway's ethereal shaft of golden light." 
Her most notable film roles came earlier in her career. Richardson played the title character in Paul Schrader's "Patty Hearst," a 1988 biopic about the kidnapped heiress for which the actress became so immersed that even between scenes she wore a blindfold, the better to identifY with her real­life counterpart. 
"Natasha Richardson ... has been qanded a big unwritten role; she feels her way into it, and she fills it," wrote The New Yorker's Pauline Kael. "We feel how alone and paralyzed Patty is -she retreats into being a hidden observer." 
Governor signs death penalty ban 
New Mexico is second state to outlaw executions since reinstatement oflaw in 1976 
Associated Press 
SANTA FE -Gov. Bill Richardson signed legislation Wednesday repealing New Mexico's death penalty, mak­ing it the second state to ban executions since the U.S. Supreme Court reinstated the death penalty in 1976. 
Richardson, a Democrat who formerly supported capi­tal punishment, said signing the bill was the "most diffi­cult decision" of his political life but that "the potential for ... execution of an innocent person stands as anathema to our very sensibilities as human beings." 
Richardson said he made the decision after going to the state penitentiary, where he saw the death chamber and visited the maximum security unit where those sentenced to life without parole could be housed. 
"My conclusion was those cells are something that may be worse than death," he said. "I believe this is a just punishment." 
The repeal, which passed the state Senate by a 24-18 vote Friday and was approved by the House a month earlier, takes effect 
July 1 and will apply to crimes committed after that date. Once in effect, the most severe punishment will be a sentence of life in prison without the possibility of parole. 
"Faced with the reality that our system for imposing the death penalty can never be perfect, my conscience com­pels me to replace the death penalty with a solution that keeps society safe," Richardson told a news con­ference in the state Capitol. 
With Richardson signing the measure, New Mexico joins 14 other states that do not impose capital punish­ment. New Jersey, in 2007, was the first and only other state to outlaw capital pun­ishment since its reinstate­ment by the Supreme Court. 
Since 1960, New Mexico has executed only one per­son, child killer Terry Clark, in 2001. Under the outgoing law, the death sentence could be applied in cases where children, law enforcement and correctional officials, and. witnesses were murdered. 
The sentences of two men currently on death row will not' be affected by the new law. 
Wmufy tJtUf tm::y • April 17 
know no boundaries 
~}F.] t.l N. l \' 1\ R.. SIT Y Of 
WNOTRE DAME 
Olr."" of1h" l're•Wmt 


World View is an iniliative from !he Office of the Presldem to proroote coomtwc1i•'ir dia~ue abou11ssues of race. class, e!hnic!ly, religion, and gen<ffi< lhrovgn the ar1s, 

.----------------­
page 12 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, March 19, 2009 
Actorsaves 
manfalling off subway platform 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-An actor on his way to a reading jumped onto subway tracks to rescue a man who tumbled off a platform as a train approached. 
"I just thought the guy fell down there and I needed to get him out of there," said Chad Lindsey, 33. 
The rescue happened Monday at busy Pennsylvania Station, wh-ere Lindsey was waiting for a train as he headed to a theater down­town. He said he saw a man who appeared drunk come very close to the platform, rock back and forth, then pitch headlong onto the tracks. 
The man struck his head on the rail and began bleeding 
· profusely, Lindsey said. He said he jumped down to the tracks and tried to rouse the man. When he didn't respond, Lindsey lifted him under the arms and hoisted him onto the platform, with the help of others standing on the platform. The rescue, first reported in The New York Times, last­ed about 30 seconds, bring­ing Lindsey some instant ­and overwhelming-publici­ty. "I'm an actor. I've spent most of my life trying to get attention and then I do some­thing that's a no-brainer, and now I have more than I need," he said Wednesday. Lindsey stars in an off­Broadway musical, "Kaspar Hauser." He said the role prepared him well for the emergency because he's required in the play to repeatedly lift a character who can't walk. He said he could see the lights of the train approach­ing and about 15 seconds later -after the man was safely on the platform -the cars arrived in the station. Someone had already called 
911. After giving police a quick report, Lindsey board­ed the train, where passen­gers greeted him with applause. 
Lindsey said he didn't know if his newfound fame would boost his career. 
"I really wasn't thinking about that at the time. I real­ly wasn't thinking about it at all even afterward," said Lindsey, who also works as a proofreader. "I sort of just did it and thought afterward, 'Well, that's just a pain, now I'm all dirty and bloody."' 
The injured man was treat­ed at a hospital and released. 
The rescue was reminiscent of another subway hero, Wesley Autrey, who in 2007 jumped on top of a man who had fallen onto the tracks after having a seizure. The train passed over the two of them. 
Autrey, a construction worker, was awarded the city's highest civilian honor and invited to President George W. Bush's State of the Union address. 
Harbor porpoise evades rescuers 
Associated Press 
LITTLE EGG HARBOR TOWNSHIP, N.J. -Bobbing up and down in a placid lagoon, the young harbor porpoise faced off against a dozen people, four boats, two nets and hundreds of thou­sands of dollars worth of equipment, all closing in on it Wednesday morning. 
Everyone feared it needed to be rescued. 
It glided below the surface, heading straight for a 20­foot-wide net stretched between two boats. Its cap­ture seemed inevitable. 
At the last minute, it dove deep, darting through a 2­foot gap between the mucky lagoon bottom and the edge of the net, heading back out 

to deeper water. 
"This is a healthy animal 

that doesn't need to be 
picked up," said Bob 
Schoelkopf, co-director of the 
Marine Mammal Stranding 
Center. His group had joined 
with the Marine Mammal & 
Sea Turtle Hescue Program 
from Hiverhead, N.Y., to try 
to capture the animal. 
"Because of how easily it 

evaded us, we've determined 
it is not in any trouble at this 
time," Schoelkopf said. 
The story started about a week and a half ago when the porpoise was first spot­.ted in lagoons in Little Egg Harbor Township and Tuckerton, about 20 miles 
north of Atlantic City. 
There was reason for con­

cern: It was a young animal, 
and had become separated from its pod, Schoelkopf said. ­
It's unusual, though not unheard of, for porpoises to inhabit lagoons, Schoelkopf said. It has happened in coastal communities outside Atlantic City, as well as on Long Island, N.Y. 
The plan was to sidle up to the porpoise, either in a large aluminum rescue boat or in one of three inflatable speedboat rafts, and toss a large net over the animal. 
They would bring it to shore in a padded sling, weight it on a 15-foot-tall scale s·uspended on a steel tripod, and take blood tests to see if the animal was sick or injured. 
But the porpoise had other ideas. 

"He seems very playful," said Bon Baker, who has watched the porpoise in the lagoon behind his house for about 10 days. "I think he found the area to his liking, and he probably wants to spend some time here." 
That's exactly what Schoelkopf plans to let it do. The 3-foot-long porpoise weighs about 40 or 50 pounds, and looks to be in good health. 
Schoelkopf said porpoises follow schools of herring and mackerel up the East Coast at this time of year, and noted the lagoons provide abundant food. When the porpoise runs of food or tires of the area, it will probably leave on its own. 

Phishing scams look real, but don't be fooled. 
They're an attempt to steal your identity. 


{.,) 

secure 

~­

secure.nd.edu 
• 0 


recycle The Observ~r. 



.----------------------------­
Thursday, March 19, 2009 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 13 
MEXICO 

'l,DE ilNNIJiliJ CONJ7JUlEN{~E OF 'I'DE {HU~il'f L.tiU~S J\)II~ItU;AN S'I,IJDII~S ASSO(~Iil'lliON 

March 19-21 McKenna Hall 
All are welcome Admission is free for Notre Dame faculty and students 
Come consider how America is pictured, 
configured, and imagined on multiple 
levels. Please join us at free film showings, 
areception at the Northern Indiana Center 
for History, and numerous panels and 
roundtable sessions. 


For more information, please contact: 
Erika Doss, Chair 

Department of American Studies 
574.631.2706 or doss.2@nd.edu 
·•1magin9 America' is marle possiblE in part by generous support 
from the!nstitu1e for Scholarship in the liberal Arts, Collegeof 
Arts and tenets, Vnlvrrs!ty ofNotre Dame. 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Department of American Studie 
i 



SENIORS! 
HATE THE THOUGHT OF LEAVING ND AFTER YOU GRADUATE? 
MULTICULTURAL STUDENT PROGRAMS AND SERVICES IS LOOKING FOR AN INTERN TO ASSIST WITH COORDINATION OF CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND DIVERSITY EDUCATION 
INITIATIVES. 
STIPEND AND HOUSING PROVDlED. 
FOR AliTA THE DETAITS SEE JOBS.ND.EDU AND APPLY ONLINE BY 
MARCH31. 


Mexican tariffs take effect on U.S. products 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY-U.S. officials are assessing the cost of new Mexican tariffs that take effect Thursday in retaliation for a 
U.S. 
decision to ·cancel a cross­border program that gave Mexican truckers access to their northern neighbor's high­ways. 

The tariffs affect about $2.4 billion in annual trade and 89 

U.S. 
products, ranging from fruit and wine to washing machines, according to the Mexican government. Assistant Economy Secretary Beatriz Leycegui warned the list could grow unless there is progress toward resolving the trucking dispute. 


The U.S. was required under the North American Free Trade Agreement to grant Mexican trucks full access to its high­ways by January 2000, but domestic opposition led U.S. legislators to delay the opening until a pilot program allowing some trucks was instituted in 2007. 
r 

The U.S. ended that program 
last week -a move that 
Mexican Economy Secretary 
Gerardo Ruiz Mateos called 
"wrong, protectionist and a 
clear violation" of NAFTA. The 
1994 agreement allows Mexico 
to introduce retaliatory tariffs 
equal to the amount of trade 
lost by the truck ban. 
Many U.S. officials and 
exporters responded with con­
cern. 

"In good times, an economy 
may be able to weather this 
kind of thing. But now it's dev­
astating," said Rep. Dave Camp 
of Michigan, whose district is 
home to cherry farmers, manu­
facturers and chemical produc­
ers such as Dow Chemical Co. 
that will be affected. 
The tariffs apply to 36 agri­
cultural and 53 industrial prod­
ucts, including onions, straw­
berries, shampoo, toothpaste, 
pet food, book~. pencils and 
dishwashers. The only item fac­
ing a 45-percent tax is fresh 
grapes. Some 55 other products will be taxed at 20 percent, and the remaining 33 items at 10 to 15 percent. 
NAFTA normally exempts agricultural products from such duties. 
The U.S. Department of Agriculture was still assessing the cost of the tariffs. 
"We have alerted all the industry associations that rep­resent these producers, the state regional groups and agri­culture trade advisory groups so that we can continue to work with them as we assess the effects the tariffs will have on the markets," said Nayyera Haq, a USDA spokeswoman. 
Mexican officials appear to have targeted products from states represented by lawmak­ers who are influential in Congress or have some kind of voice on trade issues. 
For example, sunflower seeds, which appear on the tar­iff list, are produced in North Dakota -the home state of Sen. Byron Dorgan, who authored the language that ended spending on the Mexican trucks pilot program. 
"In these challenging eco­nomic times, we need more open markets, not higher tar­iffs," said Brian Black, a Texas Agriculture Department spokesman. "We are asking President Obama and his Mexican counterpart to resolve, this issue as soon as possible." 
Mexico is Texas' No. 1 trading partner -and the second biggest buyer of U.S. exports. 
In one of the last and largest NAFTA-related disputes, the 
U.S. has long delayed granting Mexican trucks access to its roads. Mexico brought the case before a dispute-resolution panel, which ruled in its favor in 2001. 
But the Teamsters union, U.S. consumer groups and inde­pendent insurers have warned that Mexican trucks are unsafe and lobbied Congress to keep them out. Many unions also voiced fears that U.S. drivers would lose work if lower-paid Mexican truckers could carry goods across the United States. 
* 
IIOIY 
CRllS." 

CoiJ.F..t.T. 
You can advance the Catholic Mission ofHoly Cross! 
HALL DIRECTORS NEEDED 
2009-2010 
HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
MA~EDORS~GLEGRADSTUD~ 
LAW snJDENlS 
CONTACT RESLlFE@HCC-ND.EDU 
FOR MORE INFORMATION 





THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 14 Thursday, March 19 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
Lent and getting over myself 
P.O. Box 779. Notre D•me, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre D.me, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Jenn Merz 

MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Bill Brink John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
ScENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Sracey Gill 
., ' 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarty 
0FF1CE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574} 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DesK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The· news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and deparunent editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. · 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies shouldbe directed to Editor in Chief]enn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Th~ Observ~ .(USPS 599 2-4000) is publish_ed Monday t~IU_gh FriQay c:xccp.(~uring exam .md vacarion periods. A subscription ro The O_llSfiver is $100 fnr "one .aCad~ic year; $55 JOr Oflt' stmrlit~. · · . 
The Obse~r is published at: POSTMASTER 

024. South Dining Hall Seod addrCSli comcdo.ns ro: Notre Dame, IN 4655:6-0719 The Observer Pcriodkal po~ pa.id a( Notre Dame P.Q.. 8o~}7.9 and addirionatmaiting offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Norrc Dame, IN 46-556-0:779 
The Ob~r is a member ofthe Assodat~:d Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
My mom casually asked me, "How's your Lent going?" Like, in the same tone she would ask, "How are the Irish doing?" I wonder, does she ask my younger brother how his Lent is going, or is this a ques­tion reserved for 
Fr. Lou Delfra
her son the priest? How's my 

Faithpoint
Lent going? How do you answer that? 

Funny what I learned while I listened to myself answering my mother. The only way I could think to evaluate my Lent was whether I had faithfully refrained from eating chocolate. "Pretty good so far," I answered. I guess I could have_determined ifl had eaten meat on any Friday's, but being an Italian pasta-lover, this isn't a par­ticularly difficult practice for me, and so hardly a helpful measure of the suc­cessfulness of my Lent. With that quick Lenten-scan, I was ready to move on, allow my mother some time to recite her litany of grandchildren stories. 
A few days later, however, I found myself bugged by our conversation, or more specifically, by my evaluation of Lent. Ia that all there is to Lent? A con­test to check my self-restraint? I'm all for an annual self-examination, but at the end of the day, if the only person I have thought of during Lent is myself, have I really entered into Lent? 
With this question in mind, I was preparing the readings for Mass last week, and unsuspectingly had my world rocked by the first reading. It was from Isaiah, and he wasn't happy: 
"Yet on the day of your fasting, you do as you please 
and exploit others.... 
Is this the kind of fast I have chosen, says the Lord? Is it only for ... lyiug on sackcloth and ashes? 
Is that what you call a fast, 
a day acceptable to the Lord? 
Is not this the kind of fasting I have chosen: to loose the chains of injustice and untie the cords of the yoke, to set the oppressed free and break every yoke? 
Is it not to share your food with the hungry 
and to provide the poor wanderer with shelter -when you see the naked, to clothe him, 
and not to turn away?" 
I re-read the passage in semi-panic, but could find no reference to choco­late. Maybe some biblical commentary or perhaps a new translation would reveal that this passage was, in its proper historical context, about giving up chocolate, but the chances seemed bleak. At some point, I was going to have to wrestle with the hard fact of the matter: Lenten fasting is not meant to end in mere self-reflection, self­evaluation, or self-anything-else. It is meant to end in others; and in the Other. It is meant to end in love of neighbor and love of God. It is meant 
to end in hunger -for peace and jus­
tice. It is meant to end in Christ's con­
stant teaching to "lose our life that we 
may find it." 
Isaiah's poignant words are meant to awaken and arouse us, to challenge and unsettle us this Lent. They call us to refocus our hearts on what truly sets us free and brings us real joy­giving ourselves away in love to God and others, struggling for true and lasting justice, which alone brings true and lasting freedom and peace. 
Our individual Lenten self-denials are excellent little ways to deny our­selves, to lose ourselves, to remind us to lose our lives in love of God and service of others, so that we might find Life. This is the promise of Jesus' teaching, and this is the example of Jesus' death and resurrection-the moment of losing ourselves is the moment of gaining Life. 
How's my Lent going? I'm not sure anymore. But I know that if I am the only person who shows up in my answer, I haven't reached the heart of Lent yet. 
This week's column is written by Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC, Director of Campus Ministry Bible Studies and ACE Chaplain. He can be reached at del­fra.2@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF QUOTE OF THE DAY 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Viewpoint 
Robbie Singer Patricia Irena Zajickova Fernandez Amanda Gray Sports 
Graphics Matt Gamber "Life is tough, and ifyou have the ability 
"Always laugh when you can. It is cheap 
Mary Cecilia Meaghan Veselik to [augh at it you have the ability to enjoy
medicine." 
it."

Mitsch Chris Masoud Scene Lord Byron 
Salma HayekBritish poet

Analise Lipari Mexican and American actress 

THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Thursday, March 19, 2009 
page 15 
Tonya and the red shoes 
Trinity College runs on trimesters. Spring Break is three weeks, and we're in the middle of it. 
Spring Break last year, for some of us, was 10 days overseas. In some ways, we're still in the middle of 
Katherine

that one, too. 
Khorey

Some ofyou have just gotten 
Both Sides Now 
back from the same trip. If you're anything like me, music and bread are, for some time, going to sound and taste like they never have done before. 
You may be a while, too, in forming any coherent responses. 
This, after a while, was mine. 
*** 
I only recently started to like shoes, 
so my collection, though it fills the floor of my closet, could still be called limited. Most of mine are brown or black: one pair is silver. But there are girls who've been building their acces­sory portfolios much longer, who have a double layer of shoes on their closet floors, maybe one pair of heels and one of flats to match every sweater. 
I have beeq trying to expand, though. For a long time, now, I've been looking for a pair of red heels to bring out the accents in one of my for­mal dresses. 
I did end up finding a pair over last year's Spring Break. But they belong to someone else. 
I don't really know who she was, or 
U WIRE 
how frequently she liked to wear them, or what she wore them with. But almost 70 years after she took them off for the last time, I found them in a place I'd never expected. 
*** 

We'd been studying this place in class. It was horrific, as were other places like it, and we'd read and heard so much about the horror that the sto­ries had begun to repeat themselves. I thought at this point, when we walked through these places, I might actually be numb to them. 
At that point it was only history. 
After half a semester of readings, lectures, and quizzes, last year's Holocaust class left for our Spring Break trip to Europe. On the second day we visited Majdanek, a concentra­tion camp a few hours outside Warsaw. Majdanek isn't as big as Auschwitz, or as geared to tourists. But still, as we heard once again on the bus ride over, it'd hosted cruelty and death. Some of us would go on to write papers about it. 
Back on campus we'd spent the past weeks trudging from building to build­ing through snow and ice, the wind cutting straight through our heavy jackets. Now, still shaking off jet lag, we were trudging from building to building through mud and very cold rain. We talked later about what work­ing barefoot in that weather would be like. I almost went through the tour coatless, for solidarity, but decided that'd be melodramatic and unneces­sary. And I was cold enough as it was. 
Toward the beginning we went through the men's "bath house", and saw the delousing tubs, and the show­ers. Then, in the same building, we saw a gas chamber. There were turquoise stains on the walls. 
Then we saw the living quarters. And a model of the whole camp. And then at some point we walked into a barracks that was filled with racks and racks of shoes. 
That was when I stopped feeling cold. 
Most of the shoes were brown with decay. From a distance they all looked alike. Up close they varied in size and detail. Some had empty holes for laces. Some may have once been pret­ty sandals. Some were like clogs or work boots. Some belonged to chil­dren. 
And then, right in the middle of one rack full of brown, there was a splash of very bright red. 
It was a woman's high heeled shoe. Only the back was visible. But it was very visibly red. 
These were statement shoes. They might have been defiant when they'd been new, and they might still be defi­ant now. 
They matched the ribbon belt on my dress. I stared at the shoe for a long time. I thought about who might have worn it: 
*** 

She was a sophisticated, single Polish Jew. She was sociable. She was fashion-conscious. She went by two names, Tonya to her gentile friends and Leah to her family. She owned a black su.it with red piping, and for the evenings a red dress to go dancing in. Her red shoes matched both. 
They were her favorites. They made her feel confident, and beautiful, and strong. When she was being "deport­ed", she might have only happened to have been wearing them. Or she might have known wh-ere she was going, and put them on for a reason. 
She'd wear them while standing up in a moving cattle car for a week. She wore them when she arrived at Majdanek. 
*** 

I knew the rest from class. And I couldn't see Tonya surviving it. But at least now I knew Tonya. I'd found her shoes. 
So I'd found a perfect pair of red shoes last Spring Break, even though I couldn't put them on. 
But I can wear them again. 
If I ever find red shoes of my own, I'll share them with Tonya, just like she shared hers with me. 
She was probably a better dancer than me. Hopefully, when we go out, that'll rub off. 
Katherine Khorey may be contacted at kkhorey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Combating Mexican drug violence requires effort from both ·sides of the border 
As University of Connecticut students return from their fun in the sun, and tens of thousands of other college stu­dents from across the country make their way south on spring break, there has been a growing amount of coverage here in the U.S. about the rapidly esca­lating violence in Mexico. Hardly an evening newscast goes by without a report about a bloodbath shootout between Mexican authorities and drug cartels in towns and cities mere miles from the U.S. border. Some colleges and universities have even made official. statements advising their students against traveling to Mexico due to the deteriorating situation there. Much of this increased coverage is the result of the growing concern that it is only a matter of time before the violence in Mexico makes its way over the border into the United States. 
This escalation in violence has been brewing for years: ever since Mexican President Felipe Calderon assumed power from Vicente Fox back in December of 2006, Calderon has waged an aggressive war on the all-mighty drug cartels that had been the de-facto rulers of Mexico for decades. By taking the cartels head-on and working to weed out the deeply rooted corruption in his country, President Calderon has made admirable progress in his anti­narcotic efforts. 
Such progress has come at a very high price, however: the drug cartels have fought back with ruthless violence. Thousands have been slaughtered, many of them innocent women and chil­dren caught in the crossfire of the heartless cartels. Cities and towns have been terrorized by the brutal violence. President Calderon is attempting to destroy the cartels' extremely lucrative trade, and cartel bosses are not going to surrender easily. 
With 90 percent of the cocaine in the United States passing through Mexico on its journey here (not to mention mar­ijuana and heroin), the sheer volume of the drugs and drug traffickers makes President Calderon's goal nearly impos­sible to achieve. Corrupt officials on both sides of the border are making the war on the cartels even more difficult. 
The U.S. has already sent $400 million to Mexico to help them train forces and provide equipment for the war against the cartels. Unfortunately, that is but a drop in the bucket, and our government _officials know it. Drug cartels are com­mitting far more money than $400 mil­lion to secure their profitable trade, and they will stop at nothing to protect their business. Significant financial cost and innocent human lives are merely expendable commodities that are just a part of everyday business to the brutal drug lords who command_the cartels. 
The only way for a war against the drug cartels to be successfully waged is with a legitimate commitment from the United States. Mexico can do its best to fight the cartels within their borders, but without a more significant commit­ment ofAmerican tactical and fmancial support, their efforts will prove futile. Ultimately, Americans (particularly those in border towns and states) will pay the price when the rampant, unbri­died violence pours over our borders. The situation has grown so severe that Texas and Arizona are already dis-­cussing the idea of putting the National Guard along the border to help keep the violence out. 
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano have both announced plans for upcoming visits to Mexico to discuss the crisis with leaders there and to see the aftermath of the violence. It is imperative that Secretaries Clinton and Napolitano use their visits as a starting point for a meaningful, legitimate working relation­ship between our two countries, a rela­tionship that is absolutely critical to the security of our nation. 
This column first appeared in the March 17, 2009 edition of The Daily Campus, the daily publication of University ofConnecticut. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 16 
Thursday, March 19, 2009 
Most people on campus have heard of Taylor Swift. Swift's two all.l~J1ls havegiiil~ l11Ultl.pl~tinum.·Shf!iwas 
,..; the biggest·selling :'In.··erica.n. artist of 
( f. 2008. Yune Magazme descnbed her :.' as "one ofpop's . ' finest songwrit-Lillian Clvantos ers, ¢oUJttry's . foremost prag­· ._ matist and Scene Writer more in touch with her inner life than most adUlts." Her bit music video\' "Love Story;" is an Internet sensation. (and the mspi'­ratioh.fot a certain romantic on-cani­pus proposal). But most college stu­dents don't realize that this talented 
¥.: 19-year:"old is younger than most of us. And even though she Js f~ous. . .{. TaylorSwift is very easy to relate-to; · Let me tell you why.· 
• After researching Taylor for this " column, I came to one conclusion: the girl is adorable. If you want proof; 
. read her MySpace journal entries1or '"'~ cbeck out the cutk home videos<slte 
•. has posted, which are also on 
\ MySpa.cl}. The. journal ~ntries .are funny, well·wntten and mteref]tiug; They have titles like~ "While lwas iii L.A., mymomre-arranged my bath­room" and "Putting off packing by hlogging," making ber seem verY 
.· relatable. The videos, too, reveal her . sarcastic sense ofhnmor. ·..·. .... .. . 
Inshort, Taylor sv\iitt 1s an incredi­bly genuine ana down-to-earth per­son _.... qualities that really come through in her albums,. 
For starters, Taylor . .Swift wri 
-::< ofher own musiC, All of'it. How pop artists can say that? A few f>()!lgs on her two albums are c.o-wdtten, including. a soWful collaboration with 
.• Colbie Caillat on het;second afbUl11, 
· None of her songs are entirely writ~ ten by someone else. What's ~rire, 
':.:'' every one of Tayl(Jr Swift's songs is ·... based on her own life ...:;.. really. She ' also doesn't hesitat'i)to use th al 
names tJffriends and ex-boyfrie 
This honesty has generated a lot of drama. For instance, Taylor wrote the hit. song "Teardrops on My Guitar'' ahm.1t a named llrew who she crushed .. . . high sclt~l. As the song says< he bad a girlfriend at the time and never dated T~yl()r. But in <;~tie interview, Taylor Swift reveale9 that be sh9wed up o~ ~er driveway -sh1gl~ ~ after the 
.. release of her first albtun. . Unfortunately, their reunion ditln't
l ( work~o~t. Too much time ha~ ~~~d, 
and they bad grown apart. It's still a 
crazyst0ry,isn'tit't . 
A cuter.story surrounds the. fourth · 
track on ''Fearless," called "Hey 
Stephen.'' The song is about singer 
Stephen Barker Liles of the Nashville band Love and Theft. The band toure<(.\1\!ith Taylor last summer, and · she developed a crush on Ules. But she did not tell him that she planned to write a song about him. tiles was reportedly quite sutprisQd when the 
album.¢ame out. ... 
to the hype and delivers the same 
The lyrics include such lines as, fresh sourid that fans Jove. "Hey Stephen/ I could give you 50 Each song on "Fearless'' can stand reasons/Why I should be the one you 
alone as an excellent tune. The 
choose/ All thos:e other girls are beautif'uV .But W()~ld they write a 
' sowJfo:tyou?" ...•......•.. .•• . ·.·· ·• .· · No word yet qn a developing .; r~man.qe. between ~e t'":o, but Liles d1d !)ay m a past.mterv1ew that, "I think everyone w~~ld agree s.Ue's a total sweetheart a:P:d anyone would .·~ be lucky to go out with· her.,; ~tay · 
By LILLIAN CIVANTOS 
Scene Writer 

Ther~ is no doubt that Taylor Swift is one of the most impres.')ive young artist.<; of 2008. She was completely unknown three short years ago, but has built success through hard work and sheer talent. Her first album, the self-titled "Taylor Swift," is beloved M; for its. instantly likeable sound. ':t ''Fearless," released in 2008, lives up 
tuned. C; bly already familiar With "Love And, of course, Taylor's breakout ? 1 Story," and don't need a description single··~ 2006's. ~Tim McGraw" ~ .~ .,., of-its lyrical strength. The track was .has it~ o.•· wn. st(}PX:. She wrote thi$ ·· ··~y-~ a hit single well ·before .~'Fearless" heart~i'ending tune in math class. was released. Although some con~ during her freshman year. Yes, of·:. sider it the best song on the album, 
--/ ''Fearless" that's worth checking out·· .. arilazllig this y<n.J):Jg stat is; hutrn high school. This kind of story makes 
me wish that I bad used my high 
schoolmath olas~esmore productive­
ly. .,;.;.to write hit Sl)1}gs, for .insta,nc~:t · 
Other proof ofTaylor Swift's adora­
bility? She encodes secret messages into her albums, which are fun to unraveL For ins~ance, track three on ."Fearless;" "Fifteeri/'Js a bittersweet · take <iti her freshinan year. Its secret message?. "I cried while recording 
tbis;" · · ··· 
How's that for honesty? 

J·could go on andon about· how 
wrap it up in Taylor's own words. 
Here's .an excerpt from her recent · 
~· intervi.ew with Philadelphia It'~ Magazin~: . . . . ·.•· . .· ..• .. ... .. 
r 

Pl\ti:: \'Yht:in did you.realize that you . ::..)~
weren)just ·sucees$t\il-you we:re a huritongous friggin' deal? 
Taylor: Urn, I never came to that realiz~tion, actually .. My biggest p.et peeve·~s p~ople w}).9 feel they're enti­tied t(l 'success and fame.. } haven't reached the pohitwhere I'm like. "Hey, mail, I've made it!" And I hope I never do get to that point. 
We hope she d 't either. Taylor. 
stayjuS~ttheway .a.r~ ~adorable. 
---..-----'-'....._......_._____ Contact Ullian Civantos at 
~ivant~:~d.edn .. ••·•·••·····.. · .•.... 
........ 1!'·.... ~.?'\\'(6!11 . '\'0\'''o•::. i•R/:t~~t /!:... 4,t\·.
1 .
.-.•, "* , . 1' U' ""' -. *".., • ~ '""""' • "\. 
. . .. ·*,.c•"\ ~. .. . =· ../....,-~ ~ ~.i't.: 
tracks are easy listening, and most are quite catchy. There is no denying Swift's talent vocally and on guitar1and piano. And again, just like on ·her debut, Swift's sound resembles \ light pop more than stereotypical 
country western. 
A few tracks really stand out from 
Um crowd. Most readers are proba· 
several others give "Love Story" a _ run for its money. ·/:'' Track three, "Hey Stephen;'' is a.
( 

;. '(flirty, sparkling pumber about \ ")':. Taylor's secret crush on singer \ ·.·Stephen Barker Liles of the country -' .' ., band Love and ThQft. The song :-r': ~· informed the real-life Stephen of ·:":' .. Swift's feelings for hbh..•.··•··· . The title track, "Fearless," is another contender. It is character-l ized by strong guitar, played by \ Taylor herself, and powerful lyrics. 
• · 
.....,-;; 
(f..:·
\ 'j 41 

Track six, "You Belong With Me,'' is 
a playful take on unrequited love. lt T Merle'Hagg~l'd· SM has been com-. is melodious, lighthearted and thor-pared to N.orah Jones and Colbie oughly enjoyable. ''Best Day" is · Caillat, with whom she collaborated 
Taylor Swift 

Label: Big Machine Records Recommended Tracks~~Hey Stephen," "You Belong Wrth Me'' and ~'Feartess" 
another of the album's strongest offerings, a genuine tribute to Swift's family, especially her mot4er. 
The album becomes slower towards the end. Each of these measured songs alone is great, but together they start to sound similar, The comm()n themes and consistent sounds make such songs begin to feel repetitive over time. Most of the songs on the album are slow-moving and soft. and individually they sound beautifUL Still, the album contains too many slhwnumbers in dose sue~ cession. And truthfully, Swift is at her best when she reveals her inner sparkle with a faster pace. 
. As always, Swift is honest and self·ref.le:ctive in her singing and song writing. This may explain the downbeat trend in "Fearless," which was, unsurprisingly, based on actual events in Swift's life. The young singer~songwriter ·broke up With boyfriend Joe Jonas while "Fearless" was being recorded. Track 11, "Forever & Always," is specifically about Jonas and their 
··relationship. The majority of the album's songs have fa:irly sad, "love-slipped-away" sorts of themes, and many could be played repeatedly after a break-up. Swift is recognized as a pioneer of· the new generation in colliltry music. -Het style is nothing like the typical down-home sound of "country west-t ··v ern"-for that style, try Johnny Cash 1) J• or Dolly Parton; Rather. Taylor Swift is r I. 


..·a membecr of the new "country pop" 
-4/ 

or "southenl.rock" style that is a mix of country, ·rock, and pop. Rascal Fratts is another example of this growing genre. Swift's style is more evocativet}fMichelle Branch than 

.;:·,::.:..

)Jj ~ 
.~======~========~ 
for track seven, 
"Breathe." 
If you're looking for a light and likeable album from one of the hottest ¥Oung artists in the country~ you will 
. love "Fearless;'' And if you're looking to for a weepy post-break-up ballad, the album is also for you. Tissues )',\ 
· not included'. . .. .ll' 
/-'
:;I
·Contact Lillian 
•"
Civantos at lcivanto@nd.edu ' 
' 


Waltz with Bashir; Vickers Theatre; 9:00 .. Mark Duval and the Brothers Kalamazov; p.m.; Tickets: Adults $8, · ~ '8:00 pm; The Livery; $5, Free for 'Mug Students/Seniors $6 :Club' Members 
Winner of the Golden Globe for Best . For a fun and chill start to the evening, 
Foreign Film and the Best Animated Fllature>. head to The Livery this Friday night for an ; award from the Los Angeles Film Critics.'; ,eclectic and versatile performance by the ·. Association, the tale "Waltz with Bashir,"~' ·folksy rock band Mark Duval and the . based on a true story, explores the director's.~Brothers Kalamazov. With a wide variety _ memory as he searches to piece together the ;, of instruments ranging from a guitar and 
events of the Lebanon War in the early >banjo to a flute and saxophone, be pre­; 1980s. Eerily animated in a style that depicts pared to hear surprising combinations of ·. the serious subject matter, "Waltz with ··multiple styles influenced by Celtic, blue­
Bashir" shows his journey into the realms of ;grass, and jazz sounds. As spring finally an event that some think would be better to .starts to come out of hiding, ·get up and get forget. Join Ari Folman on his difficult voy-' -off campus for a night of entertaining age of self-discovery. . music. 
r ';,,··
~ ...:>__ ,_ ··~~~·-'><~~!.::.~~·,;.::·*·:.~.~_\~·~ :·:~~f::·~~~J~-:;f>_ ;=,·;,~, ~·:~ :~.''• .~;~ ~r ..:~·~ • V ··~; ··~·:... • , ~·,,,< :~.~" 
Cre na Cille; 6:30 pm; Browning Cinema; .. Eden; (2008); Browning Cinema 3:00 pm; ; Tickets: $6, $5 faculty/staff, $4 seniors, >t~Tickets: $6, $5 faculty/staff, $4 seniors, · $3 all students :'.• $3 all students 
Capitalize on Notre Dame's Irish pride by: ·:: Director Declan Reeks explores the rocky . exploring the contemporary Irish films being ·..,/period in many marriages when husbands or · shown at Browning Cinema this weekend. In an .. : ;wives start to question their happiness in his· 
adaptation of Mairtin 0 Cadhain's book, the cun-.,l Irish film, "Eden." What happens when 10 ·ning and comical "Cre na Cille" (Churchyard•;: ',:years into your marriage, you discover an . Oay) tells a story of sibling rivalry, death and theV (intense unhappiness lurking beneath the. , fascinating journey souls embark after they've,;,, ;.surfaee, one that leads you to believe maybe 'left the realms of the living. The recently depart-<·.you are not really in love with your spouse? ed Caitriona hungrily awaits the death of her ': As Breda Farrell (Eileen Walsh) clings to the rival sister Neil, who stole away Caitriona's true ·.thinning threads holding her marriage love when living. From the grave to the great:c :. together, her questioning husband (Aidan 
. beyond, laugh and learn about rural Ireland's.> ·Kelly) pulls further away, breaking the bonds .· finest as you watch "Crena Cille." ···:'they once had. 
:t~ 


the complicated but loveable Buchman elation shows audiences how oneBy ADRIANA PRATT family -then waste no time in renting momentous event can change the 
Scene Writer 

this newly released film. course of a life, or even end it. 
Warning: For those of you who con­Home from rehab for the weekend, A contemporary cinematic accom­sider yourselves faint of heart, stay recovering addict and semi-psychotic plishment, "Rachel Getting Married" away from "Rachel Getting Married." Kym (Hathaway) travels back to her dares to take an in-depth look at why 
If you're uncomfortable with the roots to witness the wedding of her sis­and how families grow apart, finding repercussions of a psychological jour­ter Rachel (Rosemarie DeWitt) and eventual reconciliation and powerful ney that will not only fiance Sidney (Tunde reunion. take you through Adebimpe). Kym dives Director Jonathan Demme elicits
Rachel's inner 

emotional highs and back into the eccentric stellar performances from his cast, and lows, but will also jealousy for the amount and sometimes over­each member plays with the complex have you sympathiz­ofattention paid to her whelming atmosphere ties of family very well. ing with opposing that family life Through ups and downs, joyous
prodigal sister mirrors 

characters while hat­inevitably brings. moments and times of heartbreaking ing them for their common themes of Upon Kym's return, sadness, "Rachel Getting Married" emotional incompre­sibling rivalry and the tension between the presents life in its raw, inharmonious hension, steer clear. two sisters boils to the and beautiful existence. 
sisterly drama. 

On the other hand, surface. Kym, paradoxi-The feeling of fullness this ftlm gives for those of you who cally charming and is unmatched by much of what is cur­want to see a kick-butt performance by painful, throws sarcastic, offensive and rently in theaters. Don't miss out on Oscar nominee Anne Hathaway, or are sometimes-funny com-the opportunity to drawn to a movie that feels so true and ments Rachel's way. She escape from the
The feeling offullness
real you'll forget you're watching a constantly forces the spot­confining strictures film -and aren't actually a member of light on her own miracu-this film gives is of daily life -join 
Rachel Getting Married 
Director: Jonathan Demme Staning: Anne Hathaway, Rosemarie DeWrtt and Debra Winger 

lous return unmatched by much of Kym's journey back 
from exile, in into the world of
what is currently in
spite of her freely bared emo­sister's role as ~ theaters. tions and realities the weekend's in their most blushing bride. unprocessed forms. 
Rachel's inner jealousy The DVD of "Rachel Getting Married" for the amount of attention was released on March 10. Among the paid to her prodigal sister special features, fans of the film can mirrors common themes of enjoy a director's commentary with sibling rivalry and sisterly Demme, an additional commentary drama. featuring DeWitt, several deleted 
As the weekend of the scenes and a series of production fea­wedding progresses, a turettes. tragic reason for the fami­ly's estranged state is Contact Adriana Pratt at revealed. The surprise rev-apratt@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS • Thursday, March 19, 2009 
NBA 
Pierce scores 36 in Celtics' overtime win at home 
Wallace scores 25 points and 12 rebounds in win over Kings; Nets win over Knicks after a four-game losing streak 
Besides Garnett and Allen, back at the hotel, leaving a
Associated Press 
Leon Powe is expected to miss huge void for the Kings on 
BOSTON -Paul Pierce two weeks after spraining his offense made worse by scored 36 points and the right knee on Tuesday. Tony Nocioni's absence. Boston Celtics clinched the Allen missed his 16th straight The forward, acquired in a Atlantic Division title with a game with a left thumb injury three-team trade last month, 112-108 victory Wednesday and Brian Scalabrine sat out has been slowed by tendinitis night against the Miami Heat , his 20th in the last 23 following in his right quadriceps. who played without NBA scor­a concussion. Nocioni received treatment ing-leader Dwyane Wade. Glen Davis started at forward before the game, but Natt 
Wade missed his first game in place of Powe after missing decided to rest him. of the season because of a right the previous four games with a Francisco Garcia , starting hip flexor. sprained right ankle. for Nocioni, scored 17 points, 
But Boston was without Boston led 34-21 after one but hit only seven of 21 shots. Kevin Garnett for the 13th quarter but quickly lost control He also was called for a tech­straight game with a strained as Miami opened the second nical foul after a hard foul on right knee and Ray Allen, who period with an 10-2 run that Wallace midway through the hyperextended his elbow cut the margin to 36-31. The fourth quarter. Tuesday night in a loss at Celtics stretched that to 45-37 It was the second -and Chicago. before the Heat made an even less scarier -time Wallace 
Rajon Rondo had 27 for stronger surge, ending the half crashed to the floor. Boston. Miami, in its third with a 17-4 spurt and a 54-49 Late in the second quarter overtime game in its last five, lead. Wallace slipped on a drive was led by Michael Beasley The run began with a free and clutched his left knee as with 21 points and Mario throw by Jermaine O'Neal, who McCants scored off the Chalmers with 19. had seven of the 17 points, and turnover at the other end. 
With the score tied at 100 ended with a layup by But Wallace walked to the after regulation, Eddie House Chalmers. locker room, then returned and Pierce hit 3-pointers and Daequan Cook , starting in and started the second half as third, and cruised to a surpris­in the first half and didn't get
Rondo sank a layup for a 108-place of Wade, gave Miami its the Kings rallied. ingly easy victory in a game anything going until the game100 lead. first lead, 46-45, on a 3-point­Trailing by as many as 13 between teams fighting desper­was essentially decided. 
Then Chalmers made a 3-er. points in the first half, ately to stay in the playoff race. Fellow starting guard Larrypointer and, after Kendrick Pierce had 12 points in the McCants scored 13 points in The Nets lost the first four Hughes was 3-for-11 for his Perkins hit a free throw, first quarter when he hit 5-of-6 the third quarter and games of the trip out West, los­10 points.Chalmers sank another 3-shots but was scoreless in the Sacramento led brief1y before ing All-Star point guard Devin Nets coach Lawrence Frank pointer, making it 109-106 second when he missed all Charlotte regained a 78-70 Harris to a sprained left shoul­said before the game there with 44 seconds left. three of his attempts. lead entering the fourth. der along the way. They didn't was no timetable for Harris' 
But House hit one free throw After being outscored 27-9 miss him on this night, shoot­return, but insisted his team and Pierce sank two before Bobcats 104, Kings 88 to clos-e the game in Atlanta ing 59 percent and getting 17 still had enough to win with­Beasley's basket ended the Gerald Wallace had 25 points Tuesday, the Kings had a simi­points from his replacement, out him. That might be true if scoring. and 12 rebounds and the lar meltdown, watching Keyon Dooling . Carter plays the way he did 
Boston improved to 51-18 Charlotte Bobcats beat short­Charlotte finish on a 17-5 run Al Harrington scored 21 Wednesday.with its second win in six handed Sacramento 104-88 on that included Spencer Hawes points, and Nate Robinson had The Knicks led by three games. Second-place Wednesday to keep the Kings getting called for a technical 18 points for the Knicks, who after one quarter, but Carter Philadelphia can win no more winless against the Eastern foul for complaining about a came home only two games out knocked down consecutive 3­
than 51 and the Celtics have Conference. foul. of the eighth playoff spot after pointers to open the second won the season series with the Emeka Okafor added 16 Sacramento had n.o go-to going 3-2 on their trip and and give the Nets the lead. 76ers. points and 10 rebounds for the player after McCants left fol­were opening a stretch where He later scored eight straight
In its previous four games, Bobcats, who pulled away in lowing his season-high per­they play five of six at home. points on a pair of 3s and a Miami beat Chicago in double the fourth quarter as the Kings formance, and the Kings lost But they were never in the layup to push the lead into overtime, Boston in regulation played without top scorer their fifth straight and fell to game in the second half, booed double digits and finished 
and Utah in triple overtime Kevin Martin (illness), Andres 4-31 on the road. occasionally in a performance with 17 points in the period,before losing at Philadelphia Nocioni (quadriceps) and then The Kings have just two that was so bad that coach helping New Jersey open a on Sunday. lost Rashad McCants (ankle) more chances -Friday at Mike D'Antoni gave Demetris 55-44 halftime lead. Wade's injury ended his after he scored 30 points. New York and Sunday at Nichols and Cheikh Samb , The Nets then hit their first career-long streak off 66 Beginning the night in the home against Philadelphia -both on 1 0-day contracts, their four and seven of their first straight games played. The middle of a six-team logjam for to avoid becoming the first first playing time with the eight shots in the third, Heat did not say how long he the final playoff spot in the NBA team to go winless team. extending the lead to 67-48, would be sidelined, but he was East, the Bobcats won their against the other conference. The Knicks wore their green and it was never close again. not ruled out of games Friday second straight while the NBA­St. Patrick's Day uniforms, the night at New Jersey and worst Kings fell to 0-28 against Nets 115, Knlcks 89 same one Robinson wore when Nuggets 111, Grizzlies 109 Sunday against Detroit. the East. Vince Carter scored 29 he soared over Dwight Howard Carmelo Anthony scored 35 Boston had a chance to win McCants, starting for Martin, points and the New Jersey to win the All-Star slam dunk points. including the go­
in regulation Wednesday, but hit 10 of 20 shots before limp­Nets salvaged the final game contest. But Krypto-Nate and ahead three-point play with Pierce's 18-footer from the left ing to the locker room with of their otherwise miserable the Knicks were far from 33.2 remaining, as the missed as the buzzer sounded. 4:41 left with a sprained right five-game trip with a 115-89 super, going 2-for-17 from 3-Denver Nuggets overcame a 
The lead changed hands 11 ankle. victery over the New York point range and having as 17-point second-half deficit times in the fourth quarter Coach Kenny Natt said Knicks on Wednesday night. many turnovers (15) as assists. to defeat the Memphis when the biggest edge was just Martin first started feeling ill Brook Lopez added 23 Robinson stayed in starting Grizzlies 111-109 on three points by Miami. before he scored 31 points in points for the Nets, who put lineup despite the return of Wednesday night.
With all their injuries, the Tuesday's loss to Atlanta. But it up 70 points across the mid­Chris Duhon , who missed the Anthony hit a pair of free Celtics relied on Pierce even got worse after the flight to dle two quarters, making 16 last two with a sore ankle and throws with 5.8 seconds left more than they usually do. Charlotte, and Martin stayed of 22 shots (73 percent) in the back. But he was only 1-for-7 for a 111-108 lead. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
SUMMER CAMP COUNSELOR for children w/disabilities.Must have strong work ethic and be interested in making a difference in the life of a child. $9-$11 hr., 35 hr/wk, sum­mer only.4 sites in Summit County, Ohio.Must enjoy outdoor activities. 
Visit www.akroncyo.org to down­load an application from the Careers link. EOE 
FoR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 
Affordable Graduate and Faculty Off-Campus Housing. Call for Availability (574)243-2818 or (574)276-6118. 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer­ing 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 
4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Starts 6/09. $850/mo. 574-250-7653. 
Need off-campus housing for next year (09-10)? 2,3.4 and 5 bedroom houses available 1/2 miles from campus, ND ALUMNI OWNED. As low as $275 per student. 
Contact on-campus rep at ebar­loh@nd.edu or 1-513-706-9655 
Houses for the 09-10 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or www.kramerhous­es.com 
Lux twnhs: 3 bdrms 3 ba, next to St. Mary s $680 mo per bdrm. 
574-271-7030 harvey.18@nd.edu 
1-3BR Contemporary Urban APTS across from Notre Dame Stadium. The Foundry features private baths for every bedroom, washer/dryer, fitness center, theater room, tanning salon, game room. Preleasing for August. Call574­232-1400 or lease online www. foundryliving.com 
3bdrm,1.5 ba home in nice, clean, quiet family neighborhood. Living & dining rms, kitchen, computer rms, large sunroom. Basement for stor­age. Close to shopping, Restaurants and bus. 
$2,000/mo. 1st & last mo. rent reqd. plus deposit. 1-yr. lease. 
Call 574-233-8886-after 4pm or 574-386-7100 Geri. 
2009/1 0 student rentals Angela St./St. Peters & S.B. Ave. 
$1300-$2000/mo. 

Contact Bruce Gordon 574-876­3537. 
FoR SALE 

"Slightly Stoopid" Concert Tix Friday, 3/20 8 pm Congress Theater, Chi. 2 great tix at $80/both. Cathy at 574-273-1702 or 574-344­6468, codell@nd.edu 
PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: 
http:1/osa.nd. edu/health­safety/assault/ UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. 
We have many resources in place 
to assist you. 
If you or someone you love needs 
confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 
or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 
For more information, visit NDs 
Assistance for Pregnant 
Students//Office of Student Affairs 
website at: osa:nd.edulhealth-safe­. ty/assistance-for -pregnant -students. 

-------------------.
r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, March 19, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 19 

NCAA Baseball USA TodayjESPN Coach's Poll 
team points 
1 North Carolina 755 2 Texas 726 3 Georgia 649 4 Arizona St. 638 5 LSU 629 6 Cal St. Fullerton 618 7 Miami (Fla.) 608 8 TexasA&M 566 9 Georgia Tech 556 10 Coastal Carolina 428 11 Oklahoma St. 423 12 Rice 410 13 UC Irvine 317 14 Virginia 279 15 Arkansas 278 16 Oklahoma 261 17 Baylor 243 18 TCU 218 19 Clemson 186 20 Mississippi 171 21 Pepperdine 163 22 UC Riverside 107 23 Cal Poly 95 24 Florida St. 89 25 Florida 62 
NCAA Women's Lacrosse Division I Top 20 
team points 
1 Northwestern 2 Maryland 3 Duke 4 Virginia 5 Penn 6 Syracuse 7 Princeton 8 Georgetown 9 North Carolina 10 Vanderbilt 11 NOTRE DAME 12 Boston U. 12 New Hampshire 14 Cornell 15 Penn St. 16 James Madison 17 Stanford 
18 Dartmouth 19 Ohio St. 20 Loyola (Md.) 

NCAA Men's Volleyball Division 1-11 Top 15 
team  points  
1  uc Irvine  239  
2  Cal St. Northridge  219  
3  Pepperdine  210  
4  Southern California  187  
5  Long Beach St.  169  
6  Stanford  163  
1  Penn St.  144  
8  BYU  133  
9  uc San Diego  118  
10  UCLA  84  
11  Lewis  82  
12  UC Santa Barbara  47  
13  Hawaii  45  
14  Ohio St.  42  
15  Loyola (Ill.)  16  

IDITAROD 
400 368 335 326 320 310 250 Associated Press 

23~ NOME, Alaska-Make it 
220 

three Iditarods in a row for
206 
Lance Mackey. 
204 

The musher from
175 

Fairbanks won the 1,100­
124 

mile trek across the Alaska 
121 

wilderness Wednesday in
103 

the world's most famous
98 

sled dog race. And it was­
98 
75 

n't even close. 63 Mackey slapped hands 37 with fans along Nome's 
Front Street. About a block 
from the finish line, he 
raised both arms in victory 
and rode that way into the 
chute at 11:38 a.m., hours 
ahead of his nearest com" 
petitors in the Iditarod 
Trail Sled Dog Race. 
Immediately after win­ning, he gave treats to his 

IN BRIEF Blazers center Oden to 
return against Pacers 
INDIANAPOLIS -Greg Oden will finally play in his hometown as a pro. 
The 7-foot center is set to return to the Portland Trail Blazers' lineup Wednesday against the Indiana Pacers after sitting out for more than a month with a bone chip in his left knee, 
coach Nate McMillan said. 
The t()p pick in the 2007 draft and former Lawrence North High 
School star sat out last season after microfracture surgery on his right knee, so he missed the Trail Blazers' visit to Indiana last sea­
around the dial 
NCAA Basketball Tournament 
son.

No. 14 American vs. No. 3 Villanova 
Oden was hurt in a collision 
7:20 p.m., CBS 

during a game at Golden State before the All-Star break. McMillan said he expects the for­mer Ohio State star to play 15 to 
No. 11 VCU vs. No. 6 UCLA 
9:50 p.m., CBS 

20 minutes. Oden is averaging 9.0 and 7.2 rebounds in 46 games this season. 
dogs, calling them the "real heroes." 
'This never gets old," he said at the finish line as he hugged two of his dogs. 
"It's pretty awesome. Pretty cool." 
Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin congratulated Mackey by phone. 
"We are so proud of you. Lance, and we're consider­ing this the greatest team in Iditarod history," Palin said. 
She also told the 38­year-old Mackey, a throat cancer survivor, "You con­tinue to give all of us hope, the adversity thaJ you have overcome, the challenges you've met, believe me, it resonates across our nation and across our world." 
Mackey commended his "little superstar Maple," a 3-year-old female who was in the lead for much of the last part of the race. He hauled her and 9-year-old Larry, one of his traditional lead dogs, onto the stage with him. 
Mackey became the third musher in the race's 37­year history to win in three consecutive years, joining Susan Butcher (1986-88) and Doug Swingley (1999­01). 
He finished about six hours ahead of the second­and third-place mushers, Sebastian Schnuelle of Canada and John Baker of Kotzebue. 

He increased his lead along the wind-swept western coast of Alaska. Fierce, biting winds blew in ofT the Bering Sea, forc­ing temperatures to 50 below zero. Many mushers waited out the storm in checkpoints. 
In Mackey's two previous victories, he headed into the Iditarod about two weeks after winning the 1,000-mile Yukon Quest International Sled Dog Race, considered a tougher race. 
He didn't run the Yukon Quest this year, choosing instead to train an Alaska Native musher for the Iditarod. 
Cubs retire number 
of Jenkins, Maddux 
MESA, Ariz. -The Chicago Cubs will retire the No. 31 worn by both Ferguson Jenkins and Greg Maddux. 
They two star right-handed pitchers will be honored at a ceremony May 3 before a game 
against  Florida  at  Wrigley  
Field.  
It will be the fifth  number  

retired by the Cubs, joining No. 14 (Ernie Banks), No. 26 (Billy Williams), No. 10 (Ron Santo) and No. 23 (Ryne Sandberg). 
Jenkins, elected to the Hall of Fame in 1991, and Maddux, who won 355 games before retiring in December, are the first pitchers in Cubs history to have their numbers retired. 
Jenkins retired before the 1984 season. When Maddux broke in with the Cubs two years later, he was given No. 31. 
New jobs, rumors 
keeping Andretti busy 
INDIANAPOLIS Michael Andretti's jobs keep getting more complex. 
He's already the co-owner of the only four-car team in the lndyCar Series. He's promoting two races this season. He will be on Danica Patrick's radio when the Indy Racing League season opens and he will spend the next several months, per­haps longer, answering those inces­sant questions about the future of Patrick at Andretti Green Racing. 
"I think we all know what we need to do with Danica, she knows what she needs to do, and we're hoping that she's going to be here for a long time," Andretti said Wednesday. "She hasn't expressed anything to us that would lead us to believe she doesn't want to be here." 
That's unlikely to satisfy a racing community abuzz with speculation now that the Illinois native is enter­ing the final year of her contract. 
• 
• 
•:,..... 
.. 



1 0 P~I Irish Idol Finals lVIidnight St. Paddy's Day Party tiC:hicken Jackson • 
FRIDi\Y Ml\RC.H 2ont · · 10 Pl\'1 Bayside \V/ special guest Dear Noel l\1idnight Salsa Niglitclub ft. DJ l)el Rio 
10 P~~I Taalam Acey Niidnight Hip-Hop Nightclub ft. DJ SoCo 
NO COVER ND/SMC/HC ID. 
Thursday, March 19, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
LSU hoping to make long run 
Mitchell looking to lead No.8 Tigers Jar in the NCAA tournament 
Associated Press 
GREENSBORO, N.C. Tasmin Mitchell took a feed on the block Wednesday dur­ing LSU's open workout, spun around and kissed a layup off the glass. 
Getting the Tigers to the NCAA tournament every year was supposed to be that easy, too. Or so Mitchell thought, anyway, after a freshman sea­son in which he helped lead LSU to its first Final Four in two decades. 
"Every team goes into the season thinking they can make it to the Final Four, especially if we made it the year before that," Mitchell said. "The sky's the limit for the team. You know, as the seasons played out, it didn't go as planned." 
No, it didn't.. 
A broken leg, a coaching change and a pair of mediocre finishes later, and Mitchell finally has the eighth-seeded Tigers (26-7) back in the bracket. They're preparing for ninth-seeded Butler in a South Regional first-round matchup marked by an intriguing juxtaposition of the teams' experience lev­els. 
Th~ young Bulldogs (26-5) have had to mature quickly into tournament regulars, 
making the field of 65 for the third straight year despite a starting lineup that has three freshmen joined by a pair of underclassmen -sophomore Matt Howard and junior Willie Veasley -who have become team leaders by default. 
"We talked about being inexperienced, but between (Howard and Veasley). they played seven NCAA tourna­ment games, so those guys understand what this is all about," Butler coach Brad Stevens said. 
The senior-dominated Tigers, meanwhile, start four fourth-year players -but only two of them, Mitchell and guard Garrett Temple, logged significant minutes on LSU's most recent NCAA tour­nament team. 
Those 2006 Tigers ad'vanced to the national semifinals before struggling badly enough during the years that followed that coach John Brady was fired midway through last season. It didn't help that Mitchell played just three games that year before taking a medical redshirt and having surgery to repair a stress fracture in his left shin. 
"Me and Garrett sit back and talk about it all the time -remember it was like this, remember that game," Mitchell said. "That's over with. We've got to try to get back where we were. The two years after that, you know, we kind of really, really dropped the ball. We really proved to teams that, OK, LSU is not the same as 2006." 
These Tigers aren't much like the ones of the past cou­ple seasons, either. 
Under Southeastern Conference coach of the year Trent Johnson, LSU won the league's regular-season title by going 13-3. But they slipped into a late-season swoon that included losses in three of four games and prob­ably was responsible for their drop to a No. 8 seed. 
To regain their swagger, they'll need to find a way to handle a Butler team that built its reputation as one of the nation's most dangerous mid-majors by taking down several teams from BCS con­ferences. 
Since 2000, the Bulldogs have knocked Maryland, Mississippi State, Louisville and Wake Forest out of the tournament. Last year, they took Tennessee to overtime before falling in the second round. 
"It's in the perception of what people think we should do, is the main thing," for­ward Matt Howard said. 
MLB 
Boone in need of heart surgery on aortic valve 
Associated Press 
KISSIMMEE, Fla. -Aaron Boone of the Houston Astros will have open-heart surgery to replace an aortic valve. 
Boone made the announce­ment Wednesday, saying he has known about .his heart condition since college but tests after his routine physi­cal determined he needed surgery. It is not an emer­gency, but doctors indicated the procedure was needed. 
He said doctors told him he could play baseball when he recovers, but he's not sure whether he will. 
An emotional Boone deliv­ered the news flanked by general manager Ed Wade and manager Cecil Cooper. and in front of a somber room filled with teammates and Astros officials. 
"It definitely hits home, but I'm doing well with it," Boone said. "I feel)ike I'm fairly educated on it now. I have a strong faith and a great family and friends and teammates. I really am doing well and I'm ready to tackle this thing and get it behind me and get on with life." 
Wade said a local doctor who did the team physicals and team physician Dr. Jim Muntz worked together to conduct tests on Boone because they knew of his condition. 
"Unfortunately the test results came out indicating there was an acceleration of the condition that Aaron has been dealing with for a number of years," Wade said. 
He has a bicuspid aortic valve, a congenital defect where the valve has only two cusps to manage the flow of blood through the heart, as opposed to the nor­mal three. The surgery has not been scheduled, but Boone expects to set a date for the procedure later this week. 
"As a baseball family we're here to support Aaron, as you can see by all the teammates and front office personnel we have here," Cooper said. "And anything he needs we're going to be there to help him out." 
Boone said he feels fine, but that he's never had symptoms of the problem. 
He'll make decisions on his future after he recovers and can research and talk with athletes who have returned to play after heart surgery. He mentioned getting in touch with Golden State's Ronny Turiaf, who had a similar procedure and cur­rently plays in the NBA. 

page 22 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Northern Iovva ready 
to go against Purdu~ 
Panthers looking to score big against fifth­seeded Boilermakers in NCAA opening 
Associated Press 
PORTLAND, Ore. -Ben Jacobson isn't going to sell his Northern Iowa Panthers any delusions for a first­round upset of Purdue. That means no inspirational talk of Cinderellas, bracket-busters or Hoosiers. 
"That isn't a card, if you will, that I'd play with our guys," the coach said. "Our guys know what they're about. They know what they're made of. They don't need me to tell them what they're up against." 
The 12th-seeded Panthers (23-10) will go into Thursday's game against the fifth-seeded Boilermakers (25-9) grounded in reality. 
Northern Iowa failed to make even the NIT the past two seasons, and was picked to finish sixth in the Missouri Valley Conference. The Panthers met that expecta­tion by starting the season 6­6. 
But then Northern Iowa took off on an 11-game win­ning streak. The Panthers lost just four games after the first of the year and capped the season with a 60-57 over­time victory over Illinois State to win the MVC tournament title. 
So while they have dis­missed the doubters and get the added bonus of momen­tum, coach Jacobson was guarding his team against dreams of an headline-grab­bing upset. He was putting the focus on old-fashioned hard work. 
"It doesn't mean that we get to win just because we're the 12 and people like to talk about it, you know?" he said. "We're going to have to play a very good basketball team and we know what we're up against." 
Since 2001, No. 12 seeds have defeated No. 5 seeds in 13 of 32 games. 
"I think it just shows the parity through the years," said Purdue coach Matt Painter, "that there's not a whole lot of difference between the five and the 12." 
The 17th-ranked Boilermakers defeated Ohio State 65-61 on Sunday to claim the Big Ten Conference championship and earn the automatic berth. 
The conference tournament title was a boost for Purdue, which lost three of its final four regular-season games. The Boilermakers even held a special meeting to address con­cerns. 
"We \"ere definitely struggling coming into that weekend," for­ward Robbie Hummel said. "But I think we played really well in the Big Ten tournament. I really felt like we were playing well as a team and doing every­thing we needed to win. 
Hummel missed several games this season with a hair­line fracture in his lower back, but he returned to full strength in time for the conference tour­nament, where he averaged 
16.0 points and 9.3 rebounds. He was named the tourney's most outstanding player. 
He is one of Purdue's three super sophomores, a,long with JaJuan Johnson and B'Twaun Moore. None of the seniors start. 
Toward the end of the regular season, the Boilermakers lost focus, the players said. But the meeting helped them regain it just in time. · 
"We were playing a little slop­PY sometimes, playing a little out of control," Moore said. "So we needed to focus, tighten it down, play basic fundamental basketball and just do the basic necessary things to win." 

I. 

apartments availab\e for 2009·2010 :: walking distance to campus :: 2-oodroam, 2·bath w1!h 990± SF :free in!eme! ::washer, dryer and dishwasper ::central air conditioning :: !arge balcony :: cathedra! ceilings 
Call Cnristina at ~1~·l~l·1oJ~ to scneaule an appointment or email us at mana~er@nastaaiumcluo,com 
The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, March 19, 2009 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
BigTenlookstoimpressNCAA 
Teams hope to show that conference is still in the runningfor the title 
Associated Press 

MINNEAPOLIS -Ohio State was the only Big Ten women's team consistently ranked in the national polls this season, one clear sign that this league of late has been lagging behind the country's other power conferences. 
The strength of the middle of the pack, however, made enough of ·an impression on the NCAA tournament selec­tion committee to warrant five teams chosen for the field. 
So how good, or bad, is the Big Ten these days? 
"The tournament is a litmus test," said Buckeyes coach Jim Foster, whose team was lOth in the most recent Associate(! Press rankings. "We're about to find out." 
Ohio State (27 -5) is the No. 3 seed in the Berkeley region and gets to open at home, though in a different arena than it's used to, in Columbus on Saturday against Sacred Heart. But Stanford, the sec­ond-ranked team in the latest AP poll, looms in a potential third-round game a few miles from the Cardinal's campus. 
Nobody else from the Big Ten is seeded to survive the second round, and No. 10 Minnesota (19-11) must play at Notre Dame on Sunday in the Trenton region. Purdue (22-10) is the No. 6 team in the Oklahoma City region, and Iowa is No. 8. The Hawkeyes (21-10) start at home, but top seed Oklahoma 
will probably await in round 
two if Iowa beats Georgia 
Tech. Michigan State (20-1 0) 
is No. 9 in the Berkeley 
region. 
The Southeastern and Big 
East conferences each have 
seven teams in this year's 
tournament, and the Big 12 
and Atlantic Coast confer­
ences have six. The Pac-10, 
with three, is the only major 
league with fewer schools in 
than the Big Ten this year. 
The Pac-10, though, has at 
least put a team in the Final 
Four over the previous three 
seasons. The Big Ten has not, 
with only one in a regional 
final during that span. 
Since 2000, the Big Ten is 
57-44 in the NCAA tourna> 
ment. The SEC (118-53), Big 
East (103-51), ACC (79-48) 
and Big 12 (79-55) have all 
fared considerably better. 
Purdue, in 1999, has the only 
national title by a Big Ten 
team in the sport. 
Much like on the men's side, 
this one of the most rugged 
conferences in the country. 
When it comes to toughness, 
however, perhaps enough is 
enough. 
''I'm not convinced until I .see otherwise that the physi­
cality in the league is a good 
thing for us," Foster said, 
alluding to the 18-game regu­
lar season schedule that has 
each team facing all but two 
of the other members twice. 
The SEC, Big East, ACC and 
Big 12 each play fewer con­
ference games. 
There are benefits, though. 


"The Big Ten used to be thought of as a power and pounding, walk-it-up league, but now our styles are so var­ied," Michigan State coach Suzy Merchant said. "There are teams like Minnesota that still play a physical brand of basketball, but there are teams such as Ohio State that play up tempo and there are some teams that shoot a bunch of 3s. So regardless of the type of team you play in the tournament, Big Ten coaches can tell their players, 'We've seen that.' That can only help in the NCAA tourna­ment." 
The crowds at most places are pretty good, too, which can provide useful tests for postseason play. 
"I think winning in the Big Ten is very difficult on the road, because especially at Purdue you're playing in front of 10,000 to 12,000 fans," Gophers coach Pam Borton said. "That's pretty much what we're going to see when we go to Notre Dame. It's going to be an unbelievable environment." 
Minnesota probably would­n't have been invited, howev­er, without playing so many quality teams before Big Ten play began. The Gophers lost to Stanford, Iowa State (No. 4 seed) and South Dakota State (No. 7 seed) and beat two teams from major leagues, Colorado and Boston College. 
"I think everybody's really beefed up their nonconfer­ence schedules," Borton said. 


OW HIRING TOUR GUIDE 
FORTHE SUMMER AND NEXT SCHOOl:.YEAR 
Applications available for pick up in the Office of Undergraduate Admissions, 220 Main Building 
"''"'"'"''"''"'"'? Contact Beth Giudicessi. edu 
Thursday, March 19, 2009 
The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
NBA BASKETBAll 
Magic defeat Bucks after tough loss to Cavs 
Howard has first career triple-double in points, rebounds, and blocked shots; Rose unstoppable in Bulls win over Thunder 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE -Playing 
back-to-hack road games and 
coming off a tough loss, the 
Orlando Magic could have 
fallen into a trap against a 
Milwaukee team that had just 
tripped up another Eastern 
Conference contender. 
Instead, Dwight Howard 
dominated in the first quarter 
and the Magic never really let 
the Bucks back into the game, 
cruising to a 106-80 victory· 
Wednesday night. 
"We came out today with a 
lot of energy and a lot of 
effort -which we needed last 
night, and we didn't do that," 
Howard said. 
Orlando was coming off a 
deflating 97-93 loss at 
Cleveland, a game in which 
Howard scored only 13 points. 
That turned around right 
away Wednesday, as Howard 
scored 18 points in the first 
quarter on his way to 28 for 
the game. He added 12 
rebounds, and had seven 
assists, falling three shy of a 
triple-double. 
. "Coming off of yesterday, no 
hangover, great energy," 
Magic coach Stan Van Gundy 
said. "Went up and down the 
court, played great defense ­
and Dwight was tremendous." 
Iledo Turkoglu also came ·close to a triple-double with 
14 points, 10 rebounds and 
seven assists for Orlando, 8-2 
in its last 10 games. 
Van Gundy had some nit­
picking to do, but wasn't sur­
prised with the overall effort. 
"It's really hard to argue 
with our competitiveness," 
Van Gundy said. "I think that there's a lot of things that we still need to improve on, but our guys come out and play for the most part. I think in terms of that, we're about as consistent as any team in the . league." 
Charlie Villanueva had 17 po.ints for the Bucks, who are desperately trying to earn the final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference and were coming off a home victory over Boston. 
Milwaukee fell to 2-3 on its critical and challenging six­game homestand that ends against Portland on Saturday night. 
"I think there's a lesson learned here for us," Bucks coach Scott Skiles said. "Most sporting events· are over before they even start, based on the mind-set of the teams that are playing and the play­ers that are playing in it." 
Skiles said the Magic are a good team, but added, "We really didn't compete at all. It's very disappointing and we need to learn something from it." 
Howard went after the Bucks early and often after taking only eight shots in Orlando's loss at Cleveland on Tuesday. He scored 18 points in the first quarter alone, put­ting together his own 10-2 run to end the quarter. 
He began the scoring spurt by converting three-point plays on back-to-back posses­sions, then dunked home a putback. After a pair of free throws by Milwaukee's Richard Jefferson, Howard scored on a layup with 23 seconds left to give Orlando a 36-20 lead going into the sec­ond quarter. 
"He set the tone of the game," Villanueva said. "It was difficult because there are four perimeter guys around him and that makes it very difficult to defend. It just seemed like we couldn't stop him out there." 
Howard then rested for the first 6-plus minutes of the second quarter,but Milwaukee couldn't make up any ground. 
Malik Allen was one of sev­eral Bucks who struggled try­ing to defend Howard -and then Allen picked up his third and fourth fouls in the final minutes of the first half. 
Allen's third foul came when he sent J .J. Redick crashing to the floor under the basket, then picked up his fourth foul on the offensive end with 32.3 seconds left in the half. 
Howard's only noticeable misstep came midway through the third quarter, when he was called for offen­sive basket interference on a putback attempt. But it didn't mattet1 much, because Orlando was leading 69-45 at the time. 
Howard recovered to make a huge block near the end of the third quarter, slapping a shot by Milwaukee's Charlie Bell over his teammates' heads on the bench and into the second row of seats. 
Howard then went skyward to slam home an alley-oop pass from Turkoglu early in the fourth quarter, putting 
you lon~ needs hdp call. Notn.· Damt• 
• Sr. Sue Drum, OP, StudeutAlfairs. Gal-7819 Ann Finh. Stll(klll Allairs. 63 l-268!i Syh·ia Dilkm. Campus Miuishy. WH-7163 John Dillon, Campus Minililry, fi:1l-7J6H Dr. SusanStt~illt'•Pasalich. Conusding Or., 631· Plti.'i Ann E. Kll~\<t, 1-kalth St~rvin.-s. li:-ll-8286 
the Magic up by 26. 
Bulls 103, Thunder 96 
Derrick Rose didn't know what he had to do, but his team needed him to do some­thing. A perfect second half took care of what was ailing the Chicago Bulls Rose scored 25 of his 20 points and didn't miss a shot in the second half and the Bulls snapped a seven-game road losing streak by beating the Oklahoma City Thunder 103­96 on Wednesday night. 
"I knew that my team need­ed me to make plays. I didn't know what type of plays, but it ended up being scoring plays," said Rose, who fin­ished two points off his career best. 
In a matchup between two of the NBA's top rookie point guards, Rose was unstoppable in the second half. The No. 1 pick in last year's draft hit all 10 of his shots, including the jumper that gave the Bulls the lead for good late in the third quarter. 
"I was just feeling it tonight. I didn't want to lose, so I just started shooting the ball," Rose said. 
Russell Westbrook. the fourth overall pick in the draft, had 15 points and pulled the Thunder within 99­96 by driving past Rose for a layup in the final minute before Oklahoma City's rally fell short. 
John Salmons added 20 points and Ben Gordon scored 18 for the Bulls. 
Kevin Durant led Oklahoma City with 28 points and Jeff Green had 18. 
Durant missed a 3-pointer that would have tied the game in the final 30 seeonds before Tyrus Thomas hit four free throws to close it out for eighth-place Chicago, which 
leads the race for the final playoff spot by a game and a 
half  over  Milwaukee  and  
Charlotte.  
"It's such  a  tight race right  

now to get that eighth spot in the East," Bulls coach Vinny Del Negro said. "All these games we've struggled on the road and we haven't convert­ed down the stretch. but it was nice for us tonight to con­vert." 
Hose and Westbrook became friends while training togeth­er in Los Angeles leading up to the draft, going one-on-one and doing other drills to pre­pare themselves to be lottery picks. 
"Basically. it was just me and him before the draft. just working out every day," Rose said. 
Rose and Westbrook came in ranked second and third among rookies in scoring and 1-2 in assists. Westbrook was also seventh in rebounding but had the most turnovers among rookies and the fifth­most in the NBA overall. 
The game was an opportuni­ty for Westbrook to make a statement in the Rookie of the Year race, although he said he was approaching it like "any other game." 
He had the better first half with 12 points and only one turnover while Rose was the mistake-prone one early, turning it over five times while scoring only five points. But that changed quickly. 
He hit five shots in the first 5 minutes after halftime as , the Bu!Is turned a five-point deficit into a 63-62 lead when Rose connected on a foul line jumper. The lead grew to 74­68 the Thunder rallied back ahead with seven straight points, but then Rose struck again from the right wing for 
a 76-75 Chicago lead. 
Leasing now for 2009-2010* 
Notre Dame Apartments 

Notre Dame Apartments are a Notre Dame tradition! 
2 Bedroom, 1,200 sq. ft. Apartments Newly Remodeled Free Internet Free Water On-Site Laundry Off-Street Parking Only Three Blocks from Campus 
*These apartments rent quickly­col/ Kromer Properties today 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
(574) 234-2436 
page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, March 19, 2009 
NHL 

Hurricanes take down Devils 
Blue Jackets take down the Blackhawks by one in overtime 
Associated Press 

RALEIGH, N.C. -The New Jersey Devils can be excused for this lackluster effort against the Carolina Hurricanes. 
They have been surging since Martin Brodeur returned from an elbow injury and chased down the NHL record for wins by a goalie. One night after he broke Patrick Roy's career mark by winning his SS2nd game, New Jersey was done in by playoff-hungry Carolina. 
The Hurricanes, who had four days off since returning from a winless three-game road trip, pounced on New Jersey. Anton Babchuk scored twice, Eric Staal got his team-high 34th goal and Sergei Samsonov added one in a 4-2 victory Wednesday night over the Brodeur-less Devils. 
Carolina began a three­game homestand and ending the Devils' four-game winning streak. The Hurricanes have won a season-high six in a row at home. 
New Jersey played without Brodeur, who set the wins record Tuesday night by beat­ing Chicago. It was the first time Brodeur missed a start in 10 games since returning from an elbow injury on Feb. 26. 
Kevin Weekes made 28 saves in place of Brodeur. 

"It's been a week where it's been a high emotional WJlek and for all the right reasons," Devils coach Brent Sutter 1 said. "We'll regroup and get back at it. We knew what to 
.. expect. They'd been sitting for four days waiting for us." "The outcome isn't like shocking because when you give up three power-plays goals, it's a tough night." The Hurricanes, with 81 points, moved into a tie with Montreal for seventh place in the Eastern Conference ­three points above ninth­place Florida and the post­season cutoff. Carolina went 3-for-S on the power play against the Devils, who are among the best penalty-killers on the road. New Jersey, second in the East, allowed three man­advantage goals in a game for only the second time this season. "It was-a game where S-on­S we played well and yet it was a night where you need­ed your special teams to be good," Sutter said. "Our PK got three power-play goals on us." Babchuk, who notched his first multigoal game of the season, opened the scoring 10 minutes in with a poke at the right post after Weekes was unable to control a pair of rebounds. Staal gave Carolina a 2-0 lead 1 :2S into the second period with a sharp-angle slap shot from the bottom of the right circle. "We got to do a better job (on the penalty kill)," New Jersey forward Patrik Elias said. "They have a lot of skills on the power play but we have to be better." Zach Parise scored New Jersey's first goal when the 
Devils were on a S-on-3 man­advantage with 6:38 left in the second period. 
But Babchuk restored Carolina's two-goal cushion with 38 seconds left in the second period when he blast­ed a low slap shot through traffic from the top of the slot. 
"I've been playing more lately and trying to· take advantage of it," Babchuk said. "I knew they played last night and thought they would be more tired." 
Sergei Samsonov made it 4­1 with 7:46 left in the third, and Brian Gionta scored with 
2:1 7 left in the game to bring the Devils back within two goals. 
Weekes got his first start since Feb. 19 and saw his first action since March 7 in relief of Brodeur. Carolina's Cam Ward, making his 19th straight start, stopped 41 shots. 
Blue Jackets 4,Biackhawks 
3 
The latest addition to the Columbus Blue Jackets is proving to be a perfect fit. 
Antoine Vermette took a pass from R.J. Umberger and scored 2:38 into overtime, giving the Blue Jackets a 4-3 victory over the Chicago Blackhawks on Wednesday night. 
"It doesn't get much better than a playoff race," said Vermette, acquired this month in a trade-deadline deal with the Ottawa Senators. "It's great. I'm pretty happy." 
Umberger carried the puck up the right wing on a 2-on-1 in overtime, saucering a pass that tumbled to the high slot where Vermette beat defense­man Brian Campbell to the puck and chipped it past Cristobal Huet for his first game-winner in more than a year. 
How valuable an addition has he been to the Blue Jackets' first stretch run? He's scored points in five of his six games with Columbus. 

Umberger, Derek Dorsett and Rick Nash added goals for the Blue Jackets, who came into the night sixth in the Western Conference. Columbus tied a franchise record with 80 points while winning for the fifth time in six starts. 
For the first time, the Blue Jackets find themselves watching the scoreboard to see how it affects their play­off run. 
"When you're in this kind of race, everybody checks every once in a while," Dorsett said. "No one really pays too much attention. You've just got to worry about yourself and make sure you're getting the two points." 
Rookie goalie Steve Mason stopped 24 shots to improve to29-17-3. 
Patrick Kane and Jonathan Toews each had a goal and an assist, and Dave Bolland also scored for the Blackhawks, who have lost four in a row and six of seven. Huet made numerous spectacular saves, stopping 24 shots. 
"Obviously, the wayt we've been playing, it's good to get a point," Kane said. "But you want to go in and win that game. So it's disappointing not to get two. You can tell by everyone's reaction in the locker room that we're not real happy." 
Blackhawks coach Joel Quenneville looked at the game as a small step. 
"The confidence is a little bit off," he said. "We stemmed a little bit of the flow going against us. (But) we've got to (start) winning and feeling a little more con­fident at critical times of games." 
The teams traded goals throughout the game before a scoreless third period. 
Bolland scored in the open­ing minute before Umberger redirected a tape-to-tape pass from Jake Voracek to tie it. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Gonzaga ready to rrtake their lllark at NCAAs 
Associated Press 
PORTLAND, Ore. -When Jeremy Pargo turned down the opportunity to be drafted into the NBA last year as a junior, it was because of what he begins Thursday: A senior year run through the NCAA tournament. 
"Oh, definitely. This tourna­ment is unbelievable. 1 haven't experienced the NBA, but there's nothing like this," the streaky point guard said Wednesday in Gonzaga's lock­er room before a practice for a first-round game against 13th-seeded Akron. 
Pargo and the heralded Bulldogs (26-S) are heavy favorites to zap the Zips (23­12), who won the Mid­American Conference tourna­ment, and advance to the sec­ond-round Saturday against Illinois or Western Kentucky, who play later Thursday. Gonzaga has won 18 of 19 games and were undefeated in the West Coast Conference regular season and tourna­ment. 
Yet Pargo, fellow senior and leading scorer Josh Heytvelt, coach Mark Few and shooter Matt Bouldin all mentioned how one bad day can end everything for Gonzaga, which has yet to reach the Final Four in 11 consecutive NCAA tournament appear­ances. 
"I definitely want to leave a mark on this program," Pargo said. "This program has been to an Elite Eight. The Final Four is the next step." 
"Our expectations are really high," Bouldin said. "We just can't take any game for granted. I think the last two years taught me that." 
Few, a former 10-year Zags assistant who was promoted to head coach in 1999, cau­tioned not to judge this team, or his program, by the stan­
dard of Final Four appear­ances. 
"We've had an incredible run these last 11 years now," he said. "''m hesitant to put all the eggs in one basket like so many people like to do with this tournament, when it's a one-and-done deal. These seasons are long, hard journeys, and I wouldn't take that for grant­ed. 
"The fact that we've won 26 games with an incredible difficult schedule .... The league championships obvi­ously mean a lot to us. 
"We've been to an Elite Eight, we've been to several Sweet 16s, and I think if we keep fielding the type of teams with student athletes like these guys ... then even­tually we'll be able to bust through and get to a Final Four sometime, but it's cer­tainly not-I don't think it's the end-all to everything." 
Few praised Pargo for his resiliency -"he's probably missed one or two practices in four years" -for playing lately as well as he has all season and for spurning the temptation of NBA riches. 
"He's meant everything to this program," Few said. "He's as charismatic and engaging a person that you'll ever coach. You can hear him, even in my office when he comes rolling in down through the cortidors of the arena. 
"He was going to get draft­ed and yet weighed it out where he was at and what he wanted to accomplish, what he wanted to do with this group of guys. It's hasn't been perfect. I don't think it's been exactly the way that he scripted it, but here he is. 
"Hopefully, he can end what's already been a great career with a long run in the NCAA tournament." 


DRUMMERS NEEDED 
WANT TO BE A PART OF THE NOTRE DAM·E GAMEDAY TRADITION? DON'T HAVE TIME FOR THE MARCHING BAND? 
~----~"l.IOIN THE NOTRE DAME 


1 f . BAGPIPE BANDI 
" 

• 
TIME COMMITMENT IS APPROX. TWO HOURS A WEEK PLUS SATURDAY MORNINGS DURING FOOTBALL SEASON (DON'T WORRY, YOU WILL NEVER MISS A KICKOFF) 

• 
POSITIONS AVAILABLE FOR ALL DRUMS (SNARE, BASS, TENOR) 


CONTACT DAVE WARTKO FOR MORE INFORMATION 
dwartko@nd.edu 
Thursday, March 19, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 

----------. 
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 19, 2009 
GOLF 

Woods to play in the Australian Masters 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia ­Tiger Woods will play at the Australian Masters in N{wember, his first tournament appearance Down Under since 1998. 
A government spokesman confirmed premier John Brumby's comments in a Melbourne newspaper that Woods would play in the event at Kingston Heath, scheduled for Nov. 12-15. 
A news conference was planned in Melbourne later Thursday. 
"We are delighted Tiger Woods has chosen to come to Melbourne, further cementing our position as the major events capital of the world," Brumby told the Herald Sun newspaper. Melbourne also hosts the Australian Open, the first of four majors each year on the international tennis circuit. and the season-opening Formula One Grand Prix. 
Brumby predicted the visit by the world's top golfer would earn Victoria state $19 million in economic benefits. which would offset Woods' $4.54 mil­lion appearance fee. 
Woods has recently returned from an eight-month layoff fol­lowing season-ending knee sur­gery last year after winning the 
U.S. Open, his 14th career major. 
Stuart Appleby, among the Australians who regularly com­pete against Woods on the PGA Tour, said it was a coup for golf Down Under, even in the eco­nomic climate. 
"It will be great for the game and bring out a lot of people who haven't seen him before­in person, not on a video game," Appleby told The Associated Press. "There's a lot of people hurting in Australia, and they might look negatively that one guy is paid ($4.54 mil­lion) just to turn up. The com­mon man won't understand the business model because the government ·is paying for it. They might not see the money he brings in." · 
But he predicted huge gal­leries for Woods at Kingston Heath. 
"He not been down here since the Presidents Cup," Appleby said. "lie's been to Asia multi­ple times. He's been to Europe multiple times. I think it's good that he's bringing his game to Australia." 
Woods, who was not immedi­ately available for comment, is very-selective about his appear­ances outside of the United States. 




Thursday, March 19, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 27 
It's not too late... 
TO LIVE IN ONE OF THE BEST CRIBS IN TOWN NEXT SEMESTER 
Be the first person to ever live in a brand new Irish Row Apartment or Irish Crossings Townhome which will be complete 'this summer. 
There are still a few units available for fall and plenty left for the 2010-2011 school year. 
Just one block east of campus, you'll find: 
• Furnished residences 
-Including a 42" Hat panel HDTV in every living room 

• 
Up to 4 bedrooms per unit -Private, full bath in each bedroom 

• 
FREE Internet & 200+ TV statiom 


• 
laundry room with w.asher &dryer in each unit 

• 
Fitness center and lounge, including tanning 




The Core Council for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, & Questioning Students Seeks New Undergrad Student Members For 2009-2010 
CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 
• Brand new con.~truction 
• Community social events Nearby groceries, restaurants and enteftatnment 
Visit the Irish Row !easing office at the corner of Vaness and Burdette Stree1s and get a FREE Irish Row or Irish Crossings "Kiss t>lle I'm Irish" t-shirt, while they last. You cao also find us on the web at wwwJrishRowApartments.com. 
IIIrish 
ROW 


lrishRowApartments.com I lrishCross.ings.com 
kariem@irishrowapaltment~.com I 514./l/.&665 
We welcome "alliesn and gay, lesbian1 bi-sexual or questioning students. 
Applications are available on the Core Council Web Site: 
http://corecouncil.nd.edu 
or can be picked up from: The Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building 8am to 5pm Monday-Friday 
Completed Applications are due Friday, March 20 by Spm in the Office of Student Affairs Attn: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP 
Your participation in this Council will: 
• 
Assist with Identifying the ongoing needs ofgay, lesbian, bi-sexual& questioning students 

• 
Assistin implementing campus-wide educational programming on gayand lesbian issues 


Please visit our web site for more information: http://corecouncil.nd.edu 
MEN's NIT 
Second-half surge helps Baylor past G'To-wn 
Va. Tech edges Duquesne; Creighton tops BGSU 
Associated Press 
WACO, Texas -LaceDarius Dunn and Kevin Rogers each scored 20 points and Curtis Jerrells added 19 to lead Baylor to a 74-72 win over Georgetown in the first round of the National lnvitation Tournament on Wednesday night. 
The Bears (21-14) got their first postseason victory since 1950. 
Jerrells put Baylor ahead 7 4­69 with a pair of free throws with eight seconds remaining. 
But DaJuan Summers hit a 3­pointer for Georgetown (16-15) with four seconds left, and Tweety Carter missed the front end of a one-and-one opportuni­ty for the Bears. 
Summers, who led the Hoyas with 19 points, grabbed the rebound and launched a shot at the buzzer that fell short. 
Jerrells' layup tied the game at 67 with just under five min­utes remaining. He followed with a steal, and Carter's 3­pointer gave the Bears the lead for good less than 30 seconds later. 
Behind 72-69, Georgetown's Chris Wright attempted a 3­pointer from the left side with 11 seconds left. Jerrells partially blocked the shot and Dunn pulled down the rebound for the Bears. He nailed the clinching free throws in the final seconds. 
Greg Monro·e added 12 points and Austin Freeman 11 for Georgetown. 
Trailing 44-34 at halftime, Baylor opened the second half on 13-2 run and took a 4 7-46 lead with 16 1!2 minutes left to play. Dunn ignited the come­back with 11 points, including three 3-pointers. 
Georgetown shot 76 percent from the floor in the first half, connecting on 16 of 21 attempts. 
Baylor plays Virginia Tech, a 116-108 double overtime win­ner over Duquesne, in the next round of the NIT. 
Virginia Tech 116, Duquesne 108 (2 OT) 
A.D. Vassallo scored 33 points and the Hokies scored on their first five possessions in the sec­ond overtime to overcome a huge night from Duquesne's Aaron Jackson and win their first-round NIT game Wednesday night. 
Jackson scored a career-high 46 points, but -it wasn't enough to keep the Hokies (19-14) from advancing to the second round, where they will host Baylor. 
Duquesne (21-13), making its first postseason appearance since the 1994 NIT, closed out its best season since the 1971 team went 21-4. 
Jeff Allen added 23 points for Virginia Tech, which led by six with under a minute to go in the first overtime. But the Dukes rallied and tied the game at 94 on Jackson's layup with less than 2 seconds left. 
In the second overtime, Vassallo scored 10 points and the Hokies made all 10 of their free throws to put the game away. 
Jackson, a senior from Hartford, Conn., paced the Dukes with a career-high 46 points. He hit 15-of-25 from the floor, including 8-of-13 from beyond the 3-point arc. He also hit 8-of-9 from the free-throw line and had four assists. 
His performance was the fourth-best single-game per­formance in Duquesne history. 
The Hokies led by 13 with seven minutes to go in regula­tion, but the Dukes used a 17-4 run to tie the game, and took a 78-76 lead after Melquan Bolding hit the first of two free throws with 28.6 seconds remaining. But Vassallo hit a floater in the lane with 13.1 sec­onds to go to tie the game at 78. 
On the final possession of reg­ulation, Duquesne's Eric Evans drove into the lane. But his con­tested layup came up well short, sending the game into overtime. 
Creighton 73, Bowling Green 71 
P'Allen Stinnett scored 18 points, including two big free throws in the final minute, and Creighton came from behind to defeat Bowling Green in the first round of the NIT Wednesday night. 
The Bluejays (27 -7) will host Kentucky (21-13) in a second­round game Monday. 
Creighton, which trailed by 14 points in the first half and by 8 with 8 1/2 minutes left, went ahead 69-6 7 with 4:41 to play on Booker Woodfox's 3-pointer. 
Nate Miller put the Falcons (19-14) ahead again briefly, but Justin Carter's 3-pointer with 
1:46 left gave the Bluejays the lead for good. 
Stinnett hit two free throws with 35 seconds to make it a three-point game. Miller's fast­break layup got Bowling Green within 72-71, but he missed an inside shot that would have given the Falcons the lead with 19 seconds to play. 
Woodfox made a free throw for the final margin. 
Carter added 14 points, Antoine Young 12 and Woodfox 10 for the Bluejays. 
Miller scored 22 points, Darryl Clements had 19 points and eight rebounds, and Brian Moten added 12 points for Bowling Green. ' 
Creighton, the Missouri Valley Conference regular-season co­champion. had hoped to receive an at-large bid in the NCAA tournament after winning 10 of its last 11 games. An ugly loss to Illinois -State in the Missouri Valley Conference tournament semifinals, combined with upsets in other conference tour­naments, left the Bluejays short. 
The Bluejays missed their first 11 3-point shots, and the Falcons led for more than 32 minutes before Creighton ral­lied. 
Bowling Green, which won the Mid-American Conference regu­lar-season title, had a chance to tie or win at the end, but Clements' 23-footer bounced off the rim, and Scott Thomas' tip try was off the mark at th"e buzzer. 
The Bluejays will be playing a Kentucky team that is in the NIT for the first time in three decades. The Wildcats missed the NCAA tournament for the first time in 18 years. 
They advanced to the second round of the NIT with a 70-60 win over UNLV on Tuesday. 

page 28 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, March 19, 2009 
NCAA 
continued from page 32 
going to be awesome, Maxwell said. "All of the best collegiate swimmers will be here and they are all going to be ready to swim fast. It's going to be great to swim against them and have every person in the event be at a high level of competition." 
Maxwell is competing in the 100-·and 200-yard breast­stroke events. She currently holds the 17th-fastest times in the nation in both of these events. 
Both Miller and Maxwell are making their second appear­ances at the national champi­onships, but Stitt is participat­ing for the first time. After being named the 2009 Big East Diver of the Year, hopes are high for Stitt's coming per-
Toledo 
continued from page 32 
baseman Christine Lux paced the Irish attack, notching five hits -including two home runs and two doubles -over the two games. 
"Everybody being relaxed led to good hitting," sopho­more pitcher Jody Valdivia, who earned the complete­game victory in Game 2, said. "Everyone knew what they needed to work on, and they went up with a relaxed approach and hit the ball." 
In the third inning, the Rockets switched pitchers. but the Irish were still able to show their offensive domi­nance by scoring four more runs in the third inning. Hits from Miller and fellow freshmen 

catcher "Everyone should run of the day 
Kristina Wright work on taking the to start the and center Notre Dame
mentality we used
fielder Alexa offensive 
Maldonado, and today and take it to onslaught. A 
sophomore the Big East teams. tight line drive shortstop Sadie down the first
We don ,t play down 
Pitzenberger base line from
to any opponent.,,
each helped sophomore bring Notre left fielder Dame's lead to Brianna
Jody Valdivia 
9-0 at the end Jorgensborg
Irish sophomore 
of the third inning. 
It was more of the same for the Irish in the fourth inning, when they scored six more times before holding the Rockets scoreless for a 15-0, five-inning victory by the eight-run mercy rule. 
With both offenses slow to formance in Texas. She will be competing in the one-and three-meter diving events. 


"The competition will be really tough, especially com­peting against girls who I watched on TV this summer competing for the Olympics, but it's also so inspiring to watch them dive," Stitt said. ''I'm a little intimidated, but watching them makes me want to be able to dive as well as them and it makes me want to be better." 
Miller is competing' in the 50 and 100 freestyle events and the 100 fly event. Recently, Miller broke her personal-best time and the school record in the 50 freestyle event, making her the fastest female swim­mer in school history with a time of 22.37 seconds. She broke the record at the Big East conference meet, where the Irish took home top honors for the 13th consecutive year. 
Over the last week in prac­tice, the girls have been work­ing on perfecting their strokes and dives for optimal results in their toughest meet of the season. 
"In preparation for my swims I have just been trying to maintain my stroke and make sure that I am keeping the technical aspect of my swimming where it should be," Maxwell said. 
Beside the technique and stroke maintenance, there is one other driving force that comes into play during the intense competition that these girls will face. 
"While consistency and tech­nique are things every diver focuses on, I've learned the huge difference that confi­dence in my diving makes," Stitt said. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
start in the second game, the man Heather Johnson, and Rockets got on the board first senior second baseman Linda when, in the fourth inning, Kohan drove home two more 
Toledo pitcher  with  a  double  
Brooke  Gates  to  left.  
blasted a home run to left to give her team a  "Everyone knew what they needed to work  Valdivia made quick work of the Hockets in  
1-0 lead.  on, and they went up  the  fifth  to  
That was short-lived, however, as  with a relaxed approach and hit  secure the vic­tory in Notre Dame's last  
Notre  Dame  the ball.,,  non-confer­ 
plated  nine  ence  matchup  
runs in the bot­tom of the fourth to finish  Jody Valdivia Irish sophomore  before it starts Big East play against St.  

off Toledo 9-1. 
"Toledo com­ing out and challenging us and by hitting a home run made them worthy oppo­nents," Valdivia said. "They held with us longer in the second game." 
Lux hit her second home 
brought in an 

run for the Irish to take the lead. A sin­gle from Moldonado loaded up the bases, and a triple from senior designated hitter Beth Northway cleared them and brought the score to 6-1. 
Northway came home on a single from junior third base-
SUMMER IN MAINE 
Males and Females. Meet new friends. Travel! Teachyourfavorite activity 
Tennis  Swim  
Waterski  Softball  
Gymnastics  Archery  
Silver Jewelry  Rocks  
English Riding  Soccer  
Copper Enameling  Pottery  
BasketbaU  Lacrosse  
Field Hockey  Offke  
Theater Costumer  Photo  

and more... 
June Ill Augusl Residential Camp. El1joy ourwebs~e. Apply oolloe 
TRIPP LAKE CAMP for Girls: 
1·800-997-4347 www.tripplakecamp.com 
John's Sunday. 

"Everyone should work on taking the mentality we used today and take it to the Big East teams," Valdivia said. "We don't play down to any oppo­nent." 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
Nationals 
continued from page 32 
Still, the level of competition Notre Dame will face will be the stiffest of the season, with a large and deep pool of com­petitors to wade through. 
"We're aware of our primary 

rivals, Penn State and Ohio State, but there's a very strong team in Columbia," Bednarski said. "The pool is strong. I think it will really come down to the last minutes of the competition on Sunday with everyone being so strong. By the 
end, the psychology of the team will be much more important." 
The men's bouts will begin Thursday and conclude with the medal round Friday after­noon. Senior All-American Karol Kostka and sophomore Greg Schoolcraft will represent the Irish in the epee class. This year will be Kostka's fourth year competing in the NCAAs. 
In foil, Notre Dame is young, sending freshman Olympian Gerek Meinhardt and freshman Enzo Castellani. Sophomore Avery Zuck and All-American Barron Nydam, competing in the sabre division, round out the men's team. 
On the women's side, the Irish send a deep and experi­enced lineup to the Saturday bouts. Sophomore All­American Ewa Nelip and fresh­man Courtney Hurley will fence in the epee division, while 
'The pool is strong. I think it will really come down to the last minutes of the competition on Sunday.,, 
Janusz Bednarski Irish coach 
sophomore All­American Hayley Reese and senior All­American Adrienne Nott represent the foil contingent. Nott, like Kostka, is mak­ing her fourth visit to the NCAAs. Sophomore All-Americans S a r a h 

Borrmann and Eileen Hassett­will compete in sabre, with Borrmann looking to defend her 2008 national title. 
The tournament will be held at the Penn State Multi-Sports Facility in State College, Penn. Last season, Notre Dame placed second in the NCAA Championships. The Irish have claimed titles three times, in 1994,2003and2005. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 

Looking to Create an 
Unforgettable Graduation Party? 
The College Football tlall of Fame provides a perfect venue to create a truly distinct and notable experience. 
• 
Memorable atmosphere 

• 
r:lexible to lllt'et your needs 

• 
Customized catering and beverage service 

• 
Complete party planning .and support 

• 
Full-service AV department with wireless internet capabilities 


For mMt' iufornwtwu, coHtact )euey Anders011: 
574-235-5735 
or dick on Facility Rrntal~ at wmw collcge{ootlwlLon:J 


Thursday, March 19, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 29 
NIT SECOND ROUND ·TONIGHT @7:00 PM 
NIT 
continued from page 32 
Albuquerque as Gary is the only Lobo to start every game this season, averaging 8.1 points per game and 2.2 rebounds per game. 
Gary, though, isn't the play­er Notre Dame most needs to account for Thursday. That. distinction falls to senior for­ward Daniel Faris, a 6-foot-9­inch, 245-pound load who notched a career-best 28 points and 13 rebounds in New Mexico's _83-71 win over Nebraska in the first round. Faris is averaging 11.5 points per game and 6.2 rebounds per game on the season. 
Responsibility for Faris will likely fall primarily on the shoulders of Harangody. The junior forward played a lead­ing role in the Irish win over 
Valpo.. 
continued from page 32 
Crusaders early, giving up just two hits in the first five innings. He faced brief strug­gles with his control, walking three, but he stymied the Crusader lineup when finding the strike zone with an effec­tive fastball. 
Notre Dame continued their success at the plate against Deetjen after the first inning but was unable to capitalize with any runs until the fifth inning. The Irish stranded two runners on base in both the second and third innings, and sophomore outfielder Golden Tate was thrown out at home to end the fourth. 
Pollock manufactured a run on his own in the fifth inning, stealing second and third base after walking to lead off the inning. The junior came around to score on a Martin groundout to extend the Notre Dame lead. 
Notre Dame had a field day on the basepaths, notching a s~_ason-high five stolen bases in the game. 
"We really as a team empha­size being aggressive on the base-paths and work on our baserunning all year," Sherry said. 
Valparaiso finally reached Sabatino in the top of the sixth, beginning the inning with a strikeout but advancing to first after the pitch got by sophomore catcher Matt Scioscia. After outfielder Kyle Gaedele followed with a double down the left field line, desig­nated hitter Josh Wallace put Valparaiso on the board with a sacrifice fly. 
Freshman reliever Ryan 
UAB. pouring in 22 points and grabbing 10 rebounds. Harangody will get some help down low from sophomore Tyrone Nash, who saw expanded minutes when sen­ior forward Zach Hillesland went out because of a knee injury. 
Hillesland and the rest of the Irish have been using their brief time before Thursday's game to (!lCOver from Tuesday's win. 
"Wednesday's a day where, we've done a lot of these one day in between things," Brey said. "It's trying to get our energy back, it's more of a mental session, shoot a little bit, stretch out and have the same energy for Thursday night. If you're fortunate enough to win on Thursday, then you get some time off." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
Richter came on in relief of Sabatino, and had a difficult time finding the plate early. Richter walked the first two Valparaiso hitters he faced, and Martin misplayed a groundball down the first base line, allowing two Crusaders to score. 
Richter escaped the inning with a 6-4-3 double play, but the damage was done with the score tied at three. 
The Irish quickly responded in the bottom half of the inning, loading the bases with none out on three straight sin­gles by Scioscia, Sherry, and Tate. One run came in to score on a passed ball by Crusaders catcher Billv Cribbs, and Pollock plated ·sherry on a sac­rifice fly to center field. 
Two more runs came into score as Jeremy Barnes drove in one with an infield single and senior Ryan Connolly con­tributed a sacrifice fly, extend­ing the lead to 7-3. 
Notre Dame added an insur­ance run in the seventh on a Mills sacrifice fly, the third for the Irish in the game. 
Barnes led the Irish offen­sively with three hits and two RBis, and Martin also had two RBis on' one hit. Mills and sophomore Cameron McConnell, who came on in relief of Scioscia, contributed two hits apiece. 
The Irish will open .Big East play Friday against Seton Hall, with the first pitch scheduled for 5:05 p.m. 
"We're definitely confident going into conference play," Sherry said. "We started off really hot in conference play last year and are looking to do the same thing this year." 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
page 30 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 19, 2009 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles split doubleheader 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Spons Writer 

Saint Mary's started slow but came bacl('to split a dou­bleheader with Manchester Wednesday after junior Ashley P~terson was named Division III Regional Player of the Week. 
Manchester took the lead in the top of the first with three runs and held Saint Mary's (12-2) off the board until the bottom of the fourth. Senior Cathy Kurczak was first at bat for the Belles, leading off with a walk. Three batters later, Kurczak scored on Peterson's single to left-cen­ter field, cutting the Belles' deficit to 3-1. 
The Spartans responded with four runs in the top of the fifth, widening their lead to 7-1 as the Belles stepped up to the plate. Sophomore Hayley Bojorquez started the offensive attack for Saint Mary's, reaching on an error. Senior Katie Rashid hit an RBI double down the right­field line to bring in Bojorquez and make the score 7-2. Two batters after Rashid, freshman Kristen Nelson hit a triple to right­center field to bring in Rashid from second. Nelson quickly scored off of a hit by Kurczak, putting the Belles down 7-4. 
Saint Mary's held Manchester at seven runs but wasn't able to get on the board again until the bottom of the seventh. With two outs, Peterson scored from second off of a single to center field from Rashid. The Belles weren't able to score again to 
make a full comeback over the Spartans and lost 7-5. 
"I think we beat ourselves today," Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. "We played down to our competition and they capitalized on our errors early in the game. We lacked a sense of urgency to make up for the runs we gave up in the first inning, which result­ed in us running out of time. I told my team we would have won had we had nine innings to play, but we only get seven." 
Freshman pitcher Monica Palicki moved her record to 5-2, allowing nine hits and only three earned runs in the loss. Peterson, Rashid and senior Ashley Fusaro each went 2-4 in the first game. Peterson sc~ed once and drove in a run, and Rashid had two RBis and scored once. 
Ready for round two, Saint Mary's took the lead early in the second game with a run from junior Maureen Healy in the bottom of the first. Manchester came back with a run in the top of the second inning, moving the score to 1­1, but not for long. 
The Belles followed with Bojorquez scoring off of a single up the middle by fresh­man Kate Mitchell. 
After three scoreless innings, Manchester scored three times off a double and a two-run home run, putting its lead at 4-2 going into the bot­tom of the sixth. Fusaro led off for Saint Mary's with a single. Consecutive hits from Bojorquez and freshman Kate Mitchell and a double to left­center from Nelson tied the game 4-4. 
Kurczak next came to the plate, bringing in Mitchell for the game-winning run off of a sacrifice fly to right field. The Spartans managed to get one runner on second in the top half of the seventh but weren't able to score again. The Belles defeated the Spartans 5-4. 
"I was proud of our pitchers for staying in two tight games," Sullivan said. 
Peterson, Bojorquez, Mitchell and Nelson each had a pair of hits in Game 2, with Bojorquez scoring twice while Mitchell drove in two runs and scored once. Peterson's current career-high hitting streak moved to 14 games, and Fusaro's to 13. Freshman pitcher Angela Gillis moved her record to 7-0, allowing nine hits and three runs. 
"I am hoping today's games were a good wake-up call for us to make sure we play our game and play the sport with passion, the way it is meant to be played," Sullivan said. "I was also happy with our comeback in the bottom of the 6th to win Game 2. The team showed a lot of heart and a desire to win by scoring three runs that inning." 
The Belles will have a full week off and will return to action a week from Thursday, on March 26, with a double­header at Franklin College. 
"We will be working on bet­ter communication, fewer mental errors, and smarter base running before we play Franklin on the 26th," Sullivan said. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO1@saintmarys.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish head to Alabama for Blue Gray Classic 
By KATE GRABAREK SportS Writer 
After 10 days oil', No. 26 Notre Dame will be challenged at the Blue Gray National Classic in Montgomery, Ala., today-a tour­nament Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said is one of country's most pres­tigious. 
"All of the teams are nationally ranked," Bayliss said. "There will be no easy matches and we will be challenged every time we play." 
The Irish will open play against No. 48 Mississippi State at 4 p.m. today. With a win, Notre Dame would advance to play either No. 22 Boise State or No. 41 . Oklahoma Friday afternoon. 
the table -Santiago's touch and feel at the net coupled with Casey's ability to dominate on serve returns and from the back of the court." 
Bayliss said he will continue to search for the right doubles com­binations, especially at the bottom of the young but talented Irish lineup. 
As expected, senior Brett Helgeson has been a force at the top of the lineup already this sea­son. 
Helgeson is currently ranked No. 21 in the nation in singles, and he and his doubles partner, sopho­more Tyler Davis, are also ranked No. 21. 
Sophomore Stepehen Havens 

moved up in the lineup this season .. 
with the gradua­
tion of Sheeva 

Despite having Parbhu and
"There will be no 
to juggle their Andrew Roth
easy matches and we
lineup due to from last season, injuries to several will be challenged and has played usual starters, consistently at No.
every time we play. " 
the Irish enjoyed 2 doubles with a strong showing Watt. over spring break Bobby Bayliss Sophomore Dan at the Pacific Irish coach Stahl also moved 
Coast Doubles in La Jolla, Calif. 
The new combination of fresh­man Casey Watt and senior Santiago Montoya was particular­ly impressive, Bayliss said. 
"Because of a couple of minor injuries we were not able to play all of our regular combinations," Bayliss said. "But Santiago Montoya and Casey Watt reached the consolation finals and looked pretty good together. They brought interesting chemistry to 
up in the lineup this season and has been a force for the Irish. 
"Dan has surprised everyone with his ability to move from No. 6 last year to No. 3 this year," Bayliss said. "He has superb work ethic and competitiveness. He has a great ability to take time away from his opponents and rock solid ground strokes." 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


RUNAWAY BAY 
LUXURY 1-2 BEDROOM APARTMENTS 
·SAUNA 
·POOl 
·2 LAKES W/ WATERFALL 

·VOllEYBALL BASKETBAlL TENNIS COURTS 
·WAlK-IN CLOSETS 
·FIREPI.ACF.S 
·WID CONNECTIONS 
·7 MIN. TO NOTRE DAME 
·I'llNESS C!'NT!'R 
·JJOTTUB 

ENJOY THf ATTRACTlVl SURROUNDINGS AND AHURDAIIU MHS 
CALL TODAY fOR OUR SPECIALS (574} 256-1350 
• 




•

Thursday, March 19, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 31 
CROSSWORD 
Across 34 Part of a knave's loot. in a rhyme

"Siumdog Millionaire• 35 1970s Big Apple locale mayor 5 Find fault 36 Sony brand 38 Cheese and
9 Old auto control 
crackers, maybe

14 Move to solid 
41 Some

food 42 Great Lakes fish
15 Scene of classic 
44 Tills, in a way

flooding 46 Excess
16 The Four Seasons. e.g. 47 Notable bom 2/12/1809
17 Influential work 
51 Role played by

by 28-Across, 
52-Across in 

familiarly 
"The Story of 

20 Bygone leader 
Mankind"

with a -goatee 
52 See 51-Across 

21 Bit 
53 Signs off on 22Hea!th_ 
56 Lake Thun's 23 Dastard liver 
26 Where to see 58 Absinthe flavor 
20th Century 61 47-Across led it Fox studios 
65 What almost 28 Notable born always goes for 2/12/1809 a buck? 33 Grp. founded in 66 2004 Brad Pitt Jerusalem film 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
.::-f~=+:r.-i 
-=JU!J:!JII. 
.! 
~.,:,+;:+=+:~ ..:;;.~..;;;..~.~;;;.o.;"" 

67 Tinware art 68 Tour stops 69 End of a 
phonetic alphabet 70Genesis grandson 
Down Object of a hunt, maybe 2 "Runaway Briden 
co-star, 1999 3 Drought easer 4 Chest pain 5 Atlanta's 
Center 
6 "A Rainy Night in _n (1946 hit) 7 European sports 
car, informally 8 Rouse 9 Beaker site, for 
short 10Ad_ 11 Bluesman Rush 12Notgo bad 13 Old·time gossip 
queen Maxwell 18Ukeneon 19 Place for a lily 24 ~-. the day!" 
(Shakespearean 
exclamation)
25 "Can't Help Lovin' Oat Man" composer 
27Quarter 28Scale 29 "60 Minutes" 
correspondent starting in 1991 30 Kitchen appliance 31 "Er .•. uh ... " 
WILLSHORTZ 


amphibian 48 Salty inland_ 57 Uterally, "raw• 33 "Que _T Sea 59 1944 battle site 37 Singer Jackson 49 St. _, 60 Checks out with more than Switzerland 62 ~-Saison en ~~slt1 country 50 Flowery Enfer" 63Comcast
53 Christmas tree
39 Stamp purchase alternative
ornaments. 40 Numbers game typically 64 Home of the 
43 Kindergarten 54 R&B singer Stem School of teaming Hilson Business; Abbr. 
For answers, call Hl00·285-5656, $1.49 a minot~; or, with a credit card. 1·800·814·5554. Annual subscriptions are ava.ilable for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puules, or visit nytimes.comlmobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2.000 pastpuzzles. nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share lips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comlleamlng/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HoRoscoPE 

CELEBRfflES BORN ON THIS DAY: D~nc Cook. J7; Qn,en L1tifal1, J9: Vanessa · 
Willimns. 46; Brad DonriL 59 

· Happy Birthday: D<>n't let confusion ru1d IIIICettainty bo~t you dow11 and stop yon (mm 
~ett:in\1' ~~~.1<1. There will he lob of hitl<k~o mailers h:> COI!tcoul W1th, "' n<k qne•tion• before 
)'(lU m<okc adeo>mn. K~qm~ ah>w pwhk hm a!ugh \\Wketl11<: Mil help yoto mmnlatn 
your,tatoH aud ~moliona.l wdl··being.. Your uumbers ar~ 2. 7, 16, 28. "7, 40.45 
ARIES (March :U.·April 19): Problems wtlb oftld~ls. documentation or just disagree 
ntcnt• <hould be t•ken '"'"' <>f upfronl and fast. Lkon'tlel the wron.~ impre%ion <land in 
your w:1y. D<> S<lUtclhiiJ;~t nice fi>r ytMr ,.,,111111111<; p~ttn~'l' <>r, if •iurlc. gl'l ""' aurl ym•'ll 
medsnm~nneii~W. ***** 

TAURUS (April 20··May 20): Don't nux emotions with fiuam:es If' S<.1me<me i>. playm~ on your w•:'ii namre m order to get somdh.in)!' •JUt of you, dou't laU 10! 11. Y<:•u <·anmak,, 
•ttgl(estions lml .. , smm •• ymt pay for someone, your rdatiousbiJ> with that person will cl1a•wc *** 
GEMlNl (May 21 -June 20): The O(lportml.it.ies yon1;1et •viii not sit rii,ht with sou~~: of dw people you know. Jealousy willpby 11 role so be careful not lo gwc mtyoue ammumtion to use a!)aimt you. An added 1\'Sfl<lll•ibility may be )!'l\'en to you.*** 
CANCb"R (June 21··J\lly 22}: Sit back and let the changes going on around you fall mto pia<:•. La•hhw mtt <:IIIOtio11aU~· he(o,., you •tctll~lly km>w whattl~t· e•td !\omit is woll be .fmile aud will om you dearly. Acceplattc~ will load to a gm>dimpressinn *** 
LEO (July 23·-Aug. 22}: Y.onr outgoing nature will <>!"'11 up <kX>N to new partt>elship• 
that can enhance y'Our l"'rsomol and pmfession>l positinn. Put on the dmm1 bnt try not to 
lead anyrme on emoHmlal!y or y,;nmay haw Itt pay Uw COI"""J!lenc'e~. ***** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You haw pleuty 1<> be thaukful for and lots o{ plans to nmke ymu-lif~ better. Allerntiotls to your li•'ing quart<:~ wultnm om wdl A chance to engage h1 an em<•tinually beneficial Cllcounl<'r will lt'nvc ym• wantmr. more ***** 
UBRA (Sept. 23··0<:1. 22): A push will make you decide quickly what you should do ablnu a h't>lll>lewme relmiouship. Eitlwr set the reeord straijllit or pull our. You need new ~fi\•it.ics <If eWiltS as avei!U<<to ~~~ l"''>Plc with ~'<nllltl<>ll i11terc•t>. ** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23·Nov. 21): How you eant your livill!l will take <lll a whole new meau· .. illj!. Ynu can \:\unch or ilUegmle s.i>melhmg you've bcet1 worki~ on to a t.olally new appli·· canon. A sudden chau,ue m til<' stntcturc and the way you aJlproacb someone or somelhin~ win make the diffet.:oc..,. **** 
SAGJTIAIUUS (Nov. 22-0\W. 21): Dvn't cuolli:olll anyom' before you haw dlollgbt mat 
kn< throu~b, Love h on the line and snare youremottons and yt>tlf fu!ure. Avo1d meddk.-n; 
aud stay om of e\-eryone ehe\ l:>usiness as w-ell. ** * 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22·11111. 19): A change of plans will suit your tl«d; but somc<.>ne 
you"~"' a!J<)tll may not he hai'PY with tloe deci~ion y<lltlll"ke. ~ide tf it is wonb punin~ 
up with the ll~gath•ity. A "'~'tct ellml.l>tt~r will lit entil.'iiJ.i! buri~n't tbc an~w"'· *** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): O~llill# invoh·cd in a ~up or or)1anizalionl.hat will bel!> 
you meet p"op!e will be good tO! you l.ow is in the stars and opporlunilies to show otb.ers 
wbal you han to ofkr will lead to biJI~! aud better thin~'· **** 
PISCES (Feb. l9-Man:b 20): Y<ltl'll IX" ~onfnsctlruulscanered. catblll~ y<m to mal>t 
">nw un~take> d you .let your e!ll\)ltom tJt!w over. Deal Wttb ;myuuc wb" t> tr)'ll!J! to llllikc 
you look bad he!ore be or sh<' ha• a dmncc to do any real rlama~e. Your reputatjon nmy be 
at risk ** 

Birthday Baby: Y<>t~ have SJ>mlk. andacity and tenacity all mixed up into a dynamite pre.' 
wwc. Y(>\1 itl'<' I!I<JtliSti!V<~. tltnll w<llciJot and a Uutsterlul ch~mckou. 
Eugmfa's 1\!d! sitl'': rugmiala.,t.camfor .-:mifldetttial crmslllff1timtt. 
myspaa.<'<>mkuge.uialaSifor Ettg~llirl's blog, Mtruttdvia"amfor ftm 
www.BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 

FORBIDDEN DOUGHNUT 

So you're not going to your classes today? 
vo.Gamesar~ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
PAT GARTLAND 

Do you want to make out? 
Only if we stay in this chair and you don't block my view. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
~~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
tFLEEBE 

THAIBI I~ (  j  []  
I I  IJ  

NEW AJMBt£ NMEMJOwww.jumble.tomlds 
I
IJ I I I 

Answer here: ( I I I I I JrI I J 
Yesterday's  IJumbles:  DRAWL  CHIME  (Answers tomorrow) WHALER ANGINA  
Answer:  What the cowboy who repaired the truck  
turned into  -A "WRENCH" HAND  
The Observer  
P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 


WHE:N THE: BO;<E:R L-OST THE: FIGHT, HE: DIDN'T GE:T U? --­

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address _____________________________________ City ______________ State _____ Zip______ 
I THE OBSERVER 
I ~ 
I
' 
r I 
PORTS
Thursday, March 19, 2009 

BASEBALL 
Hitting their stride 
Offense impressive as Irish win fifth straight 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame won its fifth straight and the ninth game in its last 11 Wednesday, routing Valparaiso 10-4 at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Freshman southpaw Steve Sabatino received a no-deci­sion but had a solid start for the Irish (12-5), giving up two runs over 5 1-3 innings. Sabatino struck out four and held the Crusaders (5-10) scoreless until the sixth inning. 
Freshman reliever Ryan Richter picked up the first win of his career after pitching two innings and giving up no earned runs. 
The Irish struck first in the bottom of the opening frame, scoring two quick runs off of Valparaiso freshman Tyler Deetjen. After consecutive sin­gles by junior outfielders David Mills and A.J. Pollock, junior first baseman Casey Martin opened the scoring with an RBI single. 
Senior shortstop Jeremy Barnes then ripped an RBI double into the left-center gap, plating Pollock .and giving Notre Dame an early 2-0 lead. 
Sophomore tbird baseman Greg Sherry said Notre Dame's situational hitting was -a big advantage. 
"We work on situational hit­ting all the time in practice," Sherry said. "That's the great part about our lineup, every­one top to bottom just wants to get the job done, whether it's a bunt, sacrifice fly, or getting the big hit." 
Sabatino dominated the 
see VALPO/page 29 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame set to host New Mexico in NIT's second round 
By GREG ARBOGAST Senior Staff Writer 
Entering the Big East tour­nament, Notre Dame knew it needed to win five games in a row to claim the ultimate prize, but the Irish flamed out in round two. Notre Dame now gets a second chance at mak­ing it to round three out of five. 
After winning their first NIT game 70-64 over Alabama­Birmingham Tuesday, the No. 2-seed Irish look to advance to 
the quarterfinals of the NIT when they host No. 3-seed New Mexico (22-11, 12-4 Mountain West) Thursday night at 7:05p.m. 
In an attempt to draw a strong home crowd, the ticket department will be distribut­ing free tickets to the first 1,000 students to attend Thursday's game. That same incentive was in place for the UAB game but dido't seem to have much effect, as roughly one-fourth of the 2,064 in attendance were students. That attendance figure, how-
FENCING 
Team sends 12 fencers to NCAA competition 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
Twelve Notre Dame fencers will compete for a chance at a national title this weekend at the NCAA Fencing Championships in State College, Penn. The No. 1. Irish, alongside rivals No.2 Penn State and No. 4 Ohio State, qualified the maximum six fencers from both the male and female teams. 
The event caps a roaring sea­son in which the Notre Dame squads combined for a 65-2 record. Both the men's and women's teams have held at least a share of the top spot in the USFCA Coaches' through­out the season. 
This year marks the seventh time the Irish have qualified 12 fencers for the NCAA Championships, a key step toward a national title. Since 2000, teams sending 12 fencers to the NCAAs have claimed eight of nine titles, and in 2005, Notre Dame took home the title with only 11 entrants. 
Irish head coach Janusz Bednarski said he hopes that this tournament will mark his third national championship since becoming head coach in 2002, but he acknowledged the pressure and grueling toll that the NCAAs can take on a young squad such as his. 
"They'll be OK," Bednarski said. "Although we're young, we have some very experi­enced fencers who've been fencing all over the globe. NCAA competitions have a level of stress, a different envi­ronment, but I believe the young kids will adapt." 
see NATIONALS/page 28 
page 32 

WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Three head to nationals in Texas 
By MOLLY SAMMON Sports Writer 
Three members of Notre Dame's Big East Championship team will represent the univer­sity at the NCAA Championships at Texas A&M University in College Station, Texas, this weekend. 
Sophomore swimmers Amywren Miller and Samantha Maxwell and junior diver Natalie Stitt each qualified for this opportunity by remaining among the most competitive swimmers and divers in the country. 
"The competition in Texas is 
see NCAA/page 28 

ever, may have been affected by the 9 p.m. start time for a game played on St. Patrick's Day. 
"I think our crowd really helped us tonight, and it'll be better because there will be even more people Thursday," Irish coach Mike Brey said after Tuesday's win. "It'll build a little bit for Thursday." 
Strong crowd tJr not, the Joyce Center has been a good home for Notre Dame this sea­son. The Irish are 13-3 at home compared to 2-9 on the road. The Irish have also beat­en 35 straight non-conference opponents at the JACC, last losing to Michigan 71-67 on Qec. 3, 2005. 
"Especially for our seniors, to play another home game Thursday, that's great for them," junior forward Luke Harangody said. "They're looking to fight every game. They want to keep playing, everybody on the team wants to keep playing, we're just excited to be out here." 
New Mexico, however, won't feel completely out of its ele­ment traveling to Indiana for Thursday's game. The Lobos are coached by Steve Alford, who was Mr. Basketball for the state of Indiana in 1983. Alford then went on to an All­America career at Indiana that included a national cham­pionship in 1987. 
Sophomore guard Dairese Gary is also making a home­coming of sorts. Alford's first signee at New Mexico, Gary played point guard at Concord High in Elkhart, Ind. He's found a new home in 
see NIT/page 29 

SOFTBALL 
Squad overwhelms Toledo 
ND holds Rockets to one run aver two games in dominating sweep 
By MOLLY SAMMON Sports Writer 

Notre Dame needed only five innings in each game of its doubleheader against Toledo Wednesday, as the Irish swept the Rockets with 15-0 and 9-1 victories in their first pair of games at Melissa Cook Stadium. 
Notre Dame (1 0-10) senior Brittney Bargar held Toledo (2-12) to just one hit in the first game, and the Irish jumped on the Hoekets from the get-go with four runs in the bottom of the first inning, which was capped by a home run from freshman right field­er Dani Miller. Junior first 
see TOLEDO/page 28 










