
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Sexual AssaultAwareness Week begins 
Gender Relations Center hosts events to foster discussion, education on campus 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
The Gender Relations Center is hosting events to increase awareness about sexual assault and spark discussion during this week'-s Sexual Assault Awareness Week, said Laura Lauck, the student assistant at the Gender Relations Center. 
Lauck said the posters dis­played around campus for Sexual Assault Awareness Week represent the goals of the week because the posters are of a face without eyes and an X in place of a mouth. 
"The lack of eyes [means] we need to be aware and open our 
Student research published in new journal 
By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
The College of Arts and Letters has a Journal of Undergraduate Research, but students in the College of Science had no place to publish their research -until now. 
College of Science students and facul­ty are planning Scientia, Notre Dame's first-ever journal for undergraduate research devoted exclusively to science, for release this semester. 
"There are so many students in the College of Science doing all these awe­some research projects, and there's no outlet for them," said sophomore Ryan Renacci, the submissions editor for Scientia. "We want these students to be able to let other students see what they've done." 
A journal for undergraduate science research is a natural fit for Notre Dame's expanding science and research programs. Edwin Siu, a grad­uate student in biological sciences and advisor to Scientia, was surprised that such a publication did not already exist. 
"When I started school here, I looked to see if there was a publication in the College of Science for student research," Siu said. "With Notre Dame's focus on undergraduate education, it seemed strange that there wasn't one." 
A key feature of Scientia, Latin for "knowledge," is that it will be complete­ly student-run. Another is that it will be an online publication, with only one print copy issued yearly. 
"The advantage of online publication is that it reduces our burden on the planet, it allows for a rolling applica­
see JOURNAL/page 4 
THE 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Parents on campus for JPW 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY News Writer 
For junior Mary Beth Lee, Junior Parents Weekend (JPW) allowed her to introduce her parents to life at Notre Dame and reflect on the past two and a half years on campus. 
"In college, you have two dif­ferent homes and two different families," Lee said. "You fmally get to have your ND family meet your biological family." 
Lee said her favorite event was the President's Dinner, which took place on Saturday, mostly because of University President Fr. Jenkins' funny and insightful address. 
In the speech, Jenkins drew comparisons between the bibli­cal story, "The Boy Jesus in the Temple" -where Jesus' par­ents lose him only to find him later preaching in the temple ­and the evolution from child to adult that happens in college, she said. 
"His point was that we are evolving and changing at school, and our parents come to JPW to find us all grown up," Lee said. 
Along with attending the President's Dinner, Lee said she was able to give her. parents a tour of campus, and they went out to dinner at Polito's Restaurant. 
The speakers at the dinner and the homily by Fr. Mark Poorman, vice president for stu­dent affairs, at the JPW mass 
see JPW/page 4 

eyes to the problem that sexual assault causes," Lauck said. "The X is like we need to talk about it. And don't be afraid to talk about it just because it is Notre Dame." 
A prayer service for sexual assault survivors will be held at 7 p.m. tonight at the Log Chapel. Following the prayer service will be a march around campus and a bonfire on Holy Cross Hill where students will have a "speak out," student assistant for the Gender Relations Center Patrick Tighe said. 
A "speak out" is about "break­ing the silence," Tighe said, who said it will be a time for sur-
Sexual Assault 


Awareness Week Schedule 
February 23: Notre Dame Take Back the Night lflellldes afJ11.1YfN service as 7 p.m. in the Log Chapel, amaiCII. and aspeak Out oonfire at ap.m at~ Cross 
February 24 -26: Resource tables m Nurth and south dining halls and LaFortune student Center from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m 
February 25: COmmittee on sexual Assautt Prevention (CSAP) student forum at7 p.m. in the Reekers Hosprtality Room 
February 27: ·A Time to Hear Dinner . wi!tl speal<e!S li'om 5 to 7 pm. at LegendS; RSVP by February 23 ID groond.edu or 
574.631.9340 
see WEEK/ page 4 
MARY CECILIA MITSvHrfhe Observer 


StudentssafeafterCairobomb blast 
Notre Dame study abroad site not in vicinity of explosion 
ByJENNMETZ 

News Editor  
Though the eight Notre Dame  
students  currently studying  
abroad in Cairo were not directly  
affected by Sunday's bomb explo­ 
sion in the Khan el-Khalili neigh­ 
borhood of the city, they have  
concerns about their safety and  
unanswered questions about the  
attack.  
The blast, whi'Ch hit one of the  
city's famed bazaars packed with  
tourists, killed a French woman  
and wounded at least 21 people  
-most of them foreigners  - 
according to  a  report by The  AP  
Egyptian police attend to scene outside the Khan  
see CAIRO/page 6  ei-Khalili market following a blast, in Cairo, Egypt, Sunday.  



SaintMary'sCollege celebrates women 
Week of events designed to show appreciation for female contributions to world 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer  invite women with different interests to our events," Lau said.  a great way to _ensure a large turnout by inviting a new crowd of students, Lau  things when we all come together under a common cause, to promote the free­ 
The events of the week  said.  dom of women  and sexual  
Saint  Mary's  Student  will be kicked off today with  The SOB is hosting the  discrimination," Lau said.  
Diversity Board (SOB) is  an Appreciate Women in Art  event "Yellow is the Color of  Other  events  that will  
sponsoring  Women's  Exhibit. Lau said that this  Freedom" Tuesday after­ occur  during  the  week  
Appreciation Week,  a  cele­ would give  women  in the  noon.  The  event  was  include  a  panel  on  
bration  of  "all  ways  in  art department a  chance to  inspired by the suffragists  Wednesday that will the  
which women  make  a  dif­ be  acknowledged by the  and legislators who  wore  presented by four Women's  
ference in the world," said  rest of the student body.  yellow roses to support the  Studies  professors.  On  
senior Leslie Lau, the chair  "As  an artist, I knew that  passing of the 19th amend­ Thursday, there is an inter­ 
of the event.  the Art Department  was  ment  active workshop presented  
Lau, along with co-chair  having their faculty show  SDB will be in the Student  by Terri Russ, the author of  
Mara Martinez have been  and I approached. them ask­ Atrium handing out yellow  "Bi***in' Bodies."  
planning events throughout  ing if they were  willing to·  roses  with quotations by  Lau  said  that  it  was  
the year that they hope all  talk about their work and  these famous suffragists to  unlikely that they will see a  
students at Saint Mary's will  how they were  influenced  students.  large turnout at all of the  
attend.  by their gender," Lau said.  "We hope .that from these  events, but said they do  
"We hope that with t.he  The faculty was extremely  inspirational quotations  expect some of their activi­ 
variety of events that we  accommodating  and  the  women  will be reminded  
have  organized  we  will  SDB hopes that this will be  that we  can achieve great  see WOMEN/page 6  

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Alternate options 

Like many Notre Dame students, you may feel pressure to "succeed" in the conventional way by finding a high­paying job, a like-minded spouse and a suburban home within a 10-mile radius of either a country club or Catholic church. 
That road is Robert Singer weR-tra~eled, and it's no sure thing 
News 

given the state of the 
Production 

economy, so here are 
Editor 

some alternative, recession-proof career options that you can't look up on Go Irish and won't hear about from your parents' friends. 
+ 
MMA Fighter/Ultimate Fighting Championship: This is a burgeoning field because of a rise in frustration due to a poor economy and the wide­spread crackdown on school bullying; as people are forced to seek new out­lets for their repressed hatred for the world, fighting circles are opening up everywhere. It's the one blue-collar job that isn't being outsourced. Plus, there is no drug testing for the amateur bouts. Couple this with the fact that Mixed Martial Arts rewards rage as much as athleticism and you'll have an almost guaranteed shot at success if you "line up" the right kind of pre­game routine. Go to GladiatorElite.com for more details. Men and women can apply. 

+ 
Farmerffhe Midwest: Land will be cheap in the Midwest if there is a mass exile due to a collapse in auto manufacturing. Also, if you're enam­ored with Catholic doctrine, no career is more accommodating than farming. Birth control is a hindrance when you can always use more hands to shovel the hog pen or husk the corn. 


Considering the quality of schools in most parts of the Midwest, your crew of child laborers will be around to sup­port the family business long after they are rejected from their dream schools and decide joining the military is too risky given the five wars simultaneous­ly being fought in the Middle East. If you're interested in buying farm acreage, call Jeff at 614-989-9394. 
+ Friar/Franciscans of Primitive Observance: It won't help to pay off that $200,000 bill from Notre Dame, as this strict brotherhood of monks rejects all use of money, but it assured­ly won't put you in the awkward situa­tion of worrying about troublesome concepts like social justice from a 40th floor office in Goldman Sachs. Instead, you'll be down on the streets as one of society's sufferers. Wearing a rough wool habit and living in a wooden cell, you can toss aside the tired tradition of rugged individualism and depend on someone else for a change -Divine Providence. Begging and hitchhiking and relying on the guilt -er, inspired goodwill -of other people will be your only options, since this order denies itself the use of cars and commerce. If, interested, write Brother Andrew at Co-Redemptrix Friary, 20 Trinity Street, Lawrence, Massachusetts 01841. 
If you're at Notre Dame, chances are good that your parents made more conventional career decisions. But who's to say that's the only way to find satisfaction in life? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, February 23, 2009 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT SONG DO YOU CURRENTLY HAVE STUCK IN YOUR HEAD? 

Ryan Qulllard  Megan Flaherty  Billy Beirne  Stephen Shaver  Henry Shine  
freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  
Dillon  LeMans  Seigfried  Alumni  Stanford  
"Matt  "That  '"New Math' by  '"/am on a  '"Wasting Time,'  
Nathanson's  FloRida song!"  Bo Burnham  boat,' by L-onely  by Dave  
'Romeo and  (thanks to  Island."  Matthews. "  
Juliet.'"  Grace for  
showing me  
him).  






IN BRIEF 
The Bookstore Basketball Tipoff will be held today from 7 
p.m. to 9 in Rolfs Rec Sports Center to celebrate the opening of Bookstore registration. Notre Dame professor Carl Ackermann, former player Tom Timmermans and University President Emeritus Fr. Edward "Monk" Malloy will make appearances. 
Semi-finals for Bengal Bouts will take place tomorrow starting at 6::{0 p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Contact the Joyce Center ticket office for tiekel<>. 
Mass for Ash Wednesday will be celebratfld Wednesday in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 
11:30 a.m. and 5:15p.m. 
Wendy Falk MacGregor, the Chief Marketing Officer for feeding American and Lisa Jaworski, the Chief Executive Officer for the Food Bank of Northern Indiana will give a talk titled "Hunger in America and South Bend: Responding to Unprecedented Demand" at 5 
p.m. in 136 DeBartolo. All are welcome. 
The 51st Anual Collegiate Jazz Festival will take place in Washington Hall from 7 to 11 
p.m. Top college jazz bands will perform while being judged by five highly acclaimed jazz artists. Students at Notre Dame, St. Mary's and Holy Cross are admit­ted free of charge but must obtain tickets from the LaFortune Ticket Office. 
Bengal Bouts fmals take place Saturday at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 
e.
**•. 

HIGH 42 HIGH 32 LOW 29 LOW 21 

PAT COVENEY!The Observer Unite Here union organizer Maria Vlvanca speaks Thursday at a Progressive Students Association event to raise awareness about the struggles of HEI Hotels and Resorts workers. 
OFFBEAT 

Woman receives Invita­tion 22 years late 
LA GHANDE, Ore. -An Oregon woman finally received an invitation to her nephew's high school graduation in New Jersey, but she may be a little late -it was in 1987. 
Theresa Schlossarek, of La Grande, found the invi­tation last week in her mailbox. The envelope, which had been opened, was postmarked June 2, 1987, from Toms River, N.J., where her brother, Hermann Ilnseher, lives. 
Ilnseher said the lack of response from his sister was noticed but dismissed. 

"We just thought that she lived so far away, she couldn't come," IInseher said. "She usually would send money, though, so we did joke about that later on, that maybe she could send some and add inter­est for the years passed." 
Peter Hass, spokesman for the U.S. Postal Service's Portland district, called the delay "very unusual and very unfortunate." 
Inmate accused of again Impersonating officer 
MADISON, Wis. -A Madison man already serv­ing time for impersonating an officer apparently has­
n't learned his lesson. Thirty-year-old Joshua 
D. Kay is charged with a new count of impersonat­ing an officer. At an initial court appearance Friday he stood mute so the court entered a plea of not guilty. 
Prosecutors say Kay has been telling other inmates he's actually a sheriff's deputy, working undercov­er to investigate other deputies. 
Online court records did­n't list an attorney for Kay on Saturday. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a:: 
1.&.1 ::::1: 
~ 
1.&.1 
3: 
... 

..... 
Ill( 
e. 
•••••~ 

(,) 
0 **·. 
HIGH 26 HIGH 20 HIGH 33 HIGH 41
...I LOW 7 LOW 3 LOW 25 LOW 34 
Atlanta 52 128 Boston 39 I 20 Chicago 25 I 14 Denver 64 I 36 Houston 67 I 53 Los Angeles 71 I 52 Minneapolis 22 I 15 New York 34 122 Philadelphia 36 I 20 Phoenix 83 I 57 Seattle 51 I 43 St. Louis 37 I 25 Tampa 66 I 43 Washington 38 I 21 
Friday, February 23, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Choir pl~s tour of Midwest, Canada 
eliu.cli .£e.nnon­!Tiie 

!7-~!P~ 
UJO-fflen-6 s~ g ecun­


• 

!B!P ..A/tea£ CZuc:tian 
~w~cJ.ay~ geaJUUVt.v 2s~ 2009 7:30-9:30p~l'n­£a/.aUu.ne !B~cuun and ;Dao.&y. 9loo~n 
By MEGAN LONEY NewsWrirer 
The Saint Mary's College Women's choir will tour March 9-15 in the Midwest and Canada, continuing the tradi­tion that has continued every other year for the past 25 years 
The choir will perform in Fort Wayne, Ind.; Toledo, Ohio; Ann Arbor, Detroit and Bloomfield Hills, Mich.; and Guelph and Toronto, Ontario in Canada. 
In preparation for the tour, the Women's Choir members have been diligently practicing four hours per week, said Choir Director Nancy Menk. Their dedication to this tour is not just based on a desire to present an aesthetic experi­ence for audiences; this tour has significant purposes; Menk said. 
"One purpose of this tour is to promote Saint Mary's College and, in particular, the Music Department and the Women's Choir to prospective students; alumnae, and the general public," Menk said. 
The tour also benefits the choral program at Saint Mary's College through promotion of their music. 
"This tour will promote qual­ity choral singing, especially· music for women's voices, including the new pieces in our choral series," Menk said. "It will promote the quality of our choral program and make our COs available to our audi­ences." 

During this tour, the Women's Choir will perform in conjunc­tion with other university, high school, and community treble choirs. The choirs who will be performing with the Women's Choir are the Fort Wayne Children's Choir at First Wayne Street United Methodist Church, the Ann Arbor Youth Chorale and Huron High School Bel Canto at Bethlehem United Church of Christ, and the University of Guelph and the University of Toronto Women's Choirs at Harcourt Memorial United Church. 
The choir will conclude the tour with a homecoming con­cert March 20 at 7:30 p.m. in the Church of Our Lady of Loretto on campus. 
Ultimately, the tour is a developmental experience for the girls participating. 
"This tour is meant to build musicality and rapport among the members of the Choir and to strengthen our performing abilities and to have. fun while making great music together," Menk said. "The Choir always improves immensely by the end of the tour." 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

ND biologist explores 
circadian clock gene 
Special to The Observer 
Scientists have long known that interrupting the 24-hour circadian rhythm plays havoc with the lives and health of med­ical, military and airline person­nel, factory employees and trav­elers. 
A new paper by University of Notre Dame biologist Giles Duffield and a team of researchers that appears in this month's edition of the journal Current Biology sheds new light on circadian timing systems and focuses on a key gene that seems to regulate the response of the circadian clock to light signals. 
"Circadian rhythms are impor­tant and exciting because they pervade many aspects of bio­chemistry, physiology and behavior, either subtly or overt­ly," Duffield said. "For example, the human sleep-wake cycle is a very obvious rhythm and tightly gated to the night, while per­haps less obvious is that virtual­ly all hormones oscillate with a 24-hour rhythm and up to 10 percent of genes in each cell are rhythmically controlled." 
An estimated 16 percent of the 
U.S. working population is involved in rotational shift work, and a significant population is affected by jet lag and related sleep-wake disorders. The impact of the large shifts in the body's internal clock that these individuals experience can be profound, contributing to increased accident rates, med­ical errors and the development of particular illnesses. 

"Both the Three Mile Island disaster in 1979 and the Chernobyl disaster in 1986 occurred late at night or early in the morning," Duffield said. "Most truck accidents occur around 2 a.m. Incidents of can­cer and cardiovascular dis.ease are elevated in trans-Atlantic airline staff and in shift work­ers." 
The master circadian clock in the human resides within the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamic brain and receives direct input from the retina (eye) through which the clock can be reset or synchronized on a daily basis to the prevailing light-dark cycle. This provides both time of day and also time of year infor­mation to the brain and body. Things can go wrong with the internal clocks when either the clock system or its light input pathway is disrupted. 
Using DNA microarray tech-· niques, Duffield and the other researchers identified an impor­tant gene called the "Inhibitor of DNA-binding 2" {Id2) and found that the gene is rhythmically 
• 
expressed in various tissues including the suprachiasmatic nucleus. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 23, 2009 
along with student-written reviewer will work with the the same weekend as JPW every 
year. Expo Homa takes place on research pieces. writer, sending the article back
Journal
JPW 

"Most Notre Dame students and forth to make sure it's publi­"Any senior who was abroad 
year, she said. 
continued from page 1 know another student who's cation-worthy. We're focusing on
continued from page 1 

working in a lab, but you don't research that the student has offered perspective on the past including the archies, but we 
last spring was invited to JPW, 
tions process, and it makes the know what it is they're actually done over a summer or over a years at Notre Dame and the put on something called Expo 
joumal more easily a1:eessible," doing," Siu said. "Scientia will semester." years to come, she said. Roma, which is like our own 
said professor Dominic Chaloner, include a news section so studenl'i College of Science students can "We talked about how there JPW since everyone was abroad 
Sdentia's liu:ulty advisor. at Notrn Dame can know what look forward to the exposure their are only two and a half semes­in Rome," she said. "So we have 
Editors oversee eaeh of their peers are researching and work will get through Scientia. ters left, and carpe diem," she our own thing just for archies." 
Sdentia's five departmnnl'i: biolo­see that they're aetivflly involved The journal will be an outlet for said. "We need to make the The weekend included a 
gy, chemistry, pre-professional, in research that's significant." the research that most students most of our last semesters." reception with Michael 
physics and math. Each dnpart­Scientia will feature a rolling almadydo. Junior Greg Wallingford said Lykoudis, the dean of the 
ment also includes volunteer applteation process and online "Most science majors do some he enjoyed having a beer with Architecture school, a lecture 
undergraduates who will help submission of artides, making it sort of research," Siu said. "It his dad at Fiddler's Hearth. from a professor the students 
prepare submitted articles for easy to submit research. Its edi­seems a bit of a shame to put in "It was hilarious," Wallingford had in Rome, a dinner at 
publication as peer rnviewnrs. tors arn nager to gnt to work on all those hours and not have said. "It was almost all kids and Tippecanoe Restaurant in South 
"We wanted Scientia to repre­the first articles. something to show for it, and this parents at Fiddler's Hearth." Bend and a Mass to close the 
sent every major in the College of "We'rn looking for peopln to gives closure to their research." Wallingford also said he wel­weekend. 
Science," Hnnacei said. submit articles, and wn could comed the chance to give his Schaible said the main objec­
Scientia will incorporate news always use more editors,'' Henaed Contact Tess Civantos at parents a glimpse of his every­tive of the weekend is to tell the 
artides about Notre Dame seienee said. "Whnn we rneeive artidcs, a tcivanto@nd.edu day life at Notre Dame. parents about the students' 
"It was great showing them experience in Rome the previ­what you actually do here," he ous year. said. "You get used to things, "We decorated the whole first 
the Heckers Hospitality Hoom Legends from 5 to 7:30 p.m., but showing them to your par­floor of Bond Hall with our 
to "address issues of sexual Lauck said. The dinner is called
Week 
assault and rape here on earn­"A Time to Heal," which is Junior Rosemary Peterson Rome and the pictures we took 
ents, they seem newer." paintings and drawings from pus," Tighe said. The forum is named after a verse from the
continued from page 1 said she most enjoyed Lou there," she said. "There's also a 
hosted by the Committee on Bible, she said. Holtz's speech at the closing lunch with our parents with a 
vivors to aecount their experi­Sexual Assault Prevention and "Faculty will be speaking," brunch. video yearbook along with a 
ences with sexual assault or will bring together students, Lauck said. "And then a couple "He's a really amazing speak­slide show with music, pictures 
rape. members of the Notre Dame student survivors of sexual er," Peterson said. "His advice and videos that covered our 
"Anyone is welcome to come. Security Police and the assault will also be speaking at was to go through life excited whole year in Rome." 
You don't have to be a sexual Counseling Center to discuss it." and find something to be pas­Although Expo Roma occurs 
assault survivor. It can be sup­the issue of sexual assault, Lauck said everyone is invit­sionate about." every year on JPW, Schaible 
porters, allies, friends ... any­Tighe said. ed to attend the dinner, but JPW is generally thought of as said their event is unique from 
one," he said. "You just go there and you those who are interested an important weekend for jun­JPW because the weekend was 
Lauck said the Gender see the current policy and there should RSVP to the Gender iors, but since the event is dur­focused about remembering the 
Helations Center will have a will be a discussion on your Relations Center via e-mail ing the spring semester, many year in Rome. 
resource table set up Tuesday thoughts on the policy," Tighe today. juniors studying abroad miss "It was a great opportunity to 
through Thursday in both din­said. The discussion will also "Here at Notre Dame, it is a out, especially the entire junior show our parents how much we 
ing halls and in LaFortune. The include what changes are need­Catholic institution. But [sexual­class in the Architecture School. did last year and what our expe­
tables will provide information ed in the University's sexual assault] happens and we can't Senior architecture major rience in Rome was. It really 
not only to survivors of sexual assault policy. Stacy Nadeau deny that it happens," Luack Tereza Schaible said the school brought back so many memo­
assault, but also their friends from the Dove Campaign for said. "We need to make sure offers a program akin to JPW ries for all of us," she said. "It 
and family, or anyone looking Heal Beauty will speak in help is getting out to [sur­called Expo Roma for the sen­was a really nostalgic weekend." 
for general education on the DeBartolo 102 at 7 p.m. vivors]." iors because they missed JPW, 
topic. Thursday, Lauck said. as every junior in the school Contact Madeline Buckley at 
There will be a forum A faculty and student dinner Contact Sarah Mervosh at studies abroad in Rome for the mbuckley@nd.edu 
Wednesday night at 7 p.m. in will take place Friday at smervosh@nd.edu 

Date: Friday FebrLiary 2 7 
• 
Time: 9 pm 12 Where: Hagger Parle>Lir 

Sair1.t Marys Ce>llege 






ORLD &NATION 
Monday, February 23, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iraq to operate nuclear power plant 
TEHRAN -Iran's first nuclear plant will 
begin long-delayed pilot operations on 
Wednesday, the state atomic energy agency 
said. 
A nuclear official in Russia, which is help­
ing build the plant, however, said no major 
milestone is expected on that day. 
"The pilot stage operation of the power 
plant will start on Wednesday," Iranian 
atomic agency spokesman Mohsen Delaviz -told the state news agency on Sunday. 
He added that the preliminary phase will 
take place during a visit by Sergei Kiriyenko, 
the head of Russia's state nuclear agency. 
The long-awaited 1,000-megawatt light­
water reactor, which was built in the south­
ern Iranian port of Bushehr with the help of 
Russia under a $1 billion contract, was pre­
viously scheduled to become operational in 
fall 2008. Some 700 Iranian engineers were 
trained in Russia to operate the power plant. 
Two escape from Greek prison 
ATHENS -For the second time in their lives, 
two robbers escaped from a high-security 
prison Sunday by scaling a rope ladder to a 
hovering helicopter amid a gun battle with 
guards. 
The men remained missing late Sunday night. 
They had been scheduled to appear before a 
magistrate Monday about their first escape ­
from the same prison-three years ago. 
The shaken government quickly dismissed 
three Justice Ministry officials, and the prime 
minister scheduled an amergency meeting of 
part of his cabinet Monday to discuss the coun­
try's prisons. 
"This was an insult which I will not accept ... I 
will take measures as harsh as necessary," 
Justice Minister Nikos Dendias announced. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Fifth-grader accused of murder 
WAMPUM -Fifth-grader Jordan Brown boarded the bus and headed to school like he does most other mornings in this rural western Pennsylvania community. 
But Friday was no typical morning. Before he left his rented farmhouse, authorities say, the 11-year-old fatally shot his father's pregnant fiancee in the back of the head as she lay in bed. He then put his youth m-odel 20-gauge shotgun back in his room and went out to catch his bus, police say. 
Brown was charged Saturday as an adult in the death of 26-year-old Kenzie Marie Hook, who was eight months pregnant, Lawrence County District Attorney John Bongivengo said. Hook's fetus died within minutes due to a lack of oxygen, Lawrence County Coroner Russell Noga said. 

Swarthmore names new president 
SWARTHMORE -Swarthmore College has named Rebecca Chopp as its new pres­ident, making her the first woman to hold the position in the elite liberal-arts school's 145-year history. 
Chopp, president of Colgate University since 2002, was selected by Swarthmore's board of managers on Saturday. 
She succeeds Alfred Bloom. Swarthmore's president since 1991, who announced in May that he would step down. He is becoming vice chancellor of New York University Abu Dhabi. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Man accused of hosting "sex parties" 
LINTON -Aconvicted sex offender faces sexu­al misconduct chargei) alleging that he hosted teenage "sex parties" at his home during which he gave youngsters alcohol and encouraged them to engage in sex acts. 
_vmcent Tyrone Carter, 43, was charged this week with sexual misconduct with a minor, two counts of child solicitation and furnishing alco­holic beverages to minors. 
A Greene County judge set a $75,000 bond for Carter, a convicted sex offender, and appointed a public defender to represent him. He remained jail Saturday at the Greene County Jail. 

Hawaii gov't debates civil union law 
State becomes newest battleground in the fight to legalize same-sex civil unzons 
Associated Press  
HONOLULU ­Hawaii, the  
state that adopted the  
nation's first "defense of  
marriage" constitutional  
amendment a decade ago,  
has now become the latest  
battleground in the fight for  
same-sex civil unions.  
It would become the fifth  
state to legalize the alterna­ 
tive to gay marriage if the  
Democrat-domina ted  
Legislature and Republican  
governor approve a civil  
union law. The measure was  
passed by the state House  
this month but it now faces  
the Senate, where a divided  
committee is to vote Tuesday.  
Republican Gov. Linda  
Lingle has declined to com­ 
ment on the issue and it's  
unclear whether she would  
veto the bill.  
Gay rights organizations  
argue that civil unions would  
promote basic equality in the  
nation's most ethnically  
diverse state, but opponents  
fear the erosion of an island  
culture that values conven­ 
tional family ties.  
"Society in general is  
becoming more accepting,"  
said Suzanne King, a real  
estate oflice manager who is AP  
raising her 9-year-old daugh­Suzanne King, Shylar Young and Tambry Young walk along the shore at Ala Moana Park in  
ter, Shylar Young, with her Honolulu on Thursday. Hawaii's Senate will vote on a civil-union law on Tuesday.  
partner of nearly 28 years,  
Tambry Young. "It's not  influence on Hawaii "keiki,"  changed."  Rev. Mike John Hough of  
unusual to come upon a gay  the Hawaiian word for chil­ Only Massachusetts and­ Kauai Island Weddings.  
family. There isn't this fear  dren.  Connecticut allow gay mar­ "Some people say it's just  
that by giving us rights, it's  The Mormon church,  riage, while Vermont,  marriage by another name,  
going to reduce the tradition­ which campaigned in  Connecticut, New Jersey and  and that may be true. It's a  
al family."  California last year for a gay  New Hampshire allow civil  perfect compromise."  
King and Young said they  marriage ban, has not openly  unions. Californians voted in  In 1998, ne&ly 70 percent  
want a civil union law so gay  rallied opposition to civil  November to overturn a  of Hawaii voters approved a  
couples can more easily  unions in Hawaii this year.  court ruling that allowed gay  constitutional amendment  
adopt children, share health  But some members of the  marriage, but the state still  granting the state Legislature  
benefits and gain hospital  Church of Jesus Christ of  offers domestic partnerships  the power to reserve mar­ 
visitation rights. They plan to  Latter-day Saints have been  that guarantee the same  riage for opposite-sex cou­ 
enter into a civil union if the  sharing e-mails urging peo­ rights as marriage.  ples. The "defense of mar­ 
measure becomes law.  ple to calls their legislators  That means Hawaii could  riage" amendment, now in  
Religious groups have been  opposing the bill.  become the only Western  more than half of state con­ 
taking out newspaper ads,  "In Hawaii, people still  state to give governmental  stitutions, resulted in a law  
setting up Web sites and  believe in traditional mar­ blessing to same-sex unions.  banning gay marriage in  
holding rallies urging law­ riage and the sanctity of  "Our wedding industry  Hawaii but left the door open  
makers to preserve tradition­ marriage," said Dennis  would have a huge potential  for civil unions. - 
al marriage.  Arakaki; executive director  increase in business purely  The amendment negated a  
One anti-gay Web site  of the Hawaii Family Forum,  because there are people  1993 Hawaii Supreme Court  
includes photos of two men  which also represents the  who would rather come to  ruling that found refusing to  
kissing each other and others  Hawaii Catholic Conference.  the islands rather than go to  grant marriage licenses to  
apparently in gay pride  "There's no indication that  the East Coast to have a civil  same-sex couples was dis­ 
parades. It warns of a bad  values or perspectives have  union performed," said the  criminatory.  

Federal judge to go on trial for sex crime 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -U.S. District Judge Samuel Kent will be making judi­cial history when he enters a courtroom Monday -but it won't be the kind he'll want to remem­ber. 
Kent will join the handful of fed­eral judges who have taken part in a trial as a defendant, and he will be the first to face trial on a sex crime charge. 
The 59-year-old judge is accused of fondling two female court employees as he tried to force him­self on the women and have them perform sex acts. 
Jury selection in his trial was set to begin Monday. If convicted, he 

faces up to life in prison and a fine of up to $250,000. 
Kent has pleaded innocent to five charges related to federal sex crimes and to one alleging obstruc­tion or justice, in which he is accused of lying to an investigative committee. 
His nearly 19 years on the bench might buy him some credibility with the jury, said Barry Pollack, an attorney not connected to the case. 
"What you might see happen is the jury take the presumption of innocence a little more seriously," said Pollack, with the Washington firm of Miller & Chevalier. "But if the allegations are proven, the jury would be very offended a federal judge engaged in that conduct." 
A gag order in the case has pre­vented prosecutors, defense attor­neys and others connected to the case from commenting outside court. 
Kent wants to testify, his attor­ney, Dick DeGuerin, said during a hearing last week in which he unsuccessfully tried to have the obstruction charge thrown out or severed. 
"Judge Kent believes his conduct with both of the (women) was mutual and consensual," said DeGuerin, who has represented such high-profile clients as former 
U.S. House Majority Leader Tom DeLay and Branch Davidian sect leader David Koresh. 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS Monday, February 23, 2009 

Wo01en 
continued from page 1 
ties to be extremely popular. 
"The reason why I tried to come up with events that vary across the board is to have a larger turnout and to make the week more inclusive," Lau said. "Everyone on campus has different interests and we hoped that being able to offer a variety of events would make them feel like they are invited to at least one even." 
Women's Appreciation Week is an annual week of events put on by the SDB, but the members of the board are constantly working to come up with new ideas for activi­ties. 
"It is the responsibility of the chair and co-chair of the event, who are new every year, to put their personal touch on the week and bring something new," Lau said. 
The only event carried over from last year's week is the 

Cairo 
continued from page 1 
Associated Press. A government statement said a homemade bomb was placed under a bench in the main plaza, the AP reported. 
The wounded included three Saudis, a German, 13 French and four Egyptians, including a child, the report said. 
The explosion took place in the main plaza at the Khan el­Khaili, a bazaar near the Hussein mosque, one of Cairo's most revered shrines. 
According to the report, the bombing in Cairo Sunday may have been a response to Isral;)l's offensive in Gaza, and the attack was the first on tourists in three years. 
Judy Hutchinson, assistant director of the Office of International Studies, told The Observer in an e-mail she con­tacted the students in studying abroad in Egypt, who attend the American University in Cairo. 
She said in the e-mail she is "assured that none of them were in the area of the blast." 
Three students from the pro­gram responded to Observer e­mails despite the seven-hour time difference between Egypt and Indiana. 
Juniors Jim Genovese, Kassandra Barbee and Mark McGuire said the eight Notre Dame students at the American University in Cairo in New Cairo did not witness the attack. In Egypt, the weekend runs Friday and Saturday and the school week begins on Sunday to observe the Muslim day of prayer. Their dormitories, locat­ed in the northwest side of the city, are a distance from Khan el-Khalii, located in the south­eastern portion of Cairo; how­ever Notre Dame students have been sightseeing in the Khan el­Khalili area of the city in the past, Genovese said. 
Genovese, a Program of Liberal Studies major at Notre Dame who is currently studying Arabic, said "an explosion in the city is cause for concern." 
However, the students' loca­tion and the rarity of the attack have helped to assuage worry. 
"I feel relatively safe and secure," he said. "Zamalek[the neighborhood where the dormi­tories are located,] is a more affluent part of the city and is usually not a prominent desti­nation for tourists." 
Barbee said she did not hear the explosion Sunday and only 
handing out of roses on Tuesday. 
In order to coordinate the activities for the .event, Lau said that she tried to address the interests of as many stu­dents on campus as possible. 
"As an Art and Women's Studies minor it was impor­tant for me to pull in ideas from different departments so I collaborated with about 10 of the professors from both of these departments," Lau said. 
Lau said that the she feels that this week is extremely important to the students of Saint Mary's, especially because the school is an all­girls college. 
"Because Saint Mary's is an all women's college, it is important for us to celebrate all the achievements that women have had in the past and how we can address con­temporary issues in order to rise above them," she said. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 
heard about it hours later by word of mouth. 
"At this point I don't feel in danger at all, though I will admit that I do feel a little bit uneasy about the situation. I think that as more details sur­
face we will be 
more able to 
accurately assess 
the current situa­
tion and take any 
n e·c e s sa r y 
actions," she 
said. 
At this point, 
Barbee, an 
Arabic major, 
said "things are 
continuing as 
normal." 
McGuire said his "prayers are with the victims of this atrocity," but he does not think his person­al safety is at · risk; he told The Observer in an e­mail he feels 
"more likely to be a victim of a shooting on the streets of Chicago than a victim of a ter­rorist attack in Cairo." 
Genovese said Cairo is a rela­tively safe city: "there are police officers stationed with guns on every street." 
':At this point I don't largest sourcns of revnnun, he
feel in danger at all, 
said, sneurity
though I will admit 
nn·orts will most that I do feel a little likely esealatn to nnsure
bit uneasy about the 
another attack
situation. I think that 
does not oeeur. as more details (; e n o v f~ s e , who said lw
surface we will be 
chose to study
able to accurately 
abroad in Cairo assess the current because of a long-time inter­
situation and take 
est in Middle 
any necessary 
Eastern culture, 
actions." a desire to obtain a gov­ernment job
Kassandra Barbee 
aftnr gradua­
junior 
tion and a 

Vegas,Midwestseekfundingfor trains 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON The Hepublicans attacking Prnsident Baraek Obama's economie stimu­lus package point to a project they dub the "Sin Exprnss" -a high speed rail link bntween Anaheim, Calif., sitn of Disneyland, and Las Vega'>. 
Not so fast. 

In lart, compntition lilT the $8 billion in mass transit eonstrur­tion is just b1~ginning. Backers of numerous other planned high­speed rail corridors around the country are making their ease for the money. 
They notably inelude a Midwest mitiative long supported by someone with even mom clout than Sen. Barry Heid, D-Nev., who strongly supports the Anaheim-Las Vegas line. That would be former Illinois .sen. Obama. 
It was Obama's Whitn House 
McGuire added the security on the American University in Cairo's campus and in the dor­mitorii~S is very thorou~h. 
The situation surrounding the attack "is still unclear," Genovese said. Ilowevnr, since tourism is one of the nation's 
chance for a "completely dilTnrent" cultural expnrience, did not have "any significant concerns about vio­lence in Egypt" beforn his semester began. 
He said past Cairo program participants informed him "the 

Egyptian governmen:t_:a~n~d~~!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Please join usfor a panel discussion mapping out the future of electric power and energy, featuring ••• 
that, in the limtl hours of negotia­tions over the $787 billion stimu­lus bill, sought and won the big sum (()r high-spood rail projects, far above what either the I louse or Senate had passed. Heid was happy to agree but there's no guaranten the Anaheim-Las Vegas line will win dollars, to be determined by the Transportation Department. 
Also in the running are pro­posed high-spned corridors in the Northeast, the Northwest, Florida and the South. 
Howard Learner, president of the Chicago-based Environmental Law and Policy Center, a group promoting a Midwest high-speed rail network, said his arna is in excellent posi­tion to capture a good chunk of that money. The Federal Hailroad Administration, he said, has recognized the Midwest ini­tiative connecting Chicago and 11 metropolitan amas within 400 

police force goes out of their way to protect American tourists" for two primary rea­sons: the importance of tourism to the nation's economy and Egypt's reputation in terms of fornign relations with the United Statns. 
"Egypt is aetually quite liberal for a Middle Eastern country and is mueh more receptive to Americans and foreigners than many of the othnr countries in the Middle East," Genovcsf~ said. 
Barben said though she had some initial concerns "about what life would look likn for me as a woman studying abroad in a Middle Eastern country," she was never worrind about vio­lnnee in the city before she camn abroad. 
Tho students said thny have miles as the system most ready to go. 

He and others brushed aside daims that the $8 billion was set aside for Heid's favorite. Obama, who exprnssed strong interest in high-speed rail investment dur­ing the campaign, and his chief of staff Rahm Emanuel, are both from Chicago. Obama's trans­portation secretary, Ray Lahood, also is from Illinois. So is the S1mate's no. 2 Democrat, Richard Durbin. 
Quentin Kopp, chairman of the California High-Speed !{ail Authority, said he was "delighted to see that the momentum has shifted in favor of high-speed train transportation." lie outlined $2 billion in state projects that could be initiated before the Sept. 30, 2012, deadline for commit­ting the $8 billion. Those include electrification of the line from San Jose to San Francisco, home to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. 
not been contacted about being removed from the city because of the violence; McGuire, a polit­ical science and Arabic double major who went to the Middle East to focus his study on the region's politics, does not expect such a phone call or e-mail. 
"I would consider any talk about removing us from Cairo as being prPmature and unfit­ting to the situation here," he said. 
"llealistieally," Genovese said, "I don't think thern will be any m1ire attacks." 
Barbee said her "hope is that this was simply an isolated inci­dent and that we can continue on with the rest of our semester here." 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

event is open to all Notre Dame faculty, students. and staff and me~mv1ers of the Michiana and surrounding communities. 

Spons<mild by tb~ Notre l>~m•llM~"!# !::!m(tt~t!W!•~Ie\8!1l 
Anthony Earle~ Jr•. 

<~ •<ldthlofe"""oti<JoM:olflt..-of mt fnll<jjy, ~h in<~~ !fllttt>ll &liron. ..-. .lO<tr«: l>l~ity •~.-.!ftg 1'00<~ tf"'n 1.] m!Ukm w•t<>n,.,o., •ndMkhigi!ll Conwlicl•U>d Ga~. aga1 •Hili~Y ;«\1\.1'!) t.3 m!Rioo to~w-
Patrick Ellers 

manilginq a-of Madlron Oea<botn ~•ttMI<, l<l5!)00>1bie fot thf>ron\001!<91 
.tnd~....w pr~tit::'f~ fu(·~A~4'd oo tM<l(qul~ittt:vt .ctnd m>13U9mY1~nt at (Dmp.an~ i11 
t:hls?«<tor; 


>!>'<ill! il<f>ti"" toCongmundpr•l>i<>ully """'"""" dirE!<tor ofM0<9011, ~ & llod<i<l>, llP.Ioondlng rnr"'tor ol th• (lffk., ofM•rkot O.migi>t...:! lnvo.ti· gat~ons a1 m• r>Odet•l W'IJY P~u!ot<><yU>mmi<!ioo, •ndvice pr...;<hnt of 'tr>l<>9k imtiaiMr! Gt C<>lumbio E"""Jy Grwp; •n<l 
Michael O'Sullivan 

,...,;"'vir~ pr~<id<mt ofrie<Y!!<lopm..nt i>f FPt Energy, a world lo-ader In tlw prodU<tt<>n or dean !'11e<gr, lr>doding wind and solar power. 
Th~ p~m>:l will be mod<!ratod byJoan f. l!"'nn"<k,., th• Keating·CrawfOfd 
l'roftnor of Chemlc•l•nd tliomole<ul~r Enql,.,tring a!>d Dlr<~<lor of lhe 
Notre Dam" Eneqjy C•otlof. 

Wednesday, February 25, 2oog 
3:00 to 5:00 p.m. McKenna Hall Auditorium University of NQ~r~ Dame 
:)_;ffit 
THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Monday, February 23, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 7,365.67 -100.28 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 767 60 2,373 3,924,193,076 


..·Nl/Q(ft.·(To/<y(Jj> ;)2~·tl~l!~fi! >;:;;~i!lil~' 
FTSE 100 (London) 3,889.09 -129.31 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
BK OF AMERICA (SAC) --3.56 -0.64 3.93 CITIGROUP INC (C) -22.31 -0.85 78.18 S&P DEP RECEIPTS {SPY) -0.97 -0.40 2.51 ANANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) ·1.46 -0.42 7.55 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +4.73 -0.14 3.79 13-WEEK BILL 0.00 ·0.56 1.95 30-YEAR BOND +4.62 -0.76 77.42 5-YEAR NOTE +5.50 -0.11 7.44 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.54 38.94 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) • +25.70 1,002.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -3.00 76.45 
Exchange Rates YEN 93.1450 EURO 1.2822 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2518 BRITISH POUND 1.4429 

IN BRIEF 
Governors unsure about stimulus money 
WASHING'(ON-Governors usually don't argue about whether they should take money from the federal government, j1.1st how much they should get. Yet some chief executives are divided over President Barack Obama's economic stimu­lus plan and whether the billions it offers is always a good deal. 
Gov. Haley Barbour, R-Miss., has said he is con­sidering turning down millions of dollars in unemployment aid because it would force his state to raise taxes when the stimulus money runs out by putting in place a tax on employers. Louisiana Republican Gov. Bobby Jindal shares that concern about strings attached to stimulus dollars as well as the plan's overall approach to dealing with the economic crisis. 
"I don't think the best way to do that is for the government to tax and borrow more money," Jindal said Sunday on "Meet the Press" on. NBC. "If all they do is borrow federal money and give it to the states, all we're really doing is delaying the inevitable. We're eventually going to have to make these hard choices anyway." 
Republican governors in town for the National Governor's Association meeting played down a split over the stimulus plan. Florida Gov. Charlie Crist was among ihose who said they are behind the plan even if they have qualms about it. 
Montana asbestos case goes to trial 
MISSOULA -After years of delays, the peo­ple of a Montana mining town are getting their day in court to see a major chemical company face federal charges accusing it of poisoning their homes and schools with asbestos. 
Opening statements are scheduled for Monday in the case of U.S. vs. W.R. Grace and Co. and five of its executives, who are charged with knowingly exposing the residents of the small town of Libby to the fibrous mineral linked to cancer. 
Prosecutors have had to overcome legal chal­lenges that went all the way to the U.S. Supreme Court. 
"This trial is one of the most complex and creative criminal prosecutions in the history of environmental regulation," said Andrew King­Hies, an assistant professor at the University of Montana School of Law. 
Red flags present in Stanford scandal 
SEC overlooked warning signs in fraud case involving billionaire R. Allen Stanford 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -For years, there were red flags -so many they could have massed into a crimson blanket. 
As with the Bernard Madoff case, the scandal surrounding billionaire R . Allen Stanford now seems clear and obvious in hind­sight. Yet Stanford man­aged to run his alleged scheme while the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulators stood by, well after he arose on their radar screens. 
From his tiny accounting firm's office near a North London fish-and-chips shop to certificates of deposit promising outsized returns sold by a bank in Antigua, ample warning signs over the years suggested Stanford's business wasn't what it seemed. 
Among them: 
-A finding by regulators in June 2007 that Stanford's company lacked enough capital to function properly as a securities brokerage firm. The com­pany paid $20,000 to settle charges by the National Association of Securities Dealers without admitting or denying them. 

-Stanford's businesses were inspected and investi­gated several times, start­ing in 2006 by the SEC and in 2004 by the NASD, the Antigua bank, Stanford essentially a captive of off­asked by another, unidenti­brokerage industry's self­International Bank Ltd., shore banks it was meant fied federal agency to sus­policing group, now called sold COs based on inflated to supervise. (The advisory pend its inquiry, an SEC the Financial Industry returns and had destroyed was lifted in 2001.) official in Texas told news Regulatory Authority, or documents. Last week, the SEC organizations last week. FINRA. NASD's scrutiny -A board of directors accused Stanford in a civil "This was an active resulted in several discipli­that included Stanford's lawsuit of a "massive" investigation throughout nary actions: the regulator father, his college room­fraud. It said he peddled and it was going on for fined his brokerage compa­mate and a family friend sham promises and fun­some time~" John Nester, ny four times, with penal­who remained on the board neled investors' money into an SEC spokesman in ties totaling $70,000, for years after suffering a real estate and other assets Washington, said Sunday. violations that included debilitating stroke. not easily turned into cash. He wouldn't confirm that misleading investors in -The Antigua-based FBI agents in Houston are the investigation began in sales materials about the accounting firm that audit­running a parallel investi­October 2006 or identify risks of the COs. ed the offshore bank was gation. the other agency. But he 
-A 2006 lawsuit by a tiny and little known. Stanford, who was served said there were complexi­former employee alleging -A 1999 Treasury legal papers by FBI agents ties in the probe, such as that Stanford's company Department advisory that last week, hasn't been issues of foreign jurisdic­ran a Ponzi scheme. Two warned U.S. banks to scru­charged with any crime. tion and the SEC's coopera­other ex-employees ·assert­tinize transactions involv­The SEC began investi­tion with other federal ed in a suit in January ing Antigua. It said a new gating Stanford's business­agencies, including some 2008 that Stanford's regulator in Antigua was es in October 2006 but was with criminal authority. 
Thvaneynamedoverseerofstimulusplan 
disgraced lobbyist Jack Abramoff's going.
Associated Press dealings at the department. The Obama also planned to tap Biden to WASHINGTON -President Barack department's No. 2 official, Steven meet regularly with Cabinet members, Obama plans to announce Monday a Griles, pleaded guilty to charges he lied governors and mayors to make sure former Secret Service agent who during congressional testimony based their efforts were quick and effective. helped expose lobbyists' corruption at in part on Devaney's investigation. His reports to Obama are expected to the Interior Department as his pick to ltalia Federici, co-founder of the be posted at the administration Web oversee the $787 billion economic Council of Republicans for site devoted to the bill, Recovery.gov. stimulus plan. Environmental Advocacy, and former Obama was set to announce Devaney Obama is set to name Earl Devaney Interior Department official Roger during a Monday meeting with gover­as chairman of the new Recovery Act Stillwell also pleaded guilty to charges nors, who have largely supported the Transparency and Accountability stemming from the Interior investiga­economic stimulus package because it Board, an administration official said tion. will direct billions to their states for Sunday. Vice President Joe Biden also Obama has pledged the Recovery Act schools, roads and technology. will be given a role coordinating over­Transparency and Accountability In addition to the Abramoff investi­sight of stimulus spending. Board to be an at-large body to over­gation, Devaney led a separate investi­The oflicial spoke on the condition of see how the government spends bil­gation into workers at the Minerals anonymity because the White House lions allocated to help the flailing U.S. Management Service, part of the had not made public the announce­economy. But with dozens of agencies Interior Department. His review found ment. and departments involved, Obama a "culture of substance abuse and Devaney, the inspector general.of the wanted a central group to independ­promiscuity" at the Denver and Interior Department, helped turn up ently monitor where those funds are Washington offices of the service. 

I 
I . 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, February 23, 2009 
~. 
.. . 
,·
.··x2····3 
PEL 

.. . . . .G0&1MilTEf ON SEXUAl ASSAULT PREVENTION, MEN AGAINST VIOlENCE, 
•vv•v oF NctmE DAME~ F£MINIST umcE1 sos oF MADISON CENTER" AND STUDENT coUERHMENT 
Monday, February 23, 2009 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Animaldoc performs odd surgeries 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Michael Pavletic has removed a butcher knife from a dog's stomach and tumors froin tiny mice. He's per­formed plastic surgery on injured hawks. 
But he draws the line at giving canines body piercings or fat cats liposuction. "That's just not what I do," said the longtime head of surgery at Boston's Angell Animal Medical Center. 
The 58-year-old surgeon is known as a pioneer in recon­structive animal surgery and is so skilled at saving severely sick and injured animals he is sought out by worried pet own­ers from around the world. Pavletic has cared for thousands of animals, including a dog that swallowed an engagement ring right before the wedding, a cat needing a face reattached and a gorilla that required reconstruc­tive surgery on a finger. 
He's removed bullets from puppies, performed dental work on wolves, and even tended to snakes with throat problems. 
"I've been doing surgery for 30 years and there are very few things I haven't seen," Pavletic said just before going into sur­gery to remove stones from a eat's bladder. 
.and Meet Our Early Childhood Teachers E<l>C·l'I'D Open House Dates: Sundar. L I 09 ... 1:50-.1:0U 
In the past, animals with very serious injuries may have sim­ply been euthanized to avoid life long pain and because surgical techniques on some injuries had yet to be developed. But advancements in medicine cou­pled with pets becoming more a part of families have increased the demand for serious animal surgeries. 
"If it wasn't for him, my cat wouldn't be alive," said Kristin Gagnon, of Hanson. 
Four years ago, Gagnon's Siamese kitten. Max, burned his palate to the bone after chewing an electrical cord. Pavletic reconstructed Max's palate by taking a graft from inside the eat's lip. "What a fantastic job he did," Gagnon said. "He's the only surgeon who could have done this." 
For Pavletic, his love for ani­mals started with sick birds and a·terrier mutt named Tiger. 
As a 6-year-old in Illinois, Pavletic tried to save injured wild birds by giving them water, food and a little attention. It rarely worked. And he was inseparable from his grandpar­ents' terrier until the dog was killed by a neighbor's car. 
But he began his journey into animal surgery after finishing veterinary school at the 
Early Childhood Development Center, Inc. 
at Notre Dame 
University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana in 197 4. 
As an intern at Angell, Pavletic came across a cat named John Glenn that had a tumor on his face. At the time, veterinarians couldn't remove such tumors from animals while a_lso closing the wound using conventional methods. Pavletic turned to an older human reconstructive surgery textbook that suggested a simple skin flap might do the trick. He took what was a routine technique in human surgery and tailored the procedure for a cat. It worked. 
"My interest in surgery grew from there," he said. 
Pavletic held teaching posi­tions at Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge, La., and Tufts University in North Grafton, Mass., and over the years developed more than 40 surgical techniques. He also authored a textbook, "Atlas of Small Animal Reconstructive S urg_ery," that is about to go into its third edition. 
He returned to Angell in 1988 as head of surgery. That's when the fun started and his reputa­tion grew as a healer of the strangest afflictions. The hospi­tal began seeing oddball cases. 
Once there was a dog with severe stomach pains. Pavletic's team found that the dog had swallowed a pair of red panties. They didn't belong to the dog's female owner. 
"I don't know what happened to that marriage," said Pavletic. 
Another time a family brought in their recently deceased gold­fish and asked the team to per­form an MRI to .determine why it died. The cause: old age. 
There was the case of the Labrador retriever who sudden­ly stopped urinating midway. After various tests, Pavletic dis­co¥ered that the dog had a pel­let stuck in its penis. The bullet had somehow moved down from its bladder after the dog was shot by an unknown assailant. Pavletic surgically removed it -delicately. 

Prisonclosingoffers hope to Camden 
New Jersey prepares to close jail to cut down on crime, violence in one ofnation's poorest cities 
Associated Press 
CAMDEN, N.J.-The majestic Ben Franklin Bridge slices this city's waterfront into two worlds. 
On the south side of the bridge, there's a spiffy red brick minor-league baseball stadium where statues of the Campbell Soup Co.'s Campbell Kids stand sentry and suburban families spend summer evenings. On the north side, chain link fences topped by razor wire surround a cluster of grimly functional buildings that make up Riverfront State Prison. 
After years of requests, the state is preparing to close the prison. 
Activists see the decision as not only an opportunity to rede­velop a 17 -acre tract of prime riverfront land with its view of the Philadelphia skyline, but as the catalyst for the rebirth of the original neighborhood in a city that routinely ranks as one of the nation's poorest and most violent. 
"The prison needs to be out of there for anything to happen on this waterfront," said communi­
-ty activist Rodney Sadler, a marina owner and president of the advocacy group Save Our Waterfront. The prison could close by summer, over the objection of the correction workers' unions. Already, the state Corrections Department has scattered inmates among other New Jersey prisons with plans to transfer the staff as well. Fewer than 650 inmates remain at Riverfront, which can accommo­date 1,000. What will happen to the prison property is not set. 
Rutgers University, whose Camden campus occupies near­by land on the south side of the bridge, is interested in using some of it. 
The prison was never a popu­lar addition to the waterfront. In the early 1980s, the city was in the midst of a long decline and hurting for revenue, and then-Mayor Randy Primas took a deal from the state: $3.4 mil­lion for the land. The state built its prison and Primas tried to persuade residents that it would provide jobs. 
The prison was opened in 1985. 
From current Mayor Gwendolyn Faison to neighbor­hood activists, almost no one believes it brought much lasting benefit. 
What's more, other sections of the waterfront began chang­ing -making the prison an increasingly incongruous sight in one section of the city that has prospered. 
Within a few years of the prison opening, the south waterfront began to change. RCA and Campbell Soup closed their last factories and an aquarium opened. It was the first of several attractions, including the baseball park and an amphitheater, which have turned the area into an enter­tainment destination. Luxury apartments and an upscale tav­ern followed. 
While those developments might help the city's image, many residents don't see how they help life in the neighbor­hoods where most of the people live. 
Over the decades, the city as a whole has continued its long decline. Things got so bad that in 2002 the state put up $175 million to jump-start redevelop­ment and took control of some aspects of the local government. 
Educational institutions such as Rutgers and Camden County College have used a mixture of state money and their own to expand, as have hospitals. While there's been some private investment, some of the splashiest private proposals in the residential neighborhoods away from the waterfront have not been realized. 




SUA-fA::EER LAATGUAGE GRAATTS 
UNDERGRADUATE COMPETITION TO SUPPORT FOREIGN LANGUAGE STUDY DURING THE SUMMER.. Grants are designed to cover only a por1Uon ot' progran-. costs. 
http://www..nd...edu/-sumlang/ or 
Plek up applieatlons .,ron-. the Offiee o., International Studies-(154 Hurley Building-Ph 1-5203) 
NEVV THIS YEAR 
I.,..~...!Y.GUAGELGRAIY.TAf!._EQ" A.RT.t!!I..__~~--~LE~T_T.~R.;fi_J;lT_YP.~NTS_QN_,f.. Y. GO TO: 
Th-CE!'nt-r <f'01r theo Study o<f' La11nguage & Culture-websit-at: http:/lcslc:::.nd.E!>du/grants (329 DeBarta.lo-Ph. 631-5881) 
application deadline: FRIDAY MARCH 6, 2009 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, February 23, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Merz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink ScENE EDITOit: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDitOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
C~ROLLER: Stacey Gill 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN GRIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obs.-e@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spom.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 


OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Obse~Ver is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including adverrisemems, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Obse~Ver rese!Ves the right to refiJSe adverrisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and deparrmem editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Obserrer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policieo should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Ob5erver {USPS 599 2.-4000} is published Monday through Friday n:Ct'pt during exam and vacnion periods. A subscription tD The Obst:rver is $100 for one Kadcmic year; .l-5.5 for one senlatcr. 
The Observer i5 published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address correctinns to: 
Nom Dame. lN 46-556-0m TheObsecvcr 
Ptriodical posr~ paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Noue Dame, lN46556·0779 

The: Observer is-a member of the A.Sliociated PttiS. All rqxoduc[ion rights arc reserved. 
The secret lives of graduate students 
Spring is technically just around tho corner, and everywhere people's minds are turning to love -which those cynics among us might put in heavy scare quotes. Last W!H1k, British tabloids reported that a thirteen­year-old boy con­ceived a child with his fifteen-year-old girlfriend; days later. they reported that the father might also have been a sixteen­year-old, or possi­bly a fourteen­year-old (no word yet whether all four will appear on Maury Povich, 
·though). Closer to home," Bristol Palin gave her 11rst interview to Pox News, during which she said that "everyonn should be abstinent or whatnvnr, but it's not realistic at all." Iter mother, mean­while, had some unof'licial advice !"or everyone: "Hey, don't get pregnant. Well, get beyond that when it hap­pens, and then you dna! with it." And here at Notre Dame, debates over dat­ing, hooking up and the contravention of parietals have broken out in pan­els, Letters to the Editor and dining halls. Even the "Info 4 Life" posters in the library bathrooms take time out of their story about E.-Heserves to wax romantic. 
But lost among the tales of lep­rechaun love and l"reshman lust is the graduate student population. After all1 we graduate students are just as enti­tled to think about how we are or arnn't spending our extracurricular time. So it's time to take a good look at the dating life or graduate students -an nxamination that, by tho way, will remain thoroughly aeadnrnk (i.e., hands-of!') for all you non-graduate studnnts out thnre (son du Lac, p. 


126). 

Highty"hour-a-wenk jobs tnnd to afTnel your pnrsonality after a whil!~, and graduatn school is no nxception. Whereas doing finance or i-banking in Manhattan turns !Wen tlw most staid pro!"essional into the fratboy type (though recently, mank-deprnssivn would apply just as well), the long, lonely hours planted in !"ront of a book or a Bunsen burner can sap the nxtro­vnrsion !"rom anyonn. Instead or car­ing about <:orporatn law or Natty Light, though, scholars-in-training dinH:t their nnergy toward their own area or rnsnan:h; their social side, so badly undnrused, fuses with tlwir pro­!"essional sid!~ until they start to exist exclusively as extensions or thnir top­ics. Parties. turn hopelessly aeadnmie aftnr a !"ow hours --I on<:n witnnssed a group of lhnologians takn turns try­ing to recite the Nicene Crned as a parlor game of sorts. And, for tho sakn of full disclosure, l'vn bonn known to make a Charlemagne jok!~ or two. 
Arn you trying to have any mnaning­ful interaction with one? What you might not realize is that when you get beyond small talk with a graduate student, you're not only talking to them, you're talking to their library (or laboratory) as well. So if you, say, go on a date with a psychologist, you're really also dating Jung and Freud and Pinker; with a historian, let's hope you like Foucault. Hegel and/or Marx. I understand that stu­dents of litnrature are contractually obligated to utter the words "post­modern" and "Sylvia Plath" at lfmst six times an hour. Of course, many of thnsn pnoplo an~ also training to become lec:turers and discussion lead­nrs, which means that they will some­day bn required to hold forth as a supreme authority for about an hour at a time on tlwir topic. Somt~ manage to eoneeal this side of themselves suc­cessfully; others see any social inter­action as a chance to practice. 
But, the lack of a dental plan notwithstanding, graduate studnnts actually have a pretty good life. They get a stnady paycheck, they get sum­mnrs ofT and they got to pursun some­thing that, hopefully, they really like. They also get to share their passion with students and with their scholarly peers--and occasionally, such inter­actions (the latter ones) lead to real romance. After all, who else is suited to undnrstand ing all of the personal and prol"essional sacrifices and demands of graduate school and the academic life but another scholar? In !"act, graduate students like this life so mueh, they signed up for it. So in casn you feel like graduate students are so pitiable that they need a hug, well, first of all, they aren't, and second, see du Lae, p. 126. 
Darryl Campbell would like to remind everyone that, in the words of Marc Cherry, "It's a satire!" lie can be conta.cted at dcampbe6@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obseruer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Kaitlynn Riely Dan Murhpy Becky Hogan Laura Myers Are you giving something up for Lent? 

Irena Zajickova Alex West Graphics Scene 
Yes

Andrea Archer Jess Shaffer 
No
Viewpoint 
I'm not Catholic 
Lianna Brauweiler 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

Submit a Letter to the Editor at .. 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The conversational overachiever . is someone whose grasp 
exceeds his reach. This lS possible
but not attractive. ' 
Fran Lebowitz author 
THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
Monday, February 23, 2009 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Take Back the Night 

The week of Feb. 22 to March 1, the Gender Relations Center on campus will be hosting Sexual Assault Awareness week. Along with other events, today, people on campus will be marching to Take Back the Night. Take Back the Night is thought to have begun in the late 1800s when women citizens in ­London protested the fear and violence they experi­enced at night. "Reclaim-the night" took place in Belgium in 1976 by women who were attending the 
• International Tribunal on Crimes against Women . This included a march with candles to spread the word and honor those who have been sexually abused. This came stateside in 1978 in San Francisco by Women Against Violence in Pornography and Media. The term "Take Back the Night" originated from a memorial read by Anne Pride a year before. The women were marching to protest rape, pornog­raphy and to protest all types of sexual violence. Take Back the Night is now done in many cities and locales, and the Gender Relations Center is proud that the march will be taking place at Our Lady's University. It will be followed by a bonfire and SpeakOut, for all those interested. 
Although Take Back the Night originated with women essentially trying to reclaim the night, we hope that the march is attended by both women and men. Sexual violence does not just affect women. Although sexually abused men are a smaller percent­age of those affected by sexual violence, men of all ages are affected by the outcomes of sexual violence. The University of Notre Dame prides itself on being a tight-knit community of supporting students and fac­ulty. We hope that this is manifested by support, by both men and women, toward the end of sexual vio­lence. 
Laura Lauck junior Welsh Family Hall Feb. 18 

Basketball cheer in poor taste 

I had the opportunity to attend the men's basketball game against USF a week ago with my 14-year-old son. We had seats in the section adjacent to the student section, the "Leprechaun Legion." I was shocked to hear the students' shout "sucks" after each player from the opposing team was introduced. As students of the University of Notre Dame, you are held to higher standards, whether you like it or not. It goes with being enrolled at the finest Catholic University in the land. I enjoy most if not all of your other cheers, (left, right, left, right, sit down for instance). So I ask, please for your own sake and the sake of a proud alum, clean it up! 
John Shank alum Class of 1985 Feb. 21 

Superpovver debate ended 

There are certain unanswerable questions in this life, but now one can be checked off the list. The answer to "Which superpower would you have?" is telekinesis. Wait, what about super strength or flying? Invisibility has to be up there, doesn't it? All of these powers are encompassed by telekinesis. Super strength is easy, if a need ever arises where heavy things have to be moved, think it and it's done. Superman can't even do that-he· actually has to lift it. 
Okay, now what about flying? If you don't believe you can apply telekinesis to yourself, then lift your shoes or get on a bike and make it fly (super speed, ifyou want it). Since telekinesis involves moving matter with your mind, you can then apply it to gasses and liquids. Think of the possibilities! Take yourselfto the bottom of the ocean in a bubble! Make it rain by lowering the pressure in the atmosphere! Vanquish foes by moving all their vital organs out of their bodies! 
Alright, but what about invisibility? This is where it gets interesting. If you believe that telekinesis can move all particles, then bending light wouldn't be out of the question. Even ifthat turns out to be impossible, invisi­bility is only for peeping toms and robbers. 
Besides moving photons, you could also be your own Hadron Collider. Ifyou aspire to be a super villain instead of a super hero why not make a black hole? The possibilities are endless and encompass all the useful superpowers making telekinesis the superior superpow­er. 
Jonathan Miller freshman Dillon Hall Feb. 18 

Thanks for Bouts 
This letter is intended for all of those involved in my 2009 Bengal Bouts journey. Thank you. Thank you for making my experience so enjoyable over the last four months. Although a senior, I entered into the Bengal Bouts a lowly novice back in the final weeks of October to begin my training. Since then, I have not only learned the importance of the Bengal Bouts and the Holy Cross missions, but I have also learned a great deal about myself. The Bouts have taught me that no goal is out of reach if you put in the hard work and dedication needed to succeed. In October, not knowing anything about boxing, I set a goal for myself of winning one fight. Thankfully, this past Sunday I was able to accomplish my goal and move into the quarter­final round. Unfortunately, after an unbelievably gutsy and gritty match with sophomore Jack Peterson, my journey in the Bouts came to an end in a split decision. Congratulations Jack, great fight, good luck with the rest of the tournament. It was not until after defeat and discussions with family members that I realized how special the Bouts have been for me. As cliche as it might sound, I worked incredibly hard and devoted myself to becoming the best boxer I could, and I came out not just a better boxer, but a better per­son. 
I have to thank the management staff for all of their work and preparation. You guys (and girls) made the process effortless and allowed the box­ers to focus on fund raising and boxing. Captains and coaches, I cannot thank you enough for all of the time and knowledge you devoted to the Bouts. You taught me the importance of hard work and the true meaning of the Bouts. Thank you. Also, I want to say thank you to a handful of friends/box­ers that I worked out with every single day. I don't want a shout out enlarging their egos so I will leave their names off, but you know who you are. Thank you. You guys were great. We had a lot of fun, you guys taught me a lot about boxing and we developed great friendships in the process. Finally, thank you to my family. With the exception of my mother, who understandably could not watch her son get knocked around, many of my family mem­b~rs showed up for my first-round match. My father, my four brothers (my oldest brother being the best corner man anyone could ask for), uncles and cousins, my best friends and my roommates, all of the people I consider family ... Thank you. Your support and love during my three minutes and 45 seconds of battle made four months of sweat more than worth it. The Bengal Bouts is a special event and I encourage anyone who has not made it out to the fights to make sure you make it out to the semifinals on Tuesday and the fmals Saturday. And again, thank you. 
Brian Salvi senior off campus Feb. 18 

U-WIRE 

Landing an internship comes with a price tag 
Parents, student and others gladly pay thousands of dollars in college tuition to ensure a financially sound existence after graduation. The American dream is found­ed on the ideal that ifa person works hard enough, he or she can achieve anything. A 
Richelle Buser 

student must spend countless hours study­
University of

ing, network like crazy, land a few Kansas internships along the University way, complete a Daily Kansan degree and then maybe with some luck a job offer will appear. Persevere, we're told, and it'll pay off. But what ifno matter how much effort you put into your aspira­tions, there were people out there without the grades, ambition or skills who could still snatch up opportunities you deserve? 
Turns out there's a fast track where some students get to skip over all the aches and pains, but still achieve the goals of their more dedicated peers. 
Starting-level jobs achieved through internships are a common form of employ­ment for fresh graduates. For most of us, achieving our dream jobs will require a combination of experience, personal zest for a subject and a decent GPA. Pretty soon "a few extra thousand dollars" may be added to that list. 
In her article "Internships for Sale" in the Wall Street Journal, Ellen Gamerman exposed the disturbing tactic some are using to get ahead. Rather than applying for an internship position the old-fashioned way, ritzy parents now have the option of buying their child an internship at auctions across the United States. Of course these auctions are usually found at only the most elite universities and high schools. These parents are willing to spend ridiculous amounts of money. For example, a one­week internship at Electronic Arts sold for a whopping $4,000 during an auction at the Urban School of San Franci'ico. This is an absolutely unfair advantage. 
Sadly, auctions are just the beginning. 

Timothy Noah of Slate magazine writes in his article "Opportunity for Sale" that organizations like University of Dreams will guarantee an internship-for a price. Of course, University of Dreams says students are simply paying a "tuition fee" ranging from $5,000 to $10,000. That's not far from the cost of in-state tuition for a semester at the University of Kansas. As ifthose who can afford to buy internships aren't already benefiting from their financial stability (i.e., affording the best universities, tutors and housing). 
With the current economic situation, many students are feeling the pressure to ,ensure jobs after graduation. Terrified at the thought of another summer without an internship, desperate students may do whatever it takes to build a resume and eventually land a job, even ifit means fork­ing out some extra cash. Companies taking advantage of students' desires to succeed by selling internships is just wrong. 
I thought the point of an internship was to give students experience that would assist them when establishing a career-not put them deeper in debt. I can't imagine how these companies justify exploiting an ado­lescent's goals. 
But the students are at fault, too. After all, what is the point of spending so much money to attend college ifyou still have to buy your way into the work world? I also can't help but wonder how much respect interns who got their positions via mommy and daddy's money would have iftheir peers were aware of their situation. 
If you can't land an internship on your own, maybe you should re-evaluate your dedication to school and your major -not take opportunities away from qualified indi­viduals or encourage dishonorable compa­nies. 
This column first appeared in the Feb. 20 edition ofThe University Daily Kansan, the daily paper ofthe University ofKansas. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 12 
Friday, February 23, 2009 
A Ni9ht at the. OscarS: Pkly by Piay 
7:55. TV, check. Papa John's breadsticks, check. Diet Pepsi, check. Oscars ... almost. 
7:58. Hugh Jackman gives Barbara Walters a lap dance. Interesting lead-in programming. 
8:01. We're live from the Kodak Theatre in Hollywood, California! 

8:05. "Oscars in 25 minutes" alert pops up. Darn it. Ooh, Brad Pitt. Ugh, Miley Cyrus. 
8:11. Mikey Rourke mourns the passing of his dog, lamenting the fact that she won't be wearing the tux he had made for her. 
8:28. Golden statutes so close I can smell 'em. Programming goes live. 

8:30. Big band music swells, lights come up on a stage framed in Swarovski crystal. Hugh Jackman enters, makes a New Zealand joke. 
8:34. Major dance sequence in a comedy show tune parodying the best pic nominees. Anne Hathaway is pulled up on stage and sings a duet with Hugh. Another dance sequence with people in full spandex body suits. I am not so subtly reminded of last year's Doctor Faustus here at Notre Dame. 
8:40. Contractual obligation for Hugh to mention Brangelina. Roommate notes how Jennifer Alliston must be throwing chocolates at her TV 
8:41. Hugh is convinced that after 15 nominations, Meryl Streep must be using steroids. 
8:45. Whoopi Goldberg proclaims, "It's not easy playing a nun," intro­

ducing Amy Adams in the Best Supporting Actress category. Each nomi­.. nee is introduced by a former Best Actress. Penelope Cruz wins. 
8:53. Tina Fey arrives. It was only a matter of tin1e. She's joined by Steve Martin. Hilarity ensues. They give the award for Best Screenplay to 
· "Milk." Sean Penn has tears in his eyes. Obligatory plug for gay rights. Crowd goes wild. 
9:01. "Slum dog Millionaire" wins for Best Adapted Screenplay. 

9:03. Jennifer Alliston presents with Jack Black. ("She's throwing chocolate at him from behind stage!") Jack Black admits he bets every­thing on Pixar. The crowd shifts uncomfortably after this "everybody's thinking it, I'm just saying it" moment. Pay the man, "WALL-E" wins. Will Andrew Stanton ever get tired of accepting Oscars for his animated movies? 
9:10. Japanese guy accepting for .Best Animated Short for his French film says, "Domo Arigato, Mr. Roboto." I instantly agree with the Academy's decision. 
9:16. Daniel Craig and Sarah Jessica Parker walk on to present Art Direction. "Benjamin Button" wins. "The Duchess" wins for Best Costume Design, proving once again that it isn't called costume drama for nothing. Wait, did something just get bleeped out? The costume designer got censored? Really? Just curious ... 
9:23. "Benjamin Button" wins for makeup. Thus begins the longest line of names ever uttered in one speech. Everyone who ever worked on the film is mentioned. 
9:26. Robert Pattinson makes a really bad vampire joke. Check. Awesome montage of 2008 movies love scenes set to Coldplay's "Lover's in Japan." HSM 3 had three token clips, which is three clips too many. 
9:32. Ben Stiller makes a pointed fashion statement consisting of a large beard and Blues Brothers sunglasses reminiscent of Joaquin Phoenix's current state. Natalie Portman looks fantastic in pink. The Phoenix joke is falling flat. As Portman sincerely introduces the Cinematography nominees, Stiller begins ainllessly walking around the set, and the joke gets funnier. 
9:37. The lost doggy frnding his way home MasterCard commercial ·that made me cry during the Oscars five years ago makes me cry again. 
9: .JPW Mass, only the .Jl'W style wasn't so intentional. Is that style points the .JPW lashionista. or does .Jessica Bielloso them? 
9:44. James Franeo and Seth Hogan, playing their "Pinnapple Express" selves, lead us through the comedies of 2008. Clever. Th Cinematographer from "Saving Private Hyan" mak11s a cameo. Of eourse. 
9:52. Hugh announces the return of the musieal. Oh, sweet Jesus, please tap dance. Cue the ensemble-top-hat-1:abarnt-style dance number staring Beyonce. It's the greatest hits of all the musieals your high school ever put on. Relevance? Not mw:h. Beyonce starts singing Moulin Houge, and is it any secret Baz Lohrmann choreographed? Zac Efl'ron Vanessa Hudgens have just appeared, along with the Mama Mia from Mean Girls. Oh, okay, it's all the couples from musicals this year. Hugh yells, "The musical is back!" And you just jinxed it. 
10:03. The cast of former Best Supporting Actors arrives. Alert the sob parade, Ledger's corning up. Kevin Kline introduces Ilnath. Close pan LP.dger's family. lin's won it. The crowd risP.s to an ovation. Mom, and sister take the stage. Sean PPOn looks like he's going to cry. Again. 
10:14. Bill Mah1w introduces Documentary Feature and makes some tasteless jokes about religion, just like we expected. Winner makes a coin·. disappear in his hand and balances the Osear upside-down on his chin. 
10:23. Action movil~s of 200H montage. Too much llulk, not enough Iron man. 
10:25. Will Smith qunstions why action movies don't get more respect, seeing as they make all the money. "Benjamin Button" wins lor Visual Effect'>. "Dark Knight" wins fi1r Sound Editing. "Slumdog" wins for Sound Mixing, and the acceptor is speeehless. 
10:33. Will Smith admil'i, "Yes, I'm still here. Hugh is napping." Film Editing goes to "Siumdog." 
10:41. Eddie Murphy arrives holding an Oscar to give th lhunanitarian Award to Jerry Lewis for his work helping children with multiple sclerosis. Cue anotlwr obligatory standing ovation. 
10:55. "Slumdog" wins for Best Original Score. Winning composer says he hasn't fi))t this nervous since gotting marriod. 
10:56. A large Indian dance onsemble appears to present the two songs from Slumdog nominated liw Best Song. They am separated by the song lrmn "WALL-E," complote with South African gospel choir. "Jai Ho" from "Siumdog" wins. The same guy lrom the last award comes out to accept and is just as stumped li1r what to say as last time. 
11:10. People In the Movies Who Died This Year montage. Wait, MichaHI Crichton died'! 
11:18. 
President ofthe Academy thankfully opt'> not to make a speech. Phew! 

11:18. 
HeP.se Witherspoon presents the Oscar for Directing to Boyle for "Slumdog Millionaire." llis opening joke gets censored. lie thanks the poor chum he fiwgot to put in the credito;;. 


11:27. The Former Best Actress Winners arrive to present the award li1r Best Actress. The crowd jumps to their feet. Anne llathaway tears up. Halle Berry's hair is in her face. Older-than-dirt Sophia Loren introduces Meryl Streep. KATE WINS!! Finally, it only took six nominations. "Dad, whistle so then I'll know where you are." lie does. 
11:37. Hound up the Best Actors. Sl<.:AN PENN? That's an upset. Poor Mikey. Standing ovation. "You commie homo-loving sons of guns. I did not expect this." Nice shout out to Mikey follows. 
11:47. Steven Spielberg up to present Best Picture. 
11:53. SLUMDOC MILLIONAIHE! They are daneing in the streets Mumbai tonight. So this is what you get when you merge awkward ing Englishmen with really eute Indian kids. 
11:55. "Stay with us and glimpse the movies coming up this year! Goodnight!" • 
-·----------­

Friday, February 23, 2009 
page 13 
center Jessica Winslet made a stunning statement in an embroidered Bradshaw with her as she the red carpet in one-shoulder charcoal gray and black Yves Saint off-white strapless beaded Dior gown that took Laurent design that left viewers intrigued by the mix would-be prom look and made it high fashion with 
Intricate beading, much like the Swarovski crystal of multiple styles and themes classily combined into modern center-buckled belt. curtains that fell around the Kodak Theatre's stage, one shimmering piece. Twists and turns, like the exciting performances and wrapping creations of tightly cinched material The night's failures were Jessica Biel who looked kept the night's awards show entertaining 
"'"'"" 5 ..ted only the most perfect of features, like she might fall over in her strapless tapered ivory were the other noticeable trend for the be<tecJI\:e<1 stars as they took their place on the 81st satin Prada gown that fell short of accentuating her Replicated in some of the most important stars ""rlarrm Award's Red Carpet. From the million-dol­fantastic shape, and Heidi Klum whose origami con­night's gowns, no one embodied this look better 
Cartier earrings planted on Anne Hathaway's love­fection by Roland Mouret and awkwardly slicked back the young Evan Rachel Wood whose pale ivory ly ears to the multicolored jeweled necklace fastened hair made her look like a tacky Malibu Barbie doll. Saab haute couture gown made it impossible to around Amy Adam's fragile neck, the gems came out Impeccable beading and crystal details bedecked the away. Natalie Portman in Rodarte and Alicia of hiding for the Oscars. Unlike this year's Golden stars as they sauntered into the Academy Awards, a Giorgio Armani shined in the similar pink and Globes where noticeable jewels were a rare fmd, the trend capitalized on by Anne Hathaway who wore a hues of their strapless twisted and cinched airy 
awards sho~ of the year dabbled in a mixture strapless champagne Armani Prive dress. Following The Oscars provided a fantastically adequate of class, elegance, and originality on Sunday evening. this trend was Miley Cyrus who finally dressed her age from the recession-ridden world many face every In a sleek midnight black Elie Saab gown that in a Zuhair Murad V-neck gown that cinched at the The magic of the performances, the people, and lithely around her flawlessly toned body, waste and tiered out like frosted petals near the bot­importantly, the fashion were certainly n..ll!;t:au1a Jolie owned the red carpet making Brad Pitt tom. Though the gown wasn't the most beautiful one enough to keep this writer from getting her Poli 
like a dispensable accessory at her side. on the red carpet, it was a nice change of pace for the homework done Sunday night. Sorry professor! Balancing her vixen-esque allure in a never-ending star who constantly seems to be trying to act older for all who were too busy being good students array of comparisons was the glowing Jennifer than she is. didn't get to see the glamour of the evening's "-'''""'" whose silver gown complimented her radiant Freida Pinto, whose blue one-shouldered John be sure to catch up with the fashion section of smile as she presented awards alongside Jack Black. Galliano gown explored unique necklines with an papers so you too can dive into the fabulous world Amy Adams' red Carolina Herrera gown brought a unexpected strap that darted across her right collar­the Academy Awards. modern twist to the goddess look with black lining that bone and a see-through lace sleeve that crawled down highlighted her narrow waist and material that flowed her left arm, also jumped on the beaded bandwagon. 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE 
Best Picture Winner: "Slumdog Millionaire" b Film Should Have Won: "Siumdog Millionaire" 
It comes ·as no surprise that this year's critical darling, "Slumdog Millionaire" took home the big prize last night. It dominated the awards cir­cuit all year and capped off its magical run by dominating the Oscars. 
Dire~~or Winner: Danny Boyle "Slumdog 
director and Best Picture are usually one the same thing when it comes to the Oscars. being said, the innovation that went into "Slumdog Millionaire" was immense um.rla>rl from top to bottom with such calcu­tion that it would have been a downright to not have awarded this honor to Danny 

was tar rou awards circuit, and in what was definitely an incredibly close race, Sean Penn captured his second statuette. It's Rourke performance, though, that will be remembered long from now as not only one of the great comeback stories in ftlm history, but as one of the most iconic, true­to-life performances in screen history. Sean Penn may have acted exceptionally, but Rourke did something a whole lot more special -he lived his role. Best Actress Winner: Kate Winslet "The Reader" Who Should Have Won: Kate Winslet "The Reader" . 
Talk about owing somebody. Having nominat­ed her six times, the Academy was literally look­ing for a reason to give Kate Winslet a Best Actress Award. They skipped her performance in "Revolutionary Road," only to bump her up from supporting actress to a lead actress for her role in "The Reader," which was the better of her two performances. This is only the begin­ning of a growing collection of golden statutes for Winslet, who is quickly establishing herself as the best actress of this generation. Best Supporting Actor Winner: Heath Ledger Who Should Dark Knight" 
In perhaps the year's most predictable catego­ry, Heath Ledger deservingly became the second person to win a posthumous Oscar. A gifted actor, Ledger's downright frightening presence dominated the screen and propelled "The Dark Knight" from being a great action movie to being something truly special. Best Supporting Actress Winner: Penelope Cruz "Vicky Christina Barcelona" Who Deserved To Win: Marissa Tomei "The Wrestler" 
Penelope Cruz had been gaining steam in the late stages of the film awards circuit and emerged as an almost clear favorite heading into the Oscars. It also helped that the Academy has been looking for a reason to award the Spanish actress after passing up on her in 2006's "Volver." However, it was Marissa Tomei's stunning turn as an over-the-hill strip­per in "The Wrestler" that commanded the screen like no other supporting actress nominat­ed this year. 
_, 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, February 23, 2009 
SMC SWIMMING 

Belles finish fifth at conference meet 
By ERIC PRISTER Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's finished in fifth place at the three-day MIAA Championship meet, losing to fourth place Olivet by only two points.. 
The two-point margin was decided in the final event of the championships, the 400-yard freestyle relay, in which the Belles fell to Olivet by two and a half seconds. 
Despite finishing fifth, the Belles were able to break 15 school records at the meet, including five by freshman Audrey Dalrymple, four by freshman Eva Cavadini and three by sophomore Maggie Williams. 
"Due to the closeness of [the loss to Olivet], I believe that next season we will work even harder to accomplish goals as a team, rather than channeling the focus on our individual goals," Dalrymple said. "Although, as a whole everyone swam very well at conference and we broke a lot of school records." 
Dalrymple, Cavadini and Williams have performed con­sistently well for the Belles throughout the season, and provide a good outlook on the Belles' future due to their youth. Dalrymple cites her ded­ication to her sport as the rea­son for her team's and her own success in the championship. 
"I find that at a champi­onship swim meet it is a great opportunity to showcase one's hard work over the entire sea­son and channel it into those final races," she said. "I am able to perform at the best of my ability because after train­ing so intensely I can stand behind the blocks knowing that I have done everything in my power to prepare for the swim ahead and all that is left is the race itself, which is the fun part." 
Another Belle who had a career day in the tournament was freshman Barbara Beidler. She broke three personal records, including the 50-yard, the 100-yard and the 200-yard freestyle events, along with four other relay events. 
This was the final meet for the Belles, but Dalrymple will continue to compete. Her times in the 100-yard and 200-yard breaststroke qualify her for "B" cuts in the Division III Championships, which will be held March 18-21 at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 

ND TRACK & FIELD 
Vaulters qualify for nationals 
titian as a sibling rivalry.
By DOUGLAS FARMER Junior Matt Schipper won the 

Sports Writer 

pole vault title by clearing 
5.35 meters, while his 
The Irish vaulted their way younger brother, freshmen to promising results at the Big Kevin Schipper, placed second East Indoor Track and Field at 5.10 meters. Championships Saturday in The elder Schipper joined New York. The men's team Saxer in automatically quali­finished second in tho confer­fying for the NCAA ence and the women placed Championships, and it is likely fifth, as Notre that Kevin Dame pole Schipper's 
on
vaulters led the "We felt it was going showing 
way for both Saturday will
to be a bloodbath,
squads. allow him to After record­and that is exactly join his broth­ing two runner­er in Texas. 
what is was." 
up finishes in But the the pole vault Schipper
Joe Plane
within the past brothers alone three Big East Irish coach did not deliver 
Indoor champi­onships, senior Mary Saxer finally won the vaulting championship. Saxer did so in a commanding fash­ion, vaulting a height of 4.20 meters compared to the sec­ond place vaulter, who fin­ished at 3.85 meters. 
With such an impressive final height, Saxer also auto­matically qualified for the NCAA Championships, which will be held March 13-14 at Texas A&M University. 
"Automatically qualifying for the NCAA's is terrific," Irish coach Joe Piane said. "She did great. She devastated the field." 
On the men's side, the Irish vaulters treated their compe­
a second-place finish for the Irish. 
Sophomore Miklos Szebeny crossed the line third in the 200-meter dash. Freshmen Jordan Hincon took second in the 400-meter dash, with jun­ior Balazs Molnar, less than half a second behind, finishing fifth. 
"Rincon ran exceptionally well," Piane said. "If things had broken just a little bit dif­ferently, he could have won it." 
In the mile, senior Dan Clark used a perfectly-timed lean at the finish line to earn second-place honors, while freshmen Jordan Carlson also won points for the Irish with a sixth-place finish. 
Senior Patrick Smyth per­formed excellPntly in his final Big East Indoor Championships, placing sec­ond in the 5,000-meter run and sixth in the 3,000-meter run. 
The Irish finished only four and a half points behind first place Connecticut. 
"It was a great competi­tion," Piane said. "We felt it was going to be a bloodbath, and that is exactly what it was. My hat is off to Connecticut. They did a won­derful job. They competed just as hard as we did, and where we had a few things go wrong, they did not." 
The Irish women also put in 
I

several memorable perform­ances. Junior Joanna Schultz placed second in the 400­meter dash, and freshmen Natalie Geiger came in sev­enth in the same race, while sophomore Natalie Johnson finished second in the 500­meter dash. 
Freshmen Maddie Buttinger came through for the Irish, finishing third in the pen­tathlon as well as sixth in the high jump. Also in the field events, senior Anna Weber took third in the weight throw. 
"We had a lot of good things happen," Piane said-. "We really did." 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 


ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Squad completes two-game sweep over BYU, Utes 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Writer  gles match after Mathews and junior Colleen Rielley had struck first with their 8-3 vic­ singles spots, respectively. A great deal of the Irish's success thus far can be attrib­ Tefft/Krisik and Hielley/Mathews who each garnered 8-2 victories to  remind us that we have to bring our best efforts every match."  
tory in the No. 3 match.  uted to their coaches' refusal  clinch the doubles point.  In the only tightly contested  
The Irish completed a sweep  In singles play, the Irish got  to aliow the team to dwell on  Singles play offered more of  match  of the  day,  Frilling  
of their two-game road trip  more of the same outstanding  its previous achievements.  the same dominance from the  edged her opponent 6-7 {7-1),  
with convincing victories over  play  that  had  "As  coach  Irish.  6-3, 10-5 in the No. 2 match.  
Brigham Young and Utah .this  first  earned  Louderbaek and  Rafael gave Notre Dame its  The win  moves  the Irish to  
weekend in Provo, Utah. In its first test since rising to the No. 5 spot in the national  them their top­five ranking. Freshman  "Every team member has made  coach Scaringe remind us daily, each of us has  second point of the match with a 6-1, 6-1 victory in the No. 3 match. Mathews and Ciobanu  9-1 overall, with the only loss coming against top-ranked Northwestern.  
rankings, Notre Dame easily handled BYU 6-1 on Saturday afternoon behind solid doubles  Kristy Frilling downed her opponent 6-4,  contribution towards our success.  room for improvement," Mathews said.  knocked off their respective opponents 6-2, 6-0 to put the team ahead 4-0 and seal a  "It is such a great honor and privilege to represflnt the team and to continue the Notre  
play and a dominating singles  6-3 in the No. 2  "Nobody  can  third straight victory for the  Dame tradition of excellence  
performance.  singles  match  Shannon Mathews  rest on  laurels,  Irish.  in athletics," Mathews said. "I  
"The team is just beginning to gel," freshman Shannon  to give the Irish a commanding  Irish freshman  not if we want to be the best."  Mathews' victory keeps her undefeated this season with a  am fortunate to play with a group of young women who  
Mathews  said.  "While  the  2-0 lead. After  On Sunday, the  record of 8-0, though she is  are  all focused  on improving  
team is extremely pleased with  sophomore  Irish coasted to  quick to yield to her older  and giving our best every time  
our success this season, we  Kristen Rafael put Notre Dame  an easy 7-0 win over the Utes.  teammates when it comes  to  we step on the court."  
recognize that  we  need  to  up 3-0 with  a  close 7-5, 6-4  This was Notre Dame's second  allotting credit for the early  The Irish will host North  
work even harder to reach the  victory, Krisik delivered the  flawless victory in  its· last  season success.  Carolina in the first match of a  
summit."  final blow with a 3-6, 6-1, 7-6  three matches, th.e first having  "What has been very excit­ three-game home stand Friday  
The No. 2 ranked doubles  comeback victory to give the  come  earlier  in  the  week  ing about the team thus far is  at 3 p.m. at the Eck Tennis  
squad of senior Kelcy Tefft and  Irish the decisive fourth point.  against Purdue.  that every team member has  Pavilion.  
junior Kali Krisik clinched the  Both Mathews and junior  The  Irish  once  again  made contributions towards  
doubles point for the Irish with  Cosmina Ciobanu won  their  received outstanding doubles  our success," she said. "But,  Contact Alex Barker at  
an 8-3 victory in the No. 1 sin- matches in the No. 6,and No.5  play  from  the  squads  of  our upperclassmen continue to  abarker 1 @nd.edu  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Nmre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cems per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for comem without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST & FOUND 
FOUND: Ring of 4 keys found in the melting snow piled up near Main Circle. Contact Michael at 574-309· 5854. 

FoR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com 
FREE COMCAST! 
Why pay for 12 months? 
Now offering 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Starts 
6/09. $850/mo. 574·250·7653. 
Houses for the 09·1 0 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 574-234·2436 or 
www.kramerhouses.com 
NOW LEASING. LAFAYETIE TOWNHOUSES. $350/PERSON. 
3.4 & 5-BDRM UNITS. 
2.5 BATHS. FREE INTERNET. NEWLY REMODELED. CALL574· 234-2436 OR WWW.KRAMER­HOUSES.COM 
Student rentals 2009/2010. St. Peter/SB Ave. Homes. $1300­$2000/month. 
5-7 bdrms, 1st or 2nd floor. Contact Bruce Gordon 574-876·3537. 

1-3BR Contemporary Urban APTS across from Notre Dame Stadium. The Foundry features private baths for every bedroom, washer/dryer, fitness center, theater room, tanning salon, game room. Preleasing for August. Call 574·232·1400 or lease online www. foundryliving.com 
House for rent. Very clean 3/4 br, 
1.5 bath, 2 living rooms and big backyard. Avail 09·1 0 school year. Affordable and very close to cam· pus. Call AJ@(440)463·5633. 
Townhomes at Dublin Village, Irish Crossing, Wexford Place, Ivy Quad. 3 and 4 Bdr. Only a few left for 09/10. CES Property Management 574·968·0112 CESOM.info 


PERSONAL 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: http://osa.nd.edu/health· safety/assauiU UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. 
We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1·7819 or Ann Firth at 1· 2685. 
For more information, visit NOs Assistance for Pregnant Students//Office of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd.edu/health-safe· ty/assistance-for-pregnant-students. 





OUND THE NATION 
Monday, February 23, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE O:ssERVER:S WIRE SERVICEs page 15 
NBA 
NCAA Men's Basketball 

Big East Standings  
team  record  
1  Connecticut  13-2  
2 3  Pittsburgh Marquette  12-2 12-2  
4  Louisville  12·2  
5  Villanova  10·4  
6  West Virginia  8·6  
1  Providence  8·1  
8  Syracuse  7-7  
9  Cincinnati  1-7  
10  NOTRE DAME  . 6-8  
11  Georgetown  5-9  
12  Seton Hall  5·9  
13  St. John's  4-10  
14  South Florida  3-11  
15  Rutgers  1-13  
16  DePaul  0·14  

NCAA Women's Basketball Big East Standings 
team record 

1 Connecticut 13-0 2 Louisville 12·2 3 Pittsburgh 10-3 4 Villanova H 
8~5

5 DePaul 6 NOTRE DAME H 7 Rutgers 7~6 8 Marquette Ni 9 Georgetown 
H 1o South Florida 
5-8 11 Syracuse 4-9 12 West Virginia 4·9 13 Seton Hall 3-10 
14 St. John's 
'3·10 15 Cincinnati 3-10 16 Providence 3·10. 
NCAA Men1sUSA TODAY/ American Hockey Poll 

team  points  
1  
2  
3  
4  
5  
6  Vermont  
7  Yale  
8  Denver  
9  North Dakota  
10  Princeton  
11  Cornell  
12  New Hampshire  
13  Wisconsin  
14  Minnesota  
15  Ohio Stale  

around the -dial 
NCAA Men's Basketball 
No. 7 Louisville at Georgetown 7 p.m., ESPN 
No. 18 Kansas at No. 2 Oklahoma 9 p.m., ESPN 
NHL 
San Jose at Dallas 8 p.m., Versus 


Associated Press · 
ORLANDO, Fla. Dwight Howard had 32 points and 17 rebounds, and the Orlando Magic withstood a career-high 50 points by Dwyane Wade to rout~the Miami Heat 122-99 on Sunday. 
Hedo Turkoglu had 20 points and Rafer Alston added 12 points and nine assists for the Magic, who have won 12 of the past 15 games against their Sunshine State rival. 
Wade was potent from inside and out, scoring with high-flying dunks and soaring jumpers that had even some Magic fans chanting "M-V-P!" Miami's do-it-all guard had previ­ously scored 48 twice in his career, and had 43 points two times earlier this season. 

Wa.fte hit a pair of 3­pointers in an 11-4 Heat run to start the third quarter, closing the gap to 68-57. But the Magic would come back with a series of 3s to go ahead 91-72 at the end of the period to offset Wade's performance. 
The Heat never got close in the fourth, and Miami coach Erik Spoelstra cleared most of the · bench midway through the period ­except for Wade, who was left in until his shot over Courtney Lee gave him 50 points. 
But it was the Magic's newest player that made the biggest difference. 

Alston, acquired from Houston last Friday, has taken the ballhandling responsibilities off Orlando's free-shooting perimeter players. The speedy guard has allowed the Magic to return to their usual rotation and play the up-tempo, pick­and-roll style game that had them looking like real title contenders before All-Star point guard Jameer Nelson tore the labrum in his right shoul­der Feb. 2. 
Nelson has since had 
season-ending surgery, and the Magic are count­ing on Alston to fill the void. He had them rolling from the start against Miami. 
Driving and dishing from all angles, Alston had seven assists and a pair of 3-pointers in the opening quarter. Howard converted a 3-point play after a powerful dunk over Wade and Udonis Haslem, the last of 13 straight points by the Magic to open up a 21--12 lead early. Howard's 15 points in the quarter just about canceled out all the acrobatic shots Wade had en route to 16 points in the period. 
IN BRI.EF Crabtree to delay surj!ery
until after NFL coml5ine 
INDIANAPOLIS -Michael Crabtree was quick on his feet Sunday, and if he does the same thing for NFL scouts next month the stress fracture in his left foot might soon be forgotten. 
In an odd scene at the league's annual scouting combine, Crabtree strolled quickly across the media room moments after Patriots coach Bill Belichick finished speaking. He walked up a couple of steps, smiled at reporters and then gave a 20-second statement confirming the decision to delay surgery so he could run in front of scouts during next month's person­al workout. 
"It's an old injury that I've been hav­ing, but I never had any pain in it/' he said. "I will run my 40, and after that 1­will have surgery." 
With "that, Crabtree exited stage left, taking no questions. 
Clearly, it was an effort to stem the fallout that began Saturday when it was revealed he needed surgery. 

Sooner's Griffin status 
uncertain after concussion 
NORMAN, Okla. -Preseason All­America Blake Griffin's status was uncertain for No. 2 Oklahoma's game against Kansas on Monday night after he sustained a concus­sion in a loss to Texas. 
Sooners coach Jeff Capel said Griffin would be held out of practice Sunday, but he won't know until game day whether his star player will be able to go against the 15th­ranked Jayhawks on Monday night in a game that will give one team the lead in the Big 12 title race. 
"The most important thing is him and his future. You don't want to do anything to risk any further dam­age, so that's the most important thing," Capel said before practice Sunday. "We're going to proceed with caution with this and make sure he's OK. 
"And we'll move on whichever way we have to, with him or with­out." 
Mickelson nearly blows 
biggest lead of career 
LOS ANGELES -Phil Mickelson nearly blew the biggest lead of his career, then had to scramble for par to avoid a playoff. 
When his roller-coast week at Riviera ended Sunday, the Northern Trust Open turned out to be one of his more satisfying victories. 
After watching tee shots sail in every direction, turning a four-shot lead into a two-shot deficit with three holes to play, Mickelson recovered with back-to-hack birdies· and stepped to the 18th tee with a one-shot lead . 
Then, he had to bury some demons. 
Two years ago, Mickelson had a one-shot lead until making a sloppy bogey on the historic finishing hole and losing in a playoff. This time, he poured his tee shot down the middle of the fairway and two­putted for par from 60 feet, making a tough 6-footer for the win. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, Februaiy 23f 2009 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Bucks end team's win streak-at five 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sporrs Writer 
No. 25 Notre Dame snapped its five-match winning streak in a big way on Saturday. 
The Irish (6-5) fell to No. 3 Ohio State 7-0 in Columbus. 
The Irish were forced to take on the high-powered Buckeyes without the bles, although second and third doubles were kept close, both ending 8-6. 
The young team will contin­ue to gain valua.ble experi­ence against top-notch com­petition, as its upcoming schedule will feature No. 31 Kentucky, No. 13 Texas A&M and No. 19 Michigan. 
Bayliss said he is aware of 
the unyielding 
stretch of match­
help of their "Our guys came to es, but that he usual first sin­feels that it is for
Notre Dame so that
gles. player, the best. 
senior Brett they equid play "I knew this Helgeson. against teams like schedule would Helgeson suf­be a challenge,
these."
fered an but I hoped that injury against our guys would Northwestern Bobby Bayliss be forced to on Thursday Irish coach meet this level," 

and stayed in South Bend for treatment. He is currently day-to-day, but coach Bobby Bayliss said he hopes to have him available for Monday's match against Kentucky. 
With Helgeson, the team's only upperclassman, out, the Irish played with an especial­ly young lin'eup. Four sopho­mores and two freshmen filled the six singles spots. Sophomore Stephen Haverls moved up to first singles, and lost 6-4, 6-0 to Ohio State's No. 4 Bryan Koniecko. 
Sophomore Daniel Stahl was the only Irish player to force a third set, losing 4-6, 6-2, 6-2 to No, 22 Steven Moneke. 
Ohio State also swept dou-
Bayliss said. 
"Our guys came to Notre Dame so that they could play against teams like these." 
This overwhelming loss could potentially knock the Irish out of the top-25, but once again Bayliss is not con­cerned. 
"If we get caught up in wor­rying about our ranking we will not be focused on the more important goals, like being ready to compete when it matters," he said. 
The Irish will return home today to take on the Kentucky Wildcats at 4 p.m. in the Eck Tennis Facility. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichals@nd.edu 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish unable to overco111e Huskies 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 

Notre Dame was hanging in against top-ranked, undnl'eat­ed Connecticut, right up until that 22-1 run in tho second hall'. 
An Ashley Barlow layup with 16:11 to go in the second half put the Irish on top 43­41, but the Irish would not make another field goal until forward Becca Brusz·ewski nailed a jumper at the 9:12 mark. 
By the end of the gamn, tho Irish became the Huskins' lat­est victim, losing 76-(,(J ­Connecticut's smallest margin of' victory all season. · 
"I thought defensivnly we had a number of breakdowns during that stretch. We were unable to find I Huskies guard He nee I Montgomery and IJiuskies forward Maya! Moore and they hit three or four threes in that stretch, and then wn weren't able to score," Irish coach Mul'fet MeGraw said. "Wo had a eou­pin of' bad shots, a couple of' turnovers, and that was obvi­ously tho game." " 
Moore, last year's Big East Player of the Year, had 1S points and eight rebounds in thn win. Montgomery had a gamo-high 20 points and eight assists, compared to only two turnovers. 
"!Montgomery is] up for player of tho year in the coun­try. She runs her team very intelligently -eight assists, two turnovers, which is just a phe?OI,?enal ,assist-to~tun~o,ver ratto, McGraw said. Sho shot the ball well, she had a lot of points, she played great defensively. She's a terrific player." 
Despite being down 19 points with less than 10 min­utes to play, the Irish refused to give up and quickly fought back to a more manageable deficit. A Lindsay Schrader jumper with 3:42 remaining in the game tlw Irish only nine points behind. 
"I thought we really battled -Schrader and Barlow in particular, and Becca [Bruszewskil. I thought they played really well. I thought they just battled," McGraw said. 
McGraw said that she was glad to see her toam fight back in the second half, and that it just missed its opportu­nities to win the game. 
"We stayed within our game plan, outside of that run. It's a nine point game with four minutes left," she said. "I thought wn had plenty of chances, we just missed a lot of shots-a lot of easy shots." 
Barlow lod the Irish in scor­ing with 18 points, while Schrader recorded her second straight double-double with 1S points and 11 rebounds. 
As a team, the Irish hung tough on the glass against Conneeticut, and outrebound­ed tho Huskies 47-46. 
Notre Dame started the game out well, with Barlow nailing a 3-pointer as part of a 6-0 Irish run to start the game. The six-point deficit was Connecticut's largest of the season. 
"I thought Ashley got us off to a great start. She hit her first three, and I thought that really hnlped us gain a little confidence. And she hit a cou­plP more shots and I thought, in the first half at least, she was shooting the ball well," MeGraw said. 
The one lesson McGraw said she can take out of the loss was that her team definitely has the tenacious attitude nec­essary for postseason success. 
"I think it's like we've be11n all year. We're fighting, we don't quit," she said. "I think we're fighters and they're going to work hard and finish strong starting with Tuesday night [against Syracuse]." 
Connecticut coach Geno Auriemma said in his postgame news conference that it will be harder to draw coaching points out of the nar­row victory for his squad. 
"Like I told the team, you're at somewhat of a disadvan­tage when you play at Connecticut, because the les­sons that you learn to really help you become a better team are when you lose ... you can really learn a lot when you lose, but it's a disadvan­tage because we almost never lose," he said. "So, how do you teach your guys to learn from wins'? That's hard to do." 
Note: 
+Tho crowd of 14,533 at Sunday's game was the largest crowd for a Connecticut home game this season. The game was played at the XL Center in llartf'ord -the site of the 2009 Big East tournament ­and not the Huskies' usual home court, the Gampel Pavilion in Storrs, Conn. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 


SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles win last game of season 
Squad heads to conference tournament after record-breaking season 
By ALEX WEST Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's (15-91 fin­ished a record-setting rngu­lar snason Saturday al'tnr­noon with a 77-47 vietory over winless Kalamazoo (0­
23) at tlu1 Angnla Athlotic Faeility. 
The Belles dominated­Kalamazoo from start to finish, opening up a 12-2 lead early in the l'irst haiL Kalamazoo could not cut tho Belles' lead to more than nine for tho rest of' the game, and the Belles led 39-23 at halftime. 
In the second half. the Belles continued to pour it on, lod by freshman Kolly Murphy's 14 points ofT the bench. 
Freshman Jessica Conta 
added 12 points of' her own while senior Erin Newsom and junior Anna Kammrath contributod 10 points each. Newsom also l'inisl)ed with 

nine rebounds.  
The  Bolles defense  held  
Kalamazoo  to just 25  per­ 
cent shooting.  

Nyomadn Cooper had a game-high 15 points for the llornnts. 
Up next for the Belles is the first round of' the MIAA playoffs against Adrian. The Belles defeated Adrian two times during the regu­lar season. 
This season, the Belles broke the school records of 11 conference victories and 14 overall victories. The Bellos also were in control of tho MIAA for most of the season after a victory on Jan. 3 over then No. 1 Hope 
College. The Bellns n1mained undefeated in conference play until a Jan. 14 loss to Albion that brought them back into a tie with Hope. A loss to Ilope on Jan. 31 dropped the Belles out of first place in the MIAA to second, where they have remained. 
Another notable accom­plishment for the Belles this season came when sen­iors Nicole Beier and Newsom were named MIAA player of the week on con­secutive weeks for the third and fourth weeks of the season. 
The Belles take on Adrian at the Angela Athletic Facility Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Alex West at awest@hcc-nd.edu 


,~-~ --------­
Monday, February 23, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
ND.SOFTBALL 
Team splits games at Nike Invitational 
Notre Dame wins ttvo over Sacramento State, loses two to No.5 Stanford in California 
By MOLLY SAMMON Sports Writer 
Notre Dame went 2-2 over the weekend spent at Stanford University's Nike Invitational, its second tournament of the young season. The Irish (3-4} had 
two  _ wins  against  
Sacramento  State  
University,  two  losses  

against the No. 5 Stanford Cardinal and a rain-out cancellation against Western Kentucky. 
Friday proved to be the best day of the tournament for the Irish, as neither of the day's pitchers, senior Brittney Bargar and sopho­more Jody Valdivia, yielded an earned run. 
"It felt good, and it was nice to get out there, hav­
ing everything working and good pitches," Bargar said. "It made the game more in control, in my hands." 
The first game of the invi­tational was a 4-1 win over Sacramento State. A strong offensive third inning, con­tained crucial hits from senior Linda Kohan, fresh­man Alexa Maldonado and junior Christine Lux. 
The second game on Friday was a 2-0 defeat from Stanford University. Notre Dame almost had a chance to come back in the fourth inning when they loaded the bases, but were unable to take advantage of the situation. 
On the second day of play, The Irish took on the same two teams in hopes of maintaining their proved dominance over the 
Sacramento State Hornets, and getting a little revenge over the Cardinal. In the 5­2 loss to Stanford, Valdivia let up five earned runs in four innings. Offensively, Maldonado, freshman Sadie Pitzenberger and sopho­mores Erin Marrone and Katie Fleurry each had hits, leading to the two Irish runs of the game, both scored by Maldonado. 
"We gave up some big hits in big situations," Bargar said. "In both games, we just came up a little short." 
Team morale turned around later in the day, as the Irish defeated the Hornets once again, this time an 11-0 rout. Marrone hit her first home run of the season, and junior infielder Heather Johnson had four RBis. 

"Every single girl down the line was making solid contact," Bargar said. 
Due to excessive rain, the scheduled Sunday game against Western Kentucky was terminated just short of three scoreless innings. 
"We need all the little pieces of our game to get together more," Marrone said of the coming week's practices. "This week it's a matter of getting everything to click in all the different areas." 
The next stop for the team is the Wolfpack Challenge in Raleigh, North Carolina, where they will take on Cansius, Buffalo and the home team, North Carolina State. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Abt scores 
four goals inIrishvvin 
By NATHANIEL LEE 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a tough home loss to No.1 Northwestern, No. 11 Notre Dame defeated Ohio State 14-11 Sunday at the Loftus Sports Center to improve to 2-1 on the season. 
"We always expect a good game from Ohio State, and they were as tough as we expected," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. "It's early in the season, but we want to earn a spot in the NCAA tournament, so a win over a g{)od regional opponent is important." 
Sophomore Kailene Abt paced the Irish with four goals. Sophomore Shaylyn Blaney net­ted three, as did senior Jill Byers. 
Jayme Beard led the Buckeyes to an early 3-1 lead, but the Irish responded at 
20:33 with an Abt goal off an assist from junior Gina Scioscia. She tied it up with a score of her own at 16:56 with an assist from sophomore Kaitlin Keena. 
Ohio State staged a comeback and tied the game up at 5-5 with an unassisted goal at 6:53. Byers followed seconds later to get the lead back for the Irish. Blaney tallied a goal for a 7-5 lead, but the Buckeyes earned two of their own to tie the game at the end of the period. 
Notre Dame opened up the second period with a 5-0 run with goals from Abt, Byers, Sciascia and Blaney in the first five minutes. Ohio State attempted to mount a come­back, bringing the score to 12-9 at 16:42, but sophomore Ansley Stewart notched two goals to secure the win. 
"[Blaney] really sparked our offense in the second half," Coyne said. "The run we went on earned a good close game for us." 
Senior Erin Goodman earned the win in goal with six saves. 
"This showed that we can shake off a tough loss, and come out playing tough soon after," Coyne said. "That kind of back to back competition will be key when we get to tourna­ment time." 
The Irish will host the Stanford Cardinal at the Loftus Sports Center Saturday at 2 p.m. 
Contact Nathaniel Lee at nleeS@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 23, 2009 
MEN'S lACROSSE 

Hicks has seven points as No.8 Irish defeat Penn State 
Junior attackman scores four goals and has three assists to help Notre Dame to 13-8 win over Nittany Lions 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 
No. 8 Notre Dame improved to 2-0 on the sea­son with its 13-8 win over Penn State on Sunday ·in University Park, largely in part to junior attackman Neal Hicks' seven point per­form.ance. 
Hicks followed up a career day Feb. 14, in which he scored three goals against Loyola, with another scoring barrage against the Nittany Lions. He finished the game with four goals and three assists. 
The Irish jumped out to an early lead over Penn State, scoring two man-up goals by senior Ryan Hoff and junior Grant Krebs by the 8:37 mark of the first quarter. 
Then Hicks got started. The junior picked up his first goal of the day off an assist by junior Mike Creighton to give the Irish a 3-0 lead, where it stayed for the rest of the first period. 
With 10:41 remaining in the first half, the Nittany Lions notched their first goal of the game to make it 3-1, but the Irish responded with a goal by senior Duncan Swezey with 5:24 remaining in the second 
period to make the score 4­
1. Following Penn State's second goal near the end of the first half, Hicks notched his second goal of the game off a feed from Krebs with 
1:56 left in the first half to send the Irish into the half with a 5-2 lead. 
The second half started with a s~oring frenzy as the two teams combined for five goals in just over four min­utes of play. Penn State cut the Irish lead to 5-4 with goals from Conrad Ridgway and Jack Forster. However, the Irish responded with five unanswered goals to take control of the game. The Irish run began with Hoff's second goal of the game, which came with three min­utes elapsed in the second half. Sophomore David Earl scored 35 seconds later and Hicks put his thir.d goal in the net off an assist from senior Dan Gibson with 
10:55 left in the third period to give the Irish an 8-4 lead. 
The Irish opened up a five goal lead off a man-up goal from junior Matt Ciambella, assisted by Hicks, to give Notre Dame a 9-4 lead at the end of the third quarter. 
Sophomore Jake Marmul got the Irish to 10 goals for the second time in as many games with his first career 


goal early in the fourth utes to play. However, the Hodgers was outstanding in quarter. Penn State then Irish defense held the the goal with a career-high responded with two goals of Nittany Lions scoreless for 20 saves to collect his sec­their own to close the Irish the remainder of the game. ond win of the season. lead to four. Krebs put the Hicks scored his final goal The Irish will kick off their Irish back up by five with of the game with 1:46 left in home season when they host his sneond goal of thn game the game and then assisted Dartmouth Saturday at the with 5:44 loft in tho game, senior Davey Melera with 19 Loftus Sports Center.. but Penn Statn rallied once seconds left to arrive at the more to mako the score 1 1 -8 final score. Contact Mike Gotimer at mgo­with just undnr thrno min-Senior goalie Scott _timer@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Graduate 
Joins Leading Area Veterinary Hospital 

Magrane Pet Medical Cellfer Welcomes: 
Keith Kitson Logue, DVM 
Magrane 

Dr. Logue is a graduate of University of Notre Dame and Purdue's School of Veterinary medicine. 
Pet Medical Center 


Dr. Logue brings a wealth of experience in emergency and critical care medicine -care of the sickest pets, to our experienced staiT. 
"Carin~ for your pet is caring/iJr a{ttmi/y member and /feel privileged to work with a great ream to care for your pet, whether healthv or ill." 
To schedule an appointment call: 574.259.5291 Email (}UCHtions to Kloguc'~d\1agrancPMC.com 
Conveniently located to N.D. in the Edison Lakes Business Park (Mishawaka) 8 minutes from Notre Dame, directly east on Angela I Edison Road 
FEBRUARY 22 -MARCH 1 
2/22-3/1 "Giving a Voice" Poster Can1paign featuring GRC FIRE Starters 2/23 Take Back the Night Prayer Service; 7:00 pm at Log Chapel March around campus 
Speak Out at Bonfire; 8:00pm at Holy Cross Hill (with hot·chocolate, smores and free t-shirts) 2/24-26 Resource Tables from 11 :30 to 1:30pm in LaFortune and the Dining Halls 2/25 Committee on Sexual Assault Prevention (CSAP) Student Forurn 
7:00 pm in Reekers Hospitality Room 
2/27 "A Time to Heal" Dinner with Faculty and Student Speakers Carolyn Nordstrom Professor of Anthropology John Cavadini Department'Chair and Professor ofTheology Kyle A.C. Rocca Survivor of sexual assault Tim Latham President of Men Against Violence Anonymous Student Survivor of sexual assault 
5:00-7:00 pm at Legends. All are welcome and the dinner is free, but you must RSVP by February 23 to grc@nd.edu or 631-9340 3/1 SAAW Sunday featuring petitions, ribbons and prayer cards at Masses 


---------------------------------, 
Monday, February 23, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
Bats 
continued from page 24 
Mick Doyle added an RBI to tie the score at three. 
Irish junior starter Eric Maust retired 11 of the next 12 b'atters after the first inning before walking three straight Illini in the fifth inning. Illinois took advantage of Maust's struggle with his command, capitalizing on a three-run triple from third baseman Dominic Altobelli. 
The Irish cut the lead to 7-5 heading into the bottom of the seventh. Junior designated hit­ter Matt Grosso then belted a two-run homer to tie the game. The next five Notre Dame hit­ters all reached base, with sophomore catcher Cameron McConnell singling home two go-ahead runs. 
After Pollock drove home another run with a sacrifice fly, Barnes broke the game open with a three-run shot over the left field fence. The eight-run explosion in the seventh inning gave the Irish a 13-7 lead they would not relinquish. 
Sophomore ~:eliever Cole Johnson picked up the win for Notre Dame, allowing one run in three innings. Maust finished with three earned runs given up on five hits in five innings of work. 
The Irish offense was high­lighted by Barnes' five ·and McConnell's three RBI, both of which were career highs. Tate and Doyle each contributed three hits, with Tate scoring three runs. 
minutes and ran Notre Dame's offense to near per­
Ayers 
fection. Peoples effectively broke
continued from !?age 24 
Providence's press and zone go into halftime with a 12-defense, registering nine point lead. For the game, assists and also contributing Notre Dame finished with 13 14 points of his own. Both 
treys. Ayers led the way, shoot­ing 7-11 from behind the arc and finishing 
"Awesome. You could 
with 28 points. 
feel it coming. He was
McAlarney tal­lied 25 points flat-out fabulous., on the after­noon. 
Mike Brey
"When you 
Irish coach 
get an open look, take it," on the play of Ayers said. sophomore guard "Just go for it." 
Jonathon Peoples 
Although it was Ayers and McAlarney fin­ishing off most Irish possessions, many of their open looks were facili­tated by an unlikely source. With starting point guard Tory Jackson dealing with foul trouble, backup Jonathon Peoples stepped in to play 28 were career highs for the junior. 
"I think it was probably my best game of my career," Peoples said. "Just trying to make all the 

right plays. I r---------------------------------------------~

like when teams press us. Them pressing us, I think it opened it up for me. PeDple were knocking down shots." 
"Awesome," Irish coach Mike Brey said of Peoples' game. "You could feel it com­ing. He was flat-out fabu­lous." 
Peoples' contributions were especially welcome given the struggles of Notre Dame's top offensive player early on. Forward Luke Harangody, who entered the game aver­aging over 24 points per con­test, scored only one point in the first half. 

The reigning Big East Player of the Year was instrumental, though, in helping the Irish finish the game. Despite pick­ing up his fourth foul with 
13:30 remaining, Harangody scored 12 of his 18 points after that moment to help Notre Dame fend off any Providence . comeback attempt. 
With the win, the Irish move to 6-8 in Big East play one and a half games behind the Friars, who stand at 8-7 in conference. Notre Dame now holds the tie-breaker over Providence, should the two teams finish the season with identical conference marks. 
This week the Irish return to the Joyce Center to take on Rutgers Wednesday before heading to Connecticut. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

Sp.,dalizing in {>.autitul Color 
Now offering body waxing ... Take $5 off WEDNESDAY 
258-5080 
Notre Dame 9, Purdue 4 (10 innings) 
The Irish rallied from a 4-1 eighth inning deficit to force extra innings on Sunday, then scored five runs in the top of the lOth inning for the win over rival Purdue. 
Notre Dame struck first in the top of the third after a Jeremy Barnes one-out triple and a wild pitch. The Boilermakers then answered with two runs in the bottom of the inning off sophomore starter Evan Danieli. Purdue then increased their lead to 4-1 in the sixth inning, touching up Irish reliever Todd Miller. 
The Irish then showed off their clutch hitting ability in the eighth inning. After two outs to open the inning, McConnell singled and junior Casey Martin walked. Junior Brayden Ashdown then laced a huge pinch-hit single to score both McConnell and Martin to. bring Notre Dame within a run. 
Ashdown then advanced to second on a wild pitch, and came around to score the tying run on ·a Doyle single. 
The game remained tied until the lOth frame, when Ashdown gave the Irish another clutch RBI single and a 5-4 lead. Tate followed with a two-run dou­ble, and junior Ryan Intelkofer and Pollock each drove in a run to stretch the lead to four runs. 
Junior reliever Steven Mazur picked up the win for Notre Dame after pitching two score­less innings. The Irish bullpen held the Boilermakers score­less over the last four innings. 
Four Irish players -Tate, Doyle, Intelkofer, and Barnes ­all led the offense with two hits each. 
Notre Dame will head south again next weekend, traveling to the Phoenix Classic to take on Gonzaga, Dayton and Creighton. 
In Memory o,f Rabbi Michael Signer 
Abrams Professor of jewish Thought and Culture 
The Department of Theology invites all members of the University and local community to a Memorial Service 
MondayJ March 2nd at 4:30p.m. 
McKenna Hall (across from The Morris Inn) 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 23, 2009 
Student Affairs is now accepting notninations for the 
. 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in 
-
J·ournalism 
Candidates tnust be seniors who exen1p1ity the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, comtnitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates tnay be notninated by faculty, staff: or fellow students. 
For a non1ination forn1, please visit our website at: 
http://osa.nd.edu/gct-involvcd/studcnt-activities-nnd-awards/denny-moore-a·ward/ 
No1ninations· are due by Thursday, March 5, 2009. 

Honoring historically known activist for social change 
Hrchb:sho? Osca.~ JfoMero 

February 23, 2009 at 7:00 PM LaFortune Montgomery Theater 
Father Robert Pelton will speak and Romero (starring Raul Julia)i a full-length film based on the life of Archbishop Romero will be screened. 
Sponsored by Student Affairs, Student Activities, and Multicultural Student Programs and Services (MSPS). 



WU YUEffhe Observer Irish freshman Richard Ryan fights along the boards during Notre Dame's 5-2 win over Northern Michigan on Feb. 14. 
Cha01ps 
continued from page 24 
based on tho entire season. It's kind of a reward for consisten­cy." 
Friday night, freshman Billy Maday's goal with 1:21 lel't in ovnrtirne gavn the Irish the win in a game they once led 3-1. 
Christiaan Minella got Notre Dame on the board just 3:03 into the game, n~directing a Christian Hanson shot from the top of the lel't circle past Maverick goalie Jeremie DuPont. After Jeric Agosto tied the game at one 39 seconds into the second period, Hanson said. "And I am c..oncerned with that." 
The game went into overtime and almost seemed destined for a shootout until Maday took a feed from Kevin Deeth at the bottom of the right cirele and fired the pu_ck past DuPont for the win. 
The Irish victory, combined with a Miami (OHl loss to Northern Michigan, meant that Notre Dame needed only a tie Saturday night to wrap up the CCI lA top spot. 
The Irish got even more Saturday, thanks to stellar defensive play and stalwart goaltending from Pearce. 
The senior made 17 saves in 
his fifth shutout 
of the season, 

added a goal of including two
"!The regular season 
his own. key stops in the
title/ has got the 
At 4:32 in the first and third second period, most depth to it just periods on the senior cen­Maverick odd­
because it's based on 
ter, playing in man rushes.
the entire season. It's
his first game "I thought he back after suf­kind of a reward for played a really fering a concus­consistency." good game· for sion against us," Jackson Ohio State on said. "He looked 
Jeff Jackson 
Feb. 13, fired a like he had that low wrist shot Irish coach confidence 
through DuPont's legs for his team-high 15th goal of the season. 
Despite the two points on Friday, Jackson said he thought Hanson played better in the second game of the series. 
"I thought he was actually better Saturday night. This time of year you can't just take 10 days off and get back into thfl heat of battle just like that," Jackson said. "I thought he was not as solid in his own end with the defensive pace Omaha threw at us, and he wasn't quite as good as he nor­mally is on faceoffs either." 
Maday added a goal to make the score 3-1, but the Mavericks storrnnd right back. Just over a minute aftnr Maday's goal, Matt Ambroz swatted a n~bound past Irish netminder Jordan Pearce to cut the lead i!1 half at 16:38 of the second stanza. Then, 8:10 into the third period, Nick Fan to tied the game• up for Nebraska-Omaha, redirecting a shot past Pearce for the only goal of the period. · 
The game seemed like a car­bon copy of the Feb. 13 game against Northern Michigan, when Notre Dame took a 4-2 lead before the Wildcats tied the game. Jackson said he was concerned with his team's developing habit of letting opponents back into games. 
"We're allowing teams to get back into games because of the way we're playing with the puck, in my estimation," he 
where nothing 
was going in." 

The Irish needed every one of Pearce's saves, as the game went through two periods deadlocked at zero. Junior Dan Kissel provided the offense for the game 6:31 into the final period. Skating down the left side of the ice, Kissel took a feed from Erik Condra and pushed the puck into the net for the game-winner. 
With three minutes left, the Mavericks appeared to have tied the score, but a penalty called on John Kemp negated the goal and maintained the Irish lead. 
Jackson said the experience in elose games would be invaluable to his team come playoff time. 
"We've played in a lot of games like that this year," he said. "We've played in quite a few one-goal games this year and our kids have handled it pretty well. All these games are important for getting ready for the playoffs." 
After next weekend's home­and-home series against Michigan State, the Irish have a first-round bye before host­ing a second-round C:CHA play­off series. Jackson said that, for now, his team is focusing only on that series. 
"We have to worry about get­ting to the finals lirst," he said. "Our objective right now is to get to Detroit I for the CCHA Championship], nothing more." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 


Monday, February 23, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 



at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore and Varsity Shop I &II Sunday, February 1 -Saturday, February 28 20°/o off Select Styles and Clearance Merchandise* www.ndcatalog.com • 574-631-6316 
'Offer valid in-store and online on select items only, M<ly not be combined with any other offer. See store for details. No additional di$counts apply. 0700KBO 126098 

Thirteen 
continued from page 24 
In competition on Friday, the Irish set the tone for the day behind the performances of juniors Ashlee Edgell and Megan Farrell in the 4007yard individual medley. The pair tagged up in 4:15.17 and 
4:16.42 for the top two spots. Next, in the 100-yard but­
terfly, sopho-"I am so lucky that I Grossman's 
more Kellyn 284.30 earned
have a motivated
Kuhlke nm her the third away from the group who believes spot. 
field in 53.46 in what I believe in, Junior Zeina 
for first place, Shanata, fresh­
and we are going
breaking the men Amy 
school record to continue to learn Prestinario, sen­set in the pre­and grow." ior Christina liminaries set by Riggins and fellow sopho­Miller combined 
Brian Barnes
more Amywren for a 3:21.16 Miller. Irish coach third place effort 
Sophomore Samantha Maxwell was the next swimmer to ~teal the show, obliterating both school and conference records to win the 100-yard breaststroke in 1:00.38. 
Maxwell was soon followed by junior Maggie Behrens, who set a school record of her own in the 100-yard backstroke in 
54.11 to grab second place. 
Behrens, Kuhlke, Maxwell and Miller combined in the last event of the day, the 400-yard medley relay. The four star performers once again crushed the school and conference records with a time of 3:36.20 for the win. 
On the last day of competi­tion, the Irish continued to bring down the hammer on the rest of the field. To start the day, sophomore distance spe­cialist Lauren Sylvester grabbed third place in the 1,650 freestyle in 16:40.80. Next, Miller added to her 
Relay· 
continued from page 24 
onships," Irish coach Tim Welsh said. "What is so important about our guys is how much more unified the team became this week. The championship came down to one race, and that time was five seconds faster than last year's time with the same guys. I am so proud of our guys, 
our team and our 
program." 
Although Notre Dame took a lead into the fmal day of competition, the Irish suspect­ed that their third title in four years would ~orne down to the 
wire. 
"We told the 
guys before the 
meet that it 
might come down to the last race, and if we were victorious, we would win," Welsh said. "Our guys knew all along it might come to this and they were pre­pared for it. All I knew is that the guys were going to give it every­thing they had and we knew we would race well. The seniors and the upperclassmen will remem­ber this forever." 
The relay team set one of four Irish records on Saturday. Lytle broke the Notre Dame record in the 100-yard freestyle with a time of 43.48 seconds in the pre­liminaries and went on to best his own time with a 43.46 sec­ond performance that earned him second place. Sophomore Michael Sullivan set a school record during his second place 
"We told the guys Irish records highlighted
before the meet that 
Friday's action.

it might come down 
Sullivan set a to the last race, and if school record 
we were victorious, with his third 
place finish in

we would win." 
the 400-yard individual med­Tim Welsh ley with a time of 
Irish coach 
3:51.13, which 

awards with second place in the 100 free in a time of 49.14. 
Maxwell wrapped up her championships in the 200-yard breastroke, where she contin­ued the school and conference record-breaking trend with a speedy 2:10.35 for the win. ~ 
Wrapping up the day, junior Natalie Stitt snagged her sec­ond win of the meet in the three-meter dive with a score of 294.30, while sophomore Heidi 
was good for an 

NCAA B-cut as well. Lytle set a school record in the preliminaries of the 200-yard freestyle with a time of 1:37.04. He bested that mark with his first place finish in the finals with a time of 1:35.79. The 400-yard medley relay team of sophomore Joseph Raycroft, senior Mitchell Sherman, LeBlanc and Lytle fin­ished fifth in a time of 3:16.74 to best the old Notre Dame record. 
Senior Michael Bulfin led the Irish divers on Friday in the 3­meter event. His second place finish was good enough for All­Big East honors. Sophomore Eric Lex also earned all-conference honors with his third place finish in the event. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
in the 400-yard 
freestyle relay. 

"All season we have talked about swimming well and being confident and working like a team," Barnes said. "It takes more than one or two stars to win a title, and at this meet we performed like a team and won like a team." 
"It wasn't easy coming into this team in August with no familiarity with the program, but the team really embraced me," Barnes said. "I am so lucky that I have a motivated group who believes in what I believe in, and we are going to continue to learn and grow." 
The Irish will travel next to the Boilermaker Invitational in West Lafayette, Ind. to prepare for the NCAA Zone Diving Championships March 13-14 and NCAA Swimming Championships March 19-21. 
Contact Nathaniel Lee at nlee5@nd.edn 
finish in the finals of the 200­yard backstroke with a time of 1:45.10. 
In the 200-yard butterfly, jun­ior MacKenzie LeBlanc posted a season-best time of 1:46.53 in the preliminaries, which was an NCAA B-cut time. He later broke the Notre Dame record in the finals during his fourth place fin­ish with a time of 1:45.06. The time was also the fastest ever by a Notre Dame swimmer in the event at the Big East 
Championships. 
Three new 


page 22 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, February 23, 2009 

d 
ur future 
··See the difference 100 PvvC interns made in Belize., 
Begin at wvvw.pwc.tv 


' 
' 
f. 
©· 2009 Pricewaterho<•tHeCoopera U.P. Ail r!gh(~ reseNe.:t "Pficewa.lerh<:>useCoopers" r...terl!< to Pricewale!'ttouseCoopen• l.l.P or, as Hut cor\1ext requlru, the ProcewalerhouseCooper!'l glo!>al network or other member firms of the network, ""''h of which is" ""l'Jl'Wlle anct indepm><h>nt legal entity. W<! ere proud to be an Allirmetive Action nn<l Equal Opportunity Employer. 

Monday, February 23, 2009 The Observeru TODAY page 23 

WILLSHORTZ

CROSSWORD 
Across 37 "Lord, ·-this 61 Happen as a Prolonged attack. food" (grace consequence words) 62 Critic Ebert
6 Pilot 39 Kind of car seen 63 Freud subj. 
11 Used a stool at Indy 64 Looks like14 Counting 40 ~--we there 65 Stockholmeverything yet?" 
native15 Pigeon's perch 41 Blockhead

16 In favor of 
42 Second-year Down17 "Splendor in the students, for 

It maybe

Grass" actress short blocked when 19 Always, in verse 
43 Drink with a you have a cold20Ukerawtllm 
marshmallow 2 Nonsensical21 Fresh from the 47 Train's place 3 Consumedshower 48 Pilofs 4 Happy23 One of 100 in announcement, 5 Ralph who wroteD.C. 

for short "InVisible Man" 

24 "Hold on a ...........!" 
49SomeAOL 6 Sheep's coat 25 Bleated communications 7 Smutty27 Telecommuter's 52 1993 Aerosmith 8 Attarvow

need hit with !he lyric 9 Freud subject 
"Love is sweet fastener troin 
31 Remove a misery" 10 Station porters 
54 Most kllt wearers 11 Ticket locale Eminem 56 Atlanta, tor Delta 12 Geographical statistic 
34 Emulates 
35Tamj)a Bay 57 Common remote 
Pumtr by Tracey Snyder

baseballer control holder 13 Of two minds 36 Six years, for a 60 "What was_ 18 News bit 38 Combination 46 Perched on 53 What wagon 23-Across think?" 22 Romanian wheels may 
39 "The Fall of the 
money 49 Spitting·-make

House of Usher" ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 25 Feathery writer 
50 Parceled (out) 54 Pond gunk 
-='1~r-::"'r='lr"::"1 scarves 
41 Odds
-=+-:-+=+::.+.-:-1 26 Concert 55 Pack away 
51 Sound asleep? 
42 Fixed parts ofequipment motors 58 Long-distance 
-!+:;+;.~~ 27 That guy 
52 Word that can number starter 
44Demier_
~-Iii!-,:+;+:;,. 28 Words to live by follow the ends (latest fashion) 
..:,:.t.#:;+:,_.....-..:-,F~ 29 Apiece of 17·, 27·, 43· 59 Exhaust, with -=t-::+7'+::+.=-t-':+::::i 30 Loaves with 
45 Dirty old men and 57-Across "up" 
For answers. call1-900'285-5656, $1.49 a mlmrte; or, with a creditIIIII-.n~~··· 31 seedsWhere the 2002 
card, 1·800·814-5554. Winter Olympics Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday were held crosswords lrom the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or vlsit •=+:::-t-::-1 32 Adopted son of nylimes.com/mobilexword for more information,Claudius 
Online subscriptions: Tooay's puzzle and more than 2,000 past ~-=+=+::+:¥-¥.+::-1-:-1 33 Candidate for puzzles, nytimes.comfcrosswords ($39.95 a year).male modeling Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. .::..:..~.;::..L.;::;..r...:'""-=~..L:..:.a..::.<~.:o:..~ 37 Voting group Crosswords for young solvers; nylimes.comlleaming/xwords . 

www.8LACK00GCOMIC.COM 
THE DOME PIECE 
\ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame· and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
L_________________ ----­
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


DAVID CAVADINI 


THIS IS NDSP CAPtrAIN .JOHN tlJK6 81/lNARP WIT'I/.11 PIR6 WARN/He; THAT' AM'()fl "1'(){,1 HOOUGANS IJYIN THINKING OF CAllS/He; AM' RUCKUS r'HIS MARDI GRAS WIU. 8f Mlr Wtrll USS r'HAN MltP FORC6. PO NOr RUN, WI HN6 MUSTACHIS ANP SHAM6 CHAR/Of'S ANP W6 
AR6 NOTNRAIPTO UBI rii6MI AJSO, R6M6MBIR TO FJ.OSS ANI)BRUSH PA//.Y, 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

C!:iLHBRlTIHS BORN ON TillS DAY: R()w Md::i<JW(Ul, }4; Dw<'clil Zappa. 38; Midwd l(.,;ot<m. $(:,: Cathy Guis.::wiw, 57 
Happy Birthday: Nothing can be s<!ltled witlmut chang<'. Address emotional i~sues, m;lk~ }'()Uf thoughts kn<J"'fl and put your pkms in m()tton. E'"a!uat<: y<>ur friend•hips to dctemline if tlJey ar<' good hw you, Your numkrs ar.• 7, 12, 17, 29, 32,4-8 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): So much can k accompl.ishe<l i.fyou rdus,• to kt<'mo­tional i5>ues stand in your way. Don't let oth(>f p<.'<:.ple get involved in what you are doinj_t. Gv it alone and do things y<lur way.:! stars 
TAURUS (April :W·May 20): Clem-up any misunderstanding you have with a rela­tive or friend. De;oling with children will be easkr if you sd boundaries and k~-<:p a light rdu. Don't be fooled if someone leave• out some Important (a,,t~. 4 stars 
GBMINJ (May 21-June 20): Don't feel bad bec:10se you want w make more altera­tions to your life. C()n~ioo making some"""' friends. trying a new activity or hobby or even changing your pmks;ional direction. 3 stars 
CANC"ER (June 21-July 22): Talk w j)<.'<1ple wilh cxp.:.'rieru."' and )'<)ti will pick up valuable information. Make an adju~tment lit home. S()meone you work with or who h:~s jurhdiction over you may cau.., y<"m.r emotions to swell. 3 Slllfll 
l.EO (July 23-Aug. 22}: N<'tworking <>r ct<>ing ~om~lhing t<l help your ••<mununity t>r ail <'>l¥ltnit.atil>ll y<m heliev" in will;lll pay •:~If l.<:>~<'<: i* <Ill tlx~ ri!O<~ atxiiii>W i~ ~ II'''J<I time io let S~>ll\<:<m~ Y<lulik'' kn<~w h<>w y<>u f<>.el. Pay clnse <llt<..'llliol\ to d~tail. 4 stru-s 
VlR(',O (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may Jlnd yourself getting tll<l wriou~ about what's g<•ing ()I! ar<.>\\11<( yuu. Kcrp tbinJ!:~ dean, sq>;~:mt<' and in P""!X:<'IiW if Yl:JU wa11t "' avoid an argument or a falling-nut that can't be rec.lified. 1 ~tars 
UBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): With a little eO'on }<"lU can pull of!' some remarkable kats th:1t will impress and challenge and put you in a leading po~ition wday. You may nc'ed to traw.( to gel thing• done properly. You will be suc<;e~sful in !he end. 2 •tan 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 }: You've got your moves and an.' well on your way to having your dreams come true. This is no time to S<.>eond·guessyourself. Just go for it ~nd positive change> will take place. 5 slllrs 
SAGIITARIUS (Nov, 22·Dec, 21): Don't w<•tTY ab<:out moving three steps forward and four steps ba<·k. l.n the end, you will accomplish what you set out to do. Someone is likely to me>s up or caus.: rou a littk frustration but \be le$son you kllfll will be one to remember. 3 stanl 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22·Ian. 19): fnve~t. colleei old debts or dose deals but don't act on a whim or because wmeone has upset }'<JU. Y()U may let your lvv.:: life gel the better of Y<>U but that is no rrasnu to lose mnnc>·· Keep business and pen~onalmattcrs sepa­rate..1 ~tttrs 
AQUARllJS (J~n. 20-Feb. 18): You have a good mind when il come~ kl cash and do~ing de:lls. Your ability to talk your w~1y in and OIJI of things will he a maf\·d, so d<ln't h<>ld h<~ek G<l after what y<>n want with <'(mfidcnee. 3 still'< 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Man:il 20): Not .much ~an stand in your way today. Action will be l"L'\juired I<) get your wa~·. f"hm't get to<> c<:>el.;y in the pr<"l<'C<s <lf \be wry t>cr><m "'h<> is pmising )'()U will ~ul }'()It down. 5 stan 
B.irthda)• Baby: Yml 11w ~m;ut. intui.tiv<· •md •d<>ptahle, Y<>U do11'1 giw llp ,,,. giw i.n tt' anything or anymw. 
Eugenia's l\H• sites: mlmmMce.comfor jim. cugenialtJsl.com for r:mifidential 
c:onntlflltimJ.> 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
~lJJW~lR 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 

one letter to each square, Thanks for You shouldn't the lift thumb a ride 
to form four ordinary words. 

I 
HATIE 
1 ©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. AH Rights Reserved. 
GHEED rJ ± 


-..
tYURSLE j 

WHA.T mE GUID\NC-1: C.OUNS!:L.OR DID
J [I I I WHEN HE PICKED
www.jumble.com 

UP THE HITC.HHIK!:R. CEDITE 
I 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
[J trJ 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
._,_ 
A: "r I I I I I I J" HIM rI I I I J 
(Answers Monday) Yesterday's IJumbles: BERET CHAMP CAUGHT MASCOT Answer: When the winning doubles partners wore the same outfits, it was -GAME, SET. "MATCH" 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address _____________________________________ City ______________ State _______ Zip___________ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, February 23, 2009 
page 24 
ND SWIMMING 

The Champs are here 
Women win Big East record 13th straight 
By NATHANIEL LEE Sports Writer 
There was no stopping Notre Dame this weekend. as the Irish set 11 school records on their way to extending the longest Big East Conference Championship winning streak for any sport with their 13th straight crown. 
The squad controlled the meet from start to finish, wrap­ping up with a total of 828 points, a runaway victory over second place Louisville, who finished with 581. 
·~we really had a good per­formance, and it came from everybody," Irish coach Brian Barnes said. "A lot of girls stepped up across the board, and our depth and team com­mitment was the deciding fac­tor. That's what championship teams do." 
see THIRTEEN/page 21 


Relay team seals win in final race ofthe day 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's run to a second consecutive Big East title came on the heels of one of the most dramatic finishes in the pro­gram's history. 
In a meet that came down to the final race, the third-seeded 400-yard freestyle ·relay team entered the race as a seven sec­ond underdog to top-seeded Louisville. However, the Irish squad of junior John Lytle, sen­ior Danny Lutkus, sophomore :Joshua Nosal and junior Andrew Hoffman were undeterred by the ehallenge, as Lytle took the lead in the first leg and the Irish never looked back. The win gave the Irish a 9.5-point lead and the Big East title. 
"I hardly know what to say ... congratulations to every team that swam in the champi­
see RELAY/page 19 
BASEBALL 

Irish vvake up bats after opening gaine shutout, win tvvo 
Sunday. on an HBI single from deanup gled, sophomore left fielder final five innings against theBy MICHAEL BRYAN Ohio State 2, Notre Dame 0 hitter Justin Miller. Ohio Statn Golden Tate and junior right Illini. 
Sports Writer 

Despite a strong pitching per­then scored a key insurancn fielder Billy Boockford each The game did not begin well formance from sophomore run in the sevnnth ofT Dupra, went 2-for-4 to lead the Notre for the Irish, with two first 
Notre Dame opened its season pitcher Brian Dupra, the Irish capitalizing on catclwr Dan Dame offense. Junior center inning errors leading to three by winning two of three games fell to the Buckeyes Friday. Burkhart's leadoff triple. fieldnr A.J. Pollock and junior unearned runs and an early in the inaugural Big East/Big Notre Dame stranded five run­Dupra·l'inished 6.1 innings, designated hitter David Mills deficit. Notre Dame quickly Ten Challenge in Clearwater, ners in scoring position and giving up only two narned runs each had a hit apiece. responded, answering with Fla. The Irish needed a day to failed to get on the scoreboard and six hits, but piekcd up the three runs of its own in the bot­get their bats warmed up, los­against Ohio State pitchers Alex loss. Dupra struck out two and Notre Dame 14, Illinois 7 tom of the inning. Senior short­ing in a shutout to Ohio State Wimmers and Drew Hucinski. walked one, and sophomore The Notre Dame offense stop Jeremy Barnes singled on Friday before exploding Both starters dominated the Todd Miller pitched the linal 1.2 exploded Saturday after being home two runs, and sophomore offensively in wins over Illinois game until the fourth inning, scoreless innings in relinf. stymied Friday against Ohio 
.. and Purdue on Saturday and when the Buckeyes struck first While the Irish offense strug-State, scoring 11 runs in the see BATS/page 19 
MEN'S BASKETBALL
HOCKEY 

Ayers leads squad to
Sweep secures CCHA title 
ND wins pair ofclose games over Nebraska 
By SAM WERNER Sports Writer 
One championship down, two more to go. 
Notre Dame clinched the CCHA regular season title this weekend in a sweep of Nebraska-Omaha, winning 4-3 in overtime Friday night and 1­0 Saturday night. The Irish still hope to earn CCHA tournament championship and NCAA championship banners to fly alongside their regular season crown. 
"It's probably the champi­onship that gets the least amount of attention," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. "But in some -ways it's got the most depth to it just because it's 
see CHAMPS/page 20 

victory over the Friars 

Senior guard heats up for 28 points in win 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
Fadng the closest thing to a must-win game this season, Notrn Dame found an identity that has seemed to elude them for mueh of the season. 
Led by senior sharpshooters Kyle MeAiarney and Hyan Ayers, the Irish rained three­pointers down on Providence to the tunn or a 103-84 win Saturday. With the victory, Notre Damn ended a seven­game road losing streak and began their climb back towards an NCAA tournament 
WU YUEffhe Observer 
berth. 

Irish freshman Billy Maday, left, scored an overtime goal to The Irish relied on what they 
carry Notre Dame to a 4-3 over Nebraska-Omaha Friday. know best to begin that climb. 
On the first possession, Notre Dame passed the ball around until Ayers knocked down a three. One minute later, McAlarney pulled up for another three in transition. The two weren't done. 
Ayers and McAlarney put on a shooting clinic, scoring 32 of Notre Dame's first 38 points as the Irish hit nine three-point­ers collectively in the first 12 minutes of the game. The Friars, who arc last in the Big East in scoring defense. played a zone defense. This allowed the Irish to get into the type of shooting rhythm that oppo­nents have fiercely guarded against for much of the sea­son. 
The result was 11 Notre Dame three-pointers in the lirst half, allowing the Irish to 
see AYERS/page 19 






