
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Hesburgh speaks on Civil Rights, MLK 

Panel examined current race relations in the United States, reflected on King's contribution to the movement 
By ROBERT SINGER News Writer 
As University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh prepared to tell an audience about his role in the Civil Rights movement Thursday night, he shared a revealing thought about the movement's prominent leader, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. 
"I often wish that Martin had lived not just to bring his mes­sage to people but to see that his message has finally gotten through," Hesburgh said, asserting the successes of the movement King led. 
Hesburgh spoke in a panel discussion called "Witness to a Movement" in the Annenberg Auditorium, at the Snite Museum of Art. The panel also included Dr. Richard Pierce, associate professor of history, sophomore Franco ·zamara, law student Jessica Kim and Dina Harris, Indiana University-South Bend director of Foundation Relations. 
Hesburgh commented on the present state of race relations while also recounting the role. he took in the movement that eventually brought him side­by-side with King. A famous photograph of the duo during a rally at Soldier Field in Chicago in 1964 is now part of the Smithsonian's National Portrait Gallery. 
Hesburgh's experiences with the Civil Rights movement date back to 1957, when he was appointed to the Civil Rights Commission to help recom­mend legislative solutions to racial problems. 
According to Hesburgh, the Commission, which included two black members, often met resistance when traveling through the South, as many businesses turned them away. 
However, he noted that the legislation recommended by the <;ommission, the Civil Rights Act of 1964, was suc­cessful due to Lyndon Johnson's determination to 
see HESBURGH/page 4 



Students return to campus after studying abroad 
Over 400 ND sophomores and juniors 
Students note cultural differences,· studied in 6 continents last semester adjust to life back at the College 
unique programs that major cultural differ­
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA By MEGAN LONEY
spanned six of the ences, one of which is 
News Writer News Writer 
seven continents. the difference in 
These students who lifestyle pace. 
Over 400 Notre Dame participated shared an Saint Mary's students Julie Laemmle students are spending experience different are settling into a rou­enjoyed the laid-back their first week on cam­from their lives at Notre tine after a three-week atmosphere she experi­pus readjusting not only Dame. They were intro­break; however, some enced in Ireland. to harsh South Bend duced to a new culture, of these students are "Americans are weather, but life back in one that greatly con­making a bigger always in a race with the United States. trasted with the one adjustment than others the clock, going from 
Kathleen Opel, the they left behind in the after spending a one thing to the next, director of the Office of United States. semester -or two -and trying to squeeze International Studies, For junior Christina in Ireland, Spain or · more into their days said a total of 427 stu­Karam, who spent the Italy. · than possible," said
Photo courtesy of Christina Karam dents studied abroad Juniors Erin Robey, left, and Christina Karam, right, pose in Students said they last semester in 31 see ABROAD/page 6 front of the Louvre during a semester abroad in France. are noticing sever-al see SMC/page 6 
Lilly renews Sairit Mary's grant 

Program allots $359,000 for internships, learning opportunities 
By MANDl STIRONE Assistant News Editor 

Lilly Endowment, Inc. has given Saint Mary's College a five-year sustaining grant, according to a Saint Mary's press release. The grant ­the second the Endowment· has given to Saint Mary's ­is in the amount of $359,000, also according to the press release. · According to the Lilly Endowment Inc.'s Web site, the endowment encourages colleges and universities in Indiana to "retain in state more of their graduates." 
The original endowment, in the amount of $750,000, helped Saint Mary's to devel­
op the Indiana Careers at Saint Mary's College (INC@SMC). The program supports "experiential learn­ing opportunities, collabora­tive partnerships, network­ing grants, and structural changes," the Saint Mary's press release said. 
"! feel as though the origi­nal grant provided many opportunities for the College's students, faculty and staff to collaborate on developing, building and sustaining partnerships for internship and job opportu­nities within the state of Indiana," said Stacie Jeffirs, Saint Mary's Director of Career Opportunities. 
"We have seen an entire shift at Saint Mary's towards how internships are incorpo­rated more readily into the academic and career goals of our students," she said. 
The biggest thing they do is offer stipends for students working in internships with­out pay, she said. This past summer, the program helped 22 students doing intern­ships in Indiana, Jeffirs said. 
They now plan to continue to work on these and other goals with the new sustain­ing grant, she said. 
"With the new sustaining grant ... we plai:l to continue to combat the 'brain drain' efforts of Indiana through preparing our students at earlier stages in their col-
see LILLY/page 4 


Library launches revamped Web site 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
The Hesburgh Libraries Web site has been reformat­ted to allow for more user­friendly access, according to digital access librarian Thomas Lehman, with a less­cluttered interface and improved search capabilities. 
"We were charged with doing user-centered design because the Web site is there to provide access to services and resources to support teaching and research that go on at the University," he said. 
The Web site renovation project began with the for­mation of the Web Presence Improvement Team in 2005. 
The latest renovation to the Web site took approximately two years to complete since 
the Web site's first renova­ 
tion in 2003.  
"The  library  had  

redesigned its Web site back in 2003, and that was the second generation [of the site] ... We had started to accumulate a few electronic resources just as a basic list," he said. "It met our needs for a while but as we 
see LIBRARY/page 4 
---------~­
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, January 16. 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Townie's 
Lament 
I spent most of my life in South Bend hating it. 
I was born in Prague, and I've lived in two other states besides Indiana. Every time we moved, it seemed like a huge downgrade over the place we lived in before. South Bend, however, was the absolute worst. 
We moved here in March, which falls Irena Zajickova under the huge part of the calendar 
News Wlre 
that is considered 
Editor
South Bend's "cold season." 

Also, we were supposed to move to Galveston, Texas, instead. After actually arriving in South Bmid and experiencing the cold, I must have thought my parents were the dumbest people alive, even at the ten­der age of six. 
No matter how good of a job Notre Dame was giving my dad, how could they possibly have picked this place over Texas? Texas was warm. 
As I grew older, my complaints about the city multiplied. There was nothing to do, the mall in Chicago was. better, the people weren't as nice as the people in other places, and so on. 
I developed an immediate dislike of anything that had to do with Indiana­sports teams, cities we traveled to ­basically, nothing in the state was safe from my scorn. , 
I didn't want to go to college here, either. I had many other places in mind, but my parents finally laid down the law ("You're going here. It's free."}. And to be honest, by the time senior year rolled around, I had pretty much made my peace with South Bend. 
I had liked Notre Dame football for a while (it's pretty hard to live in South Bend and not get caught up in all of it), and the campus was pretty nice too. 
The city itself wasn't bad either. I decided that even though South Bend wasn't the most action-packed place, it could always have been worse. 
However, this isn't an admission that South Bend is a remotely exciting place to live. If I had to compile a list of potential places to move to when 00 I graduate and get a job, South Bend wouldn't even crack the top 10. 
But it has grown on me enough that I get somewhat offended when my col­lege friends make fun of it. 
An anonymous Notre Dame athlete once told me, "Any bowl game we go to would be better than the South Bend bowl." 
People complain about the weather, the lack of things to do (although I hear Fever is pretty fun), the residents, and pretty much every other aspect of life here. 
Just like I did when I was younger. I usually just roll my eyes and laugh it off, but I have to admit that I kind of get annoyed. 
I mean, no one forced them to come here. 
So the next time you want to complain about whatever in South Bend is annoy­ing you today, think about this: at least you get to leave during breaks. 
The views expressed in. the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: How MANY LAYERS ARE YOU WEARING? 






Andy Huffman  Erin Wash  Kelly Collins  James Welle  Ryan Cleary  
senior Stanford  senwr offcampus  senwr offcampus  senior Stanford  senwr Stanford  
"If chest hair counts as a layer, than ,, one.  "Way too many ,,to count ...  "I'm not sure but I know they·re all cute.,,  "If chest hair counts as a layer, than ,, none.  "I would count but I can•t feel my fingers. ,,  


Students braced the cold weather to get to Rolfs Sports and Recreation Center to work out. Temperatures dipped below zero degrees Fahrenheit Thursday. 
OFFBEAT 

'Small sign' excuse gets man out of paying ticket 
ELKO, Nev. -A Spring Creek man who beat a $62 ticket has created a legal speed trap that could cost Elko County and his neighbors much more. James Killian, a civil engineer with the Nevada Department of Transportation, argued the ticket he received in April for going 39 mph in a 25 mph zone was unen­forceable because the speed limit sign was too small and didn't comply with uniform traffic codes adopted by the state in 2003. 
TODAY a: 
LLI 
::z:: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
...... 
<
(.) 

..... 0 HIGH 5 
LOW -2 

Elko Justice of the Peace Al Kacin agreed, and dismissed the cita­tion. 
Now county and Spring Creek Association employees are taking inventory of traffic signs, trying to determine how many may need to be replaced if the local juris­dictions are required to comply with the .:updated standards. 
Boy's tongue stuck on pole after friend's dare 
HAMMOND, Ind. -In a scene straight out of the movie "A Christmas Story," a 10-year-old boy got his tongue stuck to a metal light pole. Police said the unidentified fourth-grader was able to tell them that a friend dared him to lick the pole Wednesday night. Temperatures in Hammond were around 10 degrees at the time. 
By the time an ambu­lance arrived, the boy was able to yank his..tongue otT the frozen pole. 
Police said ambulance personnel explained to the boy's mother how to care for his bleeding tongue. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH -4 HIGH 23 HIGH 22 LOW -15 LOW 17 LOW 13 
IN BRIEF 
This week's SUB Movie, "Body of Lies. •• will be shown tonight and Saturday at 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. in 101 DeBartolo Hall. 
Josh Dorfman. the founder and CEO of Vivavi will deliv-... er a lecture titled "Peering into the Green Future: The Trends and Innovations Forgin an Abundant Society in Balance with Nature" today from 10:40 a.m. to 
12:10 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. 
The Student Activities Office will host Late Night Ice Skating tonight from 9 
p.m to 11 at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. The event is free to Notre Dame students with an ID. Munchies will be served 
"Brian Brushwood: Bizarre Magic" show, which will take place Saturday from 9 p.m. to 11 in Washington Hall, is free and open to students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross. 
RecSports is ·offering a pro­motion called "Try it, you'll like it." Fitness classes are free until Sunday. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins will hold a prayer service in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. on Monday from 11:00 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. in the Main Building Rotunda. The event is open to University stu­dents, faculty and staff. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 19 HIGH 28 LOW 17 LOW 21 
Atlanta 32 114 Boston 15 11 Chicago 6 I -2 Denver 56 I 32 Houston 50 I 38 Los Angeles 79 I 52 Minneapolis 9 I -12 New York 18 13 Philadelphia 14 I 3 Phoenix 77 I 45 Seattle 53 I 39 St. Louis 23 I 8 Tampa 61 I 36 Washington 20 I 8 
Friday, January 16, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Prof. explores science of generosity 
Christian Smith recieved a $5 million dollar grant to fund the research 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame has launched the Science of Generosity, a project funded by a $5 mil­lion grant from the John Templeton Foundation to Christian Smith, the William R. Kenan Jr. Professor of Sociology and director of the University's Center for the Study of Religion and Society. 
"The goal of the project is to mobilize top-quality research across various disciplines on the origins, expressions and effects of generosity," noting that the project defines generosity as the spirit and practice of giving good things to others freely and abundantly. "This includes time, aid, attention, blood, posses­sions, encouragement, emotional investment and more. In countless ways, the world wants for signifi­cant growth in the virtue of giving." 
The grant is the largest ever received by a faculty member in Notre Dame's College of Arts and Letters. Notre Dame is supporting the project with additional funding of approximately $200,000. 
"Research projects such as this that investigate broad moral questions and the common good are inte­gral to Notre Dame's a-ca­demic mission," said John McGreevy, Dean of the College of Arts and Letters. "Just as important, Professor Smith's work will bring scholars across the country and from many dis­ciplines into conversation on a topic of fundamental 

Hesburgh 
continued from page 1 
make a name for himself in history. 
"The fact is that Lyndon Johnson single-handedly got that bill through and it was the toughest, roughest bill that our commission could write," he said. 
Hesburgh described what he viewed as the enormous improvement that has taken place in race relations since then, saying that he had long viewed the election of a black president as a barome­ter to measure racial progress. 
"By some miracle, today we are preparing to inaugurate 
importance." 
In addition to funding academic research ...at the University, the Science of Generosrty initiative will host a competition among international scholars in fields such as sociology, economics, psychology, behavioral economics, edu­cation, law and religious studies. The first phase of the competition will award $250,000 to $500,000 to four to eight of the most promising research propos­als.·· The second phase will fund a number of smaller awards, totaling another $1.2 million. 
Current academic studies on generosity are a scat­tered constellation of research projects operating under different terms such as philanthropy, giving, charity and altruism, Smith said, but he anticipates a more unified field will develop around the Notre Dame initiative. To that end, he has assembJed a board of advisers from experts in related fields, including William Damon, professor of education at Stanford ; Glen Elder, research professor of soci­ology and psychology at the University of North Carolina; William Galston, Ezra Zilkha Chair in Governance Studies at the Brookings Institution; and Jon a than Haidt, associate professor of psychology at the University of Virginia. 
Smith began exploring t h e topic of g.e nerosity in his 2008 book, "Passing the Plate: Why American Christians Don't Give Away More Money," written with 

Michael Emerson and 
Patricia Snell. With funding 
from the Science of 
Generosity, Smith will con­
tinue his research on gen­
erosity though a sociologi­
cal investigation of what 
causes generous and 
ungenerous behavior. 
A primary goal of the project is to communicate research findings and information to other schol­ars, religious organiza­tions, nonprofit organiza­tions and the general pub­
lic. Findings will be made available as the project develops on the project Web site: http://generosi­tyresearch.nd.edu. 
The project also is moti­vated by broader goals. In step with the mission of the foundation that bears his name, John M. Templeton Jr., son of the late Sir John Templeton, shared his dream of a worldwide "epi­demic of generosity" in his book, "Thrift and Generosity." Smith said his ultimate ambition for the project is to increase gen­erosity in the world. 
Established in 1987, the John Templeton Foundation serves as a philanthropic catalyst for discovery in areas engaging life's biggest questions, ranging from explorations into the laws of nature and the uni­verse to inquiries into the nature of love, gratitude, forgiveness and creativity. The foundation's mission is derived from founder Templeton's commitment to rigorous scientific research and related scholarship. More information is avail­able at www.templeton.org. 
there are enough people make black~ noble citizens of around who want to apply this great land." them." Equal representation is a 
Hesburgh also shared some difficult challenge facing the 
of the history 
of Notre 
"Even when I came to
Dame's own 
racial strug­Notre Dame in I934· 
gles. there wasn't a single "Even when I 
black student on 
came to Notre Dame in 1934, campus. •• there wasn't a 

single black Fr. Theodore Hesburgh .student on 
University President 
campus," he 
Emeritus

said. "When I came back 
entire country, according Hesburgh. 
"It's an uphill battle not just at [Notre Dame], but everywhere in the country, in companies and schools all over the place," he said. "Per capi-­ta, we probably 
with a doctorate's degree to spend three times as much teach, there was one black money attracting the top student." black students as we spend The sole black student was attracting the top white stu­
there by accident. According dents." to Hesburgh. When Hesburgh was asked the Navy's to describe his greatest joy; 
our first black "By some miracle, ROTC program he talked about the student president next had misplaced body's commitment to serv­
today we are prepar­
Tuesday," he him. ice and the construction of said. ing to inaugurate our W h i I e the new Center for Social Hesburgh first black president Hesburgh said Concerns. said that the he was proud "I think we have a great
nest Tuesday.,. 
legislative and of the racial student body with all kind of political battle progress made talent who by and large are for racial Fr. Theodore Hesburgh at Notre Dame, on the side of the angels on equality is all University President he is still most moral questions," he but over and determined to said. "When you stop to think
Emeritus 

Lilly 
continued from p~ge 1 
lege careers," she said. 
"We plan to ineorporate academic and career advis­ing, implementing and ePortfolio sys~em, providing career assess­
ments, Indiana 

'"The INC@SMC isn't
internship stipends, colle­the only program at 
giate speaker Saint Mary's assisted 
series, and 
by the Lilly 
much more," Jeffirs said. Endowment.,. INC@SMC isn't the only pro­
Stacie Jeffirs 
gram at Saint 

Director of Career
Mary's assisted 
Opportunities
by the Lilly 
Endowment, Jeffirs said. 
"The INC@SMC program is just a part of the larger sus­taining grant that the College has recently received for the rtext five years," she said. "Although the INC@SMC pro­gram will continue to offer 


Library 
continued from page 1 
got more electronic resources and format, [the Web site] eventually became cluttered." 
Lehman .said that responses to the site's new format have been positive. 
"We put a feedback link on " the site, and the vast majori­
ty of the com­ments have been very positive. People were enthusiastic," Lehman said. 
Lehman said that the commit­tee conducted tests to see whether the old version of the Web site was meeting research needs. The com­mittee asked fac­ulty, graduate students and undergraduate students who participated in 

internship stipends for stu­dents who participate in unpaid internships within Indiana, the sustaining grant as a whole will be looking to implement programs and ini­tiatives that are far more reaching at the College. 
"We are certain that with this new sustaining grant, the 
..We decided we really needed to emphasize ·search· so we have a search box right in the middle of the page which allows you to search for different 
.,
resources. 

Thomas Lehman Digital access librarian 
the tests· to find various 
resources located throughout 
the Web site. 
"We found that experienced 
researchers were typically 
able to find what we asked 
them to during the tests, but 
less experiences researchers 
such as undergrads had some 
real difficulties," he said. 

"We decided that a redesign ·was needed." 
_According to Lehman, the 
committee redesigned the 
Web site so that it would be 
less cluttered and would 
emphasize search capabili­
ties. 
He said the committee 
found that more people who 
use the resources located on 
the library's Web site are 
"search dominant" users 
meaning that they would 

College will be able to move initiatives for­ward that will allow our stu­dents to have an enriching and fulfilling experience here at Saint Mary's while exploring who they are, how they can make a difference, 
and discovering their passion and calling in life while exploring possibilities within Indiana," she said. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
rather type key phrases into a search box than browse through lists of material to find information. 
"We decided we really needed to emphasize 'search,' so we have a search box right in the middle of the page which allows you to search for different resources," he said. 
He also said that the com­mittee worked to ensure that 
the informa­tion con­tained on the Web site was organized more clearly. 
"We know that people find informa­tion in differ­ent ways ... We tried to do the best job we could so that links and resources are organized in the most logical way possible," Lehman said. 
The Web Presence Improvement Team gave the Notre Dame Web Group spec­ifications on what improve­ments should be made to the site. 
"They came up with several designs and we chose one of them, and then we spent of a lot of time converting infor­mation,'' he said. "There was a lot of information on the Web site so the conversion took longer than we expect-
d , 
e . 

Lehman also said that the committee used information gathered from student sur­veys to help them understand what improvements the Web site's users wanted. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 

pointed out that current law has the capacity to pre­vent discrimination. 
"Now is the time to take all of the instrumentalities that we have and use them intelli­gently and forcefully," he s aid . " T h e I a ws are v e r y strict and very clear and 
improve the 
situation. 

"I still say that I won't rest until we have the same per­centage of black students at this Univ~rsity that we have in the general population," he said. "I don't want to rest until the institution that I love best has done its part to 
that we're building a build­ing over here for 14 million dollars because so much of the student. body is doing some service to humanity, I think this is a very healthy state of affairs." 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, January 16. 2009 Friday, January 16, 2009 Co.MPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Venezuela seeks help with oil industry 
CABlMAS, Venezuela -Squeezed by slumping crude prices, Venezuela is reaching out to the multinational oil companies it once demonized as imperialist profiteers. 
Venezuela is soliciting bids from the world's major oil companies to extract heavy crude from· vast deposits in its Orinoco River region. Despite President Hugo Chavez's crit­icism of U.S.-style capitalism, it has become clear that state-owned Petroleos de Venezuela SA needs both the cash and expertise of Big Oil. 
These international oil companies have made windfall profits in recent years, but analysts doubt many will want to invest again given Chavez's history of seizing for­eign stakes in Venezuela's oil. 
Division growing in Russian poilitics 
MOSCOW -Russia's President Dmitry Medvedev has twice rebuked the govern­ment led by his predecessor Vladimir Putin in the past couple of weeks, raising ques­tions of whether a rift is developing between the powerful former Kremlin leader and the man he chose to replace him. 
On both occasions, Medvedev criticized the government for not doing enough to help industry and business cope with the global financial crisis, which has hit Russia hard. 
"The planned measures are being fulfilled slower than we counted on and, most important, slower than the current situation demands," Medvedev said during a visit Sunday to an engine plant outside Moscow with government ministers. 
Two weeks earlier, Medvedev character­ized the government's anti-crisis program as "well-balanced but not ideal." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Blagojevich's fmulraising documented 
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. Gov. Rod Blagojevich took a taxpayer-funded flight to southern Illinois where he attended an unscheduled meeting and raised $42,000 from contributors that included the family of a man he had recently appointed to a university board, records show. 
After making an appearance at a public event in Mount Vernon on Nov. 20, Blagojevich attended an economic devel­opment briefing at a bank office run by a family that had contributed large sums to his campaign fund. He came away with 14 checks ranging from $500 to $20,000, according to interviews and records reviewed by The Associated Press. 
Police officer charged with murder 
OAKlAND, Calif. -A former transit police officer has been charged with murder for the fatal shooting of an unarmed and allegedly restrained black man in a racially charged case that has outraged residents and commu­nity leaders and set off violent protests. 
Newly released court document., allege that Johannes Mehserle, who was charged Tuesday, shot 22-year-old Oscar Grant while Grant had his hands behind his back and another officer was kneeling on his neck. 
Alameda County District Attorney Tom Orloff made the rare decision to file a murder charge against a police officer for an on-duty incident. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Two dead, two injured in crash 
Two people from Illinois were killed and two others were injured when their car struck the rear of astopped semi-trailer truck on Interstate 70 in eastern Indiana on Thursday. 
Timeka Felton. 31, and Justin Boxley, 12, both of Kankakee, Ill., were pronounced dead at the scene; Nicholas Felton, 38, also of Kankakee, was taken to lltmry County Memorial llospital in New Castle, and Mya Jaekson, 6, was taken by helieopt1~r to a hos­pital in Indianapolis. Tlwir conditions weren't immediately known. 


Plane crashes into the Hudson River 
All passengers, crew members on flight survive with few serious injuries 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -With 
both engines out, a cool­
headed pilot maneuvered 
his crowded jetliner over 
New York City and 
ditched it in the frigid 
Hudson River on 
Thursday, and all 155 on 
board were pulled to 
safety as the plane slowly 
sank. It was, the gover­
nor said, "a miracle on 
the Hudson." 
One victim suffered two 
broken legs, a paramedic 
said, but there were no 
other reports of serious 
injuries. 
The US Airways Airbus 
A320 bound for 
Charlotte, N.C., struck a 
flock of birds during 
takeoff minutes earlier at 
LaGuardia Airport, 
apparently disabling the 
engines. 
The pilot, identified as 
Chesley B. "Sully" 
Sullenberger Ill of 
Danville, Calif., "was phe­
nomenal," passenger Joe 
Hart said. "He landed it 
-I tell you what -the 
impact wasn't a whole lot 
more than a rear-end 
(collision). It threw you 
into the seat ahead of 
you." 
"Both engines cut out 
and he actually floated it 

into the river," he added. paramedic who was we're going down,"' pas­watched the water land­
In a city still wounded among the first to arrive senger Jeff Kolodjay said. ing from the news organi­
from the aerial attack on at the scene, said she saw He said passengers put zation's high-rise office. 
the World Trade Center, one woman with two bro­their heads in their laps "I just thought, 'Why is it 
authorities were quick to ken legs. Fire officials and started praying. He so low?' And, splash, it 
assure the public that said others were evaluat­said the plane hit the hit the water," she said. 
terrorism wasn't ed for hypothermia, water pretty hard, but he Paramedics treated at 
involved. bruises and other minor was fine. least 78 patients, fire offi­
The plane was sub­injuries. "It was intense. It was cials said. Coast Guard 
merged up to its windows "We had a miracle on intense. You've got to boats rescued 35 people 
in the river by the time 34th Street. I believe now give it to the pilot. He who were immersed in 
rescuers arrived in Coast we have had a miracle on made a hell of a landing," the frigid water and fer­
Guard vessels and ferries. the Hudson," Gov. David Kolodjay said. ried them to shore. Some 
Some passengers waded Paterson said. Another passenger, of the rescued were shiv­
in water up to their The crash took place on Fred Berretta, who was ering and wrapped in 
knees, standing on the a 20-degree day, one of on his way home to white blankets, their feet 
wing of the plane and the coldest of the season Charlotte from a business and legs soaked. 
waiting for help. in New York. The water trip, told CNN doors were One commuter ferry, Police divers had to res­temperature was 36 opened on both sides of the Thomas Jefferson of cue some of the passen­degrees, Coast Guard Lt. the plane "as soon as we the company NY gers from underwater, Commander Moore said. hit the water." Waterway, arrived within Mayor Michael He estimates that Witnesses said the minutes of the crash, and Bloomberg said. Among hypothermia can hit with­plane's pilot appeared to some of its own riders .those on board was one in five to eight minutes at guide the plane down. grabbed life vests and 
infant who appeared to that temperature. Barbara Sambriski, a lines of rope and tossed 
be fine, the mayor said. "The captain said, researcher at The them to plane passengers 
Helen Rodriguez, a 'Brace for impact because Associated Press, in the water. 



U.N. Headquarters hit by Israeli fire 
many families had sought refuge, forge an agreement to end 20 days
Associated Press 

and the building caught fire, forcing of bitter fighting. 
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip -Israeli staff to evacuate hundreds of people. The U.N. compound, made up of artillery shells struck the U.N. head­According to a hospital medic, some workshops and warehouses as well quarters in the Gaza Strip on patients were pushed down the as offices, was struck about a half­Thursday, setting a food warehouse street on gurneys; a few held white dozen times over a roughly two-hour ablaze and drawing a sharp rebuke flags. period while more than 700 civilians from the visiting U.N. chief who The destruction added to what aid were sheltering there, said John called it an "outrage." Another groups say is a humanitarian crisis Ging, head of Gaza operations for Israeli bombardment killed Hamas' in Gaza and ratcheted up tensions the U.N. Relief and Works Agency. head of security. between Israel and the international The civilians were huddling in the 
The attack added to a day of dead­community even as diplomats indi­compound's vocational training cen­ly chaos pitting Israeli troops against cated progress in cease-tire talks. ter when it was struck by a tank Islamic militants. Terrified residents Israeli Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni round or an artillf'ry shell, causing huddled in shelters and stairwells, was departing Thursday night for the three inju ri cs. Ging said. or scooped up toddlers and fled on \Vashington to discuss a Gaza cease­Throughout this time, he said, U.N. foot. fire with Secretary of State officials were frantically contacting 
After nightfall, shells landed near Condoh~ezza Hice. The United States Israeli officials to urge an rnd to the Gaza City's Quds Hospital, where and Egypt have been working to firing on the U.N. rompound. 


page 6 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS Friday, Jaunary 16, 2009 
exotic locales. "I went to Inner Mongolia
Abroad 

VITA CHlO 
nw.· 


Information Session 
for those interested in the position of 



Assistant Rector 

for University Residences 
Monday, January 19, 7:30-8:30 p.m. 
Fischer Community Center (at Fischer O'Hara Grace Graduate Residences) 
Light refreshments served 
For further information visit http://osa.nd.edu/ 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
Laemmle. "The Irish are so relaxed about everything and life was very enjoyable." 
The pace was not the only disparity in lifestyle that affect­ed Laemmle, who found it diffi­cult to fit back into her struc­tured life back in the United States. 
"It was really hard to read­just when I first got home," said Laemmle. ''I'd been living 

in an apartment ../ love being home Though not all 
with four Irish of them have
and at Saint Mary's. I
students while had the same abroad. missed the campus return experi­"We were and all ofmy ence, all of the totally on our girls agreed on
friends.,,
own in the one thing ­apartments, so studying abroad you could come Kayleigh Young changed their and go as you sophomore lives. 
pleased or make as much noise as you wanted and no one minded. I feel like my inde­pendence has been taken away since moving back to America because I do have to follow so many rules now," she said. 
Junior Afton Caterina may be having the hardest time with the adjustment. She recently returned from two semesters abroad, one in Italy and one in Spain. Although she is glad to be back, Caterina. a double major in Italian and Spanish, is going through withdrawal from being overseas for so long. 
"I was really looking forward to being back at Saint Mary's because I had been abroad for a whole year and was begin­ning to really miss normal life on campus. but now I really miss both Spain and Home," she said. "I already miss being able to discover something 
"It opens up 
your eyes to so many new things and allows you to see and experience the world at such a young and influential age," Caterina said. "There are so many great opportunities to travel once you are abroad and you are given the chance to see so much. You also learn how to be independent and manage things without your parents around." 
For those students who are planning on studying abroad through one of the many opportunities provided by Saint Mary's or Notre Dame, Young has one piece of advice. 
"Keep an open mind and remember that you are lucky to have this opportunity so do not be afraid to try new things," she said. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
absolutely new every single day, being surrounded by his­tory, and the excitement of not knowing what I'm going to see that day or who I'm going to talk to." 
Not all of those who studied abroad are having as much dif­ficulty re-adjusting. For sopho­more Kayleigh Young, every­thing is falling right into order. 
"As of yet, I have not experi­enced any sort of culture shock," Young said. "I love being home and at Saint Mary's. I missed the campus 
and all of my 
friends." 

Plus, our name remains the same year after year. 



Join Todayl 

Please recycle The Observer. 
continued from page 1 
semester in Angers, France, the biggest change was the slower pace of French life. 
"Whereas life in the United States is very fast-paced, French people like to relax," Karam said. ''Very long din­ners are common, sometimes three to four hours with sev­eral courses." 
Despite the many differ­ences from life in America, students said they enjoyed the changes. Kristine Yuen, a junior who spent the fall semester in Shanghai, China, said experiencing the dis­tinct culture was the best part of the trip. 
"My favorite part was defi­nitely experiencing the cul­ture, meeting new people, and dealing with the locals," Yuen said. 
Students also said the challenges of adapting to life in a new place were made easier by their fellow stu­dents. 
"Life in a non-English speaking country was an entirely new challenge and opportunity," said junior Jason Miller, who spent the semester in Toledo, Spain. "But I couldn't have had such a great time without the amazing group of people I went with." 
An important facet of studying abroad was the additional travel that many students participated in, ranging from traditional tourist destinations to more 

with three friends during our week-long break," Yuen said. "It was definitely the craziest thing I have done in my life so far." 
Like most students, Karam enjoyed the relaxed work­load she had while abroad and she's confident that she will be able to get back into her normal academic routine now that she has returned to Notre Dame. 
"Most classes were easier than those at Notre Dame," Karam said. "I had one that was pretty challenging, though, so it shouldn't be too difficult to adjust back to the ND workload." 
Miller is also certain he can readjust to Notre Dame's coursework. He said he is happy to be back, although he does miss life in Toledo. 
"Honestly, I wouldn't mind being in Spain right now. Not even a little," Miller said. "However, it is fantas­tic to see friends and famil­iar faces that I've missed for the past six months." 
Yuen echoed Miller's senti­ments, and said life back in the United States will take a little getting used to. 
"It is a very bittersweet moment to be back. I missed all of my friends back here at ND, but I definitely miss China," Yuen said. "The weather, food, culture, and people are all so different; it will take a little while to adjust back." 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 

Friday, January 16, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 

Jones 8,212.49 +12.35 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,006 95 1,787 3,655,181,495 



COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
FTSE 100 (London) 4,121.11 -59.53 

CITIGROUP (C)  -15.45  -0.70  3.83  
BK OF AMERICA CP (SAC)  -18.43  -1.88  8.32  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS {SPY)  +0.04  +0.03  84.40  
FINANCIP.l SEL SPDR (XLF)  -4.59  -0.48  9.98  
,  Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  -0,54  -0.012  2.201  
13-WEEK BILL  -9.09  -0.010  0.100  
30-YEAR BOND  -1.07  -0.031  2.864  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.15  +0.002  1.363  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  0.00  35.40  
GOLD (${Troy oz.)  ·1.50  807.30  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -1.25  83.80  
Exchange Rates  

YEN 89.8750 EURO 1.3129 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2514 BRffiSH POUND 1.4647 
IN BRIEF 
Job layoffs grow as economy slwnps 
WASHINGTON -The number of newly laid off workers seeking unemployment benefits rose more than expected last week, the latest sign the economy is shrinking and unlikely to rebound anytime soon. 
The figures came a day after the govern­ment said retail sales dropped sharply in December and the Federal Reserve issued a gloomy economic assessment. 
Economists said the reports illustrate that the economy remains stuck in a downward cycle: Consumers initially cut back spending in response to the housing and credit crises, slowing the economy and leading companies to lay off workers, which spurs even more caution among consumers. 
President-elect Barack Obama's admin­istration hopes a massive stimulus pack­age will jolt the economy back to life. House leaders on Thursday proposed leg­islation with $825 billion of federal spend­ing and tax cuts. 
Govenunent to supply funding to bank 
WASHINGTON -Bank of America and the Treasury Department are near an agreement that will provide $15 billion to $20 billion in new government support to the banking giant, a source close to the discussions said Thursday. 
This source said that the injection of fresh capital will come from the government's $700 billion rescue fund and will be similar to assistance provided last November to Citigroup. The source spoke on condition of anonymity because the agreement had not been completely finalized. An announcement was expected later Thursday. 
Bank of America will use the money from the rescue fund to help it absorb losses at Merill Lynch. The two sides were also dis­cussing providing government guarantees against losses, with that money coming from a mix of government sources. 
The Treasury Depariment already has pledged the first half of the $700 billion bailout fund which Congress approved on Oct. 3 to deal with the biggest financial crisis to hit the country since the Great Depression. 
House unveils economi~ recovery bill 
Unprecedented $825 billion legislation predicted to affect 95% of workers 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -House Democrats unveiled an $825 billion economic recovery bill Thursday, unprecedented in its scale and reach, that would pro­vide an enormous infusion of public spending in hopes of kick-starting the sagging economy. 
The legislation -two­thirds spending and one­third tax cuts -would pro­vide help for the poor and unemployed and hand out huge grants for local schools and state govern­ments, among its many provisions. 
President-elect Barack Obama said it would fulfill his promise of creating or preserving more than 3 million jobs. But Republicans calculated that would equal as much as $275,000 per job. 

Virtually everyone living in the United States would be affected by the plan. A $500 tax cut would reach 95 percent of workers and $1,000 for working couples. First-time home buyers purchasing homes between Jan. 1 and June 30 would get a $7,500 tax credit, and local school districts would be spared severe cuts as state and local govern­ments budgets collapse ­to the tune of $120 billion over the next two years. States would get $87 billion worth of help with their undershoot the mark,"Obey jobs." through the Medicaid pro­Medicaid budgets over the told reporters. At the same time, the gram. next two years. Whatever doubts there measure helps the poor, The measure also con­
But there's also money may be about how effective unemployed and people tains about $90 billion for for fresh sod for the the plan would be, it's on a who have lost their health traditional infrastructure National Mall and millions fast track through Congress insurance. Food stamp projects such as road and of $40 coupons to help peo­in hopes of reaching allotments would increase bridge repair and construc­ple adapt their old televi­Obama' s desk within a 13 percent, or about $20 a tion, modernizing federal sions for digital signals, month. month, while the unem­buildings, clean water and raising questions about "It is about job creation," ployed would see their ben­flood control projects, and how efficient the legislation House Speaker Nancy efits extended and rail and mass transit con­would be in creating jobs. Pelosi, D-Calif., said. "It is increased by $25 a week. struction. Even bill drafters such as about clean, efficient ener­People who lost their jobs That failed to impress Appropriations Committee gy in America to transform after Sept. 1, 2008, could Terence O'Sullivan, general Chairman David Obey, D­our economy through have the government pay president of the Laborers Wis., admits that much of investments in science and almost two-thirds of their International Union of the money won't flow into technology.... It is about health insurance premiums North America, who said it 11he economy immediately. modernizing our roads, under the COBRA law. "falls far short." 
And Obey says more may bridges; education for the Poorer people who have And AARP compiained be required. 21st century; tax cuts that been fired recently could that the measure doesn't do ''This product may in fact make work pay and create get health coverage much for senior ~itizens. 



Wall Street rebounds after poor start 
Associated Press from Washington will help stabilize remains in a bear market,~which 
banks; lawmakers approved the can produce sharp turns. 
NEW YORK -Wall Street pulled money after the market closed. Some analysts attributed the off a big turnaround Thursday, Late Thursday, Bank of America comeback to the market's own rebounding from a steep early and the Treasury Department were dynamics. drop to finish modestly higher. near an agreement that would "pro­Joe Saluzzi, co-head of equity Investors who began the day wor­vide $15 billion to $20 billinn in trading at Themis Trading LLC, rying about a revival of the bank­new government support to the said the recovery in stocks was ing crisis grew optimistic during banking giant, a source close to the overdue given a 10 percent slide in the session that the government discussions said. the market in about a week, and will again help the financial indus­The market's zigzag Thursday he said traders were looking for try. was reminiscent of the enormous any reason to rally. Saluzzi said 
The selloff, which followed news volatility seen in September and investors might ultimately be dis­that Bank of America Corp. needed October, when worries about appointed by the government's another government cash infusion, mounting troubles at banks and efforts to boost the economy but 
' 
had the Dow Jones ind·ustrials the collapse of brokerage Lehman that headlines about broad spend­heading for a seventh straight loss. Brothers Holdings Inc. pummeled ing were enough to prod the mar­But investors awaiting a Senate Wall Street. Swings of hundreds of ket. vote authorizing the second $350 points in the Dow industrials were "That's the spark on top of the billion from the government's at times terrifying but began to timber. That gets it going," he said, financial bailout fund became more feel almost commonplace. Wall referring to Washington's plans. "I upbeat as the day wore on. They Street has shown relative tranquil­think, bottom line, it's an oversold were hoping additional money ity since late November but still bounce. We'll see if it lasts." 

p 
THE OBSERVER 
page 8 
Friday, January 16, 2009 
THE OBSERVER ·.


Bowling for Obama 
P.O. Rox 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Emma IN CHIEF 
Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Firzparrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWs Emma: Jenn Merz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPOIITS EDimRS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHom EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERilSING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer
. 
. An DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
{574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews:l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLiNE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by me students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeimer 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of me majority ofme Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and deparunent editors. Commentaries. letters and columns present me views ofme authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must qe signed and must include conract information. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
·me Qbs<,..r (USPS 59~ 2-4000) is publish<d Monday through Friday <><a:pt durintt exam .::rnd v2C:liion pcrlods. Asub!icriptioo to 'JOe Ohsnvt:r is $100 tOr nne .2eademk year; $55 for one $(:l'lleSt:<::r. 
. I 
The Observa is published at rOSfMASTER 02~ South Dining Hall Send address. 'orreaions to: Noore Dame, IN 465%-0779 TheOboetver Periodical pomgc paid at Notre Dame r.o. Boxm 
•nd additionAl mailing offices. 024 Sourh Dining H.ill Nou< Dame. IN 46556-0779 
The ObserYer i5 a memOO of the As.10Ci.atc:-d Press. All reproduction ri~hts arc rcs.c:rv•.:d. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Aaron Steiner Matt Gamber Madeline Buckley Laura Myers Liz O'Donnell Douglas Farmer Graphics Scene Andrea Archer Stephanie DePrez Viewpoint Stephanie Vossler 
Last week college football fans were treated to~a BCS Championship game that unequivocally named the Florida Gators the champions off the 2008 col­lege football sea­son. Or did it? 
Before the game even started teams from Salt Lake City, Austin, and Compton were claiming that they were deserving of being named cham­pions, and many writers agreed with them. Despite the fact that I fell asleep during the second quarter of a game that was almost as boring as Benjamin Button [key word: almost] I believe the Gators deserve the National Championship that has been presented to them, and that the other teams should just stop their whining. 
But not everybody agrees with me. Most notably, our President-elect has been outspoken in his requests for a college football playoff to determine the national champion. This is most interesting because we have no evi­dence that Barack Obama is a college football fan. He talks about being a White Sox fan, he appeared on a Bears Monday Night Football game in 2006, . and he talks often about his love of basketball, but how could a person who went to Occidental, Columbia, and Harvard possibly know what the biggest college football fans actually want? 
Does his plea for a playoff come from his belief that a playoff would be the best thing for the sport? Or is it simply to appeal to the media hounds that love to talk about a playoff. OR is this logic just coming from his Hollywood connections who are all disappointed about a certain team going to the Rose Bowl again? The·fact of the matter is that there are several downsides to a college football playoff that the non­college fan could not possibly under­stand. 
The most common argument against 

Bob Kessler 
House ofStix 
a playoft' is that it devalues the regular season. This year, games that were incredibly exciting because of their BCS implications included Texas ­Texas Tech, Alabama -Florida, USC ­Oregon State, and Penn State -Iowa. If there was a playoff, these games would have only been important for seeds, but the BCS eliminated the losers of all of these games making the stakes higher than most every regular season NFL game. 
More interestingly, however, is the fact that a playoff system would also devalue the other bowl games that cur­rently exist. Already we have seen bowls such as the Cotton Bowl and the bowl formerly known as the Citrus Bowl become less important because they landed on the outside of the BCS. If a playoff was instituted, all the non­playoff bowl games would become a sideshow much like the NFL's Pro Bowl or the UEFA Cup. While some­body who is not a fan of college foot­ball (or more importantly, a specific team) might see no purpose to these other bowl games, us college football fans know that they are the heart an'd soul of our sport. 
This year's other bowls gave Ole Miss the chance to prove that its win over Florida was no fluke. They gave TCU the opportunity to prove that they are a top 10 team. They gave Utah the mere opportunity to enter into the National Championship conversation, and they gave Vanderbilt fans some­thing many haven't seen in their life­time (a bowl victory). Most importantly, however, this year's lesser bowls gave us Notre Dame fans something to cheer about after two of our most painful seasons. 
Five weeks ago I wrote in this paper about how disappointing the past four years of Notre Dame Football had been. Things had gotten so bad that even most Notre Dame Fans did not think that our team could beat lowly Hawaii. This game gave us something to look forward to for the future, as well as something to be happy about in the present. Ifit wasn't for the lesser bowls, I would have never been able to 
proudly wear my Kyle Rudolph/Ethan 
Johnson [sorry Zibby] jersey to mid­
night mass on Christmas Eve. 
Bowl games give half the country 
something awesome to cheer about 
and make lasting memories for the 
fans of the schools that come out victo­
rious. Barack Obama says that a play­
off system would be best for the sport 
because he is seemingly not a fan of 
the sport and has probably never even 
attended a bowl game. He wasn't the 
Ole Miss Senior that cheered victori­
ously as the Cotton Bowl trophy was 
hoisted feet away from him. He wasn't 
the Utah Senior who celebrated New 
Year's Eve on Bourbon Street, 
undoubtedly being taunted and out­
numbered by Alabama fans, only to 
experience the sheer ecstasy of the 
Ute's victory. He wasn't the Notre 
Dame Senior that wore a football jer­
sey to midnight mass.. on Christmas Eve 
in celebration of the bowl victory he's 
been waiting far too long to see. 
I have been telling anybody who will 
listen about the football jersey I wore 
to midnight mass, and I will probably 
continue to tell people the story for a 
long time. In fact, I will probably tell 
my great -nephews the story years 
from now when I am telling them 
memories of my Notre Dame years. 
The bowl system made a memory for .me over this year even though I never 
considered travelling out to Hawaii. 
Barack Obama has none of these 
memories because he never attended a 
school with a Div. I football program, 
and because of this he should stop 
thinking he knows what is best for a 
sport he can't possibly understand. As 
he brings change to this country start­
ing next week, I just hope that he 
focuses on more important issues that 
he more fully understands and does 
not waste his time trying to change my 
bowl system. 
Bob Kessler is a senior majoring in 
political science and economics. You 
can contact him at rkessler@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are 
those ofthe author and not necessarily 
those ofThe Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Subrnit a Letter
"Our great democracies still tend to 
"Don •t hit at all ifit is honorably 

think that a stupid man is more 
possible to avoid hitting; but never 

likely to be honest than a clever 
hit soft!" 


to the Editor at
man., 
Theodore Roosevelt

www.ndsmcobserver'-com
Bertrand Russell 
26th U.S. President 
British author 




Holding on to Christmas 
Christmas, 2004. I had just been they really, real1y want, more than ordained a priest, and was heading anything in the world. home. My family was excited I was True, kids are always thinking about going to say Christmas Mass at my what they really, really want, more home. My younger brother pointed out than anything in the world. But at that, after six Christmas it's different -because at years in the Fr. Lou DeiFra, Christmas, adults actually listen to seminary, he them and take them seriously. A few 
esc 

was finally · days later, Santa comes, while they're starting to reap Faith Point asleep, and gives them at least some of some benefits what they really, really want more from my voca-than anything in the world. As a kid, it tion. (When I had told him I was just doesn't get any better than that! becoming a priest, his first words All you have to do is fall asleep: And were, "Does this mean I don't have to then in the morning, oh yeah! There it get out of my pajamas on Christmas is! morning to go to Mass?") This moment, of walking into your 
As a new priest, I confess that I was living room as a child on Christmas pretty stoked about saying Christmas morning, and seeing a tree, lit up and mass in the living room in which I surrounded by all these things that grew up, my parents and brother and you've been hoping for -given to you nieces and nephews all around. I was free, while you slept -that weren't intent on leading my family into a there the night before -is a very spir­deeper appreciation of the spiritual itually significant moment; really, a side of Christmas. sacramental moment. 
We would gather for mass two days Because at that moment, in a row, as Christmas was on a Christianity's claim about our exis­Saturday, and the Feast of the Holy tence becomes visibly, emotionally, and Family was the next day. So, newly concretely present to us -it's all a ordained saint that I was, during my gift. Everything. Our whole life. One Christmas homily I suggested to my day, we were loved into being, and nieces and nephews that when they given our lives. returned for Mass the next day, they And the things that are our hearts should bring one toy they had received most deeply desire -when we were from Santa to donate to the poor. As little, it was toys; now, it is to be loved, my chest swelled at how holy I was to be whole, to be healed, to be one making my family, I heard these words with our God -all these things are from the back of the living room, spat given to us, while we sleep in dark­out by my 14-year old nephew -"This ness. sucks!" (Gotta love the East Coast-I What kids experience when they only reluctantly gave him communion.) turn the corner of the living room and 
Having had four years to get over see their gifts, that's how we are called this, I now reali~e that there's a couple to experience our lives, and all that ways to think about my darling fills them: with wonder and gratitude nephew's Christmas zeal. On the one -"I can'rbelieve this has happened!" hand, there's the righteous side of me So, what if some mean uncle came 
· that says, "You know what, kid, suck it · up to you, and said that now you had up. You've got more than 99 percent of to give this gift away. What would you the kids in the world. Now turn over say to that. the GameBoy, and we'll all learn an As we begin a new semester, hold on important lesson about sharing and to Christmas. This semester, and all it social justice!" And there's clearly holds -it's all a gift. Try to step into it something to that. with wonder, expectation, and deep 
, But, at the risk of allowing my thanks. Christianity to be tainted by nepotism, I suspect my nephew makes an impor­This week's column is written by Fr. tant claim, spiritually. Lou DelFra. CSC, director ofBible Growing up, Christmas is the most Studies and chaplain to ACE. He can exciting time of the year-with noth­be reached at delfra.2@nd. edu. ing even a close second. Because, as The views expressed in this column we get closer to Dec. 25, kids start to are those ofthe author and not think about all the things necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
U-WIRE 


Opining on Opinion-making 

Biologists work in biology. Physicists Today's columnist, though, (say, of the 
study physics. Meteorologists work in mete­Maureen Dowd variety) has to compete 
orology. Columnists ... study col~ns? with the 2417 reporting and analysis on the 
One of these is definitely not like the oth-internet and television, whose news sources 
ers. no longer seem to strive for objectivity. The 
The·first three study advantage of opinion a..'i distinct from 
Brandon Moyse

for years to become reporting has been lost, and the definition 
experts in their of a columnist broadened. 
respective fields. University of Witness the birth of the "down-to-earth" 
There is a measured Pennsylvania columnist (or should I say "Dowd-to­
science behind their Daily earth"?), whose primary function, accord­
successes. Columnists Pennsylvanian ing to Takashi Mogi of Kyorin University in 
may spend years writ­Japan, seems to be connecting mundane 
ing columns, but that events like hiring a babysitter to hot-button 
only makes them experts in writing issues like abortion. 
columns (the occasional pundit notwith­Moreover, the sarcasm and sneering that 
standing). Still, readers presume colum­permeate so many of today's op-ed pieces 
nists' opinions are valid. could make them equally well-suited to 
And therein lies an intriguing dichotomy: Conan O'Brien's opening monologue. (To Columnists do not write about writing clear up any possible confusion, Maureen columns. They cover a variety of topic from Dowd has one Pulitzer Prize; I have zero.) politics and the economy to medicine and "Columnists have changed from clergy­the arts. In other words, they get to play men to clowns,·~ Mogi concluded. dress-up. One day they're armchair politi­That's not entirely fair. For all their faults, cal commentators, the next, Web MD-edu­modern columnists, through their means of cated physicians. expression, are part of a collective con­
But all they really do is just jot down their sciousness. The public can relate to them in strongly worded opinions and buttress a way it never could have to Walter them with statistics, anecdotes and quotes Iippmann. Rather than speak to the read­from experts. If columns were a Simpsons ers, they speak for them-or at least man­character, they'd be lisa-..Springfield's age to give that impression -and convinc­answer to the question nobody asked." ing the reader to side with you instead of 
At face value, it seems strange that the that other guy is incredibly powerful. It's columnist can occupy such an important difficult for the expert -the biologist, the and influential role in today's media and political scientist, the sociologist-to con­society. nect with and convince an audience on that 
Mary Ann Weston, a professor of journal­level because ofthe•prejudice ofivory-tow­ism at Northwestern University, explained erism. This continuing gap preserves the that the press in the early years ofAmerica necessitY of the opinion columnist. was strongly affiliated with political parties When I started gathering ideas, the first and were even subsidized by them in many thought I had was: "Why would anybody ways. Popular editors derived fame from want to hear what I have to say?" And 603 the editorials they wrote, and even regular words later, I think I know: because we like news stories had a clear bent. to question. When someone sticks out his 
It wasn't until after the Civil War that the neck and offers an opinion, sometimes the advertising model emerged for newspa­results make you nod, and sometimes they pers. That required appeal to a mass audi­make you cringe. But it starts a dialogue in ence, and thus subjectivity was traded for ways that straight news can't since it's objectivity. The modern columnist was cre­more fun when you know with whom ated as a way for the newspaper to remain you're arguing. objective while still publishing strong per­Of course, what do I know? I'm just a sonal opinion. columnist. 
Prominent early columnists like Walter Iippmann and Scotty Reston served a cru­This column first appeared in the Jan. 15 cial purpose in distilling and analyzing edition ofThe Daily Pennsylvanian the complex issues, in addition to offering their daily paper ofthe University of opinions. lippmann especially saw the Pennsylvania. columnist as responsible for interpreting The views expressed in this column are the news, something he saw the public to those ofthe author and not be incapable of doing. necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 




By ANALISE LIPARI Scene Editor 
More than a decade after their first onscreen pair­ing, Kate Winslet and Leonardo DiCaprio recently reunited on film in their adaptation of the 1961 novel "Revolutionary Road." As a suburban couple stifled by society and their own disillusioned malaise, the pair has garnered much critical acclaim. But how did these two actors _,get from where they were in 1997, when t)ley were first paired onscreen, to where they are now in 2009? 
In 1996, director James Cameron decided to cast two up-and-coming actors as the male and female leads in his latest big-budget blockbuster, "Titanic." 
The film, a special effects-laden retelling of the sinking of a fated 1912 ocean liner, plucked these two leads from pseudo­obscurity. The male lead was an alum of sitcoms ("Growing Pains") and a few criti­cal successes {"What's Eating Gilbert Grape," "This Boy's Life"). The female lead, a British actress, had even fewer high-profile credentials under her belt (Peter Jackson's "Heavenly Creatures"). 
In 1997, "Titanic," was an astronomical success. A critical and box office smash, it went on to win 11 Academy Awards while grossing more than $1.8 billion dollars worldwide. 
And those two little-known actors? Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet, nom-
James Cameron decided to cast two up-and­coming actors as the male and female leads in his latest big­budget blockbuster, "Titanic. '' 
inated for a Best Actress Academy Award for "Titanic," went on to become two of contemporary Ho1lywood's highest-profile actors. 
The paths of their careers have wound and twisted in surprising ways. DiCaprio has emerged from his post-"Titanic" teen idol status to play with Hollywood's big players: Russell Crowe, Tom Hanks, and Martin Scorsese, a working relationship often likened to that between Scorsese and Robert De Niro two decades prior. Winslet, called the "best English­speaking film actress of her generation" by David Edelstein of "The New Yorker," is a five-time Academy Award nominee who won herself two Golden Globe awards Sunday. 
While several of his other roles, particularly that of the young male lead in "This Boy's Life," may have led DiCaprio to critical success at the beginning of his career, it was his portrayal of Jack Dawson in "Titanic" that gave birth to the Leo-Mania phenome­non. 
Yet DiCaprio didn't see himself gracing the cover of "Tiger Beat" for life; he told Time magazine in 2000 that "I have no connection with me during that whole Titanic Phenomenon and what my face became around the world. I'll never reach that state of popu­larity again ... It's not something I'm going to try to achieve either." 
His films that followed, such as "The Man in the Iron Mask" (1998), may have benefited from his heartthrob status. But it was his later projects that would cement DiCaprio as one of the top American actors of his generation. · 
In 2002, he starred in the Scorsese-directed film "Gangs of New York" alongside Cameron Diaz and Daniel Day-Lewis, as well as the Steven Spielberg­helmed "Catch Me If You Can." The chain of films that followed reads like a laundry list of the new mil­lennium's most critically acclaimed releases: 2004's 
"The Aviator," 2006's "The Departed," which went on. to win the Oscar for Best Picture, and 2006's "Bloo Diamond." "Revolutionary Road" is only the latest building block of hi career; upcoming projects o DiCaprio's include Scorsese's "Ashecliffe," and his future role as Atari and Chuck E. Cheese's founder Nolan Bushnell in a yet-untitled proj­ect. 
Winslet has rarely backed down from challenging projects in the years since her first collaboration with DiCaprio, taking on iiuirkier or more difficult projects than most actresses of her age. In 2001, she starred in the biopic 

"Irish" as Irish novelist Irish Murdoch. Three years later, she played Clementine Kruczynski in "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind," portraying a woman who chooses to have all memories of her former lover (Jim Carrey) erased. 
Winslet would tackle suburban complexity first in 2006 as Sarah Pierce in "Little Children," a role for which she was awarded another Academy Award nomination. Several of her other projects have included her role as Sylvia Llewelyn Davies in "Finding Neverland" {2004), the lovelorn Irish Simpkins in the 2006 rom-com "The Holiday," and her retent portrayal of former Nazi guard Hanna Schmitz in "The Reader." Both "The Reader" and "Revolutionary Road" won Winslet Golden Globe · awards this year, and her path towards winning an Oscar seems a sure one. 
DiCaprio and Winslet have come a long way since they were first matched as the ilJ-fated Rose and Jack in Cameron's "Titanic." With the production "Revolutionary Road" now behind them and awards season ahead, audiences and fans wait in anticipa­tion of what might come next. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 

Friday, January 16, 2009 page 11 

\, 

in lies the substance of the film. Banda Rika is fast, ener­Look closer and you'll find that although this is gized, and exciting. With
S,cene Writer Scene Writer 
film about social issues and gender stereotypes the intensity and authen­
Eleven years and eight Oscar nominations after ing Americans in the 1950s, about a marriage Despite the sub-zero ticity of their music and becoming household names for their roles in weather and the snow
the brink of collapse because of these issues, it i dance moves, the band is 
"Titanic," Kate Winslet and Leonardo DiCaprio are blanketing campus,
just as much, if not more, about the struggle t fun to watch. 
sharing the same screen once again, in the film Legends will be heating
retain an identity amidst the delusion that whe Banda Rika first came 
"Revolutionary Road". things up this Friday
one settles down, life automatically resigns i to Notre Dame in the win­
Cast arguably the best actor and night with the Chicago­ter of 2005 and is one of
and is replaced by a numb existence. 
actress of this generation under a ter­Look even closer and you'll find based Latin group Banda Chicago's premier Latin
Frank wants to
rific director in Sam Mendes Rika and on Saturday
although this film is built around hands. They will perform("American Beauty") and you've got an find his calling, pies, it is actually about individuals night with DJ Kidscratch. at 10 p.m. on Friday.
equation that screams Oscars. And a Banda Rika, composed
but like so many individuals who choose to live the delu­Saturday night, Legends 
winning equation it most certainly of a 10-person orquesta
sion and either convince themselves will feature OJ Kidscratch
of us, isn't will­
turns out to be. that life inevitably becomes anes­and a two-f r o m Frank and April Wheeler are a young ing to take the thetized and there's nothing that can be person front Chicago'smarried couple who have recently set­risk, while April done about it, or simply don't real line, com-Banda Rika ... WPWX Power tled down, started a family and made a their frozenness at all. Individuals bines the combines the 92 Radio for
is searching for 
home for themselves in a seemingly Frank, and especially April, who s styles of possibly the perfect, innocent suburban town in something not boldly choose to refuse the delusion, Merengue, styles of biggest HipConnecticut. even she can to grab a hold of life again. Cumbia, Merengue, Hop NightclubThey are living the picturesque Look a little more deeper and you Boleros, and Cumbia, Boleros, to date.
understand­
1950s life, falling into every sense of see that even among .those who des Bachata to Born in East
and Bachata to

normalcy that comes with the lifestyle. and therein lies change, there is a weakness too power create a dis­Chicago, the Under the surface, however, lies a dif­the tragedy. ful and too restricting -reality. tinctive Latin create a half-Puerto flavor. The
ferent story. The reality is that Frank and Ap distinctive Rican, half­
Right off the bat we are privy to the band uses a Mexican
are together in their quest to live ~ ....·~··· 
Latin flavor. 

fact that the Wheelers have a rocky for different reasons: Frank wants variety of Kidscratch marriage, always arguing, but about what? There find his calling, but like so many of us, isn't wil instruments has been DJ­
Revolutionary Road 
Directed by: Sam Mendes Written by: Justin Haythe & Richard Yates Starring : Kate Winslet &Leonardo DiCaprio 
including

to take the risk, while April is searching for som ing and creat­
brass, bongos, bass and

thing not even she can understand -and the ing mixtapes for 14 years,
piano, along with other

lies the tragedy. making him a favorite of 
backup instruments.

Their search for the life that eludes them both the Chicago club and 
Banda Rika was formed

a blind search, one conjured up by dreamers fated party scene. In 2003,
in 1999, based out of

to wake up and realize that reality isn't so kind. Chicago's WGCI radio sta­
Chicago's western sub­tion featured him on

It doesn't take much to see that Winslet and a 
urbs, and originally

DiCaprio are nothing short of brilliant, or that Sam weekend mix show. Only
opened for the Puerto

Mendes is in top form in his return to showcasi a year after winning
Rican show "Grupo

the rather dark side of suburban life, but it does WCGJ's contest to become 
Kaos." For their second

take a connection with the characters to really take the new mixer, Kidscratch 
gig, they competed in the

·in just how remarkable "Revolutionary Road" is. was offered a spot at 
"Batalla de

Many will watch it from the-outside-looking-in WPWX, rising
Merengue," fame a

and find it a gloomy, perhaps even dull film, but for to at
DJ Kidscratch 
contest to

those who can look through the window and into a much faster 
decide who

April Wheeler's eyes and see the emptiness of shared the stage pace t_han 
w a s

existence, this is one of the real gems of the year. with names like most other 
Chicago's J s 
hottest DMX, Kanye D 

Throughout Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu merengue West, Do or Die, his career he band of the 
8ball & Mjg, has created
.
year. 
over 400 mix­
Twista, and
Although 
tapes, and he they did not Common. can be heard 
win the con­
on the radio at test, they least 10 times 
finished sec-per week. Kidscratch has 
ond, and their involve­also significantly influ­ment helped make their 
enced the Chicago music name. They quickly rose 
scene by bringing the 
to the Chicagoland spot­style of reggaeton to the 
light and are now per­
forefront. Kidscratch was 
forming in clubs, festivals, 
nominated for the 
conventions and private Midwest OJ of the Year 
events throughout the 
and Rookie DJ of the Year 
Chicago area. 
at the Mixshow Power 
Banda Rika was named Summit 2005. 
"Chicago's Best 
His name· is known 
Salsa/Merengue Band" in 
throughout the country,
2002 and "Best Suburban 
and he has even shared 
Latin Band" by Suburban the stage with names like Nightlife in 2003. 
DMX, Kanye West, Do or 
The hand has also per­
Die, 8ball & Mjg, Twista formed alongside famous and Common. 
Latin musicians Arturo Sandoval and Grupo Contact Sara Felsenstein at Niche. The music of sfelsens@nd.edu 
Friday, January "16, 2009

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 


USC quarterback Sanchez declares for draft 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Mark Sanchez made his own call. 
Coming off a record-setting Rose Bowl, the Southern California quarterback will skip his senior season to enter the NFL draft -going against the advice of coach Pete Carroll. 
Sanchez, a fourth-year jun­ior, announced· his plans at a campus news conference Thursday, the deadline for underclassmen to declare for the draft. 
The past three stars who played quarterback at VSC under Carroll stayed for their senior seasons, and the former NFL coach thought Sanchez should do the same. 
Carroll tried to convince Sanchez that another year of college experience would help him in the pro game, but Sanchez said he had carefully weighed all the considerations before deciding to leave. 
"It has been my dream since I was just a little kid to play in the NFL and thanks to this great academic institution and football program, I have the opportunity to realize that dream," said Sanchez, dapper­ly dressed in a business suit. 
"It was with a heavy heart that I say goodbye to this uni­versity. But I can't tell you how excited I am for this dream to come true." 
Heisman Trophy winners Carson Palmer and Matt Leinart, along with John David Booty, all returned for their final year of eligibility with the Trojans. Palmer was the first overall pick in the 2002 NFL draft and Leinart was selected lOth in 2005. 
Carroll, who said he consid­ers Sanchez as talented as any of those three, discussed the pros and cons with him. 
"We've talked at great depth and great length. We've cov­ered this from A to Z ... going until late last night," Carroll said. "We don't see this deci­sion the same. (But) I'm thrilled for Mark. For any of our kids to live the dream and do what they want to do with 
·their football career, this is a great place to do this." 
Because 2008 Heisman win­ner Sam Bradford of Oklahoma, 2007 Heisman win­ner Tim Tebow of Florida and Texas star Colt McCoy all plan to return to school next season, Sanchez and Georgia's Matthew Stafford -another junior coming out early -like­ly will be the top quarterback prospects in the draft. 
Mitch Mustain, who trans­ferred from Arkansas after going 8-0 in games he started as a Razorbacks freshman in 2006, is expected to compete with Aaron Corp, Gartett Green and incoming freshman Matt Barkley for the Trojans' starting job. 
Carroll, a former head coach with the New York Jets and New England Patriots, thinks another year of college experi­ence would have greatly bene­fited Sanchez, who started at USC for only one full season. 
"Mark is going against the grain on this decision and he knows that. He knows that coming out early is a tremen­dous challenge for a quarter­back and the statistics don't back up that it's easy to be suc­cessful in the way that he's going about it," Carroll said. 
"We've seen successes and we've seen guys come up short on this deal. We hope this works out beautifully for Mark and his family." 
Carroll isn't selling Sanchez short. 
"He's a competitive guy, a guy that's willing to take on this challenge in a way that he's going to make it happen," the coach said. "Mark clearly has the potential to be as good as any of those guys we've had. We saw it early on. 
"All it is is an experience issue." 
Sanchez ended his college career with his finest game. The 6-foot-3, 225-pounder went 28-for-35 against Penn State, setting a Rose-Bowl 
. record by completing 80 per­cent of his passes. He threw for 413 yards and four touch­downs, and also ran for a score in the Trojans' 38-24 victory. 

Sanchez led the Trojans to a 12-1 record and No. 3 national ranking last season after going 2-1 the previous year while Booty was hurt. 
A high school star in nearby Mission Viejo who redshirted at USC in 2005, Sanchez finished last season with 3,207 yards passing, 34 touchdowns and 10 interceptions. He threw for 695 yards and seven touchdowns with five interceptions in 2007. 
Sanchez said he came to USC to get an education, to compete at the highest college level and earn a chance to play in the NFL. 
''I'm proud to say that this spring, I'll have the opportunity to do both," said Sanchez, on track to receive his degree in communications. 
His father, Nick, said he had mixed emotions about his son's decision to enter the draft. 
"As a parent, I'd like for him to stay in school for another 10 years," he said. "But it's great to see a young_man trying to live his dream." 

MLB 
Hafner Confident about upcoming season with Tribe 
old was batting .217 through back to normal, too. ning on a treadmill. He has The Indians are counting on
Associated Press 
46 games and hitting like a They desperately missed dropped 10 pounds since the him being "right" now. 
CLEVELAND-Never fashion skinny shortstop when team Hafner. Without him, end of the season, and credited Mter Hafner batted .308 with conscious, Travis Hafner physicians told him to shut it Cleveland's offense struggled to his slimmer physique -he 42 homers and 117 RBis in prefers to wear ratty T-shirts. down. They were convinced he score and his absence had a lot weighs about 250 -to an 2006, the club signed him to a One of his favorites says: ''I'm would get stronger with rest to do with the Indians' slide improved diet. four-year, $57 million extension not smart, but I can lift heavy and rehabilitation. from AL Central champions to "The biggest thing is not eat­through 2012. His numbers things." But Hafner's shoulder never third-place finishers. ing at restaurants as much," he dipped in '07 -.267, 24 and 
He can soon take it out of the improved and he underwent a He understands how much he said. "We've been eating at 100 -and although he was bottom drawer. surgical "clean out" on Oct. 14, was missed. home a lot and trying to do the hurt last season, his drop-off The man known as Pronk is an arthroscopic procedure per­''I'm the guy expected to hit low-fat stuff." has Cleveland fans wondering if ready to help carry the Indians. formed by famed orthopedist in the middle of the order, drive Hafner then paused. he'll ever be the same. 
Hafner, Cleveland's hard­Dr. James Andrews. in 100 runs and be kind of a "And maybe a couple beers Hafner isn't concerned. swinging designated hitter who "They cleaned a bunch of leader on offense," he said, here and there," he said, smil­"I don't see any reason why I spent most of last season on the stuff out of where it had been "and if you miss that, then all ing. can't be productive," he said. "I disabled list with a weakened causing pain in the shoulder," of a sudden you're asking other Hafner never could have think I can have better years right shoulder, has recovered Hafner said. "It had caused the people to do it and putting imagined being out of the line­than I've had in the past." from offseason surgery to the shoulder to shut down because them in situations they aren't up as long as he was last sea­He'll begin his hitting pro­point where he will begin a hit­it didn't want to do anything necessarily comfortable with or son. But when he was unable to gram at the Indians' new train­ting program next week in because it was being aggravat­you're calling up young kids catch up to pitches he would ing complex in Goodyear, Ariz., Arizona -his first real cuts ed. They said it wouldn't have who are unproven. have crushed in years past, he with some dry (no contact) since late September. gotten better without the sur­"I know I'm a big part of the feared something was wrong. swings before hitting off a tee. 
''I'm chomping at the bit," he gery. It just wasn't able to func­team and if I'm playing well it When he returned from the DL Next will be some soft toss said Thursday. tion properly. makes us a better ballclub." in September, Hafner estimated before regular batting practice. 
By all accounts, Hafner has "Now that everything has Hafner is happy with the he was at about 7 5 percent but Hafner will progress at his own put a disappointing 2008 sea­been cleaned out, it should be progress in his shoulder. He his shoulder weakened as the pace and hopes to be far son behind him. He spent 106 back to being a normal shoul­has been working out up to 5 season waned. enough along to play in spring days on the DL and was limited der." hours per day at Progressive "You knew something wasn't training games by the end of to just 57 games. The 31-year-If it is, the Indians should be Field, lifting weights and run-right," he said. next month. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The-Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 
3 & 4 bedroom 3 full bath homes close to campus. Safe Neighborhood, cathedral ceilings, fireplace. 2 car garage, 10x20 decks. Call574-232: 4527 or 269-683-5038. From $1,700/mo Affordable Graduate and Faculty Off-Campus Housing. Call for Availability (574)243-2818 or (574)276-6118. 
In case I freeze to death on the way home from the Observer later tonight, I now present my last will and testament. 
Regina and Alicia: You may split the Milka chocolate bar currently in the fridge. Also my applesauce. apple juice, peanut butter. and granola bars. 
There is a receipt on my desk for all the books I was forced to buy at the bookstore this semester. Return them and do what you wish with the ridiculous amount of money they stole from me. 
I also bequeath you the $1.42 in my checking account and the $17.05 left on my Starbucks gift card. 
Regina: I leave you all of my flex points, because I can only imagine you're out of your own by now. 
I also leave you my 16 extra note­books and the 75 or so pencils cur­rently in my desk. 
Alicia: You can have my cell phone so that you might actually get reception every once in a while. 
I have two packages of mini gel pens. Use them welL 
Katie S.: I leave you my car, if you're willing to dig it out of 02. 
I leave all 1 0 seasons of Friends to you, so that you can finally find out what happens between Ross and RacheL 
I have several thousand play dollars on PokerStars if you'd like to start your own legacy. 
I guess you can have your Obama t-shirt back as welL 
Katie P.: I leave you my hair straightener. It's the same as Katie's. 
You can take over my facebook account in order to stalk people. 
I leave the first four seasons of Scrubs to you, because eventually you'll learn to love it 
Please bury me in comfy sweat­pants with the three books on my shelf -The Alchemist. Of Mice and Men, and A Little Princess -as well as the latest Sports Illustrated so that I'm not bored. 
P.S. I made the stockings. 






OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Friday, January 16, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVE~s WIRE SERVICES page 13 
Men's Hockey . USCHOTop25 
team points 
1 NOTRE DAME {46) 993 2 Boston. Univ. (2} 943 3 Northeastern 868 4 Denver 827 5 Cornell (2) 790 6 Michigan 692 7 Minnesota 674 8 Vermont 669 9 Miami {Ohio) 525 10 Princeton 510 11 Colorado Coli. 483 12 Boston College 474 13 New-Hampshire 420 14 Ohlo State 380 15 AltFore 295 16 Wisconsin 235 17 North Dakota 173 18 Dartmouth -161 19 Yale 114 
20 Neb.~Omaha 108 21 St. Cloud Stale 48 22 Minnesota State 30 23 Ouinnipiac 24 24 Alaska 22'"· 25 Maine 15 
Men's Hockey CCHA Standings 
team record 

1  NOTREDAME  12-2·2  
2  Miami•  10-4·2  
3  Nebraska-Omaha  8-5-3  
4  Alaska  8-7-3  '  
5  Michigan  9•5·0  
6  Ohio State .  8-5·1  
7  Ferris State  7-7-2  
8  lake Superior  3-6·5  
9  Northern Michigan  3·10·3  
10  Western Michigan  3·9·4  
11  Michigan State  3-9-2  
12  Bowling Green  4-9·1  

Big East Conference 
record 
18-3-2 14-4-1 14-4-2 15..fi-2 11-1-3 15-7-0 . 10-5-5 12-4-3 12-1-a 13-5-o 
12~7~5 
9-6-3 
10-6~4 
15..fi'-'1 15-4.;1 12-9-3 13-10-1 10·6-0 11-4.;.{1 13-7·3 13-9-1 10-10..3 11-7,..2 
10~8-4 
10~·2 
points. 
28 23 21 21 18 18 16 12 11 11 10 
9 

Men's Basketball Standings 
-~· 

team conference record 
1  Pittsburgh  4·0  
2  Marquette  4·0  
3  louisville  3·0  
4  Syracuse  4•1  
5  Connecticut  3·1  
6  Provident:e  3·1  
7  Georgetown  3·2  
8  NOTRE DAME  3·2  
9  Villanova  1·2  
10  West Virginia  1·2  
11  St. John's  1·2  
12  Cincinnati  1·3  
13  USF·  1·3  
14  Seton Hall  0·4  
15  DePaul  0·4  
16  Rutgers  *'  0·5  

around the dial 
NBA 

Hornets at Cavaliers 
8:00 p.m., ESPN 
Magic at Lakers 
10:30 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press 

ATLANTA -The Braves finalized their $60 million, four-year contract with Derek Lowe on Thursday after the right-hander passed a physical. 
Lowe went 14-11 with a 
3.24 for the Los Angeles Dodgers last season. He likely will become the top starter in Atlanta's restructured rotation, joined by fellow newcom­ers Javier Vazquez and Kenshin Kawakami. 
The 35-year-old Lowe will be introduced at Turner Field on Friday, capping a comeback week for the Braves after long­time starter· John Smoltz signed with the Boston Red Sox, stirring up bitter complaints by fans and even star third baseman Chipper Jones about the direction of the team. 
"This has been a very slow-developing offsea­son. I think the economy probably has a lot to do with that," general man­ager Frank Wren said. "I can understand people getting a little impatient. We were getting impa­tient. We were wanting to get things done and have an idea what our club was going to look like." 
They have a much bet­ter idea now. 
On Tuesday, the Braves announced the signing of Kawakami, a Japanese league all-star, and Lowe fills out a rotation that was devastated by injuries a year ago. Smoltz, Tom Glavine and Tim Hudson all underwent season­ending surgeries. 
Lowe will receive $15 million a year in a con­tract that runs through 2012. Most enticing for the Braves, he's never been on the disabled list, making him one of only three current players (along with Livan Hernandez and Brad Ausmus) to play at least 12 years without ever going down with an injury. 
The 42-year-old Glavine had hoped to start throw­ing ofT a mound this week, but had to push back those plans as he contin­ues his slow recovery from elbow surgery. The Braves hav.e said they'll hold ofT on offering him a contract until they know more about his health, and the 300-game winner has said he'll retire if he's not pitching in Atlanta. ~ 

Hudson, who underwent ligament replacement sur­gery on his elbow, isn't expected back until August, sending the Braves into the offseason with only one healthy starter under contract who had at least 10 wins in 2008. 
IN BRIEF Lions hire Titans assistant 
Schwartz as head coach 
DETROIT -Jim Schwartz insisted he loves challenges. Well, he's got one. The Detroit Lions, th~ NFL's first 0­
16 team, agreed Thursday on a four­year deal with Schwartz to make him their next coach. 
The former Tennessee Titans defen­sive coordinator will be introduced at a Friday news conference a·t Ford Field, where Detroit lost its home games last year by an average of 21.4 points to break another dubious league record. 
The 42-year-old Schwartz just fm­ished his eighth season as the Titans' defensive coordinator and his 1Oth on their staff. He interviewed for a sec­ond time with the lions on Monday. 
"After an extensive search that included several highly qualified coaches. we are thrilled that Jim Schwartz will become our team's head coach," team president Tom Lewand said in a statement. 
Harvin takes speed to the 
NFL draft one year early 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. -Florida star Percy Harvin is taking hie;; speed, elusive­ness and durability mneem'> to the NFL 
lbejunior playmaker said Thursday he is leaving school early to turn pro, but Gators linebacker Brandon Spikes will return for his senior season. 
Both players announrffi their intentions hours before the deadline fur underclass­men to declare for the NFL draft. 
Even without Harvin, the Gators likely will be the preseac;;on favorite to win a third national championship in four years. But there's little doubt Florida will miss its do-it-all receiver. 
A 5-foot-11, 195-pound dynamo from VIrginia Beach, Va., Harvin led the team in receiving and was second in ruc;;hing. He caught 40 passes for 644 yard'> and seven touchdown-,, and ran for 660 yards and 10 SCOrffi. 
He missed five games in three years because of injury and was limited in sev­eral mon\ an i'i'>Ue that could keep him from being a top 10 pick in April. 
Colon rejoins White Sox 
pitching staff for one year 
CHICAGO -The Chicago White Sox hope Bartolo Colon can stay healthy long enough to help their rotation, per­haps as the No. 4 starter. 
Colon returned to the White Sox for a second stint Thursday when he agreed to a $1 million, one-year contract. The 2005 AL Cy Young Award winner could earn an additional $2 million in per­formance bonuses ba'ied on innings. 
"I think everyone knows what Bartolo can do when he's healthy," Chicago general manager Ken Williams said during a conference call. 
Williams said after gathering infor­mation from Dr. James Andrews and the team's medical staff, the White Sox are convinced Colon "was on the other side of the issues that have derailed him in his career the last few years." 
A two-time All-Star and 20-game winner, the 35-year-old Colon has made only 36 appearances in the last three seasons, mainly because of injuries. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, January 16, 2009 
NHL 

Leafs blow lead,
' 
top 'Canes anyway 
Wild dominate from onset in win over Oilers 
Associated Press 
RALEIGH, N.C. -The Toronto Maple Leafs spent the first two periods building a huge lead only to watch the Carolina Hurricanes erase it in minutes. 
Fortunately, the Maple Leafs found a way to avoid a humbling loss. 
Tomas Kaberle scored on a power play late in the third peri­od, and Jason Blake had a five­point night to help the Leafs shake off a blown four-gQal lead and beat the Hurricanes 6-4 on Thursday night. 
Blake had three goals and two assists for Toronto, which ended a four-game losing streak. Ian White and Niklas Hagman also scored, and Vesa Toskala made 28 saves. 
After leading 4-0 late in the second period, the Leafs watched Carolina score four goals in 10 minutes to tie it midway through the third. But Kaberle came through with a one-timer that bounced off Cam Ward's glove and into the net with 5:25 left to retake the lead, and Blake added an empty-net score in the final seconds to seal it. 
"We didn't put our heads down," Kaberle said. "It doesn't mean that (when) it's 4-4, you're going to lose the game. It was a good attitude on the bench and it's a learning process." 
Not exactly a textbook way to win, but Toronto could have used any bit of good fortune consider~ ing its struggles this month. 
"I don't know if there is any bit­tersweetness for us," coach Ron Wilson said, "but yeah, we found a way to win. We never should have put ourselves in that posi­tion, but we did." 
The Hurricanes could have said the same thing -at least, about falling behind 4-0 with that woe­ful first 40 minutes. Matt Cullen, Tuomo Ruutu, Eric Staal and Scott Walker scored in Carolina's desperate rally only to see it come up short. 
Carolina, which had won four straight games earlier this month, has now lost four straight. 
"We need to win. We need to stay in the hunt," Staal said. "It was a good third period, but in the end it doesn't matter because we didn't get the win." 
It was the first game for Carolina coach Paul Maurice against his former team since returning to the Hurricanes bench in early Dece'mber. Maurice won 76 games in two seasons with the Maple Leafs before being fired after last sea­son. 
For the first two periods, the Maple Leafs -who had won just once in 2009 and lost eight of 10 -were the only ones playing like they had something crucial on the line. 
After White's goal gave Toronto the 1-0 lead after the first, Blake pushed the lead to 2-0 when he pushed past Joni Pitkanen as he skated in on Ward and scored a wraparound goal lesS than 2 minutes into the period. 
The Leafs kept the pressure on, with Hagman scoring on a short putaway and a diving Blake beat­ing Ward to a pass from Dominic Moore to make it 4-0 at 15:07 of 
Cullen scored a goal in the final 90 seconds of the period to give Carolina hope for a comeback, and the Hurricanes spent the rest of the game making it reality. Ruutu scored at 1:21 of the third, then Staal buried his own shot from the right side on a 5-on-3 power play to pull Carolina to further charge a home crowd that had offered scattered boos only a half-hour earlier. 
Finally, Walker completed the comeback by setting up at the top of the crease and putting a rebound past Toskala to make it 4-4 at 8:40 of the third. 
"We got lazy and we took some penalties," Blake said. "They've got a lot of offensive skill over there and they took advantage of it. We just obviously wanted ... to put the foot on the pedal and keep doing what we were doing." 
When asked what he told his team between the second and third period that led to the come­back, Maurice responded, "Nothing that you can print." 
"1 was pleased with the way they responded," he said, "but not very pleased that we had to respond to that matter (of being do""n 4-0)." 
Wild 5, Oilers 1 

Journeyman Krys Kolanos and scrapper Cal Clutterbuck gave the Minnesota Wild an early lead with first-period goals, and Niklas Backstrom stayed perfect in goal against the Edmonton Oilers with a victory Thursday night. 
Pierre-Marc Bouchard and Brent Burns scored in the third against former teammate Dwayne Roloson to stretch the lead. Mikko Koivu sliced through two Oilers defenders to set up Burns with 4:41 left, and Eric Belanger scored with 45.7 sec­onds remaining. 
Backstrom has never lost to Edmontf)n, lifting his career record to 10-0 in 12 appearances with 20 saves. The Oilers have lost eight straight games at Xcel Energy Center; they've been outscored 29-9 in those contests. 
Only one went to overtime, and the last victory was two years ago. 
Liam Reddox scored Edmonton's only goal. 
Given the tight state of the Western Conference ·in today's lose-in -overtime-but-still-pick­up-a-standings-point NHL, it's not a stretch to suggest the winner of the Oilers-Wild season series will have a clear edge over the other in the competition for one of the final playoff spots. Edmonton coach Craig MacTavish essential­ly said as much before the game. This was their first of six meet­ings. 
These teams entered the game in a three-way tie with fellow Northwest Division foe Colorado for ninth place, just four points out of fifth slightly past the sea­son's midpoint. The Wild started their second half with a flourish. beating Phoenix 6-3 with a badly needed breakthrough offensive game for their slumping top two lines. 
The grinders picked up the slack in this one, giving Minnesota a couple more five-on­five scores to move out of last place in the league in that cate­

20thANNIVERSARY 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT FILM FESTIVAL'09 
thursdil'(, friday, satutday janvarv 22, 23. 24 browning dn~ma 6:30 and 9:30 pm debartolo performing art.s cenler 
ti·~~'i'llS: $6, $5 fa<;W!y!$(..rf. $4 ~.r>i>,)f~, $$1'1Udt~Of0$ 
f(\j' tieket~ '"ali 63l·2ii00 ar '~i!ii~ ~.,.;rf'-lm\i"t)artt'.•\C.~du 
O

DE BARTOLO 
!'>W~mNC,. At·t~(.f•'"~....... . 
.-..,.......;. 


BASllJCA OF l'HE SACI:tED HE.AR'I' 

.,4.1/wc(!kend ,lfas.st•s In the Bt1sf/Jca o(rite Sacred ~Heart and rltrougltour Ct.Impus 
ll 
J 
j ~~ 


I

i Tet-1St o{B/essed ,_Fr; .,Morec1U, esc 
Special 1./u!f!tYsttv C{debrarlt:''fl ntir/t
C-M ~ 
C3n-.;>«~ M>ni~trr ~ 

t!te ;Holy' Cross Cl7llllllli!Titv ar the 5:.15 ..A-lass 
jj

the second. gory. 
Belles to swim twice in 24 hours 
Squad will host Wabash then swim against Albion at Rolf's 
Friday, January 16, 2009 
The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
SMC SWIMMING 

By KATELYN GRABAREK Sports Writer 
No. 30 Notre Dame opens its season today by hosting 2006 NCAA Champion No. 14 Pepperdine indoors at the Eck Center-a fact that shouldn't be overlooked. 
"Pepperdine is certainly a diffi­cult challenge for us, particularly as an opener," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "Our biggest advan­tage is playing here and inside. Malibu has Jots going for it, but indoor tennis is not one of its perks." 
IJke the Irish, Pepperdine is led by a star at No. 1 singles in junior Bassam Beidas. 
"Bassam Beidas can beat any­one in the country," Bayliss said. "[Irish senior Brett Helgeson] will have his hands full. Last year they had both finalist teams in the Pacific Coast Doubles. We will have to be at our best to be com­petitive." 
The Irish are young this year, with many brand new players in the lineup or playing different 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish face former champs in opener 
to-head meets, including a loss in last weekend's meet against No. 8 Hope College, and two fourth-place finishes and a fifth-place finish in invi­tationals. 
The Belles have been led all season by the stellar perform­ances of their young swim­mers, especially sophomore Maggie Williams and fresh­men Audrey Dalrymple and Eva Cavadini. 
Belles coach Ryan Dombkowski said before the New Year that he expects even better performances out of his young swimmers, particularly Cavadini and Dalrymple. 
positions from last year, Bayliss 
noted. 
With a relatively young and inexperienced squad, Bayliss said his team's two-a-day practices from Jan. 5-11 were crucial to determining the opening day line­up. 
"The biggest surprise [from pre­season workouts] has been Sam Keeton," Bayliss said of the fresh­man. "He missed the entire fall semester \\ith a broken right wrist but has quickly made up for lost 
.
time. " 
As a whole, Bayliss said the freshman class is talented but untested. Casey Watt and Niall · Fitzgerald showed their talent throughout the fall season, he said. 
Helgeson will maintain his No. 1 singles spot that he held much of last season and is currently ranked No. 20 by the ITA. After that, though, the lineup is subject to constant change. 
"At this point it looks like No. 2 by committee," Bayliss said. "In particular, Stephen Havens, Dan Stahl and Casey Watt all seem like they are playing at a level where 
By ERIC PRISTER Sports Writer 

After a week off, the Belles will dive right back into action with two meets in less than 24 hours this weekend, traveling to Indianapolis Friday before returning home. 
The University of Indianapolis will host Saint Mary's and Wabash at 6 p.m. today, and the Belles will take on Albion at Notre Dame's Rolfs Aquatic Center at 1 p.m. Saturday. 
The Belles enter the week­end with a 3-3 record in head-
FENCING 

ND students compete inHungary 
ERASMUS BOOKS 

• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six 

Tuesday through Sunday 
1 02 7 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 

each will have a chance to post wins there. Each has unique tal­ents that make him special." 
Havens played No. 4 singles for the Irish for much of last season, but with the graduation ofSheeva Parbhu and Andrew Roth, there are some holes to fill in the lineup. 
Bayliss also said that his No. 2 through No. 10 slots in the lineup will likely be made up of freshmen and sophomores. 
Contact Katelyn Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @stmarys.edu 

"Once ... (Cavadini) settles into a comfort level...we'll see some impressive time drops," Dombkowski said. "And I look for big things from Audrey [this] semester." 
Cavadini and Dalyrmple each have nine first-place fin­ishes this season to tie for the team high. Both have three victories in the Belles' last two meets. 
Williams, who had seven vic­tories before the winter break, has yet to finish first this semester. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
By CHRIS MASOUD Sports Writer 
As the rest of the student body was enjoying a relaxing winter break, members of the Irish squad crossed swords in a Junior World Cup event held in Budapest, Hungary. 
Fencers Ewa Nelip, Barron Nydam and Avery Zuck added to their point totals after a success­ful tournament from Jan. 3-5. 
Despite being loaded with tal­ent, the team enters the 2009 season full of questions regarding the experiep.ce and depth of its young cast. But after a successful performance in Budapest, the answers are becoming clearer. 

"We have a very strong team," Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. "There are so many factors we can't control on such a young 
team.  But any­ 
thing  can  hap­ 
pen."  

Nelip, who com­
Germany. 
Nelip, Nydam and Zuck are just three of a talented core of freshman and sophomores eager to begin Big East play on Jan. 24, when the Irish travel to Queens, N.Y., for a dual meet 
peted  in  the  ..We have a very  with St. John's.  
women's epee division, earned a  strong team.,  Freshman Courtney  
bronze medal in  Hurley will play  
Budapest  and  Janusz Bednarski  a  key role for  
added 20 points ­ Irish coach  the  women's.  

to her FIE rank­ing, the interna-. tional fencers· ranking system. Initially seeded No. 14 in the 64­person tournament, the sopho­more out-touched the competi­tion to reach the semifinals but had to settle for third place after a loss to silver medalist Erika Kirpu of Estonia. 
The No. 22-ranked Nydam also flourished in the tournament, fin­ishing in second and recording 26 point'> toward his FIE ranking. Competing in the men's sabre epee class, while her older sister Kelley brings experi­
ence as the reigning NCAA champion. 
Bednarski said the Olympic experience of Kelley Hurley and freshman Gerek Meinhardt will bring poise and calmness to a maturing team. 
Meinhardt, the youngest male 

U.S. Olympian in Beijing, still believes he has more to learn from his teammates and coaches. 
"It's a mutual relationship," 

division, Nydam cruised past the Meinhardt said. "We both gain a
ANNUAL WALK-ON TRYOUTS 
competition to the finals where lot from practicing with each he settled for his second silver other. medal of the season after drop­Several Notre Dame team ping the final to Hungary native members will travel to Louisville, Aron Szilagyi. Ky., for the North American Cup
THE NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL PROGRAM WILL BE HOLDING WALK-ON 
Zuck added four points to his D tins weekend, a four-day event. 
TRYOUTS AT THE BEGINNING OF THE SPRING SEMESTER. 
ranking after finishing in 17th, supplementing his top-five finish Contact Chris Masoud at in the Junior World Cup in cmasoud@nd.edu
IF YOU ARE,INTERESTED: 
PICK·UP/FILL-<>UT & RETURN: 
INFORMATION FORM Be MEDICAL FORMS 
FORMS TO BE FILLED OUT ARE AT THE RECEPTION DESK AT THE FOOTBALL OFFICE IN THE GUGLIELMINO COMPLEX. 
YOU MUST HAVE THE FORMS FILLED OUT AND RETURNED BY MONDAY JANUARY 19, 2009. 
FOLLOWING OUR RECEIPT OF ALL INFORMATION & MEDICAL FORMS. WE WILL HAVE AN INFORMATIONAL MEETING AND A SERIES OF TRYOUTS/WORKOUTS. 

-

page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, January 16, 2009 

Friday, January 16, 2009 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
ND TRACK & fiELD 
Squad ready for Indoor Opener 
By ALEX BARKER and CHRIS 
MICHALSKI 
Spons Wciters 
Notre Dame will try to bring its home success into the new year today when it hosts the Indoor Opener, its first home meet of 2009. 
Both the men's and women's teams have brought home strong results in their first two meets. 
The team has qualified over 50 athletes for Indoor March's Big East Championships after just two competitions. In their first meet of the season, Notre Dame's Blue and Gold Invitational, the worn.e n brought home several event titles, top-five finishes in every event and one NCAA Championship meet qualifi­er. 
On the men's side, fresh­man 1ordan Rincon is off to an especially hot start this 
year, winning an event in 
both the meets. 
The Irish have been domi­
nant in the pole vault as 
well, taking the first five 
spots at the Blue-Gold meet. · 
Junior Matt Schipper won 
that event, and also fin­
ished tied for third in last ' 
year's Indoor Opener. 
Freshman Kevin Schipper 
finished second, followed by 
senior Tray Morgan, sopho­
more Justin Schneider, and 
sophomore Andrew 
Kolbeck. 
Several of Notre Dame's 
returners have showed 
marked improvement, 
accounting for much of the 
team's early success. Junior 
Eric Quick has made strides 'in the long jump, finishing second at the Indiana Opener after a sixth-place showing in last year's Indoor Opener. 
For the women at the Blue and Gold Invitational, sen­ior pole-vaulter Mary Saxer recorded a four-meter mark 
to solidify an automatic bid into the NCAA National Championships later this spring. 
Freshman Maddie Buttinger and junior Jaime Minor took first in the high jump and triple jump, respectively. 
In the throwing events, senior thrower Anna Weber dominated the shot put and weight throw competitions coasting to victories in each. 
In the 60-meter hurdles, the Irish claimed the top three spots led by Freshman Sasha Blanchard who finished with a time of 
9.14 seconds. 
The Irish look to continue improving their results as they head into their second home meet of the season, which begins at 5:30 p.m in the Loftus Sports Center. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker 1 @nd.edu and Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
No.4 Conneticut defeats St!·John's 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Freshman guard Kemba Walker scored 21 points and senior forward Jeff Adrien added 17 points and 11 rebounds to lead No. 4 Connecticut to a workmanlike 67-55 victory over St. John's on Thursday night. 
The win was the fourth straight for the Huskies (15-1, 4-1 Big East) since they lost their conference opener at home to Georgetown. 
This was the last of a three­game trip for Connecticut, the ninth time the Huskies have had that long a stretch under coach Jim Calhoun and this was the first time they won all three. 
Sophomore guard Paris Horne had a career-high 24 points for the Red Storm (10-6, 1-3), who lost for the fifth time in six games with the lone win over then-No. 7 Notre Dame. This was St. John's third game against a top 10 team in the last 13 days as it fell 90-'67 at No. 1 Pittsburgh on Sunday. 
Horne's jumper with 16:08 to play had St. John's within 37-36 but the Red Storm struggled against Connecticut's zone defense and the Huskies were able to pull away at Madison Square Garden. 
Walker, a native of New York City, scored the last six points of a 7-0 run that gave Connecticut a 51-38 lead with 9:33 to go. He hit his only 3-pointer of the game -a bank shot -to cap the run. Walker finished 8-of-12 from the field, many of his field goals coming on layups and driving shots as he used his speed to get ahead of the play after a St. John's missed shot. 
Welcome to 21st century student living. 

.···1f 


As if living in a brand new, contemporary, furnished apartment or luxury 
... 

townhome wasn't enough. Or as if living just one block east or Notre Dame wasn't enough. Now there's even mom reason to live at Irish Row Apartments or Irish Crossinqs Townt1omes. 
Your Irish Rovv or Irish Crossings lease now gives you free access to t11e new !rist1 Row Fitness Center anci Lounge. Tanning will be available for a fee to residents only. 
l 
, I 
l I I I 

• 
Close to gmcerles, restaurants &entertainment 

• 
Wa!k to campus 



What more could you need? But hurry, units are filling fast. 
-

lRtsh'-"""' 
Irish 

CRosstngsROW 
lrishRowApartments.com I lrishCrossings.com ¥..ar iem@iristlrowapartrnents.com l 574.27.7. 6666 
.. 
j 
I I I I I 
l 

Matlin'$
•
*!•......., Irish Crossings 
Townhomes 
For lease 
Irish 
Row 
ff() 
Athl&li~ ,. field~ 
* 

!titho!a's 
Rll<~t.W~nnt
• 

You'll finc1 branc1 new. state-of-the-art carc1lo equipment and free weigtH:s in tt1e fitness center and comfortable seating, a large wiC1Qscreen TV and kitchen in U1e lounge: all just s'teps outside your front door 
Besi(Jes the new fitness area. tanning and lounge. your lease at lrlst1 Row Apartments or !risll Crossing Townhomes nets you: 
• 
Up to four bedrooms 

• 
Private, full tJaU1 in each bedroom 

• 
f urnishecJ 

• 
Launciry room with washer & dryer 

• 
FREE Internet &200+ TV stations 


page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, January 16, 2009 
Orange 
continued from page 20 
sters currently say they are. None of the Orange~ 16 wins have come against teams cur­rently ranked in the top 25 of the Coaches' Poll, .and Syracuse's four Big East wins have come against teams with a combined conference record of 1-16 as of Thursday. 
And in their one game against a top 25 opponent Wednesday, the Orange were handily defeated by 14 points at Georgetown. 
Whether. or not Syracuse is fully deserving of its current top-1 0 status, the Irish know walking out of the Carrier Dome with a win will be diffi­cult. 
"I don't put much stock in the fact [they have no wins against] the top 25," Notre Dame coach Mike Brey said. "I look at how they're playing. 
"They can pass and catch and shoot. They know who their weapons are, and they know how to play toget,her. They're definitely a NCAA Tournament team the way they're playing." 
A big factor that will likely determine whether or not Notre Dame gets back in the win column will be rebounding. Currently ranked lOth in the Big East in rebounding margin, Notre Dame's struggles on the glass have arguably cost the team several ga~es thus far in the season. 
Irish forward Luke Harangody said athletic, longer teams are the ones that give Notre Dame the most trouble on the boards, and he said Syracuse partly falls into that category. 

"They're another athletic Big East team," Harangody said. "You can put them in the ath­letic mode with [forward Paul] Harris, but they can also beat 
· you up on the inside." 
Harangody was likely refer­ring to a pair of 6-foot-9 for­wards -Arinze Onuaku and Rick Jackson -who provide a one-two punch in the paint that could be difficult for the Irish to handle. Brey is concerned about the two big men as well as Harris crashing from the outside. Onuaku has 19 points in last year's matchup, Harris had 22 while both grabbed 12 rebounds. 
"Those three guys are terrors on the offensive boards," Brey said referring to On uaku, Jackson and Harris. "This team can really beat us up on the boards if we're not battling in the paint." 
On the other side of the ball, Notre Dame will likely see a steady dose of Syracuse's patented 2-3 zone. The Irish successfully ran their offense against that defense last year 
in  their  94-87  win  over  
Syracuse  
If either  Notre  Dame  or  

Syracuse finds its shooting stroke Saturday, the g;:tme could turn into a shootout. 
Much like Notre Dame, the Orange have an offense capa­ble of running teams out of the gym. They are currently third in the Big East, averaging 80.9 points· per game, and five play­ers average double figures in scoring. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
Training 
continued from page 20 

them to 3-4 on the season. The Irish lost .to the Cardinals after their 14 days on the road in Puerto Rico. Now that the team is rested, Welsh expects his squad to perform well in both meets to begin its preparation for the conference champi­onships. 
"We want to be faster this weekend," Welsh said. "The team will absolutely be up for both meets. It's good preparation f-or our confer­ence championships and it's good preparation for what's coming up. We're not expect­ing anything but good per­formances in both meets." 
The Irish begin their week­end against Northwestern today at 5 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatics Center. Last season, the Irish lost the Wildcats 189-111 despite two first­place finishes from junior John Lyttle in the 50 and 100 freestyJe. 
This season, both Notre Dame and Northwestern enter the meet looking to earn a big win as they both are floating around .500 entering the heart of their conference schedules. 
"It will be a very tough meet," Welsh said. "They lost their Olympic medalist, but they still have a couple of superstars. They will be well coached and well pre13ared, but we're excited for this kind of challenge and want this kind of challenge from start to finish." 

NBA 

Bayless, Blazers edge Nets 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -Jerryd Bayless got a chance to play with point guard Steve Blake sidelined with a sepa­rated shoulder and the Portland Trail Blazers' rookie took advantage against the· New Jersey Nets. 
Bayless scored a career-high 23 points and seemingly took the life out of the Nets with a monster dunk that he convert­ed in a late three-point play in Portland's 105-99 victory on Thursday night. 
"I think tonight was kind of my night," said the rookie from Arizona, who had scored 53 points in his previous 18 games this season. "I helped the team out. I found my com­fort level." 
It was unexpected help. Bayless had never scored more than eight points in a game, but he also was never a part of coach Nate McMillan's rotation. 
With Blake expected to be out a week to 10 days, Bayless· played 25 minutes. 
Bayless was 6-for-9 from the field, with most coming on tough drives down the lane. I le also was ptlrfect on 11 free throws. 
"I finally let the game come to me," Bayless said. "Now I can play and be free. It's just kind of a mental thing. Now I am out of the stranglehold." 
The play most people will see on the highlight film will be his two-handed dunk with 
3:20 to go that put Portland 
ahead 95-89. "It was crazy." said Brandon Roy, who led Portland with 29 points. "That's what we have been expecting from him. He does it in practice and he finally got one down in the game. He put it on his head. He was so excited I don't think he knew he got fouled." 

Roy, who also added eight rebounds and five assists, said Bayless is going to make the Trail Blazers better. 
"I have been telling him to stay patient, that the minutes \YOuld come," Roy said. "He is the first guy in the gym and the last one out. It paid off tonight. Once he gets comfort­able, we are going to be dan­gJrous. He is tough going to the basket and he opens up the floor. As he gets more con­fidence, we're going to be really tough." 
LaMarcus Aldridge added 20 points and Travis Outlaw scored all 13 of his points in the second half. when the Trail Blazers rallied from an 11-point deficit. · Devin Harris had 23 points and eight assists to lead New Jersey, who surrendered 37 fourth-quarter points as Portland hit 13 of 19 shots. Hookie Brook Lopez added 17 points, Bobby Simmons 14 and Vince Carter 13 while playing with a slightly sprained ankle. 
"It's frustrating," Harris said. "This is one we could have won and we let ourselves down in the end. It's tough defensively when we don't get stops and they get a high per­centage of their shots to go in." 
The game pitted two teams a day after coming off their most-lopsided losses of the season. Portland lost by 21 points to Philadelphia in a game it lost Blake. The Celtics blew out the Nets by 32 points in Boston. 
Roy, Bayless, Aldridge and Outlaw took over in the fourth quarter, scoring the Trail Blazers' final 34 points with each hitting clutch baskets down the stretch. 
Outlaw hit consecutive 3­pointers early in the quarter to help Portland open an 87-82 lead and Aldridge hit an off­balance jumper after collect­ing a loose ball after New Jersey got within 90-89 on a fast break by Harris. 
Bayless then drove the base-• line for his resounding three­point play. 
The Nets got within four points two other times but Roy drove the lane for a basket with 2:49 to go and Aldridge hit a jumper with 2:06 to .play on an assist by Roy, who also had eight rebounds. 
Down 69-59 after Harris converted the free throw fol­lowing a technical foul to McMillan, the Trail Blazers got back in the game with a 9-2 spurt that was capped by a 3­pointer by Outlaw and a 
rebound  follow  by  Joel  
Przybilla,  who  had  11  
rebounds.  

That got the Trail Blazers within 71-68 after three quar­ters. A 3-pointer by Rudy Fernandez tied the game early in the fourth quarter and Portland took the lead for good at 77-76 when Outlaw converted 1 of 2 free throws with 9:03 to play. 

After facing the Wildcats, Notre Dame will hit the road to travel to Oakland University to face off against the Grizzlies on Saturday afternoon. The Irish and Grizzlies swam against each other at Notre Dame's Dennis Stark Relays in October. In that meet, Notre Dame finished first with 255 points and Oakland came in second with 204 points. 
Defense 
continued from page 20 
-and that was disappoint­ing." 
McGraw said she is confident that those problems have been fixed after a solid practice on Wednesday. 
"We worked hard on it [Wednesday] and I think we will get our commitment and our fight back," she said. 
Despite the lacking defensive effort in the Marquette game, McGraw said her team's effort in Wednesday's practice showed her that they were moving on and learning from the loss. 
"I was really, ..We're in the top 1 o which ranks really happy near the top of
in the nation [in
. when I left prac­the NCAA. 
tice [Wednesday] 3-point defense] ... We "We're in the 
because I always were God awful last top 10 in the 
feel like I can tell nation ... We
year, so this is a huge
what my team's ... ,, were God awful
zmprovement.
going to be like last year, so this the practice is a huge after a loss," Muffet McGraw improvement McGraw said. and something
Irish coach 
"That's a really important prac­tice to see how they come out. Are they feeling sorry for them­selves, what's their frame of mind, what's their attitude. And we really got after it defensive­!y." 
She said her team had "a fighter's mentality" in that practice. which she said she expects to carry over into the game. 
The defense will get an imme­diate test from the Red Storm's top two sh(1oters -senior guards Monique McLean and Kelly McManmon -who are shooting 46.5 and 39.4 percent overall and 4 7.1 and 41.4 per­cent from distance. respectively. 
"McLean's one of the best in the country. She was at one Notre Dame also defeated Oakland 174-126 in January 2008, but the Irish aren't taking the Grizzlies lightly. 
"Oakland has improved since last year," coach Welsh said. "They swam very well here earlier this fall, and they tend to swim faster in their home pool." 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
point third in the NCAA," McGraw said. "Those two are huge concerns because we have to get better defensively in a lot of ways." 
McGraw said she wants her team to be able to play more zone defenses when they get in foul trouble, but that the 3­point threats from St. John's could make that difficult. 
Last year's Achilles heal, defending from beyond the arc, has been a strength of this sea­son's Irish squad. The team is allowing only a 25.8 shooting percentage from 3-point land, compared to 39.1 percent a season ago. 
McGraw said.she was thrilled 
with her team's 
3-point defense, 
that we hope to 
continue. So it's a concern, but this group looks at it as a challenge," she said. 
One thing that has not been a disappointment through the first half of the Irish season has been the play of freshman guard Natalie Novosel, who is shooting 53.9 percent overall, but upped that to 70.8 percent in the team's four Big East matchups so far. 
"Natalie drives the ball really well, and she's getting a lot of layups, which is why she's shooting the ball really well," McGraw said. "We're thrilled with the way she's playing, she's given us great minutes ofT 
Contact James Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

Friday, January 16, 2009 
The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE

BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
MIKE ARGIRION 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
VORAB  
/' '  ../  v ~  "\ ~  

'~12007 Tribune Med~a Services. Inc. 
All Rights Reserved. 





THE DoME PIECE 
bibbi1y.•.no!...helpl 
l>cH:tor. plet~Se' It's my 
sweotponts ... bobbi1y Timmy! Corne GS SGOn 
. IIIUII\bl~..everywheret as possible_ He's sp«Gking in tougtw!SI 
7 


CUlm down, j' Mrs Oayfe. 
rltgetmy ~ 
things oncf be right there. 
-~ 

r·-.,·----~-· 
/ / ! 
DAVID CAVADINI 
Please te:ll me he's l okoy, Doctor. ! rm so worri«i 


~;::::::::=::::=~Welt he's not pase$$ed.
;J diagnosis a sweatpants 
poinsoning. He'd be wise to ovoid campus. It might e:ve.n ma SrOOrt to invest in o tri to the Torch. 

CROSSWORD 
Across Mandrake the Magician's sidekick 7 Sheepskin leather for 
bookbinding 11 Unwavering 14 Get quite hot 15 Silty Graham's 
"_the Hills" 16 Org. with an annual televised awards 
ceremony 17 Thing on a string 18 Call after which 
someone fills a box 20 Unit in a physics textbook 21 Be way off 23 Sch. staff 24 Its employees get a lot of perks 25 Unchanged 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
49 Stink 
50 Setting of Main Duck Island 
51 It may come in vin 52 Noble thing 
53 God commonly depicted with four arms 
55 Pitching asset? 
56 Home of the ancient Olympics 
57 Halt-sister of King Arthur 
58 Org. in wh1ch one's number may be up 
59 Drop 
60 Held to be 
Down 

Release 2 Fair share. maybe 
3 Rock roller? 
4 Bell Centre team member, familiarly 
5 NPR's "Only 
" 

6 Record collector? 
7 Chafes 
8  How money is  
often lost  
9  Some advisers:  
Abbr.  ·  

10 Less 11 Carpenter's 
scoring tool 12 Use as a model 13 Get1ing to the 
point? 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Mike Nothnagel  
19 Face sideways?  34 Quaint news  40 One who's often  
22 Piece of silver  source 35 Lollygags  with child? 42 Call tor  
26 38-Across completer  36 Desert denizens  44 Kitchen headgear  
30 Yoke  37 Irregular folds  46 Picked a ticket  
31 Pre-reincarnation  38 You can't escape from it  4 7 Point of view  
periods  39 Try to get  48 Cotton variety  
32 1980s sitcom  something from  54 Reply facilitator:  
title role  a grab bag, say  Abbr.  

For answers, call1-900·285·5656, $1A9 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1·800·814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzleS. or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions; Today's puzzle and more lhan 2,000 past puzzles. nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.comlwordplay, Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comllearning!Xwords 
27 Flawlessly 
28 Where le nez is 
29 Where rushing strategies are often discussed 
31 Uke three­legged race contestants 
33 Capital of Shaanxi province 
34 Course that has its limits, briefly 
35 One may be in a stew 
38 26~Down's 
schedule 
41 About three­fourths of Ia Tierra 
42 Release 
43 Well-executed 
45 Fictional manager of a "psychiatric help" 
booth 
ROODE 
~ /' '
' 
\. _/ \. _/ 



.. 
WWW.JUmble.corn 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the abovecartoon. 

APITOE  
r ' _/'  r "\ \. _/  

Answer: (II I)"rI I I I)" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: GAUDY COCOA SQUIRM BOLERO Answer: Although the mailer was oblong, the content was -"CIRCULAR~ 
HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  ..  
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Chad Lowe. 40: Mario \:1n Perlll~. 5l: An~a Mmin. 61; MiUJlltel O'Bri;m. 71  
Happy Birthday: )~'ou will accomplish far nmre tbi1\ year if you j\W qu.k'ily mtl\'C for­ward q·itb your plans. lrust your own judgment and put yoor kn<lwkdge and expertise to w.e, Your numbers an: 11. 19, ~I. 25, J3, 39  
A.RtES (Much 11-April 19): You \\'ill be a li1•le ;mx!ous and idle time will be what kad.~ to mistakes. Look al the big pi~lure and. ifyou ar.!n't haj'PY with what yoo see. cbanac it. 3 sur&  
TAURUS (April20-May 20); Stkk w \\i'-1l b;u. t\l b< tini~he~l and <km'tlet anyi.lne takt" youf miJl<l11ff your ta~k al hand. If you fall short 11f )'1.1\ll expectations. ~~(lilt' will be ~ure lO point out ytlUr shorti:QUUnJ. 3 $lim>  
GEMINI (May 2l·Juac 20); There will be no tin~ co mull ov~r chings. Action \\'ill be tho: k.:y to )·our $U.:~·e·n. \'Lmr int\llti~m will be on tho: omk. w trrut in your ~)\\'n judg· 1ne-nt, fl('lf, wmeonc clf.e'ii. 4 ~t:~n  
CANCER (Ju:ne 21-July 22): If you f~l Yl1U ate" too dose to a ~~~~taticm to make a Sood decision, don't tnO\'¢ forwai\i. Look around )'OU amf ~ Wb31 t!VCryone Cls¢ JS doing. It should give you an indk31ion where you fi1 in and now you can proc.xd. Hoo· c5l.Y will win favors. 2 stars  
LBO (July 23-·AilJ. 22): This is a pcrf«t Ol<.'('t-and-~ da)·. C$f)C\'iaUy where inspita· tional ~pk are cou~o.~d.. A w\·e ~:onncctiun can be made or you can get do!>t!r 10 your current partner by discussing )'our future plaus. S :r;!aa  
VIRGO (Aaa. 23-Scpt. 22): It yov complain. or critidz~ oth.:-n. ~·ou :u-crftlikdy to Jet anyv;hcre. How~ver. if you toe~ on impl~m~nting a coupk ofchangei tbat will ease your ~ss. mLk•h can ~ ac:'--omplished. Start doing for you.wlf.. J $tars  
UBRA (Sept. 23..0Ct. 22): Keep busy doing thints thac wilt ¢\'entually hdp you Jet ~ad. C()U~, bohb~$, pkking up inftlrr.lllltion or spend.inJ time with $<>meont ¢Xperi­e:nced in 3 faeld you w:uu to pu~ue will a.lt wQfk t~l yoor ad\·anta,c. 3 stan  
SCORPIO (OcL 13~Nov. 21): You may haw: 10 take an alrent31e route lo get tow~ you beloni! K«p an top of \\'hat e.·r:ryo~ dse h• doini! so rou can outsmart lilly com· prlilion your~. ) stan  
SAGriTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dee. 21): You should be spending time l~llllclns for lo,·e or doing s.omethin~ sptcial with your c~nt partner. Tra'·~l mlly ~ntitt Y\'lU but you can accomplish just as much ~tid;.lng do$C to hom<!. 5 stan  
CAPRICORN (Dee. 22·Jao. 19): Usten and ;u.sess your sttuati,'lll. S~ will aive you 3 bird's (YC \·~w of what yo¥ nc¢d to 4o to :r.;complish yo¥r goals. Br: llrnart and pia>· )'OUr "ards dose to your chest. 2 stars  
AQUARIUS (Jao. 10-Feb. 18): COMidef your (~lofts and yt-.u \\'ill be able tofu far ~ into your sch<duk. PlanninJ rour ~Xt vacation wilt etk"OUGlJC: yoo IO be ~· 1productive . .!. ~ars  . ,.  
PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): y,-.u'U find it diffkuh to &tick to one tbina. Your mind \\'ill l1t' w~t~naJ and )·ou ma>' tl«d to qU<stil.ln yOOf tnotiws. 3 $tan  
Birthday Baby: Yoo un·~liJace.lkterminc whalW do and rea~:t qukkly and pm:isely. You~ chmminJ.. sen5.iti"~· Cl'DOtional and abk to find solutions \\'ho:n :my probktm occur.  


-------------------------------------------------------------------~-----­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 re'aders who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $120 for one acadetnic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one setnester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City ___________ State ____ Zip_______ 
-.------------------------------------------­
!1 
11 
TH_E 
OBSERVER ! \ H I,l 
p
Friday, January 16, 2009 page 20
ll ~ 
I HOCKEY I t Record unbeaten streak alive as Irish head north 
i 
"We've played fairly consistently Jackson said. "They've got good CCHA standings because they opener, Oct. 11 at No. 5 Denver.
I By MATT GAMBER
\ ever since the third week of the goaltending and they play a sys­have gained at least one point in Senior goaltender Jordan Pearce
( 
Associate Sports Editor 
\ season," Irish coach Jeff Jackson tem where it's tough to generate eight of their 14 conference hasn't allowed a goal since Jan. 3 ' \ said. "We've had different types of much offense against them ... games . against Minnesota-Duluth, cover­
. i 
I ' ) The top-ranked Irish will put games -some more defensive­We're going to need to generate "They're going to be a home ice ing a span of161:30. 
I) their school-record 18-game minded, like last week against chances off transition and on the team in the [CCHAl playoffs," Protecting those streaks, howev­unbeaten run to the test this Alaska, some with more-goals power play. My belief is that we Jackson said. "They get fairly bal­er, is a secondary priority as the weekend at Lake Superior State -being scored, like against Bowling need to try to generate one anced scoring from their top three Irish continue to try and di'ltance
Ii 
the team that two months ago Green. Our team's adjusted pretty [power-play goal] a night to be lines and they're real solid defen­themselves from the rest of the:I! threatened to end the streak at well ... and we've reached a cer­successful." sively." CCHApack. :I four. tain level of consistency defensive­The Irish went 2-for-12 on the Tonight begins a tough stretch "It will be a challenging second : \ The Lakers (6-9-7, 3-6-5-1 ly and with our goaltending and power play against Lake Superior that will see the Irish play five of half for us," Jackson said. "We 
I,. 
CCHA) played host Notre Dame special teams." State in their two games earlier their next six conference games have eight conference games left (18-3-2, 12-2-2-2 CCHA) to a 3-3 The Lakers use a similar recipe thl'l season, but Notre Dame is just on the road with several streaks on the road ... We've got to devel­
I 
-~ 
draw on Nov. 14 before the Irish for success, Jackson said, and are 1-for-14 with the man-advantage on the line. op that 'road warrior' mentality a I won their first-ever shootout. led by sophomore goaltender over its last three games. Notre Dame's eight-game road little bit." 
I 
Notre Dame handled the Lakers 5-Brian Mahoney-Wilson, who Despite their sub-.500 confer­win streak is the best in program 2 the next night, and the Irish boasts a .927 save percentage. ence record, the Lakers have history, and the Irish have not lost Contact Matt Gamber at
t i 
have won 11 of 12 since. "We'll have to play smart," remained in eighth place in the away from home since its season-mgamber@nd.edu
! ( 
l 
\ NO MEN'S BASKETBALL 
.i1:)I 
NO looks to rebound at 
Syracuse as Big East 
challenges continue 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 

i. 
It's 110t often that playing at the No. 8 team in the country
f 
could be considered the least diflicult game of a three-game stretch, but such is life in the 2009 Big East. 
Sandwiched between a road game against pre-season No. 3 Louisville and a home game against current No. 4 Connecticut, No. 12 Notre Dame travels to No. 8 Syracuse for a noon game Saturday. 
The Orange owe their high ranking largely to a 16-1 record entering the week, but it's unclear whether or not Syracuse is as·good as the poll-
see ORANGE/page 18 

Rugged road 

MEN'S SWIMMING 

Two·meets 
to provide tough tests 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 

Fresh off a training trip to Puerto Rico, Notre Dame will host Northwestern tonight before traveling to Rochester, Mich., to take on Oakland. 
Irish coach Tim Welsh said the trip was a positive expe­rience for the team. 
"We trained hard and trained well, and we're eager to race and prepare for the conference championships," Welsh said. "We have lots of energy." 
The Irish will try to capital­ize on their week of rest after _ a tough loss to Louisville last Saturday, which dropped 
Irish forwards Luke Harangody, left, and Zach Hillesland defend Delaware State guard Donald 
• 
see TRAINING/page 18

Johnson during Notre Dame's 88-50 home victory on Dec. 20. 

Another ranked foe 
awaits yOung squad 
By NATHANI-EL LEE 
Sports Writer 

After a commanding victory over Toledo and a close loss to No. 21 Northwestern, the Irish will travel to No, 20 Louisville Saturday for a .Big East meet. 
"This is a team that we match very closely with," Irish coach Brian Barnes said. "While the long-term goal is setting times that will be competitive at the national championships, we are always competing to win." 
The Irish have never lost to Louisville in the teams' four all-time meetings. but the Cardinals present a threat to Maxwell, Amywren Miller and Lauren Sylvester, and juniors Megan Farrell and Maggie Behrens will be the main cogs for a young but deep Irish squad that has gotten off to a fast start. 
Notre  Dame's  3-1  season  
record.  
Sophomores  Samantha  

"Team depth is going to be the difference in this match," Barnes said. "When you can only race four events per per­son, it's about winning what you can, but more important­ly getting those second, third, fourth and fifth places consis­tently." 
Contact Nathaniel Lee at nlee5@nd.edu 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Team refocusing on defense 
By JAY FITZPATRICK -Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's main focus 
will be reestablishing its 
defensive intensity when it 
takes on St. John's Saturday, 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw 
said Thursday. 
This emphasis is a direct 

result of Notre Dame's sec-' 
ond loss of the season, a 75­
65 defeat at Marquette on 
Tuesday, which McGraw 
attributed to a lack of com­
mitment on the defensive 
side of the court. 
"We did not play our nor­
mal game defensively 
[against Marquette],·· 
McGraw said. "They got a lot 
of shots -a lot of easy sfiots 
see DEFENSE/page 18 




