
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 44: ISSUE 42 , FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30,2009 

ceND hopes to gain dub status 
Group applies for official recognition for 11th time; members expect decision in April 
that I've been here this is an sented to University President AllianceND for the past fourBy JOSEPH McMAHON 
issue that has come to the Fr. John Jenkins last March, years, said he also noticed a 
Associate News Editor 
forefront," senior and have given many of the group's shift since his freshman year AllianceND officer Jessica organizers hope for this year. in students' attitudes towards 
For the 11th time in the past Mahon said. "We're really "The response that [the the GLBTQ community at 13 years, AllianceND, the hopeful." Progressive Student Alliance Notre Dame. unofficial gay-straight alliance Despite the University's (PSA)] got to adding sexual ori­"It's mostly been the student at Notre Dame, is applying for refusal to grant AllianceND entation to the nondiscrimina­body that I've been seeing official club status. official club status in the past, tion clause from Fr. Jenkins ... making the change. And I 
The members submitted the co-chair Emily Salvaterra said was more than we've ever think the University needs to application earlier this week recent events, such as the soft­actually heard before," she change with the student body," and expect to hear if the group ening of the administration's said. "It's just another little he said. "Just looking around will be granted official status stance on adding sexual orien­thing." the residence halls, I see a lot in April. tation to the non-discrimina­Senior Patrick Bears, who 
"I think even just in the time tion clause when it was pre-has· been involved with see CLUB/page 6 


Conflictsindevelopingworld examined 
Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies hosts panel to discuss peacebuilding tactics 
Smith cited a study that 
By JOHN CAMERON suggests nearly half of all 
News Writer post-war societies see a 
return of violence within 15 
Addressing the fundamen­years. The problem, accord­tal causes of conflict in the ing to Smith, is that the developing world was the causes of structural vio­topic of discussion lence persist. Thursday at .a panel forum Smith said she believes hosted by the Kroc Institute one of the major problems for International Peace with efforts thus far to work Studies. against conflict in the third 
Professor Cecelia Lynch of world is in how scholars University of California­approach the issue of global Irvine and Professors Jackie violence. Smith of Sociology and "Much of the work in Ernesto Verdeja of Political political science treats vio­
Science met in McKenna lence as based in national Hall to present a panel enti­problems," she said. "But tled "Globalization, Social social conflicts are imbed­Movements and ded in a larger system of 

I Peacebuilding." power relations." 
"What are the causes of Smith said failures to violence, the sources of effectively relieve these peace?" Smith asked to start the discussion. see CONFLICT/page 6 

I ' 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Committee to review provost 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
A committee composed of stu­dents and faculty is reviewing the performance of Provost Thomas Burish, who serves as the University's highest-ranking aca­demic offi­
cer. 
The per­formance review is part of a process mandated by the bylaws of t h e 


University, Burish according to committee chair Neil Delaney, who is also the director of the Arts and Letters Honors Program and a professor of philosophy. 
"All academic officers have to be reviewed every five years," Delaney said. "Our job is to try to get an overall sense of the University's development under the provost's direction," he said. 
Burish will be judged according to the job description University President Fr. John Jenkins has outlined. This description includes enhancing the University's standing as a research university, upholding the Catholic character of the University and maintaining high standards in undergraduate edu­cation. 
The performance review com­mittee plans to interview the 
see PROVOST/page 6 


Improvised play looks atissues of consent, rape 
By MOLLY MADDEN News Writer 
When the lines between coer­cion and consent are blurred, where are men and women supposed to draw the line? This question was addressed by a performance entitled "Sex Signals," which took place last night in the Jordan Auditorium at Mendoza College of Business. 
"Sex Signals" is an interactive play created by Notre Dame alumnus Christian Murphy that is about dating, consent, sexual assault and rape. The Gender Relations Center, Student Government's Gender Issues Committee, Men Against Violence and the Feminist Voice sponsored the production. 
"Christian Murphy created this play as a way to reach out to students who confuse coer­cion with consent," senior Patrick Tighe, co-chair of the Gender Issues Committee said. "This production directly con­fronts the notion of pestering and the subsequent giving in to sexual advances that many stu­dents experience." 
Senior Tim Latham, president of the Men Against Violence club, said that the production is especially pertinent to college 
see PLAY/page 6 

Dance Marathon raises money 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Fundraising efforts . are underway for Saint Mary's Dance Marathon as students work to put on the College's annual event to benefits the Riley Hospital for Children in Indianapolis. 
The event will take place in March. 
EMX -Greek for SMC ­apparel and coupon booklets sales in addition to a Give-Back Night at Five Guys Burgers and Fries took place Wednesday night. 
EMX sweatshirts, sweatpants and shirts are on sale this 
see DANCE/page 8 


INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER Students de7.1elop new local currency page 4 • Mythology Bracket showdawn,page 12 • Men's basketball page 24 • Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, October 30, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Creative Halloween 
Witches and monsters and ghosts! Oh my! 
Unlike my fellow inside columnist earlier this week, Halloween has always been one of my favorite holi­days. No other holiday encour­Megan Loney ages dressing up in costume to such 
News Wire 
a degree. Now, 
Editor 
don't get me wrong. I enjoy free candy and the occasional scare, but nothing beats the opportunity to be anything you want to be for one night! 
Since we have reached an age at which Trick-or-Treating is no longer thought acceptable, Halloween on college campuses revolves around parties and events like Hip Hop Night at Legends. The only thing that sets this weekend apart from the average weekend is the decorations and per­centage of students dressed in cos­tume. 
Halloween allows one to emulate the person or thing of their choice at least in appearance, without repri­mand. The chosen costumes correlate with the wearers' ages. 
Sitting in my dorm hallway Thursday night, I was visited by sol­diers, superheroes, vampires, and various Disney characters alike. The younger the children, the more inno­cent were their costumes -as they should be. 
That being said, I don't think that I will encounter the same innocence, which I met Thursday, this weekend both on and off the campuses. 
The probability of female students wearing outfits that resemble what can only be described as Victoria's Secret versions of classic costumes is greater than those who will choose to be less revealing. 
I'm not trying to pass judgment on my fellow women, but I must admit I am rather disappointed with the cos­tume choices I saw last year. I am not disappointed in the lack of coverage, but rather the lack of creativity. 
The naughty nurses and French maids may turn the eye of the guy whose attention you have been seek­ing for the better part of the semes­ter, but I have a suggestion. Why not dazzle him with your imagination or wit instead of relying on your cleav­age? 
Homemade costumes never fail. Whether it's a two-year old sheriff with a drawn on mustache or the "Ash" costume my mom made for my younger brother during the Pokemon phenomena, these costumes have the "something" that separates them from the other costumes -creativity. 
One idea is a personalized super­hero. Wearing your own superhero attire is sure to grab someone's atten­tion and the topic of your super pow­ers is a nice ice-breaker. 
The Internet is a good source for ideas if you find out that designing your own costume is easier said than done. 
I propose that we bring the imagi­nation and creativity back to the holi­day. Let's make Halloween more than just an excuse to bare skin this year. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a copy-editing error, a quote in rhe article "SMC students work with homeless" in the Oct. 29 edition ofThe Observer was attributed incorrectly to Mary McDougall. Cassie McDonagh should have been attributed. The Observer regrets this error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD MARRY ANY FICTIONAL CHARACTER, WHO WOULD IT BE? 


Bianca Leonardo  Eric Bernhold  
sophomore LeMans  JUnwr Siegfried  
..Tarzan  ..Pooh Bear  
because he is the king ofthe jungle and wears a loin  because it is legal now. he is the coolest fictional  
cloth."  character ever and ..likes to party.  






Carolyn Sever Lauren Enayati Catherine Moore 
JUnwr sophomore sophomore Ryan LeMans Le Mans 
..Billy Madison ..Edward Cullen ..Prince Eric because he is because he is from ·rhe Little really sexy. •• Mermaid' ·mature.''' because he has black hair and blue eyes. " 
Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

Teens cited for rap at Mcdonald's 
AMERICAN FORK, Utah ­A rap by four teenagers at a McDonald's has gotten them a bad rap in one Utah city. The teens were cited by American Fork police earlier this week for disorderly con­duct after they rapped their order at a McDonald's drive­through. 
The teens said they were imitating a popular video on YouTube. They rapped their order, which begins with, "I need a double cheeseburger and hold the lettuce ... " once quickly before repeating it more slowly. 
Spenser Dauwalder said 
TODAY 
0::: 


0 

HIGH 64 60 HIGH HIGH HIGH 48 48
...I 

LOW 56 45 LOW LOW LOW 37 37 
Atlanta 70 I 62 Boston 57 I 48 Chicago 64 I 45 Denver 38 I 34 Houston 61 I 47 Los Angeles 74 1 52 Minneapolis 51 1 37 New York 60 I 53 Philadelphia 63 I 54 Phoenix 70 I 50 Seattle 58 I 52 St. Louis 62 I 43 Tampa 88 I 70 Washington 64 I 57 
1.1.1 ::1: 
=: 
1.1.1
;: 
..... 
c( 
(.) 

I I I1I 1 11 11,1,1,1,I I I  


employees at the restaurant told him and his friends they were holding up the line and needed to order or leave. 
The 18-year-old said nobody was in line. He and his three 17-year-old friends left without buying anything. 
Man stuffs live ferret In pants to steal It 
JACKSONVILLE BEACH, Fla. -It's one thing for shoplifters to hide plunder in their pants. But a live ferret? Police said a homeless man in north Florida did just that. And he made it out the door before being challenged. Rodney Bolton, 38, was charged with theft over the $129 animal that police say he took from a pet store in Jacksonville Beach. 

A 17 -year-old witness con­fronted Bolton in the parking lot and was bitten by the ani­mal after the man allegedly shoved it in the teen's face. 
That confrontation makes the ferret a "special weapon" under Florida law. So Bolton also faces battery charges for dangerously wielding the ani­mal. 
Calls to the Jacksonville Sheriffs Department to see if Bolton has a lawyer were not answered early Thursday. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 



IN BRIEF 
Architect Robert Davis will deliver a lecture, "Smart Growth Development: The Pursuit of Traditional Towns," today at 4:30p.m. in 104 Bond Hall. Davis is the developer and cofounder of Seaside, Fla., the first anq most influential new urban community in the United States. The lecture is free and open to the public. 
Yamato, a drum performance group that plays traditional Japanese Wadaiko drums, will give a concert in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center tonight at 7 p.m. To purchase tickets visit the performing arts Web site or call the ticket office at 574-631-2800. 
The Notre Dame hockey team will play Ohio State tonight at 7:35 p.m. and tomorrow at 5:05 p.m. in at the Joyce Center Ice Rink. For tick­et information call the ticket office at 57 4-631-7356. 
Daylight Savings Time ends Sunday at 2 a.m. Adjust your clocks back one hour. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team will play Rutgers at 1 p.m. Sunday, tentatively in the new Joyce Center arena. For ticket information, call 574-631-7356. 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team will play the first game in the new Purcell Pavillion at the Joyce Center Sunday at 7 p.m. against Lewis. It is an exhibition game. For ticket information, call 574­631-7356. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

MONDAY TUESDAY 


Friday, October 30, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



SaintMaty'shostsannual pumpkin carving contest 
By SARAH MAYER News \Xfriter 
Many events have been occurring across Saint Mary's campus to get students in the Halloween spirit. 
Saint Mary's Activities Board (SAB) held a pumpkin carving contest in the Haggar Parlor room Thursday night. SAB has been holding this event every year, according to the consist of three to five mem­bers. The teams had an hour to carve their pumpkin. 
"We had some really cool designs this year," Sperry said. "There was a group that made one that looked like Katy Perry and there were multiple that went with the SMC Spirit cate­gory." 
One winning design was a female pirate that said "we arrrr SMC." 
A few carved 

Lady Gaga and 
other pop cul­
Entertainment ture phenomena.
..There were some

Committee co­"There were 
chair Katie real artists working some real artists 
Sperry. this year including a working this This event is year including a
wolfhowling at the
popular every ,, wolf howling at 
moon.

year, Sperry the moon, said. Sperry said. 
"There was a Katie Sperry "That won in the good turnout scariest catego­
SAB Entertainment 

this year for the ry."
Committee co-chair 

carving." Sperry said, "Our signup for teams filled up very quickly that we even had to turn a team away." 
Sperry said pumpkins are judged for creativity. 
"Every year we get new and creative pumpkins but we tend to keep the same categories for judging: Scariest, Funniest and Most SMC Spirit," Sperry said. 
Ten teams were each given one pumpkin to carve as well as carving tools, and teams could 
The event also 

offered food. 
Saint Mary's 

junior Jessica Doherty has participated in the event since she was a fresh­man. 
"My friends and I look for­ward to this every year and we always try to think of creative designs," Doherty said. "We never win but always have fun." 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


THIS WEEKEND I 
ailll:[[B:i r7 
VS. OHIO STATE FRIDAY@ 1.35PM 
WlY FANS RECEIVE ACOWBEll! 
SATURDAY@ 5:05PM 
•

WEAR YOUR HAllOWEEN COSTUME! $15 BOOKSTORE GIRCABD FOR BEST COSTUME! 
HOSTS BIG EAST QUARTERFINAlS SUNDIY@1PM
@AlUMNI STADIUM 
FREE ADMISSION FOR NO, SMC, HCC STUDENTS 

Fundraiser completes 9thyear 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
Today marks the end of the ninth annual breast cancer awareness fundraiser, "Race to Raise the Most," which is sponsored by the College of Arts and Letters during the month of October. 
"Over the past eight years we've made over $52,000 and it's really a community out­reach," Mo Marnocha, office manager of the Arts and Letters Dean's Office, said. "This was the biggest year ever." 
United Health Services uses the money raised to fund mammograms for people in St. Joseph County who cannot afford them, Marnocha said. 
"We know that our money stays right in the community," she said. "We know it's done nationally but we wanted to keep the funds here locally." 
Marnocha said she had the idea to begin a fundraiser in 2000 when she saw an adver­tisement in a magazine that promoted breast cancer awareness month and thought that a fundraiser would unite the staff of the college. 
The first year, the College hosted a day when the staff could wear jeans to work if they donated five dollars to breast cancer awareness. Marnocha said they raised $1,200. 
"Over the years we've fundraised and gotten more 
money," she said. "It's a win­win. It's a win for the commu­nity, and a win for the staff." 
The College breaks the staff into fundraising teams based on the buildings in which they work, and they compete to raise the most money and develop creative fundraising ideas, Marnocha said. Each department of the Coil ege also partici­pates. 
"One of the 
The College also opened a blog Web site this year to fea­ture fundraising opportuni­ties and updates. 
The Web site advertises photos of pink potholders, earrings, scarves and baked goods that were on sale as part of the fundraiser. 
Before the Boston College football game, the College of Arts and Letters hosted a tail­gate as part of 
things I saw '"It's a win for the the fundraiser, this year more w h i c h
community, and a 
than ever Marnocha said
win for the staff,
before was attracted a camaraderie large turnout. between the Mo Marnocha Fundraising at staff that the tailgate
office manager 
made up the included ice
College of Arts and
teams," she cream sundaes,
Letters

said. tickets for gift 
The funds raised this month have not yet been totaled, Marnocha said, in part because the teams keep their totals secret until the competition is over. 
As incentive for fundraising this year, the College sold note cards with scenes of campus, travel mugs and other items, she said. 
They also offered pink hair extensions, which became popular among students. 
"I would like for the stu­dents to become more involved," Marnocha said. "I would really like next year to have students made more aware of what we're doing." 
baskets and 
pink manicures 
and face paint­
ing. 

This week the Arts and Letters Dean's Office received a donation of 200 sandwiches from Jimmy John's, which they sold for two dollars as part of the fundraiser, Marnocha said. 
Although the fundraising comes to an official close at the end of October, Marnocha said she hopes the staff will not stop planning and execut­ing fundraising efforts as "Race to Raise the Most" con­tinues to grow. 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 30, 2009 
Design students develop new local currency 
Michiana community money could benefit area economy and combat negative effects of globalization 




;~­
115 Dhic Way Nanh, Smul1 Bnul 

(574) 277-7239 

senting the Michiana commu­By ANN-MARIE WOODS nity.
News Wrirer 

"We all wanted to produce a simplistic yet beautiful set of 
A new form of currency is bills that would look real and coming to the Michiana Area, promote the local economy," and Notre Dame and Saint Saint Mary's senior Theresa Mary's students are contribut­Tonyan said. "We were really ing to the design of the com­inspired by the community, munity money, which intends the people, agriculture and to place value on local goods local history." and services while revitalizing Professor Jackie Smith of 
the downtown  the  Kroc  
areas in South  Institute  for  
Bend and the  Peace Studies  
surrounding towns. "Residents of the South  ..For every U.S. dollar spent at a chain store, just I 5 cents gets  heads up the Michiana Community Currency  
Bend area are  reinvested in the  organization  
working to enrich com­munity life in our region by  community. Wzth money spent at locally-owned businesses, more than  and worked with the stu­dents to create a viable cur­ 
developing a 'community currency' to serve this region," according to the Michiana Community  halfofthat value comes back to the community. Wzth community currency, all ofthat money has to be reinvested in the  rency for the area with the intention of rebuilding the local economy. "What this program can do is put  
Currency Web s i t e  community. ''  money into our local economy  
"Community currencies  Jackie Smith  and keep it in our local econ­ 
can give  our  sociology professor  omy,  Smith  
cities  more  said.  
control  over  The idea for  
our choices of  a  community  

jobs and the quality of life in currency in the Michiana area our communities." originated after a lecture 
Students in Professor Smith gave about the effects Crispin Prebys' Graphic of globalization on communi­Design III class were asked to ties and the solutions cities submit designs for a local cur­similar to South Bend have rency that could be used in come up with to combat local circulation, taking into economic problems. account counterfeit measures, "The community currency size and weight while repre-creates a multiplier effect," 
Irishhistorical society to honorUniversityPreiident 
Smith said. "For every U.S. dollar spent at a chain store, just 15 cents gets reinvested in the community. With money spent at locally-owned busi­nesses, more than half of that value comes back to the com­munity. With community cur­rency, all of that money has to be reinvested in the communi­
ty., Notre Dame product and graphic design student Vu Nguyen worked with Smith to 
submit  designs  for  the  
Michiana  Area  Currency  
(MAC).  

"A few months ago, a hand­ful of classmates and I attend­ed a meeting with Professor Smith," Nguyen said. "We dis­cussed the idea of a local cur­rency, gathered information about existing sets and spoke about what could make this currency unique." 
The Michiana community currency is modeled after a successful local currency in Ithaca, New York, called Ithaca Hours, which encour­ages residents to shop at com­munity-based, owner-operat­ed businesses that keep the money in the community. 
"I researched currencies from around the world and decided to focus on two in particular, the Ithaca Hours, arguably the most famous and longest lasting local currency in America, and the U.S. Dollar, to learn some of their strengths and weaknesses," Nguyen said. 
When creating an original currency, the graphic design students had to deal with choosing an appropriate, usable size for the bills, 
Associated Press 
Fr. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., pres­ident of the University of Notre Dame, will receive the 2009 Gold Medal award from the American Irish Historical Society (AIHS) at its 112th annual banquet Nov. 5 at the Waldorf-Astoria hotel in New York City. 
Previous recipients of the AIHS Gold Medal, which recognizes a special or unique contribution to American Irish life, include President Ronald Reagan, Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the actor Liam Neeson, Cardinal John O'Connor of New York and Donald Keough, chairman of the board of Allen & Company, for­mer president and chief operat­ing officer of the Coca-Cola Co. and chairman emeritus of Notre Dame's Board ofTrustees. 

Father Jenkins became Notre Dame's 17th president in 2005, after previously serving as vice president and associate provost. He has articulated a vision for the University that focuses on it becoming a pre-eminent research institution while main­taining its distinctive Catholic character and long-time excel­lence in undergraduate educa­tion. 


Solidarity Sunday 
November 1, 2009 
The Spirit ofInclusion••• 
'*Strangc..-rs and Sojourners no longer" (E~n"' 2:19) 
"We value gay and lesbian members of thi.s community. as we value all members ofthis community'·. 'WI t:Ottaelou.ty cn.a•en environment ofmutuM ~Upee:l, ltoap#MIIty and nnnth In which none.,.......,..,.and ell trMy flourllh" ''We prize the uniqueness ol•ll persons as Gocl"s cTNtures." 

Please join the Notre Dame family in our annual weekend-long prayer and welcome 
Copies ofthe entire atatem~nt ofthe Spirit oflnclu•ion will be a~·ailable following all MaNeS on October Jl-November 1, 2009. 
authority and is difficult to counterfeit is quite a task," Nguyen explained. "My bills reflect a com­bination of modern and traditional elements the former to make it visu­ally pleasing and the latter to lend some authority." 
The students utilized bar­codes and serial num­

bers, as well as intricate designs to prevent counter­feits. 
"We worked a lot with blending colors, adding intri­cate lines, hidden details and a barcode and serial number," Tonyan said. 
In addition, each student incorporated distinctive char­acteristics using pictures, words and symbols in their submissions to embody the 
nature  and  spirit  of  the  
Michiana area.  
"A  friend  and  I  brain­ 

stormed for a long while and decided that 'trust, unite and build' would be the three main purposes and results of the MAC," Nguyen said. 
design counterfeit-proof ele­"These three words are dis­ments to give the bills author­played prominently on both ity in the local market and sides of the bill." craft a unique model that is Nguyen also created a sym­representative of the commu­bol of the MAC as a lowercase nity. "m" with a line over it, 
"To design a bill that has intended to be used like the 
USD symbol"$., T h e Michiana 
Community Currency com­"The design we pick will mittee and community
help celebrate and 
members have
support what we think 
reviewed the are the best aspects of student sub­
,. 

missions and
our regwn. 
will vote to choose the 
Michiana Community 
MAC design. Currency Organization "A small 
group of vol­
unteers met 
with the stu­
dents and 
reviewed the 
designs, and they were very excited by them," Smith said. "All of them were very professionally done and made it look like a serious project. They did a good job of capturing local flavor and making designs that look professional." 
The student submissions will be reviewed again on Nov. 4. 
"The design we pick will help celebrate and support what we think are the best aspects of our region," according to the Michiana Community Currency organi­zation. 
Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods4@nd.edu 



Friday, October 30, 2009 CoMPILED FROM. THE OssERVE~s WlRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Gay marriage debated in Argentina 
Is Argentina ready to become Latin America's first nation to legalize gay mar­riage? 
Gay and lesbian activists think so -and they have a growing number of supporters in Congress, which opened debate Thursday on whether to change dozens of laws that define marriage as a union between a man and a woman. 
"We can't expect social equality if the state is legitimizing inequality," said Maria Rachid, president of the Argentine Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Transgender Federation. "We now have the social and political context necessary to change the law." 
Czech Republic seeks agreement 
The European Union's stalled reform treaty overcame a crucial hurdle Thursday after EU leaders agreed to last-minute demands from the Czech Republic in return for the country's ratification of the ambitious deal. 
The treaty would streamline decision-mak­ing and bolster the bloc's role on the world stage. It would also create the post of a fixed EU president, a job leading European figures are already jockeying for behind the scenes. 
European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso said the eight years of draft­ing and negotiating the treaty "reminds me of a marathon, but a marathon with hur­dles." 
"Tonight we have removed the last political hurdle," he said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Race hot topic in Atlanta election 
A neighborhood activist with crossover appeal on the verge of making history. A city leader with a civil rights legacy. A native son seen by some as the heir apparent to the city's first black mayor. 
Three of Atlanta's prominent political personalities are colliding in the race for mayor, which is on course for a runoff that could polarize the Southern capital along racial lines. With two formidable black can­didates splitting the African-American vote amid a predicted low voter turnout, this pre­dominantly black city could end up electing its first white mayor in a generation. 

Giant rubber band ball built in fla. 
Look, over there. Under that blue tarp in a suburban driveway. That thing that's the size of a Smart car? 
It's Joel Waul's rubber band ball. 
Waul has spent the last six years carefully wrapping and linking and stretching rubber bands of various sizes into the ball shape. The Guinness Book of World Records declared it the world's largest rubber band ball in 2008. 
On Thursday, Waul said goodbye to his cre­ation. A team from Ripley's Believe it or Not came to his house with a crane and hauled the 6-foot, 7 -inch tall, 9,032-pound behemoth away on a large, flatbed truck. 
"'It's a little bit sad to see it go, but it's going to be appreciated by thousands and hopefully millions of people in Ripley's museum to see and wonder, 'What was this guy thinking?"' Waul said. 
The ball will eventually be displayed in a far-off museum yet to be determined, so folks can marvel at Waul's obsession. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Coach rejects IU Hall of Fame 
Bob Knight just keeps telling Indiana no. 
On Thursday, the former Hoosiers coach notified athletic director fred Glass that he will not be attending the school's Hall of Fame induction cere­mony next week in Bloomington-the second time in three days that The General has rejected an overture from the school. 
On Tuesday, Knight said he would not ac.-eept a $75,000 offer to settle a lingering lawsuit becau<ie the money came from alumni donors. 
"I absolutely respect his feelings on that and very much appreciate hi<> response, which in no way suggested he opposed being inducted," Glass said in a statement released by the athletic department. 
BELGIUM 







EU debates climate change aid 
European leaders disagree on extent of assistance to be given to developing nations 
Associated Press 

BRUSSELS The 
European Union fought to 
live up to its self-proclaimed 
leadership on combating cli­
mate change, with the 27 EU 
leaders at odds over how 
much to offer poorer nations 
to join the global battle. 
EU nations failed to agree 
on a figure for climate 
change funding for develop­
ing countries during a first 
set of talks on Thursday, 
Swedish Prime Minister 
Fredrik Reinfeldt said, 
promising to make new 
efforts to strike a deal on the 
second day of talks here on 
Friday. 

"On climate, we are not 
ready yet. ... We have not 
solved it," he told reporters 
after leading talks. 

EU Commission President 
Jose Manuel Barroso said 
EU leaders "have to achieve" 
agreement Friday on offer­
ing billions of euros to devel­
oping nations that would 
prove Europe's commitment 
to tackling climate change 
ahead of U.N. talks on a new 
greenhouse gas pact in 
Copenhagen. 

The leaders did agree on a crucial issue for the union's future, diplomats said ­concessions to the Euro­skeptic Czech president to persuade him to sign a reform treaty strengthening climate change, then we will Europe's early ambitions on much aid they can expect to the bloc's diplomatic power not get an agreement at the issue. adjust to changing climate and creating the post of a Copenhagen," where the The Copenhagen summit conditions. fixed EU president. U.N. climate conference is seen as a watershed With the U.S. hamstrung 
Nine eastern EU states kicks off Dec. 7 aimed at moment for fighting climate by Congress, which has yet said earlier that they would replacing the 1997 Kyoto change and for global coop­to approve U.S. emissions rather walk away from the Protocol, Brown said. eration, and for years the EU targets, poorer countries are two-day summit without an The EU executive says has been seeking out the looking to the EU to set the agreement than be forced developing nations would moral high ground, chal­pace that they expect other into a deal for billions of need annual help of euro100 lenging other powers such industrialized countries to curos that would stretch billion ($148 billion) by as the United States and match. their budgets -even if that 2020, of which EU govern­China to match Europe's The EU announced last jeopardizes a global climate ments and companies commitment. year it would decide by pact and hurts the EU's should contribute up to An internal EU squabble spring how much it would international image. euro40 billion ($59 billion). over funding could weaken contribute, and the delay 
British Prime Minister The latest draft declara­the union globally -and has led to frustration among Gordon Brown warned tion the leaders were dis­just look bad. U.N. officials climate negotiators. against waiting for a deal, cussing Thursday night had say a European declaration The debate goes to the saying the stakes in the cli­eliminated any mention of on finance could go a long core of the European Union's mate change battle are too fund targets. Reinfeldt said way toward breaking the institutional quagmire. For high to bicker over who EU nations needed to take stalemate in the climate years, the bloc has wanted should shoulder how much account of how badly many talks. Developing countries to raise its international pro­of the burden. of them have been hit by the are holding back firm com­file but is always held back 
"Unless we have a pro­financial crisis. mitments to slow the growth by hesitant member states gram for financing the It is tough to reconcile cur­of their carbon dioxide emis­putting nationhood ahead of action we're taking against rent EU hesitancy with sions until they know how the continent. 

Pornography law challenged by parents 
fault. I have to follow the law," Farren and their 7-year-old sister, are
Associated Press 

said Thursday. "The mother of the vic­divorced and share custody. 
DALLAS -A 1970s-era Texas law tims in this case was less than happy The girls' mother, Crystal Buckner, that allows parents to show "harmful with this decision, which I understand. wants her ex-husband to be jailed. She material" to their children has come We were less than happy with the said she was stunned to hear from under fire after a prosecutor said he statute." prosecutors and police that nothing couldn't file charges against a man The law apparently was meant to can be done. accused of forcing his 8-and 9-year­protect the privacy of parents who "I said, 'Are you kidding me?' old daughters to watch hardcore online wanted to teach children about sex There's no way. This can't be right," 
• 
pornography. education, but it states clearly that par­said Buckner, a 30-year-old stay-at­
Randall County District Attorney ents can't be prosecuted for showing home mother. James Farren has asked the Texas "harmful material" to their children. The Associated Press typically does attorney general's office to review his Farren said police reported the inci­not publish the names of parents if it decision not to pursue charges in the dent to his office after one of the girls could identify children who might have case, which has prompted at least one told a counselor in June that her father been abused, but Buckner is seeking lawmaker to vow to change the state's made them watch adults having group publicity about the case. She has print­public indecency law. sex and various other acts at his home ed out copies of the penal code, which 
"Our hands are tied. It's not our in Amarillo. The parents of the girls, she hands out to everyone she meets. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 30, 2009 
Club 

continued from page 1 
more progressive attitudes towards the issues than fresh­man year." 
Bears said he was motivated when many students wrote to The Observer to argue against an Oct. 7 Letter to the Editor entitled "Don't ask, Don't tell," which advocated instituting the military's policy towards homo­sexuals at Notre Dame. 
Officer Chris Collins said he knows of students who had decided to transfer out of Notre Dame because of the lack of support for the GLBTQ commu­nity. 
"We know people who have left [Notre Dame] because they felt that it was hostile," he said. 
Collins said he believes AllianceND can involve more students that the Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students, which is composed of eight stu­
provosts and other University oflicers who interact fre­quently with Burish. 
"We're going to focus on the peo­ple who would know what he's implementing first hand," Delaney said. 
The committee 

dents and four University administrators. 
"Your name goes in a pam­phlet and it's a very public organization, but it's also a very limited organization and very few people can be involved in it," he said. "There's a lot of support on campus and people that want to get involved and AllianceND is a way we can channel that energy." 
Currently, AllianceND's Facebook group has 213 mem­bers, and co-chair Melanie LeMay said "20 or so" people interested in joining the club have approached her. 
Salvaterra said AllianceND would be promoting Catholic social teachings by expanding Notre Dame's spirit of inclu­sion. 
"There's a lot in Catholic social teaching that people sometimes forget about like the dignity of the human person," she said. "What we are trying to say is there is a place in Catholic social teaching for 
students might have views as to 

..What we thought is 
how the that students might University is 
have views as to how going academi­
cally."

the University is 
The committee 

going academically." does not expect that students would have per­
Neil Delaney 
sonal opinions

committee chair 
on Burish, Delaney said. 

distributed surveys about Burish's The performance review com­performance to faculty and stu­mittee is composed of individuals dents. Few of these surveys have elected from the Academic been completed, according to Council, plus several appointed by 
"Social movements are key to understanding the state

Conflict 

and the ability of popular continued from page 1 groups to change institu­
tions," Smith said. issues are often based in Lynch discussed the concept false assumptions made by of a post-conflict society and many regarding the conse­emphasized the role of"Non­quences of globalization. Governmental Organizations 
"Many assume that integra­(NGOs) within them. tion into the global economy "The number of re-occur­will lead to growth ... grow­rences of violence are ing the economy will auto­increasing," Lynch said. "The matically help number of address the indirect deaths causns of con-as a result of
"Social movements 
flict," Smith [previous] con­
said. "These are key to flict remain policies fof understanding the high for 10 globalization) years."
state and the ability 
systematically Lynch said
ofpopular groups to
reduce the the number of power of work­change institutions., NGOs in devel­ing people in oping countries order to attract is increasing,
Jackie Smith
foreign invest­but she noted 
sociology professor
ment." their short-
Smith empha­comings. sized the impor-"There are tance of social movements as up to 40,000 transnational, they can often be the only non-government organiza­way for popular groups to tions working on these articulate their needs when issues," Lynch said. "Why so they cannot do so through many? Why isn't there less their government. poverty and conflict?" 
[everyone], and it's not some­thing to be guilty about." 
Bears said accepting the application would show that the University has made major strides. 
"I think if we were given club membership it would show the University is trying to make some strides in the progressive movement," he said. 
If their application is accept­ed, AllianceND would become an official club, complete with the ability to hold meetings, reserve spaces and fund events. 
But if the application is denied for the 11th time, 

Play 
continued from page 1 
men. 

"This event is important because it is very difficult to approach guys about issues about rape and consent," Latham said. "Guys often feel accused when these issues come up." 
While the subject matter may be sensitive, the two pro­fessionally trained actors use improvisa­tion, comedy allow the audience to recog­nize situations that they them­selves have been in before and makes it hit a little bit closer to home," he said. "The come­dy also breaks down a few of the walls a lot of people have." 
Thursday's performance marked the return of "Sex Signals" after an absence of a few years. Recently, Notre Dame decided the play was a matter of importance for the entire student body. 
"Notre Dame has sexual assault and rape just like any 
other college 
campus," Tighe 
LeMay said the group would 
and audience said. "It's impor­
..Comedy is one ofthe
simply apply again next year. 

participation tant to provide 
to present the best models out there the opportunity
"If we don't get club status this year, we will continue to 
issues in a to inform people for a different apply in the coming years just 
manner that medium to
about important 
to carry out the principle of the 
is more con­,, inform students 
lSSUeS.
ducive to the about these for so long in equality, in prin­
matter that we've been denied 
student audi­issues." cipie," she said. 
ence. Heather Rakoczy Russell Russell said 
The per-she hopes the
director
ContactJoseph McMahon at 

formance production pro­
Gender Relations Center 
jmcmaho6@nd.edu opened with a comedic 
vided Notre 
Dame students with a new outlook on issues of consent and sexual assault and gave the young men and women a sense of empower­ment to step up in difficult sit­uations. 
"These issues can be very complicated and the actors made a point of showing that there is a lot of gray area," she said. "I think the produc­tion encouraged students to talk ·amongst themselves about being active bystanders and stopping these instances when they see them occur­ring." 
Contact Molly Madden at 
mmadden3@nd.edu 

..-------==-=--• 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 


• 25,000 Hardback and PapNbilck books in stock 
• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 



OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 
1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 

..___________• 

Provost 
continued from page 1 

University's current deans and former deans who served during Burish 's tenure. The committee will also interview assSlciate Delaney. 
'There never is a big outflow of concern," he said. 
Delaney said few students or faculty have any interaction with the provost. 
"But we have a general view of how we think things are going," he said. "What we thought is that Jenkins to balance the committee across the five colleges. 
Delaney said the committee hopes to complete its review by the end of the semester. 
Burish, the University's fourth provost, has held his position since 2005. He previously served as president of Washington and Lee University and as provost of Vanderbilt University. He is a 1972 alumnus ofNotre Dame. 
The Office of the Provost was established in 1970 to oversee the academic functions of the University. 
Dr. Nathan Hatch preceded Burish as provost, serving from 1996-2005. 
Burish deferred comment on his tenure as provost until after the completion of the perform­ance review. 
Contact John Tierney at 
jtiernel@nd.edu 

sequence that put the audi­ence at ease. 
"The improvisation was incredibly helpful," Heather Rakoczy Russell, director of the Gender Relations Center said. "Comedy is one of the best models out there to inform people about impor­tant issues." 
After the opening comedic commentary, the two actors turned to the more sensitive issues of sexual assault and rape. Russell said she believes the audience was more recep­tive to hearing about the diffi­cult issues because of the relaxed environment. 
"It starts with this funny 
interaction and they turn a 
corner at some point and begin to talk about assault," she said. "If they had opened up with talking about rape then I don't think the audience would have been as engaged." 
Latham agreed that the comedic backdrop for the pro­

Lynch cited the gradual withdrawal of direct social welfare programs by govern­ments as well as increased globalization as the causes 
duction makes it much more accessible for audiences to make connections to their own lives. 
"The improvisation and 
techniqu~s the actors use 
for the rise in number of NGOs. The reduced effective­ness of these organizations is in part based on a false assumption and reluctance, Lynch said. 
"There's an assumption that others should act as we do, want what we want," Lynch said. "Market systems create haves and have-nots ... we need more direct challenges to these market systems. We need to think more about whether there is a reluctance by humanitarians to take on market systems." 
In the question-and-answer portion following the panel, Smith said the focus in devel­oping countries should be on human needs. 
"It's not about encouraging communities to engage with global economies," she said. "It's about starting with human needs." 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 

2 Bedroom, 1,200 sq. ft. Apartments Newly Remodeled Free Internet Free Water On~Site laundry Only Three Blocks from Campus 
$300Signing Bonus 
for 2010-2011 
Leese must be signed before October 10, 2009 



Write for News. Call Madeline 
Leases start atonly $350 per 
month, per student!


at (574) 631-5323. 
View the floorplan at www.kramerhouses.com 
call (574) 234-2436 
Friday, October 30, 2009 

MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 9,962.58 +199.89 
Up: Same~ Down: Composite Volume: 3,024 78 748 2,282,577,775 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP (C) +5.64 +0.23 4.31 BK OF AMERICA CP (BAC) +4.80 +0.72 15.73 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +2.24 +2.24 106.65 SRINT NXTEl CP ·4.63 ·0.15 3.09 
. Treasuries lQ-YEAR NOTE +2.64 -0.051 3.50 
l3~WEEK BILL ·16.67 +0.01 0.05 30-YEAR BOND +2.40 +0.102 4.35 5-YEAR NOTE +4.76 +0.111 2.44 
· Commodities LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +2.41 79.87 GOLD {$/Troy oz.) +16.60 1,047.1 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) +1.80 90.80 
Exchange Rates YEN 91.5250 EURO 1.4841 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0673 BRITISH POUND 1.6562 
IN BRIEF 
Mo. facility fined for violations 
Nuclear Regulatory Commission staff have proposed a roughly $16,000 fine for three violations during the decommissioning of a former nuclear facility in eastern Missouri. 
The agency said Thursday that a routine inspection found three violations at the Hematite Decommissioning Project in Festus. 
It said an alarm was deactivated before the commission approved such a move, inac­curate information was submitted about the amount of uranium-235 in a building, and a technician was not given adequate training. 
The Hematite facility processed uranium and made nuclear fuel for use in power plants from 1974 to 2001. Decommission work is expected to be done in 2012. 
Westinghouse Electric Co. says the viola­tions posed no safety risks, but that it has begun to correct them. 
Ford deal faces opposition 
Workers at two more United Auto Workers locals overwhelmingly rejected changes to 
their contract with Ford Motor Co.  on  
Wednesday,  casting  further  doubt  on  
whether the deal will be approved.  

Workers at a parts-making plant in Saline, Mich., west of Detroit, voted 7 5 percent against the deal, while research and engi­neering employees in Dearborn, Mich., voted roughly 90 percent against the deal, accord­ing to local union officials and tallies posted on a Web site. 
An exact count of the votes so far was not available Wednesday night, but at least eight UAW locals representing about 12,500 work­ers have voted down the deal, many over­whelmingly. Only about four locals with a total of 7,000 members have favored the pact. 
Ford sought the deal to bring its labor costs in line with Detroit rivals Chrysler Group LLC and General Motors Co., both of which won concessions from the union as they headed into bankruptcy protection ear­lier this year. If it fails, the Dearborn-based automaker will have higher labor costs than competitors and therefore a tougher time consistently turning a profit. 
THE OBSERVER 



I page 7 





Boeing evaluates labor disputes 
Tense relationship between union and company prompts talks about compromise 
Associated Press 

EVERETT, Wash. ­
Matt Gettmann began 
working in finance at 
Boeing Co. last year, and 
it wasn't long before he 
found himself watching, 
stunned, as union mem­
bers prepared for what 
became an eight-week 
strike. 

The work stoppage cost 
the company billions in 
deferred revenue and 
caused some of the delays 
in production of its new 
787 at a time when 
Boeing was growing 
increasingly frustrated 
with labor squabbles. 
"There would be a 
parade of people, thou­
sands and thousands of 
them, making noises and 
screaming" -right in the 
factory, Gettmann said. 
"That's the employee­
employer relationship? 
It's shocking." 

On Wednesday, the 
union was dealt a crush­
ing blow when Boeing 
decided to open its new 
787 line with nonunion 
workers in South Carolina 
and not the Seattle sub­
urbs where it has had a 
presence for generations. 
It is another sign that it may be time for the Machinists union to reevaluate its relationship planes for its best-selling of skilled workers, he reach agreement on a with Boeing, even as the 737 and 777 models and said. framework for sharing union argues that its ·where they will be built. Boeing could have labor future medical cost workers offer the best It's also trying to land a peace if it would just stop increases. value for the company contract to build a 767 trying to reduce workers' Alex Glass, a spokes­and that it is committed to tanker for the Air Force. benefits, he said. woman for Sen. Patty making sure future work Unless the relationship "They rile the members Murray, D-Wash., said lands in Washington state. with organized labor up so bad you can't con­that for months, Boeing 
"This looks very much improves, those jobs trol it," Wroblewski said. CEO Jim McNerney was like a company that's could wind up out of state Two Boeing negotiators, telling the senator, "I tired of dealing with this -and out of union-too, Doug Kight and Ray want a stable work force, union, and they've found analysts said. Conner, sent a memo to I want a stable workforce, a way out," said Hichard Machinists District 7 51 the company's managers I can't afford these strikes Aboulafia, an analyst with President Tom Thursday detailing the any more." Teal Group. "The union Wroblewski said talks with the union. It "That's what we and the needs to put aside the Thursday that since last said the union offered not union were working concept of who's right and fall's strike, the union has to strike for 10 years -toward," she said. who's wrong, and look at made efforts to improve two fewer than the com­South Carolina offered who's winning and who's the relationship, such as pany wanted -and Boeing $170 million in losing. This is not going by softening the tone of demanded that Boeing incentives and relief from well from their perspec­its newsletter. Picking promise to bring future sales taxes on things like tive." South Carolina for the work to the Puget Sound fuel used in test flighis, 
In the next three to five second 787 line continues area, something the com­and Boeing's workers yPars, Boeing is expected a failed policy of sending pany couldn't stomach. there voted to decertify to decide on replacement work away from its base That said, the sides did their union last month. 
Expedia reports third quarter profits 
Associated Press Excluding one-time items, the com­percent increase in transactions. 
pany earned 48 cents a share in the Those bumps were offset by low 
BELLEVUE, Wash.-Bookings are period. airfares and hotel room rates. The up at online travel company Expedia Analysts polled by Thomson travel slump has caused airlines, Inc., pushing its profit up despite Reuters expected 43 cents a share. hotel operators and others in the prices for flights and hotels holding Analysts typically exclude one-time travel industry to lower their prices or softening. items from their estimates. to compete although it's widely 
The company said Thursday that Shares rose some 4 percent when expected that as the economy the rise in bookings, which helped its trading opened, but fell back slightly. rebounds, these prices too will rise, third-quarter profit rise 23 percent, Shares lost 4 c~nts to close at $24.30 and air fares are creeping up for the points to better days ahead for the Thursday. holiday period. rest of the travel industry, still hurt­Revenue rose 2 percent to $852.4 Expedia, too, has been cutting its ing as consumers and businesses million, above analyst estimates of fees to compete. CEO Dara limit their spending during the reces­$828.9 million. Khosruwshahi said it appears to be sion. Domestic revenue fell 2 percent working. 
The company said it earned $117 while international rose 10 percent. "Travelers are clearly responding million, or 40 cents a share, in the The company, which operates sites to our improving value proposition, three-month period that ended Sept. such as hotcls.com and its namesake as we broaden our fee cuts and 
30. That's up from $94.8 million, or site, said gross bookings rose 9 per­increase the depth and breadth ofour 33 cents a share, a year earlier. cent from the prior year, with a 26 global supply," Khosrowshahi said. 
----------------------~­

page 8 
Dance 
continued from page 1 
week. 
"Our EMX has always been a very successful fundraiser for us and this year is no excep­tion," senior Kelly Deranek said. "We have had over 200 orders so far and we still haven't finished the sale as of yet. " 
The Dance Marathon organi­zation is also selling coupon booklets for $10 each that include over $1,000 worth of savings for the South Bend and Mishawaka area. The books contain a free tanning session, a car wash, money for local restaurants and more, Deranek said. 
According to Deranek, the Marathon's most successful fundraiser is the Letter Writing Campaign. When the dancers register for the Marathon, they turn in a list of addresses. The people on the list receive letters asking if they would sponsor that specific dancer. 
This is one way, besides the actual marathon that will take place March 26 and 27 from 8 
p.m. to 8 a.m., that the dancers can help raise money. 
"Since our Marathon is a ben­efit event, we urge our Dancers to get involved in the cause and to help fundraise themselves," Deranek said. 
Dance Marathon will continue to raise money, although there is no set goal for this year. 
"We don't have a goal for our total this year," Deranek said. "Any money we raise is money the hospital would not have had otherwise. Of course, we do hope to surpass last year's total of over $91,000, but any check we could provide the hospital at the end of the year is a success on our par.t " 
Other fundraisers for this semester include a White House Black Market on Nov. 8, a Give­Back Night at Hacienda on Nov. 4 and a Fannie May chocolate fundraiser. 
A Salon Night, a Tie Dye Night and a Purse Party will take place in November. 
In December, Dance Marathon will be holding a Santa Breakfast for students and the community. 
The Dec. 12 Notre Dame Women's Basketball game is known as "Riley Day," and Dance Marathon will raise money at the game. 
"We will be there passing out information about our organiza­tion, Riley Hospital, and helping out with a halftime fundraiser and event," Deranek said. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyO 1 @nd.edu 
ENGLAND 

Scientists debate flu vaccine for kids 
Associated Press 
LONDON -Dutch scientists made a controversial sugges­tion Friday that children might be better off skipping the seasonal flu vaccine this 
year  - a  proposal  flatly  
rejected  by  other  health  
experts.  

Their commentary, based largely on animal studies, was published online Friday in the British medical journal Lancet Infectious Diseases. Yet many top health off1cials said there was no proof that children are more likely to avoid swine flu by passing on a seasonal flu shot. 
"The best shot parents have at protecting their kids is to get them a shot in the arm or up the nose," said Dr. Michael Ostcrholm, director of the Center for Infectious Diseases Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota. "Parents get a flu shot. 
The theory is that children infected with seasonal flu acquire a certain kind of immunity that might protect 
them against  new  flu  out­ 
breaks like swine flu  or  bird  
nu.  

In the 1957 Asian flu pan­demic, the Dutch scientists noted that people infected with seasonal flu were less likely to catch the pandemic virus. They also cited data showing the same trend in mice and ferrets, the latter of which are believed to be a good model for flu in humans. 
Other health experts said it would be dangerous to revise flu policies now for results based mainly on animal experiments. 
"This is an interesting theo­ry, but it does not reflect what we see in human populations," said Ville Peltola of Turku University Hospital in Finland, who 
should get co-authored an
"The best shot parents 
whatever vac­accompanying
have at protecting their 
cine is avail­reaction piece 
able and kids is to get them a approved." shot in the arm or up
In the opin­
the nose.,,
ion piece, G u u s Rimmelzwaan Dr. Michael Osterholm of Erasmus 
director 
University 
Center for Infectious 
and his col­
Diseases Research and
leagues sug­gested that Policy health University of Minnesota 
authorities reevaluate the recom­mendation by countries like the U.S. and Canada to give all healthy children between 6 months and 5 years old a flu shot. The World Health Organization reeommends that healthy children under 2 
in same med­ical journal. 
Peltola said the Dutch sci­entists' sugges­tion might also confuse par­ents. 
"Skipping seasonal flu vaccine does not protect from swine flu, but it leaves the child with­

out protection against season­al flu," he said. Children under 2 are among the high­est risk group of developing complications from seasonal flu, which kills up to 500,000 peoplP worldwide every year. 
Friday, October 30, 2009 
The Observer + NEWS 

Al-Qaida agent sentenced to prison 
Associated Press 

PEORIA, Ill. -A federal judge sentenced an al-Qaida sleeper agent to a relatively light eight years in prison Thursday because the man received what the judge called "unacceptable" treatment in a 
U.S. 
Navy brig. 


U.S. 
District Judge Michael Mihm could have sentenced Ali al-Marri to as many as 15 years. But Mihm handed down the lighter sentence of eight years and four months in con­sideration of what he called "very severe" conditions under which al-Marri was kept dur­ing the almost six years he was held without charges in a U.S. Navy brig in South Carolina. 


The judge's decision could be a factor in future cases because the United States still holds more than 200 people without charge at Guantanamo Bay. If convicted, they could argue their time in custody should be considered at sen­tencing. 
A tearful al-Marri told the judge he was sorry for helping al-Qaida and would never hurt anyone. But Mihm rejected the idea that al-Marri wasn't capa­ble of violence, saying by not changing course after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks in New York City and Washington, al-Marri made it clear he intended to remain an al-Qaida. 
"I believe based on every­thing that I have heard that you truly do not regret what you did and that you would do it again after you go home," Mihm said. 
But in a stinging critique of government interrogation techniques that included threats to have al-Marri's fami­ly rounded up in Saudi Arabia, the judge also said he would reduce al-Marri's sentence. 
"My personal belief as a judge is that that was totally unacceptable," Mihm said. "That's not who we are." 
Al-Marri, a 44-year-old Qatar native, pleaded guilty in May to conspiring to provide material support or resources to a foreign terrorist organiza­tion. 
He wept through his 10­minute testimony Thursday. 
"I am glad I have no blood on my hand and my assistance did not cause any bloodshed or lead to that either, nor would I have ever agreed to that," he said before asking for mercy so he could see his wife, five chil­dren and 80-year-old mother again. 
He quietly thanked Allah in Arabic when Mihm delivered the sentence. 
Al-Marri's relatives heard the news at about 11:20 p.m. in Saudi Arabia. They had been hoping al-Marri would receive probation. 
"I don't know what to say," Naji al-Marri, al-Marri's broth­er, said by telephone. "Did they count the years he spent in prison?" 
During the two-day sentenc­ing hearing, defense attorneys showed videos and presented testimony to show al-Marri had endured cruel treatment -including sensory depriva­tion, lengthy interrogations, long periods of isolation, and threats to harm his family -in the Navy brig. In court docu­ments, they argued that amounted to a sentence "beyond what our nation stands for and tolerates as a matter of respect for the law." 
They said Thursday that Mihm 's decision almost cer­tainly would be cited in other cases. 
"In the future, other lawyers, maybe even us, will cite this case, defense attorney Lawrence Lustberg said. 
Al-Marri is expected to get credit for time spent locked up both before and after his stay in the brig, reducing his sen­tence to less than six years, Lustberg said. He will be deported when he is released. 
Prosecutors had argued for the maximum sentence, pre­senting testimony to show al­Marri is still a threat to the 
U.S. They have 10 days to appeal the sentence but said no decision on that has been made. 
Al-Marri admitted he trained in al-Qaida camps and stayed in al-Qaida safe houses in Pakistan between 1998 and 2001. He also acknowledged having regular contact with Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the man who the government said was the mastermind behind the Sept. 11 attacks, and with Mustafa Ahmad al-Hawsawi, who allegedly helped the Sept. 11 hijackers with money and Western-style clothing. 
He was arrested in December 2001 while a gradu­ate student at Bradley University in central Illinois. In 2003, President Bush declared him an enemy combatant, one of three held on U.S. soil since the 2001 attacks. 
After the U.S. Supreme Court agreed in December 2008 to consider al-Marri's challenge of his status, President Barack Obama ordered him surren­dered to civilian authorities in Peoria, where Bradley is locat­ed. 
No evidence has been shown that al-Marri had a specific al­Qaida mission in the United States, and Mihm said he doubts there was one. 


Friday, October 30, 2009 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Conununity college enrollment grows 
~4$/ --:·· . . it: . . . <: ···.·. . ... . . .• "' . . ·. 
DlLt: KREME,R: Sculptural Vessels NOVfMBER 1--UECEMBER,20,2009. 
Opening reception Sunday, November I. 2-4pm 
Gallery ~lks 3pm 
Parking avaUable sou1:h of the stadium 


~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 


FALL 2009 SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS 
SNITE MUSEUM OF ART UNlVERSrrY OF NOTRE DAME 
DARKNESS AND LIGHT: 
DEATH AND BEAUTY IN PHOTOGRAPHY NOVEMBER I -'-DECEMBER 20. 2009 
Associated Press 
Some are there because of 

the recession, and others 
despite it. Regardless. more 
young Americans than ever are 
in college -especially commu­
nity college, according to a new 
report. 
A record high of about 11.5 million Americans age 18 to 24, or nearly 40 percent, attended college in October 2008, according to a study of Census data released Thursday by the Pew Research Center. Virtually all the increase of 300,000 stu­dents over the previous year came at two-year schools, while attendance at four-year schools remained flat. 
Community colleges almost certainly saw attendance go up at least that much again this year, though final figures are not yet available. The American Association of Community Colleges reports growth rates of 10 percent and higher have been common this fall on many campuses. 
Overall college attendance has been going up for about 30 years; what's new is the sharp uptick at community colleges, driven in large part by reces­sionary bargain hunting and closer ties between two-and 
of $25,000 and get your general 
education credits out of the way 
and then transfer, it makes 
more sense." 
For Grace, Wake Tech is about one-third the price of a public four-year coJlege. By sav­ing money up front, he hopes to stretch out his Montgomery GI Bill benefits long enough to cover a master's degree, too. 
Wake's enrollment is up 11 percent this year, on top of a 14 percent increase in 2008. Classes are crowded, but rigor­ous. Grace thinks some are harder than at N.C. State because the community college is determined that its graduates succeed after they transfer. Grace's sister tried to persuade him he'd be missing out on dorm life and other experiences at a commuter college. but he disagreed. 
"I've lived in barracks before," said the Afghanistan veteran. "I don't want to party my way through school. I just want to go through school and get my degree." 
Richard Fry, the report's author, said another factor behind community college growth is the steadily increas­ing proportion of young adults who have completed high school, which hit a record high of nearly 85 percent last 
four-year coJleges that give stu­October. That means more stu­dents more confidence they'll dents are eligible to pursue be able to transfer. higher education, but most of "It's not just middle-aged peo­the growth is coming from stu­
ple coming back to school and very poor peo­ple any more," 
said Mike ../ don't want to party Grace, 24, a my way through
student at Wake 
school. I just want to go
Technical 
Community through school and get College in my degree.,. Raleigh, N.C., who plans to 
Mike Grace
transfer to nearby North student, Wake Technical 
Carolina State Community College 

~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME
5 t'!.!!~ART 
Please recycle The Observer. 
next  spring.  
''I'm  seeing  
what  I  would  

consider to be relatively rich kids coming to school." 
As a broader range of tradi­tional-age college students choose a community college, "it doesn't have the stigma it once did," Grace said. 
Last year, nearly 12 percent of all 18-to 24-year-olds, or 3.4 million, were enrolled in com­munity colleges, up from 10.9 percent the year before. 
The relative economic advan­tages of at least starting a degree at a community college have widened as prices at four­year colleges have shot up much faster. 
Average tuition and fees at public two-year colleges ran just $2,372 this year, according to a study released last week by the College Board, compared to $7,020 at public four-year col­leges and more than $26,000 at private ones. Once government grants and other aid arc fac­tored in, community colleges are essentially tuition-free to the average student, though liv­ing expenses and books remain. 
.. People have less money," said Hope Davis, a spokes­woman for the Community College of Baltimore County in Maryland, where enrollment is up about 14 percent this year. "Jf you can go to community college and pay $2,500 instead dents whose aca­demic qualifica­tions make them more likely to start at two-year school. 
While it's good news more stu­dents are enrolled in col­lege, the Census figures say noth­
ing  about  
whether  over­ 
crowded  two­ 

year institutions will succeed in getting students the credentials 

they seek or helping them transfer to bachelor's degree programs. 
Many are bursting at the seams, cutting some courses to meet budgets and holding oth­ers late at night. It's impossible to say how many have been turned away for lack of space (California estimates about 200,000 in that state alone). 
Baltimore County colleges have turned student lounges into classrooms and asked stu­dents to take classes during more unpopular time slots ­early mornings and Friday nights, for instance. At least one college, Bunker Hill Community College in Boston, is holding some classes between midnight and 2:30a.m. 
President Barack Obama has made community colleges the centerpiece of his goal for every American to have at least some higher education credential by 2020, and earlier this year pro­posed spending $12 billion over the next decade to help commu­nity colleges graduate an addi­tional 5 million people . 
The House responded last month by passing a student aid bill that ineluded about $10 bil­lion in initiatives directly focused on community colleges. The Senate has not yet taken up the proposal. 
p

page 10 Friday, October 30, 2009 



THE OBSERVER A Notre Dame love story 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
ScENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT M\RY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bca 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: }a<;lyn Espinoza 
CoNTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTF.MS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshatfel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY's DesK 
acharnO1 @saimmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISffiATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the righr to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accuratdy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contacr information. 
Qrmtions regarding Obserwrpolicies should be directed to Editor-in-Chiiffmn Mttz. 
POST 0FRCE INFORMATION 

Tho Obs<rver (USPS 599 24000) is published Mood>y thtQugh Friday except dunng exam and .-aacion paiods. A>Ubscription ro The Oboervcr is $120 k>r one academic year; S6'5 fur one !it'mtuet. 
Tho Ob..:m:r is publish..! or: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining H.!l Send addrc:si <:orr«tions 10: 
Nntr< Dam<. IN 465S6--0779 ThoOb..:m!r 
Pcriudlcal po«age p.aid at Notte Dame P.O.&x179 and addiriorul mailing olfKtS. {124 South Dininf! Hall 

Notre Dame, IN ~S56-ll779 
Tho Oboervcr is a 111<1ubcr uf the Aauciar.d I'I<SL All rc:produ..-<iofr right> ...., reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports 
Madeline Buckley Alex Barker Laura McCrystal Jared J edick Megan Doyle Christopher 
Graphics Masoud Jaclyn Espinoza Viewpoint Scene Michelle Maitz Adriana Pratt 
In this column, "The Notre Dame They Know,,, I will interview individuals who have been influenced by the University ofNotre Dame. 
I will seek to discover the unique role 
that Notre Dame  
has played in their life and  Thomas Bounds  
vocational  
journey. It is hoped that this column will  The Notre Dame they know  
inculcate a  

deeper, more honest and more profound love for Our Lady and Her University. 
A cool autumn breeze rustles the yel­lowing leaves and blows the ebullient screams of children down an asphalt drive just north of campus. At the end of this road, a playground dotted with kids is surrounded by the brown brick apart­ments of University Village. 
Turning right to building D and climb­ing two flights of stairs. a white door decorated with pictures of one of these tykes stands ajar. 
Jacob Haley, every bit of four years old, grabs onto the doorknob and peers up through the opening. Inside, his mom Danielle, sporting a pink top and a big smile. is preparing dinner seven months pregnant. Kevin, her husband, a gradu­ate student in the Theology Department, is helping get things ready around the house. 
After a delicious dinner, and over the playful utterances and gestures of their son, Danielle and Kevin begin their story: 
"Kevin and I both started here in 1999. We became good friends fresh­man year through folk choir. 
"I fell in love right away. Kevin was discerning a call to the priesthood." The two quickly formed a deep emo­tional and spiritual bond. 
"Friendship was a great blessing for us," Danielle says, "but at the same time it warranted courage when I developed romantic feelings for him." 
This deep friendship, until then pos­sessing only a one-sided romantic inter­est, blossomed dramatically around Easter of 2002. 
Kevin recalls, "All of a sudden ... dur­ing one week, I started falling for her. Soon after ... I fell in love with her and wanted to marry her." 
Reflecting on this great blessing, Kevin and Danielle express thankfulness that their relationship began as a friendship: "When we started dating romantically, it wasn't dependent on those fuzzy feel­good moments. In times when we weren't feeling especially romantic, our friendship carried us, and still does in our marriage." 
Married in November of 2004, Kevin and Danidle reflect back on the changes in their relationship through its many stages. 
"The friendship and our faith has stayed the same, and increased," Kevin observes. 
Danielle comments, "Romance has changed in a lot of different ways ... there is now the thrill of domesticity ... we live together. We can make love. There is something to be said for whole companionship." 
On the joys and struggles of married life, Kevin and Danielle observe, "It's a weathered romance. It's cured with the challenge of being parents, and gradu­ate student life, and the sacrifices each of us make, which can contribute to and can also be a challenge to romance." 
"Marriage is a constant self-sacrificing in joy, and in the self-sacrificing the joy is multiplied. You find that ... when you see your sacrifices bringing joy to your spouse and your child, it encourages you to sacrifice more." 
Based on some of the unique aspects of their own lives, Danielle and Kevin are able to reflect on the value of purity and purity renewed in their relationship. 
Danielle and Kevin explain, "Neither of us were virgins when we met. Both of us had had experiences in high school that were detrimental for us ... these experiences stay with you, but there is healing. And in a good way they stay with you because they are resurrected. Whatever wounds that I've carried and then some have been soothed and healed by married love. 
"Because of those experiences we both had, it was imperative to both of us to protect our purity. 
"We also shared an awareness of the profound treasure that God had given us in each other, and we desired to protect it." 
To those interested in forming a rela­tionship, Danielle advises, "If you are a person of faith, going to Mass and inter­acting with people in religious environ­ments provide good opportunities to meet someone. 
"You should look for someone who takes time out of their day to go to Mass, confession, adoration ... it says volumes of a person that the rhythm of their day is planned to make that important. 
"Also, watch how they interact with others. Observe how they treat their parents and their siblings. They are their truest selves with those they have known most intimately." 
On physical attraction, Danielle com­ments, "That just has to be there ... If there is no chemistry that's not a natural relationship." 
For those in a relationship, Kevin rec­ommends "faith, mutual respect and gentleness with one another." Danielle adds, "It is important to provide that safe space for op(m communication­taking each other seriously, even if it might be a challenge." 
The marital union born out of a deep friendship has filled the Healy family with a palpable love. 
Reflecting the beauty of their relation­ship, Jacob, balled up in the corner of the couch, whispers, "I love you, guys." 
"Why do you love us, Jacob?" 
"Because you're my best friends." 
Tom is senior in Morrissey Manor and can be contacted at tbounds@nd. edu 
Kevin, a Ph.D. student in Theology, and his wife Danielle, can be contacted at khaleyl@nd.edu They recommend the book "A Severe Mercy" by Sheldon Vanauken for those discerning a vocation to the Married Life. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Intellectual debate outside classrooms 
The perceived lack of intellectual discussion outside the classroom is just that: perceived. I'm not sure how stu­dent government measured the intellectual quality of din­ing hall conversations, but I think it would be safe to say they didn't. 
I suppose I can't speak for all students, but I have had no lack of intellectual debates/yelling matches with my friends and roommates, covering such topics as health­care reform, foreign policy, international development policy, the existence of God, simultaneous belief in God and scientific findings, etc. But, since these conversations take place in dining halls and dorm rooms and no one makes sure to have a student government representative present at all times, I guess the fact that such discussions take place fell through the cracks. 
If you do think there's a lack of constant intellectual debate, it's because of the type of student that applies to Notre Dame. We are smart, but we care about purely nonacademic things as well. We'll write a 10 page paper in six hours so we can go watch the basketball game against Georgetown and we'll still ace the paper, and that's why I love Notre Dame. We're smart but not so far 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Tau can tell a lot about a fellow's 
character by his way ofeating
jellybeans." 
Ronald Reagan 40th President of the U.S. 
down the genius spectrum that we have problems with students committing suicide or other psychotic academi­cally-related violent acts. 
These stigmas also come with an Ivy reputation. This is the second time I've seen the "my Professor at Princeton says ... " quote in this newspaper, and I'm beginning to think the student government is suffering from an inferi­ority complex. Vice President Cynthia Weber claims in defense that we are not trying to become an Ivy, but in reality that is precisely what we are trying to do. This university is constantly comparing its academics, its endowment, the quality of its library, and so forth to those of Ivy League schools. 
Those are our benchmarks and it's not a shame to admit it. But in our efforts to improve we don't need to gush over everything and anything Ivy to the point that we lose our character. 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Paul Leuck semor off campus Oct. 29 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"It is not worth an intelligent mans 
time to be in the majority. B_lf 
definition, there are alreaay
enough people to do that." 
G. H. Hardy English mathematician 


p

Friday, October 30, 2009 page 11 




My not very sophisticated view 
Last November, two events occurred that nobody could have predicted a year (or two years, or three years) earlier. These two events have shaped the way that Notre Dame Fans, as well as all Americans, have thoughtabouttherr current situation for the past year just as they have been instrumental in shap­ing the careers and hobbies of Glenn Beck and Tom Reynolds (a.k.a. Irish Linebacker). 
The first event was the election of Barack Obama as President of the United States. Depending on your political disposition, his election was akin to either the second coming of the messiah or the beginning of the apocalypse (at least everybody agreed that it was the Book of Revelation). 
The second event (or events, I should say) struck much closer to home for the Notre Dame community. A year ago this week the Fighting Irish football team was 5-2 and about to start a stretch of games that many thought could lead to a New Year's Day Bowl appearance (sound famil­iar). Reaching its climax with the team's monumental loss to Syracuse, last November's 1-4 record (one of the worst non-2007 months in program history) sent bands of alums to pull out torches and pitchforks after Swarbrick failed to give 

Bob Kessler 
The 17th 
Grade 
Coach Weis the pink slip. 

Just as these events transpired in unex­pected ways, they also generated unantici­pated responses from people that inti­mately follow and are interested in the issues of politics and Notre Dame football. 
The election of Barack Obama, the man who emphatically spoke about bringing together a divided nation, further separat­ed the two sides ofAmerican politics with the opposition party even more hostile than in previous years. While it's tough to dispute the notion that Democratic leaders in 2007 were rooting for our soldiers to fail during the Iraq surge, conservative leaders such as Dick Cheney and Rush Umbaugh have seemingly been rooting for terrorist attacks since the day Obama took office. 
Likewise, while the abysmal results of last November's football games rightfully caused Irish Nation to question the coach­ing abilities of Charlie Weis; it is shocking to see the desrre that some in the Notre Dame community have for our team to lose games. In the same way that partisan pundits have been senselessly rooting against recent administrations' efforts to help and protect Americans, many Irish fans are seemingly rooting for the football team to lose more games so that Mr. Swarbrick is presented with irrefutable evidence that Coach Weis must be dis­missed. 
Ground zero of this baflling movement is Rock's House at NDNation, where anti­Weis support has grown louder than the anti-Obama crusade at Fox News. 
Supposed Notre Dame fans make ridicu­lous statements that indicate a hope for football losses just as news commentators such as Glenn Beck seemingly hope that the swine flu epidemic makes reality what ABCs "Fatal Contact: Bird Flu in America" made-for-TV disaster film made entertain­ing (lucky for me, I received my swine flu vaccine from the ever more trustworthy Chinese government). 
The most upsetting similarity between our partisan political problems and root­ing for Notre Dame losses, however, is the false premise that if the leadership fails now it is more likely to be replaced later, and the new leadership will have a better chance of succeeding given an even worse situation created by the very failure these groups are currently promoting (Are you confused yet, because l certainly am). 
In actively rooting against President Bush, liberal commentators like Keith Olbermann placed unrealistically high expectations on President Obama that he has come nowhere close to fulfilling. If the Bush administration had failed to the degree that Olbermann was hoping for, Obama would have stepped into office fac­ing even more difficult decisions to make regarding Iraq in addition to Afghanistan (decisions he doesn't seem pressed to make). Even Bush's small victories improved the situation for Obama just as each ofour football team's victories this season will impact future seasons. The 2012 football season will be far more diffi­cult for Weis, Brian Kelly, Jon Gruden or whoever is coaching the team by then if a 7-5 or 8-4 record this year results in 
recruiting deficiencies. 
Our ability to foresee what coach, play­ers, or schedule it will take to achieve a national championship is about the same as our ability to foresee the next kooky change that will be made to the Facebook interface. 
Because of this I propose that we less ardent, flinching and undercaffeinated Irish fans refuse to treat Rock's House as a true fan's forum. The board often operates almost as either the research arm or the communications arm of the radical Irish contingent that believes Utah is a bad football opponent and hopes Coach Weis will develop medical issues forcing him to resign. We can't have the Blue-Gray Skies and Cartier Fields of the blogosphere basi­cally be led by Rock's House. We should cheer for wins no matter how much some fans hope for losses, and we should be happy about wins regardless of the final score or quality of opponent (unless said opponent is Washington State or Western Michigan). 
Bob Kessler is a 2009 graduate and the writer of1hings Notre Dame Students Like. You can read more ofhis work at www.the17thgrade.com, and you can contact him at bob020787@gmail. com However, he will only respond to criticism about this column ifhe is granted a 
handle for Rock's House. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
In a perfect world it would be great if you could play 12 great games as suggested in Associate Sports Editor Sam Werner's "Football Commentary: Schedule for 2010 not acceptable" (Oct. 29); however the current BCS format prevents that from being a reality. One loss and you are most likely out of the title consideration, two losses and you are holding onto your BCS lives. 
The reality is that the Notre Dame football program, can't have a sched­ule that includes Alabama, Boise, TCU, Utah, Michigan, Michigan State and USC on a yearly basis. That is just asking your football team to go 9-3 at best and go to the Gator Bowl. 
The purpose of the program is to win a national title and you have to set your team up for success. Look at the title contenders strength of sched­ule (SOS) this year, in the Colley 
Scheduling perfect for BCS era 
Matrix Rankings, which are a part of the BCS computer rankings, Notre Dame's schedule is currently the 13th hardest in the country. Alabama's is 
37th, Florida's 36th, Texas 51st and BCS Buster and top five team TCU, is ranked 82nd. Now I want to look at the other pre-season BCS Title and BCS bowl hopefuls. Oklahoma has three losses already, granted this is partly due to the Bradford injury, but its SOS is currently 15th in the coun­try. 
Virginia Tech was a preseason top­five team which now has two losses, is out of title contention and needs help to reach the BCS. Their SOS is the sec­ond hardest in the country. In fact the lowest SOS that has a legitimate title shot is only the 25th strongest. In fact no team in the top 20 SOS has fewer than two losses. For Notre Dame to make themselves a title contender they need to lower the SOS, and unfor­tunately that includes playing some non-BCS schools to boost your win total. 
Granted the 7-4-1 system is not the best in the world but it would be workable if Notre Dame used it the correct way. Instead of using the one neutral site game on cellar dwellers Washington State or Army, we should use that game to take on a top level opposition. That way we don't have to return a road game, and we still get the great game on the schedule. This then gives us seven home games, of which four will be used on the tradi­tional games, which gives us three home dates to pick teams. 
As illustrated above you can't stack it with three tough games. If you do what Notre Dame has elected to do for the 2010 season and schedule two easier games (Western Michigan and Tulsa) and another tough game (Utah), you've got yourself a pretty good schedule. You would be play Utah, USC, Michigan State, Michigan, Pittsburgh and Alabama. While that in itself is probably too hard a schedule it would be in the mid-30s and give us a shot at the BCS. 
In the 21st century of football in the BCS era, scheduling has to change in order to give your football team a shot at a BCS bowl and in a great season a shot at a national title. While its unfortunate that we can't play top 25 teams every week, the new schedule will make Notre Dame a better pro­gram in the long run and that is what we all want in the end. 
CJ Kaltenbach semor Knorr Hall Oct. 29 


Can't fight stereotype with stereoptype 
Dear Meghan Dougher ("University of ugly girls," Oct. 28), 
I'm sorry to be the one to tell you, but your attempt to combat the Notre Dame female stereotype will fail miserably. In addition to being incredibly cliche, your article is ridden with hypocrisy. 
As a woman who claims to be opposed to negative stereotypes, it seems that your opposition only extends to stereo­types that include yourself. I'm sure the film majors at Notre Dame do not appre­ciate your assertion that "this last [opin­ion] needs to be taken with a grain of salt, however, since the speaker is a film major. He might be more into woman's fashion than most other guys." Meghan, I do not personally know any film majors. However, from your article, I guess I should assume that they are all ignorant? Flamboyant? I'm not quite sure. Steven Spielberg was probably a film major. I don't think he is into woman's fashion. But you assumed I would know what you were talking about because apparently you have a presumptuous, overall idea of what a film major should be ... which is the definition of a stereotype. 
You the·n blatantly stereotype Notre Dame guys. You say that we are "nothing special in the looks department" (a euphemism for unattractive, ouch!), and assume that all Notre Dame men are guilty of making negative remarks about Notre Dame girls' appearances. We all focus on "real or imagined physical faults" in females. Instead, we should "focus on the things that make Notre Dame girls awesom"l!" 
Meghan, when I meet a girl, I usually focus on her as an individual. Since you tend to judge people as a group, howev­er, I would love for you to enlighten me on the collective attributes that make Notre Dame girls "awesome!" In the spir­it of being cliche, you cannot fight fire with fire. You cannot fight stereotypes with stereotypes. 
And for the record, Meghan, I am male and attend Notre Dame, a "Notre Dame guy" if you will. And I am attractive. 
Jimmy Petrocelli semor off campus Ocr. 28 

_ ·:_ -_-_ ·.:·f__ >·;: .}--;:<::: ::: ::.::; ___ ::_.,:: ::r;-:( ·:..;;~: :-~ :-:: ><·:; :::-:-) :;: .:::··-.;·_·:--·::~;: :::L:_---.. -_.__ -:, :::·:.___ --:-:·:·· ·: __:__-_::_:· ... :~ :::. .:: .: · ·:;· ·::,:<: ..: ·.,:·::.: :: 
Subrilif(Jne at tK~~rl~~, ~~.:fid§fitt(")~~~ri}~r~
. ( . >%, . 
\.~ 


page 12 Friday, October 30, 2009 







MYTHICAL MATCH-UPS: ROUND 4 
FOLKLORE
MISCELLANEOUS 
By MATT BROWN meaty morsel. "He burned a little on the 
By NICK ANDERSON 
Sasquatch def. the Leprechaun
Scene Writer way down," Godzilla said, "but it tasted 
Scene Writer like success." 
A fine mist rolled over the arena as 
Paul Bunyan the Leprechaun awoke center field in Godzilla blasted his way to the Elite Predator def. Gargoyle Godzilla def. Hellhound 
Paul Bunyan has yet to break a sweat. the same clothes as the night before. Eight using superior firepower to van­Predator once again utilized his 
two first round matches without a Sober for the first time in the tourna­quish the Hellhound from this mortal advanced technology to slice the compe­
scratch, the fierce lumberjack breezed ment, he suffered a wee bit o' hangover plane. tition. through to the elite eight after the following his fighting and drinking After being forced to field questions all The alien metal that makes up gremlin and werewolf were both binge. The sasquatch, who's presence at Fall Break as to whether he truly Predator's blades proved to be extreme destroyed in the previous round. ''I'm his previous matches has been reported deserved his No. 1 seed, Godzilla came effective against the Gargoyle's ston pretty disappointed so far," admitted but not confirmed, remained a mysteri­out firing quickly reduCing the arena to a hide, the first time a hole has been Bunyan, "I sharpened my axe for this. ous being, nothing more than quick molten glass surface with a tremendous shown in the rock beast's solid defense. Babe even came to show her support. movement and strong smells in the fur­
display of laser beamage. The extreme The Predator used his bladed disc to She wants to see a little competition." est. After several hours of search for temperature and harsh environment, shear off a wing from the diving n asked about his next opponent, misplaced pot of gold, the leprechau however, did little to slow the hellhound Gargoyle, rushed the site of the landing he Sasquatch, the flannel-cloaked was reported missing. Witnesses as it closed in on Godzilla with a wolfish and made short work of the stunned fighter's mood remained sullen. "He claimed he had gone into the trees mut­smile. The Hellhound leapt at Godzilla's building ornament with his arm blades. hides in the tree. I chop down trees. tering about the night before. Afte throat and as he was about to latch onto Removing his mask, the Predator stood What do you expect to happen?" roared thoroughly examining the end of the the windpipe, Godzilla whipped his head proud in the middle of the field challeng­the mountain of a man between bites of rainbow, the leprechaun's disappear­to the side and crunched down on the ing all comers. his flapjacks. ance was attributed to the Sasquatch. 
'} 
J 
:i 
', ~ 
) \ 
' 
) 
•i 
i 
I 
LITERARY 


MYTHOLOGY 
By SZYMON RYZNER . Sphynx Scene Writer Intellect and wit weren't enough to save the Sphinx from the plethora o Cerberus def. Manticore craniurns held by the opposition. The battle was long, both seeds Despite a prior knowledge of the fought hard, but ultimately it was the Hydra's weaknesses' the Sphinx could 
resilient Cerberus who took home the not handle the headstrong attack of the "W." The Manticore had the advantage mythical beast. The claws and fangs of flight but Cerberus was surefooted the Sphinx couldn't cut off any of th 
and knew the Manticore couldn't fly Hydra's heads and the snappy strikes forever. The airborne assault was the Hydra destroyed the Sphinx. It heavy and consistent, but with its quick and the winner was clear; th three pairs of eyes the Cerberus never Hydra moves into the Myth bracke lost sight of the Manticore. Once the finals to challenge the unbeaten Manticore tired its wings, the mighty Cerberus in a showdown of the many Cerberus mangled the frightful beast 
Contact at
and on land it simply was no contest. 
nanders5l@nd.edu, Matt Brown at
hus the great Cerberus, guardian of 
e underworld has reached the finals mbrownl4@nd.edu, Eric Prister at of the Myth bracket where it will eprister@nd.edu and Szymon Ryzner at encounter the Hydra. sryzner@nd.edu 
Scene Writer 
Merlin def. the Balrog 
Taking a page out of his fellow-wizard's magi­cal book, Merlin did his best Gandalf impression by knocking oft' the top-seeded Balrog and send­ing the fiery demon to its doom. 
Merlin first did some lightning-fast spell-work and moved the field of battle to the top of a cliff. The Balrog had no choice but to follow and placed itself perilously near the edge of the cliff. Merlin then forcefully stuck his staff in the ground, breaking the clifT and sending the Balrog toppling to the depths below. 
With the lightness of a man 200 years 
, Merlin floated down the cliffs edge and stabbed the Balrog with his conjured sword, ending the championship run of the Literary bracket's favorite. 
The Dragon def. Grendel 
As he has done so often before, the Dragon used an aerial attack to neutralize the ferocity of Grendel, who was unable to land consistent blows on the flying lizard. 
The Dragon took off immediately as the match began, circling his opponent and waiting for the right time to strike. The impatient Grendel became frustrated, and attempted to climb the cliff to get closer to the Dragon. The path to the top of the was somewhat treacherous, however, and the Dragon took advantage, catchin Grendel ofT guard and knocking him over. 
Without the benefit of his speed and quickness, Grendel was unable to over­come the fire-breath and razor-sharp talons of the Dragon, who advanced easi­ly. 

MedUA ,, MYTHOLOGY
.,
£rdopes l ~­
S~ 3 
Sphinx

Cocltatric. · .;)1-__;;==----' 
Chi ......... -""-Griffin

-~---3~-----~ 
_ _...:.";;&.E=---_,' Hvdr: --r 


_ _;fa;,;;;;;,;;;;;UD;;;,.___~ -~...I,1----4--~-_. 
PaulBuny.m Ch~· (' Rnnmo''11Wl !
~J ~ .
-~~~L....: 
PaulBunym
---·--·
-~. ~~

Were\'t'Oif s --"~---·_.-} Wu.wolf Bve Loch Nets Monster .~ 
....._ . --"-~-------.J
i !<
----~--3--..--~Hn 
·){; FOLKLORE
Yeti ': 
. .. -}--..!! ti 

____ jenev Devil__________-__ e.___ ---.. --.., ~-:..::­
------~~·"-..
1mn.ah --~.;;--~ Upndwm 

S!acjuatdl 

&uquatchGeoie ' 
------------Geoie

lackalop! · _. r-------~ 
JACLYN ESPINOZA I Observer GraphiC 
-~011 
I 
I l MISCELLANEOUS 
II ~~ 
L_ ~---J---------.. 
t 

L ~-­
-~~----.-.~-~~­

Friday, October 30, 2009 page 13 

A<; Halloween roll" around, movie buffs and scaredy cats alike have an occasion to curl up on the couch with a bowl of candy and pop in a scary movie. But there are so many to choose from. The nigh endless list of movies deemed appro­
for Halloween runs the gamut covering everything from B-Iist horror flicks to timeless classics. Here is a li...t of rec:orrum~ndlatii[)IlS that oflers a little taste of everything, none ofwhich will leave you disappointed. 
"Psycho" 

This may not teehnically be mn..,jdercd a "horror" movie, as it falls more into the suspenst'Jthriller genre. Nevertheless, this movie's shower scene is arguably one of the scarinst momento.; in cinematic history. The plot of the movie revolves around Norman Bates, one of the creepie~i villains of the sil­ver screen, owner of an out-of-the-way motel. And to belabor the obvious the director of the movie is Alfred Hitchcock, the master of suspense. The suspense in the film gradually builds up into a wonderful climax that will have you leap off that couch and possibly spill your candy com. From its first shot to its last, "Psycho" is an aesthetic masterpieee and any Halloween movie night is incomplete without it. 
"SaiN" 

Don't let its five sequels fool you, the original "Saw" pro­very good thrill'>. The movie was notoriously low budget, making it even more of a Halloween classic. If you think seen all of the plot twists possible in a scary movie, think again. lbis movie's ending will have your jaw drop 
to the floor, alongside that bowl of eandy com. 
Ifyou have not delved into the creative genius of a ~~4~" Kubrick film, then you are missing out. like "Psycho," this movie features a creepy guy, Jack Nicholson, in a creepy hotel. Unlike "Psycho," this movie is full ofrich colors rartgutg from blood red to ghastly white. Thi'> movie is sure to shivers down your spine for no other reason than "Redrum." 
"Nightmare Before Chrisbnas" 
Theoretically almost any Tllll Burton film could be deemed appropriate for Halloween, but "Nightmare" takes a look what the spooky holiday is all about. A<; its title implies, movie i'> also a Christmas movie. What is unique about film is that it asks the viewer to rethink Halloween and Christmas. 1be two have more in corrunon than you think. While this movie may not be as scary as tl1e others on the ~1. it still has the power to traumatize children. Unfortunately it does not have a similar effect on college kids that act like dren. 
''The Descent" 

So you think modem horror movies are garbage and just don't make 'em like they used to? Well think again. movie's unique camerawork only add<; to the thrills. Its plot pretty straightforward -hot girls go spelunking and encounter a strange breed of predators. 
The original ''Thriller'' video 
OK, so it's not a movie, but the original video is about 10 minutes long and can be found on Youtube. Fun fact: It is directed by John Landis who also directed "The Blues Brothers." 
Contact Cornelius Rogers at crogersl@nd.edu 
Undertaking the formidable task of transforming Maurice Sendak's timeless gem of a child's tale, "Where the Wild Things Are," into a film, visionary direetor Spike Jonze has managed to pull ofT a faithful yet refreshingly original adaptation in wondrous fashion. It beautifully frames the dreamy youthful spirit that its source material so vividly captures thanks to Jonze's acute eye for the mindset of a child afraid of the world but eager to master it nonetheless. The result here is an imaginative take on an already wildly imaginative story that in the end is not a children's movie, but a movie that examines childhood, explores it with such glorious precision, and will tug at the youth and sense of wonder in all of us. 
The story follows Max (Max Records), a confused and sensitive young boy who feels neglected and misunderstood by his family and sets off on a journey to an island where the Wild Things are. These wild things, strange and curious creatures that capture the unpre­dictability and range of children's emotions, long for one thing: a leader. Coincidentally, or perhaps not, Max, at odds with his par­ents because he feels too controlled, hopes for a kingdom to rule. Crowned the king of the Wild Things, Max undergoes a personal ·ourney that allows him to realize the true meaning of responsibili­ty and the importance of family. 
The real triumph here is the life interjected into each of the Wild Things. Designed with a perfect mix of high-tech CGI and fur a paper-mache bodies, Sendak's original illustrations are beautiful­ly brought to liffl. And Jonze, hoping to put his own daring flavor into the equation, breathes life into each creature by giving eac of them its own name, personality and voice. It's the life he breathes into the ~reatures that ultimately sepa­rates the film from the book, as each of 
h e 
tures take on a tale their own at meshes wi Max , culminat­ing in a journey of self-discovery more grand and complex in scope than Sendak's version. 
The film somehow manages to be an original take on an original story, which, in the end will divide audiences. Lovers of the chil­dren's book will P,ither gaze starry eyed at scenes of young Max interacting with the mammoth-sized but children-at-heart Wild Things, or feel betrayed by the film's dissimilarities from the and how they might detract from the overall experience. 
It's amazing though, this new-age "Wizard of Oz" is, in its insight and trueness to what being a child in a dysfunctional family is real­ly about. \Vhat Jonze captures here is not a story but a feeling and a realization that comes with life's true experiences: It's hard being a family and growing up in such a scary world full of uncertainties and imperfections, but in the end, it's all a journey of the self, accomplished with the help and understanding of those dear to us. 
Take a classic child's story and put a faithful, yet new spin on it and you're taking a risk, but here, it's all gravy. Simply put, this is a true gem of a film. 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 
Where the Wild Things Are Warner Bros. Pictures 
Director: Spike Jonze Starring: Max Records, Pepita Emmerichs, Catherine Keener, Mark Ruffalo, Forest Whitaker 
JACLYN ESPINOZA I Observer Graphic 

r 
page 14 Friday, October 30, 2009 
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 

Badin and Ryan struggle over playoff berth 
Lyons hopes to break winless streak; Pangborn and Cavanaugh fight for postseason; Breen-Philips looks to earn first result 
By LEX DANIELS, KAITLYN 
MURPHY, JOHN HELMS, 
TIM SINGLER, MATTHEW 
ROBISON and KELLY 
ZENERE 
Sports Writers 
Badin and Ryan are ready to play the final game of their regular season Sunday at 6 
p.m. The Wildcats' reworked offense has allowed them to be competitive with league pow­erhouses, while a big win over Lyons will be the Bullfrogs' fuel in the upcoming contest. 
Ryan's work ethic is very apparent on the field. They are organized and disciplined on the defensive side of the ball, and run a very balanced, efficient offense. The Wildcats previously faced Badin's squad in a preseason scrimmage. While both teams were rusty, Ryan hopes their reworked offense and stifling defense will break the momentum of the Bullfrogs. 
"We're looking forward to seeing them again," said Badin senior captain Kelley Daniels. "They've improved for sure, but we've improved a lot too." 
The last game was certainly an improvement for Badin. The Bullfrogs steamrolled Lyons 36-0, boosting their record to 1-3. 
Daniels is confident in her team, her only concern being the long break. 
"Getting back into the swing of things after the fall break is going to be tough," Daniels said. "We're going to shake off the rust at practice this week and try to repeat the outstand­ing performance we pulled off in our last outing." 
Both of these teams are fighting for a possible playoff berth in the wide-open flag­football division, and the less than perfect records of these two make this game a must win for both. 
Walsh vs. Lyons 
Winless Lyons hopes to score their first touchdown of the season against Walsh (4-1) Sunday. Despite the difficult season that the Lions have faced, they refuse to lose their positive attitude. 
"Although we haven't yet seen the last two minutes of a game due to our consistent losses by the slaughter rule, we always look fly," sopho­more receiver Caroline Maroney said. "We'll make you feel really good about your defense, and our defensive line is guaranteed to bring the pressure." 
Maroney lamented the loss of 

CLASSIFIEDS 
senior quarterback and cap­tain Claire Connell due to a season-ending knee injury. 
The Whirlwinds hope to rebound after their season's only loss to Pasquerilla West. A win on Sunday could help improve Walsh's standings as they enter the playoffs. 
Whirlwind's senior captain Meghan Hadley cited the importance of her team's con­sistent offense, particularly by 
junior  quarterback  Amy  
Langnecker.  
Langnecker  hopes  to  

rebound from last week's scoreless game against the Weasels against a vulnerable Lyons' defense. 
Defensive leaders for the Whirlwinds include senior Molly McCarthy and junior Amanda Speigelberg. Walsh's defense will hope to extend Lyons' winless streak. 
Kickoff is Sunday at 5 p.m. at LaBar Field. 
Pangborn vs. Cavanaugh 
Playoff implications are on the line as Pangborn and Cavanaugh face off Sunday afternoon. Both teams have been fighting for their playoff lives since before fall break, and both teams have fought their way back to .500 to have a chance to earn their way into the postseason. 
Cavanaugh started out 0-2 with two quick losses, but seemed to have turned their season around with two wins in a row. The Chaos are led by a strong group of players, most notably two sophomores: quar­terback Rebecca Cink and wide receiver Brittni Alexander. 
"Rebecca has been able to scramble and run really well," Alexander said. "She's also made really good decisions with the ball all year long." 
Much of the Chaos' turn­around this season can be attributed to a long layoff in the middle of their season, due to a bye week and a rained out game. During this break, the team revamped their offense and changed their defensive strategy. The girls have now been able to salvage the sea­son. 
"Now we've put ourselves in position to make the playoffs if we can win the next two games," Alexander said. 
Pangborn finds itself in a similar situation. With a record of 1-2, the girls responded by getting a must win game against Badin, keep­ing the Bullfrogs winless. The Phoxes trailed for the majority of the game, but were able to come back keeping their play­off hopes alive. They now find themselves at 2-2 and are faced with another must win game against Cavanaugh. 
Cavanaugh and Pangborn will fight for their playoff lives Sunday at 4 p.m. at LaBar Field. 
BP vs. Howard 

As the regular season draws to a close, every game still matters as Breen-Philips looks to gain their first win and hand mighty Howard their first loss. 
Howard has amassed a per­fect 5-0 record this year. By maintaining a perfect record throughout the season, they climbed to the top of their divi­sion. 
This game however, could damper their season. They would not only lose the perfect record, but would also lose some momentum going into the playoffs. 
"Our final game against Breen-Phillips will set the tone for playoffs," Ducks junior captain Kayla Bishop said. "So we're looking to come out strong." 
By winning the final game, Howard would lock up the top playoff spot in their division. This game cannot be over­looked otherwise the Babes will be ready to seize the moment and steal the victory. 
While Breen-Philips enters the game as the underdog on paper, they expect nothing short of competing with the best and coming out with a victory. Despite experiencing a rebuilding year, the Babes look to end the season on a positive note. 
"This game affects our sea­son because we want to finish as strongly as possible," senior captain Stephanie Wuerdeman said. 
The Babes will be looking to improving on past performanc­es. 
"In this final game look for a touchdown on the Offense and some serious aggression from the defense," Wuerdeman said. 
To help their team to victory, the Ducks however, plan to use a striking strategy to complete their season. 
"We're going to look for our defense to put pressure on their quarterback and force turnovers, which our offense will hopefully capitalize on.'' Bishop said. 
The Ducks and Babes will meet at 3 p.m. at LaBar Field. 
McGlinn vs. Lewis 

When McGlinn (2-2-1) and Lewis (1-4) square off on Sunday, the pressure will all be on the Shamrocks, as Sunday's game is essentially a playoff game. 
If the Shamrocks win, they are in the playoffs. If not, they can look to next year. 
For the Chicks, Sunday is an opportunity to have fun as a team in the last game of the season. 
"Failure is not an option," McGlinn senior captain and defensive lineman Emily Dore said. "I believe this is our finest hour. Win big or go home." 
"We know we are probably not going to make the play­offs," Lewis senior captain Tara Gilbride said. "But the girls will be pumped and ready to go." 
To prepare for the matchup, both teams have been practic­ing hard to work out the kinks. 
"We've been practicing every week, running drills and such.'' Gilbride said. 
"With the last game in the mud and rain, we had a prob­lem with our aerial attack." Dore said. "But we're confi­dent our schematic genius coaches will put together the right formula to let us play to our best potential this Sunday." 
Both teams have also had to deal with a fair amount of adversity both on and off the field this season. 
"Our quarterback is out," Gilbride said. "And injuries and sickness will keep a few of our players out as well." 
On the other hand, McGlinn has faced on-the-field trou­bles. 
"I think we've worked out our glitches. I don't care if we don't win according to the game plan we have designed." Dore said. "We make a few changes here and there; all that matters is. what those girls can do on that football field. And what they can do is be full of heart and determination and that sure wins football games." 
The Shamrocks and the Chicks will meet Sunday at 2 
p.m. at LaBar Field. 
PE vs. Farley 

Sunday in the final match of the regular season, Pasquerilla East (3-2) will take on Farley (3-1-1). Both teams need this game to secure a spot in the playoffs, and who ever wins will knock the other out of contention. 
Senior Pyros' captain Tara Pillai said the team is ready to win, and cannot wait to play Farley. 
"This game is crucial for playoff positioning, so we will 
be ready to go." Pillai said. "Pasquerilla East has not made the playoffs in a long time, so we are excited to make sure we secure a spot." 
Some key players Farley will need to look out for are sopho­more receivers Kristin Mannion and Shelly Fuhrman, who both can get down the field in the blink of an eye, and freshman receiver Erica Chenard, who has brought her talent to the Pyros. 
Pillai has amazing confi­dence with these three receivers, and said that they will be scoring touchdowns. 
"Every play could be a potential touchdown," Pillai said. "We have a lot of play­makers on the field." 
The Pasquerilla East defense has also been working hard this year. Senior Liz Ruiz is a linebacker and anchor on defense. Also senior safety Anne Horst is a key player whose goal is to get down field and defend the long pass. 
"Our defense has worked a lot on defending long passes this year," Pillai said. 
Farley senior Caity Shepherd said that the Finest defense is going back to basics. 
"Defensively we're working on keeping our shape and knowing our zones," Shepherd said. "Our defensive showing this week was nothing of what it will be this weekend." 
The Finest offense has also been improving their routes in order to throw off the Pyros' defense. 
"Offensively we're working on running perfect routes," Shepherd said. "We may try to mix it up and show Pasquerilla East a little something differ­ent." 
The key players to lookout for are captain Emma Klosterman, senior quarter­back Megan Bastedo, and sophomore Katie Smith on defense. These three girls will keep Pasquerilla East on their toes in all aspects of the game. 
"This definitely isn't our last game," Shepherd said. "We are focusing on winning our last regular season game and getting a good seed in the playoffs." 
Farley and Pasquerilla East will meet at 1 p.m. at LaBar Field. 
Contact Lex Daniels at bdennis1@nd.edu, Kaitlyn Murphy at kmurph28@nd.edu, John Helms at jhelms2@nd.edu, Tim Singler at tsingler@nd.edu, Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu and Kelly Zenere at kzenerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classificds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for comem without issuing refunds. 
---------------
andersonNDrentals.com. HOUSES Home for VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? NO football weekends. FB Tix. Victorytickets.net Do not go it alone. FoR RENT 4 BDRM HOUSE ON 32 ACRES 1 mile N of campus. FoR SALE 57 4-232-0964. Notre Dame 
OF NATURE AND SERENITY. 9 Reasonable. has many resources in place to Looking for a quiet place to relax MILES NORTH OF NOTRE DAME. 57 4-360-0588 or FORD 79 T-Bird. 45 K miles. assist you. after the game? Charming rental $1200 FOR WEEKEND. CALL www.gamedayhousing.com. Original owner. $8000 If you or
PERSONAL 

unit for 2-4, beautiful view, free GEORGIA PEACH BED AND 574-299-0925 someone you love needs confi­canoe and kayaks with direct BREAKFAST If you or dential support or assistance, access to St. Joe River. Adults @ 269-357-6979. someone you care about pleas cali 
WANTED 
only, no smoking, no pets. See ---------------TICKETS has been sexually assaulted, Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or pictures on 2 BDRM APT CLOSE TO NO. PART TIME WORK we can help. Ann Firth at 1-2685. www.TheRiverGetaway.org or call UTILITIES NOT INCLUDED. CALL $14.25 base appt., HELP! For more infonnation, For more information, 269-815-3000. 313-382-0536 OR no experience needed. Need FB tix for family. visit Notre Dame's visit NOs web~ite at Great to stay for Notre Dame 57 4-386-3896 54684 customer sales/service. Will pay top $$. website at http ://pregnancy events. TWYCKENHAM 574-273-3835. 574-251-1570. http://csap.nd.edu support@nd.edu 












OUNDTHE 
ATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
Friday, October 30, 2009 page 15 
NFL 
NCAA Men's Golf Golf World/NIKE Coaches' Poll 

team  previous  
1  Oklahoma St.  1  
2  Arizona St.  5  
3  Washington  2  
4  Florida St.  14  
5  Stanford  3  
6  llfinois  7  
7  Tennessee  6  
8  Florida  10  
9  Southern California  g  
10  Texas  22  
11  North-Carolina St.  16  
12  Georgia Tech  8  
13  South Carolina  11  
14  Arkansas  11  
15  SMU  NR  
16  TexasA&M  12  
17  UNLV  13  
18  Michigan  NR  
19  Georgia  15  
20  TCU  19  
21  Oregon St.  NR  
22  Alabama  4  
23  North Florida  NR  
24  UCLA  20  
25  Texas Tech  NR  

NCAA Women's Soccer Division I NSCAA Rankings 
team previous 

1 Stanford 
1 2 Portland 
3 

3 UCLA 
4 4 florida St. 
7 
5 . . NOTRE DAME 6 · · · 6 · North Carolina 
2 ·. 

· 7 Boston Collega 
8 

8 UCF 
11 9 Rutgers 9 10 Florida 
12 11 Wake Forest 
5 12 Maryland 13 13 South Carolina 10 14 Santa Clara 16 15 Ohio St. 
19 16 lSU 
17 17 Virginia Tech 15 18 Southern California 14 19 BYU 
21 20 TexasA&M 20 21 Washington St. 23 22 Purdue 18 23 Indiana 
24 

24 Charlotte 
25 25 Penn St. RV 
NCAA Women's Volleyball AVCA Division 1 Coaches Poll 
team points 

1 Pe~tn st. 1492 2 Texas 1448 3 Hawan 1356 4 Stanford·· 1270 5 Wasbington 1209 6 ttnnoi$ 1139 7 Minnesota 1108 a Nebraska 1011 9 Iowa St. 982 10 Florida· 964 
around the dial 
NBA 
Bulls at Celtics 8 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA Football 
West Virginia at South Florida 8 p.m., ESPN2 


Associated Press 

GREEN BAY -For almost 20 years, Brett Favre was like a member of every Wisconsin family. 
To be from Wisconsin is to be a Green Bay Packers fan, and the fun-loving quarter­back rejuvenated the storied franchise, brought the Lombardi Trophy back to Titletown and turned "Cheesehead" from an insult into a boast That he liked to hunt, fish and, in the early days at least, have a beer or two, well, his birth certificate may have said Mississippi but he was Wisconsin to the core. 
No wonder an entire state is angst-ridden over Sunday's game at Lambeau Field against the Minnesota Vikings, the Packers' loath­some rival -and Favre's new team. 
"I have a real problem with that. It was hard enough to see him with the Jets. But to see him in pur­ple?" Tammy Rainville asked, watching her 9-and 7-year-old sons collect auto­graphs outside the Packers' parking lot Thursday after­noon. "I still believe he belongs to us," 
There are no bystanders in the ugliest divorce in Wisconsin history, with the mere mention of Favre's name enough to start squab­bles this week between old friends, husbands and wives, parents and children. 
Those who support Favre think he should be appreci­ated for all the fun -and victories he gave Wisconsin in his 16 years here, and blame Packers general manager Ted Thompson for his departure. Those on the other side say no one person is bigger than any organization, and that it's no longer possible to be both a Favre and a Packers fan. 
Especially if he's wearing a VIkings jersey. 
''I'm a Packers fan, so as far as I'm concerned, what­ever it takes to win the game. If it takes knocking him out to win the game, that's fine with me," Dave Meyer said as his wife, Phyllis, shook her head. 
"I think that's horrible," 
she said. "Brett has done so much for the community over the years." 
Wisconsin, and Green Bay in particular, has a bond with the Packers unlike any­thing else in pro sports. Oh, there are Bucks and Brewers fans across the state, and Wisconsin and Marquette each have their share of followers. But the Packers are like family, even for those who don't have stock in the country's only publicly owned professional team. 
The waiting list for season tickets has more than 80,000 names on it, and parents often put their newborns on it. If they're lucky, they'll get tickets when they're, oh, about 30. 
IN BRIEF 

NBA to investigate
Donaghy's accusations 
NEW YORK-The NBA says it will review accusations by former referee Tim Donaghy that were posted online. 
The league also says Thursday it has been reassured that an investi­gation found Donaghy to be the only official involved in criminal conduct. The referees say they are disappoint­ed but not surprised by their former colleague's actions. 
Donaghy admitted taking cash pay­offs from gamblers for picks on games, including ones he officiated. He was sentenced to 15 months for conspiracy to engage in wire fraud and transmitting betting information through interstate commence. 
Donaghy accuses fellow referees of misconduct in excerpts that appeared on the Web site deadspin.com. The publisher, howev­er, says it won't go forward with the book. 
Pujols says he wants to finish career in St. Louis ST. LOUIS -Calm down, Cardinal fans: Albert Pujols wants to stay in St. 
Loui~. 

"The fans know and the Cardinals know that I want to be a Cardinal for my whole career," Pujols told WXOS­FM on Thursday. "I love this city. The way that this city has embraced me and my family." 
Pujols, who has one year left on his contract plus an option year, raised some eyebrows with his comments during an interview with a Dominican radio station earlier this month. 
''J'm not desperate to sign a con­tract extension. I still have one year remaining in my contract for 2010 and a club option for 2011. I leave the rest in God's hands," Pujols told CDN 92.5 FM. 
The two-time NL MVP said he wanted the Cardinals to concentrate on signing Matt Holiday and other free agents first. 
Jeter's service honored with 
Roberto Clemente Award 
NEW YORK -Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter has won the Roberto Clemente Award. 
The Yankees captain was present­ed with the award Thursday before the start of Game 2 of the World Series between New York and the Philadelphia Phillies. The award is given annually to a major league player who combines community service with excellence on the field. 
Jeter is being honored for his work with his Turn 2 Foundation, which supports programs that help young people recover from drug use to a healthier lifestyle. He hit .334 this season. 
Clemente was a Hall of Fame right fielder with the Pittsburgh Pirates who died in a plane crash on Dec. 31, 1972, while trying to deliver sup­plies to earthquake victims in Nicaragua. He finished his career with 3,000 hits. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------... 
i 
' 
I
I page 16 Friday, October 30, 2009 
The Observer + SPORTS 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 

PW earns win with defense 
Pangborn dominates Ryan; Cavanaugh shuts out Lyons 
By KEVIN BALDWIN, 
BARRICK BOLLMAN and 
ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writers 

With the clock winding down in the second half, it appeared as if Badin was going to pull off a stunning upset of unde­feated Pasquerilla West. Trailing by six points, the Purple Weasels quarterback connected a 15-yard bullet pass to freshman Alice Yerokun, who then evaded a defender and ran 25 more yards for the improbable touchdown. 
The Weasels' defen~e then rallied to shut down the Bullfrogs' on their final pos­session and they snuck away with the narrow 8-6 win. 
"A lot of credit to Badin, they played really well, with inten­sity," Pasquerilla West senior captain Cynthia Curley said. 
The Purple Weasels struck first, with quick senior Lindsey "McManimal" McMahon catch­ing the Bullfrogs' quarterback off guard in her own end zone for a safety. This set a stan­dard for the tenacious Pasquerilla West defense who would concede only one first down in the entire game, and recorded several more sacks. 
On the offensive side of the ball, the Weasels used an effective option run for numer­ous short gains, but failed to put any numbers on the board until the end of the game. 
"Offense had trouble produc­ing early on," Curley said. "We relied too heavi­ly on the run." 
to prepare in the meantime. 
"We're realJy happy with the undefeated season, but it means nothing now," Curley said. "Its all about the playoffs now, we're taking it one game at a time." 
Badin has one more chance to go out with a bang with one more regular season game on their schedule without the pressure of competing for a playoff berth. 
"We're out of the playoffs but we're not done playing," Daniels said. 
The Bullfrogs will play their final game on Sunday against Ryan. 
Pangborn 27, Ryan 0 
Pangborn (3-2) notched a win over Ryan (1-4) Thursday at Riehle Fields. 
The Phoxes came out swing­ing as junior quarterback Gabby Tate completed a 35­yard strike to one her favorite targets, senior receiver Megan Bescher. Pangborn never looked back on their way to the victory. 
It was a rough night for Ryan. The Wildcats had trou­ble moving the ball against the powerful Pangborn defense. Defensively, Ryan had trouble containing the big play ability of Pangborn. 
"Our defense wasn't able to get big stops, and our offense just wasn't elicking," Ryan senior captain Kenzie Bowen said. 
On the other side, Pangborn Hall had no trouble executing 
their game 
plan. Dual-
threat Gabby 
Tate had a big 
Badin's game, running
"There was just one

defense was in for two touch­
defensive breakdown 

control for a downs. She large part of the and that was all they also connected game, holding with sophomore
needed.·· 

Pasquerilla West Liz Pawlak and at the goal line Megan Bescher on two occa­Kelley Daniels for the other s i o n s Bullfrogs captain t w 0 
Sophomore Ryan Cooney returned an interception 40 yards up the field, dodging through a mob of defenders for the team's only touchdown. 
"We were matching them play for play," Bullfrogs' senior captain Kelley Daniels said. "There was just one defensive breakdown and that was all they needed." 
Freshman Ashley Okonta showcased the offensive side of the ball, running for many big gains supported by a solid offensive line that included the agile sophomore Carli Fernandez. 
The Purple Weasels will like­ly get a first round bye in the playoffs but, never taking their opposition lightly, will continue Defensively, the 
Phoxes stymied 
the Wildcats 
offense. Junior 
E m i I y Wurtenberger led the way with a fantastic sack. What was more impressive was that Pangborn was missing a few players for the game and still won, showing their versatility. 
"We really played fast tonight, moving down the field and winning back the ball quick on offense," Pangborn sophomore captain Julie Cooney said. 
While Ryan may have strug­gled this season. they still have enjoyed it and look forward to their last game. 
"We are going to have a lot of fun and end the season on a good note," Bowen said. "We have a lot of freshman with a lot of talent. I think we will be strong the next couple of years." 
Meanwhile, with their victo­ry tonight, Pangborn has a chance to play themselves into the playoffs with a big game against Cavanaugh on Sunday. They are looking forward to the game and are ready for the challenge. 
Cavanaugh 14, Lyons 0 
Led by an inspiring defensive effort and key plays from the offense in the second half, Cavanaugh beat Lyons to win their third game of the season. 
The Chaos scored the game's first touchdown early in the second half on an 18-yard wide receiver reverse pass on fourth down. 
Cavanaugh added another touchdown later in the half on a 25-yard touchdown from Rebecca Cink to Brittni Alexander. · "The receivers ran good routes and it all comes togeth­er when everybody does what they're supposed to do," Cink said. 
"We've been working really hard at it," Alexander said. "We've been running new plays. We communicated really well and it all meshed and come together." 
The Chaos offense sputtered early, but the defense made sure they were not trailing heading into the half. 
"The defense picked up our slack in the first half," Alexander said. "We didn't do anything and the defense picked us up, not allowing a first down at all. They were awesome." 
After winning their third game of the season, the Chaos will try to keep it going Sunday when they play Pangborn. 
"We're going to practice hard and we're going to bump up our intensity," Cink said. 
Lyons remains winless after losing to Cavanaugh. They were in it the entire game and feel they are playing their best football right now. 
"We played a team game out there and gave it our all," sen­ior captain Claire Connell said. "There was a lot of hope at halftime when it was 0-0. We played very well in the first half. It was an overall solid performance by Lyons Hall." 
Lyons has been decimated by injuries throughout the sea­son, but no members of the team had to leave the game against Cavanaugh. They hope they can get healthy enough to return some players for Sunday's game against Walsh. 
Contact Kevin Baldwin at kbaldwi2@nd.edu, Barrick Bollman at jbollman@nd.edu and Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


Cold Cut Combo 
$5.00 Footlongs Available 
OFF CAMPUS! 
(Including Locations Below) 
eat tresh· 
*SR 23@ Ironwood 
*SR 9 3 3 No rth *Downtown *Speedway 
SR 2 3@ Edison *Indian Ridge Plaza 

Quality Off·Campus Houses Now leasing for 2010 •2011 
•dose to campus •Washers &dcyers 
•
Student neighborhoods •Dishwashers 

•
Securi~ systems •2·10 bedrooms 


•lawn service 
We have over 100 properties-see them at www.kramerhouses.com klr more information call 
(574)234·2436 
Write Sports. Email Matt at mgamber@nd.edu 
Friday, October 30, 2009 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
with a smile on our face." Zahmbies on Sunday at 1 p.m. at of getting refocused and ready to ning backs freshman Trevor The teams will face offfor what Riehle Field. go after a two-week layover due Yerrick and junior Adam
Interhall 
continued from page 18 
After Carroll's season ended before break with a 2-0-2 record after a scoreless tie against Sorin, the three teams were left tangled atop their division. St. Edward's only loss was 7-6 to Carroll. 
After a close 7-0 victory to Zahm in their last game, St. Edward's is hoping to have a less nerve-wracking win this week. They plan to come out strong and make fewer mistakes than in previous games to eliminate errors that may hurt them. 
The Gentlemen look to senior free safety Mark Costanzo to keep the defense solid, and rely on freshman Rob Dillard to take charge on offense for their run­ning game. 
"Our biggest problem so far has been losing to Carroll, but after that first game, we really came together well," senior cap­tain Andy Nester said. 
For this game, Sorin looks to its freshman quarterback, Ted Spinelli, to continue leading the offense. His rookie status has yet to show, and the Otters plan to keep it that way. Senior Rob Gallic has also proven his abili­ties in past games, helping the offense advance toward the end zone with skillful runs as he fol­lows the bulldozer-like blocking ofjunior lineman Matt Gamber. 
"Look, St. Ed's hasn't been through the trials and tribula­tions that the fine men of Sarin College have been through," Otters senior Casey McGushin said. "We have made it thus far, and there is no turning back, so we are going to end their season, will be one team's last game of the season at 2 p.m. at Riehle Field. 
Fisher vs. Zahm 
Fisher (0-2-1) and Zahm (0-3) will meet this Sunday in a contest that will leave one team celebrat­ing its first victory of the season and the other agonizing over a winless season. Both teams, how­ever, figure to look back on a 2009 campaign filled with what­ifs and a record that could be much better with just a few good breaks here and there. 
"We've just caught a couple bad breaks," Zahmbie senior captain Jarred Carter said. "A handful of plays have killed us." 
Zahm has lost two games by seven points or less and will try to jumpstart their still-scoreless offense this weekend, feeling confident thanks to the 27-point outburst Fisher yielded to St. Edward's, whom the Zahmbies held to only 7 points. 
"The defense has actually played well," Carter said. "The offense has not been as good as expected." Zahm will need Carter to have a big game at running back behind strong blocking from junior offensive lineman Mark Pomeranke. Junior wide receiver Charlie Harig will also need to step up on Sunday to help the Zahmbie offense break through the Green Wave defen­sive unit. 
Fisher has also had a tough season, including a disappointing 6-6 tie against Carroll. 
Carter best summarized the overall tone of the game for both teams. "We're just trying to go out with a bang, that's all." 
The Green Wave will battle the 

O'Neill vs. Keough 
On Sunday, Keough (1-2) and O'Neill (0-3) battle for bragging rights on West Quad. Although both teams are eliminated from playoff contention, they still have a lot to play for. 
"You always play to win the game, but things get ramped up when you play your rival dorm," sophomore captain Ryan Cordell said. "Since we're playing O'Neill, it's not going to take a lot to get my guys motivated. They want bragging rights, so they're going to play their hearts out." 
The Kangaroos aren't going to go quietly and take the rivalry just as seriously. 
"We are playing Keough and it's our rival," sophomore receiv­er Julian Murphy said. "It's a pride thing and it's always good to beat Keough, so we have plen­ty of motivation." 
The Angry Mob plans to spread the ball around offensively. They are led by senior quarterback Matt Bruggeman and senior cen­ter and co-captain Sean Mullins. The O'Neill defense takes pride on stopping the run. They are led by junior Brian Koepsel in the secondary and freshman Robert Toole and Blake Breslua in the front seven. 
Keough has struggled offen­sively and will need to move the ball effectively to win. The offense is led by freshman quar­terback Chris Delillo and senior wide out Tim Lang. The Kangaroos have been fairly dom­inant on defense however. Linebacker Brendan Mulhearn and senior defensive end Charles Johnson lead the defense. 
Both teams face the challenge to fall break. 
"It's definitely a challenge," Murphy said. "We have two weeks without practice and need to get everybody on the same page again and looking sharp." 
Cordell agreed, citing the need to play fundamentally sound foot­ball. 
"Coming off of break, we have to remain sharp in all three phases of the game," Cordell said. 
Keough takes on West Quad rival O'Neill in a big game on Sunday at 3 p.m. at Reihle Field. 
Stanford vs. Keenan 
The legendary Battle of the Chapel is set to take place this Sunday, the annual football match over naming rights to the common lobby and chapel shared by Stanford and Keenan Halls. 
This game will be a "must \\in" for the defending champion Keenan Knights, who need a vic­tory of their own in addition to a loss by Keough this week in order to keep their playoff hopes alive. They will have their metal tested against an imposing unde­feated Griffms squad, coming off a 10-0 shutout over O'Neil before break. 
Though the Knights have relied heavily on their resilient defense, led by sophomore ball-hound PJ McHugh, throughout the season, their sophomore captain and quarterback Terry Mahoney is confident they have made the necessary improvements to bring the offense up to speed. 
"We need to get the ball in the end zone," Mahoney said. "The rest will take care ofitself." 
Players to watch include run-Weightman as well as wide receiver, junior Matt Spencer. 
Stanford will try to build on their momentum from an already outstanding season to secure a coveted first round bye in the playoffs. 
"We're pretty excited right now," senior captain Chris Gill said. ''We're hoping to end the season 4-0". 
The Stanford defense has played impetuously this year, allowing only a single touchdown in the last three games and intends to keep up the pace Sunday. Expect to see some big plays out of sophomore defensive end Kyle Obendorf. 
"Our defense is going to try to force their quarterback into throwing the ball," Gill said. 
Likewise the Griflins' offense has been known to dominate their side of the field, running back Dave Galiyas making high­light-reel plays on a weekly basis, but captain Gill emphasizes the importance of the offensive line. 
"They will decide how the offense does," he said. 
The only thing these teams are concerned with is the name that appears in the lobby that con­neclc;; the two halls. 
"Keenan's name is up there now and we hope to keep it that way," Mahoney said. 
The Battle will commence at 3 
p.m. at Riehle Field. 
Contact Colin King at 
cking6@nd.edu, Chris Allen at 
callenlO@nd.edu, Megan 
Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu, Allan Joseph at ajoseph@nd.edu, 
Barrick Bollman at jhollman@nd.edu and Kevin 
Baldwin at kbaldwi2@nd.edu 
7225 Heritage Square Drive Granger IN • 574.272.2292
aPanese Bistro· 
.sohojapanesebistro.com 

-----------------· 
1\L\P 

-~ Cleveland.~.,...--~L 
·tcl0t+lf•lll.........

,_ •••••lll .. +lll•lf,.t<lll•lt•lll1t•lt•III•••••••IOt+llllll················· •••••11+111•········· 
.
.

.. 15°/o Off
. 

~ 
To the table that presents this 
c .~ coupon 
. .=: ~ Valid Monday-Thursday, : n~>anese8isrro Friday &Saturday 4p-6p 
Coupon must be present. limit 1 coupon per visit expires 11/13/09 
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••~~•A•x••-~••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 

page 18 
\ \' 
\' 
I' 
\' \' MEN'S INTERHALL 
i' 

Battle of perfect records to begin 
By COLIN KING, CHRIS ALLEN, MEGAN FINNERAN, ALLAN JOSEPH, BARRICK BOLLMAN and KEVIN BALDWIN Sports Writers 
Morrissey and Knott square off in a match of unbeatens Sunday that will determine two division playoff spots. 
The Manor clinched a playoff spot last week by defeating Siegfried. However, if Knott falls to Morrissey, the Juggerknotts will concede their playoff bid to the Ramblers. 
Knott (2-0-1) has had a surpris­ingly successful season and will be well rested for Sunday's game. The Juggerknotts are coming ofl' an Alumni forfeit and a bye week. 
"We've had a very encouraging season thus far," Knott senior captain Aidan Fitzgerald said. "We're well-rested and very ready for this game." 
They will need to be ready in a game that determines their sea­son, A tie to division foe Siegfried put them in this position. 
"We were a little disappointed we couldn't pull off the win against Siegfried. We had a cou­ple of opportunities that slipped by," Fitzgerald said. ''I'm sure

li they were too. Both teams had 
I 
\ their chances. We've got to win. 
i· \ This is a big game for us." In their third real game and i~ fifth week of the season, I Fitzgerald believes the team is
) 
poised for a deep playoff run as

l 
the team is just hitting its stride. 

,.
\; "So far we've all clicked, it just hasn't been at the same time," he said. "I think we finally got it together. It's bound to happen sooner or later." 
\. Morrissey (3-0) beat Siegfried 9­
"' 
7 in a nail biter before break. The Manor looks to close out it'i unde­feated season with a balanced offense led by senior quarterback Danny Deveny. 
"We've used a successful aerial attack, but we'd like to mix it up with a run-pass mix to utilize tal­ent more efliciently," Morrissey senior Phil Yuhas said. 
The Manor defense stepped up holding the Hamblcrs to one touchdown last week. Freshmen led the charge as defensive end Taylor Stein and tackle Sean Baur made plays all over the field. 
The Manor will need their defense to control a Juggerknott team just hitting their stride. 
Undefeated seasons and playoff hopes are on the line when Morrissey meets Knott. Gametime is 2 p.m. Hiehle Field. 
Duncan vs. Siegfried 
The last week of the regular season features a critical game as Siegfried (1-1-1) needs a win against Duncan (0-2-1) in addi­tion to a Knott loss or their season is over. 

! 
Duncan, who is still searching for their first win in dorm history, is well aware of the game's mag­~: nitude. c "The goal is still to get Duncan's f first win ever," Duncan sopho­I' more captain Paul Scheel said.
I 
I 
I "That's the goal every week." 
I I I Beyond their quest for their first win, however, Duncan is more than willing to play spoiler to Siegfried's playoff hopes. 
"The team is very much aware that [Siegfried] needs a win," Scheel said. "We would love to spoil thPir chances, especially because they won the champi­onship last year." 

The Highlanders, led by fresh­man quarterback Chris Palmquist, have had a promising season for such a new dorm and Scheel believes there is a lot of momentum going into next year regardless of the outcome against Siegfried. 
"Our season was a positive build toward next year already," Scheel said. "A win would cer­tainly be better but we think this season has been a step forward, win or lose." 
Siegfried, on the other hand, has no time to think about next season. The Ramblers will need a win and help to move to the play­offs and continue their title defense. They are confident head­ing into the final game, 
"We're treating it like it's our biggest game of the year," senior captain Dex Cure said. "It's an early playoff game for us." 
Siegfried is hoping to avoid overlooking the upstart Highlanders by matching their intensity. 
"We know they're going to come out hard," Cure said. "They've been competitive in all their games so we're not going to be lackadaisical or complacent." 
The two teams will meet at Riehle Field at 1 p.m. with the Ramblers hoping to hold off Duncan and set themselves up for a potential playoff berth. 
St. Ed's vs. Sorin 

For two teams this Sunday, more than a win is up for grabs. For Sorin (2-0-1) and St. Edward's (2-1) it will determine who goes to the playoffs. This weekend marks the last in the regular season, so both teams have been preparing to step up their game. 
see INTERHALL/page 17 
Q 
The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 30, 2009 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles to face Kalamazoo in MIAA 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Wrirer 

The Belles will fmish out their regular season this weekend with a match against Kalamazoo Friday and a double-header Saturday against Calvin and Hanover. 
The Belles (9-13, 5-9 MIAA) will attempt to snap a four-game skid and get back on track before the playoffs. Their first chance to do so will be against the Hornets (11-15, 5-9), a con­ference foe in a similar scenario as far as seeding goes. The Belles had no trouble with the Hornets in their first meeting Sept. 30, claiming a 3-1 win behind come-from-behind victo­ries in the first and third sets. However, the Hornets have momentum after a 3-1 victory over Olivet, whereas the Belles are reeling from a 3-0 sweep at the hands of Albion on Senior Night. In that match, junior Stephanie Bodien and senior captain Lorna Slupczynski led the way with 10 and nine kills, respectively. 
The Belles will remain on the road when they travel to Angola, Mich. Saturday for the conclu­sion oftheir conference schedule against Calvin. The Knights sit near the top of the MIAA stand­ings with an impressive 12-2 record. Their only two losses came against undefeated Hope, who holds the top spot in the conference. 
Immediately following the Calvin match, the Belles will fin­ish the regular season with a non-conference showdown against Hanover. The Panthers (5-2, 12-13) come in with some momentum, having won their last five matches, most recently a 3-0 sweep of Transylvania. The first round of the MIAA playoffs is scheduled to begin Nov. 3. The Belles hope to improve on last season's per­formance when they were elimi­nated by Adrian in the first round. 
Should the Belles advance, the semifinals and finals will be the following Friday and Saturday. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 


Kramer Houses It's How You Want to Live! 
PLENTY OF ROOM 
• spacious rooms 
• multiple bathrooms 
• 
big yards with lawn service 

• 
aU houses have decks or porches 


CONVENIENCE 
• dose to ~mpus 
• dose tooff-campus restaurants &shopping 
• dependable 24-hour maintenance 
• no more trips to laundry room ~ 
washer & dryer in every house 
PRIVACY 
• 2 *to bedroom houses (your own bedroom!) 
• No neighbor on the 
other side of your wall 
Ask about our$200 signing bonus 



Visit the new ndsmcobserver.com 
Friday, October 30, 2009 
The Obserzler + SPORTS page 19 
SMC SWIMMING SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Swimmers to face Kalamazoo MIAA to begin 
By BOBBY GRAHAM 
Sports Writer 
After a respectable showing last week at the season-opening MIAA Relays, the Belles look to get an early jump in the confer­ence tonight as they face off against Kalamazoo. 
Considering last week's relays were non-timed events, this will be the first official meet for the Belles this year. 
Last season was a forgettable one for Saint Mary's, led by sec­ond-year coach Alicia Dombkowski. The Belles are looking to rebound from a season where they lost six of their nine dual meets. 
There is no doubt that the Belles want to start off the year with a win, but Kalamazoo has proven to be one of the confer­ence's toughest teams, and that trend seems to have continued into this season. Last week, Kalamazoo consistently posted top-five times in each relay while Saint Mary's highest finish was third place in the 1,500-yard freestyle. 
For Saint Mary's to be success­ful, it will need to get significant production from its freshmen. The Belles' roster is currently composed of 21 swimmers, 13 of 

Championships
which are entering their first 
year. 
For the team to develop into a conference power, something they have not been able to do for the past couple decades, these freshmen will need to play a big role early on. 
Tonight's meet is scheduled to begin at 7 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Contact Bobby Graham at 
rgraham@nd.edu 
By MICHAEL BLASCO Sports Writer 
After a two week break, Saint Mary's will return to action this Saturday at the MIAA Championships in Adrian, Mich. The meet, hosted by Adrian College, accounts for two-thirds of the total points allotted by the 

conference to teams vying for 
the top spots in the final 
MIAA standings. 
The Belles took fourth 

place at the other conference 
tournament, the MIAA 
Jamboree, on September 26. 
No. 2 Calvin took the top 
honors in convincing fashion, 
sweeping the top-five individ­
ual honors. 
Still, Saint Mary's is in a 

solid position for its best ever 
conference finish. 
"It's the best finish we've 

had at Jamboree," Belles 
coach Jackie Bauters said. 
"Adrian definitely came out 
this season with some fresh 
talent, but I think we can 
come back and compete for 
that spot, though." 
Saint Mary's is hoping that a combination of veteran leadership and young talent will be able to vault the team over its conference competi­tors. Leading the pack for the Belles will be senior captain Megan McClowry and break­out freshman Julia Kenney. The pair has led Saint Mary's in each of the Belles' six meets this season. 
"The team is looking to improve upon [last year's fourth-place finish) in the MIAA," Bauters said. "We would like to compete for second if possible." 
Saint Mary's will faee its stiffest competition from No. 2 Calvin and No. 7 Ilope, who each feature deep and talent­ed lineups. The Belles will need to rely on a group of sophomore harriers behind Kenney and McClowry to make ground in the confer­ence. 
"I'd like to see our 3-6 [runners! close the gap a bit with our 1-2 [runners],·· Bauters said. "If we can do that, we 'vc got a great shot of achieving our goals." 
The Bulldogs should be the X-factor this weekend. Adrian narrowly edged Saint Mary's at the MIAA Jamboree despite fielding a squad with­out any junior or senior har­riers. 
The 6-kilometer meet begins at 11 a.m. Saturday morning on the Championship Course of Lenawee Christian School. 
Contact Michael Blasco at 
mblasco@nd.edu 

Please recycle The Observer. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Team hosts celebratory meet 


ry over 
pool.  We  love  being  at  
home. We have a lot of our  
friends  and  
family coming  
when we're at  

Oakland 
University in 
their second meet of the 
year, after finishing second 
at the Dennis Stark Relays. 
Notre Dame recorded 11 
first-place finishes in the 
meet against Oakland, 
including impressive per­
formances from senior John 
Lytle, sophomore Peter 
Petrovic and freshman Bill 
Bass, who combined for 
eight first-place finishes in 
the meet. 
"We don't depend on a single person, because there's just a lot of scoring positions," Welsh said. "It
I! . 
) doesn't matter where you score the points as long as you score them. I think
iI 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Writer 

In celebration of the 25th anniversary of varsity com­petition in the Rolfs Aquatic Center, the Irish will host a double-dual meet against Cleveland State and Miami (Ohio) this Saturday. 
"We love swimming in our pool," Irish coach Tim Welsh said. "We love our 
--we don't depend on a

home. There is Dunnichay record. After defeating always an single person, because h a v e Evansville in their first advantage to achieved top meet, the Red Hawks fell to
there's just a lot of

swim at diving hon­Southern Illinois before
scoring positions. " 

home." ors so far gaining another victory over 
The Irish are this year. Xavier. coming off of a Tim Welsh "We're still "Miami is always one of 179-119 victo­trying to the stronger teams in the
Irish coach 
Friday, October 30, 2009 

NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish host first match at new Purcell Pavilion 
Meghan Matusiak was namedBy LAURA MYERS 

to the Big East honor roll 

Assistant Sports Editor 
Monday for her performance in the victory. 

Notre Dame will bring its Brown said the Irish have eight-game win streak into a continued to improve their brand new venue when they service game, which should take on Seton Hall and help out tremendously this Rutgers in the Purcell Pavilion weekend. this weekend. "I think in particular our 
Saturday's matchup with the serving has been good and Pirates will be the first athlet­this week in practice that's 
ic event held in  really stood out,  
the  Pavilion,  so  I  think that  
which has been under renova­tion since the spring. "It's great to  "It's great to be back in our regular locker room . .,  puts a lot of pressure on the other team. We can run some points on our  
be back in  our  serve and it just  
regular  locker  Debbie Brown  makes it tough  
room,"  Irish  Irish coach  for  the  other  

we're just looking to see where we're strong. We're looking for people to step up, wherever that is and say 'Ok, I've claimed a spot here. Count on me.' So that what we're looking for, peo­ple that say 'Count on me, I'm going to be good this year.'" 
The Irish diving team has been solid so far this year as well, sweeping the diving competitions in both the Dennis Stark Relays and the dual meet against Oakland. Junior Eric Lex and sen­ior Caleb 

season. Cleveland State was also the first team to face the Irish in the Rolfs Aquatic Center upon its inception, which is why the Vikings were chosen to com­pete in this honorary meet. 
"Cleveland State was here for the relay meet, but they will be much stronger Saturday," Welsh said. "They've got a good team and they like to win races. They will be very competi­tive." 
Miami (Ohio) has compet­ed in three dual meets so far this season, and come into the contest with a 2-1 coach Debbie Brown said. "We get to practice in there for the first time tomor­row so we're excited about that." 
But that's not all Notre Dame has to be excited about. The Irish (14-4, 8-0 Big East) remain undefeated in confer­ence play with three weeks left in the regular season. 
"We have high expecta­tions," Brown said. "We're so excited about the start that we've had in the Big East and we want to keep it rolling. I think the team is ready to do that." 
The Pirates (9-15, 3-5) and the Scarlet Knights (8-15, 1-7) have both struggled in 2009. Seton Hall is coming off of a 3-0 win Sunday over Rutgers, which has lost its last five games. Pirate outside hitter 
teams." Brown did not point to a specif­ic focus for either game. 
"The big challenge for us is just to continue to play at a consistently high level," she said. "That was one of our goals in the preseason, that we wouldn't have a lot of fluc­tuations in our play, and I've been really pleased with how the team has done that so we just want to continue that. 
"I don't want to say that we're cocky about it. I think we're confident and we're playing on a good level. I think if we continue to exe­cute we'll be in a good place." 
The Irish will play Seton Hall Saturday at 2 p.m. and Rutgers Sunday at 1 p.m. 
C...ontact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
learn what 
our teams 
about," Welsh said. "It's a large team and a large freshman class, so we're looking to see how we're improving, where we're strong, and what we need to do. It's def­initely an educational meet for us and it's a chance to for us to re-evaluate our team before we go on the road next weekend." 
The Irish have seen Cleveland State already this season, as they finished the Dennis Stark relays in fifth place. The Vikings bounced back after that last place finish, however, and went on to defeat Green Bay in their first dual meet of the MAC, so we think it's going to be a very good meet Saturday," Welsh said. 

The 25th anniversary dou­ble-dual meet will take place Saturday in the Rolfs Aquatic Center with races set to begin at 2 p.m. 
"We race to see how fast we can go," Welsh said. "Cleveland State and Miami are doing the same thing. We try not to watch the score board. If we go fast enough, then the score­board will take care of itself, and if we don't, then it doesn't matter what the scoreboard says. We're just trying to go faster." 
Contact Eric Prister at 
eprister@nd.edu 

' l ') team, in a tie for 45th, at the Bridgestone Championship.
' 
Fortner did not even compete at 
I '' . 
,,/! ' that tournament, the first lineup 

;/'. . he has been left off of since arriving at Notre Dame. 
"Doug is going back in the lineup this week, which is great," Kubinski said. "He had a good week at hDme getting some practice in, sorting out some issues with his swing. I think he's hungry. I expect him to play reaJly well down in [North Carolina]." 
The Irish will need Fortner at 

I ' I i l  his best, along with Sandman, to compete in its first match play tournament since Kubinski's  
~  

~ 
Golf 

continued from page 24 
"The last two weeks we got away from what makes us Notre Dame, the repetition, the prepa­ration, discipline, and maturity," Kubinski said. "We started doing some stupid things out there -missing some putts we should make and hitting some loose shots. We are going to get back to how we play golf and how we started the season and focus on all those things that make us a good team." 
The usual leaders of the Irish, seniors Josh Sandman and Doug Fortner, have been absent from the lead in the two disappoint­ing tournaments. Sandman tied for 57th, fourth on the team, at The Prestige. Fortner's three rounds did not count toward the Irish score en route to a tie for 64th in that tournament. 
j 
Sandman finished second on the 
' 
arrival. 
"[The competition] is right in front of you, which is a little dif­ferent," Kubinski said. "You aren't playing for total score, you are playing against some­one. You are still playing the golf course, but it is more of a man-to-man match." 
Kubinski said maturity and confidence would be necessary to handle the challenges that match play presents. 
"The guys can't get caught up in what their opponent does," Kubinski said. "If he hits a bad shot, you can't try to play more conservatively and get off your game. The best advice is you have to play the golf course and follow your plan and trust your plan and execution will be good enough to win." 
Fortunately, the Irish do have some experience with match play, amongst themselves. 
"The truth is we have settled a lot of our lineups at home playing matches against each other the last few weeks," Kubinski said. "Just the fact that you go eyeball-to-eyeball with your opponent makes it more exciting." 
The Irish look to finish their fall schedule on a good note, with the hopes of heading into their three-month break with some positive momentum. 

"We played three good tour­naments, then we had a couple . where we struggled a little bit so it'd be nice to head into this three-month break with some momentum," Kubinski said. 
Contact Doug Farmer at dfarmer 1 @nd.edu 


Friday, October 30, 2009 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Leasing now for 2010-2011 
I 
ayette Square Townhomes 

3, 4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 
2 1/2 Baths 
Free Internet Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher 
Security System 
Located Close to Notre Dame 
$300Signing Bonus for 2010-2011 

Lease for only $350 per month, per student! 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
call (574) 234-2436 

Lewis 
continued from page 24 
Hillesland and Luke Zeller. McAlarney averaged 15 points per game and hit 42.3 percent of his 3-point attempts. 
The new pavilion, located on the south end of the Joyce Center, cost $25 million and adds a new entrance to the arena. It also houses a club seating area and a new varsity store and ticket office. 
Senior forward Luke Harangody, who averaged 23.3 points and 11.8 rebounds per game last season, rejoins the Irish for his senior year. 
UConn 
continued from page 24 
especially the seniors as it is senior day." 
Notre Dame, who has already clinched a spot in the Big East Tournament, will learn its fate Monday after the conclusion of conference play. If the Irish fin­ish first or second in the Blue Division, they will receive a first-round bye and host a quarterfinal match Nov. 7. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
Don't leave it Up to luck! 
Our Investment Services Department is here to help you1nake infonned decisions for yourfuture. 
Cotttact us for your cot~tplitnentary 
lnvesbnent Consultatiott. 
Call today/ 
Investments are= 
•Not 
deposits 

•Not 
guaranteed by the credit union 

•Not 
NCUSIF insured 

•Not 
tnsured by any federal government agency 

•Investments 
may go down in value 



Securities are offered through Financial Network Investment Corporation. a registered broker/dealer and member of the SIPC. Financial Network is not an affiliate of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union. 
Investment Services Center located of: 
111 West Edison Road • Mishawaka~ IN 46545 574/254·4416 • www.ndfcu.org 
Jndepenoent of the University 
Harangody was selected as the Big East's preseason Player of the Year. He'll be joined by sen­ior guard Tory Jackson, who averaged 11 points a game last season. 
Senior guard Ben Hansbrough sat out a year after transferring from Mississippi State but is eli­gible to play this season. 
The Irish lost junior guard Scott Martin to a torn anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) before the season. The most likely to play in his place are junior for­wards Tyrone Nash and Carleton Scott. 
Three freshmen joined the Irish roster this season. Mike Broghammer, Joey Brooks and Jack Cooley will supplement a Notre Dame team that, due to Martin's injury, lacks depth. 
Martin was a transfer from Purdue who sat out a year as well. He was expected to start. 
Lewis finished 16-12 last sea­son and 10-8 in the Great Lakes Valley conference. Junior guard Dennis Thomas, Jr. is the team's leading returning scorer, aver­aging 10.2 points per game last season. 
The Irish scored 7 5 points per game last season and as a team hit nearly 40 percent of their 3­point attempts. 
Tip-off for Sunday's exhibition is scheduled for 7 p.m. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Teams travel to run in championship meet 
By MOLLY SAMMON Sports Writer 
The season's intensity is 

picking up for the Irish as they 
travel to Kenosha, Wise. for 
the Big East championship 
meet Saturday. 
"Like many years, the Big East is again one of the most competitive conferences in the country for women's cross country," Irish women's coach Tim Connelly said. "It obvious­ly will be a huge challenge for us to compete well against great competition and have the chance to beat some of the top teams in the country." 
The Big East championship meet holds much importance in comparison with the rest of the season, as an exceptional performance is necessary to be a competitive team at the NCAA regional meet in mid­November. 
"1 hope that we can run sig­nificantly better than we have at the pre-national meet and at the Notre Dame Invitational if we're going to take a team to the region meet," Irish men's coach Joe Piane said. "Anyone can go to the region meet, but I won't see a need to take the team to the regional meet if they're not going to be competitive." 
The Irish women's team is ranked 30th in the country and expects to see tough com­petition from Villanova, West Virginia, Georgetown, Syracuse and Providence who all sit ahead of them in the national rankings. 
In the men's competition, Georgetown, Syracuse, Providence, Louisville and Villanova all boast top-30 national rankings and will be pushing the men's team to run harder this Saturday. 
To prepare themselves for the conference event, the teams held difficult practices during the mid-semester break. 
"We trained very hard, and 
very well last week during the 
fall break," Connelly said. "It 
was nice to be able to focus on 
running without a lot of other 
stressors and distractions." 
During this past week of 
training, the women's team is 
taking a rebuilding week to 
promote optimal health for 
Saturday. 
"This week we are focusing more on getting recovered from that hard work and get­ting ready to race on Saturday," Connelly said. 
The men's team has made 
some changes to the type of 
preparation they will be doing 
before the conference champi­
onships. 

"We've done a lot of distance training," Piane said. "We're trying to do things a little more up-tempo than we have in the past and have intro­duced speed into our train­ing." 
One challenge the teams are both facing going into the Big East championship meet is the struggle with staying healthy. 
"Many of our runners have battled the cold and flu illness­es that have been widespread on campus this fall." Connelly said. "We are hopeful that everyone will be able to line up healthy on Saturday." 
At the team's last event, the pre-national meet where the men placed 15th of 35 teams, and the women finished ninth of 3 7. Each team hopes to improve on those placements to be able to have a competi­tive team at the Great Lakes Regional meet and be able to send as many runners as pos­sible to the upcoming NCAA championship meet. 
"We have yet to have a race where we felt that all five scorers ran as well as they possible could, so we are look­ing for that this weekend," Connelly said. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 



page 22 
' 
1; \ L 
·.,. 
;J ,, Buckeyes
II·\:\ . 
t'l continued from page 24 
t:! 
I·,\ Boston, where they defeated
~:L 
defending champions No. 3 ~ ~l\ i Boston University 3-0. Notre 
~ '\ 
Dame then returned to campus
'' 
k and was defeated by No. 14,,, q, Boston College on Oct. 23. 
\ -~ ~ 
Last season the Irish won 

~ ':-' 
\)). 
\.'-.,_ both the regular season and 
\ .! • 
\ . postseason CCHA crowns, and 
\ .. ~ ' . they hope to continue their suc­
I . 
I' I cess, instead of replicating the 
!,·.• 

up-and-down pattern of late. 
"In the CCHA, once you start your conference [schedule], games get even more intense because you are playing for points," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. "Our conference is going to be really challenging this year, more than I can remember." 
Ohio State, selected to finish 

I '\ 
fourth in the preseason CCHA 
I , \ , ', I \ rankings, began its CCHA slate I \ I with a weekend split against I\ ' \ Lake Superior State. ' I "They are a tough, grittyI II~ I team, definitely play a physical
I.\ 
\ ( game," Thang said. "They com­
~ \ 
' I pete very hard, and return some very good players. I know 
d their goaltending will be tough to get some pucks by, and we've had trouble scoring this
!l year so we have to get a lot of things going." 
The Irish have indeed had trouble scoring consistently six games into this season. Whereas in the team's first three games last season Notre Dame scored 12 goals, the Irish have only netted 14 shots in twice as many contests this season. 

"Until we get the guys playing the way they need to play [we'll make changes]," Jackson said. 
Big East 
continued from page 24 
u~.· 
l.n.
6 North Carolina and No. 14 
), 
I 
Santa Clara, the Irish have been outstanding, allowing just four goals in the 12 matches since their last loss. 
"For the most part, I've been 

'! pretty pleased with the way we've played [towards the end of the season]," Irish coach Handy Waldrum said. "Early on in the season we struggled scoring goals, but we made some changes to the lineup and, start­ing with the match against West Virginia, this team has started to play well and has really put all the phases of the game together." 
According to Waldrum, the most important goal of this com­ing week will be to get his play­ers healthy. 
"The thing is, the Big East 

') 
' > 
I I tournament just isn't as big a ! I deal as saving our players for the 
( J
: l NCAA tournament," he said. 
r I 
I I Several Irish players havel missed playing time over the past few weeks due to injury. Senior forward Michele Weissenhofer has missed time with a ham­string injury, while sophomore forward Melissa Henderson, the team's leading scorer, just returned from a two-game absence in Notre Dame's last match against Georgetown. Waldrum said that both players' minutes would be closely moni­tored this week so they would be ready to go for the NCAA tourna­ment. 
I ~ 

Also, senior defender Haley
~ 
! Ford, a key component of a I strong Irish defense, figures to be 
' 
: out for the rest of the season with a torn ACL. As mueh as Waldrum would like to rest his ailing players, 
"Until I find that one missing ingredient to get the power play really effective, or to make sure we have three lines that could potentially score, I don't like making changes all the time, but until we start execut­ing the way we need to do things, I'm not going to stand back." 
Thang is confident the Irish talent will shine through before long. 
"It's just about doing the right thing, and they'll start go in," he said. "They'll go in eventual­ly. We have too much talent in the locker room to not score four or five goals a night. We're just waiting." 
While the Notre Dame offense works to find the back of the net with the puck, the mainstay of the Irish defense remains cloudy. Junior goalie Brad Phillips began the season as the Irish starter, but after an opening night 3-2 defeat, sen­ior Tom O'Brien took his place in the net. Since then, Phillips has recorded three more starts, and freshman Mike Johnson has started one, a complete game shutout of Providence. Thursday Jackson said he did not yet know whom he would start against the Buckeyes. 
"I am going to watch practice on tape tonight before I make that decision for tomorrow," he said. "I expect Mike and Tommy will both get a look here." 
With so many questions still surrounding the Irish, Thang and Notre Dame will look to erase some confusion against the Buckeyes. 
"Hopefully this weekend is our jump start," Thang said. 
Contact Doug Farmer at dfarmerl@nd.edu 
there will be more on the line in this season's conference tourna­ment than in the past. 
"If we hadn't lost [those games] early in the year, it would put us in a position not to have to win the tournament," he said. "But a couple of the other top teams in the country have lost recently so we are in good position to move up into the top-five if we can win this tournament. But if we lose, we might slip in the rankings and possibly have to go on the road in the early rounds of the NCAAs." 
The Bulls are one of four Big East teams the Irish have yet to face this season. Last season, Notre Dame hammered South Florida 3-0. 
"They are very similar to the team we faced last year," Waldrum said. "Defensively, they are organized and can create problems. They have a few very talented players and a good goal­keeper. They are winning a lot more games this season because of that." 
South Florida knocked off DePaul 1-0 in the first round of the tournament Thursday night behind a late goal in the 84th minute. The Bulls are making their first ever appearance in the Big East quarterfinals. 
Waldrum was quick to point out that this year's tournament will be no walk in the park for the Irish who have won 10 Big East titles in the team's 14 sea­sons as a member of the confer­ence. 
"The quarterfinal round has been relatively easy in past years, but this year it's going to be a tough one," he said. "The conference has definitely gotten much be.~ter over the past couple of years. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker@nd.edu 
The Observer + SPORTS 
Friday, October 30, 2009 





Friday, October 30, 2009 
The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
Across 29 _ammoniac (mineral found 

1 Informing, with 
~in" around volcanic vents}7 St. Nicholas 
30 Musical featuringgives one in "A Nubians Visit From St 

32 There can be aNicholas" 

ring in it or on it 10 Chances, briefly 
33 Attempts to get 13 Collie, e.g. help 38 Nigerian native 
14 Where cells 39 Insurance
don't work shopper's
16 Frazzled concem
commuter's 
40 Grp. that

comment 
discourages 18 Dot follower dropping out 
19 Punk, e.g. 41 Correo 430&A part
20 It may be ratsed 48 Wrestling event
at a table 49 One leaving in
21 Flicks 
the spring 24Lay_ SO Robert Louis Stevenson
25 Tent erector's setting
toot 51 Province
26 Airplane sign betweenimages 
Palermo and 28 Clear Catania 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
--"+""'+.......,-+~ 
....;;;..a..;.;..o...;;;..o..~ 
52 Serenades for lovers parting at dawn 
54 Atlas abbr. 55 Big decision 
makers 59 Take on gingerly 6D Domestic denial 61 Things often 
passed on: Abbr. 62 French!Belgian border river 63 lets have It 
Down 1 A.F.C. team that has won one Super Bowi 2 Not bring up again, as a topic 3 "The little 
Mermaid" villain 4 Oenone's peak 5 Part of a French 
face 6 Crew quaff 7 Prozac might 
treat it a Like some straw 9 "Silent Spring .. 
subj. 
10 Clearing 
11 Ancient Lusitania, now 
12 A.F.C. team that has won six Super Bowls 
14 Memorable catchphrase of 2007 
15 Big name in aquatic tricks 
17 Part of a French face 22 _ Helens 

WILL SHORTZ 

Puut. by Robert A. Doll  
23ltalian fasHood chain 27 Birthplace of Parmenides 28 They may interrupt meetings 31 Enjoy a spread 33 Ball measure 34 Gutrs cry  36 They're groomed in Hollywood 37 Grp. famous for its send·Ups? 42 L'_du Tour (annual cycling event) 44 Shepherd's pie ingredients  46 "I'm impressed, man!.. 47 Playground troublemakers 49 Like lions and tigers 53 Dots on some maps: Abbr. 56 Loosen, in a way 57 This, to Nero  
35Ache  45 Heineken brand  58 Rowdydow  

For answers, call 1-900-285~5656, $1.49 a minute: or, with a credit card, 1-800-814·5554. Annuat subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nylimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions· Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Shar& tips: nytimes.com/Wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.coml!eaminglxwords . 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Erika Eleniak, 40; Bryant Gumbel, 61; Jerry Lee 
Lewis, 74; Anita Ekberg, 78 

Happy Birthday: Stick to your plans and don't let other people sidetrack you with possibili­ties that have little substance. Focus on what's important to you if you want to advance emo· tionally, mentally and financially. Your intuition will s~r you in the right direction so don't hem and haw when action is required. Your numbers are 10, 17, 24, 29, 37, 44,47 
ARIES (March 21-Ap.;J 19): Offering your time, skills or service will take you into a new 
group that has a lot to bring to the table. The favors, proposals and knowledge you will ac­
quire, due to your kindness and participation, will help to establish your position. **** 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Show confidence and stability. Changing your plans because somecne else does will not leave you in a strong position. Refuse to let your emotions cause you to act impulsively. Your actions must reflect your own ideas.** 
GEMINI (May 21·June 20): Don't leave anything to chance or count on someone else to do your job. Put your priorities in order and finish what you start. A relationship may not be as good for you as you thought. Protect what you have worked so hard to acquire. ***** 
CANCER (June 21·July 22): You can have a new-you in no time ifyou make alterations 
to your lifestyle, appearance or even your skills --all bringing beneficial results. You will 
have a better chance to follow your dreams, hopes and wishes into the future.*** 
LEO (July 23·Aug. 22): A relationship or partnership is possible but be honest about what 
you are bringing to the table. Too much talk may give someone you are dealing with a false 
impression. Don't make promises you may not be able to fulfill.*** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): The most unlikely situation or set of circumstances will turn 
out to be the most satisfying and profitable. Trying new things will enable you to offer more 
to people you work with or who depend on you. There is money to be made. *** 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may face a learning curve but it will set you apart from ev· eryone else. Your intellectual input coupled with your unique skill to develop something with substance into something bold and breathtaking will win favors, friends and an ongoing respect. ***** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You'll have trouble getting your point across to someone you are close to. Question whether you are being told the truth. Sort through what's real and what's not and don't be fooled by false impressions.*** 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22·Dec. 21): You must stay on course and refrain from making any abrupt changes that will alter the way you live or the lifestyle you lead. Travel for pleasure will ease stress but will cause financial problems. **** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your intelligence and inmitive awareness will not steer you wrong financially or emotionally. Take something that interests you and rework it so it will draw interest from people looking to invest.*** 
AQUARIUS (Jan.20-Feb.18):You'U want too much, too fast. Don't mak.e a fuss if you don't get your way. Someone is trying to save you from making a poor choice. Listen to the advice being given and slow down the process until you have more facts. *** 
..­
PISCES (Feb.l9-March 20): You'll be in the mood to conquer and accomplish but don't be too quick to share your ideas, plans or success. Someone may try to take advantage of you. Put your skills to work for you. The slow and solid route will bring you success.*** 
Birthday Baby: You are inquisitive, intuitive and inventive. You have a strong sense ofjus· tice and take responsibility seriously. 
THE MOBILE PARTY UNIT
THE MOBILE PARTY 
Notre Dame Tournament of Champions Bracket 
Charlie Weis Buffet at NOH 
Jimmy Clausen______, 
Bottle of Hair Gel 
SMCChicks Atkins Diet 
Adderall 

Champion

Midterms 
SCHAD & FREUDE 
,-----Landsberg Camelback 
Business Students The Economy 

------SBPD 
Crime Campus Construction Good Use ofMone 



WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 

The Observer apologizes for the absence.,... of Scflad & Freude. 


THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two can1puses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year D Enclosed is $65 for one semester Name ____________________________________________ _ Address·--------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
JUMBLE 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
~:EA6K I I 
:=r
I:I::J:.:1:11 
IZULZEG t
CJ IIJ 

Ans: rI I I I JrI I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow)  
Yesterday's  J  Jumbles: Answer:  MERGE TWINE MYSELF JITNEY How the teens got along when they met at  
the pool ­ uSWIMMINGLY"  

JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mik_e Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
WHAT THE ROWER 
SUFF£::1<£:0 WHE:N HIS 
60AT HIT THE PIER. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 



Friday, October 30, 2009 
page 24 
HocKEY 

Seeing double 
Irish host Buckeyes for two-game homestand 
By DOUG FARMER Assistant Sports Editor 
The defending CCHA champi­ons will open their season with two games against Ohio State (2-4-0, 1-1-0 CCHA) this week­end. No. 8 Notre Dame (3-3-0) hosts the Buckeyes today at 
7:35 p.m. and Saturday at 5:05 p.m. 
"It is going to be good to get the Friday, Saturday games going again, playing in the con­ference," senior captain Ryan Thang said. "Get back to the type of playing style the CCHA is ... Some of the teams we have played are very different, so it's good to be back." 
The Irish opened the season with weekend splits against Alabama-Huntsville and Providence before traveling to 
see BUCKEYES/page 22 


ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Team faces USFin Big East battle 
By ALEX BARKER 
Assistant Sports Editor 

After rattling off six consecu­tive victories to end the regular season, the Irish will begin post­season play when they host South Florida in the quarterfinal round of the Big East tourna­ment Sunday at Alumni Stadium. 
Notre Dame (14-3-1, 10-0-1 Big East) earned a bye in the first round of the tournament after clinching the regular league title with an unbeaten record. The No. 5 Irish are riding an NCAA record 63-match unbeaten streak against confer­ence opponents, which began against the Bulls back in 2005. 
Since opening the season with tough non-conference losses against top-ranked Stanford, No. 
see BIG EAST/page 22 
't 
'>_:·. 
·, l MEN'S SOCCER 

Showdown with Huskies to determine conference champ 
son title. If Notre Dame wins resume. The loss dropped the shutouts alongside his 0.65 Dame. The Irish will have to
By MICHAEL BLASCO 

and the Huskies lose or tie Irish to a disappointing 2-4-1 goals against average. keep their high-pressure offense 
Sports Writer 

Monday against Marquette, the record in non-conference While Tuttle has had more in top gear against senior Irish will capture their third matches. success this season, Clark Connecticut goalkeeper Josh 
Four days after enduring one straight Big East title. In addition, Notre Dame will remained non-eommittal on Ford, who carries an outstand­of their toughest losses of the "I think the players will be be looking to finalize its goal­favoring one goalkeeper over ing 0.44 goals against average season, the Irish have to turn fired up with the chance of win­keeper rotation before making a the other when the team tries to with a .873 save percentage around and prepare for perhaps ning their third straight title," postseason run. Senior Andrew make a postseason run. while starting every game for their most important match of ninth-year Irish coach Bobby Quinn started for the Irish "Tuttle will play against the Huskies. Ford also boasts 11 the season. Clark said. "It is always nice to against the Spartans, giving up Connecticut as per our rota­shutouts on the season. 
Notre Dame (9-7-1, 7-3-0 Big get a trophy in the cabinet two goals on just two shots on tion," Clark said. "After that, we "You can't wish for anything East) will conclude its regular early." goal in the loss. Quinn has a 3-will assess the situation for the more than to be playing your season against No. 8 Notre Dame is coming off a 4-1 record on the season, allow­playoffs. We will not cross any last regular season match for Connecticut (10-2-3, 7-1-1) rough, 2-1 loss against ing an average of 1.2 3 goals bridges before we need to." the league title against the other Saturday at 2 p.m. at Alumni Michigan State. A win would against. The Huskie·s come into contender," Clark said.
i 
Stadium in a conference show­have meant a crucial non-con­Fellow senior Philip Tuttle will Saturday's match in first place "Everyone should be excited,
) 
I down that could give the Irish a ference victory for a team trying start against Connecticut, carry­in the Big East Blue Division, I I shot at the Big East regular sea-to build its NCAA Tournament ing a 6-3-0 record with four ahead of second-place Notre see UCONN/page 21
' 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

NO hosts Lewis for exhibition 

By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
New season, new arena for the Irish. 
Notre Dame opens the reno­vated Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center Sunday in an exhibition match-up against 

( ~ Lewis University. 
( ' 
i' The Irish finished last season
1 
r 
21-15 (8-10 Big East) and beat ' Hutgers in the Big East tourna­~ ment before falling to West 
I 
r 
! 
I Virginia. They made it to the 
I r National Invitational Tournament (NIT) semifinals but lost to Penn State.
' 
Notre Dame will need to

~ ~. 
. ~ ~ make up for the loss of guards 
I·. 
I> Kyle McAlarney and Ryan Ayers as well as forwards Zach 
IAN GAVLICK!The Observer 
Senior guard Jonathan Peoples dribbles past a Rutgers defender 
., 
,. see LEWIS/ page 21 in last season's Big East tournament. The Irish won 61-50 . 
i 
I. 

ND MEN'S GOLF 

Squad boasts top seed in tourney 
Kubinski said. "But it has been 
By DOUG FARMER up-and-down this fall. If we do 

Assistant Sports Editor 

things we are supposed to do, 
I think it'll turn out well for 
Notre Dame only has two us." days of competition scheduled When Kubinski described over the next three months, this fall as "up-and-down" he and those two days are was referring to Notre Dame's Saturday and Sunday at the strong start capped off by a Pine Needles Golf Course in first-place finish at the North Carolina for "The Match Fighting Irish Gridiron Golf Play" tournament. All but one Classic on Oct. 6. Since then, Big East team will be compet­the Irish have finished 11th ing [St. John's] and the Irish out of 13 and 15th out of 15 at have the No. 1 seed in the The Prestige at PGA West and tournament. the UNCG Bridgestone 
"Going into it as the No. 1 Collegiate Championship, seed, the expectation is we respectively. should be able to take care of business," Irish coach Jim see GOLF/page 20 

( ; 
j ·-.+;-.·............ 
~ 

.. 


--.-· 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 30, 2009 
(6-2) w 13-1 owake Fo~est 
COMMENTARY 
ND in dire need of dominant showing 
When it comes to the 2009 Irish. it's the journey, not the destination. 
I hate cliches, so. it pains me to start a column with one as 
much as it pains you to read it, but bear with me. Hey, at least I didn't use one like 
-,,D-efense wins cham­


pionships." Matt Gamber That 
thought·should Sports Editor 
cause more Notre Dame fans to cringe, consid­
ering the Irish don't rank in the nation's top half in pass defense (117th), total defense (97th) or scoring defense (64th). 
Sorry, I couldn't resist. 
But anyway, the Irish will enter the Alamodome Saturday 5-2, right where many prognosticators pre­dicted at the season's begin­ning. But would you say this season has gone as expected? 
My point is that to evaluate Notre Dame solely on where itis -with five wins and the No. 23 spot in the BCS stand­ings-would miss the boat on what's more important, which is how Charlie Weis and Co. have gotten there. 
If you've been halfway cog­nizant over the last two months, you know Notre Dame's last six games have all gone down to the wire, for better or for worse. Watching the Irish has been as exhila­rating as it's been maddening and as climactic as it's been unpredictable. 
But isn't that why we watch in the first place? If these games were a sure thing, col­lege football fans across the country wouldn't spend a dozen autumn Saturdays with their eyes glued to the televi­sion. 
I'm still puzzled at how a team with such a dominant passing attack can be so con­sistently inconsistent when the offense is given the chance to bury a reeling opponent in the second half. I still can't understand how a secondary with as many tout­ed, experienced players as Notre Dame's can make freshmen quarterbacks look like calm, cool and collected seniors as they shred soft coverage. And I can't even fathom why it takes until the 
Digthenew Web site? 
Let us know. irishinsider@gmail.com 


fourth quarter's final minutes for the Irish to play their best football, week in and week out. 
Seven games into the sea­son, it appears this is the Notre Dame team we'll see all year. But if we've learned anything about this Irish team, it's to expect the unex­pected. 
In most respects, this is nowhere ncar the biggest game on Notre Dame's sched­ule. The Irish have no tradi­tional rivalry with the Cougars and are nearly 30­point favorites over the Pac­lO's worst team, and on a weekend full of major college football match-ups, this one isn't getting much national attention. 
But in a way, those facts make this game even more important. Other than the obvious need to beat Washington State, Notre Dame also needs to dominate to build momentum for its final four games, all against bowl-bound teams with win­ning records. 
"Obviously we've shown some resiliency at the end of the game," Weis said Tuesday. "(But] we haven't played a full 60-minute game across the board, either. And this gives us an opportunity to try to do that. We'd like to get on top of them early and go hard for the whole game and see if we can't put a game together -a full game together on offense, defense and special teams -where you can walk out of the game with every­one gaining confidence." 
But back to that cliche: it's the journey, not the destina­tion. There's still a lot of foot­ball to be played, and the Irish have plenty ahead of them, including an outside shot at a BCS game if they take advantage of both where they have been and where they can still go from here. Nothing would fast-track Notre Dame's journey more than a dominating perform­ance over a Washington State team that is, by far, the worst on the Irish schedule. 
And considering what the Irish have done over the last two months, that would be anything but cliche. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
RECRUITING 

H.S. juniors to flock to Alamodome 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sporrs Editor 
Calling Saturday's contest an "offsite home game" for Notre Dame is more than just semaniics, at least for recruit­ing purposes. 
Because the Irish are tech­nically the host team in San Antonio this weekend, they are permitted to offer recruits tickets to the game. They may not, however, talk to the recruits after the game like they would after a normal home game at Notre Dame, Charlie Weis said at his Tuesday press conference. 
According to Irish recruiting analyst Mike Frank, the Washington State game will be an important opportunity for several of the top high school juniors in Texas to be exposed to Notre Dame foot­ball, in person, for the first time. 
"So many of those guys down in Texas know one thing, Texas," said Frank, who runs the ESPN-affiliated irish­sportsdaily.com. "If you don't go to Texas, it's which other school around the area do you end up going to? There's cer­tainly a lot of talent in the state, but [Texas coach] Mack Brown has done such a great job of locking up the talent down there before anyone can even find out about them." 
Because the Irish coaches can't actually speak with play­ers, and because most, if not all, the players set to attend are only juniors, Notre Dame won't expect to gain anything near a commitment after Saturday, Frank said. But it may give the Irish program a head start in recruiting play­ers in the Lone Star state. 



"With this game, players can come find out a little about you, watch Notre Dame play, watch the fans. Notre Dame fans are unique -very friendly, very cordial, very welcoming," Frank said. "That puts a very positive image of Notre Dame out there for a lot of the players in Texas to get a chance to see what Notre Dame is about. It's a place they have heard of but don't know a whole lot about." 
And while the players in attendance won't have the benefit of touring Notre Dame's campus and experi­encing all that is game day in South Bend, Frank said just watching the team on the field should be enough to pique interest for several of the high school juniors. 
"The players get a chance to be around that whole Notre Dame experience and get an idea of what the team is about," Frank said. "It's a chance for Notre Dame to show there's some athletes up here too and we're just a few away from competing with the big dogs down [in Texas]." 
Though the class of 2011 will be the main focus this weekend, the Irish staff enjoyed one major recruiting win this week with the com­mittment of Giovanni Bernard, a four-star running back out of St. Thomas Aquinas (Fla.), the nation's No. 1 high school team. 
"He runs a lot like [former Irish running back] Darius Walker. He's really instinctive and has great vision and a very nice burst," Frank said. "The one thing he does that Darius didn't really do is run for power. He~ll run some guys over, and he's got·a lot,of abil­ity catching the ball out of the backfield." 
Bernard might also help the Irish gain committments from a few of his highly touted teammates. Defensive backs Lamarcus Joyner and Cody Riggs and offensive tackle Brandon Lindner are also high on Notre Dame's list of priori­ties. 
"[Lindner's] a guy I think Notre Dame's got a real good shot at," Frank said of the four-star prospect. "I think he really likes what [offensive line coach Frank] Verducci has done with the line and likes the progress they have made." 
Frank also said Notre Dame has a good shot at the five­star Joyner, but probably not at Riggs, who has Florida and Georgia as his leaders. 
"(Joyner's] one of the most explosive players in the entire country," Frank said. "He's a great corner back who loves to hit, has incredible accelera­tion and is just a really explo­sive player. I'm not sure if he's 100-percent qualified for Notre Dame yet, but he's pret­ty close and hopefully that won't be a road block for him." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
Friday, October 30, 2009 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Mind game 
Junior Armando Allen has become a smarter-and better 

By BILL BRINK Sports Writer  Alford wants big plays out of his running backs, he said, and he said he'll be needing some  nobody really knows how much talent that we have," he said.  
monsters,  not  12-yarders.  Allen took it upon himself to  
When the Irish coaches told  Allen has been on the cusp of  display that talent. He asked  
Armando Allen and Golden  breaking away a few times this  Alford for tips to work on dur­ 
Tate in the spring that the  season when the last man in  ing the spring and summer.  
team would install plays from  his way snagged an ankle  as  "I said here are some things  
the Wildcat formation, Allen  he flew by, and Alford said the  we  need to work  on and he  
and Tate looked at each other  solution is simple.  took that to heart. It wasn't  
and laughed.  "Pick your feet up," he said.  something magical that I did,"  
"Like, 'Are we really doing  "It's not rocket science. Pick  Alford said. "The kid wants to  
this or is it a  joke?"' Allen  your feet up."  be good. He was asking, 'Hey,  
said. "But when we looked at  And Alford has stressed that  what can I do better? What  
the playbook, there it was, the  principle in practice.  can I improve on?"'  
Wildcat."  "We've worked on that a lot.  That improvement is evident.  
That's  one  new  role  for  They have a  lot of drills now  In six games, he's rushed for  
Allen. He's filled others this  that requires us  to pick  our  514 yards and three touch- 
season, too, evolving from  a  feet up or we'll  downs,  good  
shifty scat back his freshman  fall,"  Allen  for 85.7 yards  
year to  a  powerful yet explo­ said.  "We've  "I said here are some  per game. Last  
sive runner who averages 4. 9 yards per carry this season. Aside fro1n physical improve­ done a pretty good job at it in practice we  things we need to work on and he took that to  year, he rushed for 585 yards all season, an  
ments  and  running  backs  just  have  to  heart. It wasn •t  average of 45  
coach Tony Alford's practice techniques, which contributed to his play, Allen's improve­ translate over to game."  it the  something magical that I did. The kid  per game. Like any smart running  
ments came in the stereotypi­cal Notre Dame fashion: he got  Physical training, how­ wants to be good.,,  back, he's got his offensive  
smart. "In high school the plays aren't as difficult as they are  ever, won't suf­fice. To suc­cessfully imple­ Tony Alford Irish running backs coach  line's back. Sick of hearing the criticism  
in college," he said. "You play  ment the skills  for  how  the  
the game but you don't under­ acquired  in  linemen could­ 
stand the game. I think under­ practice, Allen said he needed  n't block when he saw them  
standing the game helped me  to  learn how the  defender  working hard every day, he  
out as a running back."  would attack him.  buckled down to prove that  
"If you know a  person the  they could.  
Learning curve  only way they can bring you  "When  I  see  those  guys  
Allen rushed for 1,095 yards  down is by grabbing your feet,  working hard every day," he  
and 12 touchdowns as a junior  then automatically your mind's  said,  "whether  it's  in  the  
at Hialeah-Miami Lakes High  thinking pick your feet up," he  weight room  or on  the field,  
School in Hialeah, Fla.,  even  said.  we kind of take that to heart  
though he missed three games  Getting inside the defender's  too." PAT COVENEY!The Observer  
because of injury. In the pre­ head helped him elsewhere as  The  Wildcat  formation Irish ruming back Annando Allen sings the alma mater with his team­ 
season before his senior sea­ well.  helped improve the look of the mates after Notre Dame's season opening win over Nevada Sept. 5.  
son, he broke his fibula and  ''I'm not just getting the ball  running game, which is aver­ 
missed the season.  and running left and right, I  aging 3. 7 yards per carry this  Catching a snooze  missed half the  season.  He  
Allen watched tape of games  understand where this ball  season.  Despite Allen  and  That's Allen's  hobby.  He  missed the three games in his  
of himself in previous seasons  should  go  and  the  type  of  Tate's doubts, the Wildcat was  sleeps  whenever  he  can  junior season and his entire  
and realized that since the  things my defenders would try  real. Once they started run­ because of how tough Notre  senior season.  
broken leg he was leaving his  to do to bring me down," he  ning the plays in practice and  Dame's practices are.  This year, he's struggled to  
knees low, making it all the  said. "It helped me  out as a  picked up good yardage, the  "Whether it's 10 minutes or  stay healthy while battling  
easier for defenders to tackle  runner."  team started taking it serious­ 20 minutes, you can always  ankle, knee and thigh injuries.  
him. This offseason, he  ran  ly.  catch me trying to get a nap,"  His ankle has bothered him  
stairs to  improve his knee  ,Spring training  It  also  started  a  debate  he said.  all season and kept him out of  
drive.  The Irish averaged 3.3 yards  between Allen and Tate as to  Outside of football. Allen  the  Purdue  game.  Against  
He also gained 10 pounds  per carry last season, and crit­ who got the glamorous posi­ focuses  on  his  family.  He  Boston College, he took a  hel­ 
without losing speed.  ics of the program made sure  tion.  checks in with his parents and  met to the side of the left knee  
"I think that's a  tribute to  they knew it. Allen took it to  "I think when you're the  brothers often. He said he's  that knocked him out of the  
him as a young guy who wants  heart.  Wildcat guy you're kind of like  humble  by  nature:  When  game, but coach Charlie Weis  
to get better," Alford said. "He  "We understand that part  the quarterback," said Allen  asked about individual goals  said it was still his ankle, not  
wants to do things right. He's  that we  have  a  lot of talent,  slowly, smiling. "That was the  against Washington State,  the  knee,  which  currently  
his own worst critic."  but from the outside looking in  big debate."  which  is  currently  114th  bothers him.  
against the run and allows 215  Allen wasn't too optimistic  
rushing yards  about  his  
per game, he demurred.  ..Whether it's I o  chances against  
He also demurred when asked  minutes or 20 minutes, you can always catch  Washington State this weekend.  
about  his  me trying to get a nap.,,  "I'm  just  
biggest weak­ going with  it  
ness he hemmed and hawed for a  Armando Allen Irish running back  day by day," he said. "I show up to practice  
minute, then,  every day like I  
"Can we  come  back to that  normally would and see how  
one?"  that goes, see what they allow  
Again, Allen is smart. He  me to do."  
referred to ·washington State  He called himself day to day.  
as a "trap game" despite its 1­ If there's a  week where he  
6 record. He knows that on the  might get some time off, this is  
road  -or at home,  as  the  it, because edge-of-the-seat  
case may be  -anything can  victories  notwithstanding,  
happen.  Notre Dame is expected to pile  
"It really  doesn't  matter  up  a  big  lead  against  
where we pla.y," he said. "We  Washington  State.  Allen  
could play in the street. We  wouldn't be happy with that,  
play at our field, their field,  but he has faith in his cowork­ 
just going out there and being  ers in the backfield.  
focused and understanding the  "There's never a week where  
importance of no matter who  I'm okay with not playing but I  
we  play, we're playing the  also know that if that was the  
football game."  case we have great athletes to  
get the job done," he said.  
A leg full of problems  A smart response from the  
Allen's had bad luck with  smarter running back.  
injuries since high school. He  

Allen busts through the line during Notre Dame's 34-27 loss to USC on Oct. 17. Allen rushed 12 times broke his wrist in the first Contact Bill Brink at for 51 yards against a Trojans defense that is among the best in the country against the run. game of his freshman year and wbrink@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 30, 2009 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 5-2 


AP: 25 


Charlie Weis head coach 
Coaches: 25 
5th season at Notre Dame 
career record: 34-23 at neutral site: 3-2 against WSU: 0-0 

Irish Offense vs. Cougars Defense 


Def. Coordinator Assistant HC 

C<H>ef. Coord. Associate HC 
2009 Schedule 

Sept. 5 Sept.12 Sept.19 Sept. 26 Oct.3 Oct.17 Oct. 24 Oct. 31 Nov. 7 Nov.14 Nov. 21 Nov. 28 
Nevada-W @ Michigan -L Michigan St. -W @Purdue-W 
Washington ­ W  
Southern Cal ­ L  
lb1on College ­ w  

Washington St. Navy @ Pittsburgh Connecticut @Stanford 
Head-to-Head 

NDOFFENSE WSUDEFENSE 
Swring: 30.00 ppg (36th) Total: 438.43 ypg (15th) Rushing: 132.57 ypg (76th) 
Passing: 305.86 ypg (II th) Turnovers against: 5 (2nd) Fumbles lost: 2 (4th) Interceptions: 3 (IOth) Sacks Allowed: 15 (7Ist) T.O.P. for: 32:I4 (16th) 
Scoring: 37 ppg (I 15th) Total: 499.57 ypg (I 19th) Rushing: 215.43 ypg (I 14th) Passing: 284.14 ypg (I 18th) Turn overs for: 19 (I Oth) Fumbles rec.: II (6th) Interceptions: 8 (41st) Sacks: 7 (I 12th) T.O.P. against: 32:13 (90th) 

Statistical Leaders 
NDOFFENSE WSUDEFENSE 
Jimmy Clausen and Golden C!J Tate have been two of the best z players in the nation regardless -of position. and should lead the ~ Notre Dame passing game to a:!-huge day. Hobby Parris appears .., to be out for the game so it will C be interesting to see if another z young receiver will take advan­
tage of the opportunity. 
Despite nagging injuries (!J Armando Allen ran the ball very z well against Boston College and:E should be in for another big games en in San Antonio. Robert Hughes also :::;) should be fine after taking a big hit 0:: to the head on a goal-line carry last C weekend. z When healthy the running attack 
has been one of the biggest 
tJ) As a freshman Nick Ben 
The Irish also should have great protection against the pass rush, as the Cougars have just seven sacks all year. This should be a great recovery game for a pass blocking unit that struggled at times against USC and Boston College. With time to throw and weaknesses in the secondary. Clausen should have a field day. 
Washington State's pass defense is 
improvements of this Notre Dame team. The Cougars have given up 215 yards rushing per game, so there should be open running lanes for Allen and Hughes to run through. The Wildcat could be an effective changup but may not be necessary if the Irish offense is rolling. 
Washington State's top tacklers are all in their secondary, a familiar problem 
Turk struggled 
:::E Tausch has been every­against Boston College and ~ thing most recent Irish Eric Maust should get some 1-kickers have not been punts against the Cougars. ...1 -accurate and consis-Theo Riddick and Barry < tent. For the first time Gallup continue to do a solidfd in the Weis era there is job returning kickoffs, and 5; a dependable leg Golden Tate had a nice punt 0 around to put three retu·rn against the Eagles. z points on the board. EDGE: NOTRE DAME 


Finally, a week where Jimmy Clausen can prop his turf toe up during the f(mrth quar­ter, where Armando Allen can nurse his sore ankle and where the defense doesn't have intercept a pass to seal a game. Say what you want about the pass defense or the playealling but it won't matter, bt~cause Clausen has to be salivating over this match-up. So. by the way, are Dayne Crist, 
Bill Brink Jonas Gray and John Goodman. who will -------see lots of second-half snaps after Clausen, Golden Tate and Kyle Rudolph blast open a
Managing 

big lead. The one statement that can be
Editor 

made in this game must come from the defense, who has a chance to dominate an opponent like they haven't done since Nevada. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34, Washington State 10 
abysmal, allowing an average of 284 yards per game. The Cougars do have eight interceptions. but have been picked apart by quarterbacks far less talented than Clausen. 
This should be a huge mismatch for the Irish, hopefully leading to some Dayne Crist throws in the second half. 
EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
for the Irish. Even worse. the Cougars will have to be wary of play-action with weapons like Tate and Rudolph, and will not be able to help in run support. 
The Cougars will have to choose to key on the run or pass, and the pass seems more like with Clausen under center. If that's the case, it could be a career day for Allen and Hughes. 
EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
Charlie Weis has the lux­Jon Ten uta should ury of being able to lean be dialing up his heavily on the runnin_g or usual set of blitzes Z passing game against a against a Washington 8° porous Washington State 
State offense that has J::I

defense. It will be interest­struggled all season !f ing to see if Weis looks to to put up points. ~ establish the run early or Expect a few take­spreads out the Cougars aways for the Irish. and puts up points quickly. EDGE: NOTRE DAME 


Finally this will be a game that doesn't come down to the final minutes. It should be a happy Halloween and trip to San Antonio for the Irish, who face a Washington State team that has no real threats and holes everywhere on defense. The Notre Dame offense should be able to score however they want to, and the only thing that might stop Jimmy Clausen"rrom 
Michael Bryan putting up Hawaii Bowl numbers might be ________ Weis putting in Dayn(' Crist. Look for the 
Associate  Notre Dame offense to  run the ball early  
Sports Editor  and often and for the defense to come up  
with several turnovers. Overall this should  
be a great game to gain momentum and  

hopefully learn how to put inferior teams away. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 40, Washington State 10 
QB JIMMY CLAUSEN IOO-I48, 1544 yds., 12 TD RB ARMANDO .ALI.m 71 rush, 365 yds., 3 TD RB ROBERT HUGHFS 30 rush, 158 yds., 2 TD WR GOLDEN TATE 33 rec., 602 yds., 4 TD TE KYlE RUDOLPH 21 rec., 267 yds., 3 TD SS C. NWACHUKWU 35 solo, I INT, 1.5 TFL FS XAVIER HICKS 23 solo, 1 INT. 2 TFL DE TRAVIS WNG 20 solo, 4 TFL, 2 sacks LB MYRON BECK 17 solo, 2 INT CB BRANDON JONES 25 solo, 2 TFL, I INT 

For more matchups and pregam
IRISH•INSIDER
--·~ -------~T----· >"' •-'·• ­

at ndsmcobserver.cc
PODCAST 


Friday, October 30, 2009 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 



Cougars Offense vs. Irish Defense 

Washington St. 
Cougars Record: 1-6 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
2nd season at Washington St. 
career record: 
3-17 
at neutral site: 0-0 against NO: 0-0 




Chris Ball Def. Coordinator 

2009 Schedule 
Sept. 5  Stanford-L  
Sept.12  Hawaii-L  
Sept.19  SMU-W  
Sept. 26  @USC-L  
Oct.3  @Oregon-L  
Oct.lO  Arizona St. ­ L  
Oct. 24  @California ­ L  
Oct. 31  @Notre Dame  
Nov. 7  @Arizona  
Nov.14  UCLA  
Nov. 21  OwgonSt.  
Nov. 28  @ Washington  

Head-to-Head 
WS_U_ OFFENSE NDDEFENSE Scoring: 15.14 ppg (I 16th) Scoring: 24.14 ppg (64th) Total: 293.71 ypg ( 1 I 1 th) Total: 409.43 ypg (97th) Rushing: 72.57 ypg (I 16th) Rushing: 127 ypg (50th) Passing: 221.14 (55th) Passing: 282.43 ypg~117rh) Turnovers against: 20 (I 13th) Turnovers for: 15 (38th) Fumble> lost: 10 (I 04t.h) Fumbles rec.: 6 (57th) Interceptions: 10 (94th) Interceptions: 9 (30th) Sacks Allowed: 35 (I 20th)) Sacks: 12 (75th) 
T.O.P. for: 28:47 (90th) T.O.P. against: 27:46 (16th) 
Statistical Leaders 
True freshman Jeff Tuel will get the their offensive line. Washington State Dame has been unable to stop start at quarterback for Washington is dead last in the nation in sacks opponents on obvious passing :E State over Marshall Lobbestael, who allowed per game, giving up 35 downs. (/) struggled early in the season. The through seven games. The Irish defensive line has C: Cougars have put up decent pass num­The Irish secondary is vulnerable improved but has struggled get­"tJ bers, but much of that can be attrib­though, giving up 380 yards through ting pressure on passing downs l> uted to throwing the ball often while the air to Matt Barkley and USC and without bringing extra blitzers. (/) playing from behind. The two have letting Boston College convert many The secondary needs to tighten up ~ combined to throw ten interceptions, long third downs. Communication its coverage against the Cougars. Z and have not received much help from errors have hurt this unit and Notre EDGE:EVEN G)  
The Notre Dame defensive line has On the other side, the Washington 2.2 yards per carry when they ~ dramatically improved against the State rushing offense has been virtu­have. < run over the last several games, ally nonexistent, averging just 72 Darius Fleming and the line­(/) effectively limiting strong rushing yards per game. Redshirt sophomore backing corps have improved C: offenses in Boston College and USC. Logwone Mitz will get the start in their tackling in recent games ::0 Younger players like Kapron Lewis­San Antonio, but Dwight Tardy and relieved some of the pres-C: Moore, Manti Te'o, and Ethan should also play several series. The sure on the secondary to assist in (/) Johnson appear much more comfort­Cougars have not run the ball often run support. := able against the run and getting into since they've been trailing almost z the right position. every game, but have only averaged EDGE: NOTRE DAME G)  
Nico Grasu has been an 20-yard-line. Forrest has been Isolid kicker for the busy as the Cougars struggle Cougars, converting six of moving the ball. ten field goal attempts this Jeffrey Solomon and the season. Wa<;hington State return game Punter Reid Forrest may have been very average, and be the best player on his have not had any returns overiteam, averaging 43.8 38 yards despite •returning 36 yards per punt including kicks. ~ 14 inside the opponents' EDGE: NOTRE DAME  Paul Wulff and the Washington gameplans have been State staff have struggled limited by trailing every :E mightily during his first two game and defensively (') (/) seasons, but at this point it's the Cougars are giving o C: hard to tell how much of that up nearly 500 yards per ):lo 0 is the coaching versus the per­game. Overall this is a £~ sonnel. The Cougars have a struggling program try-z~ number of upperclassmen ing to get back to ~en starting and lack experience at respectability. < most positions. The offensive EDGE: NOTRE DAME I'll  



This game should be a lot of treat without much trick for Notre Dame, right? It'd be niee if, for once, it could be that easy. I think this is a case where the Irish are just too much better than the Cougars, and despite Notre Dame's best efforts to play subpar teams down to the wire, Washington State just isn't good enough to hang around for long. I'd like to see Clausen, Allen and Tate 

Matt Gamber all get their numbers and then get out -go -------enjoy some Halloween candy on the sideline. just don't get hurt. Even moreso, I'd like to Sports Editor see the defense show the potential to shut down an offense and shut the door on any thoughts of an upset early by coming up with 
turnovers that will kill Washington State's morale. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 45, Washington State 13 
1e analysis, check out the Irish Insider podcast om/podcasts 

It could get interesting if the Irish decide to make this one another nail-biter. Fortunately, that really shouldn't be the case. Even though they've had trouble with freshmen quarterbacks this season, expect the Irish defense to contain, if not completely shut down, Jeff Tuel and the Washington State offense. On the other side of the ball, a balanced attack will lead 
Sam Werner  Notre Dame to a big early advantage. A  
finally healthy Armando Alllen should have  
Associate  a big day on the ground, and, most impor- 
Sports Editor  tantly, Notre Dame will finally face a pass  
defense even worse than its own. Jimmy  
Clausen  - and hopefully Dayne Crist  - 

should have a big day as the Irish win handily. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 42, Washington State 10 
WSUOFFENSE QB M. LOBBESTAEL 49-105,475 yds., 2 TD RB DWIGHTTARDY 57 rush, 186 yds., J TD RB J. MONTGOMERY 37 rush, ISO yds., 1 TD 
WRJARID KARSIEITFlt 24 rec., 337 yds., 3 TD WR GINO SIMONE 23 rec., 243 yds., 1 TD NPDEFENSE SS KYLE MCCARTIIY 32 solo, I TFL, 3 INT FS HARRISON SMrni 18 solo, 1.5 TFL WLB BRIAN SMrni 18 solo, 4 TFL, 1 sack SLB DARIUS FLEMING 7 TFL, 2 sacks 
,·· 
DE K. LEWIS-MOORE 11 solo, 3 TFL, 1 sack 


......
~~----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 30, 2009 
Freshman QB Tuel gives Cougars hope for future success 
By SAM WERNER Associate Sports Editor 
To say things haven't been 
oing well for Washington State 
11is season may be a bit of an 
mderstatement. The Cougars are 1-6 and haven't looked any better than last season's 2-10 campaign. 
The lone bright spot, though, may be the play of freshman quarterback Jeff Tuel. 
"[Tuel's progress] is good," Washington State coach Paul Wulff said in a press conference after the Cougars' 49-17 loss to California Oct. 24. "I think he is on a good pace. He needs the help around him. The receivers are young and the 0-line is young, but all the parts need to do their job. The other 10 guys need to do their job, and he is only going to get bett~r." 
The Cougars began the sea­son with an apparent position battle between senior Kevin Lopina and sophomore Marshall Lobbestael, but both were ineffective in Washington State's first three games before Tuel entered the picture. 
Tuel made his debut in Washington State's 27-6 loss to USC. Since then, he has thrown for 662 yards, four touchdowns and three interceptions. fered a hip pointer against 

"Obviously for an 18-year old Oregon in his first collegiate playing his first football game start. The injury knocked him he did a great job," Wulff said out for the rest of the game 
in a press con- against  the  
ference  after  Ducks, but the  
the game. "He  ..Tuel can actually  freshman  
showed poise.  great There  get it done.··  returned next week to lead  
were some mis­takes but he did  Pat Wulff  the Cougars against Arizona  
a nice job of not  Cougars head coach  State.  
forcing throws  Even though  
or  eating  the  the Cougars lost  

ball or just taking off and run­that game 27-14, Tuel's pro­ning. He showed a lot out gression continued. Last week, there." against Cal, Tuel had his most 
After a promising first game impressive game to date, pass­against the Trojans, Tuel suf-ing for 354 yards and two 
touchdowns and no intercep­tions. 
"Tuel can actually get it done," Wulff said in a press conference after the game. "Our protection has not been great. At times when we have had [good protection] we have been successful; when we didn't, it broke down. We have so many young guys playing at receiver they just haven't been working together long enough. They have been together three or four months. As we mature we are going to get a lot better." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 

0.6 you want. 
.6CU66 a6 tong Incoming Call6,
DL 

L ,..~ ha6 F-ree
Only u.s. Cetlu a . ne at any timeb 
Text6 and PiX firom ~nyo th.e pttone i6 firee. So nearly natti th.e ttme on 
getusc..com 


U.S.Cellul~: 
better.. 

believe in somet g 


Friday, October 30, 2009 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Defense hopes position changes are answer 
backer made the move an easy

By MICHAEL BRYAN 
transition. "I've been there 

Associate Sports Editor 
before. I mean I played safety the first half of this year, but 

After weeks of struggling in I'm using last year's experi­pass coverage that concluded ence," Smith said. "You do a with 380 yards through the air lot of the same stuff and you for Matt Barkley and USC, the blitz a lot, so it's not too differ­Notre Dame secondary needed ent." some changes. Smith said he was comfort-
Beginning with the Boston able with the change and could College game and leading into rotate between positions. ,this week's game against "At this point, wherever the Washington State in San coaches want me to play is Antonio, the Irish made per-where I'm going to play, so I'm sonnel changes on the depth fine with that." chart. With Smith moving to line-
Junior Harrison Smith, who backer for the foreseeable had been the starter at free future, senior Sergio Brown safety, moved down to outside has taken over the starting job linebacker and also played as at free safety. Brown had been 
a  nickel back  primarily used  
against  the  as  a  nickel  
Eagles.  Smith  ..We moved [Harrison  back in cover- 
had four tack­les, including  Smith] down into a  age and blitz­ing off the  
one tackle for  comfort zone to regain  edge.  
a  loss  and  a  hisconfidence.,,  "[Harrison  
forced fumble  Smith] sort of  
in his new role.  flip-flopped  
"He  played  Charlie Weis  with  Sergio,"  
significantly  Irish head coach  Weis  said.  
better," coach  "With  Sergio  
Charlie Weis.  going back into  

"He's had some good produc-his positions and Harrison tion in the secondary, it's just going down there working at that his confidence has gotten Sam along with Darius and a little bit shaken, so we those other guys." moved him down into a com-Defensive coordinator Jon fort zone to regain his confi-Tenuta said the change bene­deuce." fits both Brown and Smith. 
Following the Boston College "Harrison. the first time he game, Smith was listed as a got in there he knocked the co-starter at the Sam line-ball loose. The guy's a tremen­backer position with Darius dous athlete and I'm going to Fleming, who has frequently use him more and more moved to defensive end in because he's an outstanding nickel packages. blitzer," Tenuta said. "Sergio 
Smith said his experience did a good job, he's been the last seas()n..at outside.lipe......,. njc.kel for us Jrom two years 

and playing in space so the 
alignment is a little different at 
times, but he did a good job." 
Brown had four tackles, a 
forced fumble and a pass 
breakup against the Eagles. 
Also seeing significant time 
at free safety was sophomore 
Jamoris Slaughter, who came 
in at times for Brown. 
Slaughter has seen time at 
both the corner and safety 
positions early in his career. 
"Jamoris is a guy that we're 
going to cross train and cross train at both corner and safety this week. We're going to look ..at him in. both positions., you 
know, because he's been such a sound tackler," We is said before the game against Boston College. "So we're going to take a good look at seeing if we can't get him on the field some. Not as a starter but we're going to see if we can't work him there." 
At the cornerback position, junior Gary Gray has solidified his role as a starter alongside sophomore Robert Blanton. Gray had a crucial interception in the fourth quarter against Boston College. 
"I think Gary has _played more beca~$e.,he was tb.e.vne 
guy that recently that as he started to get some time has been really competing for the ball," Weis said. "I think that that one of the areas that, you know, I've been saying we need to be competing for the ­ball and Gary's been compet­ing for it." 
With the Irish currently 117th in the nation in pass defense and allowing 2 8 2 yards per game, Tenuta and the Notre Dame secondary hope the changes show results. 
Contact Michael Bryan at tnhryan@nd.edu 

Halloween costume this year? 
We don't really have much since we play that night. But I'll probably go out as a riinja. That's what I used to do when I was little. 
Favorite Halloween costume as a kid? 
I was Captain Hook once, that was good. And 
... oh. One time, me and three of my friends were the Spice Girls. We did it pretty big. 
Favor;~e H_alloween candy? 
0. ... jl 1>\. J \,. ­
k 
I

Sn1c ers. ·• · • · • • • , .•• ' ' 


Biggest fear? 
Probably drowning. 
Scariest movie? 
The Strangers. I couldn't drive home after that. 
Which is worst: spiders, snakes or clowns? 
Spiders. 
DIID 
The Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business 
II rzl.. :-. ,: II 
~ 

and The Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide 
DIID 
Proudly Present 
Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment} 
-...
"Instilling Ethical Principles into an Organization" 
Barbara Porter VP of Business Development and Customer Service Nicor National 
Monday, November 2, 2009 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 30, 2009 
'I 
i 
., 
\ 
'·r 
( 
~ 
.-. 
'· 
) 
' 
I ; 
! i ' i \ 
' 
i 
I 
!
I 
r 
I 
( ( 
~ 
} 
~ ( ~ 
J 
l 
I 
I 
,... ·. 
. ·., 1·.
' . "·_.. g;/'>·~; ' 
. ~-""'-P. . 
:~-'c 
. ~"" . 
'. 
-. ·_i' '. :!.! .. _ . '. 
1. . . 

Newlv Remodeled --&BiD HDTV's 
"Under The Cell lowe~' 1133 South Bend Avenue IState Rd. 231 
' 
!f ­
'i 1/4 mile E. of Campus, Hext To Clover Village Apanments ; 'I · Open Monday-Saturday 10:30 am •9:00 pm; Phone 2n·2521 
-



