
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ND professors analyze stimulus 
Economists search for best solution as $838 billion package passes in U.S. Senate 
By ROBERT SINGER News Writer  economists support a stimu­lus bill along the lines of the $838 billion package passed  you don't think the stock market will increase, you won't invest in the stock  it should do it." If people are unwilling to spend money, then the gov­ 
Tuesday by the U.S. Senate.  market."  ernment can do it for them  
The ruptured 2007 housing  According to  Economics  While the economy proba­ by cutting taxes, sending  
bubble that has thrown the  Professor James Sullivan,  bly won't suffer indefinitely  money  to  states,  making  
economy into  a  tailspin and  one  of the major  reasons  without  a  stimulus,  a  bill  investments or hiring work­ 
curbed  job  prospects  in  wh.y legislators  are  calling  could significantly shorten  ers for public works.  
many industries has caused  for  an economic stimulus  - the downturn, according to  "The  government  can  
legislators to call for an eco­ a  massive increase in gov­ Economics Professor Nelson  jumpstart things and encour­ 
nomic stimulus package.  ernment spending  - is that  Mark.  '  age businesses to invest to  
Economists  across  the  widespread uncertainty has  "In the long run, it's not  get out of this sentiment of  
country including those at  caused a decrease in overall  necessary, but who knows if  pessimism," Sullivan said.  
Notre Dame continue to dis­ demand. Lacking confidence  the long run is going to be  Mark considered the possi­ 
cuss the best way to find  an  about their job security, peo­ 10 years  or  20 years," he  ble effects of a stimulus bill.  
answer to the problem.  ple  are less willing to make  said. "So I think the question  "In the short run, the stim­ 
The subprime mortgage  purchases or investments.  is if the government is capa­ ulus  can only make things  
crisis created  an  enormous  "People expect the  econo­ ble of lessening the severity  better, it can only increase  
sum of bad assets and dried  my not to  recover soon  and  of the recession and if what  GOP  (Gross  Domestic  
up capital, leading to a situ­ that  has  a  self-fulfilling  it can  do offsets the long-·  
ation  so  severe  that many  prophecy to it," he said. "If  term costs of doing so, then  see STIMULUS/page 4  


Business Prof. Vecchio dies at 58 
By AARON STEINER Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame management pro­fessor and former chair of the management department Robert 
P. Veechio died Monday. He was 58. 
Vecchio sus­tained serious IOJ uries after falling from the rooftop of his home Saturday. He was treated at Memorial Hospital in South Bend. 
Vecchio, a well-known professor, had been a member of the Mendoza College of Business faculty since 1976. 
"Bob had an early and forma­tive leadership role in the col­lege," Carolyn Woo, dean of th~ Mendoza College of Business, said in a University press release. 
"He provided the foundation for the management department to attain the reputation it enjoys today," she said. "Our hearts and our prayers are with the family to which· he was so devoted." 
Other representatives from the Mendoza College of Business were not available for comment Tuesday evening. 
According to a report Sunday by the South Bend Tribune, Vecchio fell from a height of at least 10 feet Saturday morning at his Granger home. 
Vecchio was last reported to be in critical condition Sunday night at Memorial Hospital, according 

see VECCHIO/page 4 



Laptops 'equalize' education 
Alum helps give computers to children around the world 
By MOLLY MADDEN News Writer 
University-of Notre Dame alum­
nus Charles Kane returned to 
campus last night to discuss his 
transition from working as a for­
profit executive to pro-bono presi­
dent and Chief Executive Officer 
ofOne Laptop Per Child (OLPC). 
The Center for Social Concerns 
sponsored the talk in the Eck 
Center auditorium, which was 
titled "Technology and the 
Globalization of Education: The 
Story of One Laptop Per Child," 
and was well attended. 
"This project is the first time in 
Charles Kane presents his company's mission, see LAPTOP/page 6 to give every child a laptop, on Monday. 
-
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Jenkins: University is fiscally stable 
By AARON STEINER AssisJant News Editor 
Despite the dismal state of and bleak outlook for the national economy, University President Fr. John Jenkins wrote to faculty and staff Tuesday to again emphasize that Notre Dame, while "not immune to economic pres­sures," is well-positioned to continue progress "toward our goal of becoming a preeminent research university." 
The e-mail, dated Feb. 10, is the second such message Jenkins has sent regarding the economy and its potential effect on the University. The first e-mail was sent Dec. 1, 2008. 
Jenkins said the University has been more fortunate than other colleges and institutions. 
"Unlike some of our peers, at this point Notre Dame does not face the need to freeze salaries or hiring, halt construction or reduce our work force," he said. 
"While our endowment and other revenue streams have experienced losses, we contin­ue to be positioned, at this juncture, to pursue opportuni­ties toward our goal of becom­ing a preeminent research uni­versity," Jenkins wrote. 
Still, Jenkins said that the University may need to consid­
see LETTER/page 6 

Curtain rises again for PEMCo. 
DiPiero and group to bring popular musical'The Producers' to campus this weekend 
DiPiero said he ehose
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
"The Producers" because 
News Writer 
he wanted to do a comedy with big production num­
"The Producers," the pop­bers. ular Mel Brooks musical "I just think "The well known for poking fun Producers" is the funniest at the Nazis, homosexual musical that I've seen," he stereotypes and show busi­said. ness itself, wi!J debut at "The timing is fortuitous Notre Dame this weekend, as well because the licens­show director Bill DiPiero · ing rights were just made said. available," DiPiero said. 
"The Producers" marks "The rights were just the annual spring musical released so there's not a put on by the Pasquerilla history of it having been East Musical Company performed at the college (PEMCo.), joining level," he said. "I thought "Ragtime," "Footloose," that would be an exciting "Grease" and "West Side challenge." Story" in the repertoire of PEMCo. productions. see PEMCO/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesd~y, February 11, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD YOU LIKE TO SEE STUDENT GOVERNMENT DO? 

A-Roidhad funely leak 
On Monday afternoon, baseball's golden boy Alex Rodriguez admitted to using performance enhancing drugs early in his career. Bad news for A­Roid. 
Don't get me wrong, Alex Rodriguez cheats Gust ask his wife), whines, and plays ball like a girl. That has been public knowledge since he limp-wrist­swatted Bronson Arroyo during a los­ing effort in the 2004 ALCS. 
But, in A-Rod's defense, he may be 
the only man in America who han-Dan Murphy dled this week-end's debacle the right way. Sports Editor Learning from the mistakes of meat­head Roger Clemens, Rodriguez quick­ly told the world he was guilty. 
The problems with the rest of the sports world's reaction started only seconds after he came clean. ESPN's Peter Gammons, the most infallible man this side of the Pope, started the problem. 
After A-Rod explained the pressure of playing in the demanding market of Arlington, Tex., the slugger said he juiced from 2001-2003. Gammons fol­lowed up appropriately. 
Gammons: You're saying that the time period was 2001, '2, and '3? 
Rodriguez: That's pretty accurate. 
Pretty accurate? Is that like Rick Ankiel is pretty accurate? You can't "pretty" much take steroids. You are either a needle-sticking, pimple-pop­ping, law-breaking steroid user, or you're not. 
Gammons had no follow-up question. He let the sports world down more than Ron Burgundy did to San Diego. Shame on him, and shame on the rest of sports journalists who have seeming­ly completely overlooked pretty much the most obvious follow up question ever. 
Now to fry some bigger fish. 
Major League Baseball has handled itself so poorly in the past 10 years it might as well be an investment bank. Six years ago, a number of players were anonymously tested for illegal substances to decide ifthe MLB should do something about the raging drug abuse problem that had developed right under their nose. Obviously, they discovered they had messed up. 
They messed up again by not main­taining the anonymity of the tests. Leaking this story is a great way to get the players' union to agree to increase drug-testing. It's good that the league has really earned their trust on this one. 
That's not to mention that this leak conveniently sprung at the exact time that football was coming to an end. The story provided a perfect way to ignore the Pro Bowl and gear up for baseball season. 
Why would they intentionally leak bad news? Good question, but as they say any publicity is good publicity. 
Finally, to the world outside of base­ball, has no one noticed that this man admitted to breaking a United States Federal law? The substances weren't banned by the MLB at the time, so it's not quite so bad. Well, the NFL has no rule against murder, no wonder O.J. got away with it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Dan Murphy at ' dmurphy6@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize tbat we will malre mistalres. If we have made a mistalre, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 



Lenny Meehan  Maura Sullivan  Becky Katrlcak  
Senior  Sophomore  Senior  
Off-Campus  Lewis  PW  
"Extend  "More.,,  "Extend  
parietals. ,,  parietals.,  





Joe Crouch Davide Lionetti Emily Whalen 
Freshman Senior Sophomore O'Neil Off-Campus Welsh Family 
"Get class "Make Friday "Keep the rest cancelled when classes ofFebruary as there is a -40 optional.,, warm and 
degree wind chill., 


The Goodies Factory. It wasn't clear how he accessed the number. 
The candy company became suspicious, contact­ed the school and was told by detectives to send an empty box. 
Police say he had the order shipped to his home and was arrested after the fake delivery. 
The teen faces two counts of felony telecommunica­tions fraud. He was being held in Middletown City Jail on more than $30,000 bond. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
More than 100 animals rescued from apartment 
BUFFALO, N.Y. -More than 100 chickens, rabbits, rodents, iguanas and taran­tulas have been removed from a two-bedroom Buffalo apartment by authorities who needed three vans to cart off the menagerie. 
Police officers responding to an animal mistreatment complaint "at a South Buffalo apartment found the ani­mals living in a couple's cramped apartment Monday. The animals were removed in dozens of cages and cardboard containers by officers from the local chap­ter of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. 

The animals included about 100 chickens and rab­bits. 
Teen bills school for $37K worth of candy 
MIDDLETOWN, Ohio ­Police say an Ohio teenager tried to pull off a sweet deal by ofdering more than $37,000 of candy online and charging the bill to his former high school. 
Police say the 18-year-old used a Middletown High School purchasing number to place orders for thou­sands of lollipops and candy bars from Michigan-based 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a:: 
..... 
:c 
~ 
..... 

3: 
.... 

e.
<C 

-'Ji·........**
(.) 

...I 0 
HIGH 49 HIGH 31 HIGH 36 HIGH 36 LOW 31 LOW 27 LOW 24 LOW 25 

sunny as it is now!" 

IN BRIEF 
Valentine's Day Candy Heart­grams will be sold in LaFortune today and tomorrow. The hearts cost $1 per package and will be delivered on Friday. 
Fair Trade Coffeehouse in the CoMo Lounge, Thursday from 8 p.m.-10 p.m. Learn about the Fair Trade movement and enjoy coffee, baked goods, and live entertainment from popular campus acts. Sponsored by the Department of Sociology. Proceeds help fund SOC 23534's cross-cultural trip to Guatemala. 
The Glass Club is having a sale of some of their products ­etched glassware, jewelry, stained glass and fused glass, in the Sorin Room of LaFortune. It will take place Thursday from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. 
The Freshman Class Council is hosting Lovefest on Friday at 9 p.m. The event will take place in Casey Auditorium in the Hesburgh Library and will include free candy from the South Bend Chocolate Factory and musical performers from the Freshman class. Tickets are $5 and will benefit the American Heart Association. 
The annual Edith Stein Project will take place through­out the day this Friday. The conference will address women's issues which will include speakers, a Mass, meals. Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students are invited free of charge, but must register at https://marketplace.nd.edulcc e/index.cfm. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 


HIGH 35 HIGH 
32 

LOW 21 LOW 
22 

Atlanta 69 I 42 Boston 52 I 41 Chicago 46 I 30 Denver 48 I 28 Houston 75 I 46 Los Angeles 62 l 44 Minneapolis 35 I 24 New York 56 I 45 Philadelphia 62 I 49 Phoenix 65 I 45 Seattle 46 I 33 St. Louis 53 I 32 Tampa 80 I 61 Washington 69 I 50 

Wednesday, February 11, 2009 The Observer + NEWS page 3 

b 


A.ppiyNo~! 
Visit our website to learn more about summer staff 

Priority Application Deadline: March '17 
OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND HOUSING 305 Main Building I Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Phone: 574.631.5878 E-Mail: summer@nd.edu 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Willerton elaborates on Activities Center 
Proposed building, which will cost about $30 million, to be located on north end ofcampus 
By LIZ O'DONNELL 
News Wrirer 
Members of the Council of Representatives (COR) dis~ cussed the future of the LaFortune Student Center and plans for the new Student Activities Center in their meet­ing Tuesday evening. 
Ryan Willerton, the Facilities Director for Student Activities Office was on hand to discuss plans for LaFortune, and to discuss the current concept for the new Student Activities Center. 
Willerton said there are four primary facilities available for student activities: the Stepan Center; the Creek House, a local retreat facility located off campus; LaFortune; and out­door grounds available for sporting events. 
He said that there are strategic plans to ensure these places operate as efficiently as possible. 
The budget allotted to reno­vations in the building comes from a variety of sources, Willerton said. 
A portion of the budget is allotted !'or building mainte­nance, he said. 
The majority of the funding comes from six different proj­ects, which include the end of the year shipping program, the summer linen mailing, and the "Irish Express" bookstore outlets around campus during football weekends. Funding also comes from the on-cam­pus cake service, exam kits and money generated from the video arcade. 
When the funding is avail­able, Willerton said that they consider the suggestion boxes that are located in LaFortune for ideas to better the build­ing. He also said that they reg­ularly collect feedback from student managers, as well as members of student govern­ment. 
From there, if it is decided that there is enough money available to make large scale changes to LaFortune, Willerton said they will approach student government and ask them to create a panel to represent the student voice. 
One specific area Willerton addressed was the renova­tions that are projected to take place to the video arcade that is located in the basement of the building. 
"Since the video arcade is located in the part of LaFortune that is the old building, water comes into the arcade when it rains, often seeping into the basement," Willerton said. "We want to repair the leaks, install car­pets, and do it right from the start." 
Willerton also said that they are hoping to move forward with the project starting in 2010. 
Student body president Bob Reish asked Willerton about the size of LaFortune in com­parison to student centers on other campuses, sighting that LaFortune is relatively small given the size ef the campus's population. 
Willerton said LaFortune has a different focus than stu­dent centers on other college campuses. 
"The mission of the student center is to be similar to a vil­lage well where people go to find the news of the day, meet up with their friends or grab a bite to eat," said Willerton. "We could always have more room, and it would be nice to expand, but we would never give up the central location that it has." 
In addition to this, Willerton said the new Student Activities Center that will be built is to serve the purpose of comple­menting LaFortune, rather than detracting from it. 
It is projected that the cost of the center will be approxi­mately $30 million. They are 
currently waiting for  a bene­ 
factor  to  fund the  project  
before it can begin.  

The Student Activities Center will be a multipurpose facility that will host lectures, concerts and dances. It will also have a large ballroom area where Residence Hall dances will take place. It will not be a hangout area the way that LaFortune is, but function rather like the Stepan Center does now, he said. 
Along with these events, the Center will also have a meet­ing room that Willerton said will help lower the demand for meeting time at LaFortune. 
The Center is planned to be constructed 100 yards east of the Stepan Center on the North side of campus. Once the Center is in place, the 
Stepan  Center  will  be  
removed.  
When  COR  members  

expressed concern at the loca­tion of the Center, Willerton explained that while the build­ing will go up on the perime­ter of campus, it is still a part of it. 
"While you may not walk by this building everyday, it is still a part of campus," Willerton said. "The location provides easier access to off­campus students." 
While the location for the project has been selected, there are only tentative floor plans available. Current plans call for the Center to be a one-floor building. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at edonnel@nd.edu 
T-wo tickets to run for SMC top offices 
Observer Staff Report Saint Mary's Board of Governance elections commis­sioner Francesca Johnson announced there are two tickets running for student body presi­dent and vice president ­Mallory Price and Katie Lewis, and Jenny Hoffman and Meg Griffin. Price, the presidential candi­date is a junior social work major from Tinley Park, Ill., who lives in Regina Hall. Her running mate, Lewis, is a junior social work major and resident advisor in LeMans Hall. She is from Homer Glen, Ill. Presidential candidate Hoflinan is a junior communica­tions studies major who lives in Holy Cross Hall. She is from Indianapolis and currently serves as the student government secre­tary. Griffin, a sophomore intended political science and math major, is from Bristol, Ind. She is the sophomore class president. There will be a "Meet the Candidates" event today at 6 
p.m. in the West Wing of the Noble Family Dining Hall. 
Voting will take place Monday, Feb. 16 from midnight to 11:59 
p.m. on PRISM. 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 11, 2009 
SMC creates walk-in booth to discuss interpersonal issues 
Women's Health and Counseling Centers provide convenient placefor conversation with counselors, nurses on Thursdays 
were familiar with," Christiana
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 

said. 
News Writer 

This is the fourth week the booth has been in place and it Saint Mary's Women's Health seems to be attracting atten­and Counseling Centers are tion, Christiana said. She also teaming up to provide students said the counselors and nurses with an informal way of talk­will continue to make them­ing about their issues. selves available in the atrium 
The Belle Booth is set up in on Thursdays as long as stu­the Student Center atrium dents keep showing an inter­from 12 p.m. to 1:15 on est. Thursdays for students to "We wanted to get our faces come and talk out tlwre and about whatever develop a friend­they have on ly rapport with
"We will listen to 
their minds, students,"
whatever students 
G i n a Christiana said. Christiana, a bring to us. " Three nurses counselor for and three eoun­the Women's selot·s rotate
Gina Christiana 
Health Center, work together to
Women's Health Center 
said. run the booth. 
"We will lis­Counselor Eaeh week tlwre ten to whatever are two coun­students bring selors and one to us. We are here to talk nurse at the booth at all times. about interpersonal issues," Students are encouraged to go Christiana said. and chat about whatever 
Kris Pendley, clinical director issues they have. of counseling, came up with Christiana described the the idea as a way to increase booth as a user-friendly publicity for the services resource for students where offered in Women's Health and any questions they have can be Counseling Centers on campus. answered. 
Inspiration for the booth Cathy DeCleene, director of came from Charles Schulz's the Women's Health Center, character of Lucy and her wanted a place with high stu­"Psychiatry for a nickel" booth dent traffic for the booth. With that Charlie Brown often the current Women's Health approached in the classic car­Center located in the basement toons. of Holy Cross, not a lot of stu­
"We wanted an image people dents make the walk over, she 

demand, according to Sullivan, but tax breaks to
Stintulus 

individuals would allow them continued from page 1 to make their own consump­
tion choices. Product)," he said. "There "If the government spends are two questions about it, it right away, then they spend though." it right away," he said. 
Mark qu~tioned whether a "Consumers might choose to recovery would endure and hold onto it, so there's a little whether it would be worth bit of a risk there. Ideally the increase in public debt. you'd like the consumers to 
"Will it have a lasting spend it, because they could effect?" he spend it on said. "Will it what they shock us out want." of a recession Economics 
and onto a 'This idea that markets Professor growth unencumbered will always Martin 
path?" Wolfson
give the bestresult is
Mark said focused on 
"the second putting a little too much aspects of is the added faith in the markets.,, the bill that debt the U.S. call for is taking on more direct
James Sullivan 
to finance the government stimulus. economics professor spending. 
"What's that going to mean for the future struc­ture of taxes? What's having all that debt out there going to do to interest rates?" 
Ideas differ on how best to implement the stimulus, since not all forms of government spending boost demand by the same speed or magni­tude. 
Sullivan pointed to a reduc­tion in payroll taxes as an effective way to give money to people who would spend it quickly. 
"One way to have an effec­tive stimulus is to put money in the hands of people who need it," he said. "One way is a reduction in the payroll tax. The argument is that those people are more likely to spend it sooner." 
Direct government spending on infrastructure or energy investment would be fail-safe ways to increase overall "I think 
the best 
parts of the 

bill are the parts that directly put people to work," he said. "Infrastructure spending, investing in green technology, those parts of the bill that keep people from losing their jobs and keep people receiv­ing needed public services." 
Mark also mentioned an overlooked way to _spur eco­nomic activity. 
"Something they haven't talked about is maybe busi­ness tax credits," he said. "You direct that at small businesses and have them invest in capital." 
Haising people's permanent income through productivity gains -rather than just spending money now to pro­long future debt -should be central to the plan, according to Mark. 
"I do think that this is a good opportunity for a lot of said. 
It is easier for students to have the discussion times they want when help is offered in the Student Center, she said. 
"It's a safe introductory envi­ronment. Students don't have to go all the way to Holy Cross if they want help," DeCleene 
the investment projects that the stimulus plan has," he said. "So you can use this as an excuse to do those kinds of projects. Upgrading the 
· infrastructure will enha-nce productivity." Whether the nation's response to the crisis repre­sents a shift in the way the government man ages the economy is an open question. "l fear that people will use the ·current recession as an excuse to blame markets," Sullivan said. "And I don't think this provides evidence that markets don't work. It provides evidence that mar­kets don't always work per­fectly. "This idea that markets unencumbered will always give the best result is putting a little too much faith in mar­kets," Sullivan added. Wolfson said there is a need for broader changes to eco­nomic policy. "I think it represents poten­tial for a fundamental shift in our policy. We've experienced over the last 25 to 30 years an environment of reliance upon the free market, free trade, deregulation, tax cuts for the relatively wealthy and I think all of this has basical­ly run around," he said. "We need to dramatically change our approach to the er.ono­my." Sullivan said the recession has primarily hurt low-skilled workers and that people who are college-educated have less to worry about. "That doesn't mean that Notre Dame grads don't have to be worried," he said. "They will land on their feet regardless. It just means that it will take them longer to find the right job. " 
Contact Robert Singer rsinger@nd.edu 
said. 
"We just want to be a warm, friendly face on campus," Cyndie Harton-Cavanaugh, a nurse for Women's Health, said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
said. 

Although appointments can't be made at the booth, students are able to make them with the counselors in their office in LeMans, Christiana said. 
Both the Women's Health and Counseling Centers will be in the same booth, DeCleene 

Vecchio 
continued from page 1 
to the Tribune report. 

According to the press release, Vecchio taught pop­ular courses and published highly regarded articles on a variety of issues in organi­zational behavior and cor­porate management, espe­cially emphasizing leader­ship, motivation, workplace emotion and employee envy. 
Vecchio taught the courses "Management Competencies" and "Leadership and Motivation" in the fall semester, acc-ording to records available online. 
He was the author of sev­eral books, and was also the editor of the Journal of Management from 1995 to 2000. 
Vecchio received a B.S. from DePaul University in 1972 and a Master's and a Ph.D from the University of Illinois in 1972 and 1976, respectively. 
Arrangements are pend­ing, according to the press release. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 
•

•• SP\LON RoUGE. \ 
Specializing in E;.eautiful Color""f~. 
Valentine's Day Special! / · . 
$5.00 Off .•,~ 
Manicure or Pedicure \1-J 

258-5080 
620 W. Edison Rd. Mishawaka, IN www.salonrougeinc.com 
Please recycle The Observer. 








ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, February 11, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Hospital shelling kills 16 patients 
COLOMBO, Sri Lanka-At least 16 patients being treated at a makeshift hospital in the northern Sri Lankan war zone were killed by shelling, the Hed Cross said Tuesday, as the mili­tary accused rebel fighters of killing 19 other civilians tleeing the area. 
The United Nations, meanwhile, said it was outraged by the "unnecessary" deaths of hun­dreds of people inside rebel territory and urged both sides to avoid fighting in civilian areas. 
The government accuses the Tamil Tiger rebels of holding civilians hostage in the war zone to use as human shields against the mili­tary's offensive. The rebels deny the accusation. 
International human rights groups say more than 200,000 civilians are believed trapped in the patch of territory still under rebel control. 
High death toll in Australian wildfires 
IIEALESVILLE -The high death toll from hundreds of wildfires across southeastern Australia has forced authorities to re-exam­ine an accepted survival strategy when blazes threaten: Get out early or hunker down and tight. 
Many people waited too long and perished as they tried to escape the weekend infer­nos. 
"People need to understand that a late departure is the most deadly," fire chief Paul Hees said. 
Hecovery teams moving into burned out towns in Victoria state found charred bodies on roadsides and in wrecked cars -grim signs of futile attempts to flee the raging wildfires fed by 60 mph (100 kph) winds, record heat and drought. The number of deaths was expected to surpass 200, and a few fires were still burning. open spaces throughout the city. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Salmonella possible at other plant 
ATLANTA -Private lab tests show there may have been salmonella at a sec­ond plant operated by the peanut compa­ny at the center of a national outbreak, but the potentially tainted products were not sent to consumers, Texas health offi­cials said Tuesday. 
The Peanut Corp. of America plant in Plainview, Texas, had operated unlicensed and uninspected for nearly four years, heightening food safety concerns already swirling around the company. Although no recalls related to the plant were announced Tuesday, federal inspectors have begun looking for any signs of prob­lems similar to those found at a company plant in Georgia identified as the source of the salmonella outbreak. 
Activists protest Kelloggs 
NEW YOHK-Snap, crackle ... pot? 
Bursting with indignation, legions of legal­ize-marijuana advocates are urging a boycott of Kellogg Co., including all of its popular munchies, for deciding to cut ties with Olympic hero Michael Phelps after he was photographed with a pot pipe. 
The leader of one of the biggest groups, the Marijuana Policy Project, called Kellogg's action "hypocritical and disgusting," and said he'd never seen his membership so angry, with more than 2,300 of them signing an online petition. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Food banks pull peanut products 
I.AFAYETI'E-Food banks across Indiana are dearing their shdves of peanut products recalled following a salmonella outbreak that's sickened hundreds of people nationwide and may have contributed to eight deaths. 
The loss of so many different types of food that eontain peanut products comes amid a surge in demand for food from those who've lost jobs or income because of the reeling economy. 
food Finders food Bank Inc., the Lafayette area's largest f(JOd bank, has dL<>posed of or quar­<tntined 1,327 pounds of food with peanut prod­uct<>, executive director Katy Bunder said. 
Stocks fall after gov't reveals plan 
Major stock indexes drop by more than 4 percent on Tuesday as investors unload stock 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -Investors are frustrated with the gov­ernment's latest bank bailout plan -and showed it by unloading stocks. 
The major stock indexes fell more than 4 percent Tuesday, including the Dow Jones industrial average, which tumbled 382 points. Financial stocks led the mar­ket lower, a sign of how con­cerned Wall Street is about the government's ability to restore the health of the banking industry. Demand for safe havens like Treasurys and gold rose. 
Traders and investors complained about what they saw as a lack of specifics from Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner on how the government will direct more than $1 trillion in public and private support to the finan­cial system. 
The plan is aimed at restoring proper functioning to credit markets, which seized up over worries about bad debt after the September bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The latest plan calls for a govern­ment-private sector partner­ship to help remove banks' soured assets from their books. It would also boost an effort to unclog the credit and not rushing through of the announcement. not very stimulative. It's not markets that govern loans to with bad policy," Jankovskis Geithner's speech "basical­addressing the real prob­consumers and businesses. said. ly puts a spotlight on the fact lem," Buetow said. "We have 
"The good news is they are Treasury spokesman Isaac that the government has no an insolvent financial system. going to spend a trillion dol­Baker defended the plan. idea how to fix the problem," The government is trying to lars, the bad news is they "We understood that some said Jeff Buetow, senior port­find a comprehensive way to don't know how," said James might be disappointed that folio manager at Portfolio save it. They can't afford to Cox, managing partner at we didn't announce a large Management Consultants. just throw money at it. That's Harris Financial Group. bailout program, but our "People bought on rumor what they tried to do in the 
"They built this up as being focus is on what will be the and hope, and now they're fall and that clearly did not a panacea," he said. "There best comprehensive plan to selling on reality." work." was so much hope pinned on protect taxpayer dollars, Investors focused on the Stocks extended their slide them to do a good job. The jump-start lending and bring financial rescue showed little after Federal Heserve expectations have been so forth a long-term financial reaction to the Senate's Chairman Ben Bernanke did­high. It's hard to live up to." recovery -not the hour-by­approval of its $838 billion n't elaborate on the plan in 
But Peter Jankovskis, co­hour movement of the mar­economic stimulus package. testimony at a House chief investment officer at kets on any given day," he The bill must now be recon­Financial Servi-ces OakBrook Investments, said said. ciled with an $819 billion Committee hearing. the government was right to Some investors questioned version passed by the House. Bernanke said the programs outline a broad plan rather whether the plan, which fol­Congressional leaders hope designed to revive the credit than putting something lowed previous efforts in the to have the bill on President markets are showing prom­together hastily that might final months of 2008, would Barack Obama's desk before ise and that any fix to the otherwise fail. work. Some selling was to be a recess next week. worst financial crisis since 
"They are doing the right expected, however, as stocks "The economy is in deep the 1930s would take time to thing by taking their time rose sharply last week ahead trouble. The stimulus plan is work. 

ISRAEL 

Parliamentary election too close to call 
forming a ruling coalition thanks to Even if Livni could overcome the
Associated Press 

strong showing by other right-wing formidable obstacles and become 
JERUSALEM -Foreign Minister parties. Israel's second female prime minister Tzipi Livni and hard-line rival "With God's help, I will lead the next after Golda Meir, the early results sug­Benjamin Netanyahu both claimed government," Netanyahu told a rau­gested she would have to rely on the victory in Israel's parliamentary elec­cous crowd of cheering supporters participation of right-wing parties tion Tuesday, which early returns sug­chanting his nickname, Bibi, early opposed to her vision of giving up land gested was too close to call. Wednesday. "The national camp, led in nxchange for a peace deal with the 
With 67 percent of the votes count­by the Likud, has won a clear advan­Palestinians. ed, Livni's centrist Kadima Party had tage." Despite the uncertainties, both sides 29 seats in the 120-seat parliament Soon after. Livni took the stage claimed victory. 
while Netanyahu's hawkish Likud before a crowd of flag-waving sup­Applause, cheers and whistling Party was right behind with 28, porters and flashed a V-for victory erupted at Kadima headquarters in Israel's Channel 1 television said. sign. "Today the people chose Kadima. Tel Aviv as television stations began However, soldiers' votes on bases ... We will form the next government reporting their exit polls, with sup­across the country weren't being tal­led by Kadima," she declared. porters jumping up and down and giv­lied until Thursday evening, which Exit polls had earlier showed Livni ing each other high-fives and hugs. At could shift the results by a seat or two. with a slight lead, but strong gains by Likud headquarters, Netanyahu sup­
Hegardless of who gets the most right-wing parties overall would make porters expressed confidence their votes, Netanyahu's Likud Party it difficult, and perhaps impossible, for man would still become Israel's appeared to have the upper hand in her to form a government. leader. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 11, 2009 
what life is all about," Kane said. said. "We designed it this way signal back to the computer, pro­20 minutes of battery life. 
"That's why when I discovered since many of the kids that we are viding the laptop with the Kane also emphasized what a what this project was about, it providing these for attend classes Internet. This creates a network difference the laptops have made continued from page 1 was a no-brainer of whether or outdoors." of sorl'i and allows the computers on the education system as a 
not I would join." The computer, which is also an to communicate with one another. whole in these countries. history that we can educate on Kane said the first goal was to e-Book, comes fully-loaded with "With this technolO!:,')' and these "Peru has dedicated 55 percent an equal level," Kane said. design a computer that was not 100 books, learn-computers, even of its entire education budget to 
Kane said the project involves only cost-efficient, but to also have ing software, in the most buying these laptops," he said. the manufacturing and distribu­a design that would be sustain­games, a built-in "With this technology remote part of "One of the major results with the tion of laptops to children in poor able in diverse weather condi­camera and, and these computers, Africa, a kid can laptops is an increase in atten­regions from around the globe. tions. amazingly be connected to dance. Attendance figures go up 
Laptop 
even in the most 
The computers are made at-cost "These computers are going to enough, aeeess to the Internet," dramatically in the schools that
remote part ofAfrica,
and are priced around $176. kids in Sub-Saharan Africa, the the Internet. Kane said. "It's have the computers." Nicholas Negroponte, a professor jungle and other harsh environ­"We go into vil­a kid can be connected the great equal­Kane said that the basic mission from the Massachusetts Institute ments," Kane said. "The design of lages that don't izer." of OLPC is to provide access to an
to the Internet." 
of Technology, started the project. the computer is rugged so that even have elec­The way that education to all kids around the 
"Our mission is to provide the when the kids inevitably drop it in tricity and we the children world. lowest cost computer to children water, or sand blows up and provide these Charles Kane charge the lap­"One of the criticisms we've because the computer is the around the laptop, the computer children with CEO tops is almost as received is 'Why a laptop?'," he greatest learning tool," Kane said. is not damaged." Internet access One Laptop Per Child innovative as the said. "'Why not food, why not 
Before joining the project, Kane Kane also described the addi­through broad­project itself. water?' This laptop is a means to held senior-management positions tional elements that were taken band," Kane said. "The comput­an education and education is the at a number of companies such as into consideration when designing Kane explained that generators ers can either be charged with a backbone of everything; education Global BPO Services and RSA the laptop. are installed in the village and are crank that the children can con­is the only way to break the Security Inc., but said he knew "Our computers are the only then hooked up to a satellite that nect to the computer, or with a vicious cycle." something was missing. ones in the world that has a is also installed in the village. The salad spinner," Kane said. 
"You get so caught up in the screen that switches to black and satellite sends a signal to a satel­Cranking or spinning for about Contact Molly Madden at money game that you lose sight of white when taken outside," Kane lite in space that then sends the two minutes gel'i the child around mmadden@hcc-nd.edu 

Letter 
continued from page 1 
er additional action if the sit­uation worsens. 
"We are not immune to eco­nomic pressures and further dramatic declines could lead us to rethink our timelines on con­struction projects and prepare new strategies in regard to salaries, hiring and the work force," he said. 
The e-mail came after the Board of Trustees approved the budget for the fiscal year 2010, which Jenkins wrote includes "modest but cautious growth" of 5.7 percent over the current budget. 
Jenkins said the budget reJlects increased funding for the following areas: undergrad­
uate and graduate studies; research and scholarly initia­tives, including the equipment and library resources they require; and faculty and stall'. 
The message did note that the administration will continue to call for fiscal restraint within all areas of the University. 
"Your divisional and depart­mental leaders have been asked to consider further means of conserving our resources," Jenkins said. 
University Provost Tom Burish and Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves will further explain the University's fiscal situation to faculty and staff in scheduled remarks and meetings, he also wrote. 
Jenkins concluded the e-mail writing that he has been "impressed and heartened by 
the willingness of the University family to be part of the solu­tion" required to address eco­nomic concerns. 
"Your extreme generosity in the recent United Way cam­paign and food drives rein­forces for me how deeply com­mitted you are to Notre Dame's mission of service," he said. "Your willingness to participate in wellness initiatives has helped turn back rising health care benolit costs. Your enthu­siasm to adopt measures of energy efliciency promises fur­ther savings." 
Jenkins also said he would continue to provide increrm~ntal updates to faculty and staff regarding economic and fiscal issues. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 

Undergraduate Researth @ Notre Dame IJptomine Events and Importantl8ews ­
. Information at http://undergradresearch.n ~%,, ~..  (!! i  
Dp.:omin&l Writin&l worksh"  \  

(Sponsored by University Writing Center and Office of 
Fellowships/Undergraduate Research) 
tonlerente Abstratt·Writine, 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12,6-7 p.m., 116 DeBartolo Hall 

PEMCo 
continued from page 1 
DiPiero said he estimates tho group paid about $4,000 for the rights, which includes the song numbers and script booklets. 
Because some of the comedic material in "The Producers" is viewed as con­troversial, DiPiero said he had to meet with the Student Activities Oflice (SAO) and the rectress of Pasquerilla East, who oversees the group, to get the show approved. 
"We had to discuss aspects of it, but in the end, we decid­ed that it was appropriate to put on stage, despite con­cerns," he said. "'The Producers' is a little edgy in certain ways. The main song is 'Springtime from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's fr·om all dorms and majors. 
"We're always looking for people to help out," he said. "There's tons of ways to get involved, whether it's lighting, sound technicians, ete." 
DiPiero said about 34 stu­dents are in the cast, includ­ing the main roles and the ensemble parts. Including tho orchestra however, about 65 students are involved. 
"The Producers" cast has been rehearsing five days a week, usually from 7-11 p.m .. since fall break, when the casting choices wern announced, DiPiero said. 
"It's a pretty heavy under­taking," he said. 
Spending so much time together, the cast becomes pretty close, but DiPiero, along with the choreographer, M a t t Townsend, 
for Hitler."' hold improvisa­
"The show does not
The group tional exercises
take itself seriously. " 
decided the to help the cast comedic members approach in become com­
Bill DiPiero 
the show fortable with
director
dilutes the each other,
"The Producers" 
offensiveness of some of the material, DiPiero said. People will realize the mood that the show is presented in, he said. 
"The show does not take itself seriously," DiPiero said. 
According to PEMCo.'s Web site, the group was started in 1997 by a Pasqucrilla East resident because Notre Dame had not performed a musical on campus for over 1 0 years. Now, the group is the largest, student-run musical theater company on campus. 
In the past, PEMCo. always has held a spring musical, and a spring revue, which is a compilation of song and dance numbers, DiPiero said. But this year, the group added a fall show, "Edges" which was shown in October. 
PEMCo. is a University-spon­sored group and has students DiPiero said. 
DiPiero said 
Townsend's 

special warm­up for the cast in a dance called "flirty girl fitness." 
"We kind of get everyone and bring them closer physi­cally and emotionally," he said. 
DiPiero said he has had enough time to polish the show, and the cast and crew have put in a lot of work. He said the show will reflect the extra effort. 
"We have a very sharp and professional show," he said. "I think people will be surprised at how clean and well done it is." 
"The Producers" will be per­formed Thursday, Friday and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. in Washington \!ali. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Wednesday, February 11, 2009 
pag-e 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 7,888.88 -381.99 
Up: 620  Same: 72  Down: 3,175  Composite Volume: 3,783,818,871  
AMEX  
 
NASDAQ NYSE S&P 500  1,524. 73 5,214~'/:t 827.16  -66.83 >265.17 .42.73  

NIKKEI· (TokyoJ;;;?r FTSE 100 (London) 4,213.08 -945.'{ 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
BK OF AMERICA (BAC)  ·1930  ·1.33  5.56  
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY)  -4.58  -3.99  83.11  
FINANOAL SEL SPDR (XLF)  ·10.20  ·1.01  8.89  
ULTRA FINANCIALS (UYG)  -18.65  -0.69  3.01  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  ·5.95  -0.18  2.847  
13-WEEK BILL  +10.91  +0.03  0.305  
30-YEAR BOND  -4.75  -0.176  3.530  
5-YEAR NOTE  ·0.201  ·0.201  L791  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -2.01  37.55  

GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +21.40 914.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) ·1.03 80.98 
Exchange Rates TEN 90.4700 EURO 1.2911 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2415 BRITISH POUND 1.1554 
IN BRIEF 
Salazar rejects Bush drilling plan 
WASHINGTON -Interior Secretary Ken Salazar has rejected a Bush administration plan to open vast waters off the Pacific and Atlantic coasts to oil and gas drilling, promising "a new way forward" in Qffshore energy development including new wind projects. 
Salazar at a news conference Tuesday criti­cized "the midnight timetable" for new oil and gas development on the country's Outer Continental Shelf proposed by the Bush admin­istration four days before President Barack Obama took oflice Jan. 20. 
The secretary said the previous administra­tion's plan did not take into consideration the views of states and coastal communities, nor a need to better understand what energy resources are-at stake, especially off the Atlantic coast where oil and gas estimates are more than three decades old. 
1V stations to end analog as planned ·NEW YOHK-More than a quarter of major 
U.S. TV stations intend to shut down their ana­log broadcasts on Feb. 17, sticking to the origi­nal date despite the wish of the Obama admin­istration that they wait until June. 
Congress last week gave TV stations until June 12 to shut down analog broadcasts, hop­ing to give viewers more time to prepare. Money has run out for the federal fund that subsidizes converter boxes, and there's a wait list for the coupons. 
The delay sent TV stations scrambling to fig­ure out when to shut down analog. Most had planned for years to do it on Feb. 17, and many had scheduled engineering work. 
The Federal Communications Commission said Tuesday that 491 of the 1.796 full-power TV stations in the country had registered their intention to keep the Feb. 17 date. The FCC has reserved the right to deny individual sta­tions an early shutdown.The SEC said Madoff agreed to the partial judgment without admit­ting or denying the allegations in its civil com­plaint filed on Dec. 11. However, the agree­ment says Madoff cannot contest the "facts" of the complaint for the purposes of determining his obligation to pay civil fines and restitution -which will be specified later. 
Senate approves economic stimulus bill 
Urgent compromise talks begin with Congressional leaders for final version 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Senate sailed to approval of its $838 billion economic stimulus bill TuP,sday ­but with only three Republicans signing on and no time to celebrate. The White House plunged into compromise talks with congressional leaders on a final version. 
Within hours of the 61­37 Senate vote, White House Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel, Budget Director Peter Orszag and other top aides to President Barack Obama met in the Capitol with Democratic leaders as well as moderate senators from both parties whose support looms as crucial for any eventual agree­ment. 
A top priority for Obama is to restore money to build and repair schools and to give cash-starved states more help with their budg­et problems. Almost $60 billion for those two pro­grams alone· was cut at the insistence of GOP moder­ates last week in a bargain that was crucial to getting their votes. 
The moderates Olympia Snowe and Susan Collins of Maine and Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania ­are demanding that the final bill resemble the Senate measure, which devotes about 42 percent The AMT was designed Nelson of Nebraska -ing to Will Straw, an econ­of its $838 billion in debt­40 years ago to make sure wrung savings totaling omist at the liberal Center financed costs to tax cuts, wealthy people pay at least $108 billion in spending for American Progress. He including Obama's signa­some tax, but is updated from the measure. said the $40 billion cut in ture $500 tax credit for 95 for inflation each year to The Senate moderates aid to state governments percent of workers, with avoid tax increases averag­are essential if the final would mean 183.000 fewer $1,000 going to couples. ing $2,300 a year. Fixing plan is going to pass and jobs would be created 
The $820 billion House the annual problems now get to Obama's desk, so under the plan. · measure is about one-third allows lawmakers to avoid they're playing hardball. Senate Finance tax cuts. difficult battles down the "My support for the con­Committee Chairman Max 
The GOP moderates also road, but economists say ference report on the stim­Baucus, D-Mont., said a want the final bill to retain the move won't do much to ulus package will require prOVISIOn that WOUld a $70 billion Senate plan to lift the economy. that the Senate compro­award anyone buying a "patch" the alternative Obama and his mise bill come back virtu­home a tax credit of up to minimum tax, or AMT, for Democratic allies go into ally intact," Specter $15,000 would have to be one year. The provision final negotiations on the warned in a statement. s.caled back sharply. It car­would make sure 24 mil­economic resew~ package House Democratic lead­ries a$39 billion cost and lion families won't get with limited ability to make ers promised to fight to was sponsored by Sen. socked with unexpected it more to their liking after restore the school con­Johnny Isakson. R-Ga., tax bills more than a year the moderate Republicans struction money. Those who voted against the leg­from now during the 2010 -with support from funds could create more islation despite the inclu­filing season. Democrats such as Ben than 100,000 jobs, accord-sion of the housing credit. 


GM to cut 10,000 more salaried jobs 
Associated Press positions so that the company could lion vehicles to 13.2 million last year. 
become viable long-term. The com­Since 2000, GM's salaried work 
NEW YORK -General Motors pany plans to reduce its total U.S. force has shrunk by 33 percent from Corp. is planning to slash another work force from 96,537 people in its 2000 high of 44,000 people. At 10,000 salaried jobs this year, saying 2008 to between 65,000 and 75,000 the same time, the number of hourly the cuts are unavoidable with a gov­in 2012, but did not specify how workers has plunged by more than ernment restructuring deadline many of the surviving jobs will be half-to about 63,700 people at the looming and industrywide sales in salaried or hourly. end of last year from 133.000 in one of the worst downturns in histo­GM Chief Executive Rick Wagoner, 2000. ry. who was meeting with congressional Most of the cuts announced 
The Detroit-based automaker said leaders in Washington about global Tuesday ·are expected to take place Tuesday it will reduce its total num­warming legislation, said Tuesday's by May 1. GM said the cuts will vary ber of white-collar workers by 14 announcement is "indicative of the by global regions depending on percent to 63,000. About 3,400, or kind of things we need to do to get staffing levels and market condi­12 percent, of GM's 29,500 salaried this viability plan in shape and tions. · 
U.S. jobs will be eliminated. respond to these tough market con-The company's statement said 
Most of the company's remaining ditions." · there would be no buyout or early salaried employees will have their GM has dramatically downsized retirement packages as GM had wages cut. both its salaried and hourly work offered in the past, but laid-off 
In its plan to Congress submitted forces in recent years as the U.S. employees will ,get severance pay, late last year, GM said it would have auto market has shrunk from an benefit contributions and other to reduce both salaried and hourly annual sales rate· of around 16 mil-assistance. 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
Wednesday, February 11, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 

Teach for amateurs 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CmEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR! Katie Kohler AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Merz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR! Ka.ra King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoinr@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631~4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the srudenrs of the University of.Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisementS, is not gove111ed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 

Now that TCE's are online, our. semester is depressingly devoid of wasted time in the classroom. Lest your spirits sink and yoQ resign yourself to the fate of taking notes, take hope instead ~Teach for America Season has finally arrived. Freshmen: I know you have no idea what I'm talking about right now, but be patient-the enthusiastic speeches and e­mails from Notre Dame's enthusi­astic Teachers­for-America-to-be will come in a few short years. Let us all be thankful for the student pre­sentations that cut out five minutes of teaching time and save us from the disdain of the professor when we walk in mid-lecture holding a latte from Starbucks, Just like the gor­geous weather that arrived this past weekend and is destined to head south faster than the men's basket­ball team, we should appreciate TFA Season while we can. 
Happily, this morning I was able to enjoy my coffee and a few more lines in the newspaper thanks to a won­derful student presentation. For any­one who was also late to class and wants to help fix our nation's educa­tion system, here is a list of reasons to Teach for America that I've cob­bled together over the years: 
Teach for a Low Acceptance Rate: 
Did you know that only half of chil­dren growing up in poverty will graduate from high school, and that those who do will read at an eighth grade level? A sobering fact, espe­cially when you consider that, as Notre Dame students, we are part of the mere 56 percent of high schoo~ graduates who are able to attend college. 
With regard to Teach for America's mission, however, the most impor­tant statistic is 14.8 percent. That's the percentage of applicants that enrolled in the program in 2008. Never mind that the program regu­larly rejects qualified applicants that would help alleviate the inherent inequities in our education system; TFA prides itself on its aura of exclu­sivity. Its recruiters will push any­one and everyone they can find to apply, even if they foresee an obvious rejection. Take my case, for exam­ple. 

Last year I received an e-mail from a TFA recruiter asking me to get cof­fee and learn about the program. A nice gesture, but at that point I was intent on selling my soul to a corpo­rate overlord upon graduation. I politely declined. His response? "Great! Let's meet up next week. When are you free?" I again declined, only to receive another invitation to coffee. At this point I felt like Peter from Office Space dur­ing his meeting with "The Bobs." The TFA recruiter's desire for me to apply only increased as he became more aware that I was the exact wrong person for the job. A curious tactic, but one that undoubtedly helps produce that impressive 14.8 percent. For a better idea of TFA's priorities, here are a few more sta­tistics: 
$6,389. That was tbe cost to recruit, interview, and hire each of the 2,892 TFA enrollees in 2007. That's a lot of coffee. 
$5,689. That was the cost to train each of those enrollees in 2007, a figure 11 percent less than the cost to recruit them. Five weeks is all the teacher training you need, evidently. 
Teach for a Backup Plan to Employment or Grad School: 
All you need to know: full salary and benefits. Parents off your back. Real life: delayed for a few years. I know what questions are running through your head right now. No. 1: "Why does this guy hate kids?" No. 
2: "Don't people that do TFA want to be teachers? This is their real life." While the answer to question one is too long to explain, the answer to question No. 2 is the last, and most important, reason to Teach for America: 
Teach for a Line Item on Your Resume: 
As an aspiring corporate under­ling, I understand that every field needs its "proving ground" where entry level employees earn their stripes. Doctors have their residency, lawyers their time as a junior associ­ate, and bankers their time as an analyst. For those of you who want policy jobs down the line, here's your chance. TFA doesn't want teachers. They want people who need a few years of teaching experience to be successful in the telling-teachers­how-to-teach field. It's no coinci­dence that BusinessWeek named them one of the best places to launch a career or that in their 2007 annual report they were proud to have "laid the groundwork for a more robust pipeline to political leadership going forward." 
A two-year stint hurts our schools and hurts our students. It took me three years at Notre Dame to figure out how to correctly order stir fry at the dining hall. To think that I could become comfortable enough with developmental psychology and the teaching profession's best practices after just five weeks of training is akin to me thinking I could win the Father of the Year Award after a few heart-t.o-hearts with Flavor Flav. 
Last round applications are due February 13th. Let's teach for actu­ally trying to right "our nation's greatest injustice" instead of using our schools as a career launching pad. 
Brad Blomstrom is a senior majoring in finance and economics. No, he doesn't have any hot stock tips for you, but he does welcome your views on education policy and the 2009 San Diego Padres. He can be contacted at bblomstr@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
advertisementS based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informacion. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer {USPS 599 2-4000) ill published Mond:t.y through hid~y exttpl during ex~rn 2nd va..:alion periods.. A ~ubscription tD The Oh$e1"Yrr is $1011 for nne academic year;S'i5 for om:: semester. 
Tht Observer Is publUhed at: POSTMASTER Ol4. South Dining Hall Send addttSli cotr«tions to: 
Nc,~tre Dame. IN 16556-0779 TheO~ern::r 
Periodical posragcc ~id ar Notre Dame P.O. Box779 and additiwul mailing office:;, 02:4 South Dining Hall 
Notte Dame,!N 46556-0779 
11tc Obsc:rver is a m~her ofrhe Assoc!atcd Pnss. All reproducrion righrs are reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Jenn Metz Matt Gamber Sarah Mervosh Greg Arbogast Irena Zajickova Eric Prister 
Graphics Scene Blair Chemidlin Michelle Fordice Viewpoint Stephanie Vossler 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
What are you doing for Valentine's Day? 
Going out with my significant other Going out with friends Staying in Crying myself to sleep 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Submit a Letter to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Idealism is what precedes 
experience; cynicism is what 
follows." 
David T. Wolf author 

_c_________ 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Wednesday, February 11, 2009 page 9 
Madame Cassandra's hard-learned lessons 
A large part of the sense that's been nailed into me over the years can be credited to Valentine's Day. 
For instance, after many years of fatal errors, I finally got it through my 
thick skull that Katherine the round, dark chocolate in the Khorey 
box of five is not Both Sides the truffle: it's Now the one with coconut. Said chocolate should never be saved for last, but rather be consumed first and swallowed whole, like a pill. Or better yet, given to Uncle Homer. 
Then, Valentine's week, soph'omore year of high school, there was planted in the mental soil made fertile by the sight of so many eye-gazing, ear-suck­ing couples, a very different kind of lesson. One of journalistic outrage. 
Although I was never on the staff of the high school paper, at that point I was no stranger to newspaper writing in general. In fact, I fondly remem­bered my stint as the Middle School Voice's resident astrologer. But while Madame Cassandra's Mystic Predictions could display a uniqueness that the "real" horoscopes lacked (who knew that chocolate cupcakes lay in our future?), they just weren't all that, well, real. 
No, I made my first foray into appar­ently real journalism when I teamed up with my friend Lucy, who was on the paper's staff and did write for real, to expose the evils of PDA. 
Of course, we were not writing pure­ly in defense of public morals. True, Valentine's Day was coming along, and true, the Foreign Language hallway was ravaged with public displays of affection, and true, the unbound kissy­poo epidemic was taking a toll on the uninfected. Most significantly, on us. 
Lucy and I were a pair of lonely sin­gle women living in an era when most of our friends seemed to have found the loves of their lives. It wasn't easy for us to witness so much love being shared; and I at least was eager to prove that, should the situation ever be reversed, I wouldn't be putting my unattached friends inJhe same posi­tion. Even if Johnny Angel himself offered to show me how lovely Heaven could be, we would most certainly not be flaunting our halos,outside Senora Third-Period's classroom. 
Nope, my commitment to public abstinence was established, and so, I believe, was Lucy's. And when our condemnation of public non-absti­nence appeared in print, the whole school was going to know just how staunch we were. 
So we thought. 
With Lucy's help (oh fine, maybe with my helping Lucy), I'd had my first experience in writing, for the paper, a stinging piece on a pa'Ssionate subject. But we were underclassmen, and space in the Valentine's week issue was at a premium. Fortunately or not, our effort remained unprinted. 
And so, four and a half years later, 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Shifting support 
Last night, the results of the election for student body president and vice president came in. Although we were not able to garner enough votes to win the election or enter a run off with another ticket, we thank those of you who took time out of your day to vote for us. Even though we did not win the presidency and vice presidency, we will continue to look out and support the interests of the student body and alumni here at Notre Dame. For those of you who do not yet know, there will be a run off election between the Schmidt-Weber ticket and the Burdick-Sanchez ticket. Because of the similar concerns and platforms, we write this letter to endorse the latter campaign. Thank you to those of you who voted for us, but now we ask that you cast your ballot once more. in favor of Laura Burdick and Derek Sanchez. We feel that as president and vice president, these two students will advocate on behalf of students and bring about the necessary improve­ments that actually matter and affect the student body. For that reason, we offer our endorsement to the Burdick-Sanchez ticket. Thank you again for voting. 
James McCaughan 
junior 
Siegfried Hall 
Feb. 10 
Tom Gorski sophomore Siegfried Hall Feb. 10 
Please save n1e fron1 the n1ud 
There's really no downside to warm weather. My body temperature rises a few degrees to a life-sustainable level, the snow melts, leaving a verdant green in place of mind-numbing white, the girls of Notre Dame and St. Mary's finally take off those damn sweatpants ... the list goes on forever, really. 
Yup, no downside, that is until I trudged through the muddy, wet grass leading from the edge of library quad over the "hill" straight to the Jordan Hall of Science. Like many dozens of hyper­rushed students bolting to and fro class, who were taught that the shortest dis­tance between two points was a straight line in second grade, I walk directly towards the building when I am looking right at it. This is to be distinguished from the anarchist quad-cutters. So many students do this in various locales around campus (Jordan to Rolf's, aforementioned library quad path next to Galvin, etc.) that the grass gets physically worn down to the dirt, creating a muddy mess for my sweet Reebok kicks. It's almost comical; considering the ungodly amount of con­crete poured in nonsensical patterns across the face of Our Lady's lawns, the most logical places to put walkways are not paved. Architects in the past (smarter than those employed by ND) have built buildings with no pre-planned walkways connecting them -then after a year of observing the patterns worn into the grass, they subsequently paved those slowly-trodden pathways which us smar­ty-pants humans collectively determined to be the most efficient. It seems silly that year after year the same grass paths are worn down to the dirt, while the Building Services and Maintenance, or whatever, still doesn't have a clue. So, please, save my shoes and sanity, Notre Dame, and pave those grass paths into dry concrete. 
Steve DeLaurentis junior off-campus Feb. 10 

In his Feb. 9 Letter to the Editor "Ordain females," Patrick Bears states, "I have never heard a valid reason why women can't be priests. Ever." I hope to take him up on this challenge. Bears claims that the Church uses the word "tradition" as an "excuse to exclude a group of individuals from having authori­ty." This claim is unfounded as there are plenty of woman with positions of authori­ty in the history of the Church (abbesses, theologians, and doctors of the Church come to mind). The entire Christian faith is dependent on Mary's "yes" to God's will; accordingly, we hold her in the highest esteem as "Queen of Heaven and Earth." 
The late Pope John Paul II honored women when he spoke of a "feminine genius" and described woman as "God's masterpiece." Although the Church has not been without discriminatory and mis-when I was given 900 semi-weekly printed words to use however I want­ed, I'd thought at first, "Ooh, and in February, I can talk about PDA again! I can do the "Top Ten Worst Places to Make Out," or have a catchy advice phrase, like The Three C's (Keep it Classy? Clean? Clandestine? Closed?). Because PDA is just as annoying now as it was in high school, and I'll make such a difference when I write a rant about it that everyone has to read!" 
Now Valentine's Day is imminent again, and... 
I won't. 
I've learned. 

No one's required to read a piece just because it's in the paper. And not only that, but in this case, my same­siding target rantees would be unlikely to notice the Viewpoint page lying -Qn the chair across from them. 
And, too, it wasn't long after Lucy's and my attempt at kissy-poo inocula­tion that I learned what every kind of abstinence has in common: that it's just vot easy to keep it up in the long run. Even a couple who started their relationship with a firm commitment to discretion would be sooner or later likely to slip up, and sneak a kiss in the DeBartolo lobby. And I'd be in no position to fault them. 
So I've learned. 

I relinquish my right to preach about PDA. But I can still ask that, as with alcohol, you please use your own best judgment. 
Please just be aware. If you and your sweetie truly feel the need to exchange a long, loving, physical goodbye in the dorm's front entrance at 11:52 on a weeknight, expect to be interrupted. If you're engaged in some prolonged snuggling by the Grotto, spare a thought for the hapless jogger who's stopping off to light a candle for Uncle Homer's impending quadruple bypass. Recognize that your bedroom may not be an ideal place for private romance if 20 of your guests' coats are still scattered on your 11oor. And, while no one's entitled to throw stones, be pre­pared for whispers of, "Hey, look. We're only two pews behind Mr. and Mrs. Like-to-Go-At-It-During-The­Psalm this week!" 
We'll make our choices, and our commitments. We may not always keep to them. But we know the effects of what we do. 
A world exists outside ourselves. And, whether displayed in excessive public coupleship or printed rants soured by grapes, said world doesn't take very kindly to self-absorption. 
That's what I've learned from Valentine's Day. That, and to eat the round dark chocolate first. 
Madame Cassandra is spending her junior year abroad at Trinity College, Dublin. You may contact her at kkhorey@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 

Get the facts straight 
guided people, "blatant discrimination upon the grounds of sex" has never been a part of official Church teaching. The argument from tradition notes that Jesus did not choose any women for the priestly office; he chose 12 men to forgive stns, heal the sick, and consecrate the Eucharist. Since the Church cannot alter what Christ instituted, we may say that "the Church has no authority whatsoever to confer priestly ordination upon women" (Ordinatio Sacerdotalis). Some claim that the cultural norms of the time forced Christ to suppress the roles of womeir' However, Scripture demonstrates that Christ had no reservations shattering all sorts of norms (e.g. interaction with prostitutes, tax collectors, and lepers). If Christ was willing to be crucified for his actions and teachings, something tells me he would not have been afraid to ordain women if he so desired. So why did Christ choose men and not women for the ordained priesthood? 
To answer this question we must look at the nature of the Sacraments. The Sacraments are where we encounter the eternal God in the temporal world. To be an efficacious sign of this union between Creator and creation, the Sacraments must truly communicate what they sym­bolize. For example, in baptism we are "drowned" in Christ's death and reemerge cleansed as sons of God and members of Christ. Water is the obvious choice to sym­bolize this drowning and cleansing in bap­tism. Similarly, the Eucharist is the Sacrament of the Bride (Church) and the Bridegroom (Christ). It is where Christ gives up his body to the Church so she can conceive new life in the Holy Spirit. The ordained priest acts "in persona Christi" at the altar, re-presenting Christ's sacri­fice for all humanity. The imagery, sym­bolism, and efficaciousness of the Eucharist are only fully maintained when a man performs the Sacrament. The Church maintains that all men and women are equal in dignity. However, "equality of dignity" does not imply "sameness of roles." God has given men and women unique abilities to bring about the kingdom of God. While some of these roles overlap, others are reserved to men and women (e.g. priesthood and mother­hood, respectively). It is by embracing the differences between men and women that we will find union in Christ. 
Craig Borchard fifrh-year senior O'Hara Grace Feb. 9 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 10 
Wednesday, February 11, 2009 • 

When somebody says 'musical' for most people the image called to mind is that of a corny, family­friendly production a Ia "42nd Street" or even Disney's "High School Musical." Well, if these are typical musicals, then Mel Brooks' "The Producers" is the anti-musical, which the Pasquerilla East Musical Company (PEMCo.) will perform this hilarious show Thursday, Friday, and Saturday nights at 7:30 in Washington Hall. 
Based on the 1968 Mel Brooks movie, "The Producers" is about a money-grubbing, but washed-up Broadway producer and a mousy accountant who cook up a get-rich­quick scheme. They plan on raising two million dollars from investors and then putting on the biggest flop in Broadway history so that they get to keep all of the invested money. To do this, they try to find the worst musical ever written and hire the worst director and worst actors for the parts. The musical they decide to 
What's surer to succeed on 
·Broadway than a complete flop of a show? That's the idea that made Mel Brooks' "The Producers" so popular in 1968 when the film first hit screens. From there, the show went on to become an actual Broadway hit in 2001 and made another appearance on the big screen in 2005. The hilarious story of the conning producers whose plan for a horrible show turns them into millionaires has kept audiences laughing, and will con­
inue to do so in this weekend's PEMCo. show. 
"The Producers" was Mel Brooks' first work as writer and director, starting a long line of funfest come­dies. The film starred Zero Mostel as Max Bialystock and Gene Wilder as Leo Bloom. Wilder would go on 
o star in several more Brooks films, such as "Blazing Saddles" and "Young Frankenstein." The put on is called "Springtime for 
llitler." which speaks for itself. 
Haunchy, satirical, and devilishly disrespectful, "The Producers" pokes fun at everything from old women, to accountants, to Eastern Europeans. Anybody with a twisted sense of~ humor will appreciate the sight of Nazi stormtroopers daneing around the stage like a bunch of fairies. It even makes fun of the theatre com­munity itself; one of most innovative and humorous aspects of the show is the way it satirizes its own genre. The show also contains more cross­dressing than the Keenan Hevue, and certain scenes strongly resemble New York's Gay Pride parade. 
If you have never been to one of PEMCo.'s main stage productions before, I will assure you that they are the closest you can get to a real Broadway production without paying a week's salary for a ticket. "The Producers" is no exception. Different dance numbers feature grandmas with walkers, girls in dazzling gold sequins, prison inmates, and of course, Nazis. The sets are artfully designed. The costumes? Well, just 
m won an Academy Award Best Writing, Story and Screenplay­Written Directly for the Screen and Gene Wilder was nominated for an Academy Award as Best Actor in a Supporting Role. 
In 2001, "The Producers" debuted on Broadway as a musical. The film was adapted for the stage by Mel Brooks and Thomas Meehan. Nathan Lane and Matthew Broderick made the roles of Max Bialystock and Leo Bloom famous. The show strayed from its original material in a few wa¥s. giving the characters of Ulla and Hoger DeBris larger roles and eliminating the character of Lorenzo St. Dubois (LSD), who portrays Hitler in the original film version. The ending is also happier than the original film version. At the 2001 Tony Awards, the production won 12 Awards and had an additional three nomina­tions. The show went on national tours and became immensely popu­lar internationally. 
In 2005, the decision was made remember what I said about the G Pride parade. 
Joe Augustinsky and Michae Eardley are strong in the lead r.oles of Max Bialystock and Leo Bloom. Eardley is particularly skilled at por­traying the neurotic, insecure side Bloom's character. But many of the best moments come from the color­ful cast of supporting actors and actresses. Brian Davenport is out­standing as the flamboyant neo-Nazi Franz Liebkind, and Margie Juu'""'"''"" is perfect for the role of Ulla, the tempting Swedish receptionist. H first number is superbly sultry and will leave at least all the men in the audience begging for more. 
So if you're looking for a gre Valentine's Day date idea or ju something to do this weekend, ,,w""''­out "The Producers." Tickets are. available at the LaFortune box office, $6 for students, $8 general admission, and some tickets may be--... available at the door before the per­formances. 
Contact Josef Kuhn at 
jkuhnl@nd.edu 

to take the musical to the silve screen again. The new film adapta­tion took heavily from the Broadway show, recasting Lane and Broderick in their roles a Bialystock and Bloom. The of the original stage show, Susan Stroman, also directed this film version. Heception of the new ver­sion of the film was mixed. Man critics said that it retained too many of its stage characteristics. The acting and delivery of the seemed to have been barely toned down at all, making the transfer to film difficult. 
Since the debut of the musical, "The Producers" seems to have been made for the stage. PEMCo.'s performance is likely to continue in the same vein, and is sure to delight audiences this weekend. PEMCo. is sure to know where the went right with a show like "The Producors." 
Contact Kaidyn Conway at kconway2@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE

Wednesday, February 11, 2009 page 11' 

into it. Zero Mostel was the old creepy man. Nathan Lane was more quirky. I watched both, but I stopped listening to the soundtrack. Instead, I 
This weekend, the comedic musical worked on making the role my own, dynasty that is 'The Producers" hits and I think I was successful just as University of Notre Dame. Notre Michael was successful in his role. 's own PEMCo. has the exclu­
rights to the musical, and is one S: How does it feel to try to fill the the first amateur clubs to put on shoes of actors of the caliber o e show since the rights were Matthew Broderic and Nathan 
ased. The two famous lead roles Lane? 
be portrayed by Notre Dame stu­dents Joe Augustinsky (Max J: Nathan Lane won a Tony for the Bialystock) and Michael Eardley (Leo role. I am just trying to add a Bloom). Scene had the chance to sit perspective. I. hope the audience down with both actors and ask them go to the show without expecting about their experiences. Nathan Lane performance, but some­
thing different. Not to say that that is 
S: How do you identify with the worse. that you portray in "The · . 
ucers?" M: Originally GP.ne Wilder Leo. Ile was the quirky Willy' 
J: When I first got the role, I found type. Matthew Broderick really 
difficult identifying with the char-trays the dweeby accountant · acter (Max Bialystock), because we Leo both vocally and in his move­are different on many levels. If I had ment. I tried to bring my own quirki­to describe him in one word, it would ness. I think it's more exciting for the probably be "sleezeball," in every audience to find something they 
nse of the word. His main goal is aren't expecting. uw•n.11•;s money, and he'll do anything do so. I think deep down he's a S: Why will Notre Dame studen d guy and wants to be liked by enjoy PEMCo. 's rendition of Av<•rwm By the end, I feel that Max Producers?" 
prised that he finds a good in Leo. I like to think that I M: It's definitely a politically relate better to the end prod-rect show·on many levels, and 
By the end of the show, he really appealing to college students. out who he is. are plenty of dirty jokes. There's good music, but when you're 
M: Leo is a hysterical. He starts off ing, you can't believe what's goi as a mundane accountant who is on. College students will real! 
of life and work. He has a secret appreciate that. I also think that passion to be a Broadway producer ple are impressed seeing their and to become famous. and the quality they're able to 
tely, he feels he is stuck in especially with an entirely rut of daily life. When he finds run group. It's exciting "v''""uc• 'the opportunity to make a million all the expectations and I'm "~'"'n·« 
Dl dJdollars in Max's plan, he jumps on it to share it with campus. and decides to break all rules that he grew up with. It's really a coming of J: The great thing about it is age for Leo. He's still quirky but more it's not a stereotypical musical. he becomes a more normal human been advertising that it won't being. It's all about his development what people expect. For those throughout the show. like musicals, there are great dance 
numbers and songs. For those that 
S: Which adaptations of The don't like musicals it's written by Mel 
Producers have you seen? Brooks and it would be hard for a person not to find something by Mel 
M: Well, there's the original 1968 Brooks that they like. There are all el Brooks movie and the 2005 types of humor: slapstick, dirty jokes, '"u·""''"'· The new movie is based on puns; everyone can find something to 
Broadway musical which is based laugh at and enjoy. I'm just amazed on the original movie. Our version is by the amount of time and dedication different. I think our version is much put in by the cast. It's the energy 
than the musical. Leo is less everyone brings; there's not a weak than the Matthew Broderick link in show in my mind. Every scene 
I think our director, Bill, has is something to watch. There's brought a lot of originality to the huge scope to fmd something to like roles. in the musical. People won't be 
expecting it. People should be excit­
J: I have also seen both movies. ed. I would like to thank the cast and oth movies are great. They're the production staff for all work they've arne story but each has a different put in. It's been a pleasure and an 
I think one of the biggest chal-honor to work with them for of the show is that people go four months. 
expectations of what it's sup-d to look like. It's hard coming M: I second that. a role originated by Zero Mostel. -------------­
an Lane took it in a different Contact Patrick Griffin at I tried to inject my own self pgriffi3@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, February 11, 2009 
NBA 
James has foul feeling after Cleveland loss 
Johnson scores 22 points as Hawks lead from start to finish, bounce back from embarrassing defeat to Clippers 
James was chasing and the
Associated Press 
NBA's second-leading scorer NDIANAPOLIS -LeBron was called for the foul. Granger James did it all Tuesday night. made the first and intentionally He scored 47 points, had missed the second as James seven rebounds, four assists walked toward the locker room 
and had the Pacers crowd in disgust. 
oohing and aahing all night. So, Troy Mhrphy led the short­
of course, he also made the handed and nicked-up Pacers 
decisive play -for the wrong with 18 points. Granger, play­
team. ing with a sore knee, finished 
James was called for a foul with 16. with 0.2 seconds left on Danny Indiana also was without Granger, who hit a free throw three key players -Jeff Foster, to give Indiana a 96-95 victory Mike Dunleavy and Marquis over the Cavaliers. James start­Daniels. ed walking toward the locker But on a night James turned room before the final buzzer Conseco Fieldhouse into his sounded. own personal showcase, the 
It was a jarring loss for the ·Pacers ended their nine-game Cavs, who t.lropped two straight losing streak to the Cavs and for the first time this season. won for only the second time in 
James was brilliant, but six games. ended up on the short end of a The wild finish was the cul­call he clearly disagreed with. mination of a game in which 
It appeared James would neither team led by more than send the game into overtime eight. when the Cavs opted for an Indiana trailed 68-67 after alley-oop off an inbounds pass three quarters, but opened the with 0.4 seconds left. James fourth with seven straight Indiana tried to play for the his team for not showing up game, at Detroit on Wednesday never got to the ball, but points to take control. final shot, and it appeared T.J. against the Clippers, Atlanta night, before the league's best Granger was called for a foul The Pacers never trailed Ford had hit the winoer with ·played with much more pas­players head to Phoenix this and James made both free again and the Cavs couldn't get his 17-foot fadeaway with 0.8 sion. Of course, it also helped to weekend. throws to tie the score at 95. even until James' nifty pass to seconds left. have point guard Mike Bibby Caron Butler scored 22 
Then the Pacers tried the the cutting Wally Szczerbiak for back in the lineup. points, but the last-place same play. This time Granger a lineup made it 93-93 with Hawks 111, Wizards 90 Bibby, who didn't play against Wizards were outmanned, as was on the receiving end, 20.8 seconds left. The Atlanta Hawks had L.A. because of a sprained foot, they are on most nights without 
something to prove after an scored 12 points and doled out Gilbert Arenas, Brendan embarrassing home loss. six assists in 26 minutes. Haywood and Etan Thomas. 
They had no trouble making "He makes the defense play Washington turned it over 18 their point against hapless us honest," Johnson said. "He times, leading to 20 Atlanta Washington. can knock down the open shots. points. The Hawks didn't shoot 
Joe Johnson scored 22 points That makes a big difference." especially well. mixing in sever­and the Hawks led from start to The Wizards sure noticed al airballs among their 46 per­finish, erasing the memory off a Bibby's impact. cent performance from the dismal blowout by the Los "His savvy at that position field, but they turned it over Angeles Clippers with a rout of always helps," Washington only seven times and outre­the undermanned Wizards on coach Ed Tapscott said. "We bounded the Wizards 49-42. Tuesday night. have youth and inexperience on The Wizards spent most of 
Atlanta raced to a 9-1 lead our side." the game settling for jump before most of the sparse The Wizards were coming off shots, which didn't exactly crowd had even settled into its a rare victory, Sunday's 119-work out. They ·made just seats. The Hawks pushed the 117 triumph over the Indiana under 45 percent from the field margin as high as 22 points in Pacers, but they dido 't come -not nearly good enough con­the second quarter against an close to making it two in a row. sidering they put up 24 fewer injury-plagued team that has "We played -well, I don't shots than the Hawks. managed the modest feat of want to call it basketball," "If you miss shots and they're back-to-hack wins only once Washington's Antawn Jamison all jump shots, eventually you this season. said. "We didn't play smart. Not should drive the ball," Jamison 
"That was a total team talking, not communicating on said. "We just don't know how effort," said Hawks coach Mike the defensive end, not playing to be patient." Woodson, in a much better basketball the way it needs to Zaza Pachulia grabbed 12 mood than three nights earlier. be played." rebounds for the Hawks, "The starters did what they're The Hawks led 77-61 after including three on one espe­supposed to do and the guys off three quarters and Woodson cially persistent sequence the bench were very good." was able to rest his starters under the boards. He missed 
The Wizards missed their down the stretch. his first three attempts before first seven shots and never seri­Smith and AI Harford sat on finally tapping it in while the ously challenged the Hawks, the bench before the start of Wizards stood around helpless­who clearly had something to the final period, chuckling as ly. prove after a 121-97 loss to they glanced up at a Valentine's Eleven players scored for the Clippers over the weekend. Day skit on the video board. Hawks. The only active player 
"That was definitely on our Atlanta will go into the All­to miss out on the fun was minds," forward Josh Smith Star break with 30 wins for the Mario West, who got an said. "We wanted to bounce first time since the 1996-97 attempt under the basket with back tonight, and we did." season, when it was 31-15. The the clock winding down but 
After Woodson called out of Hawks (30-21) have one more watched it rim out. 
.
-


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 F.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The 
charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
Houses for the 09-1 0 school year.  HOUSES FOR RENT 2009-10. 2-4  Student rentals 2009/2010.  If you or someone you care about  
FOR RENT  andersonNDrentals.com  BEDROOMS, CLOSE TO CAM­PUS, STAINLESS STEEL APPLI- St. Peter/SB Ave. Homes.  PERSONAL  has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of  
FREE COMCAST!  ANCES.  Rape & Assault at:  
$1300-$2000/month.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  http:1/osa.nd. ed u/health­ 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer­ 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available.  CALL BILL: 574-532-1896.  not go it alone. We have many  safety/assault/  
ing 1 0-month leases.  Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at  ---------------­ 5-7 bdrms,  resources in place to assist you. If  
574-234-2436 or www.kramerhous­ 1-3BR Contemporary Urban APTS  you or someone you love needs  Watch out for the mattress thief...  
Bluegoldrentals.com  es.com  across from Notre Dame Stadium.  confidential support or assistance,  
The Foundry features private baths  1st or 2nd floor.  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819  Kevin McFadden is a loose cannon  
4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Starts  NOW LEASING. LAFAYETIE  for every bedroom. washer/dryer, fit- or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more  
6/09. $850/mo. 574-250-7653.  TOWNHOUSES. $350/PERSON.  ness center, theater room, tanning  information, visit NOs Assistance for  You can stand under my Kevin Ella  
613 Lafayette Blvd., 6-bdrm & 2­ 3,4 & 5-BDRM UNITS. 2.5 BATHS.  salon, game room. Preleasing for  Contact Bruce Gordon  Pregnant Students//Office of  ella ella, hey hey hey  
bdrrn houses. $350/person.  FREE INTERNET NEWLY  August.  Student Affairs website at:  
REMODELED. CALL 574-234-2436  Call 574-232-1400 or lease online  osa:nd.edulhealth-safety/assis­ Hey A-Rod's man boobs...  
Call574-876-6333.  OR WWW.KRAMERHOUSES.COM  www.foundryliving.com  574-876-3537.  tance-for-pregnant-students.  EE YALATA!  



OUND THE .NATION 
Wednesday, February 11, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE sERVICES page 13 
MLB 
USCHO/CBS College Sports Men's Hockey Rankings 
team  points  record  
1  Boston U. (49)  999  21-5-1  
2 3  NOTRE DAME (1) Northeastern  912 897'  21-5-3 19-6-2  
4 5  Michigan Vermont  847 791  21-9-0 1fi-6c4  
6  Cornell  688  15-4-4  
7  Mlami(OH)  668  16-8-4  
8  Denver  650  17-9-3  
9  Princeton  622  17-6-0  
10  Yale  507  11-5-1  
11  North Dakota  405  16-11-3  
12  New Hampshire  402  13·9~4  
13  Wisconsin  389  16-11-3  
14  Minnesota  360  12-9-5  
15  Boston College  346  12-9-4  
16  Ohio St.  335  18·9-3  
17  Minn. Duluth  235  15-9-6  
18  Colorado Col.  211  14-9-7  
19  Dartmouth  89  1N-3  
20  Air force  47  19-7-2  
USILA Preseason Men's  
Lacrosse Coaches' Poll  
team  points  previous  
1  Syracuse (8)  198  3  
2  Virginia (2)  192  2  
3  Maryland  169  8  
4  Cornell  162  1  
5  Johns Hopkins  155  4  
6  Duke  137  1  
7  Gerogetown  133'  11  
8  North Carolina  131  9  
9  NOTRE DAME  97  5  
10  Princeton  97  20  
11  UMBC  91  6  
12  Navy  83  14  
13  Hofstra  71  16  
14  Brown  65  13  
15  Denver  50  11  
16  Colgate  48  '10  
17  Loyola (Md.)  45  18  
18  Albany (N.Y.)  42  NR  
19  Ohio St.  30  12  
20  Bucknell  29  NR  

IWLCA Preseason Women's Lacrosse Poll 
team points prevoius 
1 Northwestern (19) 399 1 2-Syracuse (1) 365 4. 3 Duke 362 3 4 Virginia 313 6 5 Penn 302 2 6 Maryland 285 5 1 Princeton 280 8 8 Georgetown 236 10 9 North Carolina 230 9 10 Boston U. 214 7 11 NOTRE DAME 195 12 12 vanderbilt 146 11 13 Dartmouth 135 NR 14 New Hampshire 89 13 15 Johns Hopkins 86 20 16 Cornell 75 14 17 James Madison 75 NR 18 Stanford 63 18 19 Towson 62 15 20 Denver 62 19 

around the dial 
NCAA Men's Basketball 
No. 22 Syracuse at No. 1 Connecticut 
7:00 p.m., ESPN 
No. 3 North Carolina at No. 5 Duke 
9:00 p.m., ESPN 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -All-Star shortstop Miguel Tejada has been charged with lying to Congress about an ex-team­mate's use of steroids, the latest baseball player to get caught up in a web of cheating and juicing that has stained the sport. 
Tejada is expected to plead guilty in court Wednesday. The charges against him were outlined in documents filed Tuesday in federal court in Washington. 
The teammate is not identified in court docu­ments, but he is referred to as having played with Tejada on the Oakland Athletics. Tejada won the 2002 American League Most Valuable Player award while playing for the Athletics and is a five-time All-Star. He now plays for the Houston Astros. 
The documents indicate that a plea agreement has been reached with Tejada. The court papers were filed a day after superstar Alex Rodriguez acknowledged past use of performance­enhancing drugs. The New York Yankees third base­man does not face charges. 
The FBI also is investigat­ing whether Roger Clemens, a seven-time Cy Young winner, lied to Congress last year when he denied using steroids or human growth hormone. Clemens and Rodriguez top a list of big name, drug­tainted stars, including Barry Bonds, Mark McGwire and Jose Canseco, whose actions cast doubt on their on-field accomplish­ments. 
Tejada faces as much as a year in jail if convicted on the misdemeanor charge of making misrepresentations to Congress. Under federal guidelines, he would proba­bly receive a lighter sen­tence. 
The charge came in a legal document called a "criminal information," which only can be filed with the defendant's consent and typically signals a plea deal. 

A hearing is scheduled fur 11 a.m. EST Wednesday in Washington, and Tejada and his lawy€r plan to hold a news conference later in the day in Houston. 
Messages left for his attorney, Mark Tuohey, were not immediately returned. 
In the documents filed Tuesday, Tejada is charged with lying to investigators for the House Committee on Oversight· and Government Reform in 2005. Congressional staffers did not place Tejada under oath when they questioned him, but they advised him "of the importance of providing truthful answers," accord­ing to the court papers. 
IN BRIEF Jones officially released by
Cowboys after suspentions 
IRVING, Texas -Troubled cor­nerback Adam "Pacman" Jones was released Monday by the Dallas Cowboys, making him a free agent. 
The Cowboys said last month they planned to release Jones, and Monday was the first day teams could make waiver requests. 
Jones was suspended for six games by the NFL after an alco­hol-related scuffle in October with a team-provided bodyguard at a Dallas hotel. 
The cornerback came to Dallas after being suspended for the entire 2007 season following mul­tiple off-field incidents while with the Tennessee Titans. The Cowboys acquired him in a trade during the draft in April, and commissioner Roger Goodell cleared him to play at the end of the preseason. 
American motocross rider Lusk dies of head injury SAN JOSE, Costa Rica ­Jeremy Lusk, an American freestyle motocross rider, died of head injuries Tuesday after crashing while trying to land a backflip in competition. He was 
24. ... 
Jorge Ramirez, chief of the intensive care unit at Calderon Hospital where Lusk was taken, said the motocross racer suffered severe brain damage and a possible spinal cord injury. 
Lusk won a gold medal at the 2008 X Games. He was injured Saturday night when he failed to complete a full rotation while attempting a Hart Attack backflip and slammed headfirst into the dirt. Lusk crashed in almost identical fashion in the 
freestyle  semifinals  at  the  
2007  X  Games  but  was  not  
hurt.  

Guard Williams to replace
Bosh in NBA All-Star game 
INDIANAPOLIS-Mo Williams is final­ly an All-Star. 
Twice snubbed, the Oeveland Cavaliers point guard was added to the roster Tuesday by NBA commissioner David Stern as a replacement for injured Toronto Raptors forward Orris Bosh. 
Williams' teammates and Cleveland's owner Dan Gilbert were dismayed last week when Williams was twice left off the Eastern Conference roster but approved the move unanimously Tuesday. 
"It has a beautiful ring to it," Williams said before playing at Indiana. ''I'm excit­ed for myself and my iPammates and the coaches. It's a great thing, it's one thing people can't take away from you." 
Williams wasn't voted in by the fans, nor was he chosen by Eastern Conference head eoaches as a reserve. Then he was passed over by Stern in favor of Boston's Hay Allen, who is replacing injured Orlando guard Jameer Nelson on the roster. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 11, 2009 
SOCCER 
Beckha~, Galaxy breakup is a painful affair 
World's most famous foo_tballer finds home in Italy with AC Milan; chooses football over fame and fortune 
Associated Press 
PARIS -Loaned to AC Milan 
to resuscitate his football 
career, David Beckham is per.­
haps too busy to write a "Dear 
John" letter to his American 
fans, to explain that he wants 
out of the Los Angeles Galaxy 
and that they may have lost 
him to Italy for good. 
If Beckham could put pen to 
paper, here's what he might 
say: 
Dear the United States of 
America, 
Dear LA Galaxy. 
Dear TomKat, 
Breaking up is never easy, 
especially when the wedding 
cost millions and there's n<J 
pre-nup. But, please, you have 
to let me go. 
Truth is, I've found another 
love. She's Italian. With her, I 
feel young again, she's given 
me a new lease on my foot­
balling life. Even Victoria ­
"Posh Spice" doesn't do her 
justice -is calling me 
"Goldenballs" again. I've redis­
covered my magic touch. 
Her name is AC Milan. They 
eall her players the 
"Hossoneri," and I've been 
tickled pink ever since I pulled 
on her shirt. Like my times 
with Manchester United and 
Heal Madrid, I'm back where I 
deserve to be: playing for one 
of the biggest football clubs in 
the world. 
Yes, I know I said my move to 
Italy on loan would be a short­
term thing, that this was just a 
trial separation and that I'd be 
back in March. But I didn't 
know then that being with AC 
Milan would be so much fun. . (And the boutiques in Milan ... 
Wow!) 
Perhaps you missed my goal 
for Milan against Genoa. Was it 
shown on TV there? Or did 
that other type of football ­
the American kind played with 
rugby balls and all that 
padding -hog the limelight 
again? That bugs me. 
Anyhow, the goal was a gem, 
the kind that made me famous. 
a free kick curved over the 
wall from an almost impossible 
angle. The 'keeper flailed like 
a crash-test dummy. I can bend 
it again. baby! 
And my Bologna goal, that 
was another beauty for the 
highlight reel, lifted right out 
of Stevie Gerrard's book at 
Liverpool. On the run, first 
touch, right foot, bam! I'm still 
learning Milan's language, but 
know what "bellissimo" 
means. Put me in the right 
arena, and there's plenty of 
kick left in these 33-year-old 
legs. 
I know it's hard on you. We 
had grand plans together. My 
face, fame and supposedly fad­
ing skills; your business acu­
men and big dreams. Together, 
we were going to put the 
"Major" back into League 
Soccer (or is that football?), 
plus make a bundle and some 
celebrity A-list fr.iends in the 
process. 
But, somehow, the whole 
experience has been so ... 
what's the word? ... under­
whelming. Baseball, hoops, the 
wrong kind of football. Seems 
that there's just not enough 
room for us all. Fergie, Sir 
Alex, my old boss at 
Manchester United was spot 
on, it seems, with his comment that "David Beckham himself 
can't change the whole coun­
try." 

In MLS, I'm a big fish in a .small sea. At Milan, I'm a big 
fish in an ocean, playing along­
side other megastars at a club 
where players seem to go on 
and on like Duracell bunnies. 
Teammate Paolo Maldini turns 
41 this year! Longevity. It's 
important to me. So is playing 
with the best. 
I don't know if you read my 
recent interview with Italian 
paper Corrien~ della Sera, but I 
think and hope you'll get the 
message. Sometimes, you've 
got to be a little cruel to be 
kind. 

"The Americans are doing everything they can to improve the level and reputation of their game. It's a young league and I think it needs another 10 years to become successful," I said. "I have to admit that, having played in Europe, sometimes it was frustrating playing in certain games. But every now and then, moving from one state to another. I also enjoyed myself." 
Fact is, money isn't every­thing. I'm thinking of myself and my country here, too. Perhaps it's age, perhaps it's vanity, perhaps it's the passion for football I've carried since I was a kid. But I cannot bear the thought of saying goodbye to England's white, three­lioned shirt. 
I've played 107 times for England. Just one more game to equal the great Bobby Moore's record for an outfield player. Serving my country is something I know that you, my American friends, can under­stand. The World Cup is just around the corner. I'm already the only England player to have scored in three separate World Cups (1998, 2002 and 2006). I'd love to give it anoth­er crack in South Africa and silence those idiots who say I'm just a clotheshorse and refuse to recognize me as the gifted and dedicated footballer I am. 
But for that, I've got to impress England coa:ch Fabio Capello. Crikey, is he a hard nut to crack. I don't think he watches MLS. He suggested that I go to Milan. At least in Italy, I know he keeps an eye on me. It's kind of hard not to when I'm playing so well. I won him over before when he and I were both at Heal Madrid, proving he was wrong to drop me_from the squad. With Milan, I know I can do so again. Capello has included me in the England team that will play Spain in a friendly this week, so my Italian job does seem to be paying off. 
My side is now talking to your side. I hope the lawyers can work out an amicable split. Of course, I will come baek on March 9 and fulfill my MLS obligations if you insist. But we both know that my heart now lies elsewhere. 
Yes, Victoria might miss Hollywood and pals Tom and Katie Cruise. It's true, she seemed to fit right in there. But Milan is hardly slumming it. 
This isn't about fame or for­tune. For once, it's just about football. 
Respectfully, David. 

Friday. arch 27. 2009 • 7 pm 
Morris P~rforming Arts Center 
South B~nd. Indiana c c;r.... ~ .... ,.,........ ,................ , , .............. , 14 ot 
10om ot Morris Box Offtcv. SuperSounds In Goshen.. charge by phonv574/Z35-9190.or onllnv www.morriscenter.org W.lcomq:d by Garlq:y L41:41:p flatomotlv41: li Brondt•s ttoriClY Dovldson-Wob<lsh 

Wednesday, February 11, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
U.S. SoccER 
Weary Donovan, US ready to face Mexico 
United States and Mexico renew rivalry opening final round of World Cup qualifying for South Africa 2010 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Landon Donovan is caught between two continents. 
As the U.S. meets Mexico tonight to open the final round of regional World Cup qualifying, Donovan is wait­ing to hear whether Major League Soccer's travel, he said his time with Bayern had prepared him for the showdown with Mexico, the first of 10 matches for the 
U.S. team in the final round. 
''I've always been ready for this game. I'm excited for it," he said. "In the future I'll always be excited for it no 
matter where I am. So it does­n't really 
Los  Angeles  "Let's talk about  change  any- 
Galaxy will let him stay with  Mexico today.''  thing, except that I traveled  
Bayern Munich beyond the  Landon Donovan  a little further to get here."  
scheduled end  US midfielder  Six  teams  

of his loan  on  
March 8.  
"Let's  talk  
about  Mexico  today,"  
Donovan  said twice  on  

Tuesday night when asked pointed questions about his future. 
Donovan arrived in Columbus on Monday night after entering in the 72nd minute of Bayern's 3-1 win over Borussia Dortmund on Sunday evening. No fan of 
from North 
America, 
Central America and the Caribbean are competing for three spots in the 2010 World Cup, and the fourth-place team advances to a playoff against the No. 5 team from South America. 
Most regulars came in for the match. The exception was right back Steve Cherundolo, sidelined the past month by a hip injury. 

Donovan isn't the only Galaxy player in Europe these days -David Beckham is on loan to AC Milan through May to strengthen his chances of playing in England's World Cup quali­fiers. 
Beckham wants to stay with Milan, and Donovan previ­ously said that he would like to remain in Europe after his loan is scheduled to end. Since the Bundesliga resumed, he has been a sec­ond-half sub in both of 
Bayern's matches, replacing lie declined to speculate on 

Bastian Schweinsteiger and Luca Toni. 
The Galaxy could extend Donovan's loan through the end of Bayern's season in May, rather than negotiate a permanent transfer. Playing for 
his plans or those of the "Regardless of where Galaxy. 
"Regardless

I am, where I was or 
of where I am,where I will be, this where I was or 
game's always the where I will be, 
,, 
this game's
same. 

always the same," he said. Landon Donovan Donovan US midfielder answered ques­
Bayern likely would strength­en his play. 
ACE UNDERGRADUATE INTERNSHIPS 
Get your applicatiotz at http://ace.intern.googlepages.co1n/honze 

tions from a 

media throng in both English and Spanish. Ile said he learned to speak Spanish from players -many from Mexico, South America and Central America -who were teammates of his when he was younger. 
As always, he remained con­fident of the American side's chances. He said the series with Mexico has changed dra­matically from when he first played on U.S. teams against the Tricolores. 
The two sides have met 54 times since 1934, with Mexico winning 29 and the U.S. 14. But since 1999 the U.S. has won nine of 13 meetings ­including the two previous World Cup qualifiers at Crew Stadium, by 2-0 counts in 2001 and 2005. The 2001 match was known as· "La Guerra Fria" because of the wintry conditions. 
Mexico hasn't beaten the United States on U.S. soil since 1999. 
"I would guess that the tone of it has changed, for sure, since we first played them a long time ago," Donovan said. "That's good. But it doesn't give us any advantage ... Yes, we're confident, but it doesn't matter what tlw media is say­ing. When they show up ... they're going to be good regardless of what's going on." 
Over the years, Donovan has said that playing for his coun­try is among the most impor­tant things to him in his soecPr career. 
"It's just fun." he said. "Anybody in any job, whPn thPrP's a more exriting opportunity or a tmosplwre, or whatever, you'rp going to be more exritPd and m<H<' prepared for it. That's the way this is." 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
Mizzou program turns the corner 
Associated Press 
COLUMBIA, Mo. --Hundreds stormed the court, a sponta­neous eruption celebrating Missouri's coming out party. 
Nearly three years to the day since Quin Snyder resigned and the program reached its low mark, the Tigers' wiped away all the institutional cobwebs with an improbable come-from-behind 62-60 victory over bitter bor­der rival 
Cole Aldrich had 15 rebounds and five blocked shots for Kansas, but Self said the 6-foot-11 center dido't get enough scoring chances while battling a collapsing zone. Aldrich was 3-for-8 and had eight points. 
"I thought the zone did the best job on Cole," Self said. "But you know who played good defense? We played the best defense on Cole." 
Missouri 
cracked the Top 
25 for the first 
Kansas  on  "Even though Kansas  time in almost  
Monday night. Kansas vs. Missouri is  was here I feel like a lot ofpeople came out  five seasons around Christmas-time,  
always  a  sell­ to watch us play. "  then  quickly  
out. This time  exited  after  a  
the school got so much more. The Tigers (21­ Mike Anderson Missouri coach  blowout loss to Illinois in St. Louis. This  

5. 8-2 Big 12) shook off an atrocious first half in time to end a five-game losing streak in the series, and coach Mike Anderson finally beat the Jayhawks after an 0-5 career start. Barring total collapse, the school's five-year NCAA tournament drought also is about to end. 
Anderson sensed the antici­pation before the latest renewal, especially after the Tigers' road win at Texas knocked the Longhorns out of the Top 25 only five days earli­er. 
"Even though Kansas was here I feel like a lot of people came out to watch us play," Anderson said. "Our students have been lining up all day to get in here, and it was a team effort --players, coaching staff and our fans." 
When the arena was half­filled earlier this season, Anderson knew the fan base was just waiting for a sign. 
"It's one of the reasons I came here," he said. "It's a tough place to play and the fans have passion. We've got to give them a reason to come and a reason to stay when they come, and I think they went home happy tonight." 
The fans' release has been building over the last 16 home games --the 15 games before the Kansas nailbiter were decided by an average of 28.5 points. 
Missouri's relentless press­ing attack has been a success pretty much everywhere in Anderson's third season, and with a team proven to be long on depth. It's a style designed to wear down opponents and to mount quick rallies, and one that allows the Tigers to overcome deficiencies such as a soft inside game. 
Kansas (19-5, 8-1) led 30-16 at halftime and was up by 11 at 54-43 with 8:19 to play, but had only one more basket the rest of the way. The Jayhawks' whopping 48-28 rebounding advantage was negated by a season-high 27 turnovers, and Missouri was able to prevail despite a season-worst 35.6 percent shooting and ugly 2­for-14 numbers from 3-point 
time, they're 
looking forward to a much longer stay in the poll with a chance to make it 17 in a row at home on Saturday against Nebraska. 
"Experience, leadership, mature freshmen," said DeMarre Carroll, who led Missouri with 22 points and seven rebounds. "Then you've got to give credit to our coach, he harps on us every day about defense. 
"As a team, I think we came together in the second half." 
As for Kansas, Self doesn't expect the setback to linger with his young players. 
"Hopefully if we're in this position again, we'll close it out," the coach said. "If we can't handle losing a game, we're obviously not a very tough team or tough-minded at all." 
The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 11, 2009 
NFL 
Saints, Hornets might relocate 
Associated Press 
BATON ROUGE, La. --An executive with the group that oversees the Louisiana Superdome and New Orleans Arena warned lawmakers Tuesday the state must find $27.5 million next year to fulf'ill contracts that keep the Saints and Hornets in New Orleans. 
The state pays the two pro teams each year to retain the elubs, subsidies the team owners have said are needed to make operating in the rel­atively small New Orleans market worthwhile. 
The money comes from the budget of tho Louisiana Stadium and Exposition District or LSED, which operates the stadium and the arena where the NFL and NBA teams play. 
Doug Thornton, senior vice president of SMG, the com­pany that manages the Superdome and the Arena, said the LSED won't bring in nearly enough for the fiscal year starting July 1 to cover the payments. 
The problem has recurred ever since a deal was negoti­ated with the Saints in 2001 and the Hornets came from Charlotte, N.C., in 2002. Previously, the state tapped surplus cash, refinanced Superdome debt and bor­rowed from an economic development fund to fill gaps in Saints and Hornets pay­ments. 
"We have revenues that are not sufficient to cover the debts," Thornton told members of the House Appropriations Committee. 
Both deals were negotiated under then-Gov. Mike Foster. The state's 10-year deal with the Saints is the largest of the two and runs through the 2010 season, guarantee­ing the NFL team $186.5 million in payments. 
The state now owes the Saints some $23.5 million annually --atop the NFL team's earnings from ticket sales, concessions, parking and other items. 
The Hornets deal doesn't include nat payments, but involves payments based on performance and team income. The state needs an estimated $7 million to pay the Hornets next year. 
If the state didn't make the payments to the teams, the Saints and Hornets could leave New Orleans without a penalty. 
But Thornton said the troubled economy would make it difficult for a team to move, and both the Saints and Hornets have expressed a commitment to New Orleans. 
"We hope that an eventual solution will address both the short-and long-term challenges that face the Saints and the state," said Greg Bensel, a spokesman for the Saints. 
Hugh Weber, the Hornets team president, said: "We consider ourselves a partner of the state ... we're a rev­enue-producing business that provides jobs and opportunities for Louisiana. We are working with state officials to continue serving as an asset for the region." 
Currently, the LSED has about $3 million in revenue to cover the direct cash pay­ments--or $27.5 million less than what is needed to pay both teams, Thornton told lawmakers. He said options could include shuf­fling existing tax dollars or raising new taxes to cover the shortfall. 
That leaves Gov. Bobby Jindal, who opposes tax increases, to struggle with state lawmakers on ways to fill the gap in the fiscal year starting July 1. The state is facing a total budget short­fall forecast to top $1.2 bil­lion. 
.Jindal said Tuesday he intends for the teams to stay, but added, "It's too early for the state to know what we can and cannot afford for the next fiscal year." 
State lawmakers ques­tioned whether the state should continue pumping money into the team pay­ments and asked Thornton for other ideas. 
"1 know it's important, but can we afford it?" said Rep. Tom McVea, R-.Jackson. "We've just got to have some relief, and I think you know that." 
Meanwhile, Jindal's admin­istration is in negotiations with the Saints seeking a new contract to keep the team in Louisiana past 2010. 
Thornton said the state hopes to re-negotiate with the Saints before April 1, the deadline for NFL teams to apply for the 2013 Super Bowl. A long-term deal between both is needed to be in the running to host future Super Bowls. 
In a new deal, Thornton said, the state hopes to "rebalance the risk," moving away from direct cash subsi­dies. In exchange, he said the state could make improvements to the Superdome, like adding more suites, seats and con­cession areas to help the Saints earn more from tick­et, food and drink sales. 

range. "We did a great job on the glass," Kansas coach Bill Self 
Write sports. Email Bill at wbrink@nd.edu 
said. "But we did a pitiful, piti­ful job handling any type of pressure." 
Wednesday, February 11, 200~ The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NHL 
Sharks top Bruins in battle of league's finest 
Johnson scores shootout's only goal as Kings edge Islanders; Lehtonen stops 40 shots zn Thrashers victory 
even think about that." 
Associated Press 
It was the first time in 10 
BOSTON-Joe Thornton was games the Bruins didn't earn a impressed with his former team point but the loss was Boston's Tuesday night, but it was his second straight, both at home. curnmt club that stormed back "We were excited for this," and won the matchup between Bruins center Marc Savard said the two top teams in the NHL. of the only meeting with the 
"They're a darn good team, Sharks. "After Christmas we all probably one of the best we've had it marked on our calendar. played this year," the for.mer We wanted to be ready for this." Bruins captain said after cap-For two periods, they were. ping a three-goal rally with his "We played a 40-minute game, 13th goal of the season, helping that's the bottom line," Sav&rd tho San Jose Sharks to a 5-2 win said. "We didn't play the last 20 over Boston. and they're too good of a tmtm 
"If the power play was on a lit-not to play (60) minutes of hoek­tiP bit more it would have been ey and they took advantage of a different game," Thornton it." addod. "They're a good team." Lucie, who had missed eight of 
The Bruins, who went 0-for-4 16 games with a pair of injuries, on the power play, including a scored on two rebounds-one 46-second two-man advantage off Dennis Wideman's shot and in the second period, had been the other off a bid by Petteri 26-0-2 when leading after two. Nokelainen. The goals were his But Patrick Marleau, Milan first since Jan. 1. Michalek and Joe Thornton In between Lucie's two tallies, scored in a 6:16 span of the Blake let a power-play shot go third period. from the right point that 
"We play fast, we play big," appeared to hit Blake Wheeler Thornton said. "They came out and Wideman before sneaking really strong and we didn't have past Thomas. The goal was orig­too many answers. I think the inally given to Joe Pavelski. second half of the game, the ice Nokelainen left in the first kind of tilted." period after taking what looked 
The Bruins had lost wingers like a high stick from Dan Boyle, sible angle. Standing along the Ilya Kovalchuk had the Atlanta were "disinterested" early on. Petteri Nokelainen and Chuck causing a cut near the eye. No goal line to Quick's left, goals. The Thrashers won for The Lightning are 12th in the Kobasew to injuries, shortening penalty was called after a Jackman threw a wrist shot just the second time in the last Eastern Conference. their bench. The Sharks took lengthy discussion and the toward the net that hit the post eight games. "Just not interested," Tocchet advantage. Bruins were told the four offi-and deflected in. "We kind of limited their said. "Maybe it's the coaching 
Nokelainen was taken to a cials didn't see it. Julien was The lead lasted just 6 7 sec­options," Stuart said. "We tried stairs fault. I don't know. We're hospital and diagnosed with an told that Nokelainen was hit by onds, as Kopitar tied it by finish­to keep the shots outside and let pretty disappointed in some eye injury. the puck. ing a 2-on-1 with Patrick Kari see them. I thought it was a guys." 
"It's an eye injury and I don't In the second period, Boston's O'Sullivan. good effort." Kozlov, playing in his 1,100 think it's looking good right Chuck Kobasew was hit by Hilbert got a quick wrist shot Gary Roberts scored for the NHL game, gave Atlanta a 2-1 now." Bruins coach Claude Douglas Murray and came off off in the low slot and beat Lightning, who have lost five of lead at '2:02 of the second. The Julien said. ~ the ice favoring his right leg. Quick to put the Islanders back six. Rookie goalie Mike goal was the 340th of the his 
The Eastern Conference-lead-Late in the period, defenseman on top at 9:50. McKenna stopped 21 shots. career. ing Bruins, on top of the NHL Mark Stuart left with what Frolov made it 3-3 at 6:41 of "Our goalie gave us a chance Kovalchuk scored an empty­with 85 points, carried a 2-1 appeared to be a cut near the the third period when he to win," Tampa Bay center Jeff net goal with 9.1 seconds edge into the third period mouth. Kobasew and Stuart banged in a rebound with 2 sec­Halpern said. "We, as a team, remaining. behind two first-period goals by both returned for the third peri­onds left on a Los Angeles dropped the ball." Roberts put the Lightning up Milan Lucie. The West-leading od, but Kobasew left again and power play. Frolov leads the Tampa Bay interim coach Rick 1-0 at 1:24 of the first on his Sharks, who have 81 points, Julien said his right wing had team with 22 goals. Tocchet said ~orne of his players 438th career goal. 

trailed after two periods for only  two injuries.  The Islanders didn't register a  
the 12th time this season, but  shot in the period until Sean  
roared back.  Kings 4, Islanders 3 {SO)  Bergenheim sent one on Quick  
"It's pretty rewarding to come  Jack Johnson scored the only  with 7:16left.  
back in a building like this and  goal of the shootout in the final  
get a game like that in the third  round as the Los Angeles Kings  Thrashers 3, Lightning 1  
period," San Jose coach Todd  beat the New York Islanders on  Kari Lehtonen safd it was a  
McLellan said.  Tuesday night.  save. Steven Stamkos had no  
Marleau tied the game with  Johnson faked a forehand and  doubt it was a goal. The refer­ 
his 27th goal at 3:32, and  got Yann Danis to move before  ees' decision went with the  
Michalek and Thornton struck ·  he slipped in a backhander net  goalie.  
2:20 apart. Marleau assisted on  to give the Kings their fourth  Lehtonen made 40 saves,  
the goal by Thornton, who  straight win.  including stopping Stamkos on a  
played his second game in  The Islanders got regulation  penalty shot, to lead the Atlanta  
Boston since he was traded to  goals from Doug Weight, Tim  Thrashers past the Tampa Bay  
the Sharks, on Nov. 30, 2005.  Jackman and Andy Hilbert.  Lightning 3-1 on Tuesday night.  
Thornton, booed when he had  Danis stopped 36 shots for the  Lehtonen made a lunging  
the puck, scored when Devin  Islanders, who lost their third  glove save along the goal-line on  
Setogouchi's pass from behind  straight after a four-game win­ Stamkos with 8:09 to play in the  
the net hit Thornton's left skate  ning streak.  third. The play was reviewed by  
and beat Tim Thomas at 9:48.  Wayne Simmonds, Anze  replay and the ruling on the ice  
The goal stood up after a video  Kopitar and Alexander Frolov  was upheld.  
review.  scored for the Kings. Jonathan  "I felt like the puck was in the  
Marleau assisted on former  Quick, who started his eight  pocket of the glove right near  
Boston University star Mike  straight game, turned aside 22  my wrist," Lehtonen said. "He  
Grier's empty-net goal with 28.6  shots.  made a nice move. I thought he  
seconds left, giving the Bruins  Los Angeles opened the scor­ was going the other way. Then it  
their first three-goal loss of the  ing just 2:08 into the game.  was just desperation. It was  
season.  Simmonds, in the left circle,  tough. It could have gone either  
Hyane Clowe had three assists,  took the puck from teammate  way."  
and Rob Blake scored the other  Brad Richardson and ripped a  Stamkos, taken first overall in  
San Jose goal as the Sharks  quick wrist shot past Danis'  last year's draft, felt he had his  
spoiled Thomas' 200th NHL  short side.  seventh goal taken away, but the  
game.  The Islanders tied it at 4:S3  rookie understands why the call  
"They're the best team we've  when Mike Comrie fed Bill  wasn't reversed.  
played so far this year and it  Guerin alone in the slot. Guerin  "When you look at the replay,  
would be nice to get another  waited for Quick to make a  you have to be able to see the  
shot at them (in the Stanley Cup  move, and then pushed a soft  whole puck," Stamkos said.  
finals), hopefully with both  back-pass to Weight, who imme­ "You can't see the puck although  
teams being healthy," Julien  diately beat Quick to the glove  you know it's in his glove and  
said. "Hopefully we can work  side.  you know it's over the line. I saw  
our way there, but that's a long  Jackman put the Islanders up  the puck in his glove go over the­ 
ways off and there's a lot of  2-1 at 4:20 of the second period  line."  
things to be done before we can  with a goal from a nearly impos- Colin Stuart, Slava Kozlov and  

as they face archrival Calvin. For the Belles to be successful 
Al01a 
against Adrian, however, they will need another strong per­
continued from page 20 
formance from their bench, which contributed 27 points inThe win also guaranteed that 
last weekend's game, and
the Belles, who are a half-game strong play in the paint. Thebehind rival Hope College for Belles outscored Alma 26-12 inthe lead in the MIAA, will finish the paint and 14-4 on second­no lower than second place in chance points on Saturday. 
this year's conference stand­Tonight's game is also part of
ings, another first for the Women's Basketball Coach
school. Saint Mary's had never 
Association's "Pink Week."
finished higher than third place Since 2007, more than 1.200
in the MIAA. 
schools have helped raise
While this season has been awareness about breast cancer. 
filled with broken records and As a result of these schools'noteworthy performances, the efforts, more than $930,000Belles are still trying to win out has been raised for breast can­and pray that Hope slips in one cer research.
of its remaining four games. The best chance for the Dutch 
Contact Robert Graham at
to lose will be this Wednesday, 
rgraharn@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 11, 2009 

through our first maybe 15 omore forward Becca games or so, and lately it's Bruszewski. McGraw said the
Cardinals 
been the other way around," team shoots foul shots at the she said. end of practice
continued from page 20 The team as when the play­
"That's not to say we're a whole is ers are tired to
"We have to play
going to disregard the rest of healthy, but simulate game
better position, we
their team, because I think McGraw said conditions and that was the mistake we made freshman have to be very that she trusts at Pitt," she said. guard Natalie disciplined. We've got her starters to 
When facing superior ath­Novosel has make the shots.
to work on our
leticism, McGraw said, you played through "That's where have to play smarter. painful ten­close-outs and our I think Lindsay "We have to play better donitis in her approach to the Schrader, Lech position, we have to be very knee. Rest will and [junior
perimeter. " 
.disciplined," she said. "We've heal it, guard) Ashley· got to work on our close-outs McGraw said, [Barlow] and and our approach to the but that's not Muffet McGraw I'd put [junior perimeter." something the Irish coach center] Erica 
For Notre Dame's offense to team will have Williamson in succeed, McGraw said, the anytime soon, that category, freshmen have to match their so the coaches try to get her those four have stepped up at level of contribution from ear­rest when they can. the end of games and hit huge lier· this season. She said she The Irish made four free free throws for us all year wants to do a better job of throws in the final 23 seconds long," she said. "No matter resting the starters and get­of the DePaul game to secure what their percentages during ting more production off the_ their lead, two from senior the rest of the game." bench. guard Lindsay Schrade~ one 
"Our bench was outscoring from junior guard Melissa Contact Bill Brink at teams pretty regularly up Lechlitner and one from soph-wbrink@nd.edu 
ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer Senior guard Lindsay Schrader wrestles for a loose ball during Notre Dame's 62-59 victory over DePaul Sunday. 
Opener 
continued from page 20 
Other returning players who earned all-conference honors are senior Linda Kohan, junior Christine Lux and sophomores Katie Fleury and Brianna Jorgensborg. 
Kohan, who mainly plays third base, is an offensive force for the team. In 2008, she bat­ted .302 and had an on-base percentage of .456. 
Lux, a first baseman, is a power hitter who recorded 15 home runs in 2008. 
Fleury, who plays second base and shortstop, is a solid defender and also hit .295 last season. 
The team lost two seniors, Sarah Smith and Katie Laing. 
E.lr;aledbra......,haiWOod.,...tacn . 
. ~windoiiS1l'llh speoc::taallar'fi!JB'I!IS . ~104idCIIilil9 ~diCil '!IIIII pi:IU81111ic ~d lieIJnlwenilr !I Nan Dame~ Fully~ ~dl ill' ltuldllad.~ 
P!--..........,.lllectoom Fuklm...,_&dl)ef in fMK'1 ~ /Ill Utiillila induded -..,C4ible and lnlleme! 
Wl-fi,.,..,_~~Qb.._ 
Ernn::aSiusines CecW!f Private bellalillin llleelfiPSitlnerU 
-~._.~..~.......&WloRI CamriUity room1llilh Wi &Billllldl Full 8IMC2 eoooilfgt 'TatiJq Salon Bedlonictataa::e~a to 'ji'N( apattr~wn ..samenlies oenaer Gar.je~ 
Retal shops and~...... Smal pels alond 
~:: -~ ·~K:t~·~-:.... 0. • 
.til~::~:~ -. 
574.232..1400

~i~-~t~· 


·:·~t~~.-­
.(~t fOUNDH~­
' \.o~1S & APARTAf~lirs ~ 
EDDY STIIl£1 ®SOUTH llND 
CONTEMPORARY URBAN APARTMENTS 
Dllec::lly Aaa.a Ftomn...........of Nolte Dame~ el Eddy Slleel CoiiMIIOi.. 
THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN LMNG AND LMNG WELL 
NOW PRE·LEASING2009 
Visit 01.8' I B F •na eer..r.8\e East come~' of the Not1h Eddy Stlreet ~.-onAngellt Blvd. 
emell: edciJ8fundl,...lg.CIOift 
www,foundryUving.com 


Big East 
continued from page 20 
slew of other squads will com­
pete for spots in the top-eight. 
Here's a look at how the race 
looks -starting at the bottom, 
of course, because that's where 
Notre Dame finds itself now. 
Might as well be in the 
Mountain West: 
Notre Dame (12-10, 3-7), 
South Florida (8-15, 3-8), 
St. John's (12-11, 3-8), 
Rutgers (10-14, 1-10), 
DePaul (8-16, 0-12) 
At the beginning of the sea­son, nobody would have guessed the Irish would be in this category. But against every top-tier opponent, the team has looked like a mid-major: no con­fidence, bad decisions, lack of poise. 
On the bright side, Notre Dame still gets to play three of its fellow bottom-dwellers. However, South Florida knocked ofT previously-unbeaten Marquette this weekend. (Dbn't look up at the 1Oth floor of the 
·Hesburgh Library, because 
everyone with tickets to 
Sunday's ND-USF game is about 
to jump.) 
Even Stevens: 
No. 22 Syracuse (18-6, 6-5), 
Cincinnati (16-8, 6-5), 
Providence (15-9; 7-5), 
West Virginia (16-8, 5-6), 
Seton Hall (13-9, 5-6); 
Georgetown (13-9, 4-7) 
Of these six teams, none actu­ally has a .500 record. Still, I just saw the Seinfeld episode where everything always evens out for Jerry and thought "Even Stevens" would be agood name for the group. 
Each of these teams covets a 
spot in the top eight and a sub­
sequent bye on the Tuesday of 
the Big East tournament. But 
only three of the six will be 
seeded that high. The others 
will play on the first day against 
the dregs of the conference 
(plus Notre Dame, most likely). 
Look for Georgetown to make a late push for a top-eight spot. They're not nearly as bad as they've been playing. (Sound familiar?) Plus, the Hoyas still get to face South Florida, St. John's imd DePaul and will take on Marquette and Louisville at home. 
Meanwhile, Cincinnati has been improving steadily as Syracuse and Providence come back to earth. Sweet-shooting Deonta Vaughn and the Bearcats could be good for an upset or two at the conference 
tourney in New York. 
The Starting Five: No. 1 Connecticut (22-1, 10-1), No. 5 Louisville (18-4, 9-1), No. 4 Pittsburgh (22-2, 9-2), No. 10 Marquette (20-4, 9-2), No. 13 Villanova (20-4, 8-3) 
At this point, the top four of this group look like they should each get a top-three seed in the Big Dance. 
On Thursday, Notre Dame gets a chance at a legitimate big win against Louisville. But it won't be easy for forward Luke Harangody to rebound against the Cardinals' front­court of Earl Clark, Terrence Williams and Samardo Samuels, which is playing its best basketball of the year. 
The Irish still have to play Villanova and at Connecticut ­a game that looks increasingly daunting. In the days leading up to the Huskies game, it should be fun to hear all about Hasheem Thabeet's Big East player-of-the-year candidacy even though DeJuan Blair, Jerel McNeal, and even Harangody have been consis­tently outplaying him. The amount of attention Thabeet is getting is kind of like how the Super Bow} gets so much more publicity than the Kentucky Derby and Wrestlemania, both of which are greater sports spectacles. 
Villanova convincingly beat Marquette Tuesday and put itself in good position for a top­four slot. The Wildcats are sit­ting especially pretty consider­ing Marquette's daunting remaining schedule. The Golden Eagles still have to play Connecticut and Syracuse at home and Louisville and Pittsburgh on the road. Their schedule is similar to Notre Dame's, only the exact oppo­site. Look for the Golden Eagles to drop several more contests before they head to Madison Square Garden. 
As the Irish look ahead to matchups against Louisville, South Florida and West Virginia, the next week will likely make or break Notre Dame's NCAA Tournament hopes. One thing is certain, though: the Irish better start winning. Because remember, you need a winning record even to get to the NIT. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neccessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd. edu. 
Both provided offensive power -Smith led the team with a .370 batting average. She also earned first team all-NFCA regional honors. 
However, they gain four new­comers in freshmen Alexa Maldonado, Dani Miller, Kasey O'Connor and Kristina Wright. 
The 2009 campaign begins this weekend as the Irish trav­el to Tuscaloosa, Ala. to partic­ipate in the 'Barna Bash. The team will travel to warm­weather destinations to play in various invitationals through the rest of winter. 
After a spring break trip to Fullerton, Cal., the Irish begin a six-game home stand on March 18. 
This will be the team's first full season in the new Melissa Cook Stadium, which was com­pleted in April of 2008. 
Their first Big East contest will be against St. John's on March 22 at Melissa Cook Stadium. The Irish finished fourth in the Big East in 2008, but were voted third in this year's Big East preseason poll, which was released in January. They are currently behind Depaul and Louisville, respectively. 
This year's Big East champi­onships will be held in Louisville on May 7-9. 
The Irish reached their 1Oth consecutive NCAA Tournament in 2008. The team lost in extra innings to Kent State at a regional in Ann Arbor, Mich. 
NCAA regionals will be held May 14-15 at various campus locations. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 




.-------------------------------------------------~---­
Wednesday, February 11, 2009 The Observer + TODAY page 19 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
-----------------------~-----------------------------------~-------------­
CROSSWORD 
Across 32 Locale for a New York diva
Oodles 35 What the 
6 Wide as the number of 
ocean birthday candles 10 Huffed and 
signifiespuffed 
36 Olden times 14 Seoul's land 
37 Jinxes 15 Diva's song 
38 Snooper's org. 16 Jacob's first wife 39 Tomato-hitting­17 A magnet the-floor sound 
attracts it in a 40 Speed skater 
physics Heiden 
experiment 
41 Bamboozle 19 Between twice 
42 Sales pitches

and never 
43 Zilch 20 Grand Coulee, 
45 Carry the day 

e.g. 
46 Crazy-sounding 21 County seat birdNNW of 47 Freighters' 

Oklahoma City 
freights22 Relieve 
51 One with a hook,24At a tilt 

line and sinker 26 Praise 
54 Stuporous sleep 27 nre filler 
55 Doc's picture 28 Divorces producer 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

56 Java neighbor 57 Star's marquee 
position 60 Genesis garden 61 Tall tale teller 62 Have a meal at 
home 63 Orange-flavored powdered drink 64 "Born Free" lioness 65 Medicinal amounts 
Down On the_ 
(going to pot) 2 Deep pink 3 Enticing smell 4 TV room 5 Two-point plays 
in football 6 Legitimate 7 Parched 8 Envy or gluttony 9 Event before 
moving 10 Pre-transfusion 
procedure 11 Gave for a while 12 ''To his own" 13 Amusement park 
shout 18 Lifeless 23 "Yes, madame" 25 Some verbal 
abuse 
26 Women's ~nks org. 28 Paragon of virtue 29 One and only 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CBLEBRITJES BORN ON THIS DAY: L<nra Dem . .tZ: G,><.>rgc St<ph:mopoulos, .t8: Greg Norman, $4; Roberta n,.:k, 71 
Happy Birthday: Snntct>lle frmn your pa..t may he the penect fit now if~"" can find a wa¥ to reconne,·L I 'nec-rtotillt\' shoul<l ht· ~our tea..·her :md v<•ur """"u for l'><>king hack bethw YtlU mow fwwro-d.A SerlOU> aUilu<k will help I<> winfor.-e )'<l\lr need lc> a,-.;nm· pli>h something now. Your numbers are 2. 5. 1-t. Z1,.,Z, .14. .t2 
ARIF~'i (March 21-April 19): Rc camf11l not to give <ome.>nc a chan~-e to hack you into a C<ftner. A ch:mgc in Y<>Ur work can be cxpe<'led hut don't '")1'1)' --whak\'er you low. you will gain back thn:>ugh the """' <'onnet"tit>n• you make . .1 'tars 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20); You can get a lot done if you put your mind to it. Some­one may be Irving t<l pull afa..t one on you. Don't!!<'~ ln\·oh•cd hdpin113n "'llanit.ati<m you kMw httfe about. Deception h apparenL 5 slill'> 
GEMINI (May 21-Jwte 20); Don't ld your emotions influence your d,•cisioob. Do what will wofk \x,;t for )'<>U and bring you tho highest return•. Uncertaimy ref!ardinll a m<>ney d~l or som('<>nc you ~re dose to will leave )'<>II que~tinning )utlt relilltl>n•bip., with ewryone. 2 stan; 
CANCEl!. (June 21-July ll): Make some new rules at home to hdpyou·and your 
l<lWd """" gd alon~ hetwr. Phm to SJ"'Ild more quality time together. So:rious talk• will lead tuchaug<c, m<~kmg you:r lili:-.:ru.kr and nlt>re c<~mfortabk both coooti<•..,.lly and phy•kally. 4 """" 
LEO (July 23-Aug.ll): You can talk your way up the ladder and intv a 1tood position by ~haling yaur. ideas. Don't fool yourself-a partnership being offered may not mean a higher incmllC. Pulgreakf v:~lue 011 what )'<)U. b:wc t<> ofkr. 3 star.; 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 11): Gel out and enjoy the company of friJnds. You ne.'d some down lim" to sort through all your options. A 11¢W beginning is in sight that wiU lead It> bigger ;md better pe~nnal and prof~.ssionaltbing~. ~ slill'> 
UBRA (Sept. 23-0.:t. Zl): St>rll4."t>ne may bt. keeping a $Ct-ret from p>u tb:ll •night alter the way you think "h<>Ul a job or a c•m:er "bange. Look within ;md ask y<>UJ'"&Cif wbnt it is you really want. Follow your heart. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oet. 2.3-Nov. ll}: You are up for cbanBC and it is going lo lead to some negatives •• well as positiws.lf you make !be adjustment now. yoo will he far het!er J">Sitimwd to tak•' advanlaBC of some good opportunities in tin: future. -1 •tars 
SAGJTTAlUUS (No~. 22-Dec. ll}: Not <'V<li'}'UIW will N: on the "'me pag~ as you. h11low through on your own ami. in the end. ewr}'<>ne will jump <•n ward to help. Yt>u can devdop a elmer relationship with someone who can truly hdp you ,eet ahead. Z 
Slill'> 
CAPRICORN (De". 22-Jan. 19): Y<>ll can settk a rn~ller ruld win if yoo <h>tl'tlet sotlleotle play on your~mntkms.An old lover may d<• more harm than good it )'nu allow him or her to mt'd.Uc in your current afl'airs. K.,.,p your plans a """rei for now. 5 stan; 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. t8): You haw ro many i<kas so consid"r what is possible to ac.<~l.'!nlj}lid! and whld isu't at this time, Dmfl N: sttcken:d into !cuing S<lOJC<lnc from your ('Mt back into your life. Emotional Jcccphm1 is apparent. :\ •tars 
PISCES {Feb. 19-March 20): You'll be l<lm bdwe,,n what you wall! ;md "·h;ll you can haw. Don't lct )'<.>\If cmt>ti•:tnolcad you in Jbc wrong dira·tivn. Ft>c'\1~ on V.\>fk. nol!'<'r· Sl>nalt¢lation~hips. Let thing• unft>ld mllifl'hl!r before you make a <kci•ion. J <Iars 
Hirlhday Baby: You ha•·e the courage. stre"#lb and the praclicalit,· lo we mailers lhwugb to the end. You nre a hwmmitarian. a l""''"rfullca<kr anJ an advocate o(justi<<> alld r .. ir t•l~y. 
£ugt'"ltia't U't-b .lilt:$: eugel"ftahHtCmrlfrJr c<.mfidetrtinl r.ans.uittrtimn. m~·spfl<'r.com!<•ug.-malnstfor F:11gmin's blog, astromfvict'.l'<l/11 f"r fim 
www.BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

-Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
0 Enclosed is $65 for one semester .. 
Name _____________________________________________ 
•
Address _____________________________________ City _______________ State __________ Zip________________ 
JUMBLE 
I I ( J 
192008 Tribune Media ServiCes. Inc. All Righ!S Reser~. 
TUNYT j 
1 
rr II 
GISMOE 
(IJ b

www.jumble.rom
tMAJEST j
IJ r I I 

Ans:( I I I JP( J I IJ I)" 
(Answers tomorrow) PRINT . ~ KNAVE . GRATIS AGHAST
Yesterday's IJumbles: 
Answer: What the couple went throllgh buying the right house -THEIR SAVINGS 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKEARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

HOW THE COUPL-E DE5C.I<I6EO THE GRANO C.ANYON 
Now arrange the. circted letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Puzzle by Lynn Lempel 
30 _ Mountains, Europe/Asia separator 
31 Four-footed friends 
32 Next 
33 Medal winner for bravery 
34 Escape route 
38 Nickel or dime 
39 Shot up, as 
inflation 41 Gleeful laugh 42 Hindu teacher 
44 Misery 47King_ (dangerous snake) 48 Skips 49 Old TV comic 
Kovacs 
WILLSHORTZ 
50 Leo and Libra 51 Help illegally 52 Zilch 
53 "Galveston" crooner Campbell 
54 Inspectors of fin. 
books 58 "Black gold" 59 Neighbor of a 
Vietnamese 


THE DOME PIECE 
Zli Tlil VI'COAII/it!; SI"UIII/ir lfOIH PRISIIN/IIf' 1~10/i 
Rl./110,1', tlrllt11/llf'S WIRI 
MS~C~P ro usrr111t1t MAIN CONCIRIIS WIIIU CIIOOSI/ii!J A CNmiPArll. TNIS PUICIOUS P/6 CIIARr 6RIAKS POW/i !lrVD#Iif'B rOPCONCIRN& 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through. Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
DAVID CAVADINI 

Mate. SIU Klrl< w.•t tk>wn lUll 11%  LaekOfNOSP ''"j'-'11%  
~I Gooni!er SMIIft 11ulten*-10 .l<lmil lltoy're lemtnlalil 3%  

THE OBSERVER 




PORTS
Wednesday, February 11, 2009 
page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL ANALYSIS 
View from the bottom 
Team sits in 12th in the rugged Big East 
.. Notre Dame basically has a giant fork sticking out of its back, but at least the rest of the Big East race is shaking out to be a good one. 
Marquette's consecutive loss­es to South Florida and Villanova make the Golden Eagles' Feb. 
Fran Tolan

25 matchup with Connecticut Associate 
even more Sports Editor critical. Louisville, meanwhile, has just one loss, putting the Cardinals in a virtu­
al tie for ftrst place with the Huskies. (More good news for Notre Dame: it gets to play 
Louisville this Thursday.) 
As Marquette, Pittsburgh and Villanova battle it out for the ftnal all-important top-four con­ference tournament seeds, a IAN GAVLICK!The Observer 
Left, junior guard Tory Jackson handles the ball during Notre Dame's 69-61 home loss to see BIG EAST/page 18 Connecticut on Jan. 24. Right, Irish coach Mike Brey looks on during the loss to the Huskies. 

SMC BASKETBALL Belles set to take on Adrian 
By ROBERT GRAHAM 
Sports Writer 
With a school-record 11 MIAA wins already under its belt, Saint Mary's will try to make it three straight as it hosts Adrian tonight at 7:30p.m. 
The Belles (13-8. 11-2) have been dominant of late and .thrashed Alma 66-39 Saturday. The Belles had not given up less than 40 points in a game since 2002. Saint Mary's took it to the Scots in the second half, outscor­ing them 36-19 in the final 20 minutes. 
Junior forward Anna Kammrath and senior forward Erin Newsom had solid outings OflCe again in that contest, lead­ing all scorers with 12 and 10 points, respectively. 
see ALMA/page 17 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Louisville cotnes to town, looking to rebound frotn bad loss 
Virginia. But Notre Dame No. 22 Irish at 7 p.m. in the shooting well from the 3-point Faster, stronger, jump higherBy BILL BRINK coach Muffet McGraw said the Joyce Center. Notre Dame (17-line; they were shooting very that we do, they're just a more 
Sporrs Editor 
loss may anger the team into 5, 6-4) defeated No. 25 DePaul well." athletic team than we are all 
better play. 62-59 Sunday afternoon at Cardinals senior forward around," McGraw said. 
It doesn't bode well for the "Probably the pessimist in home. McGraw said she was Angel McCoughtry will make She said senior forward No. 5 team in the country to me would say the team coming most proud of the defense in sure to test that Irish defense. Candyce Bingham, who aver­allow the worst team in the Big off the loss is going to be mad," the game -the Irish held McCoughtry is second in the ages 11.3 points per game, East to come back from -a half­McGraw said. "They've proba­DePaul scoreless from 3-point conference in scoring and complements McCoughtry, but time deficit, score 54 points in bly had a hard week of prac­range in the second half. dropped 27 against West Notre Dame can't afford to the second half and snap a 19-tice to fix what they felt they "When you look at Big East Virginia. But it's not just devote· all its energy to those game home win streak. did w·rong in the last game." stats, that's the biggest differ­McCoughtry. The whole team, two. 
Such was Louisville's fate The now No. 10 Cardinals ence between us and our oppo­McGraw said, concerns her. Saturday against West (21-3, 8-2 Big East) face the nents," she said. "We're not "They're more athletic. see CARDINALS/page 18 
ND SOFTBALL 
Experience an adva~tage 
Irish return five all­Big East players, 14 monogram-wznner$ 
By LAURA MYERS Sporrs Writer 
The Irish will have a wealth of experience on their side as they look to record their 21st consecutive winning season in 2009. 
Notre Dame returns 14 monogram winners, including five all-Big East players. The squad· only lost two seniors f11t1m the team that went 38-22­1 a year ago: 
Leading the team is senior pitcher Brittany Bargar, who earned all-Big East honors as well as all-National Fastpitch Coaches Association Mideast Region honors in 2008. Bargar ended the season with a 1.47 ERA in 291.1 innings pitched. 
see OPENER/page 18 


ND WoMEN's GoLF 
Notre . Dame in 13th; last round Wednesday 
By NATHANIEL LEE Sports Writer 
No. 2.5 Notre Dame moved into 13th place in the 16­team Northrop Grumman Tournament in Palos Verde, Calif., where 10 top-25 teams and rough weather conditions have made life difficult for the Irish. 
Sophomore So-Hyun Park led Notre Dame in Tuesday's second round, shooting a 5­over-par 76 to climb to 17th on the individual leader board. Park shot a 9-over 80 in Monday's opening round. She is now a 14-over 156 for the tournament. 
Notre Dame gained one spot in the team standings, improving on Monday's 46­over 330 with a 37-over 321 Tuesday. 
Freshman Becca Huffer 
shot a 7-over 7 8 and now sits in 39th place individually. 
Junior Annie Brophy shot a 12-over 82 for Notre Dame's third-best score. Senior cap­tain Lisa Maunu and sopho­more Katie Conway each shot 14-over. 85s to round out the Irish scorers. 
Heading into Wednesday's final round, the Irish are 15 strokes out of the top-10. Michigan State, ranked No. 20 nationally, held that No. 10 spot after two rounds. 
No. 3 Arizona State posted the best team score for the second straight day with a 10-over 294. No. 2 USC and No. 1 UCLA rounded out the top-three, 13 and 20 shots back of the Sun Devils, respectively, at the Palos Verde Golf Club. 
Contact Nathaniel Lee at nleeS@nd.edu 




