
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Marys 
Catholic groups outraged over Obama selection 
University stands by invitation to president 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
Several religious and pro-life groups nationwide arn expressing outrage and threatening to protest in South Bend after the University announced President Barack Obama will deliver the 2009 Commencement address at Notre Dame's graduation ceremony May 17. 
Assistant Vice President for News and Information Denni'l Brown told The Observer a rumor that Uniw~rsity ~witchboard'l were over­whelmed with callers and had to be shut down Friday night is false -a claim made by a March 20 article on pewsitter.eom. 
Although many outside groups are protesting University President Fr. John Jenkins' decision, The Observer reported in an Oct. 8, 

2008 article that Obama led the stu­
dent body with 52.6 perc,ent of the 
vote in a mock election held by stu­
dent government, in which 2,692 
undergraduates and graduate stu­. dents voted. 
The Cardinal Newman Society 
(CNS) -a group dedicated to 
"renewing and strengthening 
Catholic identity at America's 224 
Catholic colleges and universitit'!s," 
according its mission statement ­
launched a Web site, 
www.notredamescandal.com, that 
acts as an online petition asking 
Jenkins to withdraw the invitation 
for President Obama to speak based 
on Obama's pro-choice stance. 
The site currently claims over 
47,000 signers, as of press time. 
David Costanzo, CNS communica­
tions director, told The Observer 
that the Society believes Obama is 
see 0 BAMA/page 4 

AP Left: Protesters flocked on Washington shortly after President Barack Obama's January Inauguration for the annual March for Ufe, in support of the right to life. Right: Obama, who is pro-choice, speaks to reporters in the Roosevelt Room of the White House Monday. 


Schmidt names Brellenthin Chief Executive Assistant 
Former Academic Affairs commissioner will bring experience to third-highest role in student government 
"You need someone to tell Committee," Schmidt said. during his term as vice presi­(CLC) and Student Senate.
By LIZ O'DONNELL you when you're wrong and to "He worked on majors night dent from 2008-2009. According to the student 

News Writer 

be honest with you," Schmidt for two years, excused "Grant and I met several constitution, the CEA also will said. absences for interviews and times a week," Brellenthin chair the Executive 
Student body president Schmidt and Weber also knows all the deans of all the said.."It was a good opportu­Programming Board meeting, Grant Schmidt selected Ryan c i t e d colleges." nity for me. Grant let me help a task that Weber highlighted Brellenthin as Chief Executive Brellenthin's Schmidt and Weber both him out on certain issues." as extremely important. Assistant (CEA) for the 2009-prior expe­said they believe Brellenthin's Brellenthin is also a strong "The Executive 2010 school year. rience ·in connection with the admmis­leader. "Ryan can be frank Programming Board is 
The CEA is thn third high­student gov­tration is one of his strongest and is highly practical," extremely important because es-t-ranking member of stu­ernment as skills. Weber said. "His qualities it is comprised of the heads of dent government. behind a reason for Schmidt and Weber have work well with Grant and I. all the University program­Schmidt and vice president their choice. each worked with Brellenthin He will keep us on track." ming," Weber said. Cynthia Weber. "Ryan did before. Weber sat on the As CEA, Brellenthin will Brellcnthin will also pn1side 
Brellenthin will be able to amazing Academic Affairs committee attend Executive Policy Board over several ideas that were balance out the president and work as the when Brellenthin was the meetings and will sit on the on their campaign platform. vice president, according to commis-chair. Schmidt oversaw the Council of Representatives Schmidt. sioner of the Academic Affairs Academic Affairs committee (COR), Campus Life Council see CEA/page 4 




SMC drafts new Constitution 
By LIZ HARTER 
Senior Staff Writer 
After almost a year of discus­sions and revisions, the Saint Mary's Student Government Association (SGA) Constitution is online to be voted upon the stu­dent body this week. 
As far as she could tell, the Constitution hadn't been revised since 2000, Sarah Falvey, student body vic11 president and chair of the Constitution Committee, said. The Committee is a group of stu­dent representatives as laid out by the Constitution meant to be representative of the entire stu­dent body. It consist'> of members from each major board, each 
see SMC/page 6 BLAIR CHEMIDLIN IObserver Graphic 

Web site brings ND spirituality to world 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
Spirituality plays a dynamic role in the life of the Notre Dame community, even those not on campus. The University has its own prayer Web site, pray.nd.edu, to allow people from across the world to par­ticipate in the University's rich prayer life. 
"The purpose of the site is to help people connect with. their spirituality," Kathleen Sullivan, senior Director of Spirituality and Service at the Alumni Association and one of 

the creators of the Web site, said. 
Sullivan came up with the idea for the site three years ago when a new position had been created within the Alumni Office. 
"We were focusing on spiri­tuality and wanted a ·way to 
. touch as many people as possi­ble," Sullivan said. "My dream was to find a way that we could bring the vibrant spiritual experience of Notre Dame into homes, workplaces and schools." 
After a year of planning and 
see PRAYER/page 4 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, March 24, 2009 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Vievvpoint controversies 
The Observer Viewpoint has received more than 200 letters on the mntroven:.-y generated by Obama's pending visit and his 2009 Comrriencement speech. The whirlwind of emotional frenzy surrounding our pre;ident's visit has led me to realize something very important 
No, I have no polarizing mmments to make about my political views in this situation. I know you were all holding your breath filr my keen wisdom, but blues not a hemming skin color. So feel free to exhale. 
Jess Shaffer 
Instead, I have real­ized that a true Viewpoint mntroversy 
Scene Editor 
requires the perfect mnditions, the ·perfect storm so to speak. First, of course, there must be a topic that sparks the passionate, emotional and ideologi­cal foundations ofhow the Notre Dame mm­munity understands the world as we knowit 
For example, Melissa Buddie could not have given this campus a blissful few days of poignant social commentary and mmedy ifit had not been for students' fundamental understanding of hook-ups and how they affect our unique Notre Dame social climate. 
Similarly, there must be one person, with either a surplus of free time or an "O'Reilly Factor"-esque need to share with the class. This one person can push the boulder that can bemme a juggernaut force behind mn­troversy, intrigue, mudslinging, and some­times valuable intellectual discussion. Sometimes. 
I will now make a bold claim. Everyone loves a Viewpoint mntroversy. Everyone. It's journalism and irrational intrigue all in one. No matter how mad one article or another will upset you or disturb you, you will always eome back to Viewpoint It's as addictive and vital to Notre Dame sodallife as Facebook. 
But sometimes readers' love affair with opinion mntroveto.)' might get a little ::;tale. A tad predictable. Uke any long term relation­ship, it might start to lack the sparks that mig­inally drew you to it It is at these low points, these lulls in controversy, that threaten the future ofViewpoint mntroversy and Observer readers' entertainment It is at these pinnacle moments where new Letters to the Editor must take up the torch and rekindle the flame. Or light the powder keg as the case may be. We are mmpletely capable mem­bers ofthe Notre Dame mmmunity. While itis important that we respond to current events, demonstrating our prowess and know how, we should not need to rely on Fr. Jenkins to give us material for our controversies. 
I would like to close with some sugge&1ions for Viewpoint mntroversy. Or better yet, these are topics that I would love to get the Notre Dame campuses take on. Because without a Viewpoint mntroversy, I just don't know how I will ever go about making up my mind on these important issues. 
Here are just a few: 
Would you rather have a moderately bad incurable stutter or continuous Cheet.o fin­gers? 
Kristen Stew,vrt? Actually pretty? Or just unfathomably lucky to get to enjoy the bene­fits of riding on Rob Pattinson's ho1ness? 
How does Hugh Helher do what he does? Or better yet, should he'? 
If you're on a diet can you still look at the menu? This can be a health question or a metaphor for relationships everywhere. 
Thank you for your careful mnsideration. I look forward to e-mails with thoughts and mmmentary. Or better yet a good 'ol Letter to the Editor. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffe1@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publica­rion and strives for the highesr standards of journal­ism ar all times. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a misrake, please contacr us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT SONG DESCRIBES YOUR LIFE RIGHT NOW? 


Sarah Spieler Kevin de Ia Montaigne 
freshmanfreshman Fisher
P.W. 
'"/Love College' '"In Love With 
by Asher Roth." the 8o's (Pink' Tux to the Prom)' by 
Relient K." 





Steven Santay  Cristina Anaya  Janeya Waked  
sophomore Alumni  junior Howard  senior Howard  
'"Hey Stephen'  '"Poker race:'  "Lady Gaga ­ 
by Taylor  Lady Gaga. "  'it'll be okay ­ 

Swift." 
Pastor cited after shooting ' and sit down. arrow during service When the man objected a 
SHEBOYGAN FALLS, second time, the pastor Wis. -A pastor and asked him to leave. He did parishioner have been cited and called police. by police for shooting an The parishioner was cited arrow during a eh ureh for using a missile indoors service. The pastor asked to and the pastor was cited for have the arrow shot across aiding and abPtting. Both the front of the church dur­were fined $1 09. ing a recent service at Pentecostals of Sheboygan Parrot recognized for County as a 'teaching tool.' saving baby 
As the parishioner pre­DENVEH-A parrot that pared to shoot the arrow alerted his owner about a with his bow, one man baby who was choking was stood up and objected, recognized as a hero by the telling the pastor it was Red Cross. Willie the parrot 
unsafe and illegal. was given the Animal Parishioners said the pastor Lifesaver Award during the told the man to be quiet "Breakfast of' Champions" 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a: 
LLI 

::c !;;( 
LLI 
3: 
.... 
e.
c:c 
e.
(.) 0 
HIGH 68 HIGH 48 HIGH 48 HIGH
....I LOW 48 LOW 40 LOW 34 LOW 



event attended by Gov. Bill Ritter and Mayor John Hiekenlooper. 
Willie received thn award Friday for his actions in November, when he and owner Megan Howard were baby-sitting a toddler. Willie repeatedly yelled "Mama, baby" when Howard went to the bath­room and the toddler start­ed to choke on her break­fast. 
Howard saved the baby by performing the Heimlich maneuver but she said Willie "is the real hero." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
PAT COVENEY!The Observer 
A student panel titled "I Shall Arise in the Salvadoran People," featuring Cinnamon Sarver, a graduate student at Notre Dame pursuing a Masters in Theology, took place Monday night in Room 103 in the Hesburgh Center. It was the kick~ff event of "Romero Days," celebrating the life and work of Salvadoran Archbishop Oscar Romero. 
OFFBEAT 
just dance!'" 
IN BRIEF 
The McBride Lecture: "Protecting the Planet and Creating Jobs: A Win-Win Proposition" will feature David Foster, executive direc­tor, Blue-Green Alliance, a coalition of labor unions and environmental organizations. The lecture will take place today in the Hesburgh Library auditorium at 7:30p.m. 
A lecture hosted by the Theology department titled "The Igbo and their Perception of God, Human Beings and Creation," will take place Wednesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of Mendoza Coll£'ge of Business. Nigerian novelist and poet Chinua Aehebe wHI deliver the Third Biennial Blessed Pope John XXIII Lecture Series in Theology and Cult· re. The talk on Wednesday ·ill focus on "Human Bein· and the talk on Thursday will focus on "Creation." 
The 22r nual Romero Lecture: "r, I Understand" will take r. today at 7:30 
p.m. in t. Eek Visitors' Center aiH• ium. Journalist Eugene tlbo, who has covererl '10lie l.ltureh in El Salv," .nee he moved there in ' . will give the lee­ture. 
Cree; ., host Associate \'iee Pr, t and University .\rehiter .ug Mar<-1 ho will 
Iivor "ture titleu "LEED & Sust<t .•tble Buildir~ at Notre Dame" in Montg,"twry Auditorium of LaFortu". .• 7:30p.m. today. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 59 LOW 36 

Atlanta 74 I 54 Boston 44 I 28 Chicago 64 I 43 Denver 52 I 31 Houston 79 I 62 Los Angeles 73 I 50 Minneapolis 53 I 30 New York 47 I 31 Philadelphia 50 I 29 Phoenix 78 I 53 Seattle 48 I 41 St. Louis 71 I 41 Tampa 84 I 60 Washington 50 I 33 
Tuesday, March 24, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Several clubs kick off Geek Week 

;. View 2009 summer courses at www. northwestern.edu/summ~r 
• 
Choose from more than 300 classes 

• 
Earn transfer credit 

• 
Prepare tor graduate study 

• 
Immerse yourself in an intensive scien'ce or language sequence 

• 
Take advantage of day and evening classes on two campuses 

• 
Explore a new Thterest 




NORTHWESTERN 
UNIVERSlTY 

summer session 

By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame nerds can rPjoice this week, as several clubs cele­brate Geek Week, a week-long cele­bration of all things nerdy, accord­ing to Meagan Pitluck, senior and president of the Math Oub. 
"The way I see it, Geek Week is just an opportunity for science majors across the disciplines to get together and have fun doing 'nerdy' things we're often too busy or_ unable to do during the normal semester," said Pitluck. 
"Geek Week is a week-long cele­bration of science, math and all things geek," said Drew Klein. jun­ior and Social Chair of the American Chemical Society. "It's a collaborative effort ... to foster unity and camaraderie between all those with a genuine intere!>1 and fascina­tion in science and math through a week-long series of events." 
There are many activities throughout the week, including a movie in the Digital Visualization Theater in Jordan Hall, follow11d by liquid nitrogen ice cream on Wednesday, culminating in a dance on Friday in Jordan Hall of Science. 
Senior Charlotte Crowley, the eo­president of the Biology Club, is enthusiastic about the week's fmal event. 
"The dance will finish out the week, and we're really looking for­ward to it," S'aid Crowley. "The theme is 'A Night at the Nobels,' and we Invite our guests to dress formally or dress as their favorite Nobel Laureate." 
For Science majors, admission to the dance is a non-perishable food item, which will be donated on Saturday. 
Crowley is looking forward to the social aspect of the week's events. 
"One of our goals is to create a social atmosphere where students from different College of Science majors can mingle -not some­thing that happens very often with the way our schedules go," said Crowley. 
Klein is also looking forward to interacting with other Science majors. 
"It's just a fun way to bring fellow Science majors together," Klein said. "Let's face it, there's a little bit of geek in all of us at Notre Dame and it's best to just embrace it." 
Geek Week is sponsored by a variety of clubs, including the Biology Oub, the Math Oub and the American Chemical Society, accord­ing to senior Daniel Thaner, presi­dent of the American Chemical Society. 
Thaner is looking forward to "seeing how many people we are able to pry away from their books," he said. 
Whatever their major, the mem­bers of the College of Science are enthusiastic about Geek Week. 
"We hope this is the start of a new tradition, and we hope that Geek Week can evolve into a much bigger and more exciting celebra­tion of what makes us science and math nerds so lovable," Crowley said. 
"Geeks of Notre Dame unite!" Klein said. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edn 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Group addresses quota complaints 
By SARAH MAYER 
News Writer 
Tri-Campus coiiUllis.<;ioner Alison Spurlock reported to the Board of Governance that many rising juniors have complaints about the quota system applied to Saint Mary's resi­dence halls. 
'The Oass of 2011 is the first da<;s to have to live on campus for all three years," Spurlock said. "Many students arc concerned about hav­
ing  to  live  in  Regina  and  
McCandless."  
Residence  Hall  Association  

President Maura Clougherty met with the Director of Rnsidence Ufe and Community Standards Slandie Dieujuste to discuss the situation. 
"Slandie said that thl? reason thPy put quotas in the halls i'i to increase diversity among the classes and increase a sense of community," Oougherty said. . 
According to quotas from the 2008-2009 academic year, 130 spots in LeMans and 80 in Holy Cross, which Clougherty states studPnts think of as the "desired" halls, were reserved for juniors. Ninety-live spots were reserved in McCandless Hall and 90 were reserved in-Regina Hall for juniors this year. 
Admissions commissioner Kri<>tle Hodges said that parent<> have made comments when they vio;,ited campus saying they prefer their daughters live on campus as long a<; possible. 
Clougherty also mentioned the renovations of Annunciata, the top floor of Holy Cross. 
"Slandie said we are 100 percent sure that Annunciata will be getting a full kitchen and students can apply for the off-campus meal plan. This should encourage more students to live on campus," Oougherty said. 
Two senior Saint Mary's Communication Studies majors asked for a co-sponsorship to attend the Central States Communication Conference in St. Louis. Stephanie Kornexl's comprehensive project was on Potowatami Indians and Lauren Kleinschimdt's was on Harry Potter. Both students were selected to present their research at the con­ference. 
"This is a great opportunity for undergrads and grads to present their scholarly research to other schools," Kornexl said. 
Senior Alyssa Ryan, a member of the National Psychology Honor Society Psi Chi asked for a co-spon­sorship for the 13 members of the Saint Mary's chapter to go to the Midwestern Psyehological Conference in Chicago. 
"It will be a two-night conference in Chicago for the eight of us to hear talks on psychiatrists and psycholo­gists and to go talks and lectures to approve our club on oampus and campus involvement," Ryan said. 
Contact Sarah Mayer at 
smayerO1@saintmarys.edu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 24, 2009 
CEA 
continued from page 1 
"Several of our ideas from our platform came from Ryan," Schmidt said. "These ideas include hot Grab 'n' Go options as well as Catholics in America." 
While in office, Brellenthin said that he had a number of goals he hoped to accomplish. 
"Grant and Cynthia had a detailed platform that I helped them out with," Brellenthin said. "I feel that I have partial ownership in the ideas." 
In addition to his member­ship on the Academic Affairs Committee, Brellenthin cited other experience that he has had. 
"At the end of my freshman year I became the Stanford senator. I decided from there to join the Academic Affairs Committee as well as the Community Relations commit­tee," Brellenthin said. 
Brellenthin also said that his first year on the Academic Affairs Committee pushed him to become even more involved and apply to chair the com­mittee his junior year. 
"As the chair of the Academic Affairs Committee I got a good taste of policy and programming," he said. "I also became interested in how technology affects student life and pushed for the creation of the Campus Technology 


Prayer 
continued from page 1 
designing, the site was launched in 2007. There were about 22 key people involved with the planning and actual creation of the site including individuals from the Alumni Office, Web Office, Campus Ministry and a few faculty members. 
Funding for the site came from class of 1950 alumnus, Art Frericks. 
"Not only did Art give us the money we needed to get the Web site up, but he also helped me with the design," Sullivan said. 
Many aspects of the site are specifically designed to con­nect the spiritual atmosphere of Notre Dame to those who cannot physically be on cam­pus to experience it for them­selves. 
The site features a weekly video that goes to a different spot on campus and incorpo­rates religious activities so that people away from Notre Dame can watch the video and participate as if they were on campus. 
"People can see these differ­ent sacred spaces of Notre Dame and get put into a reflective, spiritual mood," Sullivan said. "It also allows them to practically live the Gospel." 
There is also a section on the site that allows anyone to sub­mit a prayer request that will then be prayed for at the Grotto on Thursday evenings. 
"We have a green candle that is lit for a week in the Grotto," Sullivan said. "We get 125 prayer requests a day for their prayers to be said at the Grotto. The green candle burns for a week for those prayers and then we put in a new candle for the next week's prayers." 
Every prayer request that is received by the site gets a response through e-mail, Committee." 
Brellenthin said that he 
believes he will be highly 
involved in the Schmidt-Weber 
administration. 
"Grant and Cynthia have 
allowed me to be in the room 
to make important decisions," 
Brellenthin said. "While I am 
not nearly on the same level 
as them, I hope to help them 
out whenever they need input 
in the decision making 
process." 
Brellenthin said that the 
biggest challenge he faces in 
the transition to his new posi­
tion is letting go of the 
Academic Affairs Committee. 
"I will always be connected 

to the Academic Affairs Committee," he said. "It is now going to be someone else's responsibility and I _hope to give my successor 
advice." 
Brellenthin said that he 
wants members of the com­
munity to know that he plans 
to be accessible to all stu­
dents. 
Schmidt, Weber and 
Brellenthin are looking for­
ward to success in the upcom­
ing year. 
"All three of us have estab­
lished the contacts that we 
wanted, and we are all highly 
experienced," Schmidt said. 
"We are ready to implement 
things that the student body 
as a whole will care about." 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 
according to Sullivan. 
"We have responded to 13,000 prayers since the site began two years ago," she said. 
The concept of being con­nected to the Grotto from any­where in the world has been popular and is responsible for attracting many visitors to the Web site. 
"It was such a simple idea that has really taken off," Sullivan said. "But we really wanted to be ambassadors for people at the Grotto and I think this is a great way to accomplish that." 
The site allows visitors to print off prayer cards on topics such as unemployment, mar­riage, healing and gratitude. 
"The prayer cards are meant to be relevant for people today," Sullivan said. "We are going to be putting up more with topics such as depression, divorce, stress and others." 
The site also features reflec­tions on the various Gospels. Until recently, Sullivan or fac­ulty members had written these reflections. However, Notre Dame students will begin to contribute some of the reflections next month. 
"I really wanted some stu-· dent involvement. We want to learn through our students, and we hope that students writing the reflections will bring more awareness to the site from the student body as well as from their family mem­bers," Sullivan said. 
As a whole, Sullivan believes her vision of a Web site that would allow people from all over to connect with their spir­ituality and the faith life at Notre Dame has been actual­ized. 
"I hope this site helps people to feel God's presence in their _ day-to-day life and encourage them to live life with integrity and that Notre Dame is with them in their faith journey," Sullivan said. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden@hcc-nd.edu 


Oba01a 
continued from page 1 

an inappropriate choice for Commencement speaker because the decision goes against a state­ment made by the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB) in a 2004 document titled "Catholics in Political Life," which reads: "The Catholic community and Catholic institutions should not honor those who act in defiance of our fundamental moral principles. They should not be given awards, honors or platforms which would suggest support for their actions." 
A representative in the office of Cardinal Franci<> George, president of the USCCB, said Cardinal George declined to comment on the issue because Notre Dame is out of the organization's jurisdic­tion. 
Bishop John D'Arcy of the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend, who has been critical of University decisions in the past ­most notably the deci<>ion to allow "The Vagina Monologues" to be performed on eampu<> -had not released a statement regarding the Obama announcement as of press time and could not be reached Monday. Jenkins said Sunday he had spoken with D'Arcy regarding the decision but did not disclose further information. 
Costanzo said the University is seeking prestige and honoring a man rather than God and the Church. 
"There's tremendous appeal to having a president deliver the Commencement address for the University," he said. "It brings great fanfare, popularity and word of mouth for Notre Dame. Every time a president has spoken there in the past, there has been great visibility for Notre Dame." · 
Costanzo said the society is cur­rently garnering support and con­sidering different courses of action. 
"We will continue to maintain the Web site and the planning is ongoing as we talk with other Catholic institutions," he said. "We're collaborating about how to most effectively support one anoth­er's effort." 
The Observer reported Monday that Jenkins said the invitation to Obama to deliver the Commencement address "is not intended to condone or endorse his position on specific issues regard­ing life." 
But Joseph Scheidler, director of the Pro-Life Action League and a Notre Dame alumnus of the class of 1950, said the University's deci­sion is "an insult to all Notre Dame stands for." 
The Pro-Life Action League, a Chicago-based, anti-abortion organization, released a press release Friday asking Jenkins to withdraw his invitation to Obama to speak at the graduation ceremo­ny. 
Scheidler said a university gives approval about what a person stands for when extending an invi­tation to deliver a commencement address. 
He said the University's invitation to Obama, who he called a "pro­death president," contradicts the Catholic nature of the University. 
Scheidler said he is planning to protest in the months leading up to the ceremony as well as on gradu­ation day. 
''I'm going to contact various pro-life groups that display the pic­tures of what abortion is," he said. "There will be hundreds and hun­dreds of graphic pictures at the exits to the expressway and on the campus if my lawyers can get us a spot." 
Scheidler also said he is planning a protest outside the Joyce Center, where Commencement will be held. He said he will gather sup­porters to ask people attending the ceremony to abstain from applauding for Obama. 
"When Obama speaks, we are going to try to cut the applause as much as possible," he said. 
Scheidler said he doesn't expect Jenkins to withdraw the invitation, but he hopes his action will raise awareness for the pro-life cause. 
Randall Terry, founder of the pro-life organization Operation Rescue, expressed similar plans to protest in South Bend. 
He said an Operation Rescue staffer will come to South Bend Wednesday. Terry said he will come Friday and stay with several staff members until the graduation ceremony takes place or Obama withdraws. 
"We are not going to take this lying down; and we are not going to simply send e-mails and make phone calls. By week's end, we will have an officeopen and fully staffed in South Bend," he said in a pres.<> relea<>e. 
Terry told The Observer he hopes to be working with other pro-life and religious groups to protest the Commencement. 
Terry said he has a lot of plans, but does not want to disclose them in order to have an "element of surprise." 
"We will recruit people from all of the country, and we will make this a circus," he said. 
Terry said he ha<> been in contact with student groups on campus, but is not at liberty to say which students or groups. 
Brown said he does not want to comment on the University's response to future because that possibility is hypothetical. 
However, the student handbook, "duLac: A Guide to Student Life," states that "only members of the University community may organ­ize or lead a demonstration on campus." 
The handbook also states stu­dent demonstrations must be reg­istered in writing with the associ­ate vice president for Residence Life, be "peaceful and orderly" and they cannot "impede the freedom of the University community." 
Aaron Steiner contributed to this report. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
Please join us for: 

The Third Biennial B1essed Pope John XXIII Lecture Series In Theology and Culture 
CHINUA ACHEBE 
"The lgbo and their perception of God, Human Beings, and Creation" 
Monday, March 23, 2009, 7:30p.m.: "God" Wednesday, March 25, 2009, 7:30p.m.: "Human Beings'' Thursday, March 26, 2009, 7:30p.m.: "Creation" 
All lectures will be in Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College ofBusiness 
<> <> 
Sponsored by the Department ofTheology Made possible by a grant from the Dilenschneider Family 
• f 

~ 






ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, March 24, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Mexico government offers reward 
MEXICO CITY-Mexico's government on Monday offered $2 million each for informa­tion leading to the arrest of 24 top drug lords in a public challenge to the cartels' violent grip on the country. 
The list indicated that drug gangs have splintered into six main cartels under pres­sure from the U.S. and Mexican govern­ments. The two most powerful gangs -the Pacific and Gulf cartels -each suffered frac­tures that have given rise to new cartels, according to the list published by the Attorney General's Office. 
Sudanese president travels to Eritrea 
KHARTOUM -Sudan's president traveled to Eritrea Monday, choosing one of Africa's most politically isolated nations for his first trip abroad since an international court sought his arrest on charges of war crimes in Darfur. 
The one-day visit followed Eritrea's official invitation to Sudan's Omar al-Bashir, who faces the arrest warrant by the Netherlands­based International Criminal Court. 
Eritrean television showed live coverage .of al-Bashir being greeted at the airport in the Eritrean capital Asmara by his counterpart President Isaias Afwerki, along with drum­mers and dancers. Sudanese state television later Monday showed live images of al­Bashir returning to Khartoum. 
Sudanese Foreign Minister Deng Alor said the visit was "important" and reflected Eritrean "solidarity ... with Sudan against the ICC." Eritrean Information Minister Ali Abdu told The Associated Press that al-Bashir was accompanied by heads of security and intelli­gence and was there to discuss regional security. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Conn. ronsiders apology for slavery 
HARTFORD -Connecticut legislators are con­sidering making their state the first in New England to apologize for slavery and other racist policies of old. 
A legislative committee heard testimony Monday on a resolution that would issue a for­mal, general apology and express the General Assembly's "profound contrition" for the official acts that sanctioned and perpetuated slavery hundreds of years ago. 
The state's African-American Affairs Commission, a liaison between black communi­ties and the government, is urging legislators to pass the resolution, which it has called "an exer­cise in reconciliation" and not an effort to deter­mine fault for slavery. 


Alaskan volcano errupts five times 
WILLOW -Alaska's Mount Redoubt volcano erupted five times overnight, sending an ash plume more than 9 miles into the air in the vol­cano's first emissions in nearly 20 years. 
Residents in the state's largest city were spared from falling ash, though fine gray dust was falling Monday morning on small communi­ties north of Anchorage. The ash began falling around daybreak and continued into midmorn­ing. They were supposed to end by noon. 
"It's coming down," Rita Jackson, 56, said early Monday morning at a 24-hour grocery store in Willow, about 50 miles north of Anchorage. She slid her fingers across the hood ofher car, through a dusting"of ash. 
, 
LOCAL NEWS 

Charter school advocates hold rally 
INDIANAPOLIS -About 200 charter school advocates and students hope a Statehouse rally will draw attention to the work of the non-traditional schools. 
A legislative proposal that passed the Democrat-controlled House would limit fund­ing for charter schools. But several senators said at the rally Monday that they would work to eliminate that provision in the GOP-led Senate. 
Schools set up display booths showing off their work, and brought cheerleaders, bands and steel drummers to perform at the event. 
ANGOLA 


Pope leaves Africa with plea to leaders 
Benedict XVI hopes that poor can share in proceeds from natural resources 
Associated Press 

LUANDA Pope Benedict XVI on Monday left Africa with a final impassioned plea to cor­rupt leaders to let the poor share in some of the pro­ceeds of the continent's natural resources. 
The parting words fol­lowed a controversial first pilgrimage to the conti­nent where the growing number of Catholics wel­comed his ringing denun­ciations of corruption ­while critics worldwide condemned his rejection of condoms to fight the AIDS epidemic. 
"Our hearts cannot be at peace as long as there are brothers that suffer the lack of food, work, a house, and other funda­mental goods," the 81­year-old said in his farewell speech at Luanda's airport before returning to Rome. 
The pope bathed in a warm welcome from huge crowds during the seven­day visit to Angola and Cameroon, two countries with large Catholic popu­lations and Catholic presi­dents. 
The countries are rich in resources, including oil, but the countries' bishops Africa fight the AIDS epi­AIDS on the cobblestones but it remains to be seen accuse the authoritarian demic provoked a in front of St. Peter's how each side will use the regimes of enriching a firestorm of criticism, Square. capital gained by this small elite while the vast including from govern­Despite the criticisms of greatly successful visit for majority remain mired in ments in France and his comments, Benedict's their own ends," Pestana poverty. Germany and European flock in Africa-the conti­told The Associated Press. 
Angolan President Union officials. nent suffering most from In Cameroon, Benedict Eduardo dos Santos, who On the plane to Africa, the disease and where the praised a nation at peace, joined the pope at the air­Benedict said that distrib­church has seen its biggest with Christians and port, did not directly uting condoms was not the growth in recent decades Muslims coexisting, But address the pope's com­answer to the problem of -turned out in the hun­Cameroon's relative stabil­ments. "We are very happy AIDS. He said the best dreds of thousands. Even ity comes under the cor­we had this opportunity to strategy was the church's clerics and those who rupt and authoritarian welcome you to our coun­efforts to promote sexual believe condoms save lives regime of President Paul try and we are very grate­responsibility through turned out to see him. Biya, who has ruled 27 ful for all the advice that abstinence and mooogamy. Nelson Pestana, a politi­years through fraudulent you have given to our peo­Before Benedict cal scientist at Luanda's elections. ple," he said. returned to Rome, a few Catholic University, said Benedict also praised 
During the pilgrimage, dozen protesters gathered the pope had to be wary Cameroon for refusing to Benedict said Christianity in front of the Vatican car­that his visit, sponsored by sign an African Union could inspire hope among rying candles and banners the state, is not used by agreement to guarantee the desperately poor of the that read "Pro life? Pro dos Santos to legitimize his abortion-for women who region. condom" and "Condom no authoritarian rule. are victims of rape and 
But his rejection of the AIDS." They arranged con­The visit was "a win-win incest or whose pregnancy use of condoms to help dorvs to form the word situation for both sides, endangers their lives. 


Experts consider ice as cause of crash 
Associated Press Safety experts said similar icing con­investigators would look at icing on the 
dition existed when a Continental wings as a factor. 
WASHINGTON -Speculation over Airlines twin-engine turboprop crashed "We will be looking at everything as it the crash of a single-engine turboprop into a home near Buffalo Niagara relates to the weather," he said. plane into a cemetery shifted to ice on International Airport last month, killing The single-engine plane crashed 500 the wings Monday after it became less 50. feet short of the Montana airport run­likely that overloading was to blame, A possible engine stall created by ice, way Sunday, nose-diving into a ceme­given that most of the 14 people on and the pilot's reaction to it, has been tery and killing seven adults and seven board were small children. the focus of the Buffalo investigation. children aboard. Relatives said the vic­
While descending Sunday in prepara­"It's Buffalo all over again, or it could tims were headed to an exclusive resort tion for landing at the Bert Mooney be," said John Goglia, a former mem­on a ski vacation. Airport in Butte, Mont., the plane ber of the National Transportation Safety experts said finding the cause passed through a layer of air at about Safety Board. "Icing, given those condi­of the crash is likely to be significantly 1,500 feet that was conducive to icing tions, is certainly going· to be high on complicated by the absence of either a because the temperatures were below the list of things to look at for the inves­cockpit voice recorder or a flight data freezing and the air "had 100 percent tigators." recorder, which isn't required for relative humidity or was saturated," Mark Rosenker, acting chairman of smaller aircraft that don't fly commer­according to AccuWeather.com, a fore­the National Transportation Safety cial passenger like airlines and charter casting service in State College, Pa. Board, told -reporters in Montana that services. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 24, 2009 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
class board, each hall council, clubs and off campus. 
Falvey presented the Constitution to the Board of Governance (BOG) at the March 16 meeting for ratification. The document passed unanimously. 
"Our old Constitution was out of 
date and a lot of the rules didn't make sense," Falvey said. "It was time to streamline stu­dent government and make it clear exactly what its role and purpose 

is." 
T h e Constitution came under fire earlier this school year when its unclear wording created a debate among students, SGA Executives and College stating that SGA, which is what BOG will become under the new document, will "provide final approval" of the budget and "rec­ognized clubs and organization financial allotments." 

Falvey said this specific word­ing, along with other sections like it, were put in the document to "balance the power" of SGA. 
"It was our intention to clear up confusion about when commis­sioners played a role in voting," 

"After asking students ... to distinguish between BOG and SGA, we found that most students had no idea what the difference was. ,, 
Sarah Falvey student body vice president 
• 
administrators when the SGA Executive Board allotted funds for a stipend for themselves in the SGA budget. Some students and Executives said that BOG was supposed to get to vote on the budget, but others stated that BOG did not have to vote and the Executive Board had the final vote. The Executive Board allowed BOG to vote and the budget, without a stipend alloca­tion, passed after weeks of delib­eration. 
The new Constitution elimi­nates any debate as to who gets the last say on the SGA budget, by she said. 

The new Constitution does not, however, clear up any confu­sion as to whether or not the SGA Executives can collect a stipend. It does not address "whether a stipend can or cannot be granted to any and all mem­
bers of student government," Falvey said. 
One of the main reasons the budg-et was not passed with the stipend was that many BOG com­missioners were not comfortable with the idea of eight students receiving-money for doing their jobs, but the old Constitution did not say the students could not allot themselves a stipend. 
Falvey said the Committee did­n't feel as though they should draft any parts of the Constitution about the stipend because it "pri­marily affect[s] the new adminis­tration, [so] we will let the new board draft them and vote them into place." 
She said she doesn't believe not addressing the stipend issue in the new Constitution will cause the same confusion as it did last fall because it could be addressed in the Constitution's by-laws. 
"By-laws, unlike a constitution, are easily amended and are meant to outline specific proce­dures of an organization, which is why things like budgeting proce­dures which might include the granting of a stipend, and elec­tions procedures were moved there," she said. 
One of the biggest changes out­lined by the new Constitution is the elimination of the BOG title. Instead, BOG will be called SGA. 
"After asking students around campus to distinguish between BOG and SGA, we found that most students had no idea what the difference was," Falvey said. "So, as a committee, we thought it was unnecessarily confusing to have an organization known by two names, and decided to streamline it." 
The Constitution also redefmes the election procedures for vari­ous boards under what would be SGA ifthe document passes. 
The Student Activities Board (SAB) coordinator position will be replaced by the SAB president, an elected position. The change was made at the recommendation of current SAB coordinator, Michele Peterson, and her board, Falvey said. 
"We felt that the person respon­sible for planning the bulk of activities on campus should be elected by the students who are participating in those activities," she said. 
The Class Board elections will also be changed so the positions of class treasurer and secretary will no longer be elected, but rather appointed by the class president and vice president. 
"We wanted to be consistent," Falvey said. "On all the other boards, only the president and vice president are elected and they appoint the other members of their executive board." 
The purpose of the Student Diversity Board (SDB) would also be changed with the new Constitution. The old Constitution stated that SDB is supposed to unite the College community to provide an "open forum for all cultures, histories, traditions and religions." The new Constitution will change that purpose to specifically state that the SDB is in place to support the cultures, histories, traditions and religions of "multicultural and internation­al students." 
It also states that SDB is in place to "provide support for eth­nic students and increase their enrollment and graduation rate from" the College. 

"This part was written specifi­cally by the Student Diversity Board and was accepted at their recommendation," Falvey said. "I believe the intent of the new statement was 'to represent the varied heritages of all Saint Mar,ts women, not just a select few. 
For more information on the Constitution, a copy of it can be found online at http://www.saint­marys.edu/-bog/Final_revision­1.pdf 
To vote on the Constitution, visit the Web site http://www.saint­marys.edu/-surveys!sgaconstitu­tion.htm?id=nVDd 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



I

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS

Tuesday, March 24, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 7,775.86 +497.48 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 3,411 57 445 358,869,880 
AMEX·N!iW<·· NASDAQ 1,555.77 +9850 NYSE 51lca5~8$ +353i,1!. S&P 500 822.92 +54.38 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 8;i<l:5~5:3 ) : t!J~t)(ijt FTSE 100 (London) 3,952.81 +109.96 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRlCE 
CITIGROUP INC (C) +19.47 +0.51 3.13 BK OF AMERICA (BAC) +26.01 +1.61 7.80 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +7.18" +5.51 82.22 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +16.40 +1.34 9.48 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +1.33 +0.0350 2.66 13-WEEK BILL -5.00 -0.01 0.19 30-YEAR BOND +1.07 +0.0390 3.69 5-YEAR NOTE +2.63 +0.0430 1.68 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.73 53.80 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -3.70 952.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -3.00 88.50 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 97.0300 EURO 1.3633 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2245 BRITISH POUND 1.4573 
IN BRIEF 
Economic meltdown affects minorities 
The ax fell without sound or shadow: Tatiana Gallego was suddenly called into human resources and laid off from her job as an admis­sions counselor for a fashion college. 
"The way people tried to explain it to me was, I wa<> the last one hired so I was the first one out," said Gallego, 25, who had worked there for 17 months. 
Last hired, first fired: This generations-old cliche rings bitterly true for millions of Latinos and blacks who are losing jobs at a faster rate than the general population during this punishing reces­sion. 
Much of the disparity is due to a concentration of Latinos and blacks in construction, blue-collar or service-industry jobs that have been decimated by the economic meltdown. And black unemploy­ment has been about double the rate for whites since the government began tracking those cate­gories in the early 1970s. 
Language, economy threaten census 
WASHINGTON-With the 2010 census loom­ing, tens of millions of residents in mostly dense urban areas such as Los Angeles and New York are at high risk of being missed due to language problems and a deepening economic crisis, gov­ernment officials said Monday. 
The challenges are creating consternation in some cities, which say time and state budgets for outreach are short. 
"While the census is a federal responsibility, there must be earlier and ongoing communication and accountability to local governments and com­munities," said Stacey Cumberbatch, census coor­dinator for New York City. 
Testifying before a House panel, officials with the Census Bureau and Government Accountability Office cited high risk groups of hard-to-find immigrants, non-English speaking residents and displaced homeowners who make up roughly 14 percent of the U.S. population. 
To ensure an accurate count, census oflicials said they were devoting $250 million from $1 bil­lion in stimulus money for outreach that will include stepped-up canvassing of addresses to identify residences with multiple dwellers and homes now abandoned due to mortgage foreclo­sures. 

Obama takes step for financial recovery 
Administration plans to take over up to $1 trillion in mortgage securities 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The 
Obama administration 
aimed squarely at the crisis 
clogging the nation's credit 
system Monday with a plan 
to take over up to $1 trillion 
in sour mortgage securities 
with the help of private 
investors. For once, Wall 
Street cheered. 

The announcement, 
closely stage-managed 
throughout the day, filled in 
crucial blanks in the 
administration's financial 
rescue package and formed 
what President Barack 
Obama called "one more 
critical element in our 
recovery." 

The coordinated efl'ort by 
the Treasury Department, 
the Federal Reserve and 
the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corp. relies on a 
mix of government and pri­
vate money -mostly from 
institutional investors such 
as hedge funds -to help 
banks rid their balance 
sheets of real-estate related 
securities that are now 
extremely diflicult to value. 
The goal, said Obama, is 
to get banks lending again, 
so "families cim get basic 
consumer loans, auto loans, 
student loans, (and so) that 
small businesses are able to 
finance themselves, and we 
can start getting this econo­
my moving again." 

It was a huge gambit and 
one that came like a tonic 
to Wall Street, which had opened, with a group of rities. loans from the FDIC and 
panned an earlier outline of reporters at the Treasury If the value of the securi­the Fed to generate $500 
the program that lacked Department to go over ties goes up, the private billion in purchasing power. 
detail. specifics. But cameras and investors and taxpayers Geithner said purchases 
Stocks soared, the Dow broadcast-quality audio would share in the gains. If eventually could grow to $1 
Jones industrial average recorders were barred. the values go down, the trillion -roughly half of 
shooting up nearly 500 It was the reverse of what government and private the estimated $2 trillion of 
points, thanks to the bank­happened Feb. 10. Then, investors would incur loss­toxic assets on bank books 
assets plan and a report after Obama had helped es. now. 
showing an unexpected raise expectations toward "This will help banks On the hot seat, Geithner 
jump in home sales. Geithner and the plan, the clean up their balance has a lot personally tied to 
The introduction of the treasury secretary went sheets and make it easier the success of the new pro­
plan was closely choreo­before cameras and for them to raise capital," gram. His performance in 
graphed so that the presi­bombed. The Dow plunged Geithner said. the Cabinet, including his 
dent rather than about 300 points amid The plan will take $7 5 slowness in learning about 
Geithner -would be the investor confusion about billion to $100 billion from multimillion dollar execu­
first administration official details. the government's existing tive bonuses paid by insur­
to appear on camera at The fleshed-out plan is $700 billion Troubled Asset ance giant AIG after taking 
midday to discuss it. designed to help fix a value Relief Program. The gov­bailout money, has been 
Geithner met earlier in the on damaged mortgage ernment will pair this with severely criticized by some 
day, before markets loans and other toxic secu-private investments and in Congress. 

Home sales increase in February 
Associated Press process and are not yet for sale. Plus, rate of 4. 72 million last month, from 
as the recession deepens and job loss­4.49 million units in January. 
WASHINGTON -One month does es mount, many buyers are likely to It was the largest monthly sales not a recovery make. But a surprising stay on the sidelines. jump since July 2003, with first-time leap in existing home sales in "The four-letter word in the housing buyers accounting for about half of all February was a welcome if tentative market is 'jobs,"' said Nicolas transactions. Home sales activity has sign of hope that the real estate mar­Retsinas, director of Harvard returned to December's levels, but ket may be stabilizing. University's Joint Center for Housing still remains lower than most of last 
While sales of existing homes Studies. "If you're worried about hav­year. remain at lows not seen in more than ing a job tomorrow, you're not likely Without adjusting for seasonal fac­a decade, economists were encour­to buy a home now." tors, though, sales nationwide were aged by the news, saying it. reflected Sheryl Morgan, a real estate agent down more than 10 percent from a buyers who were taking advantage of in Canonsburg, Pa., about 20 miles year earlier. The West was the only deep discounts on foreclosures and south of Pittsburgh, recently lost two part of the country to show increased other distressed properties. That's potential clients after strapped local sales, rising nearly 24 percent from a essential if home prices are to find employers cut back on pay. "Instead year earlier. their long-awaited bottom. of selling and buying a new home, February's sales ligures don't reflect 
Prices plunged by almost 16 percent they're staying and refinancing," she the new $8,000 tax credit designed to from a year ago in February and are said. -lure even more first-time buyers into expected to keep falling well into The National Association of Realtors the market. However, the credit has 2009. Tens of thousands of homes said Monday that sales of existing begun to attract buyers like Mindy remain tied up in the foreclosure homes grew 5.1 percent to an annual Robbins, 30, of Billings, Mont. 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, March 24, 2009 
Parolees closely -watched 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -Parolees 

like the one who killed three 
Oakland police officers and left 
a fourth brain-dead over the 
weekend must be tracked and 
restricted more aggressively, 
state Attorney General Jerry 
Brown said Monday. 
The former Oakland mayor said he will examine how 26­year-old Lovelle Mixon was monitored following his release from prison in November on a conviction for assault with a deadly weapon. Mixon also was a suspect in a murder last year but was never charged, accord­ing to state prison officials. 
"Mixon was certainly a char­acter that needed more super­vision," Brown said. "In Oakland, the highway patrol has an office there, sheriff and police. And all those agencies should have a list of the more dangerous, threatening parolees so they can keep a watch on them." 
Problems involving parolees from California's overcrowded prison system have long beset state officials who must monitor them, as well as local officials who try to keep streets safe and federal authorities who enforce firearms and other laws. 
Mixon was-one of 164 Oakland parolees in mid-March who had outstanding arrest warrants for parole violations, state prison records show. 
The city of 400,000 had more than 1, 900 total parolees at the time, including nearly 300 who had been returned to custody or whose parole was about to be revoked. Statewide, almost 17,000 of the nearly i 25,000 parolees were wanted for vio­lating their parole require­ments, state records show. 
Mixon shot two motorcycle officers who had stopped him Saturday afternoon. Sgt. Mark Dunakin, 40. was killed; Officer John Hege, 41, was declared brain-dead and remained on life support Monday. 
Mixon then fled to what his family said was a younger sis­ter's apartment around the cor­ner. When a SWAT team stormed the apartment, Sgt. Ervin Romans, 43, and Sgt. Daniel Sakai, 35, were gunned down before officers fatally shot Mixon. 
Mixon's relatives said he was upset that he was unable to fmd work and feared he would be arrested for a parole viola­tion. California prison records show that authorities issued a warrant for his arrest after he failed to make a mandatory meeting with his parole offlce·r Feb. 19. 
Police have not said why he had been pulled over, but rela­tives who talked to him on his cell phone just before the traffic stop said he was looking for a parking space. 
How someone could take down armed veteran officers with such lethal efficiency is a focus of the poUce department's investigation. Experts said offi­cers know traffic stops carry clear dangers. 
"Motor(cycle) officers are at a tremendous risk. A police vehi­cle at least provides you with a modicum of cover," said Dave Smith, a retired Arizona police officer who leads seminars on police street survival. 

Study finds health risks for older Atnericans 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -The largest study of its kind finds that older Americans who eat large amounts of red meat and processed meats face a greater risk of death from heart disease and cancer. 
The federal study of more than half a million men and women bolsters prior evi­dence of the health risks of diets laden with red meat like hamburger and processed meats like hot dogs, bacon and cold cuts. 
Calling the increased risk modest, lead author Rashmi Sinha of the National Cancer Institute said the findings support the advice of several health groups to limit red and processed meat intake to decrease cancer risk. 
The findings appear in Monday's Archives of Internal Medicine. 
Over 10 years, eating the equivalent of a quarter­pound hamburger daily gave men in the study a 22 percent higher risk of dying of cancer and a 27 percent higher risk of dying of heart disease. That's compared to those who ate the least red meat, just five ounces per week. 

Women who ate large amounts of red meat had a 20 percent higher risk of dying of cancer and a 50 per­cent higher risk of dying of heart disease than women who ate less. 
For processed meats, the increased risks for large quantities were slightly lower overall than for red meat. The researchers compared deaths in the people with the highest intakes to deaths in people with the lowest to cal­culate the increased risk. 
People whose diets con­tained more white meat like chicken and fish had lower risks of death. 
The researchers surveyed more than 545,000 people, ages 50 to 71 years old, on their eating habits, then fol­lowe-d them for 10 years. There were more than 70,000 deaths during that time. 
Study subjects were recruited from AARP mem­bers, a group that's healthier than other similarly aged Americans. That means the findings may not apply to all groups, Sinha said. The study relied on people's memory of what they ate, which can be faulty. 
In the analysis, the researchers took into account other risk factors such as smoking, family history of cancer and high bod~ mass index.­
In an accompanying editori­al, Barry Popkin, director of the Interdisciplinary Obesity Center at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, wrote that reducing meat intake would have benefits beyond improved health. 
Livestock increase green­house gas emissions, con­tributing to global warming, he wrote, and nations should reevaluate farm subsidies that distort prices and encourage meat-based diets. 
"We've promoted a diet that has added excessively to 
global warming," Popkin said in an interview. 
Successfully shifting away from red meat can be as easy as increasing fruits and veg­etables in the diet, said Elisabetta Politi of the Duke Diet and Fitness Center in Durham, N.C. 
''I'm not saying everybody should turn into vegetari­ans," Politi said. "Meat should be a supporting actor on the plate, not the main character." 
The National P-mk Board and National Cattlemen's Beef Association questioned the findings. 
Dietitian Ceci Snyder said in a statement for the pork board that the study "attempts to indict all red meat consumption by looking at extremes in meat con­sumption, as opposed to what most Americans eat." 
Lean meat as part of a bal­anced diet can prevent chronic disease, along with exercise and avoiding smok­ing, said Shalene McNeill, dietitian for the beef group. 



THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Tuesday, March 24, 2009 page 9 
THE OBSERVER Brother Courtney the true patriot 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Bill Brink John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara Ki~ 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
SPORTS EDITORS: Matt Gamber 
ScENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAlNT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS 0ESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT 0ESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views' of rhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chiefjenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

1 he Obs:crvcr (USPS 599 2-40110} is published" Monday through Friday except during exun.md vaca.don ~riod.~. A subscription to The Observer is $100 for ouc: academic yc>tr; $SS tOr one semester. 
The Ohscrvcr is published .It: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining !l.tll Send addn:ss corrtctioru to: 
~otrc Oamc, IN 465')6...0779 1be0bservcr 
Pcri,xf.iul posuge paid ott Notn: Dame P.O. Boxn9 
and ;:~dditional mailing otfkt!S. 024 South Dining Hall 
Nottt" Dame, IN 46556..0779 

The Oll\crvcr is a mcmhcr ,.f rhc As.o;ociJlcd Press. All reproduction riglus arc­n::scrvcJ. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports John Tierney Alex Barker Liz O'Donnell Eric Prister 
Emma Driscoll Alex West Graphics Viewpoint Blair Chemidlin Lauren Scene Brauweiler 
Jess Shaffer Patrick Griffin Caitlin Ferraro 
To Whom It May Concern: 

More often than not, we as citizens of an ever-changing society tend to lose sight of things that we value most-things that we shaped our beliefs and founded our culture upon. 
Upon my arrival to Thomas college, I joined the Reagan United States Air 
Guest t
Force ROTC 

Columnist
(Reserve Officer Training Corps). For those of you unfamiliar with the program, college students who become Cadets or Midshipmen take courses, attend leaderc ship training and participate in physical training, all with the intention of graduat­ing with a Bachelor's Degree and earning a commission as an officer in one of the various branches of the U.S. Armed Forces. Now to say the least, my mom was pretty apprehensive of me becoming a Cadet. The thought of me being shipped off to war upon completion of college is something that was, and remains unset­tling for her. But although I understand my mother's concern, to me there was not an option when it came to this decision. It was a duty. . 
Something I have to explain is the rea­son for my mother's apprehension. She knows firsthand the strains of both grow­ing up in and marrying into a military family. It is stressful, constantly changing or relocating, and at times can undergo debilitating tragedy. Five generations of my family have served the United States as members of the Armed Forces, in almost every major conflict in the last century and into the new millennium. Ifyou know me personally, you know about my fami­ly's background. You also know that I bring that background up whenever I get a chance. My heritage is something that I take extreme pride in, despite the hard time I sometimes receive for carrying on about it. Shut me up about it-not a chance. 
Getting back to the original intention for this note ... 
This weekend I had the distinct honor of laying to rest a true American Patriot, Brother Edward Courtney C.S.C. In 1941 Brother Courtney joined the U.S. Army and served in five campaigns in North Africa and Europe during World War II, including the storming of Omaha Beach at the D-Day Invasion of Normandy, on June 6, 1944. Upon his return stateside, Courtney joined the Brothers of Holy Cross. A very proud American, Courtney was a well-known advocate against the desecration of the American flag, petition­ing the government to add an amendment to the constitution outlawing the practice. From 1989, up until he was physically incapable of doing so, Brother Courtney would sit onState Road 933, the major road dividing Holy Cross and Saint Mary's from Notre Dame, with a large American Flag by his side waving to cars as they drove by. This silent protest became well known in our community, helping Courtney to become widely supported in his endeavor. Although the Constitution was not amended according to his wishes, Brother Courtney's efforts were honored when a flag pole was erected at his spot on 933 by a reserve Marine Platoon upon their return from a deployment to Iraq. Needless to say, he was speechless. 
Simply put, the point I wish to convey to you is this: Our country is divided in many ways: Democrats, Republicans, the rich, the poor, hundreds of different races and religions. Some families have been hnre since before the Revolutionary War, some got off a plane yesterday. Either way, we have gathered as citizens of what is in my opinion the greatest nation in the world, to seek freedom and opportunity -to seek a better existence. Throughout our country's 233 year existence, a select few have stood up to defend what we have worked so hard to achieve. These elite few have fought, bled and died for an idea. Often going unnoticed and unnamed, these few have sacrificed everything so that you, the citizen, could wake up in the morning to get your coffee and newspaper, and begin your litany of complaints about our gov­ernment, the economy, the war, and any­thing else that happens to grind your gears at that present moment. Meanwhile, they have not complained, they have not bickered, they have taken up their post and asked, "Yes Sir, is there anything else I can do or will that be all?" 
In writing this, I do not wish to impose my ideas or beliefs on you. I only hope that you will remember how many have sacri­ficed everything so that you may live, so that you can have your own opinion, your freedom. I am not asking you to change your political views; I am not asking you to go sign up for military service. I simply hope you will remember what they have done, and what they continue to do. They do not complain about Government Officials or question orders, they sacrifice everything for you. They give you the opportunity to live the privileged life of an American. 
So I challenge you, Notre Dame, Holy Cross, Saint Mary's: next time you see a veteran, thank them. When you sit in class next to someone in ROTC thank them too. Next time you stop by the Grotto, light a eandle, and ask Our Lady to watch over those who are protecting you -even if they happen to be half way around the world. Remember what they do so that you may live, but most importantly :­never forget. 
To Brother Courtney: here's a nickel on the grass to you, my friend, and your spir­it, enthusiasm, sacrifice and courage ­but most of all to your friendship. Yours is a dying breed and when you are gone, the world will be a lesser place. 
Thomas Reagan is a sophomore majoring in political science. He can be contacted at treagan@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 

Is your bracket faring better than Obama's? 
Yes No 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF. THE DAY 
"It is easier to forgive an enemythan to forgive a friend. " · 
William Blake English poet 



THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, March 24, 2009 
Mixed reactions to Obama 
The audacity of giving 
Before Obama-as-Commencement­speaker debate fatigue sets in for Observer readers, I would like to offer some more fuel for the fire as we con­tinue the "dialogue" that Fr. Jenkins hopes we have as a result of Obama's acceptance of the invitation. 
While most of the critique thus far has focused on how the president's rad­ical stances on abortion and stem cell research con­tradict the views of the Catholic 
Right

Church, another 
Winging It 
issue that is worthy of our attention deals with the University's mission to encourage charitable giving and community serv­ice. 
The Obama administration released its fiscal year 2010 budget proposal on Feb. 27, which contained $3.6 trillion in federal spending and prompted esti­mates by the independent Congressional Budget Office of deficits averaging $1 trillion over the next decade. 
How does Obama expect to pay for 

all of this? Besides the inevitable necessity of passing the bill onto future generations (i.e. us). one of the shock­ing methods that would be implement­ed by the budget is a reduction in the tax benefit from itemized deductions, including charitable contributions, for the top two income brackets, from 35 percent and 33 percent to 28 percent. Or, in laymen's terms, the budget plan would limit the amount of tax deduc­tions that wealthier taxpayers could receive for donating money to charity. Obama hopes to do this while simulta­neously allowing the Bush tax cuts for these same people to expire. 
·Considering the fact that high­income Americans account for a heavi­ly disproportionate share of charitable donations relative to their numbers · (44 percent of charitable contributions as recorded through IRS tax forms came from only nine percent of the population, and less than two percent of taxpayers are responsible for 28 percent, or $81 billion, of all giving), the combination of these policies in the midst of our current financial crisis will undoubtedly have an adverse effect on the amount of money chari­ties receive from these taxpayers. 
Setting aside the hopelessly idealistic argument that people should donate to charity out of magnanimity rather than the desire to pay less in taxes, numerous academic studies have depwnstrated that tax-deductions do provide a noticeable incentive for giv­ing among the more afiluent popula­tion. A study conducted by the Center on Philanthropy shows 47 percent of wealthier households say they would give less if these tax deductions were removed. Furthermore, total itemized contributions from the highest income households would have dropped 4.8 percent-or $3.87 billion -in 2006 if the policy suggested had been in place, according to the Center on Philanthropy at Indiana University. 
Peter Orszag, White House budget chief. defends the reduction in his blog by pointing out that the extra tax rev­enue generated from tlwse policies will fund Obama's plans for universal health care. Taking money from pri­vate charities and using it to pay for what amounts to government-run charity? In English, we call this 'wel­fare.' 
What I l'ind most disturbing about these policy proposals is how they help foster a culture that discourages the notion that people should help one another by insisting that the govern­ment will take care of the poor. 
Hemoving the personal aspect of giving hurts not qnly the donors by inhibiting them from carrying out their role as followers of Christ, but generates a sense of entitlement among those in need that discourages them from seek­ing a way out of their desperate situa­tion. This stands against the mission of the University, which was named for the Church's model of faith and chari­ty, the Virgin Mary. In its own mission statement, the University claims it "seeks to cultivate in its students ... a disciplined sensibility to the poverty, injustice and oppression that burden the lives of so many. The aim is to cre­ate a sense of human solidarity and concern for the common good that will bear fruit as learning becomes service to justice." The selection of Barack Obama as Commencement speaker. however, casts serious doubt on its devotion to this statement. 
Christie Pesavento is thanking God she is not graduating this year. She also thanks her friend Chris Geissler for contributing the title to this column. 
E-mails can be sent to cpesaven@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


A new approach 
Dear Fr. Jenkins, 

I am writing to express my gratitude to you for inviting President Obama to speak at this year's commencement. Granted, I am a little disappointed that you didn't hold off until next year, when I will be graduating, but it's my own fault for not notifYing you sooner. Still, it's absolutely fan­tastic that you've invited the President of the United States. 
Just last week I was going through my collection of Observers, staring at the gray boxes pleading for Viewpoint letters and wondering what I could possibly say. Then, on Friday, one Mr. Caruso wrote a column in which he insulted ... pretty much everyone, and I thought to myself, fmally, at last, we shall have a proper Viewpoint war. Being abroad last semester, I missed all the hubbub about the hookup culture, although I have enjoyed the residual Observer commentaries on the subject. 
This semester's Viewpoints have so far only offered the entertaining but short-lived pet squirrel argument. But that same Friday, Fr. Jenkins, you went and invited President Obama to be our Commencement speaker. And Monday, I opened up my Observer to find not one, not two, but three pages devoted to the Viewpoint, including a full two-page spread of verbose outcries of outrage or support from seniors as well as people who aren't even going to be around to watch the commencement on CCTV, much less actually attend the event. Most importantly, this decision drew the all-important alumni letters required to create the perfect Viewpoint war storm. 
So thank you, Fr. Jenkins, for bringing quality entertain­ment back to the Viewpoint section. And thank you, Viewpoint editors, for courageously printing such a large selection of letters. I expect to see many more in the days to come. 
Soldiers in the Viewpoint war, I salute you! 
Johanna Kirsch 
junior 
McGlinn 
March 23 

Acknowledgement, not acceptance 
I applaud the administration's courage in extending an invitation to Barack Obama to speak at Commencement this year. As the controversy flares up already, I feel that it is important to remember that a university provides an opportunity for people who disagree to come together for the purpose oflearning in a way that is respectful to all participating parties. Inviting Obama to speak does not mean that the University'supports abortion; rather, it means that the University recognizes that a person's per­sonal beliefs do not invalidate their potential to contribute constructively to academic dialogue. 
Dissent is a powerful force that has value in politics, academics and faith. The disagreements among our com­munity strengthen our beliefs that are correct and chal­lenge those that are not. Where agreement cannot be found, disagreement teaches tolerance and understand­ing. I disagree with many of my fellow students on a wide range ofissues. I certainly hope that this does not invali­date my contribution to the Notre Dame community or suggest that I do not have a place here. I also hope that my differences and disagreements contribute in a small way to a dialogue that is as proud a tradition to our school as its Catholic identity. Likewise, I hope that this contro­versy promotes a respectful dialogue among all of us about the meaning ofrespect for life. 
It is my personal belief, for example, that the closing of Guantanamo represents a critical step forward in our national responsibility to uphold human rights. Environmental policy is also a crucial component ofa being a holistically pro-life nation. Being pro-life is about an attitude and lifestyle and encompasses our entire rela­tionship to our fellow humans and to our planet, not mere­ly whether or not you support anti-abortion legislation. 
So let's talk. I invite you to disagree with me, or your roommate, or the kid in your Philosophy class, or Barack, or anyone you please. I only ask that you respect my opin­ion, their opinions, whether or not those opinions match your own. Acknowledging difference of beliefneed not imply support or endorsement. Instead, this acknowledg­ment does justice to the complexity of cause and eflect that all ofthese issues involve. Acknowledging difference is the first step towards learning and understanding, towards embracing the purpose and mission of our school. Our nation faces challenges every day that involve many different people with many different interests. I would think that the man who wakes up every morning trying to balance it all probably has some interesting things to say. 
Joe McLean junior offcampus March23 

Confusion 
The March 23 article ("Jenkins: Obama 'honored' University by accepting") containing Fr. Jenkins' response to criticisms of the University's invitation to President Obama expresses two fundamental errors. First, Fr. Jenkins con­tends that honoring the president does not give the impres­sion of support for his radically anti-life policies. Instead it recognizes "his very real and significant accompli'>hments." Fr. Jenkins may be right in the strictest sense that relatively few individuals will receive the impression that Notre Dame condones the legalization of and recourse to abortion. But he is simply lying to himself if he does not think the general public will hear Notre Dame saying "It's alright on the whole to actively and coercively promote the taking of unborn life so long as one makes up for it with commitment to other politieal positions favored by the University administration." 
The direct taking of innocent hunmn life and the pruden­tial fashioning of economic, foreign aid or entitlement policy are incommensurable, yet the University's honoring of President Obama says the exact opposite. And when it comes to the other accomplishments that are the real rea­son for the honor, I may have missed a part of Obama's as­yet-short presidential career. So far his largest initiative (eco­nomie stimulus) has yet to be proven successful, while most of the currently evaluable "accomplishments" can be summed up with his press-dodging Friday rumouncements of more taxpayer fimding for abortion or ESCR and a li'it of radically pro-abortion cabinet nominees, including an HHS nominee well-known for shielding her abortionist crony from prosecution. The main piece of his legislative record to garner attention during the presidential campaign was his refusal to allow medical care to infants that had been born despite best efforts to kill them. That's quite an accomplish­ment to hang one's hat on. 
As for Fr. Jenkins' second confusion, he seems to be under the impression that he has invited President Obama into a dialogue about issues of Catholic concern. My own experi­ence could be unrepresentative, but the last few Commencement speeches through which I sat were mono­logues about issues important to the speaker, and Fr. Jenkins has yet to book the distingui'ihed respondent who will be educating President Obama about how gravely mis­taken he is on human life. Perhaps one of the hundreds of accomplished public servants and intellectuals who has managed to promote human dignity and equality without shamelessly kowtowing to the abortion lobby will manage to make the cut for that less distinguished invitation. 
Aaron Sanders grad student offcampus March 23 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Tuesday, March 24, 2009 page 11 
announcement continue 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Choice affects everyone 
A'i a Saint Mary's student, I have to weigh in on the debate about having President Obama sp()ak at Notre Dame's Commencement since it affects our community. Discussions of Catholic identity and prestige aside, I am CUli­ous if anyone in the administration considered the impact such an important political figure­head will have on the travel plans of the other schools graduating that weekend. Yes, it is all very exciting that the president has agreed to come speak-Notre Dame shares the honor with Arizona State and the Naval Academy, setting them apart from the long list ofIvy League schools (even the president's own alma mater!) whose requests for his presence were declined. But really, inviting Barack Obama takes graduation traffic to a whole new level. Those of us who will need to leave on Sunday for long car rides home are facing a nightmare of secmity measures and road closures. It was a tad inconsiderate, to say the least, for Notre Dame to put such a burden on the families of Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students. 
Other than that, congratulations to Notre Dame for nabbing the president. It is an honor for my brother school-I just hope the teleprompter doesn't malfunction. 
Sarah Falvey 
senior 
LeMans 
March 23 
Don't hijack our day 
To Mr. Keane and all the others who have expressed such outrage at the"invitation of President Obama to speak at this year's Commencement ("Reactions to Obama as ND Commencement speaker," March 23): please don't hijack our graduation. 
I Ul1derstand your objections. You are absolutely entitled to your outrage, but I would ask you to direct it to the proper parties and in the proper manner. Threatening "pic­tures ofdismembered children lining Notre Dame Ave." ("Obama choice unacceptable," March 23) is absurd. The intended viewer (the president, I assume) will not even see those pictures. I implore you: do not turn our special day into a political circus. No one will say, "Notre Dame invited President Obama to speak, so the Church must think abortion is okay now." People are much smarter than that. However, ifyou choose to hijack our graduation with large-scale protests, people will say, "How sad. How embarrassing." It is our day, not yours. Show a little respect. 
Sean Lyttle 
third year law 
offcampus 
March22 
Just embrace it 
I am a pro-life Roman Catholic, and as such, my first reaction to the announcement of President Obama as Commencement speaker was astonishment, followed closely by a desire to protest this decision. I signed the Cardinal Newman Society's petition. But then I came to the realization that no matter how many people protest, the University is not going to rescind its invitation. That would be like slapping our nation's president across the face. Petitioning Fr. Jenkins is fruitless; Obama's coming is inevitable. 
Instead, we should ask how we can bring good out of what may seem like a bad deci­sion. Fr. Jenkins and many others have sug­gested that this will provide a "basis of an engagement" with Obama. But it will not do so unless we actively engage him. The mas­sive support that has been garnered against the University should be redirected towards the true cause ofits protest, namely, Obama himself. A petition should be speedily creat­ed to show Obama the magnitude of the opposition to FOCA here at Notre Dame. 
Furthermore, we could ask Fr. Jenkins to make good on'his promise of "engagement" with Obama. Giving a simple Commencement speech does not allow the president to engage in an intellectual discus­sion with our University. Jenkins should invite Obama to take part in an academic debate of pro-life principles while he is here at Notre Dame. 
Joey Kuhn 
sophomore 
Keenan 
March23 
Protest threat demeaning 
This is in response to Kevin Keane's mean­spirited Letter to the Editor published on March 23 ("Obama choice unacceptable"). In this let­ter, Mr. Keane threatened that ifthe University administration did not heed his demands, he and others would line Notre Dame Avenue with graphic pictures of aborted fetuses. He claims that such a scene would result from the actions of the University. That is simply false -such a distasteful protest would only come from Mr. Keane and his fellow radical anti-abortion activists. I hope that he and others recognize that Commencement weekend is not for him, or other alunmi, or for activists seeking to cre­ate political theater. Rather, it is a celebration for the Notre Dame class of 2009 in which we finally receive the diploma for which we worked so hard. It is a time for my classmates and me to have a final weekend together as college students before we go off into the real world or graduate school. · 
Through our hard work and committment to Notre Dame, we have earned the right to have our last weekend free from angry alunmi who come to bash our University's supposed loss of Catholic identity. Mr. Keane, it is your right as an American to protest. Ifyou really feel the desire to stand on Notre Dame Ave. with your graphic pictures next to the person with the "God hates homosexuals" sign, our great Constitution gives you that right. I just hope that you and other alunmi step back from your emotions and try to think back to yourself as a graduating senior. 
Would you want protesters yelling as you walk across campus in your cap and gown? Would you want your young nieces and nephews to see an aborted fetus as their par­ents find a parking place? Would you want stu­dents to disregard their four years of hard work and instead focus on a 30-minute speech by the President of the United States? Please, consider my classmates and me. Commencement is about us and our time at the University, not about alunmi who were on cam­pus during the time of Gerry Faust and their political positions. 
Rick Raley 
seniOf 
offcampus 
March23 
We are ... educated? 
I am so embarrassed. We are at an institution of higher learning. Those who are leaving here with a diploma are supposed to be cultivated indi­viduals, having the ability to receive and reflect upon conflicting view­points, and furthermore, to be able to und.erstand a wider picture, one that goes beyond the Notre Dame bubble, and beyond the teachings of one religion. Graduates from our fine school should be able to see more, not less. 
I am disgusted that many of my classmates aren't able to see the bigger picture. It does not matter for whom you voted. Obama is the pres­ident now. That is the first point: The President of the United States of America is coming to our Universitv to speak at our graduation. Are yo". not honored? Are you ielll. , ..~u that if the president said that he would come to your house to have tea, you would tell him no, thank you, because he advocates different opinions than your own? President Obama is obviously an educated and thoughtful man. He is worth listen­ing to. 
Secondly, to focus on one issue on his platform, or to focus on only one issue out of the many currently trou­bling our world is to completely miss the point. Obama stands for much more than a pro-choice platform. He stands for a chance for change, a drive for unity. His election was a monumental step forward for this country! That is what is important. That is what is being honored. 
Finally, debate is important. Articulating one's own morally and factually informed beliefs is impor­tant. These are valuable parts of any good university. There will no doubt be frustration on both sides as the discussion continues. I can only hope that the discussion is an intelli­gent one that does not resort to name-calling or uninformed posi­tions. I also hope that members of the Notre Dame community are able to remember that we should work for solidarity and mutual under­standing rather than for opportuni­ties to shout from our respective soapboxes. And, for the sake of all involved, please leave the protests outside on graduation day. This day is about the graduates and their families. I have worked hard for this day. We have all worked hard. Blood, sweat and tears hard. Please don't ruin it. 
Beata Aldridge 
senior 
• offcampus 
March22 



Money talks 
Iri my four years here, I have been less than thrilled by certain events on campus -the football team going 0-5 in 2007, the seem­ingly endless need to water the sidewalks or the lack of $5 foot­longs at Subway -but I have never been mmred enough to write a Viewpoint Letter to the Editor. However, the announcement of President Barack Obama as the Commencement speaker and recip­ient of an honorary degree shocked me. 
When I first heard that President Obama was to speak, I double­checked the online news source I was reading to make sure that I was not accidentally reading "The Onion." While I would support President Obama if he were to speak at Notre Dame under the practice of academic freedom, I find that he is deserving of neither the honor of speaking at Notre Dame's Commencement nor does he deserve to receive an honorary degree from the University. To bestow these honors on a man who is consistently against the beliefs of the Catholic Church and the University is an utter disgrace to Notre Dame. In my four years here, the real disappointment is not that we went 0-4 against USC, marked two decades since our last National Championship or never got a snow day. Rather, it is that Notre Dame and the administration succumbed to the celebrification of a man who consistently supports many of the beliefs that the Church vehemently opposes and is actually honoring him at this year's Commencement. 
Not only has Notre Dame lost my respect, but they have also lost my intent to contribute to the University anytime in the near future. I have worked in the Notre Dame Phone Center for nearly 
eight semesters. In that time, I have spoken with hundreds of alumni and have solicited nearly $90,000 in alumni contributions because I believed in the value of a Notre Dame education. Many of you may have seen the green Hollaback T-shirts promoting the recent Thanksgiving in February hosted by the Annual Fund. This was held to thank alumni for their financial support of Notre Dame as well as to raise awareness among students that. tuition only covers the cost of an education at Notre Dame through February, with the remaining months funded by con­tributions, in hopes that students would keep Notre Dame in mind when considering charitable dona­tions after graduation. Until now, I have had every intent to contribute to Notre Dame after I graduate in whatever capacity I could afford because every dollar does make a difference. However, unless the administration acts to prove other­wise, I now believe that my contri­butions will be better spent at other charitable institutions. 
Seniors, in a few weeks, you will start receiving phone calls from the Phone Center asking you to contribute to the Annual Fund or to the Senior Class Gift. I strongly encourage you to consider how the dollars you pledge will be spent. If you do decide to donate money to Notre Dame, be aware that you can restrict your contribution to a group, residence hall or activity that you feel will make the best use of your dollars. After all, each dol­lar you donate could have been spent on four quarter dogs. 
Kelly Kapshandy 
sentor 
Howard 
March23 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, March 24, 2009 

Edward: "And so, the lion fell in love with the lamb." Bella: "What a stupid lamb." Edward: "What a sick, masochistic lion. " 
Yes, that's right. "Twilight" (dir. Catherin Hardwicke 2008) -the film that tells the love of a well-meaning vampire and his clumsy, pal classmate -has come to DVD. 
Are we the sick, masochistic lions, willingly down to watch the film again, realizing we , no matter how hard we look, find a vampire 
o whisk us through the forests of the Pacifi 
orthwest? Or are we the stupid lambs, wasting -earned money on the DVD of an at-best adaptation of a book marketed to 'tweenage' ? 
three-disc special edition of "Twilight" con­hours of extended and additional footage uii:l.lUI.lg the $17.99 purchase at Target worth it most basic vampire fanatic. The edition also includes special featurettes a free digital copy of the movie and, if yours at Target, another set of free extra fea­
s. Getting over Robert Pattinson's Edward Cullen's diculous American accent and distracting good 
, it's best to accept the movie for what it is: the oppily produced answer to the "Twilight" phe­
e movie accomplishes anything positive es catapulting R-Patz into the Hollywood spot­
it makes pale people fit in, at least with a cer­crowd -a crowd of vampires that uncomfort­sparkle in sunny meadows. 
The extra footage and commentary can help you t inside the actors' heads. In the case of Kristen art, who plays the moody and average Bella 
wan, you don't really learn much. But, here's a of what Pattinson shares: ere's a really awkward bit in the bedroom," he of an interaction between his and Stewart's 
acters. "And [Edward] just ends up jumping ou 
window, which is what I would do." The main disc features an audio commentary attinson (in his native British). Stewart and ardwicke, as well as· three music videos and five 
d scenes, which include one of the si moments ever. (For brevity's sake, we'll call it 
the bit with the ketchup." A true "Twilight" movie buff, or at least someone who's seen the movie twice, will know what that means.) 
The deleted scenes with director Hardwicke's introduction are more flirty and a little scandalous than what actually made the cut, including a steamy dream sequence between everyone's favorite vam­pire and his mortal love, and Stewart's favorite scene, which is not taken from Stephenie Meyer's novel, and veers. a little too on the creepy side. 
The commentary that lasts as long as a vampire's life (forever) features gratuitous shots of Pattinson uuuu.•~> his fingers through that now-famous mane 
ps of screaming girls sporting "Team dward" and "Team Jacob" T-shirts at Comic-Con. With main menus sgund-tracked with that trying­
e-eerie vampire music, the additional discs take about three hours to pour through. 
Other must-see features: Hardwicke's vampire kiss montage, which is pretty self-explanatory, Edward's piano concert and the "Becoming Edward" fea­turette. "Becoming Bella" is there too, just not quite as interesting. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
By NICK ANDERSON Scene Writer 
The Beatles are at fault for 
disco. Begrudgingly, most 
people will admit this. In 
fact, anyone who argues The 
Beatles are not responsible 
for all music released after 
1969 seems unreasonable. If 
we take a moment to exam­
ine it, it gets deeper. 
To understand, one needs 
to begin in 1967. After being 
heard by Brian Epstein, The 
Bee Gees were signed by 
Polydor Records. Their first 
single shipped, bearing a 
white label simply reporting 
the name of the band and 
song. Rumors spread that 
the name Bee Gees was code 
for "Beatles Group." 
Between the quality of the 
song and The Beatles con­
nection, the song quickly 
rose into the top 20 in both 
the U.K. and America. The 
Bee Gees continued their 
career in music and went on 
to create some of the most 
popular music of the disco 
era. 
This tale seems clear cut. 
The audience is only left with 
one question: 'How did the 
leisure suit-wearing, disco­
daneing, staying-alive Bee 
Gees manage to be mistaken 
for The Beatles? To under­
stand is to listen to the first 
of their seven greatest hits 
albums: Best of Bee Gees. 
Released in 1969, there isn't 
a hint of their later popular 
songs. Instead the forgotten 
gems contribute to a whole 
that can only be considered 
essential listening for any 
fan of classic rock. 
Musically and emotionally, ·the compilation centers on 
the single, "New York Mining 
Disaster 1941." Haunting 
harmonics over sparse 
instrumentation allow the 
brothers Gibb to tell the 
story of two men in a mine 
collapse in a way that is bqth 
beautiful and harrowing. 
Intelligently placed as the 
closing track, it acts as an 
excellent climax to an album 
full of complex themes and 
melodies. 
The Bee Gees truly hit the 
mark when singing about 
heartbreak. Beautiful har­
monies over stirring 
melodies manage to keep the 
album for falling into a col­
lection of self-pitying songs. 
They aren't singing about 
struggle becau.se 'they're 
depressed about it; they sing because the struggle is important. 
While "New York Mining Disaster 1941," weioghs on one's soul for days after lis­tening, the album is-not draining. In a fair world, "Holiday," the opening track, would be considered a pop classic. Although strangely eerie, the song is absolutely gripping. By finding a fasci­nating balance of calm and unsettling, it is able to keep the listeners' attention with­out overpowering their sens­es. 
The surprising musical skill found throughout the disk allows several songs to remain lighter without losing interest. While the band had only been recording for two years when the album was released, there is not a hint of filler throughout the album. Impressively, after several listens, the singles mesh into a cohesive album, a rare occurrence for a best of album. While almost every song is worthy on its own, it is best appreciated as a whole. 
The collection is plagued by two flaws: songs where the band loses its identity and shoddy production. Two major influences, The Beatles and The Beacl} Boys, are evident on every song. At their best, the songs provide a compelling companion to these two bands; at worst they sound like a young band doing their best to cover their idols. When the CD was released, the record compa­ny neglected a serious effort at remastering it. While the old sound adds a fair bit of charm to the recording, there are distinct moments 
, when the vocals overpower instruments. Worse, a num­ber of verses sound distorted almost to the point of come­dy. 
In light of an extremely successful career that con­tinued for the _next 30 years, it's not a surprise that their early work is lost to our gen­eration. It is, however, unfor­tunate. Their greatest cultur­al achievement may be "Stayin' Alive" during disco, but their musical high mark occurred years before at the release of this album. 
Contact Nick Anderson at nanders5@nd.edu 

By KAITLYN CONWAY Assistant Scene Editor 
· "In Bruges" is the debut film of writer/director Martin McDonagh. The film is a comedic thriller, both dark and hilarious by turns. Judging from the trailer, you would think that it was more laughs, but it is soon clear that the film puts a lot of emphasis on more serious questions. It's difficult to decide if the 

Photo courtesy of http://www.ieweekly.com. 
Guns, humor, love and films about little people make appearances in the racy dramedy, "In Bruges." 
into interesting ideas, it gets too confused in its strange pairing of hilarity and very dark ideas. 
The basic premise of the film is that two hit men, Ray (Colin Farrell) and Ken (Brendan Gleeson). are sent to lie low in the picturesque Belgian town of Bruges after a job gone wrong. For the first half of the film, they are waiting for instructions from their boss. Harry (Ralph Fiennes). In the second half. they aim instead to avoid him. The subplots include Ray's love-inter­est Chloe (played by French actress Clemence Poesy) and a film about midgets. 
If you're thinking this is a strange mix, then you're right. The film swings between outrageously comic scenes and dark, vio­lent moments. The actors, however, rise 
wonderfully to the occasion. Farrell's performance is particularly noteworthy, as he is becomes sympathet­ic during Ray's darker moments and handles the sar­casm of the funnier moments with skill. He definitely steals the show. . 
However, it's difficult to decide what the movie is supposed to be about. In some scenes, it can be viewed as pure comedy, simply a delightful romp in the storybook town as Ray and Ken fail to act com­pletely like tourists (th.ough this is much more on Ray's case then Ken's). However, underlying the entire film is the horrific accident that brought Ray and Ken to Bruges, and eventually brings Harry. Through its extreme violence, the film seems to be aiming for another message, something that it .loses through the more comedic moments. However, it can 
In Bruges Focus Features 
Director: Martin McDonagh Starring: Colin Farrell, Brendan Gleeson, Ralph Rennes, Clemence Posey 

also bP argued that the comedic moments simply highlight the darker features of the film in a different way. Sometimes, it's a little hard to keep track of exactly what's going on in Bruges. 
If confusing, "In Bruges" does make you think. It's not thP same old gung-ho movie about hit men that audiences are used to. McDonagh throws different ideas into the mix, questioning how far people are willing to go to preserve honor and what's right. The film may try too hard to fit more solidly into the com­edy genre than it needs to succeed. If watched with­out the expectation of the movie being gut-bustingly funny throughout, the deeper messages will get across and will have people considering them for hours after the credits roll. 
Contact Kaidyn Conway at kconway2@nd.edu 

Five years ago, I sat weeping in 1'ront of the television watching Peter Jackson and Fran Walsh kiss as they both held the.ir Oscars aloft, having finally 
achieved the great-Stephanie DePrez est honor filmmak­ers can receive, at 

Assistant
the 76th Academy Awards. rt was the Scene Editor culmination of a three year journey for me, going from complete Tolkien ignorance in the sev­enth grade to full-blown obsession in the ninth. At that point in time I was a movie-quoting, elvish-speaking Ringer with a full class presentation on the his­tory of Arda under my belt. (Convincing my Honors Brit Lit tear-her that the for­mation of Middle-earth was relevant to "Jane Eyre" was an ar,hievement unto itself.) 
As the years passed, the glory began to fade. Other movies became popular. "Pirates of' the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest" joined "The Return of the King" (and "Titanic") in the grossed-over-a­billion category. The second "Spider Man" and the third "Star Wars" fed the geek void. Conventions lost their Frodo­driven frenzy, and the trivia I had amassed over three years was no longer cool or interesting to the com­mon man (which, I would venture, became a problem for the poor chaps sitting next to me on airplanes). 
Alas, I moved on. I let myself become obsessed with other things, like Joss Whedon ("Buffy," "Firefly," the current "Dollhouse"). I still entered Notre Dame as a freshman full force, touting LOTR posters and pin-ups, nearly drowning my roommates in epic late-night rants about how terrible it is when I meet people who have never seen the Extended Editions. Butthe sparkle was gone. I had to admit it -I felt like a Trekkie. 
All this ended, though, when on Friday I walked into the bookstore look­ing for some light weekend reading and ran into an England-imported issue of "Empire Magazine." On the cover was -I did a double take -yep, Gollum. My Gollum. My Andy-Serkis-jumpsuit­wearing Gollum. 
With a breath of fresh air I realized my era wasn't over -"The Hobbit" goes into production in New Zealand this summer. Gone are the days of Jackson-New Line-MGM struggles over money and rights. Done are thfl quib­bles over who will direct and who will have control. I can finally take off that metaphorical pin I have been wearing for two years with the slogan "No Jackson, No Hobbit." So please forgive me if I geek out here a bit, relaying the information I have garnered in the past few days regarding the adaptation of the prequel to "The Lord of the Rings." 
Unfortunately, Peter Jackson won't be directing. He feels he has put every­thing into "Lord of the Rings," so he isn't interested into venturing back into Middle-earth to compete with his own work. That task now lies ""ith Guillermo del Toro, the director of "Pan's Labyrinth." 
This Catholic Filmmaker from Mexico (who :was recently featured at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center for being just that) is known for his creepy visual effects and twisted storytelling. Loosely translated, this means he is a perfect candidate to pick up where post-"Braindead" -Jackson left off. Other interesting similarities happen to be del Toro's chubby stature, hairy appear­ance and self-proclaimed "funny accent." I fully 1mdorse him as my new captain, leading me into the visual story of Bilbo Baggins and his journey to the Lonely Mountain. 
Other news: Jackson may not be 
directing, but he is the Executive Producer, so we can hope to see Weta Workshop doing most of the visual effects. Ian McKellen is confirmed to play Gandalf, though he has yet to sign anything. Andy Serkis is interested in being Gollum. Ian Holm is probably too old to be Bilbo, though he may appear a fow times as the aged Bilbo and provide voice-overs. TheOneRing.net's top choice to play Rilbo is closet-nerd James McAvoy, who aside from being an "Atonement" hottie played Mr. Tumnus in the first "Narnia" film. Other possible cameos: Hugo Weaving as Elrond, Christopher Lee as Saruman (who has said he is very interested in returning to Middle-earth, his insulting cut out of "The Return of the King" aside) and even Orlando Bloom, whose Legolas is the son of Thranduil, the King of the Elves in Mirkwood. The film is slated to open Christmas 2011. 
The last piece of juicy gossip: There will be a second film made, tying together "The Hobbit" and "The Fellowship of the Ring." It will center around the interim between the two stories, based on the actions of charac­tnrs as reported in the Appendices and what can be surmised occurred when they weren't directly involved in the action (such as, where did Gandalf go?). This film will open in 2012. 
So rejoice, all ye who worship at the temple of Tolkien. Our cinematic day is hardly past. New Zealand will once again be ho~e to our obsession and new trivia will arise. A<> my Assistant Rector put it: Like the Ring, I have lay dormant, but will now re-awaken. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd. edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, March 24, 2009 
MLB 
Veteran Red Sox pitcher Schilling retires 

Schilling's 20-year career spanned five teams and included a World Series victory and co-MVP in 2001 
am making my retirement of'li­
Associated Press 
cial," Schilling wrote on his 
BOSTON -From bloody sock blog. "The things I was allowed to bum shoulder, Curt Schilling to experience, the people I was rarely left the Boston Red Sox able to call friends, 'teammates, spotlight. mentors, coaches and oppo­
On the field, the husky right­nents, the travel, all of it, are hander pitched through pain to­far more than anything I ever help end the club's 86-year thought possible in my life­championship drought in 2004 time." -and then ~ontributed to Schilling pitched brilliantly in another World Series title three Game 6 of the 2004 AL years later. Championship Series against 
Off the field, the opinionated the New York Yankees just days observer appeare<h at a con­after surgery to suture a loose gressional hearing on steroids tendon to his right ankle. use and campaigned for former The procedure was repeated President George W. Bush. before another outstanding out­
From a Thanksgiving dinner ing in Game 2 of the World in 2003 at his Arizona home Series sweep of St. Louis as where Boston general manager Schilling led Boston to the title Thea Epstein lured him back to in his first season with the Bed the team that drafted him in Sox after he was acquired in a 1986 to his retirement Monday, trade a few days after Schilling made his mark in a Thanksgiving. city of demanding fans. In both games, blood seeped 
"I think in the end, we really through his sock. didn't need to sell it," Epstein "I think people will definitely said Monday. "The Red Sox remember that, but I would say were perfect for him, because three championships is a pretty he likes the big stage, the histo­big deal," said Yankees outfield­ry of the game. He likes to be er Johnny Damon, a member of the center of attention. It was a the 2004 Red Sox. "It was a nice good fit." career. The writers will think 
Schilling enriched that history about it in a few years if he's throughout a career that began Hall [of Fame] material. He def­with Baltimore in 1988 when he initely took advantage of what retired the first major league he was given." batter he faced, Boston's Wade The bloody sock from the Boggs, on a groundball. He World Series is now in the Hall threw his last pitch in 2007, a of Fame. ball on a full count to Colorado's "It was freezing, raining, cold Todd Helton in Game 2 of as hell, and the guy just had Johnson while in Arizona. and labrum, said Monday. "He of Barry Bonds and Mark Boston's World Series sweep. open surgery on his ankle," Then there was his focus. Red said his shoulder felt fine. He's McGwire to address speculation 
A shoulder injury and surgery Boston designated hitter David Sox manager Terry Francona just enjoying being with his about steroids use .are tanta­sidelined him for all of 2008. Ortiz said. "A lot of people come rarely spoke with him the day family. And the other thing he mount to admissions. Last Then, at age 42, he had to up to me and ask me, 'Hey, he he pitched. told me was he wasn't quite September, he said during a weigh long hours of rehabilita­was bleeding for real?' I'll tell "The surlier, the better," sure he wanted to put the time radio appearance that former tion against the alternatives -you what, man. He showed me Francona said. "The few times commitment and do four to six teammate Manny Ramirez "was spending more time with his a lot of guts. I had a lot of where he did speak, I remem­hours of exercises every day, always kind and nice for the wife and four children and respect for Curt." ber thinking, 'He's not rp,ady to which is what's required to most part, but he'd show up the focusing on his video game Schilling finished with a 216-pitch."' come back to pitch." next day and say, 'I'm through company. 146 record and a 3.46 ERA. He Schilling's shoulder injury Schilling was 9-8 with a 3.87 with this team, I want out 
So Schilling, a free agent, is tied for 80th on the career came to light early in February EHA in 2007 when he spent now."' scrapped his idea of possibly wins list and his 3,116 strike­2008 when he disclosed on his seven weeks on the disabled list Now Schilling is out-leaving signing with a contender in the outs ranks 15th overall. He won blog that he and the team dis­with shoulder tendinitis. But he behind a distinguished career second half of the season. more than 20 games three agreed about the best way to was 3-0 with a 3.00 ERA in the and moving on to a life away 
As successful as he had been times from 2001 through 2004. treat it. He preferred surgery postseason. from thfl spotlight. in 20 years of pitching for All that may not be enough while the team wanted him to "life] never backed down "The game was hP-re long Baltimore, Philadelphia, for him to get to the Hall of rehabilitate it in hopes of hav­from any challenge," Epstein before I was, and will be here Houston, Arizona and Boston, Fame. ing him pitch that year. said. "One of thfl things people long after I am gone," he wrote as competitive and driven as he But there's much more on his Eventua1ly, both sides agreed didn't realizo about Schill is on his blog. "The only thing I was on the mound, he had resume: an 11-2 postseason that surgery was best and he that he was really motivated by hope I did was never put in stood on it for the last time. record, the best of any pitcher had it on June 23. fear. Fear of failure." question my love for the game, 
The $8 million, one-year con­with at least 10 decisions, with "I talked to him about a week lie wasn't afraid to express or my passion to be counted on tract he signed before the 2008 a 2.23 ERA in 19 career starts. ago," Dr. Craig Morgan, who his opinions. when it mattered most. I did season was his last. He also was co-MVP of the 2001 performed the operation to In July ::007, he said on IIBO's everything I could to win every 
"It is with zero regrets that I World Series with Randy repair his right biceps tendon "Costas Now" that the refusals time I was handed the ball." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
Oakhill Condo-two bedroom/two bath unit available for rent or sale from 6/1/09. Will come partly fur· nished and equipped with fridge, washer/dryer, dishwasher, and fire­place. Pool and clubhouse. Cable ready. Price negotiable. Contact Jim, ND alum and parent. at (203) 249-1428 or JimMcGuireCT@aol.com 

FOR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer· ing 10-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 
Need off-campus housing for next yea (09-10)? 2,3,4 and 5 bedroom houses available 1/2 miles from campus, ND ALUMNI OWNED. As low as $275 per student. Contact on-campus rep at ebarloh@nd.edu or 1-513-706·9655 
Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. 2-b~rms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 574-234·2436 or www.kramerhous­es.com 
1-3BR Contemporary Urban APTS across from Notre Dame Stadium. The Foundry features private baths for every bedroom, washer/dryer, fitness center, theater room, tanning salon, game room. Preleasing for August. Call 574-232-1400 or lease online www.foundryliving.com 
Lux twnhs: 3 bdrms 3 ba, next to St. Marys $680 moper bdrm. 574­271-7030 harvey.18@nd.edu 
2009/1 0 student rentals Angela St./St. Peters & S.B. Ave. $1300· $2000/mo. Contact Bruce Gordon 574-876-3537 
AA1 Walk to Campus 2-5 bedroom homes 574-277·0116­Cooreman.com 

WANTED 

SUMMER CAMP COUNSELOR for children w/disabilities. Must have strong work ethic and be interested in making a difference in the life of a child. $9-$11 hr., 35 hr/wk, sum· mer only. 4 sites in Summit County, Ohio. Must enjoy outdoor activities. Visit www.akroncyo.org to down­load an application from the Careers link. EOE 

PERSONAL 
.If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: http://osa.nd.edu/health­safety/assault/ 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1·7819 or Ann Firth at 1·2685. For more information. visit NOs Assistance for Pregnant Students//Office of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd.edu/health-safety /assis· tance-for-pregna11t-students. 
You say it's your birthday It's my birthday too, yeah They say it's your birthday We're gonna have a good time I'm glad it's your birthday Happy birthday to you. 
Yes we're going to a party party Yes we're going to a party party Yes we're going to a party party 
Beat on the brat Beat on the brat Beat on the brat with a baseball bat Oh yeah, oh yeah, uh-oh. 
Beat on the brat Beat on the brat Beat on the brat with a baseball bat Oh yeah, oh yeah,uh-oh Oh yeah, oh yeah, uh-oh. 
What can you do? What can you do? With a brat like that always on your back What can you lose? 
She's got a smile that it seems to me Reminds me of childhood memories Where everything Was as fresh as the bright blue sky Now and then when I see her face She takes me away to that special place And if I stare too long I'd probably break down and cry 
Woah oh oh Sweet child o' mine Woah oh oh oh Sweet love of mine 
She's got eyes of the bluest skies As if they thought of rain I hate to look into those eyes And see an ounce of pain Her hair reminds me of a warm safe place Where as a child I'd hide And pray for the thunder And the rain To quietly pass me by 
---------.......£----­




OUND THE NATION 

Tuesday, March 24, 2009 CoMPILED FROMTHE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 15 
···------------------········---····· 

-------------------------=====·:-_·-·-_-·-·.......:::::·:::::::::::::::::::::~~:::::..·::=..::::=:=..-:--=:==------­
NCAA .Men's Baseball USA TODAY/ ESPN Coaches Poll 
team record points 
1 Georgia (11) 19-2 705 2 Arizona State (3) 11·3 692 3 CS Fullerton (8) 16·3 663 4 Miami Fl(2) 18-4 662 5 LSU (1) 17-5 629 6 North Carolina (4) 17·4 616 7 Georgia Tech 16·2 576 8 Texas (2) 14-6 499 9 Rice 14·6 474 10 Arkansas 16-4 449 11 Oklahoma 20·5 381 12 Baylor 14-5 359 13 UC Irvine 12-6 343 14 TexasA&M 14·9 333 15 Costal Carolina 18-4 307 16 Ole Miss 15·5 291 17 Oklahoma State 15-7 277 18 Virginia 19·2 264 19 TCU 13-6 179 20 Clemson 14·6 162 21 Pepperdine 16-6 157 22 Cal Poly 14-4 127 23 East Carolina 16-4 111 24 uc Riverside 14·4 92 25 Ohio State 17-2 87 

NCAA Men's Lacrosse Nike/lnside Lacrosse Top 20 
team record AP 
Dario Franchitti, right, looks at his car before diving test laps in Homestead, FL. Franchitti is making a 1 Virginia (15) return to the lndyCar Series in 2009 after a failed attempt at NASCAR during the 2008 season.
10·0 2 Syracuse 5·1 3 NOTRE DAME 6-0 4 Cornell 
5·1 

IRL interested in new locations for races
5 Princeton 

5·1 6 Johns Hopkins 3·3 7 UMBC 7-3 
Associated Press 

8 Hofstra Grand-Am Road Racing fantastic." and develop some pass­
4-1 9 Maryland BIRMINGHAM, Ala. -event. They were also Terry Angstadt, presi­ing zones. It's definitely a
6·2 10 Duke 7·3 The IndyCar Series impressed with the num­dent of IndyCar's com­place that's really tough 11 Brown 5·1 wrapped up a two-day ber of fans who came out mercial division, called to pass." 12 North Carolina 7-3 test session at Barber to watch. Barber Motorsports Park Dixon said those issues 13 Harvard 4·1 Motorsports Park on Track officials estimat­a "gorgeous facility" and could be resolved "quite 14 Massachusetts 4·3 Monday with an eye ed that approximately "first-class operation," easily." 15 Loyola MD 5·3 toward possibly return­10,000 people attended though he said a few "You can look at the 16 Navy 6·3 ing to the track for an Sunday's seven-hour ses­minor safety adjustments track being wider in 
17 Colgate 

4·3 official race as early as sion about a 30 miles might have to be made to some spots, and maybe18 Albany 4·2 the 2010 season. from Talladega accommodate an IndyCar (create) some heavy
19 Hobart 

5·1 Barber is one of only Superspeedway. race. braking areas," Dixon 
20 Villanova 

6·1 two preseason test sites "For a test session, it's There also was concern said. "A few 90-degree before the circuit's April amazing the amount of among some drivers as to corners (instead of so 5 season opener in St. people here," defending whether it would be too many U-shaped turns) Petersburg, Fla. The ses­series champion Scott difficult to pass on the would help the passing.
NCAA Women's Softball sion was as much a try­Dixon said. "There's defi­narrow 2.38-miln, 17-"They have the basics out for the track as it was nitely a huge fan base turn layout. here to have a fantasticESPN.com/USA Poll practice for the drivers. here. To have the (ven­"It's a fun track to circuit." 
Several drivers praised dors) on the backstraight drive. There are a lot of The IndyCar Series is team record the facility, which already and all the people out on fast corners," Marco running a 17-race sched­holds an annual AMA a test day, you don't nor­Andretti said. "But we ule this year, down from 
1 Florida (19) 27-2 Superbike race and a mally see that stuff. It's might have to sit down 18 events in 2008. 2 Alabama 23·2 3 Washington 24-3 4 Stanford 24-1 5 UCLA 24-3 IN BRIEF 6 Tennessee 23·3 
7 California Collarbone II!JUry hurts Fugative NFL QB Komio NCAA tournament ticket sales
21-4 
8 Michigan Armstrong's 'Tour' plans killed in a car crash down for first two rounds
20·7 
9 Georgia 16·4 BALTANAS, Spain -Lance PHILADELPHIA -A former NFL COLLEGE PARK, Md. -A year 10 Oklahoma Armstrong will have surgery after quarterback who failed to show for ago, Utah forward Kalee Whipple's
23·8 11 Arizona State 25-5 breaking his collarbone Monday sentencing on drunken driving parents and one of her five siblings 12 Northwestern 13-7 during a race in Spain. charges nearly four years ago was made the trek from Nevada to 13 Missouri 22-3 ''I'm alive!" the seven-time Tour killed in a car crash in Greece, Indiana to watch her play in the 14 Ohio State 20-3 de France champion wrote on his authorities said, leaving behind an first round of the NCAA women's 15 Arizona 26-7 Twitter feed. "Broken clavicle unsolved mystery involving two suspi­basketball tournament. (right). Hurts like hell for now. cious fires and years spent on the This weekend? Surgery in a couple of days. lam. "It's just way too expensive," Thanks for all the well wishes." The State Department used finger­Whipple said. The 3 7 -year-old American cyclist prints to determine that the victim of In a reeling economy, she's not was knocked off his bike during a Saturday's crash was William "Jeff' the only one alone on the road for

around the dial 
pileup in the first stage of the Komlo, according to Jim Vito, Chester the two Big Dances. 
Vuelta of Castilla and Leon race. County's acting chief detective. Vito Ticket sales for the men's tourna­The injury has jeopardized his said he was initially skeptical, con­ment are down, there have been participation in upcoming races. cerned because of Komlo's history thousands of empty seats at games
NCAA Men's NIT 

Armstrong was scheduled to com­that he might have faked his own in both tourneys, and some schools
Baylor at Auburn 

pete in the Giro d'ltalia from May death. cut back on entourages, either to 
7p.m., ESPN 

9-May 31 and the Tour from July "Even though we heard that he was save money or to avoid the appear­4-26. deceased, the first reaction was that, ance of spending too much when Penn State at Florida "For the Giro it's a very big well, we better make a positive identi­times are tough. 
9 p.m., ESPN problem," he said as he left fication," Vito said. Missouri, for example, saved Valladolid University Hospital. Once the State Department verified about $25,000 by taking 12 fewer "For now, the biggest problem is the fmgerprints were those of the 52-people to Boise, Idaho -where its just the pain." year-Qld fugitive, Vito was satisfied. men played Marquette on Sunday. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March 24, 2009 
NBA 


Bulls survive late run by Wizards for victory 
Murray's season-high 30 helps boost Hawks over T-Wolves ;-Wade sets Miami single-season points record in win 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Onward goes the Chicago Bulls' mediocre march toward the playoffs. After all, nothing says postseason like nearly blowing a double-digit fourth-quarter lead against the worst team in the East. 
Chicago hung on and beat the Washington Wizards 101-99 Monday night to improve to five games under .500, good enough to hold down the eighth and final playoff spot in the generously spread-out Eastern Conference standings. Despite the close call, the Bulls were perfectly content to win for the fourth time in five games and open up a 1 1/2-game lead over the ninth-place Charlotte Bobcats. 
"Of course there's a concern, but the biggest concern is winning and losing," coach Vinny Del Negro said. 'That's what it comes down to. We made enough plays today to win. We were fortunate a little bit at the end, but we got the job done." 
Ben Gordon scored all of his 21 points in the second half ­including seven in the final 3 1/2 minutes -for the Bulls, who led 88-77 with 6:09 to play. Antawn Jamison scored the game's next eight points to put the Wizards back in it, and Nick Young made the score 100-99 with a 3-pointer with 3.6 seconds play. 
Gordon was then fouled and made 1 of 2 free throws with 2.6 seconds remaining. After Gordon missed the second attempt, the Wizards only had time for a 40­foot desperation heave by Jamison at the buzzer. 
"We don't worry about how bad we played in a time like this," said John Salmons, who scored 19 points for the Bulls. "We just got to keep trying and getting wins." 
Jamison finished with 34 points and 12 rebounds, and Andray Blatche had 15 points and 13 rebounds for the Wizards, who have lost five straight. Blatche started 6-for-6 from the field but fmished 7 -for-15. He also had two shots blocked and committed a bad pass turnover in the back­court during a 14-0 third-quarter run that put Chicago ahead for good. 
"I don't know what the lack of urgency is in the third quarter," Wizards interim coa:ch Ed Tapscott said. "It has plagued us all season long, and it has caused us losses all season long." 
The Bulls trailed most of the game and were down by 12 in the first half, but they pulled ahead with the third-quarter spurt that included three dunks. Gordon, who sat on the bench in the sec­ond quarter after an 0-for-4 first quarter, scored 14 points in the third. 
"I was just making some shots," Gordon said. "I didn't play the whole second quarter, I was kind of frustrated, so I just wanted to come out and play well in the third." 
Hawks 109, Timberwolves 97 
The Atlanta Hawks are doing their best work at home these days. 
Flip Murray scored a season­best 30 points and Mike Bibby and Joe Johnson each added 20 as the Hawks won their season­high eighth straight home game, beating the Minnesota Timberwolves on Monday night. 
It was Atlanta's eighth win in nine games and the Hawks are 28-7 at Philips Arena. It was the fifth straight loss for the Timberwolves. 
The home streak is the longest for Atlanta since Nov. 12, 1996, to Feb. 12, 1997, when the Hawks won 20 in row. 
"I feel good about the way we've been playing at home," Hawks coach Mike Woodson said. "I know the players individually feel good about it as well." 
Atlanta has three tough ones at home coming up starting Wednesday night against the San Antonio Spurs, Friday night against Boston and Sunday against the Los Angeles Lakers. 
"It's going to be a big stretch, man, but I feel good about our chances here at home," Johnson said. "We've just got to come pre­pared and play our hearts out every night because it's going to be tough." 

Added Murray: "We're confi­d.ent in our building. The fans are behind us. The energy that they're feeding us out there is really helping us and motivating us out there on the court." 
Heat 94, Grizzlies 82 
Another record for Dwyane Wade, another win for the Miami Heat. The NBA's leading scorer only cared about one of those events. 
Wade scored 27 points to top his own Miami single-season record -acknowledging afterward he wasn't aware he broke that mark -plus added eight assists as the Heat easily beat the Memphis Grizzlies on Monday night. 
Wade now has 2,064 points this season, 24 more than his previous best, set in the 2005-06 champi­onship season. He got the record on a layup two minutes in, part of an 11-0 start that got Miami 
... 
rolling, and the Heat never trailed. 
"It was what we needed," Wade said. "It's what we all talked about in the locker room before the game. It's something we haven't gotten in a while, just come out and fight early." 
Michael Beasley had 17 points and nine rebounds, Udonis Haslem scored 11 points and Jamaal Magloire finished with 10 points and a season-high 12 rebounds for Miami. 
O.J. Mayo scored 21 for the Grizzlies, who started a four-game road trip by losing for the 17th time in 19 games. Rudy Gay was held to eight for Memphis, match­ing his third-lowest output this season. 
"They really jumped on us from the start," Grizzlies forward Hakim Warrick said. "When you're playing against a team that's fighting for playoff position and playing as hard as they play, it's tough to come back from behind." 
Miami stayed 3 1/2 games behind Atlanta in the race for the No. 4 seed in the Eastern Conference playoff chase. The Heat -who won in Detroit on Sunday and swept a back-to-back for the third time in 16 tries this season -also ensured they would keep at least a 1 1/2-game lead on No. 6 Philadelphia, which played later at Portland. 
"Defensively, the starters defi­nitely set the tone," Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said. "Their energy was incredible." 
Playing without starting for­ward Jermaine O'Neal, who sat out as a precaution with a bruised right hip but is expected to be available Wednesday when the Heat visit Indiana, Miami beat the Grizzlies for the first time in the teams' last four meetings . 


Tuesday, March 24, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Boilers upset Tar Heels in Round 2 
Sixth-seed Purdue defeats third-seed North Carolina for the first time in four years 
Associated Press 
CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. ­Purdue finally figured out how to beat North Carolina when it matters most. 
Lindsay Wisdom-Hylton and Brittany Rayburn led five Boilermakers in double digits with 18 points apiece, and sixth-seeded Purdue beat third-seeded North Carolina 85-70 Monday night in the second round of the Oklahoma City Regional after losing to the Tar Heels in two of the past three NCAA tournaments. 
"It's hard to beat a team so many times, and I think this was our team," fifth-year sen­ior Wisdom-Hylton said. "It was our time. We wanted it more. I felt like we were exe­cuting, playing a little bit harder. I think we really want­ed it a bit more." 
The Boilermakers (24-10) will play Rutgers, an 80-52 winner over Auburn, on Sunday in their third trip to regional semifinals in the last four years. 
Purdue coach Sharon Versyp called it huge for the program to reach its 12th regional final overall but hasn't reached a Final Four since 2001. She had been telling those seniors that their time was now. 
"We've got the pieces of the puzzle as long as everyone connects ... We kept saying, 'It's our time,' and they believed in that," Versyp said. 
North Carolina (28-7) had dominated the series between these teams coming in and had won the past three over­all. The Tar Heels failed to reach the regional semifinals for the first time in five years. 
Lakisha Freeman scored 16 points for Purdue, and FahKara Malone and Danielle Campbell 12 apiece. 
North Carolina senior Hashanda McCants had writ­ten a reminder to herself on her shoe that it could be her last game and was coming off a 1-for-9 performance in the first round. It didn't help as she went 3-of-15 for six points. Italee Lucas led the Tar Heels with 21 points, and Jessica Breland added 15. 
Purdue came in having beat­en only one ranked team this season with that win coming over Texas. But the Boilermakers have five sen­iors on the roster who didn't want to go home in the second round for a second straight year, and they promised to match North Carolina's aggressiveness and intensity. 
They did just that, prompt­ing one fan to yell out, "We're going to Oklahoma" while the band chanted "Sweet 16, Sweet 16" as Purdue dribbled out the final seconds before one last off target shot at the buzzer by Carolina. 
"They got three fifth-year seniors," North Carolina coach Sylvia Hatchell said. "I think that probably really led the way for them and gave them the confidence and stability and the desire and heart and all that they needed to win today. I said earlier ... I thought they were better than their record and their seed, and I think they proved that." 
They averaged 57.1 percent (28-of-49) -the highest allowed by North Carolina this season. The Tar Heels had the nation's best scoring offense with 83.1 points a game. But they struggled shooting the ball from the start, often miss­ing the rim completely no matter the shot and finished hitting just 36.7 percent (29­of-79). 
"It just came down to their work ethic," Lucas said. "They outworked us plain and sim­ple. They outworked us." 
Purdue also had the edge at the free throw line, hitting 24­of-27 compared to just 9-of-11 for the Tar Heels. Hatchell said her team must learn how to get to the line more over the offseason. 
"I think that was frustrating for us," Hatchell said. 
The teams combined for eight ties and seven lead changes with Purdue taking control when Campbell tied it at 43 with a layup, and Rayburn put Purdue ahead to stay with a jumper with 13:00 remaining that was the start of a 13-2 run. 
Each time North Carolina tried to rally after that, Purdue answered. Rayburn pushed the lead to 66-56 when she hit a 3 and the free throw for a four-point play with 4:57 to go. The· Boilermakers led by as 16 down the stretch. 
It was a physical game that featured at least seven jump ball situations -six in the first half -with a tie at 30 going into halftime. The Boilermakers opened the game pushing the ball inside, and that helped Tar Heels for­ward Iman McFarland pick up her third personal with 2:12 left in the half. 
Purdue quickly led by nine when Wisdom-Hylton hit the first of two free throws at the 
14:39 mark. 
North Carolina answered with eight straight points and took the lead when McCants got the rebound of a miss by Chay Shegog and hit a jumper. From there, it went back and forth with the Tar Heels strug­gling to find the basket. 
As DeGraffenreid tried to drive to the basket on one possession, she found herself smothered by three Boilermakers, forcing her to back the ball out. 

NFL 
Owens absent at Bills' conditioning 
Controversial wide reciever not at optional conditioning program 
Associated Press 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y.-T.O. 
was a no-show Monday for the 
start of the Bills voluntary off­
season conditioning program. 
That didn't stop his new team­
mates from eagerly awaiting 
Terrell Owens' arrival-when­
ever that might occur -and 
even getting in a laugh or two. 
''I'm really excited about 
meeting the guy," center Geoff 
Hangartner said. ''I've heard 
he's a great teammate." 
Hangartner, whQ signed with 
the Bills on Feb. 28, even got a 
joke in at Owens' expense, 
showing there's more than one 
Bills newcomer with a playful 
side. 
With an obvious wink and a 
smile, Hangartner complained 
his free-agent signing has since 
been overshadowed by Owens, 
who made a far bigger splash a 
week later when he signed a 
one-year, $6.5 million deal. 
''I'm pretty angry about it 
really," Hangartner said, barely 
able to contain his laughter. "I 
figured all along I'd be like the 
big-name free-agent signing." 
Pausing for effect, Hangartner 
added: "That's fine. I can see 
why we've gotten overshad­
owed. He obviously earned the _right to be the lead dog." 
Owens' absence was not a big 
concern for Bills strength and 
conditioning coach John Allaire. 
Stressing that the program is 
voluntary, Allaire said he was 
already impressed with the 
shape Owens was in when the 
two met shortly before the play­
er signed with the Bills on 
March 7. 
"He's a physical specimen," Allaire said. "He has a very good history of being in shape, ready to go. We're not anticipat­ing anything different this year." 
Having reviewed Owens' workout program, Allaire said the two are "on the same page" and there isn't much he needs to address. 
Allaire would only say, "wo'll see," when asked whether he expects Owens to take part in the 12-week conditioning pro­gram. 
It's also not clear whether Owens will attend the team's voluntary minicamps set to start in May. 
Two weeks ago, coach Dick Jauron noted the 35-year-old Owens' previous history of not taking part in voluntary sessions with his past teams, but hoped the Bills would be an exception. 
''My hope is that he's here," Jauron said. "He knows how important it is for us, particular­ly in his first year with us." 
Under NFL rules governing offseason workouts, players are required to attend teams' mandatory minicamps, which the Bills have scheduled for June. 
Owens was unavailable for comment. His publicist, Keith Estabrook, said he was not aware of Owens schedule regarding the Bills and referred questions to the team. 
One thing certain was how eager Owens' teammates were to see what impact he'll makP to a sputtering offense that's ranked among the league's worst over the past six seasons; and whether he can change the fortunes of a team that's missed the playoffs for nine straight years. 
"I don't know about anybody else's feelings, I know about mine: I'm pretty excited," guard Langston Walker said. "We've all seen him make some amaz­ing plays and catches over the last few years ... He's definitely something that defenses are going to have to account for." 
Second-year receiver James Hardy looked forward to start working with Owens, even though the two play the same position. 
"I welcome him with open arms," Hardy said. ''I'm going to try to soak up as much informa­tion as I possibly can and try to put it into my game. I know overall, at the end of the road, it's going to be a great experi­ence for me." 
Hardy has already benefited, saying he received an undis­closed amount of money for agreeing to give up his No. 81 jersey to Owens. Hardy will now wear 84. 
"The number was never a big deal to me," Hardy said. "For the most part, everyone's excit­ed because they feel he can help us on the offensive side." 
The NFL's broadcasting part­ners have taken notice. 
The league announced Monday that the Bills will be part of its Kickoff Weekend prime time schedule, opening their regular season with a Monday night game at AFC East rival New England on Sept. 14. The game will feature not only Tom Brady's expected return, but feature two of the league's premier receivers, Owens and New England's Randy Moss. 

Tuesday, March 24, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 18 
NHL 

Carter leads Flyers to third straight "Win 
Philadelphia center scores 40th goal of the season in victory over New Jersey 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA-Jeff Carter celebrated the big 4-0 for the Flyers. Forty goals, 40 home wins and plenty more reasons for Philadelphia to feel its best hockey is ahead as the postsea­son get closer. 
Carter and Simon Gagne scored early in the third period and Martin Biron was solid again to lift the Flyers past the New Jersey Devils 4-2 on Monday night. 
Carter scored his 40th goal and Gagne his 30th only 2:06 apart to hand Martin Brodeur only his third loss in 12 games since returning from biceps surgery. 
"We really feel like we're starting to get into that groove," Carter said. "We're playing solid D. Marty's stand­ing on his head making saves when we need them and guys are leaving it all out there." 
The Flyers have won three straight behind Biron and got a goal and an assist from Daniel Briere. 
Briere has bounced back into form since returning from the groin injuries that cost him most of this season. He has three goals and two assists during the winning streak, helping the Flyers keep their hold on fourth place in the Eastern Conference. 
Th~ Flyers followed three losses in four games with road wins at Buffalo and Pittsburgh and now a victory against the Atlantic Division leaders. 
"[t was just a matter of time for us to get back on track," Briere said. 
Brendan Shanahan and Jamie Langenbrunner scored for New Jersey, which missed a chance to clinch a playoff spot. 
Biron stopped 32 shots and heard the "Marty! Marty! Marty!" chants that were so familiar when he led the Flyers to the Eastern Conference finals last year. Biron entered the game with a 2. 7 3 goals­against average, the lowest it's been this season. He is 10-4 in his last 15 appearances, including a 27-save effort in Sunday's win at Pittsburgh. 
"You kind of sense that same feeling that the playoffs bring and the desperation and that kind of atmosphere," Biron said. "It was entertaining." 
Biron got some offensive help in a flash to open the third. 
Carter knocked in Kimmo Timonen's shot 55 seconds into the period for his 40th goal, putting him third in the NHL. Claude Giroux led the attack moments later and dumped the puck behind him to Gagne, who scored from the red line to make it 4-2. 
Carter is the 13th Flyers 
player to hit the 40-goal mark in a single season and it's the 37th time in team history that feat has been accomplished. 
"It's cool," Carter said of his milestone. "It's obviously nice to be able to help the team out and score some goals. It's deli­nitely a good feeling. It's a good feat for myself and help from some good teammates." 
Biron kept the Devils in check from there and the Flyers killed a four-minute power play after Daniel Carcillo was whistled for high­sticking. The Flyers are the only team to not allow a short­handed goal this season. 
Gagne and Timonen each had two assists. 
Patrik Elias sat out for the Devils because of lower body soreness af'ter he was hurt Sunday against Boston. Elias, who has 30 goals and 77 points this season, is day to day. 
Shanahan was back, though, after missing the loss to Boston and he gave the Devils a 1-0 lead early in the ~ecopd when a shot from Dij,inius Zubrus struck his skate and went past Biron for his fifth goal. 
The goal was reviewed but it stood because there was no distinct kicking motion. 
Briere tied it with a power­play goal off a sharp pass from Timonen. Timonen faked a slapper but made a perfect feed to Briere just outside the crease, who punched it past Brodeur for his eighth goal. 
"We gave them a lot of room out there. They found ways to attack the net and get goals," Brodeur said. "It was kind of obvious that we had some breakdowns in the open ice. We g<;!:ve up some untimely goals." 
Briere helped put the Flyers ahead in the second when he controlled the puck in the right circle, getting Brodeur to sneak out and face the Flyers center. Briere instead passed the puck to Mike Knuble, who pounded in his 26th goal and a 2-llead. 
Briere has played in only 19 games this season because of groin and abdominal injuries. He is still not 100 percent but believes he is rounding into form toward the end of the season -just like the Flyers. 
"It seemed a week ago we were in a funk we were trying to get out," Briere said. "Teams were creeping up on us in the standings so this is a big step in the right direction for us." 
Langenbrunner scored his 25th from the slot on the power play to make it 2-2. 
"We made some mistakes on special teams and gave them too many chances," Langenbrunner said. "We've got to be able to kill penalties." 

NBA 

Magic defeat Knicks at MSG 
Celtics defeat Clippers despite limited playtime.for Garnett 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -A division title is waiting for the Magic. All they have to do is beat the reigning NBA champions. 
Orlando's big man is ready· for the big challenge. 
Dwight Howard had 29 points and 14 rebounds, lledo Turkoglu led a fourth-quarter rally and the Magic tuned up for a showdown with Boston by beating the New York Kn icks 106-102 on Monday night. 
Turkoglu seornd 12 of his 16 points in the !1nal pnriod for the Magic, who lowered their magic number to one to clinch their second straight Southeast Division titln. That could come Wednesday, when they host the Celties in a game where second place in tho Eastern Conference will be at stake. 
"It is a big gam(;)," Howard said. "They'vo got a lot of their guys back, so we're looking forward to it. They won their last couple of games and I think it'll be a good matehup." 
Orlando is a game behind Boston for tho No. 2 seed. Courtney Lee scored 22 points on some clutch free throws shooting for the Magie, who have won three in a row, the 
last two coming in a sweep of a home-and-home sories with the Knicks. 
Nate Robinson scored 19 on just 6-of-23 shooting for New York, which dropped its fifth straight in a late­season collapse after enter­taining hopes of a playoff spot a week ago. The Knicks honored seven players from their past at halftime before extending their dismal pres­ent by clinching an eighth straight losing season, tying a franchise worst. 
''I'm not worried about what happened the last seven years, I'm worried about this year," Knicks eoaeh Mike D'Antoni said. "''m not very happy the way things are going right now, but we're playing pretty well, we're playing hard, and as long as we ean do that, keep trying to get a lit­tle bit better." 
David Lee had 14 points and 13 rebounds in his return after missing the loss Saturday in Orlando with right knee tendonitis, but the Knicks were without Larry Hughes, who left that game with an injured left big toe. 
New York built an 11­point lead late in the third quarter before Turkoglu brought Orlando back. He converted a three-point play early in the fourth and then had two 3-pointers as the Magic eut it to 90-87 with 5 112 minutes remaining. 
"They kept leaving we 
open," Turkoglu said. "I guess they thought I was missing first half, I would keep miss­ing or I would stop shooting. But you know me, I never stop shooting." . 
Celtics 90, Clippers 77 
Kevin Garnett couldn't help but smile, a sure sign that he's feeling hoalthy. 
Ray Allen scored 20 points and the Boston Celtics, sparked by an alley-oop dunk from Garnett, pulled away for a win over the Los Angeles Clippers on Monday night. 
Garnett played 18 minutes, hitting all five field-goal attompts while scoring 12 points. lie added two rebounds and two assists in his third game baek since missing 13 with a sprained right knee. lie left a few min­utes after scoring on an alley­oop pass from Hajon Rondo ­a similar play on which he hurt his knee against Utah on Fob 19 -but was line. 
Boston trailed 55-52 mid­way into the third quarter before scoring 14 straight points to take control. The Cnltics took tho lead for good at 56-55 on Garnett's short jumper in tlw lane before hfs alley-oop brought the rela­tively quiet erowd to its feet. 
"The roason I was laughing is because it was such a long time since I had one from so far out, but it felt good," Garnett said. ''I'm trying to give Paul [Pierce) and Ray all I have so far until I get back." 

After Garnett's dunk; Allen scored on a breakaway layup before he nailed a 3-pointer from the left corner 36 sec­onds before Pierce's 3 from the top, dosing the spree. 
"We have such a great chemistry when our starting !1ve is out there," Pierce said. 
"We don't like him  on  the  
bench. We like him  on  the  
floor."  

Rondo added 14 points and seven assists, while Kendrick Perkins scored 12 points and had 13 rebounds for Boston (54-18). The Celties have a one-game lead over Orlando for second place in the Eastern Conference. The teams meet in Florida on Wednesday night. 
But it was Garnett's alley­oop dunk midway into the third quarter that had to make his teammates feel great. 
"He has that presence," Boston reserve forward Mikki Moore said. 
Added Stephon Marbury, a teammate of Garnett's in Minnesota: "He just changes the complexity of the game." 

Sponso,.ed by: Minsltly, lnt'l Student Serv. & Activities, and Walsf1 
All are invited to. ___ _ 
~ 

aize Christian Prayer 
Communal and contemplative, with song, reading ofscriprure,inlercession & silence 
all Christians in their common , while always respecting the traditions of'eaclt individual. 
-
Tuesday, March 24, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 

Eagles 
continued from page 24 
strong and experienced pitching rotation. 
The Eagles boast wins over Boston University, Indiana University and Hofstra so far this season. 
"Ball State is a good team 
with pitching that keeps them in the ball game," Gumpf said. "They also are also a very fast team with aggn:lssive hit­ters and base runners." 
The Irish are coming off a split in last 
"Ball State is a good team with pitching that keeps them in the ball 
. 
game. 

Deanna Gumpf Irish coach 
Sunday's double header against the Wildcats of St. John's, pushing-their season record to 11-11. 
"Our advantage was that we were the home team with good hitters up to bat," Gumpf said. 
Sophomore middle infield­ers Sadie Pitzenberger and 
NBA
Katie Fleury, senior designat­ed hitter Linda Kohan and junior first baseman Christine Lux have provided 

Jack, Pacers overvvheln1 Bobcats 
much of the offense this sea­
son for the Irish. 
"At anytime any one or many of our starters can step 
Associated Press 
up and be the one to play great," Gumpf said. 
CHARLOTTE, N.C.-From On the mound, sophomore 
getting into a dispute with a Jody Valdivia and senior 
teammate to being benched to 
son came 
Brittney 

shifting to point guard, 
Bargar have 

Jarrett Jack had a busy 24 
posted a num­

hours. 
ber of strong 

He capped it off by being 
outings this 

nearly perfect. 
season. 

A night after getting into an 
''I'm expect­

on-court argument with T.J. 
ing good 

Ford, Jack replaced Ford at 
things from 

point guard and scored 31 
the mound," 

points on 13-of-14 shooting, 
Gumpf said. 

leading the Indiana Pacers to 
N o t r e 

a dominating 108-83 victory 
Dame's best 

over the Charlotte Bobcats to 
win of the sea­

snap a five-game losing 
against No. 12 

streak. 
Oklahoma, who the Irish nar­
"We put that behind us. It rowly defeated 4-3. 
had nothing to do with it," The Irish took a day off of 
Jack said of the incident with practice to make sure they 
Ford on Friday that got him are prepared for Tuesday's 
banished to the locker room. matchup with the Eagles. 
"I didn't want to come out with the 'I told you so' stuff. I Contact Molly Sammon at 
just wanted to come out and msammon@nd.edu 
play good basketball and try to get off that losing streak." 

Danny Granger added 21 points and Brandon Rush ­who started in Jack's old spot at shooting guard -scored 15 for Indiana, which outscored Charlotte 33-9 in the third quarter in their best performance in weeks. 
"We needed a little bit of a change," coach Jim O'Brien said of the lineup change. "(Jack) gave us a tremendous spark starting at the point guard spot. He maintained the aggressiveness of our team the entire time, both offensively and defensively, with positive talk and good court leadership. 
"Not only did he score well, he led well." 
There was little of that on the Bobcats' side. Boris Diaw scored 15 points but got no help in a brutal performance that ended their three-game winning streak. 
Entering the night one game 

Phishing scams look real, but don't be fooled. 
They're an attempt to steal your identity. 
I 






secure 
• 
secure.nd.edu 
behind eighth-place Chicago in the Eastern Conference, the Bobcats were the target of boos by their home fans after shooting 3-of-19 in the third quarter and allowing Jack to roam free at the other end. 
"In every area we just got whipped," coach Larry Brown said. 
Jack's only miss came on a 3-point attempt in the first minute of the second quarter. Constantly beating Raymond Felton off the dribble, Jack was two points shy of his career high despite sitting out the fourth quarter. 
"You can't guard nobody who shoots 13-for-14 from the field," Felton said. "He was hitting everything: 3s, mid-range, get to the basket. It was tough. He had a great game tonight." 
The Pacers, whose recent funk left them 4 1/2 games out of the final playoff spot, were a different team after Friday's dispute. 
Jack and Ford had an on­court argument that carried over to the bench midway thro'ugh the third quarter. They had to be separated by their teammates, and O'Brien sent Jack to the locker room. 
"Something happened between all of us," O'Brien said before Saturday's game. "We dealt with it and it's behind us." 
O'Brien replaced Ford with Rush in the starting lineup against the Bobcats. Ford entered for the first time with 
3:38 left in the first quarter and finished with nine points and six assists. 
But the night belonged to Jack, who shot 9-for-10 from the field in the first half, including a long-runner to beat the shot clock. 
"It might have been a col­lege 3, seriously," Jack said with a smile. 
Jack hit a fadeaway jumper with 5 seconds left to put Indiana ahead 53-45 at half­time. 
After Jack hit the second of consecutive jumpers to com­plete a 22-2 run that bridged the half, he high-stepped and high-fived his teammates as a bewildered Brown called timeout facing a 70-47 deficit. 
"I still thought we had a chance, then the third quarter we just didn't get a stop, we didn't take a good shot," Brown said. "Everything was a jump shot and there you go. And they were phenomenal. They made everything. Jack was spectacular.... They just handled us easily." 
There were many culprits as the Bobcats' successful stretch of nine wins in 12 games ended with a thud. 
Gerald Wallace, who had scored at least 2 5 points in the past three games, got into early foul trouble and finished with three points on 1-of-4 shooting. Raja Bell scored seven points on 3-of-9 shoot­ing that included a 10-second sequence where he threw up an airball and was called for a flagrant foul. Felton shot 3­for-13. 
Perhaps best describing the evening, as Wallace grabbed a drink before leaving the locker room an air freshener on top of the cooler crashed to the floor and barely missed hitting him. 
"Everything is going wrong tonight," Wallace said. 
page 20 
NIT 
continued from page 24 
at the beginning of the season. But the NIT means something to Notre Dame. 
For all their struggles this season, the Irish have a small chance at redemption, a chance to ease the sting of their disappointing year. One could argue that winning an NIT title could only cause more hurt, and lead to the inevitable question, "Well, where was that type of play all season?" But Notre Dame has rightly chosen not to dwell on that thought and has instead chan­neled its frustration in an attempt to salvage some satis­faction from the 2008-09 sea­son. The Irish take their next step toward that goal Wednesday, when they host Kentucky at the Joyce Center. 
The NIT certainly means something to Tory Jackson, who hit the game-winning shot Thursday, going coast to coast after New Mexico tied it with 
7.9 seconds left. Jackson then stood on Notre Dame's bench as he celebrated with his brothers, then donned Lepre­Juan's green hat for his postgame interview on ESPN. 
''I'm just thankful to be play­ing and thankful to be hePe in practice," Jackson said prior to practice on Monday. "Sometimes, you think about, we always complain amongst each other in practice and we hate it sometimes, but you've got to be thankful to be here, because a lot of teams aren't doing that." 

It certainly means something to his teammates and coach, who exploded off the bench in jubilation after a last-second heave from New Mexico rimmed out. 
"I was glad they were cele­brating," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "The one thing about them that's interesting, they haven't shown emotion all the time. Last year when we got the NCAA Tournament bid, you know how teams jump up, they kind of were like, 'Well what do we do?' ... It was kind of nice to see them getting wacky." 

Injuries 
continued from page 24 
one of the team's toughest defenders and called her "fear­less." A fearless defender­sounds like someone who can contribute to 3-point defense. 

Next year, they're both back. So is senior guard Lindsay Schrader, who has another year of eligibility since she took a medical redshlrt her sophomore season. And junior guards Melissa Lechlitner and Ashley Barlow. 
That doesn't excuse Notre Dame's play, especially near the end of the season. Notre Dame allowed 10 3-pointers to Villanova in the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament and eight to Minnesota. It's tough to win games when you do that. 
It also doesn't excuse the slow start the Irish had, despite a home crowd, or their inability to keep the game close once they pulled within two in the second half, despite losing Schrader to a back injury. 
The players were the first to discuss the team's problems. Lechlitner acknowledged that the defense was lacking and the team let Gophers guard Emily It certainly means something 
to the official crowd of 3,013 
that took time out from their 
lives -and watching the NCAA 
Tournament-to watch Notre 
Dame blow a 14-point lead 
over a team it should've easily 
beaten, only to cheer like hell 
as the Irish came back for the 
win. 
"The fans that we care about 

are the ones that are going to 
cheer us on regardless," senior 
forward Zach Hillesland said. 
"The ones that show up to NIT 
games and cheer like it was the 
middle of the Big East season." 
And it certainly means some­

thing to Notre Dame's four sen­
iors who get to keep playing 
basketball at Notre Dame, even 
for just a few more days. If 
there's one thing more disap­
pointing for those seniors than 
missing the NCAA Tournament, 
it's having your college career 
come to its inevitable end, a 
crushing feeling they can put 
off for a little while longer. 
"I know that's kind of an issue, these people are going to say, 'Well, it's the NIT, and it's not the Big Dance,"' Hillesland said. "But I started playing basketball because it was fun and we're having a great time right now and it's better to have your season extend as far as possible than to hang up the shoes and head into the offsea­son early." 
Once the Irish do go into the offseason, these seniors are done at Notre Dame and will close the book on four years of their lives they can never relive or recapture. 
"It means a lot," senior Kyle McAlarney said. "We want to hopefully win here, but it means a lot to just keep on playing, keep thjs thing going and keep surviving. Because you don't want this thing to end-the camaraderie, the excitement in the locker room, that's what this is all about." 
It's just the NIT, but when it's all you have left, it means everything. · 
The views expressed in this column are those of the writer · .and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
Fox run rampant on the court. Barlow put it straight and simple. "No defense, can't win," she said. 
The Irish had potential to be great at the start of the season. They were 11-1, with the only defeat an overtime loss to Michigan, when they entered conference play. They went 10-6 in the Big East, respectable and enough for a No. 5 seed in the tournament, but just shy of being a truly elite team. 
Next year they have that capa­bility. They have length and tenacity on defense to force teams inside rather than allow­ing them to shoot over the Irish. They've got proven scorers. They've got tons of potential points in freshmen Erica Solomon and Natalie Novosel. 
They also managed to snag basketball's equivalent of Manti Te'o-Skylar Diggins, a 5-foot-8 senior point guard from South Bend's Washington High School and the nation's No. 1 recruit. So they have that going for them ... which is nice. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe writer and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd. edu 
The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, March 24, 2009 
!Now £easina Por 2009-2010 .Jlpp{y 'Today 
£imitetfSpace.JlvaiCa6fe!II 
Offerino 71ie CBest (Rgnta{IJ{g.tes in Town! $99 t"f'or JS1 ?Aontlis (Rgnt •UJitli 12 !Montfi. Lease! $300 OffJSi !Montli.s (Rgnt 'Witli 9 !Montli. £ease! Pree)!fppfication Pee PorStudents 'Witli LCD.! Cfose to Campus! 
Morrissey Manor Medallion Bunt 
Y1 CLUE#2 
.. 

The gaze ofa son both pure and small May, perchance, on a treasure fal1 
Believing in a purity not seen by others The son's spot is marked by a band ofbrothers 
Return the Medallion to Room 001 in Morrissey Manor between 9:00 and 10:00 PM. 





Unforgettable Graduation Party? 
The College Football Hall of Fame provides a perfect venue to create a truly distinct and notable experience. 
• 
Memorable atmosphere 

• 
Flexible to meet your needs 

• 
Customized catering and beverage service 

• 
Complete party planning and support 

• 
Full-service AV department with wireless internet capabilities 


For more i11jormaliou, rouf,KI .Ieney A11dersi1H: 

574-235-5735 
Tuesday, March 24, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Spring 
continued from page 24 
tions as possible, so the men­tal errors are more disturb­ing." 
The listed starters on the offensive line are sophomore Matt Romine at left tackle, junior Eric Olsen at left guard, junior Dan Wenger at center, junior Chris Stewart at right guard, and junior Sam Young at right tackle. 
, The depth chart is not final­ized, though, and once fifth­year senior Paul Duncan is accepted for a fifth year, he is expected to play a big role. Verducci even said h.e expected Duncan to be the starting left tackle. "My chips, to be up front with you, are on Paul Duncan right now," Verducci said. "The exposure I've had with 
him has been nothing but positive." 
Moving to the backfield, Alford, too, said that at this point in spring practice he was most concerned with the 
effort he was seeing. That effort, he said, would trans­late into improved confidence. 
" T h e y have to understand how good they can be," he said. "They have 
to feel that they can be good before they will be good." 
The one notable change at running back this spring will be the shifting of senior James Aldridge to fullback, which Weis mentioned 
CMU 
continued from page 24 
ERA over 12.1 innings pitched so far this season. 
The Irish will be looking to turn things around· after dropping the final two games of the weekend series against Seton Hall. The glaring issue that plagued Notre Dame throughout the matchup was the inability of the Irish pitching staff to get out of ~nnings with two men down -in the three games, the Pirates scored 19 runs and batted .458 in two-out situations. 
Notre Dame will also look to get their bats going early, as the team is 10-1 when scoring first. Seton Hall starters Joe DiRocco and Keith Cantwell stymied the Irish offense in the final two games of the weekend series, combining to give up just four runs over 15 innings pitched. 
The Central Michigan pitching staff may be a welcome solution to the recent struggles at the plate, as the Chippewas have a team ERA of 6.19. Senior shortstop Jeremy Barnes and junior center fielder A.J. Pollock, who 
have  hit  .361 and  .377  
respectively  on  the  sea­ 
son,  will  look  to  take  

advantage of visiting pitching that has strug­gled so far this year. 
The Chippewa lineup will be led by sophomore outfielder Matt Faiman, who is batting .407 on the year with 15 RBI. Redshirt freshman Nate Theunissen is also batting .387 and leads the team with three home runs and 19 RBI. 
After Central Michigan, the Irish will again host a non-conference opponent Wednesday when Oakland visits Frank Eck Stadium. Notre Dame returns to conference play this weekend traveling to Pittsburgh for a three­game series. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
SUMMER IN MAINE 
Malesand Females. Meet newfriends. Travel! Teachyourfavorite acti~ty 
Tenn~  Swim  
Waterski  Softball  
Gymnastics  Archery  
Silver Jewelry  Rocks  
English Riding  Soccer  
Copper Enameling  Pottery  
Basketball  lacrosse  
Field Hockey  Office  
TheaterCostumer  Photo  

andmore... 
June kl August.Residential Camp. Enjoyourwebsite. Applyonline 
TRIPP LAKE CAMPlorGir~: 1-800·997-4347 www.tripplakecamp.com 

Friday. 
"He took some reps at full­back today," Alford said. "It's new to him obviously, so there will be some growing pains there for him. But he's 
"I have no preconceived notions on who can do what," Alford said. "[But] I'm forming my opinions very quickly. It isn't taking me long to form my opinions, 
'They have to understand how good they can be. They have to feel that they can be good before they will be good. " 
Tony Alford Irish coach 

a tough guy.  which my mother has always  
He wants to  told me to keep to myself."  
play."  Currently, the depth chart  
Alford  has Armando Allen listed as  
also  added  the starter, and Alford said  
t  h  a  t  the sophomore has  a  very  
Aldridge  high ceiling.  
would  still  "He really enjoys playing  
play  some  the game," Alford said of  
halfback,  as  Allen. "He's very into getting  
well  as  the  better, asks  a  lot of ques­ 
new  posi;  tions, and wants to improve."  
tion.  For all the running backs,  
One  new  Alford  had·  some  very  
face  that  straightforward words of  

could be in contention next fall is freshman Jonas Gray, who played sparingly in mop­up duty in 2008. Alford said that, as a new coach, all the players were on equal foot­ing so far. 
wisdom. 
"Don't think so much. This isn't rocket science. Just go play." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
Q2P 

1.:J 1"1 I ""'\i"" E. R. S I ~ Y" <:::> F 
1'-lC>T R.. E r:>.A.:rvl: E 
C<>I-I-.EGW.E <>F -A..R."'rS ..A.:N" .I::> L E.."T'"'rE...R.S 
I .:1::'1" it:e s N <>:r:t:"'l.i::t:"'l.ati <>.:1::'1 s .£<>r t:he 
Sh~~dy .A.wa..rd 
:Eacl"l year, t.h.e Sl"lee<::iy Awa.r<..."i_. t"l.H.TT"l.ed £c•.r a. £<:::>rTT"ler c:i.ean <.::~£ t:l"le Cc>llege <.:>£ Arts at:"l.cl Lett:ers,. l"l.C>J:"l<.::>rs oone t:ra.e:r·J.·"ll:~er <:>.£ t:l'l.e Arts c-lrtci l~etters f'.ac·Ltlty £c•r c:n..t tst:aru::iir.g tea<.:l"lil:"lg. 
E3c•t:.l-. stLt<.:.ie.t-.t:s at-.cl ·f'i:"lCLllty <:o'lrc~ it"lvite<..:-"1 t<:> sLt..l.---:>rn.it nc;::>n"lin.at:ion let:t.ers £or t:.l."l.is year's awa.r<..-J to: 
Stu.art Greer-.e .Assc.>ciate r::>ean f'c:.>r Ut~clergrac..i. t...:t.a.tc~ St'L-ac..ii<~s ·1 04 C>'Sl-..at.:t.g.h1-..essy I ...:Iall 
I:>eadlira.e JVI:o:nday, .A.pril 1.3, 2009 

I
I ­I 
' 
i 
I 
I 
I 
r 
' 
i 
I 
I -­
! 1 
page 22 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, March 24, 2009 
Dear Notre Dame Students, 
The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops has 
asked Campus Ministry at Notre Dame to provide a 
pre--recording of the Liturgy of Easter Sunday to be 


broadcast to a national audience on NBC on Easter 
•

morntng. 

The estimate is that between 90 and 112 million viewers will watch this special Mass, including the elderly and those who cannot attend Mass on a regular basis. Notre Dame has an opportunity to offer a unique moment_of evangelization for people across the country. 
We invite you to attend this special Mass. Please come to the Basilica this coming Saturday morning, March 28, at 11:30 a.m. 


_A special brunch will follow the Mass in the east side of the South Dining Hall at 1:_15 p.m. 
' ­' 
' 
< 
~::::··"': 
. ":> 4 ;''i'f~ "!#""" 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 


Tuesday, March 24, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
PATRICK GARTLAND 
CROSSWORD 
Across 37 Trademarked God. with #one's'' 
citrus 38 Thmg in a sling
6 Airport guesses, tor short 41 Party with techno music, 
1 0 Word after perhaps
matinee or teen 42 Friars Club 
14 Quick. like a cat event 
15 "Whip It" rock 
44 Gave agroup makeover 
16Zilch 46 Captain's "Listen 17 Chewed the fat 
upt" 1 B Shootout shout 
49 Pig's pad 19 Cereal ·tor kids" 
50 Gold medalist 20 Umber or Lipinski chocolate brown 
51 Profs' helpers 23 Pre-K enrollee 
53 Sad, like 20-, 24 Org. for 28-and 4tl­boomers. now Across? 25 Early 1Oth-59 Shoot up century year 60 Year-end air 28 Military treatise 61 Built-up by Sun Tzu 
63 Adviser, say 
34 Bathroom 64 A person may dispenser refill 
have one of 36 The Velvet Fog invincibility 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

BR.:-.,;.r;,+~itlttti.._~~um~··· 

..,..-'-+~""~ 
BR-:-Ittii.lll!"t-':+::+:':+=:~i"'!"' ~*::t~ 

----~:lJ~~ ~+"'+"'-+-'-1-"-1
II ~~-'-'-+-'-'-+..:... 
65 Qaddafi's land 66 Suffer trom sunburn 67 Lee of MaNe! Comics 68 Big name in printers 
Down Hoi Lips Houlihan's rank: 
Abbr. 2 Petri dish stuff 3 Fuzzy fruit 4 Give a seat to 5 Candy that 
ma.kesyour mouth burn 6 Ancient Icelandic work 7 U.S. Virgin Is .. e.g. B PC user's self· image 9 'Who cares?" 10 Managing pertectly 11 "Rats!" 12 "Gartield" canine 13 Left Coast 
airport code
21 Body otcultural values 22 It's faster than a walk 25 Antique farm device 26 Myopic Mr. _. 
27 Acquired relative 
29 Do lunch 
30 To the left, at 
sea 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Ktlstien Hause 

31 Cylindrical 43 Flooring wood 55 Wife of Zeus sandwiches 
451n most cases 56 Pizazz 32 W.W. 11-era G,l., 
4 7 Concert locales 
e.g. 57 Falls back 48 Were completely 
33 Like an oboe's 58 "The Banana
depleted
sound Boat Song" word 35 Drier's need 52 "Biondie" or 
59 Watergate tape "Cathy"39 Book before problem
Esth. 53 Cheese with a 40 Madonna title 62 Tandoor-baked
moldy rind role 54 Hectored bread 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656. $1.49 a minute; or. with a credit card. 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 yeam: 1-888·7-ACROSS. AT&T usem: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visll nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2.000 past puzzles. nytimes.comlcrosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytlmes.comlleaming/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST


HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON 'llUS DAY: Km Ru,sdt _H_ Rirhanl Gncw. -l-1: Ten:~" Chmld, 51; Clmka Khi!n, 56 
Happy Birthday You h;,ve plemy to :•ecoruplish >n<l very lillie tllll~ '"waste. Opportuui ties will cmlw. "'go :•hom your hu>incs;;. >ltowin)( ongi1111l!!y and tliscrclit>n. It's a year to "ll)lcrimcn\, "'->' ~cep11rial an•l error~~ you push yn\\t w~y illl<> the fun~re_ Ymtr numbers :1re J, 12. 14, 2.\ 32, J7, -11 
ARIES (March 21· April 19); D<.m't lm tlw link thi;1gs ~t1 to you when there is ~o much you can ac,·omp!isb by dnm\! a link 1\'~earch. You h.wc to use what \\'<lfks best for you. Don't bolhcr fll)!ltlll~ ·-tnke m tht• inf<>mmllon )!iWil ano! p,o al~)ll\ your busn~e,s. *** * 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Think ahom ~.OUI/1 the dtstancc it you waul to realty a<: .;ompil'it your ~el Jl.''ltb.1keml' >omcmw in person will haw n far gr<!at~r mlpad. Don't, how<"'¢r, overdo. <Werindul;>.e <>r owrsp<md m tlw pl'i.x:es~-Conpk hllli<"IY with fnrwanl thmkitl~. ** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Someune wtll t!angle a can-ol in front of you and. il you anm't c.~rd!tL ymt.may end up m hoi wakr. Babu,·e will menu cwrything ami. d!<' less (irmt~a. dw lwuer tlw restdts "·ill be ** * * * 
CANCER (Jun~ 2l·July 22):· Stic·k I<J what )'l.>ll km•w an;l do hc~l ami you o::an m;mage auy uf d~t piUalls dtat dmp m ym1r lap. Bein)1 fl>rccful will pay olJ. e\·cu if it ""'!a posi tim1 you hkc to tak~. lx• "lmt you umst. *** 
LEO (July 2J-Ang. 22): You shvult! tll! thinking about a trip, ~ctliu~ togt•tlwr with WIIW one you low~ <lr tm~ehin£l h~<;e with an old friend. Money matter<; 11my be que~nonahle hut. •• ion)( as you 'lick to legihru:tte way> of nbtamml( .:a>b. you will do welL ** * 
VfRGO (An!(. 23-Sept 22): You may have trouble linishu!J.l what you start or stickiu(IIO whal you have pmmist~ t<> o:loJ. Now is not the lim.: to sp.:ud on anything that isn't necr~­sary. An tu:>ne't effort is "·I~<~! will pay off. *** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct, 22): You'll be <lrnwn toward someone whoc:m make a difference IQ your lutun-. Don·tter )i'\>tlr attr~~<:ti<lll stop you trom doin~ what mus! be done to ~cl abc~d. You dnu't w;mi to mak.: someone who can inflt~enc<' your fumn.' upset or aupy .. 'l1tink bi)t. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): tJse your powtJrful, creative style to take care of bttsu~ess. Talks will kml you in a ~"'direction, allnwinr you a tt<•w way of preo;etitin~ whal you b;we l.n ofier auclt.o show off what you an' capahk of hamtlinj! Doul k1 anyone rake over wbnt you haw b<:<rn httildtu~ f<)!' ];().long. **** * 
SAGITTARRJS (Nov. 22-Dec_ 21 ): If you t·anuol courml Y<'Ul an)l<.:r or your th:\ajJpomt men!. walk away until you know you can f11cc wtscly whalcwr dmllcur.: is beiur pre >e!llc>;l. T<lke a phi.l.il!ll.lflbi< a! look at y<lllr pasl_ pn-sem aud your future. ** 
CAPRICORN {11~<'. 22·Jan. 19): Pon'l 'tal'! <om~tllitw. von cm1nn1 fim~h fk sure of Y'>ur capabtlt•te> l>U! don't lear dmu~ lhinjls a hHk diffcrei1tly. Mtx ym<r lill-e!l!lths with a I'•" ;n~:<,muty and you ~an challen~te ;myotle who may try io 'wnd in ymrr way *** 
AQUARJUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You wil!ll<' looking ;u thiu~s very .:mo1ionally Try to h<>ue ymtr sk!lls and yom ou!luok •o you cau!!el ahead WJthotll pwmisml! ton mudt Stay· lll)l. wuhin yom bttdget will be e£,etl!t~l both j)('rsoualt~-aud pmfeN<mally *** 
PISCES (Feb. 19·March 20): No! en:rylbitl~ will be easy for you to <1<-'<:lphcr. Someouc will withhold information that i> •·m~ial to a de~i>Ml you arc supposed to tm•kc. Don't give mIn !lw ptcs\urc. Ern•tic behavior will kad to alack of ct>nfttlence. *** 
Bi.rtl1day Baby: You aw a)\gte~sive, unpred.i~·table and creatively ab<;ad nf the limes. Yon always give otlto)rs iht• bem>fit of a doubl ami can in>pir<' lho<m 

WWW.8LACK00GCOMIC.COM 
THE FORBIDDEN DOUGHNUT 
'ill you sign this petition asking the university to uninvitc 
ith enough studentPresident Obama'? 
support and signatures, I really think it could. 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is· $65 for one semester 
Name ____________________________~------------­

Address ___________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 


JUMBLE 




I I [ II 
&"2009 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 



i~f~rlxJ 
lNGOPE 
WHE:N TH~Y MARRI~D IN HAST~, TH~Y E:NDE:D UP--­

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as


I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Print answer here~-[ I I J I J J J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: SLANT GOING ZODIAC BOTHER Answer: What the hunter said when he was inoculated -GOOD "SHOT" 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, March 24, 2009 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL COMMENTARY' 
Still fighting 
Big Dance or not, team is thrilled to be playing in late March 
Granted. the NIT isn't as important as the NCAA Tournament, but don't say these games mean nothing. 
Sure, it's a tourna­ment for those rejected from the Big Dance. And sure, Notre Dame would rather be on its way to one of the Hegional finals this 
.....__ weekend, like many thought it would be 
see NIT/page 20 



Chris Hine 
Senior Staff Writer 

ND SOFTBALL 
Teamneeds to 'step up' vs. Eagles 
By MOLLY SAMMON Sports Writer 
The Irish will play host to the struggling Ball State Eagles Tuesday evening at Melissa Cook Stadium. The first pitch is scheduled for 5:00p.m. 
"We will approach this game against Ball State like every other game. They are a good team," head coach Deanna Gumpf said. "We need to step up and play good ball to beat them." 
With an overall record of 9-12, the Eagles are not hav­ing one of their better sea­son's. But most of their wins have been relatively low scoring games, which can be attributed to the team's 
see EAGLES/page 19 

FooTBALL 
Alford hopes to take running game to new level in '09 
work on right off the bat two new coaches at the posi­said it was just the start of a was that they were focused. 
By SAM WERNER 
offensively is our running tions vital to the running very long process. "Technical errors right now 
Associate Sports Editor 
game," Weis said in his intro­game -Frank Verducci at "I certainly didn't anticipate I can understand because a ductory spring football press offensive line coach and Tony to go out there today and hit lot of the things I'm teaching At the end of the .2008 sea­conference Friday. Alford at running backs our peak on day one," he said they haven't been exposed to son, Irish head coach Charlie Notre Dame averaged only coach. Verducci replaced "And I don't think we're in before," he said. "But in Weis identified the rushing 3.3 yards per carry in 2008, John Latina. who resigned, danger of peaking any time many ways assignment-wise attack as one area that need­and only 109.7 yards per and Alford replaced Mike soon. from what I saw today." this is the same offense that ed drastic improvement if the game. The ground attack fin­Haywood, who was named Verd ucci said that while it they've been in and we spend Irish were going to excel in ished 1OOth in the 119-team head coach at Miami (Ohio). may take some time for the time before practice trying to 2009. Division I FBS (formerly I-A). Monday was the first day players to adjust to his style put them in as many situa­"We've identified as one of In order to speed up the the team was allowed to prac­of coaching,· the only thing he 
the things we really want to improvement, Weis brought in tice in full pads. and Verducci was concerned about for now see SPRING/page 21 
BASEBALL 
ND plays host to Chippewas 
Squad looks to get in 
the win column as 
CMU comes to town 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will try and recover from a disap­pointing weekend today, facing off against Central Michigan after losing two of three in their confer­ence opening series 
• against Seton Hall. The Irish (13-7, 1-2 Big East) will take on the Chippewas (9-12. 1-2 MAC) at 5:05 p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Freshman Dustin Ispas will take the mound for Notre Dame, making his third start of the season. Ispas has yet to record a decision and has a 2.92 
see CMU/page 21 


NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL COMMENTARY 
Irish took their hits, ready to start anew 
Some of Notre Dame's fans stayed in their seats after the Irish lost to Minnesota in the first round of the NCAA Tournament Sunday, their blue­and gold­painted faces staring blankly at the empty court. They looked dumbfound­ed, unsure of what had just tran­spired. 
The Irish probably felt the same way. Questions must have flut­tnred around their heads after the game: why did we start so slow? Why couldn't we guard the 3-point line? 
There's not an excuse that 

Bill Brink 
Sports Writer 
answers these questions well, but there is hope in the future. Notre Dame's knees lacked any 
· luck this season. Sophomore for­ward Devereaux Peters tore the same anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) that she tore in February last season. She had worked her way back, but went down in the third game of the season. 
Peters is 6-foot-2 and has a huge wingspan. She disrupts offenses, whf)ther it be leading the press, at the top of the key or blocking shots in the paint. I Ier absence hurt Notre Dame's abili­ty to pressure opposing teams and; more importantly in its cur­rent predicament. its ability to contest 3-pointers. 
A few games later, sophomore guard Brittany Mallory tore her ACI. against Michigan. Irish coach Mufl'et McGraw said earli­er this season that Mallory was 
see INJURIES/page 20 

.. 







