the
t e
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


H1N1 flu vaccines arrive at University 
Observer Staff Report 
The University has received a limited supply of the newly-developed H1N1 vaccine and will distribute the vaccine Friday to people determined to be at the highest risk, Director of Internal Communications Gail Mancini said. 
Mancini said University Health Services has about 500 doses of the vaccine for students, faculty and staff, which will be first given to pregnant women, people under the age of 25 who have chronic health prob­lems as determined by the Center for Disease Control (CDC). 
Some of the health prob­lems outlined include can­cer, asthma and diabetes. 
The vaccine will be dis ­tributed Friday in Stepan Center from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
As more of the vaccine becomes available, Health Services will expand the groups eligible to receive the vaccine. 
The Observer reported Wednesday that there have been 659 presumed cases of the H1N1 virus, commonly referred to as swine flu, at Notre Dame since August. 
More information can be found at the University Health Services Web site. 



Bengal Bouts film highlights Missions 
By KATIE PERALTA 
Assistant News Editor 

This weekend’s premiere of “Strong Bodies Fight: Rough Cut” will reveal not only a few months’ work of a dedi­cated few, but also nearly 80 years’ work of a passionate many. 
The 75-minute film, to be shown on tonight at the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, tells the story of the boxing club Bengal Bouts and its relationship with the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. 
Mark Weber, a 2009 gradu­ate, former boxing club presi­dent and captain and produc­er of the film, hopes the it will not only educate, but also remind audiences of the sig­nificant connection between the club and the developing country. 
“Our goal is to transform the connection [with Bangladesh] from sending them an annual check to an actual relationship,” Weber said. “It went from an abstract mission to something we could see and touch. This 
see BOUTS/page 6 

Photo courtesy of Mark Weber Mark Weber, producer of “Strong Bodies Fight: Rough Cut,” poses with Bengali children during a trip to Bangladesh in May 2008. 



Cab companies: Over-charging is illegal 
Most trips with two or more people within a three-mile radius of campus are three dollars 

By ROBERT SINGER 
Assistant News Editor 
Students may be power­less to stop the pain of ris­ing tuition costs or the falling temperatures, but they can do something to prevent cab drivers from illegally increasing their fares on the weekends, according to Modern Cab Company manager Jean Ntakirutimana. 
“I’ve heard students tell 
me that the driver has 
charged them five dollars to 
SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer go from Main Circle to 

Cabs wait to pick up students at Main Circle. Cab downtown, ” said Kerry 
companies say price gouging is illegal. Clear, president of Blue 



Getting the ‘ring by spring’ 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
While some students might be debating who to take to their SYR, others are thinking of their relationships in terms of lifelong commitment. 
Several undergraduates have recently taken the plunge and gotten engaged. Many of these students are learning how to balance being a student and engaged while others are still adjusting to the idea of being someone’s fiancé. 
Seniors Elysia Kramer and Andrew Crecelius got engaged last month on campus. 
“I live in Zahm and she lives in Cavanaugh,” Crecelius said. “I proposed to her in between the two dorms because I fig­ured it was a place that we could come back to later in our lives.” 
Notre Dame senior Colleen Minta and her fiancé Holy Cross College senior Patrick Mac Carthaigh also were engaged at the end of October. Mac Carthaigh, who proposed by Saint Mary’s Lake, said propos­ing at Notre Dame was impor­tant. 
see ENGAGED/page 8 
Ribbon Taxi. “That is kind of silly.” 
If students think they have been charged more than the company’s rate — which is considered price gouging and made illegal by city ordinances — they can report the cab driver to his 
or her company, Ntakirutimana said. 
“If it happens, it may be with drivers who may seem to be greedy. [Students] can look outside of the car and look up the cab number and report the driver immedi­ately to the cab company, so we can take care of the sit-
see CABS/page 9 


Library petition to be submitted 

By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
The petition for library reform that garnered more than 1,200 student signatures is expected to be ready for sub­mission by next week, said graduate student David Morris, who began the petition. 
The petition called for an increase in both the number of collections and in professional staff, as well as the renovation of the entire building, Morris said. 
The petition will be submitted to University President Fr. John Jenkins and other prominent leaders of the University when 
see LIBRARY/page 9 

JACLYN ESPINOZA l Observer Graphic 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Badin art show page 3  SMC Right to Life Club page 4  Mythical match-ups pages 14-15  Interhall playoffs page 28  Viewpoint page 12 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Friday, November 6, 2009 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Bored with the lakes 
Notre Dame is full of runners — a fact made even more apparent as the November weather has not deterred the joggers from running outside in Nike running tights and Under Armor. 
But during a recent conver-Madeline Buckley sation, a friend who runs 
News Editor
almost every day said she does not feel safe running off campus. This sur­prised me because campus is not large, and I am curious about how many runners at Notre Dame feel the same way as my friend. 
As much I as love the two-mile, fig­ure eight run around the two lakes, the repetitiveness is dizzying after awhile, and this short route gets bor­ing quickly during a long run. My other usual running routes on campus have become routine as well. 
So I generally do the bulk of my runs off campus because it offers a greater variety of routes, instead of running past Carroll Hall, Moreau Seminary and the beach on St. Joe Lake over and over again. 
And I always feel safe doing this. 
Of course, I would never venture off-campus on a run by myself after dark, and I would recommend looking at a map if the neighborhoods around campus are unfamiliar. 
But aside from the occasional, terri­fyingly-large dog in someone’s yard, I never feel uneasy running through the neighborhoods surrounding cam­pus. 
In fact, I have come to prefer run­ning off-campus. I run past some beautiful houses and through some beautiful neighborhoods. Getting away from campus, even if just for a five-mile run, is refreshing. 
My current favorite route — and I encourage any runners out there to try it — is about 4.5 to five miles, depending on the starting point on campus. 
I head from Breen Phillips Hall to Main Circle and continue south down Notre Dame Ave. from there. I run about two miles on Notre Dame Ave., through the Northeast Neighborhood and near downtown South Bend. 
When I hit Wayne St., I head west toward Howard Park, and then pick up the East Race trail at Howard Park. I then take the East Race path north back to Notre Dame. 
The trail ends near St. Joseph High School, right by the University. 
For any runner bored with the lake paths, I highly recommend using the East Race trail along the St. Joseph River. Pick up the trail on Angela Blvd. and go south into downtown South Bend and then turn around and run back. 
Or run downtown and pick it up the path near Niles Ave. and Colfax Ave. to go north back to campus. 
Maybe I am completely off-base in assuming most Notre Dame runners stick to campus routes, but if I am not, try running off campus (safely of course). 
Add some variety to a daily jog and learn your way around South Bend neighborhoods at the same time. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W ERE IS YOUR FAVORITE WEEKEND  ANGOUT? 






Alex Riney  Chris Wynkoop  Katie Mayka  Gail Cech  Joe O’Brien  
junior Alumni  junior Fisher  sophomore Breen-Phillips  senior Walsh  senior Fisher  
“Off campus at a friend’s house.”  “Chem lab.”  “Legends!”  “The football games.”  “Since my weekend starts Thursday, The Feve.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

MAGGIE O’BRIEN/The Observer Students enjoy the clear weather and play a game of pick-up football on the quad Thursday. 


OFFBEAT 

SUV nearly slams into elephant on highway 
OKLAHOMA CITY – It’s not unusual to see a deer or a cow crossing Oklahom’’s rural highways. But an elephant? A couple driving home from church nearly slammed into a giant pachyderm that had escaped from a nearby cir­cus late Wednesday. 
“Didn’t have time to hit the brakes. The elephant blended in with the road,” driver Bill Carpenter said Thursday. “At the very last second I said ‘elephant!’” 
Carpenter, 68, said he swerved his SUV at the last second and ended up side­swiping the 29-year-old female elephant on U.S. 81 in Enid, about 80 miles north of Oklahoma City. 
Man fined for 911 call over McDonald’s order 
ALOHA, Ore. – A 20-year­old man who called 911 to get his fast-food order straightened out has been told to pay a $300 fine. Washington County, Ore., sheriff’s deputies said Raibin Raof Osman called the emergency line to com­plain that a McDonald’s in Aloha had left out a box of orange juice from his drive-through order. A restaurant employee later called 911 to report that Osman and others who were with him were block­ing the lane, knocking on restaurant windows and intimidating employees. 
Deputies tried to explain to Osman that refereeing such disputes is not what they do. They said he insisted he had the legal right to call police. He was taken to jail. 
The Oregonian said Osman pleaded guilty recently to improper use of 911 and has been ordered to pay the fine. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight SATURDAY SUNDAY 



IN BRIEF 
The men’s basketball team will play Quincy tomorrow in an exhibition game at 7:30 
p.m. at the Purcell Pavillion at the Joyce Center. Ticket infor­mation is available by calling 574-631-7356. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will host its Alumni Reunion Concert tomorrow at 8 p.m. with several hundred of its alumni at the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 for students. 
The film “Strong Bodies Fight: Rough Cut” will be shown tomorrow at the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 9:30 p.m. The film examines the Bengal Bouts boxing club and its partnership with the Holy Cross Mission in Bangladesh. Tickets are $3 for students and are available at performingarts.nd.edu. 
A science lecture series enti­tled, “The Physics of Angels and Demons: Notre Dame at the Large Hadron Collider,” will take place Saturday from 11 a.m. to noon. The lecture, given by Mike Hildreth, Associate Professor of Physics, will take place in the Jordan Hall of Science, room 101. 
The Notre Dame Folk Choir will perform at 9 p.m. at the Basillica of the Sacred Heart in the 16th Annual Concert for the Missions to benefit the mis­sionary work of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 


Atlanta 66 / 38 Boston 48 / 30 Chicago 57 / 49 Denver 74 / 46 Houston 80 / 57 Los Angeles 70 / 53 Minneapolis 59 / 45 New York 49 / 33 Philadelphia 51 / 32 Phoenix 87 / 52 Seattle 52 / 44 St. Louis 66 / 50 Tampa 80 / 60 Washington 53 / 37 
Friday, November 6, 2009 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Badin Hall displays student art in annual show 
Signature event will run through Nov. 19; prizes for best art awarded for first, second and third place 
mediums and unique works, 

By AMANDA GRAY 
including music recordings and a 
News Writer 
choreographed dance, Guinan 
said. 

Badin Hall’s annual signature Meg Keegan, a junior, said she event offers something unique, decided to participate after Academic Commissioner Melissa noticing the call for entries on Guinan said. her dorm’s Stall Notes. 
The Badin Art Show, which “I’m an Environmental showcases the work of student Sciences major,” Keegan said. “I and local artists, opened like art on the side. [The Badin Thursday. Art Show] is a great way to get 
“It’s a different type of signa-to know other artists. I didn’t ture event, and it appeals to a know this kind of stuff hap-different kind of audience,” pened.” Guinan said. “You get people Sophomores Zach Stackhouse who wouldn’t come to other and Jamie Baffa entered a col-events, like dances.” laborative painting into the con-
Guinan said the event, organ-test. ized by Badin’s Academic “We took up the opportunity Commission members, has when it became available,” always been a big success. Stackhouse said. 
“It’s our fall signature event,” “This is the first time we’ve Guinan said. “It’s been going on participated in this sort of event for at least the past four or five on campus.” Baffa said. “We years.” needed an artistic outlet, even 
While most of Badin attended though we’re bad at art.” the opening, most of the partici-“It’s one of my favorite parts pants in the art show aren’t from about Notre Dame — the pres-Badin, Guinan said. ence of art on campus,” 
“Only six girls out of the 30 or Stackhouse said. more participants are from Erin Hallagan, a sophomore seeing the descriptions under the This is the first step. I’m seeing digital photograph, “The Badin,” Guinan said. and member of Badin’s artists’ names. how my work compares to oth-Forgotten.” Third place went to 
The participants are from all Academic Commission, said she “I like seeing why the artist ers my age.” freshman Audrey Hayes for her over campus, and include sever-is looking forward to seeing all chose to do it,” she said. Laskowski participated in last oil painting, “Girl With an iPod.” al art students from Saint Mary’s the artwork. Prizes were awarded for first, year’s Badin Art Show. Also third place was sophomore College and some local residents, “[The Academic Commission] second and third places. Saint “Last year I took a course here Waylon Chen for his wire sculp-Guinan said. The number of par-gets to hang all the artwork and Mary’s junior Eileen Laskowski at Notre Dame,” Laskowski said. ture “Widemouth Bass.” ticipants also rose this year. position the lighting,” Hallagan won first place with a drawing “The drawing professor men-The show, which will run 
“We have art students and said. “That’s my favorite part. I titled “Nervous Habits.” tioned it. This year, I knew one of through Nov. 19 in Badin’s social non-art students,” Guinan said. like being able to look at the art “It was a pleasant surprise,” the coordinators. I just finished space, is free to attend. “We have lots of different medi-in a private setting and getting to Laskowski, an art major, said. this piece. I decided to put it in.” ums and styles.” see what looks good where.” “This year I started to get seri-Second place went to fifth year Contact Amanda Gray at 
These include some first-time Hallagan also said she enjoys ous [about art competitions]. senior Matthew Degnan for his agray3@nd.edu 



page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 6, 2009 



SMC Right to Life Club launches campaign 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
The five life-sized silhou­ettes of pregnant women around Saint Mary’s campus are not part of a display sponsored by the art depart­ment; they are part of a month-long campaign by the College’s Right to Life Club to advocate support on cam­pus for pregnant women. 
The Right to Life Club made the cardboard cutouts after getting the idea from the Students for Life of America Web site. The cutouts are meant to be a visual reminder for students on campus to ask the ques­tion ‘Are we supporting them enough?’ Anne Maguire, the club’s vice president, said. 
Another concrete sign of support for their peers who are currently or may become pregnant is a list of students’ names that pledged their support to their fellow stu­dents. 
“Think if you were a preg­nant student walking around campus,” said Maguire. “If students feel that they are welcome on campus among their peers, it can make all the difference.” 
The club ’s goal for the month is to spread the knowledge that support is needed for pregnant women on campus. 
Maguire said she believes this topic is especially perti­nent to Saint Mary’s as it is an all-women’s college. 
“Being Pro -life is a women’s issue, since abor­tion hurts women so much,” she said. “Not that the baby isn’t important — it is. But the women are sometimes forgotten.” 
The message of support for pregnant women is geared toward students, although the College does not have specific outreach programs to students who are or have been pregnant, Maguire said. 
“There is nothing adver­tised on campus for any ­where a pregnant woman can go for advice and sup­port, ” Maguire said. “But there has to be a need for it. We are all Belles, and we support one another. That’s what Saint Mary’s is about. We have to feel the need to help the women on campus. It just makes sense. 
“Letting them know where they can go for help in the community or having places 
on campus is important, ” Maguire said. “We need to think about providing sup­port on campus through like the health center.” 
The goal is to have some­one in academic affairs, in the health center, and in the counseling center that can offer these students the sup­port they need, Maguire said. 
A table of information for local and national programs that do offer support to women who are currently or have been pregnant will be set up each Thursday during November in the Student Center. The list of names showing students’ support for pregnant women will also be at the table for those stu­dents who wish to sign it. 

Not all of the feedback has been positive. 
“We have had both positive and negative responses, ” Maguire said. “But both are good. As long as people notice, and they think about it and it challenges them, we know it’s been a success.” 

Contact Megan Loney at mloney01@saintmarys.edu 




AlumnaelectedtoPenn.SupremeCourt 
Panella, with 53 percent of Municipal Courts, where 
Special to The Observer 

the vote. she created the first domes-
Superior Court Judge Joan A native of Pittsburgh, tic violence court in Orie Melvin of Pittsburgh, a Melvin majored in econom-Pennsylvania. She was 1978 University of Notre ics at Notre Dame, where appointed to the Allegheny Dame alumna, was elected she lived in Lyons Hall, and County bench in 1990 and Nov. 3 (Tuesday) to a seat earned a law degree from seven years later became 
on the Pennsylvania Duquesne University School the first female Republican Supreme Court. of Law in 1981. elected to the state 
Melvin, a Republican, A judge for more than 24 Superior Court, where she defeated her superior court years, Orie Melvin first has heard more than 8,000 colleague, Democrat Jack served in the Pittsburgh cases. 



World & Nation 
Friday, November 6, 2009 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Nicaragua hit by Hurricane Ida 
Hurricane Ida ripped into Nicaragua’s Atlantic coast Thursday, destroying homes, damaging schools and downing bridges before losing steam and becoming a tropical storm. 
Ida, clocking 75 mph (125 kph) winds, struck land around sunrise in Tasbapauni, about 60 miles northeast of Bluefields, said meteorologist Dennis Feltgen of the U.S. National Hurricane Center in Miami. 
About 80 percent of homes were destroyed in nearby Karawala, a fishing village of about 100 flimsy, wooden shacks near the mouth of the Rio Grande de Matagalpa, Nicaragua’s National Civil Defense director, Mario Perez, said. 

U.N. advises Gaza investigation 
The U.N. General Assembly urged Israel and the Palestinians Thursday to investi­gate alleged war crimes during last win­ter’s conflict in Gaza and raised the possi­bility of Security Council action if they don’t. 
The 192-member world body approved an Arab-drafted resolution by a vote of 114-18, with 44 abstentions and 16 coun­tries not voting. 
Supporters insisted there must be accountability — especially from Israel — for the alleged violations of international law during the Gaza conflict in which 13 Israelis and almost 1,400 Palestinians were killed, including many civilians. 


NATIONAL NEWS 

Calif. market for medical marijuana 
The medical marijuana dispensary in this California wine country town is in a former auto dealership, and has more registered patients than the town has residents. Los Angeles has more pot shops than Starbucks and almost as many as public schools. 
The surge in medical marijuana in California has left many communities scram­bling to regulate the free-for-all, while oth­ers are trying to ban the drug altogether. The issue took on greater urgency after the Obama administration announced looser federal marijuana guidelines last month. 
Some local governments are looking to take an approach similar to Sebastopol, where officials welcome the business as a strong source of tax revenue during the recession. 

Democrats advance climate bill 
Senate Democrats sidestepped a Republican boycott Thursday, pushing a 
U.S. climate bill out of committee in an early step on a long and contentious road to passage. 
At least five other committees still must weigh-in on the measure, but the partisan antics early on threatened to cast a pall over the bill — one of President Barack Obama’s top priorities. While the measure makes its way to the Senate floor, nations are preparing to meet in Copenhagen, Denmark next month to hammer out a new international treaty to slow climate change. 
In June, the House narrowly passed its version of the bill, which must be reconciled with whatever measure the Senate approves. 


LOCAL NEWS 

Ind. swine flu death toll rises 
Nine Indiana residents died last week from swine flu, a surge that has nearly doubled the state’s swine flu fatalities to 19 since June, state health officials said Thursday. 
During a weekly conference call with reporters, officials also said 13.1 percent of the people who sought treatment last week at Indiana doctor’s offices had flu-like symptoms. That’s the highest percentage seen in the 20 years that the state has been monitoring flu prevalence through a network of doctors. 
The previous high of 10.9 percent occurred during the 1998-1999 season, when the flu strain did not match the type of vaccine available then. 



Shooter opens fire at Fort Hood 
Tragic attack at army base under investigation after gunman kills 12, wounds 30 
Associated Press 

FORT HOOD, Texas — A soldier opened fire at a 
U.S. 
Army base in Fort Hood, Texas on Thursday, unleashing a stream of gunfire that left 12 people dead and 31 wounded. Authorities killed the gun­man, and apprehended two other soldiers suspected in what appears to be the worst mass shooting at a 

U.S. 
military base. 


The shooting began around 1:30 p.m., Lt. Gen. Bob Cone said at a news conference. He said all the casualties took place at the base’s Soldier Readiness Center, where soldiers who are about to be deployed or who are returning undergo medical screening. 
“It’s a terrible tragedy. It’s stunning,” Cone said. 
A law enforcement offi­cial identified the shooting suspect as Army Maj. Malik Nadal Hasan. The official said Hasan, believed to be in his late 30s, was killed after opening fire at the base. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not author­ized to discuss the case publicly. 
The official says investi­gators are trying to deter­mine if Hasan was his birth name, or if he changed his name and converted to Islam at some point in his life. 
Cone said the soldier used two handguns in the attack. It was not clear if the gunman had stopped to reload. 
A graduation ceremony for soldiers who finished college courses while deployed was going on in an auditorium at the Readiness Center at the time of the shooting, said Sgt. Rebekah Lampam, a Fort Hood spokeswoman. 
Greg Schanepp, U.S. Rep. John Carter’s regional director in Texas, was rep­resenting Carter at the graduation, said John Stone, a spokesman for Carter, whose district includes the Army post. 

Schanepp was at the cer­emony when a soldier who had been shot in the back came running toward him and alerted him of the shooting, Stone said. The soldier told Schanepp not to go in the direction of the shooter, he said. Stone said he believes Schanepp was in the theater. 
The base was locked down after the shootings. The wounded were dis­persed among hospitals in central Texas, Cone said. 
The shootings on the Texas military base stirred memories of other recent mass shootings in the United States, including 13 dead at a New York immi­grant center in March, 10 killed during a gunman’s rampage across Alabama in March and 32 killed in the deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history at Virginia Tech in 2007. 
Around the country, some bases stepped up security precautions, but no others were locked down. 
“The bottom line for us is that we are increasing security at our gates because the threat hasn’t yet been defined, and we’re reminding our Marines to be vigilant in their areas of responsibility,” said Capt. Rob Dolan, public affairs officer for the Marine Corps Air Station in Yuma, Ariz. 
In Washington, President Barack Obama called the shooting “a horrific out­burst of violence.” He said it’s a tragedy to lose a sol­dier overseas and even more horrifying when they come under fire at an Army base on American soil. 
“We will make sure that we get answers to every single question about this horrible incident,” the com­mander in chief said. “We are going to stay on this.” 
Covering 339 square miles, Fort Hood is the largest active duty armored post in the United States. Home to about 52,000 troops as of earlier this year, the sprawling base is located halfway between Austin and Waco. 
About a mile from Fort Hood’s east gate, Cynthia Thomas, director of Under the Hood Cafe, a local cof­fee shop and nonprofit mil­itary support center, has been calling soldiers and friends on the post to make sure they’re OK. 


KENYA 



ICC plans to investigate Kenya violence 
Associated Press 

NAIROBI, Kenya — The International Criminal Court’s chief prosecutor said Thursday that Kenya’s postelection vio­lence that killed more than 1,000 peo­ple was a crime against humanity and pledged to initiate proceedings that could result in top officials facing trial. 
Luis Moreno Ocampo said he told President Mwai Kibaki and Prime Minister Raila Odinga that he will ask the Netherlands-based ICC judges to allow him to formally open an investi­gation into the violence that followed a contentious presidential election. 
The fighting erupted along tribal lines amid accusations by the opposi­tion that Kibaki’s ruling party rigged presidential elections. Odinga was his rival and the violence ended when they agreed to a power-sharing arrange­ment. 
Kenyans whose loved ones were butchered during the spasm of violence that lasted from December 2007 to February 2008 have doubted that those responsible would ever face jus­tice in Kenya, where the courts are seen as weak and susceptible to cor­ruption. 
Harun Mwangi Macharia, whose 3­year-old daughter died when the church her family sought shelter in was torched by Kalenjin warriors, was gratified that there might now be tri­als. 
“So that it is a lesson for future gen­erations, they should be prosecuted without mercy,” Macharia said of the culprits, adding that if they are not prosecuted, violence will be “inevitable” during Kenya’s next nationwide vote in 2012. Macharia’s wife saved five of their six children from the church inferno and suffered third-degree burns. 
More than 600,000 people were dis­placed, over 40,000 buildings were burnt and more than 3,000 women were raped, many allegedly by the police, in Kenya’s worst violence since winning independence from Britain in 1963. 

page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 6, 2009 

Bouts 
continued from page 1 
will give [audiences] a more personal understanding.” 
Weber also hopes the film will encourage audiences to take action in the global fight on poverty. 
“This is a story so unique and inspiring we hope to encourage people to go out and do good in the world,” he said. “We hope to empower the people [of Bangladesh] to also be their own agents of change.” 
William Donaruma, a Notre Dame film professor who also produced the documentary, said he also hopes to give audiences not only a glimpse of what the Missions do but also an appreciation of the country itself. 
“We want them [audiences] to have a better understand­ing of where and what Bangladesh is,” Donaruma said. “We want to show that the money [generated from Bengal Bouts] is helping peo­ple. This will be an entertain­ing ride but also informative.” 
Weber said the Mission works from the bottom up to make Bangladesh a self-sus­tainable country through both education and the training of Bengali leaders. 
“That is the difference between aid and develop ­ment,” he said. “The key word here is empowerment.” 
He said the missionaries in Bangladesh aim to “work themselves out of the job,” and help Bengali leaders help their own country. 
Weber, who majored in the Program of Liberal Studies (PLS) and Film, said the idea for the film took root during his sophomore year in 2007, when he stayed on campus for fall break. During the week, he said, he met with Holy Cross priests to discuss their missions in Bangladesh. 
“We’ ve been doing this [Bengal Bouts] for 80 years,” Weber recalled thinking. “No students have been over there. It’s time to go.” 
The project gained momen­tum that January. 
“We formed a team that’s passionate and talented,” Weber said. 
That May, funded by a joint effort of Bengal Bouts alumni and the Congregation of the Holy Cross, a group of five boxers, along with Donaruma and cinematographer John Klein, traveled to Bangladesh for two weeks to witness the progress of the missions and undertake much of the docu­mentation for the film. The five, which included Weber, Pat Ryan, Leo Rubinkowski, Patrick Martin and Tomas Castillo, were the first stu­dents in the history of the program to travel to Bangladesh, Weber said. 
As representatives of a Catholic university, the group was admittedly wary about their reception into the coun­try, as Bangladesh is predom­inantly Muslim. 
But the group was pleasant-many technical challenges in the impoverished country. 


Much of the time, he said, there was no electricity. Weber also said the team struggled to transport the heavy equipment, which had to be removed from the crowded van when crossing bridges. 
Once back in the United States, production of the film began as the team began looking through the documen­tation of the poverty they wit­nessed. 
“The most difficult part about the post-production is finding the story,” Weber said. 
After the production began, he said, another challenge was picking through the footage and also adding a musical score, which was composed by Gene Ort. 
Weber returned to Bangladesh the following year to research his thesis, titled “Education: Life Blood of Sustainable Development.” 
Weber said the Congregation of the Holy Cross first went to Bangladesh (then the Bengal region of India) in 1853. A main goal was, as it continues ly surprised upon arrival. 



“We were welcomed with open arms,” Weber said. 
The group stayed with Holy Cross Missions in the various cities they visited, from the capital city Dhaka to other smaller ones like Jalchatra and Pirgacha. 
There, he said, they wit­nessed the fruit of the mis­sions’ years of labor — from the many schools to trained Bengali leaders. 
“We did research over there to get an idea of what we wanted for the film,” Donaruma said. 
The group encountered to be today, education. This includes not only opening new schools, Weber said, but also working to fund scholarships for students, initiate meal programs and pay for teacher salaries. 
Boxing, Weber said, was begun at Notre Dame in the 1920s by famed football coach Knute Rockne as a spring training regiment for his players. Later in 1931 Rockne teamed with boxing coach Dominic “Nappy” Napolitano to hold a series of bouts and donate the dona­tions to Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. The tourna­ment was soon dubbed Bengal Bouts. 
Each year, Donaruma said, Bengal Bouts generates between $50,000 and $70,000. 
“That goes a long way in a place like Bangladesh,” he said. 
This year, Donaruma said, marks the $1 million mark for the boxing club. 
The weekend’s premiere and its surrounding events were planned and organized largely by boxing alum Ryan as well as Weber’s mother, Karen. 
Bengal Bouts alumni, Weber said, will attend a private screening of the film tonight as well as a reception, have a reserved section of the stadi­um at Saturday ’s football game against Navy and get recognized on the field at halftime. 
“The core principles of Bengal Bouts don’t graduate,” Weber said. “The passion in alumni can be directed back to the Missions.” 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 
The Observer 



Business
Friday, November 6, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 



IN BRIEF 

Tyson Foods charged in labor suit 
A federal court has ruled that Tyson Foods Inc. violated federal labor standards for not paying production line employees for the time it takes them to put on and remove pro­tective and sanitary gear. 
The company was ordered to pay $250,000 in damages, according to the ruling Wednesday in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama. The U.S. Department of Labor, which originally filed the suit seeking $5.8 million in back wages, made the announcement Thursday. 
The jury found the company didn’t fairly compensate workers but rejected govern­ment claims that Tyson failed to keep accu­rate records for the time that employees worked. 
The U.S. Department of Labor said in a statement it first began investigating the situ­ation at the poultry and beef producer in 2000. The government said the company did not pay some 3,000 production line employ­ees at its plant in Blountsville, Ala., for the work time in question from 2000 to the pres­ent. 

BofA predicts credit difficulties 
Bank of America Corp. on Thursday reiter­ated that the current credit environment will remain difficult into next year, as unemploy­ment is likely to continue to rise. 
Brian Moynihan, head of the bank’s con­sumer and small business banking units, told investors at the BancAnalysts Association of Boston Conference that Bank of America is starting to see some stabilization in the cred­it card business, but challenges remain. 
The Charlotte, N.C.-based bank has about 53 million consumer and small business cus­tomers, making it vulnerable to delinquen­cies and defaults, yet also ready to thrive when the economy recovers. 
“This is going to be hard work in the next several quarters in the credit card business,” Moynihan said. “It’s going to be a substantial number of quarters until we see charge-offs return to levels which we are more comfort­able with.” 
Net charge-offs is the amount of debt it does not expect to be repaid. 



Wall Street surges on jobs data 
Positive forecast for Cisco boosts Dow Jones industrials; good news propels market 
Associated Press  
NEW YORK — A bright  
forecast from Cisco Systems  
and upbeat economic news  
sent stocks soaring  
Thursday and propelled the  
Dow Jones industrials back  
above 10,000. The rally,  
coming a day before the  
government’s October  
employment report, showed  
that investors are regaining  
their optimism about an eco­ 
nomic recovery.  
The Dow bolted up 203  
points, or 2 percent, while  
the Nasdaq composite index,  
led by Cisco’s outlook, rose  
nearly 2.5 percent. The  
market’s move continued a  
streak of volatility that  
began last month, but this  
latest surge was powered  
not by a single event, but by  
a wave of good news:  
— Cisco Systems Inc.  
boosted hopes for the tech­ 
nology industry after the  
largest maker of computer- 
networking gear forecast  
revenue growth for the first  
time in a year. The forecasts  
of CEO John Chambers  
carry big weight on Wall  
Street and his announce­ 
ment that the company  
would begin hiring workers  
injected a jittery market AP  
with confidence. Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange Wednesday. Positive news  
— The government said pushed the Dow Jones industrials above 10,000 Thursday.  
the number of newly laid-off  
workers seeking unemploy- International Council of  and portfolio manager at  581.15.  
ment benefits fell to 512,000  Shopping Centers-Goldman  Advisors Asset Management.  Five stocks rose for every  
last week, the lowest level  Sachs tally. Investors are  The Dow rose 203.82, or  one that fell on the New  
since January and fewer  looking for any sign that  2.1 percent, to 10,005.96, its  York Stock Exchange, where  
than economists had fore- consumers are willing to  first close above 10,000  consolidated volume came to  
cast. Initial claims are con- spend more as the holiday  since Oct. 22, and 86 points  4.9 billion shares compared  
sidered a gauge of the pace  shopping season approach- below its high of the year. It  with 5.6 billion Wednesday.  
of layoffs.  es.  was the sixth time in 2009  Bond prices were mixed.  
— Worker productivity  The reports gave investors  that all 30 stocks in the  The benchmark 10-year  
jumped by the most in six  a shot of optimism about the  index rose and it was the  Treasury note slipped but its  
years, rising 9.5 percent in  government’s monthly  biggest advance since a gain  yield remained flat at 3.53  
the July-September quarter.  report on employment  of 257 points on July 15,  percent from late  
The government figures  Friday, which will steer trad­ when computer chip maker  Wednesday.  
drove hopes that lower costs  ing because of the ties  Intel Corp. said business was  Uneven economic news in  
would boost corporate prof- between joblessness and  improving.  recent weeks has made it  
its. The report also illustrat­ consumer spending.  The broader Standard &  difficult for investors to get a  
ed, though, that many  Analysts say spending must  Poor’s 500 index rose 20.13,  sense of where the economy  
employers remain reluctant  increase for the economy to  or 1.9 percent, to 1,066.63,  is headed, leading to choppy  
to hire.  have a sustained recovery.  its fourth straight gain.  trading. The Federal  
— Retailers had higher  Economists project that the  The Nasdaq rose 49.80, or  Reserve pointed to hopeful  
sales for the second straight  unemployment rate rose to  2.4 percent, to 2,105.32, its  signs about the economy  
month in October after more  9.9 percent in October.  biggest gain since a 2.5 per- Wednesday but also said it  
than a year of sliding. The  “The news coming in has  cent spike on July 23.  would keep interest rates  
retail industry posted a 2.1  been for the most part better  The Russell 2000 index of  low for “an extended peri­ 
percent sales gain for  than expected,” said Mike  smaller companies rose  od” to help stimulate  
October, according to an  Boyle, senior vice president  18.03, or 3.2 percent, to  growth.  



Starbucks customer spending improves 
Associated Press in and spending and we’re seeing the ously expected earnings per share to 
improvement across all parts of our grow 13 percent to 18 percent. 

CHICAGO —More people are visit-day,” he told The Associated Press. This year was hard: The company ing Starbucks Corp. coffee shops this “We’re very encouraged by what we cut costs, laid off workers and rein-year than last, and they’re spending saw in the second half of the (fiscal) vented much of the food sold in its more money when they do, an exec-year. It gives us some encourage-shops. It shut roughly 800 locations utive said Thursday. ment for the quarter coming up.” and tweaked prices for some drinks. 
But it was the company’s hefty Starbucks expects its sales to rise “There’s no one at Starbucks doing cost-cutting that boosted its profit in next fiscal year. It says its sales in a victory lap,” CEO Howard Schultz its fiscal fourth quarter. It had fewer stores open at least a year, consid-said during a conference call with stores than a year earlier, and its ered a key restaurant and retail investors. revenue fell slightly. measure, also will rise after two The gourmet coffee chain earned 
Chief Financial Officer Troy years of declines. The company $150 million, or 20 cents per share, Alstead said the average amount plans to open about 300 new loca-during the three-month period that customers spent in each visit to tions, about one-third in the United ended in late September. Excluding Starbucks rose in the period. And he States. one-time items, that amounted to 24 said sales at shops open at least a It also boosted its profit forecast, cents per share. Last year, it earned year, which dipped 1 percent, were saying its earnings per share exclud-$5.4 million, or a penny per share. better than the third quarter and the ing one-time items would climb But the Seattle company’s revenue fourth quarter last year. between 15 percent and 20 percent dipped almost 4 percent to $2.42 bil­
“We are seeing consumers coming for the next full fiscal year. It previ-lion. 
page 8 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 6, 2009 

SMCprofessorexamines women in mathematics 
By BRITTANY VANSNEPSON 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s College com­memorated women in the mathematic field in the third installment of a three-part lec­ture series, which took place in Spes Unica Hall. 
Mathematics professor Sister Miriam Cooney delivered the ture the idea that women are not as good in math than men and do not practice the mathe­matical attribution style, in which men attribute their suc­cess to talent whereas women do not. 
“I was kind of surprised about these issues,” sophomore Taylor Chamberlain said. “I never really thought about it before, but once I started think-

third lecture, “Women should be ing about it and titled “Issues In applying it to 
able to see...other 
Math Education.” myself, I real­Cooney’s main women teaching in ized it’s very 
focus was their department.” much true.” 
addressing the Another star-social issues in tling issue 
Sister Miriam Cooney 
mathematics that C o o n e yinvolve women, mathematics professor addressed was 
citing how women in the past had to deal with choosing between their marriage or career. 
“It’s not like that anymore,” Cooney said. “Now it’s marriage and career.” 
Cooney offered research pro­vided by women prominent in the fields of mathematics or sci­ence. 
Elizabeth Fennema, Jane Martin and Elizabeth Tidball are some of the women she dis­cussed. 
Cooney referenced Fennema’s discovery of the internal convic­tions of students. Women are believed to have a lack of confi­dence in the mathematical field and need to know where it is useful in their lives. They nur­the need for 
women attend­ing universities or colleges to learn from other women in teaching positions of their cho­sen field of interest. 
“Women should be able to see … other women teaching in their department,” Cooney said. 
Cooney suggested students inquiring for more information should go to the math center or read the array of books on the table in the Mathematics’ office. 
“It brings about confidence in women, knowing that what you’re working towards is something that is achievable,” Chamberlain said. “The visible evidence definitely helps.” 


Contact Brittany VanSnepson at bvansn01@saintmarys.edu 
Engaged 
continued from page 1 
“Her dad went to Notre Dame and her mom went to Saint Mary’s,” Mac Carthaigh said. “I thought it would be special to propose to her here and make it a memorable moment.” 
While some students choose to propose on campus, others have met their future spouse at some atypical campus events. 
Notre Dame senior Mike Brickl and Saint Mary’s senior Kelsey Robertson met each other their freshmen year at Domerfest. 
“We are probably the first people that this has ever hap­pened to,” Brickl said. 
over the fact that I’m engaged “For us, it was more about but I don’t think there’s really being ready for the next offi­that much of a difference,” cial step rather than a set Minta said. date; it was “We’re not never about get-going to get ting a ring 
“It was never about
married until a before gradua­
getting a ring before
year or so after tion because we graduation so graduation because knew we were there’s no wed-going to be 
we knew we were 
ding to plan.” together,” Minta 
going to be together.” 
Crecelius and said. Kramer said M a c they are excit-Colleen Minta Carthaigh ed to be agreed, saying 
senior 
engaged but they are put­ting school ahead of wedding plans. 
“I haven’t had a lot of time to enjoy being engaged,” Kramer said. “I’m happy but I need to focus on school.” 
“The engagement doesn’t have home­
work,” 
“I haven’t had a lot of 
Because of the Creceli us 
stereotype sur-time to enjoy being added. 
rounding Saint engaged. I’m happy Being Mary’s students engaged stu­
but I need to
and marriage, dents for more Robertson said than a year 
focus on school.” 
she often has changed receives ques-Elysia Kramer social interac­tions about her tions for the 
senior
relationship. 
“I didn’t go to Saint Mary’s to find a husband at Notre Dame,” she said. “But a lot of Saint Mary’s girls look at mine and Mike’s relation­ship and get hopeful because we’re an example of the myth not really being a myth.” 
All three couples say that being engaged does affect peo­ple’s perception of them once there is a ring involved but that the fact still remains that they are students and have to go to school. 
“Some of my friends gush Brickl and 
Robertson. 
“On-campus interactions are very different,” Brickl said. “People treat us differently as a couple than they do as indi­viduals.” 
While many people in the Notre Dame community feel that there is a strong “ring by spring” attitude that students feel as they get closer to grad­uation, Minta said she felt there was no pressure on her and Mac Carthaigh, who have been together for more than three years, to get engaged. 
although he and 
Minta had dis­cussed marriage before, their engagement is more about dedication. 
“I felt ready for an official commitment,” he said. “I never thought about ‘when’ we’d get engaged.” 
Brickl and Robertson said they see the “ring by spring” outlook more now that they are seniors quickly approach­ing graduation. 
“There are some people that I do think will end up togeth­er,” Robertson said. “But there are others that are thinking that there is a clock ticking.” 
The pair, who got engaged in June 2008, will get married the Lady of Loretto Church at Saint Mary’s this June. Robertson said there was no question that they would get married in the Notre Dame community, which was an inte­gral part of their relationship. 
“This is our place,” she said. “This is where we met, fell in love and where our whole relationship developed. There is nowhere else that is as spe­cial or as sacred to us.” 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 


Friday, November 6, 2009 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

Cabs 
continued from page 1 
uation,” she said. “There is a phone number on the doors of the vehicle and also a cab number.” 
Manager for Irish Cab Barry Marcucci said the rate is $3 for people traveling within a three-mile radius of campus. But the total pay­ment to the driver must be at least six dollars, effectively setting the minimum number of passengers at two to quali­fy for this rate. And while the driver may negotiate a lower price, he or she cannot attempt to charge more than three dollars per person. 
This policy is used by many 
of the local cab services, according to Ntakirutimana on a regular basis,” Clear squeeze on them or what, but said. “Students have to there definitely isn’t as much 


Library 

understand that three dollars partying as 
each is if they are all going to the same spot. If they all want to get dropped off at different loca ­tions, we’re going to have to do something differ­ent.” 
The struggling economy has hurt Modern Cab Company’s busi­ness, according to Ntakirutimana, who said students 

“I’ve heard students tell me that the driver has charged them fve dollars to go from Main Circle to downtown.” 
Jean Ntakirutimana manager Modern Cab Company 
account for about 30 percent of the company’s customers. 
Clear has also seen an overall decrease in demand, but he mentioned another cause — stu ­dents are 

and Clear. going out less 
“We go over price 
Blue Ribbon and now only 
gouging on a
Taxi actively make up about tries to prevent regular basis.” 40 percent of its drivers from Blue Ribbon price gouging, Taxi’s busi ­
Kerry Clear 
Clear said. ness. 
president
However, he “It used to be cautioned that Blue Ribbon Taxi a lot, ” Clear 
students should be aware that the $3 rate only applies if everyone in their group is riding to the same destina­tion. 
“We go over price gouging 


said of the per­
centage of business coming from stu­dents. “But students have stopped partying as much. I think maybe students, maybe the University has put the 
there was two years ago.” 
continued from page 1 
Despite the dip in busi ­
the organizers of the peti­ness and the 
tion approve a corresponding inevit abl e 
memorandum, he said. pressure to 
Morris said the memoran­maintain rev­
dum will provide more details enues, Clear 
for what the petition asks and said he has-
answer common questions. n’t gotten any 
“Our effort, admittedly, has reports about 
been met with a lot of contro­his drivers 
versy and a lot of people have price goug ­
had questions about it,” he ing. 
said. “It details the decline of “I haven ’t 
our book acquisitions, the gotten any 
massive shortage of staff that complaints of 
we have, and puts it in a com-Library means Notre Dame wants to become an Ivy League school. 
“Notre Dame should never strive to be another university, we should be ourselves. But the point is we do have to look at other universities for what we want to do,” Morris said. 
“If you ask the average per­son on the street or for that matter, most academics, what are the best universities in the world?” he said. “You think of Harvard, you think of Yale, you think of Oxbridge and Cambridge across the Atlantics. 
“What do they all have in common? They have very large libraries and their aca­demic life is centered around them,” Morris said. 
As a graduate student, Morris said he most likely will not be around as a student to see the effects of the petition if it is accepted, because the improvements will take time. 
Yet Morris has worked on creating a petition to improve the library for months. 
“I love Notre Dame. I’m a Domer. I want Notre Dame to be thought of in the same breath as Princeton and Yale and Stanford,” he said. “And right now there is no possible way that is going to happen so long as we have the 57th largest library in the country.” 
Morris hopes to submit the petition, the memorandum, a full list of signatures and a brief statistical breakdown of those who signed it next week. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
overcharging for one thing,” he said. “And for another thing, I try to hire drivers that are conscientious peo­ple.” 
Clear also said even if stu­dents cannot find the sought-after two dollar cab, the ben­efits provided to them justify the expense, especially con­sidering the amount many will spend once they reach their destination. 
“Students complain a lot of times when they have to pay three dollars,” he said. “One thing to consider is I bet they’re spending a lot more than three dollars at the bars.” 


Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 
parative frame work so that we can see how Notre Dame’s library compares among dozens of universities,” Morris said. 
The memorandum also anticipates arguments against library reform, he said. 
“They say that there isn’t enough money. They say it’s not necessary,” Morris said. “They say that trying to com­pare Notre Dame to Harvard and Yale and the Ivy league schools is somehow wrong or inappropriate. 
“We can’t use the recession or the fact that there are hard times right now as an excuse because if you look at the numbers, the recession has actually bolstered Notre Dame’s position.” 
Notre Dame went into the recession as 10th among pri­vate universities in endow­ments and now ranks seventh, he said. 
Morris also countered the idea that improving the 


Tylenol case expert to speak at Notre Dame 

Special to The Observer 
In 1982, seven people in the Chicago area died after taking Tylenol pain-relief capsules that had been laced with potassium cyanide. The crime, still unsolved, eventually led to large-scale reforms in the way food and drug prod­ucts are packaged and sold in the United States. 
For Johnson & Johnson, the drug’s manufacturer, the “Tylenol crisis” result­ed in a new level of corpo­rate crisis management; namely, how does a compa­ny show its concern for public safety, while at the same time, survive as a business in the face of con­troversy and fear? 
John R. Mullen, a 1953 University of Notre Dame graduate and the vice president for corporate affairs who was instrumen­tally involved in Johnson & Johnson’s response, will speak at Notre Dame about the experience. His talk, “Leadership in a Corporate Crisis: Johnson & Johnson and Tylenol, ” will take place Tuesday at 8 a.m. in the Jordan Auditorium at Notre Dame ’s Mendoza College of Business. 
“The Tylenol case is one of the most-cited business ethical leadership and cri­sis management teaching cases in business ethics education, ” said Jessica McManus Warnell, man ­agement assistant profes­sional specialist at the Mendoza College. “It exem­plifies values-based lead­ership and decision-mak­ing rooted firmly in corpo­rate policy and culture, as evidenced by the J & J credo statement of values, one of the first ‘ethics mis­sion statements’ in busi­ness.” 
The event, sponsored by the Notre Dame Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide, is free and 
open to the public. All Notre Dame undergraduate business ethics students will attend the talk to sup­plement their in -class exploration of the case. 
Mullen joined Johnson & Johnson’s Law Department in 1960, thereafter serving in a number of positions, including assistant coun­sel, assistant secretary and vice president of person­nel. He then became vice president of corporate relations, and finished his career with Johnson & Johnson in 1997 as vice president of corporate affairs. 
Mullen ’s Notre Dame appointments include vice president of the National Alumni Board, member and former chairman of the Mendoza College of Business Advisory Council, member of the International Advisory Council, member of the Ad Hoc Public Relations Council, and chairman of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies Advisory Council. 

page 10 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Friday, November 6, 2009 


Baby found alive in box under bed 
Associated Press 
CHIPLEY, Fla. — Investigators spent five days searching a rural area of dense vines and marshes for a missing infant, only to find her lying quietly in a 2-foot by 3­foot cedar box that had been shoved under her baby sitter’s bed. 
Clothing was packed around it to muffle any sounds and baking soda placed inside to mask the stench of dirty diapers. 
Authorities said the baby’s mother, Chrystina Lynn Mercer, gave the infant to baby sitter Susan Elizabeth Baker early Saturday, then reported her missing about 10 hours later. About 100 law enforcement agents and others spent days scouring around the baby’s home in a remote, makeshift communi­ty of dirt roads, tin-roof shacks and old mobile homes. Searchers also dug through trash cans and bins. 
All along, the baby was under the bed. 
Washington County Sheriff Bobby Haddock choked up Thursday as he described how 7­month-old Shannon Dedrick was stashed in the box for 12 straight hours before investigators dis­covered her late Wednesday. They believe she had been in the closed box on and off for several days. 
“She was way back under the bed,” he said. “But she was not crying.” 
Baker had written a letter to Gov. Charlie Crist’s office in August, pleading for help for the baby and claiming her father shook her and both parents did drugs in front of her. She asked Mercer a week ago if she could have permanent custody, Haddock said. Officials do not believe Shannon's father, who is Baker’s stepbrother, was involved in the disappearance. 
Haddock said Shannon appar­ently had been fed and cared for while she was with Baker, who lived about 12 miles from Mercer. He said Baker became a suspect several days ago but never told them where the baby was, even as they interviewed her. 
Shannon appeared healthy, much to the relief of investiga­tors. 
“Once we got the hospital, five or six of us called our wives to let them know that we found the child and a lot grown men were shedding tears,” Haddock said. 
Mercer’s mother, Candis Boyer, attended Thursday’s news con­ference and said afterward that she was there to show support for her daughter and grand­daughter. “I love my daughter very deeply,” she said briefly before leaving the news confer­ence. At a court hearing later, family members were escorted by sheriff’s deputies and didn’t talk to reporters. 
Mercer was charged with interference of child custody, desertion of a child and several other charges. Charges against Baker included neglect of a child with aggravated circumstances and interference of child custody. 
Bond was set at $150,000 for Baker and $75,000 for Mercer. In separate hearings, the women shuffled in wearing leg chains and their hands bound with plas­tic restraints. 
The judge told Mercer she couldn’t have contact with her daughter, who was in state cus­tody, if she posts bond. Both women said they understood the charges against them and their arraignments were scheduled for Dec. 14. 
Baker’s husband, James Arthur Baker, was arrested Wednesday night but released. 
He is still under investigation, Haddock said. 
Shannon’s parents told investi­gators they last saw her when they went to bed around 3 a.m. Saturday and investigators thought she had vanished some­time between then and 8 a.m. 
“Statistically speaking this should not have ever happened, that we found this child alive, especially after so many days,” said Haddock, who cradled Shannon in his arms as he spoke to reporters earlier Thursday. “Time was against us.” 
According to court documents, child welfare officials began looking into allegations Shannon was being abused less than two weeks after she was born. 
Investigators frequently went to the infant’s home from August to late September and reported that both parents used marijua­na and kept a messy home. But they said Shannon seemed to be cared for and in September, a physician determined she was healthy. 
Susan Baker was involved in another missing child case in South Carolina more than two decades ago. She had been a baby sitter for James Baker and his now ex-wife before she mar­ried him, a family member said. 
Susan Baker told authorities her stepson, 3-year-old Paul Leonard Baker, disappeared from the family's Beaufort, S.C., home on March 5, 1987, while she napped. 
A massive manhunt turned up nothing. She and her husband, James Baker, were extradited to South Carolina in 2000 and charged with assault and battery in Paul’s disappearance, accord­ing to police reports provided by the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division. But a grand jury never indicted them and the child was never found. 




Children’sshowset to open to public 


Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH — For just this weekend, a neighbor­hood in this city that has lain dormant in boxes and under plastic coverings for nearly a decade, is coming back to life. 
Everyone important will be there in Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood of Make-Believe: Daniel Striped Tiger, X the Owl, Henrietta Pussycat and even Mr. McFeely in the flesh. 
The set is being rebuilt and opened to the public Saturday and Sunday, giving genera­tions of Americans who grew up with Fred Rogers and his mother’s hand-knit cardigans 
— as well as their children who watch his reruns — a real-life look at one of TV’s most famous neighborhoods. 
“It’s really an iconic part of Pittsburgh,” says David Newell, aka Mr. McFeely. 
The weekend marks the renaming of the WQED stu­dio, where the show was taped, after Fred Rogers. The show, now in its 41st year, is the longest-running show on public television, according to Maria Pisano, WQED’s mar­keting associate. 
Newell and Pisano have been fielding e-mails packed with memories from people across the country and the world. 
One woman from Chicago remembers visiting the set with her father as a child. Now, she plans to make the 460-mile trip to Pittsburgh this weekend with her 5­year-old son so he can have the same memory. 
An American now living in Sweden wrote to Pisano to express her disappointment in missing the event. The public television station in Erie, Pa. wrote to say it is sending a bus load of mem­bers to visit the studio. A Milwaukee resident sent an e-mail just to share her mem­ories, Pisano said. 
“People are very emotional­ly connected to the show and their memories,” Pisano said. “It’s really amazing to see the impact.” 
It’s unclear when, or if, WQED will have the opportu­nity to again rebuild the set in the studio where the show was filmed, since its high-def­inition facilities are used by clients. It was only possible to open it up to the public for one weekend, Newell said. 
Replicas of parts of the set exist in some places, such as Idlewild Park in Ligonier, Pa., where a trolley takes children through the Neighborhood of Make-Believe, and the Children's Museum of Pittsburgh that has a play area based on the set. 
King Friday’s castle and the tree where Henrietta and X the Owl lived are on display at WQED year-round. But Lady Elaine’s Museum Go-Round has been in storage since taping of the show ended in 2001, as has the tower and the rest of the col­orful set. 
Not only is Mister Rogers himself conspicuously absent 
— Fred Rogers died of cancer in 2003 at age 74 — so is the timeless trolley that has ding-dinged along the tracks for 40 years. It's preserved in plexiglass at the Fred Rogers Center in Latrobe, Pa. 

Friday, November 6, 2009 The Observer  INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 

BRITAIN 


Prime minister to defend war 

Associated Press 
LONDON — British Prime Minister Gordon Brown is to defend his government’s commit­ment to Afghanistan in a major speech Friday, saying the war is essential to his country's security, according to excerpts released in advance by his office. 
The speech comes after the deaths of seven British soldiers in the past week, including five who were shot and killed by an Afghan police officer they were training. Despite increasing doubt over the country’s involvement in the war in Afghanistan, Brown links mili­tary action there to safety on Britain's streets. 
“We will not be deterred, dis­suaded or diverted from taking whatever measures are necessary to protect our security,” Brown is to say, according to the excerpts. 
“When the main terrorist threat facing Britain emanates from Afghanistan and Pakistan; and when, although the sustained pressure in Pakistan, combined with military action in Afghanistan, is having a suppres­sive effect on al-Qaida, we know that they continue to train and plot attacks on Britain from the region 
— we cannot, must not and will not walk away.” 
Britain currently has about 9,000 troops in the country, the majority in the restive southern Helmand province. The force is the second-largest foreign one in the country after the United States, and Brown recently announced an increase of about 500 soldiers. 
Since the start of hostilities in October 2001, 230 British soldiers have died in Afghanistan — more than 90 of them this year alone. 
In the speech, Brown is to pay tribute to the military, comparing its efforts to those of soldiers in other wars. 
“Just as in the past we learned of the bravery and sacrifice of British soldiers in the First and Second World Wars; in their fight to protect freedom both in our nation and the world; so our chil­dren will learn of the heroism of today’s men and women fighting in Afghanistan — protecting our nation and the rest of the world from the threat of global terror­ism,” an excerpt says. 
Brown repeated his calls for an inclusive Afghan government, say­ing recently re-elected President Hamid Karzai’s international sup­port depends on what he achieves in key areas. 
“He needs a contract with the Afghan people; a contract against which Afghans, as well as the international community, can judge his success,” Brown is to say. “International support depends on the scale of his ambi­tion and the degree of his achieve­ment in five key areas: security, governance, reconciliation, eco­nomic development, and engage­ment with Afghanistan's neigh­bors.” 



WEST BANK 


Palestinian president declines to run again 
Associated Press 
RAMALLAH, West Bank — By announcing he doesn’t want another term in office, embattled Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas pushed the Mideast peace effort into unknown territory Thursday, opening the way to a succession battle that could play into the hands of his rival, the militant Hamas. 
But it also could boost the prospects of a popular candi­date who reportedly wants to run for the presidency from his Israeli prison cell. 
Abbas blamed his decision on the stalemate in peace talks, but the wording of his televised speech raised specu­lation that it was not final and could be a tactic for pushing Israel and the U.S. toward a larger compromise. 
He said only that it was “desire not to run in the upcoming elections” which are set for January but could be delayed, extending his cur­rent term indefinitely. 
Abbas took over after the death of Yasser Arafat in 2004, and Western leaders have come to see him as a symbol of moderation. Although criticized as indeci­sive and associated with the corruption-tainted old guard of his Fatah party, he has given free rein to his prime minister, Salam Fayyad, to reform the West Bank's econ­omy and boost its police, which has resulted in a limit­ed economic upturn. 
But the stalemate with Israel overshadows all, and Fatah activists say the party is in a panic, fearing a fragment­ed slate of candidates that would hand victory to Hamas. 
Late last month, Abbas told 
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton that he would not run, but recanted after President Barack Obama called him and expressed his commitment to Mideast peacemaking, Abbas’ aides said. A senior Palestinian offi­cial told The Associated Press that Abbas informed other Fatah leaders of his latest decision several days ago but didn’t tell Obama. 
Insiders say he was dis­heartened by Washington's refusal to press Israel harder for a freeze on West Bank set­tlement construction, and that this week’s visit by Clinton, when she appeared to side with Israel over the settlement issue, was the last straw. 
Abbas has insisted that he won’t resume negotiations until Israel stops all construc­tion. 
If he were to concede on that issue, Fatah could lose the election. If that happened, the international community would have no one to deal with but Hamas, which denies Israel’s right to exist and rejects the two-state solution endorsed by Fatah. 
The most attractive candi­date to replace 74-year-old Abbas would likely be Marwan Barghouti, 49, who was jailed for life in 2002 for his involvement in fatal Palestinian attacks. 
Activists say Barghouti, the top West Bank Fatah official until his arrest, is determined to run from prison. The charismatic Palestinian was once a favorite of Israeli peace activists but turned increas­ingly militant. His refusal to recognize the Israeli court’s right to try him, and his defi­ant gestures and smiles for the cameras, heightened his popularity among Palestinians. 
He ran for president from his cell in 2004 but withdrew under pressure from Fatah leaders. This time, associates say, he is determined to stay in the contest. 
Barghouti’s incarceration could work both for and against him. It might be diffi­cult for him to campaign from a jail cell, but his nomination could force his release. Also, imprisonment has shielded him from blame for the absence of a peace accord with Israel, a shattered West Bank economy and Hamas in power in Gaza. 
Yossi Sarid, an Israeli for­mer lawmaker identified with the peace movement, said Israel and the U.S. humiliated Abbas, leading to his decision. “This means that we are prob­ably entering a terrible period where the extremists will run the show,” Sarid said. 
In case Abbas steps down, Fatah insiders are promoting Nasser al-Qidwa, 50, as a can­didate. He has served as the Palestinian representative at the U.N., is not linked with the corruption that bedevils the party, and has the additional benefit of being Arafat's nephew. 
Another potential candidate is Mohammed Dahlan, 48, a one-time Fatah strongman in Gaza. He was recently elected to the top Fatah policy-making body, but he is blamed by many for losing Gaza to Hamas, and is tainted by alle­gations of corruption. 
Hamas spokesman Taher Nunu said he didn’t believe Abbas really meant to step down. “His speech wasn’t for the Palestinians alone,” he said. “It was for the United States and the international community, so they will give him more support in the elec­tions.” 
After Abbas' speech, Clinton praised his leadership in working toward the creation of a Palestinian state next to Israel. 
Speaking to reporters in Washington, she ignored a question about whether she would urge Abbas to stay on and saying only that she would go on working with him to advance peace. 

The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 12 Friday, November 6, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
The Independent, Daily Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 


MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 


ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerO nline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Madeline Buckley Alex Barker Sarah Mervosh Michael Blasco Megan Doyle Christopher Graphics Masoud Jaclyn Espinoza Viewpoint Scene Michelle Maitz Adriana Pratt 


A useful resource for students 
Going off campus to head downtown can be costly, and some­times less than safe, especially when alcohol is involved. Student government and the Office of Student Affairs have teamed up with local transport authority Transpo to offer a safer, more convenient form of transportation for both off-and on-campus students. 
The new bus service — which will begin at Library Circle and wind its way through student neighborhoods and downtown South Bend before returning to campus some 36 minutes later — is one of the main initia­tives of the Schmidt-Weber administration. 
There are several advantages to this initiative; foremost among them is safety. Students who live close to to the stops will no longer have to worry about cab fares or designated drivers, or worse relying on the least intoxicated person to drive them home. 
Even though there are benefits to taking the bus, there are still some concerns students should keep in mind. If you have to walk three or four blocks from one of the stops to get to your apartment or house, that puts you at risk — law enforcement consistently tells students not to walk long distances at night. 
Although at this point the route is tentative and cannot possibly hit all student housing, it’s a good start. At this point, it will cover places that the Transpo sees as well lit and safe. 
The weekend route will cost $25,000, of which $11,000 will be put up by the University through the Office of Student Affairs. Their move to help finance the project shows the University taking a step in the right direction in making student living off and on campus safer. 

Fr. Mark Poorman, vice president for Student Affairs, said the 
Office would continue to help fund the service as long as student government can hold up their end of the financing and as long as the bus is used by enough students. 
All that being said, student government should be commended for their efforts. They’ve committed $14,000 to support the new route and worked closely with Transpo and University administators to imple­ment the idea. In doing this, they are offering students a convenient and safe way to travel off campus on late 
weekend nights. 
Chip Lewis, chairman of the Board of Directors for Transpo, said he was impressed with how the student government handled the situation and he is offering the service for exactly the price it costs the company to run it — a sign that the community is willing to do its part to foster a better relationship with the University and its students. 
Student government should be commended for following through on one of their main initiatives, one which should be a positive development for many students. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Love thee Notre Dame 

The recent realization that I only have the privilege of serving as your Fighting Irish Leprechaun for two more home games inside Notre Dame Stadium has me in a panic. Before I have the honor of taking my final steps on that hal­lowed field, I would like to thank you and share with all of you the most important lesson that I have taken away from my experience here at Notre Dame. 
Rocket was right when he told us that “some legendary stuff” was about to take place inside our stadium as our Fighting Irish took on Southern Cal. On that day I came out of our tunnel ready to be all that I could be for Notre Dame, our student section came out in full force wearing green and chanting “Here come the Irish” and our team came ready to fight like the true champions they are steadily becoming. 
As we fought back within yards of tying the game, the overwhelming emotion of it all washed over me and I shed quite a few tears. They were not tears of sadness, but of amazement and joy as I stood in awe of the power of that moment. When the game ended I was stung with sadness and my tears continued, not out of disappointment, but because of pride. 
I have never been more proud to be a student at Notre Dame than I was as I stood facing the student section with tears streaking down my face while we all sang the Alma Mater together. I felt the power of the Notre Dame Spirit at 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
that moment, and I hope that you all get to feel that same way about something at some point in your lives. 
Enjoy every moment that you spend as a fan of the great­est tradition in all of sports. Soak it all in and let yourself get swept away by the Notre Dame Spirit. So many times we for­get what it is like to truly live in the moment. The most important lesson that I have taken away from my position is that living in the moment with love and gratitude in your heart will feed you with an energy and a perspective that you may not have known you were capable of achieving. 
When it is all said and done, I hope that I have shared that lesson with as many members of our Notre Dame Family as possible. 
We have something special here at Notre Dame that can’t be replicated anywhere else in the world. I want to thank all my fellow students, all of our fans, all of the alumni who still feel that spirit and our entire Notre Dame family for con­tributing to it. 
Love thee Notre Dame, 
Your Fighting Irish Leprechaun 
Daniel Colt Collins 
senior 
off campus 
Nov. 5 






QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The world is my country, all mankind are my brethren, and to do good is my religion.” 
Thomas Paine 
U.S. political philosopher 
The Observer 




Viewpoint 
Friday, November 6, 2009 page 13 
A Notre Dame short story 
Part 4 by Cory Hartmann 

The 7th Annual ‘Council of Elrond of Middle Earth and Other Mythical, Magical Beings in 
You can write Part Six! 

Realms Not of Thine’ Meeting stared in a mixture of bewilderment and disbelief as a stark raving 
Want to write the next paragraph Six. This story will continue until Nov. 19. The visiting authors will 
madman had just inexplicably tore through the 
to the story? Submit your para-Nov. 16. If your paragraph is write the ending paragraphs. Take 
brick wall of Party Room #3 in the back of the local Toys-R-Us of Humptulips, Washington (south on graph to NDLFshortstory selected, it will be published in advantage of the opportunity to Highway 101). Cosmetically enhanced ears perked @gmail.com before 4 p.m. Sunday. Viewpoint and you will get to read write a story along with three New up their angular tips behind felt Robin Hood hats Limit of 200 words. Title it Part it at the NDLF panel discussion York Times bestselling authors! as their bow strings grew taut, the soft swoosh of metal against leather whispered as imitation rapiers were drawn, and calloused hands nervous­ly clutched expertly selected pokéballs. Their trepi­dation vanished from their pockmarked faces as the realization sunk in that after years of abuse and mockery, their vindication had finally arrived. The huge taste of repeated defeat hung sour on their collective tongue, and they were anxious to test the strength of their arms — magnificent spec­imens conditioned with years of lifting countless cans of Mountain Dew from the depths of the floor up to the heights of their mouth. Nerds no longer, these were action deprived warriors thirsting for validation. “YOU — SHALL — NOT — PASS!” screeched Aragorn Ketchum McCloud of Tattooine, and the first volley was launched. 
Part 5 by Felicia Aguirre 

He snapped out of his memory just in time to answer the first question. A short, bald man with yellow teeth leaned forward in his seat, strumming his fingers against the podium in front of him. 
“Do you know why you are here, Frederick M. Stevens?” he asked, and his hairy eyebrows bunched inquisitively on his forehead. Frederick took a deep breath and stared at the floor, deep in thought. Those days of working at the Toys-R-Us in Humptulips were long ago, and Frederick vaguely remembered how the events unfolded. He recalled Larry Seretty diving on the floor over the display of Easy-Bake ovens screaming, “Do a barrel roll!” Michael Piles slid down aisle eight on a Razor Scooter, and knocked Mark Evans to the floor. 
The whole scenario ended in one giant fit of gig­gles, as the madman made his escape. Blinking back tears of laughter, Frederick saw the madman grab a grey stone out of the pet rock collection and run out of the store. The stone was not particularly unique. In fact, Frederick thought Larry had stolen it from the parking lot outside, and placed it in the bin as a joke. 
They may know that he had committed the crime, but they had no way of anticipating that he had met a previous victim. If only he had taken the madman seriously. 



The BCS system encourages cheating 
Human nature dictates that the more select and coveted a prize, the greater the impetus to control the process that awards a trophy. No truer statement need be said but for the granddaddy of all the punkishly rigid and controlling processes than that of the national colle­giate football cham­pionship. The so-called “Bowl Championship Series” is a fiefdom presented with an earthshaking clarion call, but in reality only focuses on one important bowl venue each season. It is neither an actu­al series, nor an impartial championship journey. Rather, the BCS is a manipulat­ed, subjective process controlled by an oligarchy of interests who assiduously limit the competition to a mere two teams. As a result, the current BCS model is the quintessential study that showcases a sure-fire way to encourage ongoing manipulation and cheating by those who participate in as well as those who control the process. 
Not meaning to appear churlish, this columnist last January outlined a more inclusive and fair process to determine the champion on the field by placing the top-four ranked teams in a two-week, three-bowl process. My “Two, Three, Four Championship” process is sensible, reduces cheating and manipulation, adds a new type of playoff excitement to college football without upsetting confer­ence play or team schedules, and most importantly, allows the top-four ranked teams to settle the championship on the field. Furthermore, it involves two more bowls each year that will host the semifi­nal rounds. Each aspect of the 2-3-4 process is a yang balanced with a posi­tive yin. This quick and clean “playoff” would match the top four teams on New Year’s Day with the surviving two teams playing a week to 10 days later for the championship. 

The beauty of the 2-3-4 comes on two fronts — more teams participate, and fewer outside influences determine those teams. It is not out of pique to note that thus far this season more than one Southeastern Conference head football coach has publicly complained that SEC officiating seems to favor the currently top-ranked University of Florida Gators. While each opponent of the number-one and number-two ranked teams dreams of an upset each week, several recalci­trant BSC power centers clutch onto their restrictive self-serving oligarchy of greed. Sportswriters, conference officials (both administrative and those on the field with zebra-striped shirts), bowl committees, university administrators, athletic departments, booster clubs and corporate sponsors each own a piece of that ultimate moment of giddy in January. Reducing the influence of these special interests allows an undefeated Boise State from past years or possibly an undefeated Iowa this season to prove (or disprove) on the field the voting poll­sters’ self-proclaimed and usually regionally limited sage sports knowl­edge. 
On the flip side, how disconcerting must it be for a team to lose one game and be ranked number three in the nation at year’s end? No other sport depends on “acknowledging” an unde­feated team before it may participate on one hand, or that “special” one-loss team on the other, before crowning its champion as much as the BCS. Yet as it currently stands, both the conscience and unconscious can act with bias to promote a particular team or confer­ence. Schedules are massaged to include as many home games as possible against just the right nonconference opponents to boost late-season BCS rankings. Sportswriters and pollsters can boost a regional team while trashing a truly national powerhouse in an effort to skew rankings. Referees can brag that they work for the conference with the nation­al champion and that they have in fact “worked” that team’s games. Coaches attract better recruits. University admin­istrators and athletic departments can stack their golden coin bowl payouts next to their trophies. But ultimately, sanguine boosters with visions of future trophies dancing in their heads can ven­erate their current teams and enjoy some personal satisfaction while extrap­olating future team glory. 
No doubt, the Nay-Sayers will bludg­eon a new concept and concoct more doozy replies reminiscent of those who opposed my first 2-3-4 description last January — the most unique complaint lamented that fans would incur financial hardships and uncertain travel reserva­tions to follow their teams to a second bowl appearance. That reasoning ignores the successful following of rabid NFL fans during that playoff system. Such personal chutzpah about attending two bowls makes as much sense as say­ing Gator fans are currently limited to attend either the SEC championship game or a bowl game. 
The BCS stranglehold this season, like most others past, will ignore at least one team that should have been given the chance to prove its metal on the grid­iron. How long the BCS oligarchy reigns is anyone’s guess — at least until third and fourth-ranked teams unite for change. We wait until then while the BCS pushes up its two favorite teams and the rest of us are left to push up daisies. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 

Scene
page 14 Friday, November 6, 2009 


By MATT BROWN ment throughout this tour-By NICK ANDERSON all, Paul Bunyan was only and his jeans too thick. In what Scene Writer nament. Statistically, he is Scene Writer “human.” He went on to clarify this was proving to be a mythical mis-
one of the safest players out statement saying, “only human match, the Sasquatch could not 

In a match that pitted the there, rarely taking anything Everyone said it couldn’t be done and incredibly enormous and car-even get enough of Paul Bunyan’s lizard that destroyed Tokyo beyond a carefully calculat-but seventh seed Sasquatch has rying an axe of ridiculous magni-attention to get crushed. against the most terrifying ed risk. This controlled made it to the finals of the folklore tude.” In a last ditch effort to get recog­hunter in the universe, offense makes him a huge bracket. Not only has the The match-up began as one nized, the Sasquatch lifted Godzilla shrugged off threat. Sasquatch vanquished such foes as would expect with the clever Bunyan’s axe with all of his Predator on his way to victo-Harry: I don’t know if the grotesque Genie, the lovable Sasquatch leaving deceitful foot-strength and flailed the dangerous ry. preparation will be enough Leprechaun and the magical prints all over the forest floor and device at the lumberjack. The 
The match was so fero-to take down Godzilla in this Mermaid, but he has also done it in waiting in anticipation for Bunyan scream that emerged when the axe cious that this reporter feels match. Looking at this beast, style. to be fooled. Bunyan instead chose was lodged in the giant’s arm was that he could not do it jus-it’s hard to believe that any-His opponent, the number one to wash his face in the lake and one the Sasquatch would never tice. Luckily, a transcript of thing less than a strategic seed Paul Bunyan, seemed unstop-trim his beard with an axe, a risky forget, or really ever have a the play-by-play was discov-air attack could take him pable and un-phased by the endeavor by the lumberjack. chance to remember as he was ered, and it has been down. parade of monstrosities Sasquatch The confused Sasquatch almost quickly stomped out like a bur-reprinted here, with the Oh wait, the Predator is had stomped all over. To arrive at chose this moment to emerge from geoning wildfire by Bunyan’s enor­match described by the one closing in! Charging across this mythical position, Mr. Bunyan the safety of the woods but thought mous bare heel. man who could correctly the field with reckless aban-made mush out of Jack Frost, that this was just a trick the “I never enjoy the crunching relate the glory of the battle don, firing energy bolts as ignored the Boogey man, scoffed at deceivingly ignorant Bunyan had sound,” insisted Bunyan defending 
— Harry Carey. he goes, he has found his the Gremlin and found himself employed. Bunyan remained his innocence in what he called a 
Harry: Hello and welcome way under the gargantuan with an opportunity to become the unaware of any such competition terrible mistake. to today’s match. Today we lizard! The Predator has premier mythical creature of this and moved on to wash his flannel He apologized for the accident are in for one heck of a ride. pulled out his blades and it year’s matchups. shirt as well as his lumberjack and as for his own recovery, insist-We have Godzilla, king of appears he is swiping at Prior to the match Paul Bunyan shoes. ed that “I am a lumberjack and I’m the reptiles, versus none Godzilla’s Achilles tendon, a remained confused as to “why so The unnerved Sasquatch once still OK, and I plan on returning to other than the one, the only daring strategy that might many creatures had such distaste again snuck a peek at the enor-sleeping all night and working all Predator. With me in the just pay off. I gotta admire for him, which so frequently result-mous enigma that was Paul day.” booth is Bob Costas and per-the guts in that guy, it takes ed in violence.” He appeared to Bunyan but no reaction or confir-Hopefully he will also get excited sonally I can’t wait to see some sort of steel to run still not quite understand the con-mation of the situation took place. and finally figure out the match-up these guys in action today. directly at that behemoth. cept of these mythical matchups. Sasquatch had planned an entire system when he goes against the Can you Bob? Oh wait Godzilla has The Sasquatch on the other hand defensive game plan but could not winner of the Mythical bracket as 
Bob: Well Harry I certainly raised his foot! It appears seemed quite prepared and men-find a way to coax Bunyan into the number one seed and repre­can’t. It’s going to be a the Predator has been tioned to our crew how he hoped battle. sentative of the Folklore bracket. clear-cut case of brains ver-crushed! No! He’s up again, his “mystique, capability to vanish The Sasquatch went so far as to sus brawn in a close match just shaken from the fall. and blurry appearance would make grunting noises and kick the Contact Nick Anderson at nan­that I think could go either He’s climbing on top of the prove successful in the end.” After giant but his ears were too high ders51@nd.edu way. foot, he’s scaling the side, 
Harry: I hate to interrupt making his way to the head you Bob, but Godzilla has using his knives as climbing entered the arena and my, picks — what has gotten what a sight he is! Standing into this guy?! He’s out of his 10 stories tall and weighing mind. With an earth-shatter­in at 55,000 tons, he makes ing roar Godzilla shakes an imposing figure standing himself and the Predator tall in the center of the field. has lost his grip! He’s flying And here is Predator, no through the air and oh my, doubt a fierce competitor still shooting at Godzilla as who does not know the word he falls! Gotta love that in a “quit.” This dreadlocked player. Tracking the diminu­beast is dangerous enough tive hunter through the air, to strike fear in even the Godzilla lets loose a laser Governator himself. The bolt from his mouth and 
Predator has begun to circle wait … wait… I don’t see the the field sizing up his enemy, Predator. Could it be? looking for any weaknesses YES!!!! GODZILLA HAS to be found. DONE IT!!! 
Bob: This is true to form. Predator has not been seen Contact Matt Brown at to make an error in judg-mbrown14@nd.edu 


The Observer 

Scene
Friday, November 6, 2009 page 15 

By SZYMON RYZNER and brute force, he dragged his sive weapon was a lock-jawed By ERIC PRISTER Dodging another of Merlin’s Scene Writer opponent out of the water and bite, he was never able to fully Scene Writer barrage of spells, the Dragon 
the battle ended swiftly from decapitate the hydra. Working landed and blasted a stream 
All good stories come to an there. his advantage over the wounded Using brute force, swift fly-of fiery breath towards Merlin end. Unfortunately, Cerberus’s With momentum behind him, fiend, three of the heads were ing and craftiness, the Dragon before he could generate maniac run to the Elite Eight he rolled over the manticore and rendered comatose. Cerberus, was able to overcome the another spell. Merlin had to was cut short by the hydra, who landed in combat with the the more mobile of the two, powerfully magical but arro-react instinctively, jumping ended this heartwarming hydra. came at the miscreant from gant Merlin on his way to the backwards into the water. Cinderella story with strength, Jesus once said, “When some-every direction. As the red, Final Four. Catching him off guard, tenacity and just a small bit of one has been given much, much blood-slickened terrain slowed “He underestimated my abil-Merlin tried to steady himself immortality. will be required in return” (Luke his agility, the hydra slow took ities,” the Dragon said after on his new terrain, but this 
The tournament so far has 12:48). Few have been given control of the fight. the match. “He thought he was just the opportunity that been a furry of action ranging more than the hydra, who was Once the great dog was in the could just waltz into the arena the Dragon needed. He from violent massacres to myste-not only given nine heads — one hydra’s deadly maw, five of the and use his hocus pocus to snapped at Merlin’s staff, rious, shadowy battles hardly of which is immortal — but also hydra’s heads rent flesh from take me down. He was dead breaking it and destroying known to the eyes of man. The the ability to regenerate two in bone, leaving a sight only wrong.” Merlin’s only source of power. mythology bracket has seen the place of each one lost. This Michael Vick would enjoy. Merlin began the match in “After I broke his staff, I had some of the fiercest fights but at two seed, understandably, Hades, Cerberus’ keeper and the forest, trying to neutralize only one thought on my the final meeting of these beasts stomped his way through his trainer, watched in shock as his the flying ability of the mind,” the Dragon said. of antiquity, only two remained opponents and proved to be a pet was pureed. A single tear Dragon. The Dragon, having “Lunch.” standing: the Hydra and top tier monster. Down in rolled down the cheek of the seen this before, began In a gruesome display of Cerberus. Vegas, odds heavily favored the lord of the underworld, leaving a patiently burning the forest annoyance on the part of the 
Cerberus proved himself a hydra. barren patch of ground where it down with his fire breath. Dragon, he ripped the severely underrated competitor. High noon in the arena landed. The long walk back to “The forest took stamina,” unarmed wizard limb from While it seems near impossible marked commencement of the the land of the dead would be the Dragon said. “Merlin limb before devouring him to underestimate the guardian of fight. As the respected warriors lonely for this former master. thought I would get impatient. completely. the gates of the underworld, approached one another, it was The hydra, finally defeating a Once again, he underestimat-“I think he got what he Cerberus’ appetite for live meat clear that both would be in for a worthy opponent, roared in vic-ed me.” deserved,” the Dragon said. and a mane of serpents only gar-tough fight. In this battle of oh-tory. The media feared getting In fact, Merlin was the one “He has been arrogant nered him a ninth seed. so-many-heads, the size, speed too close, lest being disfigured who became impatient, and throughout the tournament, 
After a first round battle with and intelligence of each con-by spraying acid blood; it was growing tired of waiting, exit-and he believed that he could the Minotaur, Cerberus faced tender were near equal. Teeth assumed the hellion was looking ed the forest to face the outsmart me just as he out-one of the toughest creatures and claws sliced the bodies of forward to facing Paul Bunyan Dragon head-on. The Dragon smarted his other, non-human ever to be spoken of: the kraken. both competitors. The grassy in the Final Four. instantly rose to the skies, as opponents. Dragons resent the It seemed there was little hope knoll upon which they fought he had so often done through-belief that we have less intelli­for the beast of the underworld, was quickly caked in blood. Contact Szymon Ryzner at out the tournament. gence than those miniscule but with some crafty movement Because Cerberus’ main offen-sryzner@nd.edu Merlin began launching humans, even those with 
spells into the air, trying to magic. If he was so smart, he 
knock the dragon back down would have known that.” 
to the earth, but the Dragon Merlin was unable to com-
was simply too quick. He ment after the match. 
dodged the shots with ease, The Dragon is set to face 
biding his time once again. His Godzilla in his Final Four 
patience, coupled with matchup, a clash of two over­
Merlin’s arrogance and frus-sized lizards with a ferocity 
tration, soon paid off. that can only be described as 
“I knew that if one of his cold-blooded and calculating. 
spells made contact with me, I The Dragon said he under­
wouldn’t have much chance,” stood not to underestimate his 
the Dragon said. “It was even opponent.
kind of lucky that I was able to “Merlin didn’t believe I had 
dodge them all.” the intelligence to defeat him,” 
The Dragon then took offen-the Dragon said. “I won’t 
sive measures, swooping make the same mistake. I 
down occasionally and driving have to be on my guard. He 
Merlin closer and closer to the destroyed Tokyo, for God’s 
water’s edge, unbeknownst to sake. 
the unprepared wizard. When 
he drove him close enough, Contact Eric Prister at 
the Dragon struck. eprister@nd.edu 



JACLYN ESPINOZA l Observer Graphic 

page 16 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Friday, November 6, 2009 
MLB 

Lincecum facing pot charge 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE — San Francisco Giants pitcher Tim Lincecum is facing misdemeanor mari­juana charges following a traffic stop in his home state. 
Washington State Patrol spokesman Steve Schatzel said Thursday that the 2008 Cy Young Award winner and former University of Washington star was pulled 
over for speeding on Interstate 5 in the town of Hazel Dell, about four miles north of the Oregon border, on Oct. 30. 
An officer approached Lincecum’s 2006 Mercedes and smelled marijuana as the pitcher rolled down his win­dow. Schatzel said Lincecum immediately complied with a request to hand over the drug and a marijuana pipe from the car’s center console. 
The amount measured was 
3.3 grams. Schatzel said police consider that a small amount for personal use, well below the maximum of 40 grams before possession is classified differently and car­ries a more severe penalty. 
The arrest was first report­ed by The Columbian in Vancouver, Wash. 
“It was about the size of a thumb, the whole thumb,” Schatzel said of the volume of marijuana Lincecum handed over. 
Lincecum was fined a total of $622 for driving at 74 mph in a 60 mph zone, and for possession of marijuana and drug paraphernalia. Both are misdemeanors. 
The 25 -year-old All -Star starter entered a plea of not guilty through his attorney on Monday, according to records in Clark County District Court. A hearing that had been scheduled for Friday morning was canceled, pend­ing a pretrial conference between Lincecum’s attorney and a county prosecutor on Nov. 23. 
Lincecum is currently scheduled to appear before a judge on Dec. 22. 
The Giants said they were aware of the situation but did not immediately have a com­ment. 
The native of the Seattle suburb of Bellevue went 15-7 with a 2.48 ERA in 32 starts and 225 1-3 innings in 2009, his third season in the major leagues. He is 40-17 with a 
2.90 ERA in his career, and could be getting a huge, mul­timillion raise from salary arbitration this offseason. 
Teammates consider the smallish right -hander a quirky perfectionist. They also consider him the “Franchise,” the nickname they gave him when he broke into the big leagues only a year out of college. Others see his boyish face, shaggy dark hair, his diminutive frame — and his dominance 
— and call him “The Freak.” 
San Francisco chose him 10th overall in the 2006 draft out of Washington, and he instantly became the organi­zation’s top pitching prospect since Hall of Famer Juan Marichal signed with the New York Giants as an amateur free agent in 1957. 
WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Anti-doping tribunal suspends Wickmayer 
Associated Press 
BRUSSELS — U.S. Open semifinalist Yanina Wickmayer was suspended for one year by a Belgian anti-doping tribunal Thursday, accused of failing to report her whereabouts to drug-testing officials three times. 
The Flemish regional tribu­nal called the punishment “rea­sonable.” Tribunal spokesman Koen Uman said the suspen­sion takes immediate effect, but Wickmayer can appeal the decision. 
The 18th-ranked Belgian has denied any wrongdoing and said on her Web site she planned to appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport. She is playing in a tournament in Bali this week. 
Another Belgian tennis play­er, 2002 Wimbledon semifinal­ist Xavier Malisse, also was suspended by the tribunal for breaking the whereabouts rule. 
Wickmayer’s suspension came as a surprise, because a prosecutor recommended she receive only a warning for missing three tests over 18 months. The tribunal said Wickmayer’s failure to live up to anti-doping rules required a suspension. 
Wickmayer said last month she has had trouble with her password in the computerized system overseen by the World Anti-Doping Agency. She also said registered mail at her home could not be signed off on because she was traveling to WTA tournaments. 
She has insisted she never missed an anti-doping test and her samples were always nega­tive. 
Wickmayer has enjoyed a breakthrough year, including her run to the semifinals at the 
U.S. Open after never before moving past the second round at a Grand Slam tournament. She won her first two tour titles at Estoril in May and at Linz last month. 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Track chief suspended over Semenya debacle 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG — The South African track chief who lied about his role in runner Caster Semenya’s gender tests was suspended Thursday. 
Athletics South Africa presi­dent Leonard Chuene and the rest of the track body’s 12­member board were suspended pending investigations into their handling of Semenya’s case, the South African Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee said in a statement. 
The committee appointed one of its members, Ray Mali, as ASA’s administrator. He is expected to call an urgent meeting to elect an interim board. 
The Olympic committee also said its officials were consider­ing action against international track officials for their “disre­gard of Ms. Semenya’s rights to privacy.” The statement did not elaborate. 
Earlier Thursday, ASA said in a statement it wished to “pub­licly and unconditionally apolo­gize to Caster Semenya and her family, the president of South Africa as well as to all South Africans for the handling of her gender verification processes and the subsequent aftermath.” 
That statement referred to recent criticism of ASA from the governing African National Congress. 
Semenya won the 800-meter world championships in August after the International Association of Athletics Federations said it had ordered gender tests. 
Chuene later said he lied about his knowledge of the tests to protect Semenya’s privacy. Despite calls for his resignation, he received a vote of confidence from the ASA. 
The 18-year-old Semenya, a student at the University of Pretoria, has made only a few public appearances since returning from the World Championships in Berlin. 
Last month, she and other South Africans who earned medals at the world champi­onships were honored at a din­ner organized by the ANC’s Youth League. 
NFL 
Jury convicts in Collier shooting 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. — A jury convicted an ex-con Thursday of attempted first-degree murder in the shooting of former Jacksonville Jaguars offensive lineman Richard Collier in 2008. 
The six-person jury deliber­ated two hours and 45 min­utes before returning its ver­dict against Tyrone Hartsfield, 33, at the end of a nine-day trial. 
Hartsfield faces up to life in prison when he is sentenced in December. He still faces a charge of possession of a firearm by a convicted felon, but it’s not clear if prosecutors will pursue it. 
Hartsfield was visibly shak­en by the verdict and his sis­ter went into hysterics and had to be led from the court­room. 
After the verdict, Hartsfield surprised his attorneys and the judge when he asked to make a statement. 
“I feel like I didn’t receive a fair trial,” he said, adding his case should have been moved to another city. 
He also complained that his trial was held amid the Florida-Georgia football game and in the home of the Jacksonville Jaguars. 
Collier watched much of the closing arguments while seat­ed in his wheelchair in the courtroom gallery. He was shot six times as he waited in his car outside a Jacksonville apartment building. Collier was paralyzed from the waist down and his left leg was amputated. 
After the verdict, Collier said he felt the jury made the right decision. 
“Stuff like this has to end,” he said. “I can’t smile because this is sickening to me?” 
Collier said he was able to endure because of his faith and his family. 
“My life is good,” he said. 
In closing arguments, Assistant State Attorney Bernie de la Rionda reminded the jury of the attack on Collier. 
“Tuesday, Sept. 2, 2008, is a day that Richard Collier will never forget. How could he? He’s got a constant reminder every time he tries to move,” de la Rionda said. 
Thursday was Collier’s first appearance at the trial since he testified on the opening day. Both he and his team­mate, Kenny Pettway, testified they did not see anything when a gunman fired six shots into Collier’s Escalade. 
Ann Finnell, one of Hartsfield’s attorneys, said she believes Hartsfield is innocent and she plans to appeal. 
“My opinion is they have the wrong man and Mr. Hartsfield didn’t do this,” she said after the verdict. 
In closing arguments, she argued that the entire case against her client was built on circumstantial evidence. 
But after the verdict, de la Rionda said he believed that was one of the keys to victory. 
“When you put all the things together, circumstantial evi­dence is even better than direct evidence because it gets at the truth,” he said. 
Hartsfield had the motive and opportunity to shoot Collier, de la Rionda said in closing arguments, explaining that Hartsfield was seeking revenge after he was knocked out in a fight with Collier in April at a night club. The prosecutor said Hartsfield fol­lowed Collier’s car from a club and then sneaked up and shot him. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com. HOUSES ——————————————— Irish Crossings and Dublin Village 3 and 4 bdr, furnished and unfur­nished. January and June 2010 leases available. www.cespm.info Call 574-968-0112. ——————————————— 5 bdrm, 2 bath home. 705 ND Ave. $2150/mo. Avail. June 2010. 574­276-2333. ——————————————— 3 bdrm home on 1 acre wooded lot. Close to ND (1 block). $1250/mo. 574-276-2333. ——————————————— Home for ND football weekends. 1 mi. N. of campus. Reasonable. 574­360-0588 or gamedayhousing.com ——————————————— 4 BDRM HOUSE ON 32 ACRES OF NATURE AND SERENITY. 9 MILES NORTH OF NOTRE DAME. $1,200 FOR WEEKEND. CALL GEORGIA PEACH BED AND BREAKFAST @269-357-6979. ——————————————— 2 bdrm, 1.5 bath home, detached garage, finished basement, hard­wood floors, new appl. 1334 Corby St., $650/mo. Avail. now or for 10­11 school year. 574-309-6961. ——————————————— Furnished family home walk to ND. 4bdrm/2ba. $2K/mo. Spring semes­ter. 574-968-7394. ——————————————— Furnished apartment on Ivy Road available. All utes included. 1,2 or 3 people. 574-252-6628. 1/2 mile from campus ——————————————— 

PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-17819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu ——————————————— If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu ——————————————— 
TICKETS 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell  Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232-0964. ——————————————— HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top $$. 574-251-1570 ——————————————— 
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt., no experience needed, cus­tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835. 
——————————————— 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt., no experience needed, cus­tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835. 
——————————————— 

Around t e Nation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Friday, November 6 , 2009 page 17 
NCAA Men’s Soccer NSCAA Division I Rankings 
team previous 
1  Akron  1  
2  North Carolina  3  
3  UC Santa Barbara  4  
4  Wake Forest  2  
5  Louisville  5  
6  Maryland  6  
7  Virginia  10  
8  Connecticut  8  
9  Monmouth  14  
10  UCLA  7  
11  Duke  16  
12  Harvard  15  
13  South Florida  9  
14  Tulsa  18  
15  Charlotte  11  
16  San Diego  RV  
17  Northwestern  12  
18  North Carolina St.  13  
19  Stanford  21  
20  UC Irvine  19  
21  UNC Wilmington  23  
22  Missouri State  25  
23  Dayton  NR  
24  Butler  17  
25  Penn State  RV  

NCAA Women’s Golf NGCA Division I Coaches Poll 
team previous 
1 Arizona State 1 2 Pepperdine 13 3 Auburn 8 4 LSU 11 5 Georgia 14 6 Southern California 2 7 UCLA 3 8 Florida NR 9 Denver 5 10 Alabama 7 11 Oklahoma State 4 12 Wake Forest 6 13 Purdue 12 14 Virginia 9 15 Duke 10 16 California 19 17 Michigan State 20 18 South Carolina NR 19 Florida State NR 20 New Mexico 25 21 Chattanooga NR 22 North Carolina 15 23 Tennessee 18 24 Ohio State NR 25 Arizona 17 


around the dial 
NCAA Football 
Boise State at Louisiana Tech 8 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 
Cavaliers at Knicks 8 p.m., ESPN 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

NCAA rejects Bryant’s final appeal 
Associated Press 

OKLAHOMA CITY — The NCAA has rejected a final appeal to reinstate Dez Bryant, and Oklahoma State (No. 19 BCS, No. 18 AP) probably has seen the last of its All-America receiver. 
The NCAA rejected Oklahoma State’s appeal to reinstate Bryant on Thursday, meaning he won’t be back this season. The junior is considered a top NFL prospect and few expect him to return for another season in Stillwater. 
Bryant sat out the past five games for Oklahoma State (6-2, 3-1 Big 12) after the school ruled him ineligi­ble for lying to an NCAA investigator looking into Bryant’s offseason meeting with former NFL player Deion Sanders. 
The NCAA decided last week that Bryant should be suspended until next September, and OSU appealed to the NCAA’s Student-Athlete Reinstatement Committee. That group announced Thursday that it had reject­ed Bryant’s appeal in a two-paragraph statement that included no explanation. 
The NCAA indicated in its initial decision that it was showing leniency toward Bryant, because it could have taken his eligibility away entirely. 
Bryant caught 87 passes for 1,480 yards and 19 touchdowns last season while also scoring twice on punt returns. He was the only one of three finalists for the Biletnikoff Award left in school this year. 
In a letter to the NCAA that accompanied his request for reinstatement, Bryant had asked to be allowed to play again this season and that his “pun­ishment is not so bad that I do not get to play football again at OSU.” 
“We’re obviously disap­pointed for Dez. As a team, we’ll move forward from here,” Cowboys coach Mike Gundy said in a statement. 
Gundy had allowed Bryant to skip some team activities, including prac­tice, because Bryant found it difficult emotionally to be around the team while inel­igible. He was in Dallas for an interview last week when the NCAA’s initial decision came out. 
“He’s been in and out and around and in touch,” offensive coordinator Gunter Brewer said this week. “It’s just been a struggle mentally and it’s just been a tough time for everybody.” 
“He’s still working out and doing some things and somewhat on his own and somewhat with us,” Brewer added. 
While Bryant was away, Brewer said, he had been “really trying to get with his family and make some deci­sions for him for the long haul.” 
IN BRIEF 

FSU ’s Bowden to pick defensive coordinator 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. — Bobby Bowden sounds like he plans to coach next year at Florida State and says he’ll choose the successor to longtime defensive coordinator Mickey Andrews. 
In response to a question on Wednesday’s Atlantic Coast Conference football coaches telecon­ference, Bowden said he would give his designated successor, offensive coordinator Jimbo Fisher, a lot of input in the selection, but that he would make the final decision. 
Andrews announced his intention Tuesday to retire after 26 seasons at Florida State. 
Bowden, who turns 80 Sunday, is on a year-to-year deal at Florida State with a final option for the 2010 season since the school has promised $5 million to Fisher if he is not the head coach by January 2011. 
Former NBA referee Donaghy released from jail 
BROOKSVILLE, Fla. — Disgraced former NBA referee Tim Donaghy was a free man Wednesday after serving most of a 15-month sentence in a gambling scandal. 
Pat Berdan, a consultant working with Donaghy, said he was released from Hernando County Jail in Florida. Donaghy had been jailed there since August after officials said he violated travel restrictions while living at a halfway house in the Tampa area. 
A New York judge sentenced the ex-referee in July 2008 after Donaghy said he took thousands of dollars from a professional gambler in exchange for inside tips on games—including games he worked. 
The 42-year-old pleaded guilty to conspiracy to engage in wire fraud and transmitting betting information through interstate commerce in the tips-for-payoffs scheme. 
NOW calls for Raiders coach Cable to be suspended 
ALAMEDA, Calif. — The National Organization for Women called on the Oakland Raiders to suspend coach Tom Cable while the team investi­gates allegations he has a history of violent behavior toward women. 
NOW president Terry O’Neill praised the Raiders in a statement for undertaking a “serious evaluation” of charges made by Cable’s first wife, Sandy Cable, and former girlfriend, Marie Lutz, that the coach physically abused them at various times during their relationships. 
But she said that Cable should be suspended while that investigation proceeds. The Raiders had no com­ment. 
“This is the National Football League. Boys and girls around the country, as well as many women, look to the leaders of the NFL as our role models,” O’Neill said in a phone interview. 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, November 6, 2009 
NBA 

Lieberman breaks another gender barrier 
Associated Press 
DALLAS — The first woman to play pro basketball with guys is also the first hired to coach them. 
Hall of Famer Nancy Lieberman was introduced Thursday as the head coach of the Dallas Mavericks’ affiliate in the NBA Development League, which will tip off next November. 
The D-League team is par­tially owned by Donnie Nelson, the Mavericks’ presi­dent of basketball operations. Hiring Lieberman was his idea, and he’s confident young men won’t have a problem taking orders from a woman 
— at least, not this woman. 
“She’s got the skins, the experience — she knows what she’s doing — so I certainly hope that we’re well beyond those issues,” Nelson said. “Besides, if you can’t respect authority, no matter what form or color it comes in, I don’t want you on my team.” 
Lieberman has been a bas­ketball pioneer since she was 17 and made the U.S. Olympic team for the first women’s tournament, at the 1976 Montreal Games. She starred at Old Dominion and in vari­ous women’s pro leagues, then in 1986 played for the Springfield Fame of the United States Basketball League. When the WNBA started, she returned as a player, and later was a coach and general man­ager. She returned briefly as a player in July 2008, at age 50. 
Kobe Bryant later told her that he and his daughters were watching during her lat­est comeback. He also asked, “Why would you put your rep­utation on the line like that?” She told him she did it because she had no fear — and that’s exactly why she’s taking on this challenge. 
“I feel like I’m the right per­son for the job,” she said. “I know how these guys feel. I played in the minor leagues. I’m ultimately connected to that part of development in a player’s life.” 
She’s also proud to break another gender barrier, one she hopes “could be the last barrier.” 
“I kind of look at President Obama,” she said. “Everybody knows it’s historical because he’s a man of color. But at the end of the day, regardless of his race, creed, color or gen­der, he has to be president. Everybody knows I’m a woman, but at the end of the day, regardless of my race, creed, color or gender, I have to win basketball games. 
“In 1986, my goal was not to be a girl playing in a men’s league, it was to be a player in a men’s league,” she added. “In 2010, I don’t want to be a woman who is coaching men, I want to be a coach who is coaching.” 
NBA commissioner David Stern, a strong supporter of the development league and women’s basketball, called the hiring “great news for all.” 
“This is wonderful for the NBA D-League,” Stern said. “A basketball pioneer and Hall of Famer continues her jour­ney.” 
While the hiring is the most notable in D-League history, it’s no publicity stunt. 
Lieberman has lived in the Dallas area for 28 years and happens to live about 3 miles from the new D-League team’s gym in Frisco, a north suburb. She’s run summer camps for girls and boys since 1983, so long that she’s now teaching the children of some former pupils. 
Her involvement on every level of basketball, along with the obvious marketing benefit, is part of why Nelson calls the hiring “a no-brainer.” 
“What she’s done on a grass-roots level for basket­ball around here is second-to­none, and her experience can rival anybody’s in basketball, from Olympics to professional to being in the Hall of Fame,” Nelson said. “That, and the D-League is all about dreaming coming true, providing oppor­tunities.” 
Staying close to home is especially important to Lieberman because her son, T.J., is 15 and she wants to keep watching him play bas­ketball. 

“When I told him I was going to do this, he was so excited,” she said. “That was so different from when I came back last summer. He was like, ‘Ma, come on.’ But then the night I played, kids were blowing up his cell phone and he’s like, ‘Dude! I’m here with her! We’re making history!’“ 
The Mavericks will loan sev­eral players from their roster to the Frisco club and obvi­ously will have input on other signees. Lieberman said she would like to watch Mavs coach Rick Carlisle so she can run the same drills and use similar technical terms to make the transition between the teams easier on all the players. 
Longtime NBA coach Del Harris will be the team’s gen­eral manager. Former slam dunk champion Spud Webb, who is from the area, will be president of basketball opera­tions. The team has yet to be officially named. 
NHL 

Blue Jackets in financial trouble 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio — Columbus may have trouble holding on to the NHL’s Blue Jackets because the club has been losing $12 million a year in central Ohio, accord­ing to a report released Thursday by a business group. 
The report commissioned by the Columbus Chamber offers a variety of options for strengthening the hockey team’s financial position, such as new taxes or fees or selling shares to other investors or the general pub­lic. 
Other suggestions include allowing the team to renego­tiate its lease for Nationwide Arena or trying to attract a second major tenant, such as a basketball team. 
“It is important that our community retain this team,” said Dave Blom, chairman of the Columbus Chamber board. “The Columbus Blue Jackets impact our regional economy, support thousands of jobs and bring millions of dollars in tax revenue that contribute to our quality of life.” 
In the decade following 1998, the year after investors began the move to bring the team to Columbus, the city’s downtown Arena District has attracted various retail, restaurants and other busi­nesses, increasing property values by 267 percent and President Mike Priest said that the team’s current eco­nomic model has “significant disadvantages” and that it plans to work with public and private groups to find a solu­tion. 
Priest said the Blue Jackets, now in their ninth season, have built and maintained fan and corporate participation that has supported the team. 
“Public partnership in are­nas and stadiums has been a critical element to ensuring healthy, competitive sports franchises in markets across the country, including Cleveland and Cincinnati in Ohio, and our priority contin­ues to be to secure long-term financial viability in this great city,” he said. 
Options in the report, pro­duced by Stephen Buser, a finance professor from the business college at Ohio State University, include plans to continue the current private ownership, opt for alternate private ownership or public-private partnerships. 
He says in the report the Blue Jackets are at a disad­vantage to other NHL teams for reasons including that the team must pay $5 million a year to use the arena, incur costs of managing the arena year round and have no access to parking revenue or payments for arena naming rights. 
The $150 million arena was financed by Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co. It is one county voters wanted it that way. They have rejected arena tax issues three times between 1986 and 1997. 
The team’s owners unsuc­cessfully asked that the cur­rent state budget include a tax increase on beer, wine, liquor and cigarettes in Franklin County to raise $65 million to underwrite a coun­ty takeover of the arena. 
The state Department of Development has been involved in discussions with Nationwide, the Blue Jackets, and city and county officials, department spokesman Bob Grevey said Thursday. While nothing specific is on the table, the state recognizes the importance of keeping the team in Columbus, he said. 
Local voters have repeated­ly rejected public financing of the center, and the tax increase was opposed by members of the beer and wine industry, including brewing giant Anheuser-Busch, which operates one of its 12 U.S. breweries in the city. 
The Blue Jackets qualified for the first time last year for the NHL Western Conference playoffs, losing in the first round to the Detroit Red Wings. 
The team came to town nine years ago through significant private funding — much of it from the late John H. McConnell of steel finishing company Worthington Industries. McConnell died 

employing thousands, the of the few NHL facilities in last year, leaving his son John report says. the country that is privately P. McConnell at the helm of Columbus Blue Jackets owned — largely because the business. 


Friday, November 6, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
FENCING 

Irish send best to USFA Juniors 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Following back-to-back sec­
ond -place finishes in the NCAA Championships, the Irish begin this season look­ing to grab that elusive title. Led by sophomore epeeist Courtney Hurley and sopho­more Olympian Gerek Meinhardt, Notre Dame will send its best to compete in the USFA NAC Juniors today in Kansas City, Mo. 
“We have a different team now, ” coach Janusz Bednarski said. “One third of the fencers are new, so we are trying to find out from the individual competition in the fall and we will know their strength. There was big enthusiasm brought by the new kids coming here.” 
Despite being one of the youngest teams in collegiate fencing, the Irish finished the regular season first overall before falling to Penn State in the finals in March. The Irish will compete in a number of individual competitions in the fall to build up player rank­ings before the start of inter­collegiate competition in the winter. 
“From my experience, the team is very strong,” Bednarski said. “It has a blend of very good top inter­national fencers like Meinhardt and a lot of young kids who are competing to be starters. Gerek is considered by me the top in men’s foil in the country.” 
Meinhardt, the youngest male Olympian in Beijing, understands the challenges attached to his nametag. 
“I have to focus hard against every competitor,” Meinhardt said. “Because I’m at the top, people want to bring me down.” 
But Meinhardt is just a small piece of a very talented core of young Irish fencers on the men ’s side, including sophomore Enzo Castellani and junior Avery Zuck. 
On the women’s side, Hurley and her older sister, senior Kelley Hurley, will play an instrumental role in leading a squad balanced in talent and experience. Courtney is coming off a sen­sational performance last weekend in the Junior World Cup event held in Montreal, bringing home the gold medal. 
“She was first on the conti­nent in the world cup compe­tition, which gave her a lot of points to the international standing,” Bednarski said. “It’s a good sign to win a big world cup event, and she won last year, so she keeps the level.” 
Led by the only Notre Dame coach to win multiple nation­al titles in fewer than five seasons, this year’s squad promises to give Irish fans plenty to look forward to as the season progresses. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu. 
MLB 
Matsui named World Series MVP 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Hideki Matsui took a meaty cut, watched the ball fly and winced when it hooked a foot foul. 
That’s about all that went wrong for him. 
Matsui put the world in World Series MVP, earning the award by homering, dou­bling, singling and driving in six runs Wednesday night as the New York Yankees beat the Philadelphia Phillies 7-3 to claim their 27th champi­onship. 
Matsui became the first Japanese-born player to win the award that started in 1955. He hit .615 (8 for 13) with three home runs and eight RBIs. His performance in Game 6 matched the record for RBIs in a Series game. No one, however, had done it in a clincher. 
“It’s awesome,” Matsui said through a translator. “Unbelievable. I’m surprised myself.” 
Standing on a podium in shallow center field, Matsui waved his new championship hat and shook hands with commissioner Bud Selig. Matsui won three titles in Japan and was eager to cele­brate his first in the Bronx. 
“I guess it’s hard to make a comparison. When I was in Japan, that was the ultimate goal. Being here, winning the World Series, becoming world champions, that’s what you strive for here.” 
“You could say that I guess this is the best moment of my life right now,” he said. “It’s been a long road and very difficult journey.” 

Matsui’s two-run drive off Pedro Martinez in the second inning put the Yankees ahead for good. Nicknamed “Godzilla” back home, Matsui sent a shot to right field that banged off an advertisement on the facing of the second deck — fittingly, it was a sign for the Japanese company Komatsu, which makes min­ing and construction equip­ment. 
After his hard foul, Matsui added a two-run single in the third and lined a two-run double off the right-center field wall in the fifth. The giant videoboard in center field showed fans holding Japanese signs and while the sellout crowd roared, he stood placidly at second base. 
Fans cheered when Matsui’s feat, matching Bobby Richardson’s 1960 mark for RBIs in any Series game, was posted on the scoreboard. 
Matsui drew a standing ovation when he came to bat in the seventh, and chants of “MVP! MVP!” bounced around the ballpark. 
“He hit everything we threw up there,” Phillies manager Charlie Manuel said. 
Praised Yankees captain Derek Jeter: “Man, he looked like he wanted it bad, didn’t he?” 
“Matsu is one of my favorite players, one of my favorite teammates. He comes ready to play every day. He’s a professional hit­ter,” he said. 
Watching Game 6 on TV in Tokyo, Masanori Murakami echoed that sentiment. He was the first Japanese player in the majors, in 1964 with San Francisco, and fully appreciated the magnitude of Matsui’s honor. 
“Ichiro Suzuki has had many accomplishments, but they’ve all been in the regu­lar season. As the first Japanese to win an MVP in the World Series, this is a great accomplishment for Matsui and will have a huge impact,” Murakami said. 
“New York is a tough place to play, so this is a great achievement for him given all he has been through with injuries and missing time,” he said. 
Yankees outfielder Nick Swisher hollered Matsui’s name during the clubhouse party. 
“Matsu,” Swisher yelled. “They’re partying in Tokyo tonight, I know that. Man, what a great job Matsu did for us, been coming up clutch for us in situations all year long. He deserved that MVP trophy. There’s no doubt about it.” 
An outfielder by trade, Matsui hasn’t played the field since June 15, 2008, because of bad knees. He hit .274 this year with 28 homers and 90 RBIs, and wasn’t much of a force in the AL playoffs against Minnesota and the Los Angeles Angels. 
That changed against the defending champion Phillies. 
Now strictly a DH and pinch-hitter because of his knees, Matsui accomplished a lot in a hurry. His 13 at-bats tied Baltimore’s Rick Dempsey in 1983 for the fewest by a Series MVP (non­pitchers only, naturally), according to STATS LLC. 
Matsui became the first player to win the award as a full-time DH in the Series. Toronto DH Paul Molitor played in the field when the Blue Jays won the 1993 title. 
Matsui’s eight RBIs were the most in a World Series since Reggie Jackson had the same total in 1977 and 1978. 
“Just wonderful,” Jackson said. “He struggles to play the field now. Great, great player. Represents his coun­try well. He’s a gentleman. He’s a class act. Great player and to put on a performance like that in what may be his last time in Yankee Stadium, you just tip your cap and enjoy it.” 
Matsui left Japan and signed with the Yankees in 2003. At 35, his greatest achievement might’ve come in his final game in pin­stripes. 
This year wrapped up Matsui’s $52 million, four-year contract. It remains to be seen what the aging Yankees will do with him. Whatever happens, he cer­tainly left his mark. 
“I hope so. I hope it works out that way,” he said. “I love New York, I love the Yankees.” 


page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, November 6, 2009 
ND SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Teams travel to West Lafayette 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish women’s and men’s squads will be looking for important dual meet victories as both teams travel to take on Purdue today in West Lafayette. 
“It is our first meet on the road this season, and a big challenge,” men’s coach Tim Welsh said. “We will want to evaluate where we are in han­dling big challenges on the road after this meet, and since all of our major championships are on the road also, we want to become a great racing team on the road.” 
After their only loss of the season so far against Michigan, the Irish men’s swimming and diving teams are looking to the Boilermakers for a win to re­establish their reputation against Big-10 opponents, as they will also face Michigan State, Ohio State and Northwestern before the sea­son’s conclusion. 
“This is one of the tougher meets we have this season,” freshman breaststroker Chris Johnson said. “It’ll give us a good indication of how the rest of our season might pan out.” 
Competition will be stiff in the diving area for today’s meet, as Boilermaker and Olympian diver David Boudia will make an Irish victory chal­lenging in both the one-meter and three-meter diving compe­titions. 
Since the beginning of team practices about two months ago, practices have gotten increasingly more intense and have certainly not changed this week in preparation for a hopeful win against Purdue. 
“Our practices have been hard, challenging, and event specific since Fall Break all in the effort to help our team members improve,” Welsh said. “At this point in the sea­son, improvement from week to week is the name of the game for us.” 
The women’s team is still searching for their first dual meet victory of the season. So far, they have had two tough losses to Michigan, but have proven they own the ability to put points on the board as their winning times showed at the Dennis Stark Relays. 
“The girls are pretty hungry to compete,” women’s coach Brian Barnes said. “I believe this to be a very balanced team in regard to all four stroke events and relays.” 
The Purdue women’s team is undefeated so far this season, claiming first place at the Indiana Intercollegiate meet and a win over Miami University. 
“Purdue is a strong team, but we have beaten them every year since I’ve been at Notre Dame,” senior captain Megan Farrell said. “Our advantage when we face Purdue is that we have a lot of depth in the majority of the events we will race in.” 
The Irish have hopes of ben­efiting greatly due to the dif­ferent format of the advent, which could be a strong advan­tage. 
“This meet is a 16-event for­mat featuring 200 distances rather than just 100s,” Farrell said. “We tend to be stronger in middle distance events on 
the whole  so this is  to  our  
advantage.”  
Though it  is  merely  the  

beginning of the season for the women’s team, an early dual-meet victory against one of the toughest opponents they will see all season will be a great confidence boost. 
“This meet will be a good way for us to gauge our progress so far this season and will give us some insight as to how our training has been preparing us for race day.” 
The meet begins at 5:30 p.m. today at West Lafayette’s Boilermaker Aquatic Center. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu. 
GOLF 

Watney leads WGC in Shanghai 
Associated Press 
SHANGHAI — So much for that notion that American golfers don’t travel well. 
The first World Golf Championship in Asia opened Thursday to a leaderboard filled with Stars & Stripes, led by wide-eyed Nick Watney and his 8-under 64 that tied the course record at the HSBC Champions and including, as always, Tiger Woods. 
Watney got more excitement than he expected when he went to Shanghai’s metropolis in a cab that weaved through six lanes of cars on a three-lane highway. He felt far more safe at Sheshan International Golf Club, where he kept it down the middle and close to the flag. Watney made an acciden­tal eagle and ran off four straight birdies while building a two-shot lead. 
“It was just one of those days where everything was feeling really good, so I wasn’t too jumpy,” Watney said. 
Ryan Moore wasn’t about to pass up a trip to China when he qualified by winning his first PGA Tour event in August. With a new equipment deal in place, he shot a 6-under 66 to join Shane Lowry of Ireland and Martin Kaymer of Germany, who is second in the Race to Dubai and facing a big week at this $7 million event. 
Woods was the star attraction again, although it is was demanding as ever. 
Standing composed over his opening tee shot, he flinched all the way through his swing and let the 3-wood drop at impact upon hearing the shutter of so many cameras, inside and out­side the ropes. 
“The guy in the grandstand basically did almost a photo sequence,” Woods said. The shot was so short, buried in deep rough right of the fairway, that caddie Steve Williams had to walk 40 yards to find the yardage on a sprinkler. 
It was a frenzy for the open­ing hour, with marshals bark­ing at the gallery not to take pictures, and Thongchai Jaidee’s caddie having to walk up to a grassy hill and escort one photographer to the side of the ropes so his player could hit the shot. 
Ultra sensitive when it comes to cameras, Woods handled this day better than most and chalked it up to a maturing golf crowd in China. More frustrat­ing was not knowing where his ball was going throughout a gorgeous afternoon. Still, Woods took care of the par 5s and made enough putts to get around in 67. 
“It wasn’t my best ball-strik­ing round today for sure, but I made some putts, which was nice, and just managed my game well,” he said. 
Woods was joined by Anthony Kim, who spent most of Tuesday in Hong Kong trying to get his visa situation sorted out, Paul Casey and Lin Wen-tang of Taiwan, giving some local flavor to Asia’s biggest tournament. 
Casey had reason to be thrilled with his start, no mat­ter how many shots he feels as though he squandered. It was the first time he kept score over 18 holes since Sunday at Turnberry in the British Open. He had missed three months with a rib injury, returning last week in the World Match Play Championship. 
“I don’t quite have the power there yet,” Casey said. “But there is a way to get around the golf course without having that power, and I’m doing it quite well right now.” 
Matt Kuchar and Pat Perez were among those at 68, while Phil Mickelson, Jason Dufner and Brian Gay checked in at 
69. Of the top 20 on the leader-board through the opening round, nine were Americans. 
There were concerns that Americans would stay away from this World Golf Championship, being halfway around the world at the end of a busy year and not counting as an official event on the PGA Tour. 
Even so, 13 of them made the trip and all but two broke par. Jerry Kelly was smiling at the way he ground out a 71 while using new grooves in his irons to get ready for next year. 
“Got my first shank out of the way,” Kelly said with a laugh. 
On the first of two trips to China this month, Watney made an immediate impres­sion. 
He birdied his first two holes from inside 10 feet, then hit a hybrid where he wasn’t aiming on the par-5 14th. He was play­ing away from the flag — and the water guarding the right side — pushed it slightly and was relieved to see it settle 30 feet behind the hole. He made the putt for eagle and turned in 31, then fired off four straight birdies. 
“The greens are so good that if you hit a putt on line, it’s def­initely going to go in,” Watney said. “So I was putting very well. Just tried to give myself as many chances as possible, and I was able to make a few.” 
MEN’S TENNIS 
Irish finish fall slate in Virginia 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will round out its fall practice schedule when it trav­els to compete in the William and Mary Invitational this weekend in Williamsburg, Va. 
They will face Maryland, the College of Charleston and William & Mary. 
“Kyle Spencer is new at Maryland and is going to make a difference there,” coach Bobby Bayliss said. “W&M has added sev­eral new foreign players to their roster.” 
The Irish are coming off of a great showing throughout much of the fall season, including sopho­more Casey Watt’s run to the finals of the ITA Regionals in October. 
Bayliss noted that Watt’s per­formance made his presence known on more of a national stage and has the potential to become an elite college player. 
“Casey had a significant break­through at the ITA Regionals,” Bayliss said. “Reaching the finals in a field that included some of the better players in the country is a terrific achievement. Beating Justin Kronauge [Ohio State] is quite an accomplishment, as he had been the No. 1 player in the US in the juniors several years ago. His win over Marek Michalika [Wisconsin] is significant because [Michalika] beat Brett Helgeson twice last year. He clearly is becoming more aggressive and getting to the net more than a year ago. He always had the heart and wheels of a champion, but he now is getting some new weapons which allow him options he previ­ously lacked.” While the Irish got a stellar per­formance out of Watt, they are still looking for some new doubles combinations to help secure the doubles point more often and will try out some new combinations this weekend. 
Junior Dan Stahl will also get to see some action at No. 1 singles this weekend as the Irish continue to search for Helgeson’s replace­ment. 
Sophomore Niall Fitzgerald will make his only appearance of the fall season. 
“Blas Moros and Michael Moore have been very impressive this fall and I am anxious to see them in this field. Blas has added to his serve and Michael is becoming more comfortable coming forward to finish points,” Bayliss said. “Both can be impact freshmen this year. Sam Keeton had a great weekend in Boston in early October. We think he can continue his growth now that he is coming in to the net more because he really controls play well off the ground.” 
Bayliss said junior David Anderson’s back has improved, as has junior Matt Johnson’s groin injury. 
The Irish will take the rest of the semester off before hosting William and Mary to open their season at the Eck Tennis Pavilion January 22. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba01@saintmarys.edu. 



Friday, November 6, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 21 
MLB 

Yankees musing offseason options 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — The sign men were out bright and early at the Yankees minor league complex, sticking vinyl strips with a fresh, white “27” over the “26” that had been up on the board for nine, long years to mark the team’s total of World Series titles. 
Wind caused a few problems at the Himes complex in Tampa, Fla., but eventually the numbers were posted along with a new “2009” in what had been an open blue space below “2000.” 
“It’s a ton of joy,” manager Joe Girardi said on WFAN radio later in the day. “There’s a sense of relief because you know that you could rest your mind a little bit for a while.” 
Turmoil and turnover ceased in Yankeeland, at least for the moment. A 7-3 victory over Philadelphia on Wednesday night had brought the title back to the Bronx, etching the names of Alex Rodriguez, Hideki Matsui, Johnny Damon, CC Sabathia and others into the team’s long list of champions. 
“Every World Series victory is special, but this one is especially sweet coming in the first year in our new home,” owner George Steinbrenner said in a state­ment. “This group will become legendary — similar to the 26 world championship teams that preceded them.” 

Even though the clubhouse was still wet with champagne Thursday and the triumphant parade through the Canyon of Heroes was a day away, atten­tion already was turning to the future. 
Girardi said he was likely to switch from uniform No. 27 to No. 28 next year, signifying the next quest. 
But which players will the Yankees add for their title defense? Are the likes of John Lackey and Matt Holliday in the mix? 
“Basically, you have got to get after it,” general manager Brian Cashman said Thursday. “It pretty much comes pretty quick. I’ll be in Chicago with the other GMs on Monday. Two trades already have taken place.” 
Matsui, the World Series MVP, is eligible for free agency as is Andy Pettitte, who beat the Phillies in Games 3 and 6. So is Johnny Damon. 
Matsui, limited to designated hitter because of bad knees, wants to return. So does Damon, bothered by leg and back pain. 
The 37-year-old Pettitte needs time to decide whether to retire or return for a 16th major league season and try for a sixth World Series ring. 
“I have to talk with my family,” he said. 
There may not be room for Damon, who turned 36 Thursday, and the 35-year-old Matsui, especially if the Yankees land Holliday, the top available free-agent slugger on the mar­ket. Damon and Holliday both are represented by the same agent, Scott Boras. 
“They could play Matt Holliday in right field, too,” Boras said. “He has a strong arm. They have needs for two outfielders.” 
Nick Swisher, who took over in right after Xavier Nady got hurt, hit just .128 with two RBIs in the postseason after batting .249 with 29 homers and 82 RBIs during the regular season. But the St. Louis Cardinals, who acquired Holliday from Oakland in July, are expected to try to re­sign the 29-year-old. 
“Certainly St. Louis has an interest in Matt,” Boras said. “Matt had a very enjoyable time there.” 
The Yankees figure to be after pitching, too, and Lackey figures to be the top available free-agent starting pitcher. New York’s used just three starting pitchers throughout the postseason — Sabathia, A.J. Burnett and Pettitte — deciding not to take a chance on starting Joba Chamberlain or Chad Gaudin. New York became the first Series champion with just three postseason starters since the 1991 Minnesota Twins. 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish hit the road for Big East games 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame looks to bring its win streak to an even dozen this weekend as it trav­els to Marquette and Syracuse for its last confer­ence road games of the sea­son. 
The Irish (16-4, 10-0 Big East) have coasted through the conference so far this season and are its only unde­feated team. 
“When you’re playing well and winning, the confidence continues to build,” coach Debbie Brown said. “It makes practice more fun. It’s defi­nitely a positive thing.” 
The streak could work against the Irish, too. Because of their accomplish­ments, the players will enter both opposing arenas with targets on their backs. 
“I think all the teams work really hard to beat us and there’s a lot of incentive,” Brown said. “It’s a big thing for them in a year where we’re playing well and we’re undefeated. We expect that both teams are going to play really, really well against us.” 
Both teams have an extra motivation to come out strong 
— the Big East tournament is just two weeks away, and nei­ther has yet clinched a spot. The Orange (18-9, 7-4) are currently sixth in the confer­ence while the Golden Eagles (15-11, 4-7) are 10th. The top eight teams make the tourna­ment, and three slots are already filled. Notre Dame has secured a spot, as have Cincinnati and Pittsburgh. 
The Orange had been up with the leaders of the con­ference until Oct. 24, when a loss to Marquette ended their six -game winning streak. They have since lost four straight games. All four of those losses came on the road, and Syracuse has yet to lose a game in their home arena. 
“With both of these teams this weekend, especially Syracuse, it’s important for them to win in order to make the tournament,” Brown said. “To keep the season alive they have to win.” 
However, Brown said the Irish will do everything they can to keep that from hap­pening. The Irish have played every player in more than 
one conference game this season and make frequent use of the bench. But that might not be the case this weekend. 
“Marquette and Syracuse are playing at a pretty high level right now and we don’t want to do anything that will disrupt the rhythm of the team,” Brown said. “We feel confident in a lot of the play­ers but right now we need to put our best foot forward and that may mean playing our starters more.” 
Brown said the team has been focusing on the funda­mentals to prepare for Marquette and Syracuse. 
“Both of them have a couple good players that will be a challenge,” she said. “We’ve worked on our defense, blocking and defending dif­ferent shots. The serving and passing, the basics of the sport, are going to be really important to us. Our passing has been really good so that should help us.” 
The Irish will face the Golden Eagles Friday at 8 
p.m. and will then travel to Syracuse to take on the Orange at 2 p.m. Sunday. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu. 




page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, November 6, 2009 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Irish host USF in Big East Tourney quarterfinal 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
For a team that’s managed to scrape together only two winning streaks all season, there is no better time for the Irish to start a third. 
A week after beating No. 8 Connecticut, Notre Dame (10­7-1, 8-3-0 Big East) will host No. 13 South Florida (12-3-2, 6-3-2 Big East) Sunday at 1 
p.m. in a quarterfinal match of the Big East tournament at Alumni Stadium. The game will be a rematch of the 2008 Big East semifinals in Tampa Bay, where the Bulls defeated the Irish 2-1. 
“I really think [South Florida] will be a tough test,” ninth-year coach Bobby Clark said. “We will need to have the same focus as we had last weekend against Connecticut. It is important that we con­centrate on what we bring to the table and not our oppo­nent. If we do that, we will be in good shape.” 
The No. 3-seed Bulls and the No. 2-seed Irish also squared off earlier this season in a closely contested 2-1 South Florida victory in Tampa Bay. Despite heavily out-shooting the Bulls, Notre Dame could not overcome los­ing senior goalkeeper Andrew Quinn to injury only minutes into the match in the swelter­ing Florida heat. 
“It was a match where we were playing without both [sophomore defender] Aaron Maund and [freshman defend­er] Dillon Powers who were away in Egypt with the US Under-20 team for the World Cup,” Clark said. “Losing Aaron was a double blow hav­ing earlier lost [senior defend­er] Cory Rellas.” 
While defensive injures pre­vented the Irish from keeping a steady starting eleven, the Notre Dame defensive has come into its own since its early struggles. 
“I feel that our defense has settled down since then,” Clark said. “Hopefully, it will provide a more stable base than back in September. I am sure that South Florida will also have grown, but we have now found our feet as a team and are beginning to hit our best form of the season.” 
The Bulls are coming into Alumni Stadium after a 2-1 victory over Marquette in the opening round of the Big East Tournament Wednesday night. After staking out a 2-0 lead with goals in the 16th and 77th minutes, South Florida cruised to an easy victory over Golden Eagles, who were kept off the board until the 84th minute. 
While the Irish offense should keep the Bulls on their heels throughout the match, it will be the Notre Dame defense and goalkeeping that will decide the game. 
Still unresolved is the Irish goalkeeping situation during the tournament. Senior Andrew Quinn has a 3-4-1 record with a 1.23 goals against average, while fellow senior Philip Tuttle carries a 7-3-0 record with four shutouts alongside his 0.65 goals against average. 
“Both lads have played well this year, and once we see fit­ness later in the week, we will make a decision,” Clark said. “We are very lucky that we have two first class keepers, and Will Walsh, our other keeper, is not too shabby either.” 
Still, Clark acknowledged that wins or losses will result from the actions of more than just one player, and that, if Notre Dame hopes to mount a deep run in the Big East tour­nament, the Irish will have to play a complete game. 
“To go far in tournaments, we need to have good team defense,” Clark said. “This is the springboard for success. If we defend well as a team, then we will be in good shape to transition into attack. I feel this team knows their strengths, and if we work as a tight unit, then we have the players to go far.” 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 


Friday, November 6, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 23 

Quincy 
continued from page 28 
With only three combined starts between the five entering the season, acquiring experience for them is another important goal for Brey and the Irish. 
“I look at the five guys playing with Harangody and Jackson, and it’s almost new territory for them,” Brey said. “They’re all playing new roles and so a lot of my attention has been on those five, trying to get them confident. It’s also a little bit with Harangody and Jackson, adjust­ing to five new guys. They’ve played their roles with a similar nucleus for a long time so I think there’s an adjustment period there for those guys too.” 
Of the five, Peoples and Nash received the most playing time last season, averaging just over 14 and 11 minutes, respectively. Both played in at least 34 of Notre Dame’s 35 games last sea­son, but averaged just three points apiece, something that will need to improve for the Irish to be successful. 
“Nash has more of a role, and for Peoples, to start a game, that’s kind of new territory for him,” Brey said. “Those guys have been good trying to figure out how to play together, and we’re trying to help them with that. Last year, when we started practice, we were kind of a fin­ished product, and we were good. (This year) we’re going to change a lot, and we have a chance to do some things. And that’s where we’re different, and they need to be patient, and I have to remember to be patient as I watch them and try to figure it out.” 
The Irish are coming off of a 70-59 exhibition victory over Lewis University, a game in which they trailed with 15 min­utes to go in the second half. Harangody led the Irish with 33 points and nine rebounds, and Hansbrough, a transfer making his first start in an Irish uniform, chipped in 12 for Notre Dame. 
“We played too fast,” Brey said. “That’s the biggest thing offensively. We want to play fast, but we never down-shifted. It was just some of that excitement, but we just have to play a little slower. And even our two seniors played 100 miles an hour, so that’s something I’d like to do better on Friday.” 
The Irish tip off against Quincy tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the new Purcell Pavilion the Joyce Center. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
Big East 
continued from page 28 
believes that the 2009 edition of the Red Storm could pose chal­lenges for the Irish with their experience and strong defensive play. 
“They’ve got a roster that’s pret­ty senior dominated, so they’ve got experience, and they haven’t given up much defensively this year,” Waldrum said. “It’s gonna be diffi­cult.” 
St. John’s finds themselves in the semifinals after a thrilling 1-0 double overtime victory over a good Georgetown team in the quarterfinals. The stout Red Storm defense is anchored by sophomore goalie Kristen Russell, who has played every minute of the 2009 season, allowing just 0.56 goals per game and recording nine shutouts. 
On offense, the Red Storm are led by senior forward/midfielders 
C.J. Ludemann, who leads the team with 11 points, and Kaitlin Hass, who leads the team with four goals. 
Although Waldrum said each team carries momentum into the game, he believes that St. John’s may come out aggressive early on as they fight for a berth in the NCAA tournament. 
“Both teams are going in with momentum and St. John’s is trying to get into the NCAA Tournament, and to do that they want to win the conference tournament,” Waldrum said. 
The winner of the semifinal match between Notre Dame and St. John’s will face the winner of the other semifinal match between Marquette and West Virginia Sunday for the Big East crown. 
While Notre Dame has yet to face Marquette this year, the Irish posted a 3-2 overtime win on the road against West Virginia on Oct. 2. 
“Both teams are very good but they’re completely different,” Waldrum said. “West Virginia plays more like us. They’re big on the passing game and try to move the ball around. Marquette is a high-pressure team and puts numbers around the ball. They try to pressure you.” 
Because the Irish have faced the Mountaineers already this year and are familiar with their style of play, Waldrum said they may pres­ent a more favorable matchup for Notre Dame than Marquette. However, he respects the fact that both teams can present a chal­lenging match for the Irish. 
“We match up a lot of ways bet­ter with a West Virginia team than with Marquette, but having said that, we had to go to overtime to beat West Virginia on the road, and they’re both quality teams and present difficult matchups.” Waldrum said. 
Notre Dame continues its quest for its 11th Big East title today at 
7:30 p.m. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 


WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Frilling, Irish cap fall tournament schedule 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame began the weekend in style as sophomore Kristy Frilling won her opening round match in the ITA National Indoor Championships Thursday. The Irish will also send a doubles pairing to Kalamazoo, Mich., for the Western Michigan Invitational beginning today. 
Frilling had to wait until mid­week to learn she had qualified for the Indoor Championships after the 20th-ranked singles player in the country lost to top-ranked Maria Mosolova, 6-1, 6-3, in the finals of the Midwest Regional Singles Championships. 
Frilling opened the National Championships in number one form, beating No. 26 Mari Andersson of California in three sets. 
Louderback said he believes Frilling could win the tournament outright, as made evident by her first round victory. 
“She has a shot at winning. Everyone out there is good so it’ll be a tough tournament, but Kristy is good indoors and has been playing well,” Louderback said. “She had a good regional so we are looking for her to do well out there.” 
Frilling will next face eighth-seed­ed Venise Chan of Washington today at 10:30 a.m. 
While Frilling takes on Chan, an impromptu doubles pairing of sen­ior Kali Krisik and junior Kristen Rafael will open play at the Western Michigan Invitational. The fall schedule is not solely for returning to competition Louderback said, looking forward to the spring sea­son. 
“We do [look at the results from the fall] when we begin looking at positions they’ll play in the spring,” he said. 
Frilling, Krisik and Rafael will have a chance to help their spring positions this weekend as the three wrap up Notre Dame’s fall schedule. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 6, 2009 
WOMEN’S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
McGlinn challenges PW in first round of playoffs 
superior ability to reel in 
By MATTHEW ROBISON, 
interceptions, largely led by 
KEVIN BALDWIN, KAITLYN 
Smith. Their roster also has 
MURPHY and COLIN KING 
the advantage of depth; key 
Sports Writers 
plays are not limited to just a 
fewmaincontributors. 

In a match-up between the “Our talent is pretty spread top-seeded team and the out through the team, anyone eighth-seeded team, can come up with big plays Pasquerilla West (6-0) will when we need them to,” look to continue its path Smithsaid. toward perfection in a first Farley will need a strong round game against McGlinn defensive performance to sti­(3-3-1). fle the Pangborn offense. The 
While the Purple Weasels Phoxeshave had successwith dominated all season, a balanced approach. Junior McGlinn barely scratched its quarterback Gabby Tate has way into the playoffs with a proven herself to be versatile thrilling, last-minute win at the position, equally overLewis. skilled at running the ball as 
“We know we have the she is at unleashing a devas­upper hand,” Pasquerilla tating aerial attack with the West senior captain Cynthia supportofherreceivers. Curley said. “But in the play-Whatever they have in store offs, teams give it everything for Sunday, Pangborn is a we have. We expect McGlinn driven team that is looking tocomeoutready.” ahead toward championship 
The Shamrocks nearly fell glory. to Lewis, who was playing “We’ve been working spoiler, in their final regular towards the stadium from season game, which was day one. Our team has essentially a playoff game for meshed together really well McGlinn. However, the so we’re glad we get to play Shamrocks have proven they more games together,”sopho­belong in the postseason more captain Julie Cooney tournament, and do not plan said. ofmakinganearlyexit. Whoever comes out on top 
The Purple Weasels realize Sunday will play the winner the urgency of the situation of Pasquerilla West and as well, and will take the McGlinnnextweek. defending champion Pangborn and Farley will Shamrocksseriously. kickoff at 1p.m. at LaBar 
“Wearegoingtotreatevery Field. play, every snap, like it is the last play of the season,” Pasquerilla East vs. Walsh Curley said. “We know they Sunday’s playoff match-up areachallenge.” between Pasquerilla East (3­
With the heightened inten-2-1) and Walsh (5-1) will sity of the playoff game this showcase two of the best week, one can expect that quarterbacksintheleague. both teams will be practicing The Pyros’ senior quarter-harder and back Tara Pillai focusing more hopes to bring the in prepara-team their first tion. “Practice feels a play-off victory 
“Practice little different. We since 2002. On the feels a little other side of the 
are all a little bit
different,” field, the Wild 
more focused.” 
Curley said. Women will rely “We are all a on talented junior little bit more Cynthia Curley quarterback Amy focused.” Langnecker to 
Weasles captain 
The games generate big should also be plays. much more Walsh’s senior exciting. With both teams captain Molly McCarthy said coming in with nothing-to-that Langnecker’s primary lose attitude, look for both targets will be senior Sierra teams to step up the intensity Smith and junior Lindsay on every play. Defenses will Schanzer, both of whom out-be covering tighter, receivers performed many defenses will be sprinting faster, and they faced this season. Senior quarterbacks and running defensive end Kim Bugos and backs will be even more junior linebacker Carolyn locked-inthanusual. Leary will lead the Wild 
The Purple Weasels and the Women’s defense against an Shamrocks will meet at aggressive Pasquerilla East LaBarFieldSundayat1p.m. squad. 
McCarthy emphasized the Pangborn vs. Farley high level of dedication and 
After beginning the season spirit among the Wild Women as one of the top teams, as they get ready to take on Farley’s second half was abit thePyros. disappointing,withaloss and “We’re working hard to two ties. Pangborn (4-2) will make sure we’re prepared,” look to hand the Finest (3-1-she said. “Our team is pretty 
2) its second and final loss in diverse in terms of age, so the first round of the playoffs we’ve got agood combo of Sunday. fresh enthusiasm and talent 
“We had agood season,” from our newgirlsandknow-Farley sophomore defensive how, grit and desire from our back Katie Smith said. “We oldergirls.” would have liked to finish on Not only has Walsh out-per­a better note but hopefully formed all but one of the we’ll come back with awin in teams they faced on the field theplayoffs.” this season, but McCarthy 
The Finest’s biggest asset argues that the character of this year has been its the team far surpasses any resilient defense, neutralizing other. opponents’ passing games “For such a small dorm, I with their defensive backs’ think it’s very telling when you see around 30-40 girls well this season in our three show up for each game,” she wins,” Cink said. “When said. we’ve struggled, it has been 

Pasquerilla West’s Pillai in rainy weather that has said her team has the been difficult to pass the ball willpowertowin. in. If we get acouple scores 
“We are all very excited early,weshouldbefine.” about [playing in the play-Those early scores will be offs], but we tough to know that it come by is not against the 
“We’ve got a good combo 
enough to Howard
of fresh enthusiasm and
make the defense. The playoffs –we talent from our new girls Ducks (6-0) 
want to win and know-how, grit and have made 
some games their mark 
desire from our older
too,” Pillai playing said. “We girls.” stingy don’t want defensepres­this to be suring oppo-
Molly McCarthy 
our last nents into 
Wild Women captain 
game.” turnovers 
Pillai said and mistakes victories will while an be made possible by a solid opportunistic offense looks to team effort. This effort will cashin. be lead by senior linebacker “We’re going to look for our Liz Ruiz and senior safety defense to put pressure on Anne Horst on the defensive their quarterback and force side of the ball. On offense, turnovers, which our offense Pillai will look to her favorite will hopefully capitalize on,” Ducks junior captain Kayla Bishopsaid. 
Bishop emphasized the Ducks will not be content with just a perfect regular season. In order to make a deep playoff run, Howard mustcontinuetoimprove. 
“We have put in plenty of time in practice to be sharp for the playoffs,” Bishop said. “We want Sunday’s game to be a statement that we’re for real. 
This season’s unblemished runisthe first inHoward his­tory. 
Howard looks to make a strong statement, and contin­ue a perfect season, against Cavanaugh Sunday.Gametime is4p.m.atLaBarField. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu, Kevin Baldwin at kbaldwi2@nd.edu, Kaitlyn Murphy at kmurph28@nd.edu and Colin King at cking6@nd.edu 
receivers, freshman Erica Chenard and sophomore KristinMannion. 
The meeting between Langnecker and Pillai, the Pyros and the Wildwomen, is Sunday at 3 p.m. at LaBar Field. 
Howard vs. Cavanaugh 
Cavanaugh (3-3) looks to spoil undefeated Howard’s title chances in the first roundofplayoffsSunday. 
The Chaos are led by an experienced group of seniors and the sophomore quarter­backtowidereceiverconnec­tion of Rebecca Cink and Brittini Alexander, respec­tively. 
“Rebecca has been able to scramble and run really well,” Alexander said. “She’s also made really good deci­sions with the ball all year long.” 
In order for Cavanaugh to have a shot against Howard, Alexander and Cink must come up big. The Chaos have noticed a trend during the regularseason:astheoffense goes,sogoestheteam. 
“The offense has executed 


Friday, November 6, 2009 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
he really stepped up,” Bruck said. “He’s the reason we are 
Otters 

wherewearetoday.” continued from page 28 Even the rest of the defense credits the secondary as the 
ateligament(ACL)andmenis-spurofthedefense’ssuccess. cus,puttinghimoutofcommis-“Everything starts with the sion for the season. Though he defensive backs,” junior line-could not play, Sullivan backer Reid Mahoney said. 
assumed the role of defen­sive backs coach and has played a large role in the defense’s suc­cess. 
“[Sullivan’s injury] was a pretty big hit for the second­ary,”seniorcor­nerbackJeremy 

“They come ready to play “Everything starts and we all like tohithard.” 
with the defensive 
Withthesec­

backs. They come 
ondary playing ready to play and we at such a high level, the Otters 
all like to hit hard.” 
focus on stop­ping the run Reid Mahoney and forcing the Otters linebacker opposing team to pass against what coach Joe 
Alaska 
continued from page 28 
likely to see action this weekend. 
“Oddsarewe’ll try and work two of the guys in,” Jackson said. “But I can’t say that for sure.” 
In a big picture sense, Jackson said that he has his­torically been a “one goalie coach” throughout his career. He added, however, that he would give both players a chance to prove themselves. 
“I needsomebodyto step up and say, ‘This is my job,’” Jackson said. “I haven’t seen that happen 100 percent yet. It’s probably going tobeacou­ple more games before I get that sense that somebody is making that statement.” 

Traveling to Fairbanks always adds another wrinkle to this series. The team left campus around 7:30 a.m. Wednesday morning and didn’t arrive until about 1 a.m. Alaskan time. 
“It’s tough to travel up there,” Thang said. “They’ve got that aspect.” 
Another unique feature of playing in Fairbanks is the fact that the Nanooks play on a wider Olympic-size ice sheet. They are one of only two teamsin the CCHA, along with Northern Michigan, to do so. Jackson said he told his team to focus on the center of the ice and play “between the [faceoff] dots.” 
“It actually can be more 

OtherkeyaspectstotheOtter defense’s success have been communication, heart and an underdog mentality. The latter twooftenevokecomparisonsto Dr.Seussstories. 
“I’d compare it to Horton Hears a Who!,” Bruck said. “Siegfriedis the bigHorton, and we’relike,whocares?” 
Mahoneysaidheseesmoreof a holiday theme to the Otter defense. 
“Our defense is like The Grinch Who Stole Christmas,” Mahoney said. “Our opponents have hearts twice as small as us.” 
With the success this defen­sive unit has had, they are no longer the underdog, as evi­denced by the Otters’ second seed—andtheplayersseemto knowit. 
“Sorin defense hates Christmas,” said Mahoney, adjusting his metaphor accord­ingly.“We’rereadyforSunday.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Westerhaus called avery disci­plinedsecondary. 
Sorin does not rely on any special tactics or strategy, but rather pure athleticism, Bruck said. 
“Our call 100 percent of the timeis‘makeplays,’”hesaid. 
detrimentaltooffensebecause what happens is you get lost on that extra ice,” he said. 
Both games arescheduledto start at 7:05 p.m. AKT (11:05 
p.m.EST). 
Note: 
• Jackson said that junior defenseman Teddy Ruth, who suffered a leg injury prior to the season, had started skating and hoped to practice next week. 
“We’re hoping that he prac­ticesnextweek,” Jackson said. “There’s a chance he plays next weekend against Northern [Michigan]. He’ll def­initely play the weekend after that.” 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
inanysortoftrouble.” Sister Sue left Notre Dame 
Weasels 
after the 2008 school year, continued from page 28 but her legacy has lived on. This year, the Weasels are 6­back several years and to 0 and captured the top seed one driving factor: their for-in their division heading into mer rectress. Sister Sue the playoffs, and as the cap-
Bruno was at the heart and soul of every­thing Purple Weasel foot­ball. As this year’s senior co-captain Cynthia Curley said, there has perhaps never been a bigger Interhall foot­ball fan than SisterSue. 
“I think it’s safe to say she was the driving force of our team. She was crazy about our football.” 
Cynthia Curley Weasels co-captain 
tains said, this might be the best Weasel teamtodate. 
“In the past, we’ve had some really talented players, but we always had some weak spots,” Curley said. “This year we have the most even 
spread out athleticism I’ve 
“I think it’s safe to say she ever seen. Our defense has was the driving force of our been untouchable and our team,” Curley said. “She was offense, when it gets going, is crazyaboutourfootball.” almostmachine-like.” 
Sister Sue went to every The girls have also grown Pasquerilla West football particularly close off the Brucksaid.“Afterthat,weral­lied together and things turned outokay.” 
game without  field. They reg- 
exception. But  ularly  have  
while  most  “She had a cowbell at  team dinners  
rector’s and r e c t r e s s ’ demeanor at  every single game, and would stand on  and get-togeth­ers to hang out, talk football  
i n t e gamesbe  r h a l l tendsto more  the sidelines banging it repeatedly.”  strategy, and get any disori­entation out of  
r e s e Sister  r  v  e d , Sue  Alyssa Moya  the way before theirgame.  
wasn’t afraid  Weasels co-captain  “The  team  

Bruck also said Sullivan’s coaching was a large reason why the secondary still per­formedsowell. 
“Eventhoughhewasinjured, to let her enthusiasm show. 
“She had acowbell at every single game, and would stand on the sidelines banging it repeatedly,” senior co-cap­tainAlyssaMoyasaid. 
Sister Sue’s support for the football team wasn’t limited to the field; her love for Weasel football extended into thedormaswell. 
“She refused to Res-Life or fineanyPWfootballplayers,” Curley said. “She did all she could to keep us from getting camaraderie is 
by far the best since we’ve been here,” Curley said. “Unity-wise, we arethere.” 
The girls will start their quest for championship num­ber three when they face McGlinn (3-2-1) Sunday at 1 
p.m. Among other things, the Weasels will be looking to consolidate the notion that they are, as Curley described, truly a “dynasty 
Contact John Helms at jhelms2@nd.edu 


page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 6, 2009 
MEN’S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Vermin, Juggerknotts chase elusive playoff win 
Riehle Field with the winner 
By ANDREW OWENS, CHRIS 
advancingtoplayeitherSorinor 
ALLEN, MEGAN FINNERAN 
Siegfried. 
and BARRICK BOLLMAN 
Sports Writers 
Stanford vs. St. Edward’s 
Two years removed from its 

Carroll and Knott meet in the last Interhall championship, first round of the playoffs Stanford (4-0) knows what it Sunday,andbothwillbeplaying takes to succeed in the postsea­for one of the biggest wins in son. When the Griffins face St. recentdormhistory. Edward’s (2-2) Sunday in the 
NeithertheVermin(2-0-2)nor first round of the playoffs, they the Juggerknotts (3-0-1) have willtrytoproveit. lost this season, but it has been “We have alot of players left years since either won in the from the team that won two playoffs. years ago,” senior captain Chris 
Carroll junior captain Nick Gillsaid. “The playersfrom last Ruof said the Vermin relish the year’s team made the playoffs chance to be victorious in the also. We all know what to postseason. expect. Being the top seed, we 
“It’s extremely important to know [St. Edward’s would] love Carroll Hall,” he said. “We’re nothing more than to come out playing for pride. We won’t be andbeatus.” happy campers out in the mid-Stanford will come out with dleofnowhereifwelose.” the balanced attack that has 
The Vermin defense has placed them at the top of the anchored the team all season bracket, led by junior quarter-long and they hope for the unit back Tony Rizzo. The defense, to continue to play hard-nosed which stifled opponents all sea­defenseSunday. son, will try to stop an unpre­
“The defense has been dictable St. Ed’s attack, but the extremely important to our Griffinsareprepared. team,”Ruofsaid.“Defensewins “We’re ready for anything,” championships, and that’s what Gillsaid.“Wejusthavetocome wewanttodo.” outandplaythewaywe’vebeen 
Ruof also acknowledged that playing and get out to an early One of the best defenses in ing at least one touchdown Morrisseyhasn’tbeenasdom­the Juggerknotts will provide lead. Our defense will have to leaguehistorywilllooktoknock every game thus far. The inate throughout theentiresea­the Vermin aunique challenge watchoutfortrickplays.” the defending champions out of Ramblers mainly look to junior son. After blowing out an over­andthatCarrollwillhavetoplay Asthetopseedplayingateam the playoffs in the first round quarterback Matt Meinert to matched Alumni team in the acompletegametowin. that squeaked into the playoffs, Sunday when Sorin (3-0-1) makethingshappen,movingthe beginningoftheyearandeasily 
“The key to beating Knott is Stanford might be tempted to meets 2008 champion Siegfried ball through both the passing dispatching still-forming playinggoodfootball,converting overlooktheGentlemen,butGill (2-1-1). andrunninggame. Duncan, Morrissey beat defend-on all our possessions and not knows from experience how With single elimination dictat-Defensively, they have only ing champion and perennial makingmistakes,”hesaid. dangerousthismatch-upcanbe. ing who continues to the next given up atotal of 16 points, powerhouse Siegfried 9-7. 
Knott senior captain Aidan “My freshman year we were round,thisgamebeginsthefirst thanks in large part to players However, in their last game of Fitzgerald said Knott has relied theeightseedandwentoutand of three very important weeks. like junior defensive lineman the season, the Manorites suf­onyouthto earnitsfirstplayoff beat the one seed,” Gill said. Only one team will advance to DanScime. fered adefeat to Knott Hall, berthinhiscareer. “It’s Interhall football so any-thenext steponthe path tothe “We’re all really excited that hamstrungbymentallapses. 
“Wehavealotofyoungener-bodycanbeatanybody.Wehave Stadium. it’s the playoffs now and we Afterthementalmistakescost gy that has contributed to the to play like they are the best Sorin has consistently looked want to keep the championship them the game against the strongseasonwehavehad,”he teamwewillfaceallseason.” to sophomore Matt Pepe to trophy in Siegfried,” freshman Juggerknotts,Morrissey’sgoalin said. “We are confident in our St. Edward’s knows it faces a makekeycatchesandputpoints DavidWhitmoresaid. theplayoffsistowinandhavea players.” challenge in playing the top-on the board, along with fresh-SorinandSiegfriedwillplayat very simple plan to accomplish 
AlthoughtheJuggerknottsare seededGriffins,butisnotintimi-man RyanRobinson, seniorRob 2p.m.SundayatRiehleField. thatobjective. seeded above Carroll, the third dated. Gallic and numerous other men “We want to score points … seed against the sixth seed, “We haven’t really seen them, who have worked to make the Morrissey vs. Dillon touchdowns preferably,” senior Fitzgerald said the team will being in adifferent division, so Otters’offenseastrongone. In one of the most evenly captain Phil Yuhas said. “On takenothingforgranted. all our information is hearsay But the biggest reason for matched games of the first defense, we need to reap some 
“Weneedtokeepplayinghow and rumor,” St. Edward’s coach Sorin’s undefeated season lies round, Dillon (3-1) will play souls and not let the other guys we have been playing all sea-Cameron Hogue said. “It comes notinitsoffense,butinitsstal-Morrissey(3-1)inamatch-upof intheendzone.” son,” Fitzgerald said. “We want down to executing our game-wartdefense,ledbyjuniorline-astrong defense against aver-Both teams recognize the to play our game and if we do plan. We’re going to play our manMattGamber. satileoffense. importance of the playoffs, that we like our chances. At game andmakeStanfordadjust Infourgames,theOttershave Dillon has been adominating which is the goal of every team practice this week we’ve been tous.” repeatedly stopped teams from force throughout the season, atthestartoftheseason. going over plays and making Hogue also dismissed the converting on fourth down with blowingoutO’Neill,Keenanand “Theplayoffsaretherealsea­sureweknowourassignments.” David vs. Goliath connotations blocks and interceptions. They Keough.Ineachcontest,theBig son,” Yuhas said. “Special 
Carroll and Knott come from that being alow seed playing have yet to allow asingle point Red heldtheir opponents score-things happen in the playoffs different divisions, so the two the higher seed would conjure toanyteaminitsfourgames. less while scoring multiple that don’t happen in the sea­teamsarenotfamiliarwitheach up. “Cominginasafreshman,it’s touchdowns. Their only loss son.” other. “Beingthelowestseeddoesn’t prettyexcitingtohaveateamdo cameatthehandsofundefeated The two teams will meet 
“It will be alittle different add motivation for us,” Hogue so well,” freshman Killian and untied Stanford 12-7. The Sundayat2p.m.atRiehleField than our other games,” said. “It’s still Interhall football Frailey said. “It’s nice when a key to their success has been a withasemifinalberthatstake. Fitzgerald said. “When we play and all it takes is two big plays teamcancometogetherlikethis solid defense, giving up only teams in our league we know towinthegame.” andworkhardtostopouroppo-sevenpointsallseason. Contact Andrew Owens at whattypesofplaystheyrunand The top-seeded Griffins will nents.” “Games are won and lost in aowens2@nd.edu, Chris Allen at how their defense looks. We take on the Gentlemen Sunday While Siegfried does not have the trenches,” junior captain callen10@nd.edu, Megan don’tknowalotaboutCarroll.” atRiehleFieldat1p.m. aflawless record in its title Jordan Smith said. “We have Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 
The Vermin and Juggerknotts defense, its offense has proven playedwellontheoffensiveand and Barrick Bollman at will play Sunday at 1 p.m. at Sorin vs. Siegfried itself timeand timeagain,scor-defensivelineallyear.” jbollman@nd.edu 



Friday, November 6, 2009 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 

HOROSCOPE FRIDAYS WITH FRAN 2.0 
Aries: A pre-emptive Thanksgiving diet can’t hurt. 
Taurus: Whatever happened to predictabili­ty? The milkman, the paperboy, the evening TV? Verdict: Well, Stephanie just got out of rehab… 
Gemini: Something about telling our future soldiers to “suck it” seems inappropriate. Follow your heart in this matter. Verdict: GO IRISH GO 
Cancer: Christmas is less than fifty days away. Now would be the proper time to put Mariah Carey’s “All I Want for Christmas is You” on an iTunes loop. 
Leo: Your no-shave November is successful so far — whether you intended it or not. 
Virgo: Taylor Swift and Taylor Lautner? Genetic jackpot. Sorry, you and your lover will never be that attractive. 
Libra: 140 years ago today, the first official inter-collegiate football game was played. It was Rutgers vs. Princeton. Fail. 
Scorpio: Get in loser we’re going shopping. Verdict: University Park Mall 
Sagittarius: DART times are up. Yours sucks. 
Capricorn: Text your predictions of Navy game to (402) 250-7719! 
Aquarius: New Transpo line around off-cam­pus hot spots? HELLOOOOO party bus!! 
Pisces: Give John the card swiper at South a big ginormous hug when you see him tonight… Verdict: 5 stars!!! 


JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
COLIN HOFMAN
THE MOBILE PARTY 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and eventsin the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer anindispensible link tothe two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Friday, November 6, 2009 page 28 
HOCKEY 

Notre Dame makes trek to Alaska for two-game set 
By SAM WERNER 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish travel 3,500 miles to Fairbanks,Alaska this weekend for a two-game CCHA series against the Nanooks in the sec­ond weekend of conference play. 
“It’s nice to get away from home,” Notre Dame coach Jeff Jacksonjoked.“Butnotthisfar away.” 
One of the biggest goals for the No. 9 Irish (4-3-1, 1-0-1 CCHA) this weekend will be to finally light the lamp during even strength play. Of the five goals the Irish scored against Ohio State last weekend, four wereonthe power play and one was an empty-netter. 
“It’s kind of evolved now where we’ve got guys pressing,” Jackson said. “We’ve got guys where they don’t score, they tightenuponthesticks,andall ofasuddenthey’re trying todo too much or shooting the puck from bad angles.” 
Senior captain Ryan Thang echoedJackson, saying that the team’s evenstrengthwoeswere moreaboutmentality than any­thing else. 
“It’s just a matter of time,” Thang said. “[We’ve] just got to stay positive.” 
This weekend may not be the best set of circumstances for the Irish to break their slump, though, as Alaska (5-0-1, 2-0-0 CCHA) has only given up an average of 1.2 goals per game this season. 
“It’s going to be tough,” Thang said. “Alaska’s playing great.” 
Part of the Nanooks’ success defensively can be attributed to sophomore goalie Scott Greenham, who has given up only seven goals on the season with a .949 save percentage. 
The situation in the Notre Dame goal is slightly murkier, however. Junior Brad Phillips, the presumed starter coming into the season,has started five games for the Irish with a 2.18 goals against average. Freshman Mike Johnson, though, has looked impressive in his two starts, with only one goal allowed and a .982 save percentage. 
Jackson said that both were 
see ALASKA/page 25 


INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

Playoffs?! 
Stout Otter defense 


Purple Weasels in ready for Ramblers 
hunt for perfect season 
By ALLAN JOSEPH By JOHN HELMS 
Sports Writer Sports Writer 
Iftheoldadage“Defensewins 

One doesn’t often equate a championships” is true, Sorin’s 
weasel with dominance. firstroundplayoff game against 
However, over the last six Siegfried should be nothing 
years, there seems no other morethanaspeedbumponthe 
word more appropriate to road ato achampionship in a 
describe the Purple Weasels few weeks. The Otters (3-0-1) 
of Pasquerilla West’s enter the playoffs undefeated 
Interhallfootballprogram. thanks to their stellar defense, 
The team will begin its which has yet to allow apoint 
quest to reach its seventh thisseason. 
consecutive semifinal and Before the season, it seemed 
win its third championship in that Sorin had the potential to 
thelastsixyearsSunday. shut down opposing offenses, 
If there is a dynasty in returning the majority of a 
girl’sinterhallflagfootball,it defense that had been impres­
istheWeasels.Theteamwon sivein2008,withonlyafewkey 
back-to-back championships losses to graduation — holes 
in 2005 and 2006. And now, thatwouldbefilledbyfreshmen 
after two straight seasons of and transfers. However, the 
heartbreaking playoff losses, Otters suffered a tough blow 
they look to complete a per-when sophomore strong safety 
fectseasonwithathirdtitle. Bobby Sullivan went down 
The origin of this Purple becauseofatornanteriorcruci-
Weasel dominance dates 
SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 

Sorin junior linebacker Reid Mahoney, left, and junior defensive lineman Matt Gamber contain a see OTTERS/page 25 Zahm ballcarrier during the Otters’ 20-0 victory on Sept. 27. see WEASELS/page 25 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Irish face Red Storm in semis 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
No.4/7NotreDamefindsitself inafamiliarpositionthisweekend astheyheadtoStorrs,Conn.,to play St. John’s in the Big East semifinals.Bytheendoftheireast coastroadtrip,theIrishhopeto returnhomewiththeir11thBig Easttitle. 
TheIrish,whoaremakingtheir 14thappearance in 15 yearsin the conference semifinals, find themselves facing aRed Storm teamthathasnotadvancedthis farintheconferencetournament since1994. 
Notre Dame hasn’t faced St. John’s since the 2007 season. Coach Randy Waldrum said he 
see BIG EAST/page 23 


MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Irish host Quincy in final exhibition game 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Writer 
At the start of aseason with many questions still unan­swered,coachMikeBreyisstill looking to fill in the pieces of his lineup around star seniors Tory Jackson and Luke Harangody.Tonight’sexhibition gameagainstQuincyUniversity is simply the next step in that process. 
“I think when you’ve been coachingawhileyoucycleinto moreofateachingmodewitha newgroup,andIcertainlylike it,” Brey said. “It’s energizing. There are new things to talk about every day, as somebody does something and you say ‘Wow, Ididn’t know he could do that. Maybe we should tweakthings.’I’mstilltryingto figure out our identity alittle bit and we’re still going to be trying todo that, butit’s afun atmospheretoworkin.” 
Since the start of practice, Brey has looked to five upper­classman to fill in the spots around Harangody and Jackson — seniors Jonathan Peoples and Ben Hansbrough, along with juniors Tyrone Nash, Carlton Scott and Tim Abromaitis — each of whom will need to prove himself to earn his role on the squad. 
see QUINCY/page 23 




