~------­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 44: ISSUE 29 FRIDAY. OCTOBER 2, 2009 
Endowment falls record 20 percent 
Despite historic decrease, Notre Dame fares better than peer institutions in recession 


By AARON STEINER News Writer 
Notre Dame's endowment assets took a hit last year during a period of historic market turmoil, but outper­formed a number of peer institutions and key indices, ending with a market value of $5.5 billion, University Vice 

President  and  Chief  
Investment  Officer  Scott  
Malpass said Thursday.  

Malpass recently reported 2009 fiscal year results to University Trustees. detailing the endowment's 20.8 percent decline over 2008 results, when the investment pool was 
valued at $7.1 billion. 
Malpass said he's "never happy to be down," but was pleased to fare "relatively well" during a "very challeng­ing year." 
"Our performance was at the better end of the big endowment group," he said, adding that the fund also per­formed better than the S&P ­which fell 26.2 percent last year -as well as key inter­national and other indices. 
The fund's decline brought it back to late 2006 levels (the endowment was valued at $5.1 billion in 2006) while markets lost significantly 
see RETURNS/page 6 

7..1 
6.5 

4.1 




2005 2006 2007 2008 

JACLYN ESPINOZA I Observer Graphic 


Campusgroups host Body Image Week 
Events including FIRE Forum focus on boosting self image, preventing eating disorders 
.... '' ·~.· 

BODY IMAGE AND EA1ING DliORDER. AWARENHiS WEEK SCHFDUI.E 
October 1 -Thin: Guidecl Tour by &lite Museum 
Curator at Photography October 2 -Movre and Discussion October 3 -Brochures in residence Balk October 4 -Petiriou and.~ CardG at campus Masses October 5 -THIN Screeningfollowed by Q&A-7 PM October 6 -1lWt: Guided Tomby Slli.te Museum 
Curator at Photoeraphy October 6 -Mus ot Healinc at Rye Hallfollowedby DinDer with Speaken-6:30PM October 7 -Body Image and EatingDisorders: F1RE 
Fonun 7 ~ Geddft HanA.uditori11111 October 8 -Love your Body Day October 8 -Yoga, TBA 
October 8  -R.esoarte Tables. TBA  
October 8  -Ot~Jetmqse and  .  8 Pill  
JACL YN ESPINOZA I Observer Graphic  

Five teenagers arrested as carjacking suspects 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY News Editor 
Police have arrested five teenagers for the Sept. 24 carjacking of two Holy Cross students, South Bend Police spokesman Capt. Phil Trent said. 
All five suspects were arrested for carjacking. criminal confinement and robbery. Trent said the Prosecutor's Office is cur­rently reviewing the charges. 
"They do have the cases and they have concurred with us that there is obvious criminal culpability," he said. 
Formal charges will likely be set Friday, he said. 
Several of the teenagers arrested have previous crim­inal records, according to Trent. 
The two Holy Cross stu­dents were approached by the suspects near the 800 Block of Notre Dame Ave. iate last Thursday and forced into their car. The victims told police at least 
one  of the  men  had  a  gun.  
The  men  robbed and  beat  
the  students  while  they  

drove to several area ATMs to withdraw cash. The suspects eventually 
see SUSPECTS/page 8 
By NORA KENNEY News Writer 

This week, five on-campus organizations are joining together to present Body Image and Eating Disorder Week, which will focus on raising awareness about dis­eases such as anorexia and bulimia. 
The sponsor organizations include the Gender Relations Center, Feminist Voice, Snite Museum of Art, Student Government and the University Counseling Center. 
The event began on Thursday with the "Love Your Body, Love Thee Notre 
Dame" poster campaign as well as a guided tour of the .. Thin" exhibit with Steve Moriarty, Curator of Photography at the Snite Museum. 
"I'm just really excited about this week, and the rea­son I'm so excited is that there is unity in trying to get this message out," Mandy Lewis, president of Feminist Voice, said. Lewis said eating disorders and negative body images are both huge issues on campus as well as in soci­ety. 
"The whole point of this week is to tell you that you're 
see DISORDERS/page 8 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Vatican appoints ND prof as advisor 
By ROBERT SINGER Assistant News Editor 

Fr. Paulinus Ikechukwu Odozor, associate professor of theology, will be starting his fall break early -Pope Benedict XVI has appointed him as an advisor for 
the Second Special Assembly for Africa of the Synod of Bishops in Vatican City from Oct. 4 to 25. 


The first Odozor Africa;1 synod took place 15 years ago 
during the Rwanda genocide, Odozor said, and the upcoming meeting of some 200 bishops from across the African conti­nent will focus on a familiar theme: "The Church in Africa in Service to Reconciliation, Justice and Peace." 
"The purpose is to bring atten­tion to bear on Africa, to see how the Church can be more effective as an agent of salvation but also as an agent of social change and progress in Africa," he said. 
According to the 62-page doc­ument "instrumentum laboris" released by the pope in anticipa­tion of the synod, topics covered 
see ODOZOR/page 8 


Experts discuss healthreform 
By ALEX TOOMBS News Writer 
Aon Consulting, in conjunc­tion with the University's Career Center, held a work­shop in DeBartolo Hall Thursday on the effects of healthcare reform upon today's job market. 
The workshop helped guide a concerned audience of stu­dents interested in careers in the health care and govern­ment relations fields. 
Amidst the political strife accompanying the fierce debate coming from both sides of ·the spectrum, many students in the nursing, pre­
see HEALTH/page 10 


INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER Jet flyovers harder to get page 4 • Mythology Bracket showdown page 16 • lnterhall previews page 32 • Viewpoint page 14 

I I  I I  I I11 11 11I, I, I,I I  



page 2 The Observer • PAGE 2 Friday, October 2, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Prank Away Pessimism 
It's that time of year. 

The weather is dreary, and the football team is starting to under­perform like a Charlie Weis team once again. Not to mention that South Dining Hall has decided not to restock fresh food until after Fall Break. 
To fight back against the disap­pointments of Mother Nature, the Fat Plague and corn-dog buffets, consider pulling these pranks to make the Golden Dome shine a little brighter. 
Wing-It Rudy: Robert Singer 
Sneak into the football team's procession to the Assistant Stadium by News Editor dressing up in a suit and tie, hid­ing just inside Fitzpatrick and blending in undetected as the group walks past. Aim for Sam Young's vicinity -he might just hold you all the way to the locker room. 
NBC Revenge: 
On a large poster board, paint an acronymic advertisement for NBC on one side. For example, a poster reading, "ND I Believes in I Community," accompanied by a headshot of Joel McHale might entice the network to give some extra time to its new show during a football game. Once the camera focuses on your ad, flip it over to reveal your true message. Something along the lines of "NBC I Beats I Children" would do. 
Second Coming: 
Gather a bunch of plastic crates like those used to ship Coca-Cola products, and place them in the bot­tom of the reflecting pool, forming a line from one side to the other. Dress up in a robe and sash on a home football Saturday and walk across the crates to render tourists speechless by creating the impres­sion that you are walking on water. If nonbelievers doubt thy divinity, remind them of one of your other talents -drain the reflecting pool overnight and refill it with a couple hundred boxes of Franzia by the morning. 
Nut Block: 
Buy a stuffed squirrel from Ebay, and then freeze the squirrel in a block of ice. Under a snow drift, place the ice block of squirrel in a high traffic area like South Quad or the entrance to DeBartolo. For added effect, throw in some nuts and manipulate the stuffed squirrel into a pose to make it appear as if he was chasing, or perhaps juggling, the nuts when he met his fate. 
Seismic Stonehenge: 
Construct a paper mache replica of a slab of stone. Attach a fish line and place your creation on top of Stonehenge. Wait for tourists to approach and yank on the line, causing panic by triggering the deadly-looking stone slab to the ground. 
The Observer bears no responsi­bility for any unlawful or disgraceful actions inspired by this column. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Rubert Singer at 
rsinger@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE BEST PLACE ON CAMPUS? 







Jaclyn Cotton  lan Giles  Ryan Dunbar  Leon Zhou  Keith Hetrick  
sophomore McGlinn  sophomore Knott  freshman Keenan  sophomore Stanford  sophomore Keenan  
"The Edys ice  ··Football  ..Keenan Hall.  "My bed.··  ..406 Keenan.··  
cream counter  Stadium.  but Notre Dame  
in LaFun,  Saturday. 3:30  Stadium on  
except now they  to 6:30 p.m.,  gamedays. ••  
don't do  

mix-ins. •• 

Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

Students work to draw a hand In a figure drawing class taught by Maria 
Tomasula In Riley Hall Thursday. 
OFFBEAT 

Mule deer becomes tangled In Christmas lights 
HELENA, Mont. -Call it a case of Christmas creep. A young mule deer in Montana is ushering in the holiday season early. Montana Fish, Wildlife and Parks game warden Kevin Cook says the buck got mixed up with a string of Christmas lights and now they are hanging from his antlers and body. The agency started getting reports about the decorated deer near Fort Harrison last week. 
Cook says the buck proba­bly became entangled when he rubbed his antlers on a 
TODAY a:: 
tree. He says the depart­ment is keeping an eye on the animal, but so far it seems to be full of mule-tide cheer. 
Circus llamas cause traffic jams In Dublin 
DUBLIN -Dublin's traffic is often snarled, but this could be the first time that llamas are to blame. 
Five of the South American animals accom­panied by two goats ran rampant Thursday on the Irish capital's major ring road, the MSO, causing S­mile (8-kilometer) traffic jams. Police eventually cor­ralled the animals safely into a trailer. 
Circus owner Alexander Scholl says his animals bolt­ed when fuel deliverymen failed to shut a gate. He rejects rival circus owners' claims that he deliberately loosed the llamas on to the highway to gain attention for his Circus Sydney, which has previously lost ele­phants and a wallaby. 
"There's no way this was a publicity stunt. If these llamas hit a car and killed somebody, who are they going to arrest, me or the llamas?" Scholl said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 



L&.l 
z 
!ct 
L&.l 
3: 
...1 
~ 
(.) 

..... 0 HIGH 59 HIGH HIGH 52 HIGH 
LOW 52 LOW LOW 44 LOW 
IN BRIEF 

The tunnel of Notre Dame Stadium will be open to the public today from 1 0 a.m. until 5 p.m. as part of the Game Day events of the 2009 season. 
The Notre Dame men's and women's cross country teams will host the Notre Dame Invitational today at the Burke Memorial Golf Course begin­ning at 2 p.m. The event is open to the public. 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team will play Seton Hall tonight at 7 p.m. at the new Alumni Stadium. For ticket information, call the athletic tieket om....... 
..,t; 

574-63t-735b. 
The Linden String Quartet will perform at 8 p.m. tonight in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The program will include music from Haydn, Bartok and Beethoven. To pur­chase tickets, call the ticket office at 574-631-2800. 
Professor Thomas Anderson will deliver a lecture entitled "Images that Matter: The U.S. as Seen through Latin American Eyes" on Saturday at 12 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. The lecture is part of the Saturday Scholars Series sponsored by the College of Arts and Letters. 
The Notre Dame women's vol­leyball team will play VIllanova Sunday at 2 p.m. in the Joyce Center fieldhouse. For ticket information call the athletic tick­et office at 574-631-7356. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 



HIGH LOW 
62 HIGH 65 50 LOW 48 

Atlanta 72 I 54 Boston 63 I 53 Chicago 56 I 48 Denver 77 I 58 Houston 82 I 68 Los Angeles 81 I 59 Minneapolis 50 I 43 New York 65 I 62 Philadelphia 69 I 63 Phoenix 93 I 69 Seattle 56 I 42 St. Louis 67 I 48 Tampa 88 I 71 Washington 75 I 63 


Friday, October 2, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Career Center offers study space for students in Planner Hall 
Sunday through Wednesday nights, group and private study rooms are available through reservation or on walk-in basis 

DAN JACOBS!The Observer Sophomore Ryan Geraghty utilizes study space in the Interview Center of the Career Center. The spaces are available Sunday through Wednesday nights. 

Beat 
ashington! 

• 
Try our Unique tnenu items: Shamrock Bemty ... ywnmy eggs Benedict with an Irish flare, our Desperado Skillet for the hardy appetite or our Fosters Pancakes ...our flufiy cakes smothered in bananas sauteed in our gooey butter!! Remenzber to eat hlffore vou tailgate!!! 
Hours: 

127 South Michigan Street Monday-Friday 6:30-2:00ptn Downtown South Bend 
Sat -Sunday 7:00-2:00ptn 
574-288-PEEP 
EAT LIKE A CHAMPION TODAY! 


By CARLY LANDON News Writer 
The Career Center's Interview Center at Flanner Hall will be available for stu­dents to use for study space, Sunday through Wednesday, from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. Career Center Coordinator of Office Services Mary Fisher said. 
Last fall, President of Student Affairs Fr. Mark Poorman became aware of a lack of study space available to students. lie asked the Career Center if they would be willing to loan space so students could have more options for studying. 
"The Interview Center is great for studying because it is nice and quiet, and unlike many other locations stu­dents use for studying on campus, students can have their own private rooms," Fisher said, "We also a room catering to group study." 
Though the library has study rooms, their numbers are very limited and often it is hard to find a quiet space conducive to work. The Career Center not only has a variety of rooms available, but they also take reserva­tions in advance, in addition to walk-ins. 
"Usually not that many peo­ple take advantage of what is available here, maybe because it is so far from the 
residence halls," Sophomore Zhe Yang said. "However, it is a great atmosphere for studying, especially since study rooms in dorms easily get noisy and turn into social spots." 
Fisher said the study rooms tend to fill up as midterms and finals approach. 
.. We are definitely more crowded around midterms and finals. That's the general trend for most study loca­tions on campus so most stu­dents wait until those weeks to call for reservations," Fisher said. 
This is the second semester the Career Center has given this opportunity to students, and though turnout has been reasonable, they hope to attract more students by increasing awareness among the student body. 
"We especially see a lot of students that live close by, so the Mod Quad dorms are heavily represented," Fisher said. "But students from all areas on campus are invit­ed." 
Space is ·available four days a week, with student moni­tors available for any needs students might have. Also students may make reserva­tions up to seven days in advance, by calling Consuela Howell at 574-631-9915. 
Contact Carly Landon at dandonl@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 2, 2009 
Colonel explains absence of flyovers duringfootball games 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 

Students and fans turned their heads in anticipation during the Star Spangled Banner at the two home foot­ball games this year, and expected to see fighter jets zoom over Notre Dame Stadium. But the jets never came. 
"First game, I was really excited for it. Then when it didn't happen I was really dis­appointed," sophomore John Ghazi said. "I kind of thought maybe that there was a prob­lem with the first game so I assumed it would be at the next game and then I was angry when they didn't come for the second game." 
The fighter jets did not fly over the Stadium for the first two games because opera­tional needs took priority for Nevada game, and opera­tional approval was not attained for the Michigan State game, Tri-military Coordinator for Flyovers Lieutenant Colonel Shawn Braue said. 
Braue said he had a flyover set up for the Washington game, but it was canceled. He said he was still trying see if another unit can step in, and hopes a flyover will still be possible. 
"That's all you can do. You can't expect anything. Even the ones I have lined up, there's no way I can say it's going to happen," he said. "Operational needs will take precedence. We're low on the totem pole." 
Braue said he set up a fly­over for every home game this season, and hopes the fly­overs will work out for the remaining the home games. 
"We should hope for fly­overs for the rest of the sea­son but we can never expect them. We have every game scheduled for something," he said. "So hopefully, knock wood. We're going to get what we need and what we asked for." 
Braue said fans have come to expect flyovers because Notre Dame has been lucky enough in the past to have requests fulfilled. But every game, every year, flyovers are only a possibility, not a guar­antee. 
"(The fans] have almost got­ten kind of used to it. Most stadiums around the country don't get them. Notre Dame has been really, really fortu­nate over the years," he said. "There are so many things that could happen that would take the flyover way from us." 
For example, if a jet crashes in another part of the country, all other flights might be grounded, Braue said. He also said the economic crisis and the fact that they country is at war could play a role in why fighter jets are harder to obtain this year. 
"When a jet crashes or they need a jet to deploy, it shuffles the whole deck. It's like a whole deck of cards," he said. 
Braue said he did not know how much it cost to fly fighter jets over the Stadium because the units pay for it, and often use it as part of training. 
Ghazi said the student body looks forward to the flyovers and hopes they will return. 
"Its really cool because it shows how big of a deal Notre Dame football is and how excited everyone is for it," he said. "I think everyone wants it [to come back]." 
Braue said the Navy, Boston College and Connecticut games have flyovers lined up. For the USC game, the Army jump team plans to parachute into the Stadium. 
"This year, [for] every game, we had something lined up. Unfortunately, it's not going as well as we had hoped, but I'm not going to get greedy either or feel bad about that because if we get flyover a year, that's more than some schools get," Braue said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at 
smervosh@nd.edu 


Th~ Saturday Scholar Series invite~ you to experience discussions with Notre 0..1me's most engaging faculty on some of the most pressing and fascinating i.uues of our times. 
Each lecture and Q&A is free and open ro the public. 
"Images That Matter: The U.S. as Seen Through Latin American Eyes'' 
Thomas F. Anderson Associate Professor Department of Romance Language and Literatures 
12 Noon Saturday, October 3, 2009 Annenberg Auditorium Snite Museum ofArt 
This talk wiJI examine a wide range ofopinions that Latin Americans 
have formed of the United States over the past two centuries through 
readings of texts that hail from many countries (Argentina. Cuba, 
Dominkan Republic, Guatemala, Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico, 
Uruguay) and various areas ofstudy (literamre, politics. history. 
economics, ere.). Though rhe views ofthe authors and the images thar 
they paint of the United States are diverse, many of them are strikingly 
similar in their revelation of the negative sentiments of L·uin Americans 
who feel \'iolared by what they see as the Unired States' irnperiaJisdc 
ambitions in the rt.'gion. 

SMC hosts Light the Night fundraiser 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Writer 

Some people walk for a parent. some for their broth­
er  or  sister,  some  for  a  
grandparent,  some  for  a  
friend  and  some  just  

because they want to raise awareness. 
Yesterday, Saint Mary's College hosted the Light the Night Walk to help raise funds for the Leukemia and emotional punch ... seeing the posters and banners people carry is very mov­ing," Carolyne Call, director of the Office for Civic and Social Engagement at Saint Mary's College said. "There's a great deal of love and hope expressed through this event." 
Call said the College is proud to host the event and help in any way possible. 
"(It] allows us to demon­strate some solidarity with 
Lymphoma Society. Participants help not only raise money, but also awareness about the diseases. 
This is the third year 
the  College  
has  hosted  
the  event.  
The  course  

of the walk 

..[It] allows us to demonstrate some solidarity with those struggling with cancer. •• 
Carolyne Call director, Office for Civic and Social Engagement 
those strug­gling with can­cer," she said. 
Junior Sarah Weber, who lost her father, said the Walk is an excellent way to help raise awareness and inform people about the dead­ly diseases. Although she was unable to walk this year, 

starts outside of LeMans Hall and runs throughout the campus. 
Last year, about 500 peo­ple participated and Saint Mary's teams alone raised more than $2,000. 
The event can be quite emotional. especially for survivors of the disease and their families. 
"The event packs quite an Weber's friends walked in her father's memory. 
"The blood cancers are so aggressive and we're never told the signs to look for, so it is so important that we raise awareness," she said. "Light the Night Walk is a perfect way to do this." 
Contact Caitlin Housely at chouselyO1@saintmarys.edu 

FALL 2009 SCHEDULE 
~ 9.5.09 {vs. Nevada) "Memorial Mo~nia: Public Art and flublic ft.•dings in AmericaTcxhy" Erika nos.,. Professor and Chairperson, Department ofAmeric.1n Studies 
~ 9.19.09 (vs. Michigan State) "lnccrn.arional Securit~· Swdics: \Vhat the Eg._~eads Can leach the Gencmls" Michael Desch, Professor and Chairperson, Departmem of Polidetl Sf.:ience 
~ 10.3.09 (vs. Washington) "'Images lbt1t Maner: 1he U.S. as Seen lhrough L.uin American Eyes" Thomas F. Anderson, Associate Professor, Department of Romance Languages 
and Litcracurcs 
~ 10.17.09 (vs. USC) 
"'Shakespeare in the 21st Century" Peter D. Holland, McMed Family Professor in Shakespeare Studies. Dcpanmem offilm, Television, and Thc:.ure 
Scott Jackson, Ext.'Curh·e Din.'Ctor, Shak~pcarc at Norre Dame 
~ 10.24.09 (vs. Boston College) "'The French Revolution, or How to Keep Your Head in Turbulem Times.. Julia V. Douthwaite, Proft:ssor, Department ofRomance languages and Lilcramrt~ 
~ 10.31.09 (TS. Washington State) game in Stm Anumio; lrcturt ilt /0 tlm, Marriott Rilvrrmtcr 
..Latinos and the Rcnt"wal ofAmcric<ln C.:atholicism" Virgilio P. Elizondo, Notre Dame ProftS.'>or ofJ>a.~toral and Hispanic '[heology. Department of"lheolo~)' 
Daniel G. Groody. CSC, Assistant Profe.ssor; D<:partmcm oflhcologr 1imothy M. Matovin~ Professor. Department of"lheolog,r 
~ 11.7.09 ·(VJ, Navy) 
"Going Global: Medical F.rhics in th(· Age ofAIDS.. Maura Ryan, John Cudiml O'Hara As&ociarc (lrofessur ofChristian Ethic~. Department ofTheolngr 
~ 1 1 .21.09 (TS. Connecticut) "Undmt.:tndingthe r.ultural, Religiolt~ and Spirhuallivt-s ofEmerging Adult.~ (18-13 Yc.tr Olds)" Christian Smjth, William R. Kenan, Jr. Prnti:s.~)r ofSocioloro; Department ofSod£lk~· 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME hnp://$aturday~holar.nd.cdu 
College ofArts and Letters hnp://aLnd.edu/ 

Friday, October 2, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Italian police seize counterfeit goods 
Ml LAN -Italian police say they have seized an estimated 20 milJion euro ($29 million) worth of counterfeit designer purses, wallets and watches in a three-month crack­down that implicated 14 Chinese immi­grants. 
Police said in a statement Thursday that they had also raided two dormitories and a massage parlor rented to the suspects. Inside the buildings, police found illegal immigrants hiding under beds and locked in bedrooms in an apparent bid to avoid arrest. 
The statement said that, of the 14 Chinese nationals implicated, seven were illegal migrants. Two were arrested. 
Israel tries to avoid persecution 
JERUSALEM -Stung by a damning U.N. report alleging war crimes in Gaza, Israel is taking extraordinary steps to fend off poten­tial international prosecution of its political and military leaders, hiring high-powered attorneys, lobbying Western governments and launching a public relations blitz. 
Israel has dismissed the U.N. investigation into its winter offensive in the Gaza strip as biased, but its latest moves show it is clearly concerned. 
The U.N. report appears to have energized pro-Palestinian groups that have hoped for years to bring Israelis before courts in coun­tries that recognize the concept of "univer­sal jurisdiction" -trying people for crimes unrelated to their own territory or nation­als. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Teen imprisoned in closet for 4 years 
OKLAHOMA CITY -The sister of an 
-Oklahoma lJuy who ~ays his mother locked him in apartment closets over four years said Thursday she would bring her brother food, but would tell him not to chew because their mother would check his teeth to see whether he had eaten. Jaleasa McCall, 18, told The Associated Press that her mother beat, whipped, choked and tied up her 14-year-old brother, often locking him away for days at a time inside bedroom closets. She said she would bring her brother food and sympathy, but couldn't summon the courage to call police. 
Gingrich group rescinds award 
DALLAS -Newt Gingrich's conservative group gave -and then rescinded -a business award to a popular topless club in Texas, the proprietor said Thursday. 
Dawn Rizos said she was looking forward to receiving the promised "Entrepreneur of the Year" award at a Washington, D.C., banquet from American Solutions for Winning the Future, which the former U.S. House speaker chairs. 
After all, Rizos is the owner of The Lodge, which was named the Best Overall Club in America last year by ED Publications, which sponsors the gentlemen's club industry's annual convention and trade show. 
But before she had a chance to dine on lobster bio;;que with Gingrich at the Oct. 7 awards dinner with some 50 other business leaders, tl1e honor was yanked away. The group apparently con­fused Rizos' business, which is legally called OCG Inc., with one by the same name in Virginia. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Mesothelioma victimsseek right to sue 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana residents who are fighting deadly mesothelioma because of exposure to asbestos want legislators to change state law so they can sue for damages long after their contact with the material. 
They testified Thursday before an interim legislative committee, saying a state Supreme Court interpretation of state law gives them only up to 10 years to sue over a disease that often takes decades to manifest. 
They want at least two years after they are actually diagnosed with a disease they believe was caused by asbestos to seek civil damages. 
Smart alleges she was raped 
Kidnap victim testifies that captor sexually assaulted her daily during captivity 
Associated Press 

SALT LAKE CITY ­Taking the stand for the first time since she was snatched from her girlhood bedroom seven years ago, Elizabeth Smart testified Thursday that her captor raped her three or four times a day, kept her tied up with a cable around her leg, and threatened to kill her if she tried to escape. 
Asked by a prosecutor to describe Brian David Mitchell, the self-described prophet accused of holding her captive for nine months, Smart replied: "Evil, wicked, manipulative, stinky, slimy, greedy, selfish, not spiritual, not religious, not close to God." 
Smart, now a 21-year-old college student, gave her horrifying account in feder­al court as part of a pro­ceeding over whether Mitchell is mentally compe­tent to stand trial. 
The 55-year-old one-time street preacher has been behind bars since 2003 ­mostly in a state mental hospital -but has yet to stand trial. Twice he has been ruled mentally in cum­petent in state court, and he has often demonstrated bizarre behavior, including incessantly singing hymns in the courtroom and once face-to-face with her ted her walking the streets federal charges of kidnap­yelling at a judge to repent. alleged tormenter. Mitchell of a Salt Lake City suburb ping and transporting a 
Smart testified that within was removed from the with Mitchell and his wife, minor across state lines. In hours of her 2002 kidnap­courtroom for disruptive Wanda Eileen Barzee. both the state and federal ping at knifepoint, she was behavior-singing hymns Smart testified that in the cases, experts have split led away to a secluded -before Smart arrived, days immediately following over Mitchell's competency. mountain campsite and in a and watched the proceed­the kidnapping, Mitchell Mitchell's lawyers main­quickie ceremony became ings from a holding cell. held her captive with the tain he is incompetent and the polygamous "wife" of A federal judge ruled ear­help of a 10-foot cable bolt­suggested that evidence of the older man. lier this week that Smart's ed to her leg and tethered to his delusions can be found 
"After that he proceeded testimony is relevant to the a line stretched between in his religious rambling to rape me," Smart said, question of Mitchell's com­two trees. She said Mitchell and writings, including a sharing for the first time petency. Mitchell's compe­threatened to kill her if she 27 -page manifesto he called publicly her account of the tency hearing is not set to yelled or tried to get away. "The Book of Emmanuel ordeal. begin until Nov. 30, but Smart said Mitchell would David Isaiah." 
She said Mitchell showed Smart testified early rape her three to four times Smart said he read from her pornography and plied because she is going on a a day. There was some the book repeatedly during her with alcohol and drugs religious mission for the respite -usually when her captivity, often sang to lower her resistance to Mormon church in Paris. Barzee became upset over hymns and laced his con­his sexual advances. Once, Smart was 14 when she Mitchell's relationship with versations with religious Smart said, she tried to fight was abducted from her bed­Smart-but it never lasted, language. Throughout her Mitchell off by biting him. room in the middle of the Smart said. captivity, Smart was forced On the stand for nearly night. In a surprising turn Mitchell is charged in to wear a white, ankle­two hours, Smart was that transfixed the country, state court with kidnapping length robe, a head scarf ·poised, her voice never she was rescued in March and sexual assault. Last and two veils across her 
wavering. She did not come 2003 after a motorist spot-year, he was indicted on face. 

SAMOA 

Military bringsaid to tsunami victims 
largely silent. take the bodies and have their own
Associated Press Samoans traditionally take their loved burials, while others wanted a mass APIA -Convoys of milita.ry vehicles ones and bury them near their homes, funeral delayed for a week to allow chil­brought food, water and medicine to the but that could be impracticable ber~mse dren and grandchildren to return to the tsunami-stricken Samoas on Thursday many of their villages have been wiped islands from overseas. as the death toll rose to 160 and victims out by early Tm~sday's earthquake and A total of 160 people are now con­wandered through what was left of tsunami. firmed dead, including 120 in Samoa, their villages with tales of being trapped Naomi told them the burial would 31 in American Samoa and nine in underwater and watching young chil­take place in a new cemetery in the city Tonga. Hundreds of police and others dren drown. and that the government would also resumed what Samoan police com­Samoan government minister, Fiana provide free coffins for the 1 03 bodies mander Ulo Maiava called "a painstak­Naomi, asked around 400 grievivg rela­currently held in the city morgue. She ing search" for bodies that could contin­tives for permission to hold a mass said the other bodies had already been ue another three weeks. funeral next Tuesday. The grim-faced buried due to the advanced stage of The governments of the United States, Samoans, gathered under the shade of decomposition, but did not say how Australia and New Zealand sent in sup­a traditional wall-less meetinghouse just many. plies and troops, including a U.S. Navy 100 yards from the ocean amid coconut The reaction to the proposal was frigate carrying two helicopters that will trees and ·government offices, were mixed, with some relatives wanting to be used in search-and-rescue effort<;. 

page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 2, 2009 
Returns 
continued from page 1 
more value, with the S&P going back to values similar to those in 1996. 
The University's endowment is the 13th largest among all 
U.S. higher education institu­tions, and the largest among Catholic universities. Harvard University's endowment-the country's largest now valued at $26 billion -dropped 27.3 percent in 2009. 
Malpass noted not only did Notre Dame outperform some of the larger endowments; the University has also not decreased spending out of the endowment where other schools have attempted to cut spending. 
"The wonderful thing, despite the implosion, is that we didn't have to cut spend­ing, it didn't affect financial aid at all, and in fact we've increased financial aid," Malpass said. 
Yale University is currently aiming to cut spending by $150 million a year, and Princeton University will like­wise cut spending by 
"To do as well as we
$170 million Malpass said, annually -have over the last but noted both schools Notre Dame
several years -we were 
with some of does "a little
at the top ofthe group ­
the country's less in real 
largest and then to be relatively estate." endowments, a little better in a down "That was 
which both key, because
market, that says a lot 
saw declines real estate got
about our portfolio. ,,
Scott Malpass
like these investments
University Chief 
have trans­make up less 
Investment Officer 
lated into than 10 per-
and capital construction fund­ing policies as reasons why spending has been unaffected by the decline. 
The University maintains an AAA debt rating and Malpass said Notre Dame has typically held lower debt than its peers, enabling the University to safely increase debt last year to fund spending. 
"That gave us flexibility in the crisis. We issued some taxable notes for liquidity purposes ... and we couldn't have done that and kept our AAA rating if we were already loaded in debt," he said. 
The capital construction policy at Notre Dame requires that all funds be obtained before construction begins, which means construction projects on campus haven't been halted as a result of the decline. 
"That's totally unheard of," Malpass said of the policy. "Schools way overreach there, and that gets you in trouble." 
Within the investment pool, Malpass said Notre Dame has always been "well diversified, and well balanced." 
"We do a lot of the same types of investments Harvard 
and Yale and 
Princeton do," 

hiring freezes and capital project delays. 
In contrast, Notre Dame increased spending out of the endowment in 2009 to $215 million. Malpass said Notre Dame's annual operating budget remains just under $1 billion and hasn't been affect­ed "at all" by the endow­ment's performance. In fact, the University will increase spending out of the endow­ment by five percent in the current year, he said. 
Malpass said the endow­ment spending rate -the amount taken to help fund the operating budget each year ­has jumped from a relatively low 3.6 to 4.5 percent in 2007, which is significantly less than rates of seven or eight percent at peer institu­tions. Universities with higher spending rates like those tend to cut spending to maintain the endowment pool, but Malpass doesn't anticipate 
that  to  happen  at  Notre  
Dame.  
He  also  pointed  to  the  

University's modest debt load 
cent of the University's endowment assets, compared to "about 25 percent at Yale" and "near 20 percent" at Harvard. 
Malpass also called the endowment's hedge fund port­folio "the best in the country" and said while it declined, it added more value than com­parable hedge funds. 
Malpass praised the invest­ment team at Notre Dame and some 150 managers spread across the globe for their per­formance, noting that in the last three years overall, the Notre Dame endowment has outperformed all of the top 20 endowments. 
"To do as well as we have over the last several years ­we were at the top of the group -and then to be rela­tively a little better in a down market, that says a lot about our portfolio," Malpass said. ''I'm encouraged by that." 
But Malpass remains cau­tious about the next year's prospects. 
"The economy's still funda­mentally very weak," he said, adding concerns about high 
Endowment Performance Comparison 
FY 2009 Trailing Performa.nce*
1 Year FY 2009 Returns 
Institution ' 
Notre Dame 
Harvat"d 
Yale 

Stanford 
Princeton 
unemployment, the levels of toxic debt still held by many banks and longer term fears about inflation. 
When Malpass came to Notre Dame in 1988, the endowment valued $425 mil­lion. It peaked last year at $7.1 billion. The endowment typically funds around 20 per­cent of the University's oper­ating budget. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at 
asteiner@nd.edu 

R.eturn °~ 
-20.8 -27.3 -24.6 -25.9 -23.7 
JACL YN ESPINOZA I Observer Graphic 
Rf.fMtl( 
100 
Susan Ullery 
Broker Associate 
301 0 Hld<.ory Road Mishawaka. lnd1ana 46545 Voice MaiL (574) 235·3446 Office: (574) 255·5858 Fax; (574) 235·3446 Toll Free: (800) 697·2824 www.susanullefy.com 
Gl•~~,~~'(\)~,.,~~ 


Far Gay, lesbian, BisexualS Ouestioning Students at Notre Dame Tuesday, October B 
7:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. 318 Coleman Morse 

The Core Council invites gay.lesbian. bisexual Squestioning members of the Notre Dame family. along with their friends and allies. to an informal gathering at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is Welcome and Confidentiality is Assured 

CoHee andRefreshments YIJ11 Be Served 


Friday, October 2, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks Dow 

Jones 9,509.28 -203.00 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 666 79 3,086 2, 641,006,281 
AMEX 1,741.40 ..37.27 NASDAQ 2,057.48 -64.94 IDNYSE .6,718~05 t::i9:2,83 S&P 500 1,029.85 -6.37 
w • ..· ..·· . . . ,. .• ·. .... • :M•
'NIKKEI (Tokyo) 9,852.17 }~~irt32(os FTSE 100 (London) 5,047.81 -86.09 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP (C)  -6.40  -.314.531.21  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  ·2..45  -2.59  103.00  
BK OF AMERICA CP (BAC)  -4.20  -0.71  16.21  
CIT GROUP INC (DEL)  -12.40  ·0.15  1.06  
Treasuries  
lQ-YEAR NOTE  -3.42  -0.113  3.19  
13-WEEK BILL  -17.39  -0.02  0.095  
30-YEAR BOND  -2.20  -0.089  3.96  
5-YEAR NOTE  -5.35  ·0.124  2.19  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE {$/bbl.)  +0.21  70.82  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -8.60 1000.70  
PORK BELUES (cents/lb.)  -0.45  81.25  
Exchange Rates  
YEN  89.4950  
EURO  1.4522  
CANADIAN DOLLAR  1.0842  
BRITISH POUND  1.5906  

IN BRIEF 
Washington-Post and Bloomberg unite 
SAN FHANCISCO -The Washington Post and Bloomberg News are teaming up in a new partnership that will distribute their political and financial coverage to a broader audience. 
The venture announced Thursday includes a news service that fills the void created by the dissolution of a 4 7 -year alliance between the Post and the Los Angeles Times. The newspa­pers disclosed their plans to divorce on Wednesday. 
Besides distributing about 120 stories per day beginning Jan. 1 to other news organiza­tions, the Post and Bloomberg will share con­tent with each other and co-produce an online business news page on the Post's Web site. 
Financial terms of the arrangement weren't disclosed. 
The deal will help the Post compensate for a staff that has been shrinking in recent years. Like large newspapers across the United States, the Post has been shedding Pmployees because of a steep drop in advertising sales. 
Census shows drop in Ala. poverty 
MONTGOMERY -More people moved above the poverty line in Alabama in 2008 than in any state in the country, according to U.S. Census figures that advocates for the poor said Wednesday were outdated. 
The numbers were gathered in 2008 and reflect "the calm before the storm" of the recession hit the state, said Kimble Forrister, director of Alabama Arise. At the time, the state's unemployment rate was better than the rest of the nation, Forrister said. 
The census figures reported Wednesday by the Press-Register in Mobile show that the number of people below the poverty line fell by 47,000 to 712,835. That was the largest numerical drop of any state. 
Alabama's poverty rate fell 1.2 points to 
15.7 percent. Alabama is tied with South Carolina with the lOth highest rate of poverty in the country. Nationwide, the poverty rate rose to 13.2 percent, an 11­year high. 
"The effects of the recession did not occur until after this data was collected," Forrister said. "At the time our unemployment rate was better than the rest of the nation." 
September sees loss for auto ind~ 
'Clunkers' letdown pushes down sales; only Hyundai posts increase 
Associated Press 

DETROIT -!\ Cash for Clunkers hangover hit every major automaker except Hyundai last month, pushing down sales and leaving the industry search­ing for signs of a recovery in October. 
U.S. sales of cars and light trucks fell to just under 746,000 in September, down 41 per­cent from August. 
Both GM and Chrysler were the biggest losers last month, while Ford, the healthiest of the Detroit Three, reported the small­est drop of major automak­ers. Of the top companies, only Hyundai posted higher sales, up 27 percent from September 2008. 
Last month's slump brings car and truck mak­ers back to earth following a heady August. Automakers got a lift from clunkers, which spurred sales of nearly 700,000 new vehicles during the summer months. Big rebates lured in many buyers who other­wise would have waited until later in the year to walk into dealerships. 
Still, both GM and Ford said the clunkers letdown should pass by next month. They also forecast a slight recovery in sales with signs Edmunds analyst Jessica ery plans are working. to replenish them. of economic improvement. CaldwPll said. "Now that Sales fell in every GM GM's LaNeve said last 
October, however, is tra­Lash for Clunkers is over, division. Saturn led the way month sales were com­ditionally a slow month for automakers have to give with an astounding 84 per­pared with a strong sales. On top of that, shop­consumers an incentive to cent decline in September, September in 2008 when pers are guarding their buy -out of their own the same month GM GM offered employee dis­wallets, worried about pockets, not the taxpay-announced plans to abolish counts to every customer in keeping their jobs in a frag­ers'." the brand after its sale to celebration of its 1OOth ile eeonomy. The question Ford Motor Co.'s sales fell former race-car driver birthday. With easier eom­remains whether dealers 5.1 percent, but the decline Hoger Penske collapsed. parisons, October will show can really lure them back followed two straight "It was a more difficult better results. and help the industry months of rising sales. Two month than we anticipat­He said the company recover over the remainder of the Dearborn, Mich. ed," said Mark LaNeve, could have had stronger of the year. company's vehicles -the GM's vice president of U.S. September sales but it wa'i 
Higher incentives didn't Focus and Escape -were sales. struggling to keep up with shake buyers from their top sellers in the clunkers A spokeswoman for the demand for newly launched Septem her slumber. program. U.S. Treasury Department, vehicles such as the Buick Automakers spent an aver­General Motors Co.'s which has provided roughly LaCrosse sedan, Chevrolet age of $2,557 per vehicle in sales plunged 45 percent $65 billion to keep GM and Camaro sports car, and the the U.S .. up $83 from while Chrysler Group LLC's Chrysler going, would not Chevrolet Equinox August, according to the fell 42 percent. The weak comment on the sales fig­crossover vehicle. GM could auto Web site results continued a string ures. have sold 10,000 to 12,000 Edmunds.com. of monthly sales drops for Most automakers report­more car and light trucks 
"After five straight the troubled pair. Now the ed low inventories during had it been able to get months of decline, incen­question is whether their September but said produc­them to dealers in tives arc on the rise again," government-funded recov-tion increases were starting September. 

Sessions may block funding on tanker 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON A Senate Republican who backs Northrop Grumman Corp.'s bid for a disputed $35 billion Air Force tanker contract wants to withhold funding until the service resolves a company gripe with the competition. 
Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama filed an amendment Thursday that would require the Air Force to release pric­ing information of previous bids from both Northrop and its partner, Airbus parent European Aeronautic Defense and Space Co. NV, and rival Boeing Co. 
The move follows reports that the Air Force may have disclosed price data about Northrop's bid to Chicago­based Boeing during last year's com­
petition to replace the 179 aging tankers. 
"How can we expect the playing field to be level if one company was given sensitive information about the other's bid? If that is the case, the best way to rectify the situation is to demand that information be shared in both directions," Sessions said. 
Should Northrop win the lucrative deal it will build a new plant in Mobile, Ala., and states like Florida and West Virginia could also stand to gain jobs. If Boeing lands the award, Washington, Kansas and other states would benefit from a boost in jobs. 
The Pentagon's weapons buyer, Ashton Carter, has said the depart­ment found "no competitive disad­vantage" following its examination of Northrop's claim. The information in question was inaccurate, outdated or not relevant to the new competition, he said last week. 
Still, Los Angeles-based Northrop says it wants proof. 
"We really don't know if the pricing information is inaccurate or outdated. Therefore, the Defense Department should provide us Boeing's compara­ble pricing data and we will decide for ourselves," said Northrop spokesman Randy Belote. 
On Wednesday, Boeing spokesman Bill Barksdale said the Air Force already had "clearly and definitively dealt with this issue." 
Debate on the defense appropria­tions bill could be completed as early as Thursday night, a spokesman for the Senate Appropriations Committee said. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 2, 2009 


Odozor 
continued from page 1 
will include the pastoral needs of African couples and families, the development of African higher education, the integration of African women and laypeople into Church leadership, the uses and impact of traditional and new media on the Church in Africa and the engagement of the Church in ethnic and tribal strife. 
As an advisor to the African bishops, Odozor said he wants to focus on ways to reconcile long­standing ethnic conflicts that have left ingrained bitterness. 
"The famous clashes of ethnic groups in Africa are not just things that happen overnight. They are coming out of long-held memories of hurt," he 
..rm hoping that what I 
said. "One of articulate the the things learn can help me as a implications of that the their faith but
priest and as a scholar to 
Church would who also have
do my own bit for the 
work on is another duty to healing mem­Church, for Africa and for make sure that ories, helping the world., faith is handed people in var­down in a way ious African that people can
Fr. Paulinus
communities understand,"
lkechukwu Odozor 
get over he said.
Associate Professor 
whatever they Odozor said
Theology
have with he hopes the 
their neigh­bors and move on with the task of constructing modern states." 
Odozor said Christians, and moral theologians in particular, are compelled to consider and act on the moral situations around them. 
"That faith as it were trans­forms us, makes us children of God in a way. With that comes the transformation of our atti­tude of our approach to life," he said. "So, morality is an offshoot of our new being in Christ. It's a consequence of our new being in Christ. Therefore, there is no way you can dissociate morality from the faith of the Christian.'' 
"There are implications:· Odozor continued. "So when the Christian speaks about right and wrong he or she speaks out of a memory informed by faith." 
Arguing that a major error in modern ethical discourse is for secular theorists to pretend as if they were speaking from a "totally objective perspective:· he said. "It is impossible to sepa­rate values from the presupposi­tions that ground one's world­view." 
Since faith offers the right kind of moral discernment, according to Odozor, theologians have an important task in helping to build the foundation for ways to improve the daily lives of Africans. 
"Theologians by their very nature are people who have a bit more understanding of the faith and who do their best to 
experience will not only further the aims of the Church but teach him lessons for his own vocation. 
'Tm grateful for this opportu­nity to serve the Church in this way, to work for the bishops in this way," he said. 'Tm hoping to learn a lot more about the Church and about Africa I'm hoping that what I learn can help me as a priest and as a scholar to do my own bit for the Church, for Africa and for the world." 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 
Disorders 
continued from page 1 
not alone. This is a huge problem," she said. "This is not just an individual prob­lem. This is a reflection of societal problems." 
She says today's event, a showing of the film "Mean Girls" at Geddes Hall Auditorium at 7 p.m., will specifically address eating disorders and negative body images as a societal problem. 
"We have images in society, like Lindsay Lohan, who peo­ple try to emulate and you just can't. It's not possible," she said. 
Lewis said she hopes the dialogue following the show­ing will con­vey this mes­

sage. ..We have images in Soul" Mass and 
Patrick society, like Lindsay Dinner at Ryan Tighe, who is Hall.
Lohan, who people 
the co-chair "We will take 
for the try to emulate and a holistic Student you just can •t. It's not approach," she Government possible,,, said. "You are Gender Issues feeding your Committee as soul and your well as a stu­Mandy Lewis spirit at Mass dent worker president and then with for the dinner you con­
Feminist Voice 
Forum addressing Body Image and Eating Disorders will be held in the Geddes Hall Auditorium at 7 p.m. 
"It will be just a powerful moment that you give people an opportunity to give voice to their struggle and gain healing. I find that to be very special when you give people an opportunity to speak out," Tighe said. 
Lewis and Tighe both agreed the spirit of Notre Dame is conducive to heal­ing. 
"I think it's about this sense of solidarity that we are all part of one big family and we have to be there to support each other," Tighe said. 
For Lewis, this spirit will be felt Tuesday during the 
"Love your 
Body, Feed your 
G e n d e r Relations Center, said the "Thin" exhibit perfectly exemplifies the societal problem. 
"In the Thin exhibit some of the girls don't look much different from women you see in magazines -and we call that beautiful," he said. "Worse, we don't think any­thing is wrong with that." 
Tighe said the events and campaigns that are part of Body Image and Eating Disorder Week will confront these issues head-on, even if the confrontation is emotion­al or scary. 
On Wednesday, a FIRE 

verse  with  
other  people  
and enjoy a meal."  

Both Tighe and Lewis hope this week creates awareness -for those suffering, as well as for their friends and fami­lies. 
Body Image and Eating Disorders Awareness Week ends Thursday, which is Love Your Body Day. The day will be celebrated with yoga, resource tables and "Love Your Body" open mic and coffeehouse at Reekers from 8-9:30 p.m. 
Contact Nora Kenney at hkenney@nd.edu 
Please recycle The Observer. 

Suspects 
continued from page 1 
forced the students into the trunk of the car. 
An officer driving on McKinley Rd. around mid­night stopped the car because the vehicle's high beams were lit. The suspects fled the vehicle and the offi­cer found the two students stuffed in the trunk. 
Trent said this type of crime "does not commonly happen" in the area. 
Off-campus crime directed toward students has 

remained steady in the past years, he said. 
"This was very shock­ing. It shocked the community in general, not just the off-campus community," he said. "It resonated 
"This was very shocking. It shocked the community in general, not just the off-campus community.,, 
Capt. Phil Trent spokesman South Bend Police Department 
through every sector." 
In response to the incident, Trent said South Bend Police have upped patrols in the northeast neighborhood. 
"We respond to crime trends when something like this happens," he said. "This occurred on 24th and by the 25th, there was a significant increase in patrols in that area." 
Trent said the polirP force 
has also done some "more creative things" to decrease crime in the neighborhood, but he said he go not go into further detail. 
"An increase in the visibili­ty of uniformed officers is just one facet of what we're doing," he said. 
In light of the carjacking, University Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. Mark Poorman said Notre Dame is working with police to decrease off-campus crime in an email to the student body Friday Sept. 25. 
Trent said the South Bend Police Department frequent­ly teams up with Notre Dame 
Security Police (NDSP). 
"We are involved in just continu­al contact with Notre D a m e Security Police and their crime prevention efforts on practically a weekly 

basis," he said. 
The two units collaborate for safety fairs and meet­ings, and they and focus on crime prevention. 
"I think they are as effec­tive as students make them because most of these are common sense, yet good reminders," he said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
STUDY ABROAD WITH ND IN 201 Q-201 liN 
TOLEDO SPAIN 
INFORMATION SESSION TUESDAY OCTOBER 6., 2009 5:30-7:00 PM 120 DeBartolo Classroom Building 
Program Application Deadline: November 15 2009 
Friday, October 2, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
i I 
I i
Rugby Club spends afternoon teaching ECDC students I 
1 
l 
Players teach class of four-year-olds the basics of the sport to give back to the University 
1 
By LILY HOUGH News Writer 

Players from the Notre Dame Rugby Club spent their Thursday afternoon hard at work, but unlike any other fall afternoon, it wasn't on the rugby field. 
The club teamed up with Notre Dame's Early Childhood Development Center (ECDC) to organize a visit where players welcomed a change of pace from their usual aggressive game to teach the sport to a class of four-year-olds. 
As a part of ECDC's focus on hands-on and experimen­tal learning, teachers have been arranging visits this fall from various Notre Dame athletes to share their sport with the students, Program Director Thayer Kramer said. 
"These visits provide the children hands-on experi­ences with the equipment and the opportunity to learn about the sport from athletes who participate in the sport -an authentic way to learn," Kramer said. 
The Rugby Club became involved with the program after junior Nick Severyn responded to his professor's request that students inter­ested in sharing their sport with her four-year-old son's class contact ECDC. 
Severyn, who is in charge of the Rugby Club's marketing 
this year, thought the activity seemed like a good opportu­nity to encourage interest in rugby in a region of the coun­try in which the sport has lit­tle awareness. 
"It's definitely a chance for the team to get young chil­dren interested in the game, but it also gives the kids an opportunity to spend time with rugby players and learn all about what we do," Severyn said. "Most of the kids have parents who are University faculty or alums, so they're already huge Notre Dame fans and this is really exciting for them." 

The players began the afternoon explaining the rules of the game and demon­strating plays and fundamen­tals like passing, catching and kicking. By the end of the • afternoon, the children were lined up passing balls back and forth with the players. 
"Their faces lit up when they would make a good catch or throw," Severyn said. "The team had a great time cheering them on." 
According to Executive Director Terri Kosik, the visit was mutually rewarding. 
"The members of the rugby team had an opportunity to experience the interest, enthusiasm, and perspective of four-year-olds as the chil­dren learned from the ath­letes about their sport," Kosik said. 
Severyn also saw 



Friday, October 2 Saturday, October 3 
.  
Noon  Varsity Shop on the Irish Green Opens  
3:00pm  Irish Green Opens with DJ Music  
3:45pm  Visit by the ND Poms  
3:45pm  Live Performance by 3rd SeSSion until 6:00 pm  
4:00pm  Sirius XM Live Broadcast of the "Catholic GuyShow•• until 7:00 pm  
6:00pm  Pre Pep Rally  
Pep Rally on the Irish Green. Speakers: James  
6:30pm  Aldridge, Mike Anello, Keny Neal and Coach Brian  
Pollan  
7:00pm  Irish Green Closes  
Also:  

ND Stadium Tunnel opon to the public. Friday: 10:00 a.m.-6:00p.m. 
Thursday's visit as a unique opportunity for the Rugby Club to give back to the Notre Dame community. 
"The University has given the team so much in terms of facilities, coaching and other privileges like allowing us to compete at the Division I level," Severyn said. "Activities like this are a good way for the team to say 
'thank you' for everything the University has given us." 
"The visit was a great suc­cess as evidenced in the chil­dren's questions, interest and excitement," Kosik said. "[The rugby players] were positive, enthusiastic, and helpful and were very kind, encouraging and supportive in their interactions with the children. We look forward to 

8:00am 
10:00 am 
11:00 am Noon 1:00pm 1:30pm 
2:30pm 3:30pm 
Campus Tours from Eck Visitors• Center, Friday: 11:00 a.m., 1:00 p.m. and 3:00p.m. 
I 
I 
l 
l 
1 
I 
j l 
I I 
l 
l 
a return visit next fall." 
There was, however, one part of the afternoon that didn't run exactly according to plan. 
"We stayed for a lot longer than we expected," Severyn said. "We were having a ton of fun and lost track of time." 
Contact Lily Hough at 
lhoughl@nd.edu 

Varsity Shop on the Irish Green Opens 
Irish Green Opens with DJ Music 
Live Performance by Darryl B & Reflections until 1:00pm 
Sirius XM Live Broadcut of the ucathollc Guy Show" untU 2:00 pm 
ND Personalities hosted by Chuck Lennon and a visit from the ND Cheerleaders 
Notre Dame Glee Cl\tb Performance until 2:00 pm 
Irish Green Closes 

Kickoff NO vs. Washington 
gameday.nd.ed 

page 10 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 2, 2009 
Health 
continued from page 1 
med and political science majors are concerned that significant changes potential­ly caused by new legislation could disrupt their careers before they are even launched. 
Aon Consulting representa­tives Bridget Gainer and Andy Karellas helped advise students on what effects health care reform will have on their chosen professions. 
Gainer, head of government affairs for Aon Consulting, relayed the predictions of those currently in the indus­try to the new prospects hop­ing for employment in the future. She also gave some welcome advice. 
"Work for campaigns, as many as is possible," Gainer said. "They allow you to make connections, learn a ton and give you good expo­sure." 
As someone with direct experience on Capitol Hill now working in the govern­ment relations department of Aon, Karellas described the convoluted processes by which the health care bill is being crafted. 
"The bill will often pass the committees of the House without much problem, get­ting bogged down mostly in the three committees of the Senate," Karellas said. "Many opposed to the bill are hold­ing out because they are con­cerned with the conference stage that comes before it goes to the president." 
Despite the precarious web of committees, subcommit­tees and conferences the bill has to navigate before it arrives on President Barack Obama's desk, Karellas was optimistic about the possibili­ties such legislation could provide for those in both the public and private sectors. 
"Positions in the wellness field will boom," he said. "A healthy workforce is by far more productive than an unhealthy one." 
Gainer said the informa­tion-technology specialists would play a large role in establishing electronic health records as a means of simpli­fying and streamlining the health care process. 
The overall attitude of the students who attended the lecture was positive. Senior Sean Rega, who is majoring in economics and Italian, was 
Write for News. Call Madeline at 574­631-5323. 
optimistic for the future of his career path and said there would always be room for risk management person­nel. 
Senior Juliana Hoffelder, a political science major, agreed. 
"I think that the reform will provide a lot of opportunities to enter the government rela­tions field," she said. "I'd like to get involved in government consulting, and this will make a lot of room there." 
Others had some concerns about the future. Junior Jon Jasinski, a political science and history dual major, expressed concern over pri­vate sector jobs. 
"Health care reform will probably create a lot of gov­ernment bureaucracy at the cost of the private sector," Jasiniski said. 
Jennifer Conrads, a gradu­ate student in the new ESTEEM program that blends technology and entrepreneur­ship, was waiting to see what came of the reform before she decided. 
Contact Alex Toombs at atoombs@nd.edu 


Uganda Information Session 
• 
Interested in Africa? 

• 
Interested in challenges and issues of developing nations? 

• 
Interested in Sub-Saharan Post Conflict Transformation? 


Don't miss this study abroad opportunity through the School for International Training (SIT)! 
Semester and Summer Options. 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2009 207 DeBARTOLO HALL 5:30 PM 
APPLICATION DEADLINE FOR All SESSIONS IS NOVEMBER 15, 2009 

1 l 
Friday, October 2, 2009 page 11
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Delays expected for both seasonal and swine flu vaccines 
already have been delivered, Cary attributed part of the
Associated Press 
he said. backlog to its simultaneous 
Waiting for the swine flu Typically fewer than 100 production of 75. 5 million 
vaccine? Well, you might million Americans seek win­doses of the swine flu vac­
have to wait a bit longer for ter flu shots every year. But cine. Also, this year's season­
a seasonal flu shot, too. health care providers say al flu shot includes a strain 
The biggest makers of sea­early demand appears to be that develops more slowly in sonal flu vaccines in the U.S. higher this year, because of laboratories, she said. are running into delays or public attention to the swine "We understand it does cutting back shipments -flu pandemic. create an inconvenience for partly because of the crunch Also, vaccinations for sea­some people who wanted to to produce millions of doses sonal flu started unusually hold their seasonal influenza of the new swine flu vaccine. early this year, Skinner said. campaigns earlier," Cary 
Drugmaker Sanofi Pasteur October is the traditional said. "We apologize for that, said it has shipped more than time when seasonal flu vac­but we're doing every thing half of the 50.5 million doses cine clinics open. Outbreaks we can." of seasonal flu vaccine can happen earlier, but the Novartis, based in Basel, ordered and it could be flu usually peaks in January Switzerland, halted its pro­November before some U.S. or later. duction of the seasonal flu customers get the rest of "People may have to be vaccine in July to meet their shipments. patient and persistent" to demand for the swine flu 
Nov artis AG and find out when they can get version, said company GlaxoSmithKline PLC said the seasonal vaccine, he spokesman Eric Althoff. It Thursday their shipments said. didn't end up with as much are on schedule. But they've Right now, the swine flu is virus stock as expected, so told customers they may get the dominant virus, and it customers will receive a little about 10 percent less than requires a separate vaccina­less than ordered, he said. ordered. tion. University of Minnesota 
The three companies Five manufacturers are student Eli Cizewski­account for about 100 million scrambling to crank out Robinson tried to get a flu of the nation's expected 114 plenty of vaccine against shot last month, but got dis­million doses. swine flu -what scientists couraged by the long lines 
The delay and cutbacks call the 2009 H1N1 strain -and left. In the meantime, have already forced some and the first doses should be the school's health service doctor's offices to turn away given early next week. ran out of vaccine. patients and others to cancel The government has "I haven't been able to get clinics around the country. In ordered 250 million doses of one yet," he said Thursday. Lyon County, Kan., the health the new vaccine from the Though several Kansas department canceled next same five companies that clinics have reported delays week's drive-thru flu shot make the seasonal shots and in getting seasonal flu vac­clinic because it used up the nasal spray. (Ten percent of cines, Kansas Health doses it received in .August the swine flu doses have Director Jason Eherhart­and hasn't received any been promised to other coun­Phillips said he doesn't con­more. The Jefferson City tries.) sider it a major issue, Medical Group in Missouri The Swiftwater, Pa.-based because there has been no has depleted the partial ship­Sanofi Pasteur, which makes outbreak yet of that version ment of vaccines it got for about 45 percent of the coun­of the virus. young children at its clinic. try's seasonal vaccine, nor­"There's just a rush right 
The delay isn't surprising mally finishes winter flu vac­now on the distribution sys­nor cause for big concern, cines by the beginning to tem," Eberhart-Phillips said. said Tom Skinner, spokesman middle of October, company "It's a little bit like airlines for the Centers for Disease spokeswoman Donna Cary overbooking their flights. If Control and Prevention. said. It expects to run sever­everybody shows up for their About 70 million of the al weeks later this year, she flight, somebody's going to 
expected 114 million doses said. 
HOUSE for SALE 
738 N. Twyckenham Drive South Bend, IN 46617 
Half mile south ofcampus Three bedrooms, 2 bathrooms Central air-conditioning Attached garage Appliances remain 
•

Pam DeCola 574-532-0204 Cressy & Everett 
.....KADO 

Dine In-TakeOut -Cateri_!9 We o((ef"' Catef"'(r\g T7af""ties ar\cJ Special cvef'lts 
~Inci.xk!: 
Olid<en Beef 
Rk:e BcJM s.m 
Smfrx:d Sashini 
flbxJe 

Party Trays Available 

402 N. Dixiewav South Bmd. IN 46637 
Phone: (54n272-25 Fax: 54/ 272-2562 

get delayed." 
Nevada issues first domestic partnership 
Associated Press 
CARSON CITY, Nev. 
Nevada's secretary of state 
issued domestic partnership 
certificate No. 1 at the state 
Capitol on Thursday as a state 
law providing many of the same 
legal rights as marriage to gay 
and straight partners went into 
effect. 
The first couple to be issued 
the certificate -Lee Cagley 
and Larry Davis -shared tears 
and laughter and were congrat­
ulated by Secretary of State 
Ross Miller. 
"This gives us the legal rights 
to act for each other's benefit," 
said Davis, a funeral home 
director. "It's a wonderful privi­
lege and we're grateful." 
While Nevada's constitution bans same-sex marriage, the domestic partnership law extends rights similar to those held by married couples ­including community property and the right to seek financial support after a breakup -to cohabitating couples. 
Nevada's law permits, but doesn't require, employers to extend insurance benefits to domestic partners. 
The measure was vetoed by Gov. Jim Gibbons, but overrid­den by lawmakers in May. Couples, both gay and straight, were allowed to pre-register between Aug. 24 and Sept. 24 to receive their certificates on Oct. 1. Registration is ongoing, and about 750 couples had applied as of midday Thursday. 
In southern Nevada, Joleen Toves, 28, and Lisa Villagomez, 25, of North Las Vegas said they considered their partnership a positive step in a personal and political struggle. Their legal status as partners will help them through medical emer­gencies and other issues mar­ried couples commonly face, Toves said. 
"It's such a great thing to be 
able to make decisions for each 
other and have each other on 
very important life-changing 
decisions," Toves said, as she 
held a white envelope contain­
ing their certificate. "She's 
going to be, of course, my next 
ofkin." 
The couple were joined by 
Toves' 4-year-old daughter 
Leilei. 
Toves, a bank manager, said they considered getting married in California before an amend­ment banning gay marriage was passed last year. She said she believes the Nevada law passed in part because it also provides partnership rights for straight couples who choose not to marry. 
Nevada joins 16 other states that have laws recognizing domestic arrangements outside ofmarriage. 
State Sen. David Parks, who sponsored the Senate version of the bill, said Thursday was a big day for Nevada. 
"It's a day I didn't think would come quite as quickly as it has," the Las Vegas Democrat said at the Capitol. 
Cagley, 58, and Davis, 48, said they've been in a relationship for three years, and held a com­mitment ceremony on Oct. 13, 2007, in Las Vegas. They also were married in California on Aug. 3, 2008, before voters there overturned gay marriage in the state. 
An interior designer, Cagley oversaw renovations to the cen­tury-old Governor's Mansion in the late 1990s, when Miller's father was a Democratic gover­nor and his mother, Sandy, was Nevada's first lady. 
Sandy Miller, who has known Cagley for many years, was on hand Thursday to share the couple's happy day. 
"I wish them much happi­ness," she said. 

Biologists investigate case of 131 walruses trampled to death inAlaska 
relatively shallow outer continen­preliminary report. 
Associated Press 
tal shelf over deep Arctic Ocean "All of the necropsied animals 
ANCHORAGE -Trampling waters where it's too deep for showed similar abnormalities, likely killed 131 mostly young walruses to dive to the ocean bot­primarily extensive bruising in walruses forced onto the north­tom. muscles in the neck and chest," west coast of Alaska by a loss of An estimated 3,500 walruses the report said. "One animal had sea ice, according to a prelimi­were spotted Sept. 12 at Icy a fractured skull, and one animal nary report released Thursday. Cape, about 140 miles southwest had separation of some ribs from 
An examination of the dead of Barrow. Two days later, U.S. the backbone. Most of the ani­animals by federal and local biol­Geological Survey researchers on mals had blood coming from the ogists found extensive bruising their way to a walrus tagging nostrils. The blood coming from and other indications the animals project saw a large number of the nostrils indicated damage to had been trampled. carcasses along the high tide line the neck, head, nose, or internal 
Young animals can be hurt in ofthe beach and no live animals. organs." stampedes when a herd is star­The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Walrus calves born in late April tled by a polar bear, human Service, which manages walrus­or early May weigh just 100 to 
hunters or even a low-flying air­es and polar bears, organized an 160 pounds. They can weigh 750 plane. With no human witnesses, investigation. pounds by age 2, but before then biologists said the deaths may Most of the dead animals were are susceptible to trampling by have been from "disturbances" found at Icy Cape, though a few females weighing 2,000 pounds, that led to trampling. were also found near the village especially when a mixed-age Walruses in large numbers on of Wainwright to the north and herd is lined up shoulder to 
the northern shore of Ala..'ika is a locations up to 26 miles to the shoulder on a rocky shoreline. phenomenon seen for the first south. Herds in 2007 were in the tens time in 2007. Veterinarians and biologists of thousands at some locations 
Walruses cannot swim indefi­from the Fish and Wildlife on the Russian side of the nitely and females with young Service, USGS, the Alaska SeaLife Chukchi Sea. Russian biologists traditionally use sea ice as a plat­Center and the North Slope reported 3,000 to 4,000 walruses form most of the summer to dive Borough examined 71 carcasses died out of a population of per­for clams, riding the edge north and performed nine detailed haps 200,000, mostly young ani­as temperatures warm, then necropsies. mals crushed in stampedes. south in the fall as temperatures Of the 71 carcasses examin('d, Investigators found no evi­rooI. three were female yearlings, 25 dence of hunting or other recent 
In recent years, however, sea were female calves and 43 were human activities near the car­ice has receded far beyond the male calves, according to thPir casses. 
page 12 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 2, 2009 
Co-Sponsors: Gender Relations Center~ Feminist Voice, Snite Museum of Art, Student Government and University Counseling Center 
B~DY lM 


AND 
thursday, october 1 THIN Guided Exhibit Tour with Steve Moriarty, Curator of Photography Snite Museum; 4:30 -5:30 pm 
Love Your Body, Love Thee Notre Dame Poster Campaign 
friday, october 2 Mean Girls Movie & Dialogue Geddes Hall Auditorium; 7:00 pm 
saturday, october 3 New "What is an Eating Disorder?" brochures available in residence halls 
sunday, october 4 Prayers for healing at campus Masses 
GRC~ 
gender relations cenrer 
t.i4 l..d'.c>U¥ftf' • ilt'1·.*t!.M. • $,N(ixd.~4i~t" "''* ~tHU.... 


monday, october 5 THIN Documentary Film Screening, with 0 &A Snite Museum Auditorium; 12:00 -1 :00 pm 
tuesday, october 6 THIN Guided Exhibit Tour with Steve Moriarty, Curator of Photography Snite Museum; 12:00 -i :00 pm 
Mass & Dinner: Love Your Body; Feed your Soul Mass: Ryan Hall chapel; 5:30 pm Dinner: Ryan Hall social space; 6:30 pm (RSVP required) 
wednesday, october 7 FIRE Forum: Body Image & Eating Disorders Geddes Hall Auditorium; 7:00pm 
thursday, october 8 
LOVE YOUR BODY DAY Yoga; TBA Resource Tables "Love Your Body" open mic and coffeehouse Reekers; 8:00 -9:30 pm 
-, 
4 
I 
Friday, October 2, 2009 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 13 
DENMARK 
Olympic Cormnittee prepares to select city for 2016 games 
Associated Press 
COPENHAGEN -In 30 min­utes, it will be over. 
Years of preparations, arm­twisting, sweet-talking and hopes will be rejected or rewarded Friday when the International Olympic Committee votes to select the host for the 2016 Games. 
Chicago, Rio de Janeiro, Madrid and Tokyo -one by one -will be eliminated in a tense half-hour of successive rounds of secret balloting until one stands alone. 
Shortly afterward, IOC presi­dent Jacques Rogge will break open a sealed envelope con­taining the winner's name and utter the magic words: "The games of the 31st Olympiad are awarded to the city of ... " 
But on the eve of the vote, the IOC's 106 members were, as ever, keeping their thoughts to themselves. Only Tokyo seemed to have fallen out of the running. Otherwise, it was still too close to call between the beaches and bossa nova of Rio, the bustle and Lake Michigan waterfront of Chicago or the European elegance of Madrid. Everyone had reason to be hopeful, none reason to be sure. 
"This is the big question, how will it go?" said Willi Kaltschmitt, an IOC member since 1988. 
"There have been so many surprises in the past," he said. 
"It's very even at the moment. It all depends what happens in the first round." 
As cities go out, loyalties will shift. That is where the con­test will be won or lost. If Tgkyo goes out first, will its supporters swing behind Rio, Madrid or Chicago and by how much for each? Could Madrid stun front-runners Chicago and Rio in the second round, knocking one of them out, with its seemingly solid core of backers? 
The variables are such that any city could conceivably win or lose. A few votes either way could decide it. That is espe­cially true this time, with all four cities seen as generally capable of holding the games. Some IOC veterans say there has been no closer contest in recent memory. 
To prevent bribery, IOC members aren't allowed to visit the bidding cities -so they'll be deciding instead based on what they've read in committee reports. Some will go with their gut instincts, their emotions and personal interests. 
Which is where President Barack Obama comes in, liter­ally. He jets in Friday morn­ing, for just five hours, to try to tip the outcome to Chicago. An Obama star turn could swing it -or possibly rebound against him if his adoptive hometown is knocked out. Coming for the day of the vote is a political risk, but so, too, was the risk that Rio might win if Obama didn't lend his charisma and inspira­tional example to Chicago's final push. 
His election as the first black president in U.S. history resonated loudly in Europe, which has the most IOC voting members -46. 
His wife, Michelle Obama, has worked the room before him, wowing IOC members with her charm and smarts. The first lady flew in Wednesday. While hesitant to declare that Barack Obama's appearance could be decisive, IOC members acknowledged it was hotly anticipated. 
''It is a very • special moment," said Gerhard Heiberg, an IOC executive board member from Norway. "Let me listen to him and see what kind of vision he has for the games." 
Talk show star Oprah Winfrey is part of Chicago's hard sell, too. She swept Hollywood-style into the mar­bled lobby of the IOC hotel on Thursday, turning heads and stopping every other step to shake a hand or pose for a photo with IOC members and their wives. 
But Chicago is up against equally charismatic opposition in the shape of Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva. The bearded former union leader makes a com­pelling case for Rio. Foremost of those is that South America has never before held an Olympics and that the games shouldn't be the exclusive pre­serve of rich, developed coun­tries. That is an argument the other cities can't use because their countries have all held the Olympics before. Like Mrs. Obama, Silva has been lobby­ing IOC members personally in Copenhagen, as has Spanish King Juan Carlos. 
Rio appeals to IOC members who believe it's their duty to share the Olympic ideals and pursuit of sporting excellence with all corners of the globe. South America is also an untapped market for Olympic sponsors. The romantic appeal of Rio's beaches and mountains is strong. The soothing samba song "Mas que nada"-"Don't worry about it" -playing in the auditorium lent an exotic, dreamy air to a news confer­ence that Silva held Thursday. 
"For some countries, it is just one more sports event that they are going to organ­ize," he said. "But for us, it is a unique and extraordinary thing." 
He even borrowed Obama's catchphrase: "We want to overcome and show the world that yes we can." 
The final throw of the dice for all four cities will be their 45-minute presentations of speeches and videos, followed by questions, that they will make in turn Friday before the vote. Kaltschmitt said he 
believes that 40 percent of his colleagues on the IOC were undecided going into Friday and were waiting for the pre­sentations to make up their minds. 
Added Heiberg: "We've already heard about the tech­nical plans. I want something more. I want to know about the vision. The leaders have to lift it up. I want to know why they want the games." 
It takes a simple majority for victory, although it is unlikely that any city will win outright in the first or second rounds. 
Rogge doesn't vote and, as long as their cities haven't been eliminated, neither can members from Brazil, the United States, Spain and Japan. 
That leaves 97 voters in the first round, with more in sub­sequent rounds. In the event of a two-city tie in the early rounds, a runoff is held between the cities. If there is a tie in the final round, Rogge can vote or ask the IOC execu­tive board to break the dead­lock. 
British bookmakers had Chicago pulling away in the last hours as the clear but not overwhelming favorite. 
"But don't forget that Paris was the favorite to beat London the last time," said Graham Sharpe, spokesman for betting agency William Hill. "The favorite doesn't always win." 
Dear Golde11 Tate, 
We'll be sure to catcl1 you a11ytiiTie you score· a toucl1doWI1! Love, 


THE OBSERVER 
n.-1~ ~ ~s.nm.rtvotr. o-u-ts.;.,M.y~ 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Man Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHoTo EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAI'HICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve l.agree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR·IN·CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

{574) 631-5303 viewpoint. I @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
ScENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO I @sainrmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and deparrment editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions rrgarding Obsn?Ja policies should be dirmed to Editor-in-Chiif]mn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Ob=ver (USPS 599 2-4000) is puhliohed M<>nd•y through Friday cttept du11ng cum 01nd vacarion periods. A .tU~iptinn to 11w: Obscn~C"r is $120 for one academic yar;. $()5 for one semnrer. 
The ~is publiohed •" I'OSTMASTER 02~ Suurh Dining H.ll &nd addrGii wrr~.ctions to: Notre: Dame, IN 46$56-om The Oboe:rver 
f'orindical posragc paid ., Notr< Dam< ~0. 1\oo: 779 a!ld :additional mailingoffic.cs. 024 Souch Dining Hall 

Nout Dam<. IN 46556-0779 
111c Obs<rva is • member of the Asoociat<d J'rcss. All rc:pmdU<rion right>"" r01erv«L 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Joseph McMahon Douglas Farmer Laura McCrystal Michael Blasco Molly Madden Chris Michalski 
Graphics Viewpoint Jaclyn Espinoza Michelle Maitz Scene Adriana Pratt 
Security on and off campus 
Last weekend, two Holy Cross students were kidnapped four blocks from campus. The University responded with its obligatory "Student safety is a top priority" statement but offered no plan of action. 
Last week's kidnapping was not the first assault on the student community. In three years, there have been three shootings and an equal number of kidnappings. Students are assaulted and mugged; off-campus homes are vandal­ized on a regular basis. South Bend police continually warn students they are a target anytime they set foot off campus. 
from moving off campus. 

Most universities nationwide expect students to flee the dorms as soon as possible, with many providing universi­ty-owned housing and neighborhoods. Notre Dame, con­trarily, focuses any off-campus exp.ansion on preventing student housing developments and promoting faculty ben­efits. The University's Gentrification Project on Notre Dame Ave. provides housing for professors near campus, promoting a safe environment for their employees. But when it comes to extending the same cour­tesy to students, the administration and its
O
THE 
South Bend Police spokesman Capt. Phil BSERVER $5 billion endowment fall short on funds. Trent said off-campus crime toward students Many of the 1,500 students that chose to has remained steady in the past several years, move off campus this year are forced to set­
Editorial 
but these crimes are still too prevalent. 
The University can't -and shouldn't -be responsible for policing the surrounding community. They have neither the resources nor the jurisdiction. But the dichotomy that exists between on and off campus needs to be addressed. Currently, the administration's only plan of action is to use the crime statistics as a means of discour­aging students from moving off campus. 
Encouraging this separation from our surrounding envi­ronment only compounds the problem. Town-gown rela­tions are already strained, and the University's hypocriti­cal stance on community interactions isn't helping the problem. The administration encourages students to become more involved outside of the metaphorical Notre Dame bubble while simultaneously discouraging students 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Observer Poll 
What is )'OUr ra~·orih· m•w r~1aurunt at Eddy St. Communs? 
Vote~  Ptn:enbgr:  
~  
Chiptltle  174  32%  
hvcGuys  162  ~(Y'~)  
Nc.•w Irish Bar  16()  29('k  
Hot Piua Box  49  9%  


tle for cheap homes in shady neighborhoods. 
While on-campus student safety may be a priority for the administration, off-campus students do not receive the same consideration. Notre Dame has the ability to influence the surrounding community and estab­lishing a secure student neighborhood would be the first step in combating the growing crimes against students. 
Students, too, must accept their role in off-campus safe­ty. Acting drunk in public will not attract any positive attention. Common sense and precaution should be used at all times. South Bend isn't Mayfield and this isn't 1960. Know the dangers you face when you go out and plan accordingly. Until the University and local Jaw enforce­ment work to reduce the student assaults, students are responsible for their own well-being. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/ don't want to achieve immortality through my work ... I want to achieve it through not dying., 
Woody Allen 
U.S. actor and director 
p

Friday, October 2, 2009 page 15 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Dame 
off-campus crime 
With local crime on the rise in South Bend. I am surprised and con­cerned with the lack of University effort to protect their students. espe­cially seniors, by making a more con­certed effort to keep them on campus. 
The reason why upwards of 80 per­cent of the senior class want to move out of the dorms is no secret to any­one. Single-sex dorms and the pari­etal system are a part of the core mis­sion of the University, which most stu­dents begrudge but accept. This does not change the fact that the majority of the student body feels they have outgrown the strict dorm rules by the time they are 21 and look forward to moving off campus. But must our safety be the price to pay to have our brothers spend the night on football weekends or a bottle of vodka legally in our possession? 
Saint Mary's College has fought this issue with their students by building Opus -a seniors only. fully furnished apartment building located right on campus. There are no RAs or rules enforced by the college, so it essen­tially has the perks of living ofT cam­pus combined with the security of liv­ing on-campus. I encourage Notre Dame to follow suit. 
Notre Dame students do not move ofT campus to marvel at the beauty of the South Bend community, they do it because they feel entitled to live a more independent lifestyle without the University rules. There is current­ly no option for Notre Dame students who want to live this independent lifestyle to also live on campus. 
I do believe that Notre Dame strongly cares about the safety of their off-campus students and is very concerned about the rise in violence just a few blocks outside the gates. I only wish the University would take action and try to keep their seniors within the security of the Notre Dame campus. Instead of pursuing plans to build another new dorm, please con­sider the option of building a seniors­only residence like Saint Mary's. 
Emily Chappell 
semor 
off campus 
Oct. 1 

Printed mysogyny 
Sometimes my world feels too com­fortable, so I open the ol' Observer to find anger fuel. On September 30 I boiled a heckuva stew over the result­ant bonfire, poetically speaking, with leftovers to last until graduation. 
Responding to the question of the day, "What could possibly be worse than this weather?" one male sopho­more responds, "Being a woman." I intend provocation: would anyone get printed for such pithy insights as "being in a concentration camp" or "being black?" How about "having special needs?" These sentiments do not deserve publication because free­dom of speech does not protect pub­licly heckling "F-you" at every sec­ond person who walks past. But Mr. Monolith did not mean to be taken so seriously! Relax. His statement is more akin to "Muck Fichigan" than Nazi treatises on purifying the race. 
Speaking of purity -a parallel Viewpoint column entitled "Trust the Church" by Dale Parker (Sept. 30) argued against the ordination of women based on a study showing that children of mass-attending fathers are 22 times more likely to become Mass­attending adults than children of Mass-attending mothers. The logic is simple. Clearly, who women are and what women do as women is of less consequence -whether laughably or pitiably -than the world of men. If a father affects his children, how much more might a liturgical father? 
And of course measurable results prove orthodox doctrinal formulation, if getting nailed on a cross is any indi­cation, or the difficulty men especially seem to find in keeping their fingers out of little children's underwear. 
On the other hand. if the erudite Mr. Brooks Smith of Sept. 24 is any indica­tion, female clergy may in fact simul­taneously enlarge mass attendance and certain male bodily organs. Why not ordain women so that single dads will take their children to Church? This is absurd. I realize that it's sim­pler to think within a private box, to maintain comic privileges for misogy­ny, to confirm authority by infinitely contingent "results." Of course, this monologue comfort constitutes the ideological equivalent of masturba­tion; hooray. I'm glad The Observer has the space to catch and distribute the ejaculate. 
Peter Hochstedler senior off campus Oct. 1 
U-WIRE 
Grow up, avoid Peter Pan Syndrome 
Peter Pan was my childhood hero. He had every quality a kid could want. 
He could fly, hang out with fairies and fight pirates in Never Never Land. Besides wearing the tights, I could really see myself doing all of those things and tried to emulate him in many ways. 
Now that I am an adult. I know I should not act or be like Peter Pan. Roy Long We must beware of Peter Pan 
Texas Tech 
Syndrome. This is 
University
a disease which 

The Daily
causes us to 
Toreador
believe we can remain in child­hood forever, like Peter Pan. It preys upon college kids who believe their lives parallel the life of this hero of children's literature. Those afflicted with this syndrome believe Never 
Never Land exists and it is called college. Peter Pan Syndrome is the pandemic of our generation. 
Manifestations of Peter Pan Syndrome include a refusal to grow up. It is fear of the next stage in life. This is an understandable fear, espe­cially when those who are afflicted with this syndrome are children. However, most of those attending classes at Texas Tech do not fit this category, yet still fill the criteria for Peter Pan Syndrome. 
Symptoms include a refusal to go on dates, spending hours upon end play­ing video games and eating pizza every meal of the day. In short, it is a refusal to take responsibility for life. 
Undiagnosed and untreated. Peter Pan Syndrome will result in years wasted in the pursuit of things which do not matter. 
There is a cure, but it requires more than just a pill or a workout regimen. First, we have to recognize the prob­lem and then we have to make that next step. Change can be scary. It is ironic we as a nation voted on the plat­form of change in 2008, but yet fear change in our own lives. However, we must make that next step. 
qre occurs in phases, and we do not need to fear the next phase in life. Perhaps it is time to devote yourself more to your schooling. get married to your long-time boyfriend or girlfriend. or get a job. Whatever that next step may be, taking responsibility is a good thing. It makes us more capable indi­viduals and we find that happiness does come from successfully providing for those dependent on us. 
The message is simple. We need to grow up. Things which are most important in life should not suffer from those things which are not. We need to put the pursuit of fun and entertainment on the bottom of the totem pole, below family, responsibility and personal development. 
Those who join onto this ship of responsibility must beware of going overboard. We need to remember what happens in Disney's sequel "Hook." It is important to keep outside responsi­bilities in moderation. In the film, Peter Pan grows up and in a trip back to Never Never Land realizes he has become a jerk. He placed himself and his pursuits ahead of his family. This is yet another manifestation of Peter Pan Syndrome: selfishness. It is still a pri­oritization problem. 
In college students, this is manifest­ed by being fulfilled in what they do, instead of who they are. For example, some actually believe they will be ful­filled through their vocation. While we should do those things we enjoy, work is not the purpose of life. We need to understand that happiness stems from our identity, not our accomplishments. 
The shadow of our accomplishments should never overpower the reality of our own selves. 
So, my advice is simple: He-priori­tize. To those of you who spend the bulk of your time pursuing your own happiness, look to others. You will find deeper fulfillment in relationships with others, in personal development (which is distinct from the pursuit of fun) and in devoting yourself to your studies (which is one of the purposes of your time in college). 
To those who always seem "too busy" for these things, I advise you to simplify your life. 
Close the books, clock-out of work and reconnect with those who matter. Whether we relate more with Peter Pan as a young boy or as a man, it is time to grow up, to remember Never Never Land does not exist. and to keep fun and responsibility in moderation to those things which matter most.. 
This column first ran in the Sept. 29 edition of The Daily Toreador, the daily newspaper serving Texas Tech University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 




page 16 Friday, October 2, 2009 Friday, October 2, 200~ 

ICAL 
NICK ANDERSON, MATT BROWN, ERIC PRISTER and ON RYZNER 
c Try this on for size, literary theorists. We bring you a melee 
A 
L 
or the ages. The Mythological Creatures Tournament will allow the most famous beasts of all time to jump out of the ages onto the battlefield and pit their strengths against one another. It brings together 65 of the most terrifying (or not so rrifying) characters from mythology, literature, folklore and r assorted formats, fighting one-on-one in a specially arena which allows the more intelligent characters to 
s 
play to their strengths. The arena features an open field, a dense forest and a lake which all can be utilized throughout e battle. So fill out a bracket, stay tuned for the results, and have pen and paper (or just an e-mail} ready to argue why 
H 
your favorite creature should not have been upset in the first round. It's a clash of epic proportions. Are you prepared? 
The Mythology Bracket 
0 
The Mythology Bracket is one without many pushovers. Despite the Kraken's weak showing in the "Pirates of the Caribbean" films, it still retains a No. 1 ranking thanks to 
r size and strength. The Hydra comes in at a close second, since it has the abili­ty to re-grow two heads for every single one it loses. And, 
starting with nine threatening craniums is nothing to scoff at. 
F 
Seeded third is the Sphinx, quite possibly the most intelli­gent creature in the Mythology bracket. Its riddle only once topped by the great Oedipus, the Sphinx also has a history of 
self destruction upon being outsmarted. If you thought the top three were terrifying, enter number four, Scylla. Scylla was but another danger on Odysseus's 10­
~ticore 5 
Medusa 6 
year trip home, and what a h e pose her appearance include 12 tentacles, six wolves forming her lower body, the torso and head of a female and an additional six long-necked grisly heads with extremely sharp teeth. No doubt a tough fight for the Manticore unless Pegasus or the Harpy can pull an upset. 
The Manticore on the other hand has the head of a man, a scorpion tail, body of a lion, wings and the ability to shoot poi­sonous spines. It is perhaps an early contender to drop the top-seeded Kraken in a later round. For clarity, the Cockatrice is a large rooster with a lizard-like tail, not a sig­nificant threat for the multidimensional Sphinx. 
As far as early bets for the first round, this bracket seems to have mostly clear winners in each of the starting battles. The Chimera v. Griffin showdown could be close since both crea­tures possess the ability to fly. Similarly, the closely ranked Minotaur v. Cerberus showdown should be quite brutal. The Faun and the winner of the play-in game between the Fairy and the Nymph, will likely struggle to have a strong start against some of mythology's heaviest hitters, though don't count out upsets in the later rounds. 
The Folklore Bracket 
Folklore is central to any culture, but more importantly, it contains gruesome creatures from the dark recesses of man's imagination. After searching the globe, the most fearsome creatures were gathered for death matches of untold magni­tude. The ferocity of these battles will be sung through the generations, the victors glorified and the defeated shamed along with their offspring. 
Folklore presents a strong bracket throughout, from the first to the 16th seed. Paul Bunyan, a giant of a man with the skills of a lumberjack, wields his ax as the first seed. He'll 
.-11' 

ace tou compe on own t ro from t e second through fifth seeds; the genie, the Tiyanak, the Loch Ness Monster and the Werewolf. 
The Tiyanak, an obscure but strong competitor, represents the Philippines. While it takes the form of a fetus, there are layers to its strength. Its appearance and cry, that of a human child, disarm the opposition. Once in its grasp, the Tiyanak reverts to form, gaining super strength, and an inhuman maw with which it devours its victims. 
The competitors barely weaken as one moves down the rankings. The Yeti, Sasquatch, El Chupacabra, Boogeyman and Mermaid round out the top 10. The strengths of the mid­dle of the rankings cover the spectrum, presenting strength, stealth, intelligence and terror. 
The Jersey Devil, Hodag, Gremlin, Leprechaun, Jackolope and Jack Frost complete the ranks. Jack Frost, an elemental force, as a 16th seed shows the undeniable depth of the tour­nament. The Hodag, another obscure creature, hails from the state of Wisconsin. It has the head of a frog, face of a grinning elephant, huge claws and a tail with spikes at the end. 
The exciting first round matchups include the Jersey Devil and the Yeti, El Chupacabra and the Boogeyman and Sasquatch and the Mermaid. Death, destruction and chaos will be the themes of the first round all for the entertainment of the masses. 
The Literary Bracket 

The Literary Bracket rivals the mythology bracket for most brute strength and may have the two most formidable top seeds, the Balrog and the Dragon. Both will be nearly impos­sible to defeat, since both are large, powerful and have human-like intelligence. The other top seeds, Grendel, Merlin and the Ent also have the advantage of intelligence, which 

_..,.;;c,J,.;,· Op...........,._:=t-_·-·~-----~~~---~)
d;;;.;. -,_,­
s binx ~ ,.
--··e:!b;j~--~--~-­
:""!:!Jt-.-------­
Chimera. 


--~--
Hvdra -~-. 
---------~--..-·-·...·· 

-·-·······--··, 
~ 
--.:-----­

--~~--j 
Paul Bunva.n
.. 
lack frost 
Ch~pac.abra 
l 
\ -----·

Boogeyman J~-· I 
W•rewolf 
I

!fodag --J-IlochNess Momter 
Gremlin 

Yeti FOLKLORE 
J~Y~-~J­
liv~ 

. .,.._ ---·,­··;,_··_ti···-·_
-_.

Leprechaun j-~-----· .. .. 
.............,....... 
~u.atch 
j 


JACLYN ESPINOZA I Observer Graphic 


page 17 
-

makes upsets unlikely. 
Notice the distinction between the 6th-seeded Vampire and the 16th-seeded Sparkly "Twilight" Vampire. One strikes fear into the heart of whomever he comes across, and the other, while blessed with super-speed and super-strength, cares more about feelings than actual aggression. 
The Elf, Centaur and Dwarf are all interesting characters to watch, since their high intelligence and fighting skills will help them throughout the tournament. Their lack of size and overly powerful attacks will be their only downfalls if they have any. 
The Phoenix vs. Giant matchup is one of the most interest­ing first-round battles. While the Giant has the size and power advantage, the Phoenix has flying ability and greater intelligence, and may be able to lure the Giant into a less advantageous fighting location. 
Another exciting first-round battle is between the afore­mentioned Centaur and Vampire. While the Vampire has the ability to fly, he loses his size and attacking ability when doing so, and Centaurs are extremely well-suited for speed while fighting. 
Frankenstein, the Gnome and the Goblin received unfortu­nate first-round draws, and have little chance of doing any damage to their much larger, stronger. smarter and more powerful foes. 
Though dominated by the higher seeds, the Literary bracket does have some interesting first-round battles, and will become infinitely more contested in the later rounds. 
The Miscellaneous Bracket 
E 
p 

make the way. 
I

The top three seeds are among the strongest in the tourna­ment. Godzilla, a ginormous lizard that terrorized Tokyo, is expected to burn through the bracket. However, a previous c defeat by the nation of Japan shows trouble closing the game. King Kong, at No. 2, makes Donkey Kong look like a puff pas­try. A lack of buildings on the course may present difficulties 
p

in the later rounds. Predator, the strongest three seed in the tournament, is the best warrior in the universe. He will make an asset of the terrain with his formidable intelligence and 
R 

deadly arsenal, including a shoulder-mounted energy cannon, invisibility, wolverine-style claws, bladed Frisbees of death 
0

and, most of all, dreadlocks. Moving down the bracket, more strong opponents will enter 
p

the arena. The tall, strong, furry, intelligent Wookie will make use of his energy bowcaster. Alien will terrify his opponents with a whip-like tail, sharp teeth, acid blood, intelligence and 
0

massive claws. The Gargoyle continues this display of power, with flight and razor sharp talons and teeth. Being made animated stone, it has an impregnable defense. 
R 

The more unfortunate low seeds present untapped upset potential. The Monty Python rabbit has long, sharp, point 
T

teeth. It leaps about! Look at the bones! The Dust Bunny · the monster under your bed. Any creature with allergy prob 
I

lems beware. Strap on your seatbelts kids, it's gonna be a wild ride. So many lasers, explosions and slow motion dramatics, it'll make 
0 

Michael Bay cry. Expect excitement every second and grue­some deaths around every corner. 
N 

The fierce smorgasbord that is the Miscellaneous Bracket Contact Nick Anderson at nanders51@nd.edu, Matt Brown at contains a mish-mash of terrifying creatures. It is guaranteed mbrownl4@nd.edu, Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu and Szymon 
s 

to deliver exciting match-ups in which any beast has a shot to RyLner at sryzner@gmail.com 

Phoenix
r----
GiaDt

----------·------
Ent 

LITERARY 6 ~-V_aiJ1pire -·----~~~~----=··~------; 1 1 Centaur J 3 Grendel

i -· -~~"
'----------f...... 1 -1 
Gnome 
7 Basilisk Elf 


_____Dr_a~~ ... 
~ ~ -}

.; '' Goblin 
____..., -~-~---------·----~ -------w ·~--
Godzilb --·· """ " '; f< Dust Bunni
lt, ­
-----------····-·· ··=-~~~ Succubus 1-. Mummy 
Wookie 
-----------~------··---~-----....-...................... 
MISCELLANEOUS 
Zombie 
---~~
......--e_.­
JACL YN ESPINOZA I Observer Graphic 
Friday, October 2, 2009 

page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB 
Colorado clinches playoff spot behind Cook 
Twins split four-game series to avoid elimination in tense 8-3 win over Tigers featuring multiple ejections 
to see them play better." 
\ssociated Press 
Tracy asked for 60 minutes to 

DENVER -It's a Rocktober mull the offer. redux for the Colorado Rockies, O'Dowd said he'd gladly give who are back in the playoffs him an hour's time to think 
after a one-year hiatus. about it but not a minute more 
Aaron Cook pitched four-hit because he needed a manager ball over eight spectacular in the dugout that night after innings in his second start since firing Hurdle following a stint of missing a month with a sore seven-plus seasons. 
shoulder, and Garrett Atkins Tracy talked it over with his drove in three runs for the wife and told O'Dowd he Rockies in a 9-2 win over the thought the Rockies could 
Milwaukee Brewers on indeed play better under his Thursday. tutelage. 
The Rockies' fourth straight Have they ever. victory eliminated Atlanta, their Under Tracy, the Rockies are final pursuer, from contention 73-40, and they took over sole for the NL wild card. Colorado possession of the lead in the can still catch the Dodgers for wild-card race, which they the NL West title if the Rockies trailed by 9 112 games at mid­sweep a weekend series in Los summer, on Sept. 1. 
Angeles. The Rockies, who were 12 "We're in," Troy Tulowitzki games under .500 on June 3, said. "Anything can happen turned their season around and once you're in." rejoined the pennant race with The Dodgers, who have lost sensational starting pitching four straight, were off Thursday (they're the only team with five and watched their division lead starters with double-digit wins}, over the Rockies get sliced to a brilliant bullpen. a mixture of two games with three left. clutch situational and power 
As the Rockies rejoiced hitting and deft managerial and behind the mound after the front office moves. final out, fans broke into a The Rockies reached the play­
chant of "Beat L.A.! Beat L.A!" offs as the NL wild card in 199 5 while fireworks crackled and 2007. when they went an through a cloudless sky. unfathomable 21-1 during a then drew his second bases­clinching their first division title season series and would host an 
"We're celebrating right now. stunning run-up to the World loaded walk, making it 7-1. in 22 years. extra game if needed, likely on We'll worry about that tomor­Series, where they were swept "We had a lot of heroes this Minnesota avoided elimina­Tuesday because the Vikings 
row," Todd Helton said as his by Boston after a weeklong lay­year. It was me today," Atkins tion from the playoff race and play an NFL game Monday teammates sprayed him with off. said. moved within two games of the night at the Metrodome against beer and champagne. "It's not been as crazy a ride After striking out his first four first-place Tigers with three to the Green Bay Packers. 
On the other side of the club­coming down the stretch but it's times up, Brad Hawpe hit his play. If Detroit beats the Ozzie house, manager Jim Tracy was been just as fun," Cook said. 22nd homer off Chris Smith in "We just didn't want to see Guillen-led Chicago White Sox getting soaked by players sere­"So, we're going to enjoy it just the eighth, his two-run shot them celebrating," Twins out­twice at home, it would win the nading him with "Boom Boom as much." making it 9-1. fielder Denard Span said. division. If not, the Tigers would Pow" by the Black Eyed Peas. After whittling their magic Smith was struck in the face The teams split a four-game need some help from the 
A bundled-up crowd of more number to one on Wednesday by pinch-hitter Eric Young's series -The Showdown in Kansas City Royals, who end than 38,000 sat through blus­night, the Rockies took a quick one-hop comebacker later in Motown. The Tigers had a the season at Minnesota. tery winds on a 50-degree day 1-0 lead Thursday when Atkins' the inning and had to leave the chance to wrap up their first Royals ace Zack Greinke is to watch the record-setting win. first-inning blooper fell in front game. division crown since 1987 in the lined up to start on Saturday. At 91-58, the Rockies set a fran­of left fielder Ryan Braun for a Cook (11-6). who walked finale, but their bats were qui­"We're going to the dome for chise mark for wins in a season single, allowing Helton to score three times, allowed one run eted and their pitchers got the last weekend, and we've and moved 23 games over .500 from second. and four hits in his longest out­roughed up in a 'three-run third still got a shot," Twins manager for the first time in their 17-They chased left-bander ing since June 28 at Oakland. inning and a four-run eighth. Ron Gardenhire said. "We've year history. Manny Parra (11-11) with a Franklin Morales gave up Detroit started the series with got to beat the Royals and, 
Unlike two years ago, when four-run third. Mike Cameron's RBI double in a two-game lead and ended it 'Come on, Ozzie!' I'm going to they got hot at the right time, Atkins, who lost his starting the ninth before getting Alcides with the same tenuous cushion. leave him a note." winning 21 of 22 on their way third base job at midseason, fol­Escobar looking at strike three "We controlled our own des­Tempers flared in the eighth. to their only World Series lowed Tulowitzki's run-scoring for the final out. tiny today and we had a chance Detroit manager Jim Leyland appearance, these Rockies sim­single with an RBI double into "They do the things they need to clinch it out, but you have to was ejected during a face-to­ply got good. the right-field corner, and Parra to do to win," Cameron said. give them credit," catcher face argument with umpire 
Very good. walked Cook and Dexter Fowler "They play good defense, they Gerald Laird said. "We're still Angel Hernandez in the top of 
After trading slugger Matt with two outs and the bases pitch well and they get timely two games up with three to the inning, following an inside Holliday last fall for closer loaded to make it 5-0. hitting." play, and we're in the driver's pitch. Then, Tigers pitcher Huston Street and outfielder Seth McClung replaced Parra seat. We just have to play good Jeremy Bonderman and Laird Carlos Gonzalez, the Rockies and struck out Ryan Spilborghs Twins 8, Tigers 3 baseball like we have at home, were tossed in the home half. got off to a stumbling start. to end the inning. Parra allowed The AL Central is still up for take it to the White Sox and Both benches and bullpens They were 18-28 on May 29 five runs and six hits in 2 2-3 grabs. we'll be celebrating." emptied after Twins outfielder when Tracy took over after gen­innings. Scott Baker got plenty of run The tightest race in baseball Delmon Young was plunked in eral manager Dan O'Dowd fired Atkins added a run-scoring support and pitched the won't be decided until this the leg by Sonderman, but the longtime manager Clint Hurdle. single off John Axford in the Minnesota Twins to a testy vic­weekend -or early next week players contained their emo­
When O'Dowd offered Tracy sixth after Braun hit his 31st tory over Detroit on Thursday, if a tiebreaker is necessary. tions enough to avoid any push­the job, he told him, ''I just want homer in the top half. Cook preventing the Tigers from Minnesota has clinched the ing or punching. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
andersonND rentals.com. HOUSES VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Suddenly there was no trail. There ---------------FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232-not go it alone. Notre Dame has was no giant. no monster, no thingWANTED FoR RENT 4 BDRM HOUSE ON 32 ACRES 0964 many resources in place to assist called "Douglas" to be followed. OF NATURE AND SERENITY. 9 ---------------you. If you or someone you love There was nothing in the tunnel but 
Looking for a quiet place to relax MILES NORTH OF NOTRE DAME. Buying ND football tix. GAs. 574-needs confidential support or assis-the puzzled men of courage who PART TIME WORK $14.25 base-after the game? Charming rental $1,200 FOR WEEKEND. CALL 277-1659. tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at suddenly found themselves alone appt.,no experience needed,cus-unit for 2-4, beautiful view, free GEORGIA PEACH BED AND ---------------1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For with shadows and darkness. With tomer sales/service,574-273-3835 canoe and kayaks with direct BREAKFAST@ 269-357-6979. more information, visit ND's website the telegram, one cloud lifts, and ---------------access to St. Joe River. Adults only, ---------------at: http :1/pregnancysupport. nd.edu another descends. Astronaut Frank 
no smoking. no pets. See pictures PERSONAL ---------------Douglas, rescued, alive, well, and on www.TheRiverGetaway.org or I am writing this under an apprecia-of normal size some 8,000 miles 269-815-3000. Great to stay for TICKETS ble mental strain. Penniless. and at away in a lifeboat.
FoR SALE 

Notre Dame Events. 3 day mini-If you or someone you care about the end of my supply of the drug --------------­
mum. HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will has been sexually assaulted, we which alone makes life endurable, I 
Corn Hole, solid wood, dorm size, tailgate size, full size. WI or W/0 bags. Call Brian 574-850-7166 1 bdrm apartment for rent right off campus. $390/mo. 574-243-7777. 

pay top$$. 574-251·1570. 
Need 2 MSU & USC tix & parking pass. 574-276-8507. 
can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame's website: http:/lcsap.nd.edu 
can bear the torture no longer; and shall cast myself from this garret window into the squalid street below. 
Miner Street. here come the Dawgs! 


OUNDTHE 
ATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES
Friday, October 2, 2009 
page 19 
NFL 

NCAA Men's Soccer NSCAA Division I Rankings 
team previous 
1 Akron 1 2 Maryland 4 3 Wake Forest 6 4 UCLA 10 5 North Carolina 2 6 South Florida 3 7 California 5 8 Harvard 8 9 Indiana 13 10 Monmouth 14 11 UC Santa Barbara 7 12 Virginia 11 13 Kentucky 20 14 Duke 12 15 Obio State RV 16 Boston University 19 17 louisville 9 18 UMtJr. RV 19 Old Dominion RV 20 Stanford NR 21 Portland NR 
22 Charlotte RV 23 Brown 25 24 North Carolina State 16 25 Northwestern RV 
NCAA Women's Soccer NSCAA Division I Rankings 
team previous 
1 North Carolina 
1 
2 Stanford 
2 
3 UCLA 
3 

. 4 . Portland 
4 

· ' ' sSI 5 f.t.J florida State 
5 
6 Boston College · 

6 7 Florida 
10 8 South Carolina 
12 9 Wake Forest 
7 

10 NOTRE DAME 14 
11 Santa Clara 
9 
12 Purdue 
15 

13 Rutgers 17 
14 California 

8 15 Ohio State 
21 
16 TexasA&M 

13 17 St. John's (N.Y.) 23 18 Virginia 11 1 9 Arizona State 
RV 20 Michigan State RV 21 UCF 22 22 Georgia 16 23 LSU NR 24 Maryland 18 25 San Diego 24 
NGCA Division I Women's Golf 
Coaches Poll  
team  points  
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10  . Arizona State Pepperdine Auburn LSU Georgia Southern California UCLA Florida Denver Alabama  1018 782 772 754 728 682 656 613 598 584  

around the dial 
MLB 
White Sox at Tigers 7:05p.m., ESPN 
NCAA Football 
Pittsburgh at Louisville 8 p.m., ESPN2 


Associated Press 

SANTA CLARA, Calif. ­The San Francisco 49ers are putting their offense in the hands of rookie running back Glen Coffee. 
The third-round draft pick will carry the load in the team's power rushing attack the next few weeks with regular starter Frank Gore out with an injury to his right ankle. 
The 49ers say they won't change a thing in their offensive approach with Gore sidelined, and that means Coffee can expect to handle the football on a regular basis. 
Coffee had 25 carries for 54 yards during last week's loss in Minnesota after replacing Gore, who was injured on his first carry of the game. The rookie fig­ures to remain the focus of San Francisco's offense until Gore is ready to return after the team's Oct. 18 bye. 
"We are not going to alter things one bit," coach Mike Singletary said. "Obviously, you are missing one of the best backs in the league. But for us, we are fortunate to have Glen Coffee and we are confident he will step in and do a good job. He is a very mature young man working his tail ofT, and he can handle the load and be very effective." 
The 49ers have been looking for a productive backup for Gore since he 
became the team's full-time starter during his Pro Bowl season of 2006. Coffee was drafted this year to fill that role and is the only other halfback to carry the ball for the team so far this sea­son. 
Coffee will get his first NFL start Sunday when the 49ers (2-1) host the winless St. Louis Rams. San Francisco, which beat Arizona and Seattle to begin the season, can take command of the NFC West with a victory. 
The 49ers dropped from eighth to 16th in the NFL rankings in rushing offense after producing just 58 net yards against the Vikings last week. But Coffee intends to get the ground game back on track against a struggling St. Louis defense, which ranks 27th in the NFL in stopping the run. 
Coffee had consecutive runs of 12 and 13 yards to highlight a third-quarter scoring drive last week and appeared to hit his stride during the second half. 
"I have a full game under my belt now so I know what to expect and all that," Coffee said. "This is what you want as a player. I hate to see Frank get injured, but a backup is supposed to look at himself as a starter. There's not supposed to be any drop­off. The coaches expect that, and I expect that of myself." 
IN BRIEF 

Hasselbeck misses 
practice, may miss game 
RENTON, Wash. Matt Hasselbeck has missed yet another practice for the Seahawks. He remains likely to miss a second con­secutive game Sunday at Indianapolis. 
The three-time Pro Bowl quarter­back did some light throwing behind the huddle Thursday. It was the most he's done in a practice since he broke a rib at San Francisco Sept. 
20. 

Backup Seneca Wallace again ran the offense and figures to start. 
Sunday would be the 11th time Hasselbeck has been out injured since the start of the 2008 season. The Seahawks are 3-7 without him in that span. 
Tackle Walter Jones and guard Rob Sims -the left side of Seattle's offensive line -were also out injured. Fill-in tackle Brandon Frye was limited by a groin injury. 
Pacers to be missing players
for preseason opener 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana Pacers coach Jim O'Brien expects to be without several key players in Friday's preseason opener against Chicago at Conseco Fieldhouse. 
That could mean extended minutes for All-Star Danny Granger, starting point guard T.J. Ford and veteran center Jeff Foster, among others. 
The Pacers, who finished 36-46 last season and missed the playofl's for the third straight year, will be without starter Mike Dunleavy (knee), first-round draft pick Tyler Ilansbrough {shin), backup guard Travi'> Diener (toe) and free agent guard Earl Wat'>on (personal reasons). 
Starting forward Troy Murphy L'> listed as questionable with a sprained left ankle. 
"You don't. want to play anybody more than two quarters, but at the same time, you have to have five guys on the court at the end of the game," O'Brien said Thursday. 
Nike denies signing contract 
with Eagles' Vick 
NEW YORK -Nike said Thursday it does not have a "contractual rela­tionship" with Michael Vick, a day after the quarterback's agent announced a deal with the manufac­turer. 
In a statement released Thursday morning, Nike said it has "agreed to supply product to Michael Vick as we do a number of athletes who are not under contract with Nike." 
On Wednesday, Michael Principe, the managing direr,tor of BEST, the agency that represents Vick, announced the Philadelphia Eagles player had a new deal with Nike dur­ing a panel discussion at the Sports Sponsorship Symposium. 
"He actually just became a Nike client," Principe said Wednesday. "He has a new deal with Nike that we're all very pleased about." 
Principe declined comment Thursday. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 2, 2009 
NFL 
Favre not out for revenge· against Green Bay 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. -One minute, Brett Favre sternly insists he isn't out for revenge against the Green Bay Packers on Monday night. The next, he says it's only human for him to feel like he has something to prove to the team that traded him. 
In his first extended interview session with Wisconsin-based reporters since well before his unretirement saga went public last summer, Favre reluctantly revisited his departure from Green Bay. He also awkwardly backpedaled from previous com­ments that indicated a grudge against Packers general manag­er Ted Thompson. 
Favre will be wearing the pur­ple uniform of the Packers' bitter NFC North rival at the Metrodome on Monday night, but said his career moves over the past year aren't based on revenge. 
"Never was motivated for that reason," Favre said in a confer­ence call. "No. That has nothing to do with it." 
But when reminded of his comments to si.com in February, in which Favre said part of his motivation for coming back last season was "sticking it" to Thompson, Favre acknowledged he did want to show the Packers he still belonged in the NFL. 
"It's human nature to feel. I didn't use the word revenge, but to prove that you still.could play," Favre said. "To prove someone wrong, or prove a group wrong. So you can call it what you want." 
Packers coach Mike McCarthy wasn't about to step back into a controversy that caused a major disruption during last year's training camp before Favre was traded to the New York Jets. 
''I'm not going to comment on his thoughts and his words or anybody's thoughts or their words in Minnesota," McCarthy said. "We're really looking for­ward to playing the game, like we do every year. There is defi­nitely added juice to it, no doubt about it, so we'll just leave it at that." 
Favre said his main motivation for signing with the Vikings as a free agent -after retiring for a second time following a season with the Jets -was to win a Super Bowl. 
''I'd like to win it all," Favre said. "I don't feel like I need to prove anything to anyone, first of all. I'm very proud of my career." 
But if he's not out for revenge on the Packers and still wanted to play, why didn't he just stay with the Jets'? Favre said at the 

AP Favre says he's not out for revenge against his former team heading into Monday night's showdown against the Packers. 
end of last season, he wasn't willing to have the surgery he'd need on his torn right biceps ten­don to continue playing. 
"I knew I had an injury that would require surgery if I chose to play," Favre said. "And as dis­appointed as I was, I chose to go home and not have it and they chose to go in a different direc­tion. That's how it evolved." 
OK, so why did he ask to be released from his Jets contract when he retired? 
"None of that matters now anyway," Favre said. "What mat­ters is this game Monday night, and that's all the matters. This team has welcomed me here. It's been a lot of fun, it's been alot of work, but I'm having a good time. And that's all that mat­ters." 
Favre reiterated he still consid­ers Green Bay a "special place," but said he understands that some Packers fans have turned on him. picked sides, I'm not surprised 

''I'm proud of the career I had by it. But you can't take that there," Favre said. "So if there away. So it is what it is. But I are people at this point that have can't control that." 

No Matter Where You Are... 
We offer a variety ofways for you to access your accounts and your 111oney, includittg 
FREE Internet 
Ho1ne Banking, 
FREE Mobile Banking, and more than 32,000 
Surcharge-Free 
ATMs nationwide. 
Plus, cotnittg soon: 
FREE Text 
Message 
Banking. 

4/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
,:: Independent of the University 


Friday, October 2, 2009 page 21
The Observer • SPORTS 

NBA 
NBA heads into season with refs locked out 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -With its regu­lar referees locked out, the NBA is confident in its roster of replacements -even the two it previously fired. 
The NBA begins preseason play Thursday night with 62 referees. The league said more than half have officiated in the NBA Development League, and all but five have worked the summer league. 
It also said the two with league experience, Michael Henderson and Robbie Robinson, were some of the best replacements available. 
Realizing the scrutiny the backups face, the league reminded teams Wednesday about its rules against publicly criticizing the oflicials. But sen­ior vice pJ.:esident of referee operations Ron Johnson believes the teams won't have much to complain about. 
"I think some people rise to the most amazing level of per­formance at amazing times," Johnson said on a conference call. "So we'll see." 
Denver visits Utah in the first game, and Trey Maddox, Deldre Carr and CJ Washington will ofliciate. The replacements will be paid $1,100 per game, same as a first-year officials and more than they were paid in the D-League or WNBA. 
The league had the replace­ments in training camp last weekend, but thought it would­n't need them. The NBA said the referees union agreed in principle on a new contract last Friday, but backed out of the deal two days later. The league then told teams Tuesday it was going ahead with the backups. 
"The teams and we in the best of worlds would like to have our current staff opening 
the season of course. They're the best 60 referees in the world. But having rejected the agreement reached by their negotiators, we're left with no choice but to use replace­ments," president of league and basketball operations Joel Litvin said. 
"That's not ideal, but this is part of the sports business and we're moving on with this group. We have plenty of confi­dence in this group." 
Still, Litvin said he expected some players to vent about the quality of officiating, so the league sent a memo to the teams warning them of the penalties for comments about the referees in hopes of pre­venting the frequent complaints that were heard during the last lockout in 1995. 
"I can assure you, there will be less of that this time around," Litvin said. 
The NBA expects the ·officiat­ing to be stronger this time because it is relying on replace­ments from within its own sys­tem. While the 1995 backups were mostly from the Continental Basketball Association, this time 50 are from the D-League, WNBA or NCAA Division I. 
"When you work in an NBA summer league, or work in the D-League, you are essentially working for our referee opera­tions staff," Litvin said,_ "apply­ing our rules, the NBA rules, our call interpretations, our mechanics, and these are all people who have ofliciated NBA players before." 
Only Henderson and Robinson have done it in NBA games, and their rehiring was a disappoint­ment to the union. Johnson said while they were fired because their performance didn't meas­ure up to regular referees, it fits with the replacement group. 
"People don't just get fired because they're incompetent, they get fired because relative to the performance of the staff standard," Johnson said. "I was not here when they were released. We know why they were released. Indeed, they've gotten some experience, they've stayed in the community of practice. I think they're ready to go." 
Litvin said no further talks are planned with the regular referees, whose contract expired Sept. 1. So the replace­ment officials could be around a while -and the NBA is OK with that. 
"We are very, very familiar with the abilities of referees at every level. We know these guys," Litvin said. "We didn't reach out to anybody who we didn't think could handle this job." 

Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -The San Francisco Giants are close to finalizing new deals for general manager Brian Sabean and manager Bruce Bochy, accord­ing to a person with knowledge of the situation. 
The person spoke on condi­tion of anonymity because details were still being worked out and the cltib hadn't made a formal announcement. That could come as soon as this weekend but more likely on Monday during Bochy and Sabean's customary after-sea­son address. 
"I can't (confirm it)," Bochy said after the Giants beat Arizona 7-3 on Thursday in their final home game. "We have three more games and that's my focus. I'm under con­tract." 
A call to Sabean wasn't imme-
MLB 
Sabean, Bochy close to new deals 
Neukom has said all along he would address the status of Bochy and Sabean after the season. 
After an interview with AP on Saturday, Sabean headed into a meeting with Neukom. This was Sabean's 13th year as San Francisco's GM and he guided the Giants to the 2002 World Series as the wild card and NL West crowns in 1997, 2000 and '03, their last year in the play­offs. 
Sabean has taken heat at times for signing players to big contracts like pitcher Barry Zito's $126 million, seven-year deal through 2013 with a club option for 2014, and a $60 mil­lion, five-year contract for cen­ter fielder Aaron Rowand done in December 2007. The acquisi­tion of Freddy Sanchez from Pittsburgh on July 29 ended up a disappointment just because Sanchez couldn't stay on the field because of injuries. 
Neukom ultimately took into account the Giants were in the playoff chase this year when many thought they would be out of contention much earlier. With a 52-29 final home record, they drastically improved from last vear's 37-44 at AT&T Park. 
Also, San Francisco's farm system has made significant strides -producing reigning NL Cy Young Award winner Tim Lincecum, slugger Pablo Sandoval and top prospects and September callups in catcher Buster Posey and pitcher Madison Bumgarner. 
This job has been a transition for Bochy, managing a young club committed to rebuilding in the post-Barry Bonds era. 
ERASMUS BooKS 

• Used Books bought and sold 
• 2.5 Cat~or~ of Books 
• 15,000 Har4back and Paperback books In stock 
• 
Out.-of-Print search servi<e 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday throueh Sunday 1027 E. W~ne South Bend, IN 4&617 232-8444 
diately returned. 
Sabean received a two-year extension in 2007 that took him through this year and the Giants had to exercise a club option for 2010. Bochy's three­year contract worth roughly $6 million is due to expire at the end of the season. 
The Giants will miss the play­offs for the sixth straight season but were in the NL wild card race until being eliminated Wednesday night, certainly a sign of progress to new manag­ing partner Bill Neukom. 
Everything pointed to both Bochy and Sabean staying in San Francisco -and both were cautiously optimistic about it. Neukom has been around regu­larly and both Bochy and Sabean have been involved in meetings regarding next sea­son. The Giants will snap a streak of four straight losing seasons. 


Study Abroad in 
Angers, France 
Information Session 
Tuesday, October 6 7:00 p.m. 125 DeBartolo Hall 
Application Deadline: November 15,2009 More Information Available at www.nd.edu/-ois/ 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 2, 2009 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Winless Pangborn and Lyons look for victory 
Badin hopes to top undefeated Walsh; Breen Philips and Lewis look to rebound; undefeated Cavanaugh and PW meet 
victory over Pangborn. ''Last In light of this the Babes have 
By MEGAN FINNERAN, week we had a come-from­a lot of confidence that they will 
JOHN HELMS, KATIE behind victory over Pangborn," be able to get comfortable with 
GABRIEL, KELLY ZENER£, senior captain Meghan Hadley their new team and turn their 
CHRIS ALLEN and KAITLYN said. "It was a good reminder dedication into wins. 
MURPHY that this season is going to be a "We've had a lot of good 
Sports Writers lot of work. But the team han­attendance in practice this 
dled it marvelously and we week," Wuerdeman said. "[Last 
Sunday will bring a meeting of came out on top." week] left all of us even more two teams with only losses on The team is committed to hungry for the a win, and this their record and players ready making up for a disappointing week we plan to come out on to add wins when Pangborn showing in the postseason last top." faces Lyons. year. They have eyed the Against the Chicks, the Babes 
Pangborn (0-2) is ready to Stadium since the season start­plan to play aggressive offense come back after a close game ed. and impenetrable defense led by with Pasquerilla West ended in "Our goal for the season is the their senior captain and safety. a 6-0 loss after opening the sea­Stadium," Hadley said. "Last In a similar situation to the son with an 18-12 loss to Walsh. year, we went undefeated in the Babes, Lewis is hoping to prove After graduating multiple out­regular season and then had a that its 0-2 record represents a standing seniors disappointing lot of opportunities to learn and last year, the tournament build on past mistakes. team has yet to result. But that's "Our last two weeks have fill the voids, but "'We ·ve worked a lot the past. This been tough losses," senior cap­with weeks of on flag pulling to year is this year, tain Tara Gilbride said. "But practicing and and that is we've been showing great
avoid giving up the
two games under where our focus potential and improvement." their belts, the big play ... is." Although the Chicks have so Phoxes are ready Badin, on the far been scoreless except for a to take on Lyons. other hand, drive at the end of their second
Kelly Daniel 
Pangborn's caught the short game suggests that they are def­
Cavanaugh captain 
offense is led by side of a close initely melding as a team and junior quarter-game last working their way toward scor­back and co-cap-Sunday. The ing points. tain Gabby Tate and sophomore Bullfrogs lost to Cavanaugh 14-7 "From our first game to our wide receiver and co-captain Liz in their first game of the season. second, and throughout each of Pawlak. Senior co-captain "It was a tough loss versus our practices, we have been Megan Bescher also takes the Cavanaugh," senior captain steadily improving," sophomore lead, playing pretty much wher­Kelley Daniel said. "Our defense linebacker Brandy Cerne said. ever she is needed on the field. was awesome. It was just two "Hopefully we will score this 
"We are a mainly throwing big plays that broke away." weekend." team," sophomore captain Julie The Bullfrogs have been The Chicks not only hope to Cooney said. "We have a talent­working hard in practice to score a few touchdowns in their ed quarterback and many tighten up any loose areas from match against the Babes but to strong options on the receiving their loss. contain their opponents defen­end." "We've worked a lot on flag sively in the same way they 
Defensively, the ladies rely on pulling, to avoid giving up the were held scoreless for the senior linebacker, center and big play," Daniel said. "We've entire second half of Tuesday's co-captain Annie Kotz and sen­also made our offense more game. ior safety Kaitlin Fuerry. Many interesting." Lewis and Breen Philips will freshmen are also looking Bain is relying on these face each other at 2 p.m. at promising on both sides of the adjustments to carry them LaBar Field. game, namely Colleen Bailey on through the regular season the offensive line and Kristin towards their goals in the post­Cavanaugh vs. Pasquerilla Rukert at wide receiver. season. West 
"We really enjoy our time "The goal isn't just to make it Pasquerilla West and together and do our best to to the Stadium, but to win in the Cavanaugh will face each other maximize all our strengths," Stadium," Daniel said. Sunday hoping to hand the Cooney said. Walsh takes on Badin Sunday other their first loss of the sea­
After a tough 18-0 loss to at 5 p.m. at LaBar Field. son. Ryan, Lyons is ready to come "We have all the athleticism back for its second game. Breen Phillips vs. Lewis necessary to win against any 
They look to senior captain Both Breen Phillips and Lewis opponent this year," Purple and quarterback Claire Connell are "rebuilding" this week, as Weasel senior captain Cynthia to lead the offense, along with both teams began the 2009 sea­Curley said. wide receivers senior Maria son with a tough loss. The Weasels mainly rely on a Petnuch and sophomore The Babes lost their first game strong running game this year, Caroline Maroney. This triple against Pasquerilla East 20-0. so any ugly weather Sunday will threat has proved itself in the "The game looked like it went not hinder their game. In any past, and hopes to do so again terribly to outsiders," senior passing situation, junior quar­this season. captain Stephanie Wuerdernan terback Simone Bigi will have to 
Their defense is held together said. "But we do an outstand­by sophomores Kat Rodriguez were able to ing job corning and Caroline Maroney, who are learn a lot." up with plays, working together to lead the The Babes are "Our playbook is considering the freshmen new to the game. working with a different this year. It team does not 
"We got the first game jitters lot of inexperi­even have a
doesn •t exist.··
out," Connell said. "Now we enced players as playbook. need to work on stopping the a result of many "Our playbook run game and being more in players being Cynthia Curley is different this sync on offense." abroad last sea­Pasquerilla West captain year, Curley 
Pangborn and Lyons will face son and many of said. "It doesn't each other Sunday at LaBar the team's exist. It is Fields at 4 p.m. starters graduat-extremely flexi­
ing in the spring. Wuerdernan ble and fluid and allows our Badin vs. Walsh herself made a move to the posi­coaches to craft new plays for 
·Badin will try to hand Walsh tion of safety to replace a gradu­every down based on what's its first regular-season defeat in ated senior, and even the Babes going on in the game." more than a year Sunday. quarterback, sophomore Stefani The ambiguous playbook 
The Wild Women were tested Santerarno, is new to the posi­allows receivers Curley and sen­last week, escaping with a close tion. ior Alyssa Moya the ability to move across the field without new quarterback," junior cap­being confined to the playbook. tain and cornerback Emma 
Trying to stop the free-roam­Klosterman said. "But the ing receivers, Cavanaugh's offense shows steady improve­defense will follow the lead of ment with each game." senior captain Sara Cline. The Finest will be inspired by 
''I'm very proud of our team, the return of senior captain and especially the defense," Cline cornerback Caity Sheperd, who said. will join ball-hound sophomore 
The Chaos have an impressive Katie Smith in the defensive sec-offense as well. ondary. With Sophomore their leader back quarterback and the wins M e g a n rolling in, Farley
"This year we look to
Robertson is a appears dual threat with prove that we're not supremely confi­the ball in her a one-trick pony.·· dent as the sea­hands, and soph­son moves for­omore running ward.
Emily Dore
back Brittni "We've had a Alexander joins McGlinn captain great start to Robertson in the what looks to be backfield. a promising sea­
The Weasels s o n , " will have to respond to Klosterman said. "This year we Cavanaugh's fast offense with want to take it all the way to the an equally quick defense. Stadium." 
"We have some great athletes The confident surprise team on defense who love chasing from Farley will take on the down wayward passes for inter­struggling defending champs ceptions," Curley said. when the two teams face off at 
Pasquerilla West and LaBar Field at 1 p.m. Sunday. Cavanaugh will kick off Sunday at 6 p.m. at LaBar Field. Pasquerilla East vs. Welsh 
Family McGlinn vs. Farley The Pasquerilla East Pyros (2­
The defending champions of 0) are looking to remain unde­McGlinn will look to bounce feated in their upcoming game back from a 33-0 thrashing at against the Welsh Family the hands of Howard when they Whirlwind (0-2) Sunday. square off against Farley "This is our best start in a Sunday. long time," Pyros senior captain 
The Shamrocks surprised Tara Pillai said. everybody last year by winning Pillai cited the importance of the championship, and after offensive intensity and persever­their season-opening loss they ance against a tough Whirlwind are determined to prove to squad. everyone that last season was "We need to do a better job of not a fluke. finishing drives and actually get­
"This year we look to prove ting into the end zone instead of that we're not a one-trick pony," just getting a bunch of first senior captain and defensive downs," Pillai said. lineman Emily Dore said. "In This task will fall into the fact, we have a few new tricks hands of quarterback Pillai as up our sleeve this year." well as key receiver sophomore 
McGlinn is still in the process Kristin Mannion. of adjusting to a new quarter­Pillai also noted the impor­back in sophomore Lauren tance of junior center Emily Miller, as well as numerous Meyer as the anchor of the impact freshmen. However, the offensive line. nucleus of the team is banking On the other side of the ball, on their chemistry taking them Pillai commended the squad's back to the championship. recent defensive effort. 
"Many of us have been playing "The defense has really been together for a few years and it doing a great job so far, so they shows in our practices and need to continue to do that," she games," Dore said. "We go out said. there, get the job done and The Pyros hope the leadership enjoy doing it." of seniors Liz Huiz at linebacker 
Just like any other team trying and Anne Horst at safety will to repeat as champions, lead the defense into another McGlinn will likely face competi­successful start. tion that is eager and motivated "Welsh Family is always a to beat them. good team, so we are looking 
"Vv'e know the other teams are forward to seeing how we stack out for us but we feed on the up against them," Pillai said. challenge," Dore said. "We plan Pasquerilla East will get to to go out there and show every­gauge itself against Welsh one who is the best of the best Family Sunday at 3 p.m. at in this league." LaBar Field. 
The upstart team from Farley will try to sour McGlinn's playoff Contact Megan Finneran at hopes en route to a 3-Q. start. mfinnera@nd.edu, John Helms Farley started off the season at jhelms2@nd.edu, Katie with wins against Lewis and Gabriel at kgabriel@nd.edu, Welsh Family. Kelly Zenere at 
The team has done a nice job kzenerO 1 @saintmarys.edu, Chris adjusting to some new players Allen at callenlO@nd.edu and in key roles. Kaitlyn Murphy at 
"We are still adjusting to a kmurph28@nd.edu 


Friday, October 2, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
NHL 
Canadiens edge Toronto in overtime thriller 
Associated Press 
TOHONTO-Montreal defense­man Josh Gorges scored with only 
12.8 seconds left on the overtime clock, and Carey Price made 43 saves in the Canadiens' season­opening 4-3 victory over the Toronto Maple Leafs on Thursday night. 
The Canadiens were badly out­shot and thoroughly outplayed through two periods, but found a 
W'ABHINDTDN VB NOTRE DAME 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE EVENTS 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2009 
3:00 PM -5:00 PM 
Bob Bums 
Signing at the lrishGrven 
1:00 PM -3:00 PM 1:00PM-3:00PM 1:00PM-3:00PM 
J;m Lefebvre Connie McNamara John Shaughnessy 
Loyal Sons My First Notre Dame Irish Way of Ufe Words: Go Irish! 
Monk's 
O
Tale 
<·I"' 
. . ~
hk. ;• 1.·. 
~..., 

3:00PM-5:00PM 3:00 PM -5:00 PM 3:00 PM -5:00 PM 3:00 PM ..S:OO PM Mike Collins + James Kennec:Jy Father Malfoy Jane Pitz Tim McCa1thy 


Order of the Monk•s Tale Lis for Leprechaun Irish Way of Life Birth Day 
May I Have Your 

Odd Fish 
Attention Ptease? 

way to hang around and win. They got some help from former teammate Mike Komisarek, who was in the penalty box for two Montreal goals. 
Brian Gionta, Travis Moen and Glen Metropolit also scored for the Canadiens. 
Matt Stajan had two goals, and Alexei Ponikarovsky added one for Toronto. 
Gorges went to the net and bat­ted a rebound over goalie Vesa 
• 
State ofthe Art Brand. New High Line Fitness Center and Community Club House 

• 
free Tanning Beds 

• 
Private Balconies and .Free Parking 

• 
Swimming Pool, SunDeck, Hot Tub and Basketball Court 

• 
On Site Management and 24/7 ~taintenance • --On Site Security Officer 


574.272.8124 
1710 Turtlt> Crt't-k Drive • South Bend, IN www.clovet:"villageapartments.co.m 
Toskala after Mike Cammalleri had taken the puck hard to the goal. 
The Canadiens-Maple Leafs rivalry runs deeper than just his­tory, with three fights, several serums after the whistle and plen­ty of jawing back and forth. Much of it centered on Komisarek, the Leafs defenseman who left Montreal over the summer to sign a $22.5-million, five-year deal. 
Before the game, Maple Leafs 

Bedroom Apartments 
.... ' 

• 
Swimming Pool, Tennis Court. 24 Hour Fitness Center, Basketball Court 

• 
Free Tanning Beds 

• 
Free \\'asher and Dryer in each unit 

• 
High Speed Wireless Internet and Comcast Premium Cable Induded 

• 
On Site Management and 24/7 Maintenance 

• 
On Site Security Officer 


'574.272.1441 
.1~01 Irish Way • South Bend, IN \vww.doverridgeapartments.com 
+ 

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2009 
I 

9:30AM -11~30 AM 9:30AM -11:30 AM 
Frank Maggio Dave Reidy 
NO and the Game That Captive Audience Changed Football 
11:30 AM-1:30PM 11:30 AM-1:30PM 
Jolm Shaughnessy Marie S#oall 
coach Ron Wilson expressed con­cern that Komisarek might get a little too worked up while facing his former team. He received a double high-sticking penalty in the first period for cutting open new Canadiens forward Scott Gomez. 
Giunta opened the scoring after the next faceoff, taking a nice pass from Cammalleri and beat­ing Toskala at 11:05. It was the first points in a Canadiens uni-
9:30AM -11:30 AM 11~30 AM-1:30PM ..John ~kovits Jeremy & Jim LarJgford 
American The Spirit of Notnt Commando OMM 

--~... . " 
.,.., )., ·..-_ 
' < 



11:30 AM-1:30PM 12:30 AM-1:30PM 
Kathy Sullivan Gerry Faust 
I Had Lunch Tales from the Notre With God Dame Sidelines 
fonn for the two big summer free­
agent signings. 
Toronto had controlled much of 
the play until that point and soon 
regained the momentum. 
Ponikarovsky tied it 1-1 just over 
3 minutes later, one-timing 
Mikhail Grabovski's pass behind 
Price. 
Montreal again demonstrated its ability to manufacture quick goals as Glen Metropolit beat Francois Beauchemin to the puek and fed it out front to Moen, who slid it through Toskala's legs at 
6:38 ofthe second period. 
The Maple Leafs tied it during a two-man advantage with Matt D'Agostini and Paul Mara in the penalty box. Stajan got open at the side of the goal, where he tipped Tomas Kaberle 's point shot past Price. 
The Montreal goalie is looking to rebound from a tough end to last season and couldn't be fault­ed for either of the first two goals. He was plenty busy, too -when the horn sounded to end the sec­ond period, Toronto was out­shooting Montreal 30-13. 
In the third period, the Canadiens were called for a pair of goaltender interference penal­ties and Stajan put the Leafs ahead for the first time while Moen was serving the second. He had a \vide-open net at 9:09 after Jason Blake made a nifty move to kick the puck up to his stick and slid it in front. 
The Maple Leafs appeared to have the game in hand until Komisarek took a late elbowing penalty -his fifth minor of the night to go with a fighting major. On the power play, Metropolit tipped in a point shot at 15:50 that appeared to go in and out of Toskala's glove. 
page 24 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 2, 2009 
ORGANIZED BY THE UNIVERSITY COUNSELING CENTER 
~ODY lMAbE AND EATINb DI~ORDER~ AWARENE~~ WEEK PRESENTS:
..._____________________________ 
-. 


) 
.._ 
' ~ . 



) 
-
) 
hy do we "burn" others and ourselves? 
II ,__ 
... 
., 
I ' ~ ' ' 
. . 
• t ~ :·~ .;.; ' .•. 

i . ~. 
( 
t -­
) 

Friday, October 2 Geddes Hall Auditorium, 7:00 pm 

~ 
~ 
Movie followed by brief dialogue t1 ~ ., 
ti 
COSPONSORS of BIEDAW. Gender Relations Center, Feminist Voice~ Soite Museum of Art, Student Go-lemment end UnMtrsity Counseli Center 
'I 
f; 
-} 
I 
I 
l J 
,, 
~ 
~ 
I. ., 
.l 
l 
Friday, October 2, 2009 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
PGA GOLF 
Olson, Petrovic tied for lead at Turning Stone 
Associated Press 
VEHONA, N.Y. -Leif Olson decided to give goIf another shut after a lengthy layoff. He's showing signs he might have made a good choice. 
Overcoming adverse condi­tions on a blustery day, Olson shot a 6-under 66 on Thursday to tie Tim Petrovic for the first­round lead at the Turning Stone Hesort Championship. 
Olson, a 28-year-old rookie from Denver, had to advance through all three stages of Qualifying School to earn his 2009 card on the cut line. 
"I consider it really my first main year playing as a profes­sional," said Olson, the former Duke player who but played only the 2004 U.S. Open on the PGA Tour prior to this year. "I played pro just for like a sum­mer and then I stopped. I just kind of started up last summer." 
Petrovic chipped in twice dur­ing his round, posting seven birdies and one bogey. It's the third time this season he's opened with a 66. 
"It would be nice to get a vic­tory at the end of the year," said Petrovic, whose lone victory was the 2005 Zurich Classic of New Orleans. "I've been close a few times." 
One shot behind were''Matt Kuchar, John Senden, and Vaughn Taylor. 
Adam Scott, Scott Gutschewski, Kevin Stadler, Ken Duke, Jimmy Walker, Nicholas Thompson and Matt Jones shot 6Rs. Defending champ Dustin Johnson birdied his last two holes to finish at 69. 
The round was halted 

because of darkness with a 
handful of players still on the 
course. 
With seagulls replacing fans along a fairway or two and Canada geese squawking loudly overhead on their long journey south, intermittent and some­times heavy rain and tempera­tures that never reached 50 made the first day of the Fall Series tailor-made for water fowl over the soggy Atunyote Golf Club course. 
"I was expecting worse," Justin Rose said after a 69. "I pretty much put on half my suit­case today, so I didn't feel the cold. I think we got a little bit of a break because the wind didn't blow. It made it playable." 
A year ago, wind, rain and a brief shower of hail forced two weather delays on the second round. There were no delays on Thursday, but because there was so much standing water on the course players were allowed a rarity -to lift and drop on all areas except teeing grounds, greens and hazards. 
"In the rough you can tee it up. That's a big thing," saiq Olson, best-known for a hole-in­one at the Canadian Open when his ball caromed off playing partner Kris Blanks' ball and rolled into the hole. 
So-called preferred lies "through the green" also will be in effect Friday. The last time that happened on the PGA Tour was at the 2005 BellSouth Classic, which was also the last time it snowed during a tourna­ment. 
Petrovic and Olson teed ofT in the morning and had to weather a steady rain and temperatures 
RI'AtK 
100 
Susan Ullery
......,,.nQct­
~~.-. ~~~ ~lhfl·· <'941~ .. Oilktl~ (5.'74) ~-!9851 F1Dl ($741:2'~ Td!~~-1-~ 
...._.. SMIIh•a t.oom 

.......,.,..."'··-~·--to~~--~-­

in the 30s. Olson, sporting a striped knit cap pulled tightly over his ears, matched his pre­vious round on tour, a 66 at the Wyndham Championship in August that wasn't low enough to make that cut. 
Olson, who has only made four cuts in 17 events, sits atop the leaderboard because he averaged nearly 280 yards off the tee and birdied four of the most difficult holes on the course. He hit to within 10 feet or closer of each of the pins at Nos. 2, 7, 11 and 13, finishing the day with seven birdies and one bogey. 
"It's a long ball hitting course," said Olson, 814th in the world ranking. "Hopefully, we'll see, just take it day by day. Guys are going to tear it up tomorrow. You just want to get off to a good start.'' 
The 43-year-old Petrovic carded five birdies on the back nine. He hit inside 8 feet from 203 yards at the par-4 17th hole and made birdie, then followed that by hitting inside 6 feet at No. 18 from 146 yards to make the turn at 31. 
The lone blemish on Petrovic's round was a bogey at the par-5 eighth hole. His third shot found a greenside bunker and he failed to convert a 15-foot par putt. 
"I was just trying to keep my hands warm. That was the key," Petrovic said. "I didn't care if I got wet. It was a.battle out there. We didn't have the trifec­ta -the wind was down. You just had to suck it up, I guess." 
Stadler, also among the early finishers, had a birdie and eagle on the front side and two more birdies on the, back to go with a bogey at No. 13. 
"It's one of those days where I was not really thinking about score," said Stadler, who holed out from 117 yards for eagle at the par-5 eighth. "I knew it was going pretty well, but without really playing too well. I'm very happy to be done with it and kind of in the back of my mind I'm hoping it's going to be mis­erable for the rest of them this afternoon." 
It was. The wind picked up to nearly 15 mph at times, and Johnson, whose two victories on tour have come in inclement weather, never managed to get something going. 
ashington, D.C• 

Information l\'leeting 

·, Tuesday~ October 6 
7:00 P ..M. 11 7 Hayes-Healy 

---------------------------------------------------·----------------------------------------------------------------------------------.. 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 2, 2009 
MLB 

Carpenter tallies 6 RBis, grand slam in win 
Fame New York Giants man­
Associated Press 
ager John McGraw for second 

CINCINNATI -Ace pitcher place on the career list of Chris Carpenter hit a grand games managed. La Russa is slam and drove in six runs, at 4,770. behind only Connie getting the St. Louis Cardinals Mack's 7,755. back on track with his arm The Cardinals seored their and bat in a 13-0 rout of the most runs in a game since Cincinnati Reds on Thursday. setting their season high in a 
Carpenter's first career 14-7 win over Pittsburgh on homer capped a five-run sec­Sept. 4. The win was their ond inning for the Cardinals, biggest uf the season, sur­who had lost five of six -passing a 10-0 victory over including three straight since the Los Angeles Dodgers on clinching the NL Central title July 28. with a win at Colorado last Carpenter {17-4), who Saturday. He added a two-run struck out six and walked double during a four-run fifth one, has won his last five to match the career RBI total starts against the Reds, he brought into the game. including all four this season. 
The right-hander also threw Third baseman Troy Glaus, five innings of three-hit ball who had shoulder surgery on for his 17th win. Carpenter's Jan. 21 and wasn't activated grand slam was the 1Oth by a until Sept. 1 before missing Cardinals pitcher and first another 16 days with a side since Kent Mercker connected injury, got the scoring started at Florida on Sept. 2, 1998. in the second with a single ­
The previous major league his first RBI of the season. pitcher to hit a grand slam Yadier Molina, who had was Jason Marquis for the been out since Saturday with 
•
Chicago Cubs off New York a bruised left knee, singled 
j 
,,
Mets left-hander Jonathon and Rrendan Ryan was hit by 
i 
Niese on Sept. 22, 2008, at a pitch to load the bases for ' Shea Stadiurn, according to Carpenter, who had one RBI STATS LLC. this season before lining the 
The last pitcher to have six first pitch from Kip Wells an before being replaced by helmet by a pitch Sept. 6 at with an injured right knee. RBis in a game was Micah estimated 381 feet into the Owings. Atlanta, leaving him with a Wells bounced a pitch that got Owings for Arizona at Atlanta left-field seats. Owings got Cincinnati's first concussion and punctured past catcher Corky Miller and on Aug. 18, 2007, STATS said. Wells (2-5) lasted two bat­hit off Carpenter with a one­eardrum. hit O'Nora on the inside of his Owings now pitches for the ters into the third inning. The out, opposite-field double to The game was delayed for 9 knee. Adrian Johnson moved Reds. right-hander was roughed up right in the third. The plate minutes in the top of the sec­from first base to behind the 
St. Louis' Tony La Russa for five hits and five runs with appearance was the first for ond when plate umpire Brian plate, and the game continued snapped a tie with Hall of one walk and one strikeout Owings since he was hit in the O'Nora came out of the game with three umpires. · 
:'' 


Living lives ofPurpose and Joy 

Is God calling you? 
vocation.nd.edu 
Friday, October 2, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 27 
Invite 
continued from page 32 
country," women's coach Tim Connelly said. 
In the women's division, the top-ranked reigning national champions Washington Huskies will lead the competition. Eleven other ranked teams will com­pete, including No. 3 Florida 
State, No. 6 Princeton, No. 12 Providence, No. 13 Arizona State and No. 15 Florida. 
"There are a number of other unranked teams who are certain­ly capable of being so, and Tulsa, No. 15 Providence, No. 24 New Mexico and No. 26 Florida State, all ranking ahead of the No. 28 Notre Dame men. 
The Irish look to today's event as their chance to not only estab­lish a higher team ranking, but also to improve their resume for the NCAA Championship meet. 
"It is important to run well both to solidify a ranking, but most importantly because beat­ing teams here can help solidifY 
..Our meets get progressively more competitive, and this one is very difficult. •• 
Joe Piane Irish coach 
will try to prove it this week," Connelly said. 
The Iri.o;;h women's team ic;; cur­rently ranked 24th and will have to provide a good fight on the course today. 
In the men's competition, a total of 10 ranked teams will be coming to South Bend for the Invitational, including No. 11 a hid to the NCAA meet at the end of the season," senior Beth Tad said. 
There will be five total races, a blue race and a gold race for each men's and women's divi­sions, depend­

ing on ability, and an open race for all others competing. Notre Dame will he competing in the blue race in each division. The women's blue race starts at 4:15 
p.m. and the men's blue race begins at 5 p.m. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msamrnon@nd.edu 
Manor 
continued from page 27 
should work to their benefit. 
"We have a good mix," Yuhas said. "Guys from every class, freshman to seniors, play and contribute greatly. It really builds camaraderie and helps us have fun as a team." 
Despite the slow start, Duncan seems poised to turn it around this week. 
The Highlanders have prac­ticed twice a week, focusing especially on those aspects of the game that were their downfalls in the previous games. 
"For this week's game, we want to play mistake-free football," Scheel said. "The first two games we killed our­selves with costly penal­ties and men­
had a welcome bye week. The Mob failed to convert a first down in the first three quar­ters against Dillon, fumbled multiple snaps and suffered three sacks. 
"We need to score points early and often Suuday in order to heat Keenan," O'Neill senior captain Charles Johnson said. "We were shut out last time, so we went back to the basics and added a couple plays and made some adjustments on the offensive line." 
Keenan. meanwhile, has dropped each of its first two con tests and only scored a combined three points in those games. 
"We need to start executing on offense," sophomore cap­tain Terry Mahoney said. "That is something we have 
failed to do 
the past two 
weeks." 

tal lapses."  "lt,s going to be like the  The Knights  
Morrissey,  Little Giants responding  defense, led  
however, plans to run it down the  in the second half against the Cowboys  by sophomore cornerback P.J. McHugh,  
Highlanders'  when Icebox came in.··  was  a  bright  
throats.  spot  for  
"Our headed  two­mon­ Andy Nester  Keenan last Sunday, hold­ 
ster  in  the  St. Edward's captain  ing Dillon  to  
offensive  just  seven  
backfield,  offensive  

senior quarterback Danny points and keeping them in Deveny and sophomore tail­the game despite the strug­hack David Ulery, should gles of the offense. have a big game on Sunday," "The defense has played Yuhas said. very well," Mahoney said. 
The Highlanders and the "We need to keep the ball Manor will do battle Sunday with the offense and put at 1 p.m. on the Riehle Field. loads of points on the board 
to take some pressure off 
Fisher vs. St. Edward's 
When Fisher {0-1-1) and St. Edward's {0-1) meet Sunday, each will be hoping to define their season with a hallmark victory. 
Both teams hope to get their first win of the season. Fisher was ·shut out in its season-opening loss, and only managed six points in a tie with Carroll. 
The Gentlemen lost to Carroll to open their season and then had a week off. St. Ed's hopes that their bye week will be a refresher for the team as they plan to add to the win column. The Gentleman defense antici­pates stopping the Green Wave from reaching the end zone this week. 
"We have some real solid freshmen on defense," senior captain Andy Nester said. 
Freshman Rob Dillard looks to lead the Gentlemen on the defensive side of the ball. 
After having some time to practice and prepare for Fisher, the Gentleman will come out strong against the Green Wave. 
"It's going to be like the Little Giants responding in the second half against the Cowboys when Icebox came in," Nester said. 
Fisher will use a tough defense to try to get that win and stop the Gentleman offensive attack. 
"We will he blitzing [St. Ed's] all day," Fisher senior head coach Pat II ogan said last week. 
St. Ed's will look to top Fisher for its first win of the season, as Fisher hopes for the exact opposite, Sunday at 1 p.m. at Riehle Field. 
O'Neill vs. Keenan 
Keenan and O'Neill both enter Sunday's game in des­perate need of a victory as they both enter the contest winless on the season. 
After a humbling 23-0 loss to Dillon in Week 1. O'Neill them." 
The Knights have worked hard in practice this week to correct the mistakes that led to the 0-2 start. 
"We gave our best effort at practice this week and we will at the game Sunday," Mahoney said. "We need to show the intensity because every week is a playoff game for us now. 
We definitely need to come out firing in the intensity cat­egory. We will he ready Sunday." 
The game will be played Sunday at 3 p.m. at Riehle Field. 
Stanford vs. Dillon 
Stanford (1-0) and Dillon {1-0) face off this Sunday in a battle of undefeated teams that promises to be a defen­sive struggle. 
Neither team has given up a point so far this year; Dillon stifled Keenan and O'Neill, while Stanford shut out Keough. 
"I'm real excited about what we've done so far," Big Red captain Jordan Smith said. "The defense and run­ning game have been great." 
Dillon will look to senior quarterback Jason Miller as well as to its athletic back­field of freshman Terry Howard and junior Eric Herbert to break the formida­ble Stanford defense, while the Griffins will rely heavily on their linebacking corps to stop the run and fo.rce Dillon to rely on the pass, with which it has struggled recent­ly. 
"We want to make them start throwing the ball," Stanford senior captain Chris Gill said. "We're pretty confi­dent that in a passing con­test, we'll end up on the win­ning side nine times out of 10." 
When the Griffins have the hall, they will utilize their running attack to open up opportunities for junior quar­
terback Tony Rizzo through the air. The Big Red lost sophomore cornerback Matt High to a knee injury last week, which may complicate matters for the Dillon pass defense. 
These two squads know each other well, having bat­tled five times in the last three years, including two Griffin playoff victories. 
"Each game has been close," said Smith. "It's going to be a very hard-fought game." 
The contests between these teams have perennially had major playoff implications, and this year's edition prom­ises nothing less. 
"We understand that Dillon is a pretty good team this [year]," Gill said. "The win­ner of this game is going to be in the driver's seat for the division, so we understand that this is a big game." 
The  Big  Red  shares  
Stanford's sentiment.  
"It's going to  he  a  good  

game," he said. "We're excit­ed about it, that's for sure." Stanford and Dillon meet on the Riehle Field gridiron at 3 
p.m. Sunday. 
Zahm vs. Carroll 
Sunday's match-up between Zahm and Carroll features two teams looking to redeem themselves after poor show­ings last week. 
The Vermin (1-0-1) tied Fisher last week in a game full of mistakes. They fum­bled, dropped passes and missed tackles, failing to win a game junior captain Nick 
CLD'V'~EEI '~':IL~L~DlJI.E A PRIME CAMPUS HOUSING COMMUNIT"V .,orrnerly Turtle Creek Apartment"s  
Fe»e»tbaall Gca•.._. Dcay P.arki...g Adje~~c::.:....t t.:. Ste~~di ....-.. $21»AIID.ay Enter on State Road 23 Entrance (1 block west of Eddy) 1/Vallc to Tailgate a,-,d Game  
"17"1 0 Tt..lrtle Creek Drive Sc:>uth Bend, IN 46637 Ph 574.272.8"124 Fax 574..272..8204 www.clovervillageapa.rtmerrts.com  

Are you an A&L sophomore planning to Study Abroad? 
Please visit the following site http:ljal.nd.edu/academic·advislng·and-requi[ements/ to successful~ complete your application. 
Note:You must receive adean's approval for your application to be completed. 
To see adean make an appointment with: 
Office for Undergraduate Studies 104O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Phone: (574} 631·7098 
Deadline:Nov.6,2009 

Ruof believes should have been a victory. 
"We let one get away last week," Ruof said. ··we're going to come out strong against Zahm and minimize the mistakes that killed us." 
Carroll will lean upon their defense to help them return to their winning ways. The Vermin's front seven have been nothing less then stout this season, led by two sopho­mores, linebacker Albert Toscano and lineman John Gately. 
"[Toscano and Gately] are the strength of our team," Ruof said. 
Carroll will need their defense to step up in order to defeat the Zahmhies. 
Zahm {0-1) looks to get back on track after being shut out by Sorin 20-0 last week. The Zahmhies showed flashes of a potent running attack in their opener, hut met their downfall once the Sorin defense stuffed their 
ground  game  and  forced  
them to pass.  
"We're looking for  a  more  

effective passing game this week," senior captain Jarred Carter said. "Our running game can't do it alone." 
Establishing some sort of passing threat against the Vermin is crucial for Zahm. Last week proved that a suc­cessful ground game led by junior tailbacks Greg Bennett and Ruof can only take the Zahmhies so far. In order to beat Carroll, Zahm must pass. 
Redemption for poor show­ings and possible playoff spots are on the line Sunday. 
Kickoff is 2 p.m. at Riehle Field. 
Contact Lex Dennis at bdennis1 @nd.edu, Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu, Tim Singler at tsingler@nd.edu, Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu, Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu and Chris King at cking6@nd.edu 
page 28 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 2, 2009 
SMC SoccER 

Belles look for MIAA win 
By ALEX BARKER Spans Writer 
After dropping their first contest of the MIAA season, Saint Mary's looks to bounce back when it takes on Trine at home Saturday. 
In the first match of their conference schedule, the Belles (3-7-1} lost a tough match against Adrian College, 3-0. 
Saint Mary's gave up three first-half goals before holding the Bulldogs scoreless in the second half. 
"I was greatly disappointed with the result of Wednesday's game," coach Ryan Crabbe said. "I had much higher expectations heading into the first confer­ence match. Because of the strong non-conference sched­ule we have already played, I felt we were more than pre­pared. In the second half, we simply played well enough not to give up another goal. We never really threatened to score a goal of our own." 
The problem for the Belles this season. which reared its ugly head again against Adrian, has been capitalizing on their chances and keeping other teams off the score­board in the first half. 
"[We can't] fall behind early in matches," Crabbe said. "We need to learn how to play from the front, meaning being the stronger team and impos­ing our game plan on our opponent. [We have to] make changes moving forward." 
Trine (0-10} is having an even rougher season than the Belles. The winless Thunder have been outscored 47-7 this season. But Crabbe is not as concerned with the opponent as he is with his own team's progress. 
"At this point, I am less concerned about who is next and more concerned about how we prepare," he said. We need to find players willing to work hard and not make excuses. Our only goal is to get La win I on Saturday so that we can get back into the race for one of the six spots that qualify for the confer­ence tournament." 
Last season the Belles had little trouble with the Thunder winning 4-0 at home. 
After Trine, Saint Mary's will play three consecutive home games, two against MIAA opponents. 
Saturday's game against Trine will kick off at 10 a.m. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker@nd.edu 


SMC GOLF 

Saint Mary's wins 3rd Jamboree 
By BOBBY GRAHAM Sports Writer 
In what some might consid­er the most important match of the year so far, Saint Mary's put on another impressive performance en route to capturing first place in the third MIAA Jamboree of the year. 
The Jamboree, ·which was held at Kalamazoo University, provided the No. 2 Belles with an opportunity to expand their conference lead going into this weekend's fourth and final MIAA event of the year, which will be held in 
South Bend  at  Blackthorn  
Golf Club.  
Accordingly,  the  team  

responded with a record day, shooting a total score of 325, the best team round ever posted at Kalamazoo's Milham Park Golf Club. The previous best was 335. 
Martyna Mierzwa added 
another chapter to an already impressive freshman season by claiming medalist honors for the second time in an MIAA jamboree and the fourth time· this fall with a low score of 74. This score tied the Saint Mary's record for lowest round in an MIAA event. 
Following Mierzwa was sophomore Natalie Matuszak, who finished in third place with an 82. 
Looking ahead, this week­end's tournament is the final chance for Saint Mary's to build a buffer before going into the MIAA Championship next weekend. Captain Perri Hamma emphasized the importance of the match on multiple levels. 
"This is our home turf," Hamma said. "So not only do we need to protect our course but we have to take advan­tage of the fact that we know this course better than any other team." 
Hamma had a difficult time naming one player who she hoped to step up this season, but for good reason. 
"I would have to say that the entire team has surprised me this season," the captain said. "We have all worked so hard to get where we are and have worked well as a. team on and off the course." 
If the team continues on the remarkable pace it has set this season, there is no rea­son they can't widen the mar­gin between them and second place Olivet, who currently trails Saint Mary's by 15 strokes in the conference. 
"The top five need to come out and get into the rounds from the first hole through the last," Hama said. "If we do that, I know we will not 
only win  but  we  will gain  
some  ground  on  the other  
teams."  

Contact Bobby Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Team heads to triangular 
By BOBBY GRAHAM Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's is not going to let a canceled tournament ruin their weekend, as they will instead head up to Anderson, Ind., to participate in a triangular along with Anderson and Transylvania Saturday. 
Despite the fact that this was not their originally planned event, Belles coach Toni Kuschel emphasized the importance of this weekend's matches. 
"These are both non-confer­ence teams", Kuschel said. 
"But the wins will be impor­tant going into next week's games against Calvin on Tuesday and Trine and Adrian next Friday and Saturday." 
Despite having won three of their last four conference matches, Kuschel said her team needed to refocus after a close game to rival Kalamazoo last Wednesday. 
"My team needs to re-focus on getting back to the basics and having fun out on the court together," Kuschel said. 
The Belles hope to raise their overall record this weekend, which currently stands at 7-6, and take that 
momentum into next week in hopes of improving on a less than desirable conference record of 3-4. 
Key players to watch in this weekend's matches are fresh­man Stephanie Bodien and senior Lorna Slupczynski, both of whom are coming off impressive games in Wednesday's win. Bodien had 15 kills, seven of which came in the first set, while Slupczynski led the team with 17 kills and 14 digs. 
Saturday's matches begin at 3 p.m. 
Contact Bobby Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 



Please recyclf~e!Observef. 
The Observer + SPORTS 
Pangborn. 
Cavanaugh 6, Walsh 0 
The mud that coated victori­
ous Walsh following its 6-0 
victory over Cavanaugh was 
evidence of the hard-fought 
defensive battle between the 
two teams. 
A steady rain that quickly 
evolved into a torrential 
downpour in the second half 
caused problems for both 
teams on the offensive side of 
the ball. 
"The conditions were 
rough," Walsh junior quarter­
back Amy Langnecker said. 
"But the· team stayed positive 
and kept their heads up." 
The Walsh defense had its way with the Cavanaugh offense, as the stalwart defen­sive line plugged up the Cavanaugh running attack while the rain made passing difficult. The first half consist­ed of numerous punts and failed drives, including an interception by both teams. Walsh drove the ball deep into Cavanaugh territory at the conclusion of the first half, but the clock ran out before they could put any points on the board and the half ended scoreless. 
"We moved the ball well throughout the first half but we just couldn't finish," Langnecker said. "We knew coming out for the second half we had to get it in the end zone and finish off a drive." 
The Walsh offense finally turned the score in their favor midway through the second half. Langnecker moved the ball down the field with short passes and quarterback draws. Near the goal line she ran a misdirection play to senior captain and running back Meghan Hadley, who turned the corner, slipped past two defenders and dove into the end zone for the game's only touchdown. Walsh failed the point-after 

Friday, October 2, 2009 
Soon after that, Hyan scored its third and final touchdown

Ryan 
after an advance down the 
page 29 
pocket and threw strikes 
downfield, only to find that 
she had stepped over the line 
of scrimmage and completed 
an illegal forward pass. 
Later in the game, Pangborn 
senior all-purpose player 
Megan Bescher had a thrilling 
run into Purple Weasels terri­
tory, only to have it taken 
back on account of a hold. 
"I could say a lot of things 
about the officiating, but I 
won't," Bartone said. 
Although the Phoxes were 
moving down the field with 
ease under a high-powered 
passing attack led by quarter­
back Tate and her outstand­
ing receivers, they were 
unable to convert on their 
momentum and reach the end 
zone. 
The Pasquerilla West offense, relatively a non-fac­tor for the first three quar­ters, awoke in the fourth. With about four minutes remaining, Bigi scrambled for two big runs to put Pasquerilla West in scoring position. However, the Pangborn defense tightened and brought up a fourth-and­goal. On the next play, Bigi threw a dart to her receiver in the end zone, but it was dropped in the rain. 
"After we missed on the goal line, things weren't look­ing good but we made sure not to dwell on it," Pasquerilla West senior cap­tain Cynthia Curley said. "We got a quick four stops. We got the ball back and got it done." 
It was certainly an exciting game in the elements and both teams will be contenders this year. 
"It was absolutely dramatic. It was a battle," Curley said. "That felt like a champi­onship." , 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu, Chris Allen at callenlO@nd.edu and Barrick Bollman at jbollman@nd.edu 


attempt. 
From that point. the stingy 
Walsh defenders combined 
with horrific weather to close 
the shutout. Cavanaugh 
attempted to put a drive 
together but the rain made it 
difficult to attack downfield as 
Cavanaugh's defensive backs 
knocked down several under­
thrown passes until the clock 
ran out. 
The victory puts Walsh at 2­
0 as it looks to its Sunday 
matchup with Badin where it 
will hope to put itself in domi­
nating position for a playoff 
spot. 
"The team played great 
tonight," Langnecker said. 
"Everybody did a great job." 
Pasquerilla West 6, 
Pangborn 0 
Pasquerilla West defeated Pangborn Hall 6-0 in a game that will certainly go down as one of the most exciting of the season. With less than 20 sec­onds remaining, Pasquerilla West junior quarterback Simone Bigi rolled left, found nobody open, and sprinted towards the end zone, dodged a few Pangborn defenders along the way and dove in for the score to break the 0-0 tie. 
Facing the elements of rain and mud, both teams battled in a back-and-forth game. Several times players from both teams lost footing and balls slipped through hands. 
"I enjoyed pi aying in the rain and the mud but unfortu­nately it didn't work to our advantage," Pangborn fresh­man Diana Bartone said. 
As much as the game was a story of the elements, it was a story of officiating as the offi­cials called several critical penalties. 
On two separate occasions, including a spectacular touch­down throw and catch, Pangborn junior quarterback Gabby Tate stepped up in the 

continued from page 32 
game," Curtis said. "We had gn~at practices this week and we made all the improve­ments we needed to." 
The seeond half began with promising progress by Lyons, but Ryan came through with a strong stop on Lyons' fourth down. Ryan controlled the rest of the game. 
A run by freshman Leslie Sullivan started the roll that lasted until the end of the game. 
A pass from Bowen to fresh­man Kelly O'Brien gave Ryan its second touchdown. 
field near the 10-yard line, followed by a run into the end zone by Curtis. 
"It felt incredible to be a part of Ryan Hall's first-ever win," Bowen said. "Everyone did exactly what they had to." 
The Ryan girls ended the game with cheers and a mud­slide, happy with their per­formance. 
"It was just a really fun game," Curtis said. "You can't ask for anything more than a win in the rain and mud." 
Lyons's next game is Sunday against Pangborn, and Ryan will look for a second win Thursday also against 

Quality Off-Campus Houses 
Now leasing for 2010 •2011 
•Close to campus  •Washers &dryers  
•Student n~ghborhoods  •Dishwashers  
•Securi~ systems  •2·10bedrooms  

•lawn service 
We have over 100 properties-see them at www.kramerhouses.tom 
ru more information call 
(574)234·2436 

2 Bedroom, 1,200 sq. ft. Apartments Newly Remodeled Free Internet Free Water On-Site Laundry Only Three Blocks from Campus 
$300Signing Bonus for 2010 -2011 
LHse must be signed before October 10. 2009 
Leases start at only $350 per month, per student/ 
View the floorplan at www.kramerhouses.com 
call (574) 234-2436 
Streak 
continued from page 32 
stretch in Big East competi­tion. 
This season, Notre Dame (7-3, 3-0 Big East) has gotten off to a fast start in confer­ence play, outscoring their opponents 7-1 in three victo­ries. 
The Irish have struggled on the road thus far. After drop­ping two games against top 10 foes Santa Clara and Stanford at the Santa Clara/adidas Classic in Santa Clara, Calif., they snuck by a good Cincinnati squad 2-1 at Cincinnati. 
Notre Dame heads into the game with revenge on its mind after dropping its last match against the Mountaineers via shoototit in the championship match of the 2007 Big East tourna­ment. 
against the Irish. 
Notre Dame has already taken down DePaul and Louisville at home in Big East competition to go along with the road victory against Cincinnati. The Irish defeat­ed the Blue Demons and the Cardinals by scores of 4-0 and 1-0, respectively. They are looking to expand their two-point lead over Rutgers in the conference's National Division. 
Looking ahead at the Irish's schedule, they will remain on the road with matches against Rutgers and Seton Hall next week before returning home for a four­game Big East home stand to end the regular season. 
Today's game against West Virginia is scheduled to begin at 6 p.m. Sunday's game with Pittsburgh will kick off at 1 p.m. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker@nd.edu 
This is an important game for the Irish to assert them­selves as the team to beat in the Big East as West Virginia was picked second in the league's preseason poll. 

The tandem of sophomore Melissa Henderson and jun­ior Lauren Fowlkes lead the Irish offensively with five goals apiece this season. Henderson is the reigning Big East Rookie of the Year and both players have been named to this year's Hermann Trophy watch list. 
Kelsey Lysander leads the Irish defense in goal, having started eight of 10 matches this season. 
The senior has recorded 21 saves on the year and is 
allowing just under  a  goal  
per game.  
After  facing  the  

Mountaineers, the Irish will head to Indianola, Penn., for a match with the Panthers. Pittsburgh (5-2-3, 0-0-3) is winless in nine tries all-time 

.. 
page 30 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 2, 2009 
Bloomington for the adias/IU holding a 2-2-0 record despite room to make up ground in Dame has enjoyed a 3-1-0 Credit Union Classic. In one of a 7-4 point differential and a the seven remaining Big East horne record at the new
Pirates 
the toughest tournament slates relentless offense. Notre Dame matches before the Big East Alumni Stadium this season, continued from page 32 in the nation, opened this championship in early with an average of three goals the Irish tied week's home November. scored per match. back on track. then-No. 5 Wake ..We must take one stand with a "We must take one match at "The new stadium is fantas­"[Seton Hall] is another Big Forest before crushing 4-0 vic­a time and absolutely focus on tic," Clark said. "It is a great
match at a time and 
East test, and, as we have losing to then­tory against No. the job on hand," Clark said. place both to play and watch already found out, there are No. 3 St. John's. absolutely focus on 17 Louisville, but "Even after a bumpy start, I games. The student and facul­no easy matches in our confer­Notre Dame the job on hand." then dropped a have a good feeling about this ty support has been tremen­ence," Clark said. "We tied endured a simi­1-0 match to team. They are a wonderful dous this year." Seton Hall last year and hope­lar fate the next unranked group to coach and, in spite of The match begins this
Bobby Clark
fully we can go one better this week at the Cincinnati. everything, we are having a lot evening at 7 p.m. at Alumni 
Irish coach 
year. I always say that both Mike Berticelli By all of fun and are working very Stadium. It will be the last winning anrl losing can Memorial accounts, the hard." match of a three-game home become habits so it is vitally Tournament, season has been The Irish will enjoy home­stand before the Irish take on important that we get into blowing out Seattle before frustrating for the talented field advantage tonight against Ma.rquette and Providence on good habits starting Friday." dropping an overtime match to Irish, who have been unable to the Pirates, who hold a 3-1-1 the road in conference play. 
After blowing out rival New Mexico. put together consecutive wins road record this season under Michigan to the start the sea­The Irish have also been at any point this fall. Still, 22 -year veteran head coach Contact Michael Blasco at son, Notre Dame traveled to frustrated in conference play, Notre Dame has plenty of Manfred Schellscheidt. Notre mblasco@nd.edu 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish open home slate against 'Cats 
Dame's first Big East contest 

By LAURA MYERS 
at home, a distinction not lost Sports Writer 
on Brown. "I always prefer to play at 

Notre Dame (8-4, 2-0 Big home," Brown said. "It's a East) will open its home con­slight advantage, sleeping on ference schedule with a match our own beds. It can also be against Villanova Sunday. more distracting, with the 
The Wildcats (11-4, 0-2) home football game and all have been very successful so kinds of other stuff going on, far in 2009 but fell to but I know we would much Cincinnati and Louisville last rather play at home." weekend in their opening Big The game will begin at 2 East matches. p.m. at the Joyce Center 
"I think the Big East race Fieldhouse. goes throughout the whole season, and with them opening Note: 0-2 ... they for sure don't want +Senior outside hitter to go further in that direction," Serinity Phillips was named to coach Debbie Brown said. the Big East Honor Roll 
"They're going to be very Monday for her role in the focused." wins over Connecticut and St. 
Brown said the Irish will John's. In those two matches need to be focused as well in she totaled 22 digs, 21 kills order to overcome Villanova's and 11 blocks, and was one biggest strength. block shy of a triple-double 
"They're a really, really good against Connecticut. serving team," Brown said. "[Phillips is] playing really "We know we're going to have well," Brown said. "She's cer­
our hands full." tainly one of the keys to suc­In fact, the Wildcats average cess and definitely deserving 
2.2 service aces per set and of those type of awards. An have 138 on the season. The outside hitter who's hitting Irish defense averages about over 33 percent is pretty darn one service error per set. good." 
Notre Dame faced Villanova once last year, a 3-2 loss in Contact Laura Myers at Philadelphia, but with an lmyers2@nd.edu 
undefeated conference record 

f
so far, Brown said the team 
i 
wants to keep rolling. "With us wanting to win [the ~. conference], we're in a good
,.' 
place right now," Brown said. 
' 
1 i 
'f "But it's so early and we justI 
have to make sure that we're I' competing at the top of our game every night." The Irish, who defeated Connecticut and St. John's last 
PVY~~~~"" 
··~y
weekend, are currently second in the conference behind 
p~~~
South Florida, while Villanova sits in 12th despite having the 
App~ t:c::>-S~ A~~S~ second best overall record. 
20.10 -2.02 2..
Villanova is the only team Notre Dame plays this week, 
PUEBLA, ""'EX:ECO
an unusual occurrence for a 
Fait semester pre-med programsquad that usually plays two Spring semest::~r gener•l program lNTii!RNSHlPS
or even three teams over a weekend. Nonetheless, Brown said the team's preparation ~~NTERREV,~EX~C~ 
8usinesa and engineering courses
this week was no different. 
Beginntng through Actv.-nced Spanish courses
"A lot of times we just watch film on whoever we're going to 
fw1l EX::XCC» C:I:T'V
play first," she said. "The fact 
Social Science and Hlst:ory wtt::h a l...e!!tttn American Pocus 
that we only play one, that's what we're going to do," li:NPOR...ATli:ON llii.SSli:ON Brown said. "You have to pre­
Tue•c:lay, Octc:.b•r &,. !5:30 PM
pare for whoever your next 
204 D.BARTOt...O 
opponent is. Sometimes you're going to have more days to do it than others, but it's pretty APPL][C:ATXON I:::».ADL:EN•: NOV.1'4B•R 15, ZOOV 
AP..L.V •t• lhittpa,"'----n~ ..ctu,-ota.I'Apply.I'Apply.ht...-.
much the same." The match will be Notre 
-





Friday, October 2, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 31 
CROSSWORD 
Across 28 Jazz-loving TV 58 That's a wrap sleuth of the 60 Hunting req.
1 Rallying cry 
1950s-'60s

supported by 61 Lethal some monks 29 Second compound indicator? 
62 Congenial 
1 0 When Antony 30 He sighted and
says "I am 64 High-tech named Natal on
dying, Egypt, subscription aid Christmas Day
dying" 65 Construction of 1497 with many locks 15 Company with a 
32 Airport waiter? 

maple leaf logo 66 Brand tor 34 Wish unmade hobbyists
16 Part of a college cheer 
35 Cans 67 Where "all the 37 Hawthorne novel people that 17 2004 horror film stigma come and go about a passed-stop and say
39 Recruiting org.

on curse hello"
42 Recruiting org.

18 Major processing 44 Literally, "already Down
seen" Dolt center 
48 Words teachers 

19 Memorable 1968 2 One-named
like to hear

movie villain Grammy winner 
50 Princess Fiona's

20 Geophysics 
of2007
voicer in "Shrek" 

topic 3 By and by52 Pops 21 Chaffed 4 Beat recorder: 53 A bug may
22 Book of Mormon Abbr.
cause it book 5 Napoleon's
56 All of them may cousin

24Chilled be off 6 Kayak propeller 
26 A year abroad 57 Leaves out 7 Rebuke to Bowser
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
8 Barely best 
9 Inventor's inits. 1 0 Superior title? 11 One with staying 
power? 12 Right in every detail ~~~ 13 Two-time president of Romania 14 Facial feature with a point -'-'+--+-''-i 21 IInder a whammy 
-=+~~~ 23 Bottom ....:-.J...=..L.:...J...:::.J 25 Wood blemish 
WILLSHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE FRIDAYS WITH FRAN 2.0 
Aries -While some would advise that you not converse under the Law School Arch, do not listen to stupid advice. Verdict: two stars 
Taurus -Go ahead. Top your Fro Yo with mayonnaise covered onion rings. After all, the world is ending in 2012. Verdict: 1 star. 
Gemini-You have an uncanny ability to distinguish good advice. Good Advice: becoming friends with your Rector. Bad Advice: bring­ing your 16 year old sister to LAX House. Word of the Day: Statutory. 
Cancer -The stars have aligned in your favor. Feel free to indulge in a guilty plea.<;ure, but stay away from TC. Either way, you may end up on TFI.N. Verdict: 4 stars. 
Leo-00 NOT EAT THE STEAMF.J) BROCCOU. Verdict: one star 
VIrgo -Remember that time when the abortion plane flew around campus? Also, don't drink the jungle juice. Verdict: One star 
BIRTIIDAY ALERT!!! libra-Your next year has as many possi­bilities as the awkward birthday wishes you will receive on Facebook. Always keep your dear friends, your annoying room­mate, and the stir fry guy close, because "Friendship is like peeing on yourself: everyone can see it, but only you get the warm feeling that it brings." Verdict: 5 stars and a birthday cupcake. 
--· 
Scorpio -Your roommate is totes getting' some tonight. Be jeal. Loves it. Verdict: WTF is happening to the English language? 
Sagittarius -You're a homeschooled jungle freak who's a less hot version of me. Verdict: 3 Toaster Strudels. 
Capricorn-Feeling too much pressure? Nervous? Put on a Jay­Z song. Or just party in the U.SA. Verdict: This definitely i<m't a Nashville party. 2 Stars. 
Aquarius -Your day will be as predictable as ND watering the sidewalks. Verdict: 2.5 Stars. 
Pisces -The chances of Kanye showing up after we trounce Washington on Saturday are very slim. Just sayinn'. Verdict: Taking home the moon man 
SCHAD & fREUDE WlLL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
P.HeH Mi~l.lt WEV MA-C Tii.,H\t\~ t~ Af46 f!S &oob AS i*H (! C 0~. IV 'T' P,.'j,
T.·. rHZ V€., Y ::. £'~ T··· 
. ~~ ~·a 
THE MOBILE PARTY 
Texts From Last Night At Fever 
just threw up on 
GET ME OUT 
OF HERE. 
Crazy townie hitting on me. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year D Enclosed is $65 for one semester Name 
--------·-------------------------------------------­
Address ______________________________________ __ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE MOBILE PARTY UNIT 
I rly lik u t omy plsce 

JEFF KNUREK
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jetf Knurek 
Unscramble these four Jumbtes, 

one letter to each square, 
Iactor~ both of
to form four ordinary words. 
WHAAS 
HE: TURNED OUT TO BE: A BIGAMIST


NEW ..llntlkt iF't117le. ~go ID: hllpJI~r.~ BE:CAU5E 
HE LOVt:D --­
IDULBOY t 
Now arrange the circled l~tters to form the surprise answer, as
(J I J I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Print answer here: rI I JrI I I J 
{Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's J Jumbles: ROUSE ANKLE CIRCUS BUMPER Answer: What the expensive deer hunting trip amounted to -A COUPLE OF "BUCKS" 
Puzzle by Da11id Quarfoot 
27 Kaffiyeh-clad commander 31 Some poles 33 10/15, e.g. 36 The cooler 38 Do on 39 Transmission blocker? 40 Title syllables in a hit 1964 song 41 Swiftly done? 


43 Shoulder inflammation? 
45 Legendary soprano_ Patti 
46 Swiss Guards' setting 
47 Destroyer in 2000 headlines 
49 Happily humiliating type 
51 Get close, maybe 54 Funeral march direction 55 Soften, often 59 Like some clouds 62 Third qtr. ender 63 "Que ?" (Jose's "How's it going?") 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1 -800-814-6554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords . 



MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Alumni and Siegfried look for victories instead of ties 
By LEX DENNIS, MATTHEW 
ROBISON, TIM SINGLER, 
ANDREW OWENS, ALLAN 
JOSEPH and CHRIS KING 
Sports Writers 

Alumni and Siegfried are both hungry for a win after two tough ties last Sunday. 
The Dawgs tied Duncan 7-7 in a defensive struggle last weekend. 
"A few costly mistakes kept us from the win on Sunday," junior captain Pat Rushford said. "Stupid penalties and the [interception returned for a touchdown] I threw were 
key mistakes that need to be corrected." · 
Siegfried is hungry to defend their championship, and the consistently good team is a point of concern for Rushford. 
"(Siegfried has) been good since my freshman year," Rushford said. "But if we eliminate our mistakes and play sound football we should have a great shot." 
The Ramblers are looking for their first win after their championship season last year. 
They fought Knott to a 7-7 tie last weekend. 
"We got off to a slow start and that hurt us," Siegfried freshman Sean Hannon said. "Our defense really shined, allowing only seven points even though they were on the field for most of the game." 
The offense was a weakness for Siegfried, Hannon said. 
"We punted four times and turned the ball over once against Knott," Hannon said. "We need to be better to pull out the win." 
Siegfried will try to reassert its dominance on the football field as Alumni hopes to establish itself with a .500 record Sunday at 2 p.m. at Riehle Field. 
Duncan vs. Morrissey 

Sunday's matchup between Duncan Hall (0-1-1} and Morrissey Manor (1-0) prom­ises to be an epic clash of win-hungry squads. 
"[The first two games] fell short of my expectations," Duncan sophomore captain Paul Scheel said. "But the season is not over yet and we have more games to play." 
On the other side of the ball, the Manorites claimed their first victory in fine fash­ion, blanking Alumni Hall 22­
0. They will look to build 
upon this strong opening per­formance to keep their unde­feated season alive. 
"Our first game met our expectations." senior line­backer Phil Yuhas said. "We played hard, kept our intensi­ty up all game, and came away with a victory just like we thought we would." 
Duncan Hall has a rather young team, consisting mostly of freshman and sophomores, which could pose problems. Morrissey, on the other hand, has a good balance of upper and underclassmen, which 
see MANOR/page 27 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Back on track? 

Squad looks to end home stand with a victory 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 

No matter which way you 
slice it, it's gut check time for 
the Irish. 

i 
Notre Dame (4-4-1, 2-2-0 Big East) concludes this week's three-game Big East home stand with a match against conference foe Seton Hall (4-4-1. 1-2-1 Big East) tonight at 7 at Alumni Stadium. The unranked Irish, 
:~ who were ranked in the top 10 in many preseason polls, are hoping to climb back above .500 in conference play after a middling start to the season. 

Irish coach Bobby Clark views tonight's match as an opportunity to get his team 
see PIRATES/page 30 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish host top teams atNOInvite 
By MOLLY SAMMON Sports Writer 

The Irish will host the 54th annual Notre Dame Invitational today, facing the toughest competi::. tion either of the undefeated &ish teams have seen this season. 
"Our meets gPt progressively more competitive, and this one is very difficult," Irish men's coach Joe Piane said. "It is better than any race we're going to be in until the pre-national meet." 
As one of the oldest and com­paratively more prestigious meets in the nation, many ranked teams and previous champions will be vying for top spots at the Burke GolfCourse on campus. 
"I believe that [the Notre Dame Invitational] will be the most com­petitive early season meet in the 
see INVITE/page 27 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Team on vergeofNCAArecord 
By ALEX BARKER ;t,: •...-.. ;
A~.·: .. -·­Sports Writer ·­
Although this hasn't been quite the record-setting sea­son they had hoped, the Irish will be chasing one his­torical mark when they hit the road for matches against West Virginia and Pittsburgh this weekend. 
With a win or tie against West Virginia (4-3-4, 1-1-1 Big East) today, No. 8 Notre Dame would set the NCAA Division I record for the longest unbeaten streak in conference play at 56 games. The Irish are cur­
PAT COVENEYffhe Observer 
rently riding a 53-0-2 
Sophomore midfielder Ellen Jantsch dribbles the ball past a see STREAK/ page 2 9 Louisville defender in the Irish 1-0 victory on Sept. 27. 
WoMEN's INTERHALL FooTBALL 
Ryan routs Lyons en route to first victory 
number of freshmen ready
By MEGAN FINNERAN, 

and willing to step up wher­
CHRIS ALLEN and BARRICK 
ever they are needed. 
BOLLMAN 

The first half began slowly, Sports Writers 
with both teams getting used to the rain and cold. "How does it feel to be a Ryan quickly got going with part of Notre Dame histo­a long outside run that ry?" Ryan senior captain resulted in a touchdown by Kenzie Bowen asked her sophomore Brianna Curtis. team after Ryan's first victo­The rest of the first half was ry in hall history. full of powerful runs by Ryan (1-1) topped Lyons Bowen at quarterback, and (0-1) 19-0 in the newly also by Lyons senior quar­formed dorm's second game. terback and captain Claire 
Even though these girls Connell. 
came from all over campus "Our offensive line worked to form a new dorm. they really hard the whole lack neither numbers nor talent. They have a large see RYAN/page 29 
I
L 
.·~ I
I)
I \·,
\ \
\ -.. 
\ \__. ' 

~F 

THE

Friday, October 2, 2009 -·~:, , --~-·---­
OBSERVER 

,J.· ~-.. ;,.,·.;-~: 
_.-.,·.-·~·''·>··:'!:·~-"1:fi-~7J::.f!J:1!!;8:--'.. ;._,,..,:"::·•~~-------. 
-· c-.jo·' 

IN f\Jew offensive · line coach Frank 

(~() jVfjVIJ-\NJJ· 
Verducci and his
:f ~ • '. 
(.·t;; ~ 
: .....··:· ;l ---~---' .
()t:t ,.l.,I-11~ veteran players have created a '"l.,ltJ~N(;IIJ~S · powerful run ...,_._ ga_me. 
.
.--._, tf~· •·· 


,. ,') 
-
-
., " . 
/ 
, .:, ,,
.... -, . 

-. ~~-. . .. ,_, ~ 
P\ . 

•-.~ 
.
~ . ~ < ' • • 
-~-.~.~ 
--····. 
Friday, October 2, 2009 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
COMMENTARY 
A blowout win? Wouldn't bet on it 
The fall break destination of choice this year seems to be Las Vegas -a place where anyone, but especially vaca­tioning college students, is 
prone to bad decisions. 
It is the Sin City, after all. 
I'm not worried that any of our classmates 


will steal a Matt Gamber police 
squad car. I 
don't think Sports Editor any Notre Dame students will have a run-in with Mike Tyson. And I doubt anyone will wake up on the roof of Caesars Palace ­where, as "The Hangover" taught us, Julius Caesar did­n't actually live. 
No, I don't expect to hear about any antics quite that outrageous. But that doesn't eliminate my concern that some overzealous Irish fans will follow their hearts, not their heads, and place a bet on their favorite football team. 
Don't do it-you'll get burned. ~ 
It's not that Notre Dame isn't a good team. It's not even that Notre Dame isn't as good a team as everyone ­
or at least the fans and odds­makers-seem to think. It's just that this group always seems to be in those nail­btiersthat, as the last three weeks have illustrated, can easily go either way. 
To their credit, the Irish finaJly demonstrated at Purdue that they could sur­vive one of those down-to­the-wire, don't-change-the­channel games, and they did it with a hobbled quarterback and missing pieces at running back and wide receiver. That doesn't change the fact, how­ever, that it took several loss­es-North Carolina, Pittsburgh and Syracuse last season, and Michigan a few weeks ago -for Notre Dame to steal a win. 
At this point, diagnosing exactly why the Irish always seem to find themselves in these types of games seems like a futile exercise. Even if you can attribute it to some­thing -be it a soft pass defense, an inconsistent sec­ond-half offense or an overall lack of a killer instinct -how do you change it? 
That's not to say Notre Dame won't try, and of course it should. But unless the Irish somehow figure out a way to stop the run without surren­dering the short pass, find the key to start the offensive ignition coming out of half­time and discover a new atti­tude that motivates the team to thrash opponents merci­lessly, there will be plenty more contests that will come down to one play late in the game. 
If Notre Dame were to ever come out and throttle an opponent the public expects it to handle with relative ease, I guess it could be Saturday, when the Irish will be favored by two touchdowns. 
The Huskies aren't bad but aren't quite there yet. Perhaps the logic sounds backward, but the fact that Washington is-or at least seems to be -a better team than either Michigan State or Purdue, I think Notre Dame has a better chance for a con­vincing win this weekend than in either of the past two. 
Wait, wait. Stay with me for a second. 
Washington's shocking upset of USC two weeks ago erased any question that Notre Dame would overlook 
the Huskies, even with the vaunted Trojans looming on the schedule following the bye week. That hasn't changed, even after Washington's loss to Stanford last Saturday. 
Everything the Irish coach­es and players said this week indicated they knew how dif­ferent this Huskies team was from the one Notre Dame crushed last season, as new head coach Steve Sarkisian and a fully healthy Jake Locker have made Washington much better, much quicker than most peo­ple expected. 
And I'm suggesting this is the week the Irish show up and blow a team out of Notre Dame Stadium? 
Like I said, it could happen. I just wouldn't bet on it. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd. edu 
Write Sports. 
E-mail Matt at 
mgamber@nd.edu 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Top prospects set to visit campus 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Editor 

Two big-time California prospects will visit Notre Dame for Saturday's game against Washington, and while the Irish would love to have both Anthony Barr and Hayes Pullard, they aren't sure where. 
Both Barr and Pullard are list­ed as "athletes" in recruiting databases, and each is capable of playing at least three posi­tions at the college level, said Irish recru·iting expert Mike Frank, who runs the ESPN-afftl­iated site irishsportsdaily.com. 
"Anthony's one of the very top players in the country, and he can play a number of positions," Frank said, including running back, linebacker and defensive end. "Notre Dame likes him for defense but I think he also might get a shot to look at tons of other positions." 
ESPN rates Barr as a four-star prospect and the No. 7 athlete in the country. The 6-foot-4, 230-pounder suffered an injury that has limited him during his senior season, but Barr main­tains major offers and a top-five of Notre Dame, USC, Michigan, UCLA and California. 
"I know Notre Dame wants him a great deal," Frank said. "He was one of their first offers and is just a tremendous talent." 
The Irish may have a leg up with Barr because of a family connection to the University. His father is former Notre Dame running back Tony Brooks, and Barr is also the nephew of for­mer Irish running back Reggie Brooks. Barr's mother also attended Saint Mary's. 
"They know what it can mean for him down the road, but my experience has been kids end up just going where they want to go," Frank said. "The good news here is he has a strong interest and both [sides of the] family are in Notre Dame's cor­ner." 
The Irish are also after 6-foot­2, 220-pound Hayes Pullard. The Los Angeles product could play either running back or full­back, but Notre Dame seems most interested in Pullard as a linebacker at the next level. 
"There really aren't many slots left at linebacker or run­ning back, but the fact they're still bringing him in shows how much they really like the play­er," Frank said. ''I'm not sure they rea1ly need another line­backer, but when you get a chance to get a player of this caliber, you really bend over backwards to try to get him." 
Frank said the biggest ques­tion mark surrounding California prospects is usually how the specific players will fit in with the Irish team. He does­n't foresee any issues with Pullard. 
"I think he's the type of kid that would fit in really well here personality-wise, and they like him a great deal," Frank said. 
"Expect [Notre Dame] to roll out the red carpet for him because they think he's going to be a heck of a player down the line." 
Defensive tackle Bruce Gaston will make an unofficial visit for Saturday's game. By Frank's count, it will be the fourth trip to Notre Dame for Gaston, who earned a scholarship offer fol­lowing an Irish-run camp this summer. 
"He's a big interior guy who has some quickness and some strength," Frank said. "Big defensive linemen are hard to find and hard to come by, espe­cially guys that can qualify [aca­demically]. Obviously, Gaston brings a lot to the table." . Hailing from Chicago's St. Rita, the same high school as Irish sophomore linebacker Darius Fleming, Gaston's size would be an asset to the Notre Dame front four. He is listed at 6-foot-3, 309 pounds. 
"I think so far, things are going very well there," Frank said. "Notre Dame has been recruiting him pretty heavily and he has a strong interest. It sounds like he wants to take some official visits and check." 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting. check out Mike Frank's irishsportsdaily.com. E­mail Mike at mikefrank18@sbc­global. net and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 


Friday, October 2, 2009 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Trench protocol 
Four perspectives on the reasons behind, and ramifications of the success ofthe Irish ground attack 
lenges the linemen as individu­couple weeks down the road."
By BILL BRINK als, but he's seen them become "Coach has this little saying.
Sports Writer 
a cohesive group. You don't have to be perfect, "It's an interesting approach you just have to try and be per­Charlie Weis likes to run the that I've seen before, but I think fect," senior tackle Sam Young ball. it puts accountability on each said. "I think that kind of really "Regardless of whether you one of these players where they points out what we're trying to 
,

start off throwing or start off know that it's not just how they d0. running, when you run the ball play, but it's how all five of them The skill-related parts of play­effectively, makes it easier for play," We is said. ing on the line outweigh physi­everything else you are doing," cal strength by leaps and he said. · Frank Verducci likes •.. bounds. Verducci said tackle Joe 
So does offensive line coach ... leaving the hoop where it Thomas of the Browns wasn't Frank Verducci. is. an overly strong guy, but his 
"To see [the offensive linemen] Verducci has been an offen­balance and functional strength do that is a great source of pride sive line coach since 1992, when made him an all-pro left tackle. for me to see how hard they he coached at Iowa. He coached ''I'm always amused when play," he said. the offensive line in the NFL for they throw all these bench press 
So do the linemen. the Bengals, Cowboys, Colts and numbers up there," Verducci 
"The line loves to run block," Browns before taking over as said. "Even when J was in the senior guard Chris Stewart said. Notre Dame's offensive line NFL we'd go to the combine and "Just pushing guys back, or coach in January. He's been there'd be these guys that, all of walking down the field on some­around long enough to learn a sudden, would be a shock one, there's nothing like it." what works and what doesn't. because they'd be first-round 
So do the running backs (well, "There are a lot of different picks but they'd get in there and duh). ways to do it," he said. "I have bench-press 225 18 times and 
"When you get an offensive my way." everyone would be like, 'Oh my lineman coming back to the Nothing he teaches his players God, he's a weakling.· huddle with a big smile on his is original. Everything he uses, "But they had such functional face, it's like, let's run it again," he said, he took from someone strength and such technique junior running back Armando he worked with whom he that they'd be good ballplayers." Allen said. "It only gives you respects. He asked the players So how do you drill those tech­confidence." to buy into it, which they did, nical skills into the players? Do 
They all like to run. But for and the results increased confi­it the same way all the time. different reasons. dence in the scheme. "They like routine. They like "Once they're successful at it, to jump through the same hoops 
Charlie Weis likes.•• it becomes a lot easier," he said. every day," Verducci said. "So ... accountability Verducci had the benefit of a don't move the hoop." He said Verducci takes care of clean slate. He didn't have the 
some aspects of game planning, interaction with the program on Offensive linemen like••• which helps when the offensive a day-to-day basis before arriv­... doing the splits. gameplan is as complex as it ing at Notre Dame. To him, The transformation of the has been in the past two weeks. every player was capable of per­offensive line started during 
"I think that he's taken a lot of forming to his expectations. spring ball. None of them can the pressure ofi' of me personal­"This is all I know," he .said. pinpoint how or why, but they ly by allowing us to separate, "There's a way to play the know that at some point they then come game, there's a clicked. together game standard that's "When the plays start clicking, 

plan wise and put on it, that's you don't' really know it, all of a pull it all how we're gonna sudden it's just there, senior prepare for the season. microphone. "Cut."
"They like routine. They
together," play. And the tackle Paul Duncan said. "The difference is the mind­like to jump through credit goes to the They weren't the only ones set," Stewart said. "I understand Armando Allen likes...
Weis said. Weis leads a the same hoops every guys because who noticed. Allen said he what needs to be done for cer­... steak and potatoes. team that they've accepted noticed a different offensive line tain things to happen. So for us The beneficiary of all this is
day. So don't move the 
averages 158 it, they've bought this spring than the one he had to be a better team, maybe I Allen, who has broken out this yards per hoop., into it." run behind the past two years. need to run extra on my off day season as a much more power­game on the Verducci said "Those guys worked hard in or get back to school earlier and ful runner than in the past. But 
the weight room, whether it was train with the training staff." it's not all due to the linemen.
ground and Frank Verducci he sees week-to­
4.2 yards per week improve­running or lifting weights," The mental difference, "I changed a lot of things. I
offensive line coach 
carry. Last ment in the line-Allen said. "When spring came Stewart said, translated to phys­think I prepared myself mental­ical gains. ly a lot more than I did fresh­
year the team men. But some around they kind of became averaged 109 aspects of the more of a unit." "You have a mental realization man and sophomore year," he yards per game, only 3.3 per game can be solid one week and They said the success came to know that I have to go above said. Allen lifted and ate healthily to
carry. non-existent the next. As long as because of a combination of and beyond what I've done in 
the past," he said. put on 10 pounds of muscle. His
After rushing for 585 yards his players put in the effort, he hard work, Verducci's influence So now, in season, the line and go-to meal?
and three touchdowns last year, said he can iron out technical and players rededicating them­selves to the program. That the running game are reaping "Strictly steak and potatoes,"Allen has rushed for 326 and inconsistencies. 
"That's one of the biggest work in the spring carried over the rewards of that work. he said. "That was my specialty. 
three scores in four games this year. challenges as a coach," he said. into individual summer work­"You can just see it coming, Just two big steaks and two "The offensive line gets all the "To not ever :;ay, okay, we've got outs, where the linemen took it taking that next step," Duncan potatoes. I like it plain." credit," Allen said. "It's amazing it. We've arrived. But to always upon themselves to maintain said. "That's where we're right But it's not just him and the 0­
line. The athletes involved in the
to see those guys out there hav­try to keep those things sharp what they had gained. They took now, taking that next step, because it's rolling for us." passing game, Allen said, keep
ing fun." and not neglect those things that home film, both of themselves in 
Verducci, Weis said, chal-will come back to bite you a spring ball and of Nevada, to And for Duncan, Stewart, the defense on its heels so the Young and center Eric Olsen, all backs can rack up yardage. 
I 
seniors, they've been around "The great quarterbacks and 
I 
I 
'._1 
long enough to understand what receivers that we have allows us 
it's like when the line works in to run the ball because some sync. Stewart said he feels like people re paying attention to the the line works like the senior pass more than they pay atten­line did when he as a freshman. tion to the run," he said. And adversity, he said, breeds Like any smart running back, 
strength. though, Allen gave it up for the 
"We've driven the ball 60 bosses up front, the reason yards late in the game," he said. behind this transformation, the "God forbid, the next time it has beneficiary of Verducci's coach­to happen, we've been there ing, their own hard work and before. It can be done." Weis, Jimmy Clausen and the 
The linemen are simpatico of receivers creating such a pass­the field too. Stewart grabbed a ing threat. TV reporter's microphone to ask "They really felt like thy had Young a couple of questions of something to prove. Not to any­
his own regarding what goes on body, but to the people on this in the locker room. team," he said. "When you have 
"It's really nice," Young dead­a group of guys that goes out pans. "There's TVs, you know, there and works so hard and there's ... chairs, clothes ... if see them go out there and pro­there's a fun fact it's that you" duce on Saturday, it's an amaz­·-he pointed a Stewart -"can iJ:tg feeling." do a split." 
That was it for Stewart, who Contact Bill Brink at backed away (J.nd returned the wbrink@nd.edu 


Friday, October 2, 2009 
The ObserZJer +IRISH INSIDER page 5 

Washington 
Huskies Record: 2-2 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
1st season at Washington 

Huskies Offense vs. Irish Defense 


career record: 2-2 on the road 
0-1 
against ND: 
0-0 

2009 Schedule 


Sept. 5 Sept.l2 Sept. 19 Sept. 26 Oct. 3 Oct.lO Oct.17 Oct. 24 
LSU-L Idaho-W USC-W @ Stanford -· L @Notre Dame Arizona @ Arizona St. Oregon 

Jake Locker could easily be the best quarterback the Irish defense will face all year, and has shined under new coach Steve Sarkisian, who coached Heisman-winning quar­terbacks Carson Palmer and Matt Leinart at USC. Locker has the ability to make plays with his arm or his feet, although he has become a more complete passer in his third season. 
Notre Dame's running defense had its best game of the season against Purdue following a solid showing against the Spartans. 
The front four was able to get more penetration into gaps in the run game and disrupt Boilermaker run­ning back Ralph Bolden early in his runs.While holding Bolden to just 67 yards, however, the Irish defense had 
Locker and the Huskies offense were able to make clutch plays late in the game to upset USC, and his 
leadership and experience  are simi­ 
lar to Clausen's.  
The  Notre  Dame  pass  defense  

struggled again in West Lafayette against a below-average passer in Joey Elliott. While the secondary has had to assist the front seven in the 
some ugly moments missing tackles and letting Purdue runners slip away. The Irish will need to be able to sto]J the run without bringing extra men into the box against a good Washington passing attack. 
Chris Polk leads the Huskies in rushing, but the team has averaged just 108 yards per game. Defenses have focused on stopping Locker run game, the unit has still been 
soft in coverage on passing C: 
downs. :E 
Darrin Walls had· a nice inter­ception against the ~ 
Boilermakers, but it will take a (I) 
more aggressive effort by the (/) .pass defense to contain Locker ­
and tighten up coverage. ~ 
EDGE: WASHINGTON 
both passing and scrambling, but have still been able to limit Polk C: and the Husky running backs :E from making any serious impact :::tJ this year. 
Whether or not the Huskies are &; able to have any success running :::1: the ball and taking pressure off z Locker will be key. G') 
EDGE: EVEN 
Nov. 7  @UCLA  
Nov.l4  @Oregon St.  
Nov. 28  \Vashington St.  
Dec.S  California  

Head-to-Head 
UWOFFENSE  NDDEFENSE  
Scoring: 23.75 ppg (84th)  Scoring: 22.25 ppg (50th)  
Total: 358.75 ypg (70ili)  Total: 389.75 ypg (94th)  
Rushing: 108.25 ypg (94th)  Rushing: 130.50 ypg (57th)  
Passing: 250.50 ypg (38th)  Passing: 259.25 ypg (106th)  
Turnovers against: 6 (40th)  Turnovers for: 8 (44th)  
Fumbles lost: 3 (42nd)  Fumbles rec.: 3 (55th)  
Interceptions: 3 ( 40m)  Interceptions: 5 (27th)  
Sacks Allowed: 7 (59th)  Sacks: 6 (78th)  
TO.P. for: 31:16 (37th)  T.O.P. against: 26:30 (6th)  

Statistical Leaders 
! 
The Irish coverage was better in kickoffs at Purdue, but had 
some bad moments on 
~ punt returns with penalties and mental ~ lapses. Washington's return game has been ~ solid but not spectacu­~ Ia~ averaging 21 yards 
per kickoff return. 
Kicker Eric Folk has made six of seven attempts this season, including a long of 46 yards. Punter Will Mahan has average 
42.7 yards per pllnt and downed six kicks inside opponent's 20-yard lines. 
EDGE: WASHINGTON 
Jon Tenuta and Corwin Brown mixed blitzes and dropping back into cover­age more against Purdue. and were more successful without bringing constant pressure. 
If the playcalling contin­ues to improve, Locker may be forced into some 
mistakes trying to read the defense. c: 
Sarkisian is an (") :::E excellent quarter-o backs coach though, l> ~ and has dramatically ~ ~ improved the Husky 2 z offense in just a few G') ~ 
<m
games. 

EDGE: EVEN 

If you think I'm going to pick a blowout Irish victory, you dearly didn't read my column. The Irish opened the week as 13-point favorites, but I'm hav­ing a hard time seeing them covering that spread. I don't think it'll take a last-second drive a la Purdue, but Notre Dame will once again need to show poise in the fourth quarter to leave th~ 
Matt Gamber field with a win. The offense will again _______ produce, likely with more consistency as its regular start~rs (except Michael Sports Edilor Floyd) resume full action. The defense will give up some big plays to Jake Locker, but they'll do enough to let the 
offense win it for the Irish. Final Score: Notre Dame 31, Washington 27 
11atysis, check outthe Irish Insider podcast n/podcasts 

After the last two we~ks. it would just be silly to say that Notre Dame is going to win this game easily. In fact, I toyed with the idea of picking the Huskies. A'i impressive as their win against USC wa..c.;, though, I think the Irish still manage to eke this one out. Stopping Jake 
Locker is a terrifYing prospect for Irish fans, 
\ 

but the defense showed me just enough last Saturday to make me think they can at lea..c.;t Sam Werner contain him. Another week f()r Jimmy Clausen _______ to rest his injured toe and a healthy Armando Associate Allen also spell good news for the Irish, Sports Editor although I wouldn't be surprised to see Dayne Crist for a few snaps. I also think the receiving corps a..'> a whole bounces back from a sub-par 
game. The Irish win, but, once again, it'll be a nail-biter. 
Final Score: Notre Dame 28, Washington 27 


UWOFFENSE NPDEFENSE 
QBJAKE LOCKER SS KYLE MCCAR1HY 79-I36, 1002 yds., 6 TD 25 solo, I TFL, 3 INT 33 rush, 74 yds., 2 TO FS HARRISON SMITII RB OIRIS POLK I4 solo, 1.5 TFL 
84 rush, 353 yds., TD LB BRIAN SMITH 9 rec., 83 yds. 14 solo, 4 TFL, I sack WRJAMFS JOHNSON LB TORYAN SMITII 
I9 rec., 220yds., 2 TD 9 solo, 3.5 TFL, 1 sack 
WRJERMAINE KEARSE CB ROBERT BLANTON 1I rec., 182 yds., TD II solo, !NT 

page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 2, 2009 
Healthy Locker leads Washington's return to prominence 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Associate Sports Editor 
When the Irish visited Husky 
Stadium last year, the hapless 
Washington offense barelY. 
avoided being shut out and did­
n't enter Notre Dame territory 
until there was 5:50 to go in the 
game. 
A year later, that seems like 
an entirely different team. With 
a new, offensively-minded 
coach in Steve Sarkisian and 
the return of healthy junior 
quarterback Jake Locker, the 
Huskies offense is dangerous 
again for the first time in years. 
"Coach Sarkisian and [defen­
sive coordinator] Nick Holt 
came up from USC and really 
have changed the mentality of 
Washington in a hurry," coach 
Charlie Weis said. "I think part 
of the turnaround obviously is 
Locker coming back." 
Just a week after ending a 15­
game losing streak that 
stretched over parts of three 
seasons, Sarkisian and Locker 
led the Huskies to a 13-10 win 
over No. 3 USC. Trojans coach 
Pete Carroll had high praise for 
Locker and his former quarter­
backs coach and offensive coor­
dinator Sarkisian after the 
game. 
"I think the difference in this 
game was Jake. I thought he 
was able to come up and make 
the plays when they really 
needed it in the last drive," 
Carroll said. "That's a great 
player. He didn't surprise me a 
bit. I thought we kept him 
under wraps for a while but 
when he had to have it he made 
it. That's what a great player
does." 
Locker emerged as a star in 2007 after redshirting his fresh­man season, and was named the Pac-1 0 freshman of the year. The Washington native led his hometown school to a huge win over No. 20 Boise State and became only the 19th player in NCAA history to pass for more than 300 and rush for more than 100 yards in a game in a loss to Arizona. 
Locker rushed for 983 yards on the season and tallied 27 total touchdowns. 
Expectations were high for Locker entering his sophomore campaign in 2008, and for four games Locker struggled to lead the Washington offense behind a porous offensive line. 
He nearly led the Huskies to an upset of BYU, but after a Locker touchdown run with two seconds remaining, a celebra­tion penalty and missed extra point left Washington one point short of overtime. 
In the fourth game of the sea­son Locker then broke his thumb against Stanford and missed the rest of the season. 
In four games under Sarkisian's tutelage this season Locker has shined as a passer, throwing for 1,002 yards and six touchdowns. While his rush­ing numbers are down, Locker is running a pro-style offense and has become a much more accurate passer. 
"In the last system, he was a read option type of guy with that spread," Weis said. "But you can see that he's settled in nicely into the old USC system that they have right now. And I think he's a heck of a player." 
Sarkisian took over the Washington program in the off­season after the dismissal of Tyrone Willingham midway through 2008. The quarter­backs coach at USC from 2002­2004 and ofl'cnsive coordinator from 2006-2008, Sarkisian mentored two Heisman-winning quarterbacks. Carson Palmer and Matt Leinart. 
Since bringing his system north, Sarkisian has already made vast improvements to a Huskies team that finished 0-12 without Locker last year, and started recruiting talent that was lacking under Willingham, who was head coach for Notre Dame from 2002-04. 
Weis was careful to take note that Sarkisian has not simply taken the USC system to Washington. 
"I think Steve is a very, very good coach, and I think he is going to have his own personal­ity," Weis said. "He is not going there to be a USC North. The things they did, you know, he is running their offense and Nick [Holt] is running the defense that they had great success with so why would you change that? 
"You apply it to the players you currently have, and they'll definitely branch off like every­one does. And I think there's a bright future there." 


AP Contact Michael Bryan at First-year coach Steve Sarkisian, left, and junior quarterback Jake Locker have turned Washington mbryan@nd.edu around in a hurry, as the Huskies already upset USC earlier this season. 



APPLY NOW FOR THE 2010 SUMM£R LUOER'S TRAINING COURSE. YOU ATTEND A PAID LEADERSHIP INTERNSHIP AND MAY,AUAL,tf'Y F'ORA F'ULL TUITION SCHOLARSHIP J START STRONG WITH NOTRE 0AM&:4RMY ROTC. 
·.··...:"~ :~ .. 

.. " ...
S".\JI"y AI! I iQht•. 

Friday, October 2, 2009 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 

f~ f T!, o : ~
l-1Di1 

.... '. "'"'f' ..,.,j 

(0-3) L 31-21 Missouri 
MICHIGAN 

(4-0) W 46-33 E. Indiana (1-3) L 38-30 Wisconsin (1-3) L 2~t-21 Notre Dame 
;'~..:,·" 

(2-2) L 34-14 Stanford 
(3-1) w27-6 Washington St. 
UNLV 
@Michigan St. Michigan 
Northwe·stern @Notre Dame 
.. ."'­
Florida St. 

What's the most played song on your iPod right 
now? 

Miley Cyrus. "Party in the USA." 
Miley Cyrus or Taylor Swift? 
It's a tie. If I had to pick one, I'd go with Miley right now. It was Taylor about four weeks ago before I heard "Party in the USA." 
What's your favorite food in the dining halls? 
Let's see, that's a tough one. Flank steak. Sunday night 
flank steak. 

Ifyou could have a cameo on any TV show, what 
would it be? 

My favorite T.V. show is "Seinfeld," so if they ever remade "Seinfeld." I couldn't play Kramer, but I'd like to play Jerry. 
What's your favorite part ofgameday? 
The walk. The walk is just surreal. 
What's your favorite non-football location on campus? The Grotto. 
What's your favorite way to relax? 
Just relax and shoot the breeze with my roommates. 

Weis says re'o to play more vs. Huskies 
By SAM WERNER Associate Sports Editor 
While it's always exciting to see what freshman will make an impact every fall, there was one first year player this year that received more attention than any freshman since Jimmy Clausen himself. 
Tuesday, Irish coach Charlie Weis said in a press conference that freshman linebacker Manti Te'o would see more time on the field against Washington than he had in any of the first four games. 
"I think you're going start seeing him a whole bunch more here this week," Weis said. In the first game against Nevada, Te'o made his presence felt with a pair of tackles as well as a few other vicious hits. 
In the next three games, though, Te'o received little play­ing time, notching only four more tackles. One of those tack­les, though, was a game-clinch­ing sack against Purdue Saturday. 
After the close win over the Boilermakers, Weis talked about possibly changing his strategy regarding the super­frosh. 
"Yeah, I think one thing we need to do both in practice and in games is just play him more," Weis said. "The only thing, when you have a young line­backer you'll go through some growing pains, but I think that you'll see him just playing more. We talked about that today. I think as the year goes on, you'll see his playing time just increase more and more." 
Weis has said one of the things preventing Te'o from see­ing the playing field is the steep learning curve for linebackers coming into the college game. 
"We knew coming in the door that Manti was going to be one of the more athletic guys that we brought on to this team with his size and speed," Weis said. "And I think that as he's gone through this learning process. I think he's getting close to really getting the trust of the defensive coaches to able to put him on the field more." 
Another roadblock to increas­ing Te'o's playing time has been positional logistics. The current starting lineup has Toryan Smith starting at middle line­backer with Brian Smith at weakside iinebacker. When Te 'o comes in, he plays weakside with Brian Smith moving over to middle. But. according to Weis, he's found a way around it. 
"He'll play more this week, that's all I'll tell you," Weis said. ''I'm not going to go over the game plan to tell you how we're going play him more, but he'll play more." 
No matter how he gets on the field, though, Weis says the future is bright for the young Hawaiian. 
"I have high expectations for Manti," Weis said. "I think you will see Manti playing his best ball in October and November." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 

IAN GAVLICK!The Observer 

Freshman linebacker Manti Te'o celebrates with teammates after making a play in the season open­ing 35-0 victory over Nevada. Te'o had two tackles against the Wolf Pack. 

page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 2, 2009 
ARE YOU READY FOR SOME OOTBALL? 
Papa Predicts 
. 

NOTRE DAME 31 .·Washington 17 
Choose Your Early Week Special 
.:. '!'",·..:. . 
-, ----·· --·,~--""""-~"~,....·.::.... ~-....,.,.-.,...._ ... --· -·~ . 
---~··· -~...20.~~ 
~:· ;;:.:·~·>

<These 3 Offers Good Monday-Wednesday) 
•One 
Large 1-Topping Pizza $8.99 (Online Promo Code SVM1) 

•Two 
Medium Cheese Pizzas $11.99 (OnlinePromoCodeSVM2) 

•One 
Extra Large S-Topping $10.99 (OnllnePromoCodctSVM3J 


Order your next piZZil online lit 

papajohns.com Better Ingredients. 
Better Pizza. 

~-;..: • .-~_;; ~.: -L;.g; i:ToPP~-1;.:·~;s-;.-;1 
; Breadsticks & 1Pizza, Breadsticks, & I (9pm-Ciose) ~ I a 20-oz Drink 1 Drinks Large 1-Top Pizza 1
2 20_ 

I I oz I $799 I 
I $10.99 I $15 99 I • I Onlne Promo Code: SVM41 OnUne Promo ~: SVMtt I Online Promo Code: SVM6 I ~--------·•.a.. --r-------T ......_ --------1 t 
! L.arge 1-Toppmg I Papa's Party Paid XL 1-ToppingPizzal 1 Pizza & Order of 1 Three Large 1 & Garlic Parmesan 1 : Papa's Wings It T . p·......o~ Breadsticks 1
• • .opptng •~ 
: $15.99 I $24 99 $13.99 I
I • I I I
I OnUne Promo Code: SVII10 .l. Onlne Promo Code: SVM8 1 OnDne Promo Code: SVM8 J
'-------_______ ....... ______ _ 
I I. 
Offers vaUd through 10/31/09 at above location. Additional toppings and Pan pizza
I I I 
extra. Not valid with any other coupons or discounts. No Double Toppings. Limited 
I I I 
delivery area, charges may apply. Customer responsible for all appUcable taxes. 
I I I I II 
I ,• 
I i 
Notre Dame Store 
St. Mary's/Holy Cross Store 271-1177 271-7271
f! 
'I 
'' 
'I 
'I 
' I 
EAT LIKE ACHAMPION TODAY!! GO IRISH! Beat Huskies!!!! 






