
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 43: lSSUE 99 MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2009 

Facebook use extends beyond college 
Worries linger about security ofpersonal info, but networking capabilities provide advantages 
Each day, more than 3billion minutes spent on Facebook worldwide More than 850 million photos updated to the site each month More than 5million videos uploaded each month 
More than 2 million events created each month More than 70 percent of Facebook users outside the United States 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
This is the third installment of a three-part series that will explore the recent terms of use controversy involving Facebook and delve into the way interac­tion with and opinion of the site has changed since 2004, when Notre Dame students were first able to become users. 
Senior Michael Massengale has a love/hate relationship with Facebook. 
He joined the site before he was a freshman, as soon as he received his Notre Dame e-mail address. 
"Basically everyone I knew was getting it and everyone who had it recommended it, so I decided to give it a try," he said. 
Initially, he used the site fair­ly often, logging on every day and sending notes back and forth with friends, especially those from home who had gone to other schools for college. 
But the more Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg updated the site, the less Massengale liked it. The one thing that has prevent­ed him from quitting the site, he said, is the ability to upload and share photos. 
"If it wasn't for the photos, I wouldn't have a Facebook," he said. 
He said he's taken personal 
see FACEBOOK/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

GRCaims to prevent violence 
ByJENNMETZ News Writer 

Notre Dame's Gender Relations Center (GRC) has created the Violence Prevention Initiative to galvanize students to work toward stopping violence. 
The Violence Prevention Initiative (VPD is a combination of both educational and preventative programs that lists raising aware­ness about violence in the local community, increasing under­standing about global violence, promoting the healing of survivors 
see GRC/page 9 


New film profiles self-image 
ByJENN METZ News Writer 
The film "America the Beautiful" was shown to a sold­out audience Sunday afternoon at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Last week, its organizers were afraid no one would show up. 
The movie is not about patriotic songs, as its title suggests, but rather about issues of female body image in a society where "celebutantes" like Paris Hilton and stick-thin models dominate the media. 
Valerie Staples, an eating disor­ders specialist at the University, said "America the Beautiful" is "a fihn that will bring a lot of aware­ness of how much influence the media and advertising have on eating disorders." 
On Wednesday, she checked with the ticket office at the Center to see how many seal<> had been reserved, just to make sure people were coming. 
Advertisenw.nts for the fihn fea­tured an image of the Statue of Liberty with notes like "Widen mouth." "Enlarge eyes," and "Two words: Nose job!" with arrows pointing at the body parts they described. 
Images of "perfection and ideal standards" that bombard men and women through the media have led to a decrease in self­esteem, she said. 
"We need to step back, and look at these things objectively," Staples said. "Who said this is beautiful?" 
see DISORDERS/page 9 



Subway protno policy explained 
By BECKY HOGAN 
News Writer  
Despite Notre Dame sopho­ 
more John Traub's efforts to initi­ 
ate a boycott on the Subway  
located in LaFortune Student  
Center because it does not offer  
the "$5 footlong" deal, Notre  
Dame's Subway has no plans to  
offer the promotion since it would  
attract more business to the fran­ 
chise, which is already operating  
at capacity, Notre Dame Food  
Services  Director  David  
Prentkowski said.  
Prentkowski said the decision  
to offer promotions is left to the  
University since it  owns the  
Notre Dame's Subway serves about 6,000 people each week  
see SUBWAY/page 4  making it one of the busiest Subways in the United States.  


Students caught f~r m.usic piracy 
ORLH issues 100 copyright infringement notices per semester 
By ROBERT SINGER News Writer 
While it is common knowl­edge that breaking parietals and underage drinking will result in punishment, many students are unaware the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ORLI-1) can deliver punishments for illegal music downloads. 
Students who illegally download copyrighted mate­rial, such as TV shows, music, games or movies, could expect to receive a dis­ciplinary letter from the University if an outside organization spots their activity. 
About 100 students per semester receive "copyright infringement notic;es," said Robert Casarez, assistant director at the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ORLH). 
Since file sharing traffic can be publicly monitored, organizations bent on limit­ing piracy like the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), The Entertainment Software Association, NBC Universal, IIBO and Columbia Pictures can identify users who ha've pirated copyrighted materi­al, Casarez said. 
"Since this information is public, outside organizations log the information and send the notices to the Internet Service Provider where the material is originating," he said. "It is up to the Internet Service Provider, in the case of our students, Notre Dame, to identify the person and notify them of the violation." 
The University does not actively make an effort to enforce copyright laws, but only responds to the requests of agencies hired by recording industries or movie studios. 
"Our office does not seek out students who are down­loading copyrighted materi­al," Casarez said. "We only respond to the notices sent by outside organizations." 
If a student receives a let­ter from ORLH for copyright infringement, he or she will be warned if it is his or her first offense. But repeated 
see RESLIFE/ page 4 

Assault a reality at University, panel says 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY Assistant News Editor 

Heather Rakoczy Russell, director of the Gender Relations Center (GRC). said Friday she was recently asked if sexual assault really happens at a place like Notre Dame. Unfortunately, she said, it does. 
As a culmination of Sexual Ass.ault Awareness Week, the GRC, along with the student government and several other campus groups, hosted a panel of speakers at the "A Time to Heal" dinner Friday at Legends to address the problem of sexual assault. 
Rakoczy Russell said The Clery Act --a statute that requires colleges and univer­sities to disclose information about campus crime -­requires the University to keep and report records about reported rapes on cam­pus. She said it is not uncom­mon for the number of reported rapes at Notre Dame to be one or zero per year. 
"We know that's not repre­sentative of what happens here," she said. "Hape is the most dramatically underre­ported crime." 
Rakoczy Russell said the most common form of rape on campus is date rape. Students are not assaulted by strangers, but rather 
see PANEL/page 8 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Dear 



readers 
Dear readers, 
I am thrilled to begin my year as Editor­in-ChiefofThe Observer today. 
I have dedicated countless hours to The Observer, slaving away at the old comput­
ers in the darkest  
place on this  Jenn Metz  
campus-the  
basement of  
So~!=~~­ Editor-in-Chief  
column from my  
room in  

Cavanaugh, where there is a window to the outside world. However, there are at least 10 staffers at work as my fingers type, put­ting aside homework and social obligations to operate a finicky software program and actually make the newspaper. 
The students on the production staffare the unsung heroes ofthis campus, in my opinion. Getting paid less than one dollar an hour for their work, which can last late into the night, and still coming back week after week is a real testament to The Observer as both a publication and mini-community on this campus. 
Some things I have learned while putting in my time at a production computer: Save your documents. Keep your cell phone on. Don't panic. Pray. And most importantly: Save your documents. 
Some things I wish I would have learned sooner: Procrastination does not always work. There are really only 24 hours in a day and it is possible to over-schedule your­self. (To the professors whose classes I've missed this past week and to the friends whom I've missed lunches, breakfasts and dinners with, I apologize.) 
Though putting in time at The Observer has caused me to miss out on certain parts ofbeing a student here at Notre Dame and sacrifice any hope ofa regular sleep sched­ule, it has granted me other opportunities that have made joining the paper the best decision ofmy adult life. 
I was able to travel to Washington, D.C. to witness the inauguration ofPresident Barack Obama. I've had the pleasure of interviewing congressmen and movie stars. I've sat down with University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh to talk about civil rights and his remarkable career. 
Most importantly, however, I've had the honor ofinterviewing hundreds ofyou: my classmates. The things you accomplish everyday, whether it be passing a resolution in student government, starting a club, serving the community and still making time to study, learn and live here in South Bend are inspiring. 
We've sought to help you-by reporting on national news with a Notre Dame angle to assist in your post-graduationjob search­es, by keeping you up-to-date on politics, by continuing to make The Observer an indis­pensable link between the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. 
Fr. Hesburgh sent me a letter shortly after I was announced the next editor-in-chief. He wrote he was sure I would carry on the tradition ofThe Observer "with great style and panache." I hope I can fulfill his and all ofyour expectations during my tenure. 
I pride myself on The Observer's contin­ued reputation as a responsible news media. Thank you for your continued sup­port ofour publication. It is our goal to serve you in the best way possible. Ifwe're not, I'll want to hear about it and sugges­tions for change. You know how to contact me. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Jenn Metz atjmetz@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as professionalpublica­tion and stives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, March 2, 2009 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE SCARIEST THING THAT HAS HAPPENED TO YOU THIS YEAR? 





Marc Anthony Rosa  Daniella Rosa  Carolyn Demanelis  Krystal Bagge  Patrick McCormick  
freshman Keough  sophomore Pasquerilla West  freshman Walsh  freshman McGlinn  freshman Keough  
"Answering the Question ofthe Day. ''  "Barack Obama winning the presidency. "  "When the bat was flying in LaFortune last week."  "Walking down the streets of South Bend late on Friday  "Eating at North Dining Hall."  

night." 

SoCal robbery suspect he arrived to take the test. to fight the intruders at her tries to become police man Gonzales said that when home west of Cleveland on 
CHULA VISTA, Calif. -Montillano was taken into Tuesday. Police then took it Authorities in California say custody he asked.ifhe would from her to be used as evi­a man wanted for a store still be able to take the dence. robbery was arrested when exam. Basinski was on the he showed up to take a test phone with her husband to become a police officer. Legasse replaces pan when the teens pushed 
Chula Vista police woman used in self-defense their way into her home. spokesman Bernard ELYRIA, Ohio -Chef Her husband, Lorain Gonzales said investigators Emeril Lagasse says he felt County Judge David had identified Romeo so bad when he heard a Basinski, overheard the Montillano as a suspect in a woman lost one of his scuffle, called 911 and Dec. 8 robbery at a Kmart. trademark pans while raced home. Meanwhile, his 
Gonzales says investiga­warding off home intruders wife says she grabbed the tors learned that Montillano that he's replacing the item. 5-quart saucepan and hit had signed up for the Lagasse is sending 70-year­one teen, who was going February Police Department old Ellen Basinski a whole through her purse. entrance exam. new 'set of his signature 
The 40-year-old man was cookware. Information compiled arrested Wednesday when She used her favorite pan from the Associated Press. 
a:: 
LLI 
:::1: 
~ 
LLI 

3: 
..... 
<t 
(.) 
0 

TODAY 
~ 
..... HIGH 22 
LOW 11 

IN BRIEF 

A memorial service in memory of Rabbi Michael Signer will take place today at 4:30 p.m. in McKenna Hall Auditorium. All members of the University and local community are welcome. 
A lecture by Elizabeth Ferrer, curator of the Lola Alvarez Bravo exhibit will be held today at 12 p.m. The event will take place in O'Shaughnessy Galleries II and III, Snite Museum of Art. Admission is free. Elizabeth Ferrer is an independent curator, writer, and consultant based in New York, specializing in Mexican and Latino art. 
The Center for Social Concerns will host a lecture entitled, "American Politics -Living Faithful Citizenship" today at 7 
p.m. in the Eck Center Auditorium. Bill Purcell, director of Harvard University's Institute of Politics and former Tennesee congressman, will share his insights on being a Catholic living out a vocation in public service. 
A lecture entitled· "Environment and Revolution in 
20th-century  Mexico:  A  
Historical  Case  Study  of  
Agrarian  Reform  and  its  

Implications for the New Left of Latin America Todav" will take place Tuesday at 12:30 p.m. in Room C103 Hesburgh Center. 
The film "Slumdog Millionaire" will be shown at the DeBartolo Perfonning Arts Center Thesday at 8 p.m., Thursday at 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m., Friday at 6:30 
p.m. and 9:30 p.m., and Saturday at 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
TONIGHT 

TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 

~· 



0,,,,,,,
0,,,,,,, 
,,,,,,,

,,,,,,, 
~ 

HIGH 16 HIGH 31 HIGH 40 HIGH 49 HIGH 
54 
LOW 10 LOW 18 LOW 29 LOW 36 LOW 
34 
Atlanta 40 I 20 Boston 43 I 24 Chicago 25 116 Denver 49 I 30 Houston 70 I 41 Los Angeles 72 I 56 Minneapolis 20 111 New York 37 125 Philadelphia 37 I 24 Phoenix 76 I 46 Seattle 54 I 37 St. Louis 34 I 20 Tampa 63 I 39 Washington 29 I 13 
Monday, March 2, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Two students say 

thanks to officials 
Student Affairs 
is now accepting nominations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in .Journalism 
Candidates must be seniors who exemplifY the qualities for which Denny Moore was known;, including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff, 

or fellow students. 
For a nomination form, please visit our website at: 
http://osa.nd.edu/get-involved/studcnt-activitics-and-awards/denny-moor·e-award/ 
No1ninations are due bv Thursdav, March 5, 2009. 
~-o/ 




Ind. legislation offers financial assistance 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
Two Saint Mary's students traveled to the Indiana State House in Indianapolis last week to thank legislators for granti­ng state money to students and ask that they continue to give their support. 
As the dismal economy con­tinues to make it more difficult for students to afford tuition, there are still options for finan­cial aid avaifable through the state, and many Saint Mary's students take advantage of it. 
Saint Mary's freshmen Sarah Kletka and Alma Bravo joined 250 students from 20 other pri­vate and independent colleges on the Feb. 24 trip. 
Kletka is a nursing major who is working two jobs to cover the cost of books and tuition at Saint Mary's. 
"I decided to go because this money is an integral part of my attendance at Saint Mary's," Kletka said. "I feel that it is my responsibility to represent those of us at Saint Mary's who struggle to afford it and need every penny we are offered." 
Students receive the funds from the State Student Assistance Commission of Indiana (SSACI). Kletka said they were given the opportuni­ty to meet with hometown leg­islators on the trip. 
"Alma and I were very lucky that our representatives and senators actually came out of their sessions to speak with us," she said. "We spoke with them on the issues of student financial aid grants, and stu­dent need for more financial aid." 
Students discussed the possi­ble changes in funding over the coming years. Kletka said the legislators discussed a change in the quantity of funding for individual students, but not for the program as a whole. 
"They explained that even though the amount of grant money may not decrease from year to year, the amount the student receives could possible decrease depending on how many students apply and need aid," Kletka said. 
Kletka and Bravo are not the only students who are given aid money from the state. 
"Many of our students receive this important grant, and with­out it [they] might have not been able to attend a small pri­vate college," Karen Johnson, Saint Mary's vice president of student affairs said in a press release early last week. "The liberal arts education these women are getting at Saint Mary's will allow them, as graduates, to be flexible and change with the times." 
Kletka is appreciative of the grant money she has received and the opportunity it gave her. 
"I could never have afforded Saint Mary's on my own, but with the generosity of Saint Mary's, financial aid, state funding and numerous scholar­ships, I am here," shesaid. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



Monologues perform 
stories at St. Mary's 
By Alicia Smith 
News Writer 
Stories about passion, injustice, pain, romance and heartbreak filled Vender Vennet auditorium during the SMC Monologues per­formed this past weekend. 
The Monologues used stories submitted by Saint Mary's stu­dents. 
"It means a lot to me being able to act in the Monologues because you make people aware of the things that for some hit really close to home -especially since these are stories submitted by our own," freshman Anabel Castaneda said. 
Saint Mary's junior Britt Hall said she believed the SMC Monologues needed to be told. 
"The Monologues are important for Saint Mary's students to hear," Hall said. "They are our stories from our students, so I feel it is my responsibility to get these stories out there." 
The students who participated in this year's Monologues said they were touched by the sto,ries. 
"I am moved by all the stories in a new way each time I hear them and see other people react to them," SMC Monologues director Becki Faunce said. 
"When I am choosing one to perform myself, I always try to choose a funny one because I love making the audience laugh. 
Sometimes, we need to cry togeth­er over a painful story, express our rage about injustice, but one of the most powerful ways to change the world and ourselves ·is to laugh," she said. 
The piece Castaneda portrayed was about heartbreak. 
"The hard part is knowing when it's okay to laugh," she said. "Many of these pieces are serious, but crying and feeling sorry for each one of them doesn't help anyone." 
Participating students faced many challenges while preparing their pieces for the performance. 
"The most difficult part is defi­nitely making sure that we do not change the stories in any way," Hall said. "We need to portray these stories the way the writer would like it to be portrayed." 
Despite some struggles, Faunce, Hall and Castaneda said they all felt the experience was worth­while. 
"My favorite part of working on the Monologues is being a part of this great women's movement on campus to share our experiences and combat inequality together," Faunce said. 
"I am continually amazed by how we are all part of this com­munity of strong, powerful women who are all united by the drive to work toward a just future for everyone." 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

in session, Prentkowski said, prof­its generated during the school
Subway 
year are needed to support opera­

f E A T U R I N G. 
Combination del Mare 
SaULeed Tilapia, Shrimp and Roma Tomatoes over Angel Hair Pasta with 

Wine & Lemon Dill Butter Sauce: Served with Crabmeat-Stuffed Mushrooms 
Other .Sec~jiJml Cdclmttion Items; 
Shrimp & Scallop Scampi Linguini & Clams Capel!ini & Crabmeat Shrimp Sizzlelinl'fo Unguini Pescatore Salmone Alia Griglia 

St. joseph 'Mishawaka 1332 Hilltop Rd. • 269.983.9900 5110 Edison lakes Pkwy. • 574.271.1692 
www. PapaVinositalianKitchcn.com 
continued from page 1 
Subway in LaFortune as a fran­chise. 
"Subway restaurant in LaFortune is an independent fran­chise owned and operated by Notre Dame," Prenktowski said. "Notre Dame ... has at times par­ticipated and at other times has chosen not to participate in pro­motions. This is not unusual ­franchise restaurants everywhere choose to participate or not based on the value assessment of the promotion." 
Prentkowski explained that pricing decisions are the responsi­bility of the franchisee, and this law also applies to promotions. 
"There are other Subway fran­chise restaurants that have cho­sen not to participate in this pro­motion," Prentkowski said. 
Notre Dame Food Services believes that offering the $5 foot­long at Notre Dame's Subway would prevent the francliisee from meeting its financial obligations, Prentkowski said. 
"A financial analysis and projec­tion for this promotion concludes that it would have a negative financial impact on the LaFortune Subway, risking the restaurant's ability to reach its financial obliga­tion," he said. 
Prentkowski said the Notre Dame Subway restaurant "is one of the busiest in the United States serving approximately 6,000 peo­ple per week." It is so busy, in fact, that capacity limits "prohibit our ability to add new business," he said. 
Since the $5 footlong promotion is meant to attract new business, this would ultimately have a detri­mental effect to the LaFortune Subway "resulting instead in a negative margin and risk of not meeting financial obligations" since the restaurant is at full capacity, he said. 
Because Subway's business is much slower when classes are not tion costs all year long. 
"It is important to understand that while it appears restaurants such as Subway are very busy, this is not the case all year around. When classes are not in session, business is substantially less. As a result, revenues gener­ated during the academic year are required to support ongoing costs during the down times," he said. 
Prentkowski said the University "compensates its staff at a sub­stantially higher pay rate than a typical quick service restaurant." Not only is compensation higher, but regular Huddle staff members participate in the University health insurance program which also adds "substantial costs" to the operation. 
Operating costs include things such as food, labor, supplies, facili-· ty costs, renewal costs used for equipment replacement and reno­vations. Also included in operation costs are the franchise's responsi­bility to assist with funding gener­al University support functions such as payroll, human resourcfls, accounting and fmancial services, Prentkowski said. 
The question remains whether the Subway boycott initiated by Traub will atrect Subway's busi­ness. 
Prentkowski said he has "heard from a few students" about their dissatisfaction with Notre Dame's Subway for not offering the $5 footlong promotion, but said that Notre Dame Food Services is more worried about students getting the wrong perception of the depart­ment, than they are about the boycott taking effect. 
"We are concerned that not par­ticipating in this promotion has created the wrong perception of our department as we are com­mitted to enhancing the student experience at Notre Dame," he said. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 

ResLife 
continued from page 1 
abuses could result in a removal of all a student's reg­istered devices from our net­work and a fine," Casarez said. 
The penalty could be steep if an outside agency decides to press charges. 
"Outside organizations, such as the RIAA, are known to file lawsuits against 
logging onto popular file shar­ing networks like BitTorrent and communicating with the user's network address. Programs like PeerGuardian can be used to block the IP addresses of agencies that have been known to sue for copyright infringement. 
Other universities have struggled to slow down Internet piracy committed by their students, because it is difficult for network adminis­
trators to block 

students," Casarez said.  "There is no doubt  illegal file shar­ing without also  
Many outside agencies target users who  that file sharing software puts a  thwarting many legitimate activ­ities.  
upload  large  strain on our  "There is  no  
amounts of copyrighted  network."  doubt that file sharing soft­ 
data to others, in the hopes  Robert Casarez  ware strain  puts a on our  
that piracy can  assistant director of  network,"  
be contained if  ORLH  Casarez said.  
the  source  is  Multiple free  
made  scarce.  and  low-cost  

But Casarez said because most legal options exist for students programs require you to share to download music and other files while you download them, entertainment. it is difficult to eliminate the "For about 99 cents a song, risk of being caught simply by iTunes provides the best, and limiting how much you upload. largest, source for music 
"All illegal file sharing activi­downloads," Casarez said. "If ty puts students at risk," he you would like to watch TV said. "Both copying and trans­Episodes or movies on your mitting copy-protected materi­computer, the best thing to do al is a violation. Most file shar­is to watch streaming media ing programs have no distinc­using Netflix or Hulu, which do tion between downloading or not require you to download a uploading as they share and large file and work well on our transmit data while you are high speed network." downloading the file." 
Some outside agencies collect Contact Robert Singer at incriminating information by rsinger@nd.edu 

.-------------------------------------~-------------------------------------------------------------------·------------­







ORLD & NATION 
Monday, March 2, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Suspected U.S. missiles kill seven 
ISLAMABAD -Suspected U.S. missiles killed seven people in a Pakistani Taliban stronghold Sunday, officials said, while an attaGk on a military convoy and a cleric's two-week deadline for the creation of Islamic courts rattled peace talks with militants else­where in the country's northwest. 
The missile strike underscored the Obama administration's unwillingness to abandon a Bush-era tactic said to have killed several key al-Qaida figures, despite persistent Pakistani protests. The Muslim nation has used both peace pacts and military offensives to deal with insurgents along its border with Afghanistan, and it warns that the missile attacks dent civilian support for its actions. 
Israel threatens painful response 
JERUSALEM -Prime Minister Ehud Olmert threatened a painful response to Palestinian rock­et fire menacing southern Israel, suggesting Sunday that the blistering offensive against Gaza Strip militants fell short of its goals. 
The prospect of heightened hostilities in Hamas-ruled Gaza cast a pall over a week of cru­cial diplomatic activity, including an international conference designed to drum up billions of dollars to rebuild the heavily damaged territory. With a new Israeli government to take office within weeks, however, it wasn't clear how sweeping the country's response to the rockets would be. 
More than 110 rockets and mortar shells have exploded in Israel in the six weeks since it ended it<; air and ground onslaught against Gaza, which was meant to end the rocket threat and stanch the flow of arms into Gaza. So far, Israel has responded to the rocket fire mainly with airstrikes targeting underground tunnels used to smuggle weapons and other goods into Gaza from Egypt. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
23 homes destroyed in wildfires 
BASTROP, Texas -A wildfire fueled by griJ.ss, brush and trees has destroyed at least 23 homes and three businesses in central Texas. 
Officials say two National Guard helicop­ters joined other aircraft Sunday in dropping water on the blaze near the towns of Bastrop and Smithville. 
Gov. Rick Perry has activated state resources, including four Blackhawk helicop­ters equipped to drop water and fire retar­dant, firefighters and equipment. 
The wildfire has charred just over a square mile since it was started Saturday by a fallen power line. 


Washington state allows lethal meds 
OLYMPIA, Wash. -Terminally ill patients with less than six months to live will soon be able to ask their doctors to prescribe them lethal medication in Washington state. 
But even though the "Death with Dignity" law takes effect Thursday, people who might seek the life-ending prescriptions could find their doctors conflicted or not willing to write them. 
Many doctors are hesitant to talk publicly about where they stand on the issue, said Dr. Tom Preston, a retired cardiologist and board member of Compassion & Choices, the group that campaigned for and sup­ports the law. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Magistrate denies post<onvict relief 
CROWN POINT, Ind. -A Lake County magistrate has denied a petition for post­conviction relief for the man in prison for a series of shotgun slayings that terror­ized northwest Indiana in the early 1990s. 
Christopher Peterson, who now goes by Obadyah Ben-Yisrayl, was convicted in 1993 of felony counts of attempted mur­der and robbery for shooting Ronald Nitsch in the head during a 1991 bank robbery. He was sentenced to 70 years in prison.• 
Rare snowstorm blankets South 

Southerners deal with unexpected snowfall as Northeast prepares for storm 
Associated Press  
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. -A  
potent March snowstorm  
blanketed much of Alabama  
with up to 4 inches of snow  
Sunday, covering Civil War  
statues and forcing the can­ 
cellation of hundreds of  
church services.  
The storm headed toward  
the Northeast and threat­ 
ened to drop up to a foot of  
snow in the Philadelphia  
area, 13 inches in New York  
and 15 inches across south­ 
ern New England late  
Sunday.  
In Georgia, the snowfall  
made roads tre~cherous and  
delayed flights, while in  
Alabama, more than 210  
churches in the central part  
of the Bible Belt state had to  
cancel morning services.  
\:jlnda Braswell of  
Alabaster, Ala. was throwing  
snowballs in her front yard  
instead of putting on her  
Sunday best. "I think you can  
worship in this it's so rare,"  
she said.  
Up to 7 inches of snow was  
expected through Monday  
morning in areas of .;; ..:'\.~.=­ 
Maryland, northern VIrginia  
APand Washington, D.C., where  
Mayor Adrian Fenty A heavy snowstonn pounds Valley, Ala., at the state line on Sunday after blanketing much  
declared a snow emergency. of the state before moving into Georgia and threatening the east coast.  
In New York, Mayor  
Michael Bloomberg  I'm worried about the other  Federal Aviation  revived memories of a large  
announced more than 1,300  people who think they know  Administration Web site.  storm in 1993 that forecast­ 
sanitation workers would  what they're doing," said  AirTran Airways  ers nicknamed the "Snowfall  
spread salt and plow city  Letson, filling up his car with  spokesman Tad Hutcheson  of the Century," affecting the  
streets to prepare for the  gas south of Birmingham.  said flights out of Atlanta  region from Alabama to  
snowfall.  Despite above-freezing  into the Northeast might also  north of Washington, D.C.,  
"It's the first of March,  temperatures in downtown  be canceled Sunday night.  said Laura Griffith of the  
which as you know is the  Atlanta, a heavy curtain of  "I expect the Northeast will  National Weather Service in  
month that we say comes in  snow fell on cars and caused  be hit pretty hard tonight so  Peachtree City, Ga. In that  
like a lion and out like a  traffic accidents on slushy  our expectations is that peo­ storm, Atlanta received 4.2  
lamb," he said. "It's pretty  streets. The unusual weather  ple flying into Washington,  inches of snow and 13 inches  
clear that the lions are get­ prompted Jessi Prahl and  D.C., and Boston will need to  fell on Birmingham.  
ting ready to roar."  Max DiPace to take their  call or check our Web site for  Outside the CNN Center in  
As Wayne Letson drove  dog, Cooper, on a walk  possible cancellations,"  downtown Atlanta, Flori  
through Alabama toward  through snow-covered  Hutcheson told The Atlanta  Kwon of Claremont, Calif.,  
Florida on Sunday, the  Piedmont Park in Atlanta.  Journal-Constitution.  took pictures of her son  
Michigan resident fretted  "You know us Southerners,  Georgia transportation  Jake, 5, cavorting in the  
about sharing the roads with  we all freak out when it  officials warned of potential  snow.  
Southerners unaccustomed  snows," said Prahl, 26.  icy buildup on roadways in  "He wants to make a  
to winter weather. The last  Some flights were canceled  middle and northern coun­ snowman but I don't think  
time it snowed in Alabama  at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta  ties through Monday morn­ there's enough," Kwon said  
was more than a year ago, in  International Airport, where  ing, especially as tempera­ while large snowflakes land­ 
January 2008.  the average delay was nearly  tures plummet overnight.  ed in her hair. "We're kind of  
"This is nothing to. me, but  two hours, according to a  The late Southern snowfall  surprised it's snowing."  

U.S. journalist arrested in Iran, detained 
Associated Press edly criticized Iran for arresting "We asked others and they said, journalists and suppressing freedom 'There's no detention for that.' So 
FARGO, N.D. -A U.S. Journalist of speech. The government has that's kind of an excuse," he told the has been arrested in Iran, and her arrested several Iranian-Americans AP. father said Sunday she told him in a in the past few years, citing alleged Buying and selling alcohol is illegal brief phone• call she was detained attempts to overthrow its· Islamic in the Islamic republic. after buying a bottle of wine. regime. The most high-profile case A few minutes after that call, she 
Roxana Saberi, 31, has not been came in 2007.. when Iran arrested phoned her parents again and asked heard from since her last call on four Iranian-Americans, including "Please don't do anything because Feb. 10, her father, Reza, told The the academic Haleh Esfandiari. The they'll release me in two days," Reza Associated Press on Sunday. four were imprisoned or had their Saberi said. 
"We haven't heard anything,:· he passports confiscated for several He told reporters she had already said. The family decided to go pub­months until they were released and been detained 10 days by that point. lic, he said, "because we wanted to allowed to return to the U.S. He said he does not know where his get some information." Roxana Saberi is a freelance jour­daughter is or what charges she 
Officials in Iran have not publicly nalist who has reported for National faces. confirmed the arrest. A duty officer Public Radio and other media and "It's been very tough," he told the at the U.S. State Department said has lived in Iran for six years. AP on Sunday. Sunday officials were looking into an Her father said that in her last NPR said Iran revoked Saberi's AP request for information on the phone call, she told him she was press credentials more than a year case. arrested after buying a bottle of ago but apparently let her report 
Human rights groups have repeat-wine. short news stories. 
would expire when a user can­"They said that some of their these types of issues. way. This is a new phenomenon celled his account and causing recruiters had learned that stu­At the National Association of over the last year, in terms of

Facebook 
continued from page 1 
information off the site and enabled privacy settings. 
Massangale has 481 friends on Facebook, but he said he'd only count about 50 of them as actual friends. He'll keep using the site for now, he said, but will quit it if he applies to pro­fessional schools. 
''I'm planning to apply to either medical school or gradu­ate school, and they've told us, mostly through friends who've applied to medical schools, they advise deleting it entirely," he said. 
Facebook and post-graduation plans 
Facebook's impact on employment and other post­graduation opportunities has been a worry for college users since its inception. 
In mid-February, Facebook worried users anew when the site changed its terms of use, deleting language which said Facebook's right to content 

Facebook members to fear that the site retained a permanent license to their content. Alarm throughout the Facebook com­munity prompted Zuckerberg to return the terms of use to the language in place before the Feb. 4 change. 
In a blog post on the site Feb. 18, Zuckerberg said the site developers will be working with the Facebook community to create an updated terms of use that is more amenable to users. 
Lee Svete, the director of the Notre Dame Career Center, has watched the evolution of the site from a social networking site to one that has the oppor­tunity to be used for profession­al networking. 
Svete, who has worked in his position for eight years, said he first heard about the site in the summer of 2005. It wasn't until the following year that he start­ed to hear about it from mem­bers of Notre Dame's Employee Advisory Board, which includes companies like Accenture, Boeing, Johnson & Johnson and General Mills. 
dent information was out there," he said. "Our particular group did not go out to sP.ek students to see if they were doing anything not profession­al. They stumbled on that par­ticular fact." 
At the May 2007 National Association of College Employers conference, Facebook was discussed at the director level. 
"We were advising students at that particular point, not to put up social related comments and pictures on their Facebook account, because it could be viewed by prospective employ­ers," he said. 
The Career Center included a slide about social networking sites in some of its workshops, like ones on interviewing, job searching and networking, Svete said. 
Notre Dame has not had an incidP.nt where a job or intern­ship offer was rescinded because of a Facebook prob­lem, Svete said, but he knows that Michigan State's and Ohio State's career centers have had College Employers' 2008 con­ference, they discussed advis­ing students on using "common sense" on Facebook, so not posting inappropriate pictures or text about drugs, explicit sexual encounters, alcohol use or drinking tickets, Svete said. 
But at the same time career centers have been urging stu­dents to exercise common sense when putting information on Facebook, some employers were realizing they could attract potential employees to their companies through Facebook 
"There is a portion of Facebook evolving into that professional, career network," Svete said. He belongs to a Facebook group composed of more than 1,000 recruiters, and he said he used it the other day to find a potential job lead for a Notre Dame engineering student. Svete said the job lead is a positive start, and one that came about because of Faeebook. 
"I wouldn't have done that two years ago," he said. "No 
my confidence in at least look­ing at this as a good over an evil. But there is definitely a downside to it." 
Gordon Wishon, Notre Dame's Chief Information Officer, Associate Vice President and Associate Provost, has Facebook but said he does not use it often. He said he recog­nized the benefits and draw­backs of the networking tech­nology. 
"Facebook has proven to be a wonderful thing for students especially, but really for every­one, in many ways, to bring communities closer together, as a way for people to stay in touch with each other," he said. "While it provides many bene­fits, all of these services also represent some risk, and I would just urge all of your readers to be aware of, educate yourselves about he risks and take appropriate steps to pro­teet themselves against these risks." 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 


More television ads project images of racial harmony 
Associated Press 
Ever see an inner-city school­yard filled with white, Asian and black teens shooting hoops? Or middle-aged white and Latino men swigging beer and watching the Super Bowl on their black neighbor's couch? Or Asians and Latinos dancing the night away in a hip-hop club? 
All it takes is a television. 
Yes, that mesmerizing mass purveyor of aspiration, desire and self-awareness regularly airs commercials these days that show Americans of different races and ethnicities interacting in integrated schools, country clubs, workplaces and homes, bonded by their love of the prod­ucts they consume. 
Think about one of Pepsi's newest spots, "Refresh Anthem," which debuted during the Super Bowl. The ad, which features Bob Dylan and hip-hop producer will.i.am, is a collage of images from the '60s and today that cel­ebrate generations past and present. 
Whites and blacks are shown returning from war, surfing, skateboarding, dancing and wav­ing American flags at political rallies, while a boyish Dylan and a present-day will.i.am take turns singing the Dylan classic, "Forever Young," each in his sig­nature style. 
Or, take the latest hit spot from E ... TRADE, which stars the E ... TRADE Baby, a 9-month-old white boy, and his newest buddy -a black infant who, from his own highchair, agrees with the wisdom of online investing even in a down economy. 
Leasing now for 2009-2010* 
lafayette Square Townhomes 

Enjoy the good life when you live off campus at a very reasonable price! 3, 4 and 5 Bedroom Town homes 2 1/2 Baths Free Internet Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher Security System Off-Street Parking Located Close to Notre Dame 
Only $350 per month, per student 
*Our townhomes rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 

(574) 234-2436 

Ads like these are part of a subtle, yet increasingly visible strategy that marketers refer to as "visual diversity" -commer­cials that enable advertisers to connect with wider audiences while conveying a message -that corporate America is not just "in touch," racially speaking, but inclusive. 
It wasn't always like this. For much of the past century, "minorities were either invisible in mainstream media, or handed negative roles that generally had them in a subservient position," says Jerome Williams, a profes­sor of advertising and African­American studies at the University of Texas at Austin. 
"Today, you're starting to see a juxtaposition of blacks and whites together, doing the things people do ... Now, advertisers are not in a position of pushing social justice. But to the extent that they can put whites and blacks together in situations, I think that's a good thing." 
These "multiculti" ads may be evidence of the vitality of assimi­lation, America's distinctive, master trend. To advertisers, though, they're simply smart business -a recognition of a new cultural mainstream that prizes diversity, a recognition that we are fast approaching a day when the predominant hue in America will no longer be white. · 
"Going forward, all advertising is going to be multicultural by definition, because in most states, majority ethnic popula­tions will no longer exist," says Danny Allen, managing director at SENSIS, an ad agency in Los Angeles that specializes in reach­ing multicultural audiences through digital and online media. 

The Core Council for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, & Questioning Students Seeks New Undergrad Student Members For 2009-201 0 




CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 



STUDENTS 

We welcome "allies" and gay, lesbian, bi-sexual or questioning students. 
Applications are available on the Core Council Web Site: 
http://corecouncil.nd.edu 
or can be picked up from: The Office ofStudent Affairs 316 Main Building Sam to 5pm Monday-Friday 
Completed Applications are due Friday, March 20 by Spm in the Office of Student Affairs Attn: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP 
Your participation in this Council will: 
• 
Assist with identifying the ongoing needs ofgay, lesbian, bi-sexual& questioning students 

• 
AssistIn implementing campus-wide educational programming on gayandlesbian issues 


Please visit our web site for more infonnation: http://corecouncil.nc:tedu 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS

Monday March 2, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 

Jones 7,062.93 -119.15 
. 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
1,031 92 2,060 340,619,126 

':.·~f'll~··i!IIEII.!111111lll!!t!l'lllll 
NASDAQ 1 377.84 -B.63 

·IWS!.~..:!ilfjfillila!ltiRI[I~Ifj.i 
S&P 500 735.09 -17.74 
.,NIIQ(El·Cfdtj~Ji:n:ml!ti!lllll!llf1J;IBJIII 
FTSE 100 (London) 31830.09 -85.55 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITtGROUP INC (C) -39.02 -0.96 1.50 BK OF AMERICA (SAC) -25.75 -1.37 3.95 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -2.23 -1.69 73.93 GEN ELECTRIC CO (GE) -6.48 -0.59 8.51 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +2.12 +0.063 3.041 13-WEEK BILL -5.66 -O.Gls 0.25 30-YEAR BOND +2.08 +0.076 3.722 5-YEARNOTE -2.51 -0.052 2.02 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.46 44.76 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -0.10 942.50 PORK BELLIES {cents/lb.) +2.08 79.83 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 96.9550 EURO 1.2667 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2752 BRITISH POUND 1.4308 
IN BRIEF 
• 

Capitol Power Plant dims energy hopes 
WASHINGTON --As Congress tries to clean up the nation's energy sources and cut gases blamed for global warming, it is struggling to do so in its own backyard. 
The Capitol Power Plant, a 99-year-old facility that heats and cools the hallowed halls of Congress, still burns coal and accounts for one-third of the legislative branch's greenhouse gas emissions. For a decade, lawmakers have attempted to clean it up. 
In recent years, Congress has reduced its energy consumption. The steam and chilled-water power plant has become more efficient. It now burns more natural gas and only 35 percent coal, compared with 49 percent in 2007. 

Health care plan confuses employees 
WASHINGTON -The Obama administration rushed to include a health care safety net for laid-off workers in the recently signed stimulus bill, but has not told employers exactly how to make it work. 
A<; a result, tens of thousands of jobless people could wait months before getting help paying for health insurance that their employers previously had covered. 
"Too many people are still trying to figure this out," said Heath Weems, director of human. resources policy at the National Association of Manufacturers. "There is a lot of confusion." 
At issue is the program called COBRA, the acronym for the law that allows workers to keep their company's health insurance plan for 18 months after they leave their job, if they pay the premiums. 
The policies are so expensive that only a minority of eligible workers sign up, often those with medical conditions that demand attention. Costs for a family of four can top $1,000 per month. 
A $25 billion provision in the stimulus bill aimed to cut COBRA's price tag, reducing its cost by 65 percent for workers laid off as far back as Sept. 1. 
The bill gives eligible workers 60 days to apply. Then they get the reduced-cost premium for nine months. 


AIG to get up to $30B more in Fed aid 
Company announces $60B in quarterly losses, to receive fourth gov't rescue 
Associated Press 

CHARLOTTE, N.C. -­Struggling insurer American International Group Inc. will receive up to $30 billion in additional federal assistance in the fourth government rescue of the company, a person familiar with the matter told The Associated Press on Sunday. 
The new infusion is intended to prop up AIG -­once the world's largest insurer --as it is expected to announce $60 billion in quarterly losses early Monday, the source said on the condition of anonymity because the discussions are still ongoing. 
The company, which is considered too large to fail, previously received about $150 billion in loans from the government, which now bas an 80 percent stake in the company. 
Under the new deal, the 
U.S. Treasury and the Federal Reserve would pro­vide about $30 billion in fresh capital to AIG from the government's Troubled Assets Relief Program, or TARP. The money would be provided as a standby line of equity that AIG could tap as its losses mount, the source said. 
AIG has already received $40 billion from TARP. 
In exchange for the latest infusion, the Federal Reserve would take stakes combine its U.S. and foreign Sunday evening. Treasury pay back government loans in two international units, property-casualty insurance Department spokesman because the credit crisis is the source said. operations into a new unit, Isaac Baker also declined to preventing would-be buyers 
Instead of paying back with a new name and sepa­comment. from getting financing to $38 billion in cash with rate management, the The company's board met complete such deals. interest that it has used source said. About 20 per­Sunday to vote on the As of Feb. 13, AIG had from a Federal Reserve cent of the property-casual­revised bailout plan. sold interests in nine busi­credit line, AIG now will ty business would be taken Major credit rating agen­nesses. repay that amount with public. · cies have already signed off In November, the U.S. gov­equity stakes Asia-based To further reduce its debt, on the deal, according to ernment restructured previ­American International AIG will turn $5 billion to media reports. Without the ous loans provided to AIG, Assurance Co. and $10 billion worth of debt support of the credit rating giving the company about American Life Insurance into new securities backed agencies, AIG would have $150 billion in total as part Co., which operates in 50 by life insurance assets. faced crippling cuts to its of a rescue package to help countries. AIG spokesman Nick ratings. the insurer remain in busi­
Under the plan, another Ashooh declined to com­AIG has been forced to ness amid the worsening $20 billion from a Federal ment on the rescue pack­seek more help in part credit crisis. That package Reserve credit line remains age. The Federal Reserve because the ongoing reces­replaced earlier loans, available for borrowing, the Bank of New York, which is ·sion and its falling stock including the original $85 source said. handling the government price, now well under $1. billion lent in September, 
In order to strengthen the loan, did not return Among its biggest prob­after it became apparent the. company, AIG also plans to requests for comment lems: It can't sell assets to insurer needed more funds. 
State budget woes to Outlast recession 
Associated Press wide in their 2011 budgets, according to enue shortfall, economists said. 
an analyst at the Rockefeller Institute, a Spending increases were easier to 
Even after $135 billion in federal aid think tank in Albany, N.Y James Diffley, cover in flush times earlier this decade, gets spent, many states will be staring managing director of Global Insight's when tax collections jumped 40 percent down budgetary black holes unless they U.S. Regional Services Group, says it's over five years. Then the bubble burst. initiate dramatic spending cuts or tax unlikely budget gaps will close before Inflated housing wealth collapsed, con­increases, or both. 2013. sumers hunkered down, businesses 
In the short-term, the massive stimu­"States' budget problems lag the slashed jobs and tax collections lus will help balance budgets and keep economy," Diffley said. "What we see in plunged. key services, such as Medicaid, going. budgets will get worse for at least Sales and income taxes can provide But economists agree the money will another year." around two-thirds of tax revenue. Other not quickly eradicate high unemploy­Federal Reserve Chairman Ben revenue streams, like the real estate ment, low consumer spending or dis­Bernanke last week told Congress that fund transfer tax, continue to take hits, tress in the housing market --the triple the recession might end this year if the too, as the housing market scrapes bot­threats behind a nationwide tax-collec­government is able to prop up the shaky tom. tion shortfall that is expected to drag on banking system. States' combined deficits liave already even after the economy begins to States simply are not taking in enough climbed to around $50 billion in their rebound. money to cover expenses that are rising 2009 budgets and are expected to grow 
Without higher taxes, bigger cuts to with the recession. So far, neither the in the following budget cycle, leaving government services --or yet more fed­spending cuts nor the tax and fee governors and lawmakers with more eral funding --states face budget gaps increases being discussed appear large painful choices over the likes of educa­that could reach $120 billion nation-enough to address the impending rev-tion cuts and layoffs. 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS Monday, March 2, 2009 
Panel 
continued from page 1 
acquaintances, or even a per­son he or she has been dat­ing, she said. 
"It is members of our com­munity assaulting other mem­bers of our community," Rakoczy Russell said. 
Two Notre Dame students shared their experiences of sexual assault at the dinner. 
A survivor of sexual assault who wishes to remain anony­mous said she was raped at Notre Dame during her soph­omore year. 
"I was asked out on a real date off campus," she said. "We went bowling with his friends and had a late dinner at Steak n Shake." 
After dinner, she said he asked her to come hang out at his off-campus apartment. She decided to go, but made it clear there would be no sex. 
When they got to the apart­ment, she said they kissed, but eventually, she became uncomfortable. 
"He kept going and passed the point of no return," she said. "I attempted to push him off, but he was too heavy. It was the scariest thing I ever experienced." 
After that night, she said she convinced herself that he just lost control. She did not know if she was actually raped until she talked to a counselor on a sexual assault hotline and was told she had been date raped. 
She said she felt sick to her stomach and could barely eat. "I hated being alone in my head," she said. 
She said she sought help from the University Counseling Center, but did not share her experience with her friends. Because of this, her relationships with her friends suffered. 
"Some of my friends noticed how angry, disconnected and cynical I was," she said. "Each academic stress seemed to be magnified expo­nentially. I couldn't get a han­dle of my wildly swinging emotions." 

After se.veral months of counseling, she decided she was ready to tell her friends what she had been going through. She said sharing her experience was one of the most healing parts of the counseling process. 
"The week I told my friends was one of the happiest I have ever had," she said. 
She said she is still trying to come to terms with what hap­pened, but will continue heal­ing. 
"One day I will look back and see a very old scar, just a mark. It will always be there but it will not always hurt," she said. 
Senior. Kyle Rocca said she was raped when she was 14 years old. 
Rocca said she was assault­ed by her boyfriend, who was a year older than her. He had a bad reputation, but she believed she could set a good example for him. 
"He was sweet and charm­ing," she s~id. "But I always knew he wanted to have a more physical relationship. I wasn't ready for sex." 
She said they were hanging out in his bedroom, when all of a sudden, he was on top of 
her,  and  her arms  were  
pinned bac k.  
"I  was  5'6"  and  100  

pounds," she said. "I was barely old enough to be get­ting my period." 
Rocca said she did not talk about the rape for a year, but eventually started mentioning it. 
"I did not want forever to be known as the girl who was raped," she said. 
She spent years hating her rapist, but eventually, she said he worked his way back into her life. She learned he had been exposed to pornog­raphy at a very young age, which scarred his perception of sexuality. 
"I don't excuse my attack­er," she said. "But what hap­pened to him got me thinking about this issue as a man's issue. I think we need to think about educating the males to 
Leasing now for 2009-2010* 
Notre Dame Apartments 

Notre Dame Apartments are a Notre Dame tradition! 
2 Bedroom, 1,2QO sq. ft. Apartments Newly Remodeled Free Internet Free Water On-Site Laundry Off-Street Parking Only Three Blocks from Campus 
*These apartments rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 

View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 


(574) 234-2436 

make this a human issue." 
Tim Latham, president of Men Against Violence, agreed that rape is an issue that should be dealt with by men as well as women. 
"Rape is not just a women's issue. For too long, it has been filed under that catego­ry, left to women to deal with," he said. 
Unfortunately, the majority of rapes are committed by men, Latham said. But men have the power to stop the violence. He advised men to step in when they see situa­
tions that look like they  are  
out of control.  
"As  men  we  are  in  a  far  

better position to speak to other men," he said. "Don't fall for garbage about 'cock­blocking.'" 
Anthropology professor Carolyn Nordstrom said she has worked in war zones and encountered rape and rape camps there. She said she encountered the healthiest attitude toward the violence of rape when working in Mozambique. 
"Mozambiquans do not see violence, especially sexual v·iolence, as natural, inescapable or in any way a given part of the human con­dition," she said. "From war to violence at home, they make no distinction." 
Nordstrom said the people of Mozambique see violence as an abuse of power, and they involve the whole com­munity in the healing process when an individual is a victim of violence. 
"Why are Mozambiquans so healthy?" she asked. "They talk, they share, they care for one another." 
This is a model any society should look to in order to cre­ate a world without rape, Nordstrom said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 




State budget woes to outlast recession 
the r«::_cession. So far, neither the 
Associated Press  spending cuts nor the tax and  
Even after $135 billion in fed- fee increases being discussed  
eral aid gets spent, many states  appeat6large enough to address  
will be staring down budgetary  the impending revenue short­ 
black holes unless they initiate  fall, economists said.  
dramatic spending cuts or tax  Spending increases were cas­ 
increases, or both.  ier to cover in flush times earli- 
In the short-term, the massive  er this decade, when tax collec­ 
stimulus will help balance  tions jumped 40 percent over  
budgets and keep key services, .  five years. Then the bubble  
such as Medicaid, going. But  burst. Inflated housing wealth  
economists agree the money  collapsed, consumers hunkered  
will not quickly eradicate high  down, businesses slashed jobs  
unemployment, low consumer  and tax collections plunged.  
spending or distress in the  Sales and income taxes can  
housing market -the triple  provide around two-thirds of  
threats behind a nationwide  tax revenue. Other revenue  
tax-collection shortfall that is  streams, like the real estate  
expected to drag on even after  fund transfer tax, continue to  
the economy begins to rebound.  take hits, too, as the housing  
Without higher taxes, bigger  market scrapes bottom.  
cuts to government services ­ States' combined deficits have  
or yet more federal funding - already climbed to around $50  
states face budget gaps that  billion in their 2009 budgets  
could reach $120 billion nation- and are expected to grow in the  
wide in their 2011 budgets,  following budget cycle, leaving  
according to an analyst at the  governors and lawmakers with  
Rockefeller Institute, a think  more painful choices over the  
tank in Albany, N.Y. James  likes of education cuts and lay­ 
Diffley, managing director of  offs.  
Global Insight's U.S. Regional  "They're going to have to cut  
Services Group, says it's unlike- their budgets significantly," said  
ly budget gaps will close before  Mark Vitner, senior economist  
2013.  and managing director at  
"States' budget problems lag  Wachovia.  
the economy," Diffley said.  Exhibit A for state budget  
"What we see in budgets will  messes is California, where  
get worse for at least another  lawmakers struggled to reach a  
year."  deal to raise taxes, borrow  
Federal Reserve Chairman  money and cut services to close  
Ben Bernanke last week told  a multiyear $42 billion deficit.  
Congress that the recession  The state was hit as hard as  
might end this year if the gov- any by the housing collapse,  
ernment is able to prop up the  and residents like Tanya Duarte  
shaky banking system.  in Fresno illustrate the chai- 
States simply are not taking  lenge California and other  

in enough money to cover • states face to turn things expenses that are rising with around. 

Bibliophiles Rejoice! Bargain Books Galore 
March 5 -March 15 Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 


Monday, March 2, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Disorders 
continued from page 1 
She said she hoped the film would challenge the origins of beauty standards in American society. 
The film, recommended by the Academy for Eating Disorders, a professional organization to which Staples belongs, has been shown internationally and at other uni­versities across the nation, like Princeton. 
"Notre Dame students have a lot of passion and energy they can generate for change when stand­ing behind a social movement," Staples said. "We want to ignite that passion behind this issue." 
Staples, who came to the University as an eating disorders specialist in 2001, said treatment for eating disorders has been avail­able to students on campus before that time through a collaboration with offices like Health Services and the Athletic Department. 
Though there are many different varieties of eating disorders, they are defined at the most basic level as having one thing in common, according to literature released by the Counseling Center: "the normal pattern of eating when you are hungry and no longer eating when you are full is disrupted." 
They are more than just a prob­lem with food, and can lead to seri­ous problems in major areas of a person's life, due to the person's focus on weight, food and body image, according to the literature. 
The media is not the cause, per anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa se, of eating disorders, Staples and binge eating disorder. said, but it is certainly one of the According to the literature pro-contributing factors. vided by the Counseling Center, 
"It can't be the main factor," she Anorexia nervosa is characterized said. "We all live in the same socie-"by a refusal to maintain a mini­ty, but not everyone has an eating mally normal body weight,". "an disorder." intense fear of gaining weight or 
Though the number of people becoming fat, even though under-who sUffer from a clinical eating weight," "an undue influence of disorder might not represent the body weight or shape on self-eval­entire population, "it's hard to find uation," "and for women, the a woman, who at some point in absence of at lea..<;t three consecu­her life hasn't spent time thinking tive menstrual cycles." about [her body]," Staples said. Bulimia nervosa is characterized "It's really kind of a waste." "by recurrent episodes of binge 
Figures illustrating the percent-eating," or eating an amount of age of students on campus who food significantly larger than most suffer from eating disorders are people would eat under similar cir-not available on campus, Staples cumstances, "the use of recurrent said, though she offered some inappropriate compensatory analysis of reported cases. behaviors in order to prevent 
Staples said in about 10 percent weight gain, including self-induced of reported cases of eating disor-vomiting, misuse of ders, the clients are male. That fig-· laxativesldiureticslenemaslmedica­ure has increased over the years, tions," "and/or excessive exercise." she said, naming participants in Binge eating disorder is charac­athletics where weight is a terized "by recurrent episodes of requirement and males in the binge eating in the absence of the spotlight as those at higher risk for-regular use of inappropriate com-developing an eating disorder. pensatory behaviors that are char-
Women, she said, tend to want acteristic of bulimia nervosa," to make their bodies smaller and according to the literature. reshape them through dieting and Staples said, across the board, exercise, while men's body image the three types of eating disorders concern tends to be the opposite: defined "are pretty well distrib­"They often want to bulk up, uted" among the cases reported obtain bigger muscles through that meet the diagnostic criteria. increased workouts." She said bulimia nervosa and 
Professionals use the "Diagnostic binge eating disorder, which are and Statistic Manual of Mental more disruptive and interfere Disorders" (DSM-IV) to assess and more with daily life, show an diagnose eating disorders; three of increased number of clients seek-the most-seen varieties include ing help. 
Anorexia nervosa, on the other hand, is not less prevalent, but fewer people who suffer from the eating disorder seek treatment because they may have lost a lot of weight and received positive rein­forcement about their body changes, Staples said. 
When treating these cases, Staples said "the most important thing is helping each student feel you are about them ... and creat­ing a relationship where they do not feel judged." 
Those suffering from eating dis­orders should know they are not defined by their behaviors, Staples said. 
"That's all they see about them­selves ... [in treatment] their world gets a little bit bigger and they see there are a.Spects to them besides their behaviors," she said. 
Most importantly, treatment offers a sense of hopefulness "that things can get better," she said. 
Anecdotally Staples said the number of cases of eating disor­ders reported at Notre Dame are probably comparable with the fig­ures at other institutions, but there are some contributing factors for eating disorders at the University for both men and women. 
Staples said she has noted an increase in the number of men and women coming to the University having had eating disorders in the past, which creates "unique chal­lenges." 
"They have been in treatment before, and Notre Dame is an envi­ronment of high achievers. It may be difficult for them to reach out and ask for help and acknowledge · that it's a problem," Staples said. 
The fact children develop eating disorders at younger and younger ages marks a cultural shift, Staples said. When she first started in the field, she said her clients were mostly in their rnid-20s and older, but while working in a private practice before coming to Notre Dame, she said she treated a client as young as eight years old. 
"When I grew up, " she said, "the messages in the media were not as strong. The· pressures to succeed begin at so much younger of an age, children's time is sched­uled." 
The showing of "America the Beautiful," a free but ticketed event, had the purpose of starting a dialogue, Staples said. 
The director of the film, Darryl Roberts, was present for a ques­tion and answer session. 
Staples said she hoped students in the audience would "question their own beliefs but start recog­nizing how we've internalized that it's easy to communicate about los­ing weight." 
The language we use on a day­to-day basis, she said, like callillg ourselves or others "fat," con­tributes to the problem. 
"On an individual basis, there are ways we can make a differ­ence. There is a way to talk about our bodies and food to engage in that discussion," she said. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 


GRC 
continued from page 1 
of violence, raising funds for local non-profit agencies invested in violence prevention and serving as a flagship for violence preven­tion at other Catholic colleges and universities as its main goals. 
The most prominent component of the VPI is Sexual Assault Awareness Week, which was held from Feb. 22 to March 1 and included events such as Notre Dame Take Back the Night and the Committee on Sexual Assault Prevention student forum. 
The establishment of the VPI has been a long time in the making, Heather Rakoczy Russell, the founding and current director of the GRC said. 
When the GRC first opened its doors, Rakoczy Russell, the then­rector of Pangborn Hall, said there was a situation on campus "where there were a lot of pockets of peo­ple doing work on these issues," she said, "but no one organized place where this was happening." 
During its first few years, those working at the GRC spent time try­ing to identify the players doing work on campus in relation to vio­lence prevention, identifying groups like student government, Men Against Violence, idND, Feminist Voice, the Progressive Student Alliance and CORE Council. 
The GRC, which falls under the Office of Student Affairs, works with other campus offices, like the Counseling Center, the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, Health Services, Notre Dame Security Police and Campus Ministry, addressing violence issues in one way or another. 
"There came a point where we decided we probably could be doing more and certainly in a more cohesive fashion," Rakoczy Russell said. "If there's one rape on cam­pus, there's one rape too many." 
The aspect Rakoczy Russell said she is most proud of is that a stu­dent, one of her former residents, created the GRC. Many of the ini­tiatives taken on in the GRC today are brought about by students. 
The Firestarters, a group of undergraduate students who vol­unteer at the GRC, "help to really keep a pulse on what's going on in the student body," she said. 
In 2003, Kaitlyn Redfield, then a senator from Pangborn, was inter­ested about whether or not the University had an office to address relationships, gender and sexuality. 
After completing a study of top­20 national universities, she found that all of the formerly all-male institutions established women's centers or rape crisis centers when women first matriculated into the universities in the 1970s. 
"We were 30 years behind the curve," Elizabeth Moriarty, assis­tant director of the GRC said. "They thought of what would be the next wave -not just a women's center, but a gender rela­tions center." 
Her resolution to instigate the opening of such a center on cam­pus passed unanimously through the Campus llie Council; the GRC opened officially in the fall of 2004, with Rakoczy Russell serving as both Pangborn rector and director of the GRC. 
In September, Rakoczy Russell and Moriarty sat down with five students and asked them two questions: were current efforts enough, and were they efficacious? 
"We had forthright, honest and helpful conversations and estab­lished what the GRC and the University as a whole could be doing differently," Rakoczy Russell said. 
Of the five major goals of the VPI, the one that hadn't been touched by previous efforts was turning Notre Dame into a flagship for other Catholic institutions, she said. 
"If we really did this right, its something that could and should be replicated at other Catholic schools," Rakoczy Russell said. 
"We wanted to do things that were organic to Notre Dame, building on what's already happen­ing," she said, naming the produc­tion of "Loyal Daughters and Sons" as an example of something unique to the University that the GRC could share with other schools. 
The GRC hopes to create a fuller proposal for the VPI in the future, including "a curriculum that would run the entire gambit of the aca­demic year, featuring something every month," Rakoczy Russell said. 
The monthly curriculum would exclude December, she said, due to the final exam and winter break schedule. 
The VPI has three remaining ini­tiatives this spring: a writing work­shop Mar. 21, an experiential learning retreat Mar. 28 and a fes­tival on South Quad in April. The GRC also plans to participate in South Bend Take Back the Night, scheduled Apr. 23 during National Sexual Assault Awareness Month. 
The events, which mamly focus on story sharing, are organized on "the assumption that everyone has a story in their lives that needs to be heard by other people." 
"It's important for building a healthier community," Moriarty said. 
The theme ofVPI is based on the Scripture passage Ecclesiastes 3:1­8, which includes the verse "a time to heal." Rakoczy Russell said organizers didn't want the VPI to be seen as a series of ad hoc events, so they chose to utilize the Scripture as a unifying theme. 
The names of most events either derive directly from the passage or are titled in the spirit of the pas­sage, like "A Time to Write," the name for the writing workshop, she said. 
Sunday's residence hall and Basilica of the Sacred Heart Masses included a distribution of literature on the VPI and the· GRC to help raise awareness, bringing Sexual Assault Awareness Week to a close. 
In the past, Notre Dame has held a Sexual Assault Awareness Week during the month of April, but moving it to February has its bene­fits, Rakoczy Russell said. 
"Students can process and be a part of a community of support before the go their separate ways for summer vacation," she said. "Sometimes, the most poignant part ... it ends up being the first time survivors tell their stories out loud. They need that community." 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

.-------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, March 2, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR! Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR! Deirdre Krasula 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
SCENE EDITOR! Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S 'EDITOR! Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CoNTROLLER! Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
. ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(~74) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in_ prim and online by the srudenrs ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to aU readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerrers is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conract information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in Chiefjmn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 l-4000) is puhli.~hed Mvnday through Friday except duriug exam and vacadon periods. A sublicription to Th(: Ohs:e:rver is $JOO fur one academic year; $55 for one sanarer. 
The Observer is pubtifhed ar: POHMASTER 
024 Somh. Dining Hall &nd addrw corr«tioll5 to: 
Nottt Damt, IN 46556-0779 The0b5crvcr 
Ptriodical posr.:agc paid at Notre Dame r.o.Boxm 
and additii)JUI mailingo~ 024 South Dining Hall 
None Dame, IN 46'556-0n9 
The Obsenrer is a member ofdte Assoc.ilared Press. All reproduttion rights arc rescnred. 
So picture this: 
You walk into a house. The court­yard is heavily treed, and yet tiled. Grass sprouting from every crack. The tiles are often broken, never the same size. On the right, a makeshift wall composed of con­crete and old wine bottles supports a lopsided arch above, from which yet more unidenti­fied weeds grow. 
Next, walk through the round­ed wooden door, only to misjudge your first step, your right foot landing heavily in an ovular impres­sion. Did someone lie on the floor while the mortar was still wet? Did the construction crew have a habit of dropping the occasion­al anvil or cannon ball? Were the foundations built on sinkholes? Or was the construction crew just blind? 
But that's not even it. You walk past the indoor rocky fountain (sanitary?) up the aged spiral staircase and on to the second floor, where you are there to greet yourself in three different­sized and asymmetrical mirrors. The middle of these is smashed, reflecting to you a Picasso-esque version of your face. Trees grow out of the walls, dirt nearly spilling over the floor. 
The catch? You paid to get in here. 

Jackie Mirandola­Mullen 
Guest Columnist 


Tree tenants 
Why? 
Because it's beautiful. 

They say (whoever "they" are, which 
is probably more "we" anyways, so 

rather, "we say ..."),that beauty is in 
the eye of the beholder. And yet, I 

would venture to say that the aesthetic 
qualities of this house extend beyond 
personal preference to an almost uni­
versal inner sense of harmony. 

The house you virtually -or literar­
ily? -walked through was the 
1-Iundertwasser House in Vienna. 

Friedrich Hundertwasser (freed-rick 
hoon-dehrt-vass-her) was a twentieth­
century artist who transferred his 

ideas of artistic expression and natu­
ral balance to the realm of architec­
ture. 

He based his theories of art, archi­
tecture and life on the human need for 
the "natural," for the unmanufac­

tured. His a'ppeallies in his advocacy 
of manufacturing the unmanufac­

tured, making something as civilized 
and potentially cold as a city into a 

piece of nature and universal harmo­
ny. 

Living by the idea that "the straight 
line is Godless," a mere creation of 

man, Hundertwasser's lopsided build­
ings contain irregularly shaped tiles of 
brown, blue and green on uneven 

floors whose wall houses enough dirt 
to grow a tree that then escapes from 
the house into the open air. 

It's beautiful. I can't even describe 
the happiness of walking into a house 
that feels like Dr. Seuss drew it. 

What's truly amazing, though, is that 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Who needs m.eat? 
I write in response to Mr. Lionetti's Feb. 27letter "Where's the Meat?"' While you raise an excellent point concerning the University's decision not to serve meat in the dining halls on Ash Wednesday and Fridays during Lent, I must respectfully disagree. 
It may be fair to criticize Notre Dame for seemingly making the decision for us. However, it would completely go against our Catholic faith tor her to do otherwise and thereby tempt us with meat. Furthermore, rather than portraying us students as not being "responsible enough to take notice of the day of the week and remember to abstain from consuming meat," doesn't this deeision demonstrate the University's faith that her students (the majority of which are practicing Catholics) would natural­ly want to observe days of fasting? 
Notre Dame is not trying to enforce Catholic tradition upon her students, but is rather helping us along our Lenten journey. We are only young students and are still in need of spiritual maturation. After all, did not Blessed Basil Moreau believe it important to educate the mind and the heart? 
That being said, if denying dining hall meat on A.c;h Wednesday and Lenten Fridays is imposing "a belief-based decision on all studentc;," then couldn't we say the same for a lot of other Notre Dame traditions? What about the Crucifixes in every class­room or the theology requirements? From how I see it, we should applaud the University of Notre Dame for being strong in her Catholic faith and helping us stu­dents grow in ours as well. 

lindsay Williams • 
)Ufi!Or 
Lyons Hall 
Feb. 27 

this "beautification" of our gray indus­
trial worlds is not only possible, but 
also happening all over the world. 
Also in Vienna, Hundertwasser 
designed an industrial plant whose 

gold and blue tower actually functions 
to power the city. Grass roofs in 

Chicago and other cities all over the 
world are springing up (pun intended), 
helping to mitigate the urban heat 

island effect while providing natural 
sanctuaries for the city dweller. 

The ecologically friendly, the beauti­
ful, the fun. It doesn't always have to 
be expensive -things as simple as 

decorating your own house with self­
made crafts, knitting a hat or blanket 
instead of buying one, planting a gar­
den in your front yard or having an 
herb garden in your kitchen, can add 
character to where you live and per­
sonalize it. Such projects take time, 
yes, but so does watching TV, and art 
is probably even more therapeutic. 

Who are we as a people, as a culture, "when all that we know is the mass­
produced and uniform? Bring a little 
personality into your life, a little 

nature. Let it make you happy just by 
looking at it. 

Jackie Mirandola Mullen is a junior 
1/istory and German major currently 
studying in Innsbruck, Austria. She 
unfortunately did not also meet the 
Lorax while in Vienna. She can be 
reached atjmirando@nd.edu 

The r;iews expressed in this column 
are those of the author and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 


Racism. at Notre Da111e 
Thank you to Associate Dean Stuart Greene ("Let's talk honestly about race," Feb. 24) for his challenge to the student body to talk about race. America's past does indeed have many things that we aren't proud of, but what about here on Notre Dame's campus? As some of the brightest stu­dents in the nation (or so we like to think), are we above racism? 
I would like to offer a greater chal­lenge: to move beyond academic analysis of racism, classism and sex­ism on an impersonal and national level and begin talking about it the context of how it affects us -here and now. You can join the conversa­tion and help inspire real change with Sustained Dialogue. 
Lauren Demeter junior Pasquerilla West Hall Mark Flanegan junior Keough Hall Karuna Anantharaman senior Breen-Phillips Hall Feb. 26 
TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Kaitlynn Riely Michael Bryan Becky Hogan Laura Myers What are you doing for Spring Break? Sarah Mervosh Michael Blasco Graphics Scene Going home ''A painting in a museum hears 
Andrea Archer · Analise Lipari more ridiculous opinions than 
Staying here 
anything else in the world." 
Viewpoint 
Partying somewhere safe 
Lianna 

Taking my chances in Mexico Edmond de Goncourt 
Brauweiler writer Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Monday, March 2, 2009 page 11 
A return to big government? 
"From everything I've seen, it looks like the era of big government spending is back," stammered an evidently shocked and horrified Rep. John Boehner after wit­nessing Barack Obama's first address to a joint session of Congress. Arkansas Ben Linskey Governor Mike Huckabee went further, Guest proclaiming that "a Columnist Union of American Socialist Republics is being born." 
One would be forgiven for wondering whether these gentlemen have been living in some sort of alternate universe for the past eight years. As most of us residing in the real world know, the "era of big gov­ernment spending" isn't back-it never went anywhere to begin with. And ifMike Huckabee is correct in his comparison of the United States to the USSR, then one might say that George W. Bush is our nation's very own Vladimir Lenin. 
Perhaps conservatives could use a quick reminder of the Bush administration's actions over the past eight years. George 
W. Bush oversaw an unprecedented growth in federal spending, culminating in a record $438 billion deficit during his last year in office. He "spent more taxpayer money on issuing and enforcing regula­tions than any previous administration in 
U.S. history," concluded George Mason economist Veronique de Rugy in an analy­sis published in the Jan. 2009 issue of Reason magazine. Bush embroiled the U.S. in two wars in the Middle East, neither of which has yet reached a conclusion. The Iraq War, in particular, was premised on lies and has cost more than 4,000 U.S. lives and one trillion dollars. Bush consistently displayed contempt for the Constitution's guarantees of civil liberties, asserting his administration's authority to indefinitely detain U.S. citizens without trial. He over­saw a new prescription drug benefit, signed into law the disastrous No Child Left Behind Act and gave his stamp of approval to an unconstitutional expansion of cam­paign finance regulations which stifled Americans' right to free political speech. And in the final months of his administra­tion, Bush conspired with Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke to bail out failing Wall Street firms and put America's banks on the road to nationalization. Does that look like small government to you? 
Let's compare this record to the Obama administration's actions to date. Mr. Obamajust signed a $787 billion stimulus bill that will further increase the spiraling national debt. He's made it clear that his administration intends to further expand costly regulations. Thankfully, Obama has announced a plan to withdraw all U.S. forces from Iraq by the end of 2011, but he has decided to send 17,000 additional troops to Afghanistan. Meanwhile, his administration has already stepped up U.S. military activity in Pakistan. 
Obama doesn't seem to think much more highly of the Constitution than his prede­cessor, either. Though he has ordered the closure of the prison at Guantanamo Bay, his administration does not plan to signifi­cantly alter Bush's policy of indefinitely holding prisoners deemed part of the "war on terror." Nor has the Obama administra­tion indicated that it will end the practice of"rendition," the procedure by which individuals are kidnapped by the CIA, taken to secret overseas prisons and tor­tured. Furthermore, the administration's lawyers recently mirrored the Bush admin­istration by invoking the unconstitutional state secrets privilege in a terrorism case, much to the surprise of the presiding judge. All the while, the government's stake in major U.S. banks is growing and President Obama is just beginning to reveal his plans for a host of new domestic programs. This all seems awfully familiar, no? 
What are we to make of these striking similarities? Neither Republicans nor Democrats want you to know this, but the truth is that the two major parties funda­mentally agree on most basic issues. Both are more than willing to accept an ever­expanding state ifit means reelection in November. Think back to the last few cam­paign seasons. When was the last time you heard candidates debate the fundamental questions of the proper size and role of government? You probably never did. 
Instead, politicians routinely focus on the divisive and ultimately meaningless "cul­ture wars" and accuse each other of being communists or reflexive free market ideo­logues. (If only the latter were true!) 
Next year, we will once again go to the polls for Congressional elections. When that time comes, ignore the candidates' words and look at their records. With the exception of a select few individuals, nei­ther Democratic nor Republican politicians have any interest in shrinking the size of government. Americans deserve better than the cyclical dishonesty of the two­party system. But we can only escape ifwe stop casting our votes for the big-govern­ment demagogues of the left and right. So in the future, don't waste your time hoping for "change" from the Democrats or the GOP. If you want an end to unrestrained spending, endless regulation, destructive foreign policy, tyrannical abuse of civil lib­erties and incessant government meddling in the economy, vote for the only party that supports shrinking the size and scope of government across the board. Vote Libertarian. 
Ben Linskey, a sophomore majoring in political science and philosophy, is co-president ofthe College Libertarians. He can be contacted at blinskey@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dedication and sacrifice 
Anyone who has known Chris Hine during the last four years has learned at least two things about him: 1. He is a huge fan of Carole King and will tell you more about this woman-a person I surmise many of you never knew existed-than you would care to know; 2. He has sacrificed more time, energy and sleep for The Observer than any person on this campus. 
Although I have no way of verifYing this state­ment, in all likelihood Chris shouldered an even greater load than most former Editors-In-Chief, as he continued to cover and write articles on both the basketball and football teams, despite taking over the newspaper's top position. Ifmeasured in time alone, Chris' commitment to The Observer far exceeded even what was expected of him. Even still, evaluating his commitment solely on the hours he logged still falls short of doing justice to how much of himself Chris invested in The Observer. 
I wrote that last sentence because of just how much Chris cared. He cared about putting out a respectable newspaper each day; he cared about writing articles that objectively evaluated athletes, coaches and students while bearing in mind that they were still members of the Notre Dame com­munity; he cared about treating the rest of the staff fairly. Simply stated, Chris Hine cared ... a lot. 
Maybe some of you, because of either experi­ence in high school or through having friends who work at The Observer, can appreciate all that goes in to producing a paper each weekday. This letter is for those of you who might not. Up until this past year, I realized I, too, had no idea. So next time you see a typo or a mix-up with a story's "jump line" (what I learned as the term for the directions when a story continues on to another page), maybe remember that the mistake was very likely made while we were sleeping. And ifyou happen to see Chris around, maybe say a brief thanks for his hard work. He deserves it. 
Matt Gelchion 
semor 
Fisher Hall Feb. 26 

Personal responsibility, ladies 
I'm writing today to express my frustration with my sex on this campus. We've learned a lot lately about sexual assault, healthy relationships, etc.; it's time to apply what we've learned, folks. To my ladies on campus: Stop complaining about your so­called "Notre Dating." I was once told by a great movie that "every woman has the exact love life she wants." I understand that sometimes inno­cent<; are taken advantage of, and that does hap­pen ... but seriously, ladies, it's time to take some personal responsibility. You complain about those guys you can't get to commit and that you can't date people and you can't get your ring by spring. Maybe you're looking in the wrong place. Stop blaming every relationship problem you've ever had on guys. That is idiotic. 
Let's take the plunge and say you're not getting the attention from your guy that you want. Fine, find someone else. There are plenty of fish in the sea, ladies. As they say, ifyou can't love the one you want, love the one you're with. I'm sure that there is that really sweet guy in Philosophy that has been giving you puppy dog eyes that you ignore constantly. Maybe give him a chance. Maybe he wants to be dating, too. 
I write this to you all because I'm proud of the men and women this University educates and I think maybe you should get out of your usual social circles to find the people you can really con­nect with. I say this with almost four years behind me at this University. I've had the random hookups (they are a part of life ... just get used to it), I've had the casual dating relationships, I've had more serious relationships and I've had broken hearts. It's a part of finding the person you're supposed to be with. So he hurt your feelings. It sucks. Get over it ... play some Taylor Swift really loud and move on. Stop blaming someone else, take it as a part of life and a lesson and try again. 
Also, ifyou're going to complain about watching them play Halo, think of all the times that you have stolen the remote in his room (much to the chagrin of his roommates) and made him watch "Ace of Cakes" or "What Not to Wear." Heck, learn how to play Halo. It's not such a bad game. Now please ... stop complaining about your love life in The Observer and take some personal responsibility. 
Laura Godlewski 
senior 
offcampus Feb. 27 

Don't bla111e the boys 
As I guy, I'd like to speak for the gentlemen of the Notre Dame campus in response to Katherine McKackin's Feb. 27letter, "He's just not that into you: Notre Dating" and every letter addressing the same issue. First of all, guys are not villains looking to screw up girls' lives, as has been recently suggested in letters concerning the hook-up culture at Notre Dame. Just as girls are able to complain about guys being hard to get, I can speak for myself and many other men that we can claim the exact same thing about girls. So, ladies, you must ask yourself ifwhat I say is true and guys aren't really all that much worse than girls, what are we, boys and girls, doing wrong? 
Well, we're looking in all the wrong places. If guys and girls believe that they can find possibility for a substantial relationship at a modern day party, I'm sad to say they'll be sorely mistaken. As most people know, our culture here in the U.S. is obsessed with instant gratification. We want pleasure and sensation right now and we want a lot of it (Did I mention we want it now? And a lot of it?). This culture of immediate satisfaction is most obviously noticeable at college parties. Girls dress as loosely as they want, guys act like macho sex-addicts and you have a recipe for disaster. 
So what does this have to do with Notre Dame's relationship ailments? This is where we all look for a guy/girl. Occasionally, there will be the exception of a guy"and a girl meeting at a party and having a substantial relationship, but just about everybody there is after the free-flowing booze and hook-ups, hook-ups, hook-ups. This is because we want that instant gratification and we know just where to get it. But do we know where to go for a meaningful relationship? 
If you consider yourself close to your faith, I suggest daily Mass at the Basilica. Ifyou don't care too much for religion (which is fine), get involved with a club, nights at Legends, AcoustiCafe, sporting events ... this list con­tinues. Bottom line: It is ridiculous to complain, guys and girls alike, about not being able to find anyone when the only place you're willing to look is your local off-campus s*** show. So ifyou're looking for a hook-up, go to an off-campus party. If you're looking for a meaningful relationship, look else­where. · 
Daniel Quinlan sophomore St. Edward's Hall Feb. 28 



page 12 

This Week's Mix-Midterm Mix 
, 


by Ellie Hall 
1 

"Do the Panic"-Phantom Planet 
/IStop Your Sobbing"-Pretenders
2 

3 
' "Gatta Get Through This~ (UK Version)-Daniel Bedingfield 
~ ' 
. ~.·}. 

: "I'm Not Okay (I Promise)"-My Chemical Romance
4 
__.I 
5 

,""I Wanna Be Sedated"-The Ramones 6 
.liThe Phrase That Pays"-The Academy Is 
1/Livin'on a Prayer"-Bon Jovi
7 

•"Round Here"-Counting Crows
8 
9 

"Walking With aGhost"-Tegan and Sarah 10 
. . "No Sunlight"-Death Cab for Cutie 
1 1 


,.-. !'"What About Everything"-Carbon Leaf 
"Long Walk Home"-Bruce Springsteen
12 13 

: "Section 12 (Hold Me Now)"-Polyphonic Spree 
"This Year"-The Mountain Goats
14 


THE OBSERVER 







CENE 
Monday, March 2, 2009 


Dear Observer: 

After almost !'our years of writing, editing, planning and stressing, I think we're going our separate ways. I hate to say it, but it's not you Analise Lipari-it's me. 
So whywould I do Scene Editor such a thing? 
Well, this is my last week as your Scene Editor, and I'm afraid that our time together is up. 
I mean, hey-I'll still write, I'll still call, and I'll probably still work a few shifts to pick up a paycheck, but our rela­tionship is just going to have to change. 
You can't expect me to write quite as much as I used to write, especially on those Sunday nights when I hadn't planned any articles and your center pages were left blank and lonely, waiting for content. 
You also can't keep me from going to mass in my dorm any­more, courtesy of that pesky Sunday night shiftthat I'll do my darnedest not to work. (Hurrah!) 
Try not to cry. I know it'll be tough on you, because we've been together for a long time now. I've seen the ups and downs of arts and entertain­ment, both in and around Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and beyond. (Heck, I even wrote a column once from London. 
That's, like, a lot of' miles.) I've 
written reviews, columns, and 
everything in between. I've 
seen artists ranging from the 
Soweto Gospel Choir to the stu­
dents of PEMCo, and it's been a 
privilege to share it all on 

these two center pages. · But you know, I'd be lying if I 
said our parting wasn't a little 
weird. I think it's safe to say 
that you took up a significant 
chunk of my time here as an 
undergrad, and you don't just 
walk away from that kind of 
commitment. 
Also, even though I know my 
humble section takes up way 
less space than your other 
departments, you always gave 
us color pages, 3 days a week. 
Score . 
Plus, I know you'll haunt me 
for years, encouraging me to 
look up your Web site long 
after I've graduated. 
And I know as soon as I visit 
campus again, I'll head 
straight to one of your news 
boxes and pick up a spare 
copy, feeling reminiscent. 
One day, my grandchildren 
may ask me about my crazy 
life as a college student, and 
I'll tell them about all the fun 
times we had back in the 
office, slaving over Quark or 
using unlicensed photos in my 
spreads. 
But in all seriousness, we've 
had a really good run. When I 
look back on my time at The 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic 

Observer, I'll remember the people I've met and the work I've done. You gave me some amazing opportunities, and invaluable experience. You made me a better, more suc­cinct writer, and you gave me something pretty darn cool to do with my time. 
Still, it's time to move up and move out. I'm graduating in May, and my time as an editor with you is officially over by Saturday. Even if I'm neither completely happy nor totally ready to leave, sometimes you've got to move on. 
You know, Cole Porter once wrote a song called "Every Time We Say Goodbye." Artists from Nina Simone to Robby Williams have crooned the same lines, regretting that they'll be parted from their sig­nificant other of choiee. 
"Every time we say goodbye, I die a little I Every time we say goodbye, I wonder why a lit­tle." 
Well, Observer, thankfully our goodbye won't be any­where near that intense. But to tell you the truth, I'm really starting to feel it. 
Thanks for the memories, Observer. I'll see you around. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd. edu 



14 songs, 5 days of exams, 42.2MB 
Image courtesy of snd.org 

As Charles Foster Kane (Orson Welles) of the New York Enquirer would know, the life of a news­paper journalist Is not without its difficulties and complications.
MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic 


THE OBSERVER 

~CENE
Monday, March 2, 2009 page 13 
SCENE'S TOP VIDEO PICKS 
You 


We are wine bottlesl 

Bizkit the .Jtr:r:u Walking Dog He's raring to go. 

•Tea Commercial 
Strange, in a good way. 

I 
--I 


I 
I 

NBA 


Shaq, Suns triun1ph 118-111 in meeting of All-Star MVPs 
Pistons hand Celtics first home Eastern Conference loss; Hornets win in final minute of 99-96 thriller against Jets 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX -Shaquille O'Neal and Kobe Bryant were domi­nant forces on the same court where they were All-Star Game co-MVPs three weeks ago. 
Give this one to Shaq and the Suns. 
O'Neal scored 33 points and Phoenix overcame Bryant's 49­point performance to beat the Los Angeles Lakers 118-111 on Sunday. 
Matt Barnes added 26 points, 10 rebounds and seven assists as the Suns, without Steve Nash for the third straight game because of a sprained right ankle, defeated the Lakers for the first time in four tries this season. 
Pau Gasol added 30 for Los Angeles, loser of two in a row for just the third time this sea­son. 
"We're going through a peri­od right now where everybody's just kind of tired a little bit," Bryant said. "It happens.... Everybody kind of goes through it a little bit. And this two games, we've been playing lethargic. It's that point in the season where we kind of hit it. The key for us is to snap out of it." 
After his 45-point game against Toronto on Friday night, O'Neal has consecutive 30-point games for the first time since March 5-7, 2004, when he and Bryant were teammates in Los Angeles. 
"It's what I do," O'Neal said. "I've been doing it since 1992. If you don't believe it, Google 
me." 
O'Neal, who turns 37 on Friday, is the fourth player over 35 in NBA history to score at least 33 points in consecutive games. The others are Michael Jordan, Karl Malone and Alex English. 
"A lot of people thought I lost it," O'Neal said. "It's kind of funny to me, when I say 'I'm injured,' no one believes me. Last year I was injured and this year I'm feeling pretty good." 
Bryant was asked if O'Neal reminded him of the Shaq of old. 
"No, not quite," Bryant said. "But he's playing extremely well, obviously. The thing is they're looking for him, they're going inside to him. Tonight, I mean, Pau is giving up 250 pounds (a bit of an exaggera­tion). There's really not much he can do in that situation and Shaq took advantage of it." 

Bryant made 18 of a season­high 38 attempts in the 96th 40-point game of his career. He scored 17 points in a span of less than four minutes early in the second half. 
Leandro Barbosa added 22 points and Grant Hill 17 for the Suns, who improved to 6-2 since Alvin Gentry replaced the fired Terry Porter and returned the team to Mike D'Antoni's fast-paced style. It was the Gentry-led Suns' first win, though, over a team with a winning record. 
"Obviously a great win for us," Gentry said, "against what I think is still the best team in the le.ague." 
Entering Sunday night's com­petition, Phoenix was 1 1/2 games behind Dallas for the eighth and final playoff berth in the West, but only three behind Houston for the No. 4 spot. 
Coach Phil Jackson, whose team was coming off a 90-79 loss at Denver, said the Lakers' loss came at the free throw line, where Phoenix was 26-for­42 and Los Angeles 19-of-20. 
"It's tough to win when you gave up that many free throws," Jackson said. "We gave up 37 on Friday and 42 tonight. You know, that's tough." 
Detroit 105, Boston 95 
The Detroit Pistons are back to their old mainstays and back to their old, winning ways. 
Richard Hamilton had 25 points, Tayshaun Prince scored 15 and each hit a 3-pointer in the final 80 seconds to help the Pistons beat the Celtics on Sunday. Hamilton also had nine assists in his second straight start since Allen Iverson returned to Detroit because of a stiff back. 
"You can tell they're playing the system they played before Iverson got there," said Celtics forward Paul Pierce, who scored 26. "When Iverson is out there they're still trying to fig­ure out how to use each other, how to all be successful. But that group that's out there is definitely comfortable because they've _played together for years." 
Detroit had lost five straight regular season games to the Celtics -9-of-11 including a six-game Eastern Conference final that sent Boston on its way to a record 17th NBA title. The Pistons had lost eight in a row before snapping the skid on Friday night, when Hamilton scored 31 against Orlando. 

"We played our type of bas­ketball," he said. "That's the thing for me with Tayshaun, Rasheed (Wallace) and (Antonio) McDyess, I always know they're going to be at all times." 
The Pistons acquired Iverson from Denver two games into the season for former point guard Chauncey Billups, who led the Pistons to the confer­ence finals last year and won the finals MVP when they won the NBA title in 2004. But they began a freefall on Feb. 8 that didn't stop until Iverson was injured. 
Pistons coach Michael Curry said he didn't think Iverson was the problem. 
"It was nothing against the way Allen played," Curry said. "We just have to play the same way, and he has to play that way." 
Glen "Big Baby" Davis, start­ing in place of the injured Kevin Garnett, scored 18 and Pierce played all but 18 sec­onds as Boston lost to an Eastern Conference opponent at home for the first time this season. 
Detroit made a season-high 34 free throws, in 40 attempts. 
"This is the old Pistons we're playing now," Celtics coach Doc Rivers said. "The ball is hop­ping. They're playing together." 
New Orleans 99, New Jersey 96 
The quick hands of Chris Paul helped the New Orleans Hornets steal a victory from the New Jersey Nets. 
David West scored 32 points and Paul made two key steals in the final minute in the Hornets' 99-96 win Sunday night. 
"We made some extra-effort plays," West said. "We knew this was going to be a tough game for us, the way New Jersey had been playing. We wanted to come in here and try to steal one. Guys stepped up and made some big plays for us down the stretch defensively." 
Especially Paul. 
With the Nets leading by one with a minute remaining, Harris turned the ball over to Paul, who hit a 19-foot jumper to give the Hornets a 95-94 lead. 

On the Nets' following posses­sion, Brook Lopez tried to force a pass to Harris that Paul picked off for his seeond steal in the closing seconds. 
"It's an inbounds play we run too," Paul said. "Devin is under the goal and you know he's coming up to the top to get the ball. I tried to deny him and they hit Brook Lopez. Of course, Devin is going to get the ball back, so I reached a hand in there and tried to smack it away." 
The Nets turnover turned into a pair of free throws by Rasual Butler with 9.6 seconds left that clinched the win for the Hornets. 
"It's frustrating," Harris said. "We had two turnovers late, didn't get good shots at the bas­ket and they got great shots. We played fabulous all game long, the energy was there. The point-guard play has to be bet­ter late in the game." 
Butler had 22 points for the Hornets, who extended their winning streak to four. Offensively, Paul finished with 14 points and nine assists. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
NOW LEASING.  I went down to Captain Tony's  With my high fashion model wife  
WANTED  FoR RENT  LAFAYETTE TOWNHOUSES.  PERSONAL  To get out of the heat I heard a voice call out to me  woke up dry beneath the African sky  
"Son, come have a seat"  Just me and my swiss army knife  
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS:  andersonNDrentals.com FREE  $350/PERSON. 3,4 & 5-BDRM  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
Make a difference in the life of a  COMCAST!  UNITS. 2.5 BATHS.  not go it alone. We have many  I had to search my memories  I ate the last mango in Paris  
child! Summer therapy camp for  --------------­ resources in place to assist you. If  As I looked into those eyes  Took the last plane out of Saigon  
children with physical disabilities.  Why pay for 12 months?  FREE INTERNET. NEWLY  you or someone you love needs  Our lives change like the weather  I took the first fast boat to China  
Located on shore of Lake Superior  REMODELED.  confidential support or assistance,  But a legend never dies  And Jimmy, there's still so much to  
in Big Bay, MI. Positions available  Now offering 1 0-month leases.  CALL 574-234-2436 OR  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819  be done."  
for Counselors, Waterfront,  WWW.KRAMERHOUSES.COM  or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more  He said "I ate the last mango in  
Instructors for Nature/Arts &  Bluegoldrentals.com  --------------­ information, visit NOs Assistance for  Paris  We shot the breeze for hours  
Crafts/Recreation. Nurses.  --------------­ 1-3BR Contemporary Urban APTS  Pregnant Students//Office of  Took the last plane out of Saigon  As the sun fell from the sky  
Therapists, Food Service, and  4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus.  across from Notre Dame Stadium.  Student Affairs website at:  I took the first fast boat to China  And like the sun he disappeared  
Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic,  osa :nd. edu/health-safety /ass is- And Jimmy, there's still so much to  Before my very eyes  
responsible, and love children. June  Starts 6/09. $850/mo. 574-250­ The Foundry features private baths  lance-for -pregnant -students.  be done  
14 through August 9. Salary, room  7653.  for every bedroom,  --------------­ It was somewhere past dark-thirty  
& board. and experience of lifetime  --------------­ If you or someone you care about  I had a third world girl in Buzios  As we went back to the head  
provided. Call or write for applica- Houses for the 09-1 0 school year.  washer/dryer, fitness center, theater  has been sexually assaulted, visit  With a pistol in each hand  I read upon the dingy wall  
lion and information. Bay Cliff  2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available.  room, tanning salon, game room.  Support Services for Victims ot  She always kept me covered  The words the old man said  
Health Camp, P.O. Box 310, Big  Leasing fast.  Rape & Assault at:  As we moved from land to land  
Bay, Ml49808, (906) 345-9314, e- Preleasing for August. Call 574­ He said,  
mail BayCiiffHC@aol.com. Visit us  Contact Kramer at 57 4-234-2436  232-1400 or lease online  http:1/osa.nd. edu/health- I had a damn good run on Wall  
at www.baycliff.org  or www.kramerhouses.com  www.foundryliving.com  safety/assault/  Street  "I ate the last mango in Paris..  
--------------­ --------------­ --------------­ --------------­ --------------­ --------------­ 
-------------­ 


Monday, March 2, 2009 CoMPilED FROM THE OnsERVER's wrRE SERVICES page 15 
.:=He
·::r[f:T~;,;;;,isi:;.,.,.· 

NCAA Men's Basketball APTop 25 
team  points  record  
1  Pittsburgh (69}  25~2  
2  Connecticut (1)  25~2  
3  Oklahoma (2)  1,643  25·2  
4  North Carolina  1,556  24·3  
5  Memphis  1,543  24-3  
6  louisville  1.403  21·5  
7  Duke  ·1,228  22·5  
8  -Marquette  1,169  23-4  
9  Michigan State  1,136  21·5  
9  Villanova  1.125  22-5  
11  Missouri  1,094  23-4  
12  Clemson  1,  22-4  
13 14  Wake forest Arizona State  9IJ69•·  20-5 21•5  
15  Kansas  812  22-5  
16  Purdue  765  21-6  
17  Gonzaga  661  21·5  
18  LSU  541  23-4  
19  Xavier  413  22·5  
20  Illinois  364  22-6  
21  Washington  29:1  20-7  
22  UCLA  268  20-7  
23  Florida State  217  21·6  
24  Butler  192.  23-4  
25  Texas  162  18·8  


NCAA Men's Basketball ESPN/USA Today Poll 
team points record 
1 Pittsburgh (30) 25·2 2 Connecicut (1) 25·2 a Oklahoma 25·2 4 Memphis A682 24-3 
...... 668

5 North Ca rollna 24-3 6 Louisville 585 . 21·5 7 Duke 559 22·5 8 Missouri 517 23·4 9 Michigan State 511 21-5 10 Marquette 471 23-4 11 Arizona Slate 434 21-5 12 VIllanova 22~5
::»::

13 Clemson 22-4 14 Wake Forest .411 20•5 15 Kansas 355 22·5 16 Purdu 261 21-6 17 Gonzaga 257 21·5 18 LSU 239 23·4 19 UCLA 292 20·7 20 Illinois 197 22·6 21 Washington 178 20·7 22 Xavier 175> 22•5 23 Butler . ..75 23·4 24 Texas 18·8 25 Florida State 21-6 

NCAA Fencing USFCA Rankings 
Men 

1 NOTRE DAME NOTRE DAME 2 Penn State Penn State 3 Ohio State Ohio State 4 Pennsylvania Harvard 5 Columbia Columbia-Barnard 6 Princeton Pennsylvania 7 St. John's Northwestern 8 Duke Temple 9 Harvard St. John's 10 Stanford Princeton 



around the dial 
NHL 

Avalanche at Islanders 7 p.m., Versus 
NFL 


Associated Press 

CLEARWATER, Fla. ­
The Coast Guard searched 
off Florida's Gulf Coast on 
Sunday for a fishing boat 
carrying NFL players Corey 
Smith and Marquis Cooper 
and two other men missing 
more than a day in choppy 
seas. 

Smith, a defensive end 
for the Detroit Lions, and 
Cooper, an Oakland 
Raiders linebacker, were 
on a 21-foot vessel that left 
Clearwater Pass for a fish­
ing trip Saturday morning 
and did not return as · expected, the Coast Guard said Sunday. Crews used a 
helicopter and an 87 -foot 
ship to search a 750­
square mile area west of Clearwater Pass, but poor weather made the search difficult. Officials did not receive a distress signal from the missing craft. 
Cooper owns the boat and he and Smith have been on fishing trips before, said Ron Del Duca, Smith's agent. The pair had been teammates on the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in 2004. Two others were aboard: Will Bleakley and Nick Schuyler, both former University of South Florida players. 
Coast Guard Capt. Timothy M. Close said the weather early Saturday had been fair, but wors­ened toward the evening as a front moved in. The National Weather Service said seas were about 2 to 4 feet Saturday morning and increased to 3 to 5 feet in the afternoon. Late Saturday night, a small craft advisory was issued, when winds were around 20 knots and seas were up to 7 feet or more. There were no thunderstorms in the area. 
Close said the men were traveling in a boat manu­factured by Everglades. At least one of the men was an experienced boater. and relatives provided the Coast Guard with GPS coordinates from previous fishing expeditions. 
Close said there was no communication with the men even before the weather started to pick up. They were expected home by early evening. No sign of them or the boat had been spotted by Sunday evening. Relatives told the Coast Guard the men had lifejackets and flares onboard. 

Po·or weather conditions could be dangerous for a boat the size of Cooper's. 
"A 21-foot boat is a rela­tively small vessel to be 50 miles off shore in bad weather conditions, cer­tainly the current weather conditions," Close said. 
Close said there was no sign yet that the men sent a distress signal. 
IN BRIEF Bowden resigns as GM Santana throws bullp_en Giants pick 11.1~ Bernard,
of Washington Nationals session, avoids elbow MRI Canty to fortify defense 
VIERA, Fla. -Jim Bowden's final PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. -New York EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.-The move as Washington Nationals general Mets ace Johan Santana said he New York Giants gave new defensive manager was his own resignation. was OK after throwing a bullpen coordinator Bill Sheridan some rein­
Bowden abruptly stepped down session Sunday morning, and the forcements along the line, signing free Sunday morning after four seasons, team decided against sending him agents Rocky Bernard and Chris Canty ·leaving under the cloud of a federal to snowy New York for an MRI on on Sunday. investigation into the skimming of his balky left elbow. Bernard signed what is believed to signing bonuses given to Latin "He felt he was fine, so he's not be a four-year, $16 million deal on American prospects. going to New York as planned," Saturday night, hours after the Giants 
He has maintained his innocence in general manager Omar Minaya signed former Atlanta Falcons line­the matter, but said Sunday, "I've said. "He'll be seen by our doctors backer Michael Boley. ·become a distraction." when they come down. It was the Canty received $42 million over six 
"It's an emotional decision. It sad­weather also." years, according to a person familiar dens me. But I feel it's in the best inter­Santana long-tossed with new with the contract who requested est of two of the things I love the most, closer Francisco Rodriguez before anonymity because no terms were offi­and that's the Washington Nationals heading to the bullpen for a 15-cially announced. and baseball," Bowden added. minute session with catcher Omir "He's a veteran defensive tackle with 
No replacement was immediately Santos. The 29-year-old left-bander skins on the wall," Giants general man­announced. threw 31 pitches hours before New ager Jerry Reese said. "He plays hard, 
Bowden is the only GM the Nationals York's 13-1 win over the Houston he's stout against the run and he has to have had since the franchise moved Astros. be accounted for as a pass rusher." from Montreal to Washington before 'This is the first time in the last Fred Robbins and Barry Cofield, the the 2005 season, overseeing a team four days that I've thrown, but I feel starting tackles last season, both have that went 81-81 in that debut season fine and don't think thiire should be had arthroscopic surgery in the offsea­but has been below .500 ever since. any problems," Santana said.. son. 


page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, March 2, 2009 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Michigan State takes share of Big 10 title with win 
No. 15 Kansas has 40th straight home victory with rout of No. 11 Missouri, takes control of Big 12 race 
Associated Press 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. -With a share of the Big Ten title on the line and Illinois closing fast on what had once looked like a comfortable lead, Michigan State coach Tom Izzo put his faith and the ninth-ranked Spartans' fate in the hands of a little used grad student from Nigeria. 
Idong Ibok hadn't played since Feb. 17, and is averaging just over six minutes on the court this season. 
But with Illinois center Mike Tisdale coming to life in the sec­ond half and what had been an 11-point lead vanishing, Izzo said he had nowhere else to turn. 
"It was a panic decision," Izzo said. "When we couldn't handle Tisdale, Ibok did a great job and stepped up for us." 
Facing the 260-pound Ibok, Tisdale faded and Michigan State (23-5, 13-3) held on for a 7 4-66 win that guarantees the Spartans at least a share of the Big Ten championship. Only 16th-ranked Purdue (22-7, 11­
5) can catch the Spartans. 
Sunday's win came at the expense of a man Izzo called one of his best friends, Illinois coach Bruce Weber, who entered the game knowing a win kept the No. 20 Illini (23-7, 11-6) in the race for the title. 
Reporters, Weber said, asked him earlier in the week what he feared most about the Spartans. 
"I said Tom Izzo, because I knew he would have them ready to play," Weber said. "We spot­ted them a seven-point lead and we could never really catch up. We had to adjust but then we were playing catch up the whole time." 
That opening 7-0 run and the up-tempo pace the Spartans set from the tip-off put the Illini immediately on their heels. 
With 4:31 left in the second half, Illini forward Mike Davis sank a soft jump shot to cut the lead to 27-26. 
But 13 seconds later, Michigan State's Marquise Gray pushed the gap back to three with a layup and, with 4:01 left in the half, Raymar Morgan gave the Spartans a five-point lead, 31­26, on a layup of his own. 
Morgan had 14 points and Kalin Lucas led the Spartans with 18. 
"Their transition was so good and we weren't ready for that," Weber said. 
Lucas also provided for his teammates. He had four assists, including the pass that created Travis Walton's jump shot a minute into the second half, the one that gave the Spartans a 41­30 lead. 
"I thought we had a secure lead," Izzo said. 
At about that point, though, Tisdale and his hook shot changed the game. 
"We just told Mike at halftime, get your fanny down in the block, shoot your hook and make them block you," Weber said. 
Tisdale did, and the Spartans, for a time, couldn't do much about it. 
His last points, a pair of free throws, cut the lead to 56-53 with 8:51 left to play. 
Then, after a layup by Walton, a three-pointer by Illinois guard Trent Meacham and a layup by Jeff Jordan tied the game at 58 with 7:19 left. 
But Tisdale, thanks to Ibok, never scored again. Even though Michigan State didn't score again until a Lucas layup more than two and a half min­utes later, Illinois couldn't find the basket that would give it the lead. 
"We had opportunities," Illinois guard Chester Frazier said. "We had a lot of chances to tie, and take the lead. But the ball bounces that way some­times and they played great defense and took advantage." 
Michigan State outscored the Illini 16-8 down the stretch. Six of those points came from Lucas, four from the free throw line. 
The championship is Izzo's fifth in his 13 seasons at Michigan State. 
He said that, among his more successful seasons, this has been the toughest. 
"Defensively we were awfully good," Izzo said, adding that his team had to overcome both a tough crowd afld Illinois' defense, statistically the best in the Big Ten. "So maybe my team is growing up a little bit, because we controlled a decent amount of that game." 
No. 15 Kansas 90, No. 11 Missouri 65 
LAWRENCE, Kan. -Kansas landed an 18-1 knockout punch in the first 10 minutes, and then made sure Missouri didn't get back in the fight this time.Sherron Collins scored 25 points and dished out several key assists in the take-command run and the No. 15 Jayhawks took command of the Big 12 race by trouncing the 11th­ranked Tigers Sunday. 
Now, with a Wednesday night game at Texas Tech and a regu­lar-season finale at home Saturday against No. 25 Texas, the Jayhawks (24-5, 13-1 Big 
12) stand on the cusp of a fifth straight title in what was sup­posed to be an inexperienced team's transition season. 
"I'm falling in love with this team," coach Bill Self said. "They try hard and they're get­ting more and more aggressive all the time." 
Cole Aldrich had 19 points and 14 rebounds in a surpris­ingly lopsided win over the team that came back from a 14-point deficit to beat them 62-60 last month at Missouri. It was also the nation-leading 40th straight victory at home for the Jayhawks, who lost every starter from last year's NCAA championship team. 
"I think today was just one of those days that went well for us," said Collins, who also had six assists and five rebounds. "I think we had a tick in our ear after what happened in Columbia." 
Leo Lyons had 20 points and DeMarre Carroll had 16 for Missouri (24-5, 11-3), which had won seven in a row and exceed­ed last year's victory total by eight games. 



Hope During Hard Times 
7he Afm·ket Can't Imagine, But \Xi> Ct1n: Creatiliity as a Spiritutd Response to the .Finandll! Crisis 

Assista1lt Profi'ssor oflheolo"zy Fordhmn Universit)~ New York 
Tuesday, March 3, 2009 7:30P.M. Stapleton Lounge Le Mans Hall 
·-····-··-·..·······"·········~ SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
NOlR~ 0.\.Mf l;\:PJA~?­
Center for Spirituality saintmarys.edu/spirituality; (574) 284-4636 E-mail: kguthrie(a'saintmarys.edu 
Free and ope~ to the public. " 


Fc=•c•tlfln.gs. U:ONEST! 
Eve-r~~ Ih•y '"":.due-1\-Ie-n.u -~va.ilable-_..\..t Parti.::·i}) ntiug Loc·:.'ttious Including : 1 ~06 Soutll Be-nd _..\..ve-* I)O~'\"'ttO"'\'\'Il TTS 31 N * SR. 23 •lr• Irou.,wood *TTP 1\-:Inll *IIulhu.t R.idge-* '-''":.dl\-Lu·t 

"There is a certain confidence you play with at home," Lyons said. "We just didn't match their intensity. It was the wh'ole game. When we played well in the second half, it was too late. They beat us on the boards and they beat us on everything." 
Tyshawn Taylor had 15 points for Kansas as the Jayhawks beat their archrivals in Lawrence for the lOth straight year. 
Missouri was leading 4-3 before any thoughts of another close game evaporated. Markieff Morris had two buckets to start an 18-1 run as Missouri, one of the nation's highest-scoring 
Fi,,.e 
D(_Jll~l.I"' 

teams, went more than 4 min­utes without scoring. Th~ Jayhawks took a 21-5 lead and were up 45-19 halftime. 
"We missed a lot of easy shots early in the game," Missouri coach Mike Anderson said. "We shot 20 percent in the first half and made eight field goals. That is not typical of our team, but hats off to Kansas." 
The 6-foot-11 Aldrich, who had his 17th double-double, put an exclamation point on the big win when he took a lob from Taylor, leaped into the air and brought 16,300 fans to their feet with a thunderous one-handed jam that made it 86-60. ­


Monday, March 2, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
Rodriguez silent about MLB meeting 
Associated Press 
SARASOTA, Fla. -Alex Rodriguez kept his plans to himself. 
Rodriguez was lifted for a pinch runner in the fifth inning of the New York Yankees' spring training game Sunday and p~rhaps headed for a scheduled meeting with Major League Baseball offi­cials to discuss his admission of using performance-enhanc­ing drugs from 2001-03 with Texas. 
After coming out of the game, Rodriguez spoke with reporters but declined to dis­cuss when or if the meeting would take place. Then he got into a car with teammates Robinson Cano and Mark Teixeira and left the ballpark. 
Rodriguez did say he planned to be in Jupiter by Sunday night to join the Dominican Republic team for World Baseball Classic prepa­rations. He said the squad had a meeting scheduled for 9 a.m. Monday. 
''I'm not sure what I'm doing. But I will be in Jupiter tonight," Rodriguez said. 
"Opportunity of a lifetime playing in the WBC. I'm excit­ed about that." 
Be£ore the Yankees' game against Cincinnati, New York manager Joe Girardi declined to talk about Rodriguez's meeting with Major League Baseball, saying it was up to Rodriguez or MLB to discuss specifics. 
''I'm only talking about base­ball," Rodriguez said. ''I'm just excited that I have a game every day. That's where I belong. It's fun to be back out there." 
MLB wants to speak with Rodriguez about security issues involving a trainer from the Dominican Republic and the cousin the three-time MVP said injected him with a banned substance called "boli." 
A-Rod worked out at Steinbrenner Field for about 90 minutes before .boarding the team bus Sunday, which left Tampa at 9 a.m. He didn't talk to reporters after taking batting practice before the game against the Reds. He had a pair of RBI doubles in three at-bats. 
"I get to see my family tonight," Rodriguez said. ''I'm excited about that. My two beautiful girls." 
Rodriguez, after receiving a mixed ovation that had more boos than cheers, hit a run­scoring double in the first off Reds starter Aaron Harang. He fouled out in the third and had another RBI double against Arthur Rhodes in the fifth. 
To get ready for the WBC, Rodriguez and the Dominican Republic will play three pre­tournament games against major league teams starting Tuesday against Florida. 
"He's going to have to go through traveling and be on road trips eventually," Girardi said. "So, this can be a helpfttl thing in a sense. The fact he's going to play in different ball­parks might give us an idea of what's going to happen during the year, and it may not. It also might be a good thing for him to go through." 
Girardi thinks the support system Rodriguez has with the Yankees will also be in place during the WBC. 
"It's my belief that playing for his country, those players 
MLB 
Dodgers to start over with Ramirez 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX The Los Angeles Dodgers have pulled their $45 million, two-year offer to Manny Ramirez, and owner Frank McCourt said Sunday that negotiations will have to start again from scratch. 
The Dodgers announced last week that Ramirez had declined the team's latest offer, a $25 million one-year contract for the 2009 season with a $20 million player option for 2010. McCourt said no talks with Ramirez's representatives were sched­uled for Sunday. 
"We're in what I call a transition phase," McCourt said before the Dodgers lost 3-2 to the Chicago White Sox in their first game at their new spring training facility at Camelback Ranch. "We had an almost four-month negotiation which terminat­ed on Thursday. Now were in a quiet period. At some point we'll pick up negotiations, but with a fresh start." 
_A message was left Sunday seeking comment from Scott Boras, Ramirez's agent. 
The issue separating the two sides appears to be how the $45 million will be paid out. The Dodgers wanted to defer payment of $10 million until 2011, $10 million more to 2012 and $5 million to 2013. 
Boras' latest proposal was for a $45 million, two-year deal with no deferred pay­ments. 
McCourt said Sunday that offer only came after Boras responded to the $45 million offer with a proposal for $55 million for two years. He said the Dodgers rejected that proposal. · 
"You can't get a no and then when the other side says, 'OK, we're going to start fresh,' you say, 'I meant yes,"' he said. "That's not how it works. It's too lit­tle, too late. It wasn't multi­ple choice." 
The owner also said Boras' suggestion that the deferred money proposal is keeping 
both sides apart is a red herring and the agent had encouraged deferred money to be paxt of the offers from the beginning. 
Despite the sometimes acrimonious exchanges between the two camps, McCourt also said he expects negotiations to resume soon. 
"We want to see Manny a Dodger this year," he said. 
Los Angeles carried a 2-0 lead into the ninth inning against Chicago but Gordon Beckham led off with a long home run_ off Victor Garate. The White Sox then loaded the bases, and Brandon Allen and Michael Restovich each drove in a run with a fielder's choice. 
Hiroki Kuroda, Eric Milton and Claudio Vargas threw two scoreless innings apiece for Los Angeles. Mark Loretta and Blake DeWitt had RBI singles. 
Mark Buehrle worked two scoreless innings for the White Sox. He struck out two, walked one and allowed one hit. 

are going to build that same 
wall," Girardi said. "It might 
take a couple days, but I have 
a feeling a lot of those players 
have come out and are behind 
Alex. I'm hoping that takes 
place. We'll have to see if 
that's the case." 
Girardi thinks Rodriguez has 
been able to handle the situa­
tion so far. 
"I think he's come through it 
very well," Girardi said. "I see 
him more relaxed every day. 
Really, the last five, six days I 
don't think he's changed a bit. 
Pretty much the same relaxed 
guy. The first couple days you 
could tell it was weighing 
heavily on his mind, and I'm 
sure it's still weighing on his 
mind, but time helps every­
thing. Probably knows how to 
approach it better now. I think 
he has done very well." 
Rodriguez said he has 
received phone calls and let­
ters of support heading into 
the WBC. 
"I've gotten tremendous sup­
port from not only the . Dominican community but the Hispanic community all over," Rodriguez said. "I think over­all it's going be very positive." 
1IJ .INDIANA UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF LIBRARY AND INFORMATION SCIENCE 
Graduate degrees for the strongly curious. All majors welcome. 
www.slis. indiana .edu 

BASEBALL 

Irish lose two of three in Phoenix 
FENCING 

Team finishes second in conference 

By MATT GAMBER 
SportS Writer 
Notre Dame lost two of three at the Phoenix Classic over the weekend, topping host Dayton and falling to Gonzaga and Creighton. 
The Irish (3-3) started their weekend with a 7-3 loss to Gonzaga (5-1), as the Bulldogs scored two runs each in the eighth and ninth innings to break a 3-3 tie. Sophomore starter Cole Johnson allowed two earned runs in four innings in his first start of the year, and fellow sophomore Todd Miller took the loss by giving up three runs over four innings. 
Juniors David Mills and Matt Grosso each had two hits and an RBI for the Irish, who scored twice in the bottom of the first on a throwing error and an RBI groundout. 
The Bulldogs tied it with a pair of runs in the top of the second and then took a 3-2 lead in the top of the fifth. Notre Dame knotted the score 3-3 in the bottom of the sev­enth but Gonzaga again answered and then kept the Irish bats quiet in the final two frames. 
Senior Jeremy Barnes drove in three runs and four others each knocked in a pair in Notre Dame's 14-5 win over Dayton (2-4) Saturday. The bullpen also pitched in with 3 2-3 innings of scoreless relief after sophomore starter Brian Dupra gave up five earned runs over 5 1-3, striking out a career­high six Flyers to earn the win. 

Leading 5-1, the Irish offense exploded for seven runs in the top of the fourth with help from three run-scoring doubles -one from Barnes, who was a home run short of the cycle. 
Like Friday's loss, Sunday's 6-3 defeat included a late­inning rally by Notre Dame's opponent. Creighton (1-6) took a 4-3 lead with two outs in the top of the eighth when Irish junior right fielder Brayden Ashdown appeared to lose a routine fly ball in the sun au.d had it drop in front of him to allow the go-ahead run. 
The Bluejays would add two more insurance runs in the ninth. 
Juni.or right hander Steven Mazur took the loss after giving up four earned runs in 2 2-3 earnings. 
The Observer could not reach Irish coach Dave Schrage as the team traveled back to Notre Dame Sunday. 
Notre Dame will hit the road again this weekend, as the Irish are scheduled to play nine games in Houston and San Antonio, Tex., between March 6-15. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
All-American sabre Sarah 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 

Borrmann earned the Irish's Sports Writer 
first women's title of the weekend with her 15-8 victo­Notre Dame earned indi­ry over Buckeye Margarita vidual titles in the men's Tschomakova. After taking epee, women's sabre and home an NCAA individual women's epee, but finished title in her freshman year, second overall in the 11th Borrmann is looking to claim Midwest Fencing a second national champi­Conference. onship with her blend of 
The No. 1 Irish teams took graceful athleticism and first in two astute strate­events but lost gy. to No. 3 Ohio ""[Sophomore Sarah "[Borrmann] 
State overall. Borrman] will surely is an intelli­
In Saturday's gent and emo­
be a candidate for an
individual com­tional fighter petitions, sen.: NCAA title again this on the strip," ior captain and ,, Bednarski
year.
All-American said. "With Karol Kostka her talent to 
Janusz Bednarski
earned his sec­read oppo­ond consecu­Irish coach nents' strate­
tive MFC Championship in epee. Kostka trailed Ohio State's Igor Tolkachev 14-12 in the championship bout, but quickly rattled off three touches to clinch the title. Irish head coach Janusz Bednarski credits Kostka's superior endurance for his ability to win long bouts. 
"Kostka was one of the best junior fencers in all of Europe four years ago and has not completely show­eased his skill yet in NCAA play, partly because [mostl bouts are only to nve touch­es," Bednarski said. "With his style, he prefers to fight much longer to show his dominance." 
Sophomore captain and gy and the 
ability to per­form in stressful situations, she will surely be a candi­da_te for ~n NCAA title again this year. 
Capping Notre Dame's run of individual titles, freshman epee Courtney Hurley defeated Joanna Niklinska 15-8 to become the third consecutive freshman Irish fencer to take home the women's epee title at the MFC. Hurley's older sister, All-American and defending NCAA Champion Kelley Hurley, earned the title in 2007 while sophomore All­American Ewa Nelip claimed the honor last year. 
"[Courtney Hurley] is going to show the entire world that she does not want to be overshadowed by her talent­ed sister," Bednarski said. "She is a fencer with tremendous reaction time and she is skilled in prepar­ing a strategy to win against her next opponent." 

While Saturdav featured individual play ·in all for­mats, Sunday saw the men's and women's·team champi­onships. Both Irish squads came into the weekend ranked No. 1 in the nation and sought to avenge last winter's narrow loss to Ohio State. However, the No. 3 Buckeyes took home the team title, winning four events to Notre Dame'5 two. 
The Irish men dropped title bouts to Ohio State in the epee and foil dasses 5-3 and 5-2, respectively, before rallying to dismantle the Buckeyes in a 5-1 sabre vic­tory. 
While the women's epee team opened with a 5-2 vic­tory to draw the series to 2-2 overall, Ohio State respond­ed quickly with a 5-2 victory in women's foil. The Notre Dame women's sabre team, a strength of the Irish, gave it their all, but lost a close 5-4 decision to clinch the victory for the Buckeyes. 
Notre Dame returns to the strip on Friday at the NCAA Midwest Regional Qualifiers at Ohio State's gym in Columbus. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
NHL 

Nevv Jersey goaltender Brodeur earns lOOth shutout 
Blackhawks end three-game skid with 4~2 defeat of Kings in Chicago; Niemi has 22 saves, wins first NHL start 
Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J. -Martin Brodeur has found the New Jersey Devils have changed during his almost four-month injury absence. This is a team that not only plays defense, it scores early and often. 

Brodeur earned his 100th NHL regular-season shutout with a 27 -save effort, and the Devils extended their lead in the Atlantic Division with a 3-0 victory over the second-place Philadelphia Flyers on Sunday. 
The shutout was the second in three games since Brodeur returned Thursday following recovery from elbow surgery, and this one moved him within three of tying Terry Sawchuk's mark of 103. It was also Brodeur's 547th career victory, moving him within four of tying Patrick Roy's league record. 
"It's a big number, it's kind of hard to believe," Brodeur said of his shutout total. "You get to different numbers and at times you think, 'OK, it's just another one.' When you get to a round number, it looks more impres­sive.'' 
Brodeur has been very impressive in his return, post­ing two shutouts and winning three times in four days. He has stopped 46 ·of 48 shots, and has four shutouts in 13 games this season. 
"This is as good as it gets," he said. 

The potent scoring is defi­nitely new for Brodeur, who was used to winning one-goal games in helping the Devils capture the Stanley Cup three times, the last in 2003. 
New Jersey outscored Colorado, Florida and Philadelphia by a combined 14-2 margin since Brodeur returned. 
"Any goalie, that's your dream team in front of you, one that scores goals and is responsible defensively," the four-time Vezina Trophy win­ner said. "I don't think we are cutting corners in our own zone. We've been really disci­plined in these three games and that makes a big differ­ence in keeping the puck out of your net." 
Jamie Langenbrunner, Brian Gionta and Johnny Oduya scored as the Devils won for the eighth time in 10 games to open a nine-point lead in the division with 19 games left in the regular season. 
The loss was the fourth in 11 games (7-3-1) for the Flyers, who welcomed back Danny Briere to the lineup after he missed 36 games following abdominal-groin surgery. Philadelphia has played two fewer games than New Jersey. 
"Not a very good one from our part," Fly(\rs left wing Simon Gagne said. "If you shoot 25 or 26 shots, it's tough to win hockey games, especial­ly against Martin Brodeur. We did not test him enough and they got the best of us." 
After Brodeur had relatively easy wins over Colorado and Florida, the Flyers had several quality chances against the 36­year-old goalie. Philadelphia captain Mike Richards had the best two. 
Brodeur, who missed 50 games after having surgery to repair a torn biceps in his left elbow, protected a 1-0 lead when he slid across his crease to stop Richards in close after he was set up by Gagne. 
"I was by myself with Brodeur and saw Richie on the corner on the left side. I thought it would be open net for him," Gagne said. "I thought he read the play pretty good and Marty made a great save on that." 
Richards also had a deflec­tion early in the third period. 
Briere added a good wrap­around attempt during a first­period power play. Brodeur made a couple of good stops against Scottie Upshall late in the game. Brodeur saved the shutout stopping Mike Knuble in close with 5:46 to go. 
"I definitely feel more tested today than .any of the other games I played so far," Brodeur said. 
Chicago 4, Los Angeles 2 
CHICAGO -A fast start helped the Chicago Blackhawks put a timely end to a mini-slump. 
Jonathan Toews, Duncan Keith and Dustin Byfuglien scored in the first period, and Antti Niemi made 22 saves in his first NHL start to give the Blackhawks a 4-2 win over the Los Angeles Kings on Sunday. 
Dave Bolland added a power­play goal with 43 seconds left in the third as the Blaekhawks snapped an 0-2-1 skid and defeated the Kings for the first time in three games this sea­son. Chicago was beaten 5-2 twice in Los Angeles. 
The Blaekhawks have not gone more than three games without a win this season and haven't dropped more than two straight in regulation. That's been a key to Chicago's resurgence and why the Blackhawks are solidly in fourth place in the Western Conference. 
"When you lose three in a row, it gets your attention," Chicago coach Joel Quenneville said. "A good start was some­thing we were looking for, and getting that lead early helped." 
The Blackhawks jumped ahead 2-0 and 3-1 in the first before the Kings closed to 3-2 after 20 minutes. 
"It was a big win," Toews said. "In a lot of ways we played the same way we played as the last couple of games, but we were able to put three periods together and fin­ish it off. 
"We've found a lot of great ways to win games like this year when we've had losing streaks." 

Anze Kopitar scored and added an assist on Jack Johnson's goal in the third con­secutive loss for the fading Kings. Los Angeles, playing the fourth game of a five-game trip, entered six points behind eighth-place Anaheim and the postseason cutoff in the Western Conference. 
The Kings, who opened the trip with a 2-1 shootout win at Minnesota, are in a 1-5 skid. 
"We kind of shot ourselves in the foot," Kopitar said. "That first period wasn't good at all. When you fall behind right away, it kind of kills the moti­vation right off the hop." 
"We responded just OK," Kings coach Terry Murray said. "There's a great need to a lot of desperation right now in our schedule and our games. Getting down makes it really hard, especially in this build­ing. 
"They're (the Blackhawks) a great skating team. They could be a dangerous team in the playoffs." 
Toews has nine goals and four assists in his last eight games, and has taken over the team lead with 26 goals. He scored 24 goals in 64 games last season as a rookie. 
"Besides the production, he's been very effective for us," Quenneville said. "He's a spe­cial player and going to contin­ue to improve his game." 

Monday, March 2, 2009 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
inated the court with 20 response. points (including 3-for-5 from The win extended Hope's
MIAA 
beyond the arc), 10 rebounds home winning streak to 4 7. and five blocks. Senior center The Dutchmen are 58-1 over­
continued from page 24 
Courtney Knox also posted a all at the DeVos Fieldhouse. 
double-double with 10 points Despite the tough loss, the that follow. I am very proud and 12 rebounds on the night. Belles turned in perhaps their of this team and aJl that they Saint Mary's was on its finest season. After graduat­have accomplished this sea­heels from tip-ing one of the son." off. Hope most distin­
"Making it to the
The Belles had trouble get­opened the guished senior ting shots to fall throughout game with a championship game classes in the the night, ending with 23 per­12-2 run to set program's his­
validates •that we are 
cent shooting and going 0-for-up a sizeable tory, Saint
moving in the right 
10 in three-point attempts. lead five min­Mary's used a Senior forward Erin Newsom utes into the direction. " balance of vet-finished with eight points, 10 game, but the eran leader­rebounds and a block, while Belles ground ship and
Jennifer Henley 

freshman guard Maggie out some points impact fresh­
Belles coach 

Ronan came off the bench to to draw the men to finish lead the team in scoring with game to 27-22 with 13 wins 10 points in 21 minutes. halfway through the first. A in the MIAA, second only to 
"Hope does not have a lot of late 12-0 run from the Hope's 15-1 mark. The weaknesses," Henley said. Dutchmen ended the half at Dutchmen's lone loss came at "They are led by a very domi­39-22, putting it out of reach the hands of the Belles at nant inside game. They also for the outmatched Saint Saint Mary's Angela Athletic shoot well from the outside Mary's squad. Facility in January: and have great Coming out of Henley said she is confident depth to keep halftime, Hope that her squad will be able to that going. We poured on the build on this season's success, got our shots, "We got our shots, but gas to stretch and the strong freshman and but they they weren't falling. their lead to 36 sophomore classes are a tes­weren't points halfway tament to the program's
Itjust wasn't our
falling. It just through the bright future.
night."

wasn't our second as "With eaGh new season, we night." turnovers and continue to try and get one That "domi­Jennifer Henley missed opportu­step closer to the [NCAA nant" inside nities began to· Division III Championships],"
Belles coach 

game of the pile up for the Henley said. "Despite coming Dutchmen (25-Belles. Enjoying up short, making it to the 1, 15-1 MIAA) an insurmount• championship game validates produced 42 points, 23 able lead, the Dutchmen that we are moving in the rebounds and 11 blocks and rotated in bench players right direction." chased the Belles out of the throughout much of the final paint all night. Sophomore minutes, but Saint Mary's was Contact Michael Blasco at forward Carrie Snikkers dom-never able to put together a mblasco@nd.edu 
NBA 
Kidd hits n1ilestone as Mavericks beat Raptors 
his 14th assist when he passed
Associated Press 
to Jason Terry for a 3-pointer 
DALLAS -Jason Kidd has that gave Dallas a 90-75 advan­forged a reputation as one of tage. Dallas went on to lead by the NBA's premier passers dur­as many as 18 in the final quar­ing his 14 seasons. The Dallas ter and won its third straight. point guard has the numbers to "It's nice to be a part of it," prove it. Nowitzki said of Kidd's big 
Kidd handed out 15 assists to night. become the fourth player in Josh Howard contributed 16 NBA history with 10,000 for his points and Antoine Wright career, Dirk Nowitzki added 24 added 15 for Dallas. James points and 10 rebounds, and Singleton had a career-high 16 the Mavericks beat the Toronto rebounds and scored 12 points. Raptors 109-98 on Sunday Fo-rmer Dallas high school night. star Chris Bosh paced the 
Kidd reached the milestone Raptors with 28 points and 10 with 1:04 left in the third quar­rebounds. Andrea Bargnani ter with his 13th assist of the added 18 points for Toronto. night, passing to Brandon Bass The Raptors were-unable to for a 10-foot turnaround. Kidd get closer than 10 in the final received a standing ovation quarter, losing for the lOth time when the feat was announced in 14 games. to the sellout crowd. "Sometimes we get down 
"It means a lot of my team­eight or 10 points and hang our mates put the ball in the basket heads," Bosh said. "This is the over the years," Kidd said. "It's NBA. A 10-point lead can disap­nothing I ever thought I'd pear in a matter of minutes. We accomplish when I started out." have to keep that in mind." 
He trails John Stockton Terry, out since last month (15,806), Mark Jackson with a broken bone in his left (10,334) and Magic Johnson hand, returned after missing (10,141) on the NBA career list. eight games. He went 3-for-9 
In the final minute of the from the field and finished with third quarter, Kidd registered eight points in 19 minutes. 
PGA TOUR 
Ogilvy defeats Casey for match play victory 
Associated Press 
MARANA, Ariz. -Geoff Ogilvy has been better than anyone in match play over the last four years. 
One of these days, he might find out if that includes Tiger Woods. 
Even without the world's No. 1 player around, Ogilvy finished off a remarkable weekend at Dove Mountain on Sunday with a 4­and-3 victory over Paul Casey to win the Accenture Match Play Championship for the second time in four years. 
He played 66 holes on the weekend in 25-under par. He never trailed the final 63 holes of this event, mowing down teenage sensation Rory Mcilroy and Stewart Cink on Saturday and never giving Casey a chance in the title match. 
"The thing I'll remember is I beat some really good players, and I beat them well," Ogilvy said. "I played better and better during the week. Every round, I played better, which doesn't often happen in golf." 
He saved his best against Casey, building a 3-up lead after the morning round, then pouring it on. 
"This afternoon, three birdies in the first eight holes and I still lost two holes," Casey said. "Geoff was exceptional." 
Cink defeated Ross Fisher in the consolation match with a birdie on the 18th hole for a 1-up victory. 
A tournament that began with so much buzz over Woods' return from knee surgery ended with a newfound appreciation for the skill and composure of Ogilvy, who ran his career record to 18­
3 in match play. Woods is 40-12-1 in his profes­sional career. Ogilvy was asked if he was the best in the world at match play. 
"This week I probably was. Last year, I was the 33rd best match-play player in the world," he said, referring to a first-round loss. "But I have played well in this tournament in the last few years. I'm obviously one of the better match-play players." 
He was quick to note, however, that Woods won three straight 
U.S. Junior Amateur titles and three straight U.S. Amateurs. He also knew at the start of the week that Woods was in his quarter of the bracket. 
"I think I would do OK," he said. "Hopefully, we can do it one day, for sure." 
Ogilvy won his third World Golf Championship-he will defend his title in two weeks at Doral in the CA Championship-the most of any player besides Woods, who has won 15 of these elite events. 
Ogilvy closed out the match with a 6-foot birdie on the 15th hole. He won $1.4 million and moved up to No. 4 in the world ranking with this third victory in his last seven starts. He started the year with a wire-to-wire win at Kapalua, and won late last year at the Australian PGA Championship. 
Casey came into the final match having led 79 of the 80 holes he had played in his five previous 18-hole matches. 
That amazing mark didn't last long. 
Ogilvy made birdie from 6 feet on the first hole, and when Casey failed to match him from 5 feet, it was the first time the Englishman had trailed all week. 
NBA 
LeBron, Cavs edge Hawks 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -LeBron James dribbled at the top of the key with the clock winding down, then made his move. What happened next was a matter of debate. 
AI Harford thought he played good defense. The officials decided otherwise. 
After the call went his way, James stepped to the line and made one free throw with 1.6 seconds remaining, just enough to give the Cavaliers their seventh win in eight games, 88-87 over the Atlanta Hawks on Sunday night. 
The Hawks, after rallying from a 13-point deficit, squandered a five-point lead in the final 1:42. Delonte West hit a jumper, Mo Williams sank a 3-pointer and James won it for the Cavaliers on their final pos­session. Driving from the top of the key, he threw up a shot that missed but Harford, standing in the lane with his arms up, was called for the foul. 
"It was unfortunate the way the game ended," Horford said, choosing his words carefully. "He came to me. I kept my arms straight. The refs felt it was a foul." 
James missed the first free throw but swished the sec­ond. The Hawks still had a chance after a timeout, but Joe Johnson's jumper over James clanked off the rim as the horn sounded. , 
The Cavaliers (46-12) moved a half-game ahead of Boston for the top spot in the Eastern Conference and eclipsed their win total from last season. Atlanta hurt its bid to maintain the fourth seed in the East, which would guarantee home-court advantage in the opening round. 
"It's one of the better wins we've had," James said. "On the road, it means a lot more against a playoff team." 
Down the stretch, it was James vs. Johnson at both ends of the court. 
"I was going one-on-one. I had to take the challenge," said James, who called the closing minutes "some of the best basketball we've played all season." 
Johnson led the Hawks with 21 points, but he missed his final two shots-including the potential game-winner. 
"I had a good look," he said. "It felt great when it left my hand. I thought it was. definitely going in, but not quite." 
James ran at Johnson with a hand extended-failing to get a piece of the ball but, as James put it, making "him shoot it a little bit different." 
Triple-teamed at times, James made eight of 20 from the field, including a pair of 3-pointers, and dished out 11 assists. 
The teams met on a day that should have made Cleveland feel right at home-a freak March storm left downtown Atlanta with a light blanket of snow. 
As always, the celebrities turned out for King James. Bill Murray, in Georgia film­ing a movie, sat courtside along with director Spike Lee, who was trying to sell Murray on another project while they both took in the game. 
The Cavaliers led 62-49 
about 5 minutes into the third; but the Hawks closed the quarter on a 21-7 run. Johnson, Zaza Pachulia and Flip Murray scored five points each to lead the spurt. 
On its final possession of the quarter, Murray gave the home team its first lead since 2-0. Isolated with Daniel Gibson, the Hawks guard drove into the lane and hit the jumper while drawing a foul. Even though he missed the free throw, the Hawks led 68-67 going into the fourth. 
James' best move came in the first half. He stepped back on Johnson, then sud­denly blew by him to the right and made the shot despite being fouled by Josh Smith. 
Cleveland Cavaliers for­ward LeBron James (23) drives to the basket as Atlanta Hawks guard Joe Johnson, right, defends dur­ing the fourth quarter of an NBA basketball game, Sunday, March 1, 2009 at Philips Arena in Atlanta. James had 26 points for the night and lead the Cavaliers to a 88-87 win. 
Smith dazzled the crowd, too. He blocked Williams' shot at one end, took off down the court and dunked off a miss by Joe Johnson. But Smith was mysteriously on the bench down the stretch as coach Mike Woodson chose to go with Pachulia. 
Williams had 20 points for Cleveland, while Zydrunas Ilgauskas had a double-dou­ble with 17 points and 11 rebounds. The Hawks had five players in double figures, including Murray and Marvin Williams with 14 apiece. 
athletic ability, and sound tech­hitting," Rodgers said. "l-Ie's got inside." athlete in the program this nique boxing-wise." the long reach and a quick jab; The fight started aggressively year," Rubinkowski said. "He's
Chrunps 

it was tough for me to get inside in the first minute of round one, an incredible boxer." 
continued from page 24 147 pounds all the time." but then fell back into a more The fight started out slowly, 
Rodgers came out attacking normal pace. Garcia was with neither boxer connecting natural instincts, he couldn't Patrick "The South Bend again at the opening of the sec­unable to connect on his patent­on a punch throughout most of outmaneuver his left, right, Sniper" Kibbe def. Joey ond round, but the fight became ed uppercut and wrapped often, the first round. Tchoula used right combo. Taking advantage "Thor's Hammer" Leary much more even as the round as Villalba expertly blocked the his quicknes~ to dodge the jabs of his longer arms and greater South Bend natives and good progressed. blows with his left hand. of Rubinkowski, who used his experience, Hof bloodied friends, Kibbe and Leary pum­"In the second round he came Villalba once again attacked height to block the blows Sayles' nose to open the second meled each for three hard out hard, and hit me with three in round two, and was connect­thrown by Tchoula. round. rounds before an emotional really good rights," Maier said. ing on more solid punches than Tchoula came out attacking in 
Sayles responded in the third Kibbe emerged in the third as "I was being a little too tenta­was Garcia, but Garcia was able the second round, but with an aggressive approach the unanimous victor. Both tive." to wrap and then connect on Rubinkowski kept him at a dis­that caught Hof off guard· fighters showed signs of fatigue Even though the referee was rapid fire punches with his tance with a flurry of jabs that momentarily, but the senior as the match wore on, but forced to stop the match twice right hand. Villalb.11 attempted Tchoula could not dodge. boxer quickly regained form Kibbe managed land more due to bleeding by Rodgers, to use combos, finishing with Rubinkowski connected on far and went on the offensive. punches in the final minute once in each of the final two his strong right hook, but had more punches than Tchoula, Using a series of uppercuts and than Leary. rounds, Rodgers connected on a difficulty getting close enough who was unable to get close hooks, Hof managed to move "We both got tired, and then, I hard right hook in each round, to Garcia to connect consistent­enough to Rubinkowski to land Sayles around the ring and land chalk it up to the endurance, solidified his victory by unani­ly. any blows. a large number of punches to and his longer reach," Leary mous decision. For the third straight round, "[Rubinkowski is] really tall, his face. said. Despite the loss, Maier was Villalba came out aggressively, and he's got that reach," 
"It feels great," Sayles said. "I Leary managed to pin Kibbe pleased with his performance but tired quickly. This allowed Tchoula said. "And he's left­emptied the tank, so I can't ask against the ropes late in the throughout the tournament, Garcia to land quick jabs and handed, which screws a lot of for anything more." first round, landing an etTective and predicted similar success kept Villalba from attacking people up." 
left, right, left, right combo. But for next year. ' Garcia's body. Villalba once In the final round, Tchoula 140 pounds Kibbe responded quickly, out­"I conditioned harder this again connected on a hard right knew that he needed a knock­
maneuvering his opponent year than I had any other year, hook, but it was not enough in out to win, and came out swing­Kris "EI Azteca" Perez def. before landing violent jabs and I made sure the training was the end. ing. lie seemed to be connect­Eric "A 2nd Reading From the uppercuts. there this year," Maier said. ''I'll ''I'm just upset," Villalba said. ing on more punches than Book of The Prophet" Feduska Kibbe embraced his opponent be back in the finals next year." "You always feel like you could before, but left himself open, 
Joining an elite group of only after the match. have done more, that's the and Rubinkowski took advan­nine other boxers in Bengal "Joey is a good friend of mine; 160 pounds biggest thing." tage by landing multiple shots Bouts history, Perez won his I grew up playing soccer with to Tchoula's head. The referee fourth championship in as many him," Kibbe said. "We went to Jordan "Shake and Bake" 175 pounds paused the fight due to bleeding years by picking up the unani­rival high schools, so I've com­Bucci def. Jim "Rainbow by Tchoula. Despite a solid third mous victory over Feduska. peted against him before. But Sprinkles" Devereaux Mike "The Big Dog" Lee def. round from Tch·oula, 
'This fight definitely ranks in this was different, especially In a rematch of last year's Mike Doran Rubinkowski was credited with the top two," Perez said. "This after we were sparring partners championship bout, Bucci In the last fight of his unde­the unanimous victory. one was hard because it was a this year and worked out exacted his revenge by defeat­feated career, Lee won his third "I had been to the finals rematch against Eric; he was together. It was the toughest ing senior Devereaux in a split straight Bengal Bouts champi­twice, and lost both times," the first guy to take me three fight I've been in." decision. In one of the closest onship by defeating the sopho­Rubinkowski said. "The feeling rounds. He is a great fighter, matches of the night, Bucci was more Doran in a unanimous of being in the ring, hearing the and he has developed a lot 150 pounds able to achieve victory by decision. Lee was too quick and ref say, 'In the blue corner' and since that fight, in my sopho­attacking Devereaux in each too strong for Doran, who I know I'm in the blue shorts, more year." Timothy "Slayer" Thayer def. round and forcing him up struggled to defend himself it's incredible." 
To Feduska's credit he never Matt "Poz" Posluszny against the ropes throughout from the powerful blows from backed down, giving Perez a Thayer was in control of the the fight. Lee. 200 pounds run for his money in all three ring from the opening bell, Both fighters started the Lee came out aggressively, rounds. The senior Feduska landing hook after hook en match wildly throwing punches, attacking Doran despite Doran's Benford Begay def. Pat "Third come out strong at the start of route to a unanimous victory but neither connected consis­height advantage. Lee went Degree" Burns the second round, pinning over his opponent. Thayer's tently. Bucci cornered after Doran's body, which made Despite dislocating his domi­Perez against the ropes and aggressive approach and desire Devereaux multiple times, but it it impossible for Doran to do nant right shoulder early in the landing some hard jabs before were too much for the senior was Devereaux who seemed to anything but protect himself. first round after a wild right Perez managed to escape. Posluszny. be landing quality punches. Lee was quick enough to dodge hook, Begay was victorious in 
But Perez dominated the third "We traded a lot of blows, I Devereaux tried to start the punches rather than needing to his first Bengal Bouts finals round, dodging violent upper­just felt I stayed a little bit second round aggressively, but block them, often dropping his appearance. cuts from Feduska and landing ahead of him," Thayer said. Bucci was once again able to hands in order to load up his Early in the first round, Begay huge hooks to his opponent's "Poz is a great fighter, a great counter, and landed a solid run strength before firing off a bar­threw a hard right hook that face. Feduska became more guy. He's tall, so I just tried to of punches early in round two. rage of devastating blows. dislocated his shoulder. He was defensive as the round carried start most things by working to Both fighters were very quick "(Lee) is an amazing fighter," checked over by physicians and on, and Perez took advantage the body, and worked my way with their punches, and neither Doran said. "He's so fast, you was then allowed to return to with his quick right hand. up from there." showed any sign of defensive just can't hit him. He's too good the fight. 
"Bengal Bouts is my best Thayer bloodied Posluszny's fighting. with his defense." "[My shoulder] became dislo­experience I have had at Notre nose early in the match with Bucci was the aggressor in It was more of the same in cated. It's an on and off injury," Dame," Perez said. hard hooks to the face and round three and forced the ref­round two, though Doran was Begay said. "I had a lot of fans 
pinned him against the ropes eree to pause the fight for the able to block a few of Lee's jabs. out there who were supporting 145 pounds for a couple of jab combos. second time due to bleeding by The referee was forced to pause me. I couldn't stop after just 
Posluszny responded in the Devereaux. Both fighters the fight to count as Lee fin­two fights." Bobby Powers def. Mark third round with a more showed signs of fatigue in the ished a powerful combo with a Begay fought the rest of the Weber aggressive style, using his great third round, exerting no energy hard right hand to Doran's chin. first round without using his 
The lanky Powers dominated left jab and hook to deal out to stop each other's l:ilows. "I really try to focus on my right arm, only throwing quick the match from bell to bell, tak­some damage to the junior Bucci once again pushed speed," Lee said. "The punches jabs with his uninjured left ing the victory after the referee Thayer. Devereaux up against the ropes that hurt are the punches you hand, which he often landed stopped the contest at the end But in the end it was too little, late in the final round, which can't see." because of his superior speed. of two rounds. too late as Thayer held on for likely sealed his victory. Lee _spent the third round Neither fighter landed many 
The lanky Powers took advan­the victory. "He's the same guy I fought attempting to set Doran up for a punches in the second round, tage of his greater size and "Tim Thayer is very experi­last year in the finals, and he knockout blow. His technique but Burns came out more length to land some hard jabs enced from last year, and has a beat me last year," Bucci said. remained flawless, using no aggressively than he had in the and wide hooks to the face of very good right hook, which I ''I'm tired, but happy." excess movement, even as he first round. Begay began using . the veteran Weber. Weber also found out first-hand," Posluszny attacked Doran. Doran was his right arm to fake .punches threw a high number of punch­said. "It was a well-deserved 165 pounds showing signs of fatigue by the and rarely used it to punch, es, but was unable to land them win by him. I gave it my all. If I third round, but managed to though it had much less force with the same frequency as had to do it all over again, I'd Alex "Check Out his Chicken keep Lee from knocking him than before. Powers. do it the same way." Legs" Duffy def. Daniel "It's down. Burns once again came out 
"We were both coming at Shower Time" Brennan "(Doran) couldn't be a nicer aggressively in the third round, each other so hard that one of 155 pounds Duffy was victorious in a kid," Lee said. "I think he's but Begay landed solid blows us was bound to knock the walkover due to Brennan going to do amazing in the next with both his right and left other one out," Powers said. "It Dan "You're in the Lion's Den breaking his nose in his semifi­few years." hand. After knocking Burns was just a coin flip that it was Now" Rodgers def. John nal victory over Matt Hopke. back early in round three, me instead of him." "L.E.R.N" Maier 185 pounds Begay called for the crowd to 
Powers gave Weber a bloody Rodgers used his experience 170 pounds stand. Seconds later, he landed nose to open the second round and fast start to come out victo­Leo "The South Paw Lion a devastating combo, knocking and landed a series of hard rious in the championship. Bernardo Garcia def. Andres ClaW'' Rubinkowski def. John Burns to the mat with a hard hooks and jabs with his power­Rodgers won his third champi­Villalba "The Boogie Woogie Monster" hook with the injured right ful left. Weber, the president of onship. Using his height advantage Tchoula arm. Burns was able to finish Bengal Bouts, stuck it out for Rodgers came out strong in and unorthodox fighting style, For the second year in a row, the fight, but Begay dominated two tough rounds before the ref the opening round, negating Garcia was able to defend his the captain Rubinkowski the remaining portion of the was forced to call the match. Maier's distinct height advan­title by defeating captain defeated the sophomore third round on his way to the 
"As a senior, I knew it was tage by using superior tech­Andres Villalba in a split deci­Tchoula. Rubinkowski came out unanimous victory. my last fight, so I just wanted to nique. He connected on one sion. He was able to keep his victorious for the first time in "It's been a great experience," come in, not worry about it, and hard right hook after forcing distance from Villalba with his three finals appearances. Begay said. "I wanted to keep just have a great time, leaving it Maier into the corner, a strategy reach, and then used uppercuts Rubinkowski defeated Tchoula fighting, to take something all in the ring," Weber said. that Rodgers was not used to whenever Villalba tried to get in in the semi-finals last year in a away from this." "Going in, I knew I was going employing. close. close fight, and credited his up against a really special fight­"Normally I'm fighting guys "I wasn't prepared for how reach and experience for the Contact Eric Prister at er in Bobby Powers. There are that are smaller than me, so I big his reach was," Villalba victory. eprister@nd.edu, Chris Masoud not a lot of sophomores with his can be the guy on the outside said. "I had a hard time getting "[Tchoula is] the most natural at cmasoud@nd.edu 
Monday, March 2, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Huskies 
continued from page 24 
said. ''I'm proud of our group. Connecticut made some big, big plays and some big buck­ets." 
That Notre Dame even had a chance to force overtime at the end seemed unlikely early in the first half. Led by Thabeet, the Huskies blocked six Irish shots in the first 10 minutes of the game, effectively eliminat­ing any offensive productivity from the Irish interior. 
On the other end of the court, Notre Dame struggled­equally when battling the Huskies in the low post. Thabeet, who struggled offen­sively against the Irish in South Bend, had his way with a variety of low post moves, and he combined with front-
Byers 
continued from page 24 
ond half, but within minutes Blaney had an answer for Notre Dame. The Irish went on anoth­er four-goal run late in the peri­od to seal the win. 
"We weren't happy about our win last weekend over Ohio State, we felt that we hadn't been executing well,~' Coyne said. "In practice we focused on the fundamentals and it paid off. They started to get rough and foul at the end, but we remained focused on the game and got the win." 
Senior Erin Goodman earned the win in goal, compiling 13 saves in just under 53 minutes of play. Junior Amy Wmik snagged two saves in the final seven min­utes. 
"All of our early season games are important for the national court partner Jeff Adrien to score 22 of the Huskies 32 first half points. 
Despite their struggles against the Connecticut big men, the Irish managed to stay in the game by resorting to what they do best -shooting. Notre Dame made four 3­pointers in the final 10 min­utes of the first half and shot a combined 6-of-15 from beyond the arc helping to finish the first 20 minutes down only 32­30. 
The shots that kept Notre Dame in the game early ulti­mately eluded the Irish in the second half as Notre Dame endured a shooting stretch reminiscent of their 33 percent shooting performance against the Huskies on Jan. 24. After halftime, the Irish shot only 2­of-12 from 3-point land. 
"It's frustrating not to knock down those shots, especially when the game ended up that close," McAlarney said. "We had some good looks." 
The Irish stayed in the game due largely to the contribu­tions of Tory Jackson. The junior point guard who has endured an up-and-down sea­son was at his creative best Saturday penetrating the Huskies lane and finishing at the hole or finding teammates for open looks. Jackson fin­ished the game with 17 points on 7 -of-14 shooting to go along with five assists. 
Notre Dame has little time to recover from Saturday's game as they prepare for what is a must-win game today at the JACC against Villanova if they hope to make the NCAA Tournament. The game begins at 7 p.m. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

picture. This win was big, but we have a lot of tests coming up on our spring break trip," Coyne said. "To accomplish our goals and stay at the top level of national competition we need to continue to keep focused and handle each game one at a 
.
time. " 

Notre Dame will travel to Dartmouth Friday for the first game of a three-game spring break road trip. 
Contact Nathaniel Lee at nlee5@nd.edu 

OtreeUy Across From The University of Notre Dame Stadium at Eddy Street Commons 
Exposed br'.ck wa!!s and hardwood style floors 
Expansiv!1 wln.dcws With spectacular Vfalt/$ -Stunning 1Moot ceilings -Rooftop decll wlih paf'<Oramlc views of tlw University 
ol Nolte Dame campus 

-Fully equipptd kl~ns with an abundance of cabinet~> Private baths for evf!!Y bedroom Full-size washer & dryer in every apartrrloot All utlntm ~'lei~ -l,W(:lfl C<ltle and internet lfli-Fi internet access throughout Club Hoose Enharu:ed Business Center ?tivate bai(X)I'liesln $$l!lct apart'lients 
· 24-hoorfrtneoo center wi!h sU!tiK)f..tha-art equipment &Wli Fit ·Community room with Wil & SU!roros Fun service concierge 
·Tanni.ng Salon Electronic card access to yoor apartment and amenities cenllJr Garage parking · Retail shops llfld remaurnnt.'li at street level Smail pets allowed 
THE DIFFERENCE BElWEEN LIVING AND LIVING WELL 
Vtslt our Leasing Center at the East comer of the North Eddy Street construction site on Angela 6tvd, 
email: eddy@foundryliving.com 

WU YUE!The Observer 

Senior center Christian Hanson shoots against Michigan State in Notre Dame's 5-0 win on senior night Friday. 
Seniors 
continued from page 24 
another CCHA regular season championship banner to the Joyce Center rafters. 
"It's about what we're try­ing to build here," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. "Banners create traditions, and the only way we're going to build a tradition is after a long period of time." 
The Irish (26-5-3, 20-4-3-3 CCHA) wasted no time putting the game out of reach. Condra scored the first.of four open­ing period goals just 1:48 into the game with a wrister over Spartan goalie Drew Palmisano's blocker. Palmisano was starting in­place of senior Jeff Lerg, who sat out due to injury. 
"They had three guys in my lane, and I was just trying to get it past them." Condra said. "I couldn't see the net and I don't think the goalie could see the puck." 
White doubled the lead at 
9:41 of the period, and fresh­man Billy Maday got into the scoring act just eight minutes later, firing a blistering one­timer just under the crossbar on Palmisano's stick side. 
Condra closed out the peri­od with his second goal of the night, and 12th of the season. 
The score stayed 4-0 until the third period, when junior right wing Christiaan Minella added one more goal for good measure, 
Pearce was rarely tested until the last two minutes of the game, when the Irish were killing a Patrick Gaul penalty. 
"That power play at the end really made me work for it," Pearce said. 
The shutout was Pearce's second in a row and 10th of his career. He said he wasn't as active in this one as some others. 
"You're not facing as many shots so you're not as into the game," he said. "You've just got to try and stay ready and not fall asleep, I guess." 
After the game, the seniors reflected on a career that went from just 13 wins in their freshman year to strong national championship con­tenders four years later. 
"As seniors, we look back and see wha.t a wonderful career we had, but when we came in we had no idea," Condra said. "They had just come off a terrible season. We had no idea we would do it this quickly." 
Pearce said that previous upperclassman paved the way for the success this team is experiencing. 
"Good things will come if you work hard," Pearce said. "And after all the work we put in over the past four years trying to change our culture, we're starting to see the ben­efits." 
Pearce added that, while he enjoyed the senior night fes­tivities, he planned to add a few more banners to the rafters before the end of the season. 
"There's a lot more to accomplish this year," he said. "It's nice to have this night, but there's going to be a lot more special nights for us." 
Saturday's 2-1 win at. Michigan State wrapped up the regular season for the Irish and also marked the first time any of Notre Dame's current seniors had won in East Lansing, Mich. The Irish hadn't beaten the Spartans on their home ice since Feb. 9, 2002. 
Condra and Hanson each scored for Notre Dame, and Pearce stopped 19 of 20 shots in a game the Irish dominat­ed, outshooting Michigan State 37-20. 
The Irish will now have a week off as the CCHA tourna­ment begins this weekend. Notre Dame will host a best­of-three series on March 13­15 for the right to get to the conference's semifinals in Detroit, Mich., on March 20­
21. 

Notes: 
uJackson said he was trying to get all six seniors on the ice for the final shift of Friday's game, but Gaul's penalty with two minutes remaining made it impossible. 
uBefore Friday's game, a moment of silence was observed for radio play-by­play man Mike Lockert, who passed away in his sleep Thursday night at the age of 
43. Lockert had called Irish games on Cat Country 99.9 FM and und.com for the past seven years. 
"It was just devastating to me. I got to know Mike real well," Jackson said. "Today, I can say it's not just about the voice, but the man behind the voice, and he was a tremen­dous man." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu, and Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 

See the differer1ce 100 P\NC interns made in Belize. 
Begin at vvwvv,p\vc.tv 

I ! 
f 

Monday, March 2, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
Across 34 "Oh!" in 
bsterreichBother 

persistently 35 Steps between 6 Airing floors 
10 Zilch 37 "My sweetie" in 14 Lots of a 1957 hit for the screaming and Bobbettes shouting 38 "Bad idea!" 15 Gleeful giggle 
41 " River'' 16 Plow tee.m (song from 17 Distrustful "Show Boat") 
18 Loretta of 42 Passover meal 
"M*A*S*H" 
43 Hush-hush org. 19 Aida of 
44 Offer advice 

"M*A*S*H" 
from around a 20 "Bad idea!" 
card table 23 Archibald or 
46 Barfly Thurmond of the 
47 Ice cream brand

N.B.A. 48 Babe in the
24 His and woods
25 6-1, 3-6 and 7-5, in tennis 50 Cornerstone abbr.
27 Race, as an engine 52 "Bad idea!" 
30 Sunken ship's 58 Couturier locale Christian 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

59 Elaborate April fool 60 Hall's singing partner 62 Are, in Argentina 63 "You're something _!" 64 Center Shaquille 65 Kind of carpet 66 Woodwind item 67 Bothersome 
Down Org. for Patriots and Packers 2 Jean who wrote ''The Clan of the 
Cave Bear'' 3 Gardener's gift 4 Arterial trunks 5 Romantic 
rendezvous 6 Very 7 Small 
salamander 8 Chicken piece 9 Presidential 
noes 10 Two-by-two 
vessel 11 Car bar 12 Letter starter 13 One of the 
Bronte sisters 21 "Phooey!" 22 Cause of a low 
Richter reading 25 Give the go­ahead 26 Undercooked 
meat danger 28 Has dinner 29 Aura, informally 
WILLSHORTZ 


31 Social 40 Shortstop Derek~ 52 Fateful day in arrangements March that don't always 
45 Instrument with 
53 Satellite signal 

30+ strings
work out 

receiver 32_-weensy 
47 Flammable gas~ 54 Letter after theta 33 Edgar who 
55 Lighten, as a

49 Cello feature 
painted burdenballerinas 51 Bend to go 56 Pink-slipped 

35 Beachgoer's through a acquisition doorway, say ... 57 Wood for or what may be 
36 Work over shipbuilding
in front of tile 39 Central street door 61 Wily 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CEtEBRlTlES BORN ONTIUSDAY: kn!;CnAckb. 31; Nik Kmhaw.Sl. Ron Rowmd, SS: Harry lielafonw, 82 
Happy Birthday: EnMiom may get the better of you Ibis year if you give in to trivial matl\':f$. nillk l>eyond Ill¢ imm.:diate and ~¢1 a gam<: plaathat will Wlll'k (tlr you. Overdo­in!I must be ~voided. It's re~t k> <'lll y(mr losses and recognite whatne<~s to be done in order 11> ~t.abilize your future. Your number.; are -l, ll, 18, 20, JS. 43. 4() 
ARIES (!\larch lh\prlll9): You may want tQ ;;onsider that you've be~n doing too much. for too.m;rny, for too long and you need a break. See what o!ht-'l> ba''" to otTer for a change and you may be surpri~d who steps forward. *** 
TAl.JRCS t,\prillQ-Muy 20): l);m't rely on others to do thing> that you ohould he doing yoursdL You will be criticized if you don't take care of business. An event that helps yow commwlil}· or a group you believe in will be a perfect cbanw for you to volunlecr your services.*** 
GEMINI (May 21-Jun~ 20): Don't let anyone take ad\'antage of your willingness to help out. A~ood idea will lead to a partneffihip. That person can <.>ftcr you what you need to devdop and promote what Y<1U want to dn. *** 
CANCER (.lune 21-July 22): Don't let anyon<' talk down to rou. push you around or eo~l you mon~y. You should l>e intcnt on connccling with sol!ICone who wants to help you with a project or hai< a proposal that could lead to a brighk'f future. **** 
LEO (,July 2.\-Aug. l2J: Love and emotions will he conflicting. Consider your mo!ivc.s and those of odmrs hefore you make a choke. Don't feel compelled to do what someone else does ur el>fl<'C\ the sa= in return.** · 
VIR<;o !Aug. 2.\-StpL 22.1: Visil an old friend & a place that intere$ts you or to whkh vou might consider tno\•ing. You are up for change~ th:u will allow you to expand )'OUr bori.w~, friendships and C\'cn your profes~ional position. The price you l);}Y will be worth 1t ***** 
LIBRA !Stpt. 23-0ct. 2ZI: J)('ln'l O\'erspcnd. overindulge or overdo. Don't be cutit-ed by ~-f~st-cJ~Sb scbeme. N<•twork and get your O"'n i<k.(U t>llt in the <'Jll'll for otberl<t<J ilwcst in,instcadofhdping someone d~ with his or her cause.*** 
SCORPIO fOct. 2.\-Nnv. Zl): Don't give into demands. emotional hlad:mail or hean;ay. N(>W is uot th~;: time lo challenge <llhcr> whcu Y"" need to prot~<:t and defend }'<lllf p<loi­ti(m~ Arguments wi.ll ~low ~'<lU do\\11, *** 
SMillTARRlS (Nov. 22-llcc. 21 ): Taking on too mueh will C0$1 you p.;~onally. fill<ln· dally or emotionally. Restrict your prmni~cs and )-'our expenditures. A qnicl time a\ home with someone you like to ~pend time with will be your best bet. *** 
CAl'RICORN like. 22-Jnn. 191: You can make ~(lmc change~ al boule that will raise the \·alue o( your a.sd• <lf bdp you g~t your {inan<.'e• und.-r eontrol. The mow you do to ~nsure your future !\Cl'Urity.lhe better you will feeL M:tkc sure that whoever is in ~·our life i~ <m lbe SJmlt' p;tge. ***** 
AQl'ARU!S (Jan. 20-Feb. t8.1: You eannot give io toso,.,onc who has waited too long wnl<Xt y<.>u haltu·ay. Nothing will ehange if you don't initiate what you want to S<.'t' · happen, Keep your ,~motions <1Ut nf any decision. ** 
Ptsrt>:s (f'eb. !?-March 20): An n!U friend will have an inll=st in somdlting you arc doing and will offer to contribut~. Before you :u:c.:pt find (~II what he or she wants in return. Spell out the terms 1md .:onditions and delegate the responsibilities beforehand. 
**** 

Birthday llnhy: )(m queS!ion everything. You do no! give in to for<'C and will never kt anyone d(>wn. You ha\'C a strong code of ethics and aren't afraid to go it alone. 
www.BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 

THE DOME PIECE 
WeJCoMero 
rHE OOME PIECE 
GU/06 
ro 



MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
DAVID CAVADINI 

"HI. V'INCI NIM WlrH A GNAT' Nlii!V PROWCf'. ANO I'M T8UI, YOU ro I'ORGI!T' AIIOUT' SHAM-WOW. H8RIS A 
\ 

ORDER / HOWl 
J 
' 
JUMBLE 
~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
VELOH 

( J I 
©2009 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
r~ffi [] 
THAAMS 
( J I b 

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

-
--14--­

WHAT HE DID WITH THe: GAr<De:NING TOOL..S WHEN THE 
GAME 5TAr<T£:D. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: II [ Saturday's IJumbles: 
Answer: 

I I I J" rI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) BASIS USURP POLLEN PIGPEN What the school doctor checked during the eye exams -THE PUPILS' PUPILS 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address ______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip_______ 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish fall to No.2 Connecticut after back and forth contest 
Connecticut frontcourt power valiant effort that came up just before declaring himself inca­Still with a chance to tie, the
By GREG ARBOGAST 

were just enough to put the short. pable of shooting his earned Irish got the ball into the hands 
Sports Writer 

Irish on the wrong side of a 72-After a see-saw second half in free throws. Thabcet, a 63 per­of McAlarney, who fired a long 65 score. which no team opened up cent free-throw shooter who three with a hand in his face. 
It wasn't a game Notre Dame "I think we still have a shot greater than a six-point lead, was 2-for-6 from the line on the The shot was on line but hit the was expected to win, nor was it [at the NCAA tournament)," Notre Dame found themselves day, was replaced by guard JelT front iron. Huskies guard a game the Irish had to win to senior guard Kyle McAlarney. down 66-65 with 59 seconds Austrie, a 76 percent free­Kemba Walker grabbed the keep their NCAA Tournament "We've been recovering from rematnmg a!'ter a Luke throw shooter. Austrie knocked rebound, and Connecticut made hopes alive. That's about the losses from this all year. This Harangody layup. On the ensu­down both free throws while its free throws down the stretch best Notre Dame can do to con­isn't a game where a loss ing Connecticut possession, Thabeet watched from the to ice the game. sole themselves after coming up knocks us out. A win would Huskies 7-foot-3 center bench. "We gave ourselves every just short of a season-defining have propelled us, but we can Hasheem Thabeet was fouled "If IThabeet] faked it, I'm opportunity to win in a tough win Saturday afternoon at No. 2 still recover from this." hard by the 6-foot McAlaraney. glad" Huskies coach Jim place against a heck of a team," Connecticut. Recovering from Saturday's Thabeet went sprawling to Calhoun joked. "Because I Notre Dame coach Mike Brey Poor shooting. questionable loss will require mentally over­the floor and remained on the never thought he was that
-free-throws and too much coming what was ultimately a ground for a short period sophisticated about the game." see HUSKIES/page 21 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

Byers sets points record inbigwin over Stanford 
By NATHANIEL LEE 
Sports Writer 

Senior .lillian Byers became Notre Dame's all-time point leader after scoring five goals in No. 12 Notre Dame's 17-8 victory over No. 16 Stanford Saturday at the Loftus Sports Center. 
".lillian's performance was out­standing, she was very relaxed and in the flow of the game," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. "We never talked about the record, she just played hard for the team and for the win." 
Byers' five-point performance gave her a career total of 238 points. 
Also pacing the Irish (3-1) was junior Gina Sciosia's four goals and one assist, sophomore Shaylyn Blaney's three goals, freshman Maggie Tamasitis' one goal and two assists and sopho­more Ansley Stewart's one goal and one assist. 
"This was a huge game for us. Not· only is there a rivalry between our schools, but Stanford is a great team and tested us," Coyne said. ".This game was revenge for a tough loss last year. We capitalized on a lot of their errors early on to put it away." 
Sophomore midfielder Kailene Abt put the Irish on the board first just 34 seconds into the first half. The teams traded goals until Byers took off, scoring four consecutive goals to put the Irish up 6-2. 
Sciosia and sophomore Jackie Doherty netted scores of their own before the end of the half to bring the score to 9-3. 
Stanford struck first in the sec-
see BYERS/page 21 
HOCKEY 

Seniors finish with sweep 
By MATT GAMBER and SAM WERNER Sports Writers 

Erik Condra's senior night 
. had pretty much everything. With a pair of goals, a shutout win, a picture with a big trophy and jhc opportu­nity to unfurl a championship banner, there really isn't too much more he could have asked for. 
''I'm excited," the senior captain said after the game: "It's an exciting thing being a senior· and having a _big ordeal." 
Notre Dame's six seniors -Condra, goaltender Jordan Pearce, center Christian Hanson, de1'enseman Luke Lucyk, left wing Garrett Regan and center Justin White -were honored after Friday's 5-0 win over Michigan State. 

BENGAL BOUTS 

Taking home the trophy 
Perez triumphs for fourth straight title 
By CHRIS MASOUD and ERIC 
PRISTER 
Sports Wrirers 
130 pounds 
Joe "David Hassel" Hof def. Michael "The Silver City Slugger" Sayles 
Neither fighter was able to take a clear lead after two rounds, but the senior Hof pulled away in the final round to earn the split-decision victo­ry. 
"There were a couple of times where I was trying to wrap him up, but he wouldn't let me get him," Sayles said. "He just kept throwing a lot of real flurries of body shots." 
Although Sayles was able to evade some of Hof's jabs and hooks with his quick feet and 
see CHAMPS/page 20 


Benford Begay, right, throws a right to the head of Pat Burns during the 200-pound championship fight of Bengal Bouts Saturday. Begay won in a unanimous decision. 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles fall in finals to Hope 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
Despite a record-breaking run to the championship, the Belles will have a hard time forgetting the end. 
The Belles' first ever MIAA Championship appearance ended with a 77-47 loss to No. 1 Hope Saturday at the Flying Dutchmen's DeVos Fieldhouse in Holland, Mich. The loss capped a season in which the No. 2 Belles (17 -10, 13-3 MIAA) set a program record in wins. 
"From this point forward, we continue to do what we have done in the past," Belles coach Jennifer Henley said. "Our four outgoing seniors have set the bar high for those 
see MIAA/page 21 
CCHA Commissioner Tom Anastos also presented the team with the 2009 CCI-lA regular-season championship trophy, which the Irish 

clinched last weekend. At the end of the festivities, Condra flipped a switch that unveiled 
see SENIORS/page 21 




