
THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Candidates debate prominent student issues 
Four tickets square off in first 
Skunks, capes and official electoral contest Wednesday taxicabs 
Most journalists go their whole
ByJENN METZ 
careers without ever covering a 
News Ediror 
debate in which one of the candi­dates uses the term "the lube 
The four tickets vying for the positions of student crew." I am body president and vice president presented them­not one of Kaitlynn Riely selves before their constituents in the annual general those jour­election debate held by the Judicial Council nalists. 
Associate

Wednesday night. Student 
News Editor 

George Chamberlin, president of the Judicial government Council, acted as moderator of the hour-long debate, candidates and asked the candidates three questions from the Luke Lennon and Charlie Harig Council and five submitted by students. want the dining halls, particularly 
The tickets -juniors Laura Burdick and Derek North, to hire workers to continu­Sanchez, junior Grant Schmidt and sophomore ously "lube" the salad bowls so Cynthia Weber, junior James McCaughan and sopho­they do not stick when picked up. more Tom Gorski and freshmen Luke Lennon and This was just one of the manyCharlie Harig -gave two minute opening statements, JESS LEEffhe Observer 
Candidates sit in the Lafortune lobby during Wednesday's debate held by the see DEBATE/page 8 Judicial Council. Community relations, textbook prices among platform issues. see TICKETS/page 6 
University to celebrate 
• 


anmversary 
By LIZ O'DONELL News Wrirer 
Today marks the beginning of a yearlong celebration of Charles Darwin's life that will take place at Notre Dame. 
"Darwin at Notre Dame" is a series of events that will take place at the University through the rest of this school year as well as into the next in order to commem­orate the life and works of the esteemed scientist. 
Margaret Culhane, a senior majoring in Biology and the Program of Liberal Studies, said the planning for this cel­ebration has been taking place for around two years. 
"I have been actively involved in "Darwin at Notre Dame" since August, though I do research as a research assistant for Phil Sloan who had me compiling lists of Darwin events all last year," she said, "I know that plan­ning for the events has been underway since · 2007 at least." 
2009 marks the 200th anniversary of Darwin's birth and the 150th anniversary of the publication of his most famous work, "On the Origin of Species." 
On the official Web site of the celebration, John McGreevy, Dean of the College of Arts and Letters said, "That Notre Dame would celebrate, and investi­gate Darwin's accomplish-
see DARWIN/page 9 

Obama's racial impact on U.S. debated 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 

Last night, ·students and university staff members met in the Coleman-Morse Lounge for an interracial forum called "Where Do We Go From Here," which discussed the impact of the election of the nation's first African American'"president. 
Participants included mem: hers of Wabruda, the male African American club on campus, Shades of Ebony, the female African American club on campus, Sisters of Nefertiti, an African American club at Saint Mary's 
STUDENT SENATE 

Zoning lavvs main topic of concern for Council 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 

Continuing the examination of student relations with the South Bend community, the Student Senate hosted 4th district Common Council member Ann Puzzello to present South Bend residents' side of the story Wednesday. 
Puzzello said the community is grateful because it has seen a decrease in noisy student par­ties, but she asked for better communication than there has been in the past. 
She said the relationship between the University and -the community does not have to be a love/hate one, as long as there is direct communication about an{i staff members from the University Counseling Center, said Saint Mary's senior Melissa Gates, who facilitated the discussion. 
Gates began the discussion by posing the question, "Where do we go from here as African Americans after America has elected its first black president? And also ... does this change anything for everyday people, [like] us?" 
"I think one thing that we have to understand, since Barack Obama is in offtce that doesn't mean that we are in a post-racial America," Senior Matthew Tipton, presi­dent of Wabruda, said. "It's something that gives people 
issues such as student parties and zoning laws. 
"I think the two groups can work together quite well," Puzzello said. "There are ways you can be neighbors, instead of isolated from the communi­ty." 
A disregard for zoning laws­which limit houses where more than two unrelated people are allowed to live -by students looking to live off campus is a problem that plagues the com­munity, Puzzello said. A lot of houses are turning into student housing that should not, espe­cially in the Harter Heights neighborhood, directly south of campus, near Notre Dame Avenue and Angela Boulevard. 
see SENATE/page 9 


confidence for change. It's a symbol for us in America going a long way." 
Junior and co-president of Shades of Ebony, Danielle Keller agreed that Obama can be seen as a symbol of hope, but warned against relying on Obama to solve all problems. 
"There is a danger of saying look what he can do for us. It turns into a Messiah complex. What is really important at a local level is that people will be inspired by him," Keller said. 
The quality that makes Obama so inspiring is how much people are able to relate to him, Jennifer Kestner from the University Counseling Center said. 
"He's so relatable. Little kids can sec themselves in him. You know, he's shooting basketball with anyone in a pick up game. That provides some hope that it's not just some suit and tie that repre­sents the presidency ... He represents a family man. [He I came from a poor background and has made it. That pro­vides more hope," she said. 
Keller said that this image that people can relate to has made it "cool" to be a com­munity organizer, because Obama was a community organizer and it has become 
see FORUM/page 9 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, February 5, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 

It could be 

w-orse 
Next time you want to moan about parietals or alcohol rules, remember: you could have it much worse. 
JJke the students of liberty University in Richmond, Va. You're upset that you can't take shots of SoCo at 3:30 a.m. 
Bill Brink 
alone in your room with some hot little number you met at 
Sports Editor
the party down the hall; students at Liberty complain that they can't do laundry after 10 p.m. on a Tuesday. 
You can't watch movies rated R at liberty, and if you do it's a "reprimand­able offense," according to the on-cam­pus living guide. You also can't play video games rated M, A or RP. I'm think­ing that means "Call of Duty" is out; this seems to be a more "Yoshi's Story" kind of school. Anything loud enough to be heard in the hallway is considered too loud, which makes Rock Band a little troublesome. 
Music must be kept within Christian standards, whatever that means, and the university employs a "reprimand" system to discipline students. Think house points from Harry Potter but in a negative fashion. Different offenses have different amounts of reprimands; staying out past curfew is four reprimands, hav­ing a weapon is 30. I don't know what they add up to, but at this point it's not looking good. 
They do have a curfew: Midnight Sunday, Monday, Wednesday and Thurdsay. 10 p.m. Tuesday. Friday and Saturday the students go crazy because they don't have to be back until 12:30. And curfew means curfew, because stu­dents aren't allowed out of their dorms afterwards. Of course. no laundry after curfew. 
By the way, if you're smart enough to live off campus, you're not welcome on campus after curfew. There's also no sunbathing on campu~ (except by the Campus East pool, clearly the place to go to scan for the honeys). Sounds like a rosy dorm environment. It better be, because you can't stay anywhere but the dorm. Direct quote: "Resident freshmen, sophomores, and juniors are not permit­ted to stay off campus overnight in the apartments or houses of single off-cam­pus individuals." No overnights with sin­gles? Isn't that the point of an overnight? 
No PDA here, because "Handholding is the only appropriate form of personal contact." You can't even visit the apart­ment of someone of the opposite sex unless there are three or more people there, and God forbid you have to pee, because "under no circumstances" are you allowed to enter the bathroom of the opposite sex. In fact, blanket statements sum it up best: guys and gals can't be alone in school buildings, in an open area after dusk and never ever ever can they enter each other's dorms. 
Harsh, right? Makes Notre Dame's rules seem tame in comparison. So remember the next time you're aching to sneak a friend into your room for some fun time or crack open a bottle of hard A, be glad you can still play Halo and visit Reekers at 1 a.m. It's a privi­lege. 
And it's a good thing Liberty is in Virginia, and not here: there's no sled­ding allowed on campus. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standatds of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mis­takes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU MOST LOOKING FORWARD TO IN THE KEENAN REVUE? 



Tim Ryan Paul Hotovy 
Freshman Sophomore Keenan Keenan 
"A whole lot of "Keenan's John Siegel, if insane you know what creativity. , 
I mean. , 

Mike Wiederecht 
Freshman Keenan 
"Strippers. " 

Man shows up drunk to serve Intoxication sentence 
IOWA CITY Authorities say a 19-year­old Iowa City man showed up drunk to serve a three-day public intoxi­cation sentence at the Johnson County Jail on Tuesday. Court records said initial tests showed the man had a blood­alcohol content of 0.101 percent when he arrived at the jail. 
He now faces another charge, but a court date on the new charge hasn't been set. 
Court records said the man pleaded guilty to 
public intoxication in May 2008 and was convicted of public intoxication sec­
ond-offense  last  
December.  
Man  boldly  robs  Colo.  

store with Star Trek sword 
COLORADO SPRINGS ­Colorado police say a man wiih too much "Star Trek" on his mind used a sword modell~d after the weapon carried by Klingon warriors to demand money from two convenience stores. 
Investigators say the man took an unknown amount of cash from a 7­Eleven store Wednesday but left empty-handed when he tried to rob another store about 25 minutes later. 
Police Lt. David Whitlock says no one was injured. 
The StarTrek.com Web site says the double­pointed sword used by the Klingons on "Star Trek" is crescent-shaped and about a yard long. 
Police  did  not  specify  
what  material  it  was  
made of.  

No one has been charged in the incident. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

Chase Riddle 
Freshman Keenan 
"The Facebook ·Skit., 
IN BRIEF 

There will be a conference on "Sustainability and the Environment: The Original Green" at 7 p.m. today in 104 Bond Hall. The event is free and open to the public. 
Keenan Hall's annual come­dy show "The Keenan Revue" will take place tonight, Friday and Saturday at 7p.m. in the O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College. 
The Baseball Eighth Annual Opening Night Dinner will be at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Mike Sciascia of the LA Angels and Notre Dame alum Jeff Samardzija will,. speak. Notre Dame team members, who will be seated at. tables with the rest of the attendees, will be available for autographs prior to the din­ner, from 6 -6:45 p.m. For dinner ticket information, please contact the Notre Dame athletics ticket office at (57 4) 631-7356. 
L.A. Theatre Works pres­ents "The Great Tennessee Monkey Triar' Saturday at 7 
p.m. in the Decio Mainstage Theatre of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The play is based on original tran­scripts of the famous 1925 Tennessee v. John Scopes "Monkey Trial," which chal­lenged the newly passed Tennessee legislature's "Butler Act" banning the teaching of evolution in the state's public schools. Purchase tickets online, visit or call the Ticket Office at 574-631-2800. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

.... 
<C 
(,) 



0 

HIGH 24 HIGH 20 HIGH
...I 
LOW 20 LOW 10 LOW 

··~···  ~  
~  
.  ·:.}%:~.  .·': .  

HIGH 53 HIGH 40 HIGH 40 LOW 31 LOW 28 LOW 30 
Atlanta 36 I 18 Boston 29 I 11 Chicago 18 I 7 Denver 63 I 39 Houston 62 I 38 Los Angeles 76 I 50 Minneapolis 17 I 9 New York 30 I 13 Philadelphia 30 I 15 Phoenix 83 I 52 Seattle 57 I 42 St. Louis 28 I 13 Tampa 56 I 31 Washington 31 I 19 
Thursday, February 5, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

CEAC tneasures vvaste in SMC dining hall 
By MANDl STIRONE 
News Writer 
Yesterday afternoon, Saint Mary's College Environmental Action Coalition collected the wasted food from 856 people during lunch in the Saint Mary's Dining Hall. The sec­ond "Weigh Your Waste" event amassed a grand total of 267 3/4 pounds, said Gwen O'Brien, Director of Media Relations. 
That equals out to about .31 pounds per person, down .01 from last February's "Weigh Your Waste" which amassed a total of 226 pounds for· 708 people, equaling about .32 pounds per person. 
During lunch hours in the Dining Hall, four student volunteers along with Dr. Doris Watt and some mem­bers of the Dining Hall staff, collect­ed food that students hadn't eaten, member Monica Aguirre said. 
"We just decided we wanted to do it again," she said, referring to last year's "Weigh Your Waste" event. 
"I just think people need to be aware about how much food they're not eating," member, Jamie 'Ibord'ien said. 
Aguirre al'>o said the event was about awareness, and added that it was an attempt to convince students to change their habits. 
"Especially for today but even · more after this type of thing, I notice. . . . hopefully people will too, especially people who try to hide their food," she said. 
Something the volunteers noticed was the effect their presence had on students, volunteer, Claire Easby­Smithsaid. 
"We've gotten bananas and apples [that haven't been eaten]," she said, adding that they've also found unopened packets of crackers on some trays that students were just throwing away. 
But regardless of how they react, the important thing is that students are taking notice, Easby-Smith said. 
"They see what we're trying to do, others find it disgusting," she said. 
Some students, after dropping off their trays, said they think part of the waste problem is a lack of vari­ety in the Dining Hall. 
"Well, I do think it's really sad how much food we waste.. .I do think the Dining Hall sucks. We had Spanish rice ten times within the past seven days," junior Anastasia Wilson said. "Regardless of whether we like it or not, it's sad that people are starving elsewhere." 
Fellow junior, Megan Sotak agreed with her, adding that some­times people forget how lucky they are. 
"It's easy to take it for granted," she said. 
Another student, sophomore Liz Cress, pointed out that she didn't know how much students wasted until she saw it all in the buckets the environmental group was using to hold the wasted food in. 
"I think it's a good idea," she said, "I never realized how people don't recycle." 
Contact Mandi Stirone mstiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Faith,liberalismrelationshipdiscussed 
By CHRISTINE FAGAN 
News Writer 

About 40 people gathered in Hesburgh Center to hear a debate concerning the "rela­tionship between faith and liberalism," as put in the question by A. James McAdams, director of the Nanovic Institute for European Studies. 
Mark Lilla, a Professor of Humanities at Columbia University, recently wrote his answer in the provocative 
book, "The Stillborn God; Religion Politics, and the Modern West." His opponent, Notre Dame's . own Professor Daniel Philpott, wrote a blog response to the book's claims, but yesterday the two· men were given a 
tolerance," Philpott said, "are rooted in biblical thought." 
Philpott said that theology itself defends religious free­dom, and was the root to such movements as early feminism and the civil rights movement. 
Lilla countered that state­ment later by saying despite being correct; Philpott was neglecting biblically endorsed racism, denial of education to women, and hierarchy in the home. 
"[The Church said] a right 
"It is a good thing we're past political theology for legitimacy. But it is not a good thing to jettison all the theological appeals." 
Mark Lilla professor of humanities 
to religious freedom is a right to human dignity," said Philpott. 
Then Lilla took his turn and began it with his defini­tion of political theology. 
"Political theology," Lilla said, "is a doc­trine that gives institutions a legitimate the UK all religious schools are government funded. 
Lilla said that his opponent made very good points, and even agreed that, "The idea of separation of church ver­sus state comes from Catholic thinkers and the protestant idea of individual­ity of religious experience." 
Yet, Lilla went on to say that this fact has nothing to do with legitimacy. 
"We can't be sure what God wants from us in politi­cal life," Lilla said. "And human-beings ruling them­selves is sufficient for legiti­macy." 
Yet, Lilla, despite saying the separation was a good thing, also said that total dis­regard of theology was not the best approach to govern­ing. 
"It is a good thing we're past political theology for legitimacy," said Lilla, "But it is not a good thing to jettison all the theological appeals." 
Lilla used the example of human dignity in govern­ment and the concept of the soul to conclude his argu­ment. He asked if it was pos­sible to define or defend human dignity without the theological concept of a soul. 
The end of the debate marked the beginning of a bigger conference at Notre Dame involving the separa­tion of church and state. 
Contact Christine Fagan at cfagan2@nd.edu 
chance to meet and debate face to face. 
Philpott began the debate by saying that religious phi­losophy has always been cru­cial to the expansion of liber­alism, and that a true divorce of the two is not pos­sible. He added that religion lays a foundation for modern liberalism. 
"Arguments for religious 

authority based on divine revelations." 
Lilla said that the separa­tion of church and state does not include culture, values, or religious arguments, and that in fact, all of these things can exist under the separation. He also said that different governments have different levels of separation, for example, he said that in 

page 4 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 5, 2009 



Keenan Revue sells outin 11 rrrinutes 
After six months of preparation, production opens tonight 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
The men of Keenan Hall have spent six months putting together the highly anticipat­ed comedy show, the Keenan Revue, but it only took 11 and a half minutes for tickets to the show to sell out on all three nights, show director Danny Wheeland said. 
Students enjoy the merci­less mocking of Notre Dame life every year because a group of about 100 Keenan Hall residents work as writ­ers, actors, stage crew, publi­cists and more to produce this campus fixture. 
"We get the staff together in September, and in October, we start thinking of a theme," Wheeland said. "From there, we hype up all guys in the dorm, especially the fresh­man, letting them know what the Revue is." 
The staff then waits until second semester to start the actual production of the revue, he said. 
As the director Wheeland, along with producer Andrew Derksen, is in charge of hir­ing staff, overseeing the writ­ing of the skits and collecting funds for the show. The Hall receives a small amount from the Student Activities Office, but most of the funding comes from donations from Keenan Hall alumni, Wheeland said. 

Wheeland and Derksen said they chose head writers to oversee the 'Revue News' segment of the Keenan Revue, write as many skits as possible and help with the skits submitted by other hall residents in an open call. 
"The head writers are the most experienced and have written many skits in the past," Derksen said. "We try to get them to write as many skits as they can." 
"They are guys who are generally known to be funny guys," Wheeland said. 
After the skits are written, there are auditions to play the different roles in the show, Wheeland said. This year, there are between 20 to 25 skits, he said. 
The show, entitled "It's a Bird, It's a Plane, It's the Keenan Revue!" has a super­hero theme this year, Wheeland said. 
One skit explores Notre Dame's dining halls, specifi­cally the relationship between students and workers, he said. 
Wheeland said another skit attempts to answer the ques­tion of what really happens when girls go to the bath­room. 
"There is such a wide vari­ety of content in all the skits," Derksen said. 
The show is then performed for the Rector of Keenan Hall, Fr. Dan Nolan, who can veto any objectionable material. 
"He sits in during tryouts and gives his approval of skits so you won't get the com­pletely obscene and ridicu­lous skits," Derksen said. 
Wheeland said a couple of skits were omitted during the tryouts, but they were skits that would not have made the final cut anyways. 
"We know what's appropri­ate," Derksen said. 
Since the Revue will be held at Saint Mary's ()'Laughlin Auditorium, the College reviews the show to ensure it is "not just bashing Saint Mary's," Wheeland said. 
"It's touchy," Derksen said. "They usually let a couple things go as long as you aren't blatantly making fun of them and not making fun of anyone else." 
If there are just a couple of things in the show, they usu­ally let that slide, Wheeland said. 
"We do little things to get around it like 'Saint Monica's College,"' he said. 
Derksen and Wheeland said they are looking forward to the show and hope to hear laughter in the crowd. 
"Hopefully there will be laughter," Wheeland said. "If not, they you will hear crying from me." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 



Electronic records save Inoney, lives, says Angst 
Special to The Observer 
The economic stimulus pack­age winding its way through Congress includes $20 billion for health information technolo­gy, or health IT. The funding would boost the movement toward establishing an interop­erable national system for exchanging electronic health records (EI·IRs) and is expected to increase the number of physicians who use electronic record systems in their prac­tices. Currently, less than 20 percent do. 
Corey Angst, a Notre Dame management professor and expert on health IT, says such a move will save money, promote wellness, and most importantly, save lives. 
"Electronic health records provide the means for all of your information to be available to you and every physician or health care provider whom you wish to see it," Angst said. "This will not only reduce the likelihood of duplicate tests ­which increase health-care costs needlessly -but also make medical error less likely. 
"If a doctor can review your entire history of drug allergies or treatments by calling up your electronic record, there is less chance that a wrong pre­scription or some other error is made." 
Angst says that according to a 1999 study by the Institute of Medicine, "To Err is Human: Building a Safer Health System," between 44,000 and 98,000 Americans die each year due to avoidable medical errors. 
Angst also points out the net­work effects of having an inter­operable system. 
"EI-IRs are somewhat like fax machines in that the true value comes from lots of people adopting the technology -a fax machine is of no value if only you own one," he said. 
"While there is some value in a single doctor having an EHR, the public or societal value is exponentially more when the vast majority has them. 
"If all of this rich medical data is residing in databases that can be analyzed, it isn't a stretch to think that researchers could be using the data to develop new drugs, identify outbreaks, search for geographic pockets of certain diseases, and even identify the best means of countering obesi­ty or even the common cold." 
Many people are concerned that digitizing health records could result in loss of privacy, but Angst said that through education, most consumers will become more comfortable with electronic records. 
"Digitizing scares almost everybody, but nothing is really changing in terms of informa­tion becoming less private or secure," he said. "Paper records are potentially more of a security risk." 
The College of Engineering Welcomes Early Admitted Engineering Intents 


C:CL..L.ECie CF 
Joseph Altura Erik Anderson Maura Aranguren Taylor Barker Tyler Bartlow Robert Bauer Alexa Becker Thomas Belatti Matthew Bergman Daniel Boyle Kevin Brandenberg Nicholas Castro Matthew Charnley Kevin Creamer Mary Crofton Caitlin Cunningham Kevin David Justin Delaney Kerry Dobmeier Andrew Dolan Patrick Duncan Angela Ferreira Erin Fisher Harold Gadlent Michael Georgiadis Bradley Geyer Matthew Goedke Scott Green Hillary Guardo Patrick Handy Janelle Heinle Christopher Hensler Jack Heuer Eric Hinterman Justin Hintz Emily Hoffmann Matthew Hubbard Gary Hunt Ill Carl Josephson Shannon Kelly Robert Kirk leo Kirsch Kyle Knapke Daniel Koop Patrick Kramer Allan La Grenade-Finch Sarah Leung Benjamin luft Joseph Magro Patrizia Martellaro Brendan McAuliffe Michael O'Brien Kristi Olesik William Paape Richard Palacios David Palm Jacob Pankow luis Pena Thomas Pollard Garrett Quick Samantha Reilly Allison Reinsvold Eva Robert Megan Rodts Andrew Rosenburg Eric Ross Brian Salat Daniel Samide Timothy Scott Michael Selep laura Semeraro Jarred Simmer Derek Simon Andrew Sindoni Kyle Sladek David Smith Zachary Stauder Christina Stutts Nathan Thomas Kaytlyn Troyer Ross Turner Jeffrey Ulrich Kyle Vinson Stephen Wandor Brett Wiener Michael Williams Derek Wolf Samuel Wright Thomas Young II James Yurkovich 


&NCiiNEERINCi 
We hope to see you in ourCiassof2013. 
~-------­






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, February 5, 2009 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Sunni leader claims election fraud 
BAGHDAD -A senior Sunni tribal leader claimed Wednesday to have hundreds of doc­uments proving fraud in weekend elections in Anbar province, escalating a crisis that has threatened to reignite violence in the for­mer insurgent stronghold. 
Iraq's electoral commission, which is over­seeing the process, promised it was taking the complaints seriously and warned the findings from an investigation could affect election results for the province. 
Signaling the high stakes involved, a prominent national Sunni lawmaker traveled to Anbar province to try to mediate the dis­pute, which has pitted the tribal leaders against a rival Sunni party that is part of the national government. 
"We came to Anbar province to ease the situation because there is a lot of tension," said Saleh al-Mutlaq. "There was a lot of fraud. Its effects will be great unless it is resolved." 
Russia to help in Afghanistan 
MOSCOW -President Dmitry Medvedev said Wednesday that Russia and its ex-Soviet allies wanted to cooperate with the United States on stabiliz.ing Afghanistan but he appeared to link any help to changes in Western policy. 
Saying Moscow and its allies "are ready for full-fledged, comprehensive cooperation," the Hussian leader seemed to imply that Moscow's help on Afghanistan was contin­gent on a broader list of changes it wants from the new U.S. administration. 
These include a halt to NATO enlargement in Europe and the cancellation of plans for a 
U.S. missile-defense system on Russia's west­ern borders. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Ark. official injured in car bomb 
WEST MEMPHIS, Ark. -A car bomb explo­sion critically wounded the head of the Arkansas panel that licenses and disciplines doctors, deto­nating in his driveway as he was leaving for work, authorities said. 
Police said they had no idea why someone would target Dr. Trent P. Pierce, chairman of the Arkansas State Medical Board. The explosive device placed on or near the car shattered the front of his white Lexus hybrid in a blast the police chief said could be heard a mile away. 
"We don't know if thi'i was a random target or someone specifically targeted him," said West Memphis Police Chief Bob Paudert. He said it wasn't known ifthe doctor was in his car or out­side it when the device exploded. 

Good Samaritan stops suicide 
CAMDEN, N.J.-Jesse Coltrane exchanged instant messages and phone calls with a despondent California teenager, then became startled by the picture on his webcam: The young man who had been discussing suicide was starting to cut the skin of his forearm with a razor blade. 
The teen stopped answering the phone and logged off his computer. 
That's when Coltrane called Sacramento police, who quickly went in search of the young man. 
By the time officers found the 18-year-old, he had decided not to go through with the attempt, said police spokesman Sgt. Norm Leong. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Highway commissioner resigns 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana's state highway commissioner is resigning and will be replaced by the executive director of the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission. 
Indiana Department of Transportation Commissioner Karl Browning will step down at the end of February to return to the pri­vate sector. 
Gov. Mitch Daniels says he did all he could to keep Browning, who he says did a spec­tacular job. The governor's office said Browning didn't plan to stay in state govern­ment very long. 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 

Obama signs health insurance bill 
Bill extends coverage to 4 million uninsured children, additional $32.8 billion 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Barack Obama signed a bill Wednesday extending health coverage to 4 million uninsured children, a much-needed win a day after he lost his nominee to lead his drive for sweeping health care reform. 
"This is good. This is good," a smiling Obama said as he entered the East Room for the packed, ebullient signing ceremony. 
The bill went to the White House fresh from passage in the Democratic-controlled House, on a vote of 290-135. Forty Republicans joined in approval. 
The bill calls for spending an additional $32.8 billion on the State Children's Health Insurance Program, known as SCHIP, which now enrolls an estimated 7 million chil­dren. Lawmakers generated that revenue by raising the federal tobacco tax. 
Obama said adding 4 mil­lion children to the program was a key step toward his promise of universal health care coverage for all. 
"We fulfill one of the high­est responsibilities that we have, to ensure the health and well-being of our nation's children," the presi­dent said before a cheering Democratic lawmakers. In nation, citing the distraction the program and Medicaid to audience of families, law­late 2007, President George of his delinquent tax pay­children of newly arrived makers and interest groups. W. Bush twice vetoed similar ments. legal immigrants. "Providing coverage to 11 bills. The Senate passed the SCHIP was created more Republicans said they sup­million children is a down­same bill last week. Obama than a decade ago to help ported SCI-liP and providing payment on my commitment made it a top priority in his children in families with additional money for the to cover every single first 100 days and one step incomes too high to qualify program. However, they American." in his push for universal cov­for Medicaid but too low to argued that Democrats were 
Republicans criticized the erage by the end of his first afford private coverage. taking the program beyond cost of the legislation. They term. Federal money for the pro­its original intent and were also said it will mean an esti­"President Obama and gram was set to expire encouraging states to cover mated 2.4 million children Congress are demonstrating March 31, barring action by middle-class families who who otherwise would have that change has come to Congress. To cover the otherwise could get private access to private insurance Washington, and we are increase in spending, the bill insurance. will join the State Children's moving forward to improve would boost the federal "This debate is about, do Health Insurance Program the quality of life for excise tax on a pack of ciga­we want a children's health instead. American families struggling rettes by 62 cents, to $1.01 a insurance program that cov­
"The Democrats continue during these hard times," pack. ers every child in America to push their government­said Rep. Charles Rangel, D­Opponents of th~ bill com­with state and federal dol­run health care agenda -N.Y., chairman of the House plained that the tobacco tax lars regardless of their abili­universal coverage, as they Ways and Means Committee. increase hits the poor the ty to pay?" said Rep. Joe call it," said Rep. Pete House passage came a day hardest, because they are Barton, R-Texas. "Do we Sessions, R-Texas. after Obama's choice for more likely to smoke than want to freeze out the pri­
The bill's passages has health secretary, Tom wealthier people. Many also vate sector for health insur­long been a top priority of Daschle, withdrew his nomi-took exception to expanding ance?" 
VATICAN CITY 

Church: Holocaust denier must recant 
The controversy provided a rare Cardinal Tarcisio Bertone, was quot­
Associated Press 
look at the cracks in the Vatican's ed Tuesday as saying he considered 
VATICAN CITY -The Vatican, facade of unity and raised questions the matter "closed" after Benedict bowing to the growing furor over about the advice the pope receives issued a lengthy denunciation of Pope Benedict XVI's decision to and his access to information. Papal Holocaust deniers last week. accept a return to the church of a aides say Benedict, a former univer­Rabbi Marvin Hier, founder of the prelate who denied the Holocaust, sity professor and theologian, Simon Wiesenthal Center in Los made a dramatic turnaround receives a daily news summary and Angeles, said he took Benedict at his Wednesday and demanded the bish­occasionally watches television. word that he didn't know about op recant. The statement was issued by the Williamson's views, but said he 
The Vatican sought to distance the Vatican's Secretariat of State a day couldn't believe Vatican aides didn't pope from the controversy by saying after German Chancellor Angela do more research to better inform he did not know about British Bishop Merkel urged the pope to make a the pope. Richard Williamson's views when he clearer rejection of Holocaust "This was absolutely a matter that agreed to lift his excommunication denials. Top German church officials, was bungled at the highest levels of last month. Jewish groups and the head of the the Vatican," Hier said. "If they 
In the surprisingly public spat, U.S. bishops conference also con­Googled the name 'Bishop some leading cardinals in Germany demned Williamson. Williamson,' they'd find out he was a and at the Vatican blamed unidenti­In a sign of just how much the Holocaust denier. This did not fied aides for not fully briefing the Vatican had misread the public require advanced research at the pope. mood, the secretary of state, Vatican Library or Oxford." 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 5, 2009 


Professor discusses youth advocacy in Africa 
By MOLLY MADDEN News Writer  began in 1991 and was initiated by the Hevolutionary United Front (RUF) which was composed of most­ Youth Polic-y in June 2003." The Youth Policy is a policy that emphasizes the state and elders and  'youth' category," Bolton said. 'This Youth Policy i<> not a policy paper; litI is a statement of elder predomi­ "All these young people want is to be treated equally by the elders," she said. "They are not trying to seek  
ly "youth" individual<>, that is those  ddines tlm youth as being anywhere  nance and a testi­ power, they are  
Anthropologist Dr. Catherine Bolton of the University of Michigan spoke on the affect of socio-economic effects of rendering the youth ex­combatants socially includable through the post-war integration programs that have been established in the African country of Sierra Leone in her lecture entitled "The  ranging from age 15 to 35. The war was declared over on Jan. 18, 2002. However, one former RUF com­batant that Bolton interviewed on a trip to Sierra Leone said that the RUF only put down their weapons because the UN asked them for peace. "These people were once very  in the age range of 15 to 35 years of age. "What this is saying is that anyone over the age of 35 has more authori­ty over anyone of a lesser age," Bolton said. "What the government i<> trying to accomplish with this poli­cy is maintaining supremacy of the elders over the youth ofthP mWltry."  mony of the fear of the thirty percent." It doesn't outline many rules fhr the "youth," but it ensures the "elder predominanen," she said. "The only  'They are not trying to seek power, they are simply seeking validation and nurturing oftheir ideas."  simply seeking val­idation and nur­turing of their idea<>." She says that all thesP men want is to reach their sta­tus as an "adult" and also a "man,"  
Politics of Inclusion: Youth Policy, Ex­Combatants, and Governmentality in  powerful RUF officials and now they are struggling to survive," Bolton  The policy also outlines the youth that the government wants to  requirement for the 'mainstream youth'  Dr. Catherine Bolton  which is a major part of Sierra  
Sierra Leone."  said.  decrease, the "marginalized youth"  is that they stay in  anthropologist  Leone culture.  
"I really want to address the inter­ Bolton explained that many of the  and through programs of a process  school," she said.  "The young peo­ 
section of fear and governmental  traditional elders of Sierra Leone  called reintegration, modify this  "However, the gov­ ple want to feel  
policy," Bolton said in her introduc­ had a fear of the youth after the war  group's ideas so that they are the  ernment decides what gets taught in  needed; they want to be taken seri­ 
tion. "The war separated many  came to an end.  government acceptable form of  the schools. It's just another way for  ously. If the government recognizes  
young people and led them to devel­ "The elders of the country fear  youth, the "mainstream youth."  the government to have a finger in  this quality, it will make dealing with  
op alternative ideas of brotherhood  that the youth won't respect their  "In Sierra Leone, a coWltry with a  all youth activities."  the problem much easier."  
which has upset the native elders."  authority," Bolton said. "In response  population of 5.7 million people, four  Bolton insists that the govern­ 
The war which Bolton refers to is  to this fear. the government pub­ million people, that is seventy per­ ment's extreme fear of youth is  Contact Molly Madden at  
the Sierra Leone Civil War which  lished the Sierra Leone National  cent of the population, fall<> into thi<>  Wljustitied and unnecessary.  mmadden@hcc-nd.edu  

Tickets 
continued from page l 
ideas on the Zahm ticket's plat­form. They also want to start an affirmative action program for beautiful women, because they are the biggest minority group at Notre Dame, Harig said. The freshman, wearing tight blue shorts and a cape, dropped the microphone and stumbled as he stood up to speak for the first time. 
During the course of the debate between candidates for student government president and vice president, Lennon tried to start a game of "Who's Line is it Anyway?," danced to Beyonce's "Single Ladies (Put a Ring on It)," and led the crowd of students standing in the lobby of LaFortune in a cheer for "that mistake," which he and his running mate hoped the student body would make on Feb. 9, student govern­ment election day. 
I miss the U.S. presidential elec­tion season. 
From August to November, we at The Observer covered the race between the Obama-Biden and McCain-Palin tickets. 
We watched debates, discussed platform issues and followed the trajectory of the campaigns from the conventions to, finally, Grant Park, Chicago. 
Then, abruptly, it ended. I've been missing the thrill of following professional politics, the national conversation about who should lead us. 
Last week, we began covering the race for student body presi­dent. In some ways, it was similar to the national elections. The can­didates have detailed platforms. They have fancy Web sites. 
The similarities came to a screeching halt last night when, during the debate, one of the pres­idential candidates stripped out of his dress shirt, tie and khaki pants to reveal underneath a skin-tight, semi-see through White Power Ranger costume. 
"I am indeed, the White Power Ranger," Lennon said. 
George Chamberlain, the presi­dent of the Judicial Council and the moderator of the debate, asked him where he had found a Power Ranger suit that large. 
And I wondered why I was sit­ting in LaFortune at 8 p.m. on a Wednesday night, listening to a freshman who, in his introductory remarks, said, "I have never, and I will never, brush my teeth." 
The Zahm ticket was supposed to be the joke: the annual ticket that runs, gives everyone a good laugh, but never gets their hands near the keys to the student gov­ernment office. 

But during the la<>t student gov­ernment event I will ever cover, I found myself laughing at more than just Lennon and Harig. 
Laura Burdick, running with fel­low junior Derek Sanchez, wants to create a blog where students can write about their off campus apartments or houses, so younger students can pick what neighbor­hood would be best for them. 
"Where is a place where ragers can happen and we won't get into trouble?" she asked, hypothetical­ly. 
It's a question I ask frequently, literally. 
When Chamberlain introduced all the candidates, he stumbled over James McCaughan's last name. McCaughan should have taken comfort from the fact that a man named Barack Obama, one of the strangest names in American politics, was just elected president. 
Once McCaughan started speak­ing, I got it into my head that he could be the Obama of the Notre Dame student government race. 
Candidate McCaughan, along with his running mate Tom Gorski, wants to see a difference in the way police and ushers enforce dis­cipline during football games and at tailgating. 
A diflerence. Aehange, maybe? 
If people vote for McCaughan­Gorski, they will "see change," McCaughan said. 
But McCaughan's mantra is not as stringently pro-change as Obama's. 
There will be change, he said, but they will "keep the good things constant." 
That's change, and in select cases, status quo we can believe in. 
My favorite McCaughan-Gorski platform issue is their sincere desire to move the student govern­ment oflice from the second floor of" LaFortune to the first floor, such as in the Sorin Hoom or the Dooley room. Their goal: to make student government more accessible. 
"It's like walking by The Huddle, and stopping in and getting a candy bar," McCaughan said. 
Does this mean student govern­ment will start handing out choco­late? Should I expect a cappuccino machine? 
Cynthia Weber, Grant Schmidt's running mate, quickly assured them that this was not possible. Believe her, she's tried. 
It's strange to see Schmidt, of GiveaSchmidt.com, without the other member of the Bob and Grant duo. But Schmidt kept men­tioning Bob Heish during the debate, and Heish, the soon-to-be lame duck president, sat toward the baek of the audience and oft" to the side, watching over his pro­tege. 
Reish wasn't the only name Schmidt dropped. 
"It's going to sound like I am name-dropping," he said at one point. 
Schmidt proceeded to drop a lot of names, then handed the micro­phone to Weber, who dropped even more. 
By the end of the debate, Schmidt and Weber were literally completing each other's sentences. 
Schmidt scared me a little with his talk of a place near the border of Indiana and Michigan where, apparently, illegitimate cab drivers are born. 
When he explained it more, I realized it a<tually wasn't as scary as he made it sound originally. 
"They're not going to kill you, but they are going to take you back and forth and make money and maybe rip you off," Schmidt said. 
Whogivesaschmidt.com if your taxi driver acts like every other taxi driver in the country? 
The second to last question of the night finally hit home to the one thing all Notre Dame students care deeply about: what to do about the skunk problem on cam­pus. 
The Zahm ticket ignored the question. 
"I have no idea," Sanchez admit­ted, speaking for the Burdick­Sanchez ticket. 
Schmidt was also floored by the question. 
"I don't know if traps would work," he said. "I don't know what attracts skunks." 
If you vote on Monday, or even if you don't, next year you might have lubed bowls. Or a first-floor student government office. Or taxis drivers who have never been to the Michigan-Indiana border. Or a blog to find the top party blocks. 
But no matter who you vote for, campus will still stink. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Kaitlynn Riely kriely@nd. edu 


Opening Reception Thursday February 5@5:30 p.m. 
upper lobby of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME darwin.nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Thursday, February 5, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks Dow 
Jones 7,956.66 -121.70 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,674 lOS 2,082 2,195,501,310 
AMEX NASDAQ 1,515.05 -1.25 


NYSE s:242·:7s 


S&P 500 832.23 -6.28 NIKKEI (Tokyo) /i98l3~66 455~2i: FTSE 100 (London) 4,228.60 +M.l4 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
BK OF AMERICA (BAC) -11.32 -0.60 4.70 SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) -0.49 -0.41 83.33 FINANCIAL SEL (XLF) ·1.10 -0.10 8.97 CITIGROUP INC (C) +0.87 +0.03 3.49 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +2.53 +0.072 2.914 13-WEEK BILL -6.45 -0.020 0.290 30-YEAR BOND +1.38 +0.050 3.673 5-YEAR NOTE +3.01 +0.056 1.918 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) ·0.46 40.32 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +9.70 902.20 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) -0.85 81.15 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 89.3700 EURO 1.2836 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2332 BRITISH POUND 1.4440 
IN BRIEF 
Senate votes for homebuyer credit 
WASHINGTON -The Senate has voted to award anybody buying a home this year a tax credit worth up to $15,000 in hopes of jump­starting the sagging housing market. 
The homebuyer tax credit offered by GOP Sen. Johnny Isakson would apply to any home purchased as a main residence and would cost taxpayers $19 billion. Senators approved it by a voice vote, adding the idea to President Barack Obama's economic recovery bill. 
People could claim the credit on their 2008 tax returns and it would apply to any home purchased for one year after the recovery plan becomes law. 
Isakson patterned his plan after a decades­old idea he says helped lift the economy out of recession in 197 5. 
lawmakers push for food safety reform 
WASIIINGTON -Lawmakers vowed Wednesday to press for stronger food safety laws and more money for inspections as the list of recalled peanut products surpassed 1,000 in an ongoing national salmonella outbreak. 
"There is an openness to putting together the strongest legislation possible," said Rep. Rosa DeLauro, D-Conn., who introduced a bill to reor­ganize federal food safety enforcement and make it more accountable. 
Meanwhile, the number of recalled peanut products approached 1,100 in what independ­ent experts said appears to be a record for foods consumed by humans. 
The 2007 recall of melamine-tainted pet food eventually grew to 1,179 products but "this is human food," said Caroline Smith DeWaal, food safety director for the Center for Science in the Public Interest. ''I'm certainly not aware of any recall where so many individual branded prod­ucts had to be called back. which makes it really complicated for consumers." 
The salmonella outbreak has sickened at least 550 people, eight of whom have died. A Georgia peanut-processing plant that produces just 1 percent of U.S. peanut products is being blamed. Authorities say Peanut Corp. of America shipped peanut butter, paste and other products that had tested positive for salmonella. The company denies any wrongdoing. 

Obama caps exec. pay on bailout money 
$500,000 limit placed on companies that have received funds from government 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON President Barack Obama on Wednesday imposed a $500,000 cap on senior executive pay for the most distressed financial institu­tions receiving taxpayer bailout money and prom­ised new steps to end a sys­tem of "executives being rewarded for failure." 
Obama announced the unusual government inter­vention into corporate America at the White House, with Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner at his side. The president said the executive-pay lim­its are a first step, to be fol­lowed by the unveiling next week of a sweeping new framework for spending what remains of the $700 billion financial industry bailout that Congress creat­ed last year. 
The pay limit comes amid a national outcry over huge bonuses to executives who head companies that seek taxpayer dollars to remain afloat. The demand for lim­its was reinforced by reve­lations that Wall Street firms paid more than $18 billion in bonuses in 2008 amid the economic down­turn and the massive infu­sion of taxpayer dollars. 
The limit would apply to top-paid executives at the most distressed financial institutions that are negoti­broad symbolism of his $500,000 threshold would chutes," he said. ating bailout agreements action. have to use stock that could Other new requirements with the federal govern­"This is America. We not be sold or liquidated on "exceptional assistance" ment. It also would apply to don't disparage wealth. We until they pay back the gov­will include: other banks that receive don't begrudge anybody for ernment funds. ~The expansion to 20, aid, but they could get achieving success," Obama Generally healthy institu­from five, the number of around the limits by publi­said. "But what gets people tions that get capital infu­executives who would face cizing to shareholders plans upset -and rightfully so -sions from the Troubled reduced bonuses and incen­to exceed the salary cap. are executives being Asset Relief Program in the tives if they are found to 
The limits would not rewarded for failure. future will have more lee­have knowingly provided apply retroactively to any Especially when those way. They also will face the inaccurate information bank that received money rewards are subsidized by $500,000 limit, but the cap related to company finan­from the first half of the U.S. taxpayers." can be waived with full cial statements or perform­$700 bailout allocated by "There is a deep sense public disclosure and a ance measurements. Congress. For example, the across the country that nonbinding shareholder -An increase in the ban restriction would not apply those who were not ... vote. on golden parachutes from to such firms as American responsible for this crisis Obama said that massive a firm's top five senior International Group Inc., are bearing a greater bur­severance packages for executives to its top 10. The Bank of America Corp., and den than those who were," executives who leave failing next 25 would be prohibit­Citigroup Inc., that already Geithner said. firms are also going to be ed from golden parachutes have received such help. Firms that want to pay eliminated. "We're taking that exceed one year's com­
·But Obama touted the executives above the the air out of golden para-pensation. 


Congress moves TVtransition to June 12 
Associated Press space in the nation's airwaves for need to prepare for the conversion," 
commercial wireless services and White House spokeswoman Amy 
WASHINGTON -After weeks of emergency-response networks. Brundage said in a statement. debate, Congress is giving consumers The delay is a victory for the Wednesday's vote came one week four more months to prepare for the Obama administration and after House Republicans blocked the upcoming transition from analog to Democrats in Congress, who maintain bill under a special fast-track proce­digital television broadcasting. that the previous administration mis­dure that required two-thirds support 
The House voted 264-158 on managed efforts to ensure that all to pass. This time, the bill passed the Wednesday to postpone the shutdown consumers -particularly poor, rural House under a regular 11oor vote, of analog TV signals to June 12, to and minority Americans -will be which requires a simple majority. address growing concerns that too prepared for the switchover. Among Democrats, 241 voted for many Americans won't be ready by The Nielsen Co. estimates that the bill, while 10 voted against it. the Feb. 17 deadline that Congress more than 6.5 million U.S. house­Among Republicans, 23 voted for the set three years ago. The Senate holds that rely on analog TV sets to bill, while 148 voted against it. passed the measure unanimously last pick up over-the-air broadcast signals Speaking on the House floor week and the bill now heads to still are not ready. People who sub­Wednesday, Rick Boucher. D-Va., President Barack Obama for his sig­scribe to cable or satellite TV or have chairman of the House Commerce nature. a newer TV with a digital tuner will Committee's Subcommittee on 
The change is being mandated not be affected. Communications, Technology and the because digital signals are more effi­"The passage of this bipartisan leg­Internet, said a delay was needed to cient than analog ones. Ending ana­islation means that millions of prevent the digital transition from log broadcasts will free up valuable Americans will have the time they becoming a failure. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 5, 2009 
Debate 
continued from page 1 
introducing themselves to the stu­dents crowded in the LaFortune Lobby and outlining certain plat­form initiatives. 
Selected at random, the Burdick-Sanchez ticket spoke first. Burdick, the presidential candi­date, informed the crowd of the pair's current positions as Athletic Co-Chairs in the Hall Presidents Council. 
"We've had the privilege of host­ing pep rallies, and we went beyond our call of duty and revamped them," Burdick said. 
She listed approachability as a strength of their campaign and said they hope to "improve student life in every aspect." 
Burdick said their platform, which consists of the formation of an athletic council, a loan forgive­ness program and a revenue council, has "a lot of open space left." 
"We want to know what you want," she said. 
McCaughan, his ticket's presi­dential candidate, told the audi­ence the common theme of their platform "has been a change in regards to disciplinary measures at the school." 
The pair also lists strengthening relationships with the South Bend community as a goal for next year, and McCaughan said they have received "endorsements from vari­ous eateries and other establish­ments." 
Third to speak, the Schmidt­Weber ticket, emphasized their experience in student government and their desire to build upon tl1is year's momentum. 
Schmidt, currently serving as student body vice president· with Bob Reish as student body presi­dent, said this "year as spent bridging the gap, communicating to students what the issues were and working with the city." 
Though some have criticized the Reish-Schmidt administration for being, as Schmidt called, "buddy­buddy" with the University admin­istration, Schmidt said "knowing the channels and knowing who to talk to are the only ways to guar­antee success." 
Weber, tl1e only vice-presidential candidate to speak in the opening remarks, emphasized the research that went into their platform, and called upon the audience to "Give a Schmidt," alluding to one of the campaign's slo­gans and Web site 
In the question and answer por­tion of the debate, the tickets were allowed two minutes to answer the three questions from the Judicial Council and 45 seconds to answer the questions submitted by mem­bers of the student body. The pairs alternated who spoke first in response to each question. 
The McCaughan-Gorski ticket said their most important plan for improving student life at the University involved game day police action. 
"[We aim to] deal with the foot­ball atmosphere and the police hostility that is presented toward students," Gorsld said. 
McCaughan added one way of improving the game day environ­ment is providing student.<; with an outlet to voice their concerns. He suggested moving the student gov­ernment offices from their current location on the second floor of LaFortune to the first floor to facil­itate communication. 
Schmidt listed taxi reform as the ticket's biggest initiative for improving student life. The reform would consist of two tiers, he said: safety and convenience. 
In terms of safety, Schmidt and Weber seek to initiate a system of cab driver identification; they pro­pose selling taxi fare booklets to eliminate the need to carry cash or deal with fluctuating flat rates for convenience. 
Reiterating their platform's com­mitment to honesty, Harig was very blunt about the Zahm ticket's ideas for bettering student life. 
"The biggest minority on this campus is beautiful women," he said, suggesting a merit scholar­ship system based on voting that would provide "hot chicks" free tuition to the University. 
The Burdick-Sanchez ticket is most concerned with pursuing a "Safety First" campaign with the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ORLH) and the Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) that includes a policy of education before punishment. 
Sanchez said the University "is doing a disservice" to freshmen, or others, who are not as experi­enced in situations where alcohol is involved "by slamming them with ResLifes." 
The second question addressed community relations; Schmidt mentioned the Reish-Schmidt administration's involvement with members of Community/Campus Advisory Coalition (CCAC). 
"The biggest thing you can do with community relations is work­
ing with these 
people, sitting 

addresses. "Our campaign is not down with these Lennon, the people," he said. 
built on experience or 

presidential can­Weber said they
fancy posters or

didate of the plan to work Zahm ticket, shaking hands with directly with chose to speak members of the
the student body."

without a micro­community, and phone when said she antici­introducing him­Luke Lennon pates widespread self. freshman participation in 
Throughout the presidential candidate A p r i I ' s 

evening, he took on several roles: that of politician, game show host, pop star and martial arts super­hero, and delivered lines with a presidential cadence that brought a laugh from the audience. 
"Our campaign is not built on experience or fancy posters or shaking hands with the student body," he said. "People are hear­ing about us through the class­rooms of Jordan, the dorms of North and South Quad, the urinals in DeBartolo and on the omelet 
..

line. 
Lennon told the audience that he and his roommate, Harig, run on the principle of honesty, and decid­ed to reveal some secret<;, includ­ing his true identity by stripping down to a white body suit. 
"I am indeed the White Power Ranger," he said. "For the last semester and a half I have been protecting you from Lord Zedd." 
Communiversity 
Day. 
In response to this question, Lennon decided to "make a motion," and performed Beyonce's dance to her hit single "Single Ladies (Put a Ring on It)." 
The Burdick -Sanchez campaign lists creating an off-campus blog modeled off of NDToday.com, where students can post about their neighborhoods and specific houses or apartment complexes as a way of improving community relations. 
Burdick said her and Sanchez would like to create a handbook guide to South Bend and Mishawaka to be distributed to freshman, with information on restaurants and shops. 
"If they know where things are, they will go out into the communi­ty, spend some money, and every­one is happier," she said. 
Gorski said students arc doing admirably with creating good feel­Weber commented on the 3,500 ings between the campus and responses to the Student Census, a greater South Bend communities. Heish-Schmidt initiative. The He suggested publieizing campus results of the Census, she said, are events more to better students' published and can be used to image in the eyes of South Bend "build upon the success of this residents. year." 

"Notre Dame students aren't Schmidt said there "are only so 
bad people," he  many  ways  we  
said.  "We  just  can  reach  stu­ 
have a bad repu­tation [the members of the  "Ifyou keep emphasizing it,  dents" and that "normal conver­sations" are the  
South Bend com­ people will do it. "  way to find out  
munity] don't see  with people really  
the good we're doing." The third ques­ James McCaughan junior  care about. The five off-the­agenda questions  
tion  from  the  presidential candidate  ranged in topic  

Judicial Council asked the candi­dates how they plan to improve communication between student government officials and their con­stituents. 
Harig, sporting bright blue shorts, a Michael Vick No. 7 jersey and a cape and spealdng for the Zahm ticket, decided to "complete­ly disregard the question" and, along with Lennon, listed various other platform initiatives, like lubricating salad bowls at North Dining Hall to prevent sticking and changing the football ticket lottery system to a set of obstacles like those played on the 19R6-1993 Nickelodeon game show "Double Dare" hosted by Marc Summers. 
"If you get caught in a big peanut butter and jelly sandwich, you're only going to a few games tllis year," Harig said. 
Sanchez and Burdick propose a two-week agenda-setting period in which they will review suggestions from students on how to fill in their platform. 
"Students will be able to know what's going on and to have a say," he said. 
McCaughan said he wants to make student government more accessible in general, with the relocation of its offices to the first floor of LaFortune and the cre­ation of a group on Facebook where students can "write on the wall what's on their mind." 
from the feasibili­
ty of the tickets' proposals to dealing with the cam­pus's noticeable skunk problem. 
Burdick said her ticket's plat­form is a proposal to the student body. 
"We want to know what it is you want," she said, mentioning the pair have met with various depart­ment heads to discuss the feasibili­ty of their ideas. 
Gorski said it is important to "keep talking" in order to get pro­posals accomplished, and men­tioned another campaign idea: creating an interhall laser tag league. 
Schmidt and Weber rattled off the names of the members of the University administration with whom they have spoken during their research and who have said their ideas are feasible. 
Lennon said he utilized the Internet to determine how suc­cessful hi'> proposals would be. 
Another question related to a student government eflort to con­tinue the campus' "green initiative. 
McCaughan said every time he sees an aluminum can in the trash, he wonders why someone did not recycle it. 
"If you keep emphasizing it, peo­ple will do it," he said. 
Schmidt vowed to stand behind GreenND, which was made an offi­cial Notre Dame Oub this year. 
Harig said global warming does not exist, and in order to cut costs, Notre Dame should initiate a sys­tem of indentured servitude in the power plant for students who can­not pay off their student loans. 
The Burdick-Sanchez ticket emphasized student.<;' role as facili­tators in the going green process; Sanchez specifically mentioned using more electronic advertising the in the future to limit wasted paper. 
A third question asked the can­didates what parts of their cam­paign will be enacted immediately upon taking office; Weber said adding hot Grab 'n' Go options has already been approved by Notre Dame Food Services. 
Lennon proceeded to take on the role of the host of "Whose Line Is It Anyway" and asked the audience for suggestions, while Burdick said their team can get started on "Safety First" idea immediately. 
Gorski mentioned bringing "bet­ter concerts, like Wu-Tang and Creed," to campus. 
The tickets had not thought of researching the skunk issue, and were unprepared to answer the question about reduce the ani­mal's presence on campus. 
Sanchez said his team would pursue the most humanitarian way possible; Gorski suggested vigilantes; Schmidt admitted he was unsure what attracts skunks so that they can be trapped; and Harig, ofT-topic again, discussed the idea of buying out people's "contract.<;" -like those of profes­sors, annoying classmates and athletes who might not be per­forming to accepted standards. 
When asked who the candidates would vote for if they themselves were not in the race, Burdick­Sanchez and McCaughan-Gorski said they would vote for Zahm, Lennon-Gorski said they would vote for the Zahm ticket that would run in their stead, and Schmidt-Weber said they would vote for Burdick-Sanchez for their sincerity. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 


Thursday, February 5, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
by Yiannis Lymtsioulis. The "Our academic speakers play is about the suspicious are coming-from institutions

Darwin 
sinking of a like the refugee ship in Vatican
continued from page 1 
1997. accord­Observatory,
"Darwin pushed the
ments is especially appropri­ing to Web the University ate, given the long history of site's event intellectual limits of of Chicago, interaction between page. his society; he treated and Harvard Catholicism and modern sci­Throughout University,"
man as an organic
ence, from the geneticist the month of Culhane said, monk Gregor Mendel to March, the being and explored who was one scholars working at the Snite Museum humanity's history in of the stu­Vatican Observatory." will be holding dents on the
an innovative
The calendar of events cor­an exhibit enti­planning com­
manner.
responding with the celebra­tled "In the mittee. "they tion begins today at 5:30 Wake of the are excellent 
p.m. The film "Inherit the Beagle: Darwin Margaret Culhane researchers Wind" will be shown. in Latin senior who have all 
1925 Scopes­Monkey Trial. lt will be shown Friday, Saturday. and S u n d a y according to the event's Web site. 
Another activity of the Website's schedule held this month will be an International Playwright's Conference on Darwin and Theater, from Feb. 23­
26. focusing on the discus­sion of migra­tion and evo­lution. 
"That Notre Dame would celebrate, and investigate Darwin's accomplishments is especially appropriate, given the long history of interaction between Catholicism and modern science, from the geneticist monk Gregor Mendel to scholars working at the Vatican Observatory. " 
Margaret Culhane senior 
reception for the exhibit on March 5th in the Atrium, accord­ing to the Web site. 
The Glynn Family Honors Program will host a confer­ence that will take place the weekend of April 3-4. The sympo­sium is entitled "Evolution of A g e Multidisciplinary Reflections on Darwin 150 years later." This event can be found on the Darwin Web site. 
This confer­committed to 

presentations 
that will both deepen and broaden our understanding of Darwin and evolution as it stands today." 
In addition to the events that will be taking place, students will also have the opportunity to take classes to learn more about Darwin. For the Spring 2009 semes­ter, three courses were available for students to take. One is a biology class focusing on the topic of evo­lution. The other two classes are philosophy classes with one emphasizing the life and works of Darwin and the lat­ter focusing on its effects in the 21st century. All course offerings can be found on the Darwin Web site. 
Culhane said that there are many ways that people today can learn from Darwin. 
"Darwin pushed the intel­lectual limits of his society; he treated man as an organ­ic being and explored humanity's history in an innovative manner," she said, "His intellectual curios­ity is an asset for which we should all strive." 
Contact Liz O'Donell at eodonelll@nd.edu 
you lon~ needs help call. Notrt• Damt 
ca~~~su~aad~~ 
availableatNotre Dame: 
Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, SLudent Allitirs, 63l-7Xl9 
Ann Firth, Stud(~nt Afl:tin, Wll-2tiH3 
Syl\'ht Dillon, C:uupus Ministry, 6:-H-71 ();J 
John Dillon, Cmntms Mini)\try, fi:-H-7 Hi:-! 
Dr. Susan Stcilx~-P;u;;dit"h, Counsdiug Clr., (i:1l-l:1ti5 
Ann t:. Kb<l, H~·ahh Scni<:t•$,li.':ll-H2Hfi 
Foru01 
continued from page 1 
"cool" to be black. 
"It's cool to be black because the president is black, not because my favorite football player is black, or because I like this rapper and he's black. And as a black person, it's good to hear that," Keller said. 
Gates said that because of Obama's image, he "provides another face for black men," and alternative to the stereo­typical black men in jail. 
However, Keller said, "I can easily see people seeing Obama as the exception rather than the rule ... and saying well how many black men are in jail? Obama alone can't change the stereotype." 
Participants in the discus­sion agreed that to win the battle against racism and stereotypes will take more than just having a black man as president, and that blacks have not yet broken through the glass ceiling of racism that has kept them down in the past. 
"It's been scratched," Tipton said, but it has not been bro­ken. No one in the forum voiced a disagreement. 
The forum ended with a dis­cussion of what it would take to be successful in breaking the glass ceiling. Keller said that the only way to break that glass ceiling is for indi­vidual blacks to have success. 

She said that in order to be successful in her life, she tells herself, "don't be late to class, don't be the one who needs help. Be the perfect student so no one can say 'oh, she's here because she's black or oh, she's not getting it because she's black."' 
Gates said that success will happen when blacks have the same opportunities for things like housing and education. 
"For me, success for black people is if people stop asking me if I'm here on an athletic scholarship. I've been told to my face, you are a product of affirmative action. That would be a success if that stopped happening," Keller said. 
Tipton added that he thinks blacks have been successful so far in what they have accom­plished. Keller agreed. 
"Look at the strides we've made in such a short period of time. We have parents who remember the civil rights movement," she said. 
Keller summed up the senti­ment of the forum by saying, "in some sense, we need to pat ourselves on the back and say good job, but the work isn't done." 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
Jon Vickers. Managing Director of Performing Arts. will also give a lecture about the connection between the film and the drama "The Great Tennessee Monkey Trial". 
The drama is based off transcripts from the famed 
America 1831­1836." This will be housed in the Scholz Family Gallery for Work on Paper, further 
information can  be found  on  
the Web site.  
In  addition,  the  Snite  

Museum will be holding a 

At the end of the month, from Feb. 24 to March 1, there will be the first American showing of Guernica, a drama written ence was planned, designed, and organized by a group of Notre Dame seniors, and is geared towards undergradu­ate students. 


Senate 
continued from page 1 
"I think a lot of problems we have wouldn't exist if the hous­ing was legal," she said. 
Student body president Bob Reish said informing students me," Puzzello said. "There's a lot that needs to go on between South Bend and Notre Dame for us to feel comfortable though." 

Puzzello said the University's administrati.Qn does not help the city with enforcing zoning laws that students are break­ing, or with the issue of student 
about which houses are cor­rectly zoned is a "Off-campus students 
goal of student 

who go to Notre Dame 
government. 

Regarding stu­are in a unique dent parties off position because they 
campus, 

are only immersed in 
Puzzello said 

problems can be the community for 
avoided if the one or two years."parties are kept small and 
Bob Reish 
indoors. "Don't have student body president several hundred people at a 
whether or not off-campus stu­dents are con­

"! think the 
sidered part of the South Bend University and the community. 
community have a lot
"Off-campus 

to offer each other, 
students who go to Notre Dame but there is a are in a unique 
disconnect in the
position because 

communication. " 
they are only immersed in the community for Bob Reish one or two 
student body president 
years," Reish said. Puzzello said 
parties. Many problems that concern South Bend do not seem to be a top priority with the administration, she said. 
"I think you know you are welcome in the community, but we haven't had that reciprocate situation from the administra­tion to be hon­
party," she said. "No one has several hundred friends." 
Puzzello said the city's pri­mary concern is the comfort and safety of its residents, and when people are complaining about being awakened at 3 
a.m. because of student parties, the police and the city have to act. 
Reish then questioned 

est," she said. "We are associ­ates with Notre Dame and we love it, but we would love a lit­tle bit of communication." 
Reish said student govern­ment is attempting to bridge the gap between Notre Dame and South Bend. 
"I think the University and the community have a lot to offer each other, but there is a 
disconnect in the communica­tion," he said. 
Puzzello agreed. 
"Let's make it better," she said. 
In other Senate news: 
• Social Concerns Committee chair Michelle Byrne said the commit­tee is hosting 
she encourages students to come to Common Council com­mittee meetings and call her with any concerns they have relating to the community. 
But, she said, this kind of relationship is a two way street. ''I'm glad for anyone to call 

Communiversity Day on April 4. The goal is to get 1,000 stu­dents to spend the day doing various service projects in the South Bend community. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, February 5, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 

A Papal fallacy 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
A'iST. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Merz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CoNTROLLER: Stacey GiU SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICI: MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EmTOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1 @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
s~c. I @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574} 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the studenrs ofthe University ofNoue Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's CoUege. Editorial conrenr, including advertisementS, is not governed by policies ofthe adminisuation ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisementS based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and deparrmenr edirors. Commentaries, letters and columns presenr the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to aU readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies shor<lti be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
1l1c Obstrver (USPS 599 2-4000} is published Monday through Friday cxap1 during exam and vacu:iun period~. A suhl;cription to'The: Obs~r is $100 for one academic year; $55 for one scme>~cr. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall ~nd address correctioru; to: 
Notre Dame, TN 46556-0779 The Observer 
~dodkal posragt= paid at !'one Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices.. 02-4 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556..0779 
The O~rvet is a member of th~:: Aswci.atcd Press. All reproduction tights are ~rved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Fran Tolan Alex Barker Alex Barker Alex West Alex West Fran Tolan Graphics Viewpoint 
Mary Jesse Katrina Scene Schmerold Mark Witte 

Let me get this straight. 
"Deep-seated gay tendencies'"? No. 
Denial of the Holocaust? Yes. 
"Support the so-called 'gay cul­
ture?'" No. 
Support the so­called Ahmadinejad cul­ture? Yes. 
In the course of the last few weeks, two Vatican-related news stories caught my eye. 
First, according to the Associated Press: "In a report 

U.S. bishops released this week, the Vatican agency noted past 'difficulties in the area of morality' within seminaries that 'usu­ally but not exclusively' involved 'homosexual behavior.' The evaluators said the appointment of better admin­istrators in diocesan seminaries 'has ensured that such difficulties have been overcome."' The bishops then linked arms and rejoiced, for we shall overcome. 
Gnaw on that for a while-we'll come back to it later. In the meantime, second, The New York Times: Pope Benedict "revoked the excommunica­tions of four schismatic bishops on Saturday, including one whose com­ments denying the Holocaust have pro­voked outrage... The bishop said that he believed that 'the historical evi­dence; was strongly against the con­clusion that millions of Jews had been 'deliberately gassed in gas chambers as a deliberate policy of Adolf Hitler.'" 
This week, the Bishop -Richard Williamson-apologized. Kinda. No, he didn't acknowledge their lunacy. And no, he didn't acknowledge that, yes, six million Jews died at the hands of Nazism. He did, though, apologize for the Pope's "distressed" caused by the "media storm" over his "imprudent remarks." 
Imprudent remarks. You'd think a former (reluctant) member of the Hitler Youth might find them a bit more than imprudent. 
But the criticism of Williamson (and the Vatican) shouldn't stop with his unrepentant anti-Semitism. Holocaust­denial isn't Williamson's only "impru­dent" opinion. For nearly two decades, the Bishop has been stirring the papal pot. 

In addition to an assertion that some combination of God's will and a gov­ernment conspiracy orchestrated September 11th, Pearl Harbor and the Kennedy assassination. Williamson has consistently extending his delusion to ovmt sexism. 
These are too good to not copy ver­batim. 
Sept. 1, 2001: "Because of all kinds of natural reasons, almost no girl should go to any university ... any Catholic with the least respect for Tradition recognizes that women should not be priests -can he deny that if few women went to university, almost none would wish to be priests? Alas, women going to university is part of the whole massive onslaught on God's Nature which characterizes our times. That girls should not be in uni­versities flows from the nature of uni­versities and from the nature of girls: true universities are for ideas, ideas are not for true girls, so true universi­ties are not for true girls." 
Sept. 1, 1991: "Trousers are ideolog­ical and attack the mind. For indeed women's trousers, as worn today ... are an assault upon woman's woman­hood and so they represent a deep­lying revolt against the order willed by God ... Of course not all women who wear trousers abort the fruit of their womb, but all help to create the abortive society. Old-fashioned is good, modern is suicidal. You wish to stop abortion? Do it by example. Never wear trousers or shorts." 
To review: Ideas are not for girls. Some combination of God's will and a government conspiracy orchestrated the September 11th attacks. Women should wear skirts, because pants and shorts, in addition to attacking the mind, promote abortion. 
Because, you know, trousers offer much easier access. We're saved from the gays, and this is the payoff. Thanks, Benny. 
This is a delusional man. Or, at least, he's certainly not a messenger for God's word and inspiration. And while he can't, reportedly, "practice his min­istry in the Catholic Church," its still safe to say you shouldn't be comfort­able with re-incommunicated (yes, that's the word) Bishop Williamson. 
Of course, re-incommunicating someone does not necessarily mean that you're endorsing everything he says and believes. But by going out of your way to welcome him back in without mention of those views until challenged, you endorse him as a rep­

resentative of the Church. It's not that 
people within the Church can't dis­agree -they can and should -but that bringing back someone you've 
kicked out suggests that you have (or, 
at least, should have) paid particular 
attention to the way that person 
reflects the church as a whole. 
The simultaneous "gay" news reveals a second reason, too. If you forbid priests who have "deep seated gay tendencies" and who "support the so-called gay culture," you can be held accountable for the tendencies and cultures of those you do allow. 
The Vatican has gotten some pres­sure on this one. Jewish leaders have challenged the Pope's commitment to Jewish-Catholic dialogue and reconcil­iation, and German Chancellor Andrea Merkel called on the Pope to make "very clear" his views towards Holocaust deniers. 
Wednesday, the Vatican demanded that Wiiliamson recant his Holocaust views. If he does, though, it can't stop there. He should have to recant his absurd claims about 9111, trousers, and, best of all, the assertion that "ideas are not for true girls." 
But by and large, we observe quietly. Even at Notre Dame, we don't call out the Vatican on the horrible hypocrisy of keeping out potentially gay priests while including delusional sexists. We let the criticism of Williamson stop at his anti-Semitism, and ignore his anti­trouserism. 
Non-Catholics and Catholics alike, though, cannot sit back and watch this one go by, ignoring a papal mistake because it is a papal action. Respect for religious authority need not mean respect for misguided, offensive, hypo­critical decisions. 
To sit back and let this one go would be, to use a word, imprudent. 
Andrew Nesi is a senior American Studies major from Fairfield, Conn. As a scrawny second grader. he punched a much heftier friend in the stomach after the friend returned a kickofffor a touchdown as time expired to beat him in a game ofMadden football on Sega Genesis. The friend laughed at him. He can be reached at anesi@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Education is the ability to listen to almost anything without losing your temper or your seltconfidence. " 
Robert Frost American Poet 
Submit a Letter to the. Editor at 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
•··· 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The great use oflife is to spend it for something tfiat will outlast it." 
William James American Philosopher 


THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Thursday, February 5, 2009 page II 
Half an hour is essential 
"Half an hour's meditation is essential, except when you are very busy. Then a full hour is needed."-St. Francis de Sales 
At a committee meeting at our parish the other night, the woman who Kate Barrett had volunteered to lead the prayer began by saying, "I thought we Faithpoint could just begin with several minutes of silence." She ofl"ered a few ideas about how we might pray in the silence, and really did give us all about five truly quiet minutes before concluding with a reflection and a· prayer. Each person seated around that table seemed to relish the opportunity­no one so much as cleared a throat or shifted in a seat, in order to keep the quiet unbroken. 
So often our chances for quiet flit by us unnoticed, maybe as we're reaching to turn on the TV or pop in the earbuds to our iPod. Even when we intentionally seek quiet it seems to end before it has begun, like when we're offered a moment at Mass to "pray for those needs which we hold in the silence of our hearts." I don't know about you, but by the time I've even taken a breath to sort out and articulate which needs I'm cur­rently holding in the silence of my heart, the prayer is ending and everyone else has moved on. 
I love the quotation above from St. Francis de Sales, but I honestly can't remember the last time I sat in silence for half an hour, and when I'm "very busy," a full hour doesn't seem needed, it seems nuts. I do pray daily, alone and with others, but unfortunately I've just never been regularly able to fit any real quantity of silent, contemplative, medita­tive prayer into days that almost always seem to fall into St. Francis' "very busy" category. 
But I am willing to give it another go, and another, and even to recommend it as a valuable goal. Like almost every­thing else in life, we probably just need 
LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Cotntnon sense and hockey 
Dear Jamie Engel ("Of insults and t­ice and the camping-out loyalty towards shirts," Feb.3): I was there in 2004 Notre Dame basketball and College when ND Hockey beat Windsor; I was GameDay, it was a no brainer to me there in 2006 when they lost to that I must arrive a little earlier to the Minnesota-Duluth. Now, as a student, I JACC for the Michigan game. It only have seen how much Notre Dame hock­makes sense to arrive a little earlier ey has improved over these past four than normal, right? years and it only makes me more loyal. Although you are a senior and I am 
I have only been a Notre Dame stu­only a freshman please take my advice: dent for a few months but have reli­If you want to get in to the game giously watched many home hockey against Michigan State, arrive earlier games (including four over fall break). than you did for the Michigan game. I Regardless, I cannot begin to count the got to the JACC at 4 p.m. for the number of times that Notre Dame hock­Michigan game, was first in line, and ey, soccer, basketball and volleyball had no problem getting a ticket. If you have held promotions which resulted in arrive as close to 4 as your class sched­fans coming to the games to get free ule permits for the Michigan State stuff but it happens. game, with a textbook or two, you won't 
Back to hockey though. Notre Dame is have to wait in the cold or be turned the best hockey team in the country, away by the famous Notre Dame ush­and for the entire season I have made ers. sure to get to the JACC an hour before game time, but the game versus Michigan was a completely different Rick Morasse story. freshman 
After watching the quality product Alumni-Hall that Notre Dame hockey offers on the Feb. 3 

Woof 

I could write a snarky response to supporters greatly out clamored and out­Michael Murray ("Goals worth one witted the Moose contingent throughout point," Feb.3)-a one or two liner even the night. However, I do not wish to neg­-that would be stufl"y, sophomoric, and atively judge any other dorm, especially that would go something like this: "Dear when writing with such bias. Mr. Murray: Alumni is victorious over ~ What would perhaps be the best Zahm by definition; the game needn't method of proving victory is writing of even be played. Woof, The Dawgs." the psychological toll this game has­
But a stupid quip that calls to mind clearly taken on the Zahm squad. dorm stereotypes is both silly and shal­Whereas the men of Alumni returned low. I could attempt to give reasons as to from the JACC in a festive yet confident why the final score did not indicate the mood, the "Zahmbies" did little more superior efl"ort that the Alumni Hall hock­than attempt to pick fights with their ey team put forth in the game. I could competitors (think Greg Paulus calling even cower so low as to claim "moral vic­out Luke Harangody); whereas the IllBn tory," but this approach also seems inef­of Alumni took pride in their hockey fectual in actually conveying the condi­team, "champion" Zahm has taken pride tions of our conquest. It is also conceiv­in knit-picking and namby-pambying. able that I could derive Dawg victory by To summarize: we kicked your butt like evaluating the two student sections. Kornheiser kicks Wilbon's in Toss-Up. 
Without much effort it is possible for me to recount how the South Quad dorm 
· demonstrated spectacular faith in their team; how the Dawg supporters•refused Kameron Mayne to quiet dowH--much less give up-as sophomore the dock breached the one minute mark Alumni Hall 
Feb.3
of the second frame; and how the Alumni to keep at it, to keep plugging away, to invest in the long haul of the "two steps forward, one step back" dance that char-· acterizes so many of our worthwhile but challenging efl"orts. 
For what would a half hour, or an hour, of quiet meditation bring to our days? Most importantly, an awareness of God's enduring, patient presence in our lives. We don't have to ask God to come to us, to pay attention to our hopes and pains. God has already taken care of that-we simply need the quiet to recognize that he resides in our hearts before we real­ize it; that he knows our needs before we do; that he appreciates and relishes our gifts and talents; that he looks upon us with compassion and love in our moments of humiliation, shame or embarrassment. 
Silence, too, brings perspective, which can help us sort out what we really need to worry about and what we can set aside as relatively insignificant. Instead of simply focusing on ourselves and our own perceived state of overwhelming responsibilities, tasks and schedules, we have the chance to notice the sorrows, joys, struggles, pain and efl"ort of others. Hmmm ... could our next steps, then, be to help share the burden of another's sorrow? To rejoice with the joyful? To help alleviate the toil of the struggling? 
I've heard it said that most people who preach are simply communicating a mes­sage that they themselves need to hear (think about that the next time you listen to a homily!). The same probably holds true for people who write columns for newspapers, so it's definitely time for me to try, again, to build that essential half hour into my day. Maybe, if you've read this far, you'll try-or try again-too. 
This week's Faithpoint is written by Kate Barrett. Kate Barrett is the director ofthe Emmaus program in Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbar­rett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Faithpoint are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Goal counts t-wice 
MichaelMurra~lrnustrespectfiilly goal should count twice, too? No, it insist that you rewrite your ofl"ensive and shouldn't. Alumni's goal was scored by a fallacious Viewpoint article ("Goals Paul Bunyan-esqe athletic specimen that worth one point," Feb. 3). epitomizes Plato's essence of man; 
You insi<>t that "while a 1-1 tie to the Zahm's goal was scored by a scurrilous reigning league champs [Zahm] may Lilliputian man-boy so you should be have felt like an 'awe-inspiring defeat' lucky it even counted once. to an Alumni fan, it was, in fact, still at p.s. It is worth noting that Father tie." George Rozum, C.S.C., can divide by 
It was not a tie; you are wrong. Here's zero. The last time it happened was why. Let a= b; so a2 = b2 = ab; and it fol­March 10, 1940. Stick that into your lows that a2 -b2 =a2 -ab; which leads Google and smoke it. us to say (a+b) (a-b) = a (a-b); so it becomes a + b = a; and by substitution a 
+ a = a; which simplifies to 2a = a; so we can say 2 = 1. Will Clark 
It is plainly evident that Alumni's goal sophomore counts twice. You just got slapped in the Alumni Hall face by math. What's that, you say? Your Feb. 3 
A sense of hutnor 
To whom it may concern: 

The Dome Piece in Feb. 4 Observer is yet another comical caricature of the typical Notre Dame guy with a SMC chick. David Cavadini once again out does himself in addition to the guy who writes Black Dog ... for some reason I cannot think of his name. The Dome Piece lit up my delightful lunch by providing me with ravishing humor. During my reading of the Dome Piece I had to quit eating for fear that I may choke and not be able to read another edition. Mr. Cavadini, for you I have one chal­lenge: Never give up, fight the MAN, and never lose your sense of humor. As your col­league, Dwight D. Eisenhower said it best "A sense of humor is part of the art of lead­ership, of getting along with people, of getting things done." 
Thank you David. 
Patrick Augustyn 
sophomore 
Knott Hall 
Feb. 4 


Glory days 
I am writing in response to Brian Conway's criticism ("Boss goes wrong," Feb. 3) of Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band's electrifying performance Sunday night. I question the judgment of a collegiate student that finds an inconsequential amount of "crotching" more offensive than Janet Jackson's exposed breast. Springsteen proved that he hasn't gone anywhere, and that his new album, "Working on a Dream" will reach high atop the charts just as many have before. By the way, no matter how much Brian might wish, the kneeslide into the camera was not an intentional expo­sure of Bruce's leather-pants crotch. The Boss continues to rock. 
Henry Shine sophomore Stanford Hall Feb. 3 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 12 
Thursday, February 5, 2009 

By EMILY LeSTRANGE 
On the opening night of the annual Keenan Revue, one can still find Musical Director Joey Kuhn hard at work on perfect­ing the final details of the famed sketch-comedy show. 
"Everyone involved has been hard at work preparing for the show," Kuhn Siiid, "I didn't know quite how much work I was getting myself into when I signed up to be the Music Director...the Revue has basi­cally consumed my life for the last two weeks." 
Certainly, it's been har.d work put to good use. For 33 years, the Keenan Revue has been entertaining Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students with off­beat skits and unique song renditions. Funded by the gen­erous donations of Keenan alumni and intermission col­lections from audience mem­bers, the Revue has become arguably the most popular dorm function on campus. Many still hold memories of past Revue's fondly in their Notre Dame experience. Kuhn 
Selling out tickets 
n under 12 min­, the emergence of bright Revue T-shirts not only serve walking advertisements but to mock students who lack for tonight's opening show. surprisingly, the ND masses 't get enough of Keenan's 

cites last year's "Casper: The Overly Friendly Ghost" as one of his favorite skits. Many can also recall the famous hit "Talk Love with Dos Padres" from the 2007 revue. 
This year's Superhero­themed show, decided upon by the 20 members of the Revue staff, is guaranteed to be equally as entertaining. Although 
one of the 25 spots in this year's Hevue. 
Selecting among skits is "a very long and arduous process" according to Kuhn, as is working with a live band for musical numbers. For the last week, practices have been held daily in Keenan's basement. 
"Reh1-1arsals are always a lit­tle crazy, with people running around every­

many themes where ... but were consid­despite all the 
. Preparing for the show has
ered (includ­craziness, the ing the aptly­been no small endeavor. show somehow titled "High pulls together
More than 6o skits 
School in time," Kuhn
auditioned for one ofthe
Revuesical"), said. the Superhero 25 spots in this year's For years, theme was the the Keenan
Revue. 
most popular Revue has pre­idea. miered in 
"The main motivation [for choosing the theme] was that superheroes are· very 'in vogue,"' Kuhn said, citing the explosion of superhero movies in recent years. "The superhero theme made it easy to come up with an opening skit, T-shirts and programs." 
Preparing for the show has been no small endeavor. More than 60 skits auditioned for 
seernin~dv lirnitless potty 
Keenan hurtles over obstacles of campus taboos, like homosexu­ality, partying and promiscuity, whipping off the gag imposed on off-color (albeit probably insensi­tive) humor. Their material, as 
per usual. has all the shamelessly crass humor that ND has come to love them for. Needless to say, this R rated campus skit show is not for the faint of heart. Touchy viewers are forewarned. 
Annually the Keenan comedic Knights delight student audiences, and this -year will be no dif­ferent. Classic like the Keenan news report and musical acts, complete with the aptly titled "strippers," are yearly sta­ples for a reason. Additionally, those looking forward to the stan­dard fare of guys dawning drag, cracks about campus current 
()'Laughlin Hall on Saint Mary's Campus. However, in 2003, the Saint Mary's Board of Governance expressed concern over the use of O'Laughlin for the pro­duction of the Hevue, citing the infamous nature of the show as offensive to many Saint Mary's students. The contro­versy eventually passed and the show has continued the 
tradition of showing 
events and ness (seriously someone should consider starting a pant drive for tho dorm) will not be disappoint­ed. 
Still, this year the men of Keenan shied away from stale, overdone jokes, finally giving St. Mary's and Breen Phillips a break. That is not to say that the show has not done its part in observing pervasive campus gen­eralizations. This year's revue also embraces the creation of new sternotypes. 
Also hnlping to kflep things fresh, the Hevue is highly attuned to current campus culture. Appropriately, there are both appearances from famous Keenan residents and jeers at present eampus celebrities. The series of skil'i include the expect­ed, sueh as Melissa Buddy jokes, North Dining Hall vs. South Dining Hall rivalry, lUng by Spring criticism and reenact­ments of' dorm parties. This 
in 

O'Laughlin. 
Kuhn offers this word of cau­tion: "The Revue is not a sho tailored to the easily offended, so leave your moral sensibili­ties at home and let yoursel laugh a little!" 
The audience can count on continuing to sefl notoriou staples of the show this year, including the famed "Revue News" and controversial come­dy skits. 
"The musical numbers will span several different genres," said Kuhn, who reference classic rock and 70s fun musical numbers. 
"Many of the skits will paro­dy life at Notre Dame. although there are a few tha have little or nothing to do with ND." 
Kuhn also encouragp,s audi­ence members to keep an eye out for "well-known, risin star-athletes" that make appearances throughout the Revue. 
The 33rd Keenan Revue debuts tonight, in O'Laughli Hall at 7 p.m. Ticketed admis­sion is required. 
Contact Emily LeStrange at elestran@nd.edu 
···"J. 
year's Revue also exudes an unpredictable charm with that will be pleasant and ous surprises to viewers. Th year's Hevue also keeps shows a sense of history, subtly resurrect­ing past (infamously wonderful) bits, like "ubiquitous girl." 
Between tl1C blunt sexual innu~ endoes, the ceaseless partial nudity and the waves of laughter, the Keenan Revue is a dizzying experience in all the right ways. Many joke that the Revue is an excuse for Keenan become hot commodities, the hottest tickets to this end's show. Whether that's or not, getting a ticket to the Keenan review is like 
VYHHllJJ"' 

golden ticket. But after the cult task of hunting one down, you get a delightful glimpse into the sick, twist, genius comedic mind of Keenan Hall. · 
Keenan Revue Tonight, Friday and Saturday, 7p.m. St. Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium 
MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Thursday, February 5, 2009 
page 13 

· Inherit the Wind (1960), 6:30 and 9:30 p.m., . Experience the Instrumental Melodies Browning Cinema --~of Ireland with Chulrua, 8 p.m., The With a title that comes from Proverbs 11:29, · ' Livery "He that troubleth his own house shall inherit the· . . In true fighting Irish fashion, get your 
. wind: and the fool that shall be servant to the wise·., jig on this weekend by attending the ofheart," "Inherit the Wmd" plays on the idea that· . · traditional Irish band Chulrua's musical when one does something provocative, such as'-., -performance Friday night at The Livery. teachin~ ~harles Darwin's theo_ry of evolution #,..Reels, hornpipes: jigs an? polkas ~ill before It IS allowed, trouble will soon follow. r, • 'keep the pub rollmg late mto the mght 
. "Inherit the Wind" is a fictional account of the •' and early into the morning. actual Scope "Monkey" Trial that took place mr.. With almost 70 years of musical expe­1925 in which a teacher was put on trial and con-· _; ';' rience between them, Chulru a knows 
·victed for teaching a theory other than creation-. ·.·how to transport their audience to the 'ism to his Tennessee high school science class.; . ;.stony intimate pub atmosphere that will 'Celebrate the 200th anniversary of Charles .. have yo'-! knocking back pints and tract­
Darwin this weekend by watching this Academy_: ing stories of your funniest memories.· nominated film embellishing one of the<l· :Tickets are $10. roost controversial times in educational history. ;~' . 
• :<-~:~~;·,.\,v.~--~~~~:;~~....~>~\>~:'~~;:;~·~,,;:~~::::-)~:··•:.(~,_.. ~~ ~-~-,· .,·· ... ¥> .. : ~-· ~· v;~t~ <·>.' ~ ...,, 
·Silent Light (2008), 6:30 p.m., Browning ·: Faculty Recital-Deanna Emmons, :cinema ·. · ·Saxophone, 4 p.m., Moreau Center for . In a Mexican Mennonite com~unity, a: ... the Arts-Saint Mary's College scandalous adultery has taken place forcing .·.·. A master of music with degrees from 
··a man to re-evaluate his marriage, religion ·both Bluffton University and Indiana and path in life. When the Johan falls for a.-_;University-South Bend, Deanna woman other than his wife and continues his /':-"Emmons will put on a jazz performance affair even though he knows its wrong, ques-~, ..•:.:this Sunday afternoon at Saint Mary's. ··tions of infidelity and the existence of a soul'· <'·With experience playing in recitals, jazz · mate befuddle him and intrigue the audience ... _-. ~nsembles, private venues and instruct­_As Johan selfishly tries to seek the best of''·'· mg students at band camps, Emmons. 1both worlds, his knowing wife Esther further .·,·has immense experience that has .slips into a separation from both her husband. ·_. mounted to an impressive proficiency. ·and the world she knew, showing the painful ··.·. on the saxophone. This free event will effects cheating can have on those who·~· feature professional, soulful, bra·ss wind 
deserve to feel its effects the least. Before.; instrument skills that will make you ·heading out Saturday night, delve into this ·· wish you were back in the 1920s, at a ·complex cinematic accomplishment. \>;~;juice joint putting on the Ritz. 
\ 
By MICHELLE FORDICE Assistant Scene Editor 
Tonight Dining Hall Dish offers an entree and a great dessert idea. 
The common theme? Both were submitted by some loyal readers and experienced din­ing hall recipe ·makers. Hopefully all of you out there are coming up with some great ideas, so don't forget to submit them and get your name (something every N otrtl Dame student should aspire to) in The Observer! 
This week's recipes: 
Chicken Parmesan 
Craving some Chicken Parmesan but it's not on the menu tonight? No problem! You can find most things 

need to make it every night of the week. Thank you to Charlie Vogelheim for this recipe. 
1. 
Pick up a fried chicken breast. 

2. 
Cover with marinara sauce from the pasta bar. 

3. 
Cover with mozzarella from the salad bar and allow the hot 


pasta sauce to let it melt. Serve with a side of pasta and some garlic bread. (No garlic bread tonight? Try toasting some good bread, spreading a little butter or olive oil and topping with parmesan cheese for a substitute.) 
Puppy Chow 

This dessert (or snack) is probably something you stum­bled upon as a kid, and it fea­tures what every kid wants: lots of sugar. And what's wrong with that? Better yet, this is our first recipe from an alumnus! Thanks to 2008 graduate Matthew Lisowski for submitting it. 
1. 
Pick up a bowl of Crispex cereal (if the dining hall is out, you can try experimenting with other types. Aim for something on the plain side so that it doesn't conflict with the ingre­dients you're about to add). 

2. 
Fill a bowl with a bit of butter and about equal parts creamy peanut butter and chocolate chips. If there are no chocolate chips, try substitut­ing chocolate sauce, but you may need to adjust the por­tions of each ingredient to make the sauce thick enough. 

3. 
Melt in the microwave for about 1 minute, until you can 


the ingredients into a sauce. 
4. 
Pour the sauce over the ·cereal and shake it between two bowls until it is coated. 

5. 
Head to the waffle bar. toss on some powdered sugar, and toss again until it is cov­ered. 


Quick Tip 

Want some new toppings for your ice cream? Try. checking out the cereals. A lot of the sweeter ones give you an extra crunch the same way Oreo crumbles and candy do. One of the best ones I've tried is Fruity Pebbles. 
Have your own dining hall recipe? We would love to fea· ture it! E-mail Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd. edu. 
J 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, February 5, 2009 
NBA 
Kobe leads Lakers to victory over Raptors 
LeBron answers Kobe with 52 points to go along with 11 assists and 10 rebounds in return to Madison Square Garden 
Associated Press 
TORONTO -Kobe Bryant and the Los Angeles Lakers warmed up for their showdown in Boston with a victory over Toronto. 
Kobe Bryant scored 36 points, Pau Gasol added 31 points and 15 rebounds and the Lakers beat the Toronto Raptors 115-107 on Wednesday night for their fourth straight victory and eighth in nine games. 
"We got it going a little bit more," said Bryant, who scored 10 points in the fourth to help the Lakers outscore Toronto 30-20 in the final frame. "We obviously picked up our energy a little bit. It felt like the first three quarters, we didn't have the pop we need­ed to. In the fourth quarter it seemed to be there for us." 
Lamar Odom had 13 points, and Derek Fisher added 12 for the Lakers, set to play the Celtics on Thursday night in their first trip to Boston since losing the NBA finals. 
"It wasn't a fun night, that's for sure," Lakers coach Phil Jackson said, recalling the Game 6 loss last June that gave the Celtics the title. 
Gasol looks back just as dis­tastefully. 
"It's not a good memory," he said. "Hopefully we'll be able to change that." 
After that, the Lakers head to Cleveland for a Sunday matchup with LeBron James and the Cavaliers. 
"It's a good test for us, these two games coming up," Gasol. "They're going to be extremely hard, in hostile places and we're going to have to overcome that and show out identity out there." 
Toronto lost its fourth straight, but didn't go quietly. Joey Graham had a career-high 24 points, and Jermaine O'Neal added 22 points and nine blocks. Andrea Bargnani scored 21 points, and Anthony Parker had 18 for the Raptors, 5-21 overall against the Lakers. 
"We probably gave more than we would have liked to." Fisher said. "The Raptors played a solid game, they had a lot of guys con­tributing. I think we have enough gas in the tank to figure out how to win (Thursday)." 
Toronto All-Star Chris Bosh left the game with 8:50 remaining in the fourth because of a sprained right knee. Bosh, who had 12 points and eight rebounds in 29 minutes, was taken to a hospital for tests. 
The Raptors also played with­out point guard Jose Calderon, who sat out with a sore right hamstring. It's the same injury that kept him out of 10 games in January and two in November.
• 

Parker moved over to point guard with Graham starting at shooting guard. 
Los Angeles had never led by more than two and trailed 87-85 to begin the fourth, but took its first lead since the second quar­ter on Bryant's jumper with 6:27 left. 
"From there it seemed like the momentum was really on our side and we were able to finish the game after that," Fisher said. 
Toronto trailed by seven with just over a minute left, but Parker made a 3-pointer and Graham followed Bryant's miss with a layup to cut it to two, at 107-105. 
But Graham failed to convert the 3-point play, and Bryant responded with a jumper in the lane, then a pair of free throws, to push the lead to six. 
"It says a lot about the level he's playing at right now," Fisher said. "He's leading our team and we need him at this point." 
Bryant set a Madison Square Garden record by scoring 61 points in a 126-117 victory over New York on Monday night. His career high of 81 came in a home victory over Toronto on Jan. 22, 2006, and he came in averaging 28 points in 21 career games against the Raptors. 
"He had moments where he looked like he was going to be really hot in the first half," Jackson said. 'Then I put him on the bench for a rest and when he came back nothing seemed to go for him for a little bit. He carried us in that third quarter and got things going and then down the stretch, made the plays." 
The Raptors started brightly, leading 21-9 after Parker com­pleted a four-point play on Odom's foul at 6:33 of the first. But the Lakers stormed back behind four 3-pointers, including three from Bryant, cutting it to 23-21 3 minutes later. Bryant had 14 points in the opening quarter, but Toronto led 31-26 after one. 
"We were out of synch right off the bat," Jackson said. "We had to fuss to get that game." 
Bryant missed all five shots he took in the second, while O'Neal had 11 and Bosh eight to give Toronto a 63-58 lead at the half. 
Cavaliers 107, Knicks 102 

Not quite Kobe Bryant. Definitely vintage LeBron James. 
James scored a season-high 52 points in his 21st career triple­double, joined Michael Jordan as the only visitors with multiple 50­point games at the present Madison Square Garden, and led Cleveland to a victory over New York on Wednesday night. 
Two nights after Bryant set a record at the present building with 61 points, James was on 

pace to break it after scoring 20  night.  that way. But we're out there first  
in the first quarter.  "The sad thing is that I'm sure  of all trying to win the basketball  
His scoring eventually tailed off  LeBron said that it's no big deal  game. I never go into a game say­ 
a bit, especially after he briefly  to get 61 points," Knicks coach  ing I'm going to try to put up a  
left the game in the fourth quar­ Mike D'Antoni said. ''I'll just get a  decent amount of numbers or  
ter after cramping up, but the  triple-double. (Kobe) didn't do.  anything like that. I've never  
skills that make him perhaps the  that."  been that type of player."  
NBA's premier all-around player  Zydrunas Ilgauskas scored 15  Yet he was looking for his own  
remained throughout.  points, and Szczerbiak had 12  shot to start and was ahead of  
"I don't go out there for the  points and 13 rebounds for the  Bryant's pace early on, draining a  
numbers, I just play my game,"  Cavaliers, who have won four  jumper at the buzzer to give him  
James said. "You guys seen every  straight and eight of nine. They  20 points in the first quarter - 
phase of my game tonight, the  are off until a showdown with  two more than Bryant had ­and  
scoring, the rebounding, the  Bryant and the Los Angeles  Cleveland a 36-24lead.  
assists and defensively just trying  Lakers on Sunday in "Cleveland,  "I felt a few shots go in and just  
to attack the opposing team.  where the Cavaliers are 23-0.  continued to try to work that  
"I never thought you could look  AI Harrington scored 39 points  hand and just try to see if I was  
at the box score and see some­ for the Knicks, who fell to 0-2  really feeling hot, and I was able  
body with 50 with a triple-double,  during they're referring to as  to knock a few shots down,"  
but it's happened."  "Dream Week," games against  James said.  
James added 11 assists and 10  the Lakers, Cavs and Boston  The Knicks used a 16-3 spurt to  
rebounds, becoming the first  Celtics. David Lee had 12 points  cut a 14-point deficit to 43-42  
player since Kareem Abdul­ and 10 rebounds.  midway through the second, but  
Jabbar in 1975 to have a triple­ The focus on James' first trip  the Cavs came out of a timeout  
double in a 50-point game. James  here in November was his free  with a play that led to an alley­ 
grabbed his final rebound with  agency in 2010, days after the  oop pass for James' dunk. He had  
under 2 seconds left, then tum­ Knieks made a· pair of trades to  28 in the half, then found Ben  
bled out of bounds as time  clear salary cap space for a run  Wallace alone for a layup as time  
expired.  at him. This time, the building  expired that sent Cleveland to the  
"A pretty impressive triple-dou­ was still buzzing from Bryant's  locker room with a 57-52 advan­ 
ble," Cleveland's Wally  performance, and the talk was on  tage.  
Szczerbiak said. "I bet his fantasy  whether James could top it.  Unlike Monday, when the MSG  
owners are pretty happy."  He said he wouldn't try - crowd loudly cheered for Bryant,  
They were similar numbers to  unless the situation called for it. .  the fans were behind the Knicks  
James' game in New York last  "We go out and try to win ball  in this one. They responded with  
March, when he fmished with 50  games. Myself and Kobe go out  a spirited performance after  
points, 10 assists and eight  and win ball games and some­ being blown out in the previous  
rebounds. Jordan is the only  times we make games like that,"  two meetings with Cleveland - 
other visiting player to twice  James said before the game.  James didn't even play in the  
score 50 here, with a high of 55  "It just so happens where we  fourth quarter of either -and  
that was the opponent record  get high numbers or we make an  were down only one with 2 min­ 
before Bryant broke it Monday  unbelievable play. It just happens  utes to play.  

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
New pop Christian music by Will of Titus available at www.willoftitus.com or itunes 
FoR SALE 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 
Affordable Graduate and Faculty Off-Campus Housing. Call for Availability (574)243·2818 or (574)276·6118. 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer· ing 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 
4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Starts 6/09. $850/mo. 574-250·7653 
613 Lafayette Blvd., 6-bdrm & 2­bdrm houses. $350/person. Call 57 4-876-6333. 

Townhomes at Dublin Village. Irish Crossing, Wexford Place, Ivy Quad. 3 and 4 Bdr. Only a few left for 09/10. CES Property Management. 574-968·0112 CESPM.inlo 
Houses for the 09·1 0 school year. 2­bdrrns up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 57 4· 234-2436 or www.kramerhouses.com 
Student rentals 2009/2010. St. Peter/SB Ave. Homes. $1300-$2000/month. 5-7 bdrrns, 1 st or 2nd floor. Contact Bruce Gordon 574-876-3537. 
NOW LEASING. LAFAYETIE TOWNHOUSES. $350/PERSON. 
3.4 & 5-BDRM UNITS. 2.5 BATHS. FREE INTERNET. NEWLY REMODELED. CALL 574-234·2436 OR WWW.KRAMERHOUSES.COM 
1-3BR Contemporary Urban APTS across from Notre Dame Stadium. The Foundry features private baths for every bedroom, washer/dryer, fitness center, theater room, tanning salon, game room. Preleasing for August. Call574-232-1400 or lease online www.foundryliving.com 
" 

HOUSES FOR RENT 2009-10. 2-4 BEDROOMS. CLOSE TO CAM· PUS, STAINLESS STEELAPPLI· ANCES. CALL BILL: 574-532·1896. 
PERSONAL 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: http://osa.nd.edu/health· safety/assault! 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1·2685. 
For more information, visit NOs Assistance for Pregnant Students//Office of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd.edulhealth·safe· ty/assistance-for-pregnant-students. 



OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, February 5, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE Oss:tRVER:s WlRE SERVICES page 15 


PGA TouR 
NCAA Men's Basketball AP Top 25 
team  record  points  
1  Connecticut (64)  20-1  1792  
2  Oklahoma (5)  21-1  1691  
3  North Carolina (3)  19-2  1639  
4  Duke  19-2  1563  
5  Louisville  1J.3  1464  
6  Pittsburgh  19-2  1427  
1  Wake Forest  1H  1409  
8  Marquette  19-2  1358  
9  Xavier  19-2  1176  
10  Clemson  18-2  1077  
11  Butler  29-1  1051  
12  Purdue  11-4  961  
13  Michigan State  11-4  876  
14  Memphis  18-3  798  
15  UCLA  11-4  787  
16  Texas  15-5  724  
11  Villanova  17-4  698  
18  Gonzaga  16-4  632  
19  Minnesota  18-3  426  
20  Syracuse  11-5  415  
21  Kansas  17-4  316  
22  Washington  16-5  216  
23  Illinois  18-4  198  
24  Arizona State  16-5  146  
25  Utah State  21-1  99  
NCAA Men's Bask etball  
ESPN/USA  Today Top 25  
team  record  points  
1  Connecticut (28)  20C1  772  
2  Oklahoma (3)  21-1  729  
3  Duke  19·2  670  
4  North Carolina  19-2  663  
5  Pittsburgh  19-2  633  
6  Wake forest  1H  609  
1  louisville  17·3  604  
8  Marquette  19·2  586  
9  Xavier  19·2  529  
10  Clemson  18-2  487  
11  Butler  19·1  456  
12  UCLA  17-4  400  
13  Purdue  17-4  369  
14  Michigan Stale  17-4  359  
15  Memphis  18-3  309  
16  Villanova  17-4  298  
17  Texas  15-5  274  
18  Gonzaga  16-4  201  
19  Minnesota  18-3  197  
20  Syracuse  1H  162  
21  Illinois  18-4  126  
22  Utah State  21-1  106  
23  Arizona State  16-5  104  
24  Kansas  11-4  100  
25  Washington  16-5  78  

USA Today1American Hockey Magazine Top 15 
team record 
1 Boston U. (27) · 19-5-1 2 NOTRE DAME (7) 20-4·3 3 Northeastern 17-6·2 4 Michigan 19-9 5 Cornell 14·3-4 6 MiamiOH 16·9-4 7 Vermont 14·6·4 8 Denver 16·8·3 9 Minnesota 12·1-li 10 Princeton 15-6 11 New Hampshire 12·8·4 12 Boston College 11-8·4 13 North Dakota 16-11·3 14 Yale 15·5-1 15 Ohio State 11·8·3 


around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL Temple at No. 9 Xavier 7 p.m., ESPN 
NBA LA Lakers at Boston 8 p.m., TNT 


Associated Press 

SAN DIEGO -He cap­tured more majors than any­one last year, won every player of the year award on golf's landscape and will make his PGA Tour debut this week in the Buick Invitational. 
The story should sound familiar, just not the name. 
"Never really thought of it that way," Padraig Harrington said Wednesday. 
Instead of Tiger Woods, the feature attraction at Torrey Pines is Harrington, who has won three of the last six majors, including consecutive titles last year in the British Open and PGA Championship. 
Harrington is No. 3 in the world, the highest-ranked player at the Buick Invitational by a small mar· gin over hometown star Phil Mickelson. And while Lefty figures to attract the largest gallery -the security detail that usually follows Woods has been assigned to him ­the Irishman was the No. 1 pick at the pro-am draw party. 
This will be the earliest Harrington has started on the PGA Tour, but he could not think of a better place. 
He was at Torrey Pines for the U.S. Open last summer, but this is his first time to play the Buick Invitational. He spent his pro-am Wednesday on the North 
· course, which in June was occupied by parking lots, practice areas, corporate tents and the media center. Reaching the crest of the fifth fairway, staring below at the green, the cliffs and the Pacific Ocean, Harrington caught himself. "This is a particularly pret­ty view," he said, a rare understatement by his stan-. dards. And when one of his ama­teur partners asked him to list his favorite golf course in America (not counting Augusta National), Harrington listed the next three tournaments on his schedule -Torrey Pines, Pebble Beach and Riviera, the only time in PGA Tour 
history that three straight tournaments are held at U.S. Open venues. 
What kind of game he will 
bring  to  those  courses  
remains a mystery.  
"Less  than  sharp,"  
Harrington said.  

He takes a two-month break from tournament golf during the winter, but he is always working, always refining his swing to find a way to make it better. He concedes that it takes time for the moving parts to get in sync. 
"You can practice as much as you like, go on the golf course and play as much as you like," he said. "But it's totally different when you have a card in your hand." 

IN BRIEF WNBA's Leslie to retire at 
end of basketball season 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif. -Three-time WNBA MVP and four-time Olympic gold medalist Usa Leslie will call it quits after her upcoming 12th season with the Los Angeles Sparks. 
The 36-year-old center announced her decision Wednesday, accompanied by her 19-month-old daughter and husband. 
Leslie, a cornerstone of the league since its start in 1997, guided the Sparks to WNBA championships in 2001 and 2002. 
''I'm not going to pull a (Michael) Jordan and come back in a year or two," she said. "For me, I feel good about where I am.... I just know this is a good time. I can still help (the team). I don't want to be out there when I can't do it." 
Leslie said she considered retiring labi season when it became more difficult to balance her family life and her basketball career. She took the 2007 season off to give birth to her first child, Lauren, and returned last season. She is married to Michael Lockwood. 
Phelps copes ~ith {allout
from suggestive picture 
BALTIMORE -Olympic champion Michael Phelps said Wednesday that he is going to have to live with the fallout from a photo of him smoking from a marijuana pipe. 
Phelps spoke to The Associated Press about the ordeal outside the pool where he trains. The public com­ments were his first since the photo surfaced in a British tabloid over the weekend. 
"It's something I am going to have to live with and something I'll have to grow from," Phelps said. "I know with all .of the mistakes I made, I learned from them and that is what I expect to do from this. By no means it is fun for me, by no means is it easy." 
Wearing a black sweat suit and shaking off the remaining drops of water in his hair after a workout at the Meadowbrook Aquatic Center, Phelps said the most important thing for him is that he was back in the pool training 

NHLPA meets to make 
changes regarding fighting 
TORONTO -The head of the NHL Players' Association believes it is time to consider a rule mandating helmet use during fights and to examine the role of one-dimensional enforcers in the game. 
While a "clear majority" of players want fighting to remain a part ofhockey, Paul Kelly feels his constituency is open to restrictions on the process. 
"A couple that we've talked about that ought to be looked at anyway is, do you consider a rule whereby players need to keep a helmet on during the course of a fight, and perhaps require officials to step in if a helmet comes off during a fight," Kelly said Wednesday before the Conn Smythe Celebrities Dinner and Auction. 
"If it's true that when guys get hurled to the ice or tJipped to the ice and bang their skull on the ice is where the real danger comes from, then maybe we can protect against that. It's certainly some· thing worth looking at," the union chiPf added. 

Thursday, February 5, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Buckeyes boast strong class 
LSU, USC and Alabama add high caliber talent on signing day 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Three straight BCS breakdowns aren't keeping the big-time recruits away from Ohio State. 
Coach Jim Tressel turned another batch of blue-chip­pers into Buckeyes, putting together a class that rated among the best in the nation Wednesday, the first day high school players can make their verbal commitments to col­leges official. 
Most of the usual suspects cleaned up on the recruiting trail: Southern California, Texas and LSU have classes that experts are touting as top-1 0 caliber. 
Defending champion Florida's class is small ­that's what happens when a team wins a national title with a roster full of underclassmen -but strong. 
Michigan's first class fully recruited by new coach Rich Rodriguez should. give Wolverines fans some hope for a brighter future after a 3-9 debacle in 2008. 
Miami coach Randy Shannon is poised to have a second consecutive promising signing day, though the Hurricanes won't know if top-rated run­AP ning back Bryce Brown of Ohio State recruit Jack Mewhort stands with head coach Jim Wichita, Kan., will keep his Tressel during a news conference Wed. in Columbus, Ohio. 

verbal commitment to them or switch to Oregon or Kansas said Tom Lemming of CBS State. Brown's adviser said it College Sports, who had Ohio will be several weeks before State No. 2, behind LSU. "He Brown signs a letter of intent. has a fence around the state 
And at Alabama, Nick Saban of Ohio and put it up again has another top-rated class this year. He also did a great lined up to help him keep the job in western Pennsylvania." Crimson Tide where he had Linebacker Dorian Bell and them for much of the 2008 defensive back Corey Brown, season: atop the polls. teammates at Gateway High 
The national championship School in Monroeville, Pa., 
has been elu­ and both given  
sive for Tressel  five  stars (out  
and  the  "Jim Tressel is one of  of  five)  by  
Buckeyes in recent years, despite Ohio State's domina­ the great national recruiters. He has a fence around the state  Rivals.com, are headed to Ohio State. Tressel even  
tion of the Big Ten. Ohio State has won or  ofOhio and put it up again this year.,,  managed to convince a couple of four- 
shared  four  star  recruits  
straight confer­ence titles, but  Tom Lemming CBS analyst  from the Sunshine State  

lost three con­secutive Bowl Championship Series games, including back-to-hack title games after the 2006 and '07 seasons. 
The Buckeyes had their hearts broken again in January, losing 24-21 to Texas in the Fiesta Bowl on a last­minute touchdown. 
Maybe a recruiting national title will lift the spirits of Buckeyes fans? 
"Recruits are not paying any attention to the game results," Allen Wallace of Scout.com and SuperPrep Magazine said Wednesday. "For some kids it might serve as a reason to jump on the bandwagon. They go in thinking, 'Maybe I can make the difference."' 
Ohio State had the majority of its class signed before noon, a group that includes most of the top players in the Buckeye state. Going into signing day, Ohio State was ranked No. 1 by both Rivals.com and Scout. com. 
"Jim Tressel is one of the great national recruiters," running 
back Jaamal Berry of Miami and wide receiver Duron Carter of Fort Lauderdale, Fla. -to leave the Deep South and brave chilly temperatures in Columbus. 
Carter has family ties to Ohio State. His father is for­mer Buckeyes great Cris Carter. 
Coach Urban Meyer's Gators made it three consecutive national championships for the Southeastern Conference with their 24-14 victory over Oklahoma in Miami last month. 
And when it comes to recruiting, the SEC is just about as good. Scout.com had 10 of the 12 SEC programs among its top 25 recruiting classes heading into signing day. Hivals' top 25 had nine SEC teams. 
The Gators were expected to hand out only about 15 schol­arships Wednesday, a number that will hold down their over­all class ranking. But Florida's prospective class includes receiver Andre Debose of Sanford, Fla., rated the sec­ond-best at his position in the country by Rivals, and Gary Brown of Quincy, Fla., Rivals' No. 3 defensive tackle. 

And Wednesday morning, Florida landed one of the top uncommitted prospects in Jelani Jenkins, a highly touted linebacker from Olney, Md. 
Manti Te'o from Honolulu, another top-rated linebacker, also made his choice Wednesday and surprised many of the experts by picking Notre Dame over USC and UCLA. 
LSU was a disappointment in 2008, going 8-5 a year after winning the national title in '07. Tigers coach Les Miles responded by lining up what he has said will be one of the best recruiting classes LSU has ever· had. 
Miles reached into Texas for a couple five-star prospects ­safety Craig Loston from Aldine and quarterback Russell Shepard from Houston -to go with the Tigers' usual haul of homegrown talent.. 
USC's latest heralded recruiting class features the consensus No. 1 quarterback in the country. Coach Pete Carroll didn't have to go far to find Matt Barkley, who is from Mater Dei High School in Santa Ana, the same southern California school that pro­duced Heisman Trophy winner Matt Leinart. 
Barkley could be in the mix to replace starter Mark Sanchez, who decided to bypass his senior season and enter the NFL draft. 
Texas coach Mack Brown also found a five-star quarter­back prospect in his backyard. Garrett Gilbert from Austin highlights a Longhorns class that is, as usual, highly rated and loaded with in-state tal­ent. 
NFL 

Cable introduced as Raiders' nevv coach 
"He took over a team last
Associated Press 

year in the middle of the sea­
ALAMEDA, Calif. son, and I thought he did Although Tom Cable is aware well," Davis said. "There of the stiff challenges he is were peaks and there were assuming by staying with the valleys there. There were Oakland Raiders, their no­things that came up from longer-interim coach only time to time, but he's young. sees the opportunities. He loves it. He loves football, 
Owner Al Davis formally introduced Cable as his fifth head 

"As I said when this
coach since 2003 on became an interim job 
Wednesday in in October, this is my 
a news con­

dream.,,
ference lack­ing the the­atric vitriol of Tom Cable last year's 
Raiders coach 
rare public appearance by Davis, 
and I admire the passion for it where I'm not so sure all the other (former Raiders coaches) had that pas­sion." 
Davis and Cable both said the coach hired the Raiders' 
when he promoted Cable and fired Lane Kiffin four weeks into the season. 
The Raiders also announced the hiring of sev­eral more assistant coaches, nearly completing Cable's overhauled coaching staff. Ted Tollner was named the Raiders' passing game coor­dinator, and veteran NFL new assistants, including sev­eral coaches who joined the club while Davis claims he was still deliberating between Cable and another unnamed finalist, suspected to be New York Giants offen­sive coordinator Kevin Gilbride. 

With Wednesday's addition of linebackers coach Mike 
assistant J o h n Marshall will 

be Cable's "This was my team 
defensive 

growing up. There's not
coordinator. 

After fin­anything in the world ishing 4-8 as I'd rather be doing.,, the interim coach last 
Tom Cable
season, Cable gradually Raiders coach sold himself to Davis dur­ing a five-Haluchak and the promotion of Adam Henry to tight ends coach, Cable's staff has been filled except for offensive line coach. 
The Raiders won't have an official offen­sive coordina­tor, with 

week process lengthened by Cable calling the plays in the death of Cable's father. conjunction with Tollner and Although Davis said he quarterbacks coach Paul strongly considered another Hackett. Tollner was an candidate, Cable's enthusi­offensive assistant for the asm and loyalty won over the San Francisco 49ers last sea­Hall of Fame owner. son, while Marshall was the "As I s.aid when this Seattle Seahawks' defensive 
became an interim job in coordinator for the past six October, this is my dream," seasons under Mike said Cable, who joined the Holmgren. club as Although offensive much of the line coach staff is new,
"I feel like I understand 
in 2007. Cable thinks
that locker room.
"This was his experi­my team They're going to know ence with the 
growing up. where I stand, and I'm players will 
There's not be significant. 
going to tell them 
anything in "I feel like I 
the world the truth'' understand I'd rather that locker be doing. room," Cable
Tom Cable
I'm honored said. "I know
Raiders coach
to have the opportunity. I'm very honored by what this football team did in the last six weeks of the regular season and where we have grown as a football team, and I know right now where we need to go to get to the playoffs." 
After a rocky start to a tenure that began in the wake of Davis' vicious public spat with his thirtysomething coach, Cable led the Raiders (5-11) to back-to-back victo­ries at the close of their sixth consecutive losing season. That late surge made an impression on Davis, who praised Cable's leadership and play-calling while also defending the deliberate process of selecting him. 
who the lead­
ers are. 

know who the young people are that have to be pushed to become leaders on this football team .... They're going to know where I stand, and I'm going to tell them the truth." 
Davis said quarterback JaMarcus Russell has an ankle problem that might require further treatment, although the owner didn't specifically mention surgery. Davis also said he was open to discussions about sharing a prospective new stadium with the San Francisco 49ers, encouraging a possibility that's been suggested for sev­eral months for the two Bay Area clubs playing in two of the NFL's worst buildings. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 5, 2009 
MLB 

Court documents link Bonds to steroid use 
New testimony released on Wednesday adds to the already overwhelming amount of evidence pointing against Bonds 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -Court documents show Barry Bonds tested positive for three types of steroids, and his personal trainer once told his business manager in the Giants' club­house how he injected the slug­ger with performance-enhanc­ing drugs "all over the place." 
Prosecutors plan to use those 2000-2003 test results and other evidence, detailed in doc­uments released Wednesday, at Bonds' trial next month to try to prove he lied when he told a federal grand jury in December 2003 that he never knowingly used steroids. 
Bonds' attorneys want that evidence suppressed, and U.S. District Judge Susan Illston is to hear arguments Thursday on what to allow jurors to hear. Bonds' trainer Greg Anderson, who was jailed several times for refusing to answer ques­tions before a grand jury, appears to be at the heart of the government's case. But his lawyer, Mark Geragos, said Anderson will again refuse to discuss Bonds if prosecutors call him to testifY, 
Also among the evidence made public were a positive test for amphetamines in 2006 in a urine sample Bonds gave to Major League Baseball; dop­ing calendars Anderson main­tained with the initials "BB" and a handwritten note seized from his house labeled "Barry" that appears to be a laundry list of steroids and planned blood tests; and a list of cur­rent and former major lea­guers, including Jason Giambi, who are expected to testify at the March 2 trial. 
The documents said that Steve Hoskins, Bonds' child­hood friend and personal assis­tant, secretly tape-recorded a 2003 conversation with Anderson in the Giants' club­house because Hoskins wanted to prove to Bonds' father, Bobby Bonds, that his son was using steroids. 
Anderson and Hoskins, who were near Bonds' locker, were discussing steroid injections, and at one point, they lowered their voices to avoid being overheard as players, including Benito Santiago, and others walked by, according to the documents. 
Anderson: "No, what hap­pens is, they put too much in one area, and actually ball
00. 
up and puddle. And what hap­pens is, it actually will eat away and make an indentation. And it's a cyst. It makes a big (expletive) cyst. And you have to drain it. Oh yeah, it's gnarly. ... Hi Benito. Oh it's gnarly." 
000 
Hoskins: "... Is that why Barry's didn't do it in one spot, and you didn't just let him do it one time?" 
Anderson: "Oh no. I never. I never just go there. I move it all over the place." 
Also during that conversa­tion, Anderson told Hoskins that "everything that I've been doing at this point, it's all undetectable," according to the documents. 
"See, the stuff that I have ... we created it," he was quoted as saying. "And you can't, you can't buy it anywhere. You can't get it anywhere else." 

He added that he was uncon­cerned about Bonds testing positive because Marion Jones and other athletes using the same drugs had not been caught doping. 
"So that's why I know it works. So that's why I'm not even trippin'. So that's cool," Anderson said. according to the transcript. 
The San Francisco Chronicle first reported about a tape recording involving Anderson on Oct. 16, 2004, but did not identify the person he was speaking to. 
Bonds attorneys argued that none of Anderson's statements outside of court should bo admissible. 
"If Anderson does not testify for the government, the truth of any statement he may (or may not) have made out of court cannot be so tested," lead Bonds attorney Allen Huby wrote. "Mr. Bonds will be stripped of the opportunity to confront and cross-examine the most prejudicial but least reliable evidence against him." 
Bonds and Hoskins had a nasty falling out after slugger went to the FBI with accusa­tions Hoskins stole from him. 
Three of Bonds' test results were seized in a 2003 raid on the Bay Area Laboratory Co­Operative, the headquarters of a massive sports doping ring shut down by federal agents. Agents said they seized numer­ous results of blood and urine tests by Bonds, which prosecu­tors argue show that the slug­ger was intimately involved with BALCO. 
Bonds lawyers moved to sup­press 24 drug tests from 2000­06; more than two dozen drug calendars; BALCO log sheets; handwritten notes; opinion evi­dence on steroids, human growth hormone, THG, EPO and Clomid; witness descrip­tions of Bonds' "physical, behavioral and emotional char­acteristics" -including acne on his back, testicle shrinkage, head size, hat size, hand size. foot size and sexual behavior -recorded conversations that didn't include Bonds; and voice mails allegedly left by Bonds on the answering machine of for­mer girlfriend Kimberly Bell. 
Bonds' lawyers also want to prevent the jury from hearing evidence of at least four posi­tive steroid tests they argue can't be conclusively linked to Bonds because of how they were processed. 

According to records prose­cutors took from BALCO, Bonds tested positive on three sepa­rate occasions in 2000 and 2001 for the steroid methenelone in urine samples; he also tested positive two of those three times for the steroid nandrolone. 
A government-retained sci­entist, Dr. Don Catlin, also said he found evidence that Bonds used the designer steroid THG upon retesting a urine sample Bonds supplied as part of base­ball's anonymous survey drug testing in 2003, when the designer drug was not yet detectable. Federal investiga­tors seized them in 2004 from the private laboratory used by Major League Baseball before they could be destroyed, which the players were promised. 
Catlin said the sample also tested positive for Clomid, a female fertility drug, and for­eign testosterone. 
Included in the evidence was a letter from baseball inde­pendent drug administrator 

Masterless Mistresses: The New Orleans Ursulines ami the Development ofu New World Society, 1727~1834 (UNC, 2007) Emily Clark Tulane University 
Suturdt~V. Fehruw:v 7, 2009 9:00a.m.-noon McKenna Hail Centerj()r Continuing Education 
Bryan Smith that Bonds tested positive for an amphetamine during a drug test on July 7, 2006, when Bonds hit a three­run homer at Dodger Stadium. There also was a letter from baseball commissioner Bud Selig to Bonds that Aug. 1 informing him of the positive test and telling him that he will be subject to six more tests over a one-year period. 
The New York Daily News reported on that test on Jan. 11, 2007, saying Bonds attrib­uted the positive test to a sub­stance he had taken from teammate Mark Sweeney's locker. 
The court documents also show that prosecutors plan to call to the witness stand Giambi, along with his brother and former major leaguer Jeremy Giambi. The govern­ment also plans to call Bobby Estalella, Marvin Benard and Santiago, all former teammates of Bonds and clients of Anderson. 


Thursday, February 5, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles rebound vvith big vvin over Olivet 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Hurricanes upset De1non Deacons 
Miami blows away No. 7 Wake Forest in front of small crowd 
play from freshmen Kelley Murphy and Maggie Ronan, who had 14 and 10 points, respectively. The other two Belles to reach double digits were senior forward Erin Newsom, who had 13 points, and junior forward Anna Kammrath with 10. Both Newsom and Kammrath also contributed six rebounds apiece in the winning effort. 
Despite the fact that Hope also won Wednesday, there are still four games left for each team in conference play before the MIAA tournament at the end of the month. If Saint Mary's wins its remaining games, all of which are against teams they've already played this season, there is a chance that they could end the regular season as conference champi­ons and set themselves up in a favorable position for tourna­ment time. 
Contact Robert Graham at rgraham@nd.edu. 



By ROBERT GRAHAM Sporrs Writer 
After the their tough, lopsided loss to nationally-ranked rival Hope College last weekend, Saint Mary's found themselves on the other side of a blowout Wednesday night. 
In their first game at home in more than two weeks, the Belles (12-8, 10-2) defeated conference opponent Olivet 86­54 in a game that was never close. After giving up its lead in the MIAA standings to Hope Saturday, Saint Mary's will most likely have to win the remain­der of its conference games to have a chance at first place. 
The Belles definitely started that process on the right foot. After jumping out to a 22-point lead at the half, Saint Mary's never let Olivet up for air as the Belles scored another 41 points in the second half to the Comets' 31. 
The Belles got solid bench 
Associated Press 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. -The crowd for the attendance-chal­lenged Miami Hurricanes totaled 5,792 fans, and many of them poured onto the court when Wednesday night's game ended to celebrate their team's most lopsided win ever against a ranked opponent. 
Jack McClinton scored a sea­son-high 32 points, and Miami used a zone defense to stymie No. 7 Wake Forest, which lost its second consecutive game, 79-52. 
The Hurricanes hardly looked like a team that had lost three straight games. And Wake Forest looked nothing like the team that beat then­No. 1-ranked Duke a week ear­lier. 
"Miami played very, very well," Demon Deacons coach Dino Gaudio said. "They had their backs to the wall and played with a lot of energy and a lot of emotion." 
The upset triggered a fren­zied celebration as fans mobbed the Hurricanes. 
"That was one of the greatest feelings I've ever had," McClinton said. "I've never experienced something like that, rushing the court. It was great." 
McClinton scored 14 consec­utive points for the Hurricanes late in the game to help build their biggest margin of victory ever against a ranked team. He fmished 11-for-19, including 6­for-10 from 3-point range, and added three steals and two assists. 
"McClinton had one of the best performances I've seen in the eight years I've been in the ACC," Gaudio said. 
The victory snapped a slump for the Hurricanes (15-7, 4-5 Atlantic Coast Conference) at the start of a three-game stretch against top 10 teams. They visit No. 4 Duke on Saturday and will be at home against No. 3 North Carolina on Feb. 15. 
"They fought extremely hard because they're fighting for their lives," Wake Forest center Chas McFarland said. "We've got to be doing the same thing." 
The Demon Deacons (17 -3, 4-3) haven't won since beating Duke a week ago. They lost in the final second Saturday at Georgia Tech, which came into the game winless in the league. 
Against Miami's zone, the Demon Deacons struggled throughout and shot a season­low 31.7 percent, including 3­for-20 from 3-point range. Their 52 points were a season low. 
"We were relying way too much on the 3-point shot," 

Gaudio said. "We weren't going inside enough. We tried to shoot our way out of prob­lems." 
Miami often had the Demon Deacons on their heels -or worse. Hurricanes forward Cyrus McGowan set a midcourt screen that sent L.D. Williams sprawling as McClinton sped past for a layup. 
The crowd erupted, and a woozy Williams went to the bench. 
"That play Cyrus made really got us going," McClinton said. "Our team got pumped up." 
Miami went on to lead 29-26 at halftime, then pulled away by outscoring Wake Forest 25­8 over the first 9:10 of the sec­ond half. Junior Adrian Thomas complemented McClinton by going 4-for-5 beyond the arc and tying a career high with 14 points. 
"In practice that's what I do -I keep shooting," Thomas said. "It felt good." 
Miami point guard Lance Hurdle missed his first five shots but finished with 11 points, four assists and only two turnovers. 
Jeff Teague scored 19 points for Wake Forest but missed all five of his 3-point tries. Freshman Al-Farouq Aminu had five turnovers and scored only four points, nine below his average. 


CCL..L..ECiE CF ENCiiNEERINCi 
The College of Engineering Welcomes Early Admitted Engineering Intents 
Joseph Altura Erik Anderson Maura Aranguren Taylor Barker Tyler Bartlow Robert Bauer Alexa Becker Thomas Belatti Matthew Bergman Daniel Boyle Kevin Brandenberg Nicholas Castro Matthew Charnley Kevin Creamer Mary Crofton Caitlin Cunningham Kevin David Justin Delaney Kerry Dobmeier Andrew Dolan Patrick Duncan Angela Ferreira Erin Fisher Harold Gadlent Michael Georgiadis Bradley Geyer Matthew Goedke Scott Green Hillary Guardo Patrick Handy Janelle Heinle Christopher Hensler Jack Heuer Eric Hinterman Justin Hintz Emily Hoffmann Matthew Hubbard Gary Hunt Ill Carl Josephson Shannon Kelly Robert Kirk Leo Kirsch Kyle Knapke Daniel Koop Patrick Kramer Allan La Grenade-Finch Sarah Leung Benjamin luft Joseph Magro Patrizia Martellaro Brendan McAuliffe Michael O'Brien Kristi Olesik William Paape Richard Palacios David Palm Jacob Pankow luis Pena Thomas Pollard Garrett Quick Samantha Reilly Allison Reinsvold Eva Robert Megan Rodts Andrew Rosenburg Eric Ross Brian Safat Daniel Samide Timothy Scott Michael Selep Laura Semeraro Jarred Simmer Derek Simon Andrew Sindoni Kyle Sladek David Smith Zachary Stauder Christina Stutts Nathan Thomas Kaytfyn Troyer Ross Turner Jeffrey Ulrich Kyle Vinson Stephen Wandor Brett Wiener Michael Williams Derek Wolf Samuel Wright Thomas Young II James Yurkovich 


We hope to see you in our Class of 2013. 
~ 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 5, 2009 
Recruits 
continued from page 24 

eye-opening performance at the U.S. Army All-American game, he quickly began gain­ing respect in national rank­ings. 
Weis said the Sunshine State native reminded him a lot of current Irish linebacker Harrison Smith. Motta has already impressed the coach­ing staff in his first few weeks in South Bend and is expected to play either outside line­backer or safety. 
Tyler Stockton 
Stockton has been signed up to play for the Irish since last year's Blue-and-Gold game and is the final fresh­man to arrive on campus this year. The 290-pounder, another New Jersey native, was ranked the third-best defensive tackle in the coun­try by ESPN. "We think he's a dynamic player and he gets off the ball," Weis said. "He's got good quickness and he uses his hands, and here is another guy we are really happy to have our hands on as we go into the spring." 
Offense 
This year Notre Dame con­tinued to rack up talented athletes on offense as well. The Irish stocked the shelves for new line coach Frank Verducci with three offensive linemen, two tight ends and a long snapper. 
Alex Bullard 
At 6-foot-3 and 275 pounds, Bullard is considered a very athletic offensive lineman. Rivals.com listed him as the 15th-best guard in the coun­try, where he is expected to play for Notre Dame. He led Brentwood Academy to a Class AAA Tennessee state championship in his junior year and this year was named the third best player in the state. 
"I really like the kid. He came here on his visit and we really clicked. Clicked with him and clicked with his folks, right off the bat," Weis said. 
Tyler Eifert 
Eifert is a local player from Fort Wayne and joins the ever-increasing list of large, talented Notre Dame tight ends. His size (6-foot-6, 220 pounds) and speed leave him somewhere in between a wide receiver and tight end. 
Despite not having a need at the tight end position, Weis said the team was too impressed with Eifert's per­formance at the Notre Dame summer camp to not offer him a scholarship. 
"It was pretty obvious to see that he was the best of the people he was with that day and really stood out, which really got our attention and really pushed this thing along," Weis said. 
Jake Golic 

Golic will be another wide receiver/tight end combination player for the Irish. He played wide receiver for Connecticut high school powerhouse Northwest Catholic and had eight touchdowns in his senior season. He was ranked the sixth-best player coming out of the state. 
Golic, who was the very first recruit to sign with the Irish, becomes the fourth member of his family to play at Notre Dame. His father Mike Golic and uncle Bob Golic were linemen in the 1970s and 80s. His older brother, Mike Jr., is currently a freshman at Notre Dame and plays center for the team. 
Zach Martin 

Martin, the top ranked player in Indiana decided to stay in state and help fill a void at the offen­sive tackle position. He was ranked second in the Midwest behind fellow Irish recruit Chris Watt. Martin's big frame makes him a potential wrecking force on the line. 
"We think he's going to be a big muchacho when it's all said and done," Weis said. "This guy is a guy that you watch games and you see several pancake blocks." 
Martin has 114 pancakes as a senior at Bishop Chatard Iligh Sschool. 
Theo Riddick 

Riddick, who hails from Manville, N.J., is the !ina! ofWeis' home-state recruits The versatile back rushed for over 4,000 yards in his high school career at Immaculata. Weis said his ath­leticism gives him the opportuni­ty to play at running back, slot receiver or even as a defensive back. 
Riddick was named the second­best offensive player in New Jersey. He has been leading his high school team to victory for many years. As a sophomore, he had 216 yards rushing and a game-clinching interception in the state title game. 
Special Teams 

Notre Dame also stocked up on kickers with this class. Ben Turk will be coming to South Bend as a punter from St. Thomas Aquinas in Davie, Fla. He was ranked the third best punter in the country this year and pinned 14 of his 28 punts inside the 20-yard line. 
Turk will be joined by his high school long snapper, Jordan Cowart. Cowart served specillcal­ly as a long snapper for Aquinas and was perfect on his 370 career snaps. Both of these play­ers will join Sam Young and Dan Wenger as alums of the Florida school. 
The Irish also picked up place­kicker Nick Tausch from Plano, Tex. Tausch was ranked the ninth-best kicker in the country after nailing field goals from 51 and 53 yards during his senior year. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 


Bearcats 
continued from page 24 
Brey said. "We keep strug­gling. " 
For the first 30-plus min­utes of Wednesday's game, the Irish and Bearcats went back and forth looking like two teams playing to keep their NCAA Tournament hopes from slipping out of reach. With 14:34 remaining in the second half, there had been 14 lead changes and nine ties in the game. Then it all started to fall apart for Notre Dame. 
As has been the case throughout the losing streak, the Irish were unable to get enough defensive stops to keep up with their opponent. 
Cincinnati guard Deonta Vaughn hit a 3-pointer off a high screen and fellow guard Larry Davis hit a lay-up to give the Bearcats a five-point edge with just under 14 min­utes to play. Irish forward Luke Harangody answnred with a pair of free throws, but Vaughn responded with another trey off' the same high screen that had worked two possessions earlier. 
Notre Dame forward Ryan Ayers hit a jump shot, but consecutive baskets by Cincinnati pushed its lead to 61-52 -the largest lead of the game for either team at that point -causing Brey to call a timeout with 11 min­utes remaining. Although they scored 31 points over the final 11 minutes, the Irish could get no closer on the scoreboard. 
"We've got to be able to play defense, get rebounds and stop teams from putting up 90 on us, " Irish forward Zach Hillesland said. 
Cincinnati's 93 points were a season-high for the Bearcats, and it was the third time in their losing streak that the Irish have given up 93 points. 
Notre Dame's troubles on the defensive end Wednesday night stemmed from an inability to deal with the inside-outside combination of forward Yancy Gates and Vaughn. Vaughn, who entered Wednesday's contest averag­ing 15.3 points per game, exploded against the Irish for a season-high 34 points. 
Although a good number of Vaughn's points came from the charity stripe in the final minutes of the game, Notre Dame was generous in the space they gave Vaughn to shoot all night. The Cincinnati guard took full advantage, hitting five of 11 3-point attempts including the two treys that put the Bearcats on their way in the second half. 
"I love to be under the radar as a team, " Vaughn said. "Most teams don't key on you or talk about you. If we keep winning, they'll see what we're capable of. " 
Inside, the Irish had no answer for the freshman Gates. The 6-foot-9, 255­pound forward had his way down low, scoring 15 points on 7-of-13 shooting. His offensive presence also opened up shots outside for his teammates, and the Bearcats took advantage by shooting 43 percent from beyond the arc. 
On the offensive end, the Irish continued their second­half trend from the Pittsburgh game of not finding their 3­point shots. Notre Dame attempted only 13 treys, three of which came in the final 
2:30 of the game. Worse yet, the Irish made only three of those long-distance shots ­good for a percentage of 23.1. 
Harangody put up his cus­tomary big numbers as he fin­ished with 28 points, 14 rebounds and t1ve assists. It was his eleventh consecutive double-double. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 


University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students (Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Eddie Velazquez at evelazqu@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1·7800 
University Counseling Center (Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at mlaffert@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 

http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 
Thursday, February 5, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Hype 
continued from page 24 
us, it was like, "Oh, yeah, and I'm considering Notre Dame." Not good, not good. Ifhe doesn't come here, ND football is officially dead, and even worse, I'll have to change my handle. 
11:30 a.m. posted by FrSorinrocks 
He was just saying it that way to throw people off. Besides, I heard from my super-duper secret source that his dad called Weis yesterday to tell him he's coming to ND. 
11:31 a.m. posted by Te'olover: 
I heard that same phone call was to tell Weis he's not coming! Ifhe doesn't come to ND, you know Pete Carroll must've done something shady. And I'm sure that weasel Urban Meyer had a hand in this somehow. (But I do wish he was our weasel) 
End scene. The above was a dramatization of conversations held on recruiting message boards over the past few weeks all over the Internet, not just at Notre Dame Web sites. The language is obviously exaggerated, but not that much-a lot of talk for kids that haven't played a down in college yet. 
Ofcourse, recruiting is a vital part of college football, and there's nothing wrong with following recruiting as a fan of a program. But the Internet frenzy that comes with recruiting today has gotten out of hand. If I were a parent of a 17-year old kid, frankly, I'd be creeped out a bit by what these faceless strangers are saying about my son on the Internet and the mors that they're spreading about him. 
This culture is also not good for ilie athletes. These are 17 -year-old high school kids, who've still not fully developed emotionally and haven't learned to avoid looking at such things, that can't help but read what's said about them on the Internet. In some ways it's fun to read about what people are saying about you, debating whether or not you're going to one school or another when you actually know the truth. A recruit who reads such glowing dialogue can develop sort of a God-complex. That's certainly not healthy. 
On the other hand there are peo­ple who will bash a recruit, attack him for not choosing a school, and this can cause unwarranted pain. No matter how good you are, it hurts when somebody says some­thing nasty about you, even ifit is an anonymous message board post. 
In the case of Manti Te'o, no doubt Wednesday was a good day for Notre Dame. Te'o is a first-class athlete and Notre Dame is lucky to have him, especially given the past two seasons. More importantly, Te'o seems like a first-class person. 
But Te'o, along with the hun­dreds of other athletes who signed letters of intent Wednesday, hasn't played a snap in college. It's rare when a player can come in and have an inunediate in1pact the way Michael Floyd did last year. Te'o may do that, but in general, it takes time for these kids to tum into men and it takes good coaching to develop that five-star potential. From reading the Internet, you would think these guys are going to be All-Americans tomorrow. 
It's fun to think about what Notre Dame will be putting on the field in years to come. There are a lot of reasons for optinlism. In addition to Te'o, Notre Dame nabbed some great athletes in Cierre Wood, Tyler Stockton and Shaquelle Evans. But until the players develop, there's just talk, and it's absurd talk at that. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

COWA.RT1.,ldROAN  
EIFERT. TYlER  TE  
EVANS. SH,AGd~ELE  WA  
FOX.DAN  LB  
GOLIC,JAKE  IE  
MARTIN. ZACH  OL  
MOTTA.ZEKE  LB  
RIDDICK. THEO  RB  
STOCKTON. TYLER  OL  
TAUSCH. NICK  K  
TE'O;'MANTl  LB  
TVRR. BEN  p  
WATT. CHRIS  d(  
WOOD,CIEHAE.  RB  
Te'o  
continued from page 24  
6·1 180 PESUIT} 


and ends up committing; it's truly remarkable," Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis said in a press conference Wednesday. 
Sixteen other recruits also announced their intentions to play for the Irish Wednesday, which was national signing day for high school seniors. Wide receiv­er Shaquelle Evans, running back Cierre Wood and offen­sive tackle Chris Watt all announced their intention to play for Notre Dame. 
Te'o announced his deci­sion on ESPNU around 12:15 
p.m. Wednesday. ESPN ranked him as the No. 1 defensive player and the No. 2 player overall in this year's signing class. 
Where the girls are. 
JUST ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME 
Wonder where NO girls ate living next year? 
Brand new Irish Row Apartments and Irish Crossings Townhomes <He leasing fast fot both lhe 2009.,'2010 and 2010-2011 school years. 
Interestingly, future residents are 80% girls and 20% guys so far-that's four girls to every one guy. 
What brings the girls? 
Maybe it's the wo! features that wme with living 


at Irish Row or Irish Crossings, like: 
• Furnished residences 
-· lnduding a 42" flat panel HDTV in every living room 
• 
Private, full bath in each bedroom 

• 
Up to 4 bedrooms per unit 

• 
FREE Internet & 200+ TV stations 



• 
Laundry room with washer &dr~·er in each unit 

• 
fitness center and lounge, inducting tanning 

• 
Brand new construction Community social events 

• 
Close to grocerie~, H?!.taurants, entertainment and campus 


Come see what's bringing in all the girls. But, better hurry before all the guys catch on. 
~!.Irish 
ROW 


Jrish!lowApartments.com ! lrishCrossings.com kanem@irishrowapartments.tom 1 Sl4B7.6oo6 
Saij)s mode! <It the wmet of SuldeHe & Vaness Str~~i$ 
early to Notre Dame. USA Today named him an All­America player, and The Sporting News ranked him the No. 2 running back in the nation. He ran for 1,632 yards and 20 touchdowns in his senior season at Santa Clara High School. His junior year, he rushed for 2,612 yards and 34 touchdowns.
6-6 

"He jumped on board 6-1 early, and he really helped us and was one of the inte­
6-4 

gral parts of the recruiting 6-4 process as we went through with this class," Weis said.
6-5 

"We like this kid." 6-2 Watt was the only other MANVILLE, NJ recruit Notre Dame signed
5-10 185 (lMMACt!l.ATAl 

besides Te'o that Rivals.com 
l.lNVI!Dtll). NJ'

6-1../ 2HEJ (HUN SCHOOL! gave five stars. A 6-foot-3, PlANO. TX 280-pound lineman from
Glen Ellyn, Ill., Watt was
LA!11,!<lf

225 (f't:ll\IAHf.)H) also named an All-American OAV!f!, Ft by USA Today.
6·0 190 (S'L THOMAS AO(J!NAS) 
"Here is another guy that

GLEN fLLYIIi, 1L6-3 jGLENBA!'lD W~fl we have had a good rela­
CA tionship for quite some time
6·0 and we are really happy to 

The 6-foot-2, 225-pound have him on board," Weis Te'o became the inaugural said. high school recipient of the Watt had 107 pancake Butkus Award, given to the blocks as a senior at nation's top linebacker, and Glenbard West High School The Sporting News named even though he missed two him 2008 High games. He School Athlete played three of the Year. different posi­
"He's every tions on the
"He comes to the 
bit of that 6-2, line and
Syracuse game in the
225; that might never surren­not be doing snow, and ends up dered a sack. him justice," committing; it's truly Weis said 
Weis said. "He playing in the
remarkable.,
might be big­Hawaii Bowl ger than that." this season Weis said Charlie Weis "certainly Te'o asked one didn't hurt"
Irish coach 
question dur­ing a phone call Tuesday night: Did he have a chance to come in here and com­pete? Weis said he received other indications that Te'o might choose the Irish but didn't know for sure until Te'o announced it himself. 
"Not until he actually does it do you feel good about it," Weis said. 
Te'o is a Mormon and may take a mission trip after his freshman year. Weis said one of the things that alert­ed him to the fact that Te'o may have been moving towards Notre Dame was that Te' o's father, Brian, called Weis last night to inquire about what happens to scholarships if a player leaves school. Weis also said the program would allow Te'o to take a mission trip and return as a fourth-year sophomore. 
"We would respect his wishes, if that's what he decided to do," he said. 
Rivals.com ranked Te'o as the No. 12 player in the nation and the No. 2 outside linebacker. He had 129 tack­les, 11 sacks, three forced fumbles and three intercep­tions in his senior season, when Punahou won its first­ever state championship. 
While Te'o was the most high-profile recruit Notre Dame signed, the team still brought in other good talent. Evans, a 6-foot-1, 203­pound receiver from Inglewood, Calif., caught 51 passes for 810 yards and 11 touchdowns in his senior season. ESPN ranked him as the No. 4 wide receiver in the country. 
"He's a complete receiver with a combination of size and speed," Weis said. "He's just a playmaker." 
Wood, a 6-foot, 192-pound running back from Oxnard, Calif., verbally committed 
the chase for 
Te'o, but he 

said he didn't think the players, who had a role in the decision of which bowl game to play in, were thinking about getting Te'o to commit. 
Weis said he understood the importance of getting recruits nationwide and that signing the top recruits will keep Notre Dame competi­tive. 
"Whether it's California or Florida or Jersey, Indiana, Illinois, no matter where you're going, if you want to beat the best, you'd better get the best players," Weis said. "I have no illusions of grandeur [and know] that getting top players is the best way to beat them." 
Notes: 
+ Irishlllustrated reported that Roby Coma, a senior wide receiver who went to Punahou High School with Te'o, may be considering joining Te'o at Notre Dame. He was originally going to commit to UCLA, Irishlllustrated said. but has not turned in his letter of intent. 
+Junior Chris Martin, a 6­foot-4, 220-pound line­backer from Oakland, Calif., committed to Notre Dame Wednesday, Irishlllustrated.com report­ed. He will be the third ver­bal commitment of the 2010 recruiting class. . 
When asked what he would tell other coaches who may try to recruit him, Martin told Irishlllustrated: ''I'm 100-percent Irish, that's what I'll tell them," he said. "I appreciate the attention you are showing me, but I'm 100-percent Irish and that's what they'll know." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
r--------------------­

Thursday, February 5, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
Across 36 life, liberty and 66 They're usually Feature of an the pursuit of washed happiness separately
acacia tree 37 Married 67 Medical flow 

6 1986 showbiz enhancer
autobiography 38 & 39 Instant 

11 W.W. II hero, for 40Nod, say Down
short 41 Sped (by) "The Sound of

14 Historical 43 G.R.E. takers. biography that generally: Abbr. Music" name won a 1935 2 Soixante
44 Locate for tour 
Pulitzer minutes

World Series· 15 & 16 Boxing 3 "Wait till you're 
45 The last 1O"!c of 
result. often ._" (parent's

110% 17 Certain feed reply)
46 Three-wheeled 18Siow Indian taxi 
4 Bing Crosby's "White20 Delphic quality 48 &50 Christmas."

Grammatical22 Hawaii's annual again and agalninfelicitiesBowl 5 Hawk. maybe54 Quiet cough23 & 24 Curious 

6 Lay offcasein 57 From southern 7 Pubescent. say

psychology Spain 26 Free 59 Patent holder's 
8 Makeshift Income 
dagger

28 Watch brand 61 Total 
9 American-bam32 Where Nixon Japanesewent to law 62 & 63 Go Dutch 10 The Sun Devils,school 64 Comparatively lor short 

considerate

35 Much of central 11 Diable battler Eur., once 65 Seed alternative 
12 Sweetie 13 Irish singer with

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
WWW.BLACK00G.COM 

Puzzle by Mall Glnaberg 

330perating 42_facie 52 Gone, in a way 
system 43 Tanner's locale 53 Bar belt 
developed at 

44 Attire that often 54 Wiles Bell Labs includes a hood 
55Twlnkie 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


PATRICK GARTLAND 
FORBIDDEN DOUGHNUT 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

-Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City ______________ State ____ Zip_______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Lola Forsberg. !0: L<<> Thomp><•n Young. 2~: Pauly Shore, 40: Lis~ Marie' Pr.,,lcy.ctl 
HuppJ llirlbda~·: Don't lei your dream' be tr:ll1lplcd by !it>mc<>ne who ha>n't got y<>ur vi~inn. 1here .is: a lesson tn be learned fn:),m oncwsirl~d paTtncrships. lt is ume to weigh !he rdationsh.ips in yotlt lite. Be true to yourself and your dr.:-ams 1md ~·ou \\·ill not b<' di.appoin«:d in the r<suiH you geL Your uumben at'\: !1. 19. Zll ..\2. C\4. 37. 4." 
ARIES tl\bn·h 21.-Aprill'h: Now;, not the timctncut nfftks ortolltm roo.rhnd: on oft~a<d help. Keeping a tid on the way you f<,.,) will hdp p<>siti<>n ~"u much bet!<:r in the long nm. r:·nendly interaction \\·'ill gd you 'A"hat you want.~ stars 
T>\1'RrS (April 20-l\lay 20): Some thing< n•"·cr change. so don't f~ll for false aoher· ti>ing or 'ome,lne who is trying w pull;; f:tsl one on you. Talk :md research co!lts little "''get tl1<: f"d.> ~bout wh;•l you Mmt to try. Y"u will find •ll dlcdiw aht:rnatin. 3 ,t;~n 
UEMfNl CUa}' 21-June lilt: Take b..eJ of what 5<>11leone older <>r more ~xperienced tdb you and engag~ in acttviH~s that stimulate ,you mr..·nwlly and physit..~any. 11le end r<~ult wilt be meeting so11teone who will c•Jntribute 10 your future. 4 star> 
CANCJ:R (june .!1-j"lY 22): Yon may I><· tryi~g 11:., hard to g<·t somethong that wnn't be \V<Jrth it in (he t:mi. E.""<.pect an argument invoh'ing mone-y uwed ur tx,m,wcd, Try to dear this incident up he fore it kads t<> an il'1\econdbbl" different<'·. ::! star> 
LEO (Jul}· 23·;\ug.ll): A !lift. winning or snm< form of rNribulion b he.,ding your way. You must avoid business C(l!Uacts and focus on fl"r<l(>nal is>'lles that will better suit ro•11 nc<Xh. Getting inwlwd with collcilgtlcs itftcr hour• will ''"USC' ongoillg pmbkn" when y<>u gel hack to ""'rk. 5 stan 
\'lRGO (Aug.:ZJ.Sept. 11): Look at the hig picture and you will re:tlize you nct'<l" brettk. St:u1to put your plans in motion or take <>ff on a little nd,·.,mure. Fill your da)· w.ith cxdtement ;md entbu~i~sm with some,,ne you regard high!) . 5 st:~r~ 
U8RA (Sept•.U-Ocl.ll): He cal'\:ful not to •peml on something that promhos yuu the w<>rld and brings disappointment insa.:aJ. Som~~m" will critk'i7.e you if you nUikc a poor financial choice or if ~ou are gullible regarding products that will enhatiC<' y<>U mentally or physically. 3 slars 
SCORI>I() (Oct. !J-N""· 20: D<.m't kt <myon< talk you inw d"ing things that""' more wsdy wan your budget can handle. Be smart in tb.. way you handk penple and in how you build your pmfits. Put an end 10 whatever isn't working. :\ stars 
JUMBLE 

Jro]~
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form tour ordinary words. 
OGOIL 

I I I 

©2Q08 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
NEKEL 
j 
WURPAD 
I I I 
tKLYFNU I 

J I I [] Print answer here: ro"(IIJ'(IIJ 
(Answers tomorrow} Yesterday's IJumbles: CUBIT CRANK GROUCH FORAGE Answer: What he drove when he bought a used car -A TOUGH BARGAIN 

WHEN SHE: CHANGF:D 
HER HAIR OOLOR, IT WAS--­
Now arrange the circled !etters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, February 5, 2009 
page 24 
FooTBALL SIGNING DAY 
The full Manti 
Team nets Manti Te'o Kids are too young to and several other studs warrant such hype 
11:28 a.m. posted by HoltzisGod:By BILL BRINK I heard from two ofmy sources 

Sports Editor 
yesterday that Te'o's mother's 
friend's uncle's 

Cold weather be damned -
cousin that Charlie Weis managed to lure Manti i'> defi­the biggest fish in the pond nitely coming away from the temperate to Notre Dame. waters of southern California Don't believe to the North Atlantic-esque everything else conditions of South Bend. you've been 
Linebacker Manti Te'o, hearing. This is from Punahou High School in Chris Hlne the guy that's Laie, Hawaii, signed a letter going to resur­of intent to play for Notre 
Sports Writer rect our pro­
Dame next fall, the athletic gram. department announced Wednesday. Te'o chose the 11:29 a.m. posted by Te'olover: Irish over Southern But didn't you hear the interview California, UCLA, BYU and he gave la.">t week? When he was Stanford. mentioning his final schools, he 
"You think about it, a kid listed us last! And did y0u hear his from Hawaii, he comes to the tone of voice when he mentioned Syracuse game in the snow, 
see TE'O/page 21 see HYPE/page 21 
Notre Dame lands top recruitsfrom across the country-
E.J. Banks Carlo Calabrese finishing with 130 tackles and in. Fox played safety this year By DAN MURPHY Banks is one of three Irish From the same high school as three sacks from the line­at St. Ignatius in Ohio. Sports Editor ·players already on campus. He former Notre Dame tight end backer position. lie is known "We like the school and we 
played both safety and quarter­Anthony Fasano, Calabrese as more of a run-stopper, but like players that come out of 
Along with the list of All­back for Montour High School brings a hard-nosed New showed some athletic ability by the school that fit our mentali­Americans and names you in Pittsburgh, but will serve as Jersey attitude with him to catching 27 passes for nearly ty," Weis said. have been hearing since a cornerback for Notre Dame. South Bend. 500 yards this season. Both Fox's school and family early this fall, Notre Dame Last season he racked up more "He just likes contact," Weis, have strong ties to Notre Dame. roped in a very impressive than 1,000 yards rushing and a New Jersey native, said. Dan Fox recruiting class that will be passing. He is currently coming "He's a rocked-up unit. Ile Fox is another one of the Zeke Motta competing for places on the off a torn ACL, but Irish coach looks the part. Ile looks the many young linebackers Motta, another early field next season. Charlie Weis and the Irish are part like he would be ready to expected to compete for a job enrollee, has been touted as 
On the defensive side of the hoping his athleticism will help go early in his career." early in his career. At 6-foot-4, the most athletic of Notre ball, top recruit Manti Te'o him rebound quickly. He also Calabrese was named his 215 pounds he has the size to Dame's new recruits. After an will be jDined by five other played basketball and compet­state's Defensive Player of the be a good outside linebacker, players. ed in track in high school. Year in his senior season after where Weis expects he will fit s~e RECRUITS/page 20 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish fall in sixth straight 
Squad drops to 12-9 overall and 3-7 against Big East foes 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's season is turn­ing into a bad movie series. The sequel is just like its pred­ecessor, which was nearly identical to the one before that. All have ended badly for the Irish. 
For the sixth consecutive game, Notre Dame hung tough with its opponent for a stretch before watching the game slip out of reach in the second half. This time, the villain was Cincinnati. With their 93-83 win Wednesday, the Bearcats handed Notre Dame their first six-game losing streak under coach Mike Brey. 
"The beat goes on, baby, " 
see BEARCATS/page 20 


BASEBALL 

Banquet vvill feature Samardzija~ Sciascia 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
Former Notre Dame star and current Chicago Cubs pitcher Jefl' Samardzija will return to campus today with Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim manager Mike Scioscia a.'> keynote speakers at tonight's eighth annuaJ opening night dinner. 
Samardzija made his major league debut with the Cubs last season, going 1-0 with a 2.28 ERA in 26 appearances out of the Chicago bullpen. Samardzija went 8-2 in his finaJ sea.-;on with the lri">h in 2006, and wa.'> a first-team All­Big East sel(,)ction. 
Thn VaJparaiso, Ind., native wa.-; also a star wide receiver for the Irish football team, setting team single-season records for receiving yards and touchdown catches. Samardzija was named a first team All-American after helping Notre Dame to a 9-3 record in 2006. 

Sdoscia has managed the Angels for nine seasons, and ha.-; led the team to the playoffs five of the past seven years. He has tallied a 797­661 record in Los Az ngeles, and led the franchise to its only World Series title in 2002. 
Tickets are still available for the popular event at und.com or at the Joyce Center box office, and the night will begin with a "ballpark style" dinnec at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Fieldhouse. Admission is $50 for adults and $30 for students, youths, and seniors, and includes season tickets, autographed pic­tures of each speaker, and the opportunity to win several door prizes. 
Attendees will be seated with current Notre Dame players, who will be available for autographs before the event from 6 to 6:45 p.m. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 





