
THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Newton named new Law School dean 
Current chancellor of University of California law school will assume position on July 1 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
University President Fr. John Jenkins appointed Nell Jessup Newton as the new dean of the Law School, the University announced Tuesday. 
Newton currently serves as chancellor and dean of the Hastings College of the Law at the University of California and will assume her position on July 1, according to a press release. 
Patricia O'Hara, current Law School dean, announced her intention to step down from the position last March. 
O'Hara told The Observer she 


'09 Legacy open for donations 
By PUJA PARIKH 
News Writer 
The Senior Legacy, an opportunity for seniors and their parents to give money to a cause of their choosing, has begun receiving dona­tions for its 2009 fund. 
"The Senior Legacy is an opportunity -an opportuni­ty for each graduating class to leave its own, unique, last­ing impact on the face of Our Lady's University," co-chair of the Student Development Committee Kevin Marvinac said. 
Senior Joe Gagnon, the other Committee chair, dis­cussed the Legacy's aims. 
"The goal of the Senior Legacy is to make a lasting impact to improve Notre Dame and the quality of life for future students, to leave a legacy that will continue to grow and will still be improv­ing the university years after Class of '09 has graduated, and to have at least 50% of the Class of '09 to partici­pate," he said. 
As part of its Senior Legacy, the Class of 2009 selected the Internship Assistance Fund. which will provide students with a stipend to enable them to pursue internships in their chosen field. However, if donors prefer their gift go toward different causes, they can designate one. 
"Because seniors vote on what their legacy should be, it is uniquely theirs, and they have a great opportunity to contribute to causes they 
see LEGACY/page 3 
has interacted with Newton through a national group of law school deans and that Newton is "highly regarded" within that group. 
"She will bring great experience and energy to the posi­t i o n , " O'Hara said. 
Newton's area of 

e x p e r t i s e Newton lies in American Indian law and has served as dean of the law schools at the University of Connecticut and the University of Denve-r, according to the release. 
"I am humbled and excited to have been chosen to lead the Notre Dame Law School and be part of the great intellectual tra­dition and mission of the University," Newton said in the release. "It is an honor to follow one of the great law deans, Patricia O'Hara, who has done so much for the law school dur­ing her tenure." 
Jenkins welcomed Newton to the Notre Dame community in the press release. 
"In Nell Newton, Notre Dame has gained a superb scholar, a proven academic leader, and a University's mission," he said. 
O'Hara, who has served as dean of the Law School for the past 10 years, said she felt it was time for a change. 
"It's a privilege to serve and a corollary of that privilege is knowing when you think the time is ripe for a change in lead­ership, and I felt the time was ripe," she said. "It can be a way of revitalizing the entire school." 
In 2007, The Observer report­ed O'Hara was strongly criti­cized by students when the Law School dropped six spots in the 
U.S. News and World Report Law School rankings -from 
person deeply committed to the see DEAN/page 3 


GE wins Hesburgh Award 
ND alum, CFO Keith Sherin, accepts award on company's behalf 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
General Electric (GE) was awarded the Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh Award for Exemplary Ethics, Environmental, Social and Governance Practices on Wednesday evening. 
Chief Financial Officer of GE Keith Sherin, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1981, said it was a "privilege" to accept the award on behalf of his company. 
"I have to say I am enor­mously proud of this young man," said Hesburgh as he shook hands with Sherin and presented GE with the award. 
see HESBURGH/page 6 


STUDENT SENATE 
28 new senators sworn into office 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
Student body president 
Grant Schmidt and Student 
body vice president Cynthia 
Weber were sworn into 
office at Wednesday's 
Student Senate meeting. 
Eight new committee 
chairs and 28 student sena­
tors were also sworn in by 
Ian Secviar, president of the 
Judicial Council. 
Weber said she hopes the 
new senators will engage in 
constructive debate through­
out the term. 
see SENATE/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Identity theft a threat on ca111pus 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
If you ever received a credit card application and prompt­ly threw it in the garbage or if your date of birth is posted on Facebook, it is easier for someone to steal your identi­ty, according to Director of Information Security Gary Dobbins. 
"By the time you realize [your identity has been stolen], you're out trying to buy a car," he said. "Someone runs a credit check on you and realizes that you've already owned four cars and several boats. And you had no idea." 
College students are partic­ularly vulnerable because many students have not had to depend on their identity and therefore, do not realize its worth. 
"They might not have even realized its value yet, but the criminals certainly have, Dobbins said. "They would prefer to steal it from you before you realize that it is important." 
College students also tend to receive a lot of credit card applications, he said, which makes them more vulnerable. A blank credit card applica­tion in the garbage can give someone the opportunity to steal your identity. 
"I could open it up, fill out your name, and start taking on your identity slowly, start­ing with that," Lenette Votava, organizational com­munications analyst, said. 
If identity thieves fill out their addresses on enough credit card applications under your name, then it is • more believable to the credit card company that you may have moved -and they gain control of your identity and finances. 
"They build it up a step at a time in terms of plausibility," Dobbins said. 
Another reason college stu­dents are vulnerable is their widespread use of social net­working sites, like Facebook, Dobbins said. 
"People are very willing to give away a lot of what we would call valuable informa­tion on social networking !sites]," he said. 
"Valuable information" is information that other insti­tutions would consider pri­vate and would use to prove 
see THEFT/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, April 2, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Lessons Learned 
Remember back to first grade. The teacher handed each of us a piece of paper, and we were forced to write an essay about what we learned in school that day. I remem­ber writing about English 
Alicia Smith 
class, and gym 
class and 
recess, all of News 
my favorite 
Production 
parts of the 
Editor 
day. 
As my fresh­man year is finally winding down, I've thought about the different things I've learned while I've been here, the most important, of course, being Notre Dame football. 
As the stands are packed with fans with various levels of sobriety, there is a certain feeling of kinship among us. It doesn't matter what you look like or who you are, as long as you are not a fan of the opposing team. With the flourish of fanfare, the outbursts of cheers, and the magic of the marching band, the football games cannot be missed. Ever. Under any circum­stances. They are the most impor­tant part of the weekend, and I can­not wait to experience another sea­son. 
Although football is a substantial part of college life, there are other important things I've learned as well. Such as, do not lose your ID card, because you will not be able to eat. I personally have lost mine about a hundred times. Every time it disappears, I find myself falling to the same panicky routine that ends in me calling security, and finding it three days later. 
Not only am I without food, I can­not get into my dorm, and I am locked outside until someone kindly lets me in. In the winter, this is a serious problem. 
Winters at Saint Mary's are long, cold and miserable. With a foot of snow on the ground from December to February, life seems to get a little bleak. Campus life pretty much dies as everyone stays in their buildings as much as possible. When I have to wear two pairs of gloves, a scarf, a hat, snow boots and a thick, heavy winter coat to class every day, I find myself not wanting to go. 
However, skipping class is far from a good idea. The one I day I miss will be the day that the profes­sor decides to do something really important. That day the professor will hand out the only assignment that cannot be made up. 
This leads to the final thing I have learned while being a college stu­dent. There is never a second chance. College presents so many opportunities; some are fantastic, and some are really stupid deci­sions. College is something to expe­rience. In order to do that, I have to 

• be pushed outside of my comfort zone. I have to try new things, and I have to really live life. With each and every day, I find myself learning new things, and really experiencing what life is all about. By this time next year, I will have a whole new list of things to write in my essay. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IN THE EVENT OF A ZOMBIE ATTACK, WHERE WOULD YOU SEEK PROTECTION? 





Maura Galbraith  Jessica Keppel Robert  Soeren Palumbo Jenista  Kelly Levis  Mary Forr  
senior offcampus  senior sophoff campus Zahm  omore sophomore Sarin  junior Walsh  sophomore P.W.  
"South Dining  "Galvin I 86, it "DPAC Nobody  "Walsh, because  "Sarin,  'Tunnels, the  
Hall. No low  has no windows goes t here. " not even  obviously,  ones connected  
windows, food,  and ifyou can't  zombies would  because not  to the Dining  
and sniper  get cell phone  go after Walsh  even zombies  Hall."  
advantage from  reception,  chicks."  would go after  
above the Oak  zombies  a Sarin guy."  
Room."  probably can't  

get in." 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 
Twin twitchers: Conn. pet shop has 2-nosed bunny 
MILFORD, Conn. -It's no April Fools joke. The baby bunny really does have two noses. A Connecticut pet shop worker found the nosey bunny in a delivery of 6­week-old dwarf rabbits that arrived at the Milford store last week. Both noses have two nostrils. The owner of the Purr-Feet Pets shop says he's never seen anything like it in 25 years in the business. He says the bunny eats, drinks and hops around like the rest of the litter. 
Beardsley Zoo director Gregg Dancho says the deformity could be the result 
TODAY 


VANESSA GEMPISfThe Observer 
Outfielder Golden Tate, right, is greeted at the plate by Jeremy Barnes after scoring a run against the University of Toledo on Wednesday. Notre Dame won 11-7. 
OFFBEAT 

involvement ... There is more to the case than Pa Sulaiman," NDLEA chair­man Alunadu Giade said in a statement. 
Adebayo, who said he had been a farmer all his life, told police he thought the sacks contained rice. 
The agency said he claimed to have attended the inauguration of a famous hall in Abeokuta, the capital of Ogun state, in 1895 as a small boy and said he was 114_years old. There was no independent confirmation of his age. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
of too much inbreeding or the parents' exposure to pes­
. ticides or poisons. 
Elderly man caught with massive marijuana haul 
LAGOS -Nigeria's anti­narcotics agency confiscated 
6. 5 tones of marijuana Tuesday from the home of a man who claimed to be 114 years old. 
The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) said it had found 254 sacks of cannabis at the home of Sulaiman Adebayo in Ogun state, north of the commercial capital Lagos. 
"The quantity of drugs suggests a large scale 

TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
...J 
c( 
(.) 0 


..... HIGH 61 LOW 39 

46 
39 



45 32 
IN BRIEF 
The play "Our Town," by Thornton Wilder will be shown today through Saturday at 7:30 
p.m. and Sunday at 2:30 p.m. in Decio Mainstage Theatre of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The play was first pub­lished and produced in 1938, and depicts life in Grover's Corners, New Hampshire, trans­forming the simple events of everyday existence into univer­sal truths. Tickets are $10 for students. 
Cavanaugh Hall will host Dance-a-Thon 2009 today from 7 p.m. to midnight in the LaFortune Ballroom. Buy raffie tickets now for $1 each or 12 for $10 at North or South Dining Hall during dinner and potentially win prizes. Proceeds benefit St. Margaret's House and Healing Mercies. 
"On the Waterfront," starring Marlon Brando, will play at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center today at 7:30 p.m. Tickets are $3 for students. 
Dr. Richard Wolff, professor emeritus, University of Massachusetts, Amherst will give a lecture entitled "Capitalism Hits the Fan: A Marxian Perspective of the Crisis" from 7 p.m. to 8:30 
p.m. today in DeBartalo Room 141. 
The annual Student Peace Conference will be held this Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Hesburgh Center. Its theme this year is "Perspectives on Peace." Admission is free, but registration is required. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


HIGH 53 HIGH 39 LOW 34 LOW 29 
Thursday, April 2, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Dean 
continued from page 1 
No. 22 to No. 28. 
Looking back, O'Hara said that although the drop in rankings is not irrelevant, it is not a total measure of the quality of the school. 
"The Law School is currently situated in a group of schools in which the differential point in the rankings is very com­pressed," she said. "The slightest blip in any of the individual met­ric measures in the rankings for­
mula  can  reshuffle  those  
schools."  
In  2008,  the  Law  School  

rebounded back to its previous No. 22 ranking. 
O'Hara said she is proud of the high quality faculty and students at the Law School. She said 17 of 

Legacy 
continued from page 1 
deem worthy, or areas in which they think Notre Dame is lacking and could use a boost," Marvinac said. 
Seniors are encouraged to donate any amount they wish before December 31, 2009 to count toward their Legacy. Those wh.o donate at least $20.09 will receive the offi­cial Class of '09 Legacy poster. 
Any member of the Class of 2009 who makes a gift of more than $100 will be eligi­ble to receive an application for the 2010 football ticket lottery. Gifts can be made the current 38 faculty members have joined during her tenure as 
Videoconference discusses Africa 
dean. 

"I always think people are your most important accomplish­
ment," she said. "I don't think of By MEGAN LONEY this as my personal accomplish­
News Writer 

ment, but as the accomplishment of the Law School as a communi-
The election of President

ty." 
Barack Obama has enormousO'Hara said she believes one of symbolic importance both inthe strengths of the Law School the United States and in theis its dedication to exploring the 

African continent, Gregory

integration of faith and reason in Garland, public affairs chief for the context of law. 
the State Department's Bureau'This enlivens the discussion of of African Affairs, said during a

some of the most important videoconference with Saint
questions facing society," she Mary's College Wednesday. 
said. 
Saint Mary's College joinedO'Hara said she will be on sab­Albany State University andbatical for the 2009-2010 school Florida A&M University for ayear and then return as a faculty 

videoconference focused on

member of the Law School. 
U.S. foreign policy in Africa with the State Department

Contact Madeline Buckley at Wednesday at 4:00 p.m. in Spes mbuckley@nd.edu 
Unica. Garland set a basis for discus­

sion among the three partici­either by replying to the card 
pating schools by giving a 20 mailed to the senior class or 
minute talk on the relationship by making a donation online. 
between the United States and Marvinac expressed opti­
Africa, specifically "the societal mism about the Senior 
and formal government to gov­Legacy's outlook. 
ernment relations." "I predict that the student 
He first addressed the impact body will step up, even in 
of the election of a black presi­very challenging economic 
dent on these relations. times, and that most seniors 
"He [President Obama] is will realize that donating 
clearly the son of a Kenyan, and even a little bit will make a 
Africa considers him their own tangible impact on the uni­
son," Garland said. versity that has given us so 
Because of this perceived much over the past four 
bond, Garland believes a cen­years," he said. "Everyone 
tral challenge will managing can afford $20, and since you 
Africa's high expectations for can restrict your gift, you 
the Obama administration. know it will go towards a 
"I think that the [expecta­cause you deem worthy." 
tions] are high and that people whether we are in the U.S.A. or Contact Puja Parikh at 
in Africa are going to be let pparikh@nd.edu 
down, but that does not lessen the great symbol that he is for people around the world," Garland said. 

According to Garland, if Obama disappoints the conti­nent, it will be due to these exceedingly high expectations, and not because of a lack of ini­tiative on the part of the admin­istration. 
Obama's chal­lenge is more real interests," he said. "We have done it for a long time with Europe, not Africa." 

Professor Alice Siqin Yang, lecturer of Chinese and assis­tant director of the Global Education Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership (CWIL), was a key person in 
difficult than the 


'This is the first time 
one faced by for­

in American history 
mer President George W. Bush that we as Americans 

who came into are treating Africa as 
the Oval Office 


a place with real 
with low expec­

tations and fin­people, with real ished in Africa's governments and high esteem, 

with real interests.,, 
Garland said. "The Bush administration Gregory Garland left a strong public affairs chief legacy in African 
Bureau of African Affairs
continent. There is a general appreciation for the Bush administration with respect to Sub-Saharan Africa," he said. 
Garland acknowledged two successes of the Bush adminis­tration in Africa: implementing the Emergency Plan for Aids Release and forging a new American attitude toward the African continent. 
Garland described this atti­tude. 
"This is the first time in American History that we as Americans are treating Africa as a place with real people, with real governments and with 
helping to organize the videoconfer­ence. 
The Saint Mary's commu­nity became interested in setting up a videoconfer­ence after speaking with a contact in the S t a t e Department's Office of Public Liaison in November of 2007, accord­ing to Yang. 
"We thought 

it would be beneficial for our leadership certificate students and all Saint Mary's students if we can be part of the conversa­tions about foreign policies with other institutions," she said. "With the help of the Lilly Grant, CWIL helped purchase the facilities in 136 Spes Unica." 
"It is nice that our students can interact with diplomats and peer students of other institu­tions, and thus engaging the world," Yang said. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyOl@saintmarys.edu 
Office of Aicohol8: Drug E:ducation ·Campus Ministry· Career Center· Gender Relations Center· International Student Services & Activities· Multicultural Student Programs & Service Notre Dame Security Police· Office of Residence Ufe & Housing· Student Activities Office· University Counseling Center· University Health Services· Band· Chorale· Core Council fo Gay & Lesbian Students· Debate· Gil::!.':·~ Club· Student International Business CouncH • 347 student clubs and or9anizat!ons ·Office of Alcohol 2'l Drug Education· Campus Ministry· Office of r\lcohol &Drug Education· Campus i'vhi1istry ·Career Center· Gender Relations Center· International Student Services & Activities· Multicultural Student Programs & Serviu 
Notre Oame Security Police· Offke of Residence L!fe &Housing · Student Activities Office· University Counseling Center· University Health Services· Band ·Chorale· Core Council fc Gay & Lesbian Students ·Debate· Glee Club· Student International Business Council • 347 student clubs and orqanizations ·Office ofAlcohol & Druq Education ·Campus Ministry • Office of Alcohol & Drug Education· Campus Ministry· Career Center· Gender Relations Center ·International Student Services & Activities· tvtulticultural Studerit Programs & Servin Notre Dame Security Police· Office of Residence Life &!·-lousing· Student Activities Office· University Counseling Center· University Health Services· Band· Chorale· Core Council fc Gay & Lesbian Students· Debate· G!.ee Club· Student International Business Council· 347 student clubs and orqanlzations ·Office of Alcohol & Druq Education· Campus Ministry· Office of Alcohol & Drug Education ·Campus Ministry· Career Center ·Gender Relations Center· international Student Services &Activities • Multicultural Student Programs&~ Servlo Notre Dame Security Police· Off'lce of Residence Life & Housing· Student Activities Office· University Counse!inq Center· University Health Services· Band ·Chorale· Core Council fc Gay & Lesbian Students· Debate· Glee Club· Student International Business C.ouncil • 347 student clubs and onJanizations •Offtn7 of Alcohol£, Drug Education • Carnpus Ministry· 
Office of Alcohol & Drug Education· Campus Ministry· Career Center· Gendc,r Relations Center· !ntern~1t1ona! Student Services & Activities· Multicultural Student Programs & Service Notre Dame Securrty Police· Ofnce of Residence Life & Housing· Student l\ctlvilies Offlce ·University Counseling Center· University Health Services· Band· Chorale· Core Council f(} Gay & lesbian Students· Debate· Glee Club· Student lnternatronal Business CouncH • 347 student clubs and organizations· Office of Alcohol & Drug Education· Carnpus Ministry· Office of Alcohol & Drug Education· Campus Ministry· Career Center· Cender Relations Centr~r • !nternatk:mal Student Services & Activities· ,\J!ulticultural Studem Programs 8~. Service Notre Dame Security Polfce • Ofhce of Residence life & Housing· Student Activities Office • University Counseling Center· University Health Services· Band ·Chorale· Core Council fo 
:fl.,, .'St LesbiaQ S.t·ude.·nt..s • De.•ba:!J Glee. C!ut.-.' • s._· Li:!.:nt ln.terna.tiort:8.usm·e·ss .r._ounli.! •.•~.47 stus·nt d.ubs.tn~.•rganizati.ons. • Offic.e of. Aleo.hoi,& D'..lJ.g ~·~ation ·.Campus Minis.try·.'· ~er:v~tnonstuuen)t)s ~t~n~rottnfl·ra,"m Uttl·tUtue('OJ;:uena.f\t.men.ts~arAtJI :pfogFams:ENotre Dame Secu~: Police· Offlce of Residence Ute 8i Housif;f. Student Activlties Offlce • Univer·sity Counseling :~ter ·University Health Services· Band •Choral•.:: ·Core Council fo 
(.h3~ & Lesbian Students.· D.ebate ·Glee Club· Student Ia···<tia1al Bus•ess C•mci.l· 347 student c!uf.l >·af"zations aC)fe.of.;\l.cohol~'.'DnJ•~:...JCff-"· ::ampa Ministry· 
. .. 1nrs· ,-~ Ofnce of Acor1ol & Drug Education· Campus Ministry. re (r[~''I'!Ser I:A·n··.-er-A· uOno, ..·. i• "leli .0 1~tnl ,cult ' -~._ ,, !~rt·'•s·-.JiCe Notre Dame Security Police· Office of Residence Life & f · '': sll,c. ,, e J cU: ·' eliv·"'C uns' ,. ~· c nU.~r · i~a h 'r ·es )a h rQ1 'lot , I fo 
Cay & Lesbian Students· Debate· Glee Club· Student International Business CouncH • 347 student dubs and organizations ·Office of Alcohol & Drw;J Education· Campus Ministry • Office of Alcohol &Drug Education· Carnpus Ministry· Career Center· Gender Relations Center· International Student Services &Activities· Nlulticulturai Student Programs & ServicE Notre Darne Security Police· Office of Residence Life &Housino ·Student Activities Off;ce ·University Counselino;:J Center· University Health Services· Band· Chorale· Core Council fc Gay &Lesbian Students· Debate· Glee Club· Student International Business CouncH • 34/ student dubs and organizations· OffiCe of Alcohol & Drug Education· Carnpus Ministry· 
Office of Alcohol & Drug Education· Campus Ministry· Career Centr'r ·Gender Relations Center· !nternation<ll Student Services &Mtivities • Muitkuitural Student Programs & ServicE Notre Darne Security Police· Office of Hesidence Life & Hou:;inq • Student Activities Oftlce ·University Counseling Center • University Health Services • Band ·Chorale ·Core Council fo Gay f, Lesbian Students· Debate· Glee Cub· Student International Business Council· 347 student dubs and organizations· Office of Alcohoi8A Drug Education· Campus Ministry. Office of Alcohol & Drug Education ·Campus ~,;Hnistry ·Career Center· Gender Relations Center· International Student Services & Activities ·Multicultural Student Programs & Servict Notre Dame Security Police • Office of Residence Life & Housing ·Student Activities Office • University Counseling Center· University Health Services •Band ·Chorale· Core Council fc Gay & Lesbian Students· Debate· Glee Club· Student International Business Councl! • 347 student clubs and organizations· Office of Alcohol & Drug Education ·Campus Ministry· 
)ffice of Alcohol &Drug Education· Campus Ministry· Career Center· Gender Relations Center ·International Student Services & Acti\ 
Multicultural Student Programs & Services· Notre Dame Security Police· Office of Residence Life & Housing ·Student Activities Office 
lniversity Counseling Center· University Health Services· Band· Chorale •Core Council for Gay &Lesbian Students· Debate· Glee Clu 
tudent International Business Council· 347 student clubs and organizations· 30 Rectors· 172 Resident Assistants· 60 Assistant Rectc 
Office of 1\kohol ,11 Drug fduc,Jtion • Campus Ministry· Career Center· Gender Relations Center· International Student Services&. Activities ·lvlulttculturaf Student Programs & Service Notre Dame Security Police· Office of Residence Life B, Housing· Student Actlvirtes Office· University Counseling Center· University Health Services· Band· Chorale· Core Council fo Gay & Lesbian Students· Debate· Glee C!ub ·Student International Business Council· 347 student clubs and organJzations • rt:lfl!lfl\lt~;cf(~u,~ap-r bnVA·I;tl-· Office of Alcohol g, Drug Education· Campus Ministry· Career Center· Gender Relations Center ·International Student ServiciSI~t·;i~. ~W:u~~':luc .:~rct.JaU~U\•c€ ~otre Darn~ Security Police: Offic~_of R~si~en:e Life & Housing· St~de~lt Activities ?ffi.ce • University ~ounse!lng Cr,nt~r • Unl_:ersity Health Servk:es:o·"iaer~Ci~~:w=o_o,f,~;~c~ f<; uay & Lesb1an Srudents •Deoate • 0!ee Uuo • )tudem International Busmess Counol· 347 student duos and organizations· Office of Alcohol & Dru : ·.~ad ·I.Ur-o~·U\4 · 
Office of Alcohol &Drug Education ·Campus Ministry· Career Center· Gender RelatiOns O~nter • International Student Services & ;\ctlvities • Multicultural Student Programs & Servic Notre Dame Security Police ·Office of Residence Life & Housing • Student Activities Offlce • University Counse!inq Center •University Health Services •Band ·Chorale ·Core Council f< Gay & Lesbian Students· Debate· Glee Club· Student lnterrv:ttion.;:l Bt!slness Council· 347 stucient clubs and orqanizatlons • Ofiic€ of Alcohol &Druq Eduotion ·Campus Ministry. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 2,2009 
on it ourselves during the fol­lowing meeting." 





Senate

Profs. discuss hutnanitarian work 
Weber explained that she 
submitted the motions, repre­

continued from page 1
McDowell said the people water." 
senting the incoming adminis­

By MOLLY MADDEN who are native to areas Silliman said the villagers 
tration.

"In general, there is disagree­
News Writer where these "vaccinated" approached him about a 
"It's a standard procedure to

ment on this campus and it is
insects inhabit could devel­Benin government program 
formally recognize the achieve­

my hope that it is mirrored discussed their work on Leishmania strain over a cost of digging the wells on 
Two University professors op immunity to the that pays for most of the 
here," she said. "I want this to ments of the outgoing presi­
dent, vice president and chief of
be a forum."

humanitarian projects in period of time. the condition that the vil­
staff," she said.

The senators passed three
the developing world and "These people are getting lagers are trained in how to 
Student Senate passed the

resolutions during the meeting
the ways they have collabo­bit by these insects hun­do the work themselves. 
motions with Barrera as the

to bestow emeritus status on
rated with native societies dreds to thousands of times "With this collaboration, 
only dissenting vote. 

former student body president
during a talk titled a day," she said. "When they we've already completed fif­
Schmidt said taxi reform is a

Bob Heish, vice president Grant 
"Science, Technology and eventually get infected with teen wells as opposed to the 
priority for the coming term. He

Schmidt and chief executive
Development" in the the poisonous strain, they two from the first venture," 
said he discussed the taxi
assistant Karen Koski.

Coleman-Morse Center are less likely to get the dis­Silliman said. "Not only did 
reform issue at the Community

Chief of staiT Hyan Brellenthin
Lounge Wednesday. ease and if they do it will be we spend less money the 
Summit, a conference between

said the emeritus status is
"What we're here to do is less severe." second time around, we also 
University officials, students

bestowed to recognize the
to inform you of the obsta­While McDowell has been had trained water commit­
and members of the community, 

accomplishments of Heish,
cles we must overcome in working on curing parasitic tees in those communities 
which took place Friday. 
Schmidt and Koski.

order to do our projects," diseases, Stephen Silliman, that we composed of locals." 
"I Community leaders] are

"They have no actual respon­
Mary Ann McDowell, profes­professor of civil engineer­Both professors stated 
willing to help put together a

sibilities," he said. "It's an hon­
sor of biology, said. ing and geological sciences, they arc in these foreign 
committee to reevaluate several
orary thing."

McDowell is working on a has been working in the countries for resean~h that 
issues with taxi com panics," he

The resolutions met one dis­
project that deals with a African country of Benin, will help in the long run, 
said.
senter.

disease called helping small villages to not IH~cessarily to bring 
An all inclusive campus cal­

Alumni Hall Senator Daniel
Leishmaniasis. develop a clean water sup­about any immediate 
endar is also in the works,

Barrera asked that the resolu­
Leishmaniasis is a disease ply. change something 
Schmidt said. The Web site,

tions be resubmitted to the
that is caused by parasites "The complexities I face McDowell said they must 
agenda.nd.edu, will include

Oversight Committee so that the
from the Leishmania genus deal with the drilling of new explain to the people 
events put on by dorms, student

current -and not the former
and is transmitted through groundwater wells," they're helping. 
government and the adminis­

-senators can submit the res­
the bites of certain species Silliman said. "My project "Up front we tell them 
tration. There will be academic
olutions.

of sand flies. has been through two phas­that there is no immediate 
"I think it's an improper events and sporting events as
"When this sand fly bites es: the service and the col­benefit for them," 
well, he said.

precedent to recognize the pre­your immune system," Silliman said when he first case, I am simply drawing 
you, the parasite lives in laboration phase." McDowell said. "In my 
vious Senate," Barrera said. "If McDowell said. "It is the went to Benin in 1998 to dig blood." 
anything, we should send it Contact Madeline Buckley at ultimate parasite." a well for a small village, "You have to accept that 
back to the committee to vote mbuckley@nd.edu McDowell is working on they managed to provide the you can't always get a solu­developing a vaccine that village ';Vith two wells with tion," Silliman said. "It is actually comes from bites of the help of Notre Dame and difficult to walk into a vil­non-infected sand flies. organizations like Lifewater lage and know a solution "When a blood-feeding International. won't be found in twelve insect bites you, she actual­"That was the 'service' months, but we want to put ly releases saliva into your phase," Silliman said. more money into a solution bloodstream," she said. "When we went back a few that will make a larger "The components of these years later, we had the 'col­impact." particular flies are pharma­laboration' phase where the ceutically active and stops villagers showed us a better Contact Molly Madden at pain and blood-clotting." way of providing them with mmadden@hcc-nd.edu 







ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, April 2, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVER:s WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
17 dead in car bombing, building raid 
KANDAHAR, Afghanistan -Four Taliban suicide bombers disguised in army uniforms detonated a car bomb and stormed a.govern­ment office Wednesday, killing 13 people. The assault highlighted the increasingly deadly tactics that Taliban militants are learning from al-Qaida, an expert said. 
The multi-pronged raid mirrored an attack in Kabul in February when militants assaulted three government buildings simultaneously, killing 20. 
Wednesday's attack on Kandahar's provin­cial council office killed seven civilians and six police officers, President Hamid Karzai's office said. Ahmad Wali Karzai, the head of the council and Pre~ident Karzai's brother, said the attack came during a meeting of tribal leaders. He said 17 people were wounded. 

Pictures prove bad prison conditions 
JOHANNESBURG -Newly released images that provide a rare look inside a Zimbabwean prison show emaciated inmates too weak to stand and eating as if they can barely bring food to their mouths. 
Human rights activists and former prisoners have spoken of horrifying conditions in the country's jails and prisons but there has been little firsthand evidence available. 
Producer Godknows Nare spent four months on the behind-the-walls documentary, training insiders to capture the footage. His work, "Hell Hole," aired Tuesday on SABC, the South African state broadcaster, and was being syn­dicated internationally by Associated Press Television News Wednesday. Nare said he hoped the footage would persuade Zimbabwe's new coalition government and the internation­al community to step in to help. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Planes grounded on safety concerns 
ATLANTA -Atlantic Southeast Airlines, a unit of SkyWest Inc. and one of nine region­al carriers for Delta Air Lines Inc., said Wednesday it grounded 60 of its 112 50­seat Bombardier CRJ200 jets after an inter­nal audit raised safety concerns. 
The groundings, which represent nearly 40 percent of ASA's total fleet, caused scat­tered flight cancellations throughout the day, but ASA declined to disclose how many, saying the situation was fluid. Company spokeswoman Kate Modolo said the carrier hoped to have all the planes returned to service by 8 p.m. EDT Thursday. 
The paperwork audit raised questions about whether the engines on Bombardier CRJ200 jets had been properly inspected according to the guidelines provided by the engines' manufacturer, Modolo said. 

Budget curbs Everglades restoration 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -Gov. Charlie Crist's celebrated $1.34 billion deal to buy 180,000 acres of U.S. Sugar Corp. land to help restore the Everglades is being scaled back by more than half because the state can't afford the original deal, the governor announced Wednesday. 
The reduction means the state will now buy 72,500 acres of land for $533 million, and hold a 10-year option to buy the remaining land. The decision means the original deal -hailed by environmental­ists -will be far less ambitious than planned. • 


LOCAL NEWS 
Reward for information in dog killing 
WINCHESTER, lnd: -The Humane Society is offering a $2,500 reward for information in the torture killing of a dog in eastern Indiana's Randolph County. 
The animal's body was found near the inter­section of two county roads on March 24. Authorities say the dog was stabbed, shot and choked with a bicycle chain, and that rocks were tied to its legs. The Randolph County Sheriff's Department is investigating, but Maj. Todd Dunn said there were no immediate suspects. 
UNITED KINGDOM 

Commander in chief goes global 
President Obarna attends international summit with world leaders on first trip abroad 
Associated Press 
LONDON -He talked nuclear threats with Russia's president and gave an iPod to the queen. 
And that was only the beginning. It was an eventful first day on the world stage for President Barack Obama, launching new arms control talks, placing China ties on fresh footing and calming fears about the ailing U.S. economy -seemingly everywhere, relaxed and smiling all the while. 
While wife Michelle attracted breathless atten­tion with every stop, fashion­able outfit and sip of tea. 
The new U.S. president, in London for Thursday's high­stakes global summit on the fmancial meltdown, dashed through a dawn-to-dark schedule Wednesday despite the effects of a head cold. 
School children ran along­side his nearly 20-vehicle motorcade. 
He was asked to give a pep talk to England's soccer team for its World Cup quali­fying match (he politely declined) and to offer cam­paign tips to embattled British Prime Minister Gordon Brown ("good policy is good politics," he said). 
There was even a chance to talk dinosaurs with Brown's young sons-and to snare two hours orquality time with Queen Elizabeth II at Buckingham Palace. 

"Michelle has been really thinking that through," Obania said, presumably referring to the daunting clothes dilemma posed by an audience with royalty. Mrs. Obama chose a black skirt and sweater over a white top and a double strand of large pearls. 
Before that meeting at the palace: diplomacy of a differ­ent sort. 
Brown, his dour demeanor one factor in his shaky politi­cal standing, said effusively that Obama had provided "renewed hope" all around the world. Russian President Dmitry Medvedev, whose nation has often assailed the U.S., offered his own praise, albeit more measured. His first meeting with Obama, he said, left him "far more opti­mistic" about Washington­Moscow relations. 


Undeterred by his cold, Obama held a whirlwind of one-on-one talks with those and other leaders, including Chinese President Hu Jintao. He aimed not just to lay the groundwork for Thursday's summit of the 20 largest wealthy and developing economies but also more broadly to initiate a new era in American foreign rela­tions. 
His first task was a little repair job. 
British feelings were hurt by what was perceived as a bit of a cold shoulder from Obama toward Brown when the British leader visited Washington last month. So when Obama and Brown appeared together before American and British reporters, Obama bent over backward to show his affec­tion for both host and host country. The lengthy round of questions made up for the slight of no news conference in Washington, and Obama took special care to note that the talks with Brown were his first official stop on his first overseas trip. 
"The United States and the United Kingdom have stood together through thick and thin, through war and peace, through hard times and prosperity, and we've always emerged stronger by standing together," Obama said next to a beaming Brown. 

Nevertheless, Obama hedged his bets by also sit­ting down -in full view of the cameras -with Brown's main rival, David Cameron, the leader of Britain's Conservative Party. 
Obama's talks with Medvedev were their first in person. Both sides sought to portray them as a major development for a relation­ship that has been severely hobbled in recent years by ever-sharpening disputes over the U.S.-led Iraq inva­sion, a Bush administration proposal to build a new mis­sile defense system in Eastern Europe, enlarge­ment of NATO into what Moscow considers its sphere of influence, and Russia's devastating war last year with its neighbor and former Soviet republic Georgia. 

Fargo reopens as river level falls 
Associated Press 

FARGO, N.D. Businesses reopened and commuter traffic returned Wednesday as the bloated Red River fell below the sandbags and the top of the permanent floodwalls protecting Fargo, feeding optimism the city had escaped a disastrous flood. 
Under a cloudy but mostly dry sky, roads reopened, people returned to work and officials began scaling back their flood response. Officials said schools would reopen Monday. 
"Our word for the day is restore and recharge," Mayor Dennis Walaker said. 

Traffic was bustling during the morning rush hour, a far cry from last week when the city was virtually shut down. "I had to fight traffic to get to work today," city commissioner Tim Mahoney said. 
Fargo also began looking ahead to the enormous effort of removing the roughly 3 million sandbags stacked atop the floodwalls. There was no immediate indication when that will begin, but Walaker wants residents to be aggressive when the time comes. 
"We don't want them sitting in their living room watching the Natio.nal Guard doing this," he said. "We can't do that. People don't understand how many bags are out there." 
Fargo also wants to work with state and federal officials to come up with a long-term flood plan. "It's something that we want to get done as quickly as possible," the mayor.said. 
Less than two inches of snow was forecast, giving residents a break from the storm that blew about 10 inches of blinding snow through the city Monday and Tuesday and whipped up blizzard conditions elsewhere across the northern Plains. 
City officials had said they would breathe easier when the river fell to 36 or 37 feet or lower, and early Wednesday, it was down to 37.37 feet. The river is still far above flood stage, but it's below the top of the flood walls, which are topped with 5 feet of sand­bags that residents, volunteers and 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April2, 2009 
Theft 
continued from page 1 
tutions would consider pri­vate and would use to prove that you are really you, such as your birth date, your high school, your mother's name, or your best friend's name. 
"What you think isn't easi­ly discoverable surely might be. And with enough of those little mini-secrets, someone can establish plau­sible credibility that they are you," Dobbins said. 
Dobbins also said that even if you limit Facebook so only friends can view your profile, you still might not be safe from identity theft. He said someone try­ing to steal your identity could use a Facebook appli­cation to collect information about you. Clicking "Allow" when installing an applica­tion may give someone access to personal informa­tion. 
"Who wrote that applica­tion? What are they doing with that application? 


Hesburgh 
continued from page 1 
Second year MBA student Heather Burns, who nominat­ed GE for the award, said she chose the company because of its "transparency and integrity," and because of its work in all four areas that the award measures: ethics, environmental, social and governance practices. 
"GE has exhibited all of these characteristics and serves as an example for countries around the world," Burns said in a speech at the award presentation. "GE not only has a vision for today but a vision for the future and improving that future for all of us." 
Sherin then spoke on how he views GE as exemplifying the characteristics of the Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh Award for Exemplary Ethics, Environmental, Social and Governance Practices. 
"For us, ethics starts with a tone from the top. In our company, every GE leader knows that it's one strike and you're out," Sherin said. 
"They have to create a cul­ture of compliance ... to make sure everybody in the organization ean follow the rules," Sherin said. 
He said to help create that culture the company has a manual outlining the expec­tations of the company, which is translated into every lan­guage that the company operates in. 
"With 180 billion dollars worth of revenue and 300,000 employees ... we're not perfect by any means," Sherin said. 
GE also makes environmen­tal issues a priority, said Burns and Sherin. GE helps convert over 200 billions gal­lons of water into drinkable water everyday, said Burns. 
Within the company, GE has reduced its greenhouse emissions by eight percent and reduced its energy usage by 30 percent, said Sherin. 
Sherin also e.mphasized that GE gives back to its com­munity 
"Our employees and our retirees volunteer over a mil­lion hours a year," he said. 
In addition, Sherin said in terms of public service, "Probably the biggest agenda we have is education." 
He said GE has partnered with school districts in the GE community to achieve systematic changes. For example, GE is currently working with 97,000 students in Louisville, 50,000 in Atlanta and 1.1 million in New York City, with thou­sands of others in cities across the country. 
By working with school dis­tricts as a whole instead of 
partnering with  one  school,  
GE  can  make  a  bigger  
impact, he said.  

"2/3 of students that are in these districts basically have either free or reduced costs lunch programs. These are kids in the cities ... who need the help of the school just to get lunch everyday," Sherin said. 
A major goal of the project was to develop a common curriculum for the entire dis­trict, Sherin said. He also said GE has gone around the world to figure out what math and science standards arc needed "to compete glob­ally." 
"98 percent of the schools have adopted the common curriculum," he said. "They are teaching at a world class standard." 
After implementing these changes, they are starting to see an improvement in scores, Sherin said. 
For example, math scores are up 19 points in Louisville since 2005, he said. Sherin also said GE is a company committed to Notre Dame 
"We love to recruit here. We recruit 30 to 40 students every year. We wish we could get more," he said. 
"Every time I come out here it reminds me what an incredible institution this is and how proud I am to be a part of it," he said. 
"You are part of one of the most influential and sustain­able o-rganizations in the world, Notre Dame." 
"We're really proud of our long term relationship with this University," Sherin said. "I'd like to just say thank you very much. It ·is my privilege to be here." 

Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
Delivering virtual carnations or creating a library about· you [and your personal information]?" Dobbins said. 
If someone calls and claims he or she is from a bank, the IRS or even the Office of Information Technologies (OIT), be wary of imposters, Dobbins said. 
"Anybody can say they are the IRS," he said. "E-mail is so incredibly easy to forge ... Caller ID is easy to spoof." 
If you think the person calling is legitimate, ask for their agent's number to check for legitimacy, Dobbins said. He also said to ask for a number where you can call them back, and then cross-check that num­ber with the one given for the agency online. 
"A legit agency will not intimidate you from attempting to verify their legitimacy," Dobbins said. "If they are illegitimate, they will try to scare you, try to tell you you will be fined if you don't answer right now." 
Dobbins said there are people who pose as the OIT to try to trick students into giving them their NetiD and password. 
"The problem with these impersonation attacks is that they are looking more and more legitimate every­day," Dobbins said. "It used to be they would be so full of misspellings and non­sense ... that it would be impossible to believe them. Now they will follow on the heels of the e-mail upgrade that we actually did and they'll sound like us." 
He emphasized that stu­dents should never give out their password, even to OIT. 
"If we destroy you·r account, we would find a way to get a hold of you and find a way to verify that you were you, like with a picture ID, and we would hand you your new password,"' Dobbins said. 
Dobbins said .that if he could get one thing across to students, it would be to never give an agency infor­mation it should already have. 
"We will never ask you for your password," he said. 


The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents 
The 2009 Natural Law Lecture 

Habfeas Corpus and Guantanamo Bay: ::.-.A Yiew From Abroad
:::-:-:·: ...... ::·:·::•. 



othy Endicott 
Dfan of Law Faculty j }~,; . and Professo·r of Legal Philosophy 
:.,: 

Ball~fii Goll~g-, Oxford University 

l•:ck 1-Iall of l.a'\\' Roon1 3130 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 

~--~-­
THE OBSERVER 







USINESS
Thursday, April 2, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks Dow 

Jones 7,761.60 +152.68 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,787 70 943 2,809,027,217 


NASDAQ 1,551.60 +2J.O I NYsE -> s;oss;~6,!mli[l~f7~ S&P 500 811.08 +13.21 
NIKKEI (Tokyo) St50t.J~95 t!4~.~g; 
FTSE 100 (London) 3,955.61 +29.47 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
BK OF AMERICA (BAC) +3.37 +0.23 7.05 CITIGROUP INC {C) +5.93 +0.15 2.68 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +1.94 +1.54 81.06 FINANCIAL BULL 3X (FAS) +8.00 +0.44 5.94 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -1.01 ·0.027 2.66 13-WEEK BILL +5.00 +0.010 0.21 30-YEAR BOND ~1.88 -0.067 3.49 5-YEAR NOTE -1.37 -0.023 1.65 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUOE ($/bbl.) -1.51 48.39 GOLD ($/Troy o:z.) +2.70 927.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.45 87.00 
Exchange Rates 
YEN 98.5250 EURO 1.3254 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2585 BRITISH POlJND 1.4468 

IN BRIEF 
Car sales jump from Feb. to March 
DETROIT -Talk of government loans and bankruptcy and a 37 percent drop in March sales isn't good news, but despite it all, there seems to be a little optimism return­ing to the U.S. auto industry. 
Carmakers' March sales were dismal compared with last year, but consumers lured by record incentives pushed the February-to-March increase above the nor­mal rise that comes at the end of winter. 
"Maybe we'll get-imagine that -some momentum going," said Mike DiGiovanni, executive director of global market and industry analysis for General Motors Corp., whose 45 percent sales decline last month ­was the worst among the major automak­ers. 
Americans bought 857,735 new vehicles in March, compared with 1.36 million in the same month a year ago, Autodata Corp. said Wednesday. But sales jumped nearly 25 percent from February, beating the typi­cal increase of about 20 percent and increasing optimism that the worst may be over for an industry battered by the global recession and bad publicity about GM and Chrysler's financial woes. 
Plan to slash industry influence 
CHICAGO -In a drastic proposal for limit­ing drug company influence on doctors and patient care, a group of prominent physi­cians says medical associations and their leaders should reject almost all industry funding. 
That means big medical groups would need to find other ways to pay for things like doctors' continuing education classes, or gatherings where treatment_ guidelines are written. Guideline writers also should have no industry ties, the proposal recommends. 
Some "sacrifice" likely would result ­fewer events or higher membership dues~ the proposal suggests. 
"It has not always been flattering to see how physicians' relationships to industry appear to have colored their judgment in matters of public health;" said Dr. Steven Nissen, a proposal co-author and former president of the American College of Cardiology. 

Market opens quarter with gains 
Wall Street shows a rebound; experts caution that lowest point may not be past 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Wall Street open_ed the second quarter with solid gains on Wednesday, extending a four-week rally that brought the market off its lowest lev­els in 12 years. 
After falling in the early going on disappointing jobs data, the Dow Jones indus­trials ended 153 points high­er following economic data that showed a rebound in pending home sales and improving manufacturing activity. Major indexes all rose at least 1.5 percent. 
The reports continued a strong run of positive news on the economy in recent weeks that has led many investors to wager that the recession is beginning to ease its grip. Further signs of improvement in the disas­trous housing market were especially positive for banks, which are still struggling with mounds of bad mort­gage debt. 
Technology and energy shares also carved out advances Wednesday. As sentiment about the econo­my improves, investQrs have been buying up industries they believe are likely to lead the country out of recession. 
The Dow charged ahead in March, rising 16 percent off of 12-year lows hit early The Dow rose 152.68, or 2 ment but it certainly looks slumping global economy. in the month, but its move­percent, to 7,761.60, and like some of the ... housing Speculation has risen in ments over the first three broader market indicators activity has at least stabi­recent days that the various months of the year have also rose. The Standard & lized," said Stephen countries in the Group of 20 been among the most tumul­Poor's 500 index rose 13.21, Massocca, managing direc­are disagreeing about how tuous on record. Only three or 1.7 percent, to 811.08, tor at Wedbush, Morgan to handle the global finan­other times in the Dow's his­and the Nasdaq composite Securities. "That's helping cial crisis. Amid the back­tory has it experienced 20 index gained 23.01, or 1.5 the market quite a bit here." drop of thousands of protest­percent swings in both percent, to 1,551.60. Not all of the reports came ers, British Prime Minister directions in one quarter. More positive economic as a relief. The ADP National Gordon Brown said 
Despite the strong gains in data helped drive the rally Employment Report said Wednesday that the G20 March, analysts are still on Wednesday. Pending private sector employment was close to agre.eing on warning against calling a home sales rebounded in dropped by 742,000 in global reforms for the fman­bottom to the market and February from a record low, March. The figure was high­cial system. say more volatility could be the National Association of er than anticipated, and a This week so far h as been in store. Realtors reported, while the rattling sign ahead of the volatile, with the Dow gain­
"People seem to swing Institute for Supply Labor Department's Friday ing 87 points on Tuesday from one side to the other of Management's index of report on nationwide job after plunging Monday by 'the recovery has started' to manufacturing activity con­cuts last nionth. 254 points on President 'the world is ending again,"' tracted in March but by a bit The market's advance Barack Obama's rejection of said Bill Stone, chief invest­less than anticipated. occurred as the world's General Motors Corp. and ment strategist at PNC "It's hard to call it good finance ministers gathered Chrysler LLC.'s restructuring Wealth Management. data in a normal environ-in London to discuss the plans. 

UNITED KINGDOM 
Protesters vandalize banks, criticize officials 
Associated Press Late in the day, police said a man Bankers have been lambasted as 
had been reported to have collapsed being greedy and blamed for the reces­
LONDON -Chanting G-20 protest­near one of the protest camps and sion that i~ making jobless ranks soar. ers clashed with riot police in central responding officers were unable to Other banners read "Banks are evil" London on Wednesday, overwhelming resuscitate him. He was pronounced and "Eat the bankers," and "0 percent police lines, vandalizing the Bank of dead at a hospital. It was unclear if the interest in others." Some bankers went England and smashing windows at the man was a protester, and the cause of to work in casual wear Wednesday Royal Bank of Scotland. An effigy of a death was under investigation. fearing they could be targeted. banker was set ablaze, drawing The protests in London's financial Some bolder financial workers cheers. district -known as "The City" -leaned out office windows, taunting the 
More than 30 people were arrested beg.an as Prime Minister Gordon demonstrators and waving 10 pound after some 4,000 anarchists, anti-capi­Brown and President Barack Obama notes at them. Two men -one wear­talists, environmentalists and others held a news conference at Britain's ing a suit-exchanged punches before clogged London's fmancial district for Foreign Ministry elsewhere in the capi­policf) intervened. what demonstrators branded tal. Groups of protesters converged on "Financial Fool's Day." The protests A battered effigy of a banker in a the central bank, with Tibetan, were called ahead of Thursday's Group bowler's hat hung on a traffic light Palestinian, communist, and anarchist of 20 summit of world leaders, who near the Bank of England as protesters flags poking out from the erowd. hope to take concrete steps to resolve waved signs saying: "Resistance is Tensions rose as oflicers refused to let the global financial crisis that has Fertile," and "Make Love not the protesters leave the small plaza in lashed nations and workers worldwide. Leverage." front of the bank. 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, April 2, 2009 
Equality adocate Smith posthumouslyhonored 
Associated Press 
JACKSON, Miss. -As editor and publisher of a small-town newspaper in the Mississippi Delta, Hazel Brannon Smith was boycotted by fellow whites and condemned in the state Senate because she advocated equal treatment of blacks during the volatile 1950s and '60s. 
Now, 15 years after Smith died penniless, Mississippi lawmakers have approved a resolution to belatedly honor her courage. 
"A lot of us think sometimes that only black people went through something. There were decent white people who went through a lot of things, too," said Rep. Willie Bailey of Greenville, a black lawmaker who was among the resolu­tion's sponsors. 
Smith was publisher of the Lexington Advertiser in Holmes County, a rural area about 40 miles north of Jackson. 
During the early 1960s, she was the target of violence when a cross was burned in her yard, according to the legislative resolution. The economic boycott was led by the powerful white Citizens Council, which started a rival newspaper, the Holmes County Herald, to drain advertising accounts away from Smith's paper. 
In 1964, Smith became the first woman to win the Pulitzer Prize for editorial writing for her "steadfast adherence to her editorial duties in the face of great pressure and opposition," the resolution reads. 
Smith grew up in Gadsden, Ala., and moved to Mississippi in 1935, fresh out of the University of Alabama. She didn't begin her journalistic career as a civil-rights cru­sader. She supported the seg­regationist Dixiecrats during th«;J 1948 presidential election and once wrote "the South and America are a white man's country," according to the resolution. 
Her awakening to racial injustice came one SatuTday night in 1954, when the white sheriff in Holmes County killed a black man outside a beer joint on the main street of Lexington. Veteran Mississippi journalist Bill Minor said the sheriff told the black man to run, then shot the man in the back. 
"She lambasted the sheriff on page one of her paper and in her column," Minor said of Smith. "The white community, which controlled the econom­ic and political power in the county, turned against her." 
Minor, who has covered the state for more than 60 years, was a friend of Smith. During a brief ceremony Monday in the House, Minor accepted a copy of the resolution honor­ing Smith, who had no direct descendants. 
"It's really impossible today to think about how coura­geous a journalist or an edi­tor, particularly, had to be back in the 1950s and 1960s to speak out for human rights and to speak out for civil rights," Minor said. 
Rep. Bryant Clark, a Democrat from Holmes County, said Smith was con­demned on the floor of the Mississippi Senate in 1963 after agents from the Sovereignty Commission snapped photos of her deliv­ering stacks of newspapers she had published for a civil­rights group in Jackson. The Sovereignty Commission was a state spy agency that sought to preserve racial segrega­tion. It was dismantled in the 1970s. 
"I thought it was only prop­er and fitting that we come back as a legislative body and make an attempt not to try to undo the wrong but to make amends and to recognize that she was an important citizen of the state of Mississippi," said Clark. His father, Democratic Rep. Robert Clark, in 1967 became the first black person elected to the Mississippi Legislature since Reconstruction. 
Among the elder Clark's supporters: Hazel Brannon Smith. 
Bryant Clark said one of the most beautiful houses in Holmes County was Smith's former mansion, modeled after the plantation home Tara in "Gone With the Wind." Smith lost the home amid the economic pressure that drove her newspaper out of business. She developed Alzheimer's disease during the 1980s and died in a nurs­ing home in Cleveland, Tenn., in 1994, where she had gone to be near a niece. 
"Because of the positions she took," Bryant Clark said, "she went from riches to rags." 



Authorities seize Madoffhome 
Associated Press 
PALM BEACH, Fla. ­Federal authorities seized disgraced financier Bernard Madoff's Palm Beach man­sion, his vintage yacht and a smaller boat Wednesday, part of an effort to recoup assets to pay back investors he swindled. 
Barry Golden, a spokesman for the U.S. Marshals Service, said about five U.S. marshals arrived at the 8,753-square-foot, five-bed­room mansion late Wednesday afternoon, hours after marshals seized the boats. Authorities planned to enter and secure the man­sion, change the locks and conduct an inventory of the property, which Palm Beach County records show had a taxable value of $9.3 million last year. 
Golden said marshals will spend about three to four hours filming and photo­graphing items· in the house that might be removed at some point. The mansion was unoccupied when federal authorities arrived. 
"It's not an April Fools' joke," he said. 
Palm Beach County proper­ty records show the mansion was purchased in 1994 under his wife Huth's name for $3.8 million. The 2008 property tax bill was $157,298. Golden said the estate would be "monitored and maintained" and is no longer considered Madoff's property. .... 
"Once the judge signed the order, it stopped being Bernie Mad off's home," Golden said. 
Earlier in the day, Golden said Madoff's 55-foot yacht 
named "Bull" and a 24-foot motor boat were taken from marinas on Florida's east coast. The yacht, a 1969 Rybovich, is worth $2.2 mil­lion. 
"A lot of money was put into maintaining this boat," Golden said. "This boat was extremely well kept, extremely clean. Engine compartment was spotless. It looked like somebody took a bottle.of 409 and scrubbed it every day." 
Madoff, 70, is in jail in New York awaiting sentencing after he pleaded guilty to swindling billions from investors in what could be the biggest scam in Wall Street history. He faces up to 150 years behind bars. 
Prosecutors are seizing as much as they can of Madoff's personal fortune, and have begun demanding millions of dollars in payments from his relatives. Roughly 6, 700 peo­ple have filed claims for a share of whatever is recov­ered. Thousands more ­some who lost in excess of $1 million -are expected to come forward. · Court documents filed by Madoff's attorneys indicate Madoff and his wife had up to· $826 million in assets ­including the boats -at the end of last year. · 
If prosecutors get their way, Madofl' and his wife, who has not been charged, will have to give up all their assets, including a $7 million Manhattan penthouse bought in 1984, the Florida home, a $1 million home in Cap d' Antibes, France and a $3 million lt!xury home on New York's Long Island. The gov­ernment also wants Madoff and his wife to forfeit $10 

million in furnishings for all 
the homes and luxury cars, 
among other items. 

Defense attorneys have 
indicated they may try to 
keep the Manhattan apart­
ment, as well as about $62 
million in securities, for his 
wife. 

"We have no objection to 
the seizure or to the assets ·being sold," lawyer Ira Sorkin said in bri.ef remarks Wednesday. "The proceeds of the sale will be put aside for 
discussion at a later date." 

Also ~ Wednesday, 
Massachusetts' top securities 
regulator accused a major 
feeder fund for Madoff's 
investment scheme of mis­
representing its lack of 
knowledge about Madoff's 
operations. 

Secretary of State William 
Galvin accused Fairfield 
Greenwich Group of 
Connecticut of civil fraud 
charges, saying company 
officials were coached by 
Madoff on how to answer 
questions about his invest­
ment practices and misrepre­
sented how much they really 
knew. 

As far back as April 2008, 
Galvin said, Fairfield 
Greenwich principals began 
discussing the risk that 
Madoff would "blow up," but 
didn't disclose that risk to 
investors. He also said that 
Fairfield Greenwich kept a 
database of standardized 
responses to investors' ques­
tions, designed to reassure 
them that the firm had ade­
quate controls to supervise 
assets at Madoff's company. 

The administrative com­
plaint seeks restitution for 
Massachusetts investors for 
losses from Fairfield 
Greenwich. 


CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 

STUDENTS 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students (Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn. OP, 1-5550, or Eddie Velazquez at evelazqu@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center (Individual counseling) Contact: De Maureen lafferty at mlaffert@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 

http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 

Thursday, April 2, 2009 The Observer +NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Vatican to investigate order 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Pope Benedict XVI has taken the extraordinary step of order­ing a Vatican investigation of the Legionaries of Christ, the influential, conservative reli­gious order that has acknowl­edged that its founder fathered a child and molested seminarians. 
Cardinal Tarcisio Bertone, the No. 2 man in the Vatican, said church leaders will visit and evaluate all seminaries, schools and other institutions run by the Legion worldwide. 
Bertone, the Vatican secre­tary of state, said in a state­ment made public Tuesday that the Vatican was stepping in "so that with truth and transparency, in a climate of fraternal and constructive dialogue, you will overcome the present difficulties." 
The Legion revealed in February that its founder, the Rev. Marcial Maciel of Mexico, had fathered a daughter who is now in her 20s and lives in Spain. Maciel died in 2008 at age 87. 
The disclosure caused tur­moil inside the religious order and its lay affiliate, Regnum Christi. The groups teach that Maciel was a hero whose life should be studied and emu­lated. 
The news also raised many questions -from the order's critics and defenders alike ­that the Legion still hasn't publicly answered, about whether any current leaders covered up Maciel's misdeeds and whether any donations were used to facilitate the misconduct or pay victims. 
There is no way to predict the outcome of the evalua­tion. Germain Grisez, a 
prominent moral theologian at Mount St. Mary's University in Maryland, has said the Legion should be shut down. 
In a statement Tuesday, the director of the religious order, the Rev. Alvaro Corcuera, expressed his "deep grati­tude" for the review, called an Apostolic Visitation. 
Yet, the Holy See under­takes these extraordinary investigations when it consid­ers a group unable to correct a major problem on its own. In 2002, at the height of the clergy sex abuse scandal, the Vatican ordered an evaluation of all U.S. seminaries. 
"The Vatican is -in an exquisitely cautious way ­trying to decide whether to keep the Mexicans who are running the order and to determine whether the Legion is a kind of cult," said Jason Berry, a New Orleans journalist who has written about the Legion for years and produced the film "Vows of Silence," about the Holy See's review of abuse claims against Maciel. 
The Legion was formed in 1941 and became one of the most influential and fastest­growing orders in the Roman Catholic Church. Pope John Paul II championed the group, which became known for its orthodox theology, mil­itary-style discipline, fund­raising prowess and success recruiting priests at a time when seminary enrollment was generally dismal. 
The group says it now has more than 800 priests and 2,500 seminarians world­wide, along with 50,000 Regnum Christi members. In the U.S. alone, the Legion has two dozen or so prep schools, along with a few seminaries for teenage boys, and it has been building a college -the University of Sacramento ­in California. 

Yet, the order and its lay affiliate, Regnum Christi, had detractors -throughout its rise. Critics condemned the group's secrecy vows that barred public criticism of a superior, and its practice of limiting contact between sem­inarians or Regnum Christi members and their families. 
Former members eventually formed support groups, such as the ReGain Network, to warn others against joining, and, in some cases, to help families get their relatives out. In 2007, the Legion sued ReGain to stop them from publicizing internal docu­ments from the order. 
The Legion was partly insu­lated from criticism by promi­nent supporters of its work, including George Weigel, the American biographer of John Paul; former U.S. drug czar William Bennett; and Mary Ann Glendon, a Harvard University law professor who was a U.S. ambassador to the Vatican under President George W. Bush: Legion lead­ers often vilified the order's critics as liberals who wanted to attack John Paul and the church. 
But the group's reputation began unraveling in 2006, a year into Benedict's pontifi­cate, when the Vatican instructed Maciel to lead a "reserved life of prayer and penance" in response to the abuse allegations. Nine men had told the Vatican that Maciel had molested them decades before when they were young adults studying for the priesthood. 
COJ'JiitjentJ,,,'(11su'J,o.rtandassist:mce
... available atNotro Dame: 
Sr. Sut• Dunn. OP, Studelll Alhtirs, 631-7819 
• Ann Firth, Studt:nt AtTair~. WH-2GX.'i Sykia Dillon. Campus Minislly, 6Hl-716H John Dillon, CmllllliS Mini~try, Wi 1-71li:1 Dr. Susan Stdbe-P<Isotlidt, Comtsdiug ('tr.. 1~'11-ti:lti;'i Ann k:. Klcva, Ikalth St:rvin~~. lii!I-H2Hii 
\Vomt~n·s Care Ccnl.t•r: 2:if...03():1 CadlOli(• Ch;uities: 2:11-8111 
Chicago prepares for Olympic Corrunittee visit 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Chicago has rolled out the red carpet for kings and queens, presidents and movie stars, not to mention Bulls and Bears. But this week a few VIPs most people have never heard of get the royal treatment as the city tries to land the 2016 Olympic Games. 
Mounir Sabet, Alexander Popov, Dr. Ching-Kuo-Wu and a few others from an International Olympic Committee delegation will inspect the city in its first stop during the competition against Rio de Janeiro, Madrid or Tokyo. It follows meetings last week in Denver where each city made a 20-minute presen­tation. 
Chicago officials have been busily rehearsing, paving, practicing, painting and plant­ing. For example, they'll make sure IOC members see two Millennium Park fountains in all their glory, just they way they are when they become one of the city's top summertime attractions. 
"We usually wait until April 15, but the water will be turned on" when the committee arrives, said Jill Hurwitz, cul­tural affairs department spokeswoman. 
Workers are also trying to finish renovating the famed Buckingham Fountain ahead of time. Around the city, commu­nity groups and businesses have planted flowers in parks and planters along streets. And in this season of gaping pot­holes, work crews are laying down fresh asphalt in Washington Park, where the Olympic stadium would be built. 
Roads departments spokesman Brian Steele said crews are working across Chicago, not just near Olympic venues. Still, he acknowledged, "We wanted to complete those streets prior to the IOC visit." 
In Denver last week, Madrid, Tokyo and Rio de Janeiro offi­cials all talked specifically about the slow global economy as part of the presentations to the IOC members. Chicago bid leader Pat Ryan said he would go into detail about the city's economic plan during this week's visit. The delegation is scheduled to arrive Thursday. 
Chicago plans an Olympics with 90 percent of the athletes within 15 minutes of their com­petition venues, all based around Lake Michigan. 
Chicago also planned to greet each roc member with some­one who speaks their language and knows their countries' cus­toms. A.D. Frazier, the chief operating officer of the Atlanta games, said it's a safe bet that the visitors aren't caught in traffic during their tour. 
"You think the IOC ever saw a traffic jam in Beijing?" he 
asked. "I guarantee you they never saw a traffic jam in Beijing." 
Chicago organizers acknowl­edge they've got detailed biog­raphical information about each roc member. 
"We have done some research about some of the key cultural and other interesting spots that they might want to take a look at when they're in town," said Lori Igleski, Chicago 2016 director of events, volunteers and accom­modations. "We have informa­tion at our fingertips of key places they might be interested in." 
Chicago organizers say 1,500 people would play some role in the visit: children were planned to be playing soccer during a visit to Soldier Field, where the NFL's Chicago Bears play; at Lincoln Park, site of the pro­posed tennis venue, tennis players will be volleying. 
Staffers have rehearsed each stop on the venue tour and the drive to get there. Judging by one recent rehearsal the media was allowed to watch, they will assure the IOC that Chicago, which· hosted the 1933 World's Fair at the height of the Depression, knows how to put on a big show during terrible economic times. 
The city wants to tout its plan for environmentally friendly games, and planned to take the committee on its tour in an electric bus and a hybrid bus. 
Along the way, they wanted them to see what organizers say is widespread support of the games -thanks to full page ads organizers are taking out in local newspapers that readers can cut out and hang in their windows. 
The IOC was also expected to see something that has been part of the landscape here for as long as anyone can remem­ber: protests. 
"I think a lot of people will be trying to take advantage of this moment for a variety of rea­sons, some legitimate and some not," said Jitu Brown of the Kenwood Oakland Community Organization. 
Brown said the group believes that building the Olympic Village and other ven­ues on the city's South Side will speed the gentrification that is already displacing thousands of low-and middle-income resi­dents. 
But, he said, "we are not anti-Olympics," just against displacing residents. 
A group calling itself "No Games Chicago" says the city should be spending money on schools and housing, not the Olympic Games. The group plans a Thursday rally. And the head of the police officers' union says there may be pick­eting to show their anger about the status of contract negotia­tions. 


THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, April 2, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
The new media democracy 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Somh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Men 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink John Donovan 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 

AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
ScENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 

SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: ian Gavlick 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574} 631-7471 
FAX 
(574} 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EotTOR·IN·CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sporrs@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO I @saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is tbe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by tbe students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of tbe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves tbe rigbt to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent tbe opinion of tbe majority of tbe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present tbe views of the authors and not necessarily tbose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chiifjenn Maz. 
PosT OFFICE INFORMATION 
n1c OWcrvt:r (USP.S 599 l-4000) b puhlhhcd Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vac.ui~n periotb:. A subscription tn Th~ Observer is .$120 for one acade!llic year; $65 for one sema[er. 
The Observer is published-at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall &nd address cortttrions co: Notre O;tme. IN 46556.-0779 The: Observtt 
Periodical postage paid at NoErr Dame P.O. Box n9 and addi1ional mailing offices. 02-4 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member ofthe Associarcd Press. Ail reproduction rights are 
r~rvcd.. 

The public's desire for news and infor­mation has grown more voracious than ever. News disseminates at speeds never before imagined possible. People want news in a personal way, catered to person­al tastes that no daily, weekly or monthly news sources could possibly deliver, now or in the future. 
Instead, the Internet has become the great maestro of informa­tion delivery, able to inform each individual reader on whatever topics and from whichev­er viewpoint'> he so desires. It has allowed news and informa­tion to become fully democratized, with each page hit, tweet, Digg and blog a metaphorical vote for the stories that are considered most important. 
While the democratization of the media undoubtedly provides new and beneficial ways of communicating and finding perti­nent information, its delivery of news inherently contains many flaws and seri­ous shortcomings that must be fully recog­nized on a personal level. 
First, a citizen must recognize that the Internet has extensively blurred the line between fact and opinion. News on the Web more often than not takes the form of an opinion piece, which reveals informa­tion about a topic, rather than a fact­based account of a situation. Unfortunately, the former type of "journal­ism" is often a more riveting read, and so garners more hits and support. One only need glance at The New York Times most viewed countdown to realize that on any given day, at least one or two of the opin­ion pieces rank in the top 10. Or, better yet, ask any Notre Dame student which section of The Observer they flip to first; it's probably the Viewpoint. Reading only opinion pieces will give only a foggy, frag­mented and obviously biased account of a situation, and one must be able to recog-nize an opinion piece, and the flaws con­tained within. 


Second, one must recognize that alter­native news sourees often do not employ mporters that are able to maintain the high journalistic standards set by many of the major traditional news sourcns. They provide an alternative perspective to the original events, but oftnn do not give a lull account. 
CurrentTV is a digital cable station whose stated goal is, in fact, "the democ­ratization of tho mndia." Founded by AI Gore, the station is almost entirely user generated content, stories produced by viewers for the viewers, which usually take the form of live to seven minute docu­mentary shorts. The number of viewers has exploded to 53 million, up 10 million from 2007, and has a devoted following. 
The documentary shorts are often inter­esting, but they often lack journalistic integrity, and trade thorough investigative work for convenient answers. With less than 10 minutes, stories often present only one particular side of a story, or some­times lack thorough explanations. 
The network is also biased insofar as it primarily shows only viewer ereatnd con­tont. While one would hope this would lead to diversity of topics, it seems rather limit­ed. In fact, the channel hasn't covered the story of the two CurrentTV reporters who are now being detained in North Korea after attempting to film a story on North Korean refugees. Democratizing news and information means that only those stories that the majority lind interesting and sup­port will make the front page. 
And in Current TV's case, the viewers have clearly chosen what they want to see. At this moment, seven of the top 20 stories involved marijuana legalization in some form, somewhere. Given the enormity of world economic and diplomatic events, I find it hard to believe that marijuana­related stories truly represents 35 percent of the most relevant news. 
This leads to the third and most impor­tant fact one must understand and coun­teract in keeping up on his news: the exis­tence of a very strong psychological effect known as the confirn1ation bias. Some refer to it as "the echo chamber." Those on the lett use the Umbaugh inspired "Dittoheads" and those on the right use the "Main Stream Media." More or less, it's the psychological fact that a person genuinely enjoys reading news and com­mentary that supporl'> his worldview, rather than disputes it. Although this bias seems obvious academically, its ell'ecl'> are highly pervasive. 
The polarization of Current1V towards cannabis inspired segments demonstrates, lor example, the character of the audience who watches it, their beliefs, and why those particular shorts are viewed so much more than others. Another example is polarization on the left towards the NYT opinion pages, which tend more liberal, and conservatives move to The Wall Street Journal, for its more conservative opin­ions. 
More importantly, it is the reason for the vast proliferation of alternative informa­tion sources. For every personal bias, there is a source that can be used to con­firm those views. The Internet has only made it more powerful. To avoid this, one must maintain daily in striving to diversify news sources across a range of reliable, trustworthy sources and views. 
Democratization has produced a thou­sand candidates for good news. Some are expert; some are loud; some are thought­ful; some are drabble. Unlike a presiden­tial election, where connections, money and experience matter in garnering atten­tion, the Internet has provided a forum where any of these news candidates have a platform to project to millions with ease. Americans have always enjoyed choices, but this many candidates muddle the qual­ity of the entire pool. 
Jason Coleman is a junior accounting major. He can be contacted at coleman. 70@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Robbie Singer Matt Gamber 
Did you, or do you now, know where Irena Zajickova Sam Werner · Bemidji State is located? 
Amanda Gray Chris Masoud Graphics Scene 
"Success isn't permanent, and 

Mary Jesse Alexandra Yes 
failure isn't fatal. " Viewpoint Kilpatrick No 
Mike Ditka
Kara King 
U.S. football coach 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Thursday, April 2, 2009 page 11 
Time to wake up 
Wake up! Yes, you. Time to wake up! It's that time of year. In front of our house along the St. Joe River, groggy possums and raccoons and skunks have been un-hibernating themselves and beginning their spring tra-Kate Barrett clition of stupidly staggering right Faithpoint out into the road trying to figure out where they are. "Where am I?" is unfortunately the last question some of them will ask in life as their newly­awake reflexes aren't yet equal to the task of a speed limit of 30 miles per hour. 
On a more pleasant note, have you noticed the daffodils blooming? They made it through last weekend's bizarre snow flurries and the robins are back. These next few weeks are a great time to appreciate the warmer weather because by the time we get to May and June, we'll be taking it for granted. 
How odd that a 65-degree day which thrills us this week will seem like noth­ing in another six or eight weeks. So many days in our lives are like that, though, unless we manage to see them over and over, and not just the first time, as a gift from God. 
Perhaps at the beginning of Lent you took the task of preparing for Easter just a bit more seriously than you do now, several weeks in. Even during these 40 days, days in which we're supposed to be awake, attentive and preparing, we can be lulled into the false grogginess of our daily routine. Before we know it we're out in the middle of the road, looking around and wondering, "Where am I?" 
We need to keep waking ourselves up, because we do take a lot for grant­ed. We presume, without thinking much about it, that the lights will go on when we flip the switch; plenty of food will await us in the dining hall when we show up; our computer will save our paper when we click the little disk icon. And we need the freedom to assume that many aspects of our lives will go exactly as planned: that the class you've attended in DeBartolo all semester hasn't just been sponta­neously moved to the Earth Sciences building unannounced, for example. 
The idiom "to take for granted" means to value something or someone less than we should; to be complacent or neglectful, even indifferent, just because we can. That's OK for light switches and lunch, though it goes without saying that we should appreci­ate even those much more than we do, for so many people go without both every day. In spring, when each year the whole world around us wakes up; and in Lent, when we re-awaken each year to the central reality of Jesus' death and resurrection, we should be especially on guard against our natu­ral human tendency to take for grant­ed the many great gifts with which God blesses us each day. 
On Easter Sunday, we each have the opportunity to renew the vows of our baptism. We can say "yes" to the most central beliefs of our faith, and vow to live out those beliefs so that our pres­ence in the world brings it a little clos­er to the Kingdom of God. Every Sunday-every day if we so choose ­we unite ourselves to the mystery of the body of Christ through receiving the Eucharist. You'd think such signifi­cant moments would never, ever become routine, and yet at times we can even take these aspects of our faith for granted. · 
In my own family, my youngest child is approaching her First Communion. 
Matthew, a boy in her class, knows exactly how many days are left until The Big Day. My daughter -like my other kids before her, as well as Matthew and many other second graders -will probably count for a while how many "communions" they've made ("Mom, I just made my sixth communion!"). The challenge for all of us comes in trying to keep that "first communion" sense of apprecia­tion, wonder and gratitude for longer than just a few special days or weeks. 
Make awareness and gratitude your mission during these new days of Spring and not-so-new-days of Lent. Make a Lenten fast from apathy and indifference. The same God who creat­ed the heavens and the earth is also with you in every heartbeat and each breath you take. Take notice! Stay awake! 
This week's Faithpoint is written by Kate Barrett. Kate Barrett is the director ofthe Emmaus program in Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Political correctness overload 
Today in North Dining Hall, I was asked to a sort of petition for a group promoting a change in political correctness: "mentally ill" to "intellectually disabled." 
In short, I feel this is an overwhelming example of the fact that political correct­ness is out of hand. Sure, I understand certain words in existence carry a hurtful, malicious connotation and should be erased from our vocabulary. No one should ever be referred to as a "retard." However, in a society that seeks to avoid labeling, it seems a little ridiculous that referring to someone as mentally ill or mentally dis­abled can be offensive. 
Focusing too much on the miniscule details of labeling a certain group is counter­productive -it further suggests that this group is different than the norm, and detracts from what really matters-that everyone is treated with fairness. We need to stop placing so much importance on the details of a particular label. 
The meaning of a word is only what we allow it to mean. Constantly changing the political correctness of the label of a certain group simply creates more "un-politi­cally correct" words, and further detracts from the simple truth that rather than an individual being "mentally ill" or "intellectually disabled," he is a person. 
James Petrocelli 
JUniOr 
off campus 
April! 


Brey needs to go 
It's difficult to take a team from pre-sea­got out and defended us." Those ring a son top 10 to not even on the bubble. Some bell? even said it couldn't be done. But my hat is I do not understand how you cannot get off to Mike Brey. The guy pulled it off. your team ready to play when it is essen­
For any coach wanting to lose their job, tial. In New York our NCAA Tournament follow the Coa -(sorry I almost called life was on the line and we laid an egg Brey a coach), follow the Mike Brey recipe against West Virginia. After this game Brey for success. It begins with little to no said, "I really thought we were a 9-and-9 defense and absolutely no blocking out. We team in the regular season before the sea­actually defended for an entire game once son started." What can I say? You set the this year. The result, a 33 point home vic­bar that high you're really setting yourself tory over the No. 1 overall seed in the up for success. I won't deny that the Big NCAA Tournament. Most teams send three East was a much better league this year or four to the offensive glass with one or and that we consistently face more athletic two checkbacks. Brey seems to teach zero teams. However, teams like Notre Dame or one to the glass with four or five check­beat teams like Connecticut by playing fun­backs. damental basketball and outworking their 
The root of all problems this year is mini­opponent on both ends. We do the oppo­mal effort that comes from not being held site. accountable. Our top four players will get Just remember defense may win champi­their 35-plus minutes each game regard-onships, but three point shooting wins Big 
_less of how hard they play. When we lose East home games (most of the time). games we should clearly have won he never points out things we did poorly or Kevin Sonn mistakes that need correction. He instead senior praises the opposing team. "I love how we St. Edward"s Hall gave ourselves a chance." "Boy they really April! 
Unions cause m.ore harm. than good 
Like many things with good intentions, collective bargaining is not one steeped in good logic. Unions are a vehicle to achieve a dream of fair work for fair wages, and that is a dream everyone agree with. Unfortunately what is "fair" differs from person to person. Respect is a two way street when it comes to the relationship between the employer and the employed. Is not the business owner, who has worked hard to build his empire, disrespected when workers gang up for higher pay? That is why entrepreneurs often seek to break up unions, because it is essentially a mob set out to bully the employer and loyal employees into agreeing to their limitless demands. FYI, it is because of unionization that GM and Chrysler are not competitive in the global and domestic market and are on their way to the grave, but not before they sink a bunch of tax payer money down with them. As a direct result of unionization we are on the brink of seeing the collapse of the American auto industry and the continued export of manufacturing jobs oversees. 
When unions form, wages go up, but that spells doom for the industry at large because places with lower wages will be more competitive. You are essentially digging your own grave for short term gain. If you aren't making enough, the solution is to get a second job, increase your skill set by going back to school or look for a better career. People can and will help them­selves rise up in our society, we just have to stop babying and misleading them with false notions of easy hope. 
Mark Easley freshman Keenan Hall March 31 


Violence is serious 
I have to disagree with Pat Cassidy's contention that Bookstore Basketball team names inspired by instances of domestic violence are "absolutely hilarious," ("Why so serious?" March 31) that we can sim­ply laugh about such things and move on. The words we use and the things we deem appropriate to joke about say a lot about us as individ­uals and the way we relate to others. 
Cassidy claims "it's not [his] fault that one fourth of women are involved in domestic abuse," but in reality, it's the fault of our entire society. Making jokes about domestic violence only desensitizes us to its reality and contributes to a culture that allows such abuse to occur on such a devastating scale. Cassidy expresses pride of his ability to "bring a smile to one person's face," but at what expense does that one smile come? Are a few laughs worth normalizing violence that affects mil­lions of women? 
Caitlin Nora Murphy 
senwr 
offcampus March 31 By NICK ANDERSON Scene Writer 



Being an aging artist is hard. The Rolling Stones are a shell of their former selves; Bob Dylan is on the verge of being incomprehensi­ble; Elton John is selling out tours because of songs that are 30 years old. It's incredibly rare for an artist to be relevant in more than one era. About the only exception is Johnny Cash. The important question for any artist attempt­ing a similar comeback is "How?" 
The easy answer to this question L<> a "hip" cover and a couple of strong albums. Prince started down thl., road in 2006 with a festival stopping cover of "Creep" (If you haven't heard it, stop reading and find it on YouTube). 
Lotusflow3r 

Prince Label: NPG Recommended Tracks: "Crimson and Clover," "Feel Good, Feel Better, Feel Wonderful," "Colonized Mind" 



TH:E8'DECEMBERIST 
succeed with mysterious concept album 
By STEPHANIE DePREZ 
Scene Writer 
Listen to it once. Listen to it twice. Listen to it five times, and you 'II still have no idea what it's about. But you'll like it. 
"Hazards of Love" has all the mak­ings of a great Decemberists album: a root in folk, blatant yet cryptic lyrics, odd instruments that pop up when you least expect them (harpsichord, any­one?) and a story that you must work to understand. 
The story is what drives this album. It is a concept album, no doubt, with recurring musical themes and charac­ters voiced by guest artists. But the Decemberists would never settle for something so easily done -instead of a straight narrative, the story of Margaret and her lover William is bro­ken up by "The Hake," a man hell-bent on regaining his freedom from life as a widowed father. 
The most frustrating (or delicious) part of this album is that it takes a few mighty listens to really decipher what is going on and to whom each voice belongs. 
The story begins with William telling the tale of his true love entering a for­est, or taiga, which requires a Wikipedia run to define (a biome cov­ering Alaska, Canada, and upper parts of Europe). The album is full of words that aren't so common these days, adding another layer of interest. Margaret, voiced by Becky Stark, encounters The Queen, voiced by Shara Worden. The tale of Margaret, William and The Forest Queen (and the myste­rious child she bears) is convoluted at best, but the enigma of it makes it even more entertaining for the avid listener. 
Margaret's song, revealing thoughts during her journey early on ("Won't Want For Love (Margaret in the Taiga)") is the real gem of the album, juxtaposing Stark's New Folk voice with a driving guitar accompaniment that could have come straight off a Led Zeppelin album. · 
After William finds Margaret, they sing a love duet, "lsn 't It a Lovely Night?" accompanied by sighing gui­tars and an accordion. 
The Forest Queen makes her first appearance with "The Wanting Comes in Waves/Repaid," and Worden's full, rustic voice gives her an edge that could chill bones as the Queen repri­mands her "son" for abandoning her. It is here that the narrative really starts to take shape and draw the listener in. 
This is followed by "The Rake's Song." It details the marriage of the narrator (the only character to break the fourth wall and address the audi­ence) with gritty, expressive lyrics that could only be pulled ofT in such a cava­lier way by the Decemberists. "I was wedded and it whetted my thirst until her womb started spilling out babies," explains the Rake. "What can one do when one is a widower, shamefully saddled with three little pests?" lie goes on to detail how he rid himself" of each child, which is most effective when heard for the first time with the Now all that is left is a couple of strong albums for a full Prince comeback. 
Instead of being content funneling his last several years of e!I'ort into a single album, Prince has decided to go all out and release a double album along with an album from hl<> latest protege, Bria Valente. Conveniently, "Lotusflow3r", "MPI~'"lound" and "Elixir" all come packaged as a set, sold exclusively at Target for under $12. It's hard to find cheaper music (legally). 
Any Prince fan will know how to handle Valente's disk. Expect that same types of songs that we've heard from other earlier Prince proteges such as Sheila E., Apollonia and Carmen Electra. The musk, being wholly written and produced by Prince, has its high points but beyond that, it's entirely forget­table. After a single listen, there isn't a single song that would cause a listener to put this 
dL<>k back into a (]) player. 
Moving on to the Prince songs, the disk.•; 
fall into two separate genres; "Lotusflow3r" 
plays as a straight rock album while 
"MPI.Sound" jumps between funk and bal­
lads. Both contain their fair share of high­
lights without one oul<>hining the other. 
"From the Lotus ... " the opening track, 
welcomes the IL<>tener into what can only be 
described as a dark alley of the Internet 
where these songs must have been recorded. 
The track (it's hard to call it a song) draws 
the listener into the world of Prince with a music. 
Cut to Margaret, who in "The Abduction of Margaret" is being picked up on horseback by a man (the Hake?) with unsavory plans. The Forest Queen is willing to help the abductor, who will remove the threat of Margaret from her son, and is willing to help him cross the river. 
"Annan Water" is one of the more rhythmically interesting tracks, and the wavering accordion chords throughout the song add a layer of anguish. llere, William is attempting to cross the river in order to get to Margaret. lie pleads with the river that if" he is let to pass, when he comes again the river "may have lhisl pre­cious bones in return." 
Margaret's abductor tells her to give up hope in "Margaret in Captivity" as slw cries out for her lover to save her. This is followed by the third reprise of the "Hazards of Love" theme "(Hevenge!)" and the voices of the chil­dren mUI·dered by the Hake return to haunt their father. The warped chil­dren's' voices recount their deaths and assure their father they are still around him. The music is disjointed, with a harpsichord that feels appropri­ately out of tune. It is the most sound elTnet-heavy track on the album. The tongue-in-cheek, carefree attitude with which the children sing is creepy but satisl"ying. 
Tl11~ story ends with the fourth and final tune in the "Hazards of" Love" snqunnce, "(The Drowned)." William has retrieved Margaret, and the water guitar solos, drum machines, and other worldly sounds. 
The high points of the album come quickly. "Crimson and Clover", a pop standard, bneomns incredible in Prince's skilled hands. Not only does he play it like he wrote it, he throws in a couple line taken fi·om Hendrix's "Foxy Lady." Why does he do this? Because hn's Prince and it works. Of eoursn, this al<>o serves as a reminder that Prince has no intention of giving up his position as Hendrix's heir apparent. "$", "Wall of Berlin", and "Dreamer" showcase some of his best i-,TtJitar work sinec the closing of the 
SO's. 
Some of the best moments occur wh1m Princo gives up his falsetto and eledric guitar and stops sounding so much like Prince. "Colonized Mind", whieh could be f(lllnd on Prinen's Web site bnfom the album, provides a great example of this. Some of the worst moments eome when Prince sound<> too much like Prinen. Instead of moving lilfward, Prince L<> treading watnr sonically. (In fact, his weak­est momnnts of the last 15 years could be summed up a<> this.) 
"MPI~'-lound" reclaims the distinet funk and soul sound that Prince helped popularize years ago. Clearly, he ha<>n't lost his touch writing songs. While his rock tracks were always more popular, his funk tracks are tighter, catchier, and better examples of pop music. 
MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic 
MPLSound 

Prince Label: NPG Recommended Tracks: "Another Like Me," "Chocolate Box," "No More Candy 4 U" 

After three excellent tracks, Prince slows down fi>r the soul ballad, "U're Gonna C Me", which proves to be the weakest song from both disks. It feels both out of place and fon~ed. Prince finishes strong with four excel­lent songs (one of which is an ode to Selma Hayek centering on her toddler) which more than make anwnds for a sagging middle. 
A<> often happens when double albums are released, Prince ha<> spread himseU" too thin. There are easily enough good songs to create a single great Prince album. Either way, a mediocre Prince album L'l better than 90 per­cent of the music out there. 
Contact Nick Anderson at nandersS@nd.edu 
MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic 

Hazards of Love 

The Decemberists Label: Capitol Records Recommended Tracks: "Won't Want For Love (Margaret in the Taiga)," "Isn't It a Lovely Night?," "The Rake's Song" 

around them is slowly rising. They exchange wedding vows as their ghosts join the water. The song is slow, almost textbook "indie" style, to end the tale with a wistl"ul attitude, complete with whammy-heavy guitars. 
This is a landmark album, taking the concnpt album beyond anything it has been before. The format of the story­telling is such that it is beneficial to read through the lyrics on their own. The words by themselves are a com­pletely different artistic medium when experienced on their own and add a layer to the listening. 
There has not been such a satisfying album in years. Because of its musical and narrative structure, it asks the lis­tener to return to it over and over, without becoming boring. It requires lots of thought and attention before it fully reveals itself, which is what the concept album is all about. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 

Thursday April 2; 'Our Town;' 7:30 p.m., . ,,Friday April 3; "Galileo;" 6 p.m. in the 
Decio Mainstage Theatre . Philbin Studio Theatre 
See Notre Dame's finest perform the·· Watch Friday night as the talented and classic play that helped bring Thornton· experienced British actor Tim Hardy steals . Wilder into the heart of many Americans the stage to portray an adaptation of this Thursday night on the Decio:·•i·"Galileo" during the climactic trial that . ~ainstage !heatre. With a focus on .the,~deter~ined his heretical ~t~te with the · simple yet Important tasks of the typical,:>. Catholic Church. In an enticmg one-man ·American family's lives, Wilder exposed •'.:.show, Hardy will explore the mind of the the shining truths that surround the life .'.:man known as the "father of science" and the average American leads. A simple~;;·:his thoughts on the earth's position in the stage set and costuming help to highlight ·universe, the papacy of Pope Urban VIII, the important characteristics of the Webb )and the possibility of reconciling his beliefs family and provide the setting for the, 'with the Church's. Make sure to reserve a Notre Dame actors to shine through. :(free) ticket for what promises to be a fasci­

nating performance Friday night. 
> v +"

; .";,. :...:.: '~ .::i;:. 
Saturday April 4; "Flow" (2008); 9:30p.m; :,Sunday AprilS; "Lawrence of Arabia;" 3 p.m; 
Browning Cinema · Browning Cinema 
In a provocative and educational look at one the Follow the fascinating life of the early 20th centu­
·.· most important issues facing humanity today, Irena '· .. ry British soldier T.E. Lawrence, better known as 
, Salina explores the political and environmental ,· "Lawrence of Arabia," in David Lean's production roots of The World Water Crisis. She invites one to· : of "Lawrence of Arabia" this Sunday afternoon . ... look at the desecration of human rights that follows , .~With an opening that will startle and draw you in ··when governments and corporations attempt to~' and a musical score composed by the recently ·own water, as well as the problems that will result. .. :deceased Maurice Jarre, also famous for his scores .· Fortunately, Salina also investigates potential solu-··~~ in "Doctor Zhivago" and the "Dead Poets Society," 'tions to the problem through interviews with.. the fihn will take you back to the time and place of . 
·notable scientists and activists who focus their ... the early 1900s' Arab Revolt. Watching this film · 
· careers on ending the devastation The World Water would prove not only to be an educational venture Crisis has and will cause. Pour into the Browning :· :: . but also an entertaining and enthralling one. Wmd Cinema Saturday night to join the audience in ;r, down your weekend by watching "Lawrence of 
. watching the poignant documentary, "Flow." ·Arabia" Sunday at 3 p.m. 
MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic 


tial and underrated international fare with Cambodian places of interest as if it were a Another of Cambodian Thai's most popu­
By J.J. REES 
earnestness. C+ 6th grade geography project. When lar dishes is the drunken noodle, which is 
Scene Writer 
Granted, the Taco Bell's and Don Pablo's asked, "What do you recommend?" the similar to the pad thai, but with broad rice 
It's easy to condemn the South serve their purpose, but college is about server responded simply, "I don't know; noodles, easily the best part of the dish. Bend/Mishawaka area as a wasteland com­growing up or at least expanding one's whatever you like," and it was clear that he Large chunks of onion are a bit overpower­pletely void of quality international food. boundaries. I admit that my experiences wasn't being rude, but rather straightfor­ing, but they compensate for the full taste of With the Grape Rd. strip packed with con­with Thai food can be counted on one hand, ward. It gave the impression that the staff is the stir fried noodles. The shrin1p is surpris­venient, repetitive chains, the smaller, hard­but my introduction was mollified by confident in its food and justly so. ingly fresh, and it is prepared well. er-to-find local restaurants are easily lost in Cambodian Thai Restaurant, located on The Crab Rangoon appetizer was pleas­Other popular dishes are the five or so the background of student-driven South South Michigan St. across from Club Fever ingly presented in a boat-shaped dish with a curries, including red and yellow. These Bend indifference. It is easier, albeit not and J & F's Pot of Gold (formerly Rum section for the clear sauce, but the wanton's curries come in various degrees of spiciness, much, to give up on the lack of international Runners). bread consistency outweighed the very which are mild enough or hot enough to fit cuisine surrounding Notre Dame and settle This is exactly the kind of place that one small purses of crab stuffing. The steamed almost any preference. The favorite is the for a Grape Rd. chain, but it is so much would describe as bare bones. The all-beige pot stickers, on the other hand, were possi­panang, which is based in a coconut milk more worthwhile to seek out local establish­interior is sparsely decorated with East bly the pinnacle of the meal. Served affably sauce and is sure to rouse any American ments that highlight South Bend's substan-Asian trinkets and faded photographs of in a woven basket lined with lettuce, these palate. 


Cambodian Thai Kitchen 
229 S. Michigan St. (574) 289-2877 Hours: 11 :30a.m.-9p.m. M-Th, Su, 11 :30a.m.-10 p.m. Sa Prices: Apps $3-6, Entrees $5-1 o 10 Words or Less: Simple, low cost, high quality Thai food 

Cambodian landmarks. gratifying dumplings seemed to melt in the Diners should be warned that every once The whole restaurant mouth. The sesame soy sauce provided an in a while, the restaurant is closed when the seats only about 20 and excellent complement to the savory dough staff take a trip to Cambodia; definitely call about a quarter of the and fillings. ahead. orders are for take out. One of the most popular dishes at Cambodian Thai Restaurant, although Water is served without Cambodian Thai is the pad thai. This most lazily named, is an excellent outlet for int~Jr­spectacle, while sodas are well known dish in Thai cuisine consist<; of national food, and perhaps one of the best in brought in cans with cooked rice noodles with eggs, nam pla (fish South Bend. Its convenient location makes it glasses of ice. sauce), crushed peanuts, bean sprouts, gar­accessible to and from many downtown 
The simple menu lists lic, chili peppers and beef, chicken, or usual­landmarks. The bare bones atmosphere, over 7 5 items, including ly shrimp, sometimes serv.ed with a slice of service, and presentation make for a simple, appetizers, soup, salad, lime. Here, besides the dry chicken, the easy, and quiet excursion into Thai food. noodles, rice dishes, dish rendered a rich, flavorful taste of the Cambodian Thai Restaurant is certainly entrees, rice curries and well-prepared combination. It clearly draws worth a visit, regardless of one's familiarity desserts. The back of the from many different flavors and may seem with Thai cuisine. menu contains sleeved strange to an American palate but is an apt printout pictures of introduction to Thai food. ContactJ.J. Rees at jrees@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, April 2, 2009 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Kentucky introduces 
Calipari as new coach 
Associated Press 

LEXINGTON -New Kentucky basketball John Calipari told the Kentucky faithful Wednesday that he is not the "grand poobah" or the "emperor." 
He got a king's ransom, how­ever, to leave Memphis. 
Before the news conference, Kentucky's athletics board approved an eight-year, $31.65 million contract that makes Calipari the highest paid basket­ball coach in the nation. Athletic director Mitch Barnhart defend­ed the salary saying that the university paid a premium price to get their guy, adding that Calipari can flat out coach. 
''I'm a regular guy, folks," Calipari said. "I do not walk on water; I do not have a magic wand." 
He might need to find a magic wand. Kentucky fired Billy Gillispie last Friday after two seasons and he went 40-27, including losing 14 games this season and failing to lead the Wildcats into the NCAA tourna­ment. 
"The challenge of being here is competing for national titles, but winning them," Calipari said. "But that's what you buy into when you come here." 
And Kentucky has demon­strated its willing to pay whatev­er it takes to back to that level. 
Calipari's decision to take the job didn't come easy. He spent more than a day mulling Kentucky's lucrative offer while reporters camped outside his home. 
"This decision was extremely hard," Calipari said. "It wasn't coming here, this was easy. It was leaving Memphis. The sup­port that my family and I received over the years there ... to walk away from that was very difficult." 
Calipari had such strong ties to Memphis that after his UK introduction, he was expected to fly back to Memphis for an afternoon news conference dur­ing which university officials were expected to discuss the future of their basketball pro­gram. 
Calipari, 50, knows what he is getting into at Kentucky. He said before he made his decision, he reached out to several former Wildcats coaches. 
"I talked to coach (Joe B.) Hall. I talked to Tubby Smith. I talked to Eddie Sutton. And I talked to Rick Pitino about this job. And ... none of those coach­es would trade their time here for anything in the world. 
'This is pretty heady stuff for me." 
Calipari is 445-140 in 17 sea­sons, leading both Memphis and Massachusetts to the Final Four. He said he has long dreamed of coaching college basketball's winningest program. 
"This was a dream I've had since we brought our team down here," Calipari said. "I believe it was 1992, we had won the Alaskan Shootout, came down here to play and l could not believe the environment. At that point I said -'I would love to coach there some day."' 
That day has come and he has Calipari has work to do. The Wildcats have not been in the Final Four the past 11 seasons. And Calipari cautioned Kentucky's fan base not to expect too much too soon, as he had informed Barnhart and uni­versity president Lee Todd. 
"I told Dr. Todd and Mitch, if you want something to happen in a year, do not hire me," Calipari said. "That's now how I do things." 
Barnhart said after firing Gillispie that he wanted to hire a coach that embraced what the Kentucky job meant, on and off the court. Calipari sounded like he understood what they meant. 
"Our goals will be to make the entire commonwealth proud of this team, proud of their pro­gram, proud of their team by our work on the court and our integrity off the court," he said. 
Calipari's deal eclipses the $3.5 million average salary of Florida's Billy Donovan and dwarfs those of Cali pari's prede­cessors Pitino, Smith and Gillispie. 
Pitino, now the coach at rival Louisville, never made more than $2 million a season during his remarkably successful eight­year run at Kentucky. Smith's compensation neared $2.1 mil­lion at the end of his decade with the program and Gillispie received a base salary of $2.3 million with another $750,000 available in incentives. 
The salary nearly triples the $1.6 million salary of Kentucky football coach Rich Brooks, a rarity in a conference where football reigns. 
Calipari has a reputation as one of the nation's best recruiters, and it's possible some of his latest recruits will follow him to Lexington. Still, the cupboard is hardly bare at Kentucky. 
The Wildcats went 22-14 this year, missing the NCAA tourna­ment for the first time since 1991 despite having two of the SEC's best players in guard Jodie Meeks and forward Patrick Patterson. 
NFL 


Browns' Stallworth charged 
Associated Press 

MIAMI -Cleveland Browns wide receiver Donte Stallworth was charged Wednesday with killing a pedestrian last month while driving drunk after a night out at a swank South Beach nightspot. 
An arrest warrant charging Stallworth, 28, with DUI manslaughter was tiled in the March 14 accident that killed 59-year-old Mario Heyes. If convicted, Stallworth would face as many as 15 years in prison. 
Stallworth's blood-alcohol level after the crash was .126, well above Florida's legal limit of .08, according to results of a blood test. Stallworth will also be charged with DUI, which carries a possible six­month sentence plus lines and community service for l'irst offenders. 
"Whenever a deadly acci­dent occurs and a driver is impaired, families suffer," said Miami-Dade State Attorney Katherine Fernandez Hundle in a statement. "I can only repeat this message over and over: if you are going to drink, don't drive." 
Stallworth, who is expected to surrender in cour-t Thursday, released a state­ment last month saying he was "grief-stricken" over the acci­dent. Prosecutors said they will ask that he be released on $200,000 bail. 
The Browns said in a state­ment that they are "disap­pointed" that Stallworth has put himself in this position. 
"We are saddened by the cir­cumstances that have taken place and our thoughts and prayers go out to the family of Mario Reyes," the statement said. "We have been in com­munication with the commis­sioner, who is reviewing the situation under league poli­cies, and we will withhold fur­ther comment at this time." 
Stallworth will be prohibited from driving while on bail and not allowed to drink alcohol, according to court documents. He also must observe a 12 
a.m. to 6 a.m. curfew and must submit to random alco­hol and drug testing through the NFL's substance abuse program. 
A Miami Beach police report said that Heyes was not in a crosswalk on busy MacArthur Causeway when he was struck by the black 2005 Bentley lux­ury car driven by Stallworth. The construction crane opera­tor was trying to catch a bus home after finishing his shift around 7:15a.m. 
The report also quoted Stallworth as saying he flashed his lights at Reyes in an attempted warning and that Stallworth was driving about 50 mph in a 40 mph zone. 
An additional police affidavit filed Wednesday said that on the morning of the crash, Stallworth was drinking at a club in the posh Fountainebleau hotel on South Beach. lie left to go to a near­by home -it's not clear if it was one of his three Miami­area properties -and then headed out to the causeway where Reyes was struck. 
"I hit the man lying in the road," Stallworth told officers arriving to investigate the crash, according to the affi­davit. One officer smelled alco­hol on Stallworth's breath and said that his eyes appeared bloodshot and watery. 
Stallworth's attorney Christopher Lyons did not immediately return a tele­phone call seeking comment. 
Stallworth signed a seven­year, $35 million contract with the Browns before last season but was injured much of the year. He previously played for New England, Philadelphia and New Orleans. 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 


UConn program brings in $6.3M 
Calhoun vindicated zn wake of concerns over $1.6M salary 
Associated Press 

HARTFORD -Connecticut's men's basketball program showed a profit of just under $6.3 million during the 2008 fiscal year, nearly four times. what the school is paying head coach Jim Calhoun. 
The program earned $14.07 million in revenue during the year and had $7.8 million in expenses, according to the state Office of Legislative Research. That's a profit mar­gin of just under 45 percent. 
The report was requested in the wake of February's heat­ed exchange between Calhoun and a political activist over the coach's $1.6 million salary in tough eco­nomic times. 
"Quite frankly, we bring in $12 million to the university, nothing to do with state funds," Calhoun said at the time. "We make $12 million a year for this university." 
If the coach was referring to gross revenue, UConn men's basketball brings in $2 million more than he estimat­ed. 
According to the report, the program took in $7.3 million in direct revenue, the majori­ty of that coming from $4.2 million in ticket sales. It also had $6.7 million in indirect revenue from such things as athletic fundraising and licensing. 
The other side of the ledger showed $6 million in direct expenses, including Calhoun's $1.6 million salary, and $1.5 million in other expenses attributable to the program, such as ticket printing and expenses related to injuries. 
Calhoun was traveling with his team Wednesday to Detroit for the Final Four, and could not be reached for com­ment. UConn spokesman Mike Enright said the school pro­vided the data for the legisla­tive report. 
UConn president Michael Hogan said shortly after the salary flap erupted that Calhoun's salary represented "fair-market value and his teams generate considerable resources for our Division of Athletics." 
Calhoun is Connecticut's highest-paid state employee, according to the state comp­troller. But he's not the nation's highest-paid basket­ball coach. 
John Calipari on Tuesday agreed to an eight-year, $31.65 million contract with the University of Kentucky. Coaches at other top basket­ball programs such as Florida and Kansas also earn consid­erably more than Calhoun. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
One or two roommates needed for brand new 3 BR 3 Bath Condo at Irish Crossings fully furnished. $500 per mo. incl. utilities -wireless, gas, water, electric and parking. Private BR!Bath, gym. Ten min walk to campus five rnin walk to stores. Non-smoker. no pets. animal­cop01 @gmail.com 

FoR RENT 
Affordable Graduate and Faculty Off-Campus Housing. Call for Availability (574)243-2818 or (574)276-6118. 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer­ing 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 
Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. Contact Krarner at 574-234-2436 or www.kramerhouses.com 
2009/10 student rentals Angela St./St. Peters & S.B. Ave. $1300­$2000/mo. Contact Bruce Gordon 57 4-876-3537. 
AA 1 Walk to Campus 2-5 bedroom homes 574-277-0116­Cooreman.com 



PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: http://osa.nd.edu/health­safety/assault/ 
Imagine my surprise and dismay upon discovering you people have enough time to respond to what I write in the classifieds to fill space. 
WANTED: Someone to go back in time with me. This is not a joke. 
P.O. Box 555, Oakview, CA 93022. You'll get paid when we get back. Must bring your own weapons. Safety not guaranteed. I have only done this once before. 
ADOPTION -Loving Domer couple looking to adopt a baby (babies), please call Marie and James (301 )977-5069 or (866)202-1424 PIN 5448. 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NOs Assistance for Pregnant Students//Office of Student Affairs website at: osa: nd. edulhealth-safety/assis­tance-for-pregnant-students. 







OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, April 2, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 15 
····························-······· ·······················-···---------------------------------------····························· 
NCAA Softball ESPN.com/USA Division I Top 25 
team  points  previous  
1  Florida  498  1  
2  Stanford  481  3  
3  Washington  453  2  
4  Alabama  421  5  
5  UCLA  418  4  
6  Georgia  391  7  
7  Northwestern  378  8  
8  Arizona St.  376  9  
9  Michigan  311  11  
10  Oklahoma  309  6  
11  Missouri  294  14  
12  California  282  12  
13  Tennessee  272  10  
14  Arizona  254  15  
15  Ohio St.  223  13  
16  North Carolina  194  19  
17  LSU  169  17  
18  Massachusetts  154  18  
19  louisville  130  16  
20  DePaul  96  21  
21  TexasA&M  89  22  
22  Fresno St.  53  23  
23  Texas  53  RV  
24  Georgia Tech  42  RV  
25  Nevada  36  RV  


NCAA Men's Lacrosse USILA Division I Coaches Poll 
team record points 
1 Virginia 11·0 160 2 Syracuse 7-1 152 3 Cornell 6-1 140 4 NOTRE DAME 7-0 137 5 Princeton 7-1 124 6 UMBC 6·2 118 7 Hofstra 6-1 117 8 Maryland 6-3 100 9 Duke 8-3 94 10 North Carolina 8-3 82 11 Johns Hopkins 3·4 78 12 Brown 7-1 70 13 Harvard 5-2 50 14 Massachusetts 5·3 48 15 Loyola (Md.) 5·4 42 16 Colgate 6-3 42 17 Navy 7·3 40 18 Albany (N.Y.) 5-2 23 19 Denver 6-4 17 20 Fairfield 5-2 9 

NCAA Men's Volleyball AVCA Division 1-11 Top 15 
team record 
1 UC Irvine 19-3 2 Pepperdine 16·2 3 Cal St. Northridge 20-4 4 Southern California 15-6 5 Stanford 16·8 6 BVU 14·9 7 Long Beach St. 10-12 8 Penn St. 20·3 9 UCLA 10-13 10 UC San Diego 10·12 11 lewis 19·5 12 UC Santa Barbara 8·14 13 Hawaii 6·15 14 Ohio St. 10-9 15 Loyola (Ill.) 12-8 

around the dial 
NCAA Men's Basketball NIT 
No. 3 Baylor at No. 2 Penn St. 7 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

Cleveland at Washington 
8:00 p.m., TNT 
.............................. 
MLB 


Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter, left, fonner first basemen Jason Giambi, center, and outfielder Johnny Damon look on from the dugout during a spring training game in 2007. Head Coach Joe Girardi will move Jeter to the leadoff spot in 2009. 


Girardi decides to shake up lineup 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. -Derek Jeter could be the first New York Yankees play­er to bat at their new stadium. 
Manager Joe Girardi said Wednesday that his spring training switch of Jeter and Johnny Damon atop the lineup has worked so well that as of right now, the Yankees captain will bat first and Damon second for the season opener at Baltimore on Monday. 
"I've liked what I've seen," Girardi said. Girardi flip-flopped Damon and Jeter for 

the first time on March 
26. The manager was impressed with what he saw earlier in spring training when Damon batted second so catch­er Jorge Posada, com­ing back from right shoulder surgery, could hit first and get extra at-bats. 
Jeter is a career .315 hitter batting first. The last time Damon hit second with more than 50 at-bats came in 2002. 
New York will com­plete spring training at the new Yankee Stadium starting with a workout on Thursday. The Yankees will play 
their final two exhibi­tion games there Friday and Saturday against the Chicago Cubs. Their home opener is April 16. 
The team opened spring training with major questions about several key injured players, including Posada; closer Mariano Rivera (right shoulder surgery); right-hander Chien-Ming Wang (foot); and designated hitter Hideki Matsui (left knee surgery). All four are ready for the start of the regular season. 
"I was pretty con­cerned," Girardi said. "In today's world it seems like there's a lot of offseason situations that players go through surgery. Just the nature of the game." 
The Yankees will be without third baseman Alex Rodriguez, who had right hip surgery on March 9, until May. 
Girardi knows he will be under close scrutiny, one year after the Yankees missed the playoffs for the first time since 1993. 
"You understand when you take this job, you're under it all the time," Girardi said. "It's not a job where you get three years to see what happens." 

IN BRIEF Police officer in NFL's 
Moats stop resigns 
DALLAS -The police officer who pulled out his gun and threatened an NFL player with jail instead of allowing him inside a hospital where his mother-in-law was dying resigned Wednesday. 
Officer Robert Powell had been placed on paid leave pending an investigation of the March 18 inci­dent. 
"I made this decision in the hope that my resignation will allow the Dallas Police Department, my fel­low officers and the citizens of Dallas to better reflect on this experience, learn from the mis­takes made, and move forward," Powell said in a statement issued through his attorneys. 
He had stopped Houston Texans running back Ryan Moats' SUV outside Baylor Regional Medical Center in suburban Plano after the vehicle rolled through a red light. 
Harangody__ amonJ! 11 
named to Wooden learn 
LOS ANGELES -Notre Dame's Luke Harangody, North Carolina teammates Tyler Hansbrough and Ty Lawson and Connecticut's Hasheem Thabeet are among 11 players named to the John R. Wooden Award All American team. 
Hansbrough and Lawson will lead the Tar Heels against Villanova in Saturday's national championship semifinals. Thabeet and the Huskies play Michigan State in the other semifinal in Detroit. 
Because of a tie for 10th place in the voting, the team includes 11 players. The others are DeJuan Blair of Pittsburgh, Stephen Curry of Davidson, Blake Griffin of Oklahoma, James Harden of Arizona State, Gerald Henderson of Duke, Terrence Williams of Louisville and Sam Young of Pittsburgh. 
The top vote-getters and finalists for the Wooden Award will be announced April 6. 
West beats East in high

school all-star game 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. Tierra Ruffin-Pratt scored 10 points and had 10 rebounds to lead the West past the East 69­68 despite 18 points by Indiana Miss Basketball Skylar Diggins in the girls McDonald's All­American game Wednesday. 
The East pulled within 67-66 with 55.9 seconds left after a three-point play by South Bend Washington's Diggins. 
Gennifer Brandon made a lay-up with 12.3 seconds left to stretch the lead to 69-66. 
Kelly Faris of Indiana Class 2A champion Heritage Christian was fouled with a second Ieft on a 3-point attempt. After hitting the first two free throws, she missed the last one, giving the West the win. 
Ruffin-Pratt and Diggins were co-MVPs. 

page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 2, 2009 Thursday, April 2, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 

INDYCAR RACING 

Drivers track down late sponsors 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -The grind­ing offseason work of finding sponsors is finally paying divi­dends for a few IndyCar drivers. 
Companies are lining up just in time for the season-opening weekend, prompting a flurry of announcements including two more Wednesday that expanded the _expected starting field Sunday in St. Petersburg, Fla., to 22. 
The newest additions: Darren Manning-and Alex Tagliani. 
"It's just scrapping," Manning said. "You've got to never give up. We all have a good product, and it's just getting it out there to the right people." 
In this economic environment, it would have been easy for both drivers to write off this season -especially so late in the game. 
But Manning and Tagliani kept working the phone lines and eventually landed tempo­rary gigs. 
Dreyer & Reinbold Racing announced the 33-year-old Manning would drive the team's No. 23 car Sunday, a one-race deal the English native hopes to turn into a season-long job with a solid performance in St. Pete. 
Conquest Racing brought back Tagliani, a 36-year-old Canadian, who started in two points races with the team last year. It, too, is a one-race deal that could keep Tagliani in the car longer if team co-owner Eric Bachelart can find more financial backing. 
Bachelart said Tagliani would race in St. Pete and hoped Tagliani would be back in the cockpit two weeks later in Long Beach though the details have not been worked out for the second race. 
Those announcements came two days after Vision Racing owner and Indy Racing League founder Tony George hired Ryan Hunter-Reay. 
And it could be just the begin­ning. 
"There is nothing more· important to us right now than having a strong car count," said Terry Angstadt, president of the IRL's commercial division. "We were hoping for 22 to start the season. I think we're there, and I think it's going to clearly go up in Long Beach." 
But it's hardly been an eco­

\~ NANOVIC.NP.EOU -PERFORMINGARTS.NO.EOU 
JAM & JAY OOLOBERG EVENTS ME$ENT 

MAY 22-24, 2009 • THREE SISTER'S PARK • CHILLICOTHE, il 
THREE OAVS OF THREE DAYS OF 
WILLIE
llmPHRE!/'5
moa rneGEE NELSON 
Keller Williams • les Claypool • Girl Talk Medeski Scofield Martin &Wood • Gomez Buckethead • los lobos • Dark Star Orchestra Lotus • Bassnectar • The Wood Brothers Cornmeal· EOTO ·Junior Brown· Assembly of Dust That t Guy • Backyard Tire Fire • Family Groove Company • Future Rock Moona!iee • Easy Star All Stars • U·Me!t • Touhab Krewe • Tha Sr!dga 56 Hope Roa.d • Secret Chlefs 3 · Th0 Macpo-dz • Public Prop0rty G11ronaky Bluegrass • Madahoochi • WatarstreQt • Brainchild • Zmick Chicago Farmer • The Stretch • Alai:Ml1!ter Brown • Underpaid Paeky Charley Orlandt> Bend • Shadyside Allstars • Spacesuit • ThinMr T<!i>eri Slippy laru~ • The Coop • Kris lager S~nd • f1v~ & A Hand • Mooaeknuckl~;t • Stua~ The Co!'duroy • ~ • Yamn • Hellen KQJ!IOl' N<>li<m • D<:;tmon !-\nil • Silly The Squorw! plu& mora to ~ ann<l<l,n<:<kl 



3 DAYS•.• 5 STAGES... OVER 50 BANDS... CAMPING, BEER & FRIENDS! 
GET TIX BY 4/03 PRICE GOES UP AT MIDNIGHT 
TICKETS ON SALE NO\N. (800) 514-ETIX OR AT SUMMERCAMPFESTIVALCOM 
nomic boon. 

Manning still plans to run more frequently in the Grand Am series than IndyCars, and he didn't mince words when asked how the global economic woes have impacted racing. 
"It's been a nightmare," he said. "I have a manager who works out of the U.K. and looks after a couple of the other driv­ers, and I know a lot of teams around America and back in Europe, and a lot of guys have had to shut down. So it's a real testament to anybody who can keep going in this current cli­mate." 
That's why the four-year IndyCar veteran jumped at the offer Tuesday night. 
"I guess I was just on their minds when the opportunity arose that they needed a guy at the last minute," Manning said. 
Until two days ago, it appeared Hunter-Reay didn't have a job, either. 
After spending the past 1 1/2 seasons with Rahal Letterman Racing, the promising 28-year­old suddenly found himself out of a job when the team's Ethanol sponsor pulled out. Hunter-Reay expected even bet­ter things this season after last year's achievements: a win at Watkins Glen, 10 top-1 0 finish­es and rookie of the year hon­ors at the Indianapolis 500. 
So instead of losing Hunter­Reay, George figured out a way to keep him around. 
"When you see the talent and marketability of a Ryan Hunter­Reay, believe me, we were just working hard trying to make sure Ryan got in a car," Angstadt said. "I compliment Tony for taking the opportunity that I think was right for our business. It was right for Ryan. It was Tight for his team, to really make that happen." 
How many more drivers could be added in coming weeks? 
Angstadt wouldn't say. 

There are plenty of familiar names available including Former Indy 500 winner Buddy Rice, former Indy pole-winner Bruno Junqueira and A.J. Foyt 
IV. And former Indy winner Bobby Rahal would still like to get his team back on the track. 
STADIUMS 

Indy stadiums to be bailed out 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana's 
alcohol tax would be doubled 
under a Statehouse plan 
designed to bail out the finan­
cially struggling group that 
runs the professional sports 
stadiums in Indianapolis. 

Sen. Luke Kenley, R­
Noblesville, wants to add 
about 2 cents to the price of a 
shot of liquor and a penny to 
the price of a 12-ounce beer, 
starting July 1. Kenley.'s plan 
would also provide money 
from sports fans, the city of 
Indianapolis, the NFL 
Indianapolis Colts and NBA 
Indiana Pacers. 

"I feel like it's a good blend," 
said Kenley, who planned to 
announce his proposal at a 
legislative hearing Thursday 
morning. 

The Indianapolis Capital Improvement Board expects to be $4 7 million short in its operation of Lucas Oil Stadium, the home of the Colts; Conseco Fieldhouse, home of the Pacers; Victory Field, home of the minor league baseball Indianapolis Indians; and the Indiana Convention Center. The board ·plans to cut expenses about $10 million, and Kenley wants the Pacers and Colts to each 
pitch in $5 million a year. 

But that would still leave the 
board $27 million short. 

Kenley said the city would 
raise $15 million by raising its 
ticket tax on events at the sta­
diums, increasing its hotel tax 
and raising food and beverage 
taxes. The state would pitch in 
$14 million by increasing 
alcohol taxes and allowing the 
city to take sales taxes at a 
new downtown hoteL 

Doubling the alcohol tax 
statewide could bring in an 
extra $40 million a year, cash 
that would be funneled to 
cities and towns based on 
their population. The money 
would be used for local eco­
nomic development projects, Kenley said, but Indianapolis' share of about $8 million would go toward the Capital Improvement Board. 
"We think that's a fair way to do it," Kenley said Wednesday. "You always approach the idea of raising taxes with trepidation." 
Indiana alcohol taxes are currently set at $2.68 per gal­lon of liquor, 47 cents per gal­lon of wine and 12 cents per gallon of beer. 
Brad Klopfenstein, executive director of the Indiana Licensed Beverage Association, said doubling those taxes may not seem like a lot. But he said bars that now charge $3 for a beer are more likely to charge $3.25 a glass, not $3.01. Th~ price hike could decrease sales at the 700 bars his organization represents, he said. 
"When you're talking about a discretionary product, any kind of price adjustment will have an effect on consump­tion," he said. "We are an easy target, but one of the few industries that has an excise tax. Maybe they should look at the asphalt industry or the orange juice industry." 
Kenley noted that not every­one has to pay alcohol taxes. "This is a voluntary exer­cise," he said. 
Indianapolis Mayor Greg Ballard said he would prefer not to raise food and beverage taxes in the city, but called Kenley's proposal a good starting point. 
"This is about downtown Indianapolis," Ballard said. "We must maintain this eco­nomic engine." 
Kenley hopes to sell the plan to lawmakers from outside the city in part by emphasizing how important downtown Indianapolis is to state tax revenue. 
"Part of our contribution here is based on protecting our return on investment," he said. 

Want to spend your summer living and working in the Hamptons? 
You'll have a once in a lifetime opportunity to live and work in the Hamptons fur two summers! Earn a $10,000 scholarship plus a weekly stipend. 
Looking for a motivated, self-starter who enjoys working with people. 
Must be a male freshman or sophomore who enjoys working outside. 
If interested, send a resume and a briefcomposition to sbeach@nd.edu by Sunday, April 5th, explaining why you would be a great candidate for the internship 
r 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, April 2, 2009 
NBA 

Nets snap losing streak 
Raptors' Bosh puts up 24 and holds off late charge from Magic 
play to cap a 15-3 run that gave percent in the opening quarter, 
Associated Press 

the Raptors an 11-point lead m~king nine of their first 10 
EAST RUTHERFORD -Devin with a minute left in the third shots. The Magic also shot an Harris had 19 points and 11 quarter. It was the largest lead impressive 55.6 percent, but assists, and the New Jersey for either team in an up-and­Andrea Bargnani's 12 points in Nets snapped a season-high, down game that had 21 lead the period helped put Toronto five-game losing streak with a changes and little defense. ahead 32-28. 111-98 victory over the sluggish But it would quickly evapo­The scoring would settle in Detroit Pistons on Wednesday rate. the second. night. Hedo Turkoglu made a :3-Neither team could pull away 
Keyon Dooling, inserted into pointer, then converted a threP­in an up-and-down first half the starting lineup to give the point play after being fouled by that saw 15 lead changes. The team more life, scored 18 of his Joey Graham on a driving layup Magic went on a 10-2 run that 23 points in the second half in to cut Toronto's lead to 84-81 gave them a 43-40 lead, but it helping the reeling Nets win for early in the fourth quarter. But wouldn't last. Anthony Parker only the seventh time in 24 Toronto's 26 made free throws hit a 3-pointer in the waning games. The point total matched to Orlando's 13 proved too seconds that helped put the his season high. much. Raptors ahead 53-52 at the 
Richard Hamilton scored 29 The Raptors shot nearly 70 half. points for the Pistons, who were playing their fourth game in five nights. They were also without Rasheed Wallace, who was suspended for picking up his 16th technical foul the night before. 
Brook Lopez added 19 points, fellow rookie Ryan Anderson had 14 and Vince Carter 12 for New Jersey, which was embar­rassed in losses to Minnesota and Milwaukee in its last two games. 
The performances had many wondering whether the Nets had quit on coach Lawrence Frank. 
Against the Pistons, that ·was never a concern. 
Harris' penetration and drives allowed New Jersey to score 56 points in the paint and shoot 51 percent from the field for the game. 
The Nets never trailed after Harris scored five points and handed out two assists in a 16­5 run that gave them a 23-13 lead. 
The margin was 11 at the half and it grew to 21 points in the fourth quarter when Dooling scored 13 points, shooting 5-of­6, including three 3-pointers. 
Rodney Stuckey, Tayshaun Prince and Walter Herrmann scored 16 points for Detroit. 
Allen Iverson, who com­plained about his minutes after playing 18 in the loss to JIMMY TO GO{I)Cleveland on Tuesday, played 17 against New Jersey. He CATERING scored four points on 1-of-8 .. 
BOX LilliCH£$, 'LATTCBS, PARTIES/
shooting and handed out four assists, but at times he looked DHIY£1Y lliiDlllS willlnclluleadelivery out of control, particularly in charge or zsc per item (•1-ltt). 
the second quarter. 
Raptors 99, Magic 95 

Chris Bosh had 24 points, including a 22-footer over Dwight Howard with 29 sec­onds left that put the game out of reach. 
Jose Calderon had 21 points and Shawn Marion added 17 points and 15 rebounds for the Raptors, who nearly blew an 11-point lead before holding on to extend their season-high winning streak to five games. Rashard Lewis missed a poten­
FREEBIES IWQS & CLUBS OIILY)

tial tying 3-pointer 'Yith 20 sec­
Onion, lettuce. alfalfa sprauts, temate. mayo, sliced
onds left to seal Toronto's win. 
cucumber, Dijen mustard. eil &viuegar, and uregann.
Howard had 30 points and nine rebounds for Orlando (55­19), which fell percentage points behind Boston for the Eastern Conference's second 
WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK seed. The Magic host first-place Cleveland on Friday night in a 1290L IRWHD 138 S. MICHIQIH S..570 N.UlONWDOD DR. 5343 N. MAIN St 
game that lost has now lost 574.291.1900 574.246..1020 574.277.8500 574.968.4600 
some of its luster. 

SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA
The Raptors made sure of that. 
Marion had consecutive fast­''YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOIIN'S!"® @ break dunks, and Calderon hit a 3-pointer after a three-point 
Thursday, April 2, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
The Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism __JL presents• --... CtJfholieJ; in th~ Movi~J; Conference "At the movies, Catholicism-rather than Protestantism-is the American religion." Thursday. April 2 Friday. Aprit 3 Film Screening (7:30pm) Film Screening (7:30pm) On the Waterfront Santitos Discussion to follow with Discussion to follow with Maria Amaparo EscandOn,James T. Fisher, author ofOn Novelist and S'--reenwriterthe Irish Waterfront: The McKenna Hall Center for Cntsader, the Movie and the Continuing Education Soul ofthe Port ofNew York Browning Cinema Conference Sessions at the McKenna CCE 9 a.m. & 2 p.m., April 3-4. Each conference presentation will be illustrated with fascinating film clips from the era ofsilent films to today. For additional information please visit the Cushwa Center web site: www.nd.edu/-cushwa  


Coffee at the Como 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual &Ouestioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday. April7 
7:00 p·.m. -9:00 p.m. 316 Coleman Morse 
The Core Council invites gay.lesbian. bisexual Squestioning members of the Notre Dame family. along with their friends and allys. to an informal gathering at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is Welcome and Confidentiality is Assured 
CoHee andRefreshments Wt/1Be Served 
NHL 

Penguins roll6-1 behind Crosby 
Associated Press 

PITTSBURGH -Evgeni Malkin and Sidney Crosby scored power-play goals and the Pittsburgh Penguins ended one of the best homestands in franchise history, twice scoring two goals in a matter of seconds against Martin Brodeur during a 6-1 rout of the skidding New Jersey Devils on Wednesday night. 
Brodeur and the Devils extended a late-season slump (0-5-1) that is jeopardizing their high playoff seeding. Brodeur had allowed six goals against the Penguins only once previ­ously, on March 11, 2006, in Pittsburgh during a 6-3 Penguins victory. 
Brodeur, the NHL career vic­tories leader who will be hon­ored at home tl.uring a ceremo­ny Friday night, hasn't won in six starts since going 9-1 fol­lowing his return from a biceps injury. 
Pittsburgh scored early and often in this one, a rare rout of their longtime rivals. Matt Cooke and Bill Guerin scored 36 seconds apart in the first period to make it 2-0, and Crosby and Jordan Staal made the game one-sided by scoring in a 13­second span of the second, making it 5-1. 
Brodeur is 33-24 with four ties against Pittsburgh. 
The Penguins finished 6-1-1 during the longest homestand in franchise history, improving to 13-1-2 since Feb. 25, when they were in danger of missing the playoffs. Now, they are tied in points with Philadelphia for the fourth spot and home-ice advantage in the first round of the Eastern Conference play­offs. 
The Devils were pushing Boston for first place in the con­ference before their slide, which has dropped them three points behind second-place Washington. The Devils have been outscored 22-7 during a slump that caused coach Brent Sutter to tell his players "the foot is down . . . enough's enough" during an extended team meeting Tuesday. 
Malkin's goal, his 34th, came on a hard wrist shot from the right circle late in the first with Devils players in front and back of him and gave him a NHL­high 108 points. Some fans in the 106th consecutive sellout crowd at Mellon Arena began chanting "MVP, MVP." 
Crosby's 30th goal was only his second on the power play in 56 games, a deflection of Kris Letang's shot from the left cir­cle. Crosby also had an assist, giving him 99 points for the season. 
The game between division rivals that could meet in the playoffs had the chippiness of a postseason game. 
In the first period, the Devils' Dainius Zubrus charged across the ice to attempt to level defenseman Brooks Orpik after Orpik put his stick out and tripped Zubrus as he skated up ice. Orpik drew interference and roughing penalties, and Zubrus was called for roughing. 
Crosby and New Jersey's Bobby Holik exchanged words as the teams left the ice at the end of the second period, and Pittsburgh's Hal Gill and the Devils' David Clarkson also got into a verbal exchange. Sutter drew an unsportsmanlike con­duct penalty. 


apartments available for 2009·2010 ::walking distance to campus:: 2-oodroom. 2-balh with 990± SF: free !ntemet ::washer, dryer and dishwasher:: central air conditioning:: large balcony:: cathedral ooiHngs 
Call Cnristina at ~1~·l~J·1~l~ to scneaule an a~~ointment or email us at mana~er@nastaaiumcluo~com 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April 2, 2009 
NBA 







Celts beat 'Cats in double OT 
Associated Press  the Bobcats ahead for the last time, 109-108. Allen then shot  don't want to say anything to one of the best shooters in the  
BOSTON ­Ray Allen was sur­ an airball on a 3-point shot, but  NBA, but your shot is flat,"' said  
prised to find himself wide open  Felton missed and Boston's  Allen, who went 5-for-13 on 3­ 
behind the 3-point arc. With 2.1  Eddie House rebounded with  pointers. "I knew it was in my  
seconds left in the second over­ 11.3 seconds left, setting up  legs." ·  
time, he connected.  Allen's final shot.  The Bobcats let another lead  
Not an airball, like his 3-point  "After he shot the airball, he  slip away when the Celtics sent  
shot less than a minute earlier,  came right back," House said.  the game into overtime tied at  
also without a defender. Not a  "That's a Hall of Fame player  93 by scoring the last eight  
tying basket, like his unguarded  right there."  points of the fourth quarter.  
3-pointer that ended the scoring  A tip from House, an outstand­ They had a chance to win when  
in the first overtime.  ing 3-point shooter, may have  Pierce inbounded the ball to  
His last long-range shot, on a  helped.  Rondo with 3.6 seconds left, but  
pass from Paul Pierce, lifted the  "Eddie was saying to me, 'I  Rondo missed_a layup.  
Boston Celtics to a 111-109 win  
over the Charlotte Bobcats on  
Wednesday night and into set:­ 
ond place in the Eastern  
Conference. "I really didn't expect [Gerald]  Attention Seniors!  
Wallace to leave me," said Allen,  
who shot from the right corner.  

"Paul just had the wherewithal 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions anticipates hiring 
to get it to me. He was driving to maybe put us ahead one. I defi­

Admissions Counselors this spring! 
nitely try to put myself in good 
... 

position." 
The scrappy defense that got the Bobcats back in the game in the third quarter was missing. 
"We didn't handle it. We had a 

As part of the Undergraduate .Adtnissions staff, the Achnissions Counselor is expected to 
foul to give. We're going to 

tnake an important contribution· to the recruitment and selection of the first-year class by
smother everything -no 3s and we give up a 3," Charlotte coach 

tnanaging relations with prospcctiYc applicants) their parents, high school personnel and 
Larry Brown said. "Then we had a good shot at the end." 

almnni in an assigned geographic territory. 
But Raja Bell missed and the buzzer sounded. The Celtics moved a game ahead of Orlando, which lost to 

Responsibilities include cxtensiYe planning, travel and con11nunication within the geographic
Toronto. "During one of the overtimes I 

territory, assess.mcnt and evaluation of applicatioi1s and conducting group/individual 
glanced up at the board and saw that Orlando lost," Boston coach 
information sessions. Additional responsibilities will be assigned by the Assistant PrO'vost for Doc Rivers said. "I didn't do a 'yip, hip, hooray' or anything. I 

Enrollment and the Director of Admissions ()perations. 
can care less." The Bobcats, fighting for the final playoff spot in the confer­
.Atnong our candidates, we tnay seck individuals who will assist with our diversity
ence, blew leads in the last 30 seconds of the fourth quarter 

recruitment efforts. 
and both overtimes and fell 11fz games behind the Chicago Bulls, who were idle. 
"We had a great opportunity to 

Minimum Requirements: Candidates should possess a Ba~hclor's degree and strong
beat the defending champs in their own building," Wallace 

familiarity with all aspects of academic and student life at Notre Dame. Essential qualities
said. "We've got to put this game behind us." 

include strong communication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, diplomacy and the 
Pierce led Boston with 32 points, Allen added 22 and 

\villingness t~) work long hours, including many evenings and Saturday mornings. 
Rajon Rondo had 21 points and nine assists. "Ray was wide open, regard­less if he did airball the shot 
Plea.re j\Jote: Inten,iemr lti/1 /Je .rchedtdtfd qfier /1pri/10. 
before," Pierce said. "I have total confidence in him." Wallace had 20 points and 10 
Pt~femd Jtart date i.r]IID' 1, 2009.
rebounds for the Bobcats, and Boris Diaw scored 17. The first overtime ended with 3-pointer by Allen with 12.4 sec-_ 

Application Process: To apply, please visit http:/ LNI).jobs and apply to job #09123.
onds left that tied the game at 101, followed by a miss by Bell from the right corner. 
The game was tied at 103 
The University <>f N(>trc Dan1e is con11nittcd to diversity in its staff, faculty, and student 
early in the second overtime before Wallace hit a layup and 
bodv . .;\s sucl1, we strong·lv encourage ap}1lications from n1etnbcrs of n1inoritv g.roups,
. . (. . ( . . . (
Allen made a 3-pointer for a 106-105 Boston lead. Raymond 
women, veterans, individuals with disabilities, and others who will enhance our comn1uniry. Felton put the Bobcats ahead with a jumper, then Pierce gave 

A_.\/ECJE. 
the Celtics a 108-107 lead by converting an offensive rebound. Emeka Okafor's short bank shot with 46s second to play put 


Thursday, April 2, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 


A Concert of Indian Classical "'1usic 
J~llturi"B 
Milind Tulankar-JAL TARANG 
Sunil Avchat-BAMBOO FLUTE 
JIUO.,.IIied by 
Ramdas Palsule -Tabla 
Thanday. April2. 7:00 p.01. 
at tfu >luiitorium, Jlts6urgli Ctnttr for lnttrntltiona[ Stuiits, 'llnizlusitg of !V,ptre 1>am~ 
,.....,....,.: 
South Asia Srudies Program, CuUege of Arts and letters Offw:e of lnternatiomd Student Servkes and Activities The A!iiian Indian Classical Music Society of Michiamt 

Coatact~ Amitna Dun (631-7594; 273-0928) 




Bookstore 
continued from page 24 

game on the line, Courtesy Flush scored the final basket to send Chris Brown down the drain. 
French Toast 21, Four Girls and A Guy 6 
The French Toast girls downed the team formerly known as EnchantEe Wednesday in open bracket action. 
EnchantEe changed their name to Four Guys and A Girl after to one of their players, Molly "Prime Minister" McCarthy, shaved her head for the St. Baldrick's Foundation. 
French Toast put up a tough fight against their more expe­rienced opponents. Their defense held from the start of the game, but had just run out of the luck by the end of the first half, and carried over into the second. 
French Toast had taken some harsh falls in their blond wigs, gold sparkle leg­gings, knee highs, bandanas, and green shirts blazed with "Money $hots" across the front in their fight against the ever-professional, yet still entertaining opponents. So entertaining that McCarthy ended up carrying around French Toast player Kate Tooher on her back, helping her reach the basket and try to make a shot. 
Four Girls and A Guy domi­nated most of the game on both sides of the ball, as all of their players scored multiple times. 
"We played our hardest, but Molly [McCarthy] tore it up," French Toast captain Jenny Plagman said. "Also, Sierra [Smith] scored some major points. Tell their future com­petitors to watch out, and be ready for the return of French Toast next year." 
McCarthy, ever the politi­cian, gave her opponents high praise. 
"French Toast clearly came to play, and we'd like to thank them for sharing their orange slices with us," she said. "Good game bailers. See you next year!" 
French Toast player Maggie Reagan added: "I hope these girls take it all. They are the bomb-diggity!" 
Care Bears 21, Infield Fly 8 
In the end, Care Bears, sporting knee-high socks and bathrobes, were no match for Infield Fly and their sweater vests, leggings, and pink polos. 
Putting up their best effort, Infield Fly kept throwing up the shots but found nothing but iron. Care Bears didn't relent, holding a 10-point lead for most of the game. 
Despite their large lead, the Care Bears still unhappy with their play, calling for each other to return to fundamen­tals, and they were especially fond of the bounce pass. 
The Care Bears also didn't prove so caring when they "accidentally" knocked a ball into the face of one of their female opponents. She came out unharmed and back into the game pretty fast. 
"We really packed the box 
defense, and I think it worked out," Care Bears' captain Alex Reiner said, "Bounce passes were key. Nothing turns anyone on as much as a good bounce pass or a Care Bear." 
Infield Fly took the loss gracefully. 
"My team went out with full force and aggression," cap­tain Jenna Zigman said "But we were distracted by the cuddliness of the bears." 
Slippery When Wet 21, Marry Me Mary Flynn 17 
Covered in baby oil and sporting tiny shorts, Slippery When Wet trailed for the majority of the game, but were able to step up offen­sively in the last few minutes which led to their victory over Marry Me Mary Flynn. 
"It created unmatched team unity," Slippery freshman for­ward Pat Kissing said of the team's bonding ritual. 
With offensive excellence throughout the game, Marry Me Mary Flynn maintained a lead, with some tied scores that they quickly broke out of, largely thanks to the abili­ties of members Jay Williams and Jeff Boward. 
Slippery When Wet repre­sented Alumni Hall, while Marry Me Mary Flynn was formed by the men of St. Edward's Hall. 
For the majority of the game, Slippery When Wet was trailing by one point, and generated just enough offense to keep up with their oppo­nents. 
"It was a tough battle, but we prevailed in the end," freshman Michael Vega said. 
Fortunately for the upcom­ing opponents of Slippery When Wet, the team announced that this was the last game where they will uti­lize the defensive support of baby oil. 
Anne Franks of Lafayette 21, Team Nullset 6 
Anne Franks of Lafayette took the lead at the offset, which they were able to easi­ly maintain for the rest of the game, and easily defeated Team Nullset. 
"Our team's offensive strat­egy is through quick ball movement," Anne Franks jun­ior center Doug Hummon said. "We're looking for the open guy who's cutting to the basket, and we're always moving around." 
Early on in the match-up, it looked like Team Nullset might have stood a chance against their very strong opponents. 
"Junior center Dan Moeller lit up the scoreboard with a team high of three because he was the only one to play more than once this week," Nullset freshman forward Michael Johnson said. 
The offensive strategy of the Anne Franks quickly took over the court and showed in the final score of the game, 21-6. 
"Our strategy was pretty simple. Pass the ball to the open guy and lay it in," Anne Franks sophomore forward Kyle Looft said. 
Contact Nathaniel Lee at nleeS@nd.edu, Meaghan Veselik at mveseiOI@nd.edu and Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 


page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April 2, 2009 
Hafts 
continued from page 24 
on the praetiee squad helped him observe his teammates and improve both his team and him­self. 
"I helped the offense get better, I got better myself," he said. "If I didn't get better last year it didn't matter. I was making the team better every single day." 
Williams said Hart, the former defensive line eoaeh at the University of Washington, was teaehing the team fundamentals. He said graduate assistant Bryant Young helped as well. 
"He's teaehing us so mueh, and eoaeh Young eomes into the pie­ture and teaehing us from his experienee," Williams said. "It's a great feeling right now." 
Williams is part of a defensive unit that lost safety David Bruton to graduation. Sophomore line­baeker Harrison Smith will slide into the seeondary to take over David Bruton's spot. Junior safety Sergio Brown said the defense won't have to ehange too mueh to aeeommodate Smith. 
"It's not really going to ehange too mueh beeause Harrison, he's an athletie defensive baek as well," Brown said. "And onee we get on the same page and every­body starts elieking, we're proba­bly going to be better than last year." 
Smith said he felt more eom­fortable with the defense beeause of his experienee and that he eould answer questions the younger guys asked him about it. 
"It's different from last spring," he said. "Really I feel like more of a guy that some of the younger guys ean look to and ask ques­tion. I feel like I know most of the ins and outs of the defense." 
The defense, Brown said, was in pretty good shape. Spring ball is about dusting off eertain areas of it, he said. 
"Just the basies, new terminol­ogy and stuff," he said. "Really trying to piek up where we left off and sharpen up some areas where we were kind of rusty." 
The defense got a ehanee to test itself in a serimmage last Saturday, one Williams said he was nervous about. But he said he was able to gather himself and foeus. 
"That was just a big serimmage in my mind, I just wanted to go out there and work hard," he said. "I just had to dear my throat, and after that I felt great." 
Williams said watehing from the sidelines last year helped him take "mental reps," whieh helped him keep from making the same mistakes the starters made. 
"Coaehes eorreet somebody, and you just wateh and try not to make the same mistake as they do," he said. "Mental reps help so mueh." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


Olivet 
continued from page 24 
Their pitehing has also been stellar, with freshmen Angela Gillis and Moniea Palieki both going the distanee in their respeetive games yesterday. 
NIU 

continued from page 24 
slow pitehers," Irish eoaeh Deanna Gumpf said. "But what was really important was when their pitehers missed, they took advan­tage." 
Starting on the bump for Notre Dame, Brittney Bargar dominated Northern Illinois (9-18) through three innings, giving up only one run on a pair of Irish errors. But the Husky hitters adjusted in the fourth, pieking up three runs on a pair of singles and a bases-dearing double. 
Faeing a 4-2 defieit, the Irish suddenly turned on the power switeh in the bottom half of the fourth to put on a display for the fans watehing at Melissa Cook Stadium. 
Senior Linda Kohan began the surge by belting a home run down the right field line with one out. Dani Miller reaehed base by way of a walk, and junior Heather Johnson followed by erushing a ball to left field for a 2 RBI home run. 
But the Irish weren't fin­ished yet, as sophomore Katie Fleury laeed a home run to left field with two outs, the third big fly of the inning. Fleury's smash marked only the third time in program history the Irish hit three home runs in a single frame. 
Notre Dame's dominanee at the plate eontinued on the field, as sophomore Jody Valdivia eame in relief of Bargar and shut the door in the faee of the Huskies' offense. Valdivia threw three innings of no-hit ball to seeure the vietory for the Irish. 
"She had good stuff and it was really moving," Gumpf said. "She kept the other team guessing." 
The outpour of Irish power level high." 
The Belles will faee their next MIAA opponent on Saturday as they travel to Alma College for a double­header. The first piteh is seheduled for 2 p.m. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 


Toledo 
continued from page 24 
ter David Casey said. 
Notre Dame got two baek in the bottom of the frame, start­ing with Casey seoring junior outfielder David Mills on an RBI single. Senior shortstop Jeremy Barnes then drove home junior outfielder A.J. Polloek, who had reaehed on a single. 
Miller's first eareer start was a short one, as lefty Sam Elam eame on in relief in the third, and struggled initially with his eontrol. The senior gave up one run on two walks and a wild piteh, but calmed down to end the inning on a strikeout and a fly to Polloek in eenter. 
Notre Dame gained the lead in the bottom of the third, tag­ging Toledo starter Dan Gatins for three runs. The Irish made Gatins pay for two walks to open the inning, seoring left fielder Golden Tate on a Casey grounder. Barnes then blasted a 3-0 piteh out of the park, scoring Casey and giving the home team a 5-4 lead. 
Toledo eontinued the see­saw battle in the fourth, put­ting together two runs on a hit, a walk, a fielder's ehoiee and a saerifice fly to take a 6­5 lead. The Irish promptly tied the game in the bottom of the inning, with Polloek singling home Tate with one out. 
The Irish struek again in the fifth, with two rum~ seoring on a strange hit off the bat of Mills. With the bases loaded, Mills hit a high ehopper that Roekets first baseman Jim Vahalik lost in the sun, and Notre Dame took an 8-6 lead. 
Freshman southpaw Ryan Riehter held the Hoekets seoreless in his first two innings of relief, but Toledo finally reaehed him in the sev­enth, seoring one run. Riehter notehed a key strikeout with a man on third to keep Notre Dame up 8-7. 
Three insuranee runs were taeked on by the Irish in the 
With the win Gillis brings her pitehing reeord to a team­best 10-0 with a 0.63 ERA. The Belles are now 4-0 in the MIAA eonferenee and on a roll toward a playoff berth. 
"We're looking to do the lit­tle things," Sullivan said. "Most importantly, we're looking to keep the energy eontinued into the sixth as Notre Dame put up five runs of insuranee for Valdivia. Junior Christine Lux jaeked a three-run home run that just eleared the right field fenee with one out in the frame. Johnson drove in Miller for a seeond time with a single to left before Lux's knoek eleared the bags. Fleury dou­bled to left and seored on a throwing error later in the inning. 
Wednesday's vietory gives the Irish a mueh needed win against a non-eonference opponent, a feat they aeeom­plished in stunning fashion. Notre Dame reeorded a sea­son-high 30 total bases and 6 stolen bags. 
The Irish return to Big East aetion when they host Pittsburgh for a doublehead­er on Saturday as they make their push for a playoff berth. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 


Cheerleading &: Leprechaun Tryout Information Meeting 
seventh, with the Casey's third hit of the game driving in two. 
"I just tried to be patient at the plate, they were throwing me a lot of off-speed stuff," Casey said. 
Casey led the Irish offense in the game with four RBI on three hits. Barnes tallied three RBI, and Mills had two hits and two RBI. Riehter (3-0) pieked up the win for Notre Dame, striking out four and allowing one run in four innings of relief. 
"He's pitehed great all sea­son," Casey said of Hiehter. "I don't know that I've ever seen that out of a freshman." 
The Irish will next take the field at home Friday at 5:05 p.m., taking on eonference foe Villanova in the first of a three game set. 
Contact Michael Bryan at 
mbryan@nd.edu 


Thinking about Grad School? 

Thursday, April 2, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
CROSSWORD 
Across 35 Like Petruchio's Toastmaster's wench In 'The 
offering Taming of the Shrew"
5 Worked regularly 
at 36 Middle year of Nero's reign
10 Home of 
Ensenada. 37 Santa's reindeer, informally e.g. 
14 "The of 38Common Frankenstein" origami figures (Peter Cushing 39 Ask for 
film) 
40 de coeur 15 Poet Federico 
41 Clean, fn a wayGarcia 42 Consumer

16Acct. _ 
electronics giant17 Delft, e.g. 
43 Alumni weekend 

18 "Conversation is V.I.P. _in which a 
46 1961 Top 10 hit 

man has all 
"Hello Mary·-. _ ..

manklnd for his 
47 Texans' grp.

competitors": 
Ralph Waldo 48 Many Haydn Emerson compositions 19 "Hard !" 56 It comes trom (captafii's· order) Mars 20 Residence 57 Casts 23 Some music on 58 Firm honcho the Warped Tour 60 Centers of 24"_ see!" activity 25 It has to be 61 Finnish architect asked Alvar 34 Troubled 62 Ambiance 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

display 
26 "In_. (1993 
#1 album) 27 Adjust, as a satellite dish 
style 29 Somewhat 

63 Something in the air 
64 Words repeated after"O Absalom" in the Bible 
65 Occurrence in the moon's tirst quarter 
Down 

Wandering_ 2 Eyeglass lens shape 3 _Davis, "A Girl like Me" documentarian 4 Matinee showing 
time. maybe 5 Have in mind 6 Pants spec 7 Modern home of 

the ancient Akkadian empire 8 lfs similar to cream 
9 Records for computer processing 
10 "Vamoose!" 11 Part of a 
wheelset 12 Raspberry 13 Reno's AAA 
baseball team 
21 "You're looking 
at your guy!" 22 Upbeat 

WILLSHORTZ 

30 Old hwy. from 39 Its home is on 49 Lacking depth Detroit to Seattle the range 
50 Opposite of 31 "The L Word" 41 Capital subj. pobre creator/producer 51 Unloading site 
42 Carpet meas.
Chaiken 52 They may be

44 Alchemist's 

32 False sunflower bookmarked
concoction 53 Certain castrate
33 Coolplx camera 45 She played Mrs. maker Miniver in "Mrs. 54 Legitimate Minive( 55 "Buena
38 Closed carriage with the driver 48 French town of 59 Delete in one outside in front W.W.H quick stroke 
For answers, call 1·9Q0-285·5656, $1 A9 a minute: or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888-?·ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobile)(Word for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puz.Zies, nyl.imes.cornfcrosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nylimes.comlwordplay. Crosswords lor young solvers: nytimes.comlleaminglxwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 


HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRDlES BORN ON THIS DAY: Row i\kGowan ..l-1; D\\'r:cziJ 7~•ppa.. 31-:: l\h:had Keat.:m, S6: Cotby Guitlewite, 57 
Happy Birthday: Nothing can be settled without change. Add;cs~ emoti"nal issues. mak~ your thoughts known and put your plans in motion. Esahmle your friendships lo dctennin~ if th•·y are good for you. Your numbers are 7, 11, 17,19. 31,48 
ARIES (Marcb 21-April 1 9}: So nme.h can h, a~complished if you refuse to let emo­tional issues stand in your way. Don't [<.'!other people-g<>t in\'oh·~d in what you arc doing. Go it alone and do thing;, your wat :! start 
TAURUS (April. 20-May 20): Clear up :my misunderstanding ~''u haw with a reJa.. the or fritnd.. Dealing with children will be casicr .ifynu wj boluHiaric; and kt:cp a tight reitl.. Don't h, fnol"d if someone l<·aves out some important fad.~. 4 >tars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20}: Don't feel bad hcc~uw you want to make mure altera­tion~ to your life. Cvnsider m~king some new friends, trying anew uctivity or hobby or C\"CD changing your pmfessional dire..:!ion, J si.lm; 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Talk to people with cxperi~IICe and you will pick up v:du~ble in!imnation, Make an adjustment a1 bomc. Someone you "·ork with or w·ho ha$ juri,;d!rtion over you may cause. your emotions h.1 ~well. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23· Aug. 22); Networking or doing somNhing to hdp your C<lmmunity or an organi£ation you hcli<:ve in w.ill all pay otT. Love is on the ri>e and now i> a good time l<l kt som(•onc )'('II like know how you fed. Pay d<)SC attention to dl'tail. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Ynu may find yourself getting tvo s.--riou~ about what'~ going on atnund you. Keep things dean, separate and in persp<«:live if you want to avoid an argument or a falling-out that can't be rectified. 2 stars 
l.JllRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): With a little dlort you c;m pull off "'nl~ runarkabk leal> that will intpre"s and challt~nge and pill Y<ltl in a leading positiontoda)·. You nUt)' need to trawl to get things done properly. Yon ,..ill he succ.:sstu[ in the end. 2 •tar> 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You've got your moves and are well on your way lo having y,mr dreams <:<nne 11:\J<:, This is 1\0 tim<' to :>«ond·guc•s yourself. Jn•t go f,,r it and. fX>$Jliw d:mnges will tal..: place. 5 s!ar;; 
SAGITTARIUS (NO\'. 22-Dec. 21): D"u't w•mry ab<Jut mtwing three steps ti-,rwanl and four steps back. ln the end. yon will accomplish whal you set out to do.. Someone is likdy to mess up or cau><: you a llttk fn1stralion but the ksson you kam will be one to rcmembe1: 3 ~tars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22·Jan. 19): Jnw~t. ''ollect old ddlts or d<)SC deals bnt don't a<~l <.>11 a whim or because S(Jffic<>ne has upset yotL You ma}·lcl your love lilito gel the l:>cu.cr vf you but that is m.> n:as~m l<l lose mon~y. Keep busin<:~s and personal mallet> ~cpa· rate. 3 ~tars 
AQUARIUS (Jan, 20-Fcb, 18); You have a good mind wh~n it come~ to cash and clo~ing. deals. Your ability to talk your way in and otn of thing$ will he a marvel, "' don't holt! b~ck. G<l ~fler whaa i'''u w:ant with C<>lliidcncc. 3 stan; 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 2.0): Not mudt can stand in your \\'a)' t<>tlar Actinu will oc required to get your Wa}·. Don't get too cocky in the process or the very persnn who is praising you will ntl yon down. 5 swrs 
Birthday Baby; Y<.JU are smm1. imuitive and adaptahk. Yon don't give up or give in to anything or anyone. 
www. BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 


THE DOME PIECE 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
ERROR 
of the purchased items on could not be transferred to nes library because you are not orized to play them on this 
DAVID CAVADINI 




THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
JEFF KNUREK 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


~[K 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
Unscramble these tour Jumbles. one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 
[]
tNATIEX 
WHAT HAPPt=NED

[) 
WHEN THt=Y Kt=PT DRINKING TO THEIR HEAL..TH.


tRUHLOY I 
Now arrange the circled letters lo form the surprise answer, as suggested by lhe above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

FOAMY ELDER HOOKED UNSOLD
Yesterday's IJumbles: 

Answer: Difficult to save face when you do this ­LOSE YOUR HEAD 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
I
J [] 

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City ________ State _____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, April 2, 2009 
page 24 
BASEBALL 
Rockets grounded 
Irish overcome rough start, win back-and­forth game vs. Toledo 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Associate Sports Editor 
After losing five of their last seven, the Irish may have started turning things around Wednesday, defeating Toledo 11-7 at Frank Eck Stadium. 
The Rockets gave Irish right-hander Todd Miller a rough welcome in his first career start, touching up the sophomore for three runs in the top of the first. Toledo left fielder Joe Corfman led off the game with a long home run over the left field fence, and two batters later cleanup hit­ter Jared Hoying added a two­run bomb to right field. 
"Just in batting practice, you could tell with the wind that the ball would really carry today," designated hit-
see TOLEDO/page 22 


ND SOFTBALL 

Offensive firevvorks powerND 
By CHRIS MASOUD Sports Writer 

Every softball coach knows that falling victim to the dol­drums of the middle of the season can mean the differ­ence between making the playoffs and watching from the outside. But apparently the Irish couldn't care less, as they put on a hit parade en route to an 11-4 victory over Northern Illinois on Wednesday. 
The Irish (18-11) started off slow, scoring only two runs through the first three frames. But the lack of offense didn't last long, as the Irish picked up the pace in the mid­dle innings to tally nine unan­swered runs against a belea­guered Husky pitching staff. 
"We usually struggle with 
see NIU/page 22 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Courtesy Flush ekes out win vs. Chris Brown Beat Down 
two 'serious' teams proved to say that." went into the half up 11-7 clock continued to run, slow­By NATHANIEL LEE, showcase more sweatbands Courtesy Flush got on the after roughly 30 grinding, ly, Courtesy Flush's slightly MEAGHAN VESELIK, and than impressive plays, as board first, opening up the windy minutes. less mediocre play pushed MOLLY SAMMON missed lay-ups, dropped balls game with a three-basket run "It was a good game. It was them to a 17-12 lead. Sports Writers and passes to nobody ruled before Chris Brown fought a good match up. They were However, the increasingly the day. back. The teams traded a good sports," Chris Brown freezing winds seemed to "Winning this game was series of air balls, disrupted captain senior Jared Zenk stimulate McLovin look-alike 
In early round play, pure jubilee," Courtesy Flush only by the occasional untied said. "Too bad we lost." Zenk and his Chris Brown Courtesy Flush edged Chris captain MBA student Doug shoe or fogged-up glasses. Once again Courtesy Flush Beat Down compatriots, who Brown Beat Down 21-19 Cannon said. "It was a good Courtesy Flush however man­took eontrol of the opening went on a 7-3 run. With the Wednesday afternoon. The game between two really aged to maintain the offensive minutes in the half, opening marquee matchup between good teams, make sure you and defensive edges, and up with a 3-1 run. As the see BOOKSTOREIpage 21 
FOOTBALL 
Defense hopes to improve 
Williams, Smith hoping to make impression 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Freshman defensive end Hafis Williams spent all of last season on the scout team. This year, he found his name second on the depth chart. 
"!Defensive line] Coach [Randy] Hart just put the depth chart up and we just went along with it," Williams said. 
I le knows, however, that his position may ehange at any time. 
"It's spring ball right now. The depth chart just goes up and down," he said. "''m working hard right now making myself better and making my team­mates better." 
Williams said the time he spent 
see HAFIS/page 22 


SMC SOFTBALL 

Saint Mary's extends vvinning streak to seven 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's College softball team stayed hot yes­terday, as they recorded their third straight double-header sweep against Olivet College, winning 3-1 and 7-0. The wins bring their overall record to 18-2-and their winning streak to seven. 
After jumping out to an early 1-0 load in the first inning. the Hellos recorded their second an d t h i r d r u n s oIT 1 e ad off hornnruns in the fourth and sixth innings by freshman out­fielder Kristen Nelson and sen­ior first basement Katie Rashid. 
In the seventh inning, with the Belles leading 3-1, the Comets tried to start a rally with the bases loaded, but couldn't get on the board. 
In the second game, junior left lielder Ashley Peterson led the offensive charge in the nightcap with three hits, two homeruns, and six RBis. Junior shortstop Maureen Healy followPd that up with an impressive performance of her own. going 2-for-4 with two runs scored. Cateher Ashley Fusaro also went 2-for-4, scor­ing a run of her own. 
"Solid defense has been our forte this year as well as stringing base hits togetllf'r," Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. 
Sullivan's words have rung true reeently, as the Belles have shut out their opponents in four of their last six games. 
see OLIVET/page 22 









