~--­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 44: ISSUE 7 . WEDNESDAY. SEPTEMBER2. 2009 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Library lacking 

Petitions ask for more books, staffand total renovation 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Touchdown Jesus is an NBC favorite during Saturday game days. It is a sym­bol known across the country, and a building that students and alumni often show off to visiting family and friends. 
But what the building holds on the inside has become a source of concern for students and faculty who recently created petitions to improve the Library so that it meets Notre Dame standards. 
"Notre Dame has been making deci­sion to try and sell itself as a top research university, and so they need a library that is a top research library," graduate student Lauren Whitnah, who worked on the student petition, said. 
The petitions are primarily asking that the Library become dedicated to 
Program assists College 
JUlllOfS 
By MEGHAN PRICE News Writer 
As many Saint Mary's College students begin their junior year, they start to think about life after graduation and the various career paths they will pursue. Tuesday night's "Junior Jumpstart," held at LeMans Hall, saw a large turnout of students eager to hear how the College can help their professional endeavors. 
The weight that an intern­ship carries on a graduate's resume is surprisingly strong, said Tricia Dunton, Assistant Director of the Career Crossings Office at Saint Mary's. 
"If it is between a resume with an internship and one with other leadership or sum­mer job experience. the one with the internship will get the job offer," Dunton said. 
She illustrated the various benefits that internships carry. Besides bolstering a resume, they help students to network, award many stu­dents academic credit and often provide compensation, Dunton said. Many interns receive a full time job offer and enter their senior year 
see JUNIORS/page 3 
acquiring more books and increasing its collection size, she said. 
"Notre Dame does not aspire to be the University of Louisville. We don't aspire to be the University of Cincinnati ... or Tulane, or Brigham Young, all of which are above us in library rank­ings," Whitnah said. 
In the number of volumes added each year, Notre Dame fell from 27th to 49th between the years of 2001 and 2008, according to the Association of Research Libraries (ARL). 
"To put this figure in perspective, Notre Dame now trails seven of the eight schools in the Ivy League and all but one of the eleven schools in the Big Ten," according to the student petition. 
"We like to think of ourselves as being like an Ivy League. In fact, undergrads 
see LIBRARY/page 4 



Activities Night draws record crowd 
4,300 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students visit booths ofover 200 clubs and organizations 
pares favorably with the 4,025 turnout of last year. 
"There were enormous amounts of groups this year," Havlik said. The groups all had to register through club registration last spring, she said. 
Sophomore Meagan Sullivan, who transferred to the University this year from the University of Illinois, said that she visited booths that pertained to her major as well as her personal interests. 
"I visited the booths for the Habitat for Humanity, Global Health and the Women's 
see ACTIVITIES/page 3 


New off-campus Web site reviewed 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
During its first meeting of the school year Tuesday evening, the Council of Hepresentatives (COR) dis­cussed the development of its first Web site especially designed for students Jiving off campus. 
Director of External Affairs Gus Gari, who helped to develop the Web site, offcam­pus.nd.edu, presented it to members of the Council and 
then asked for them feed­back and suggestions for how to advertise the Web site. 
The site was created as an extension of the Good Neighbor Guide, the University's official guide to off-campus living, which was implemented last year. 
Jennifer Monahan, execu­tive assistant to the vice president of student affairs, was also on hand to help answer questions associated with the Web site. The Office of Student Affairs backed 

and funded the creation of the Web site. 
"The Web site shows you how to move, live and play off campus," Gari said. "There is a lot of information and we're trying to make it as easy for students as possi­ble." 
S&fety tips, restaurant guides, tips for reading leas­es and a section for head­lines and events around cam­pus and South Bend are included on the Web site. 
"The site tries to help stu­dents transitioning off cam­
pus," Gari said. "We tried to cover the process step by step." 
While a large portion of the Web site is aimed specifically at helping Notre Dame stu­dents ease their transition to off-campus living, Gari said the site also aims at helping both on and off-campus stu­dents use the city of South Bend to their advantage. 
"We tried to present the information as catchy a way as possible," he said. "We 
see COR/page 4 


By KATIE PERALTA Assistant News Editor 
The annual undergraduate Activities Night, sponsored by the Student Activities Office (SAO) did not disappoint again this year as thousands of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students visited the booths of over 200 campus clubs and organizations, as well as a number of commu­nity agencies and other area groups. 
Student Program Coordinator Mary Kate Havlik said more than 4,300 stu­dents crowded the arena. This number. she said, com-
INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER ND Forum delayed until spring page 3 • Linebacker preview page 24 • Summer movie recaps page 12 • Viewpoint page 10 

Wednesday, September 2, 2009
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Anode to 
football 

season 
Friday morning you could drop a leaf onto South Quad, and watch one Notre Dame employee or another pick it up within 60 sec­onds. 
That's right, a football weekend is finally upon us, and the transfor­mation of our cam­pus is in full swing. 
Freshmen may not believe me, but by Saturday morning Notre Dame will be the fourth-largest city by population in Indiana. 
Walking from North Quad to Gate E will entail turning down a dozen burned hot dogs. 
The Basilica will be completely impenetrable, flooded by tourists. 
Two hundred added garbage bins will dot campus, and in a few of them, lost season ticket booklets will end up. 
To the freshmen, none of this may sound plausible. To the sen­iors, it is a luxury to be enjoyed while it lasts. 
That is probably the best advice for all of us. 
After all, as a sophomore I only have 21 home football weekends left to enjoy, and I already know I'll miss one game this year. Suddenly I'm down to 20. 
Only 20 more times will I be able to enjoy a $6 Knights of Columbus steak sandwich with a "free" drink. I shall see Zahm and Carroll looking their best, covered up by large bed sheets a mere 20 more Saturdays. 
Officer Tim McCarthy will wow me with a scant 20 more puns, and worse yet, I can count on my fingers and toes the number of times my eardrums will be strained by flyover jets. 
I already know I will miss wak­ing up to the Band at three o'clock marching across South Quad to Notre Dame Stadium. I can't say I'll missing seeing hun­dreds of people wearing a nacho cheese-colored shirt mobbed behind the Band. 
I'll take the bad with the good though, and indeed, enjoy it while it lasts. 
After all, maybe ol' Lou Holtz is right, and our soft schedule will land us in a BCS bowl, if not the national championship. 
If that is the case, Athletic Director Jack Swarbick need not be offended by the label "soft," and instead relish the dollar sign that would come in front of eight digits on a check. 
While he dreams of those zeroes, we can relish our days in the student section throwing the foreigners and toothpick girls in the air after Irish touchdowns. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer I @nd.edu 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD CREATE ANY STUDENT GROUP ON CAMPUS, WHAT WOULD IT BE? 





Glynnis Garry  Mark Pomerenke  Brendan Mulnerhan  Joe Bizjak  
junior  junior  junior  senior  
Cavanaugh  Zahm  Of/campus  Zahm  
...Boy Meets  ..The He-Man  ..Bros  ..The Team  
World'  Woman Haters  Anonymous,  Nutties Fan  
appreciation  Club."  Club."  
club."  

Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

MEGAN SMITH/The Observer Leah Hall, right, a Saint Mary's student, passes out flyers advertising the annual Dance Marathon before Tuesday's Student Activity Night at the Joyce Center. The Dance Marathon Is scheduled for March 2010. 
OFFBEAT 

Municipal Court Judge Stephen Belden says the taping last Thursday was the best way to restore order at a hearing for 51-year-old Harry Brown of Canton. 
Brown complained that his court-appointed attorney was­n't prepared and angered the judge with interruptions. After a warning, the judge told the bailiff to tape Brown's mouth shut. 
When the tape was removed, the defendant said the judge wasn't being respectful. The judge ended the hearing and sent the case to a grand jury. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
No Muslims at Black Eyed Peas concert 
KUALA LUMPUR Muslims in Malaysia have been barred from attending a concert by U.S. hip hop band the Black Eyed Peas spon­sored by Guinness which is owned by the world's biggest spirits group Diageo. 
The move comes after a Malaysian Islamic court sen­tenced a 32-year Muslim woman to be caned after she was caught drinking beer in a hotel and at a time when an opposition Islamic party has moved against beer sales. 
The concert, part of cele­brations of Guinness 250th birthday, asks on its website, "Are you a non-Muslim aged 18 years and above?" and if the response is no, access is not allowed. 
Muslims account for 55 per­cent of the 27 million people in this Southeast Asian coun­try and are barred from con­suming alcohol although the rules are regularly flouted, especially in big cities like the capital, Kuala Lumpur. 
Judge slences defel1dant with 
ltd~ 
CANTON, Ohio -An Ohio judge unhappy with repeated interruptions from a robbery suspect ordered a deputy to put duct tape over the defen­dant's mouth. Canton 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a: 
LLI 
:::z:: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
...I 
II( CJ 





75 60 
0

.... HIGH HIGH 51 HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 45 LOW LOW 
77 
56 
78 55 
IN BRIEF 

"Para Ia Gente: Art, Politics and Cultural Identity of the Taller de Grafica Popular," an exhibit at the Snite Museum of Art, will take place today from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m. Admission is free. 
''The Irish Sublime, .. a lecture by Professor Terry Eagleton, the Excellence in English Distinguished Visitor, will take place in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium on Friday at 3 p.m. This lecture discusses the place of the sublime in Irish culture, tracing continuities in literature, politics, and aesthetics from the Middle Ages to the present. A reception will follow the event. 
The Football Pep Rally will be held Friday at 6:30 p.m. on South Quad in front of Dillon Hall. The rally will include the entire Irish Cheer Squad. 
The film "The Brothers Bloom" will be shown at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on Sunday. The film fol­lows two brothers, who just so happen to be expert swindlers, as they take on their last job-a wealthy heiress. Tickets are available online or at the Ticket Office 574-631-2800. 

..Thin: Photographs by Lauren Greenfield" is running at the Snite Museum of Art through Oct. 18. The exhibit showcases photographs of women with eating disorders at a Florida treatment facility. The museum is open 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 75 LOW 58 


Atlanta 80 I 61 Boston 75 I 55 Chicago 75 I 55 Denver 85 I 59 Houston 94 I 70 Los Angeles 89 I 68 Minneapolis 76 I 54 New York 77 I 60 Philadelphia 78 I 58 Phoenix 106 I 84 Seattle 78 I 58 St. Louis 79 I 56 Tampa 85 I 74 Washington 79 I 61 
,...-------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, September 2, 2009 page 3 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Professors discuss 


NDForum delayed until spring 
semester is a better fit for the
By AARON STEINER

consequences of war 
schedules of key panelists."
News Writer 

By JIM FERLMANN News Writer 
In front of a packed audi­torium in the Hesburgh Center on Tuesday evening, David Cortright, director of Policy Studies at the Kroc Institute, and Notre Dame Law Professor Mary Ellen 
O'Connell examined the conflicts in Afghanistan and Pakistan in a discussion titled "Is Afghanistan a 'Good War?"' 
Cortright and O'Connell began the event with an overview of issues related 
to the conflicts in Afghanistan and Pakistan and answered questions at the end of the evening. 
Cortright questioned the means by which U.S. objec­tives are being carried through in the two countries, specifically addressing Just War theory. 
"If we consider the mission in Afghanistan, I would say that it must be judged a wor­thy and just cause," Cortright said. "The ques­tion, however, is not about the objectives of the mission. 
It is about the means of their execu­tion. Are our objectives able to be served through mili­tary means?" 
"I would argue that war is an inappropriate means of 
countering Al Qaeda," Cortright said, citing a study that claims sheer military force eliminates terrorist organizations seven percent of the time, while state political 
policing and negotiations 

towards terrorist organiza­tions achieve vastly higher rates of success. 
"War against non-state terrorist organizations also has many harmful and detri­mental consequences," Cortright said. 
"The presence of foreign troops in Afghanistan and Pakistan is a principal factor motivating armed resistance and insurgency," he said. 
Professor O'Connell contin­ued the discussion, speaking about U.S. use of drones against potential Taliban targets in Afghan and Pakistani mountainous tribal 
Brown said the University will announce the Forum's topic and its participants "once commitments are secured from key panelists." 
Brown did not make further comment about the Forum, which will be the fifth at the University. 
Last September, General Electric CEO Jeff Immelt, Colorado Gov. Bill Ritter, environmental activist Majora Carter and MIT Professor Ernest Moniz sat on a panel that discussed sustainability issues. The Forum coincided with a number of green and other environmental events last fall. 
The Notre Dame Forum was started in 2005, the first year of University President Fr. 
regions. Drones are unmanned aircraft that are used for various purposes, including airstrike. 
O'Connell cited a personal study that found that drones caused far more civilian casualties than high-profile kills. The study claimed that 700 civilians had been killed by air strikes so far, while 
'"/ would argue that war is an inappropriate means ofcountering Al Qaeda. •• 
David Cortright director of policy studies Kroc Institute 
only took officer casualties 

to the entrance of the event,
into account, and not regu­

saw a huge turnout in sign­
continued from page 1
lar militant deaths, she said. 

ups. Hundreds of signatures
"Drone attacks are proving 

Running Club," she said. occupied over seven pages,
counterproductive to the 

Havlik said both the Women's Cynthia Weber, student body
military objective of sup­

and Men's Running Club saw vice president, said. 
pressing militancy and ter­

larger turnouts Student 
rorism. The strikes have 

this year. Government will 
been to date wildly dispro­

Freshman ..This was a good follow up with 
portionate in respect to civil­

Charles Kaiser an orientation
chance to see what
ian lives lost," she said. 

also visited club meeting for 
"We are failing with 

booths which ND had to offer. The interested stu­
respect to the fundamental 

coincided with dents, Weber
number ofpeople
principles of international 

his major and said. The meet-
here was impressive. ,,
law, and with those princi­

personal inter­ing, called 
ples our practical chances of 

ests, collecting Student Gov. 
success and most important-

pamphlets from Charles Kaiser 101, will take 
"We are failing with respect to the fundamental principles of international law, and with those principles our practical chances ofsuccess and most importantly our successful compliance with our most cherished moral principles. ,, 
Mary Ellen O'Connell law professor 
A popular highlight of recent fall semesters at the University has been the annual Notre Dame Forum, which invites panelists from different backgrounds to dis­cuss various controversial topics. 
With no indications of a Forum this year so far, how­ever, University spokesman 
Dennis Brown confirmed
only 12 
Tuesday that one will take
Taliban or AI 
place this year, but in the
Qaeda com­
spring semester.
manders had 
"A planning committee has
been killed. 
been working on the event
"That is a 
for several months," he said.
kill ratio of 
5 8 : 1 ... 
Brown said the Forum was 
delayed from its usual fall
O'Connell 
date because "the spring
said. "If that 
is not dispro­
portionate killing, I don't know what 

The Student Government 
is."_The study 

booth, which was located close
Activities 
ly our s uc­the Investment place on

freshman
cessful com­Club, Rugby Tuesday at 8 pliance with 

Club, College p.n1. in our most 
Libertarians and Republicans. LaFortune. cherished 
"This was a good chance to Club Coordination Council moral princi­
see what ND had to offer," president Cameron Shane, who 
ples," 

Kaiser said. "The number of has attended Activities Night
O'Connell 

people here was impressive." all of his three years at the 
said. O'Connell's 

John Jenkins' leadership at Notre Dame. The first Forum addressed the role of religion in a plural world and was moderated by former NBC anchor Tom Brokaw. 
According to a 2008 University press release, "[t]he Notre Dame Forum assembles world leaders on campus in discussion of the leading issues of the day. 
"The Forum seeks to engage all campus con­stituents in these important conversations to better for­mulate solutions and effect positive change." 
The 2006 Forum addressed global health issues and the 2007 Forum dealt with immi­gration. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 
University, said the event was again a success. 
"There was a lot of turnout and interest [on the students' part,]" Shane said. He added he was particularly impressed with the large number of off­campus groups around the perimeter of the arena. 
"Everything went smoothly," Shane added. 
Event coordinators hope that the event will help students channel their interests to 
meaningful  and  exciting  
groups  and  events around  
campus.  

"Students are always com­plaining and saying there's nothing to do around campus," Havlik said, adding that Activities Night shows them just how much there is to do." 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 
commentary was not based on the Just War the­ory, but of current inter­national law, her academic specialty. 
"The inter­national law on the use of force, -both the rules respecting the resort to 
force and its conduct ... grew out of the Just War teaching of Augustine, Aquinas, and Grotius," she said. 
O'Connell said our military must be cautious in their efforts so as not to destroy innocent civilian lives. 
"You may only use that force which can accomplish the military objective, and only in such a manner that does not cause dispropor­tionate loss of life or destruction of civilian prop­erty," O'Connell said, citing international law. 
Contact Jim Ferlmann at 
jferlman@nd.edu 


Juniors 
continued from page I 
with plans for after gradua­tion already set, she said. 
Another benefit, Dunton said, is that internships help students to decide where they want to take their career path. 
"From internships, students learn what they like, and more importantly, what they don't like," Dunton said. 
The Career Crossing Office at Saint Mary's College is designed to help students pre­pare for interviews, write resumes and find internships and job openings. The Office helps student to connect with alumnae and different compa­nies in their field. 
"We want to help you realize what you want before you ·get a job and end up hating it," Dunton said. "We want you to like your job and want to stay there." 
Ashlee Girard, an account­ing major, said she found this talk helpful but that it also made her nervous for the future. Girard wants to get 

her CPA and possibly work at superiors. one of the larger marketing Rachel Eisterhold, a senior companies in Chicago. communication major, benefit­
Girard believes that an ed from this talk last year and internship would help her returned Tuesday to share her achieve these goals. experience with the juniors. 
"I will definitely be using the Eisterhold had an internship 
services of the Career Crossing Center," Girard 
'"We want to help you 
said. Five Saint realize what you Mary's students 
want before you get 
who had partici­
a job and end up
pated in intern­ships last sum­hating it.,, mer through var­ious programs 
Tricia Dunton 
also attended the 
assistant director
forum. These students, who Career Crossings Office had participated in internships in 
with a public relations com­pany in her hometown of Tulsa, Okla. 
Eisterhold said as a jun­ior, this event helped her to plan for the future. 
"It really helps students to get started thinking ahead and ere a ting 

a number of different loca­tions including Georgia, Oklahoma, Michigan, England and Germany, answered ques­tions and offered advice to the juniors. 
They said that as interns, students should be outgoing and take initiative. They encouraged the juniors to be comfortable ask questions and communicating with their 
goals." she said. 
Career Crossing has an office in Spes Unica Hall and will also have a both set up every Wednesday in the atri­um of the student center start­ing Sept. 16. The staff encourages al Saint Mary's students to use their services. 
Contact Meghan Price at 
mprice02@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 2, 2009 

Library 
continued from page 1 
are paying close to the tuition of an Ivy League," Whitnah said. "So why is it that our library is lagging so far behind?" 
Library director Jennifer Younger said the Library is aware of the need to increase its collection, and has already pur­chased more scholarly texts and journals. 
"We have, in fact, invested sig­nificantly in the library materi­als," Younger said. "So we're making progress, although, as [the petitions] point out, there is progress to be made." 
Although graduate students mainly developed the petition, nearly 80 percent of more than 1,100 students who have signed the petition have been under­graduates, graduate student David Morris, who started the petition, said. 
Morris said the large student response exceeded his expecta­tions and shows there is· a need to improve the Library. 
"The desire to improve the Library ... is something shared by a broad segment of Notre Dame's student body, from incoming freshmen to advanced Ph.D. candidates, from engi­neers to English majors," he said. 
Nearly 200 faculty members have signed a similar petition, said Sabine MacCormack, who worked on the faculty petition and is a professor of history and classics. 
The student and faculty peti­tions ask to increase the number of books bought per year in addition to hiring additional bib­liographers and professional staff. It also calls for a renova­tion of the entire building to the scale and cost of new science buildings on campus. 
The Jordan Hall of Science cost $70 million, according to its Web site. 
"The Library is the lab of the humanities, so it's really impor­tant that the University dedicate the funding dollars to keep the Library on par with the top sci­ence labs that we've been build­ing," Whitnah said. 
MacCormack agreed. 
"For many of us, the Library is -or rather ought to be -our intellectual home. This is espe­cially true for those who work in the humanities," MacCormack said. "I myself find the collec­tions insufficient even for some of my teaching needs." 
Assistant Provost Susan Ohmer said the University has not meant to neglect the human­ities, but has focused on the sci­ences because the sciences had been lagging behind. 
"We've been behind on the sciences. So in a way this is catch up," said Ohmer. "As the sciences move ahead, we don't want the Library to fall behind." 
But improving and renovating the library inevitably brings up monetary issues. 
"If you are talking about reno­vating the whole library, it's a lot of money," Ohmer said. "You can look around campus and say well, we are doing a lot of other things, but we already have the funds for those things." 
But Whitnah said she thinks that the University should be able to raise the money. 
Notre Dame has the 13th largest educational endowment in the country and the largest at a Catholic university, according to the Investment Office. 
"This is Notre Dame. We can have the money if we want to have the money badly enough. If we don't have the money, it's because we're not asking," Whitnah said. 
Younger said that currently, the plan is to renovate two floors of the Library, but renovating the whole building could be a possibility. 
"It has been in the University's thinking to renovate the entire library, however what we typi­cally do is do it in phases," she said. "We very much anticipate renovating the entire building, but that will be in a future phase." 
"I personally would like to see it happen," Ohmer said. "I will certainly work hard to make it happen." 
Ohmer said she is "on the same page" with students and agrees that the Library needs more resources. 
"I'm all for putting more money into the library," she said. "The Library has got to keep up. But I think the administration gets that. It's a question of how to do that." 
The student petition will tenta­tively close Sept. 11. Students who wish to sign the petition can go to www.nd.edu/-dmorris1/peti­tion_DM.shtml 
MacCormack said the faculty petition will continue until the third week of September. Faculty members who wish to sign the petition can find it at www.nd.edu/-smaccorm/peti­tion.shtml 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
COR 
continued from page 1 
are trying to debunk the rumor that it's South Bend and there's nothing to do." 
Gari highlighted the sec­tion of the Web site devoted to off-campus safety, where he said they try to give stu­dents information useful to being both safe and smart when hosting social gather­ings. 
After the conclusion of the presentation, student body president Grant Schmidt turned to the other mem­bers of the council for help with advertising the Web site. 
"This Web site is so use­ful," he said. "I want to make sure people know where to start [when navi­gating the Web site]." 
Some members of COR 
suggested advertising the site to different off-campus apartment complexes that house large numbers of Notre Dame students, such as Clover Ridge. 
Senior class President Chris Tillett suggested there be some sort of incentive buried in the Web site to encourage students to navi­gate the various pages of the site. 
"We should have a buried discount for a local popular restaurant like Chipotle," he said. 
Another idea popular with the members of the council was to continue to empha­size the name of the Web site, The 0 ff-C am pus Connector. 
For students wishing to visit the website, its address is www.offcampus.nd.edu 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 


tor Notre Dame graduate students and advisers Speaker: Joanne Forster Institute of International Education September 3 3:30 ­4:30 pm Room 1DO McKenna Hall On-campus submission deadlineULBRIGH of Fulbright applications is~~ ~,., Sept. 18, 2009  


Wednesday, September 2, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OssERVE~s WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Former military police arrested 
SANTIAGO, Chile -A Chilean judge on Tuesday ordered the arrests of 129 former security officers on charges tied to the disap­pearance of leftists and the slaying of the com­munist party leadership during the Pinochet dictatorship. 
It was the largest number of arrests ever ordered in an investigation of human rights abuses during the "dirty war" waged while Gen. Augusto Pinochet ruled in 1973-90. 
Judge Victor Montiglio said the 129 were members of the army, air force and uniformed police who worked for the Dina secret police agency, which has been accused of many of the political killings and other rights violations of the Pinochet era. "We are investigating all who have participated ... in the deprivation of liber­ties of the victims," Montiglio said. 
Elections will end Honduran crisis 
TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras -Honduras' interim leader on Tuesday urged citizens to vote in November elections, vowing that the election of a new president will show the world democracy thrives in the Central America country despite a July coup. 
Campaigning began this week despite warn­ings from many Latin American countries that they will not recognize the outcome of any election until ousted President Manuel Zelaya is restored to power. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, meanwhile, planned to meet with Zelaya on Thursday to show case U.S. support for the deposed president. 
"We will be watched by many countries in the world," interim President Roberto Micheletti said in a televised address. "This process will serve to categorically show that we appreciate democracy, that we are a peo­ple who want to live in harmony." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
NYC schools to offer vaccinations 
NEW YORK-The nation's largest school dis­trict said Tuesday it will offer free swine flu vac­cinations to itc;; 1 million-plus schoolchildren as New York City takes bold steps to avoid becom­ing the country's flu epicenter again in the fall. 
Hundreds of school districts nationwide have agreed to allow vaccinations in school buildings, once the vaccine becomes available in mid-to late October as the nation prepares for a spike in swine flu cases in the coming months. 
New York's announcement may influence other large cities. Brenda Greene, director of school health programs for the National School Boards Association, said the city could wind up being "a great role model." 
Gay marriages legal in Vermont 
DUXBURY, Vt. -After 17 years together, Bill Slimback and Bob Sullivan couldn't wait another minute to get married. So they didn't. 
With Vermont's new law allowing same-sex marriage only a minute old, they tied the knot in a midnight ceremony at a rustic lodge, becoming one of the first couples to legally wed under a law that took eflect at midnight Monday. 
"It feels wonderful," said Slimback, 38, an out­of-work Teamster who is taking Sullivan's last name as his own. "It's a day I've been long wait­ing for, and a day I truly honestly thought would never come." 
Vermont is one of five states that now allow same-sex couples to marry. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Candidate's license suspended 
SOUTH BEND, Ind.-Frnquent northern Indiana congressional candidate Tony Zirkle has had his law license su.,pend1~d tbr two years by the state Supreme Court. 
lhc court found Zirkle engaged in eight counts of professional misconduct. including improper billing practices and charging dientc;; for incompetent serv­kes. The court said 7Jrkle filed his response to the allegations several days late and ordered his sus­pen'iion to begin Oct. 1. 
Zirkle told the South Bend Tribune that the ch<u-ges against him were exaggerated or blatantly falc;;e. 
CALIFORNIA 

Forces make progress against blaze 
Santa Ana winds may make fires worse as peak fire season approaches 
Associated Press  
LOS ANGELES  
Firefighters reported some  
progress Tuesday against a  
gigantic blaze on the edge  
of Los Angeles, but warned  
that this one might be just  
a preview of even greater  
dangers ahead. The peak  
Southern California fire  
season hasn't even started  
yet. The worst fires typical­ 
ly flare up in the fall, when  
ferocious Santa Ana winds  
can drive fires out of  
wilderness areas and into  
suburbs. As a result,  
Southern California could  
be in for a long wildfire  
season.  
"When you see a fire  
burning like this, with no  
Santa Ana winds, we know  
that with the winds, it  
would be so much worse,  
so much more intense,"  
said Los Angeles County  
fire Capt. Mark Whaling.  
The Santa Anas are so  
devastating when they  
carry fire because they  
sweep down from the  
north and reach withering  
speeds as they squeeze  
through wilderness  
canyons and passes and  
APplunge into developed Firefighters try to keep a fire in the Deukmejlan Wilderness Park from  
areas. jumping a fire break in Glendale, Calif. 
Even though winds have  
been mostly calm since the blaze began along the  homes at risk in Yucaipa. ."There's action every­ resist burning, but the downside was a possibility  flames could be seen creeping under trees.  
northern fringe of Los  where," Gov. Arnold  of dry lightning. Some  Firefighters had doused  
Angeles and its suburbs,  Schwarzenegger said as a  sprinkles were reported,  the peak with flame retar­ 
the flames have spread over 190 square miles of  helicopter interrupted his comments at a news con­ but no significant rain. Officials were worried  dant before withdrawing when the fire appeared to  
forest in a week. Some  ference in San Bernardino  about the threat to a his­ be too dangerous.  
12,000 homes remained  County.  toric observatory on Mount  Mount Wilson is home  
threatened as 3,600 fire­ The big fire, known as  Wilson northeast of Los  not only to the observatory  
fighters and aircraft bat­ the Station Fire, was just 5  Angeles. But on Tuesday,  but numerous television,  
tled the blaze across a 50­ percent surrounded, but  the flames near the facility  radio and cell phone  
mile line.  U.S. Forest Service incident  appeared much tamer than  antennas serving the met­ 
But it was not the only  commander Mike Dietrich  the infernos that boiled up  ropolitan area.ch Institute.  
significant blaze in  said that figure could dou­ out of the mountain range  "The fire is still eventual­ 
Southern California.  ble by the end of the day,  in previous days.  ly going to impact around  
In the inland region east  and he was pleased with  Authorities could not  the site," Dietrich said.  
of Los Angeles, 2,000 homes were being threat­ progress. "There's a lot more work  immediately ascertain whether the fire at the top  "The amount of damage is yet to be seen."  
ened by a fire of more than  to be done," Dietrich said.  of Mount Wilson was the  The fire is one of hun­ 
1.5 square miles in the San  "It's still a very treacherous  result of the overall  dreds of wildfires in a sea­ 
Bernardino County com­ situation. It could still turn  advance of the blaze or  son that usually does not  
munity of Oak Glen, and a  around."  backfires set by fire crews.  gather steam until October,  
nearby 1.3-square-mile  Weather was more  From a helicopter above  when the Santa Ana winds  
blaze was putting 900  humid, which helps brush  the 5,700-foot peak, small  arrive.  



Europe observes WWII anniversary 
outpost housing the navy's arsenal. It Sobibor and other death camps built by
Associated Press 

was the war's opening salvo. the Nazis to annihilate Europe's Jews. 
Red and white Polish flags fluttered in II Remembering the cruelty, remember­
GDANSK, Poland -On a wind-swept a breeze as the officials opened the cere­ing the extermination of peoples and peninsula where shells lobbed from a mony at 4:45 a.m. (0245GMT). Later, nations, is perhaps the most important German battleship ignited World War II Poland's president, prime minister and and most effective shield against the 70 years ago, European leaders vowed others placed wreaths at the foot of the danger of another war,II Prime Minister Tuesday never to forget the lessons of towering granite monument to the Donald Tusk said in a solemn afternoon the 20th century's bloodiest conflict. defenders of Westerplatte as an honor ceremony with European and American 
Evidence of continued animosity was guard looked on. officials along the waterfront on not far from the surface, however, as The blitzkrieg on Poland launched Westerplatte. Poland pushed for greater acknowledg­nearly six years of war that engulfed the "Nobody in the world who will remem­ment from Russia of its role in starting world and left more than 50 million peo­ber the events here in Gdansk in 1939 the war, while Russia sought to minimize ple dead as the German war maehine and the horrible events around the the impact of Moscow's 1939 pact with rolled over Europe. world in the years that followed ... will Berlin. Poland alone lost 6 million citizens, ever do anything to allow that nightmare 
At dawn on Gdansk's Westerplatte half of them Jews. During the German to return." peninsula, Poland's leaders marked the occupation, the country was used as a The war in Europe ended May 8, hour the German battleship Schles·wig­base for the Nazis' genocide machinery: 1945. with Germany's unconditional sur­Holstein shelled a tiny Polish military It was home to Auschwitz, Majdanek, render. 
Wednesday, September 2, 2009
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
MEXICO 
U.S. releases funds to combat drug trade 

Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY -The U.S. has released $214 million of an aid package to help Mexico fight drug trafficking, including funds for five helicopters for the mili­tary to be delivered by year's end, a top State Department offi­cial said Tuesday. 
The helicopters wi1l be the first to be sent to Mexico under the Merida Initiative, a three-year, $1.4 billion program to train and equip law enforcement to deal with the ruthless cartels, said David Johnson, U.S. assistant secretary for international nar­cotics and Jaw enforcement. 
lie said $214 miUion ofthe package has been spent or com­mitted. The funds have gone to training Mexican federal investi­gators and providing technology such as X-ray machines to check for contraband at border cross­ings. 
"We greatly admin~ tl1e strong efforts made by the government of Mexico ... to confront the extreme rise in violence fueled by drugs," Johnson told reporters during a visit to Mexico to discuss the Merida Initiative with officials. 
Earlier this month, President Barack Obama's administration sent to Congress a favorable report on Mexico's human rights record that could allow the release of an additional $100 million in aid. Washington has conditioned 15 percent of the Merida Initiative on assurances that Mexico makes progress in combatting corruption and rights abuses. 
In early August, U.S. Sen. Patrick Leahy, a Democrat from Vermont, delayed the release of the State Department report over concerns of torture and other abuse allegations against the Mexican military. International rights group have also urged the Obama adminis­tration to withhold Merida Initiative funds, saying Mexico has done little to investigate alleged abuse. 
But the U.S. report defended Mexico, saying the government of President Felipe Calderon "ha.~ embarked on a major efl(>rt to reform and overhaul its justice system." 
Johnson said the United States is helping Mexico improve its internal systems for preventing and rooting out coiTUption in law enforcement, inducting lie-detec­tor tests and continuous checks on officials. 
He also made clear the Obama administration has no intention on passing judgment on a new Mexican law that eliminates jail time for possessing small amounts of marijuana, cocaine and even heroine, LSD and methamphetamine. 
"We've studiously avoided commenting on that," Johnson said. "There is a clear commit­ment by Mexico to confronting" drug gangs "and that is what we are focused on," he said. 
Calderon has made fighting Mexican drug cartel~. which are responsible for the vast majority of cocaine smuggled to the United States from South America, a cornerstone of his administration. 
lie ha.s sent tens of thousand., of soldiers to drug hotspots across Mexico, and federal authorities have arrested hun­dreds of police otlicers and other officials -inducting top mem­bers of Calderon's own adminis­tration -for alleged ties to car­tel~. 
However, drug gang violence surged, claiming more than 13,500 lives since Calderon took office in December 200(). Drug cartels have lashed back at the crackdown, killing more than 1,(X)() police and soldiers. 
Calderon defended his efforts in a report submitted to Mexico's Congress on Tuesday, insisting no other Mexican government ha.'1 taken on the cartels frontally. 
The report said his govern­ment has seized 90 tons of cocaine, 5,000 tons of marijuana and some 50,000 illegal weapons. It al'1o said authorities have detained more than 80,000 people linked tD organized crime, although it did not specifY how many were part of the drug trade. Mexico also has a major problem with kidnapping and other criminal gangs. 
It has been "an effort never before seen in Mexico," the 




Video reveals animal cruelty 
Ani11111l rights group horrified at treatment ofchicks at Iowa plant 
Associated Press 
DES MOINES -An animal rights group publicized a video Tuesday showing unwanted chicks being tossed alive into a grinder at an Iowa plant and accused egg hatcheries of being "perhaps the cruelest industry" in the world. 
The undercover video was shot by Chicago-based Mercy for Animals at a hatchery in Spencer, Iowa, over a two-week period in May and June. The video was first obtained Monday by The Associated Press. 
"We have to ask ourselves if these were puppies and kittens being dropped into grinders. would we fmd that acceptable?" asked Nathan Runkle, the group's executive director, at a news conference in Des Moines. "I don't think that most people would." 
The group said that tossing male chicks, which have little value because they can't lay eggs or be raised quickly enough to be profitable for meat, into grinders is common industry practice. United Egg Producers, a trade group for U.S. egg farmers, con­firmed that. 
The hatchery is owned by West Des Moines-based Hy-Line North America and is one of many operations in Iowa, the nation's leading egg producer. 
The video, shot with a hidden camera and microphone by a Mercy for Animals employee who got a job at the plant, shows a Hy-Line worker sorting through a conveyor belt of chirping chicks, flipping some of them into a chute like a poker dealer flips cards. 
These chicks, which a narrator says are males, are then shown being dropped alive into a grind­Harris Teeter and Trader Joe's, ing machine. asking them to include a label on 

In other parts of the video, a egg cartons that says, "Warning: chick is shown dying on the fac­Male chicks are ground-up alive tory floor amid a heap of egg by the egg industry." shells after falling through a A spokesman for United Egg sorting machine. Another chick, Producers called the proposal also still alive, is seen lying on "almost a joke." The egg produc­the floor after getting scalded by ers spokesman, Mitch IIead, said a wash cycle, according to the Mercy for Animals had no credi­video narrator. bility and questionable motives 
Hy-Line said the video because "this is a group which "appears to show an inappropri­espouses no egg consumption by ate action and violation of our anyone -so that is clearly their 
animal  wel­ motive."  
fare policies,"  Mercy  for  
referring to chicks on the  "The egg industry is  Animals esti­mated 200  
factory floor.  perhaps the cruelest  million male  
But the company also noted that  industry on the face ofthe planet.,,  chicks killed a which  are year, the  
"instanta­ United  Egg  
n  e  o  u  s  Nathan Runkle  Producers  
euthanasia"  executive director  also  con­ 
-a reference to killing of  Mercy for Animals  firmed. "There  is,  
male  chicks  unfortunately,  
by the grinder  no  way  to  

-is a standard practice sup­breed eggs that only produce ported by the animal veterinary female hens," Head said. "If and scientific community. someone has a need for 200 mil­
Company spokesman Tom lion male chicks, we're happy to Jorgensen said Tuesday an provide them to anyone who investigation was continuing, wants them. But we can fmd no and once it's completed the com­market, no need." pany would release more infor­Using a grinder, Head said, "is mation. the most instantaneous way to 
Runkle acknowledged that his euthanize chicks." group's ultimate goal was to get There is no federal law that people to stop eating eggs. He ensures the humane euthanasia said he believe many would of animals on farms or hatch­refuse to eat eggs if they knew eries, according to Jonathan what happened to male chicks. Lovvorn, vice president and chief 
"The egg industry is perhaps counsel of the Humane Society of the cruelest industry on the face the United States. ofthe planet," Runkle said. The Humane Society also says 
Mercy for Animals also sent that virtually all egg farms, even letters to the nation's 50 largest those that sell cage-free eggs, get grocery store chains, including their hens from hatcheries that Walmart, Whole Foods, Safeway, kill their male chicks. 
lnna~SaintMary's 
Hotel & Suites 

Availability for the following football weekends: 
Nevada Washington Connecticut 

For information e-mail tstewartcorwin@innatsaintmarys.com or ca111-800-947-8627. 
~,~ I I iIIt )n rt~1'21 (;H r(leJ11llll 
tVH)th~ng~ R~qht wht:Ht !'lu nted ttl> 
Availability for the following football weekend: Connecticut For information e-mail brooke.gallagher@hilton.com or call574-232-7700. 

Wednesday September 2, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 

Jones 9,310.60 -185.68 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 708 87 3,063 3,719,763,839 

AMfX···:·{K.:::.!'%~ 
1 NASDAQ 1 968.89 -40.t 7 NYSE;~;L;;ij/ :;:g~~6~487.$t.•. "+155.43 
S&P 500 998.04 -22581 NIKKEI (Tokyo)~:r.wto:530~06;~,, <tOO FTSE 100 (London) 4,819.70 -89.20 

COMPANY  %CHANGE  $GAIN  PRICE  
CJTIGROUP (C)  ~9.20  ~0.46  4.54  
BK OF AMERICA CP {SAC)  -6.42  -1.13  16.46  
FANNIE MAE (FNM)  -17.62  -0.34  1.59  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  ·2.21  ~2.26  100.20  
•  Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  -1.45  -0.050  3.40  
13-WEEK BILL  0.00  0.000  0.13  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.64  -0.0270  4.18  
5-YEAR NOTE  -2.73  -0.0670  2.39  
Commod(ties  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -1.91  68.05  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -+3.00  956.50  
PORK BELUES (cents/lb.)  +2.00  78.25  
Exchange Rates  

YEN 92.6550 EURO 1.4205 CANADIAN DOLlAR 1.1040 BRITISH POUND 1.6126 
IN BRIEF 
Rumors cause drop in stock market 
NEW YOHK -A stock market ripe for a big pullback succumbed Tuesday, plunging when rumors of a bank failure revived investors' anxiety about the banking industry and the economy as a whole. 
A batch of economic reports that just weren't good enough added to the mix as the major indexes all fell about 2 percent and the Dow Jones industrials slid 185 points. Treasury prices, usually the beneficiary of a slide in stocks, ended only moderately higher. 
A break in the market's six-month rally was widely expeeted after investors showed a growing inclination to sell for some time. While the major indexes finished August with respectable gains, including a 3.4 per­cent rise in the Standard & Poor's 500, trad­ing was erratic and the advances had a half­hearted fet:~ling. Analysts warned that investors were doubting whether they should have bid stocks so high in the rally that began in early March. 
So it wasn't surprising that, after the Dow was up 60 points in response to a seemingly better-than-expected reading on manufac­turing, something like a rumor about a pos­sible bank failure could take the market down. 
Southwest Airlines to repair planes 
DJ\IJA'i -Federal officialc; are giving Southwest Airlines until Dec. 24 to replace unapproved parts on about 50 airplanes. 
The Federal Aviation Adminic;tration said Tuesday that the parts do not prevent safe operation of the planes. The jets' manufacturer, Boeing Co.. had reached the same conclusion. 
The J.M will let Southwest fly the planes ac; long as they are inspected every seven days and the unapproved parts on the wings are replaced by Dec. 24. 
The planes make up about 10 percent of Southwest's fleet ofBoeing 737 aircraft. 
Southwest had lobbied for more time to fix the problem. The airline argm~d that the parl.., in ques­tion, which deflect hot engine exhaust away from eontrol flaps on the wings, were scarce. Now it will get nearly fhur months to find replacement part<>. 
The FM alc;o directed Southwest to lind and di..,­pose of any other unapproved parte;. 
Auto sales post best n1onth of year 
Automakers expect slowdown as Cash for Clunkers program ends 
Associated Press 
DETROIT-The nation's automakers are bracing for quieter showrooms and slower sales this autumn after the Cash for Clunkers program offered a big but unsustainable boost in August. 
U.S. sales of cars and light trucks rose to 1.3 mil­lion in August. a roughly 30 percent increase from July. It also was the first monthly year-over-year gain since October 2007. 
Ford, Toyota, llyundai 
and Honda were the big 
winners as consumers 
snapped up their fuel-effi­
cient cars. Hivals Chrysler 
Group LLC and General 
Motors Co. endured anoth­
er month of falling sales. 
although their high­
mileage vehides did better. 
But the August industry gains could quickly be fol­lowed by a slowdown in September and for the rest of the fall, automakers and analysts warned Tuesday. Although the cJunkers pro­gram succeeded in bring­ing in new buyers, a large portion were people who planned to buy vehicles later in the year. 

Now the question is Still, the coming months ranked among the top sell­August. Toyota sales rose whether automakers will might offer some stability ing cars under the clunk­6.4 percent to 225.088, need to roll out an expen­in an auto sales market ers program. Sales of the lifted by small cars like sive new round of rebates that's been floundering for Focus rose 56 pereent the Corolla, the best-sell­and low-cost financing to more than a year. Even while those of the Escape ing clunkers vehicle. spur sales. before the program began small sport utility vehicle Honda sales rose 9.9 
Cash for Clunkers, which in late July, sales were climbed 49 percent. percent to 161,439, while ended on Aug. 24, drew showing small signs of In another sign of a sales at Nissan Motor Co. hordes of buyers into quiet improvement. strengthening economy, slipped 2.9 percent. dealerships by offering up "We believe the fourth sales rose for Ford's pick­At General Motors Co., 
to $4,500 toward new, quarter will be better than up trucks, which are popu­sales fell 20 percent to more fuel-efficient cars the second quarter," as the lar among contractors and 245,550. GM said its inven­and trucks. The hefty broader economy shows other small businesses. tory levels hit an all-time rebates gave automakers signs of recovery, said Ken Ford's F-Series rose nearly low of 379,000 during and dealers a much-need­Czubay, Ford's vice presi­13 percent. Those results, August, but like Ford will ed lift, spurring 690,114 dent of U.S. marketing and along with a 57.4 increase be replenished this month new sales, many of them sales. in Ranger sales -a small thanks to production during August, at a tax­August sales at Ford version of the F -150 -increases. payer cost of $2.88 billion. Motor Co. totaled 181,826 may reflect that the GM vehicles like the 
Several automakers said cars and light trucks, up "toughest part of the Chevrolet Aveo subcom­their supplies plummeted 17 percent from a year recession, the most dra­pact, the Cobalt sedan and during August, especially earlier, when high gas matic declines" are over, Equinox crossover got a lift for their fuel-efficient mod­prices and growing eco­the company said. from the clunkers pro­
els. That could make it nomic uncertainty kept car Japanese automakers gram. No GM vehicles harder for customers to buyers at home. Toyota Motor Corp. and made the closely watched find the exact model they Two of Ford's vehicles­Honda Motor Co. also post­list of top-1 0 Cash for want going forward. the Focus and Escape -ed gains year-over-year in Clunkers sales. 
Internet gambling banupheldby court 
Associated Press does not target the bet itself but which successfully defended the law, 
criminalizes bank or credit card had no immediate comment, a 
PHILADELPHIA -A U.S. appeals transactions linked to the bet. spokesman said. court upheld an Internet gambling The group, comprised of mostly off­While the association is considering ban Tuesday, rejecting a challenge shore betting operators, had attacked an appeal, Chairman Joe Brennan Jr. from an association of off-shore the law as unconstitutionally vague. said he saw a potential victory in the bookies that the federal prohibition Their lawyers questioned how the ruling because most states have not was too vague and violated privacy location of an online bet would be expressly addressed the legality of rights. determined if the gambler is in online betting. 
The 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Delaware, for instance, and the oper­"(The Justice Department) has been Appeals in Philadelphia rejected ation is in Costa Rica. insisting there is a blanket ban on arguments from Interactive Media At least one of the three judges who Internet gambling in the U.S., but the Entertainment & Gaming Association heard arguments last month seemed panel said state law is the determi­in New Jersey, which had filed the to question that logic. nant," Brennan said. "If you go by lawsuit hoping to legalize online bet-"No matter how metaphysical you that reasoning, if it's not illegal in ting in that state. . want to get. I'm not in Costa Rica, I'm that state. then it would not be a vio­
Congress passed the Unlawful in Delav.·are," 3rd Circuit Judge Kent lation of federal law to process a Internet Gambling Enforcement Act Jordan said. transaction from a player there." in 2006 to ban online gambling that The court also rejected arguments The group also is involved in a law­would be illegal in the state where that the law invades a gambler's right suit in New Jersey that challenges the the individual or gambling business to privacy in the home. constitutiona!i ty of' a 1992 f'ede raJ conducts the transaction. The law The Justice Department, ban on most sports betting. 
~ -·-----------------------------------­

page 8 Wednesday, September 2, 2009 
The Observer + NEWS 

Gmail knocked offline, affects users 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -Coogle Inc.'s Cmail service was knocked offline Tuesday in an outage that the company said affected a "majority" of its millions of e­mail users, including consumers who get Cmail for free and busi­nesses that pay for a version for their employees. 
The disruption, which lasted under two hours, was a reminder of the growing dependence on Coogle's technol­ogy. The free version of Cmail is the world's 
third most-pop­"'Minute 30 ofGmail Coogle as it tries ular e-mail pro­to sell more of its
outrage. The cities 

gram with some services to busi­
are inflames and

149 million nesses. users worldwide people eating pets to Businesses are in June, ranking increasingly lean­
survive.·· 

behind the free ing on Coogle's e-mail services services because 
Twitter user

offered by they are delivered 
Microsoft Corp. and Yahoo Inc., according to data from comScore Inc. 
Tuesday's disruption led tens of millions of Cmail users to get an "Unable to reach Cmail" error message as their comput­ers tried repeatedly to reconnect to the service. Coogle said it had taken some of Cmail's servers offiine for routine maintenance, and underestimated the load that would place on other com­puters responsible for directing traffic to the appropriate Cmail servers. 
Coogle said it was alerted to the failures within seconds. It said it has added capacity and made other changes to prevent similar incidents in the future. A separate outage on Monday had wiped out e-mail to a "small subset" of users. 
Though occasional disruptions are common, widespread out­ages involving Coogle's services are rare. They are becoming a bigger threat to 


Associated Press 
TOKYO -Most Japanese voters chose the opposition in historic weekend elections because they were fed up with a half century of rule by the governing conservatives, not because they were enthused by what the opposi­tion had to offer, a poll said Wednesday. 
The poll by the major national newspaper Asahi suggested the Democratic Party of Japan, which took control of the powerful lower house of parliament by win­ning 308 of the 480 seats, has only a conditional mandate and must make good on its promises to mend the flagging economy and lower the record unemployment rate quickly if it is to stay in power. 

The Democrats are expect­ed to form a new government and name leader Yukio Hatoyama as prime minister on Sept. 16, replacing outgo­ing Taro Aso. 
Aso has announced he will step down as president of the conservative, pro-big business Liberal Democratic Party, which has led Japan for all but nearly 11 months since it was created in 1955. 
In the first major poll since Sunday's elections, the Asahi said 81 percent of respon­
over the Internet 
instead of being managed in-house. That can save companies money and buy them more storage than they could otherwise afford. But many corporations are skeptical about outsourcing such critical tasks. 
Coogle argues that Web-based services are more reliable than those handled in-house, but big outages like Tuesday's add 
JAPAN 

Voters fed up with 
another challenge to selling to reluctant businesses. 
Coogle says more than 1. 7 5 million businesses use Cmail as part of Coogle Apps, which is Coogle's answer to business soft­ware from Microsoft Corp. It's a key part of Coogle's strategy to inject its brand deeper into cor­porations. Coogle Apps costs $50 per user per year. 
As usually happens with hic­cups in popular Web-based serv­ices, the Cmail glitch touched off a flurry of posts to social-net­working Web sites from frustrat­ed Cmail users wondering if oth­ers were having the same prob­lem. 
"Omg thank God I was at work!!! I wouldve gone mad!" one Twitter user wrote. Some favored snark. "Minute 30 of Gmail outage. The cities are in flames and people eating pets to survive. To future generations: we meant well," another user tweeted. 
The last major outage at Coogle happened in May, when millions of people were cut off from Coogle's search engine, e­mail and other online services after too much traffic was rout­ed through computers in Asia. About 14 percent of Coogle's users encountered problems with the Internet's No. 1 search engine. Those outages lasted about an hour. 


conservative rulers 
dents felt the reason for the Democrats' win was that vot­ers wanted a nPw administra­tion. Only 38 percent said the victory was due to support for the party's polices, it said. 
Only 32 percent of respon­dents said they fe It the Democrats would be able to change the government signif­icantly, while 46 percent said it would not, the poll said. It put the Democrats' approval rating at 39 percent. 
The poll was a random tele­phone survey of 1,104 eligible voters conducted on Monday and Tuesday. It reported direct results and so gave no margin of error, but a poll of that size would generally have a margin of about 3 percent­age points. 
The Democrats acknowl­edged they will face tough economic realities when they take over. 
"The economy is in a severe condition," Katsuya Okada, a senior Democratic Party exec­utive, said Wednesday. "We deeply feel the responsibility of what we must do." 
Japan, the world's second­largest economy, climbed out of a yearlong recession in the second quarter, but its recov­ery is still weak. The unem­ployment rate has risen to a record 5. 7 percent, its highest since World War II. 
UPCOMING MANAGEMENT CLUB ACTIVITIES-FALL 2009 
Just a heads-up on some great events in the next few weeks! 
• 
Hopefully you stopped by our booth yesterday at ACI'IVI'I1ES NIGHT. Ifyou weren't able to, and want to add your name to ourlist, please email us at tngtclub@nd.edu! 

• 
Consulting Career Night TONIGHT, Wednesday, September 2nd at 6:oopm in Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College ofBusiness 

o 
Participating Firms: Accenture, Bain, BCG, Booz Allen Hamilton, Deloitte, and Navigant Consulting 

o 
Panel discussion and networking reception 


o 
Presented byThe Career Center and MBA Career Development 



• 
Consulting Industry Forum TOMORROW, Thursday, September 3rd at 6:oopm in Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College ofBusiness 

o 
Participating Firms: Acquity Group, Clarity Consulting, The Claro Group, Ernst &Young, FIT Consulting, and Ocean Torno 

o 
Industry presentations and networking reception 


o 
Presented by The Career Center and MBA Career Development 



• 
How to Land Your Dream Job or Internship Tuesday, September 15th at 7:30pm in MontgomeryAuditorium, Lafortune 


o Presentation by Kindra Wray from General Mills. Come hear some insider tips on talking to employers at the Fall Career Fair, and how to land that dreamjob! 
Don't wait to start thinking about your career and future plans. 
Join us for these great events and prepare for the Fall Career Fair! 
ALL MAJORS AND YEARS WELCOME! 
Wednesday, September 2, 2009 page 9 
The Observer + NEWS 



Race to fill Kennedy's seat begins 


Associated Press 
BOSTON -The race for the 

U.S. Senate seat left vacant by the death last week of Edward Kennedy got off to a cautious start Tuesday, despite a tight five-month election schedule that leaves little time for campaign­ing. By the end of the day just one major candidate -state Attorney General Martha Coakley -opted to take out nomination papers. A campaign aide declined to comment. 
Other possible contenders decided to hold back in part to see whether a member of the Kennedy family might decide to enter the race -including Kennedy's widow Vicki Kennedy or his nephew, the former U.S. Hep. Joseph P. Kennedy II. 
Another possible contender ­former U.S. Hep. Martin Meehan -said he is "thinking about" a run for the seat and hopes to make a decision by the end of the week. 
Meehan, now chancellor of the University of Massachusetts at Lowell, is waiting to see whether a Kennedy jumps in. Meehan has $4.8 million in his federal cam­paign account, the largest sum of any potential candidate. 
"There's a lot of speculation about whether Joe Kennedy or Vicki Kennedy would run and I think either of them would make a great senator," he said. "Certainly if one of the two Kennedy candidates decided to run, I would support them." 
Other possible candidates include several members of Massachusetts all-Democratic congressional delegation ­Heps. Stephen Lynch, Michael Capuano and Edward Markey. All three have sizable federal campaign war chests, including $1.3 million for Lynch, $1.2 mil­lion for Capuano and $2.8 mil­lion for Markey as of June 30. 
now," Capuano said. "This is not 
something I take lightly. I want 
to make sure there's a legitimate 
path to victory for me." 
Capuano, who has Joe Kennedy's old House seat, sug­gested he would be unlikely to run if Kennedy seeks the seat. 
"If Joe's in it, it''s awfully hard to run against someone you respect so much," Capuano said. 
Another Democrat weighing a run is Gloucester attorney Edward O'Reilly, who unsuccess­fully challenged Sen. John Kerry in last year's Democratic pri­mary. 
"I am very seriously consider­ing it. I ran for the same office less than a year ago and received 31 percent of the vote," O'Reilly said. 
On the Republican side, poten­tial candidates were even more tightlipped. 
Former Lt. Gov. Kerry llealey, former U.S. Attorney Michael Sullivan and state Sen. Scott Brown, H-Wrentham, have all been mentioned as possible can­didates, but none responded to requests for comnwnt. 
Other political figures decided to take thei'r names out of the running. 
Lt. Gov. Timothy Murray issued a statement saying that despite receiving "words of encourage­ment from many supporters sug­gesting that I consider running for the United States Senate seat," he will keep his day job. 
"I look forward to running and winning re-election with Governor Patrick in 2010," Murray said. 
Gov. Deval Patrick, in response to a reporter's question on Monday, also snufff~d out a sug­gestion that hP might have his eye on the Senatf~ seat, saying he remains focused on his job as governor. 
Potential candidates will have to decide fairly quickly if they're of at least 10,000 voters to local 
officials for certification to 
secure a spot on the Dec. 8 pri­
mary ballot. 
The final election is just six 
weeks later on Jan. 19. 
Voters are facing their own 
deadlines. The last day to regis­
ter for the primary is Nov. 12, 
and for the general election the 
registration deadline is Dec. 30. 
While possible candidates have their eye on the special election, Massachusetts lawmakers were gearing up for a public hearing scheduled for Sept. 9 on a con­tentious bill that would change state law to let the governor make an interim appointment to the seat until the election. 
Gov. Patrick supports the change, but House Speaker Robert DeLeo, D-Winthrop, and Senate President Therese Murray, D-Plymouth, haven't said whether they back it. 
Democrats are facing charges of hypocrisy from critics who point out that just five years ago, they changed the law to block then-Gov. Mitt Romney from naming a fellow Republican to fill the seat if Kerry, the Democrats' presidential nomi­nee, won his White House cam­paibrn. 
Before that change, the gover­nor was allowed to appoint a nominee until the next general election. As part of the 2004 change, Democratic lawmakers also blocked the possibility of Homney naming an interim sen­ator. 
Patrick said it's unfair to let Massachusetts to go five months without two voices in the Senate. He said he'd ask for a guarantee from whoever he named as interim senator not to run in the special election. 
National Democratic leaders including Senate Majority Leader Harry Heid and Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., also support the inter­
CANADA 





Election heats up 
Associated Press 

TOHONTO -Canada's main 
opposition party vowed 
Tuesday to try to topple Prime 
Minister Stephen Harper's 
minority government at the 
first opportunity, which could 
force a fourth election in the 
last five years and the second 
in just a year. 

Liberal opposition leader 
Michael Ignatieffs announce­
ment means the Conservative 
government could be toppled 

in a confidence vote if 
Canada's two other opposition 
parties also vote to bring 
down the government. 
"Mr. Harper, your time is up. 
The Liberal party cannot sup­
port this government any fur­
ther," Ignatieff said. "We will 
hold Stephen Harper to 
account, and we will oppose 
his government in 
Parliament." 
Harper now needs support from at least one of three opposition parties to stay in power. The Bloc Quebecois and New Democrats would have to do an about-face to back Harper. 
The Liberals will have their first opportunity to present a motion of non-confidence in the first week of October. At an election-style pep rally lgnatieff said the party would push for a vote at the first opportunity. 
Ignatieff has been the party's leader since December and doesn't want to be seen as propping up the government, as former leader Stephane Dion did dozens of times before losing the election last October. 
Harper's Conservative Party was re-elected last fall with a strengthened minority govern­ment, but still must rely on the opposition to pass legisla­tion and to stay in power. 
The three opposition parties hold the majority of the seats in Parliament with 162, while the Conservatives have 143 and there is one independent. 
New Democratic Party leader Jack Layton met Harper last month and reiter­ated that it would be the least likely party to prop up the Conservatives. 
But New Democratic deputy leader Thomas Mulcair imme­diately offered an olive branch to Harper on Tuesday. 
"What I'm saying is: the last 
thing Canadians want is a 
fourth general election in five 
years, and we'd better have a 
bloody good reason for forcing 
a fourth general election in 
five years," Mulcair said. "So 
if Mr. Harper goes about being 
provocative as he has been in 
the past, going after key 
things that Canadians hold 
dearly -like women's rights 
and the environment -then 
we'll throw him out of office 
because he'll have provoked 
it. 
"If, on the other hand, 
Stephen Harper comes into 
Parliament with a willingness 
to work in the public interest, 
then we're going to take it on 
a case-by-case basis. Our cau­
cus will decide." 
The Bloc hasn't backed 
Harper's government in 
recent years and is expected 
to comment on Wednesday. 
Harper said now is not the 
time for another election. 
"We had an election in this 
country less than a year ago. I 
haven't met a single Canadian 
who is saying they want to see 
another election right now," 
Harper said. "I think 
Canadians have been pretty 
clear. 
"They want Parliament to focus on the economy. That is what the government will be doing in the fall session. It's certainly our view ... that going through more political games, more political instabil­ity does not serve the coun­try's interest right now." 
Conservative Transport Minister John Baird accused Ignatieff of putting his own interests ahead of Canadians. Baird also cast doubt that the Conservatives could work with the New Democrats, a union­backed party with socialist roots. 
lgnatieff criticized Harper for the nation's high unem­ployment and rising budget deficit. He said his goal is to make Canada "the smartest, healthiest, greenest, most open-minded country there is" by 2017 -the 150th anniver­sary of Confederation. 
lgnatieff. 62, left a presti­gious post in 2005 as director of the Carr Center for I Iuman Rights Policy at Harvard to enter Canadian politics. 

Driver to be exhumed 
Live" that an investigation
Associated Press 
has found enough cause to 

WIIITE PLAINS, N.Y. -A dig up the body of Diane lawyer says the body of a Schuler. woman who killed herself The West Babylon and seven other people by woman's July 26 crash on driving a minivan the wrong the Taconic State Parkway way on a New York park­just north of New York City way and crashing into an killed her, her daughter, her SUV will be exhumed for three nieces and three men. testing in an attempt to Toxicology tests found she counter findings that she had been drinking and was drunk. smoking marijuana. 
Attorney Dominic Barbara Her husband, Daniel represents the woman's Schuler, insists she wasn't husband. He said Tuesday drunk. He says he believes night on CNN's "Larry King she suffered a stroke. 
Capuano said he hopes to in or out given the quick pace of im appoiJ1tment. They say they make a decision in the next week the special election. need as many votes as they can or so, and in the meantime he's The first major deadline, Oct. during the debate on President 
Please recycle reaching out to political allies 20, is less than two months Barack Obama's health can~ and completing more mundane awav. That's when candidates overhaul. tasks like upgrading computers. vying for their party's nomina­Kennedy died last week of 

The Observer. 
''I'm doing my own gut check tion must deliver the signatures brain cancer at age 77. 
THE OBSERVER 
p

Wednesday, September 2, 2009 


page 10 
THE OBSERVER The future of Hesburgh Library 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AssT. MANAGING EmTOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Man Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO l @saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by rhe students ofthe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial contenr, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. L.eners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies shouldbe dirt'cted to Editor-in-Chiif]nzn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
TitcOhocrvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) i> publi.hcd Munday throu~ Friday =:rpt duri~ a..am and we~titrrl periods. A mlw:ripc:i1m to inc C>bxrvrr 1.$120 fur one lk-adcmic year; $65 for one K'meStcr. 
The Obsctv ... ;, publiohed .,' POSTMASTER Ol<l Sourh Dining Hall Send add~ oomaiO:rlli to: 
Norrc Om><, IN ~556-0779 Th< Oboc:rrcr 
Periodical I"""'&" paid a< Norrc Dam< P.OBoxm and additional nuiling olllcc.. 024 Sourh Dining Hall 
Nom: Dome, IN 46556-0n9 
llu: Observer is • member of rh< As..x:iarcd l'ras. All rcprod<t<rion ri~rs at< r<..rvcd. 
Thanks to the renovation of Ilesburgh Library, we'll soon be able to get a cup of coffee in the middle of winter without having to trudge all the way over to LaFortune-and I'm look­ing forward to that as much as anyone. But Darryl Campbell 
making the library "a 
Guest Columnist 
gateway to knowledge and intellectu­al endeavor" means more than just reorganizing its layout. At its core, llesburgh Library also needs a strong and well-managed collection of books, periodicals and electronic resources. 
Scholars in the humanities and social sciences depend on the library just as much as those in the natural and applied sciences depend on their lab space. Right now, Notre Dame is doing fine for a school whose focus on gradu­ate and faculty research is only a few decades old -but it's not yet on course to becoming "the preeminent Catholic research institution in the world," one of the goals stated on the library renovation Web site. 
According to the Association of Research Libraries, the Notre Dame library system has about 3.39 million volumes, the 61 st largest collection among all U.S. research universities. In 2008, the library purchased just under 76,500 volumes, at a growth rate of about 2.2 percent, 54th overall among 
U.S. research universities. The library has slipped in standing every year since 2001, when the library pur­chased approximately 102,000 vol­umes and ranked 29th overall in vol­umes added. 
Our collection is decent, but in the bottom half of research libraries in the United States, and it is lagging behind our peers, our betters and even some of our subordinate institutions. Notre Dame's collection is smaller than those of peer institutions such as Duke (5.9 million volumes), Northwestern (4.8 million), Brown (3.8 million) and Vanderbilt (3.44 million). Last year, NO also acquired fewer volumes than those four peer schools; football rivals Penn State (184,000) and the University of Michigan (14 7 ,000); and even other universities that, like Notre Dame, have no medical schools, such as Illinois Champaign-Urbana (208,000), BYU (185,000), Colorado (98,800), SUNY Albany {92,500) and Michigan State (85,000). 

To put this in perspective, if all the research universities in the ARL rank­ings acquire books at the same rate they do now for 10 years, Notre Damt~ will only have advanced to 56th place in total volumes held. If Notre Dame doubles its acquisitions to 170,000 vol­umes per year, it will advance to 35th place. In order to break into the top 10 percent of academic research libraries in ten years, Notre Dame would have to increase its acquisitions by 600 per­cent, to 440,000 volumes per year. 
Why is all this important? First, the University is developing programs of study in areas such as Islamic, African, South and East Asian, and Gender Studies, which are not currently well­represented in the library co11ection. Second, the University expects to increase its graduate student popula­tion by 1,000 -over one-third -in the next 10 years, and cannot support the research of these graduate stu­dents without considerably increased library collections. Third, in the words of Notre Dame's University Committee on Libraries, "staff acquisition remains a concern of which the library is well aware;" that is, the library staff is already stretched thin, both in terms of front-line staff like subject librarians and support staff like cataloguer, archivists, resource coordinators, and so on. 
I'm not the only person who recog­nizes that the library collections need attention. Over the summer, the faculty began circulating an online petition (www.nd.edu/-smaccorrnlpetition.shtm 1), which called upon ND's administra­tion to do two things: to make the library collections extensive enough to sustain faculty, graduate and under­graduate research through a combina­tion of one-time expenditures (on the order of the $76 million spent on Jordan Hall or the $69 million budget­ed for Stinson-Remick Hall) and per­manent annual budget increases; and to hire the staff necessary to support such an expansion. Down the road, this also means that the library will have to increase its capacity, probably through the use of an off-site deposito­ry for lesser-used volumes. 
Obviously, the library administration recognizes these needs, and the finan­cial climate will probably delay any such expansion. But in the meantime -if donating to the University with specific instructions that your gift go toward library acquisitions isn't feasi­ble -you can help put llesburgh Library on the right track by writing to Provost Thomas Burish (tburish@nd.edu), Chairman of the Board of Trustees Richard Notebaert (notebaert.2@nd.edu) and Director of the Library Jennifer Younger {younger.1 @nd.edu) to express your support for these proposals. 
Darryl Campbell is a third year Ph.D. student in the history department. and was a columnist for The Observer from 2007 to 2009. !lis writing has appeared in the Christian Science Monitor and The Stimulist, and he is a regular contributor to the web maga­zine The Bygone Bureau (hygonebu­reau. com). He can be contacted at dcampbe6@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 


QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Katie Peralta Sam Werner Did you like the Block Party last Sarah Mervosh Meaghan Veselik weekend? 

'Subtnit a i~tter
Ann-Marie Chris Masoud Woods Scene Yes 

'The art oflife lies in a constant readjustment to our surroundings.··
Viewpoint Jordan Gamble No 


to the Editor at 
Patricia Graphics Didn't go 
Okakura Kakuzo
Fernandez Sofia Iturbe Mmm, beer... 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Japanese scholar 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


Tradition never graduates 
Two years ago, students were handed out white towels at the football game against Michigan State which read, "Tradition Never Graduates." The intention was to raise morale about that team and show that Notre Dame would produce a winner, regardless of how many record­setting seniors had graduated the previous spring, because we 
Andy Ziccarelll 

had a tradition of doing just that. Well, we all know how that sea­
Moment of

son turned out, and none of us 
Inertia

that sat through it have any intention of revisiting it, but it does raise an interesting discussion about the role tradi­tion plays on campus, and how it affects every student. 
If you were to ask any person who had ever stepped foot on campus to describe Notre Dame in one word, my guess is that "traditional" would be one of the most com­monly given answers. Much of life here hasn't changed at all from a generation ago, or even further. The Golden Dome on top of the Main Building still shines in the sun, the quads are still impeccably landscaped and all of the buildings, even the new ones, are all still made out of brick and limestone, in the same mold as the ones that have been around for over a century. Students still partic­ipate in dorm Mass on Sundays, eat in the dining halls, and stay up all night doing schoolwork that they probably could have done earlier. 
And all of these things are wonderful things. These common experiences are the things that connect all Domers to one another, regardless of graduation year, 
major, dorm or dining hall preference (even though 
everyone knows South is better). The sense of spirit and 
community on campus is Notre Dame's major attraction, 
the one that distinguished it, at least in my eyes, from all other schools. And maybe that connection why alumni 
always flock back to this place as a though it is a second 
home. Sometimes walking though campus on a fall after­noon is like walking through a time capsule. 
But within this lies a challenge, perhaps the biggest challenge we face as a university community. Unlike campus, the world we live in is not static, it is dynamic. And not only is the world changing, it is changing at a faster rate than it ever has before. It is in this way that we must look at our traditions not as a restraint, but rather as a unique advantage. Doing so might require a leap of faith. How can parietals and single-sex dorms possibly be seen as an advantage in the world today? They can ifyou look at the big picture. Traditions go beyond just the draconian rules, or goofy Frosh-0 rituals that every dorm does. The traditions of faith, service and scholarship are what Notre Dame holds dear, and no matter how much the world changes, those will never go out of style. 
Sure, some may point out Notre Dame's unapologetic affiliation with the Catholic Church as a reason that it can never be a truly elite academic institution. But who says that the two can't exist together? Spirituality is a key pil­lar in the Notre Dame experience, and graduates are sure to come out not only as excellent students, but also 
as excellent people. Why shouldn't we embrace that. 
So here is the challenge for our University community. Let's continue to excel at what we do, but let us adapt it to the ever changing world in which we live. If the admin­istration deems that the future of academic excellence is in research, then we should build institutions that allow us to do just that. Since the world is becoming more con­nected, we should continue to send student overseas to study abroad in record numbers, like we are now. Many elite universities have no real core ideology, but our goal should be to prove to the world that the traditions of this place can stand the test of time, and that we can still make a difference in the world based on a centuries-old experience of faith, service, and high-level academics. 
So before you bemoan your late-night sludge through the snow (unfortunately, another time-honored Notre Dame tradition) to the dining hall, before you dive into a never-ending stack of homework and before you go to Mass this Sunday with your dorm mates, realize that nights like these are what connects you to Darners from generations past. And, as any alum will tell you, the experience we have here is what will shape us for the rest of our lives, regardless of the outside world. 
Andy Ziccarelli is a civil engineering major. He can be contacted at aziccare@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
U-WIRE 

Facebook can kill grades 
The Bible states that there is a time for everything. A time to dance, a time to die, a time to weep, a time to love, but a time for homework is never mentioned. Frankly, time can be a student's worst enemy. The clock is always ticking, an ever-present reminder that we don't have enough time. We're left in a constant battle trying to determine what we are going to fit into onr pre­Alicia Williams ciously small amount of time. 
Students have lives, after all 
University of 

-family and friends, work, 
Utah

pets, exercise and entertain­ment. We all do daily things that cannot be eliminated: com­muting, getting cleaned up, eating and sleeping. If you want to eat or sleep, you have to work to financially support those times. But, you want to make more than $10 an hour, so you have to get an education. With education comes studying and homework. Heaven for­bid you might meet someone you want to spend some quality time with. The million dollar question is: "How do we fit it all in?" 
According to an April 2009 pilot study, "A Description of Facebook Use and Academic Performance among Undergraduate and Graduate Students," by Aryn Karpinski and Adam Duberstein, doctoral students at Ohio State University, one activity students shouldn't be wasting time on is the social networking site Facebook. 
The study found a relationship between students' use of Facebook and lower grades. Out of the 219 Ohio State graduate and undergraduate students, 148 had a Facebook account and GPAs that fell between 3.0 and 3.5, and reported studying on average one to five hours per week. In general, students without Facebook had GPAs between 3.5 and 4.0, and studied 11 to 15 hours a week. 
"In a nutshell, the main purpose of my study was to explore the demographic composition of a Facebook user at the college level,'' said Karpinski in an April 24, 2009 e-mail in response to a pulse2.com article by Amit Chowdhry. "I also wanted to investigate academic achievement in relation to· Facebook use. I am fully aware of the limitations of my study, and merely want people, personnel at universities, researchers, parents, students and tech-savvy people like yourselves to think about this intricate relationship." 
Although we can't blame Facebook as the ultimate culprit causing college students to get bad grades, it is a means by which many of us waste vast amounts of time. A June 2 Nielsen Online news release reported a 700 percent increase of minutes spent on Facebook during the last year, going from 1. 7 billion minutes spent in April 2008 to 13.9 billion minutes in April 2009. On July 14, Nielsen reported that the average Facebook user spends four hours and 39 minutes a month-9.5 minutes a day-on Facebook alone. Add in other social sites such as MySpace, Twitter, our ever­growing e-mail accounts and news source sites, and we are definitely wasting valuable time that could be bet­ter spent studying. 
The Uiversity of Utah offers a three-credit course in the educational psychology department called Strategies for College Success, designed to help stu­dents develop learning skills, time management, and note-taking and test-taking skills. Ifyou have no time in your class schedule, you can attend a two-hour free workshop. 
The amazingly accessible Internet now goes with us everywhere. Our phones and laptops are ready at the flick of a button. No wonder we are obsessively check­ing to see if anyone sends us a message. It could hap­pen anytime and we want to know, we want to respond. But time dictates the need to exercise self-control. If we want to be successful students, we must exert the will to recognize and change worthless time-consuming habits. You only have this time of your life once. Choose to take control of how you spend your time and make each moment count. 
This column first ran in the Sept. 1 edition of Daily Utah Chronicle, the daily newspaper serving University ofUtah. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
As Generation Y dopes up, Mexico pays price 
On Aug. 9, President Obama flew to Guadalajara, Mexico, for a two-day summit with Mexican President Felipe Calderon and Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper. Predictably, a topic of discussion was the drug violence in Mexico that has claimed more than 12,000 lives since Calderon took office in December of 2006. 
John Thornburgh

The United States has become so concerned by the violence in 
Georgetown

Mexico that it has pledged $450 million to aid the effort this year, University with a total of $6 billion spent by the United States between 2000 and 2006. Moreover, a recent U.S. military study identi­fied Mexico, along with Pakistan, as a country at risk of "a rapid and sudden collapse." 
And yet, in spite of the billions spent by the United States to help Mexico fight the drug cartels since 2000, the underlying problem remains largely unchanged and undiscussed. The money driving the violence, drug wars and killings in Mexico doesn't come from the country's domestic demand for illicit drugs; rather, Mexico's vio­lence is a direct result of the 114 million Americans who have used illegal drugs at some point in their lives. 
The most culpable are members of Generation Y. According to a recent study from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, individuals ages 18 to 25 are the age demographic most likely to have used illegal drugs within the past month and year. Over one third of Americans between the ages of 18 to 25 are thought to have used drugs within the past 12 months, including 21 percent who have used illicit drugs other than marijuana. These percentages are drastically smaller for individuals under 18 and over 25. 
For a generation that has concerned itself with the wel­fare of our nation and humanity through programs like Teach For America and the Peace Corps, we tend to ignore the perils of our own actions. Sure, smoking a sin­gle joint isn't likely to affect your long-term health or impact your future career (unless you plan on working for the CIA), but the purchase and use of the drug doesn't occur in a static environment. There are consequences. 
While it is true that not all of the money involved in the criminal drug trade in the United States makes it way back to Mexico, a large portion of it does, and the portion that doesn't still helps keep the drug culture in this coun­try thriving. Furthermore, a thriving drug market in America makes it possible for terrorists to make a profit off the drug trade and continue to wage war against U.S. armed forces in countries like Afghanistan. 
Legalization is certainly an option. Since 47.5 percent of all drug arrests are marijuana-related, it is not far­fetched to argue that legalizing that one drug could sub­stantially decrease the size and impact of the illegal drug market in the United States. 
Drug cartels would continue to buy and sell hard drugs, but marijuana could be regulated on an open market just like tobacco. As a result, profits would drop, violence would decrease and lives would be saved. 
That's an optimistic take on the situation, though. There is no guarantee that the legalization of marijuana would stop it from being illegally imported and sold at a lower price in order to undercut the legal market. Legalizing marijuana could also lead users to dabble in other drugs. 
There are no easy answers. While many may hope that marijuana is legalized in the near future, the fact remains that it is an illegal drug today. Its popularity among young Americans continues to contribute to the drug violence in Mexico and across the globe. It is long past time for Americans, specifically members of our gen­eration, to acknowledge the hard truths about the dam­age this country's drug culture is doing to communities in Mexico and across the globe. Until the underlying prob­lem is flxed, there is no such thing as a harmless joint. 
This column first ran in the Aug. 31 edition of The Hoya, the daily newspaper serving Georgetown University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


page 12 Wednesday, Septeml 

Up 
This summer's "Up", about a young boy and older man who go on an 
r----....... 
adventure together, was another hit for Disney and Pixar stu­dios, known for releasing top-notch movies. Following in the vein of "Finding Nemo" and last summer's "Wall-E," "Up" is an ani­mated children's tale with a whole lot of grown-up heart. It proved to be a success at the box office, earning over $446 million worldwide, and received rave reviews from critics across the country. "Up" will surely be a nominee at this year's Academy Awards, and should be a safe bet to win the best animated film category. It may even have a chance of sliding into the Best Picture nominees, which has been expanded to 10 movies. 
Star Trek 
J .J. Abrams, co-creator of "Alias" and "Lost", put a mueh-beloved series back on the map this summer with "Star Trek." Based on the original series from the 1960s, this revamped version reawakened the ehar­acters for a whole new generation. Although filled with tons of action and stunning spe­cial effects, Abrams succeeded in bringing the characters to the fore of this sci-fi epic. He paid homage to the original series by keeping the characters and their relationships intact, while giving the actors room to breathe and a chance to make these iconic figures their own. Abrams kept alive the jovial tone of the show while reimagining it for an audi­ence searching for something different than the '60s audi­ence. The result was an impressive "Star Trek" that pleased old fans and newcomers alike. A sequel is already in the works. 
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince 
In his recreation of J.K. Rawling's sixth book in the Harry Potter series, director David Yates once again did an excel­lent job of replicating the feel of the much-loved Potter series, though to a lesser extent the content of the book (which would be nearly impossible in a two and a half hour movie). Some scenes have been removed, but the movie captured the light-hearted romances, classroom successes and Quidditch victories, until the darkness that pervades the Potter world infiltrates the castle walls and sets the stage for the final installment. 
Public Enemies 
An adaptation of Bryan Burrough's non-fiction book "Public Enemies: America's Greatest Crime Wave and the Birth of the FBI, 1933-34," this crime drama featured Johnny Depp as the notorious American bank robber John Dillinger and Christian Bale as the determined FBI agent Melvin Purvis who leads a man hunt to catch Dillinger. The film also captured the intriguing love affair between Dillinger and his girlfriend Billie Frechette, played by Marion Cotillard, who defends him until the very end. Overall, the movie was well-acted and includes something for everyone: romance, action, crime and drama, but the character of Dillinger could have been more deeply explored. 

My Sister's Keeper 
Based on the best-selling novel by Jodi Picoult, the drama told the bittersweet tale of a young girl who sues her par­ents for medical emancipation when she is expected to donate a kidney to her older sister, who suffers from acute promyelocytic leukemia. The movie was not simply a story of the young girl's court case. Rather, it was the story of a family struggling to maintain the best situation for everyone during emotionally trying times. Abigail Breslin, Cameron Diaz, Sofia Vassilieva and Alec Baldwin all delivered breath­taking performances, but the movie unfortunately did not remain true to the book at all, which may disappoint many viewers. 
The Ugly Truth 
An odd composite of frat-like "bro" humor and romantic comedy, "The Ugly Truth" was typical battle of the sexes tale, equipped with steamy actors and racy laughs. But this film seemed more of a peace treaty than an all-out war. In Gerard Butler's dreamy corner, there was the typical male humor, with endless sexual puns and physical gags, ranging from falling out of a tree to fights in pools of Jell-0. And under the sassy and adorable leadership of Katherine Heigl 

• 
page 13
Jer 2, 2009 Wednesday, September 2, 2009 



there was an undeniable female charm and coy­ness, stereotypically embodied in witty banter and cute, romantically-charged encounters. These two prototypical film elements collided as Heigl's Abby Richter and Butler's Mike Chadway take each other on. Uncouth, manly hilarity and cheesy female wit ultimately recon­ciled in an odd combination of opposites, just as the two leads find happily ever after in the most 
unlikely of places. 
Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen 

Alien robots are plaguing earth. Again. And while good and evil machines battle it out both off planet and in the earthly realm, who will fight for the survival of the human race? Why, Shia LaBcouf and Megan Fox, of. course. Though it's dif­ficult to say that Fox contributes much ·to this effort outside of some slow-panting jogging and undeniable good looks, LaBeouf once again becomes not only an emissary for the human race but also a key player in the struggle to save the world from evil alien robots. With fighting robots; a jogging Fox, space travel and an intergalactic summer blockbuster packed a uniquely intergalactic, poorly-scripted, crazy technological war punch that appeals to the three loves of nerds everywhere. Aliens. Talking, fighting robots. And hot female 
mechanics. And as Optimus Prime said, "I rise: 
You fall!" 
and that seems like just 
.. ~-. 

what happened in the box office battle this summer, too. 
The Proposal 
When was that moment audiences knew they were in Jove with Sandra Bullock? It is impossible to pick just one, but what sealed the deal and had crowds screaming "Yes!" to "The Proposal" was a scene involving the stiff Editor-in-Chief Margaret Tate (Bullock) losing all inhibition and doing an interpretive and slightly perverse dance to Lil Jon's "Get Low" with her fake fiance's grand­mother (Betty White) in the Alaskan woods. "The Proposal" was one of the sum­mer's most unique romantic comedies in that, though its storyline was cliched as all good chick flicks are, its hilari­ous scenes were not. Audiences swooned over Ryan Reynolds and were charmed by 
Sandra Bullock's transformation into a lovable character. 
The Hangover 

This is going to draw a lot of flak, but it must be said: ''The Hangover" was the most overrated movie of the sum­mer. Sure, the raunchy comedy remained steadfastly in the top three at box offices for four weekends and grossed over $419 million worldwide, but this can be largely attributed to the Warner Brothers' all-out marketing barrage. Think about it -how many "Hangover" commercials were you forced to imbibe over the course of the summer? Which brings up one of the movie's biggest downfalls: almost everything funny in the movie was given away in the pre­views. Besides that, it was plagued by poor writing and a predictable plot. The movie started off with a great premise, but much more could have been done with it. Case in point: The guy that they are looking for the entire movie has been sitting on the roof of the hotel all along. Seriously? Was that the best resolution they could come up with? Sparks of cre­ativity showed, as in the scene when the hungover guys are first waking up (next time you watch, look around at all the random objects in the hotel suite), but they failed to catch fire. 
Paper Heart 

This quirky cute "hybrid documentary" about the rumored but fictional relationship between Charlyne Yi and Michael Cera was a blend of non-fiction content, meaning real inter­views from real people, and a fake storyline portrayed as a "mockumen­tary." 
Charlyne Yi embarks on a quest across America to discover people's various views on modern romance and whether true love really exists, and the responses she receives from friends, strangers, romance novelists and children are insightful and humorous at times. The film included hilari­ous cameos from Seth Rugen, Demetri Martin, Martin Starr and Paul Rust. 
Away We Go 
One of the summer's sweetest movies, "Away We Go," depicts the journey of one couple in search of home and happiness. Verona and Hurt, expecting their first child, set out to find a place to call their own, along the way visiting with friends and family. Constantly challenged by other peo­ple's definitions of love and parenthood, Verona and Burt discover that it is their definition that truly matters. The highlight of this movie was Verona and Burt's unwavering love for one another, only accentuated by the crazy cast of characters they meet along the way. 
G.l. Joe 

Gentlemen, this is your movie. After a long hard day of welding and a delicious dinner of medium rare ~teak, this is what will make you complete. The effects were flawless, the action intense and the females in form-fitting body 
armor are not hard on the 
eyes. Plus,Scarlet not 
only has the looks, she's 
got brains. All in all, a 
fantastic ride that 
required minimal cerebral 
involvement while deliver­
ing explosions, martial 
arts, guns and obligatory 
I. "GI J"
one-1ners. . . ., oe 
deserves two enthusiastic 
thumbs up: enter with 
mediocre expectations and be 
pleasantly surprised. 
District 9 
"District 9" took some 
serious risks for a major 
motion piCture: science 
fiction, an unknown 
lead, and a highly politi­
cal message. Amazingly, 
it succeeds with all 
three. Director Neill 
Blomkamp manages to 
create a mock docu­
mentary with the 
action of a Michael 
Bay film. All the while, 
the film works as a 
political commen­
tary of apartheid 
Africa. As 
remarkable as 
these feats are, 
Sharlto Copley 
uses his first 
lead role to near 
guarantee him­
self an Oscar 
nod. "District 
9" is a stun­
ning, explo­
sions-and­
laser filled, 
intelligent film 
which delivers 
on the promise 
of serious science fic­
tion. 

Reviewed by Nicholas 
Anderson, Matthew 
Brown. Maija Gustin, 
Alex Kilpatrick, Joey 
Kuhn, Genevieve 
McCabe, Eric 
Prister. and Jess 
Shaffer. 
SOFIA ITURBE I Observer Graphic 

• , • • , • • r , -, " • , • , , :--, ­
Wednesday, September 2, 2009
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
SOCCER NBA 




D.C. United and Seattle Jackson's future questioned 
part of their long-term plans. year and reach the postsea­
Soundersface offinCup 
Associated Press 

"It's not about a decision I son's second round. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -D.C. United have screamed it loud and clear, on the Internet and in full-page newspaper ads: "WE WIN TROPHIES." 
The Seattle Sounders hear screams as well, echoing from the 30,000 or so people who come to every home game: We have lots of fans. 
So it is that United and the Sounders are playing Wednesday at RFK Stadium in the championship of the U.S. Open Cup, a 95-year-old sin­gle-elimination tournament that is open to amateur and professional teams across the country. 
The event has some charm but is usually ignored outside the hardcore soccer communi­ty. A little bit of controversy is giving the game a needed boost. 
Both teams wanted to host the final. Four-time MLS Cup champions United had tradi­
tion on their side; 
..We thought it was
the first-year Stadium. expansion team very important Payne said Sounders could strategically to play the big hurdle 
offer a big is educating
at home in this final.,
turnout. When the casual fan 
U.S. Soccer chose about the U.S. 
United, Seattle Kevin Payne Open Cup. What's just as
general manager D.C. United President 
Adrian Hanauer cried foul, saying he was "frustrat­ed and somewhat skeptical of the process." 
"Our fans deserve some answers," Hanauer said. "And, by the way, U.S. Soccer has been trying to raise the profile of the U.S. Open Cup. A game in front of 10,000 fans at RFK, I don't believe, is going to raise the profile as much as a game in front of a sold-out Qwest Field." 
United president Kevin Payne says nothing was underhand­ed. He said United "bid aggres­sively" for the game, in part because the team has been playing extra road games as part of the international CON­CACAF Champions League. While U.S. Soccer won't say why one bid is favored over another, Payne noted that RFK has grass, instead of Qwest Field's artificial surface, and that Seattle could only host the game in the afternoon because of scheduling issues. 
"We thought it was very important strategically to play at home in this final," Payne said. 
Of course, it would be embarrassing to have such a 

CLASSIFIEDS 
fuss over the home field and then have a tiny crowd show up, so United launched into aggressive marketing mode. The "WE WIN TROPHIES" ads feature the 12 national and international titles won by the club: four MLS Cups, two U.S. Open Cups, four MLS Supporters'Shields (for best regular season record). one CONCACAF Champions Cup and one InterAmerican Cup. 
In addition, United are charging 1996 prices for the game, with tickets starting at $12 and hot dogs and beers at $2. Payne said he's expecting 15,000-20,000, perhaps double the number that came to RFK to watch United win last year's final. 
Part of Payne pitch: "It's not that normal for a team to have a chance to win a champi­onship in their home city," something that a major Washington pro team hasn't done since the Redskins won the 1942 NFL Championship at Griffith 
significant is 
that, even 
though they've been around 13 years, United still find themselves in the edu­cation business. 
"We do have to do that, but I think frankly so do most of the other sports teams in town that aren't named the Redskins," Payne said. "We all struggle to some extent with that issue. And that's one of the points of the whole cam­paign that this is an opportuni­ty for D.C. sports fans to hope­fully stand up and say we do support our teams." 
The players, of course, would welcome a good crowd, but a win would be better. After all, any trophy is a good trophy. 
"I know there has been a lot of interesting talk in the press from what's gone on with Adrian to what's gone on with their ownership group," Seattle goalkeeper Kasey Keller said. "I just hope that it is a great atmosphere and there is a good crowd there and we perform the way we are capable of performing. We will see what happens from there. I've been fortunate to be in some tough finals, and noth­ing beats it." 
OAKLAND, Calif. Whether Stephen Jackson returns to the Golden State Warriors this season is unclear. 
As of now, general manager Larry Riley still considers Jackson a key part of the team despite the leading scorer saying he wants to go elsewhere and win. 
"Stephen Jackson has been a true professional since arriving here three seasons ago, and our expectations of him have not changed despite his recent comments," Riley said in a statement. "He's been one of our most consis­tent and productive players during that time. We expect that same display of profes­sionalism as we begin to pre­pare for training camp and the start of the upcoming reg­ular season." 
Jackson, Golden State's leading scorer and emotional swingman, on Friday night told Dime Magazine at an event in New York that he wanted out and had made that known to the Warriors brass. But he signed a three­year contract extension in November and is someone the Warriors consider an integral made," Jackson told the mag­azine while with former Warriors teammate AI Harrington at an event spon­sored by their shoe company. "It's just things are in the air right now. I really can't get too much into it right now, but I'm just looking to go somewhere where I can go and win a championship." 
The team initially had no comment on Jackson's remarks, but Riley said Monday this isn't the first time Jackson has expressed his desire to play for a win­ning team. 
Riley didn't address whether the Warriors would look to trade him, though that could be a tough task consid­ering Jackson is 31, fiery and has a reputation for question­able behavior. 
Jackson averaged 20.7 points, 5.1 rebounds and 6.5 assists in 59 games last sea­son. 
Since Jackson arrived in the Bay Area in a trade with the Indiana Pacers in Januarv 2007, he has been a key piece for coach Don Nelson and a major spark for the Warriors. He helped the team end a 12­year playoff drought that 
"As far as his remarks on playing for a championship, that's not the first time we've heard it because that's the goal that he sets for himself and his teammates every sea­son," Riley said. "That's the type of confidence that he exudes as a player and the reason that he has endeared himself to our fans. That's who Stephen Jackson is. 
"We have always under­stood his desire to contend with the NBA's best. That's an aspiration that is shared by our entire organization. We will continue in our quest to achieve that goal, and to be aggressive in pursuit of those results." 
The Warriors shocked Dallas in the 2007 playoffs, Golden State's lone postsea­son trip since 1994. The 2008 squad barely missed the post­season despite winning 48 games, the most by a non­playoff NBA team in a quar­ter-century. 
Riley, previously an assis­tant general manager since last November, was promoted to GM in May when the team cut ties with Chris Mullin, executive vice president of basketball operations. 
TENNIS 

Sharapova back inU.S. Open 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK Maria Sharapova simply couldn't bear the thought of a U.S. Open taking place without her. So while sidelined with a torn shoulder a year ago, she refused to follow the tourna­ment on TV. 
Basically pretended it wasn't even happening. 
On Tuesday night, Sharapova was right where she likes to be: on the Grand Slam stage and in the spotlight. The 2006 
U.S. Open champion returned to the tournament with an impressive 6-3, 6-0 victory over Tsvetana Pironkova of Bulgaria. 
"I was in the physical thera­py office every single day, and the tennis was on. But I made a point not to watch it," Sharapova explained. "When you're not participating in a tournament that you very much love, and you've had success at, as an athlete and as a competitor, to not be there and not be competing is pretty tough." 
Against her 98th-ranked opponent, Sharapova's game was as glittery as her black­and-silver dress and matching headwrap, an outfit she described as a tribute to New York's skyline..The three-time Grand Slam title winner pro­duced 29 winners -23 more than Pironkova. And Sharapova's game was partic­ularly clean in the second set, when she hit 16 winners and only five unforced errors. 
Apart from four double­faults, Sharapova showed no signs of the shoulder injury that forced her to have surgery in October and kept off the tour for nearly 10 months. 
"This is a Grand Slam. You've got to get going from the first match," Sharapova said. "After being gone, this is what it's all about." 
Tell that to Ana lvanovic. Or Dinara Safina. 
Earlier Tuesday, Safina came perilously close to becoming the first No. 1-seeded woman to lose in the U.S. Open's first round. But she eked out a vic­tory over an 18-year-old from Australia who is ranked 167th and needed a wild-card invita­tion to get into the tourna­ment. 
The worst showing ever by a top-seeded woman in New York came last year, when Ivanovic exited in the second round. Now seeded 11th, Ivanovic did herself one worse this time, losing in the first round to 52nd-ranked Kateryna Bondarenko 2-6, 6-3, 7-6 (7). 
At least the 2008 French Open champion had a big sup­port group in the stands, cheering for her wildly. Safina, in contrast, would look up at her coach for positive body language, and instead, he'd cover his eyes with his hands or turn his head with a wince. 

Nearly undone by 11 double­faults and 48 total unforced errors, Safina was a point away from a 4-0 deficit in the third set before coming back to beat Olivia Rogowska of Australia 6-7 (5), 6-2, 6-4. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
LOST & FOUND 
LOST: Silver ring with gold cross and anchors in or around Rockne. 
J. Denn CSC 631-3999. 
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base· appt.,no experience needed,cus­tomer sales/service, 574·273-3835. 
FoR RENT 
ND vs MSU Weekend, Sept. 18.19,20. Rooms in Sacred Heart Parish Hall on campus. $400/per person two nights includes game ticket, bed, parking, K of C Smoker, Lunch at Morris Inn tent, etc. All profits go to South Jersey Notre Dame Club Scholarship Fund. 
Email: Bi11Burns.68@Aiumni.nd.ed or call Bill Burns 609·368-1962. 
Home for rent footbali weekends. Walk to stadium. sleeps 6-10. williamckelly@gmail.com 
TICKETS 
Businessman buying season GA tickets. 574·277-1659. 
HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top$$. 574·251-1570. 
Desperately need season tix!MSU, BC. Call574-654-01681ocal call. 

VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232­0964. 
Need 2 MSU & USC tix & parking pass. 574-276·8507 
PERSONAL 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame s website: http ://csap. nd .edu 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 

Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1·2685. 
For more information, visit ND s website at: 
http :1/pregnancysupport@ nd.edu 
EARN $50 FOR 1 HR OF WRITING ACT, Inc. invites you to participate in an essay·writing study. Limited number of participants so register soon to secure a spot. www.act.org/essaystudy 
Weasley is our King, Weasley is our King. He didn't let the Quaffle in Weasley is our King. Weasley can save anything, He never leaves a single ring, That's why Gryffindors all sing: Weasley is our King. 






OUNDTHE 
ATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE 0BsERVE~s WIRE SERVICES
Wednesday, September 2, 2009 
page 15 


NCAA Women's Volleyball AVCA Coaches Poll 
team  points  
1  Penn 81.  1492  
2  Texas  1429  
3  Washington  1388  
4  Hawaii  1299  
5  Florida  1212  
6  Nebraska  1142  
7  Michigan  1056  
8  Illinois  1036  
9  UCLA  993  
10  California  921  
11  Stanford  904  
12  Iowa St.  854  
13  Minnesota  842  
14  Oregon  767  
15  San Diego  612  
16  Southern California  570  
17  Utah  545  
18  Kentuc~  406  
19  St. Louis  375  
20  Michigan St.  275  
21  Pepperdine  237  
22  UC Irvine  204  
23  Kansas St.  144  
24  Purdue  120  
25  Wichita St.  109  

NCAA Women's Soccer NSCAA Ran kings 
team 
1 North Carolina 2 NOTRE DAME 3 Portland 4 Stanford 5 Florida St. 6 · florida 7 West Virginia 8 Virginia 9 UCLA 10 TexasA&M 11 Illinois 12 San Diego 13 Penn St. 14 Purdue 15 Colorado 16 Boston College 17 Wake Forest 18 Georgia 19 Minnesota 20 Oklahoma St. 21 Utah 22 Santa Clara 23 Missouri 24 Duke 25 St. John's 

points 
824 772 760 736 700 652 522 512 498 481 
466 
430 421 324 296 289 
265 260 157 154 153 137 83 
n 
72 
NCAA Men's Golf Nike  
Coaches Poll  
team  points  
1  Texas A&M  25  
2  Arkansas  24  
3  Georgia  23  
4  Michigan  23  
5  Arizona St.  21  
6  Southern California  21  
1  Washington  21  
8  Oklahoma St.  21  
9  TCU  17  
10  Georgia Tech  16  
11  UCF  16  
12  Tennessee  14  
13  San Diego  13  
14  Duke  12  
15  Alabama  11  

around the dial 
MLB 
Boston at Tampa Bay 7 p.m., ESPN 
Houstan at Chicago Cubs 8 p.m., CSNCH 
NBA 


Associated Press 

MINNEAPOLIS -Less than 48 hours after the Minnesota Timberwolves, Ricky Hubio's agents and Spanish club DKV Joventut agreed in principle on a deal to bring the 18-year­old point guard to the NBA Minnesota, Rubio changed his mind. 
lie told Timberwolves president David Kahn on Monday he wanted to stay in Spain for the next two years to better prepare for life in the NBA _ a blow to a team that was hoping to have the popular passer on the court this autumn. 
"Of course there's disap­pointment, but I don't think that disappointment should overshadow the big pic­ture, which is, he's still so young," Kahn said on Tuesday during a call from Spain, where he spent the weekend negotiating the deal. "It appears now we will have a two-year wait. But if you frame it as he'll be 20 years old and he'll have two more years to develop, I can think of a lot worse things to happen to us as a franchise." 
The Timberwolves draft­ed Hubio fifth overall in June, even though he was still under contract with DKV Joventut in a deal that included an $8.1 million buyout clause. Kahn made three trips to Spain over the summer to try and help Rubio's representatives negotiate that number down, a process that was hindered by NBA guide­lines limiting the amount of money Minnesota could contribute to $500,000. 
Kahn said Rubio's agent, Dan Fegan, delivered a package of endorsement deals and sponsorships that helped make the NBA deal attractive enough for Rubio and Joventut to enter into an agreement on Saturday. 
When Rubio backed out of the deal, DKV Joventut reluctantly agreed to trade him to rival Hegal Barcelona, which will pay $5.3 million to buy out his contract. The buyout, Kahn said, was the largest in European basketball histo­ry. 

In a statement, Joventut noted the "big effort" by everyone to reach a deal. 
"In front of this situation, and in contradiction with what he has been saying to us and to Timberwolves' representatives from time to time, the player has announced the decision that he wants to be trans­ferred to Barcelona," the team said. 
The deal with Barcelona requires Rubio to stay in Spain through the 2010-11 season, at which time the buyout price tag plummets to about $1.4 million. That's a much more man­ageable number for Rubio to afford, but he said he was more concerned about 
IN BRIEF 

Brady tests shoulder in Dodgers acquire Jim 1,106 homers. practice, looks healthy Thome and Jon Garland Adam "Pacman" Jones 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. -Tom LOS ANGELES -It'll be old home close to deal to play in CFI. Brady zipped passes from 10 week when Jim Thome joins Manny WINNIPEG, Canada -Adam yards, lofted softer ones from 25 Ramirez on the Los Angeles "Pacman" Jones appears to be 
and showed no sign that his shoul­Dodgers. headed north of the border to play der hurt. Their reunion was set up when the in the Canadian Football League. It certainly was much better at Dodgers acquired the slugging first Jones' lawyer said he has been in 
Tuesday's practice than it was four baseman from the Chicago White negotiations with a CFL team. days earlier when 350-pound Sox on Monday night. Also joining Attorney Worrick Robinson told The Albert Haynesworth of the the Dodgers' lineup is right-hander Associated Press on Tuesday a deal 
Washington Hedskins landed on Jon Garland, who came over frllm could be completed by the end of him, forcing his throwing shoulder the Arizona Diamondbacks. the week. into the ground on an incomplete The deals were announced in the Robinson wouldn't identify the pass. top of the eighth inning of the team, but The Canadian Press and 
New England Patriots coach Bill Dodgers-Diamondbacks game, with Sl.com reported that Jones would Belichick didn't say if Brady would both trades completed before the play for the Winnipeg Blue play Thursday night against the midnight EDT deadline required for Bombers. 
New York Giants, although he postseason eligibility. Jones turns 26 at the end of this prefers not to use starters much in Ramirez was all smiles about the month. He spent last season with the final exhibition game. deal for Thome after the Dodgers the Dallas Cowboys after missing He's more interested in watching lost 5-3 to Arizona in 10 innings. the previous year because of multi­
backup quarterbacks Andrew The two men played together in ple violations of the NFL's personal Walter and Brian Hoyer than Cleveland for eight seasons from conduct policy. exposing his two-time Super Bowl 1993-2000, including the 1lJ97 Hobinson said there were discus­
MVP to hard hits. World Series. They have a combined sions with "a number of NFL 
page 16 Wednesday, September 2, 2009 
The Observer + SPORTS 
TENNIS 


..-KADO

Safinaholds on in first round 
Otinese &JOJXll1e5e Restat.rmt 

Associated Press 
NEW YOHK-Dinara Safina overcame a long, mistake­filled display of tennis to bare­ly avoid becoming the first top-seeded woman to lose in the first round of the U.S. Open on Tuesday. 
She defeated 167th-ranked Olivia Rogowska of Australia 6-7 (5}, 6-2, 6-4 in a match that included 113 unforced errors, 24 double-faults and 15 service breaks over 2 hours, 35 minutes. 
"I didn't break any rackets and didn't get any warnings," Safina said, when asked if 
there were any silver linings. "That's already positive." 
She overcame a 3-0 deficit in the third set to avoid becoming the first top-seeded player to be ousted in the first round of any Grand Slam since Martina Hingis lost 6-4, 6-2 to Virginia Ruano Pascual at Wimbledon in 2001. 
Safina served out her final game at love, forcing errors on Rogowska's groundstrokes during one of the Russian's few sustained runs of consis­tency. 
Safina's coach, Zeljko Krajan, was clearly having trouble watching it -slump­ing, scowling and shaking his head from his lonely seat in the stands. 
Safina moves on, but all the questions about her worthi­ness as the world's No. 1 play­er will almost certainly gather steam. 
No. 2 Serena Williams has won the Australian Open and Wimbledon this year. Safina hasn't yet won a Grand Slam, having been blown out in all three of her finals. 
"In the French Open, I won all the matches 6-love, 6-1. Did it help? Not really," she said. "It happens like this. You pull out the match somehow." 
Even though Safina won, her showing counted as the biggest news on a Day 2 when things mainly went to form. There was the occasional sur­prise: 267th-ranked Jesse Witten of the United States knocked off No. 29-seeded Igor Andreev of Hussia 6-4, 6­0, 6-2; Yanina Wickmayer of Belgium defeated No. 16 Virginie Razzano of France 6­4, 6-3; Shahar Peer of Israel eliminated No. 32 Agnes Szavay of Hungary 6-2, 6-2. 
But otherwise, nothing was out of the ordinary. Winners included 2004 U.S. Open champion Svetlana Kuznetsova, past runners-up Elena Dementieva and Jelena Jankovic, No. 9 Caroline Wozniacki and No. 13 Nadia Petrova. 
Men's winners included 2008 Australian Open champi­on Novak Djokovic and that tournament's runner-up, Jo­Wilfried Tsonga, along with No. 10 Fernando Verdasco, No. 11 Fernando Gonzalez, No. 16 Marin Cilic, No. 17 Tomas Bcrdych and No. 22 Sam Querrey. 
Safina will next play Kristina Barrois of Germany, who will get her chance to match histo­ry. 
The earliest a top-seeded woman has been ousted from the U.S. Open is the second round. That was last year, when Ana Ivanovic fell to Julie Coin of France, who moved up 55 spots in the rankings thanks in part to that victory. 

Safina's first set was filled with tentative play and ended when she double-faulted for a 7-5 loss in the tiebreaker ­the first serve barely making it halfway up the net, the second a good 3 inches out. 
They slogged on and Rogowska, an 18-year-old with one win over a top-100 player, had chances to put a strangle­hold on the match and put her name in the history books, even after she blew the 3-0 lead in the third. 
Serving at 4-all and deuce in the final set, she chipped a slicing backhand deep into the corner and Safina lobbed it back, but Rogowska hit a tentative overhead, then failed to put away a floater on the next return and even­tually got passed. 
That set up break point, which Safina promptly lost. Finally, Rogowska made two unforced errors in a row to give Safina the game. 
DineIn -Take Out -Cateri1'"9 
tVeluMe _$~ S~•«ew6T' 
aferingi.ltrl.d?: 01kJr.B1 fS:f 
Rice~ SUSh SeriC:xxi Sr:tihitri 
Noode 

402N.Di .
Sruth!m1~7 
Phone: (547) 272-2535 fax: (547) 272-2562 


Feed your future 
Learn how we can help jump-start your professional career. 
Begin at www.pwc.tv 

~ 1t)(t' fJf~~~~h)~P),Q.IJ..C~·· t\.P A~ ··~to:tf11. ,."M,~lWJ "P,~e~ll'M~.C:4)61)t'r-t:-,•••~to p~~M~.(~M-·fa llPi• n~··M{t hm~~$d ~ab-imf· ~Att...t.t'IJ~· Or . .at the l'a~t•<';.' ~~ff*'$. 1~ Pt'~n.at•shoot....C~J· Qf:>t14! ~1!1-..<Qt~ Q• :>!~ >n;ffl'll><tt tttm« 111 ln. "flW(>tk. l!~clt ol "'l'l>t:h ·~ ll ~~pat at;, ;>nd 1n<l•P•'I<Itft!llt!11otl ~nl~t vY., ~'~ l)fii\IU IQ I)~ an Aif>tm;a~ll»" Al:t>t>n an11 hoai ()ppt~rt""''~ f~IIIY!i<. 
Wednesday, September 2, 2009 

The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB 

Texas rookie Feliz closes with two perfect innings 
Hamels shuts down Giants with two-hitter; Tatum drives in four runs to lead l~eds past hapless Pirates 
against him. grounder to start
'"All I can do is throw 
"He's real good. an inning-ending Very impressive," strikes and let the double play. Blue Jays manag­
team behind me take 
er Cito Gaston Phillies 1, Giants
care ofit."

said. 0 
Feliz has 26 Cole Hamels strikeouts and Cole Hamels was relaxed, one walk in 11 Phillies pitcher focused and in 
"I really tried not to stress 
myself out and go out and not try 
to be too good," Hamels said. "All 
I can do is throw strikes and let 
the team behind me take care of 
it." 
After Aurilia's single, Hamels 
picked off pinch-runner Andres 
Torres . He then walked pinch­
hitter Pablo Sandoval , but struck 
out pinch-hitter Bengie Molina 
and retired Edgar Renteria on a 
foul pop to end it. 
The offensively challenged Giants didn't have their top hitter, Sandoval, and cleanup hitter, Molina, in the starting lineup. Sandoval is bothered by a right calf injury that sidelined him for three games in the middle of last week. Molina hasn't started the last seven games because of a tight right quadriceps. 
"If you are able to locate and throw strikes, no matter who is in the batter's box, you are going to have success," Hamels said. 
Sanchez didn't allow a hit until Shane Victorino led off Philadelphia's fourth with a single to left. Victorino stole second, advanced to third on Chase Utley's groundout and scored when Howard ripped a double down the right-field line. 
"The pitch to Howard was a good pitch, but he found a hole," Sanchez said. 
Hamels even picked up his first career stolen base in the fifth after failing to execute a sacrifice bunt. He reached on a fielder's choice and then swiped second base without a throw before Jimmy Rollins grounded out to end the inning. 
It was the first stolen base by a Phillies pitcher since Curt Schilling had one in 1997. 
Hamels gave first-base coach Davey Lopes credit for the steal. 
"He said, 'Have you ever slid?'"Hamels said. "I said, 'Yeah,'so he scid, 'Go.'I was going to blame it on him ifI was out." 
Reds 14, Pirates 11 
Craig Tatum drove in four runs to double his previous career total and Justin Lehr overcame control problems as the 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas -Aaron Hill fell to the ground in the bat­ter's box, his eyes wide after a 97 mph fastball whizzed by his head. What was really unfair was the pitch Rangers rookie Neftali Feliz threw next. 

Feliz snapped off a 79 mph breaking ball, freezing Hill for a called third strike and capping hi'> latest impressive appearance in Texas'S-2 victory over the Toronto Blue Jays in the first game of a doubleheader Tuesday. 
After Dustin Nippert (5-2) allowed two runs over six innings, Feliz struck out four in two per­fect innings. Three of the pun­chouts were called third strikes with off-speed pitches. 
"It's unbelievable. I was sitting on the training room table watch­ing it," Nippert said. "It's unreal, his stuff. I've never seen anything like it. It's a lot of fun to watch." 
Unless you're trying to hit been the longest active streak in the majors. He had also hit in 23 consecutive games at Rangers Ballpark, tying the team mark Hodriguez set in 1995. 
Adam Jind homered and scored both Toronto runs. That came a day after Und hit two homers and had a career-high eight RBis in an 18-10 victory in the series opener. 
Lind's solo homer in the sixth, his 28th, pulled Toronto to 3-2. 
The other Blue Jays run came in the fourth at the start of a sequence in which All-Star third baseman Young was involved in three consecutive plays, with var­ied results. 
lind, who reached on a one-out walk, scored when Young was charged with an error for mis­playing a grounder by Vernon Wells . Rod Barajas then was credited with an infield single on a chopper that ricocheted off the glove of Young, who then went to his left for Jose Bautista's 

the first time since finishing the 
2004 season 101-61. 
The AL East leaders remained 6 
1/2 games ahead of second-place 
Boston, which beat Tampa Bay. 
With the score 6-all, Cano led 
off the seventh with a double off 
Chris Ray (0-3). Swisher then 
homered to center, his 23rd of the 
season and second in two games. 
Two pitches later, Hinske home­
red to left. 
New York won despite getting 
another poor start from A.J. 
Burnett, who gave up six runs 
and 11 hits, including two 
homers, in 5 1-3 innings. Burnett 
is 0-4 in his last seven appear­
ances. 

Damaso Marte (1-1) followed 
Burnett and got three straight 
out'i. Mariano Rivera worked the 
ninth for his 38th save, and 
career-best 34th in a row. 
Luke Scott and Felix Pie home­red for the Orioles, who fell to 3­11 against New York this season. All-Star center fielder Adam Jones left the game with a sprained left ankle after twisting it on frrst base. 
The Orioles got an uneven pitching performance from rookie Dave Hernandez, who gave up only four hits in five innings, but three of them were home runs. The right-hander walked six and struck out seven, but the three homers he allowed upped his total to 17 in 79 1-3 innings. 
With the game tied at 3 in the fifth, Posada thought he took a called third strike and began to walk back to the dugout. It was only the second strike, however, and two pitches later the 38~year­old catcher hit a two-run, oppo­site-field homer to left. 
Earlier in the game, Posada lost track of the count and had to be told to take first base on ball four. 
In the Baltimore fifth, Nick Markakis and Nolan Reimold sin­gled before Scott hit a drive that cleared the 25-foot scoreboard in right field and landed on Eutaw Street. 
New York tied it in the sixth when Alex Rodriguez hit a two­out, broken-bat HBI single, but Posada looked at a third strike with runners on second and third. 
Pie made it 1-0 in the first inning with his eighth home run, the sixth in his last 18 games. Cano gave the Yankees a 2-1 lead in the second, hitting his 22nd homer after Posada walked. 
Posada homered in the third, but in the bottom half Melvin Mora tied it with a two-run dou­ble. 
to the plate in the first inning. They scored four runs on Tuesday, one more than in the frrst inning of the second game of Mondats day-night doubleheader sweep. Barker and Gomes each had RBI singles before Tatum grounded a two-run single up the middle with the bases loaded. 
Garret Jones, who went into the game leading major league rook­ies with 16 home runs, hit his 17th with Andrew McCutchen on base in the third. 
The Reds got one of those runs back in the bottom half when Gomes scored from third on Tatum's groundout. 
The Pirates cut Cinci.Imati's lead to one in the fourth on pitcher Charlie Morton 's RBI single and McCutchen's bases-loaded walk, his third free pass in the first four innings. 
Tatum drove in Gomes from second with a two-out single in the filth. 
McCutchen added his fourth walk in the ninth, tying Pittsburgh's single-game season high. 
Morton (3-7) matched his sea­
son high by issu­
ing four walks. 
He also allowed 

appearances spanning 19 2-3 innings since being promoted to the majors Aug. 2. The 21-year-old right­hander had a major league-best 
0.51 ERA in August before lower­ing his career mark to 0.46 on the first day of September. 
"As long as he's throwing that secondary stuff over the plate, they just can't sit on (the fast­ball)," Rangers manager Ron Washington said. "That's what's important.'' 
Frank Francisco worked the ninth for his 20th save in 23 chances. 
Ian Kinsler got Texas started with a leadoffhomer. Chris Davis, who had three hits, singled home two runs with a grounder in the fourth that slipped under the glove of first baseman Lyle Overbay , who appeared miffed that he didn't make the play with his backhand stab. That broke a 1-all tie and put Texas ahead to stay. 
Nippert has won all three of his home starts this season. The right-hander's other two starts at Rangers Ballpark came against Boston, which began the day four games ahead of Texas in the AL wild-card race. 
Kinsler's seventh leadoff homer this season and 12th of his career, both Rangers records, came on the third pitch from rookie left­bander Marc Hzepczynski (2-4). 
Rzepczynski struck out a career-high nine in six innings, but also allowed eight hits. 
"I pitched OK. It wa'in't great at times. They hit a couple balls through holes," Rzepczynski said. "I struggled a little bit the first few innings to find my com­mand." 
Nelson Cruz walked with one out in the fourth before Ivan Rodriguez doubled high off the 14-foot wall in left. Taylor Teagarden struck out before Davis drove both of them home. 
Cruz lined a two-run single up the middle in the seventh. 
Michael Young went 0 for 2 with two walks, ending his 18­game hitting streak, which had control. This was 
the Hamels the 
Philadelphia 

Phillies and their fans got used to seeing last postseason. 
Hamels pitched a two-hitter, Ryan Howard drove in the only run with a fourth-inning double and the Phillies beat the San Francisco Giants 1-0 Tuesday night. 
Hamels (8-8) allowed a leadoff double to Hyan Garko in the sec­ond inning and a single to pinch­hitter Rich Aurilia to start the ninth. He struck out nine and walked one in his fourth career shutout and second this season. The left-bander extended his scoreless innings streak to 19, tying a career best, and won for the frrst time since July 28 against Arizona. 
"He pitched a heck of a game," Phillies manager Charlie Manuel said. "He used all his pitches. When he gets going, he keeps it for a while. That's what we're looking for. He looked like the old Cole.'' 
Jonathan Sanchez (6-11) was the hard-luck loser for the Giants. He allowed one run and three hits, striking out eight in six innings. 
The NL East-leading Phillies have won 15 of 20. They entered with a 7 1/2-game lead over Atlanta. 
The Giants came in tied with Colorado in the wild-card race. 
"We got good pitching. We just got beat," manager Bruce Bochy said. 
For much of this season, Hamels hasn't pitched like the guy who was MVP of the NLCS and World Series last October. But he was outstanding in his previ­ous start and dominated San Francisco. 
Hamels tossed eight scoreless innings in Philadelphia's 4-1, extra-inning win at Pittsburgh last Wednesday. 
He was sharp right from the start of this one, mixing a sharp fastball with his trademark changeup and an effective curve. Hamels retired 24 in a row after Garko 's hit. 
Cincinnati Reds "/ struggled a little nine hits and six sent the runs in five
bit the first few
Pittsburgh Pirates innings for the to their sixth con­innings to find my last-place Pirates. secutive loss. 11-5 command.·· The Reds broke on Tuesday night. it open against Pittsburgh is Chris Bootcheck
Marc Rzepczynski
four defeats shy in the sixth on 
of becoming the Blue Jays pitcher Janish's two-run 
first major American profes­sional team to string together 17 straight losii1g sea'ions. Cincinnati has won three straight and eight of10. 
Wladimir Balentien hit a two~ run homer, Jonny Gomes had three hits and Paul Janish and Kevin Barker also drove in two runs each as the Reds reached double figures in runs for the third time this season and scored their most since setting a sea'lon high in a 13-5 win May 11 at Arizona. 
Lehr (4-1) finished with five walks, one short of the six he allowed in his first career start July 31. He also gave up six hits and four runs with two strikeouts in six innings. 
Micah Owings allowed one run over the fmal three innings for the first save of his five-year pron~s­sional career. 
For the second consecutive game, the Heds sent nine batters 
double and 

Barker's sacrifice fly. Balentien added his second homer of the season and first in 63 at-bats since Aug. 4 in the sev­enth off Vrrgil Va.'iquez. 
Yankees 9, Orioles 6 
Jorge Posada homered twice, and Nick Swisher and Eric Hinske hit successive drives in a three­run seventh inning that carried the New York Yankees past the Baltimore Orioles 9-6 ·"ruesday night. 
Robinson Cano also connected for Yankees, who will try to com­plete a three-game sweep Wednesday. New York came to town after taking three in a row from the Chicago White Sox . 
Posada hit a solo shot in the third inning and a two-run homer in the fifth, but the Yankees trailed 6-5 in the sixth before ral­lying for their 22nd win in 28 games. The victory put New York 36 games over .500 (84-48) for 
page 18 
NHL 

NHL working to buy and sell Phoenix team 

Associated Press 
PHOENIX -If the NHL is successful in buying the 

I '· 
I I 
I \ Phoenix Coyotes in U.S. 
I I f Bankruptcy Court, the league plans to quickly engage in talks over a new lease agree­ment with the city of Glendale. If no deal is forthcoming, the NHL says it would be forced to turn to a buyer to move the team elsewhere. "I think we've got to get the lease situation resolved or not by the end of this calen­dar year," NHL deputy com­missioner Bill Daly said on Thursday. No new lease could mean a lame-duck season in Glendale while plans are made to relo­cate the franchise. "That's always a possibility. We're hoping that's not the case," Daly said in a tele­phone interview with The Associated Press. "Our first priority is to find a local pur­chaser because we think this team belongs in Phoenix." The lack of a new lease with Glendale prompted the 
' 
' NHL to take the unusual

(' move this week of submitting a bid to purchase the fran­chise. The league acted while its preferred purchaser, a group headed by Chicago sports entrepreneur Jerry Reinsdorf, pulled out because it had been unable to reach a deal with Glendale by Tuesday's court-imposed deadline for submitting a firm offer. Ice Edge Holdings, a group of Canadian and American investors, submitted a bid, but it's contingent on reach­ing an agreement with Glendale, something Ice Edge CEO Anthony LeBlanc says must happen by the end of next week. "The risk is if we don't finalize a deal with the city we simply can't move for­ward with the auction," LeBlanc said. The franchise is scheduled to be sold at auction on Sept. 10. The NHL bid would assume the existing lease agreement but only through the coming season. "We felt at this point the best thing for the franchise was to put in our own bid, which doesn't contain any contingencies," Daly said. The NHL plans to resell the team outside of the encum­brances of bankruptcy court. Could that buyer be Reinsdorf? "I wouldn't rule anybody out," Daly said. Daly placed much of the blame for a lack of local bid­ders on Coyotes owner Jerry Moyes and Canadian billion­aire Jim Balsillie, saying the two "have taken every oppor­tunity to make it as difficult as possible" for potential buyers who would keep the franchise in Arizona. The franchise's value has been eroded by the bankrupt­cy process, Daly said. "I think to a certain extent the Moyes and the Balsillie parties have intentionally tried to damage the club to make it less attractive to the local purchasers," Daly said. Moyes took the team into 


I 
I 
Chapter 11 bankruptcy, to the surprise of the NHL, on May 5, with a plan to sell it to Balsillie for $212.5 million, on the condition the fran­chise be moved to Hamilton, Ontario. 
The NHL has fought the move from the start, contend­ing the filing was unneces­sary and is a scheme to side­step the normal transfer of ownership and relocation process. The league's board of governors rejected Balsillie as a potential Coyotes owner by a 26-0 vote. 
The case should come to a head next Wednesday. when arguments are scheduled on Balsillie's request that Judge Redfield T. Baum overrule the NHL vote and approve relocating the team in Hamilton. The NHL refuses to consider relocation, saying the issue is moot because Balsillie has been rejected as an owner. 
If Baum rules in Balsillie's favor, Daly said, the NHL will immediately appeal and. seek a stay to halt the sale. 
"We're willing to go to the wall to defend those princi­ples," Daly said. 
Moyes, who says he loaned the team $300 million, would recoup $104 million under the Balsillie deal. He would get nothing under the NHL and Ice Edge bids, which contend the lost money is equity, not a debt. 
LeBlanc said his group is committed to keep the team in Glendale, to the point that Ice Edge is not seeking an "out clause" from the city. He said the plan to play five reg­ular season games in Saskatoon is only to increase revenue while efforts are made to "re-brand" the team in Phoenix. He said Ice Edge has decided against an earli­er idea, mistakenly included in the bid, to play some potential playoff games in Saskatoon. 
"We think we've got the best possible bid from every­thing we've seen," LeBlanc said. "We think we've got a good, solid bid in terms of what we're offering credi­tors." 
LeBlanc was a top execu­tive of Research in Motion for nine years. Balsillie is co-CEO at RIM but has nothing to do with Ice Edge, LeBlanc said. 
The NHL finds itself in the position of supporting Ice Edge and competing against it. 
"It is kind of an odd dynam­ic," Daly said. "Having said that, we've not been shy about supporting local own­ership." 
Daly said he would give Ice Edge "full marks for all they've done in a very short time." 
The NHL board of gover­nors has not voted on Ice Edge's application to own the Coyotes but is expected to do so before the Sept. 10 auc­tion, Daly said. 
Ice Edge also must work out details of its agreement in principle to pay the debt owed by the Coyotes to the NHL and the $80 million due SOF Investments, the fran­chise's largest secured credi­tor. 
Wednesday, September 2, 2009 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Rodriguezsuedincondo case 
itself, according to loan docu­ments filed with the court. 
When the loan matured in May, a law firm representing Bane Capital & Financial Services, Inc., the Spartanburg, S.C. bank serv­icing the loan, send a demand letter to Rodriguez's investment group. In that letter, attorneys served notice that the reduced loan amount was in default for nonpayment, giving the group five days'notice to pay the loan in full or possibly face legal action. 
Mike Wilcox, a Toledo, Ohio­based adviser to Rodriguez, issued a statement saying the coach had been the victim of fraud dating back to 2004, when he was coach at West VIrginia. 
"Coach Rodriguez is the victim 
Associated Press 

COLUMBIA, S.C. -Michigan head football coach Rich Rodriguez has been sued in fed­eral court by a bank claiming he failed to pay back millions on a loan for a struggling VIrginia con­dominium project, according to court documents. 
The suit -filed Aug. 13 in U.S. District Court in Spartanburg, S.C., and served on Rodriguez at his Ann Arbor, Mich., oflice last week -says the coach owes a bank $3.9 million for defaulting on a loan to build condos near VIrginia Tech's Lane Stadium in Blacksburg, Va. 
Rodriguez told reporters the case won't hinder his Michigan's preparations, while an adviser said the coach was the victim of fraud. 

"This is something that's ongo­ing," Rodriguez said Tuesday in a Big Ten conference call. "It's not anything that will take our atten­tion away from getting ready for the season." 
Under the corporate name of The Legends of Blackc;burg, LLC, Rodriguez and four partners bor­rowed more than $26 million for the project in September 2007, when Rodriguez was still coach­ing at West Virginia University. But as the luxury condo project struggled amid the economic downturn, that amount was amended down to about $3.63 million -the cost of only the land 

Notre Dame Graduate 
Joins Leading Area Veterinary Hospital 
Magrane 
Pet Medical Center 


A4agrane Pel Medical Center Welcomes: 
Keith Kitson Logue, DVM 
Dr. Logue is a graduate of University of Notre Dame and Purdue's School of Veterinary medicine. 
Dr. Logue brings a wealth ofexperience in emergency and critical care medicine -care ofthe sickest pets~ to our experienced staff. 
"Cm·;ng.foryour pet is caring.for a family member and!.foe/ priv;leged to work with a great team to care for your pel, whether healthy or ill. '' 
To schedule an appointment call: 574.259.5291 Email questions to KKlogue(ti'magranePMC.com 
Conveniently located to N.D. in the Edison Lakes Business Park (Mishawaka)· 8 minutes from Notre Dame, directly east on Angela I Edison Road 
Wednesday, September 2 in Geddes Hall Coffee Shop(~ S. n? at 5:30pm or OClal Service Clubs) 
Tuesday, September 8th at 6·3o 
~;g~;~;:,· ~:g::~g;; 2fh Bt s;~~pm 
Thursday, September 10thh n~·30 pm .Thursday, September 1Oth !t6:3300 pm 
mLaFortune M t • pm on gomeryAuditorium (forAll Divisions) 
Club Information Meetin At least two memb~~sa~e mandatory for all clubs. attend a Club lnformoamt. eaMch cl~b must
10n eetmg. 
Please contactMayKate 

In the StudentActivities ~ik ~mhavlik@nd.edu) 
,.,,~ Wifh any QUestions. 
Wednesday, September 2, 2009 

The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB 

Tigers' closer Rodney earns 30th save this season 
Pinch-hitter Morales delivers walk-off single to push Twins past White Sox; Pineiro earns eighth straight win 
Associated Press 
DETROIT --This time, the 
Detroit Tigers 'hitters bailed out 
Edwin Jackson. 
Placido Polanco and Carlos Guillen homered on successive pitches and Brandon Inge also went deep, lifting Detroit to an 8-5 win over the Cleveland Indians on Tuesday night. 
Aubrey Huff , who has slumped since being acquired from Baltimore Aug. 17, added three RBis for the Tigers, who won their second straight. 
Jackson (11-6) allowed four runs on nine hits in five innings, walking two and striking out six. 
He has received poor run sup­port for most of the year. 
"It was nice to see Edwin get one," Detroit manager Jim Leyland. "He's been so good for us this year. He wasn't really sharp tonight and didn't have real good stuff, except for the fourth (when he retired the side in order)." 
Jackson wanted to do better with the unusual run support. 
"Just enough to get a win," he said. ''I'm disappointed. You want to go deep into the game when they get runs for you like that." 
fernando Rodney pitched the ninth for his 30th save in 31 chances. He's the fourth Tigers closer to reach 30 saves in a sea­son. He joins John Hiller , Guillermo Hernandez and Todd Jones. 
Other members of the 

Tigers'bullpen also shined as 
Zach Miner , Bobby Seay and 
Brandon Lyon combined to allow 
a run and a hit in three innings. 
"All we're trying to do is get big outs at the right time and get where we want to be," Seay said. 
Andy Marte homered for Cleveland. 
Carlos Carrasco (0-1), making his major league debut, gave up six runs on nine hits in three innings, walking three and strik­ing out three. 
"My biggest problem was my fastball. It was an over the place," he said. "My other pitches were working, the slider and the change, just not the fastball." 
Carrasco, who was obtained from Philadelphia in the Cliff Lee deal, allowed all three home runs after being recalled from Triple-A Columbus. 
"He probably had the first-time jitters and we thought three innings were enough," Indians manager Eric Wedge said. "He did work hard to get through those three." 
Cleveland took a 1-0 lead in the first on Shin-Soo Choo's RBI sin­gle. It scored Asdrubal Cabrera , who hit a double. 
But Detroit bounced back with four in its half. Polanco and Guillen -who has three home runs in the last two games ­each hit his ninth homer on back­to-hack pitches, Huff singled in a run and Gerald Laird had a two­out RBI double. 
"We just kind of caught him by surprise and got real aggressive with hin1," Leyland said. 
lnge's two-run homer in the third made it 6-1. Huffs two-out, two-run double in the fourth made it 8-1. 
"I've been here a couple of weeks. It's nice to be abh~ to eon­tribute," Huff said. 
Twins 4, White Sox 3 
Pinch-hitter Jose Morales sin­gled home Nick Punto with two outs in the bottom of the ninth to lift the Minnesota Twins to a 4-3 victory over the Chicago White Sox on Tuesday night. 
Jason Kubel led off the ninth with a single off Matt Thornton ( 6­
3) and Punto was inserted as a pinch runner. He advanced to third on a single by Brendan Harris , but Tony Pena got Carlos Gomez swinging to take away the sacrifice option. 
Morales, the team's third catch­er and just recently r ecalled from Triple-A Rochester, followed with a rope to right-center and was immediately mobbed by teammates. 
Michael Cuddyer hit two homers and Jeff Manship was sharp in his frrst big league start for the Twins, who have won nine of 11 and remained 3 1/2 games behind Detroit in the AL Central. 
Cuddyer tied his career high for homers in a season with 24 and continued his domination of White Sox starter John Danks . 
Cuddyer is hitting .481 (13 for 
27) with four homers and 10 RBis in his career against Danks. He hit solo homers in the filth inning to tie the game and in the seventh to give the Twins a 3-1 lead. 
But the normally reliable duo of Jose Mijares and Matt Guerrier faltered in the eighth. Mijares walked Scott Podsednik to lead off the inning and Gordon Beckham followed with a two-run homer ofl' Guerrier to tie the game 3-3. 
Alexei Ramirez had a solo homer in the fifth for the White Sox , the only mistake Manship made on the night. He allowed four hits with two strikeouts and two walks in five solid innings. 
Danks allowed three runs on six hits in seven innings for Chicago, which has lost five in a row. 
Jon Rauch (2-0) pitched one inning for the win. 
The fact that Manship was on the hill in September against the division rival White Sox shows just howdecimated the Twins' starting rotation has been by injury and inconsistency this sea­son. 
Francisco Liriano and Kevin Slowey are on the disabled list, and despite the patchwork job manager Ron Gardenhire has had to do with young arms, the Twins sent starter Glen Perkins to Triple-A Rochester after his stint on the disabled list because he has been unreliable in the rota­tion this season. 
After losing their fourth straight 
game and eighth in the last nine 
on Monday night to fall six games 
behind Detroit in the AL Central 
race, the White Sox appeared to 
raise the white flag. 
General manager Ken Williams traded two of the most respected veterans in the clubhouse after the loss to the Twins. Slugger Jim Thome went to the Los Angeles Dodgers and starter Jose Contreras to the Colorado Rockies 
"Everybody has to play better and pick it up a notch," manager Ozzie Guillen said. "But a white 
?N ,
flag. o. 
Cardinals 7, Brewers 6 
Matt Holliday's three-run homer snapped a seventh inning tie, lift­ing Joel Pineiro to his eighth straight win and the St. Louis Cardinals to a 7-6 victory over the Milwaukee Brewers on Tuesday night. 
Albert Pujols added his major league-leading 42nd homer for the Cardinals, who are a major­league best 26-9 since the July 24 trade with the Athletics for Holliday. They're 30-4 since July 1 in starts by their big three -Adam Wainwright , Chris Carpenter and Pineiro. 
Rookie Casey McGehee hit a three-run homer in the frrst and matched his career high with four RBis for the Brewers, who entered a three-game series against the NL Central leaders with a three-game winning streak. 

r 
~---­
I 
lI ' 
I 
i page 20 NFL FOOTBALL 

Umenyiora says he regrets walkout 

Associated Press 
EAST RUTH EHFORD, N.J. 
An embarrassed Osi Umenyiora said he overreact­ed when he walked out of practice on Monday -and he's paying for it. 
The two-time Pro Bowl defensive end with the New York Giants acknowledged he had a minor tiff with his new defensive coordinator, but said his decision to skip prac­tice was probably the worst thing he has done in his NFL career. 

I 
~ I Umenyiora on Tuesday I I declined to disclose the I nature of his disagreement with coordinator Bill Sheridan, saying only the issue that set him off was "minuscule" and never should have escalated. The Giants fined Umenyiora an undisclosed amount of money that the player said would feed a lot of people in undeveloped countries. "Do I regret it? Absolutely," Umenyiora said after prac­tice on Tuesday. "It was a very, very bad moral decision on my part and an even worse financial decision on my part. So everything is cool now. I talked to who I needed to talk to and apologized to those I had to apologize to. It 
was so stupid and trivial for

i 
i ' to
me do that. Sometimes

) ; 
' ' 
when you get emotional, things happen like that." 


Umenyiora an~ Sheridan, the linebackers coach who was elevated to defensive coo r din a tor after Steve Spagnuolo was hired as coach of the St. Louis Rams, have known each other for five years. 
"It's not like he just got here," Umenyiora said. "He has been here a while and I have known him forever. This is not the first time I've had a conversation with him, it's just so happened that this was the first time I took it that way and it is going to be the last time." 
The Giants did not make Sheridan available for com­ment on Tuesday. 
Coach Tom Coughlin believed the issue was resolved after Umenyiora talked with Sheridan and defensive line coach Mike Waufle. 
''I'm very confident it won't happen again," Coughlin said. 
Umenyiora, who missed all of last season with a knee injury, attended team meet­ings on Monday morning and obviously was upset with something Sheridan said. 


When the team went out to practice, Umenyiora was gone and Coughlin did not know why. 
I' 
'I 
'.' 
General manager Jerry Reese eventually reached Umenyiora by text message to make sure he was all right. 
By that time, Umenyiora said he had returned to team headquarters, where he wait­ed out practice. He later met with the coaches. 
"It is not in my character to behave that way," said Umenyiora, who had six sacks against the Eagles in a game in 2007. "I have never behaved that way, and I don't plan on behaving that way again." · 
What surprised Umenyiora was the publicity the walkout generated. 
"I promise you I never would have stepped out of this building if would have known the repercussions," he said. "The text messages and people thinking I was dead. I didn't know it would turn into that, but it did. I know better. I think everybody is allowed one mistake, and this is my one big mistake. I am not going to repeat nothing like that every again." 
Fellow defensive end Justin Tuck said players frequently argue with coaches. 
"That's one of the reasons the D-line room is so chaot­ic, Tuck said. "Waufle encourages them. We have them daily with him. This is possibly the biggest and the first with the defensive coor­dinator." 
Teammates, of course, did­n't let Umenyiora forget it. 
When he reported to the locker room on Tuesday, he said there were wanted signs for him, offering a $1 million reward. Had the players had time, his face also would have been on milk cartons. 
As Tuck was talking to the media, he noticed Umenyiora walking out of the locker room. 
"Oosh, you weren't here yesterday?" a laughing Tuck said. "Where did you go'?" 
When the laughter stopped, Tuck got serious about a Giants team that endured a major distraction last season after Plaxico Burress acci­dentally shot himself in the leg at a Manhattan nightclub. 
"We are pretty good with incidents that might seem to be a distraction to this foot­ball team," he said. "I hon­estly think the incidents bring us closer together. We chalk it up and have some laughs about it, talk about it, have the serious part of the conversation first and then the rest, it's kind of like laughing. That's the way we are, understanding that sometimes, things can esca­late bigger than what was intended to begin with." 
The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 2, 2009 
TENNIS 

Murrayrolls in first round ofOpen 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK-Second-seeded Andy Murray played a patient, steady game to defeat big-hit­ting Ernests Gulbis of Latvia 7­5, 6-3, 7-5 in his first-round match at the U.S. Open on Tuesday. 
Murray traded baseline blows with 95th-ranked Gulbis in the first set and Gulbis responded with wild misses and blistering winners, pushing the Scot to five set points before finally succumbing to a service break in the 12th game. 
Murray, runner-up last year to Roger Federer in his first Grand Slam final, then varied his attack by mixing in forays to the net and took advantage of mounting mistakes from Gulbis, who had 51 unforced errors, 30 more than Murray. 
"When I needed to, I upped my game," Murray said. "My concentration could have been a bit better. But for a first match, it was very good because he played very well." 
Murray said he enjoyed play­ing under the lights in Arthur Ashe Stadium before a crowd of nearly 24,000. 
"I enjoy playing on that court," he said. "It's one of the biggest in the world. It's proba­bly the coolest atmosphere out of all of the Slams. 
"Hopefully I'll play a lot of my matches on there," he said. 
Murray advanced to a sec­ond-round match against 87th­ranked Paul Capdeville of Chile. 
Fourth seed Novak Djokovic made an impressive start to his title bid as he beat Ivan Ljubicic 6-3, 6-1, 6-3 in the first round. 
The Serb, runner-up at Flushing Meadows in 2007, 
was right on top of his game as he beat the Croat for the fourth time in five meetings. 
Early breaks in each of the first two sets put Djokovic in charge and he broke once more in the eighth game of the third to clinch a comfortable victory. 
The fans were gracious to Djokovic, who was booed loud­ly a year ago after he made some sarcastic comments toward Andy Roddick during a courtside interview. 
"What happened last year was like a fight with a girl­friend," he said. "These things happen. It was something that everybody can learn from it. 
"I always felt at home here. I played so well last three years. I see no reason for me thinking about something that happened already. So today was great. I just hope that the fans will behave nice in the next rounds," he said. 
Djokovic will next face quali­fier Carsten Ball of Australia, who beat qualifier Juan Pablo Brzezicki of Argentina 7-6 (5), 6-3, 6-4. 
Seventh-seeded Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of France breezed into the second round by beating 18-year-old Chase Buchanan of the United States 6-0, 6-2, 6-1. 
Tsonga was the runner-up at the 2008 Australian Open. The 
U.S. Open is the only Grand Slam tournament at which he's never reached at least the fourth round. 
''I'm here to win and to go to the next step," he said. "The next step for me is to be in the five best players in the world." 
Tsonga played cleanly, mak­ing only 12 unforced errors, 24 fewer than Buchanan, who was the youngest man in the field. Buchanan was awarded a wild card by the U.S. Tennis Association as the 2009 USTA boys' 18s champion. 

Buchanan, of New Albany, Ohio, was making his Grand Slam debut. He had never faced anyone ranked higher than 121st. 
Other winners included No. 10 Fernando Verdasco, No. 16 Marin Cilic, No. 17 Tomas Berdych, No. 22 Sam Querrey and No. 30 Viktor Troicki, but No. 29 Igor Andreev fell to American Jesse Witten, who earned the first tour-level victo­ry of his career. 
"I hit with John McEnroe the other day, and he was really being helpful," Witten said. "He was trying to give me pointers." 
Taylor Dent, playing in the 
U.S. Open for the first time since 2005, eliminated Feliciano Lopez 4-6, 7-6 (6), 6­3,7-5. 
"I wanted to be here compet­ing and playing well and play­ing matches. So to be back here accomplishing that is pretty remarkable," said Dent, who reached a career-high ranking of No. 21 in 2005. "J still have a long way to go. I still feel like my game is still pretty rough around the edges. But it's extremely exciting." 
Dent had two back opera­tions and was told by doctors to forget about playing profes­sional tennis again. The serving motion he had to adjust because of his back problems managed to produce 18 aces against Lopez. Dent still plays the hard-charging, serve-and­volley style he always has, and he won 39 of 58 points when he went to the net. 
"Notre Dame: A Home for Students of All Faiths" Protestant andNon-Catholic Student Welcome Sessions  
Thursday, September 3, 2009 11:00 p.m. Q[ Thursday, September 10,2009 11:00 p.m. (both s,•uion.• orr the so~) 330 Coleman-Morse Center  
» Testimonials by Protestant and Evangelical upperclassmen > Q & A about faith life at Notre Dame »-Ministry Opportunities open to Christians ofall traditions ~ Fellowship with students who, like you, are seeking to live out their faith at Notre Dame > Find out about rides to off-campus churches ).. Come for Iron Sharpens Iron (lSI) Inter-denominational Ministry beforehand at 10:00 p.m. in 329 Coleman-Morse Center!  
PLUS: Sign up for two "Catholicism 101'' info sessions (with no strings attached): Mass Omjiui0t1: How to Make It Through a Catbohc Mass ifYou'rr Not Catholic Inside tile 11Big House',: A Theological Tour ofthe Basilica for Protest.1nt StudentsC-M Campus Ministry Hosted by Campld Mi~tistry'.s Protntanl Student Rr-.wurcn  


Wednesday, September 2, 2009 page 21
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
, 

··-:~~~
...,... 
~...-'__ j., 
~;.:v 


'':_ ~~i 
\. ~-~ 

.-.: 

......_-_ 
.c:"· ' 
~;~it~~-~/ : 
.., -"'"'·-~~..:-... 
~
.,.,,,_... 
... 
--------··­
"" 
t 
I 
l l 

The INSTITUTE FOR CHURCH LIFE OCL) and the CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS· (CSC) welcome the Notre Dame and South Bend community to Geddes Hall: 
OPEN HOUSE 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3 
4:00-6:00 PM TOURS 
GEDDES HALL 
I

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
See the first LEED certified building to open at NO. Hear the Celebration Choir perform (5:30PM). Enjoy light refreshments, and leam more about the work of the ICL and CSC . 
r --­

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 2, 2009 
I I 
I 
allow the defense to use differ­ent personnel packages, Weis
Smiths 

said. "If he's in with Toryan, he's
continued from page 24 

not a Mike. If he's in with 
: K: 
there are plenty, on the field. Manti, he is a Mike," Weis
\ \ 
This season, sophomore said. "Brian Smith is the guy
. 
~ 
Darius Fleming will start at who gives us the flexibility to
\ 
\ 
strong-side linebacker, senior move people around because 
t~ 
Toryan Smith will play middle he's the guy who's easily the 
I 
\ . I' 
linebacker and junior Brian most flexible and most inter­
I ' 
Smith will play weak-side line­changeable of all of the line­backer, according to the depth backers." chart released Tuesday. Speaking of Manti, he'll see 
Well, but what about senior most of his time at the Will, Scott Smith, sophomore Steve which is where Weis said he Filer or superfreshman Manti practiced most. But Weis didn't Te'o? They'll play too. rule out his playing elsewhere. 
,­
Fleming has the Sam line­What he did say was he want­
\ 
I 
backer spot locked up. Scott ed Te'o on the field with an
t 
I 
Smith is second on the depth experienced linebacker. 
•) 
chart and Filer third. "I wouldn't feel real confi­
~ 
\• 
"I think you'll see both Scott dent with Manti being in there
I 
and Steven both play Sam line­with an inexperienced player," backer as well, but Darius is Weis said Tuesday. "We won't the starter," Irish coach start him, but I think you'll see 
I . 
Charlie Weis said in a press him rotating in there, rotating conference on Aug. 24. in there at Will linebacker with Weis added that Fleming was Brian Smith or Toryan Smith." the most dynamic pass rusher Toryan had only 18 tackles of the group. He had 24 tackles in 10 games last season, but and 2.5 sacks last season. 10 of them came in a breakout 

Filer, Weis said, was so eager game against Navy. He also to get on the field at the Sam recovered a fumble. position he may have neglect­Sophomore Anthony ed to focus on other positions McDonald is the third option at that would also earn him play­Mike and sophomore David ing time, such as the nickel Posluszny is third on the depth formation. chart at the Will. 
Brian Smith, also listed ''I'd say that they both put behind Toryan Smith as the themselves in the position Mike linebacker, is the leading where we're not going to be returning tackler on the team afraid to play them and I think with 54 tackles last season. He that you'll see both of those had two sacks and recovered guys on special teams a whole two fumbles, one of which he bunch," Weis said. ran back for a touchdown against Michigan. He has the Contact Bill Brink at versatility to move around and wbrink@nd.edu 
Dame's talented current ros­Sch uveiller, [sophomore] ter may be able to translate Courtney Barg, [sophomore]
WPS 

their success on campus into Melissa Henderson, [fresh­
Michigan forward collided; he 
success in the young league man] Tereza Statsny, and
continued from page 24 was knocked down and

Dike

as well as their former Irish [junior] Lauren Fowlkes, who remained there after the other"The league is looking very counterparts. played on the American players had moved on. Trainers
continued from page 24

good for the future of "I think out of our senior under-20 team, have the 
came out, but he was able to get 
' : women's soccer. [The class, Courtney Rosen is out, potential to play in that 
young team and they have very back up and did not leave the
\'\ \: 
American] women's team has but she's our one senior this league," Waldrum continued.
' 
good players. It wasn't a five­field.
either been the champion or year who I thought certainly "A sleeper in there could be nothing game where you could Senior midfielder Cory Dellas runner up in the World Cup would go into the league and [seniorJ Haley Ford if that's a yawn. You were very happy to was not so lucky -he went or Olympics but others are play but she might come back direction she wants to go, but see the ball going in." down hard early in the first halfcatching up so we need that for a 5th year," Waldrum we've got quite a few players
\. 
And that was a sight that came and had to leave the game with 
• I 
\' league to survive for us to said. "[Senior] Michele who might be in the league in 
often, especially in the second a knee injury. 

I continue to play and get bet­Weissenhoffer could also go if a few years." 
half. "I hope he'll be okay, we'll fmd ter after college." she wanted to." 
"I think the team in general out. We've got doctors looking at
Waldrum also thinks that "A lot of the young ones, Contact Mike Gotimer at 
played better in the second half," him," Clark said. "They didn't 
many members of Notre including [sophomore] Jessica mgotimer@nd.edu 
Dike said. "I had one of the most want to put him back on, and embarrassing misses in the first maybe we'll look at it tomor­half, so maybe I was making up row." 
careers with the Irish and are year, Louderback 
for that." Senior midfielder John well-prepared to step up and said. "They showed that they 
Four minutes into the period, Schaefer replaced the injured
Tennis 

meet that challenge. can play high in our lineup 
junior Stephen Perry untangled Dellas and helped the Irish "We should have good lead­and compete with anyone 
himself from several Michigan defense, which allowed the
continued from page 24 

ership this year with our nationally in both singles and 
defenders to put the ball in and Wolverines only four shots on which I think will carry over three seniors," Louderback doubles." 
make the score 2-0 Irish. goal. to this year." said. "They have all won Leading the way this season 
Then Dike took over. "The defense did very well, While they will surely miss many matches for us and will be sophomore Kristy 
Dike came back into the game especially after losing Corey," the presence of former team­have been Frilling, who 
with 26:09 remaining and Clark said. "We were worried, mates Kelcy Tefft and Katie some of our made quite a 
almost immediately ran the ball but John came in and I think he Potts -who graduated last most reliable splash in her 
down the field to the goal. He did a really, really good job. He's 
·~we should have 
spring -the Irish return a doubles play­first collegiate 
lined up against Michigan a senior and hasn't played a lot, strong group of players who ers." some good leadership season. Frilling 
defender Julian Robes but got and he came on and did really are more than capable of Ciobanu and stepped into 
the ball past him and into the well."
with our three 
duplicating last season's suc­Krisik had a the spotlight net. Alumni Stadium was packed
seniors.··
cess. great 2008-09 last season at 
Less than eight minutes later, with fans eager to see the team While Potts played sparing­campaign play­No. 2 singles 
he again found the ball and and the new stadium. Clark said ly as a senior, the two-time ing side-by­Jay Louderback and played 
streaked past every defender he and the players were in awe All-American Tefft left behind side at the No. alongside Tefft 
before once again netting the ofthe new facility as well.
Irish coach 
some big shoes that will be 2 doubles posi­at No. 1 dou­
ball. "I've walked on to some pretty difficult to fill. tion on their bles. For a 
Only five minutes after that, big stadiums in my life," he said. "It is going to be hard to way to a 16-6 period, the duo 
Dike went for the hat trick by "But when I walked onto this replace [Tefft] and [Potts]. record. Krisik posted a 28-8 was the top-ranked doubles 
taking a well-placed kick from stadium [Monday night] with the [They] both won a lot of record in singles competition team in the nation and posted 
freshman forward Dillon lights on, I'll tell you I had as big matches for us and were on and ended the season on an an incredible 34-3 record on 
Powers, who had just entered a buzz as I ever had. The boys two teams to reach the quar­11-game winning streak. the season. 
the game, and putting it in. His were so excited. They were just terfinals of the NCAA's and Ciobanu was a solid 24-6 in Louderback is also looking 
three quick goals made the score jumping." one final four team," singles play. forward to significant contri­
unreachable for the Wolverines. Notre Dame will be in action Louderback said. "(Tefftl Rielley partnered with butions from the freshman 
"I was just fortunate for the again this weekend at the 
might have been the best sophomore Shannon Mathews class once again this season 
ball to land in the right places," Adidas/IU Credit Union Classic, I, doubles player in the country and ended the season with a as five-star recruit Christine 
I, 
I 
Dike said. where they will face No. 3 Wake last year and was very solid 23-8 record at No. 3 doubles. McGaffigan joins the squad. 
The Irish were aggressive from Forest and No.5 St. John's. for us at No. 1 singles for two As strong as the three sen­McGaffigan played on the col­
the start but did not ~cure a goal "That will be another level years. They were both great iors are, a lot of Notre Dame's lege circuit this past summer, 
until 20 minutes left in the rrrst up," Clark said of the upcoming competitors which had a success could depend on the winning two tournaments and 
half. Senior Jeb Brovsky recov­invitational. "We'll be ready for great influence on our performance of its sopho­reaching the semifinals of 
ered a loose ball in front of the them and we're looking forward younger players." mores who all played big another. 
Wolverine goal and kicked it in to it." Seniors Cosmina Ciobanu. roles as freshmen last season. 
to make the score 1-0. Kali Krisik and Colleen "Our sophomore class was Contact Alex Barker at 
Brovsky had a scare earlier in Contact Laura Myers at Rielley have each had stellar outstanding as freshmen last abarkerI @nd.edu 
the game when he and a lmyers2@nd.edu 

Wednesday, September 2, 2009 page 23. 
The Observer+ TODAY 
CROSSWORD 

Across 36 Arthurian times, 66 ~ Ia Douce" 1 Clinks say (1963 film) 6 Wayout 37 Name in :?.001 67 Fish-eating bankruptcy news raptor
1 0 Baseball star tn Senate steroid 39 Knoxviile sch. 68 Moves gingedy 
hearings 41 Grizzlies' org, 69 Cold war propaganda
14 Shelter~d water 42 "Call itr call disseminator 

15 Repetitive 43 Lehmann of 70 Rink fake 

routine opera 71 Like Yogi Serra.
161t may be 44 Damage, so to physicallypumped speak 

17 Argue forcibly ·16Con man? 

Down 
20 South American 47 Chaotic place 1 Huck's raftmatecruise stop 48Terse 2 Bibliophile's

21 Finish lacing up 

51 "Don't _ me. suffix 22 ____ fly (run bro!" 
3 Sort 
producer) 
53 Dark half ot a 

4 Lounge lizard's 25 Catch red· Chine~ circle 
look handed 
54 G.P.S. heading 5 Discolorations 27 Royal Navy drink 
55 like a Mobius 6 Works in aof old 
strip gallery 28 Pesticide 
59 Class with the 7 Snow structure 
spreader~ e g. 
periodic table on 

8 Yours. in Tours 
32 Brian ol ambient the walt often: 

9 Bridge no«no
music Abbr. · 10 2007 Michael 
35 Prefix with 61 Where Olaf I or 

Moore
sphere Olaf II sal documentary 

11 Juicer remnants
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


12Eh 13 Wori< without 
_(be daring) 1B Needing a rinse 19 "La Boheme" 
setting 22 Charles who created 
Pepp~mninl 
Patty 23 ~Am not!" 
response 24 Shake hands 26 trs mos1 useful 
when it's broKen 29 Blood drive donation 30 Shady retreat 
WILL SHORTZ 

Puzzle by Tlm Wescott 
31 like bread 49 Counterbalanced. 58 Oungeonlike dough or beer 
as bets 6Q Modem home of 
33 Actor Nick and 
50 What some races ancient Ur family are won by 34Ukesome 52 , , the custom 6:2 Alumna bio word football ~ticks 
(traditionally}

38 Tandoor-bak.ed 

55 "Get .~!" (~Stop
bread 64 Teachers' org,

procrastinating1")

40 Storied monster. 
informally S6 ~The Thin Mao" 65 1970s self­detective
45 Dance for improvement Chubby Checker 57 Mayo's land program 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1A9 a mioute; or, with a credit cant i -800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the oost of Sunday crosswords from the Jast 50 years 1 ·888· 7-ACROSS. AT&T users: TeX1 NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytlmes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle aoo mora than 2,000 past pu:tzlns, nytimes.comtcrosswords (S39.9S a year). Sham tips: nytimes.oomtworctp!ay. Crosswords for youn9 solvers: nytimes.comtleamlngtxwon::is, 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
n:u:unn:s w*'0'nus n\'i~ Obu F*fw, 5::!: h 11lld .~\.{1f,i"' "!it f:hny 
h!:.t,. 'u; tJ;. ·hw.dn. -:\) 

u~ tlkiW..,; Y:~'l Oj!·il'i t.u-Yl>' k' J~ !0:~. >e1N'l1~ -&~n'<l<"®'> ll""f~f.W ~'\.o""l'lr bw<l!>f ¥l<t lnwh rlm vr:s 1."-'~il! ~~ itlr~~"'t th:lti~-e a .;~<!.hi '"""'l~lll'IE,~blhh d J ...-~:;ni:-~ wdt< idtlltl' ~umc, d'f1tti1filri:w (lf 1:1*~:*"~~ ~.,~,~h "-'-~<:A' d! .. ,t't.H~1d:~ W l!C' Ultt k> F\!~td nd 
-
l'hif ·~ )>.:~ \HY W>'W '1\>~i!' i~W:i"!ti1 #t fi. tJ. U. "fJ'. 5 J 1" ~p 
~1Uts ~\1iirth !1··\pf'lt ,.,~, lto..' ~k-f't" p~ •Mp•~t: ~ )< hl~·k~ ..~...~.(Of' "'~law r<:«t ~1\i~Y ~'lil-t lrlkt}'<'lll"'',dl {h fl= ,., 14m?.; t4 P'*ntu! (1~1 '*til ~n~:~'hnh•~ llf >~'>!!! •wcl Mf!UP-'Ik 1~'~ ~liL lk >an~~:· fiJM'tlf ~~;OW<! lA ~·t;.'1\··. f).JQ1 fir&: tl.:-t~n~n 
·tM lW'\ I \pri :.a-'\t.-~ ::Ot; fl~~1 ttul'J ~·~ ~*y;:(+( '"'%\>' ~~ tf\!l•l '""·' j.IF<,.-1-'Wiff· ~<~l J':N~"tl i f?l\~r<-'. }"~~ mrft IJL:!',·t.~ ..M'!l '\S;·h¥ !f!"~ '\S;'Mlii !$>1\r ,TIJ l"l>i~MI ..:~n ri ~...l>Jt h~-l '11-tk I!(' #.ik h•·t'1•~ if.ft.~~-~ih p-i·$4 ..rt'f'.# j,_. Jl~ k~1'<1 •• . 
OE'\il~l'-'hY zt-,J~ ,m·jy x"~~ i:"n.lh'M"·nH ts:' ·~~ k(}¥i!'J ~~ u~ ~ ~~';!).(4f 
't>.~ ~Wafli u!O'I i!ihh~ illl >kthlil;f' 'll>li'h i~'>W ~~hi lltl' f.'lio:~<l~cb k1 k>-11 f"'('r.J"<~ ~~":\ 
l.&f:.:vdltt~~;r.-..·!il'f l.~J fM a,;-l)O:>r !il.~· i:tX~'¢1 • •·•* • 
f".\'f(·f,J4 lJWW ,U,~ l:H U}f., •J•'ffk~! )<"""f ~i:"l;i~ )~?4> ll'f$.ti,t Ujt~1ft~ #l\.~~t>. .\?! ;~t§M~'''"'~ <.i tl Wtm ~ ~tf~-'#·.bif f.'-~ t~,,~ ~ut ~:•~ tr.~ .,...~~*-'{( "'f&,~t~~o ~-w ~~( .,_~!;.~~~ U~W\}. ~hb< p-." &<~t¥( nl*l!W oto~ 1\~ W llfifiiJII$\.'-.h.&t~ f>M ~~,l' ~~~--~tit 
::::!~~~~~~!!~~¥:: ~~~::J~:i=~=~:~!: ~=~~\~t 
!1¢;~¥ ••• 

\JatfO fAilllll• .LkS.pt. UJ~ ;\ !Oiltk~ *-hh<d.~ ~1lfki41 ~t.ir<f F-'1~ d~ !!!Jt~ a; 
:=:t).~:!:::~r:~: il:f~!:~::-::1'.-tt ~k-~i-.k 
l,.lfla., •S.,.-t ... tn.#): 6,~ ~~ ••.~ ~ -t:~ d~~ fl.~_ ~}~ur~:~.,~~ -..;tt ~~~':Ut~tl\fl'*-ds~.ft·• lat.:-k~~~ h~ ~Dltlb.tt~li-."'t'4.~ Mk ~hf ~:dt. kiA>h; ;_m~ ••,••• 
~~f.t~~::::S!~:a~t~~~j~~T:J:~::::~~:Jt4:~*~l~ 
=~:·:~~:·~~4:~·~;::k~-~:;:;~:~::~~~::~;:e;,~·*~:::~~y,;
J:<:~lt' ~dM, ~~ 'l'tli ll<Jt k., ~tU ~~ray It+ tft. " • 
i;:~~-:~E!::~re~:~;~:~~~:;:;;~;:=l·:~=~:~~J::; 
;s~:~t.;!/t:::;~!t:::i~':~:.;.;t::~;~-r ;t~··::=:rl~;;::; :~1~: ibd 
WA\Idl W(~i'l J<)~lf (i.f.~>eii'M\ Mt<l !~ll','#l~ ®,-1 .. IAhi' ·~·WI. N"ihW.K~ "' ii* lilt <1 f.¥!\X&.>k· lMfli 

Ultl~J. ...;:: '\'!'t¥.t t!t<: tt'~'t'tH*h\tiJ, ~~~tflu:l,Jht'1lt:mct~tM~ Miit *!~h%)'t~.~t~1Wf.·Y~'l'~ 
•,ff:ortl k&· dl;•tlft :ll!t<li lf~i 1<1:b.m-llil:· !Jj!·~ -~ "'.$!::tMt# 
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
SCHAD & FREUDE 

Sii\.J<:E f'V10S1 OF tA.$ Mf::t GAtv1E {0
jlc'ts 
Lt FTC AfV\?~'\S p.. j CAMPUS, tQ4tJ HE:.Li:> LOi OF 1'-v\OMt:NfTou.S; A ~HAM E LE<.. Tl 01\J~ eVE "-'TS t-t Av~ I 'Bu.,.. V\1\0\T 

oc..c U fl.e; D... _,/ l M Po tlT&\NT L '/... 
ID 



THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year D Enclosed is $65 for one semester Name-----------------------­
Address _______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip__________ 
JUMBLE 
JJTJJWJD1J! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 
HINEW 
I I I trJ 
!~:2000 Tribune Media Se1vices, lrn:. All Rights Rei&rll&d. 
DROLE ~ 
IISTUNE t
rJ IJ 

Ans: vJis "(IIIIIIIIIJ" 
Yesterday's  IJumbles:  WHILE  SINGE  (Answers tommrow) EXHALE ARTERY  
Answer:  This can lead to the altar ­ 
THE AISLE  

JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mfha Arglrion and Jeff Knurek 

WHY THE PL.AY DIDN'T HAVE A L-ONG r<L>N 

Now arrange the circled leners to form the surprise answer. as suggested by the above cartoon. 
,,
,. 
' 
THE OBSERVER 

p
Wednesday, September 2, 2009 

page 24 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

i'
\'. 
Notre Dame alumni fill new women's professional league 
' \ 
' I. 
\\ 
\\ 
\' I' 
I 
( 
I­
I . 
. \· 
tL 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 
In its inaugural season of play, the Women's Professional Soccer League learned quickly why Notre Dame is one of the nation's premier college pro­grams. The seven-team league has seen plenty of Notre Dame alumni in its premier events, including both the WPS Championship and the WPS All-Star Game in August. 

On Aug. 22, two-time defending Hermann Award Winner Kerri Hanks ('08) ·and Jen Buczkowski ('07) led New Jersey-based Sky Blue FC to the WPS Title with a 1-0 upset victory over the regular season champions, the Los Angeles Sol 1-0. 
In taking down the Sol, Hanks and Buczkowski defeat­ed fellow Notre Dame alumni Brittany Bock ('09) and Shannon Boxx ('99). 
Former Irish player Christie· Shaner ('07) was also on the Sol roster, but was not able to play due to injury. In total, with five former players on the championship rosters, Notre Dame tied with North Carolina for most alumni in the game. 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum was thrilled about the success of his for.iner players in the new league. 
"It's really exciting," 
Waldrum said. "It says a whole lot about the level of the pro­gram we're running and the kind of kids that we're not only getting to come into the school but how we're developing them. I'm really proud of them, and we think it's really good for our program." 
As the young league grows, Waldrum believes the WPS is great for the future of women's soccer in America and that his players will continue to excel. 

~ 
~~ 
:i
'•
'-fOOTBALL 
( 



Meet the ·Sntiths
\ 
\ 
1 I ~ 
~ . ~ ( 
I Irish rich in depth and 
:~ 

talent at linebacker 
3 
\' 
'i. By BILL BRINK 
·I 
Sports Writer 

I ~ 
The fall depth chart released Tuesday revealed good news: The Irish can once again field an all-Smith linebacking corps. 
Oh, and, uh, it revealed the starters. 
The Irish defense changes again this season -Notre Dame will play four down line­men and three linebackers, compared to the three linemen and four linebackers it previ­ously employed. 

d: 
Which is a shame, really, because it removes a position that could get another talented Irish linebacker, of which 
( 
see SMITHS/page 22 

f SMC SoccER 

Senior middle linebacker Toryan Smith, 49, makes a tackle during last season's loss to-Syracuse. Tuesday, Smith was named the starting middle linebacker for Notre Dame's opener against Nevada. 
Belles beat Holy Cross easily to start season 
[, Observer StaffReport 

Saint Mary's scored early and often coasting to a 3-0 victory at home over Holy Cross Tuesday afternoon. 
The Belles' pressure on the offensive end led to an own goal off a Holy Cross defender in the 24th minute, giving Saint Mary's a 1-0 lead. Sophomore forward Katelyn Tondo-Steele stretched the lead to 2-0 when she hit a shot that grazed the post before going in. Senior forward Katy Durkin provided the final goal of the game just seconds 

I·
I. 
( 



Squad wins innew stadium 
By LAURA MYERS 

Sports Writer  
The Irish sent a big mes­ 
sage Tuesday that they are  
ready to play with the big  
boys.  
Senior forward Bright Dike  
scored three goals and No.  
10  Notre  Dame  soundly  
defeated No. 21 Michigan 5-0  
in their season opener and  
the first game played in the  
new Alumni Stadium.  
"It was a fun night," Irish  
coach Bobby Clark said...To  
be fair I thought the score  
1ied. Michigan is quite  a  
Sophomore midflelder Adam Mena prepares to play the ball  
see DIKE/page 22  Tuesday night against Michigan. The Irish went on to win 5-0.  

IRISH INSIDER
-----·----_____.__ __....... --·· ­

-----~ 
as beat writers Bill Brink. Matt Gamber & Sam Werner discuss the latest fall depth chart. 
', ~ 
PODCAST 
I:( 


before halftime. 
Saint Mary's defense was solid all night as it held Holy Cross to just a single shot on goal. 
Senior Patty Duffy played goalkeeper in the first half, recording the lone save, before freshman Adele Bruggeman came on to close the game in the second half. 
The win improves the Belles to 1-0, a vast improvement from last year's 0-4 start. 
Saint Mary's will travel to Danville, Kent. to play in the Centre College Tournament Sept. 5. 
MEN'S SOCCER 

"As little as 10 years ago, there wasn't much opportunity for [female] athletes to play after college," Waldrum said. "We had a pro league that failed with the WUSA so we hope that the league is better this time around." 
.. 1 do think that the young [Notre Dame alumni] have a good future to look at with the WPS," Waldrum continued. 
see WPS/page 22 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
NDhopes to improve onlast year 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Writer 
Coming off a spectacular season in which the Irish knocked off four top-five teams on their way to the team's first ever-berth in the NCAA Semifinals, Irish coach Jay Louderback has his team reloaded and poised for another run at a national title. 
"We were so close to win­ning it all last year and I was so proud of the way our team played the entire year, espe­cially during the NCAA Tournament," he said. "We played with a lot of poise 
see TENNIS/page 22 

Check out The Observer's Irish Insider podcast 
at ndsmcobserver.com/podcasts 





