
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Da-me and Saint Mary's 
Balkan crisis leaves MBA students cold 
Classmates on trip to Bosnia for business course face low temps as natural gas is cut off 
By AARON STEINER Assistant News Editor 
Keith Flatley said it was a cold couple of days he and five other Notre Dame MBA students spend in Bosnia at the beginning of the month, as much of eastern Europe was affected by a cutoff of natural gas from Russia that began on Jan. 1. 
The MBA students-travel­ing to Bosnia for a course called "Business on the Frontlines" -arrived in the country on Jan. 2. Shortly after their arrival, they were among the thousands affected by the gas cutoff. The Associated Press reported that tens of thousands of homes and buildings have been left without heat in freezing weather since the disruption. 
The cutoff stems from a dis­pute over pricing agreements between Ukraine and Gazprom, Russia's state-run monopoly that supplies natu­ral gas to Ukraine and much of Europe. 
As temperatures plunged to 
6.8 degrees Fahrenheit in Sarajevo, the Bosnian capital, Flatley said that students braced for the cold nights without heat. 
"It was about 10 below Celsius," Flatley said. "We just did what we could." 
While in the country, the students stayed in an apart­ment, which is heated by nat­ural gas. Flatley said the group had an electric oven which they tried to use for heat, as well as a heat lamp in the bathroom. 
Other than that, the stu­
dents bundled up on the cold nights, he said, and found as much heat during the day as possible. 
"We'd be out all day, doing our work, [and] some of the buildings had heat," he said. But the majority of businesses didn't have heating. 
"We found a couple places of heat," he said. 
The AP reported that sales of electric heaters soared, something Flatley confirmed in an e-mail from Jan. 7. 
"There are lines forming at stores selling electric heaters. The price of an electric heater on Monday was under $100 U.S.; it is now over $200," he wrote in the e-mail. "The heaters sell out within minutes of the stores open­ing." 
The infrastructure in Bosnia varies, Flatley said, 

but natural gas heating is common, with much of it con­structed since the Bosnian conflicts that left the country in shambles. 
"When [Sarajevo] was rebuilt, because the electric grid was kind of shoddy, they basically redid the city with natural gas," he said. In some cities, where natural gas is less common, there is a mix of firewood and electric heat­ing systems, he said. 
Flatley said the mood in the country wasn't too negative. 
"They're tough people," he said of Bosnians, noting they've endured far worse during years of bombings and conflict in the region. 
"I think it was more an issue for us than for the peo­ple there," he said. 
see MBA/ page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Professor Michael Signer dies 
ByJENNMETZ News Editor 

Rabbi Michael Signer, Abrams Professor of Jewish Thought 


and Culture at Notre Dame, died Saturday. He was 63. Throughout his career and min­istry, Signer 
Signer f o ll o w e d what he once described as "the impulse to explore relationships between Catholics and Jews by 
see SIGNER/page 3 
Notre Dame fans enjoy Irish victory, 'white sand Christmas' 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 

HONOLULU -Notre Dame seniors Alice Ciciora and Ron LaFalce spent several days tour­ing the beaches and mountains of Oahu, but the highlight of their trip, they said, was watch­ing Notre Dame end its nine­game bowl loss streak with a win against Hawaii. 
The Notre Dame Fighting Irish defeated the University of Hawaii Warriors 49-21 in the Christmas Eve Sheraton Hawaii Bowl, and Ciciora and LaFalce were seated in the front row of Aloha Stadium to witness it. 
Notre Dame seniors Brandon Frost, left, Alice Ciciora and Head coach Charlie Weis holds the Sheridan Bowl trophy on Ron LaFalce, right, scored front row seats at the bowl game. see BOWL/page 4 the field with quarterback Jimmy Clausen after the game. 



Saint Mary's installs signpost 
New campus landmark points, shows distance to study abroad locations 
By LIZ HARTER Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's students exiting the east doors of the Student Center and Spes Unica Hall may have noticed two new signposts near both buildings. 
While one might expect the signs to point visitors towards other buildings on campus, they actually point towards the eight countries in which Saint Mary's has study abroad programs. The signs also show how far away 
the locations are from the College. 
The signposts were purchased by the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership (CWIL) with funds from the Lilly grant, said Elaine Meyer-Lee, CWIL director. 
"[The signs] are a visual reminder of the College's many opportunities to study abroad," Meyer-Lee said. 
Those opportunities include semester and full year programs in Maynooth, Ireland; Dijon, France; Innsbruck, Austria; Seviller Spain; Rome, Italy; and Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, as well as summer programs in Seoul, South Korea and Beijing, China, all of which are included on the signs. 
.The College also offers a semester or full year in Fremantle, Australia; Mumbai, India; Cordoba, Argentina and a women's studies semester in Europe. There are also summer programs in Ecuador, Honduras and Greece, and semester break 
see SIGN/page 6 


Parking lot restrictions spur student discontent 
By SARAH GUNN News Writer 

Saint Mary's students who commute to campus returned from break to find they will have a longer walk from the parking lots to the main parts of campus. 
The Science Hall parking lot, on the northeast side of campus, has been restricted to students and is only open to faculty and staff. 
Students may park in the 
parking lot on weekends and on weekdays after 5:30 p.m., but many students expressed frustration with the new restrictions. 
Senior Kristen Edelen, said the new restrictions are "ridiculous." Since returning from break she has had two warnings and one parking ticket. The two warnings were a result of being "improperly parked" in the newly restrict­ed science lot. Edelen said the 
see PARKING/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, January 14, 2009 
INSIDE CO£UMN 


Quiet coverage 
I no longer have to take Jerome Holtzman's word for it. There is, in fact, no cheering in the press box. 
For the past three and a half years, I've written for the news department and I've been content. My aspirations are more toward Bob Woodward and not 
Kaitlynn Riely 
as much toward Red 
Smith or Grantland 
Rice. 

Associate News 
But for a few 
Editor
hours on Christmas Eve, I was nearly a 
sports reporter. 

And although the Notre Dame Fighting Irish defeated the University of Hawaii Warriors 49-21 in the last game I will ever see as an undergraduate, I did not cheer, clap or shout while I was in the Aloha Stadium press box. 
I may have smiled. 

Prior to Christmas Eve, the closest I'd ever come to covering a sporting event was writing a story about the new water ski club. 
But The Observer sent me to Hawaii for the Sheridan Bowl to write an article about students who attended the game and I found myself sitting a few seats down from the stadium announcer and within viewing distance of Charlie Weis in the Notre Dame coaches' box. 
My family sent me text messages asking me to take a picture of Charlie with my phone. I refrained, even though No 
Taking Pictures with a Camera Phone in 
the Press Box is a book that has not yet 
been written. 

We arrived at the stadium just moments before kickoff, due to a faulty GPS system that, at one point in the trip, directed one of my colleagues onto a military base. 
When we walked into the press box, everyone else was already seated, notepads and computers at the ready. 
My two Observer colleagues, both vet­eran Notre Dame football reporters, took their designated seats at the front of the press box. I was given a seat in the sec­ond row, right behind them. They took out their laptops and opened up their Word documents and Excel spreadsheets and began entering drive yardage and pass completion data. 
The reporter sitting next to me, whose name setting indicated he worked for a local Hawaiian paper, had his laptop open. He had already written the lede of his story, leaving blanks for the final score. 
After every drive, he made notations in his notebook to track the progress of the game. 
Up and down the rows, the men of the bowl game press corps were quietly watching and recording. 
And there I was, sitting among them, just watching. I took out a notebook so I would be less conspicuous and started writing down some questions I'd ask of fans later. 
That took about five minutes. 
But I couldn't just sit there and watch while everyone else was obviously work­ing. I'm sure no one was assuming I had an extraordinary game play memory. 
I made a note each time Notre Dame scored. And again when Hawaii scored. I made a note about the Hawaiian shirts the coaches and managers were wearing. 
It wasn't great sports reporting, but at least I dido 't cheer. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the authpr and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjounalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: So, WHAT'S THE WEATHER LIKE AT HOME? 






Alain Uwilingi)'imana  Colleen Cusick  Marcus Gatto  Scott Feister  Theo Ossei-Anto  
senior off-campus  freshman Lewis  senior Dillon  senior St. Ed's  senior Zahm  
"You don't want to know the answer to that question. I'm  "Perfect. Just like the rest of Alabama.  "Dreamy and balmy, with a 100 percent chance of  "[Wolman. That's a really 'hard-to-answer question. ,,  "Worse. I'm from Buffalo. "  

from Buffalo. " romance. 

OFFBEAT 
'American Idol' sues 'Stripper Idol' 
AUSTIN -"American Idol" wants an Austin strip club to take it off. The company that owns the popular television show sued in federal court to stop the weekly "Stripper Idol"contest at Palazio Men's Club. FremantleMedia North America also wants to seize Palazio's profits from the amateur stripping contest. 
In its lawsuit against Palazio, FremantleMedia calls "Stripper Idol" a trademark violation that could mislead the public to think the TV show sponsors the event, The Dallas Morning News reported in Tuesday edi­tions. 
Advertisements for the stripping contest use a logo with a "color scheme, design and font"similar to the TV show's. Waitresses at the club also wear T­shirts emblazoned with the logo, according to the lawsuit. 
Men arrested for cutting in line 
MUNCIE, Ind. -A 26­year-old man and his father were arrested after an off-duty Muncie police officer complained about the man cutting in line at a Wal-Mart store. Police reports said Edward R. Pluhar Jr. of Frankfort cut to the front of the line at the Wal-Mart service desk Sunday. What he didn't know was that Officer Chris Kirby was waiting in the line. 
Kirby said Pluhar refused when Kirby asked him to wait his turn. Pluhar's father, 61-year­old Edward R. Pluhar Sr., then asked Kirby if he wanted to step outside. That's when Kirby report­edly told the men he was a police oflicer. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 


Q
...... 
*&* * 

<
(,) 
0 
6 HIGH 8 HIGH
...I 
-13 LOW -13 LOW 




IN BRIEF 

Members of David Dorfman Dance will lead a Master Class with selected students from Clay High School's dance magnet program from 1-2:30 p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The event is free. Contact Margot Borger at 574-631-2808 for more information. 
University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh will seak about his friendship with Dr. Martin Luther King and his own experiences in the civil rights movement Thursday at 7 
p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. 
Josh Dorfman, the founder and CEO of Vivavi will deliv­er a lecture titled "Peering into the Green Future: The Trends and Innovations Forgin an Abundant Society in Balance with Nature" Friday from 10:40-12:10 
a.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. 
The Student Activities Office will host Late Night Ice Skating Friday from 9 ­11 p.m. at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. The event is free to Notre Dame students with an ID. 
"Brian Brushwood: Bizarre Magic" show, which will take place Saturday from 9 p.m.-11 in Washington Hall, is free and open to students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 



15 
10 

Atlanta 52 I 32 Boston 36 I 21 Chicago 15 I 12 Denver 48 I 13 Houston 56 I 40 Los Angeles 68 I 52 Minneapolis 6 I -9 New York 29 I 26 Philadelphia 31 I 25 Phoenix 73 I 45 Seattle 49 I 37 St. Louis 36 I 19 Tampa 61 I 45 Washington 37 I 29 
Wednesday, January 14, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Research suggests winter babies face socioeconomic struggles 
Special to The Observer  December, January and February are, on average, less  precisely clear. In the new study, Buckles  the seasonal patterns in births is that summer's high tempera­ brations. The researchers also note  
Many of us may often feel  educated, less intelligent, less  and Hungerman analyzed U.S  . tures inhibit sperm production.  that survey data has shown  
that we've been born under an  healthy and lower paid than  census data and birth certifi­ This  seems  to  affect lower  that women  consider winter  
unlucky  sign.  Now,  new  people born in other seasons.  cates to determine if the typical  socioeconomic status women  the least desirable season in  
research by a pair of University  A variety of explanations  woman giving birth in winter is  more  adversely, which could  which to give birth. Buckles  
of Notre Dame economists sug­ have been suggested for this  any different from the typical  explain why there are relative­ and Hungerman suggest that  
gests that some of us are, in  phenomenon, including such  woman giving birth at other  ly fewer births to these women  women who are wealthier and  
fact, born in an unlucky sea­ social and natural factors as  times of the year.  in the spring and early sum­ more educated are better able  
son.  compulsory schooling laws,  They discovered that babies  mer.  to time their births to more  
In their paper, Kasey Buckles  changes in climate and expo­ born in the winter are more  Buckles and Hungerman also  desirable seasons.  
and Daniel Hungerman point  sure to illness. However, the  likely to have mothers who are  point out that there could be a  The Notre Dame economists'  
out that a large body of previ­ exact cause of the association  unmarried, who are teenagers  "prom babies" effect, with win­ findings are published in a  
ous research consistently has  between season of birth and  or  who lack  a  high school·  ter births occurring nine moths  National Bureau of Economic  
found  that  people  born  in  later outcomes has never been  diploma. One explanation for  after end-of-year school cele- Research Working paper.  


Signer 
continued from page 1 
encouraging students to inves­tigate the darker moments of rivalry and even persecution that mark the pages of history to those invigorating engage­ments between scholars of our two communities." 
A member of the faculty since 1992, Signer, an international scholar, was a professor of Jewish history at Hebrew Union Co liege-Jewish Institute of Religion in Los Angeles from 1974 to 1991. 
Specializing in the fields of Judaism and medieval exegesis, Signer was interested in the multiple relationships between Judaism and Christianity. 
Signer once said he cherished his years at Notre Dame because they offered him "the opportunity to engage in the day-to-day lives of Christian colleagues and students as they wrestle with what it means to live their tradition in the mod­ern world. Their struggle to discover how their faith can guide them as they negotiate a path to discover meaning in the pluralistic society that sur­rounds them without surren­dering a distinctive religious identity awakens many echoes of the Jewish tradition which has in the past and continues to chart its course between assim­ilation and resistance to con­temporary culture." 
"We are saddened at the loss of our dear colleague Michael Signer," said John Cavadini, chair of Theology at Notre Dame. "His leading work in Christian-Jewish dialogue and his scholarship in medieval bib­lical exegesis made him a beloved teacher and scholar whose loss will be keenly felt not only by his colleagues and students in our theology department, but by the theolog­ical community worldwide." 
Signer graduated from the University of California Los Angeles in 1966. He earned a master's degree from Hebrew Union College in 1970, the same year as his rabbinical ordination. 
As a doctoral student at the University of Toronto, Signer became interested in interreli­gious affairs. While in Los Angeles, he taught Bible cours­es to Catholic seminarians, par­ticipated in dialogues between Catholic priests and rabbis and 
Anonymous alumnus provides library gift 
ness students. ''!-felt it was Special to The Observer important to do something with respect to business students who 
The University of Notre Dame's 
need to be able to process a
Hesburgh Libraries and under­
tremendous amount of informa­
graduate and graduate students 
tion" as part of "a practical
in the Mendoza College of 
approach to business education." 
Business are among the benefici­
For motivated students teamed
aries of a distinctive gift that 
with a highly skilled guide to the
Notre Dame received this year 
universe of facts and databases,
from a generous-and anony­
"it can be a very collaborative sit­
mous-alumnus. 
uation," he points out. 
This benefactor says he wanted 
The generous individual behind 
to make a special expression of 
the new position is anonymous,
his gratitude to Notre Dame for 
but the holder of the new position 
the education he received and for 
is not. He is Stephen M. Hayes,
the "vast professional alumni net­
the former "business services
work which has helped me 
librarian," who has overseen the
immensely in various business 
Mahaffey Center since it _opened
and professional communities." 
in 1995 and who has become
As a result, the libraries now 
known at Mendoza as an expert
have an "entrepreneurial spirit 
in and teacher of what he calls
endowed business librarian" 
"competitive intelligence." He
position supporting the ever­
also has been part of teams
increasing needs at Mendoza and 
teaching case studies in business
at the college's Mahaffey Business 
research and a new "research
Information Center (part of the 
challenge" initiative for under­
Hesburgh Libraries). 
graduates.

The endowed business librari­
Hayes calls the endowment of a 
an position carries no benefac­
business librarian position
tor's name, but it does reflect the 
"visionary," recognizing and nur­
anonymous donor's recognition of 
turing a connection between the 
changing times in the profession­
development of entrepreneurial
al world, where he says "infor­
skills and the mastery of informa­
mation is power" and there is a 
tion that supports good judgment. 
torrent of data available. 
This collaborative approach to
"Librarians are unsung heroes 
research goes way beyond merely 
to a certain extent," says this 
"answering a question" with the
unsung benefactor, who decided 
limited knowledge gleaned from
to bestow funding that would 
an Internet search engine. 
help both the libraries and busi­
organized retreats for his designs educational opportuni­ing about literature and theolo­Catholic, Protestant and Jewish ties for the study of the Shoah. gy," Hart said. colleagues. Kevin Hart, currently the Signer is survived by his wife, 
Signer taught courses at the Edwin B. Kyle Professor of Betty, and their daughters Aliza Institut Kirche und Judentum Christian Studies at the and Hanna. A funeral service at Alexender von Humboldt University of Virginia, co-taught will be held Wednesday at University in Berlin, for the a Philosophy and Theology Mount Sinai Memorial Park in Catholic theology faculty of the seminar at Notre Dame that Los Angeles. Donations may be University of Augsburg and at focused on the theme of revela­made in his memory to the several Catholic universities in tion in Judaism and Michael A. Signer Memorial Poland, including the Pontifical Christianity. Fund at Notre Dame or at Academy of Theology in Hart told The Observer "the Hebrew Union College in New Krakow. death of Michael Signer has York City. 
He was the author and editor opened a void in all who knew Cavadini wrote in a letter of numerous books and articles him." posted on the Theology on topics ranging from Signer was especially talent­Department's Web site that he Medieval Latin biblical com­ed at communicating with stu­hopes to organize a memorial mentaries to contemporary dents, Hart said. He was service for Signer sponsored by Jewish-Christian relations. "someone who could show the department. 
Signer was one of the authors them different ways in which to "I feel strongly that we should of "Dabru Emet: A Jewish enter the vast, complicated, be able to commend him to the Statement on Christians and charged and wonderful world mercy and love of God in our Christianity," a document of modern Jewish thought and own voices, and to memorialize signed by more than 220 rabbis writing." his contribution in a way that is and intellectuals from all Hart and Signer co-edited a uniquely our own," Cavadini branches of Judaism in 2000. book titled "The Exorbitant: wrote in the letter. 
In 2005, Signer was designat­Emmanuel Levinas between The Department is setting up ed a "Person of Reconciliation" Jews and Christians" that will a fund, known as the Michael by the Polish Council of be published by Fordham Signer Graduate Research Christians and Jews, an honor University Press this spring. Fund, to help graduate students awarded annually to an individ­"His spirit will live on in that pursue research interests. ual advancing Jewish-Christian book, and in the many memo­Contributions are being collect­dialogue in Poland. ries of him by his generations ed by Dorothy Anderson in 130 
Signer also initiated and of students and friends: his Malloy Hall. directed the Notre· Dame intellectual generosity, his Holocaust Project, an interdis­almost childlike delight in Contact Jenn Metz at ciplinary group of faculty that learning, and his love of argu-jmetz@nd.edu 




Information Session 
for those interested in the position of_ 



Assistant Rector 
for University Residences 
Thursday, January 15, 7:30-8:30 p.m. Law School Courtroom 
OR 

Monday, January 19, 7:30-8:30 p.m. Fischer Community Center 
Light refreshments served 
For further information visit 
http://o~a.nd.edu/ 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, January 14, 2009 
MBA 
continued from page 1 

When they asked natives about the situation. many commented that it was either Russia flexing its muscles, or Ukraine demonstrating its power. 
"Some said it was Ukraine showing the [European Union] how much they depend on them," Flately 
was finally turned on again the day before they left the country on Jan. 11. 

During his time in Bosnia, Flatley and the other students who participated in the course studied the role of business in rebuilding post-conflict soci­eties. according to a Mendoza College of Business press release. In addition to the trip to Bosnia, another group of students traveled to Beirut, Lebanon. 
"If a country has negative GOP growth, they have a cer­tain percent chance of falling into a civil war," Flatley said. 



Parking 
continued from page 1 
parameters of the lot were not clearly defined so she parked in multiple places only to be warned or ticketed. The new parking directions "do not clearly identify the first three rows," she said, and that the e-mails sent to explain the rules "just don't cut it." 

"Mass e-mails to students are efficient but not the most observed form of communica­tion because we get so many," Edelen said. "I delete most of mine." 
Senior Kristin Amram was 

"If a country has already had a civil war, any negative growth really compounds their chance of falling into a civil war." 
Flatley said the. groups visit­ed with various businesses and organizations and looked at ways of improving com­merce in order to improve the stability in the countries visit­ed. "Business on the Frontlines" is taught by asso­ciate professor of management Viva Bartkus, 

said. Ukraine is "It was about r o who spent time currently seek­with students in
below Celsius. We just
ing to become a both countries. · 
did what we could."
member of the "After facing EU. man's inhuman­Flatley said Keith Flately ity in our gener­that the heat atirm, and with­
MBA student 
in the last 10 
years in 
Bosnia's case, there is a real challenge to figure out how to re-knit these societies deeply divided by religion, ethnic groups and socio-economic class," Bartkus said in a press release. "We believe that busi­ness has a role in that, both international companies and local ventures. There is noth­ing to compare with the digni­ty of work and the ability to be able to look after one's family after war." 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 

also frustrated with the new restrictions, and said parking in the Opus or Angela lots means "it's a hike" to get to class. She said student park­ing should not have been eliminated from the science lot because "for the past two days since we've been back, the new lot for faculty hasn't even been half full. They could consolidate the faculty into one lot." 
Especially with the winter weather and winter weather warnings into effect, the new regulations may bring even more student complaints to a head, Edelen said. 
Contact Sarah Gunn at sgunnO 1 @saintmarys.ed':l 


Bowl 
continued from page 1 

The weeklong trip to Hawaii, the first time either of them have visited the state, was a Christmas present for both. Ciciora came to Hawaii with her parents and LaFalce came with his brother. 
Neither Ciciora, of Chicago, nor LaFalce, of New Jersey, had the Notre Dame football team with leis. 
Frost watched the game from the front row of Aloha Stadium, directly behind the Notre Dame team. 
"We couldn't see a whole lot, but that's fine because we were interacting with the whole foot­ball team," he said. "We tried to give them our aloha spirit, and they needed it, because they were in Hawaii territory." 
Although 
most of the sta­

a white dium sported
"There were more
Christmas, but Warriors gear, 
Ciciora said they people cheering for Notre Dame 
were content Notre Dame than I had plenty of having a "white fans at the
expected. And that 
s a n d game, which
just shows that no
Christmas." And reported the since it was neg­matter where Notre largest atten­ative eight dance numbers
Dame goes, we have a
degrees when in Hawaii Bowl
large following. " 
they left Chicago history, with and 80 degrees 45,718 tickets when they land­Brandon Frost issued. Notre ed in Honolulu, Dame Assistant
senior
they said they were fine trad­ing Christmas trees and mittens for palm trees and leis. 
Cold weather in the Midwest almost prevented Notre Dame senior Brandon Frost, who was born and raised in Hawaii, from returning home in time for the game. Wintry weather in Chicago delayed his flight for 10 hours, and then he had to spend the night in Los Angeles before he could get a connect­ing flight. 
While Frost was making his way home, his mom went with friends to the airport to greet 
Athletic Director Josh Berlo told The Observer in a Dec. 20 e-mail that .the University had sold about 2,000 tickets to the game. 
"There were more people cheering for Notre Dame than I expected," Frost said. "And that just shows that no matter where Notre Dame goes, we have a large following." 
Notre Dame sophomore Mckenna Nakamura, a native of Hawaii, said he wasn't sure which team to cheer for before the game started. 
"I was a [Hawaii] fan when we were 0 and 12, so rooting against them was hard for me," Nakamura said. 
Nakamura compromised his loyalties by wearing a Notre Dame T-shirt and a University of Hawaii hat to the game. But he held a sign that said "Even Santa picks Notre Dame" and after the game was ecstatic about the Irish win. 
''I'm so pumped about this," he said. "I never thought I'd get to see Notre Dame in my home­town." 
The only negative part about the game, Frost said, was that the Notre Dame Marching Band was not present. After the game, to fill the void left by the band, Notre Dame players Pat Kuntz and Brian Smith led the Notre Dame football team and fans in singing the Alma Mater. 
Frost was worried the Notre Dame players would have trou­ble acclimating to the weather, but said the team looked great and played mucl~ better than during the regular season. Frost said he was planning on celebrating the victory after the game and also attending Christmas Eve mass. 
"I totally forgot tomorrow was Christmas," Frost said, "because I was just so focused on this game and our team." 
But the victory was a great Christmas present, he said. 
Notre Dame junior Jonah Bautista took some friends from Notre Dame surfing earlier in the week. He said his Christmas would almost be complete with a Notre Dame bowl victory. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 



N Hawaii Warriors. · 
~---------------------------------------------------------------------,
--~---­




ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, January 14, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVER:s WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Egypt pushes Hamas to accept truce 
CAIRO -Egyptian mediators pushed the militant Palestinian group l-lamas to accept a truce proposal for the embattled Gaza Strip in talks Tuesday, while the U.N. secretary-gener­al headed to the region to join diplomatic efforts for a cease-fire. 
U.N. chief Ban Ki-moon has backed the Egyptian truce proposal to halt the fighting, now in its third week. Before leaving New York for the Egyptian capital on Tuesday, he urged Israel and l-lamas to accept <! U.N. cease-fire resolution and allow humanitarian aid into Gaza. 
"To both sides, I say: Just stop, now," Ban told a news conference Monday. "Too many people have died." He said l-lamas militants who have been firing rockets into southern Israel "must stop, they must look to the future of the Palestinian people." 
Latvian protesters clash with police 
RIGA -A protest against economic reforms that drew thousands to Latvia's capital turned violent Tuesday as small pockets of rioters clashed with police and attacked government buildings. 
Police responded by charging the crowd and shooting pepper spray as the rioters threw chunks of ice and rocks. 
Three officers were seriously injured and 126 protesters were detained, Interior Ministry spokeswoman Sigita Pildava said. Emergency medical worker Vija Grigala told Leta news agency that 32 protesters were injured. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Ariz. firefighters arrested for arson 
PHOENIX -Four firefighters have been arrested on suspicion of igniting bet~n 15 and 20 fires in western Arizona so they could get paid for fighting them, officials said Tuesday. 
Authorities also charged two men suspected of setting fires to get money from the firefight­ers, and were seeking arrest warrants for two former firefighters who have moved out of state. 
The firefighters worked at the fire district in Ehrenberg, a town of about 1,200 people and about 140 miles west of Phoenix on the Arizona-California line. They got $10 an hour per fire. 

Father sells daughter into marriage 
SAN FRANCISCO -A California man has been arrested for arranging for his 14-year­old daughter to marry a neighbor in exchange for $16,000, 100 cases of beer and several cases of meat, police said. 
Authorities in Greenfield, a farming commu­nity on California's central coast, said they learned of the deal after Marcelino de Jesus Martinez, 36, asked them for help getting back his daughter after payment wasn't made. 
Martinez was arrested Sunday. He's sched­uled to be arraigned Wednesday in Monterey County Superior Court on felony charges of procuring a child under age 16 for lewd and lascivious acts, statutory rape and cruelty to a child by endangering health, according to the prosecutor. 
The prosecutor's office said Martinez did not have an attorney of record yet. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Daniels warns lawmakers about budget 
INDIANAPOLIS -Gov. Mitch Daniels cautioned lawmakers about Indiana's fiscal challenges dur­ing his State of the State speech Tuesday night, saying that drafting a new two-year budget this session will be full of hard decisions. 
But Daniels, sworn in to a second term 'on Monday, said spending restraints and other actions taken during his first term have left Indiana in better shape than many states and in a strong position not only to weather the economic hard times, but make progress. 
"Thanks in large part to the people here assem­bled, we can speak tonight of challenge, but not crisis; issues but not emergencies," Daniels told a House cb.o!Jnber packed with legislators, judges and other dignitaries. 
Gov. Blagojevich to preside over hearing 


Illinois governor to swear in Senate that will decide ifhe will be dismissed from office 
Associated Press 
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. -The state Senate that will decide whether to throw impeached Gov. Rod Blagojevich out of office will be sworn in Wednesday by -who else? -impeached Gov. Rod Blagojevich. 
In an ironic, surreal scene, the governor will preside briefly over the chamber that will hold his political life in its hands in less than two weeks. The opening of a new legislative session is normally an upbeat occasion, but how the senators and the gover­nor wiJj respond this time is anyone's guess. 
"On one hand, it's a time of great celebration here in the Senate of a new beginning and new leadership," said Sen. Jeffrey Schoenberg, an Evanston Democrat. "On the other hand, there will be no denying the fact that the gov­ernor's participation in the proceedings will give it a character and flavor that many members would just as soon not experience." 

Blagojevich was impeached by the House on Friday, a month after his arrest on fed­eral charges that he tried to sell official government action -including an appointment to President­elect Barack Obama's Senate seat -for campaign contri­president Emil Jones of the new session -no Senate sion," said Cullerton, a butions or a plush job. Chicago is retiring and convened, no impeachment Chicago Democrat. 
He's the state's first gover­Democrats have chosen John trial, the thinking went. The House announced nor to face such censure and Cullerton of Chicago to lead But as unpredictable as Tuesday that David Ellis, the first public official since a the chamber's majority. Blagojevich can be, with the chief attorney to Democratic circuit judge in 1833 was The full membership must Senate proceeding looming House Speaker Michael impeached but acquitted. endorse .cullerton and and federal prosecutors mov­Madigan, will prosecute the The Senate's trial is sched­Blagojevich will be invited ing toward an indictment and Blagojevich case before the uled to start Jan. 26. into the chamber to preside . possible criminal trial, he has Senate. 
And nobody is certain how until then. The process nor­also tried to show he's still in· "We're not looking for a that will affect Wednesday's mally takes about 20 min­control as chief executive. circus. We're not looking for proceedings. utes. "The governor sees the sUrprises. I'm not hiding my 
"The environment on "The applause, which is swearing-ill as his duty and evidence," Ellis said. "I think Wednesday is going to be a traditionally kind of thunder­obligation," spokesman Ludo it's clear what we think." tense one," said Sen. John ous, will be very subdued," Guerrero said. "It's part of his Jones, leaving the Senate Sullivan, D-Rushville. "The said Sen. Christine Radogno constitutional duties and he after 36 years in the General momentum builds up to that of Lemont, who expects to will carry them out." Assembly, has been time. Hopefully we can get become the Republican Incoming president Blagojevich's closest political through that process without leader. "It will be out of Cullerton says he hopes to ally, and has often sided with any incident." respect for the office, certain­move quickly with the trial the governor over House 
The Constitution requires ly not out of respect for the and finish by Feb. 4. DBmocrats, blocking that the governor convene individual." "You don't want to have the progress on several issues. incoming Senates and pre­Some in the capital specu­cloud of an impeachment Jonescalled the allegations side until their members lated that Blagojevich could trial hanging over the nor­against Blagojevich "shock­elect a leader. In this case, refuse to lower the gavel on mal, regular legislative ses-ing." 

GAZA 

Israeli forces storm Gaza City neighborhood 
Associated Pres~  they described as "decisive" talks in  the market around it were badly dam­ 
Cairo, Israel will move closer to a cease­ aged, they said.  
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip  -Terrified  fire or widen its offensive. They spoke  Palestinian medical officials reported  
residents ran for cover Tuesday in a.  on condition of anonymity because they  at least 42 deaths from the conflict on  
densely populated neighborhood of  were discussing sensitive policy matters.  Tuesday throughout Gaza.  
Gaza City as Israeli troops backed by  Asked if Israel's war aims had been  The Israeli military said three soldiers  
tanks thrust deeper into the city and  achieved, Israeli Defense Minister Ehud  were wounded, including an officer who  
sought l-lamas. fighters in alleyways and  Barak said: "Most of them, probably not  was searching a northern Gaza house  
cellars.  all of them."  when a bomb exploded.  
On the diplomatic front, Egyptian  Israeli troops now have the coastal  Palestinian hospital officials say more  
mediators pushed l-lamas to accept a  city of 400,000 virtually surrounded as  than 940 Palestinians, half of them civil­ 
truce proposal and, in a hopeful sign,  part of an offensive launched Dec. 27 to  ians, have been killed in the fighting. A  
Israel sent its lead negotiator to Cairo  end years of Palestinian rocket attacks  total of 13 Israelis, 10 of them soldiers,  
for "decisive" talks on a cease-fire. U.N.  on its southern towns.  have died.  
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon also  Early Wednesday an Israeli warplane  Palestinian rocket fire has dropped  
headed for the region to join diplomatic  fired a missile at the former Gaza city  significantly since the offensive was  
efforts.  hall, used as a court building in recent  launched. Some 15 rockets and mortar  
Israeli military officials say that  years, witnesses said. The 1910 struc­ shells were fired toward Israel Tuesday,  
depending on what happens with what  ture was destroyed and many stores in  causing no injuries, the army said.  



r----------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, January 14, 2009 

Clinton plans fresh approach to diplolllacy 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Hillary Rodham Clinton said Tuesday that she intends to revitalize the mission of diplomacy in American foreign policy, call­ing for a "smart power" strate­gy in the Middle .East and implicitly criticizing the Bush administration for having downgraded the role of arms control. 
At a daylong confirmation hearing before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, President-elect Barack Obama's choice for secretary of state sailed smoothly through an array of non-con­tentious questions until two Republican committee mem­bers pressed her to take addi­tional steps to ensure that for­mer President Bill Clinton's global fundraising work does not pose even an appearance of conflict with her role as the chief U.S. diplomat. She balked, saying disclosure rules already in place were carefully crafted and adequate to avoid any conflict. 
Clinton appeared headed for easy confirmation. She encountered no challenges to her basic vision for foreign policy. 
Clinton, who will relinquish her seat in the Senate when confirmed, spoke ·confidently of Obama's intentions to renew American leadership in the world and to strengthen U.S. diplomacy. 
America cannot solve the most pressing problems on our own, and the world cannot solve them without America," she said, her daughter Chelsea seated behind her in the audi­ence. "The best way to advance America's interest in reducing global threats and seizing global opportunities is to design and implement glob­al solutions. This isn't a philo­sophical point. This is our reality." 
In laying out a general out­look for American foreign poli­cy under Obama, Clinton spoke in a clear, unhurried voice and looked at ease. She made it plain, citing policy themes that were familiar from Obama'-s presidential campaign -and in many cases her own -that the incoming Democratic administration wants to ele­vate the role of diplomacy. She and Obama contend that the Bush administration relied too heavily on the military to carry out foreign policy and that it leaned too much on ideology and too little on pragmatism. 
The Foreign Relations Committee. planned to vote on Clinton's nomination on Thursday. If it approves her, she could gain full Senate con­firmation as early as Inauguration Day. 
The Senate also held confir­mation hearings for o-ther Obama choices for Cabinet and top White llouse positions. Appearing were Peter Orszag, to head the Office of' Management and Budget, and Hobert Nabors II, for deputy director of OMB: New York housing official Shaun Donovan. to be secretary of housing and urban develop­ment; Steven Chu, to head the Energy Department; and Arne Duncan, as education secre­tary. 
Chu promised that if con­firmed as energy secretary he will aggressively pursue poli­cies aimed at addressing cli­mate change and achieving greater energy independence by developing clean energy sources. At his hearing, Duncan said that the No Child Left Behind law should stop punishing schools where only a handful of kids are strug­gling. 

Obama's choice to run the Treasury Department and to lead the economic rescue effort disclosed to senators Tuesday that he failed to pay $34,000 in taxes from 2001 to 2004, a last-minute complica­tion in an otherwise smooth path to confirmation. Timothy Geithner paid most of the past­due taxes days before Obama announced his nomination in November, an Obama transi­tion official said. The unpaid taxes were discovered by Obama's transition team while investigating Geithner's back­ground, the official said. 
Sign 
continued from page I 
study abroad opportunities in Jamaica, Haiti and a program called "From Poland to Prague," which takes students to Warsaw, Czestochowa, Auschwitz, Krakow and Prague. 
"We felt that they could be a useful symbol for the broader internationalization called for in [President Carol Ann Mooney's] Strategic Plan [for the College[," Meyer-Lee said. 
The building and grounds crew installed the signposts shortly before Christmas break. 
Senior Deanna Molosky said she was pleasantly surprised to see the signpost outside of the Student Center. She said "it reminded her of the Peace Pole which the Sisters of the lloly Cross have in front of the Chureh of Loretto on campus. 
Molosky spent her fall break in Monterrey, Mexico on a service pn~eet and said there was also a Peace Pole there. 
"The Peace Pole is what imme­diately jumped into my mind when I saw it followed closely by my memories of my recent jour­ney to Mexico," she said. 

Molosky also said the sign is a great way to showcase and remind students of the interna­tional opportunities available to them. 
"It also seems like it would be a great memory jogger for those who have been to those fabulous places," she said. 
Senior Angela Siler agreed, say­ing she wasn't sure why the sign­posts were installed when she ftrst saw them, but likes that she has the visual reminder of Seville, Spain on campus since she stud­ied abroad there in Fall2007. 
"Whenever I see the sign I think about my wonderful experience in Seville," Siler said. "And even though it says that Seville is 4,126 miles away, seeing the sign makes it seem like it's not that far." 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Wednesday, January 14, 2009 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 8,448.56 -25.41 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,947 99 1,829 1,393,616,052 
AMEX 1;405~60 !'giiJ~II11 
NASDAQ !,546~~§ ,-;;Z.-~7 NYSE 5;538~il'!iil,,,:;~il.2:1~''''.· S&P 500 871.79 +1.53 NIKKEI (Tokyo) si413~9J~ '•i!t';;~:oo FTSE 100 (London) 4,399.15 -27.04 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) +0.18 +0.16 87.11 CITIGROUP INC (C) +5.36 +0.30 5.90 BK OF AMERICA CP (BAC) -6.82 -0.78 10.65 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +1.37 +0.15 11.10 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.52 -0.012 2.297 13-WEEK BILL +61.54 +0.04 0.105 30-YEAR BOND +0.90 +0.027 3.017 5-YEAR NOTE -0.90 -0.013 1.428 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.19 37.78 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +0.04 820.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.45 85.00 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 89.3900 EURO 0.7581 CANADIAN DOLLAR •1.2232 BRITISH POUND 0.6892 
IN BRIEF 
Missing pilot tied to Delta bankruptcy 
ATLANTA-Missing investment manager Marcus Schrenker's theft conviction, involvement in securities lawsuits filed against him by past clients and questions about whether he was reporting all of his income to the IRS started to unravel more than two years ago in an unlikely place for the aviation buff -Delta Air Lines' bank­ruptcy case. 
Schrenk~r, whose small plane crashed Sunday night en route to Florida in what may have been an attempt to fake his own death, over the years convinced dozens of active and retired Delta pilots to allow him to manage their retirement accounts. 
"He had a way about him -you trusted the guy," David M. Smith, one of the retired pilots, said Tuesday. "He was very credible. He talked a good story. So, we entrusted him with a task he never produced." 
WellPoint barred from adding patients 
INDIANAPOLIS -WellPoint Inc. said Monday the Centers for Medicare and Meclicaid Services suspended the company from enrolling new patients in the health insurance Medicare Advantage plan and the prescription drug benefit, Meclicare Part D. 
WellPoint, the nation's largest managed-care company based on membership, said it has been working with the federal agency over the past six months to resolve issues identified as a result of both internal and government auclits. 
"Due to a sharp increase in the past twelve days in beneficiary complaints about WellPoint and WellPoint's self-dic;closures regarcling beneficiaries b~ing denied prescription drugs, CMS is taking this immediate action to ensure that WellPoint focus~s its eilorts on correcting its significant com­pliance problems before further expanding the number of enrollees in its Medicare plans," the agency said in a notice to WellPoint. 
Th~ Inclianapolis company in a statement said that its work included "detailed action plans" to the agency. The company also said it had "engagPd an indepPndent third party to provide CMS with ongoing assessments regarding our compliance, including verification of systems, processes and procedures." 


~­
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS 
page 7 
Obama pushes for fund approval 
President-elect pledges that billions -of dollars will help those facing foreclosure 
Associated Press  
WASHINGTON -Tested  
before taking power,  
President-elect Barack  
Obama privately delivered  
a pre-inauguration veto  
threat to fellow Democrats  
on Tuesday, saying they  
would not deny him use of  
the remaining $350 billion  
in federal bailout funds.  
Obama coupled his  
threat with a promise to  
revise elements of the orig­ 
inal bailout program that  
have drawn widespread  
criticism. pledging that bil­ 
lions will go toward help­ 
ing homeowners facing  
foreclosure. Several  
Democrats said his com­ 
mitments, to be made in  
writing, would be enough  
to prevent an embarrass­ 
ing pre-inauguration drub­ 
bing for the president-elect  
when the Senate votes this  
week.  
"This will be the first  
vote that President-elect  
Obama is asking us for. I'll  
be shocked and I'll be real­ 
ly disappointed if he does­ 
n't get it," said Sen. Joseph  
Lieberman. an independ­ 
ent Democrat from  
Connecticut .  
"This is a new begin­President-elect Barack Obama and others leave a Democratic policy luncheon on  
ning." Capitol Hill in Washington yesterday.  
Behind closed doors,  
Obama also urged law­ budget cuts and roughly  details.  homecoming of sorts, a  
makers to act quickly on  $40 billion for traditional  Democratic leaders in  return to the Capitol where  
the massive economic  anti-recession transporta­ the House and Senate hope  he arrived as a newly  
stimulus measure that his  tion programs such as  to have the legislation  elected senator only four  
aides have been negotiat­ highway and bridge con­ ready for Obama's signa­ years ago.  
ing with congressional offi­ struction.  ture by mid-February, and  Reid called it a "love­ 
cials. The legislation will  Additionally, they added  House Speaker Nancy  fest," and said the presi­ 
blend federal spending  that there was money ten­ Pelosi and Senate Majority  dent-elect was greeted  
with tax cuts, and could  tatively set aside to fund a  Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev.,  with a five-minute ovation  
reach $1 trillion in size, a  $25-a-week increase in  held a late-afternoon meet­ by Democrats happy to  
measure of the nation's  unemployment benefits as·  ing on it.  have the White House back  
economic woes.  well as a 15 percent boost  "We've made great  after eight years of  
Several Democratic offi­ in food stamp benefits.  progress, and we fully  Republican rule.  
cials described a bill very  There was support in the  intend to meet our dead­ Sen. Carl Levin said the  
much in flux. They said  Senate for funds to  line," Pelosi, D-Calif., told  session had a sentimental  
lawmakers were dis­ upgrade military barracks,  reporters. She disclosed no  tone at times, despite the  
cussing allocating as much  as well. The officials spoke  details.  magnitude of the nation'5  
as $80 billion over two  on condition of anonymity,  For Obama, attendance  economic wo.es and the  
years to help shield schools  saying they were not  at the Democrats' weekly  challenge Obama and fel­ 
from the impact of state  authorized to disclose  closed-door lunch was a  low Democrats confront.  

Clinton's donors under investigation 
Clinton Global Initiative. Revealing pledges is particularly
Associated Press 
Under an agreement with Obama, important, Lugar said: "So if we're 
WASHINGTON -Hillary Hodham Bill Clinton recently Teleased the going to have an argument it hap­Clinto-n, President-elect Barack names of donors to his foundation, a pens right then, and therefore if it's Obama's choice for secretary of nonprofit that has raised at least not a good idea, that it's stopped and state, rejected calls Tuesday for $492 million -including millions the compromise for the State more details about donors to her from Saudi Arabia and other foreign Department, for foreign policy, for husband's foundation, saying she governments -to fund his library in you is prevented as rapidly as possi­has revealed enough to avoid even Arkansas and charitable efforts ble, within days rather than in the hint of conflicts. An Associated worldwide on such issues as AIDS, months or in years." Press review found that Clinton poverty and climate change. He Clinton noted that under the stepped in at least a half-dozen pledged to release similar informa­agreement, foreign government times on issues involving businesses tion annually. The donor list doesn't pledges will be submitted to the and others who later gave to the provide exact amounts, background State Department for review. She charity. on donors such as their employers, said it was unprecedented for a for­
Clinton said as secretary of state or the dates of donations. mer president to agree to the disclo­she will not be influenced to act on Lugar. the committee's top sure her husband has, and that she behalfof her husband's contributors, Republican, urged Hillary Clinton to was confident the current arrange­which include foreign governments. immediately disclose donations of ment would avoid even the appear­
"It will not be in the atmosphere," $50,000 or more; alert ethics offi­ance of conflicts of interest. Clinton said. cials when any gift of that size is "I don't know who will be giving 
Richard Lugar of Indiana was pledged or given by a foreign entity, money. That will not influence," among GOP senators on the Foreign whether an overseas government, Clinton said. "When the disclosure Relations Committee pressing for full individual or business; and reveal occurs, obviously it will be after the transparency about contributors to the year a donation was made and fact, so it would be hard to make an the William J. Clinton Foundation the amount, or .at least the range, of argument that it in11uenced anybody and one of its main projects, the a donor's giving in that year. because we didn't know about it." 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Wednesday, January 14, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 

A simple plea
Tk l~td~Jmr, Daily Newspaper &ruing Nom 0411U' and &Uu Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, None Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF ' Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 

SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse . CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriariry 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 63I-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@Rd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
{574) 631-5323 obsnews.1 @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SI!ORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. l @nd.e"du 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe Universiry ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's CoUege. Editorial content, including advenisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse 
Goatwhore. 

What comes to mind when you read that word? I think the only legitimate answer to that is the amazingly talent­ed blackened death metal band formed in New Orleans in 1997. 
That's right. 
Goatwhore. 
And don't you 

ever call them a metal band. They're black­ened death metal. What is black­ened death metal you might ask? Well, as Wikipedia tells me, blackened death metal (also called "death/black metal" or "black/death metal") is a fusion genre of extreme metal utilizing clements of death metal and black metal. 
"But surely there cannot be this many genres of metal?" 
Oh, I was once as innocent and naive as you. But as it turns out, after listen­ing to countless lectures on metal music from my good friend Paul, metal is as diverse a species as homo sapi­ens. There's heavy metal, death metal, black metal, grindcore, rapcore, nu metal, the ever popular groove metal, folk metal and my personal favorite ­Viking metal, a veritable Wonka facto­ry of metal. ­
Now of course you raise the very important question, "Am I supposed to care about all of this garbage?" Yes, actually, you are-and here's my first point: there are so many genres of metal that a new metal band can potentially come into existence and claim it is its own genre simply by say­ing it has fused the styles of two differ­ent bands who have done the same thing before them. There aren't this many genres of metal because the music is different enough for such variations to exist; this "genre" -fication exists because otherwise new metal bands get pegged as being followers. And we all know you cannot be a fol-lower and still be metal (exelamation 

point). · 

But then what-does this discussion of 
metal say about music as a whole? 
Surely such an underground style as 
metal can't represent the entirety of 
the music industry. Well, I tend to 
think that it can, especially when it's 
one of the best-selling genrns in the 
business. It may pain me to realize 

that, but as Paul tells me -metal fans 
are billions strong. 

So now the problem isn't metal, the 
problem is music. What kind of an 
industry could let itself get so out of 
hand'? A world completely controlled 
by the economic interests of record 

executives and production teams. Yet 
that's what the industry has always 
been. For instance, rock bands in 

Britain weren't getting enough publici­
ty beeause of the Beatles, so along 
came the concept of the "British 

Invasion" and eV!~ry IIerman 's llermits 
or Dave Clark Five eashed in. But the 
demands of an industry didn't cripple 
music as much as they do now. 

Today we see people inventing gen­
res that don't logically make sense as a 
cheap tactic to sell more records. 

Executives have found a perfect way to 
convince avid music fans that what 

they're producing is new and different, 
and therefore really, really awesome. 
Musicians, in11uenced by such aetion, 
have followed suit: we've seen how 

Eric Cartman learned that in order to · sell a million records, all he had to do was form a Christian rock group. Yes, 
even religion has been exploited so 
more money ean be made. 

And it's not just music. Look at high­
er education. Young academics seeking 
advancement opportunity have to find 
niche markets. An appreciation of a 
holistic and comprehensive under­

standing falls by the wayside as more 
profit can be culled from ever­
increased specificity. 
So what can we do? Will "genre"­

lication last forever? If it does it could 
have lasting ramifications and reper­
cussions. Once enough of a precedent 
has been set wealthy and powerful 

individuals will start to believe that the model will work everywhere. The gov­ernment will decide to stop legislating on behalf of the country and only legis­late in favor of the personal desires of the Congress. Doctors will only work on projects that profit them personally -there go our hopes of curing dis­eases like Cancer and Alzheimers. 
Personally, I don't think music "genre" -lieation will continue forever, but we have to be careful in how we handle the problem. Here's my plan. First step: stop the problem at its source, which as I pointed out is metal. We need to condense all diffenmt forms of this branch of rock into one category, one place where Cannibal Corpse and Metallica will be forced to compete against each other in the market. The heightened economic competition will lead to a natural sur­vival of the fittest; metal fans will be fon~ed to choose to listen to only the best the unified genre has to offer. From here, the number of metal bands will dwindle until the population becomes sizable enough to be ignored by the main-stream media. Once these groups are denied attention, people will stop listening. And then, after peo­ple stop listening, the music industry will get the memo. 
I started with metal and I ended with metal; the chiasmus of my column shocks even me as I review it. But it ultimately became necessary to pro­mote a change that will aid our cul­ture. Eliminating metal will bring us to a new place, a better place, a safer place. My friend Paul isn't going to like this news, but I think he'll realize that it's for the greater good. 
Stop listening to metal and you'll save the world ... or at least you'll stop promoting what I consider to be the most annoying form of music out there. Maybe that's why I wrote this column. A-thank you. 
Andrew Miller is a senior English major. He can be contacted at amille 15@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The O,bserver. 

advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and "objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

the majoriry ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
News Sports Kaitlynn Riely Bill Brink Irena Zajickova Greg Arbogast QUOTE 'OF THE DAY 
QUOTE OF THE DAY Graphics Michael Blasco Blair Chemdlin Scene Viewpoint Michelle Fordice 
"When I read about the evils of "The art ofprogress is to preserve
Kara King 
drinking, I gave up reading." order amid change." 
Henry Youngman Alfred Whitehead 
U.S. comedian English mathematician 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Wednesday, January 14, 2009 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Union sentitnents tnisplaced 

A group of us Food Service employees have to wonder just who the people are that CLAP represents. Ranging in service for this fine University from five to 19 years, we would like to thank the University for all it has done for us and the community, from the wonderful support to paid vacations and sick time. 
Unfortunately, there are some that either haven't worked at a diner or other food establishment or it's been so long they have forgotten what that used to be like. I value the thought of the University to pay for our children's second­ary education. We hope this is just a few disgruntled people who are just get­ting the attention of some well-meaning students that are trying to do the right thing. We hope these fine students can find more positive places for their energy to go. We hope we speak for the vast majority of staff and faculty in saying NO to any talk of a Union. 
Glad to be at ND, 
Colin Layman cook South Dining Hall Dave Shidler maintenance technician North Dining Hall Dec. 9 

My future career plans 
As a senior, my friends have been constantly asking me what my plans are for next year. Being a History major that has no intention of going to Law School, my answers have been varied and usually sarcastic. However, thanks to The Observer, I know what I want to do. 
I will spend all my time reading The Observer, finding something that bothers me. Then I will write a scathing Letter to the Editor about how things have changed from "the good ole days" when I was a student. Judging by how many alums have been doing it recently, it must pay pretty well. 
Paul Macias 
senior 
Sr. Edward's Hall Dec. 9 



U-WIRE Product downsizing cheats consumers 
You wouldn't pay the same amount for half a sandwich as you would for a full one. You wouldn't pay for a "supersized" meal and be content with the regular size. So why are you paying for full-sized groceries 
Natalie Hein 

and receiving minis? 
UCLA Daily

Perhaps you've heard of downsiz­Bruin ing in reference to layoffs -a­practice that, as students, does not necessarily affect us. But our sinking economy is causing downsizing in areas beyond the job market. Downsizing, in terms of selling less product in a standard package for the same or higher price, is becoming more popular. This means fewer pota-_ to chips in a bag, less cereal in a box while you're still paying as high a price as ever. And you thought the recession wasn't affecting you. 
As our country's economic activity continues to diminish, the cost of raw materials continues to climb. Over the past few years, manufacturers have made budget cuts everywhere they could, due to the rise in cost of raw materials. 
Yet manufacturers have reached the point where there's not much fat left to trim, and so their financial burden has been passed down to us, the con­sumers. But because of our competi­tive market, manufacturers and retailers are reluctant to raise the price of their product outright. They fear breaking a popularly accepted price point because doing so would give their competition the upper hand. Surely, the last time you bought paper towels, you scanned the aisle for the lowest price for the most rolls. Knowing this consumer trend, manu­facturers and retailers often opt for a sneakier price-increase tactic: down­sizing their product. 
Changes in product sizes are virtu­ally unnoticeable to the undiscerning eye. A box of Apple Jacks now holds 15 ounces where it once held 17. Fruit Loops now hold 17 ounces where they once held 19.7. A Hershey's bar that was previously eight ounces is now 6.8 ounces ~nd parades around as a "Giant bar." Frankly, with so many weight-loss­centered New Year's resolutions, a cut in portion sizes isn't really the worst thing for the American consumer. It is the deceptive nature of these down­sizes that is really the key issue. 
A sneaky case'of Cottonelle bath tis­sue downsizing was recently unrolled by an online source, mouseprint.org, that works to expose fine print in advertising. They visually compared two packages that both claimed to hold 304 sheet rolls with each sheet measuring 4.2 by 4.0 inches. Yet, one package was noticeably taller than the other. After contacting the compa­ny and learning of the company's downsize from 4.5 inch sheets of bath tissue to 4.2, the site deduced that some of the older 4.5 width rolls were put into a newer wrapper that had the new lowered sheet count and nar­rower width on the label. They specu­lated that the packaging mistake was perhaps "an interim step in the down­sizing process to hide the change for anyone comparing the older label to the newer one." 
Such hurdles to fair-price-compar­isons should not be allowed in our market. What's more is that in many cases, a downsize cannot even be detected through side-by-side com­parison. 
I didn't notice downsizing until I was helping my mom cook dinner over break. A box of Dreamfields pasta, weighing one pound, used to fit perfectly into a canister in our kitchen. I watched my mom empty the contents of the box into the canister, and to my surprise the pasta did not reach the top. Something was wrong. I checked the box. The box that used to read 16 ounces now read 13. There was no discount for the missing three ounces, but rather a price increase. What's more troubling is that accord­ing to a Nielsen report from this past summer, products like dried pasta are supposed to .be unscathed by our eco­nomic downturn. The inaccuracy of this assertion supports a different claim that 2009 will hold a commodity cost increase double that of 2008, leaving no product immune to down­sizing. 
This supermarket shrinkdown is surely shielding us from the reality of our economic situation. We are wit­nessing few price increases at the grocery store, yet prices have sky­rocketed. The American consumer did not consent to having the wool pulled over her eyes. According to Nielsen, 47 percent of American consumers would prefer to buy larger products for more money than having their normal portions downsized, while only 9 percent of surveyed Americans showed support for downsizing. 
Manufacturers are thus not only miniaturizing their products, but also minimizing the consumer's influence in the marketplace by forcing us to comply with a price-increase strategy that we would otherwise oppose. 
Downsizing has more of a downside than just being deceptive. It produces "upsized" waste. With fewer plastic baggies in a box, there is more waste per baggie as the box is more quickly emptied and discarded, and a new box is purchased just to reach the same fate. Downsizing also leads to bungled recipes. A recipe that calls for a can of Starkist tuna will now come out less fishy due to the shrunk­en content in the cans. 
The unknowing consumers don't know to adjust their recipe to the new smaller portions until it's too late, and who has time to calculate conversions for the missing ounce or two here and there? 
As college students, our purse strings are already tighter than most, and we tend to rely on price-compari­son shopping to help us budget. Yet fair comparisons are far more diffi-­cult to make, now that downsizing has confused the market against our will. Manufacturers and retailers should be increasing prices outright instead of trying to sneak them under our noses. They've downsized their prod]lct, not my intelligence, and I'm not fooled. 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 13 edition of The Daily Bruin, the daily paper of the UCLA. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



THE OBSERVER 



CENE 
By CAITLIN FERRARO 
The big winner at the 66th Annual Golden Globe ceremony on Sunday night was "Slumdog 
illionaire," fhe film about an impoverished teenager, Jamal Malik, from the streets of Mumbai 
ho is accused of cheating on India's version of "Who Wants to be a Millionaire?" After the votes were tabulated, the Hollywood Foreign Press honored the film with four awards including Best Motion Picture -Drama, Best Director, Best Screenplay and Best Original Score. This was a surpris­ing sweep for a semi-Indie film originally playing in only select Gities, but a well-deserved one. The film is an innovative story of Jamal looking back on how he discovered each of the answers to the game show throughout his difficult life. 
Another big winner of the evening was Kate Winslet who was honored with Best Actress ­Drama for "Revolutionary Road" 
Cleavage was the name of the game at this year's Golden Globes. Almost every dress highlighted the actress' busts by tightening the material around her mid-section and avoiding the usually present necklaces, drawing further atten­tion to the lady's upper-half, where one would naturally expect to find 
ewels dangling around the collar­bone. Hayden Panettiere, in a deep purple sequined design from Gianfranco Ferre, exhibited this look well. Many others also cap­tured the same feel including Eva Longoria Parker, Anna Paquin, Rumer Willis (who stunned viewers in a beautiful purple Reem Acra gown and eclipsing her status of being just Bruce Willis and Demi Moore's daughter). Tina Fey and Drew Barrymore (who unfortunate­ly looked like an 80's prom night­mare with her over-teased hair and far too-pale blue mermaid gown). It almost felt like in the hopes of being anti-Hollywood with their and Best upporting Actress for "The Reader." Winslet was a,bsolutely giddy during her accept­ance speeches, and seemed gen­uinely surprised and grateful at both her wins. Overall it seemed. like a good night to be from the United Kingdom as Sally Hawkins, Simon Beaufoy, Danny Boyle and Colin Farrell joined Winslet in win­ning. 

Best Performance by an Actor' in a Motion Picture -Drama was handed out to Mickey Rourke for "The Wrestler" who seems to be this year's comeback kid. He joked that Robert Downey Jr. should give the speech for him, but he did a good job himself with a heartfelt speech thanking those who took a chance by casting him. Intriguingly, Darren Aronofsky, the film's director, gave him the finger (although the West Coast missed it due to the 7-second delay). "The Wrestler" \Vas also praised for Best Original Song, which was written and performed by Bruce Springsteen. Springsteen thanked Rourke for inspiring him to write the song, as the two have been 
of over-powering jeweled neck­laces, they all cemented the look as the ultimate Hollywood trend. 
Blake Lively did not hit it off with her gown on the red carpet. Was the color fabulous? Yes. Was the sequined beading fabulous? Yes. Were her hair and makeup fabu­lous? Yes. Then what could possibly be the problem for this fashion icon? Well, it was very difficult to focus on all of those wonderful attributes when Blake Lively's peri­winkle Nina Ricci gown was just a little too tight. Though Blake Lively has a wonderful-figure and is a gor­geous girl, all eyes were drawn to her mid-section, which wasn't flat­teringly displayed by the dress she chose. Stars need to take into account the highlights and shadows that will be created when they walk; the red carpet and Lively's gown turned--features that weren't bad into major faults because of the ill fit of the otherwise beautiful dress. Tips on the proper fit of a gown could have been taken from the beautiful Megan Fox who allur­ingly shimmered in a Ralph Lauren confection of gold and glitter or Beyonce who always looks fabulous 
longtime friends. pringsteen also 
joked that this was the only time 
he would ever be in competition 
with Clint Eastwood and it felt 
pretty good. 

On the television side of the 
things the HBO mini-series "John 
Adams" dominated with four 
awards, as did NBC's "30 Rock" 
which went home with three. Two 
actors from "30 Rock" also stole 
the show with hilarious acceptance 
speeches. Tracy ·Morgan garnered 
laughs when he ac_cepted the Globe 
for Best Series Musical or Comedy 
instead of Tina Fey, the show's pro­
ducer, writer, creator and co-star. 
He explained that he made a deal 
with Fey that if Barack Obama won 
he would speak for the show from 
now on. Then he exclaimed, "I am 
the face of post-racial America. 
Deal with it, Cate Blanchett!" Later 
on in the evening when Tina Fey 
won herself for Best Actress 
Musical or Comedy she rocked the 
house by berating online users that · hate on her and instead told them to, " ... suck it." In a touching moment, Christopher Nolan, director of "The 
cause she chooses gowns that flatter her shape·, skin tone, and personality. 
Anne Hathaway looked sophisti­cated and elegant in her navy blue and black hand-pleated bustier gown from Armani P'rive, which was accented with cool blue high­lights. Though the shape wasn't the best seen, the gown was definitely a winner because of the color choice and the daring and eye-catching material used. January Jones also picked an extremely beautiful color to compliment her light blonde hair and pale complexion and her icy blue Versace gown did just the trick. The elassiest act of all Sunday night was Kate Winslet in her black belted Yves Saint Laurent gown, and not just because she has a British accent. Her hair, makeup and dress looked every bit the part of a Golden Globe winner, and that she was, scooping up two Golden Globes in the Best Actress category for "Revolutionary Road" and Best Supporting Actress category for "The Header." 
Cameron Diaz looked better than usual in a creamy rose colored Chane! gown, though her fashion Dark t," accepte the Supporting Actor award on be of the late Heath Ledger. Ledg received a standing ovation fr the crowd for his wicked turn the Joker. Nolan said it best, that, "He will be eternally missed, bu he won't be forgotten." 
A surprising win went to An Paquin for her, starring roie in the new HBO vampire show "Tru Blood." Paquin is excellent a Sookie Stackhouse, the souther gal in love with a vampire, but she was up against some stiff competi­tion. On the other hand, it was surprising at all that Pixar's "Wall­E" won for Best Animated Film. 
In the end, the evening was star-studded affair complete wi Stephen Spielberg being honore with the Cecil B. DeMille/Lifetim Achievement award. Even tho who didn't win anything, like fan favorites Brad Pitt a Angeline J olie, still added to glamour by looking beautiful doing it. 
Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cferrar1@nd.edu 
sense is still a little off when comes to awards shows. She to want to stand out for her choices, and that she does, though no always for the righ reasons. Another actress who nailed it with her gown choic though was Isla Fisher, the _star "Confessions of a Shoapholic" looked fantastic in her form pleated peach-toned Carlos Miel gown. The wrapping of the pleats · a diagonal zigzag across her created a wonderful accent an gave her a look of fluidity tha exuded maturity and grace. The Golden Globes' fashion choices this year were definitely an improve­ment from the last (which was can­celled because of the Writer's Strike) and the reappearance o exciting colors and shapes. right­eously adorned Hollywood's on Sunday evening. With such great show of designer gowns January, one can only imagine will be in store for the upcom and most exciting awards show the year: the Academy Awards. 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 





NSIDER 
O
THE 

Wednesday, January 14, 2009 BSERVER Notre Dame 49, Hawai'i 21 
ele Kalikimaka 
It was a Merry Hawaiian Christmas for the Irish as they rolled to a 49-21 blowout in the Hawai'i Bowl 



Senior captains David Bruton, left, David Grimes, center, and Maurice Crum hoist the Sheraton Hawai'i Bowl Trophy on Christmas Eve following their final collegiate game. The captains finished their career full of ups and downs on a high note with a 49-21 win over Hawai'i in Honolulu. 
that hit the turf were all catch­his sophomore receiver con­Weis calling plays from the took it 18 yards for a touch­
By DAN MURPHY 
able passes. Clausen set Notre nected for a 69"yard bomb on press box throughout the down. 
Sports Editor 
Dame records in the game for a play action pass· to put the game. "It was ten times easier, "Armando has always been a 
yards per pass attempt Irish up 21-7. it was like night and day," playmaker for us," Weis said. 
HONOLULU, HI -Christmas (15.42), passer rating in a "I honestly didn't think I was Weis said. "He got it done in all three came a day early for the Irish bowl game (277.63) and pass­going to get very many go It was the first time Weis had facets tonight." this year, and their stockings ing yards in a bowl game routes," Tate said. "But Jimmy not been on the sidelines since Allen also returned a kickoff were stuffed to the gills with (401). His 84.62 completion gave me the signal and I just 2001 when he was an offensive for a touchdown late in the points and records. percentage was the second stuck them inside and he coordinator with the New third quarter to put Notre 
Notre Dame ended its 15-highest in NCAA bowl history. threw it up and made some England Patriots. He decided Dame up 49-14. The 96-yard year, nine-game bowl win Only Georgia's Mike Bobo perfect passes," to coach from the booth return was the first by a Notre drought with a 49-14 rout over topped him when he went 26-With one second remaining because of the pain he was in Dame player since Vontez Duff the Rainbow Warriors in the for-28 in 1998. in the half Clausen found Tate from his bad knees. Weis said ran one back against Navy in Sheraton Hawai'i Bowl. "[Clausen] was as accurate again for a touchdown from 18 that the view helped him but 2002. 
"I think it will be a happy as I've ever seen him. He was yards out. The play was chal­he couldn't imagine making a "We talk about it all the time time for our players," Weis outstanding," Hawaii coach lenged but upheld by the offi­regular habit of not being on in meetings, it was one thing said. "It's been a long time Greg McMackin said. cials. the sidelines -despite the fact we really wanted to accom­since we've won a bowl game." The sophomore Southern The duo completed their hat that it led to five touchdown plish this year. Unfortunately, 
Leading the way for the Irish California native said that a trick midway through the third passes. we had to come to Hawai'i offensive attack was sopho­few days relaxing on the beach quarter with another long pass Clausen's fifth came on the before we got it done but, hey, more quarterback Jimmy may have been just what he on a 3rd and 20 from the opening drive of the second I can't complain," Allen said. Clausen. Clausen threw for needed to get back on track. Hawaii 40-yard line. Tate set half when he marched the The return came seconds 401 yards and five touchdowns He threw his first touchdown Irish records for most receiv­Irish 88 yards down the field after Hawai'i quarterback in only two and a half quarters pass with 10:25 left in the first ing touchdowns and yards in a on six plays. Greg Alexander threw his sec­of work. half. After stiff-arming defen­bowl game. Freshman running back ond touchdown pass of the 
"It felt great," Clausen said. sive lineman David Veikune, he Tate also returned a punt for Robert Hughes started the game to senior wide receiver "The coaches had us very pre­hit senior wide receiver David a touchdown in the third quar­drive with back-to-hack 14 Aaron Bain. Bain had 109 pared, but I have to give a lot Grimes on the run in the back ter that was called back yard runs. Then sophomore yards receiving in the game of credit to the offensive line, I of the endzone. because of a roughing the running back Armando Allen and was named the Warriors' think I got hit maybe one time After that it became the punter penalty. He and scampered 41 yards down the MVP. tonight." Golden Tate show. Clausen shared the MVP hon­sideline on a screen pass. Two 
Clausen completed 22 of his On the third play of Notre ors for their work in the game. plays later, Weis called almost Contact Dan Murphy at 26 pass attempts and the four Dame's next drive Clausen and Both players benefited from the exact same play and Allen dmurphy6@nd.edu 
player of the game 
Jimmy Clausen Irish quarterback 

Clausen set Notre Dame bowl records for just about every quarterback cate­gory in the book en route to a big win. 
stat of the game 
277.63 

Jimmy Clusen 's passer rating, which was one ofhis many Notre Dame records. 
play of the game 
Golden Tate's 18-yard TD catch 
Wzth one second remaining in the first half, Tate tip-toed the corner of the endzone for his second touch­down ofthe game. 
quote of the game 
"! told the team the only thing I want­edfor Christmas was a bowl win. It wasn't too much to ask. " 
Charlie Weis Irish coach 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Wednesday, January 14, l009 


report card 

A 
quarterbacks: Oausen's numbers do all the talking. The sophomore was as accurate 
and efficient as any quarterback in the country this postseason. 

8 
running backs: The Irish only picked up 76 yards on the ground, but they weren't 
asked to do much more. Allen also had a few big catches on screen plays. 
receivers: Golden Tate was untouchable 

A 
against a dearly overmatched Hawaii sec­
ondary. Grimes ended his career on a high 
note and Hudolph and GrimL'S both played well. 

8+ 
offensive line: The big guys up front weren't perfect, but they were pretty close. Oausen was sacked only once in the game 
and the nin game was sufficient. 

8+ 
defensive line: Eight sacks for a loss of 55 yards is a great night. Hawai'i did lead the nation in sacks allowed, but the 
Irish line deserves credit for reaking havoc in the backfield all night. 

8 
linebackers: Harrison Smith and Steve Quinn both added to the sack total. The 
linebacking corps did everything they needed to do. 
B+ 
defensive backs: Senior safety David Bruton ended his career with an interception and a fumble recovery. Alexander did pass for 
A 
over 300 yards, but he needed 44 attempts to do it. special teams: Armando Allen returned Notre Dame's first kickoffin five years and Tate almost added a punt return. 
The kickoffteam had plenty of work and 
looked solid. 
coaching: Despite a week full of distrac­

A 
tions and a month of criticism, Weis and 
his staff had their boys ready to play. 
They were clearly the better prepared team. 
overall: Notre Dame made it 
back on the Dean's Ust to start 
the second semester. There 

3.55 
wasn't too much to complain about in this performance. 


adding up the numbers 

Teams that won bowl games during the 14-years Notre Dame went between bowl 
89 

wins. 
The number of players who have over 1,000 yards6 receiving in a single season at Notre Dame. Golden Tate became this sixth against Hawai'i. 
Irish kick returns between Armando Allen's toucdown and the last kick run 
262

back for a touchdown in 2003. 
41 
Games since Notre Dame has scored .49 points in a game. The last time was a 49-21 win over 
Purdue in 2005. 

Consecutive Irish drives that ended in the 
6 

endzone. The stretch lasted over two quar­ters. 
46 
Notre Dame's average starting field position in the third quarter was the Hawai'i 46-yard 
line. 

The combine completion percentage for backup quarterbacks Evan Sharpley and 
100 

lnoke Funaki who went 7-for-7. 
Kickoff yards for Irish kicker Ryan Burkhart 
who kicked off eight times in the game.

477 

Things could not have gone much better for the Irish in paradise. 
After a week spent sunbathing, surfing, shutting down water parks and apparently a few very produc­tive practices, Notre Dame took the field. 
The 70 degree temperature and soft Pacific breeze made for pretty nice game condi­tions. There was even a rainbow on the horizon. 
The Irish took advantage by racking up enough records and gaudy stats to make a freezing, bitter loss to Syracuse a month earlier almost seem like a bad dream. 
Almost. 

As nice as the blowout victory was, the real story of the Irish foot­ball season was the struggles in the second half of the year or more importantly how to fix them. The offense certainly looked fixed against Hawaii. It looked good enough to give most of the Irish nation ridiculous expectations for next season. But don't confuse one very good performance against a shaky defense with the kind of offense that wins championships. There is still plenty of work to be done. 
If the Hawaii Bowl proved any­thing, it was that the program as a whole is headed in the right direc­tion. 
That progress starts at the very top. If there is any honeymoon peri­od for an athletic director, Notre Dame's Jack Swarbrick didn't have very long to enjoy his. Before the end of his first semester at the reins he had a very difficult deci­sion to make with what must have seemed like the entire world look­ing over his shoulder. 
The athletic department made a poor decision four years ago when they signed Weis to a contract that would make Scott Boras blush. Luckily, this time around the pow-

Dan Murphy 
Sports Editor 

ers that be took a second to stop and think about what they were doing. 
Colleges all over the country have been embarrassing themselves for the past few months with coaching changes -Auburn and Boston College we're looking your way­but Notre Dame managed to avoid that group. 
Does the rout in Honolulu erase a 9-15 record over the past two years? Absolutely not, but it's a step 
Weis attributed Jimmy's big day to a month of slowing down and working on basic fundamentals. Maybe it was the extra practice. Maybe the So. Cal. native just need­ed a little sun and sand to get com­fortable. Maybe it was a non-exis­tent Hawaii pass defense. Whatever the cause, the effect was fun to watch and showed that the young gunslinger was moving in the right direction. 
The rest of 
Clausen's team­

in the right direc­He didn't say mates followed suit. tion. Hawaii head coach
specifically, but Weis 
Weis called the Greg McMackin said shots from his made it seem like when that having fresh­perch in the press the knees man wide out box and the team Michael Floyd back
heal up he will be
looked fired up from injury helped throughout the returning to the his other receivers, entire game on the sidelines. Does especially Golden sidelines. Both were Tate.
anyone have Tanya 
a very stark con­floyd is obviously 
Harding's number? 
trast to embarrass­a huge asset for the 
ing losses against Boston College and the Orange during 
the regular season. 
Weis said that he couldn't picture himself staying in the booth in the future, but it could be a winning reeipe. Crutches and all, Weis still managed to make it to the field to eelebrate with his boys during the fourth quarter. He didn't say specif­ically, but Weis made it seem like when the knees heal up he will be returning to the sidelines. Does anyone have Tonya Harding's num­ber'? 
The success continued to trickle down to the field and nowhere was it more apparent than with embat­tled sophomore quarterback Jimmy Clausen. His stats (22-of-26, 401 yards passing, and five passing touchdowns) are a little bit mis­leading-they could have been much better. 
The four passes that fell incom­plete were all well thrown balls, two should have been catches and the other two could have been. The 400 yards passing and five touch­downs were jammed into less than two-thirds of the game. Clausen's day was over with 7:22 left in the third quarter. 
Irish, but Tate didn't 
need anyone's help 

on Christmas Eve. He was unstoppable. He proved that on his punt return for atouch­down where he single-handedly beat all 11 Rainbow Warriors down the field only to have it called back on a roughing the punter penalty. 
Tate and Clausen definitely stood out, but the team also played as a unit with several guys stepping up as role players. Armando Allen and Robert Hughes were both big assets to the offense out of th backfield. On the other side of the ball, Ethan Johnson had a huge game with two sacks, almost matching his total for the regular season. Senior line­backer Steve Quinn also had a career day with a sack and five tackles. 
From top to bottom Notre Dame was the better team in a postseason matchup .for the first time in over a decade, which is clearly moving in the right direction. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily that of The Observer. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd. edu 
Wednesday, January 14, 2009 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Irish fill up the record books in Hawai'i 

H

split MVP honors for the to make some plays. I tried to yards including an 18-yardBy BILL BRINK and DAN game. do that and I made some touchdown on a screen pass to MURPHY passing
plays tonight," Johnson said. start the second half. 
Sports Editors 
Bird's-eye view Darius Fleming, Maurice Clausen 22-26-0 Alexander 23-39-1
Irish coach Charlie Weis Crum and Kerry Neal all got The Name Game 
Sharpley 2-2-0 Funaki 5-5-0
Notre Dame set new Hawai'i called the plays from the to the quarterback as well. The Irish wore their names Bowl records in passing press box rather than on the Hawai'i quarterback Greg on the back of their jerseys for 
rushing yards, passing touchdowns, sideline against Hawai'i. He Alexander was no stranger to the first time in over 20 years completion percentage, player said he took a shot for the defensive linemen. The against Hawai'i. The last time 
Hughes 17-68 Pi lares 2-19 
receiving yards and touch­pain in his knee, resulting Rainbow Warriors gave up a was in the 1987 Cotton Bowl 
Gray 5-22 Funaki 1-15 
downs, longest pass, total from torn ligaments he sus­total of 56 sacks this season. when Texas A&M beat Notre 
Allen 4-15 Libre 1-12 
offense and longest kick tained during the Michigan Dame 35-10. 
receiving

return. game when a player was Off to the Races The jerseys were a flashback "We came here knowing blocked into him. The shot, With just over four minutes to a tradition during the Ara 
Tate 6-177 Bain 8-109
that Hawai'i has good offen­however, sent pain into his remaining in the third quarter Parseghian years when the 
Rudolph 4-78 Salas 7-76
sive firepower," Weis said. calves and feet and rendered sophomore running back team would regularly put 
Grimes 4-34 Washington 6-96
"We wanted to mix the run him unable to walk. Armando Allen returned a names on their jersey for the 
Hughes 3-27 Lane 4-29 
and th!l pass, and get them Weis said coaching from the Hawai'i kickoff 96 yards for a bowl games only. 
Kamara 3·21 Pi lares 3-16 
out of their Cover Two." press box was 10 times easier touchdown to make the score 
Allen 2-59 Sophomore wide receiver -"Calling the game was 49-14 for the Irish. Aloha Coaches 
Floyd 2-17 Golden Tate also picked up pretty sweet up there" -but "It was open and once I saw Offensive coordinator Mike 
returnsseveral records of his own. He said as a coach, he wants to that I was just thinking I can't Haywood and defensive line became the sixth Irish receiv­be on the sideline. fall. I was just riled up that we coach Jappy Oliver both 

Allen 2-116 Lane 5-107
er to pick up over 1,000 yards finally got one, its been a long coached their finals games for 
Tate 2-26 Torres 1-24
in a .season and he also set Pouring on the pressure time," Allen said. Notre Dame in Honolulu. bowl record for most touch­The Irish defense also had a It was the first kickoff return Haywood will be the head down catches (3) and receiv­big night out with seven sacks for a touchdown for any Notre coach at Miami (Ohio) next 
tackles ing yards (177). and five more passes tipped at Dame player since Vontez Duff year and Oliver is pursuing "I had no clue that I was in the line of scrimmage. returned a kick in a 30-23 win other coaching opportunities. 
McCarthy 7 Elimimian 9 the record books, but I'll take Freshman Ethan Johnson and over Navy in 2003. It was also 
Brown, S. 6 Mouton 7 it. It's a great tradition," he senior Steve Quinn led the the first return ever in the Contact Dan Murphy at 
Quinn 5 Fonoli 7 Smith, H. 5 Leonard 7
said. way with two apiece. Hawai'i Bowl. Allen finished dmurphy6@nd.edu and 
Bruton 4 Robinson 5
Tate and Jimmy Clausen "It was a good chance to try the game with 180 all-purpose Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu. 
Celebrating the end of a drought 
By BILL BRINK Sports Editor 
The mix of emotions on the field after Notre Dame's 49-21 win over Hawai'i in the Hawai'i Bowl on Dec. 24 stretched from bewildered to jubilant to comic. 
And who can blame them? The players had just ended a nine-bowl game losing streak in a convincing fashion. 
The bewildered: quarterback Jimmy Clausen, whose 401 yards passing and five touchdowns in about three quarters of play electrified Notre Dame's offense. He walked around with the giant Sheraton Hawai'i Bowl trophy with a confused look on his face, shouting, "Where do you want me to put this?" to no one in particular. Whether he was bewildered by his strong performance or the fact that he got stuck with the heavy trophy was anyone's guess. 
The jubilant: pretty much everybody else. As soon as the final whistle sounded, senior safety David Bruton screamed, ''I'm free! I'm no longer Irish." Running back Armando Allen donned the leprechaun's hat. and Bruton waved the Irish flag. 
Defensive back Sergio Brown, disap­pointed with his view of the celebration, hopped on freshman Mike Golic Jr.'s shoul­ders. "I come to Hawai'i to do two things," he says, channeling his inner Duke Nukem: "Kick some a** and chew bubble gum. And guess what: I'm all out of bubble gum." 
This prompted a round of makeshift Hawaiian cheers -'aloha' and 'mele kalikimaka' were really all anybody knew. 
Dan Wenger wanted a better view too, but nobody had the power to get him up high enough. 
The comic: who else but defensive tackle Pat Kuntz, signing autographs near the tunnel before heading to the locker room. While signing helmets and shirts, he made sure to protect his name. "These better go for at least 50 bucks," he shouted to the fans. 
The players' reaction came as no sur­prise considering the end of Notre Dame's regular season. The Irish lost four of their last five, threw up a goose egg at Boston College, fell in the final minute on senior day to Syracuse and couldn't cover the 31.5-point spread against USC. Coach Charlie Weis' job hung in limbo for a few days, and the Irish, who looked like they had erased all memories from last year's 3­9 season, slipped closer to their previous persona. 
The perception that little had changed stayed with the fans and made Hawai'i a trendy upset pick. Some questioned why Notre Dame should go to a bowl at 6-6, let alone get a week in Honolulu. 

But after the game, Weis said Clausen's success stemmed from the bowl bid and the extra time the team had to practice. 
"One of the reasons for going to a bowl game at 6-6 is all those extra practices," Weis said. "Things that in the hectic sched­ule of a normal week, you don't have time to focus on, you can work on." 
Clausen said he worked on the little things, like footwork, during the three weeks Notre Dame had to prepare for the bowl game. It showed: 22-of-26, 401 yards, five touchdowns, and new Notre Dame bowl records for completion percentage, yards and touchdowns. 
And the celebrations continued. Weis' Hawaiian-style Notre Dame shirt looked suspiciously damp and red, as if someone had dumped a cooler of Gatorade on him. 
' ,.\~,,;, ...., 
~ 

Linebacker Brian Smith stole injured fresh­man Kallen Wade's crutch to use as an oar on top of a bench. Players, families, coach­es, coordinators, cheerleaders, assistants and managers embraced left and right, happy to be, as Kuntz said, part of "the team that did it." 
The Irish fans, about 150 of them, stayed well after the fmal play and watched the celebration. Then they honored the team with an impromptu alma mater. 
But receiver Golden Tate seemed to want more. Not more celebration, but more suc­cess. ''I'm going to enjoy Hawai'i," said Tate, who had six catches for 177 yards and three touchdowns and shared the MVP with Clausen. "I don't want to come back here for a bowl again." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
•

scoring suinmary 
1st 2nd 3nl 4th Total ND 7 21 21 0 49 UH 0 7 7 7 21 
First quarter 
Notre Dame 7, Hawai'i 0 
Robert Hughes 2-yard touchdown run with 3:07 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 87 yards, 4:45 elapsed. 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 14, Hawai'i 0 
Jimmy Clausen 14-yard pass to David Grimes with 
10:25 remaining. Drive: 6 plays, 53 yards, 2:09 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 14, Hawai'i 7 
Greg Alexander 10-yard pass to Aaron Bain with 
8:12 remaining. Drive: 6 plays, 56 yards, 2:06 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 21, Hawai'i 7 
Jimmy Clausen 69-yard pass to Golden Tate with 
6:49 remaining. Drive: 3 plays, 79 yards, 1:18 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 28, Hawai'i 7 
Jimmy Clausen 18-yard pass to Golden Tate with 
0:01 remaining. · Drive: 8 plays, 67 yards, 3:53 elapsed. 
Third quarter Notre Dame 35, Hawai'i 7 
Jimmy Clausen 18-yard pass to Armando Allen with 10:50 remaining. Drive: 6 plays, 88 yards, 2:52 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 42, Hawai'i 7 
Jimmy Clausen 40-yard pass to Golden Tate with 
7:22 remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 50 yards, 2:23 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 42, Hawai'i 14 
Greg Alexander 21-yard pass to Aaron Bain with 
4:25 remaining. Drive: 6 plays, 81 yards, 2:51 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 49, Hawai'i 14 
Armando Allen 96-yard kickoff return with 4:12 remaining. Drive: 0 plays, 96 yards, 0:13 elapsed. 
Fourth quarter Notre Dame 49, Hawai'i 21 
lnoke Funaki 27-yard pass to Michael Washington with 1:45 remaining. Drive: 6 plays, 80 yards, 2:06 elapsed. 
statistics 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Wednesday, Janua1y 14, 2009 
One shy of a Ha-waii 5-0 
Notre Dame flew southwest to spend its Christmas in Honolulu with plenty to 
prove. The Irish were coming off a disappointing end to their season, head coach Charlie Weis needed a chance to prove his critics wrong, and the whole team was trying to snap an NCAA record nine game drought in the postseason. The Irish accomplished all of their goals and then some. Sophomore quarter­
back Jimmy Oausen exploded for 401 yards passing and five touchdowns through the air. He and his teammates tore apart the Notre Dame and NCAA record books by hanging 49 points on the clearly overmatched Rainbow Warrior defense. On the other side of the ball, the defense was not to be outdone. They posted eight sacks, five tipped passes, an interception and a fumble recovery against the high-flying Hawaiian offense. 
Notre Dame's senior captains all road into the sunset in style. Safety David 
Bruton had two turnovers and wide reciever David Grimes hauled in a touch­down pass in the second quarter. Coaches Mike Haywood and Jappy Oliver also had sweet goodbyes as they finished their final games on the Irish sidelines. 

Clockwise from top, Golden Tate sheds a defender after one of his six catches; Senior Pat Kuntz strikes up the band for the alma mater; Armando Allen celebrates one of his two touchdowns; Tate avoids tacklers and sideline ads in the third quarter; Senior David Bruton takes down a Hawai'i receiver for one of his four tackles in Honolulu. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, January 14, 2009 
page 11 
By ADRIANA PRATT Scene Writer 
In the heart of Mumbai's over­whelmingly impoverished and over­crowded slums .lives orphan Jamal Malik (Dev Patel), the 18 year-old hero of "Slumdog Millionaire" who brings hope to his lost childhood love· and the millions of Mumbai's desti­tute inhabitants when he lands a spot on India's version of "Who Wants to be a Millionaire." 
As he answers more and more questions correctly, suspicions mount that this barely educated boy who has lived on the streets the majority of his life might be cheating and he is taken in for governmental question­ing when the show breaks for the evening. After being physically tor­
.· · tured and intimidated by the impa­tient Indian police, he finally confess­es to how he knew each answer and the revealing anecdotes he shares covering events from his childhood to the present day show how honest and how pure this gem from the slums really is. Irish director and Golden Globe winner Danny Boyle calls this mas­terpiece his "love letter to Mumbai," and does his best to capture the prominent role the belief in destiny plays in the Indian culture by using it 
as the motivating factor that drives the actions of his protagonist. In an interview with Fox Searchlight Pictures, he says of the multitude of Indians living in poverty, "They accept, you knQw, maybe what we would regard as a terrible condition of life ... They 51ccept that-that that is their destiny." The Indian belief that they are in the place they are supposed to be allows them to accept and cope with their living conditions and the situations they are placed in and it is this belief in destiny fused with the Western belief in controlling your own destiny that drives Jamal Malik's pursuit of a better life. 
The pursuit of his fate begins shortly after being orphaned when young Jamal realizes that all he has to rely on for his survival is his older brother Salim (Madhur Mittal). While he and his brother flee the Hindi­Muslim conflict in his village that was responsible for the death of his moth­er, they come across a dirty lonely girl abandoned in the streets and from the moment Jamal's eyes fall on this intriguing and innocent orphan named Latika (Freida Pinto), he knows she is the third musketeer he and his brother Salim have been missing. 
He is quick to fall in love with her 
in the most 
innocent and· 
childlike of ways and, though sepa­rated from her multiple times 
Slumdog Millionaire 
Directed By: Danny Boyle throughout his life, manages
Starring: Dev Patel, Madhur Mittal, Freida Pinto 
to find his way 
back to her 
even though as 

time goes on, it gets more and more danger­ous to do so. Because Jamal knows he is destined to be with Latika, he refuses to give up pursuit of her and it is this belief destiny that drives his final attempt to re.unite with her by appearing on and determinedly win-IP· ning "Who Wants to be Millionaire." 
"Slumdog Millionaire" is a tale that enlivens the human spirit while teaching valuable and important sons about human nature and one responsibility for his or her ., actions. The personalities of each. , •%·"·.,,.c...•·.··~~ character remain consistent from 7" 
childhood to adulthood, revealing the concept that actions taken as a child are often good indicators of the type of person someone will grow up to be. 
This winner of four Golden Globes, including Best Director, Picture, Screenplay and Score truly deserves every award that comes its way. The roles were perfectly cast, the plot and screenplay indulgea the audi­ence with a bittersweet taste of life on the Mumbai streets, and the fusion of Indian beats and American hip-hop mirrored the audiences' desire to run with Jamal, Latika, and "Slumdog Millionaire" away from life's hardships and into the winner's circle. 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 

Forty minutes before "Valkyrie" I was wondering when it was to start. Forty minutes into the , I was wondering the same 
It's nice to see t the film's Shane Steinburg 

, Bryan inger is a Scene & Heard ature lover. 
all, he cast a cardboard box for role ... Oh, wait, never mind, just Tom Cruise doing his best liTTIT..r•>cci of someone with no acting 
Oscar anyone? 

However, a one-eyed, patch-wearing Cruise isn't the star of this specta-No, he is forced to share the spot­with a terribly cast Adolf Hitler with a noticeably horrendous accent. Honestly, Sasha Baron would have been a more con­Hitler. Believe me, the first he opens his mouth, if you haven't already realized from the first half of the film, you will know that thrown your money away. May suggest sleeping as an alternative? I I did, and I will say, not only was refreshing, but it was the best part of 
the film -other than the nachos and cheese I was munching on. 
In the back of my mind though, I vaguely remember this one moment during the film when I was, dare I say, intrigued. Not by the film of course, but by the mystery surrounding the failure of the film's subject, a failed plot to assassinate Adolf Hitler. This ill­documented and historically forgotten attempt to put to a stop to Hitler's 
Valkyrie Directed by: Bryan Singer 
ambitions and end WWII finally received the attention it has deserved ever since it's unraveling. What was the plot? Why did it fall apart? These questions act like ticks and eats at you, causing you to actually watch the film, or at least its unfulfilling climax. 
The film follows Colonel Stauffenberg (Tom Cruise), who after being wounded while on duty in North Africa joins up with a group of high-
Starring: Tom Cruise, Kenneth Branagh, Bill Nighy, Tom Wilkinson 
, 

level German military officials (all of whom have English accents no less) who liatch a plot to kill Germany's Fuhrer. .From there the first half of the film is spent working out the assassi­nation plot's details at a snail-pace until, at about an hour in, sus­pense actually settles in for a moment but is just as quickly killed because Singer reveals his hand too soon. ~ 
The filni ends with what was proba-r bly meant to be a poignant scene dur-~ ing which all the main conspirators ~ are shot to death by firing squad one-t by-one, with Tom Cruise dying last. Its ~.:·
... falls as flat as it possibly could though, ~ acting more as a call to laugh out loud ~. than a reason to feel at all sad for the f 
one-eyed scientologist and his Queen-r. loving comrades. 1 I have much respect for the men i 
who actually had the sense to realize that what Hitler was doing was not only wrong for Germany, but also morally wrong, and who so bravely tried to overthrow him. As for all who so dreadfully put together this dry, bet­ter-forgotten film, all I can do is ask that if the theater will not give me my 1.· money back, will you? . 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Shane Steinburg at ssteinb2@nd. edu 
falls apart 
BLAIR 
\ 


page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, January 14, 2009 
NHL 

Oilers net first road win over Caps since 1997 
Heatley, McAmmond and Fisher each light the lamp helping the Senators end their five-game losing streak 
good goaltending can be early

Associated Press 
against the Capitals' fearsome 

WASHINGTON -Dwayne offense. Roloson's saves and Steve "Rollie really held us in there Macintyre's first career goal in the first period until we provided an early lift. Then, seemed to get our bearings. Erik Cole took command. And it was a great goal by Mac, 
Cole scored three goals, a big goal. It really lifts our Gilbert Brule added a goal and ·spirits," Cole said. "We went out an assist, and the Edmonton in the second period with more Oilers beat Washington 5-2 conviction and I think we con­Tuesday night, handing the trolled the play the way we Capitals their third consecutive wanted to." loss. The Capitals squandered a 
Roloson made 34 saves and 19-9 edge in shots in the open­Macintyre got his first NHL goal ing period, as Macintyre and for the Oilers, who won their Cole tallied 1:11 apart for a 2-0 second straight game. It was Edmonton lead; Edmonton's first victory on the Macintyre one-timed a short road against the Capitals since pass from center point at 12:59 Jan. 26, 1997 at USAirways and, with the Capitals' Arena in Landover, Md. Alexander Semin off for hook­
"Once Mac scored, I knew it ing, Cole poked in the rebound was one of those rare games of Sheldon Souray's long drive where you could get away with for his ninth goal. a few things," Oilers coach "I closed my eyes, shot the Craig MacTavish said. "Rollie puck and fortunately it went was super-sharp early when he in," Macintyre said. "You grow needed to be. We mismanaged up dreaming about playing in the puck early -a little rattled, the NHL and you go out there I think, by the threat ·and the [and score] against some pretty skill." good players. It feels pretty 
But the Capitals never flexed good." where everyone wants to be the scored goals, I think it helps fall squarely on our shoulders, their offensive muscle, despite Mactavish sensed Macintyre scorer and nobody wants to be their confidence, .and it's nice to the guys who are playing in outshooting Edmonton 36-23. had delivered the pick-me-up the mucker, you are not going get contributions from every­front of him right now," Corvo 
Mike Green had a goal and an the Oilers desperately needed. to do anything," Washington one tonight and I think that can said. assist and Tomas Fleischmann ''I've seen a lot of things hap­coach Bruce Boudreau said. go a long way for our club, so Jarkko Ruutu returned to the also scored for Washington, pen in games, but this is," "Everybody's waiting and when we're happy with the result." Senators' lineup after serving a which lost a second straight MacTavish said, his voice trail­you put a skilled lineup togeth­Antoine Vermette added the two-game suspension for biting home game for the first time ing off as he shook his head in er, ... everybody needs to do the Senators' third goal with 26 Sabres forward Andrew Peters' this season and is now 18-3-1 disbelief. "Their skill guys had grunt job. Until we get that hap­seconds remaining in the sec-' gloved hand in a 4-2 loss in at Verizon Center. The three four or five point-blank oppor­pening, we're not going to score ond and Fisher -who played Buffalo one week earlier. straight losses match a season tunities and then Mac buries his a lot of goals." his SOOth regular season game Heatley scored 3:45 in when high. first. I figured it was going to be Brule made it 3-0 2:15 into -scored on a power play mid­he was left unguarded in the 
Cole, who played frequently in a good night. Everybody was the second period, splitting two way through the third for his slot. The two-time 50-goal scor­Washington during six seasons energized by that." defensemen between the circles first goal in 20 games. er drove in to beat Ward for his with the Carolina Hurricanes In the first period, the and knocking a right-wing feed "Any time it's been a while it 17th goal of the season after before an offseason trade to the Capitals struggled. from Kyle Brodziak past Jose definitely feels good," Fisher taking Spezza's centering pass Oilers, knows how important "When it gets to the point Theodore. said. ''I've just got to keep when Carolina defensemen Joni 
The Capitals finally got on the going." Pitkanen and Dennis board thanks to a strong effort Chris Phillips scored his Seidenberg both converged on by Fleischmann, who netted his fourth goal with 4:47 remain­the Ottawa center as he drove career-high 14th goal. ing. the right side. Fleischmann wove through four Brian Elliott made 23 saves in "Yeah, that wasn't a particu­defenders in the Oilers zone his second straight start for the larly well sorted out 2-on-2, before flicking the puck over Ro Senators, who lost 2-0 to the was it?" Hurricanes coach Paul 
New York Rangers on Saturday Maurice said. "We've had a lot Ottawa 5, Carolina 1 in their first home game follow­of new partners and they're 
OTTAWA -The Ottawa ing a 1-6-1 trip. still working with each other." Senators got much-needed "I don't know, I think the guys Heatley hadn't found the back offensive production from some are confident in themselves," of the net since Dec. 23, when struggling sourCBs to end their said Elliott, who was called up he scored twice -the only two most recent skid. from Bil!ghamton of the AHL on goals in his previous 15 games 
Dany Heatley, Dean Friday. "It's a good team in -in a 6-4 loss in Philadelphia. McAmmond and Mike Fisher there and it's kind of a mystery McAmmond ended a 21-game scored and Ottawa stopped a why we're at the bottom of the goal drought to put Ottawa up five-game losing streak with a standings, but if we keep play­by 2 at 11:09 as the 5-1 win over the Carolina ing games like that I don't think Hurricanes' defense let down Hurricanes on Tuesday night. we'll be there for long." Ward once again. 
Heatley, who was replaced by Joe Corvo scored on a power Carolina defenseman Niclas Fisher on the Senators' first play in the second for Carolina, Wallin turned over the puck to power-play unit, scored his first which has lost three straight. McAmmond in the neutral zone goal in nine games early in the Cam Ward, pulled after and the Ottawa center drove in first before McAmrhond ended allowing three goals in on a breakaway and beat Ward a 21-game drought midway Saturday's 5-l loss in Boston, for his second goal of the sea­through the opening period to stopped 35 shots in his ninth son. put Ottawa up 2-0. straight start for the Corvo drew the Hurricanes 
"We played a good game," Hurricanes. within 2-1 when he drove a said Jason Spezza, who set up "He obviously does the best slap shot past Elliott from the Heatley's goal. "Two guys he can every night and things left point at 8:27. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre 'Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The 
charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

FoR RENT 
3 & 4 bedroom 3 full bath homes close to campus. Safe Neighborhood, cathedral ceilings, fireplace, 2 car garage, 1Ox20 decks. Call 574-232-4527 or 269-683­5038. From $,1, 700/mo (M)GRAD STUDENT looking to share upscale home during spring semester. 
Fully furnished, 2 blocks from campus. NS, No Pets. $625/mo inc. utilities. 330-565-5979 
(John). 

andersonNDrentals.com 
FREE COMCAST! 
Henrik Lundqvist: better than Rick DiPietro. Nigel Dawes: better than Chris Campoli. Home ice advantage in the Coliseum: don't mean nothing. 
Go Rangers. 

Hey Christina, see you at Irish step dancing class 
l::ove, 
IRISHLINK 

C-Mal, try holding it in next time Love, Apartment 3A and Hino. 
Stanford men we are here to build a dorm bringing good cheer with a knick-knack paddy wack give a bum a home all good Griffins call Stanford home 
Rob Wilson, restoring women's faith since 2008 
Andrew Polich, destroying women's faith and creating the need for Rob Wilsons since 1987 Leo pimps_, Leo pimps __ 
I just want to tell you that I'm here to be whatever you want me to be... no no really, like if you to come into my room, grab a Coke... 
I'm so confused right now 
swagger 
u 


OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, January 14, 2009 CoMPilED FROM THE O:ssERVER:s WIRE SERVICES page 13 
Men's Basketball 

'  
APTop 25  
team  points  
1  Pillsburgh  1,798  
2  Wake Forest  1,686  
3  Duke  1,678  
4  Connecticut  1,549  
5  North Carolina  1,461  
6  Oklahoma  1,440  
7 8  Michigan State Syracuse  1,356 1,232  
9  UCLA  1,222  
10  Clemson  1,153  
11  Texas  1,009  
12  NOTRE DAME  1,008  
13  Georgetown  908  
14  Marquelle  752  
15  Xavier  710  
16  Arizona State  573  
17  Butler  521  
18  Minnesota  508  
19  Purdue  490  
20  Louisville  433  
21  Baylor  364  
22  California  299  
23  Villanova  229  
24  Tennessee  198  
25  Michigan  153  

Women's Basketball 
APTop 25 
team 

1 Connecticut 2 North Carolina 3 Oklahoma 4 Duke 5 Baylor 6 Auburn 7 Louisville 8 Texas A&M 9 Stanford 10 NOTRE DAME 11 California 12 Maryland 13 Tennesse'e 14 Virginia 15 Ohio Stale 16 Texas 17 Kansas State 18 Vanderbilt 19 Florida 20 Iowa Slate 21 Maris! 22 Oklahoma State 23 Rutgers 24 Georgia Tech 25 New Mexico 
points 
1,125 1,080 1,003 946 921 358 327 819 776 758 647 630 626 512 501 498 410 330 329 208 157 139 115 86 62 
MIAA Basketball Conference Standings 
team conference record 

1 SAINT MARY'S 6-0 2 Hope 4-1 3 Adrian 3-2 4 Alma 3-2 5 Calvin 2-3 6 Albion 2-3 7 Olivet 2-3 8 Trine 2-4 9 Kalamazoo 0-6 
~ 

around the dial 
NBA 
Lakers at Spurs 9 p.m.,ESPN 
NCAA 
Syracuse at Georgetown 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 

NCAA BASKETBALL 

Associated Press 

KNOXVILLE, Tenn. Jodie Meeks was just try­ing to get a victory. He didn't fathom having a chance at earning a spot among Kentucky's great­est players. 
Meeks scored a school­record 54 points to help Kentucky cruise to a 90­
72  win  over  No.  24  
Tennessee  on  Tuesday  
night.  

"It means a lot oo be in the same sentence as Dan Issel. It's mind-boggling," he said. "I was just out there playing to win." 
Meeks, who broke Issei's 39-year-old record of 53 points set at Mississippi, was mobbed by his Kentucky team­mates in the middle of the Thompson-Boling Arena court, where the Wildcats (13-4, 2-0 SEC) handed the Volunteers their third loss in January. 
The Southeastern Conference's leading scor­er surpassed liis previous high of 46 points, which he set Dec. 20 against Appalachian State, with 
4:50 left as he hit an open 3, one of 10 3-pointers he would make for the night. He set the record with free throws with 1:31 left. 
Meeks entered the game ranked fourth in the nation in scoring with an average 24.2 points per game. 
"I have never seen any­thing like it," Kentucky coach Billy Gillispie said. "Jodie Meeks had 46 against Appalachian State, and they are a nice team, but not near a team the quality of Tennessee and on the home court." 
The 54 points was also the biggest indiyidual SEC performance since Chris Jackson's 55 for LSU 
against Mississippi  in  
1989.  
"There have been  so  

many great players -this is the greatest basketball tradition in the world at the collegiate level -and to be able to put your name up there with some of those greats is quite an accomplishment," Gillispie said. 

Down by 6 at the half, Tennessee (10-5, 1-1) cut Kentucky's lead to 43-41 on a fastbreak basket by Wayne Chism a minute and a half into the second half. 
But the Vols' spotty defense couldn't contain Meeks, who hit a layup and two 3-pointers to help the Wildcats on a 10-0 run that gave them a 53­41 lead. Even contested shots sank perfectly through the nets. 
"Defensively we tried to guard him as a team," Tennessee coach Bruce Pearl said. 
IN BRIEF Atlanta reaches prelimi­
nary deal witli Lowe 
ATLANTA -The Braves bounced right back from the disappointment of losing John Smoltz. 
Determined to rebuild a once­proud pitching staff that fell into disarray, Atlanta reached a prelimi­nary agreement Tuesday on a $60 million, four-year contract with Derek Lowe and finalized a deal with Japanese all-star pitcher Kenshin Kawakami. 
Just like that, the Braves' rotation -once the most dominant in base­ball -suddenly looks a whole lot stronger with spring training just a month away. 
"You've got to have pitching," manager Bobby Cox said. "You could have the best hitting team in the history of baseball and you still may not get it done. We will feel confident now that whoever toes the mound on any particular night, we've got a good chance of win­ning." 
Boston College hires 
Spaziani as head coach 
BOSTON -Frank Spaziani stayed at Boston College,. even though he was disappointed when he was passed over for the head coaching job in 2006. 
That loyalty paid off Tuesday when the longtime assistant was promoted to the top spot. 
The 61-year-old who built top defenses during his 10 years as coordinator succeeds Jeff Jagodzinski, who was fired last Wednesday after two seasons when he interviewed for the New York Jets coaching job after being told he would be dis­missed if he did so. 
''The fact that he (Spaziani) really wants to· be here at Boston College and bleeds maroon and gold, that was extremely important," athletic director Gene DeFilippo said, "but it wasn't the most impor­tant factor." 
Trial about Burress' car 
lease to begin today LEBANON, Pa. -Plaxico Burress is in court again. 
A civil trial is scheduled to begin Wednesday in Pennsylvania to determine how much the New York Giants wide receiver will have to pay in dam­ages over a car he leased that ended up being impounded by New York City police. 
New York police said Tuesday that they impounded the car in August 2005 in connection with a shooting in the Bronx. Arrests were made, but the records were sealed and police gave no other details about the incident. 
Court papers in Pennsylvania say a Lebanon County car dealer allowed Burress to borrow a 2004 Chevrolet Avalanche worth more than $36,000 in exchange for Burress agreeing to sign autographs at promotional events. 

Exuberant, intense and defense-oriented, Mora takes over for Holmgren bringing a different look to the Seahawks 
Associated Press 
RENTON, Wash. -Jim Mora threw his hands above his head. He punched the air. He made sharp, slicing motions with his hands for emphasis. 
He talked of running at 
5:30 a.m., wearing a head­lamp, up his favorite moun­tain outside Seattle. No switchbacks, straight up. Like most of his coaching career. 
''I'll be there Friday morn­ing, if anyone wants to join me," Mora said, a smile !'lashing across the 47-year­old's boyish face. 
Then he nearly hyperventi­lated talking about defense, the side of the ball that has been a relative afterthought for the head coach in Seattle for the last quarter century. 
No, this is definitely not Mike Holmgren. 

The Seahawks officially transitioned on Tuesday away from a grandfatherly guru of quarterbacks -who never ran on the practice field, let alone up mountains before dawn -to a defen­sive mind with seemingly endless energy when they introduced Mora as their seventh coach. Mora, the former defensive defensive backs coach the the 2004 NFC championship Falcons. 
The team announced this coordinator for the San last two years is getting game before he was fired on But when he was asked move 11 months ago, after Francisco 49ers (1999-close to $5 million per sea­Jan. 1, 2007. about defense -"my pas­Holmgren decided 2008 2003), will likely call son, about double what the The 2008 Seahawks limped sion," he called it -Mora would be his lOth and last Seattle's defense with the Falcons were paying him through a lifeless, injury­suddenly looked as if he was leading Seattle. help of defensive coordinator when they fired him as head filled season to finish 4-12 about to bust out of his blue 
Mora is Seattle's first head Casey Bradley, whom Mora coach on New Year's Day and out of the playoffs for suit and matching iie. He coach with a background on hired from Tampa Bay this 2007. In Mora's three sea­the first time in six years. looked like he was ready, defense since its original one week. sons in Atlanta, the Falcons Mora stayed silent because eight months early, to take from 1976-82, Jack Patera. That means Seattle's were 26-22 and played in he didn't want to upstage the field for his first game 
Holmgren 's farewell. leading the team he grew up 
No one will associatn Mora watching. with "silent" or "lifeless" in Not to coach. To play in it. 2009. "We · re not going to 
"We believe we are going rebuild! We 're not going to to get it right. We are going reload! Every single year is to regain our winning ways. about winning the Super The excitement is real," Bowl championship!" Mora Seahawks chief executive said. "Number one, we 've Tod Leiweke said. "At the got to take back the dang core of our optimism is NFC West."
Over-65 years strohg. Owned and Jimmy Mora." Seattle finished last in pass Yes, even though everyone defense and 30th in total
controlled by the more than 
knew it was coming, Day One defense in 2008. An under­60,000 members of the change was a jolt. sized, weak and injured pass 
Mora talked of Seattle, rush left smallish defensive where he went to high backs vulnerable. school and college while his Mora said his defense
Plus, our name remains father was an assistant at would attack until it hurt the same year the University of them as much as the oppo­Washington, hosting a cham­nents.
after year. pionship-winning parade ''I've been telling guys, 'Be starting at the Space Needle in great shape. Be ready to and ending at Qwest Field. run and chase the ball for a 
So what that the only long time, "' said Seahawks men's professional team in defensive end Patrick Seattle to have one was the Kerney, who went to his first
Join Today! 
recently departed Pro Bowl with Mora coach­SuperSonics of the NBA -in ing him in Atlanta. 1979 -or that Holmgren got Holmgren compiled results to the Super Bowl only to worthy of the Hall of Fame lose three years ago? ·with a meticulous, controlled 
The former walk-on line­passing game. Mora talked backer at Washington of a "change in emphasis," appeared composed and said to a run-first approach of he was "incredibly humbled" new offensive coo_rdinator as he talked about replacing Greg Knapp. the lOth winningest coach in Knapp was Mora's offen­NFL history. Under sive coordinator in Atlanta. llolmgren, Mora said he Knapp's offenses have learned patience. He learned ranked in the league 's top compassion with players 10 in rushing in all eight while maintaining an appro­seasons he has been a coor­priate authority. lie said he dinator. passed up other opportuni­"I believe in playing with a ties to be a head coach in bit of stinger," Mora said. the last two years because Not that he nnPded to. llis hi' was absorbing lessons ehargnd. debut appearance that will make him a better as the Seahawks ' head man coach than he was for the had already said that. 


Wednesday, January 14, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 
~09 Gators' bite not as ~harp 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. -The Florida Gators own four of the last six national cham­pionships handed out in football and men's basket­ball. 
It's unlikely they can make it five of seven. Although Florida (14-2, 
Southeastern Conference) has won eight in row he ad­ing into Wednesday's 
our team have been exposed, but now do we really confront those things? We have to find a way to confront them." 
Florida won consecutive national championships with one of the most com­plete teams in recent years. The Gators could score inside or out, run the floor with anybody or slow it down and create open shots. Corey Brewer and L e e 

game at 'There's definitely Humphrey 
Auburn, coach were solid
some deficiencies and

Billy Donovan perimeter 
realizes his things we have." defenders, team has and Al many of the Horford and
Billy Donovan 

same flaws Joakim Noah
Florida coach 

that kept the Gators out of the NCAA tournament last year for the first time in a decade. 
Florida has struggled rebounding, defending the paint and the 3-point line, and matching up against athletic teams. Donovan has tried to camouflage those weaknesses with an occasional press, some traps and an up-and-down tempo designed to force opponents into ill-advised shots. 
So far, so good. The Gators have won 11 of 12 and even beat Mississippi last weekend despite get­ting outrebounded 46-22. But Donovan believes things have to change for his team to have sustained success this season. 
"There's definitely some deficiencies and things we. have," Donovan said. "Every team has it. There's no pure team that has no weaknesses. But the good teams identify what their problems are and what they've got to do to mask them or overcome them or really confront them in a way that they say, 'There's a commitment where we're not going to let this hap­pen.' 
"Some of the things on forced teams to reconsider driving the lane. 
Florida's best attribute this season? 
"I think we move the ball really well," forward Chandler Parsons said. "We've got a whole bunch of unselfish out,

'There's a lot of 
guys that real­like, 'OK, ly like to pass things we need to when this guy the ball and work on. We're gets there.' find the open Believe me,
definitely a team in 
man. And he's not. But I when you progress. think he can have a guy help." open, he's In the
Chandler Parsons 
going to knock meantime,
Florida forward 
the shot down." 
The Gators lead the league in assists and 3-pointers, and rank second in turnover margin. But they're lOth in rebounding, and last in blocked shots and 3-point defense. 
"We've definitely got to be better at other things," Parsons said. "We've got to shoot the ball more consis­tent, we've got to block out better, we've got to defend. better. There's a lot of things we need to work on. 
We're definitely  a  team in  
progress."  
Donovan  expects  

improvement, but he might • 

have to live with the limita­tions that stem from having· 6-foot-8 forward Alex Tyus playing.center and less ath­letic big men Dan Werner and Chandler Parsons lin­ing up alongside him in the frontcourt. 
The Gators, who lost cen­ter Marreese Speights to the NBA last summer, had hoped to get some inside presence from 6-10 centers Kenny Kadji and Eloy Vargas as well as fellow freshman Allan Chaney. But Donovan said they have other shortcomings pre­venting them from logging many minutes. 
It could get better next season with the addition of 6-10 Georgetown transfer Vernon Macklin, but Donovan cautioned against considering Macklin the answer to the team's post woes. 
"Believe me, he's not our 
problem-solver  in  that  
area,"  Donovan  said.  
"Sometimes when  a  guy's  

not playing or a guy's sitting it looks 
the Gators 
might have to 

keep finding ways t_o win despite their problems. They did win three of their last six games -against Georgia Southern, Stetson and Ole Miss -despite giving up a combined 56 offensive boards. 
"We've got to get tougher as a team~ definitely," guard Nick Calathes said. "I think that's one our main things we've got to work on. Obviously defense and rebounding, that goes to toughness. We've just got to bring it in practice. That's how we get better and ready for games." 

The Office of 

Multicultural Student Programs & Services would like to applaud the following Multicultural Hall Commissioners for their outstanding work in promoting diversity efforts within the ND residence halls during the first half of the 2008-2009 school year! 
NFL 
Pioli latest piece of Patriots' tree to branch 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Scott Pioli, who helped build and lead a dynasty in New England, is now in charge of a Kansas City franchise which hasn't won a playoff game in 14 years. 
The 43-year-old Pioli will be introduced on Wednesday as Chiefs general manager, replac­ing Carl Peterson. 
"He will have complete charge of football operations," Ryan Petkoff, a spokesman for Chiefs chairman Clark Hunt, told The Associated Press. "He will report only to Clark." 
The fate of coach Herm Edwards and his staff was not immediately known. 
Pioli, who became vice presi­dent of player personnel for the Patriots in 2002 and spent nfne 
years working 'To sum up in words Robert Kraft with head coach everything Scott Pioli praised Pioli as Bill Belichick, an "integral part
has meant to this
also interviewed of the many for the general organization and to championships manager vacan­me personally would the New England 
cy in Cleveland. Patriots have cel­
be difficult. " 
He inherits a ebrated this young team com­decade." ing off a 2-14 Bill Belichick "Scott is a season, but is Patriots coach great evaluator 
stepping into a situation that seems ripe for a quick turn­around. 
The fan base is loyal, though restive, and the team will be playing next year in a virtually new stadium. Arrowhead, which opened in 1972 and is notorious for being loud and rough on vis­iting teams, is undergoing a $325 million renovation, which includes new luxury boxes, wider concourses and enhanced amenities in addition to new practice facilities, an enlarged indoor field and a brand new state-of-the-art headquarters building. 
In addition, the Chiefs are about $32 million under the salary cap, extra money that will. come ,in handy because KC owns the overall No. 3 pick in the draft. Besides that, there are a number of promising young players who Edwards was 
Brandi Allen - Badin Hall  Tej Mudigonda-St Edwards Hall  
Chelsea Carey-Badin Hall  Lexie Perreras-Badin Hall  
Danielle Hoehn  -Lyons Hall  Joseph Scolaro-Morrissey Manor  
Minyoung Kim-Badin Hall  Marissa Villano-Lyons Hall  

Thank you for valuing diversity! Your energy and enthusiasm for diversity and multiculturalis-m is greatly appreciated by your peers, your rector, and the MSPS staff. Keep up the great work! 
· Multicultural Student Programs &services (MSPS) .... 'Promoting Equity Through Intellectual Exploration and Cultural Celebration" 
tt
IJ www.nd 
counting on as the foundation of his rebuilding project. 
Pioli, the son-in-law of Miami Dolphins boss Bill Parcells, has been honored many times for his contributions to the Patriots' three Super Bowl champi­onships. With Pioli working with Belichick, the Patriots used an effective mix-and-match of trades, free agent signings and draft selections to dominate the league. In 2007, six players drafted by Pioli and Belichick made the Pro Bowl. 
"We are very excited to wel­come Scott to the Chiefs," Hunt said in a statement. "With his proven track record of success, Scott is the finest player person­nel executive in the NFL, and we look forward to his leadership in building a championship organi­
zation." 
Patriots owner 
of talent," Kraft 
said. "He is thor­

ough in his evaluations, 
extremely organized and has 
done a tremendous job mining 
all possible resources to help 
coach Belichick and his staff 
lield the players needed to win 
consistently. He has played an 
important role in building a 
championship tradition with 
players that I am proud to call 
Patriots." 
Pioli's NFL career started 
when Belichick hired him as a 
pro personnel assistant for the 
Browns in 1992. Belichick then 
brought him to New England 
shortly after he became head 
coach of the Patriots. 
From 2000-08, the Patriots 
were an NFL-best 102-42 in the 
regular season and rang up 14 
playoff wins. · 
"To sum up in words every­thing Scott Pioli has meant to this organization and to me per­sonally would be difficult, if not impossible," said Belichick. "From the day I met him. he has demonstrated a passion for foot­ball and respect for the game that is second to none." 
A club spokesman conlirmed there had been no determina­tion made on Edwards' status. That may have been a point of discussion between Pioli and Hunt when they negotiated their deal. Hunt signed off on the rebuilding project that Edwards launched this year and said in training camp he knew it would be a painful process early on. 
And it certainly was. Beset by injury, including season-ending mishaps to the top two quarter­backs, the Chiefs beat only Oakland and Denver and set a number of team records for defensive futility. Their 10 sacks were an NFL-low since the stat was kept beginning in 1981. 
Yet, when he announced the resignation on Dec. 15 of presi­.dent, CEO and general manager Peterson, Hunt said he thought Edwards was the best man for the Chiefs program going for­ward. But he also said the new general manager would have "significant input" into the final decision. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, January 14, 2009 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

ND opens spring season ice cold 
By MOLLY SAMMON Sports Writer 
For its annual winter break training trip, Notre Dame spent time in San Juan, Puerto Rico for rigorous training. When the Irish returned, a loss to Louisville brought them back to reality. 
In an open-air, 10-lane lap pool, the swimmers and divers trained twice a day, then lifted weights and did other dry-land workouts for all-around training. 
"!The practices! brought our team closer because it was necessary to rely on each other to reach the level or training we desired," sopho­more Pat Augustyn said. 
To depart from the normal 
practices, they participated in an informal meet against both Southern Illinois University and LaSalle University while in Puerto Rico on a different part of the island. 
On the way back to South Bend, the team made a stop at Louisville, currently ranked ' No. 16, for a conference meet, but a 1 7 8-117 Cardinal victo­ry dropped the Irish confer­ence record to 3-4. 
"We saw to our potential, although we came up a little bit short in the end," Augustyn said. 
In the 200-free, John Lytle 
(1:40.51) came in a close sec­ond, and Andrew Hoffman 
(1:43.51) came in fourth. 
The 200-medley relay team, composed of Mitchell Sherman, Marshall Sherman, 
Patrick Augustyn and David Anderson, finished in third place (1:37.06), unable to keep up with two accom­plished Cardinal backstro­kers. 
Irish swimmers Michael Sullivan and Bill Bauman fin­ished first and second respec­tively in the 200-individual medley. 
In the three-meter diving event, Caleb Dunnichay took first with 369.80 points, fol­lowed by Irish divers Eric Lex in second place and Wesley Villa11or in third. 
The season picks up again on Jan. 16 for a home meet against Northwestern. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 

Barnesheapspr~eonsquad 
"We do have several
By NATHANIEL LEE 
potential All-Americans 
Sports Wri rer 
swimming over at Rolfs Aquatic Center," Barnes Heading into the second said. "We are about to begin half of the season, the No. the championship portion of 25 Irish looks to build on our season with the Big East major individual successes Championships in February as the post-season nears. and the NCAA 
First-year head coach Championships in March." Brian Barnes said he hopes Last Saturday the Irish team leaders improved their such as soph­dual-meet
"We do have 
o m o r e s record to 3-1. 
Samantha several potential They pounded 
Maxwell and All-Americans Toledo 268-83 Amywren and fell to No.
swimming over at
Miller and 2 1
Rolfs Aquatic Center.,, 
senior Christa Northwestern Riggins can in the last lead the event ·of the
Brian Barnes 
young squad meet, 178­
Irish coach 
to a 13th con­173. The secutive Big Wildcats edged East Championship and an out the Irish by less than impressive showing at the four-tenths of a second in National Championships. .the final event. 
Maxwell, who set school records in the 100-and 200-meter breaststroke earlier this season, won two individual events and a had a hand in the victori­ous 400-medley relay. Sophomore Heidi Grossman and Junior Natalie Stitt led the diving squad to take the top spots in both the 3­and 1-meter dives respec­tively. 
Another key matchup is on the horizon for the Irish as thy travel to Louisville for a Big East meet with the No. 20 Cardinals Saturday. The following weekend, Notre Dame will host the Shamrock Invitational as a final tune­up for the Big East and National Championships. 
Contact Nathaniel Lee at nlee5@nd.edu 
BOWLED OVER 


Sophomore running back Robert Hughes looks for a hole during Notre Dame's 49-21 win over Hawaii Dec. 24 in the Hawaii Bowl. Hughes rushed for 55 yards and a touchdown. 
N 0 TRACK AND FIELD 

Incomplete Iri_sh squad impresses 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Spans Writer 
Senior Billy Buzaid followed freshmen Jordan Rincon in taking the top two spots in the m.en 's 600 at the Indiana Opener in Bloomington, Ind. Saturday. 
The meet at Indiana University was the team's lirst since the Blue-Gold Meet before Christmas Break, and only its second meet overall 
Hincon's time of 1:20.46 bested Buzaid by only 0.4 sec­onds. 
In the women's 600-meter dash, sophomores Kelly Langhans and Natalie Johnson also finished first and second, running times of 1:33.47 and 1 :34.65, respoctively. 
Most of the team was allowed to enjoy the extent or their holiday break, and thus less than 25 athletes competed Saturday, yet the list or posi­tive starts to the season con­tinues. Senior Anna Weber qualified !'or the NCAA Championships in the women's weight throw with a throw of 
19.18 meters, finishing only a half meter out of first and earning second. Weber also placed seventh in the shot put at 14 meters. 
Sophomore Justin Schneider took fourth in the men's 800 with a time of 1:56.81. Coach Joe Paine described Schneider's performance as "pretty good, since he's a decathlete." 

Junior Erie Quick placed sec­ond in the long jump by leap­ing 7.13 meters, or over 23 feet. 
"Eric Quick had an excep­tionally good opening perform­ance," Coach Paine said. 
Senior Mary Saxer won the women's pole vault with a height of 4.00 meters. Junior Joanna Schultz came in third in the women's 200 meters with a time of 25.10, and Schultz touk fifth in the 400 
meters by posting a  time of  
56.29 seconds.  
Finishing  fourth  in  the  

women's 800-meter run was junior Elizabeth Myers at 2:15.76, and freshmen Maddie Buttinger finished fourth in the high jump with a height of 1. 70 meters. 
The men's team received fourth-place finishes from jun­ior pole vaulter Matt Schipper as he cleared 4. 90 meters, and sophomore shot putter Denes Veres took fourth with a 16.58 meter toss. 
The solid start to the season left Paine looking to the future. 
"Where we really want to run well is the Big East meet," Paine said. "This was just one small step to getting the ream ready for the Big East." 
On Friday, the Irish return to the Loftus Center to host the Notre Dame Indoor Opener, and next week host a quad meet with Marquette, Michigan State and Wisconsin. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmerl@nd.edu 
MLB 

Padres to give Prior yet another chance 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -Right-hander Mark Prior, who has missed more than two full seasons because of shoulder problems, and infielder Chris Burke agreed to minor league con­tracts with the San Diego Padres on Tuesday and were invited to spring training. 
Prior signed with the Padres as a free agent prior to the 2008 season but missed the entire year after undergoing surgery on his right shoulder on June 4, the latest medical setback to a once-promising career. 
Prior also missed the 2007 season after undergoing sur­gery on the same shoulder that April. 
He last pitched in the big leagues on Aug. 10, 2006, with the Chicago Cubs. He was 1-6 with a 7.21 ERA that sea­son. 
Padres general manager Kevin Towers said Prior threw off a mound on Friday for the first time since surgery, and the report from team trainer Todd Hutcheson was good. 
"The last surgery benefited him a great deal," Towers said. "It looks like his mechan­ics are back in line again and he has good carries on his throws when he's doing long tosses. 

"He's had quite a few sur­geries, and we're hoping this one certainly fixed any issues he had," Towers said. "I hate to put any timelines on it, but we hope he's pitching compet­itively at the start of the sea­son. If it's not in the Qig leagues, then maybe a few starts in the minor leagues." 
Prior will make $1 million if he's on the big league roster. Jlis salary is not guaranteed. 
Prior was once thought to be the Cubs' ace of the future. In 2003, he finished third in the NL Cy Young Award voting, was 18-6 with a 2.43 ERA and struck out 245 in 211 1-3 innings. 
That October, he was on the mound for Game 6 of the NL championship series against Florida with the Cubs leading the series 3-2. Chicago led by three runs in the eighth inning before the Marlins, perhaps helped by fan Steve Bartman's play on a foul ball at Wrigley Field, rallied to win. Florida won Game 7, then went on to win the World Series. 
Prior has won just 18 games since then. 
He grew up in San Diego and was the second pick overall in the 2001 amateur draft. 
-----------------------------...,
~----------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, January 14, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
conference. In their final conference the Pirates in the game for shooting by Notre Dame kept Mahoney again chipped· in game of the break the Belles
HopeHoyas 
17 points and five assists for pulled out a win over Alma, shot only 41.9 percent from much of the evening. The Irish 
the Belles, while Newsom 69-47. Every Belle saw
continued from page 20continued from page 20 
scored 17 points of her own action in the game which that two days later with a age points below their season the floor -over four percent­
what it takes to compete in to put her past the 1000-created a balanced attack home win over Georgetown, average. 
this league as well as find­point mark for her career. that left the Scotts at bay in then ranked No. 10 in the Harangody was partly 
ing the balance between Beier rounded out the dou­the victory which improved country. Then after fending off responsible for that low per­
academics and athletics." ble-digit scorers with 14. the Belles to 6-0 in confer­a pesky Seton Hall team, centage, making only eight of 
Senior Erin Newsom "I think we see all the con­ence play this season. Notre Dame experienced pos­23 from the field, but the jun­
scored 14 points in the game ference teams as big rivals," Beier again racked up 14 sibly its most crushing loss of ior was also the catalyst for 
after being honored for hav­Newsom said. .,'Some schools points in the victory and the season Monday night, the Notre Dame's late run that 
ing the most rebounds in are seen as tougher teams Newsom added 12 points falling 87-73 in overtime to put away the Pirates. 
school history. to beat like Hope and Calvin, and two steals. No. 20 Louisville -a game Harangody's put-back with 
Next, the Belles went on but we try to go into every The Belles will host Albion Notre Dame would've loved to 9:55 remaining tied the game 
the road and beat Adrian conference game with the College today at 7:30p.m. have, considering Louisville and sparked a 13-4 run by 
74-69 in another conference attitude that we need to play was the first of five ranked Notre Dame. Harangody fin­
game. The Belles barely our best in order to win. teams. Notre Dame will face ished with 30 points and 16 
escaped with a win but regardless of the team we're ·Contact Kate Grabarek at over the next 17 days. Notre rebounds. 
remained undefeated in the put up against." kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu Dame's next four opponents "Coach said during the game -Syracuse, Connecticut, to just keep going at it, and I Marquette and Pittsburgh -did," Harangody said. "I final­havc'a combined record of 14-ly started going to work a lit­1 in conference play. tle bit in there. Not one of my 
best days, but it still felt Louisville 87, No. 12 Notre good." Dame 73 (OT) -Tory Jackson and Kyle 
Notre Dame's dynamic and McAlarney also made signifi­multi-faceted offense could cant contributions for the only muster two points over Irish as each player finished the final 10:35 against the with 18 points. · Cardinals Monday night and Lvuisville, behind 24 points No. 13 Notre Dame 73, No. and 16 rebounds from 10 Georgetown 67 Terence Williams, escaped Irish coach Mike Brey put with a win in a game Notre his faith in Luke Harangody, Dame let get away. and the reigning Big East 
The Irish held a 71-67 lead Player of the Year didn't let with 5:35 left in regulation, his coach down. but Louisville came back to tie With 15:17 left in the second with a layup from Samardo half and Notre Dame up by six Samuels with 3:22 remaining. points, Harangody picked up 
For the rest of regulation, his fourth foul. Brey would sit Notre Dame tightened the the junior for less than four screws on Louisville defen­minutes before Harangody sively, and didn't allow the returned to lead the Irish to Cardinals to score, but the victory, scoring 10 points and Irish couldn't score either. grabbing five rebounds down Guard Tory Jackson, who had the stretch. seven turnovers to go along "When you're an older play­with nine points and six er, a veteran player, my feel­assists, missed a layup. ing is sometimes coaches sit Forward Luke Harangody, guys with foul trouble too who turned in another strong much. He's played a lot of performance of 28 points and basketball," Brey said. "I 13 rebounds, missed a pair of talked with him when I took jumpers. him out. I told him, 'I need 
Despite that, Notre Dame you to be smart."' had a chance to win on the Guard Kyle McAlarney also last shot, but Jackson could found his shooting touch find nothing as he penetrated against the Hoyas. After mak­and threw the ball into the ing only one of five 3-pointers backcourt. The Irish were in Notre Dame's loss to St. called for a backcourt viola­John's, the senior sharpshoot­tion with .0.8 seconds left. er connected on five of 11 Louisville's Will Scott missed a treys and finished with 17 last-second 3-pointer and the points. game went into overtime, By beating Georgetown, where the Cardinals kicked it Notre Dame defeated one of up a notch and left a gassed the only two Big East teams 
+Novosel was named the Irish added junior walk-on Notre Dame in its wake. that hasn't fallen to the Irish 
Big East Freshman of the Alena Christiansen to the ros­
Eagles

Samuels, who finished with during their current home 
Week twice, on Dec. 29 and ter on Dec. 19. Christiansen 18 points and six rebounds, winning streak. Rutgers, who 
continued from page 20 Jan. 13. She averaged 15.5 played Bookstore Basketball in started off overtime with a visits the Joyce Center on Feb. 
points in two games last her first two years at school. In jumper. Zach Hillesland 25, is now the only team 
Hall, DePaul and Georgetown week. Fre!thman forward high school, she was a two­scored quickly with Notre remaining. 
to open conference play, and Kellie Watson has also been time all-state selection at Dame's lone field goal of the 
got a large contribution from named freshman of the week Cardinal Gibbons High School 
10:35 drought, to tie it at 73. St. John's 71, No. 13 Notre 
center Erica Williamson. twice, making this the first in Fort. Lauderdale, Fla. She Then Earl Clark, who had 15 Dame 65 
Williamson scored a career­time Notre Dame has ever had averaged 15 points per game points and 10 rebounds The Red Storm stunned the 
high 20 points in Notre Dame's two players win the honor as a senior. And, today is her including a thunderous dunk Irish with a 71-65 upset. 
86-62 win over DePaul, then twice. 21st birthday. over Harangody in the first Harangody recorded 28 points 
broke it the next game. She half, answered right back with and 14 boards but Notre 
dropped 21 in an 84-63 win +Because of the injuries Contact Bill Brink at a three and the rout was on. Dame's four-game win streak 
over Georgetown. Notre Dame has sustained, the wbrink@nd.edu 
Louisville used its full-court came to a surprising end. Red pressure against Notre Dame Storm guard D.J. Kennedy after every made basket. The had 20 points and 10 pressure contributed to Notre rebounds in his team's biggest Dame's 15 turnovers. And in a win in years. common theme that has developed this year for Notre No. 13 Notre Dame 92, Dame, Louisville outrcbound­DePaul82 ed the Irish 48-43 and had 19 The Irish opened up confer­second-chance points to Notre ence play on New Year's Eve Dame's seven. with a 92-82 win over DePaul. 
All five Notre Dame starters No. 13 Notre Dame 88, finished with double-digit Seton Hall 79 scoring totals and senior Zach 
After its emotional win over Hillesland dropped a career­Georgetown. Notre Dame high 17 points. Luke needed a late run to put a.way Harangody, the reigning Big Big East bottom feeder Seton East player of the year, fin­llall. In the process, the Irish ished with 26 points and 16 coll!~cted their 20th consecu­rebounds. , tive Big East home victory tying the conference record Contact Chris Hine at set by Pittsburgh during a chine@nd.edu, Greg Arbogast at stretch ~panning 2001-2004. garbogas@nd.edu and Fran 
Uncharacteristically poor Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 


-----~-------------­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, January 14, 2009 
Hanks 
continued from page 20 
released by the athletic department. "I will always treasure the friendships I made at Notre Dame and will carry those memories with me forever." 
Hanks led the Irish to the National Championship game against North Carolina, where the Irish lost 2-1 on Dec. 7. 
Player
'Tm just so proud of

Before that, the Week and was Irish had not her and all that she's a first-team lost all season. accomplished during all-conference Hanks beat out selection.
her four years at

North Carolina's Hanks also Casey Nogueira Notre Dame. " won the 2008 and UCLA's Lowe's Senior Christian CLASS Award,
Randy Waldrum 

DiMartino. She presented to
Irish coach 

holds 67 school 
records and was a four-year All-America selec­tion. She ranked fifth in the nation in 2008 with 20 goals, third in assists with 15 and second in points with 55. "''m just so proud of her and all that she's accomplished during her four years at Notre Dame," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said in the state­
ment. "She's evolved into a complete player on the field and a complete person off of it. The caring, compassion and generosity she shows, not only to her teammates, but to everyone she comes in contact with, is second to none. She is someone that has set a stan­dard that others will be com­pared to for years to come." 
She was 'the Big East Offensive Player of the Year, a four-time conference Offensive of the 
the senior ath­
lete who com­bined on-field performance with service. 
Hanks is the fourth Irish women's soccer player to win the Hermann Trophy, present­ed annually by the Missouri Athletic Club in St. Louis, Mo. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Streak 
continued from page 20 

"I don't think the team played great as a whole," he said. "We were definitely a little rusty." 
Against Minnesota-Duluth, the Iri.c;h started hot, with two goals in the opening period from senior Garrett Regan. Senior Erik Condra added an empty-net goal with one second left in the game to give Notre Dame a 3-1 win and the Shillelagh Tournament title. Irish goalie Jordan Pearce was named the totirnament's most outstanding player. 
"I give them a lot of credit because it looks like we eame back in good shape," Notre Dmne coach Jeff Jackson said. "I thought we played really well against Duluth Saturday night." 
Jackson said he was pleased with the outcome of a tournament as a whole, and credited Associate Athletic Director Tom Nevala for organizing it. 
"He did an outstanding job in making it a first-class event," Jackson said. "I thought it was a huge suceess and I know that we're looking at doing it again next year. With a full year to actually market it and sell it, it would be an outstand­ing tradition." 
The Iri.c;h continued their winning ways last wenkend against Alaska, eking out 2-0 and 3-0 wins in games that entered the third period scornless. In the first game, junior Ryan Thang notched a goal at 
11:40 of tho final period, and Condra addPd and empty-netter to clineh the game. In the second game, llanson snapped the dead­lock at 5:53 of the Ulird period with his team-leading 14th goal of the season. Ryan added another at 12:28, and Thang notched an empty-net goal to finish the scoring. 
Jackson said his team's ability to wait for the right chance was eru­cia:l in the wine; over the Nanooks. 
"When you're playing against teams that strt.'SS a lot of defense, it's hard to generate scoring chances," he said. "So you're going to have to be patient." 
Hanson echoed hie; coach, saying that it wac; important that the team remained ca:lm, even ifthey weren't scoring goals. 
"If we got a:head of ourselves or got a little antsy and took a stupid penalty, they definitely had the abili­ty to r,apita.lize and then just pack it in for the rest of the game," he said. 
Jackson also praised Pnarce for his back-to-back shutouts. "He's been a rock all season," he said. "And I think this weekend was 

juc;t a eulmination of it." 
The wins maintained Notre Dame's hold on the top spot in the CCHA, giving the Irish a five-point cushion over Mimni (01-I). 
"Ibe four wins to start the second half are a stark contrast to last year when the Irish, hot going into the brca:k, went 2-5-1 and struggled for much of the second half before rebounding in thn NCAA Tournament. 
"Going through that last year, I think it really gave us a lot of experi­ence," Hanson said. "Before Christmac; break we had a team meeting where we really stressed the importance of guys staying in shape over brea:k." 
The Irish haven't lost since an Oct. 25 defeat to the hands ofMimni (OH), but Hanson said while win­ning was obviously a good thing, the team wouldn't rest on their labrels. 
"It's something to be proud of," he said. "But it's also something that we can't get caught up in." 
Jackson was more frank with his evaluation of his team's suceess. 
"We're not going to win every game the rest of the way," he said. "We just have to be prepared so that when we do lose, we bounce back well the next game." 
Contact Sam Werner at swemer@nd.edu 

Welcome to 21st century student living. 

As if living in a brand new, cont~mporary, furnished apartment or luxury townhome wasn't enough. Or as if living just one !)lock east of 
Notre Dame wasn't enough. Novv ttmre's even more reason to live at Irish Row Apartments or Irish Crossings Townhomes. 
Your Irish Row or lrisll Crossings lease now gives you free access to the new Irish Row Fitness Center and Lounge. Tanning will 
I 

Martin)s 
*:""'-Irish Crossings
Townhomes For lease 
Irish 
•
Starbueks
Row 
ND 
Athletic 
*
fields 
lletwe<m • 
theBuns · 
Nichola's 
Restaurant
• 

You'll finrJ brand new, state-ot-the·art cardia equipment ancl free weights in the fitness center and comfortable seating. a large wirJescreen TV and kitchen in the lounge; all just steps outsicle your front door. 
Besides the new fitness area. tanning and lounge, your lease at lrist1 Row Apartments or trish Crossing Tovvnhomes gets you: 
• 
Up to four bedrooms 

• 
Private, full batt1 in ead1 bedroom 

• 
Furnished 



What more could you need? But hurry, units are filling fast. 
p-1Rlsh!t -­
Irish 

CRosstngs
ROW 



Wednesday, January 14, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
WWW. 8LACK00GCOMIC.COM 

THE DOME PIECE 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
Across 34 Invite for 68 Prom coif Cavern 38 ''Yes" 69 ____ -pitch 
6 Famous 39 Soviet military 70 "Funny Girl" 
9 Bone: Prefix force composer 
13 Mimicked some 42 A, as in farm animals Augsburg Down 
14 Application 43 Part of U.N.C.F. 1 Band boosters 
15 "_ to please" 45 Hors 2 Condition in 
17 Song of praise 47 Mesopotamia, outer space 
3 Ingredient in a18 Longtime today witches' brew morning TV host 

50_1uxury 20 Iowa. for one 4 Check again, as51 Call letters? 
the books22 "From my 

53 Fab perspective ... " 
5 "Enid and_ 55 Lots of caresses, 
dine"23 Remote mail e.g., for short (palindrome)service: Abbr. 

57 Relative of a 
6 Cadge24 "And the kingfisher 

7 Prolific Asimov 59 Had dinner at a 

goes to ..." 
8 Intimates restaurant 

26 Ranch 
extension? 9 Mice catchers 62 Be idle
27 Award place for 10 Congers 64 Rubbish 
a green ribbon 11 Kraut modifier 65 Query at a poker
29 Discem 12 Kid's song table refrain Puzzle by Joe Krozel
31 Stretched much 66 E-mail suffix
too far. as 16 Mohawked actor 41 Stiller's partner 51 Language 56 Make aware language 67 Expected of 1980s TV quintet 
57 Globe circler of 19 It rotates ... and 44 Walgreens rival comprising the 
1889-90

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE may be rotated only elements in 46 Reject, as an 58 River through 
21 Dame the shaded incumbent in an Pi sa boxes25 Lose hair 
election 

60 Seminary degs. 
28 Uproar 52 Prepare for a drive 61 Actress Daly
30 Easy two-pointer 48 Memo start 

31 Common alloy 54 Gearshift 63 Husband-and­component 49 Lines sequence wife team, e.g. 
32 Literature class 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit reading card, 1-800-814-5554. 33 Pop Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
35 Out of whack AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.

Ql~]~~~t!tt[t£J··· 36 Liaison 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past 37 Slip-_ (some puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).
shoes} 

Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. 40 It must be cast Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name Address _______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip_______ 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
JJ&Mill)11E.
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
DUSEE ± 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
ATIIR 
j
I (I I I 


HOW THE FARMER
tHALIDA 
KNEW THE COWS 

WERE READY FOR
] (] II 
Ml~KlNG.
www.jumble.com 
I HERNETj 

Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as
rJ r cJ 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: HE rI I I I ] I I I ]
THE ( 

(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: SMOKY LOFTY GLOOMY LOTION Answer: When he was told about the hole in the waiL the cop said he'd -"LOOK" INTO IT 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Orlando Bloom, 32; Stephen Hendry. -tO; Julia Louis-Dreyfus, -t8; Richard Moll. 66 
Happy Birthday: You must he strong this year, if you want to maintain your status quo. Unusual changes regarding work will take you on an adventure that. in the end, will have positive results. Keep your ideas and your plans on a small scale for now; there will be time to expand when the economy is better. Your numbers are 9. 13, 18, ~8, 34. 39.42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't spare any expense when it comes to what you really want. You can budget elsewhere. You can make a great impression by doing a first-class job in both your personal and professional life. 5 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Do things you enjoy instead of taking on what others request you to do. You will meet people who interest you and who make hetter friends and compauions. Physical activity may not be your first choice but it will get you moving and stimulate your senses. 2 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-june 20): It's time to reevaluate your situation and do something about it. If your relationships are dragging you down, discuss the problems you are ex­periencing and. ifyou do not get any cooperation. it is probably time to move on. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-joly 22): Don't be shy when there is so much to be done. A change at work will be to your benefit in the end. so don't make a fuss. Getting involved with someone unusual will give you a new lease on life. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take care of responsibilities and you will he praised for your ability to get things done. Once you put your duties behind you, you can enjoy a pastime that will allow you to feel free and easy about your life and your future. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A personal message can he sent if you are prompt and focused on getting what you want. Honesty and sincerity will be \vhat count in the end. Love is in the picture and a social evening will pay off emotionally. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): If you mix business with pleasure or share your thoughts, you may be taken advantage of or used for someone else's benefit. Focus quietly on your work until you are in a position to take a piece of the action. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov, 21): Be \'ery secreti,·e about your plans. If someone gets wind of what you are doing, he or she will steal your ideas and run with them. Protect your interests and your future. 2 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dee. 21): You'll have to draw the line between thrill­seeking and experiencing a little adventure. Don't take a risk or you may end up in a very uncertain position. Travel can he interesting: but is not necessary this time around. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't rely on what you are told. Dishonesty is prevalent. Do your ow11 research and you will avoid an unsavory situation. It's best not to take on a partner if you can get a job done on your own. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Do not overdo it in any way. You'll he tempted to overspend, overindulge and make unrealistic promises. Bal'k offbefore you let your emotions take over and lead you into difficult sitnations. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't get dragged into something you aren't ready to deal with yet. You don't want to he put in a position where you have to make a decision you are not prepared to make. Someone isn't likely to be honest with you. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are strong, steadfast and attracted to the unusual. You are com­passionate and work for reform. You are a strong leader. 
Eugenia's Web sites: eugenialast.comfor confidential coHsultations, myspace .com!eugenialastfor Eugenia's blog, astrom!Fice.com far fun 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

THE ()BSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, January 14, 2009 
page 20 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 

Two for the show 
Hanks brings home second Hermann Trophy, one offour players ever to win two 
By BILL BRINK Sports Editor 
It may not ease the pain of losing a National Championship, but being named the best player in the country can't hurt. 
Irish senior forward Kerri Hanks won the MAC Hermann Trophy, awarded to the best Div. I player, for the second time in four years, becoming the fourth player ever to win the award twice. She joins Mia Hamm and Cindy Parlow from North Carolina and Christine Sinclair from Portland State, the other two­time recipients. 
''I'm grateful to everyone at Notre Dame -my team­mates, coaches, staff and our fans who are the greatest in the country -for all of their support, not only this year but throughout my career," Hanks said in a statement 
see HANKS/page 18 


HOCKEY 
Winning s·treak still intact 
By SAM WERNER Sports Writer 

The Irish picked up right where they left off before Christmas break, winning games against Union, Minnesota-Duluth and Alaska to run their unbeaten streak to 18 games. 
After a three-week break, Notre Dame returned to action on Jan. 2 and 3, hosting the Shillelagh tourna­ment against Union, Minnesota­Duluth, and Massachusetts-Lowell. 
In the first game against Union, the Irish fell behind 1-0 after the first period, but rebounded thanks to goals from senior Justin White and sophomore Ben Ryan. Junior Dan Kis..'iel added a third-period goal to secure the win and a spot in the tournament title game against the Bulldogs. Despite the win, senior Christian Hanson said he thought the team could have played better. 
see STREAK/page 18 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

MarquettehandsIrishfirst conferenceloss,snaps ND winstreak 
with 10:18 left in the second Melissa Lechlitner each scored ably a little better than she's Watson hit a 3-pointer to give
By BILL BRINK 

half, but Marquette (11-6, 2-1) 15 points for the Irish. been playing lately. Notre Dame its first lead since Sports Editor 
went on a 23-13 run to take "Barlow played well. I was Marquette out-rebounded the opening minute, 24-23, with control. happy with her game," McGraw Notre Dame 42-35 and scored 4:36 left in the first half. Notre 
A sweet winter break came to "We missed some shots and said. "She got a lot of steals, she 24 fast-break points to Notre Dame led 34-30 at the half. a bitter end in Milwaukee they made some big plays," made some threes, she had a Dame's 12. Tuesday night. Irish coach Muffet McGraw said good game. Lech is a fighter. The Irish led by as many as Notes: 
Angel Robinson scored 19 in a telephone interview after She's doing everything she can eight in the opening minutes of +No matter that No. 10 Notre points and led Marquette to a the game. "We fouled a little bit, to win the game." the second half. but Robinson Dame lost two regular contribu­75-65 upset of No. 10 Notre and they made their free Forward Becca Bruszewski hit a game-tying 3-pointcr with tors to torn anterior cruciate Dame at the Al McGuire Center, throws." scored 12 on 6-of-11 shooting 12:47 remaining. Notre Dame ligament (ACL) tears. Tuesday's snapping Notre Dame's seven­Notre Dame shot only 38.8 and Natalie Novosel had 10. kept it elose once Marquette defeat was the first since an game win streak. percent from field goal range Robinson also pulled down took the lead, but the Golden overtime loss to Michigan on 
Krystal Ellis contributed 18 and 57.1 percent from the foul nine rebounds in the game. Eagles hit their foul shots; they Dec. 10 and the first conference points on 7 -of-13 shooting, and line. This season, Notre Dame McGraw said Hobinson made 17 of 22, or 77.3 percent. loss after the team started Big the Golden Eagles outscored has made 69.5 percent of its improved her performance Marquette led 17-8 with 10 East play 3-0. Notre Dame (14-2, 3-1 Big East) foul shots, 1Oth out of 16 Big from previous games. minutes left in the first half, but Notre Dame defeated Seton 45-31 in the second half. East teams. "She made her shots," Bruszewski sank a layup to 
The game was tied at 52-52 Guards Ashley Barlow and McGraw said. "She played prob-bring Notre Dame within three. see EAGLES/page 17 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Cards stuff Irish in overtime 
By CHRIS HINE, GREG ARBOGAST and FRAN TOLAN Sports Writers 

It was no secret heading into this season that the Big East was going to be the most grueling conference in the country. 
Through five Big East games, Notre Dame (12-4, 3-2 Big East) has already experi­enced a season's worth of emotions. After beating DePaul in the conference opener, Notre Dame felt the unexpected and disappointing low of losing to the bottom­dwelling St. John's in Madison Square Garden, only to follow 
see HOYAS/page 17 

SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles beat first ranked team since going D-ill 
By KATE GRABAREK Sports Writer 

The Belles broke new ground over the break and accomplished something they've never done. 
Saint Mary's bounced back from an early deficit to defeat No. 1 Hope College 91-84, winning the first game over a ranked oppo­nent since joining Div. III over 10 years ago. 
"Our team never gave up in the Hope game," head coach Jen Henley said. "We were down 10 points with 
6:15 left to go. We did a nice job on the boards down 
the stretch and our bench gave us a lift on the offen­sive end." 
Senior Nicole Beier had a breakout second half to lead the Belles in scoring for the game. Beier scored a career-high 25 points, 17 of those coming in the second half of the game. 
Freshman Patsy Mahoney also stepped up for the Belles, scoring 18 points and 11 in the second half. 
"I think our freshmen have adapted well to their first season of college bas­ketball," Henley said. "I believe they understand 
see HOPE/page 18 




