
Obama decision draws continued response 
Student coalition plans 
Leaders, organizations to engage in dialogue continue to speak out 
By AARON STEINER By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer News Editor 
On Tuesday, March 24, Notre Dame Right to Life held their weekly officers Nationwide, Catholic leaders ­meeting. Normally, about ten people in~luding various organizations, bish­show up. That week, 50 to 60 turned up. ops and the superior general of the 
Club president Mary Daly, a Notre Congregation of the Holy Cross -con­Dame junior, was expecting a big tinue to speak out about the turnout. Right to Life had invited leaders University's decision to host President from a number of campus groups, and Barack Obama as the 2009 officers were expecting that a number of Commencement speaker. 
concerned students would join in. Cardinal Frances George, archbishop 
The topic of that week's meeting? of Chicago and president of the United Deciding on a student response to the States Conference of Catholic Bishops University's March 20 announcement (USCCB), said the University's decision that President Barack Obama would is an "extreme embarrassment" to deliver the Commencement address this Catholics, according to a spring, and receive an honorary degree. LifeSiteNews.com report. 
The University's decision to invite DAN JACOBS!The Observer Many opponents of the decision to 
President Barack Obama spoke at a political rally in South Bend last April. The University's see COALITION/page 8 decision to invite Obama to speak at graduation continues to create controversy. see LEADERS/page 8 

CCAC: Community, University relations have improved 
Leaders discuss off-campus housing, taxi cab reform, alcohol awareness at first meeting held on campus 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Student leaders, University officials and community mem­bers discussed issues regard­ing off-campus housing at the Community Campus Advisory Coalition (CCAC) meeting, which took place on campus for the first time Thursday afternoon. 
Several group members said the relationship between off­campus students and their neighbors has improved over­all. 
"It's been the best year in a long, long time. I'm very pleased," Matt Costello, a South Bend resident, said. "There were a couple of big parties on St. Patrick's Day, but they were shut down right after dinner. By the time the little kids were ready for bed, there wasn't a peep out of 
anybody  in  the  neighbor­ 
hood."  
Mark  Kramer,  owner  of  

Kramer Properties, a housing company in the South Bend area, said he has been taking a more proactive approach to parties. 
"What we do before the major events [is] we send a mass e-mail out to all of the students reminding them of their neighbors," Kramer said. 
Kramer said he has also hired three off-duty police officers who have gone around to talk to students prior to major events, and the students "knowing that the presence is there" has made a difference. 
Council chairman AI "Buddy" Kirsits said that for 
see CCAC/page 6 


Dance Marathon kicks off 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 
Dance Marathon -an event in which participants are encour­aged to stay on their feet for 12 hours -kicks off tonight in the Anegla Athletic Facilty at the College. 
Dance Marathon is an organiza­tion that fundraises for Riley llospital for the duration of the school year. Each spring, the dub presents its largest event. the Dance Marathon. 
During this event students. fac­ulty, stall' and community mem­bers are invited to dance for 12 hours in honor of the kids at Riley Hospital. 
see DANCE/page 4 



By ANN-MARIE WOODS News Writer 
In an effort to "build rela­tionships, partnerships and fellowship" with the South Bend community, Notre Dame students will collabo­rate with community mem­bers through Notre Dame's first annual CommUniversity Day, which will offer more than 20 service projects on and off campus throughout the day. 
"The idea for the day is one body, many gifts," Michelle Byrne, outgoing 
chair for the Social Concerns Committee, said. "No matter what your talent, there is 
definitely  a  way  you  can  
serve your community."  
The  inspiration  for  

CommUniversity Day came from student body President Emeritus Bob Reish's research of other universi­ties' service programs. 
Student government con­cluded that while a large majority of Notre Dame stu­dents participate in some form of service, our campus and community lacked "one 
see SERVICE/page 9 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, April 3, 2009 

INSIDE CoLUMN 
Tree Sitting 

Good morning. I hope things are well. Allow me to begin by saying that I'm not quite sure how I arrived here. Although I've been an employee (photography) 
of The  
Observer for  Zhlbin Dai  
the last year,  
and a casual  Photographer  
consumer of  
it for the last  

four, I've hardly ever read an inside column. As a photographer I haven't been doing much writ­ing period. 
I'm not complaining though, because I volunteered for this. Writing, after all, is romantic and cool; and if there's one regret I have about my college experience -actually there are many, this is purely hypothetical -it's not working harder to score chicks. 
Anyway here's a story. Last Friday night was unquestionably . the craziest night of my life. While other people were off get­ting drunk, hooking up and doing typical bourgeois activities, I summoned my latent courage and newfound faith in ropes and carabiners to participate in a tree-sit. For those who are unaware, tree-sitting, as defined by Wikipedia, is a form of civil disobedience in which a protester sits in a tree to prevent it from being cut down. My partner and I are making a documentary about tree-sitting and it was imperative that we capture the reality of the situation, to examine the lived experience. Thus we climbed up the tree and spent the night 90 feet above the ground, suspended on large branches and webs of rope. It was quite an experience. Did I mention I'm afraid of heights? I am. Did I also mention that my rope lost tension and got stuck on the way down? It did. 
Again, it was quite an experi­ence. Although some of my inter­actions with the real tree-sitters were awkward, it was extremely refreshing to be around and engage people whose lives seem completely different and alien to your own. Because once you talk to them and get to know them, you realize that on a fundamental level, we're all the same. 
In the subsequent days I've reflected on my tree-sitting expe­rience, particularly whether it will have a lasting impact on me or simply devolve into a fleeting memory, a singular isolated adventure. 
On some level, my tree-sitting experience is similar to my time at Notre Dame. Like many sen­iors, I've thought about my col­lege experience and what it all ultimately adds up to. I've had a good time in college. For the most part, it's been fun and rewarding. But right now I am not sure what it all adds up to, if anything. 
Maybe nothing. Maybe it's too soon. One thing I do know, it's weird and depressing to think about. Writing about it isn't much fun either. So I'm going to stop doing both. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, rec­ognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT PART OF SUMMER ARE YOU LOOKING FORWARD TO MOST? 







James Denue  Kristy Cloetingh  Maggie Wydysh  Matt Kent  Richard Skelton  
freshman O'Neill  freshman McGlinn  freshman McGlinn  freshman Keough  freshman Keough  
"Showing off my new bikini lines."  "Going to Tanzania. "  "Hablando espafiol en Mexico y Guatemala con Ia orquesta. "  Tending to my beet farm. "  "Hitting yellow balls with a modified snowshoe."  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

Animal-rights activist buys cow headed for slaughter 
HUTCHINSON, Kan.-A dairy cow was headed for the slaughterhouse until an animal-rights activist bought her after the Brown Jersey made a run for it. Farmer Calvin Nisly was taking the 5-year-old cow named Linda to a sale barn Tuesday and had stopped at a veterinarian's office to be sure she was­n't pregnant. On the way back to the trailer, an annoyed Linda escaped through a fence and led Nisly and several law enforcement vehicles on a chase. 
TODAY 


Methamphetamine recipe found in Ind. resident's Bible 
ELKHART, Ind. Police investigators say they found the recipe for making methampheta­mine in an odd place: in a Bible on the last page of the Book of" Revelation. Officers made discovery as they searched an apartment after arresting two peo­ple on methamphetamine possession and manufac­turing charges Tuesday night. Police Lt. Ed Windbigler said the recipe was handwritten on the bottom of the page. 

Animal-rights activist buys cow headed for slaughter 
SALEM, Ore. -A woman accused of" driving 103 mph with her 10-year-old grandson was on leave from a job at the state Driver and Motor Vehicle Services. The 53-year-old driver was arrested Sunday on charges of reck­less driving and reckless endangering. Investigators said she told them she was teaching her grandson about the dangers of speeding, telling him not to drive as she was about to. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
..... 
c( 
CJ 
0 
..... HIGH 46 HIGH 40 HIGH 52 HIGH 48 
LOW 31 LOW 31 LOW 34 LOW 32 
IN BRIEF 
An exhibit entitled "Great Thinkers (Who Have Changed Modern Thought for the Better)" with portrait prints of 11 historical figures will be hosted at 10:00 a.m. in the Suite Museum ofArt on Friday. 
Mass will be held in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 
11:30 a.m. and 5:15 p.m. on Friday. 
The Finance Seminar Series will host the lecture, "Economics, Accounting Practices, and Earnings Volatility in Mortgage," on Friday at 11:30 a.m. in 339 Mendoza College of Business. 
The "Human Being after Genocide" lecture series will hold a lecture entitled "Clones, Chimeras, and other Creatures of the Biotechnological Revolution: Toward a Genomic Mythology." The lecture will be held in rooms 100-104 in McKenna Hall on Friday at 3:00p.m. 
A lecture entitled "Oral and Literary: Some Texts in Context" will be held at 3:00 
p.m. on Friday in 424 Flanner Hall. 
A conference called "Perspectives on Peace" will be held at 5:00 p.m. on Friday in the Hesburgh Center. 
"The Garden" will be shown at 6:30 p.m. in Browning Cinema in Debartlo Performing Arts Center on Friday. To purchase tickets, call the Ticket Office at 574-631­2800. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

Q
*91* • 
* *w** 
HIGH 37 LOW 27 


Atlanta 62 I 43 Boston 53 I 46 Chicago 51 I 33 Denver 56 I 32 Houston 77 I 57 Los Angeles 62 I 48 Minneapolis 47 I 28 New York 55 I 46 Philadelphia 62 I 46 Phoenix 84 I 54 Seattle 47 I 33 St. Louis 60 I 37 Tampa 79 I 61 Washington 66 I 48 
Friday, April 3, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Evolutionists speak about religion, faith 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Panelists said human beings ask questions regarding evolu­tion that science cannot answer at the opening of Quest Project in the Little Theater Thursday. 
"Well it's not necessary with­in science, but scientists are not just scientists, they are human beings and they ask questions that go beyond what their science can answer," Joseph Bracken, a retired pro­fessor of Theology, said. 
Four evolutionists discussed religion and faith during a panel, opening this year's Quest Project, exploring the science and religion interface. 
The panel included the per­spective of speakers from sev­eral colleges and universities and a variety of academic disci­plines on the relationship between evolution and religion. 
Bracken said Charles Darwin, author of the "Origin of Species," was originally a divinity student, and he became a reluctant agnostic because he didn't want to attribute the cruelty of natural selection to God. 
"Natural selection is cruel. There are at least as many dead ends as successes," Bracken said. 
Saint Mary's Psychology pro­fessor Thomas Parisi also addressed this question by say­ing human beings need organi­zation in their faith, and that is the need of religion. 
"People who are doing rich anthropological exploration, there is a rigid persistent gravi­tation toward the need to structure with which to express reverence and structure, so it's not just neediness," Parisi said. 
Molly Duman Scheel, evolu­tionary development biologist at Notre Dame, added that she believes God was the creator of evolution. 
"If you look at a need to put anything in motion, I would put him there," Scheel said. 
Scheel addressed the com­mon issue with evolutionists of the randomness of natural selection and the existence of mutations that often cause dis­pute between the religious and the evolutionists. She said mutation is the reason there is a diversity of organisms on the earth. 
"Yes, sometimes things go wrong, but if you view muta­tions as something that after selection, that something is going to continue after that process, then what you end up with is that life has existed," Scheel said. "What more beau­tiful thing for a creator to put into his creation than the insurance that life will go on?" 
Hagerty presented the story of Genesis and asked if evolu­tion theory is fact, how can religious philosophers believe in both that story of creation and the notion of natural selec­tion? 
Bracken pointed out that the "only strictly empirical thing about Christianity that is beyond question of any doubt is original sin." 
However, he said he believes the story of creation is not as strict a belief. 
"Now the story accounting for original sin is another mat­ter. There is no reason why you need to take it as historical truth," Bracken said. "It could be a religious myth, a symbolic story that has a theological point not a historical point." 
Hagerty also asked if the panelists saw the universal cre­ator as having a purpose, for example, human life. 
Mary Gerhart, professor in the areas of interpretation the­ory, theology and gender stud­ies at Hobart and William Smith Colleges, made the point that to call God an intelligent designer would leave God in "a position of great boredom." 
"Surprises have to happen along the way, or else you get bored," Gerhart said. 
The Quest Project will contin­ue with various lectures that further explore the relationship between religion and science. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Want to spend your summer living and working in the Hamptons? 
You'll have aonce in alifetime opportunity to live and work in the Hamptons for two summers! Earn a$10,000 scholarship plus aweekly stipend. 
Looking for amotivated, self-starterwho enjoys working with people. 
Must be amale freshman or sophomore who enjoys working outside. 
Ifinterested, send aresume and abriefcomposition to sheach@nd.edu by Sunday, April 5th, explaining why you would be agreat candidate for the internship 
University to host peace conference 
Event to discuss personal experiences about conflict and violence 
cussed focuses on peoples'
By LIZ O'DONNELL 

personal experiences with 
News Writer 

conflict and violence." 
Masak said the conference 
More than 100 students has been entirely planned by from universities around the Notre Dame undergrads country will be at Notre majoring in Peace Studies. Dame this weekend for the "There were 10 students University's w h 0 annual Student helped put P e a c e the confer­Conference. "Much of what e n c e 
"It is a way to together,"
will be discussed 
bring students M a s a k
focuses on
together," said said. "We E r i n peoples' personal w e r e Richardson, advised by
experiences with 
conference co­one gradu­
conflict and
chair. "They ate stu­can share their violence." dent and research about had a little peace-related adminis­
Andrew Masak 
issues. trative
Conference co-chair 
Along with these students from other uni­versities, Notre Dame faculty members and students are also expected to attend. 
"There will be people from all over the world at the con­ference," Richardson said. 
The theme of this year's Peace Conference, as select­ed by the students who planned it, will be "Perspectives on Peace." 
Richardson said they chose this theme because it encom­passes a wide variety of top­ics. 
"This broad of a theme allows for several different issues to be discussed," Richardson said. "Some of these will be institutional views and others will be per­sonal experiences." 
The conference will begin on Friday evening with a din­ner followed by a keynote address from Lisa Schirch, a professor at Eastern Mennonite University. 
Saturday, the conference will switch gears and include a variety of panel discussions on peace-related topics. 
"We chose broad topics for this year's event," said Andrew Masak, who is co­chair along with Richardson. "Much of what will be dis-
help from members of the K r o c 

Institute for International Peace Studies." 
The students began plan­ning the conference in the fall, but the majority of their work was during this semes­ter. 
"The Kroc Institute e­mailed other universities to invite students to submit their propos­als on peace-relat­ed topics," Richardson 
"There are people from 
said. "We both said spent a day all over the world at the they are hop­g o i n g ing this event
conference" 
through will bring them, then awareness
Erin Richardson
selected the and discus­ones we sion related
Conference co-chair 
wanted to appear at the confer­ence." 
The stu­dents whose proposals have been selected will be pan­elists in the discussions, which will take place throughout the day Saturday. 
Among the topics chosen for conversation include edu­cation and media, culture, memory and religion and global systems. 
Budined6 Jllajor? 
UnfereJted in Jrfarketing? 
Jhe Oboerver id looking for Jtudenfo, preferably buoineoJ majora! coho are intereJted in coorkin9 for the Jldverlioing Department next year, 
Jf intereMeJ, p/ea6e email your reoume to tbea@nd.edu or mrodri~9@nd.edu. 
Unterviewo will take place after &aoter Break. 
"It will be sort of like an interactive workshop," Masak said. "The panelists will talk about their research, then have a ques­tion and answer session." 
Masak said he hopes for a wide variety of conversation in relation to the chosen top­ics. 
"We have students speaking who have gone to other coun­tries where peace-related issues are important, as well as students who have done research only at the library," Masak said. "We want to embrace all different aspects." 
The moderators for these panels are graduate students at Notre Dame in the process of earning a degree in Peace Studies. 
The Student Peace Conference is an annual con­ference that has been taking place for more than 20 years. It has always been complete­ly student-run, with organiz­ers undertaking tasks that run the gamut. 
"We had to do everything from choosing other under­grads to appear as panelists, to budgeting the event, to choosing the keynote speak­
, 
e r , 
Richardson 
said. 
Richardson 
and Masak 
to peace. 
"This is a great chance for dialogue," Masak said. 

"It's a great chance to see what other students are doing." 
The conference will wrap up at 3 p.m. Saturday after­noon after a final speaker addresses the group. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 

~--------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 3, 2009 
SMC, IUSB present Monologues 
Community members perform tales similar to Ensler's Vagina Monologes 
Dance 
continued from page 1 

"To me, Dance Marathon means just giving up one night of your time to help a little kid who would give anything to be out of a hospital bed and danc­ing all night long," Dance Marathon president Sarah Voss said. 
But the marathon isn't just about dancing. Participants will have the opportunity to play games, or even just watch. 
"The event isn't primarily focused on dancing. The idea of the night is to stay on your feet for 12 hours," Voss said. "It doesn't matter if you dance or if you just want to watch or if you just want to participate in the board games, or jumping in the bounce house. There's plenty of things to do besides dance. But the main idea is that you just keep moving for the kids at Riley." 
Dance Marathon will host families who were impacted from Riley Hospital to speak to the crowd, and there will be a multitude of activities for the kids and dancers to do. 
"We'll have rock climbing, a bounce house. We will have 'learning the morale' line dance. We will have stories from Riley families; hopefully a few Riley doctors will be there. We will have crafts, and games," Voss said. ''We have a ton of different games. I heard there's going to be a Fear Factor challenge, and so we have a lot going on. You'll have to come and find out all there's going to be." 
Although the event already has about 280 registered partic­ipants, everyone is invited to attend. 
"Students can register starting at 7:15 in the Saint Mary's Dining Hall in the Student Center on Friday," Voss said. "We'll have registration starting in the west wing, and they can still come and participate." 
Voss said dancing at the marathon is not the only way to help. Donations are always accepted at the Dance Marathon Web site, www.smcdm.org. 
"Anyone can donate there," she said. "If you want to donate to commemorate a certain dancer, you can put their name in the comment section so they know you donated in their name." 
This is the fourth year Saint Mary's has offered Dance Marathon. The event is recog­nized across the United States. 
"This year Dance Marathon won the Incentive Award, which is the award that designated Saint Mary's as the model Dance Marathon for the entire United States. Which is a huge honor because there are over 100 dance marathons in the coun­try," Voss said. "Just a week or so ago, some of our girls trav­eled to Orlando. Fla. and went to Disney World and met 50 Riley champions, from each of the 50 states that represent their hospitals. So that was a big honor." 
"Our motto is: 'we dance because we can, we dance for those who can't,"' Voss said. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Lafayette Square Town homes 
Enjoy the good life when you live off campus at a very reasonable price! 
3, 4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 2 1/2 Baths Free Internet Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher Security System Off-Street Parking Located Close to Notre Dame 
Only $350 per month, per student! 
*Our town homes rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our townhomes,apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
(574) 234-2436 
Hijinx" which was about femi­By SARAH GUNN nine hygiene products performed 
News Writer 
by Aleta Maria Barajas from IUSB. 

A cast of 14 women from the Another performance was South Bend community per­delivered by Saint Mary's student formed Thursday in the Bendix Brittany Hall. In, "The Rope," Theatre at the Century Center in her character divulged her expe­downtown South Bend. The cast rirmces involving intimate pleas-of women included Saint Mary's ures. students, Indiana University­Other performances were 
South Bend (IUSB) students and alumnae and women in from the South Bend area. 
The show opened to the cast dancing down the aisles of the theatre to song lyrics "women united will never be divided." The cast, dressed in unique red and black outfits, converged on the stage to begin a series of solo, and 

'The Saint Mary's and South Bend Monologues were very different experiences. College women have a limited view ofthe world compared to women who are older than us." 
Annie Malloy sophomore 
more sober­ing and sad­dening, like "I Was So Lucky" per­formed by K a t h e Brunton. In the perform­ance, a woman tells the story of her 1963 ille­gal abortion that left her with a "creepy, uneasy feel­ing of crimi­nality." 
Several monologues 
sometimes two-person, per­formed monologues. 
The Monologues were not writ­ten by the actresses themselves, but from anonymous female con­tributors from the South Bend community. 
They featured stories about women's lives and the experi­ences that have shaped them. The Monologues voiced women's thoughts, feelings, opinions and reactions regarding a variety of issues. 
Some of the performances were humorous, like "Feminine about rape were performed, one in which the character says to her rapist, "[you] shattered the notion that the world is a safe place. 
There were other pieces about gynecological appointments and vasectomies, as well as middle school sex education and "emn­ing out." 
Megan Smith said that she became involved with the mono­logues after her Gender 100 class at JUSB. Iler professor was involved in the Michiana Monologues and persuaded stu­dents to partake. 
At one point while reading the "Vagina Monologues," Megan said, "it clicked with me, this is why women are angry and why their voices need to be heard." 
She said she enjoyed being a part of the Monologues because "it is an area where women sup­port each other." 
"[We] are too often pitted against one another," she said. 
Saint Mary's students that were in the audience appreciat­ed the opportunity to "break out of our bubble" of the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame eampus­es, sophomore Annie Malloy said. 

"The Saint Mary's and South Bend Monologues were very dif­ferent experiences. College women have a limited view of the world compared to women who are older than us. We don't have the same experiences so it's interesting to have that balance and have the stories of women of different generations," Malloy said. 
The closing number for the Monologues was performed by Saint Mary's sophomore Hannahbeth Fischer. She deliv­ered the piece ''I'm the Girl," about the struggles and triumphs of having a significant other in the military. During her closing lines, the cast systematically rose from their chairs and formed a line at the front of the stage. 
"I liked the way they all joined me like we were all united. It was a powerful feeling to feel them stand behind me as sup­port," Fisher said. 
Contact Sarah Gunn at sgunnO1@saintmarys.edu 

You've Come aLong Way! 
Announcing the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union Student Relocation Loan. 
.90%
Low Rate 
APR
of only Apply today! 


ORLD & NATION 
Friday, April 3, 2009 COMPILED fROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Afghan law legalizes rape 
KABUL -A new Afghan law makes it legal for men to rape their wives, human rights groups and some Afghan lawmakers said Thursday, accusing President Hamid Karzai of signing the legislation to bolster his re-election prospects. 
Critics worry the legislation undermines hard-won rights for women enacted after the fall of the Taliban's strict Islamist regime. 
The law -which some lawmakers say was never debated in parliament -is intended to regulate family life inside Afghanistan's Shiite community, which makes up about 20 percent of this country of 30 million people. The law does not affect Afghan Sunnis. 
Israeli teenager killed with pickax 
JBAT AYIN, West Bank -A Palestinian killed an Israeli teenager with a pickax and seriously injured a 7-yearcold boy in a ram­page through this West Bank Jewish settle­ment Thursday, posing an early test for the country's new hard-line government. 
Israeli media broadcast pictures of the body of 13-year-old Shlomo N ativ, bespecta­cled with long sidecurls and a large skullcap worn by observant Jews. The images also showed the red pickax on the ground with drops of blood splattered on a road. 
The attacker escaped the scene and Israeli troops, joined by bearded settlers armed with automatic rifles, were conduct­ing a manhunt in the area. In the nearby Palestinian village of Safa, troops searched houses and rounded up residents in a schoolyard. The military said all roads around the settlement of Bat Ayin were closed. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Blagojevich indicted for corruption 
CHICAGO -Former Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich has been indicted on charges he engaged in a "wide-ranging scheme to deprive the people of Illinois of honest govern­ment." 
A federal grand jury handed down the 19­count indictment against Blagojevich, his brother, two former aides and two business­men on Thursday. It accuses Blagojevich of corruption involving billions of dollars in state pension bonds. 
FBI agents arrested the Chicago Democrat in December on allegations that also include trying to auction off President Barack Obama's vacant U.S. Senate seat. 
Illinois lawmakers impeached him and threw him out of office in January. 
Mass. man charged with library rape 
NEW BEDFORD, Mass. -A man who raped a 6-year-old boy in a public library, while on probation for an attempted rape, was sen­tenced Thursday to life in prison. 
Corey Deen Saunders pleaded guilty in February to the January 2008 rape of the boy at the New Bedford Public Library. 
Prosecutors said Saunders lured the boy into a reading room at the library while the vic­tim's mother worked on a computer only a few feet away. At the time of the attack, Saunders was a convicted sex offender who was on pro­bation after serving four years in prison for the attempted rape of a 7 -year-old boy. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Alcohol tax to be u;ed for development 
INDIANAPOLIS -A proposal to double Indiana's alcohol taxes to bail out a struggling Indianapolis sports board would funnel money to cities and towns across the state, cash the plan's architect hoped would be used for eco­nomic development. 
But mayors say their cash-strapped cities need the money to plug holes in their budgets, and they plan to use the money to cover the basics like police and fire protection. 
"We're looking for any kind of revenue we can find," said Marion Mayor Wayne Seybold. "Our backs are against the wall." 
New storms terrorize the Southeast 
Another onslaught creates additional problems, causes train collision 
Associated Press 
JACKSON, Miss. -Another barrage of storms hit the southeast Thursday, causing a collision between a passenger train and a tree and sending at least one person to the hos­pital after lightning struck a home. 
Flood warnings as well as tornado watches and warn­ings were in effect around the region. 
In south Mississippi, an Amtrak train hit a tree the storm knocked onto the tracks south of McComb in Pike County, injuring the con­ductor, said Carlene Statham, assistant director of Pike County Civil Defense. 
The train was headed from 
Chicago to New Orleans with 
71 passengers aboard when it 
hit the tree, Amtrak 
spokesman Marc Magliari 
said. The only report of an 
injury was the conductor, who 
complained of back pain. 
Only the engine lost contact 
with the tracks and the "the 
train is powered, lit and heat­
ed," Magliari said. He said the 
passengers would be put on 
chartered buses and taken to 
their destinations. 
The lightning strike hap­pened in Desoto County in north Mississippi and gave the person inside "a pretty good jolt" but the injuries were not life threatening, said Bob Storey, director of the county's emergency management agency. The resident was said Mike Edmonston, a sen­The National Weather suburban New Orleans area taken to a nearby hospital as ior meteorologist with the Service issued flood warnings on the north shore of Lake a precaution. National Weather Service. for the Tallahassee area and Pontchartrain, most of the 
Also, what may have been a Coastal Jackson County cities around Florida's central attention was on the Pearl 
funnel cloud was spotted in remained under a tornado Panhandle. River, which crested near the 
Pike County and several warning, Katherine Gunby, a "Our primary concern town of Pearl River around 6 
homes, trees and power lines spokeswoman with the today is more flash flooding," a.m. at 19.2 feet. That was 
in the area were damaged, Mississippi Emergency said public safety director above flood stage but a few 
Statham said. There were no Management Agency, said. Dino Villani of Okaloosa inches below the 19.5 foot 
immediate reports of injuries Meanwhile, a line of violent County, which includes Fort crest that had been predicted, 
and officials were working to thunderstorms moved Walton Beach. "Very little rain easing the threat to low-lying 
confirm if it was indeed a fun­through the western Florida can cause a lot of problems." properties a bit. 
nel cloud, Statham said. Panhandle leaving about foot The Blackwater River, Water from the Pearl River 
She said the damage at one of water on some low-lying which runs through the covered roads and low-lying 
home was caused when "the streets in the downtown Panhandle's Santa Rosa land Wednesday and early 
wind picked up the back Pensacola business district. County, was expected to crest Thursday. Only one house 
porch and threw it on top of Flooding was reported else­at 8 feet Thursday afternoon, was reported to have taken 
the house." where in the Panhandle the same height it reached on water but officials were 
Hail ranging in size from including in Panama City Monday. Emergency officials worried high winds from the 
golf balls to nickels was where officials blocked off urged residents along that afternoon thunderstorms 
reported in areas of central streets and limited other river to take precautions. could push water into homes 
and south-central Mississippi, streets to one lane. In St. Tammany Parish, a or across other roads. 

MEXICO 
Authorities arrest major drug suspect 
. The father was considered Just a week ago, Mexico's govern­Associated Press Mexico's No. 1 drug trafficker when ment posted a 30 million ($2.1 mil­he died in 1997 during plastic sur­lion) reward for Carrillo Leyva and 
MEXICO CITY -An heir to one of gery to change his appearance. The 23 other top cartel suspects. Mexico's most notorious narcotics U.S. Embassy said Thursday that the Another figure on the list already empires was grabbed by police as he embattled remnant of his cartel is has fallen captive, as have two exercised in a city park, officials still "one of Mexico's most ruthless alleged cartel sidekicks facing small­announced Thursday, shortly before organized criminal gangs, which er bounties. 
U.S. and Mexican Cabinet officials controls one of the primary trans­Masked police officers wearing met to coordinate attacks on escalat­portation routes for illegal drug helmets and bulletproof vests hauled ing drug violence. shipments into the United States." Carrillo Leyva before cameras at a 
Carrillo Leyva allegedly inherited a Prosecutors say Carrillo Leyva, 32, news conference early Thursday. top position in the Juarez cartel was second only to his uncle Vicente The young man, looking a little like from his father Amado Carrillo Carrillo Fuentes in the gang, whose a well-coiffed college student in Fuentes, who was nicknamed "the battles with upstart cartels have fed dark-framed glasses and a track suit Lord of the Skies" for sending jetlin­a bloodbath that saw 1,600 people emblazoned with "Abercrombie NY," ers full of cocaine to the United killed in its home base of Ciudad showed little emotion before the States. Juarez last year. flash of lights. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 3, 2009 
utes from the meetings where 
these apartment complexes
CCAC 
The Community ofSant'Egidio invites you to a 
Prayer for the Martyrs
continued from page 1 
him, alcohol awareness is a main concern, and said it needs to happen early in the school year. 
Kirsits suggested creating a video to post on the new off­campus Web site -which is currently in development stages -that would talk "about tragic consequences that happen when you make silly mistakes" in order to raise alcohol awareness. 
Michael Carrington, a repre­sentative from the Alcoholic Beverage Board, said students will continue to throw parties "if they know they can party and raise hell all night" with­out repercussions. 
"The new people coming in need to understand what the expectation is," Carrington said. "And then you have to demonstrate that you are going to enforce it early in the year." 
Student body president Grant Schmidt, who partici­pated in the CCAC meeting for the first time since taking office, said iTunes V would be a venue for student leaders, athletes and other officials to promote alcohol awareness. 
The group also discussed the legal number of students living in one off-campus home. 
"There are certain areas where you can't have more than two unrelated parties [living in the same unit], whether students or not stu­dents," Kramer said. "Some ... homes are grandfathered so that you can have multiple students." 
Kramer also said it had been brought to his attention that Irish Row and The 

Icon of20'11 Century martyrs-a full-sized reproduction will be used during pmyer 
Monday, April 6, 2009 7:00 p111. 
HOLY CROSS COLLEGE -St. Joseph Chapel Chapel is visible from main College entrance 
Continuing a tradition started in Rome, and encouraged by John Paul II, this prayer remembers the faithful ofall Christian tmditions who have shed their blood for the sake of the Gospel in the 2oth and 2.1st Centuries. 
",;\t the end of the st.~eoml millennium, the Church lws onec «~Jain become o Clmrc/1 q(marlyl·s..:l'ht.• witn(•ss to Chdst borne even to the shedding ofblood has he\'onw a common inheritam•t• of Catholics, Orthodox, .i\nglinms and Protestants." (.John Paul ll, TMA, 37) 
Forfurther i1!{onnation, con/a('t Holy Crnss Campus Ministru 574 :l:J9 8:115 or Community of&lnt'Rgidio ctl 574 315 9420 


Foundry Lofts and Apartments at Eddy Street Commons are renting apartments to more than two unrelated people, which may be in violation of zoning agreements. 
''I'm not calling around to find out who's loading up their apartments," Kramer said. ''I'm doing my job as a businessman to stay competi­tive. I stumbled upon this." 
Kirsits said the South Bend Common Council had not been aware of this. He said the Council will look at the min-had agreed to zoning, and confirm whether or not this was in violation. 
Kirsits also addressed taxi reform, a principal component of Schmidt's platform as stu­dent body president. 
Kirsits said he plans to work with Schmidt to better regu­late taxi cabs and approach the Council president "to get a bit of a grip on the licensing requirements and regulations for the taxi cabs." 
"That's my pledge to you. It will be an ongoing process," Kirsits said. "It will involve a lot of players, but there needs to be some regulations on that." 
Northeast neighborhood res­ident Marguerite Taylor expressed an interest in increasing the interaction between community members and the student government off-campus president, because prior to last week's Community Summit meeting, she had not been aware Notre Dame had such a position. 
"As community people, we didn't even know that that person even existed, and we'd like to work with him more closely," she said. 
Other issues discussed at the meeting include student safety and the upcoming CommUniversity Day, which will take place Saturday. 
Carrington said he is grate­ful for the increasingly posi­tive role the University has played in the community and for the work that CCAC has done to improve the relation­ship between the community and the University. 
This relationship between the University and the com­munity is "a wonderful, won­derful thing and we need to continue to cherish it and nourish it," Carrington said. 
Kirsits echoed his senti­ments. 
"When people say, 'tell me something good about the city,' I always say 'well, let's start with the universities that we have here."' 
The next CCAC meeting is tentatively scheduled for Tuesday, June 2 at the Robinson Community Learning Center. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 

apartments available for 2009·2010 ::walking distance to campus:: 2·bedroom, 2-bath with 990± SF:: free internet:: washer, dryer and dishwasher:: central air conditioning:: large balcony:: cathedral ceilings 
Call Cnristina at ~1~~~~l·1~l~ to scneaule an a~~ointment or email us at mana~er@nastaaiumcluo~com 
CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and lesbian Students (Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP. 1-5550, or Eddie Velazquez at evelazqu@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 

(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1·7800 
University Counseling Center (Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen lafferty at mlaffert@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 

http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 

THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Friday, April 3, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 7,978.08 +216.48 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
3,275 56 550 329,613,438 
AMEX 1,419;;20 +3l;q#: NASDAQ 11602.63 +5 1.03 NYSE 5,267.1o'i¥+18 t .34 S&P 500 834.38 +2:Uo NIKKEI (Tokyo) $V7i9271' rt ri:oo' FTSE 100 (London) 4,124.97 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP INC (C) +2.24 +0.06 2.74 BK OF At-1ERICA (BAC) +2.70 +0.19 7.24 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +2.92 +2.37 83.43 FINANCIAL BULL 3X (FAS) +8.08 +0.48 6.42 
Treasuries 

lO·YEAR NOTE +3.54 +0.090 2.75 13-WEEK BILL ·9.52 -0.020 0.19 30·YEAR BOND +2.38 +0.083 3.58 5-YEAR NOTE +5.33 +0.090 1.74 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +4.25 52.64 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -18.80 908.90 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) +0.80 87.80 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 99.7900 EURO 1.3459 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2382 BRITISH POUND 1.4724 
IN BRIEF 
Greenberg criticizes AIG bailout 
WASHINGTON -The man who built insur­ance giant American International Group Inc. from a startup to a global behemoth said he did­n't mismanage the company -but the govern­ment did. 
Following weeks of public and congressional outrage over ·largest corporate failure in U.S. history, Maurice "Hank" Greenberg, AIG's chief executive until March 2005, said taxpayers got a raw deal in the largest bailout of the financial crisis. 
In his first testimony since the government stepped in with the first of four bailouts for AIG, Greenberg told the House Oversight and Government Heform Committee Thursday that his leadership team had "nothing to do" with failures that so far have cost taxpayers more than $182 billion. 
But he spread blame generously across virtu­ally every other party involved in the company and its rescue -including subsequent manage­ment. federal regulators and ratings agencies. 
FDA approves tobacco regulation 
WASHINGTON -Anti-smoking forces won a long-awaited victory Thursday as the House passed legislation that would give the federal government key controls over the tobacco industry for the first time. 
The measure, passed 298-112, gives the Food and Drug Administration authority to regulate -but not ban -cigarettes and other tobacco products. 
The Senate could take up its version of the bill later this month, and supporters are confident they can overcome opposition from tobacco­state senators. The White House supports the legislation. a shift from the Bush administration which threatened to veto a House-passed meas­ure last year. 
President Barack Obama has spoken publicly about his own struggles to kick a smoking habit. 
"This is truly a historic day in the fight against tobacco, and I am proud that we have taken such decisive action," said Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Henry Waxman, D-Calif., the bill's sponsor. "Today we have moved to place the regulation of tobacco under FDA in order to protect the public health, and now we all can breathe a little easier." 
Summit brings setbacks for Obama 
World financial powers approve big loans, no economic rescue stimulus 
Associated Press 
LONDON -Concluding his first international summit, President Barack Obama hailed agreements at the emergency meeting of world powers Thursday as a "turn­ing point in our pursuit of global economic recovery." But he cautioned, "There are no guarantees." 
The new U.S. leader said the heads of industrial mun­tries that met in London agreed on "unprecedented steps to restore growth and prevent a crisis like thi<> from happening again." 
He spoke shortly after G-20 leaders pledged an additional $1.1 trillion in financing to the International Monetary Fund and other global institu­tions and declared a crack­down on tax havens and hedge funds. The leaders announced the creation of a supervisory body to flag problems in the global finan­cial system-but did not sat­isfy calls from the U.S. and others for new stimulus measures. 
Despite that failure, Obama called the one-day London gathering "very productive" and historic because of the scope of the challenges the world faces in righting the economic crisis that's wreak­ing havoc on virtually every country. 
"The challenge is clear. The global economy is contract­ing," Obama said. to blame America and Wall unity, saying, "We owe it to ulatory response," Obama 
In a one-hour news confer­Street for triggering the crisis all of our citizens to act." said -and added that both ence packed with media from that has spread around the Still, he said, "it is hard for were achieved. across the world, Obama world. 20 heads of state to bridge When asked, he could not said, "We're starting to see "It's hard to deny that some our differences." point to an individual summit some restoration of America's of the contagion did start on "I think we did OK," he accomplishment that would standing in the world." He Wall Street," Obama said, said, speaking generally help recession-battered had been asked about dimin· asserting that some firms about his trip. "When I came Americans beyond general ished esteem under his pred­took "wild and unjustified here it was with the intention points such as fighting pro­ecessor, George W Bush. risks" and some government of listening and learning but tectionism and making the 
"I do not buy into the regulators were "asleep at also providing American global economy work togeth­notion that America can't the switch." leadership." er. lead in the world," Obama But he said there were He said the document the But he said, the summit said, but he added that it is problems in other parts of the G-20 produced and actions communique "affirms the "very important for us to be world as well. that will follow "reflect a need for all countries to take able to forge partnerships as As for the summit, he range of our priorities." fiscal responses that increase opposed to dictating solu­praised the G-20 nations for "We wanted to make sure demand, that encourages the tions." rejecting protectionism that we had a strong, coordinated openness of markets. Those 
He acknowledged that hampers foreign trade and response to growth" and "we are all going to be helptbl in some summit participants could deepen the economic thought it was important we us being able to fix what ails made comments that seemed crisis, and he urged global had a strong,coordinated reg-the economy back home." 

Market extends a four-week rally 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Investors dove into stocks Thursday, extending a rally that gave the Dow Jones industrial average its best four weeks since 1933. 
Stocks rose across the board in heavy trading following an accounting rule change that will help banks pare their losses and after commitments from world leaders to toughen regula­tory oversight of financial institutions. 
The Dow broke through 8,000 for the first time since Feb. 9 but ended slightly below that level ahead of the government's employment report Friday that could easily upset the market if it comes in below forecasts -or send prices rocketing higher if it's better than expected. 
The Dow is now up 20.4 percent over the last month, its biggest per­centage gain in a four-week period since the spring of 1933. Bits of good news about the economy in recent weeks, including better-than expect­ed-numbers on housing and manufac­turing, have given investors more rea­sons to buy. 
The Dow gained 216.48, or 2.8 per­cent, to close at 7,978.08, after earlier rising as much as 314 points. 
"People are worried about this (employment) report. so the last hour we sold off," said Richard Campagna, managing director and chief invest­ment officer of Pasadena, Calif.-based investment manager 300 North Capital. 
Broader market indicators also rose sharply. The Standard & Poor's 500 index gained 23.30, or 2.9 percent, to 
834.38. The Nasdaq composite index rose 51.03. or 3.3 percent, to 1,602.63. 
Industrial and consumer discre­
tionary stocks picked up speed Thursday while demand for safe­haven assets like gold and Treasurys plummeted. 
"Everyone is in a buying mood," said Eric Ross, director of research at brokerage Canaccord Adams. "Everyone is feeling good .... A lot of this is simply confidence." 
The market has managed to shrug off some negative data on employment recently such as initial claims for job· less benefits. But a surprisingly bad report on the March job market could easily stifle the market's growing opti· mism. Economists predict the report will show a loss of 654,000 jobs fol­lowing a drop of 651,000 jobs in February, which was a record third straight month of job losses above 600,000. The unemployment rate is expected to rise to 8.5 percent from 
8.1 percent in February. 
page 8 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 3, 2009 
tion in our nation, Notre Dame Prayer Rally on Saturday, the resent one side, there really 
University, had extended an invi­first ollicial event organized by wouldn't be any problem, neces­
Leaders 
Coalition 

tation to President Obama to 
Notre Dame Response. sarily," Daly said. continued from page 1 speak at its commencement," he 
continued from page 1 The event will take place in "But in this context that, he's said in the release. 
front of Main Building at 2 p.m. speaking at Commencement, invite Obama have referenced a Myers said extending honors to 
Obama has resulted in a after the noon Palm Sunday he's just monologing to us, and 2004 document released by the those in disagreement with 
firestorm of responses, from both mass at the Basilica. The rally that we're honoring him with a USCCB titled "Catholics in Church teaching "create the per­
on and off campus. will feature an address by doctorate of laws degree, that's Political Life," which reads: "The ception that we endorse their 
On campus, leaders of about a nationally recognized attorney just incredibly shocking," she Catholic community and Catholic public positions on these issues." 
dozen student groups decided to Harold Cassidy, known for his said. institutions should not honor Timothy Dolan, archbishop of 
form a coalition, named Notre work on pro-life issues. While Daly said she doesn't those who act in defiance of our Milwaukee, said Notre Dame 
Dame Response, to "express our "From now until May 17, we expect the invitation will be fundamental moral principles. made a "big mistake" by inviting 
deepest opposition" to the deci­are going to respectfully and rescinded, the University still has They should not be given Obama to speak at the gradua­
sion, and to "pledge ourselves to prayerfully show the University an opportunity to withdraw the awards, honors or platforms tion ceremony May 17, according 
acts of witness" in order to that we are disappointed in this honorary degree, something that which would suggest support for to an Msnbc.com report. 
"engage the University commu­decision and that we hope for the coalition would be pleased their actions." "There's a lot of things that 
nity," according to a March 25 some dialogue to come out of the with. A March 24 artiele in The President Obama does that we 
press release from the group. administration," Labadie said of "The insult wouldn't occur in Observer reported George would can find ourselves allied with 
The group has elicited a huge Sunday's and other future the way that rescinding the invi­not comment on behalf of the and working with him on, and 
response, chairperson and senior events. tation would, and furthermore, it USCCB about Notre Dame's deci­we have profound respect for 
Chris Labadie said. According to Daly and Labadie, would be closer to living up to sion because the University is out him and pray with him and for 
"We knew if we put something the dialogue should center on the Catholic identity," she said. of the group's jurisdiction. him," Dolan said. "But in an 
out there that we were going to two issues. The shock and concern But George questioned Notre issue that is very close to the 
get a lot of people who would "There's first the pro-life issue, expressed by Notre Dame Dame's understanding of a heart of Catholic world view, 
have a comment," Labadie said. which, obviously there needs to Response has been shared with Catholic university at a confer­namely, the protection of inno­
"We hoped that it would give be continued dialogue on, but we many Catholics nationwide, and ence hosted by the Chicago arch­cent life in the womb, he has 
some kind of injection of life into feel this has kind of brought to a while the coalition will not direct­diocese's Respect Life office and unfortunately taken a position 
the debate," he said. head the issue of Catholic identi­ly collaborate or coordinate with Office for Evangelization very much at odds with the 
The coalition's leaders told The ty in the University," Labadie outside organizations, according Saturday, according to Church." 
Observer that they feel that a said. to Labadie, they do see value in LifeSiteNews. Dolan is slated to take the posi­
debate and dialogue about the Labadie called the situation the response those outside the "So quite apart from the presi­tion of archbishop of New York 
situation is precisely what's "the fork in the road" in regards University have expressed. dent's own positions, which are on April15. 
needed, and in planning events to Notre Dame's Catholic identity. "Those outside groups do have well known, the problem is in John Nienstedt, archbishop of 
they hope to jumpstart the dis­Daly agreed that the University a legitimate voice to give," he that you have a Catholic universi­St. Paul and Minneapolis, called 
cussion. must ask itself which direction it said. ty -the flagship Catholic the University's decision a "trav­
Already, the coalition will take, and if it's possible to be Labadie did express concern, University -do something that esty" in a letter to Jenkins 
announced plans to adapt a both prestigious and Catholic. however, about the methods that brought extreme embarrassment Tuesday, according to a Catholic 
national campaign to send red "What does it mean to be a some groups have said they will to many, many people who are News Agency report. 
envelopes to Obama for the situ­Catholic university, and can use to protest the University's Catholic," he said. "So whatever Nienstedt asked Jenkins to 
ation at Notre Dame. being a Catholic university and a decision. else is clear, it is clear that Notre withdraw his invitation to Obama 
The national campaign asked prestigious university be recon­"We feel as a coalition that it's Dame didn't understand what it because of the president's "delib­
supporters of the pro-life move­ciled?" Daly said. contrary to the core values of means to be Catholic when they erate disregard of the unborn." 
ment to send an empty red enve­Both agreed that the discus­Notre Dame to do things like issued this invitation." "If the decision is not reconsid­
lope to the president to represent sion about these issues won't bring graphic images and plaster Hugh Cleary, superior general ered," he said in the letter to 
a child lost by abortion. take place on May 17 during them all over the street, to throw of the Congregation of the Holy Jenkins, "please do not expect 
At Notre Dame, the coalition Commencement, so, they said, ... bloody dolls on the stage," Cross, said he hopes Obama's me to support your University in 
will collect these envelopes and dialogue must take place Labadie said. "Those things are presence at Notre Dame will the future." 
deliver them to University through other venues. not in the spirit of dialogue." result in a "teachable moment" Archbishop Daniel Cardinal 
President Fr. John Jenkins, ask­Daly said while she under­Daly said the coalition will for everyone involved in a letter DiNardo of Galveston-Houston 
ing him to personally give them stands the University's stance respect the academic and intel­directed to Obama published in said he found the University's 
to Obama during his May 17 that the invitation serve as the lectual environment that a uni­America Magazine. invitation to Obama to be "very 
visit. "basis of engagement" for a rela­versity has. "I am confident that you are disappointing" in his weekly pas­
"It's to show Fr. Jenkins that tionship with Obama on protec­"We are going to engage this likewise well versed in the toral message. 
there are people out here who tion of life issues, the context of issue as a university would, and Catholic faith conviction that ''Though I can understand the 
want to dialogue on this issue, the invitation isn't the right do it in the spirit of Notre Dame," human life begins at eonception," desire by a university to have the 
who disagree with this decision," venue. she said. Cleary said to Obama. prestige of a commencement 
Labadie said. "If the annual forum was on "Therefore, through this open address by the president of the 
Additionally, the group has pro-life issues, and they invited Contact Aaron Steiner at letter, I would like to take advan­United States, the fundamental 
announced plans to hold a President Obama to talk, to rep-asteiner@nd.edu tage of your appearance at Notre moral issue of the inestimable Dame to ask you to rethink, worth of the human person from through prayerful wrestling with conception to natural death is a your own conscience, your stated principle that soaks all our lives positions on the vital 'life issues' as Catholics," he said. "Even of our day, particularly in regard given the dignity of Office of the to abortion, embryonic stem cell President, this offer is still pro­research and your position on viding a platform and an award the Freedom of Choice Act before for a public figure who has been Congress." candid on his pro-abortion 
While many Catholic leaders views." and groups have criticized the While the majority of bishops University's decision, one who have spoken out condemn­Catholic organization is now ing the University's invitation, speaking out in support of the Bishop Robert Lynch of St. decision. Petersburg criticized the "uncivil 
Catholics United, an online and vehement" outcries against non-profit organization, created Notre Dame in his blog. a petition in support of the "While Notre Dame may have University's decision that cur­acted way too early and too gen­rently claims over 28,000 signa­erously, I am more alarmed that tures. the rhetoric being employed is so 
Chris Korzen, executive direc­uncivil and venomous that it tor of Catholics United, said the weakens the case we petition is a way to eombat peti­place before our fellow citizens," tions condemning the Lynch said. University's invitation to Obama, John R. Quinn, archbishop such as the petition put out by emeritus of San Francisco, the Cardinal Newman Society, echoed Lynch's concern, ques­which has gathered over 200,000 tioning the prudence of bishops signatures. commenting on public issues 
"We felt, given the media Monday in an editorial for attention, that we needed to send AmericaMagazine.org. a strong message that many "We must weigh very seriously Catholics and many Americans the consequences if the support [Jenkins'] decision," he American bishops are seen as said. the agents of the public embar­
The petition states that rassment of the newly elected through his invitation to Obama, president by forcing him to with­Jenkins "is honoring the best of draw from an appearance at a our nation's democratic and reli­distinguished Catholic universi­gious values." ty," Quinn said. "It is in the 
Numerous Catholic bishops interest<; of both the church and nationwide have also weighed in the nation if both work together on the decision. in civility, honesty and friendship 
Newark Archbishop John J. for the common good, even Myers said he was disappointed where there are grave divisions, in the University's decision in a as there are on abortion." press release Wednesday. 
"It pained me to hear that one Contact Madeline Buckley at of the symbols of Catholic educa-mbuckley@nd.edu 

Friday, April 3, 2009 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
WEST BANK 
Israeli teenager killed with pick-ax 
Associated Press 
BAT AYIN -A Palestinian killed an Israeli teenager with a pickax and seriously injured a 7-year-old boy in a rampage through this West Bank Jewish settlement Thursday, posing an early test for the country's new hard-line government. 
Israeli media broadcast pictures of the body of 13­year-old Shlomo Nativ, bespectacled with long side­curls and a large skullcap worn by observant Jews. The images also showed the red pickax on the ground with drops of blood splattered on a road. 
The attacker escaped the scene and Israeli troops, joined by bearded settlers armed with automatic rifles, were conducting a manhunt in the area. In the nearby Palestinian village of Safa, troops searched houses and rounded up residents in a schoolyard. The military said all roads around the settle­ment of Bat Ayin were closed. 
The settlement is notorious in Israel for being the base of the so-called "Bat Ayin Underground," whose mem­bers were arrested over a botched 2002 bombing on an Arab girls' school in Jerusalem. The wounded boy's father, a member of the underground, is currently serving a 15-year sentence for his involvement in that bombing attempt. 
Avinoam Mayman, a 45­year-old resident of the extremist settlement, said he tried to stop the assailant after the attack, violently struggling with him for a minute or two. 
"He tried to kill me. I grabbed his hand and took the ax and he escaped," he told The Associated Press. 
He said the attacker fled to a neighboring "murderous village." 
The attacker apparently entered Bat Ayin, lac a ted between Jerusalem and the southern West Bank city of Hebron, unhindered. The religious settlers have refused to build a security fence around their communi­ty -standard practice in most settlements -saying it would be a sign of weakness. 
The teenager was quickly buried at a funeral Thursday afternoon, which was closed to the media at the family's request. 
The attack came a day after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu took office and will likely height­en tensions with the Palestinians. The leader of the hawkish Likud party has promised a firm hand against militants and low­ered expectations on the prospects for peace. 
Government spokesman 
Mark Regev called it a "senseless act of brutality against innocents" and warned the new leadership will have a "zero tolerance policy" toward militants. 
A murky Palestinian mili­tant group calling itself the Martyrs of Imad Mughniyeh claimed responsibility for the attack in an e-mail sent to the AP. 
The group is named for a Hezbollah mastermind killed in Syria last year in what is believed to have been an assassination by Israeli intel­ligence. It has claimed a number of past attacks, but Israeli defense officials believe it is likely a name used by other groups to avoid Israeli reprisals. 
The e-mail said the mili­tant group Islamic Jihad was also involved. The group's spokesman in Gaza would not comment. 
The new government has already voiced skepticism about peace negotiations in its first days in office. 
"The Palestinian leadership must both in word and in deed too have a zero toler­ance policy to this sort of attack to demonstrate its commitment to peace and reconciliation," said Regev, the government spokesman. 
Netanyahu was elected on a campaign that criticized the previous government's peace negotiations with Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas. Since then, Netanyahu has said he will seek peace, but has given few details about his vision for a final agreement. He has specifically refused to endorse the idea of an inde­pendent Palestinian state ­a key demand of the Palestinians and centerpiece 
of U.S. diplomacy  in  the  
region.  
On  Wednesday,  

Netanyahu's ultranationalist foreign minister, Avigdor Lieberman, said Israeli con­cessions to the Palestinians would only invite more war. He also rejected the previous government's peace talks, launched at a U.S.-sponsored conference in 2007. 
Netanyahu has not com­mented publicly on Lieberman's statements. But a close Netanyahu ally, Cabinet minister Gilad Erdan, said Thursday that Lieberman's comments largely reflected the position of the prime minister's Likud Party. 
The appointment of the Lieberman has angered Palestinians and raised international concerns because of his hard-line positions on peace and an election campaign that was widely seen as racist. 
In Cairo, Egypt's Foreign Ministry called Lieberman's remarks "a setback to peace efforts." 
Service 
continued from page 1 
cohesive day," Byrne said. 
"We wanted to help improve community rela­tions, but we didn't think our efforts have been as robust and cohesive as they could be," she said. 
Beginning Saturday morn­ing at 9 a.m., students are invited to a kickoff break­fast in the library auditori­um, where they can pick up a T-shirt and a light break­fast before starting their 
projects.  Fr. Joe Carey,  
assistant  director  of  
Campus  Ministry  for  
Religious  Education  and  

Retreats, will speak to the students before the service projects begin. 
"Fr. Joe Carey is involved in Campus Ministry, [Notre Dame Encounter] retreats and he is well-loved here at Notre Dame," Byrne said. "He will speak to the stu­dents to help get people excited about the day." 
With a wide variety of service projects off campus, in addition to dorm events on campus, Byrne said stu­dent government, along with the Center for Social Concern's (CSC) Canned Food Drive, hopes to get as many students and commu­nity members involved as possible. 
Some of the off-campus projects include park clean­ups, mural painting, scav­enger hunts with local stu­dents, Habitat for Humanity 

housework, cleaning up the zoo and volunteering at nursing homes, she said. 
In addition, students can contribute on campus, with Knott's Angel for a Day, Pasquerilla West's Project Paint, and the CSC's annual 
Canned Food Drive.  ·  
While service is  an  inte­ 
gral  part  of  

CommUniversity, Byrne also emphasized the importance of helping the community feel comfortable here at Notre Dame. Community members are invited to visit Notre Dame for campus tours, Easter egg hunts for children and technology tutoring for senior citizens as well as making available facilities like the Joyce Center and the -Suite Museum for visitors. 
"We want to emphasize that this is not a service day; it is about building partnerships, fellowships, relationships and mutuali­ty," Byrne said. "We want the comm.unity to feel wel­come here at Notre Dame." 
The day will culminate at the Robinson Learning Center from 4-7 p.m., where students and the community are invited to a "block party," with food, entertain­ment and speakers, includ­ing Jan Botz, vice president of the Office of Public Affairs and Communication, Ann Puzzello, vice president of the South Bend Common Council and several student government members. 
Byrne said the turnout for the event has been success­ful, with more than 600 stu­dents registered for service projects. 
Students can register online at studentgovern­ment.nd.edu up until Friday, and the first 1,000 students will receive a free T-shirt. Students may also register the day of the event to participate in a project on or off campus, she said. 
Additionally, many of the athletic teams will be par­ticipating in service projects throughout the day, con­tributing to the unified day of service and collaboration with the community. 
Because of the support from the student body and South Bend community for the first annual CommUniversity Day, the new Social Concerns Committee chair, Rachel Roseberry, said she is opti­mistic about the future of this event. 
"Absolutely we hope this becomes an annual event," she said. "We hope to make it bigger and involve more students and community members." 
The expectation is that the Notre Dame and South Bend community will become familiar with the catchphrase, CommUniversity, and the event will grow with each year, Roseberry said. 
"The question won't be are you participating, but rather which project are you doing," Byrne said. "It will be the thing to do." 
Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods4@nd.edu 

• 
We're magically delicious! 

• 
Where the only thing green is everything. 

• 
Where the Fighting Irish & loving Irish meet. 

• 
Snake free for over 1,500 years. 

• 
Don't hate us because of Colin Farrell. 


IRST Minors study: 

+ 
Folklore 

+ 
Anthropology 

+ 
Dance 

+ 
Political Science 

+ 
Sociology 

+ 
History 

+ 
literature 

+ 
Language 


+ 
The only ethnic group that is allowed to pinch you if you don't wear the right color on their feast day. 


• 
Guess who doesn't get to study about Europe's oldest structure, the world's greatest writers, and a civilization that has lasted thousands of years? Criminology Minors. 

• 
A Joyce that will drive you Wilde for Shaw. 


Minors qualify for: 
+ 
Once-in·a-liietimt~, fully funded Irish internships; 

+ 
LJni.que Fall, Spring and Summer study abroad programs in one of Ihe greatest cities in the world; 

+ 
Immersionlanguage Study in the West of Ireland; 

+ 
1ickets to see Irish concerts, films and distinguished lecturers. 


For Information email irishstudies@nd.edu or call 631-3555. 

page 10 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Friday, April 3, 2009 
Sal111onella proble111s spread to pistachios 
Two million pounds of nuts recalled Thursday 
Associated Press 
COMMACK, N.Y.-The investi­gation into a nationwide salmo­nella scare over pistachio nuts has spread from a California nut processor to its sister plant in New York, where inspectors last month found cockroaches and rodent droppings. 
The Food and Drug Administration said Thursday it was investigating Commack­based Setton International Foods Inc., which shares key staff and packages food with a plant in central California that earlier this week recalled 2 million pounds of nuts over fears of possible sal­monella contamination. 
Setton Pistachio of Terra Bella Inc. is the nation's second-largest pistachio processor. A spokesman for both companies said the California plant supplies all pistachios used in the Long Island processing facility, which makes chocolate-and yogurt­covered nuts and dried fruit. 
Last month, New York agricul­tural authorities discovered nearly two dozen dead cock­roaches, rodent droppings and one live cockroach on an ingredi­ent rolling rack inside the Commack plant. It failed its state health inspection. 
Production Manager Lee Cohen said Thursday the plant is now spotless and the problems ­completely unrelated to the recall over salmonella concerns -were fixed immediately. The facility, which is among the 36 wholesalers that got nuts from the California operation, plans to recall some of its nuts and trail mix voluntarily in the coming weeks, he said. 
"Our facility in New York is beautiful and clean. You can eat off the ground it is so spotless," Cohen said in an interview with The Associated Press. "We took actions immediately to respond once we heard there was a prob­lem, and have been responsible from the beginning." 
State inspectors went back for a visit Wednesday to swab the plant and take food samples to be tested for salmonella and other pathogens as part of the pistachio recall, said Jessica Chittenden, a spokeswoman for the New York State Department of Agriculture & Markets. The test results are pending. 
"Right now nothing is moving out of that plant. They're holding all products with pistachios in them," Chittenden said. "When we were in there yesterday to collect samples, they were coop­erative, and we observed that they are working on the issues that we had outlined in our last inspection." 
Chittenden said she was told federal inspectors also had visit­ed the plant this week. The FDA said the agency was "investigat­ing all aspects of the company's operations" but could not dis­close details. 
The two companies share a CEO, Joshua Setton, and label foods with both plants' names, FDA spokesman Mike Herndon said. 
During a tour of the sprawling factory Thursday, a company consultant told the AP that pista­chios are being kept separate from Setton's other products until the FDA advises the firm how to proceed. 
Thousands of boxes of pista­chios were wrapped in plastic, placed on pallets, stacked to the ceiling and cordoned off from the rest of the warehouse with yel­low police tape. Roasting machines and polished stainless steel equipment appeared clean, and visitors were required to wear hair nets. 
William Schwemer, a retired FDA investigator hired as a con­sultant, said there were no exposed food products in the room where mouse droppings were found last month. 
So far, there have been no con­firmed reports of illness linked to the recalled nuts. 
Still, federal health officials warned people this week to avoid eating all pistachios and products containing them while the gov­ernment determines what foods could be tainted. 
In the meantime, a range of products from nut bars to ice cream and cake mixes remain in limbo on grocery shelves, and the number of recalled products continues to grow. 
Setton International Foods has not issued its own recall, Chittenden said. 
Kraft Foods Inc. first alerted the FDA to the contamination after its manufacturer in Skokie, Ill., turned up salmonella in a routine test of roasted pistachios that workers planned to add to trail mix. 
Private auditors hired by Kraft found problems they think caused the contamination when they traveled to Setton Pistachio's processing facility in Terra Bella, a remote town in California's farm belt. 
Cohen said Tuesday he sus­pected that roasted pistachios at the facility could have been con­taminated by salmonella-tainted raw nuts they were processed with. 
The last time California health inspectors visited the Terra Bella plant, they found no violations that would pose a health threat. 
In April 2008, a California Department of Public Health inspector made note of minor violations, such as insulation hanging over some equipment and packaging equipment that was temporarily repaired using tape. 
Neither violation is thought to pose a threat to human health, and the company corrected both a few days later. 
Records obtained by The Associated Press show that the New York plant has passed nine health inspections since 2000, despite receiving some violations for unsanitary conditions. Chittenden called that an "excel­lent history." 
In January 2004, five dead cockroaches were found on the floor of the chocolate mixing room. In January 2007, a state inspector noted that three bins of raw almonds in the roasting area had been left unattended and uncovered while they were not in use. Last month, an inspector spotted something similar: two bins of raw cashews were left out and uncovered in the roasting area. 
The company failed its March inspection because of "critical deficiencies" -including the detection of one live cockroach on an ingredient rolling rack in the chocolate tank. 
The plant was set to get a sec­ond, unannounced inspection in addition to Wednesday's visit, Chittenden said. 
Warnings issued to North Korea 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -As North Korea fueled a multistage rock­et Thursday for its threatened satellite launch, President Barack Obama promised a "stern" response and Japan vowed to press for an emer­gency session of the U.N. Security Council. 
Senior U.S. defense officials said that trailers and vehicles carrying rocket propellant were in place at North Korea's coastal launch site and that fueling had begun. 
A U.S. counter-proliferation official said the fueling process could take "up to a few days." But a senior U.S. intelligence official told The Associated Press that Pyongyang was on track for a projected Saturday launch 
The American officials spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss intelligence issues. 
At the G-20 summit in London, Obama and South Korean President Lee Myung­bak issued a statement agreeing on "a stern, united response from the international commu­nity if North Korea launches a long-range rocket." 
State Department spokesman Hobert Wood would not address the U.S. intelligence reports. But he repeated earlier warnings for the North Koreans not to take any "provocative" actions. 
Japan's ambassador to the 
U.N. said his nation will request an emergency session of the Security Council if North Korea proceeds with the launch. Yukio Takasu said he raised the possi­bility during closed-door council talks Thursday. 
Takasu and other council diplomats say they anticipate a possible emergency session as early as this weekend. 
Chinese President Hu Jintao urged Japan to handle the expected firing of a rocket by North Korea over Japanese ter­ritory calmly, though he says Beijing is working to avert the launch. Hu made the comment in a meeting late Thursday with Japan's prime minister, Taro Aso, on the sidelines of the G20 meeting, said Osamu Sakashita, Aso's deputy cabinet secretary for public relations. 
China says it is trying in vari­ous ways to dissuade Pyongyang from conducting the communi­cations satellite launch that is widely believed to be a test for a long-range missile. 
North Korea heightened its militarist rhetoric toward the U.S., Japan and South Korea on Thursday, threatening retalia­tion for any attempt to shoot down the rocket. Quoting an unidentified North Korean gen­eral, the North Korean Central News Agency said Japan would be struck with a "thunderbolt of fire" if it attempts to intercept the multistage rocket. 
The North Korean news serv­ice also issued a veiled threat against American warships moving in position to monitor the launch, saying: "The United States should immediately with­draw armed forces deployed if it does not want to receive dam­age." 
Some U.S. lawmakers are urg­ing Obama to shoot down the rocket if it endangers the United States or its allies. Defense Secretary Robert Gates said during a weekend 1V interview that the U.S. had no plans to intercept t.he rocket -though it might consider the move if an "aberrant missile" were headed to Hawaii "or something like that." 
U.S. officials have been keep­ing tabs on North Korea's launch preparations with satel­lite imagery and other surveil­lance. North Korea has com­plained that the U.S. is also using high-altitude U-2 spy planes and has warned the air­craft would be shot down. 

North Korea's pre-launch movements are similar to the steps taken in advance of its 2006 firing of a Taepodong-2 missile, the U.S. intelligence offi­cial said. 
The fueling starts an informal pre-launch phase that precedes the formal countdown. 
"You need to launch within a few days because rocket fuel is typically quite corrosive," said Jeffrey Lewis, an arms control expert at the New America Foundation in Washington, D.C. 
U.S. intelligence analysts con­tinue to believe that North Korea aims to launch a commu­nications satellite rather than conducting a missile test, which would violate a U.N. resolution. However, the rocket launch would yield data directly appli­cable to its long-range ballistic missile program. 
The issue was top of the agen­da Thursday when Obama met with his South Korean counter­part, Lee Myung-bak, on the sidelines of the G-20 summit in London. Obama pledged to push for "peace and stability," while Lee's office issued a statement saying the two leaders agreed to keep working on a verifiable dismantling of North Korea's worrisome nuclear programs. 
Russia appeared to be edging closer to Washington's position in an apparent show of good­will. But a strong united response likely would prove dif­ficult given that China -the North's closest ally -has veto power in the Security Council. Beijing continued to urge all sides to show restraint. 

For Say, lesbian, BisexualS lluestioning Students at Notre Oame Tuesday. April7 
7:00 p.m. -S:OO p.m. 316 Coleman Morse 

The Core Council invites gay, lesbian. bisexual Hquestioning members of the Notre Dame family, along with their friends and allys, to an informal gathering at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is Welcome and Confidentiality is Assured 

Coffee and Refreshments Wt11 Be Served 
Friday, April 3, 2009 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Comparison costs professor his job 
Associated Press 
DENVER -A jury ruled Thursday that the University of Colorado wrongly fired the pro­fessor who compared some Sept. 11 victims to a Nazi, a verdict that gives the professor $1 and a chance to get his job back. 
"What was asked for and what was delivered was jus­tice," Ward Churchill said out­side the courtroom. 
Then-Gov. Bill Owens was among the officials who had called on the university to fire Churchill after his essay touched off a national firestorm, but the tenured pro­fessor of ethnic studies was ulti­mately terminated on charges of research misconduct. 
Churchill said claims includ­ing plagiarism were just a cover and that he never would have been fired if it weren't for the essay in which he called World Trade Center victims "little Eichmanns," a reference to Adolf Eichmann. a Nazi leader who helped orchestrate the Holocaust. Jurors agreed. 
When the verdict was read, Churchill hugged his attorney, David Lane, and his wife, Natsu Saito. 
"I can't tell you how signifi­cant this is," Lane said. "There are few defining moments that give the First Amendment this kind of light." 
A judge will decide whether Churchill gets his job back. Lane said a reinstatement motion would be tiled within 30 days and a hearing would likely be scheduled in June. 
"What's next for me? Reinstatement, of course," Churchill said. "That's what I asked for. I didn't ask for money." 
University spokesman Ken McConnellogue said the univer­sity will review its options before deciding whether to appeal. 
"(The verdict) doesn't change the fact that more than 20 of his faculty peers found that he engaged in plagiarism and other academic misconduct," McConnellogue said. 
He said the jury's $1 damage award sends a message about the merits of Churchill's civil claims. 
Lane said the university will also be liable for hundreds of thousands of dollars in Churchill's legal bills. 
Churchill's essay was written in 2001 but attracted little attention until 2005, when crit­ics publicized it after Churchill was invited to speak at Hamilton College in upstate New York. 
Churchill testified last week that he didn't mean his com­ments to be hurtful to Sept. 11 victims. He said he was arguing that "if you make it a practice of killing other people's babies for personal gain ... eventually they're going to give you a taste of the same thing." 
Betsy Hoffman, who was president of the university at the time, had testified that Owens pressured her to fire Churchill and said he would "unleash my plan" when she told him she couldn't. 
In his testimony, Owens denied threatening the univer­sity. 
University officials concluded that Churchill couldn't be fired over the essay because of his First Amendment rights, but they launched an investigation of his academic research. 
That investigation, which did­n't include the Sept. 11 essay, concluded he had plagiarized, fabricated evidence and com­mitted other misconduct. He was fired on those allegations in 2007. 
The university has main­tained that the firing was justi­fied. 

Roseland Square Condos 
Six one level condos withi1r view of Notre Dame and Saint Mary~ 
A unique opportunity in t1 high l•isibility lm:t1tion! Just north ofToll Road access 207 IJixie U11y North (IN 933) 
Contact 11s at (574) 271-8961 or visil11s online at: www.RoselandTech.com 
Cheerleading &:; Leprechaun Tryout Information Meeting 



The Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism 
presents 

--•. Catho!ies in thrz Movirzs 
Conference "At the movies, Catholicism-rather than Protestantism-is the American religion." 

Friday, April 3 Film Screening (7:30 pm) 
Santitos 

Discussion to follow \:Vith Maria Amaparo Escandon. Novelist and screenwriter McKenna Hall Center fot" Continuing Education 
An inspiring account ofone woman's incredible journey across borders, Santitos has won numerous international film awards in more than a dozen film festivals. 
Conference Sessions at the McKenna CCE 9 a.m. & 2 p.m., April 3-4. Each conference presentation will be illustrated with fascinating t1lm clips from the era ofsilent films to today. For additional information please visit the Cushwa Center web 
site: www.nd.edu/-cushwa 

Arctic sea ice Inel ting faster than predicted 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Arctic sea ice is melting so fast most of it could be gone in 30 years. 
A new analysis of changing conditions in the region, using complex computer models of weather and climate, says con­ditions that had been forecast by the end of the century could occur much sooner. 
A change in the amount of ice is important because the white surface reflects sunlight back into space. When ice is replaced by dark ocean water that sunlight can be absorbed, warming the water and increasing the warming of the planet. 
The finding adds to concern about climate change caused by human activities such as burning fossil fuels, a problem that has begun receiving more attention in the Obama admin­istration and is part of the G20 discussions under way in London. 
"Due to the recent loss of sea ice, the 2005-2008 autumn central Arctic surface air tem­peratures were greater than 5 degrees Celsius (9 degrees Fahrenheit) above" what would be expected, the new study reports. 
That amount of temperature increase had been expected by the year 2070. 
The new report by Muyin Wang of the Joint Institute for the Study of Atmosphere and Ocean and James E. Overland of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory, appears in Friday's edition of the journal Geophysical Research Letters. 
They expect the area covered by summer sea ice to decline from about 2.8 million square miles normally to 620,000 square miles within 30 years. 
Last year's summer mini­mum was 1.8 million square miles in September, second lowest only to 2007 which had a minimum of 1.65 million square miles, according to the National Snow and Ice Data Center. 
------~ 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 12 Friday, April 3, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
ScENE EDITOR: [ess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jan Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmerz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asreiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 vicwpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 ishaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents of the University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurardy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor-in-Chiifjenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

"The-~ (USPS 59'1 2-4000) is. published Monday through Friday accp~ during exam and vacation paiud!.. A ~oubscription II> The omcrver i~ S 120 for one academic yar; $65 fur one St'm.tSft=r. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 Sourh Dining Hall Send address cO!Ta:tions ro: 
Notre D;:une. TN 46556-0779 .The Ob5crver 
Periodical post;ge paid ar Notre Dame P.0TBox:779 
and additiona! mailing offices. 024 Sou{h Dining Hall 

Notre Dame. IN 465-56-0179 
The O~r is <l m<:mber ufthe Assoclat«! Prt!:s!i. All n::productiun rights art .~ 
Student gov't tradition strong 
April 1 marked more than Fools' Day at Notre Dame and Saint front during the past year. The debate earlier in the year over the Mary's this year. On Wednesday both schools instaiiHd new stu­stipend caused a rift not only between the students and their gov­dent leaders, as Grant Schmidt bncame student body president at ernment, but also between Gruscinski and Falvev and their Notre Dame and Jenny Iloll'man assumed the oflice of student Board. ­body president at Saint Mary's. I .auren Theiss, former chief of staff, said earlier this vear: "One 
At Notre Dame, the transition marks the continuation of a new of the biggest challenges we have faced this year is the cohesive­"line of succession" in student govnrnment. Sehmidt, thn now-for­ness of our Board. We are all strong and independent women. mer student body vice presidnnt. moved from tlw No. 2 to No. 1 but WP all need to work on listening to others and being open to position in student governmPnt. other members' ideas and opinions." 
This linP of succession may proVf~ to be a hnnnlit to Notre The Exeeutive Board, who brought the stipend to the Board of Dame, if Schmidt and newly-installed vicn pn1sident Cynthia Governance (BOG) for the vote, did manage to reintegrate it<>elf Weber follow in the tracks of the fiJrmer-studnnt body presid1mt with the Board: howevnr. the Board as a whole has had trouble Bob Reish-Schmidt administration. reconneeting with the student body. 
Reish and Schmidt had success this year on sev-The new Student Government Association (SGA) eral fronts. Among their tangible accomplish­Constitution -having been recently revised, giving ments were the College Symposium held this OBSERVER government a more accessible and understandable weekend, solidifying a plan to put printers in all name -does not address the stipend, but the new dorms, expanding the Last Lecture series and a administration said during their campaign that they
Editorial 
change in the Constitution allowing student politi­would not be taking any compensation for their cal clubs to campaign for their party's candidates. work. 
But it's the intangibles that were perhaps more Now llofl'man and student body vice president Meg important. The Observer commended Reish and Griflin should make their administration more acces­Schmidt in the Dec. 2008 Insider on student government for sible to students. By creating a more transparent student govern­being "more approachable" than prior administrators. They ment, where students' voices can be heard and the decisions of forged strong and beneficial relationships with administrators, the Board arc made in a timely manner reflecting the opinions of community leaders and students. the student•;; as a whole, they may be able to bring the two bodies 
The groundwork laid by R11ish and Schmidt should prove an back together. asset for Schmidt and Weber in the coming year. if they maintain At both campuses, the opportunity for strong and positive stu­the strong relationships and diligence that characterized the past dent leadership was created Wednesday with the installation of year. tho Schmidt-Weber and Hoffman-Gritnn administrations, and 
At Saint Mary's, former student body president Miekey The Observer hopes both pairs will follow through on their prom­Gruscinski and vice president Sarah Falvey perpetuated a divided ises. 
Maybe when I'm 30 ••• 


This week the April Fool's Day jink'> est of highs to the lowest of lows would Taxi Driver have won Best Picture in were very high amongst me and my ereate an emotional roller coaster that 1976? Would Brian Kenny have ever been friends. My roommate (fellow Observer puts Cedar Point to shame. seen on the big screen? Would the Cold columnist Brad Blomstrom) awoke to fmd To put things in perspective for the War still be going on? How many experi­thousands of post-it notes stuck to his car. underclassmen who do not have the ences have been made possible by Rocky Another friend memory of that fateful October 15th trying his best and going the distance? found fish swim­ingrained in their memory; I hadn't expe­Twenty-somethings have many opportu­ming in her bath­rienced anything quite like that moment nities to meet future spouses. Weddings, tub, while some until this past Wednesday when I was psy­tattoo removal doctor's otnces and World others participated ched out of my mind to go to Cheers ofWarcraft raids are all places that would in the traditional Lounge only to get there and fmd that it make great stories to tell future children. 'RA fake busts was full to capacity with underage football There is also the chance that you meet the some freshmen players and my sister's sophomore love of your life at any bar anywhere. I'd drinking beer !riends. much rather spend my less awesome hoax'. However, (Why can't the underclassmen just stick years telling people that I met my wife at a the worst joke of to bars like CJs and Oyster, and let us sea­bar when I was 28 than telling them that I all the jokes was soned veterans enjoy the Lounge? At least was matched with my wife online when I saved for me as they'll never touch our Finnegan's!!) But I was 22. some yet to be digress. So I'd like to apologize to Brittany (21, determined friends The problem isn't that I will let down Portland), Stephanie (21, Kalamazoo), of mine signed me up for eHarmony.com. women like Joelle (age 21, Meherrin, VA) Kimberlyn (23, Eugene, MO) and all of the 
While I admit that this joke is hilarious and Tiffany (21, Antigo, WI), the real other women who I have been matched (as I am incredibly open about my trou­problem is that they are all far too young with on eHarmony.com. While you may be bles with the ladies), I believe that it is in to be utilizing eHarmony as a serious content to phone it in, I'll add using poor taste. It isn't really a problem that means to meet people. Using eHarmony at eHarmony to the top of my list of things my inbox has become cluttered with infor­such a young age can't merely be labeled not to do before I turn 30, and go out and mation from Dr. Neil Clark Warren asking as fail, because a person who uses such a live my life. me to fill out a survey to determine my 27 site before the age of 30 has actually given The list: seriously consider using levels of compatibility; the real problem is up on their life. Using online dating servic­eHarmony.com; get a hotel room when I that I will invariably let down all the prob­es this soon is like using the Warp zones in visit my parents; stay in on New Year's ably wonderful ladies who will bP Supnr Mario Bros. While they ean help Eve; go to a high school reunion; tuck in a matehed with me on the deepest of level'>. you more quickly move to a later stage of t-shirt; watch Letterman and SNL in suc­
I can't begin to imagine how exeited your life, they also take away all of the cessive nights; talk about the good ole Victoria (age 20, On the Hudson, NY) or expnriences you could have in the inter­days like they have ended; use Facebook Jennifer (age 22, Pembroke PinPS, FL) will vening years (or worlds). Isn't there value to 'reconnect' with people; use the word be when they fmd out that they are per­to all of these experiences? 'kid' to talk about professional athletes; fectly compatible with me, Observer It would be like if in round two Rocky watch any hour-long CBS show. Columnist Bob Kessler, concerned citizen had said, "You know what, I don't think I and organ donor. This excitement will stand a chance with Apollo. I'm just gonna Bob Kessler is a senior majoring in eventually fade away to intense disap­lay down on the mat and take the knock­political science and economics. You can pointment when they realize that I am not out." What would our world today be like contact him at rkessler@nd. edu going to contact them. It will be like when if that had happened? Would Carl The views expressed in this column are seven seconds were put back on the clock Weathers have still made hilarious those ofthe author and not necessarily in 2005 against USC. Going from the high-cameos in Arrested Development? Would those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 


THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Friday, April 3, 2009 page 13 
Countering the Cardinal Newman Society 
So much controversy has swirled around the Notre Dame campus lately, that the finger keeps pointing to the unrest from the Cardinal Newman Society -an advocacy group for more orthodoxy on Catholic college and university campuses. Their staunch stand against abortion rights focuses so tightly on our political process with single-issue political blinders that some ques­tion if they are consistent when the issues turn to war and capital punishment. This week they rise into the new headlines with their rabid opposition to President Obama's invita­tion to deliver the commencement address in May. 
Academic debate is always the strip­per of truth. Therefore, traditional lib­eral Catholics who are tolerant like our first martyrs were needed to create a counter-organization on Catholic cam­puses. Their purpose should be to let Caesar and politics have its place with­out summarily censoring and rejecting a political party or elected official. Our new Catholic organization's purpose will be to balance the rank-and-file's social outlook outside of the traditional Knights of Columbus events on campus. 

The organization will need to be named after someone of high standing in the Church, but one who should be known more of as a Catholic free spirit and unorthodox theologian. After all, Church dogma must have a few holes which our members may expose. Several of the Middle Ages popes quali­fy as our namesake, but choosing one is a risky and complicated proposition. While none of them ever heard of stem cells, condoms or Democrats and Republicans, a few Pope Johns and Pope Alexander VI immediately come to mind as our candidates. 
For longevity's sake, John XII (937­
964) would be a good candidate because he became Pope in his late teens and remained the pontiff for his entire adult life. But appearances do matter, and he has a reputation for throwing wild orgies with both adults and children. His son, John XIII (965­
972) unfortunately followed his father's hedonism, and his number turned out to be unlucky since he died just like his dad -at the hands of an angry hus­band. 
To sound akin to the well-respected and longtime Knights of Columbus, maybe the pope at the time of Columbus should be considered, Alexander VI (1492-1503). Originally known as Cardinal Borgia of Spain, the Alexander VI claim to fame rose by conquering much of Italy by force with the help of his son, Cesare. He too had a reputation for throwing large parties, bordering on orgies, that at times reportedly culmi­nated with naked boys jumping out of large cakes. 
Alexander reportedly made a fortune selling indulgences, or free passes to heaven, along with selling Cardinal seats. He arranged for his daughter Lucrezia to be married three times, each time to a richer and more power­ful aristocrat. When this pope died, everyone knew that he was rotten to the core. In fact, the college of Cardinals were so jubilant that they paid their respects by leaving Alexander to rot and turn purple in the Sistine Chapel, until his bloated corpse had to be stuffed into his coffin. Humor should be a core value of our new organization, and lending Alexander's name to it may inspire great social events. But he too does not quite fit as a model for today's Catholic campus counter-organization. 
Many of the Renaissance Popes were generally another group who did not live up to the standards needed today. Since many of those papal elections were rigged for rich, powerful families, these papacies ultimately led to the Protestant Reformation of the 16th cen­tury. If such abuse caused Christendom to split, naming our new campus organ­ization for one of these popes would also certainly fail. 
Ironically, not every pope -like every president -can be the perfect model we expect. The Catholic Church has had both virtuous and immoral leaders, some just recently involved with child abuse in the United States. After all, every human being has personal moral shortcomings and strengths. But policy issues that affect those who are not Catholic paint a gray area in our politi­cal system. 
If our nation was bounded only within the Vatican, then it would be acceptable that our elected officials easily follow a single religion's agenda. But we do not elect a Jew or a Catholic or an Atheist to strenuously follow personal religious beliefs while in office. We elect repre­sentatives in our system to make judg­ments that are in the interest of their constituencies or the nation as a whole ... -judgments that are mostly gray in complexity. 
With our number of popes at 262 and counting, maybe we can find one whose name was "Gray," and therefore pro­mote debate, inclusion and tolerance to our new Catholic campus organization. That should be our core value. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a communications strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni. nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The vvar continues 
Wars in the past have been well-planned and implemented over important issues such as slavery, freedom and equality. But you, Otters of Sorin, deserve no credit for your ill-planned attempt. You have made a mockery of the art of ancient battle. 
At approximately 12:15 am April 2nd (a day late of April Fool's we might add), you lined up outside our hall, ordering the surrender of a mere freshman who had simply asserted her right of freedom of speech and used her as a scapegoat to justify your so-called reign of terror against the women ofWalsh Hall. 
Once the sweet freshman went outside to hear your speech, you did nothing but exclaim, "Show us your horns!" and blankly stared at her. Way to go. Clearly you were accepted early to Notre Dame. Oh wait, we forgot! You then so bravely threw water balloons at her, forgetting that we are WI.L.D. Women and not witches prone to melting. 
You may have thought you were proving a point, Sorin, but you just dug yourselves deeper into a non­sensical hole. You further alienated yourselves from the acceptance of your peers on campus by not only defacing our hall (Tearing out our screen doors? Really?) but also by disturbing the peace of nearby dorms this evening. We sincerely thank you for prov­ing our point that you hate us for no reason. On behalf of WI.L.D. Women everywhere. 
Alexa Doyle 
sophomore 
Jenna Heffernan 
freshman 
Walsh Hall 
April2 

Labels unnecessary 
Although I cannot completely agree with Mr. Petrocelli ("Political correctness overload," April 2), I would like to thank him for recog­nizing the main point of the "End the R Word" campaign: all people, the mentally disabled, elderly, ill, the list goes on, are just that ­people. They do not need a special name, good connotation or bad, to defme them or differentiate them. 
My brother is 16 years old and mentally retarded in every true sense of the world. Being diag­nosed with Cerebral Palsy from birth, he cannot walk, talk, sit, stand, feed or even go to the bath­room by himself. He will never drive a car, be able to walk (some­thing we take for granted every day) down the aisle to receive his high school diploma, or do the jig at a Notre Dame football game. 
When I heard of the campaign to end the "R" word, I was interested to see how the student body would respond. Although I gratefully applaud those who took this seri­ously, or even just signed the peti­tion and walked away, it made me sick to hear stories of people not signing and mimicking "retards" as they laughed and strutted away. When I was standing in line to get dinner, people who had just signed the petition walked up behind me, laughing, saying, "What the hell is that [petition]? All I know is that's retarded." 
Although hypocritical, nauseat­ing and completely defeating the point, these things did not surprise me. No one can truly know the hurt caused by one little word unless they have experienced it first-hand, seeing kids stare at a loved one in the grocery store or bluntly walking up to you and ask­ing "why isn't he 'normal' like me?" Who said you are the normal one? I know the word "retarded" will never leave our generation's vocabulary. All I ask is this: please think before you speak and act. 
Whether its "retarded," "gay" or any other negatively connotated word, you are calling out one group of people and making light of something that is bigger than all of us. No one chooses to have cerebral palsy, Down syndrome or any other disability. My brother did not choose to be confined to a wheelchair for the rest of his life, and ifI could switch places with him, even for a second, so he could experience some of the won­derful people and things I have experienced (like the inspiring people I have met and things I have done here at Notre Dame), I would. 
Like Mr. Petrocelli said, any and every individual is a person, and doesn't need to be defined by a word. I think ifwe truly attempted to recognize this, words like retarded and their definitions would be irrelevant. 
Rochelle Rieger 
sophomore 
Pasquerilla West Hall 
April2 

Keep Coach Brey 
For as disappointed as I am in our men's basketball team's performance this past season, I have to disagree with Kevin Sonn and his desire for the University to fire Coach Mike Brey for a number of reasons. Sonn, along with many others, has an issue with the style of play that Brey coaches, which is under­standable. We do shoot a lot of threes and we are not an adept defensive team. However, Brey plays this style out of necessity and because, as the coach at Notre Dame, he is limited in a number of ways other Big East and national contenders are not. 

This is not a fault of Brey, but rather an implication of the University and the athletic department. Brey's teams play in an outdated, run-down facility, complete with duct tape holding together seats in the lower bowl. The practice facilities are on the same level. And, unlike football, the basketball team does not have the storied tradition (or unwavering fan support) to entice recruits despite these shortcomings. 
Because ofthese factors, and the higher academic standards to which Notre Dame holds its student-athletes, recruiting is a serious challenge for Brey. This is not to mention the fact that the team competes in the Big East, widely regarded as the toughest conference in the country. 
Before Coach Brey came to Notre Dame in 2001, the Irish hadn't been in the NCAA Tournament since 1990. In Brey's nine seasons as head coach, Notre Dame has made the tournament five times and Brey has been named the Big East Coach of the Year twice. The University, recognizing its deficiencies with regards to the basketball program, will finally update the facili­ties this offseason to a level which will allow Brey to compete with the rest of the conference on a level playing field. 
I am not claiming that Brey can take this program to national prominence given the right set of circumstances (there are actually a number of reasons to believe that he cannot). However, I also think it is wrong to close the book on him before he even has the chance. 
Andy Ziccarelli 
sophomore 
Dillon Hall 
April2 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 14 
Friday, April 3, 2009 
This Wee,k's Mix-Just Hit Shuffle 


James Patterson's novel "Sundays at Tiffany's" takes the concept of the normal romance story and gives it an unexpected twist. 
"Tiffany's" seems like an average, every-day romance novel, except that the main male love 
Eric Prister 
interest is someone completely unexpected 

Scene Writer 
-a girl's imaginary friend who ventures back into her life 24 years after abandoning it. 
As an eight-year-old girl with a famous mother who rarely gives her the time of day, into a relationship with one of his former child friends? 
The idea of romance with an imaginary friend is the only concept that sets "Sunday's at Tiffany's" apart from the average romance novel. It seeks to explain the truth behind the imaginary friend, an experience most people have had personally or seen someone else have. 
It is by no means one of the best works of lit­erature and is not a book for those who are not particularly interested in the romance genre. That is not to say, however, that it does not succeed in entertaining. 
Jane Margaux is oftnn alone, except for the "Tiffany's" is a highly enjoyable read, with company of Michael, hnr handsome and bril­moments of happiness, sadness, love and liant 30-year-old imaginary friend. anger. Its short chapters makes it an easy On her ninth birthday, though, Michael book to pick up at a moment's notice and put 
leaves her just as all imaginary  down whenever other,  
friends must do when their child turns nine, and just as Michael has had to do many  Jane Margaux is often alone, except for the company of  more pressing concerns arise. For anyone who  
times before. He guarantees  Michael, her handsome and  enjoys  a  story  of  
her that she will not remember him in the morning, but still feels differently about leaving  brilliant 30-year-old imaginary friend.  romance, or someone who likes books with a twist, Patterson's  
her than he has about leaving  "Tiffany's" is worth the  

any of the others. 

Twenty-four years later, Michael is shocked to find Jane once again, now grown up and working for her mother's production company. lie has never forgotten her, but even stranger, she did not forget him, unlike what always happened with the other children he befriend­ed. 
Michael is just what Jane needs in her oth­erwise miserable life, and she almost instantly falls in love with him. In spite of his best wish­es, Michael begins to fall in love with Jane as well, a different kind of love than he felt for the eight-year-old Jane. 
But can an imaginary friend, who is only partially human, does not age and must follow whatever assignments are given to him, enter 
effort and can be a good distraction from other, more tedious reading assignments. 

1 
2 
3 
4 
5 6 7 8 9 
10 1 1 12 
1 3 
by Caitlin Ferraro \1 "Womanizer (Cover)"-The All-American Rejects .,, uonly Fooling Myself"-Kate Voegele -.1! "This is For Real"-Motion City Soundtrack ~.-"Poker Face"-Lady GaGa '41't~~Hands Down"-Dashboard Confessional ~J "Heartbeats"-Jose Gonzalez 
~~  "Forever & Always"-Taylor Swift  
.,.; i-­ ~~Everything I'm Nor'-The Veronicas  
-~  "Lucky"-Jason Mraz feat. Colbie Caillat  
~~ ------"  "Girls Just Wanna Have Fun"-Cyndi Lauper  

¥'1 1/lfYou C Jordan"-Something Corporate 
-

t;l "Beautifur-Akon feat.ColbyO'Donis& Kardinal Offishall VJ ''Ain't A Thing"-Tyler Hilton 
P~l..Wt¥~~whe.n-yow~e­cv n.eed-to-ful{i1lr cv ~~workout pla.;yti«: to-pump yow up ~ keep yow ~ cv~p~l.i.et"of~ }low ~ to-{c;tllt ~ W; oY JIA.Iit" cv p~l4t" to-...-odv-O«t" on,. ~'tvipl-: But .w·met"'L-n-t.e~-Dt'!' n.i.cet to-JIA.Iit" hU ~ ~~w~ha.p~ Yow~~ 
oUl-~yow~yow 1-w..ds O'Y\el yow 
~to-pla.;y ~~~or 
cv brCM1.d.-Y\.eMJ ~yowj~ ~ Try 
~oftheMv~~ or~your 
o-wvv v~ pla:YU$: A{tev cU.L vcurlety 
wthb~LavofU{et. 

13 songs, 
1 Chill Session 
ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 
L___ -----­

_j ;\ ;\I l ~~ s 
I . . .
I).~\ -I • I I{ s ( ) N "' 
'-" "" 
I ' ., ., ~ . " \ 
~ > , 
' .. -, ' 
Photo courtesy of http://catark.files.wordpress.com 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Friday, April 3, 2009 
page 15 

Pressure on Terry to confess the
By ADRIANA PRATT crime he saw mounts when the sister of 
Scene Writer 
the victim, Edie (Eva Marie Saint), cru­sades against the mob king and calls on 
On Thursday night, Notre Dame the help of anyone she can find. brought one of America's most well Danger heightens as Friendly finds known classics, "On the Waterfront" to out about Terry's potential testimony the Browning Cinema in The Debartolo against him and threatens immediate Performing Arts Center. action -a.k.a. death -if Terry pur-
Winner of eight Academy Awards, sues justice against the manipulative including Best Picture, Best Actor and and ominous union boss. Best Director, this controversial film In a particularly emotional scene, directed by Elia Kazan deals with the-Charley confronts Terry, begging him to 
matic  elements  escape  and  not  
such as corrup­tion, violence, and  When Terry becomes a witness,  risk his life testify­ing against  
overwhelming  he faces an inner battle, similar  Friendly,  and  
inner conflict that  to the one director Kazan faced  Terry  in  turn  
comes to lightwhen protagonist Terry Malloy  when asked to turn in the names ofhis Communist co-workers.  reminds Charleyof the sacrifice he made ending his  
(Marlon Brando)  boxing career.  
is  faced  with  Trying to pro- 

deciding whether or not to testify teet his brother, Charley hurries a gun against the well-connected and ever-into Terry's hand and urges him to run. threatening mob boss Johnny Friendly In a final confrontational scene (Lee J. Cobb). between Friendly and Terry, each 
The story grows complicated as the man's fate is decided, better for one once promising boxer Terry is asked by and obviously much worse for the his brother Charley (Rod Steiger) to other. intentionally lose a fight for Friendly's Not only was this film awarded eight benefit. Recognizing the strength of Academy Awards, it also made the brotherly bonds, Terry does as told and Vatican's list of the 45 greatest films of ends his career before it has ----------all time and was select­the chance to reach its eli-Trying to protect his ed for preservation in 
max. brother, Charley the United States 
Now, Terry faces a life National Film Registry. working on the docks under hurries a gun into It was based on twen­the murderer Friendly who Terry's hand and ty-four articles called consistently evades being urges him to run. "Crime on the caught by the cops because Waterfront" written by witnesses choose to play New York Sun reporter "deaf and dumb" over risking their own Malcolm Johnson, who revealed the lives to protect future ones. behind-the-scenes corruption that took 
When Terry becomes one of those place in Manhattan and Brooklyn dur­very witnesses, he faces an inner battle, ing the late 1940s. For both an histori­similar to the one director Kazan faced cal and intriguing look at the mischief, when asked to turn in the names of his violence, and heavy moral decisions Communist Hollywood co-workers dur-that faced many involved in the mob ing the McCarthy-led anti-Communist scene, see the 1950s classic "On the hearings. It was this very struggle that Waterfront." served as the foundation for "On the Waterfront." Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 

SCENE'S TOP VIDEO PICKS 
You 


Con I Hove Your Number An oldie but goodie. 

Titanic 
Aquality 
reenodment. 
Butter Floor 

noying roommate? .Here's a 
•solution. 
7Year Old: Hoodrot Stuff Wit My Friend Talk about a classy kid. 

ANDREA 

.------------------------------------~~-----­
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, April 3, 2009 
FOOTBALL 

Broncos send Bears Cutler 
Feud ends as Denver lands three picks and Orton in exchange for QB 
Associated Press 
ENGLEWOOD, Colo. -Jay Cutler got his wish Thursday: a ticket out of Denver. And the Chicago Bears have a fran­chise quarterback for the first time in decades. 
The Broncos announced Thursday that they had agreed to trade their disgrun­tled Pro Bowl passer to the Bears, who've gone through a bevy of quarterbacks without much success ever since Jim McMahon was calling plays in the 1980s. 
The Broncos will get quar­terback Kyle Orton in return, along with two first-round draft picks and a third-round­er. 
The Broncos get the Bears' top pick in this year's draft, which is No. 18 overall, and Chicago's first-round draft pick in 2010 along with a third-round selection this year (No. 84 overall). Denver also gave up a fifth-rounder this year. 
Calls to Cutler's agent, Bus Cook, went unanswered. His office in Hattiesberg, Miss., was closed because of bad weather and his home phone had a message asking callers to call back later. An e-mail sent by The Associated Press wasn't returned. 
Cutler asked for a trade last month after his relationship with Josh McDaniels soured when the new 32-year-old coach talked to other teams about trading him. Cutler and his agent didn't think McDaniels was upfront with them about the trade talks. 
Two meetings designed to clear the air only raised Cutler's level of distrust. Still, McDaniels insisted over and over that Cutler was his guy and he said at last week's NFL owners meetings that he would do everything he could to repair their relationship. 
When the rocket-armed but thin-skinned passer didn't return the Broncos' phone calls, however, team owner Pat Bowlen said enough was enough. On Tuesday night, he announced he had given his new brain trust of McDaniels and general manager Brian Xanders the go-ahead to seek a trade for the quarterback who made the Pro Bowl in just his second season as a starter. 
Although Cutler is 17-20 as a starter, he's been victimized by dismal defenses in Denver, and he was an impressive 13­1 when the Broncos held opponents to 21 points or fewer. 

Last year, Cutler threw for a franchise record 4,526 yards, 25 touchdowns and 18 inter­ceptions. In his 37-game career in Denver, he complet­ed 62.5 percent of his passes for 9,024 yards, 54 TDs and 37 interceptions. 
Although he was prone to mistakes, his bold and at times risky play wasn't just tolerated but encouraged by former Broncos coach Mike Shanahan, who would often laud Cutler for not just dump­ing off short passes to pad his statistics but instead dared to go downfield, even into cover­age. He said that trait would make him great one day. 
Cutler's inability to quickly fulfill that forecast cost Shanahan his job on Dec. 30 after the Broncos missed the playoffs for the third straight year. 
Cutler wasn't happy about Shanahan's firing. And he was upset when his position coach, Jeremy Bates, bolted for Southern Cal because McDaniels will be the one call­ing plays in Denver now. 
When he hired McDaniels, Bowlen proclaimed that Cutler "is the man around here, now." 
That didn't last long. 
Cutler started to get over Shanahan's dismissal and Bates' departure and he told McDaniels in February he was eager to learn his new offense. But that all changed on Feb. 28, when Cutler learned McDaniels had talked about trading him to Tampa Bay in a three-way deal that would have brought McDaniels' pro­tege, Matt Cassel, from New England to Denver. 
McDaniels had tutored Cassel, who led New England to an 11-5 record after Tom Brady suffered a season-end­ing injury in the opener last year. 
That sent McDaniels' stock soaring and landed him in Denver as Shanahan's succes­sor. 
It seemed like the perfect match: the rocket-armed pass­er meets the offensive guru. 
But McDaniels' dalliance with his former pupil blew up in his face when he didn't clue in Cutler, and now McDaniels begins his era in Denver by chasing off his 25-year-old Pro Bowl quarterback-and he'll have to face Cassel twice a year because the Patriots ended up sending his protege to Kansas City instead. 
As for Cutler, he won't have to ditch his West Coast style for the intricate Patriots-style offense. 
He might be going to one of the teams he rooted for as a kid growing up in Santa Claus, Ind., but he's also leaving a great pocket of protection in Denver, where left tackle Ryan Clady is considered the best young tackle in the game, and a great bunch of receivers led by fellow Pro Bowler Brandon Marshall and Eddie Royal. Behind young tackles Clady and Ryan Harris, Cutler's offensive line allowed just a dozen sacks. 
The Bears, however, signed free agent left tackle Orlando Pace on Thursday. 
Denver now has Orton, fel­low newcomer Chris Simms and Darrell Hackney at quar­terback. 
Simms, who signed a two­year, $6 million free agent deal ostensibly to serve as Cutler's backup, has thrown just two passes since undergo­ing emergency surgery to remove his spleen after a game in 2006. Hackney's next NFL pass will be his first. 
Bears general manager Jerry Angelo made it elear in December. after his team went 9-7 and missed the playoffs for the second straight year­that solidifying the quarter­back spot was his top priority. 
"It's all about the quarter­back," he said. "You don't win because of wide receivers. You don't win because of running backs. You win because of the quarterback. We've got to get the quarterback position sta­bilized." 
Orton threw for 2,972 yards while completing 272 of 465 passes and throwing more touchdowns (18) than inter­ceptions (12) after beating out Rex Grossman for the starting job. But he wasn't the same after being carted off the field with a sprained ankle against Detroit midway through the season. 
Orton went from throwing a club record 205 passes with­out an interception to throw­ing eight in four games before a strong finish in the finale. 
The Bears will get a great but often petulant passer who is going from the long shadow of John Elway in Denver to the Windy City, where he'll be under just as much scrutiny. 
Cutler is halfway through the six-year, $48 million con­tract he signed as the 11th overall pick out of Vanderbilt in the 2006 draft. His salary cap number for next season is just over $1 million. 
Although he probably won't play in the game, the Bears visit the Broncos for an exhibi­tion on Aug. 30. 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Kentucky and Coach Cal sign huge contract 
Associated Press 

DETROIT -John Calipari will make more in a single half at Kentucky than Kenya Crandell will make all year at Southern Utah. 
That's life for a college assistant. A lot of head coaches, too. Unless you're Billy Donovan, Coach K, Roy Williams or a handful of oth­ers, coaching won't make you a millionaire. Not in one season, anyway. 
But if you're looking for outrage at the $32 million Kentucky threw at Calipari this week, don't look to the coaches convention at the Final Four. It's just the price of business at Kentucky, most coaches said, a school that treasures its tradition-rich history and refuses to accept anything less in the future. 
Besides, if Kentucky is will­ing to throw around that kind of money, maybe a little of it eventually will come their way, too. 
"To me, it's democracy. The market dictates," Missouri coach Mike Anderson said Thursday. "Everyone's trying to get a jump on the next guy. It's always been like that. In everything. That's just the American way, isn't it?" 
Anderson should know. 

Four days after taking the Tigers to the Elite Eight for the first time since 2002, he had a new seven-year deal that bumped his salary by $500,000 a year. 
Fed up after yet another season of not being in the hunt for a national title, Kentucky fired Billy Gillispie and lured Calipari from Memphis on Tuesday with an eight-year, $31.65 million deal. Calipari was 13 7-14 over the last four seasons, and his Memphis team was the only one in the country to be a No. 1 or 2 seed in the NCAA tournament during that same time frame. The Tigers made four straight regional semifinals, losing to Kansas in the final last year. 
Athletic director Mitch Barnhart was quick to point out Calipari's base salary is only $400,000 a year, with most of the rest coming from media and television rights. The athletic department is self-sufficient, Barnhart added, and no coach's salary is paid with state appropria­tions or university funding. 
The value Calipari brings to Kentucky extends far beyond the basketball court, too, Barnhart said. Coaches are often the faces of their schools, and their success can be as profitable for the anthropology department as it is for the athletic depart­ment. Long runs in the NCAA tournament have translated into increased applications; after Siena took top-seeded Louisville to the wire in the second round this year, coach Fran McCaffery said hits on the small, Catholic college's Web site jumped from 8,000 to 60,000. 
"To be the premier basket­ball program in America, you want the best coach, you must pay a premium price," Barnhart said. "We don't mind doing that, because we think it's important. If done correctly, the investment in a coach will pay for itself and yield returns for the overall program in general." 
But the figure is still eye­popping, especially in the troubled economy. 

Throw in $3 million in retention bonuses if he stays at Kentucky through March 31, 2016, Calipari will receive an average of $4 mil­lion a year over the eight years. Figure the Wildcats play 35 games a year-that's assuming a trip to the Final Four each year, of course­Calipari will make about $114,286 per game. Add in 10 minutes worth of time­outs, and that's $2,285 per minute-about the price of one of his designer suits. 
"You have to ask some very hard questions, whether this is really in tune with the aca­demic values, whether we've reached a point already that these high salary and pack­ages for coaches has really extended beyond what's expected within the academ­ic community," NCAA presi­dent Myles Brand said. 

"Those questions really have to be asked. Now, we can't answer them; it's anti­trust if we were to try to reg­ulate any salaries. But I would hope our university presidents and our confer­ences would ask those ques­tions themselves." 
Calipari isn't the only one getting the big bucks these days, though. Billy Donovan averages $3.5 million annu­ally at Florida after winning back-to-hack national titles, and Kansas coach Bill Self isn't far behind at $3 million a year. Tom Crean is making about $2.36 million a year at Indiana-and he hasn't even won a national title. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
One or two roommates needed for brand new 3 BR 3 Bath Condo at Irish Crossings fully furnished. $500 per mo. incl. utilities -wireless, gas, water, electric and parking. Private BR!Bath, gym. Ten min walk to campus five min walk to stores. Non-smoker, no pets. animal­cop01 @gmail.com 

FoR RENT 
GRADUATION WEEK TOWN­HOUSE RENTAL· 2 bedroom town house, sleeps 6·8, on Ivy Court for rental Graduation Week. 2 full baths, living room, and kitchen. 2 night mini­mum $1 ,000. contact peterlawson@yahoo.com 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer­ing 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 
Need off-campus housing for next yea (09-10)? 2,3,4 and 5 bedroom houses available 112 miles from cam­pus, ND ALUMNI OWNED. As low as $275 per student. Contact on-cam­pus rep at ebarloh@nd.edu or 1·513­706·9655 
Houses for the 09·1 0 school year. 2· bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 574­234-2436 or www.kramerhouses.com 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 

2009/1 0 student rentals Angela St./St. Peters & S.B. Ave. $1300­$2000/mo. Contact Bruce Gordon 574-876-3537. 
PERSONAL 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: http :1/osa. nd. edu/health­safety/assault/ 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1· 7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NDs Assistance for Pregnant Students//Office of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd.edu/health­safety/assistance·for-pregnant­students. 
ADOPTION · Loving Domer couple looking to adopt a baby (babies). please call Marie and James (301)977-5069 or (866)202-1424 PIN 5448. 
And I said, "What about 'Breakfast at Tiffany's?"' She said, "I think I remember the film." And as I recall, I think, we both kinda liked it. 
And I said, "Well, that's the one thing we've got." 


OUND THE NATION 
Friday, April 3, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
NFL 
NCAA Baseball 

Division I Top 25 
team points previous 
1 Georgia 737 1 2 Cal St. Fullerton 701 3 3 Arizona State 679 2 4 Georgia Tech 636 7 5 LSU 634 5 6 North Carolina 607 6 7 Miami (Fla.) 550 4 8 Arkansas 523 10 9 Rice 494 9 10 Oklahoma 449 11 11 Texas A&M 412 14 12 Baylor 387 12 13 UC Irvine 383 13 14 Texas 380 8 15 Oklahoma State 319 17 16 Virginia 251 18 17 Clemson 242 20 18 East Carolina 209 23 19 Coastal Carolina 161 15 20 Mississippi 154 16 21 florida 145 NR 22 Ohio State 143 25 23 Florida State 99 NR 24 New Mexico 89 NR 25 San Diego 86 NR 
IWLCA Women's Lacrosse Division I Rankings 
team record points 
1 Northwestern 9·0 400 2 Maryland 8-0 365 3 Penn 7-0 365 4 North Carolina 7-2 319 5 Duke 8-2 296 6 Georgetown 5-3 291 7 Princeton 5-1 289 8 Syracuse 6-2 274 9 NOTRE DAME 8-1 234 10 Virginia 6-3 223 11 Vanderbilt 4-3 210 12 Boston U. 5-3 178 13 Loyola (Md.) 6-1 140 14 Stanford 6-2 128 15 Penn State 4·4 86 16 Dartmouth 3-3 78 17 Ohio State 7-1 78 18 James Madison 4·3 59 19 Cornell 5-2 55 20 New Hampshire 6-3 52 
Women's Rowing CRCA 
Division I Top 15 
team 
1 Yale 
2 Brown 
3 Washington 
4 Stanford 
5 California 
6 Virginia 
7 Michigan State 
8 Princeton 
9 Harvard 
10 Southern California 
11 Washington State 
12 Ohio State 13 Clemson 14 Wisconsin 15 Michigan 

points 
494 425 420 413 400 366 327 321 314 280 255 221 201 174 165 
around the dial 
NBA 

Cleveland at Orlando 8 p.m., ESPN 
Houston at Los Angeles Lakers 
10:30 p.m., ESPN 


Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -Free on bail but facing serious legal charges, Cleveland Browns wide receiver Donte Stallworth will get ready for an upcoming NFL season not knowing if he'll play. 
Stallworth surrendered in court Thursday on charges that he was driv­ing drunk when he struck and killed a pedestrian while returning from a night of partying in Miami Beach on March 14. The 28-year-old Stallworth was released by Miami authorities after posting $200,000 bail. 
He was expected to fly 

back to Cleveland on Thursday night. Stallworth intends to resume voluntary work­outs with the rebuilding Browns, who must now consider their options and the possibilitythey will not have the seven-year veteran on their roster next season. 
Following a brief hear­ing Thursday before Miami-Dade Circuit Judge Dennis Murphy, Stallworth, dressed in a dark suit and holding his mother Donna's hand, expressed his condolences and offered his prayers to victim Mario Reyes' fami­ly. Stallworth added he has "full confidence and faith" in the legal process. 
If convicted of DUI manslaughter, Stallworth faces a maximum of 15 years in prison. 
The judge set an April 23 arraignment date for Stallworth to enter a plea. Stallworth, who is allowed to travel between Ohio and Florida and must seek permission to go anywhere else, does not have to be present at that hearing. Stallworth is expected to plead not guilty and a trial date will be set. 
The problem for the Browns is the legal case could drag into the 2009 season. 
The team did not rush 

IN BRIEF Stevens extends coaching 
contract through 2016 
INDIANAPOLIS -Butler coach Brad Stevens has agreed to a con­tract extension with the Bulldogs through the 2015-16 season. 
The new contract announced Thursday adds one year to the con­tract Stevens signed a year ago. Terms of the new deal were not dis­closed. 
The 32-year-old Stevens is one of the youngest coaches in Division I. He has compiled a 56-10 record in his two seasons as Butler coach, winning the Horizon League regular­season championship and taking the Bulldogs to the NCAA tournament both years. 
Butler was 26-6 last season, losing to LSU in the first round of the tour­ney. 
Stevens played at nearby DePauw. He was a Butler assistant for six years under Thad Matta and Todd Lickliter and became coach after Lickliter left for Iowa in 2007. 
Reds considering Gary
Sheffield for limited play 
SARASOTA, Fla. The Cincinnati Reds wrapped up training camp with an overture to Gary Sheffield and a lingering question about the last opening in their starting rotation. 
Manager Dusty Baker said Thursday that he's interested in adding Sheffield -a friend for many years -to the roster. The trouble is that he can't offer regu­lar playing time to the 40-year­old free agent, who is hoping for a full-time job and a multiyear deal. 
Baker got permission from gen­eral manager Walt Jocketty to call Sheffield and see if he would con­sider the Reds, who don't have a starting job open. Sheffield, who was released by the Detroit Tigers on Tuesday, could start in left field when the Reds are facing a left-handed pitcher, fill in at first base on occasion and pinch-hit. 
to Stallworth's defense after the charges were announced Wednesday, releasing a statement say­ing "we are disappointed he has put himself in this position." The Browns also said they had been in communication with NFL commissioner Roger Goodell. 
As much as Stallworth's life is in the hands of the legal system, it is Goodell who could decide his foot­ball future. 
Stallworth, whose first season with Cleveland was marred by injuries, faces a possible suspen­sion if the league deems he violated its conduct or substance abuse policies. 

Agent hopes Vick can 
return by September 
NEWPORT NEWS, Va. -An agent for suspended NFL star Michael Vick told a bankruptcy court on Thursday that he hopes the ex-Atlanta Falcons quarterback could return to the league by September. 
Joel Segal testified as part of a hearing to assess Vick's plan to emerge from bankruptcy, which was designed with the goal ofVick return­ing to a professional football career. Vick, who left a federal prison in Kansas last week to travel to Virginia, was in court for the first time in the case. He is scheduled to testify Friday. 
To return to a team, Vick still must apply to NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell to be reinstated. He hasn't yet done so, Segal said, and plans first to finish his 23-month sentence for bankrolling a dogfighting operation. He will return to his family and com­munity, and when he is ready, start working with strength and quarter­back coaches. 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, April 3, 2009 
NO WOMEN'S GOLF 

Irish face top teams in North Carolina 
Ten top-25 teams await Maunu and company at Bryan National Collegiate Tournament 
By MEAGHEN VESELIK 
Sports Wrirer 
No. 30 Notre Dame will close out regular season play this weekend as it makes its first appearance at the 12th Annual Bryan National Collegiate Tournament in Greensboro, N.C. 
The team will face some of the top national teams' best five golfers in the three-day event, Notre Dame's last competition before the Big East tournament. 
"We need to play well, we haven't really put three rounds together recently," Irish coach Susan Holt said. "We're at a point in our season where we need to put our rounds togeth­er, and I think it's certainly achievable this weekend." 
The five-woman Irish lineup will be made up of senior cap­tain Lisa Maunu, junior Annie Brophy, sophomores So-Hyun Park and Katie Conway and freshman Becca Huffer. 

They will play a total round of 54 holes, one round of 18 holes per day, on the par-72 course. The top four of the five scores each day will go towards the overall team score. 
"There are 18 teams, and at least 10 are top-25 teams, so there's some great competi­tion," Holt said. "It's time for us to step up and make a state­ment. Our schedule has given us the opportunity to do that, and I'd like to see us get our confidence up before heading into the Big East tournament." 
Florida took the Bryan Tournament title last season with an overall 906 (42 over par), and Arkansas' Stacy Lewis earned medalist honors win an even-par 216. 
Competitors this season include No 3. Virginia, No. 8 Georgia, No. 9 LSU, No. 18 Louisville, No. 15 Michigan State, No. 13 North Carolina and No. 12 Wake Forest. 
In their last appearance, the Irish placed sixth at the March 22 Betsy Rawls Longhorn Invitational in Austin, Texas. 
The team moved up one spot on the last day of competition, finishing with a final-round score of 311 (23 over). Park scored a team-best 76 for the second consecutive day, ending the tournament in a tie for 23rd place at 225 (9 over). ller final round included one birdie on the 18th hole and 13 pars, but was brought down by three bogeys over four holes and a double bogey on the par-S fifth hole. 
Conway finished her final round at 77 (5 over), improving throughout the weekend. Huffer also shot a (5-over) 77 in the third round, going 11 over with 227 for the tournament. Maunu and Brophy shot 81 and 83 respectively in the final round. Maunu finished with 11 pars and in 47th place with a total of 233(17 over). Brophy had nine pars and tied for 58th with a total of 236 (20 over). 

Facing some tough competi­tion this weekend, Notre Dame is looking to hold its own in the tournament, and knows what it needs to do to achieve that. 
"If we could get our rounds together, we have a good chance of making a good show­ing," Holt said. "It'll be a chal­lenge to do that, and we have to be at our best. We're hoping to manage the course a bit better than we have been. It's a tough course, but I think it plays to our advantage this weekend." 
The Irish will tee off from the 1Oth hole Friday and Saturday at 10 a.m. in the split-tee start with a shotgun start at 10 a.m. Sunday. 
Contact Meaghen Veselik at mveselO I @saintmarys.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles hope to streak by Alma 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will try to tack two more wins onto its seven­game winning streak as the Belles (18-2, 4-0 MIAA) travel to Alma College (14-9, 4-2) for a doubleheader. 
The Belles are coming off a doubleheader sweep of the Olivet Comets, their third straight sweep. 
The Scots, on the other hand, have split four of their last five doubleheaders and have a record of 8-4 since returning from their spring break trip Florida. 
With conference play in full swing, the Belles seem to be playing their best at just the right time. 
"We are playing really well as a team. Everyone is contributing both on offense and defense as we are now starting to really string hits together," Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. "Everything seems to be clicking for us right now." 
In particular, the combination of stellar pitching performances and rock-solid defensive efforts has been a recipe for success lately, as the Belles have given up only three runs in their last six games. 
"Our pitchers are really hitting their spots and are avoiding the walks. We are keeping people off the bases, which really takes pressure off our defense," Sullivan said. "Our middle infielders have been playing especially well and our outfield­ers tracked down some long fly balls in our last game." 
Sullivan also noted the impor­tance of senior catcher Ashley Fusaro in the overall perform­ance of the pitching staff. Sullivan said Fusaro has shown her leadership qualities, calling pitches and mentoring the two pitchers, freshmen Angela Gillis and Monica Palicki. 
Fusaro's bat has not gone unnoticed, either, as she cur­rently has a .492 batting aver­age with a home run and 12 RBis. 
The Belles currently sit in first place in the MIAA, and a sweep of Alma would put them in prime position to earn a berth in the conference tournament. 
The opening pitch is sched­
uled for 2 p.m. Saturday. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 

ERASMUS BoOKS 
• 
Used Books bou9ht and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and 


Paperback books in stock 
• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


Attention Seniors! 

Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions anticipates hiring Admissions Counselors this spring! 
As part of the Undergraduate Admissions staff, the Admissions Counselor is expected to make an important contribution to the recruitment and selection of the first-year class by managing relations with prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic territory. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel and communication within the geographic territory, assessment and evaluation of applications and conducting group/individual information sessions. Additional responsibilities will be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment and the Director of Admissions ()perations. 
Among our candidates, we may seek individuals who \Vill assist with our diversity recruitment efforts. 
Minimum Requirements: Candidates should possess a Bachelor's degree and strong 
familiarity with all aspects of academic and student life at Notre Dame. Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational skills, enthusiasm) diplomacy and the willingness to work long hours, including many evenings and Saturday mornings. 
PleascJ 1\iote: IntertJt'ews JPill /Je schedllletl qjier /lpri/10. 
Pr~{erred start dtlle is.J~t/y 1, 2009. 
Application Process: To apply, please visit http://Nl).jobs and apply to job #09123. 
The University of Notre Dan1c is conltnittcd to diversity in its staff, EKulty, and student 
botly. <\s such. \Ve strongly encourage applications fron1 members of minority groups, wornen~ \Tterans, individuals with disabilities, and others who will enhance our con1munity. 1\.\/EC>E. 
OPEN noon to six Tuesda): through Sunday 1 027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 

--~------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-----' 
Friday, April 3, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
Wizards upset Cavs after Agent Zero's return 
Iguodala, Miller and Dalembert lead Philadelphia in second-halfrally to top Milwaukee and keep playoffhopes alive 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -For the first time all season, the Washington Wizards fielded a starting line­up resembling the one they envisioned when training camp opened last fall. 
The result: The team leading the league in losses beat the team leading the league in wins. 
In the closest thing they'll have to a playoff game this year, Gilbert Arenas and the Wizards recovered after blow­ing a 14-point second-half lead and ended the franchise-record 13-game winning streak of LeBron James and Cleveland Cavaliers with a 109-101 victo­ry Thursday night. 
Arenas, playing his second game of the season in his latest attempt to return from knee surgery, had with 11 points on 3-for-11 shooting and 10 assists and six rebounds in 33 min­utes. 
Brendan Haywood, making his first start of the season, had 12 points and 1 0 rebounds for the Wizards, who also received the usual steady contributions from Caron Butler (25 points) and Antawn Jamison (19) and a surprising 17 points on 6-for-8 shooting from Darius Songaila as they snapped a three-game losing streak. 
James scored 22 of his 31 points in the second half and finished with six assists and nine rebounds, but-how's this for a statistical oddity-was responsible for all five of his team's turnovers until Daniel Gibson traveled in the final minute of the third quarter. James finished with six turnovers, and had a 3-pointer stuffed in his face by Butler with in the final half-minute. 
The Wizards led by 68-54 midway through the third quar­ter and 80-70 going into the fourth, but the Cavaliers opened the final period with a 16-6 run with James on the bench. Wally Szczerbiak's 3­pointer put the teams even at 86-86 with 7:13 remaining. 
The Wizards answered with an 11-3 spurt, including a three-point play and a drive to the basket by Songaila and a short jumper from Arenas. Arenas later assisted on back­to-hack baskets by Butler and Jamison to get the lead to nine. 
James helped trim the lead to four with a 3-pointer and a free throw, but Nick Young's explo­sive drive to the basket with 
1:05 to play put the Wizards ahead 104-98. The sellout crowd roared as Washington­a team that has won only 18 games-wrapped up its second win over Cleveland this season. 
Last year at this time, the Wizards and Cavaliers were headed toward a first-round playoff series that would include subplots aplenty, including a back-and-forth between James and Washington guard DeShawn Stevenson that eventually drew rappers Jay-Z and Soulja Boy into the fray. Cleveland won the series in six games, with Arenas missing the last after more trouble with his knee. 
Now the Cavaliers are the best team in the East; the Wizards are the worst. James is an MVP candidate; Arenas has spent most of the season during with more knee trouble. 
Washington did manage to beat Cleveland in January when James was called for travel­ing-he claimed it was a legal "crab dribble"-with 2.3 sec­onds remaining. 
Cavaliers coach Mike Brown is happy there won't be a post­season rematch later this month. 
"Jay-Z versus Soulja Boy, the hard fouls, the crab dribble­I'm not going to miss any of that," Brown said before the game. 
There did seem to be at least one bit of gamesmanship by James in this game, when he stopped play just as Arenas was about to attempt a free throw with 1:4 7 left. James went to the bench to attend to some­thing. Arenas smiled, but he also missed the free throw when play resumed. 
76ers 105, Bucks 95 
The Philadelphia 76ers were a bit helter-skelter in the first half against the Milwaukee Bucks, turning the ball over 13 times and hearing groans from the home crowd. 
After returning from the lock­er room, the Sixers played one of their better halves of the season. 
Andre Iguodala scored 20 points, Lou Williams had 14 of his 21 in the second half, and Philadelphia rallied from a 13­point first-half deficit to defeat Milwaukee 105-95 on Thursday night. 
Andre Miller contributed 18 points and 11 assists for the Sixers (39-35), who won their second straight and vaulted past Miami into fifth place in the Eastern Conference playoff race. 
Marreese Speights had 14 points, Reggie Evans chipped in 13 and Samuel Dalembert added 10 rebounds for Philadelphia, which won its fifth in a row against the Bucks, including all three this season. 

"Everybody was not there mentally," Evans said about the first half. "The second half was almost like a wake-up call, 'Let's tighten up a little bit. Let's focus in even more and get ~~to it.' We slowly grinded it out. 
With only eight games remaining before the playoffs, every victory is crucial for the Sixers. The first half was hard­ly a playoff-caliber effort. 
"Fourth quarters have been big and that's really impor­tant," Philadelphia coach Tony DiLeo said. "Down the stretch, we played with a sense of urgency." 
Ramon Sessions led Milwaukee with his second straight stellar outing, getting 18 points, 10 assists and five rebounds a night after his first career triple-double against the Los Angeles Lakers. 
''I'm confident and I'm trying to finish every game strong," Sessions said. "I made a few mistakes in the fourth quarter which I need to correct. We continued to play hard until the end and I'll always give that kind of effort." 
Richard Jefferson added 17 points and Charlie Bell con­tributed 14 for the Bucks (32­45), who have lost seven of eight. 
" It was very similar to (Wednesday against the Lakers) where we had a lot of break­downs early in the game," Milwaukee coach Scott Skiles said. "The Sixers didn't take advantage of them until later. With about three minutes left in the third, they started getting into the paint and causing us problems." 
The game was tied at 89 with 
5:45 remaining before the Sixers proceeded on a 1 0-0 run in the next 2:16. 

BASllLICA C)F TllJE SACilE[) lt1EART 
............................................................ ""')''' 

HOLY WEEK 
PALM SUNIJ/\Y C)F T'HE L(JRI)'S PASSKJN. APRIL 5 
5:00 pm {Satttrd£:ry) Vigil Mass 
9:45 a1n* Solemn Mass 
12:00 noon* Sunday Mass 
*Special A-1ass time for Palrn Sunday only 
TUESDAY, APRIL 7 

7:00 ptn Ca1npus-wide Stations of the Cross (Procession departs frmn the Grotto) 
9:15 pn1 Opportunity for individual confession follows Stations in the Basilica 
f10LY TliURSD/\Y, APRJL 9 9:00am Morning Prayer 
5:00 pn1 Evening Mass ofthe Lord"s Supper 6:30pm* Adoration in the Lady Chapel 
11:00 pm Tenehrae 
*Basilica qf'the Sacred Heart wifl remain openfrom 6:30pm until 12:30 am 
GOf)D FRIDAY. APHJL 10 
····················~-,--., 
··········· .....................................................-...............................,....,..............,.. 

9:00 arn Morning Prayer 
12:00 noon-3:00 pn1 Silent Hours of Prayer 3:00pm Celebration ofthe Lord's Passion 
7:15 ptn Stations of the Cross 
H()LY SATURDAY, AJ}JUL ll 

9:00 mn Morning Prayer 9:00pm The Paschal Vigil 
EASTER SUNDAY, AJlRlL 12 

8:00 atn* Easter Sunday Mass 
10:00 am Soletnn Mass 
12:00 noon* Easter Sunday Mass 
7: 15 pn1 Solemn Easter Vespers 
*Speciall\4ass time...·fi:>r Easter Sunday on(v 
C()NFESSJC)NS DUR NG H()LY vVEEK 
Monday 11:00 am. 4:45pm, 7:00pm 
Tuesday l l :00 arn, 4:45 pm. 7:00 pm. 9: 1 5 prn 
Wednesday 11:00 am, 4:45pm, 7:00pm 
Holy Thursday 11 :00 am to 12:00 noon. 7:00pm to 8:00 pm
C-M 
Ciood Friday l0:30 am to 2:30 pm. 6:30 pm to 8:30 pm
Campus Ministry 
Holy Saturday 12:00 noon to l :00 pm, 3:00pm to 5:00pm 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, April 3, 2009 
NHL 

With victory No. 50, Bruins one from home ice 
Canadiens use power-play to net three goals in easy win over New York; Backes scores four in Blues triumph 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -This win gave the Boston Bruins 50. The next one will give them something they value even more: home ice through the Eastern Conference playoffs. 
"You can play for one team your whole career and never get 50 wins-and still have some real good seasons," goalie Tim Thomas said Thursday night after stopping 31 shots to beat the Ottawa Senators 2-1. "It's a credit to the team, the way it's built and the way the guys play together. 
"But if you're running the Boston Marathon and you're leading after 20 miles, you don't stop to say, 'Man, I'm leading."' 
Milan Lucie and Marc Savard scored for Boston, which would clinch the best record in the East with its next victory or the Washington Capitals' next loss. The Bruins were one point behind West-leading San Jose for the best overall record, 
pending  the  Sharks'  game  
against  Edmonton  later  
Thursday.  

"I don't think anyone thought we would've been in this posi­tion this quickly," Boston coach Claude Julien said, "but we'll take it." 
The Bruins hit 50 wins for the eighth time in franchise history and the first since the 1992-93 season; they reached 110 points for the first time since '82-83. And it's just two years since they missed the playoffs entire­ly. 
"The position we were in two years ago-we've come a long way," said forward P.J. Axelsson, whose steal set up the game-winning goal. "But it's still a long way to go." 
But Savard was ready to cele­brate-a little. 
"We had a tough stretch and now we're heading in the right direction again," he said. "I think it'll be more enjoyable tomorrow when we go to the rink for practice; smiles will be on the boys. It's a great accom­plishment for us.... Fifty wins, I wouldn't have predicted it right away and I don't think any of you did either. I think it's a spe­cial feat." 
Daniel Alfredsson scored for Ottawa, and Alex Auld made 31 saves. 
The Bruins killed off a 6-on-4 in the final 1:55 when Mark Recchi was called for high­sticking and the Senators pulled the goalie for an extra man. Ottawa had a flurry of shots down the stretch before an interference penalty against them evened things up with 2.7 

seconds left. 
"We were one shot away and it's disappointing but the guys' effort was definitely there," Senators coach Cory Clouston said. "They make you pay. They're a very good team. A couple of little turnovers like that and they make you pay." 
Alfredsson gave the Senators the lead when he took a pass from Jason Spezza and put it over Thomas' right shoulder just 5:23 into the game. Lucie tied it with his slap shot 2:27 into the second. 
Boston broke the tie in the third when Axelsson stole Brendan Bell's clearing attempt and backhanded it over to the slot for Savard, who put a wrist shot past Auld with 16:58 to play. Savard has two goals and four assists in his last five games. 
Canadians 5, Islanders 1 
Just like that, the Montreal Canadiens can feel good about their place in the standings instead of worrying about who is closing in behind them. 
Saku Koivu scored the first of Montreal's three power-play goals, and Alex Kovalev had three assists as the Canadiens opened a season-ending road stretch with a 5-1 victory over the New York Islanders on Thursday night. 
The Canadiens (40-27-10), who vaulted over the New York Rangers into seventh place in the Eastern Conference, netted two goals in each of the first two periods and cruised to a critical win over the last-place team in the NIIL. 
Montreal has a one-point lead over the Rangers with five games left, one more than New York-which lost 4-2 at Carolina on Thursday. The Canadiens are three points ahead of ninth-place Florida and just two behind Pittsburgh and Philadelphia. 
"It's fun to have your destiny in your own hands," forward Alex Tanguay said. "We knew that no matter what the Rangers were doing tonight, we knew we had one game in hand on them. And if we just won our games, we were going to move up." 
Mathieu Schneider and fellow defenseman Andrei Markov also scored power-play goals-set up by Kovalev-and Tanguay and defenseman Mike Komisarek added even-strength tallies for the Canadiens, playing four of their final six on the road as they push for the playoffs. 
"We're not looking at where we're at in the standings, we're just looking at winning games," Tanguay said. "Points are cru­cial and it's going to be no dif­ferent for us Saturday in Toronto." 
The line of Tanguay-Koivu­Kovalev has scored 27 points in the five games it has been together and 12 of Montreal's past 21 goals. 
"We had success in the first game and kept going," Koivu said. "The whole team is play­ing a whole lot better right now." 
Jaroslav Halak, subbing for No. 1 goalie Carey Price (flu), made 26 saves for his 17th win. Montreal recorded 38 shots on Yann Danis and improved to 5­3-3 under coach Bob Gainey. The Canadiens are 4-0-1 in their last five. 
Montreal was 35-24-7 when Gainey, also the club's general manager, fired coach Guy Carbonneau and stepped behind the bench. 
Jeff Tambellini made it 4-1 in the second period for the injury­plagued Islanders, who were missing injured leading scorers Mark Streit (groin) and Kyle Okposo (groin} and played in front of a home crowd that largely supported the visiting Canadiens. 
The Islanders are on a 2-6-1 skid after winning five of seven (5-1-1 ). Now York has allowed 29 goals in the past sevon games. 
"We've been playing pretty good, and this was a disappoint­ing efl'ort for our team," veteran Islandnrs forward Doug Wnight said. 
The chants of "Go llabs Co!" and "Ole! Ole! Ole! OIP!" filled Nassau Coliseum ev1m before Koivu staked the Canadiens to a 1-0 lead with 6:57 left in the first, 34 seconds into rookie Sean Bentivoglio's holding penalty. Kovalev found Koivu with a pass in front for the cap­tain's 16th goal. 
Blues 5, Red Wings 4 
Not even David Backes could explain what happened. 
The 6-foot-3, 220-pound winger scored a career-high four goals, including the go­ahead score with 4:07 left, in the surging St. Louis Blues' 5-4 victory over the Detroit Bed Wings on Thursday night. 
"I don't know what hap­pened," said Backes, who also had his first hat trick. "On·e of those games where you kind of black out and then they're pat­ting you on the back." 
Andy McDonald also scored, and Chris Mason made 34 saves to help the Blues jump from ninth to seventh in the Western Conference playoff race. The Blues are a point ahead of Nashville and Anaheim, with Anaheim facing Vancouver later Thursday night. 
"We just battled in the third period," Mason said. "It was back and forth and we got the two points." 
St. Louis rebounded from a 3­1 loss in Chicago on Wednesday night that snapped its winning streak at five games. 
Nicklas Lidstrom and Niklas Kronwall each had a goal and two assists and Pavel Datsyuk and Johan Franzen both had a goal and an assist for Detroit, which lost its third straight and fourth in five games. Ty Conklin stopped 28 shots. 
"Obviously, the job I'm doing here, the team is not ready," Red Wings coach Mike Babcock said. "So, myself and the leader­ship group here, as a group of individuals, we've got to do bet­ter than this. This is unaccept­able." 
Backes broke a 4-4 tie with his 30th goal of the season, scoring on a one-timer from the bottom of the left circle. 
"We felt that David had the potential to be a 30-goal scor­er," Blues coach Andy Murray said. "But we didn't think it would happen here in Detroit." 
Kronwall tied it at 4 with 4:43 left on a slap shot from the 

Store Your Stun
Over thl ;~;ummer! 
Call or stop on by & reserve today' 
[5141 203-0512 
6482 arir,k !W•u.'"""'" 8•"'d L<x~led at(i<;vel<lnd Rd. & IJS 20 llypij;>. 7 mir>ut"s from tampus 
point. 
Franzen made it 4-3 with a spectacular effort at 3:52. He made a move and jumped around St. Louis defenseman Mike Weaver in the slot, then beat Mason as he was falling to the ice for his 33rd goal. 
Lidstrom tied it at 2, with a power-play goal 1:13 into the third period. His 14th goal came on a slap shot from the point. 
But Backes' third goal, just 24 seconds later, restored the Blues' one-goal lead. He beat Conklin from the slot after a mix up between Conklin and defenseman Jonathan Ericsson behind the Detroit net. 
McDonald's power-play goal 
2:53 into the third made it 4-2. He tipped in T.J. Oshie's shot from the point. 
"Mad is an interesting word. Frustrated is a waste of time," Babcock said. ''I'm just telling you I'm disappointed. I'm disap­pointed in the job I'm getting done here. I'm disappointed in the group right now. This is very un-Red Wing-like." 
The Blues took a 2-0 lead in the middle period on Backes' first two goals. 
He opened the scoring at 6:02 when he slammed in a one-time shot from the slot off a pass from Brad Winchester, who was behind the net. 



Friday, April 3, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Military 
continued from page 28 
hands this weekend. 
"The one thing with Air Force and with all military academies is that you know they'll be tough, disciplined and relentless," Corrigan said. "I think they really try to score in a lot of different ways." 
The Falcons' balanced offensive attack is led by sophomore midfielder Vinny Sandtorv, who leads Air Force with 15 goals on the season, and junior attack Ridge 
"I want to see us
Flick, who Corrigan said. "I 
weekend, losing to No. 6 

leads the make good decisions want to see us 
Georgetown 14-12 and then 
going on to defeat No. 13 Loyola 

Falcons with impose our­
because we're 
(Md.) 16-13. The 1-1 weekend

eight assists selves on the
disciplined and
and 17 game and the 
pushed Notre Dame to a third­

points. In strong-willed about way we want to 
place tie in the Big East. 
"We had a two-goal loss to a

addition, the what we want to do.,, play." 
Falcon Ultimately, 
top-10 team, so I think we're 

defense has Corrigan said he 
defmitely in the mix, but I think 
Kevin Corrigan

registered an believes that if 
this weekend we need to come 

astounding Irish coach Notre Dame can 
out and play strong," Irish 

14 goals and six assists on the year, and sophomore defenseman Bryan Gilbreath is fourth in the team with eight goals on the year. 
Corrigan said Air Force's aggressive style of play in transition helps create oppor­tunities for the Falcons. 
"They're very aggressive in unsettled transition," Corrigan said. 'They're men­tally aware and aggressive in resets. They can create goals from the defensive end of the field to keep the pressure on." 
Despite Notre Dame's per-feet start, Corrigan said he 
ND WOMEN'S LACROSSE

believes his team still has room to improve in its second conference game, especially on offense. 
Irish travel to Cincy, Louisville 
"We've got to be more disci­
plined, and we have to hold ourselves to a better standard from what we want on an offensive possession, Corrigan said. "We've been overly aggressive and settle for mediocre possessions." 
In general, Corrigan said he would like to see a complete performance from the Irish and to play up to their high national ranking. 
"I want to see our team 
play with a 
strong will," 
2008 season 9-3 and the 2007 season 11-3, but were not able to achieve their goal of winning the Big East. 
"If you look back at 2007 and 2008 we've been at this point before where we've been 9-2 or 10-3," Coyne said. "I think our focus is how do we finish in a stronger position than we did last year or two years ago." 
The Bearcats are led by their goalie, freshman Katherine Russo, who leads the Big East in save percentage. 
Notre Dame is near the top of every offensive category in the Big East, which Coyne attrib­utes to the team's balance. 
"We have pretty balanced scoring. At different points in the season we've had younger players step up and have a key goal so I think it's everyone who's contributing," Coyne said. 
The Irish are led offensively by sophomore Jillian Byers and junior Gina Scioscia, who are second and third in points per game in Big East play so far this year. 
Byers leads the Irish with 40 goals and has also contributed nine assists throughout the sea­son. Her 11 goals in the Big East are good for second in the conference. 
"[Byers] always draws the top defender from the other team, and she's handling that pres­sure well," Coyne said. 
Scioscia, who has already been named Big East player of the week once this season, leads the team in points with 54 and assists with 21. Her 11 goals and 7 assists in Big East play is good enough for second in both of those categories. She is also second in total points. 
"[Scioscia] is having an out­standing season and I think [she's] stepped up and I'm hop­ing that she'll continue on her current path," Coyne said. 
The Irish will meet the Bearcats Friday at 4 p.m. in Cincinnati and will take on the Cardinals at 1 p.m. Sunday. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
By ERIC PRISTER Sports Writer 
The Irish (9-2, 2-1 Big East) gear up to take on two confer­ence opponents this weekend, as they will face Cincinnati (5-5, 0-2) on the road Friday and then travel to Kentucky to take on Louisville (6-3, 0-2) Sunday. 
After a seven-game win streak and an 8-1 start to the season, Notre Dame split last 

play smart and 
play up to its high national ranking, the Irish will be not only be suc­cessful against Air Force, but for the rest of the season. 
"I want to see us make good decisions because we're disci­plined and strong-willed about what we want to do, and if we do that, we can be a very good team," Corrigan said. 
The Irish face off against the Falcons at 1 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
coach Tracy Coyne said. "We'll see how it goes this weekend to see if we can kind of crank it up a notch." 
The Irish have been in the position before, starting the 




ND Response invites you to a.... 
Palm Sunday Prayer Rally April 5, 2009 
Schedule of Events 

After Noon Mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart: Gather in front of the Dome 
2:00 PM -Invocation 

2:05 PM -Address by NO Response Chairman 2:15PM-Keynote Speaker: Harold Cassidy, Prominent Pro-Life Lawyer 2:40 PM -Rosary 3:00 PM -Announcements and concluding remarks 3:10 PM -Flowers brought to the Grotto 

SPONSORED BY: NOTRE DAME RIGHT TO LIFE, THE IRISH ROVER, NOTRE DAME COLLEGE REPUBLICANS, NOTRE DAME ANSCOM BE SOCIETY, NOTRE DAME IDENTITY PROJECT, MILITIA OF THE IMMACULATA. CHILDREN OF MARY, ORESTES BROWNSON COUNCIL, NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL RIGHT TO LIFE. & NOTRE DAME LAW STTHOMAS MORE SOCIETY 
page 22 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, April 3, 2009 

satw.rda +I+ @wpm 


Friday, April 3, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
DePaul 
continued from page 28 
Northwestern this weekend," he said. 
This weekend's slate of games is a good preview to what Notre Dame will face heading into the Big East and NCAA Tournaments. DePaul and Marquette are two of the better teams in the conference and will present challenges to the Irish when they vie for the Big East championship in two weeks. 
Northwestern, this year's 
Big East 
continued from page 28 
over Northern Illinois, the Irish hold an eight-game win streak. 
"You always want to play your best," Gumpf said. "If we play well, the wins will keep coming. 
The Irish also have an 11­game streak in which at least one player has hit a home run. 
The surge of power hitting has helped Notre Dame's recent success, as the Irish have won 10 of their last 11 games. 
"We are becoming more com­fortable in the box," Gumpf said. "I attribute the home runs to the players being comfort-
Use your Ford Emplo1ee DiscountM d 
on any new az a 4YR/50,000 Mile Maintenance 
•
Service On Most Makes and Models 

•
From oil changes to major repairs-we can do it all! 

• 
Free shuttle service ·Ask about our rewards program ·Certified Body Shop for all makes &models 


indoor national champion, has already shown that they are one of the top teams in the country and will most certainly be there in the end when the NCAA Championships roll around in mid-May. 
"Playing four matches in five days, which is what you have to do at the NCAA champi­onships, is a tough task," Louderback said. "It will be a great test for us." 
After this stretch of matches, the Irish will just about have seen it all this season. They have already played 11 match­es against top-25 teams thus far, six of which came against 
able and attacking the pitches." 
The Irish are also enjoying more success defensively. The team struggled with errors early in the season and lost sev­eral games due to unearned runs. 
In their win streak, though, the Irish have committed just nine errors that resulted in six 
unearned  runs - a  vast  
improvement.  
Senior  pitcher  Brittany  

Bargar will start the first game of each doubleheader. 
Bargar (12-6) continues to show her experience on the mound, holding a 1.75 earned run average with 88 strikeouts in 120 innings pitched. 
Sophomore pitcher Jody Valdivia will start the second 
Included on ALL new BMW's 


BASNEY IMPORTS-MAZDA/BMW 
www.basneyimports.com 

55203 State Road 933 North SOUTH BEND (2 miles north of Notre Dame} 
574.272.8504 
AutenRd 
BASNEY IMPORTS * 
Darden Rd 
~ 
~ 
Cleveland Rd 
~ 
top-seven opponents. 
Louderback is thrilled with the idea of playing a tougher schedule than most and the postseason preparation that it offers his team. 
"It is good for us to have tough matches late in the year," he said. "It helps us get ready for the Big East and NCAA Tournaments." 
After this stretch of road matches, the Irish will return home for their regular-season finale against Texas A&M on April11. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker 1 @nd.edu 
game on each day. 
Valdivia (6J.5) has been lights­out in her past few appear­ances for the Irish and has low­ered her ERA from over four to 2.85. 
The games come in the mid­dle of a nine-game Irish homes­tand. The squad will also play DePaul and Valparaiso this week before hitting the road. 
The first pitch against Pittsburgh is scheduled for 10 
a.m. Saturday with the second game following right after. 
The first game against Seton Hall will begin at 11 a.m. Sunday and the second will fol­low. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

Leasing now for 2009-2010* 
Notre Dame Apartments 
Notre Dame Apartments are a Notre Dame tradition! 2 Bedroom, 1,200 sq. ft. Apartments Newly Remodeled Free Internet Free Water On~Site Laundry Off-Street Parking Only Three Blocks from Campus 
*These apartments rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our town homes, apartments and houses at 
www.kramerhouses.com 
(574)234-2436 
ALL Notre Dame Faculty &Staff 
receive Employee Pr1cing! 
BASNEY HONDA 
www.basneyhonda.com 
3820 N. Grape Road MISHAWAKA (Corner of Grape &Edison) 
574.256.5550 
~ 

DayRd
&1-~--­
Cl. 
[!! 
\::1 

Edison Rd BASNEY HONDA
* 



,.----------------------------­
page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, April 3, 2009 


Nova 
continued from page 28 
before dropping the final two games. 
"The first thing we are focusing on is just getting back to playing good base­ball," Irish coach Dave Schrage said. "Our pitching and defense hasn't been real solid lately and because of that we have been giving up a lot of runs. We need to focus less on our past performances and more on getting back to playing good baseball." 
The Wildcats haven't fared any better in the conference, managing a lone victory in three tries against West Virginia after being swept in a three-game series by St. John's. But past performanc­es are not a concern of Schrage's right now. 
"They are always a well­coached team and right now 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Danridge wins contest in dunk-off 
Associated Press 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. ­New Mexico's Tony Danridge beat Charlotte's Charlie Coley III in the college slam­dunk contest Thursday night at the Palace of Auburn Hills. 
In the final round, Coley received a perfect 50 from the judges after a dunk off a pass from Rhode Island's Jimmy Baron in the stands. Danridge, though, forced a dunk-off with his third 50 of the competition with a two­ball, two-handed double dunk. 

Coley then dunked over judge Jalen Rose for a 48, and Danridge ended it with a left-handed windmill for a 49. 
they have five hitters hitting above .315," he said. "They are very aggressive on the base paths and have the most stolen base attempts in the league. They create and score a lot of runs and have three solid starting pitchers who have pitched fairly well this season." 
For the Irish, pitching has been has a problem this sea­son. Sophomore right-hander Cole Johnson (3-0), who boasts a 2. 7 5 earned run average, is the lone excep­tion. 
"Cole's had an outstanding year for us," Schrage said. "He has really established himself as our number one guy and we always play well behind him. We hope that he will continue to perform at a high lev.~) for us the rest of the way. 
Not counting Johnson's two outings in the series openers against Seton Hall and Pittsburgh, Irish pitchers 
gave up 20 and 29 runs, respectively, in each series' final two games, all resulting in losses. 
Against Villanova's strong pitching staff, Schrage said he knows that will not get the job done. 
"We have got to get three quality starts from our pitch­ers this weekend," he said. "We haven't had that in the first two series and it really hurts us. We gave up a lot of two-out runs because our pitchers struggled to close out innings." 
Saturday's and Sunday's games against Villanova are scheduled to start at 1:05 
p.m. After this weekend's series, the Irish will take on the South Bend Silverhawks in an exhibition game Tuesday to be held at Coveleski Stadium in South Bend. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 
Miami's Jack McClinton won the men's 3-point con­test, beating Erik Kangas of nearby Oakland University 22-17 in the final. 
Furman's Mnlissa Liebschwager beat Arizona State's Briann January 19­14 in the women's 3-point final, but lost 17-15 to McClinton in a battle of the sexes. 


LaFortune Burger King 631.6902 
Available on April 8th II:OOam-2:00pm and 4:30pm-1:30pm far Saini Marrs Students Available an April 8th same times far ND Students Limn I Ticket per ID.up to 41Ds per person Only available In the Student Center Atrium Separate Tickets far Seals/Standlne Room 
Friday, April 3, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
junior John Baumgardner and slipped in above Cavanaugh's the game with ten points for the team hailing from Saint the fancy left-handed drives of reaches. before Mullet could muster Mary's. The Squad jumped out
Bookstore 
sophomore Brian Bakey, the The team in pink routinely one. to an 11-2 halftime lead behind Huxtables showed why they stole the ball from Endorsed, In the defining first half, a pestering defense that forced
continued from page 28 
are one of the teams to watch but failed to convert on the The Trustees shot 11 of 19. a number of turnovers. 
as the tournament progresses. offensive end. They finished the game shoot­"We did our best, but they against the zone you're going "We'll stick to the library," "They were definitely play­ing 21 of 38 overall. were just so chill," DiPiero to get a dub," Huxtables cap­Becket said. ing hard and scrappy," said Meanwhile, Mullet shot one added. "We brought the heat, tain and junior Michael Doll of the Cavanaugh effort. of 15 in the first half, and five but they chilled us out Lucien said. "Big Greg Cunn It's Endorsed by Fred McGriff "I think we had more steals of 32 overall. This large dis-tonight." anchored us in the post, and 21, GOT Cavanaugh? 11 than anyone in crepancy Despite a number of self­Brian Bakey took over in the Making just enough buckets history," truly illustrat­inflicted turnovers from the fourth quarter. Just a beauti­to pull out the win, Obviously Cavanaugh soph­ed The Squad in the second-half, they ful outing." We Have Not Watched Tom omore captain "/ think we had more Trustees' managed to keep their compo­
Team Vinny allowed a 6-0 Ewanski's Defensive Drills -Meg Fitzgerald combination sure and extended their lead to
steals than anyone in 
Huxtable run to start the It's Endorsed by Fred McGriff said. "And we of tough 17-3. matchup, but once senior defeated GOT Cavanaugh? had an epic history., defense and Trabajabamos mounted a Charlie Beckett drained the Thursday afternoon. comeback. It was efficient fierce comeback, bringing the team's first bucket, the Neither team shot very well long and sweaty, M g F'tzg ld offense. score to 18-7 behind stellar
1 

perimeter shoot-throughout but didn't leave e era Matt Wold outside shooting that had the
GOT Cavanaugh? captain 
ing started to the game, and us quite satis­led The Squad on their heels for a warm up. Unable 'They're a little Cavanaugh fied." Trustees with short time. to drive to the shot especially Having won nine points, But it just was not to be. The
taller, a little more in 
basket, Team badly in the their first game, including the Squad finished off
shape, and a little
Vinny resorted to second half. Endorsed was quite opti­game-ending shot from a Trabajabamos after sophomore a shoot-first more talented, so I The five girls, mistic. range that could not have Blake Allen sank a jumper to strategy high­all in pink "We have a chance at it," been far from an NBA three end the game.
think we were 
lighted by senior shirts, made Doll said. "If Rudy can play pointer. "All the chilling has finally
outmatched.,
Andrew Nesi for only four bas­for Notre Dame, we can win ''I'm a man of few words," paid off," sophomore David most of the kets once the the championship." Wold said. "I got that shot all Millay of the Squad said. game. Peter Schreck t e a m s day." "We were huffing and puff­
"They're a little switched sides The Trustees of the Board ing, but we boxed out well in
Team Vinny captain 
taller, a little of the court. 21, Like a Mullet 5 The Chill Squad 21, the end," added sophomore more in shape, The inefficient The Trustees of the Board Trabajabamos 8 Liam Rhatigan. and a little more talented, so I shooting was by no means opened a dominating perform­In second round action, the As for the next round, there think we were outmatched," caused by strong defense from ance by blocking Like A Chill Squad took down was a bit of confusion among Team Vinny captain and sen­Endorsed. Mullet's first shot. The Trabajabamos Thursday night the Squad after the game. ior Peter Schreck said. "But I The five Zahm players relied Trustees did not ease up to advance to the next round in "So what, are we in the Final think we played hard." heavily on their height advan­through the rest of the game the Dan Devine sectional. Four now?" Allen asked. 
Despite Team Vinny's strong tage to rein in rebounds on and the team won the game "The Chill Squad was just too effort, the athleticism and both the offensive and defen­Thursday. hot for our liking," Contact Chris Masoud at pure skill of the Huxtables sive boards. Merrick Doll led Throughout the game, The Trabajabamos junior Claire cmasoud@nd.edu, Douglas took over in the second half to Endorsed with nine points, Trustees played great defense, DiPiero said. Farmer at dfarmerl@nd.edu, secure the victory. Led by the most of which came from only giving up one basket in The size and athleticism of and Alex Barker at aggressive ball-handling of rebounds that Doll simply the first half. They opened the Squad was just too much abarker 1 @nd.du 
ND WOMEN'S ROWING 
Irish to face tough teams in California 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Spons Wrirer 
Notre Dame will travel to San Diego to take on tough competition out west this weekend at the San Diego Classic. 
This week, the Irish have been working hard to pre­pare for the Classic, which is a big event. 
"Practices have been very intense this past week," freshman Tess Fitzpatrick said. "We are currently doing seat-races to determine who will row in what positions, so we really have to give it our all and compete with each other." 
The San Diego Crew Classic will feature schools from all over the country, including Georgetown, Syracuse, Stanford and Villanova. 
"There are a lot of ranked teams traveling to San Diego this weekend so we are really looking to have success and hopefully make a name for ourselves," freshman Alicia Elliott said. 
The Irish are coming off a very successful weekend, where they won four races against Indiana and Purdue. 
The first and second varsi­ty eight races went to the 
Irish, with senior coxswain Stephanie Szegedi leading her crew to a time of 5:33 and senior coxswain Kelsey Otero following that up with a time of 5:46. 
The Irish dominance really showed in the varsity four competition, where Notre Dame won three times. 
Irish-A, led by senior coxswain Katherine McMackin, crossed the line with a first-place time of 6:49. 
Freshman Jacqueline Gihooly led her Irish-C crew to second place, followed by junior Rachael Louie's lrish­B crew in third. 
The Irish won their fourth race, as Elliott led her first novice eight team to a victo­ry, crossing the line in 6:15. 
The Notre Dame women will send their top two eights to compete in the Classic. The top crew will face Washington, Michigan, Ohio State, and Iowa in their first race scheduled to begin at 
8:50 a.m. Saturday. 
Ultimately, the team is working toward the Big East championships and the South Central Championships. The Irish have won the last five Big East Championships. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Penn State wins NIT title gan1e 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Penn State coach Ed DeChellis met with his team a couple of hours before playing Baylor in the NIT title game and had only one request. 
"Give me everything you have," he said. "If it's good enough, it's good enough; if it's not, it's not. Just leave it all on the floor." 
The Nittany Lions certainly did. And it was plenty. 
Jamelle Cornley scored 18 points and the scrappy Nittany Lions, chasing every loose ball and hustling for every rebound, outlasted the Bears 69-63 on Thursday night to win only the second postseason tournament title in school history. 
Talor Battle added 12 points, all in the second half, for the Nittany Lions (27 -11), who were spurred on by rau­cous chants of "We are ... Penn State," led by none other than Joe Paterno, the 82-year­old football coach sitting about four rows behind the team's bench. 
"You don't know what it's going to be like when you go into it," said Cornley, the tour­nament's most valuable play­er. "The last time I cut down the nets was the state cham­pionship my freshman year of high school. To cut down some more nets in my last game is just an unbelievable feeling." 

The only other postseason tournament Penn State had won was the Atlantic 10 in 1991. 
It was a physical game, and both teams spent most of the night scrambling for every ball in sight. Penn State guard Danny Morrissey was trying to corral a loose one near the scorer's table with about 2 112 minutes to go and the Nittany Lions leading 57-48 when he slammed his head into the floor, laying motionless on the sideline for a few moments. 
Trainers hurried over and tended to the senior, who had a cut above his lip but eventu­ally walked off the floor on his own. 
"We have tough kids. We're going to go compete. That's been our trademark all year," DeChellis said. "That play typ­ifies what our team has been like all year." 
The Bears trailed 62-50 after Stanley Pringle made a pair of free throws with under 2 minutes left, but they did their best to rally. Tweety Carter's 3-pointer made it 62­55 with just over a minute to go, and he made another with 
16.8 seconds left to get within 68-63. Baylor simply ran out of time. 
Battle hit one of two foul shots, and Curtis Jerrells air­balled a 3-point attempt to set off a jubilant celebration in one end of Madison Square Garden, where some 36 bus­loads of white-clad fans made it look like the end zone of Beaver Stadium on a fall Saturday. 
"Penn State had a great fol­lowing, a great crowd, and they're the ones who hit big shots and won the game," said Baylor coach Scott Drew. "As a coach you never feel bad about that, when a team plays great and wins the 
game." 
LaceDarius Dunn scored 18 
points to lead Baylor (24-15), 
which hadn't won a postsea­
son game since 1950 before 
its run to the NIT final. 
Jerrells added 14 points, and 
Carter and Kevin Rogers had 
12 points each. 
Baylor controlled the game in the first half, using a 2-3 zone to slow the tempo to a plodding walk, and took its biggest lead at 26-20 with about 3 minutes left. Penn State closed the gap before Carter's 3-pointer with a few seconds to go made it 29-25 at the break. 
As halftime was drawing to a close, JoePa was shown on the video screens over mid­court, pumping his fist and leading a chorus of chants. 
The energized Nittany Lions 
roared out of the locker room, 
with Cornley scoring a pair of 
hard buckets inside, just like 
a fullback powering through 
the line. 



*choose your shades 
Only at Macis. Clinique's 7-pc. gift is blooming with travel-ready goodies for spring. Choose your makeup shades in neutrals or berries (shown): Different Lipstick in Ice Bloom or Rose Taffy and NEW! Blushwear Cream Stick in Rosy or Glow. Your gift also includes: NEW! Youth Surge SPF 15 Age Decelerating Moisturizer, Dramatically Different Moisturizing lotion, lash Doubling Mascara in Black and two Cosmetics Bags. Merchandise and selection vary by store. One gift per customer, please. While supplies last. CALL 1.800.456.2297 and have your cosmetics delivered for just 5.95 
the magic of 
* 
Friday, April 3, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
CROSSWORD 
Across 35 Big copper Bygone flag exporter 16 Think a certain 36 Cover girl, e.g.? 
way about 37 Laid-back 17Makeacall 38 Time being 18 New York's Bear 39 Mammonism 
_:Abbr. 40 ·something to 19 Ballyhooed new Talk About" product of 1998 singer, 199:1 20 Name repeated 41 Words starting a in a nursery simple request rhyme 44 1960s-'70s 21 Short dog, for touchdown short maker 22 It's nothing 45Mission 23 Before the races statement part 25 Kind of depth 47 First name in finder conducting 27 Bit of noise 48 Actress Mazar pollution 49 Labsubj. 28 B and 0 figures: 50 Much of Central 
Abbr. America, once 29 Brilliant moves 54 "This would be a 30RoU first for me" 
33 Bubbly name 55 Trading posts? 34 Loosens (up) 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

WILLSHORTZ 

Down Beat but good 
2 Can't continue 
3 Atossup 
4 Not hUrting tor cash 5 Pastes in Mideastern 
cooking 6 Hardly hearty 7 Relating to 
wheels 8 You might not get paid while working on it 
9 Hurt 
1 0 Dayton-to-Toledo dir. 11 Ladles 
12. ·scenes de Ia Vie de_· (novel on which a Puccini opera 

is based) 13 Make_ of il 14 Actress Blakley 
1.5 Comics dog 23 Downright 
24 Emulates Eve 
26 With 41-Down, shrunken 
27 Yet to be engaged? 
28 Early times, for short 
30 playwrightWithdrew quietly 31 It's a little over 65": Abbr. 32 Deserved 
Pume by Joe DIPietro 
34 Things that open 40 Co-firing 44 Pennies : dollar and close technique used ::_:drachma yearly? t9 reduce 46 Producers of 
pollution from 
sunbows

35 Maui moU1hful 
electrical power 
48 Skin: Suffixplants37Coach 51 Palindromic girl's

41 See 26-Down

38 Home of Walvis name Bay 42 Furlough 52 Blll of Rights subj.
391997 Demi 43 Chambermaid's Moore flick charge 53 Kicker 
For answers, call1·900·285·5656, $1.49 a minute: or, with a credit card. 1.-800-814·5554. Annual subserlptions are availabla for the bast of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puu:les, or visit nytimes.comlmobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles. nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year}. Share tips: nytimes.comlwordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nylimes.comlleam!ngtxwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPES 

CI!J,fJUUTlES BORN ON TillS l>.W: Cbristoph<e"f Meloni, 4l( Gmnyluu Harris, 62; Littda Hmlt.M; Loon.Russell.67 
Happy Bi.-thday: Yonllat« IU allow ymlffi'lf time lo mull dungs owr tlris year.lf y<)U react too 1~1•1 or lei your enl{)ti(l!l~ p;et d~e 1><-11<>1' ~>f ymt. all will be l•-.st. '111¢ problems tlMI haw bc•m pla)lllinr you lll!l~ll:w ft<$(>lwd bdim: you can fed ~ood pbysically.ll~<.'lltltlly ;md eol(>tionally. Yonr nnmlx:rs ~ro 3, 11. 14, :!0. Jl, 3!k 45 
ARW..S (March ll4prll 19): Wakb out or you'll find yourself trapped in an emotional simationllmt wilt no! be eaw for vou!o HK Be reoo\' tomah whatever ''ban~es are re· quuw! wit!J<mt ~ (u%. non't i.,p..,! "'"""'me wbr> ,J.,pettds ott y<)U. ** ·· 
TAURUS (April 20-l!.·lay 211:1: You c•u't depend <lll other,~ to do tit< wrnk fur yt>u. Cbat>g< that you do not lik,, will be u~hwxl iu if you leave things up to •otncOJw else Don't be ttfraid to ''·harge for the work yotl put in. **** 
GJ'4\UN1 (MIIy 21-June ZOl: lllkc • <:batt<'<:· ()II sm1o:one willitlg m ft<l alonp with clMUjte 
•11d y(lli will ~"fl~~% tho .;oulp~titi.:m. Yl>l.1r ~hili!y t<J soc the p<h~ibilitic• aud ~to after )'<>Uf dream~ wilt c~tt"' lli)WI ((Jr *moo1t< 1¢~~ vi~lmlary. **** 
CANCER (Jnne 2l·Jull22): Push far what you want. Emt>!ionalrssues will he hrougb! out in the open. Address them quickly <ll' )'01! will face embarrassment. A change al work v.illl<:ad to anew po~ihrm. *** 
Ll'O \JIIIy 2..1-Aug. 22): You an-: i11 ~<mt:r<>land n:•dy tv till;:" ach<>n. lklicw in wbm y<m are trylttg to ac<:Oltlplish. Trnvd in order to rowe a filt.-e-to· fare oonvet·sation wtth whoever is makinl! a final dec1iion. *** 
YfRGO (Aug. Zl-St'pt. 221: T~l;e a >eriow; l.<)(lk at who's on your $ide an<l who mt'l. CIIMtgt is toi'('<'$SafY a11d, alllMtl'h it may be d>llic:ult, it will hdp Y''" t<:S<tlvc hmg ·tenll i~~nc• tl11tl IMW [i<....,u boldiul! y<»• t>ack.lkev~lt!HW mtd duuimtlc. **** 
LIBRA tSept.l.Ykt. 22): Avoid anym1e who is tryiuaa to mattipulale you. Now is 11r>t the time lo fight over something ll1at .inst isn't going to work for you. l.t:am to say no and stick to your decision.** 
SCORPIO (Oel. 2.1-Nov. ll): You really l!¢ed to g~l away or work 011 something creative to Iitke yo!lf ltli:ud on the h~otslln realiJ:it-; <If lilt. Y<in (all nxh"'!'< }w.r t~ttterie> and f<JQ!e 11head will• ll vroi•••:r you've h"eu tryinl' to tinish. ***** 
SAGITTARIUS {Nov. 22·1m. 21): Don't speml what you don't haw <)I' borrow wbat you probably CI!IIUO[ pa,v back. Restrid yoor habit> ;md =tabliili your position so roo can get ahe~d in~tead of further behind. Love i-~ looking fawrnble. *** 
CAPRICORN dlec. Zl-Jall.19): Yuu haw ro ire•l cveryo11e eqmtlly •md hnpe that yon 
will ~cl d1c >aaoe in return. A probkm witb wmeoue you low will devdnp if yuu b~wn'l paid him or her enough attention. Trawl should be kt'Jll 10 a minimum *** 
AQL\RlUS !Jan. 20-l<'eb. 18): You~"" m:tk<' some extra <:a~h hy pnui.ng. your l:tlenll\ lv "'<nk. )\>u ••au dmm HJ> <k•nmnd li;>r ~•:vic<$ yott lutw t<l o[kr mtd build Y<>llf o-.m >lllal.l lm!'itl<'$S fmm the rromld up, Sumemte bnm yvur [>liSt will have J'r<:at•-r "''fJe<:lli.'r ynti 
now.*** 

PlSCES W~b.l9-Marel! lO:t: Give "''erything yon'w got to a bohhy or imerest you enjoy aud you may be al>le to rum it illlo<i lm:ralive. pastime. Don'! le!~omet>!leebe'sl>egativity st<>t> Y<'ll. n "<>lll•X•IK• plt~ll¢$ y()fl, tlml't be ~fntid to J>lbh hack *·•·• ** 
airtbday l!ahy: Y 011 are scnsit:iw, ~m<Jtwnalaml UllJ>rooicllthk . You are forceful, deter ruined and WJt likely tO b~ck dr~-wu oncr.:: yt:m h~w~~ tuade-up yout mind. Y-ou are giving nnd e-ating-, 
£)ig.ttJitt\ Wd.t sile.s: tuge-ttkl-ittH,.et>tltjVr lY.ntli.tlt~ntiftl r.emsMltalimrs,, my$Jl<l<:f!.mm!mgmi<>lmtfi>r Eugelfi,,'s IJ/og, <nlraad••u'"-''""'forfim 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

WWW. BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 

DAVID CAVADINI 

THE DOME PIECE 
rHB Allltllf<IISI'RA!'ION Hll/5 OP6N6P VP IrS OWN /.JNe OF ¥/C6 PllOIJUCrS ro COMIWT lfS /&IIHI"I1Y AS 
'Nor COOl.' HIR4'5 A BNIAX PIAIC Ar 90/Hif 

SMC
OF r'f<llf MOM POPUI.Ail 
ITIMS HitTING rHI 
5MOK6S ~ 

HV/10/.£ SHIIVIfS SOON! 
SUAGION G6~6 ~
----"" ~ 
WAitNING: MAY ~ 
CNS$/JFI r'HRiiAr'liN/NG 



JUMBLE 
~~ 
Unscramble these tour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
THOOP 
(l] II 
02009 Tribune Media Services. Inc, 
t~trb 
I [X ( J 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jell Knurek 
USUAI-I-Y St=f:N AT AN AUTO JUNKYAI<O. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans:( IIII]oF (III I J 
(Answers tomorrow) BOGUS CHICK EXTANT HOURLY
Yesterday's IJumbles: 

Answer: What happened when they kept drinking to their health -THEY GOT SICK 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City _____________ State ____ Zip_______ 
THE ()BSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, April 3, 2009 
page 28 
MEN'S lACROSSE 

No time to re-lax 
Undefeated squad to host Air Force with hopes to stay perfect 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 

No.4 Notre Dame will look to extend its school-record start to 9-0 and remain one of two undefeated teams in Division I lacrosse as it resumes confer­ence play against Air Force at Alumni Field Saturday. 
The Irish (8-0, 1-0 Great Western Lacrosse League) are defending a 23-game home winning streak. 
Although Air Foree (3-5, 1-0) enters the game with a sub­.500 record and the Irish hold a 19-2 mark all-time against the Falcons, eoach Kevin Corrigan said he believes Notre Dame will have a game on its 
see MILITARYIpage 21 


BASEBALL 
Irish look for BigEast series win 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will try to accomplish something this weekend that it hasn't been able to do in two tries already this season: win a weekend series against a Big East opponent. 
The Irish (16-10, 2-4 Big East) will host conference foe Villanova (14-12, 1-5 Big East) this weekend for a three-game set beginning today at 5:05 p.m. at Frank Eek Stadium. 
In Notre Dame's previous Big East matchups, against Seton Hall and Pittsburgh, the Irish took the opener 
see NOVA/page 24 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Cross country runners defeat fencing stars in varsity battle 
to post a 21-14 win. the game's outcome was far what it came down to," Mark outplayed and overpowered
By CHRIS MASOUD, 

"It was all hustle," MJ 4 cap­from obvious in the early min­Kubik said. "We got a couple of Team Vinny in a bookstore
DOUGLAS FARMER, and 

tain and senior Kevin Veselik utes, with Fencer Mania putting unlucky breaks. and by then it blowout.
ALEX BARKER 

said. "It's called a run-based together a string of buckets. was a long game." A combination of impressive
SportS Writers 

offense, where we just keep Senior Mark Kubik drilled a In the end, MJ 4's aggressive, ball-handling skills and stingy pushing. We even made our flurry of jumpers from behind fast-paced style proved too team defense carried the 
With varsity pride on the line, fastest player get a haircut so the arc with his "Larry Legend" much for the fencers, and the Huxtables as they hustled their the cross country runners of MJ he would be more aerodynam­shooting style, accounting for runners pulled away late in the way past an overaggressive 4 emerged victorious over the ic." half of Fencer Mania's points. first half. opponent. fencers of Fencer Mania in a Whatever the offense is His brother, sophomore Steve "They came out with a 2-3 display of uncoordinated athlet­called, it is safe to say that Kubik, threaded the needle as The Huxtables 21, zone, and any time you can ic ability. The bailers of MJ 4 cross country players are more he dished out passes left and Team Vinny 11 move the ball effectively used every advantage they likely to win basketball games right. The Huxtables would have could as long distance runners played to 21 than fencers. But "We were just hooping, that's made Bill Cosby proud as they see BOOKSTORE/page 25 
ND SOFTBALL 
Squad to defend eight-game streak 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame will look to con­tinue its hot streak this week­end against a pair of Big East opponents. 
The Irish (18-11, 4-1 Big East), will host a doubleheader Saturday against Pittsburgh and a seeond doubleheader Sunday against Seton Hall. 
Notre Dame is currently sec­ond in the Big East behind defending champions DePaul. 
The Panthers (14-15, 2-6) have been struggling of late, losing their last six games, all Big East contests. They now sit 13th of the 16 Big East teams. 
Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said she does not think that Pittsburgh's troubles will have an effect on their play. 
"[Pittsburgh] always plays well against us," she said. "In my mind, Pitt's going to play their best game of the year against us." 
The Pirates (14-14-1, 4-4) are 12th in the conference, only one step above Pittsburgh. They have a difficult weekend ahead, as they face DePaul Saturday before coming to South Bend. 
Pirates shortstop Brittany Schilizzi was named to the Big East Honor Roll for the seeond time Monday. She leads the team with four home runs and 23 RBis. 
Gumpf said the bottom teams in the Big East still pose a sig­nificant threat. 
"Every year the Big East gets better and better," she said. "Any day, any time, teams like Seton Hall will come out with everything they've got and they can beat you." 
After an 11-4 win Wednesday 
see BIG EAST/page 23 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

No.3 Irish set to face top team 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
No. 3 Notre Dame (17 -3) will try to rebound from its loss earlier this week against No. 4 Baylor as it hits the road for a four-game road trip beginning with conference rival DePaul today. 
The Irish will face the Blue Demons in Chicago before heading to Evanston, Ill. for a rematch with No. 1 Northwestern Saturday. Sunday, the team will head back to Chicago for a date with Marquette before ending its trip in Champaign against the Fighting Illini. 
In its last outing against Baylor, the team did not play up to the ability that it has displayed all season. 
"The matehups were a little different against Baylor in the singles and that hurt us," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "We also won the dou­bles last time and !not win­ning it this timeJ made a big difference." "We really need to finish 


After the setback against the strong playing two of the top Bears earlier this week, four Big East teams along Louderback knows the impor­with [top-ranked] tance of bouncing back in a big way this weekend. see DEPAUL/page 23 



