the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


ROTC commemoratesVeterans Day 
Cadets and midshipmen guard Stonehenge for 24-hours, host ceremony in remembrance 
By ROBERT SINGER 
Assistant News Editor 
The Clarke Memorial Fountain, popularly known as Stonehenge, took on a more solemn meaning to passers­by Tuesday when Notre Dame’s ROTC placed four members in military uniforms around the monument at 5 
p.m. 
to begin its 24-hour vigil in remembrance of the nation’s veterans. 

Cadets and midshipmen from the Army, Air Force and Navy ROTC programs have been rotating half hour shifts, keeping a constant guard in groups of four until the official Veterans Day cer­emony commences today at 5 

p.m. 
In sum, about 180 


cadets will participate in the vigil, senior cadet Scott Vitter said. He also explained the motivation for today’s events. 
“The purpose of the cere­mony is to honor and to remember all veterans of the 
U.S. armed forces with an emphasis on those veterans who are affiliated with Notre Dame,” he said. “We will be remembering all veterans with particular stories of Notre Dame graduates, grad­uates who have performed, done heroic acts in the serv­ice their country.” 
In the aftermath of the shooting rampage at the army base in Fort Hood, Texas, in which relatives of the suspect say he was morti­
see ROTC/page 9 





Four arrested, nine asked to leave Navy game 
and one for trespass. Those arrested were taken to the St. Joseph County Jail.” 
Johnson said one other per­son was arrested inside the sta­dium for public intoxication, while nine people were removed through the public safety office for “violation of stadium rules, mostly for impairment or possession of alcohol.” 
Johnson said NDSP has been assisted in its game day efforts all year by South Bend Police, County Police, Mishawaka Police, Indiana State Police and Indiana State Excise Police. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 



EMBA program ranks 20th 
By ANN-MARIE WOODS 
News Writer 

The Executive MBA program (EMBA) of the Mendoza College of Business ranked 20th in the BusinessWeek biennial survey of the world’s top 25 executive programs, and the Executive Education certificate programs ranked 19th in a separate survey by the magazine. 
“This is a public measure of what we do,” director of exec­utive education Sharon Keane said. “It doesn’t drive our strategy or decisions, but it’s an affirmation of the work we’re doing.” 
The EMBA is a 21-month program geared toward exec­utives who want to advance their education while continu­ing to work full-time. Additionally, a condensed 17­month version of the program is offered in downtown Chicago. According to Mendoza’s Web site, the pro­gram focuses on integral, val­ues-based leadership as well as international immersion experience and customized studies. 
“These leaders are charged with managing and leading through so much complexity,” Keane said. “Our programs are a way for them to manage complexity, enhancing their knowledge and skill. 
Notre Dame’s EMBA pro­gram received an “A+” in teaching, an “A” in curriculum 
see EMBA/page 8


By JOSEPH McMAHON 
Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) director Phil Johnson said four people were arrested and nine were asked to leave the game against Navy Saturday. 
The total for people escorted out of Notre Dame Stadium is the lowest total all season. Police also did not issue a single summons outside the stadium. 
Johnson said three people were arrested on campus out­side the stadium, “one for pub­lic intoxication and disorderly conduct, one for public intoxi­cation and indecent exposure 




A&L plans business boot camp 
By CARLY LANDON 
News Writer 
Though most students don’t see Arts and Letters as a gate­way to a business career, some are finding it can be just that. 
This Spring Break from March 8 to 11, the Career Center and the College of Arts and Letters will hold their sec­ond-annual Business Boot Camp in downtown Chicago for 16 Arts and Letters students. 
“This program is not designed to replace a business degree,” Lissa Bill, Business Career Programs Counselor, said. “We aren’t saying you will learn everything a business 
see CAMP/page 9 




Major General discusses nuclear disarmament 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 

To say the modern world is dangerously complex would be a severe understatement, and the recognition of the true threat of nuclear weapons makes the issue critical to international security, Major General William F. Burns said Tuesday. 
The Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, the Fourth Freedom Forum and the Notre Dame International Security Program hosted Major General William 
F. Burns to lecture on “Nuclear Disarmament, Terrorism and Global Security.” Burns, a retired Army general, has par­ticipated in many nuclear weapons discussions, including denuclearization negotiations with the former Soviet Union. 
“I am convinced of two things,” he said. “First, the Cold War is over, and, second, it does not provide a model for the future of nuclear engage­ment.” 
Burns served in the military for 34 years and has extensive experience commanding units with nuclear weapons. He has been advocating a global ban 
see NUCLEAR/page 8 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Peer group offers help with ResLife page 3  Lady Gaga face-off page 12  Rudolph out for regular season page 24  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Wednesday, November 11, 2009 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Satisfy your cravings 
For the first time all semester, I final­ly found a worthy reason to return to my dorm on a regular basis since mov­ing off campus this year. 
It’s not for the copious amount of people I know who stayed on campus this year — they come to visit me, and the Dining Hall makes much more sense as an on-campus locale for rendezvousing. 
Even the free food scrounging Kara King after section socials can only tempt me Assistant back every so Managing often, and the lack Editor of say in the acquired treats is a definite drawback. 

Which is why the latest creation to come out of Welsh Family is such a genius innovation. 
While most guy’s dorms offer some form of pizza in their basements, Welsh Family is the first girl’s dorm, that I know of, to implement a similar idea. Ye Olde Welsh Family Bake Shoppe provides delicious goodies. 
Delicious, fresh-baked, non-dining hall, almost homemade goodies. 
For cheap. 

Nothing is more than two bucks, and for 50 cents you can add ice cream to make each treat that much healthier (in the mental recovery, drowning your sorrows after an audit exam sense, of course). 
Monday night (while taking advan­tage of a technical laundry glitch), I had my first taste, and now I’m hooked. It may prove to be a problem later, but it’s totally worth it. I’ve tried to satisfy my brownie cravings with the dining hall’s pathetic attempt at a so-called frosted brownie with nuts and failed. Dining hall desserts just lack the homemade appeal and taste more like something that’s been stuck in some random freezer for over a year and was just recently discovered. 
Welsh Family Bake Shoppe does not have said problem. Cookies are made fresh to order, and come in two vari­eties (sugar and chocolate chip). They take orders online as well, so your treats are just coming out of the oven when you arrive to collect them. Brownies are warmed, and I personal­ly recommend topping them with ice cream. Scotcheroos, a combination of peanut butter and Rice Crispie treats covered in a chocolate-butterscotch concoction are the priciest item on the menu, and totally justified in their $2 price tag. Strawberry cupcakes are also available, but the best deal (by far) is the puppy chow. I challenge you to make it outside the kitchen before your entire purchase has been devoured. 
Just go. Try it. You won’t regret it, unless you find the newfound addiction to be a problem. 
The Bake Shoppe is located in the kitchen of Welsh Family Hall and is open nightly from 9 p.m. to midnight. You can order online via Facebook in order to have optimally-timed cookie purchases. And, as no small detail has been overlooked, milk is also available. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Kara King at kking5@nd.edu 

CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT IS ONE T ING PEOPLE WOULD BE SURPRISED TO LEARN ABOUT YOU? 







Ryan Lion  Jordan Matulis  Sarah Spieler  Cristina Anaya  Steve Santay  
freshman Sorin  sophomore Howard  sophomore Pasquerilla West  senior Howard  junior Alumni  
“I have a crazy obsession for hardcore hyphy rap.”  “I’ve seen every episode of ‘Boy Meets World’ at least 7 times.”  “I’m an honorary Texan.”  “I give amazing massages.”  “In high school I worked at a butcher shop. I punched the cows just like Rocky, and cut heads off pigs.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

IAN GAVLICK/The Observer Leprechaun Daniel Collins, left, and Boondock Saints II director Troy Duffy, right, compare tat­toos during an autograph session after “Film Clips and Discussion” in Jordan Hall on Tuesday. 


OFFBEAT 

Man allegedly reports fake murder to speed police 
TYLER, Texas — Police said an East Texas man has outsmarted himself in trying to get a quicker response from officers to an alleged assault. Tyler police said 38-year-old Mark Anthony Johnson called 911 on Monday night and reported that he’d just committed a homicide and was armed with a weapon. 
According to a Tyler police statement, several officers sped to the north­west Tyler location with lights flashing and sirens screaming. They found Johnson, who allegedly told them the homicide was a ruse to get a quicker response to what his real beef was, a simple assault complaint. 
Indeed, the Tyler police did act quickly. They arrested Johnson and charged him with filing a false report. He’s in the Smith County Jail with bond set at $3,000. A jail spokeswoman said she has no record of an attorney for him.” 
Irishman wins 46,000 euros after island home disappears 
DUBLIN — A Northern Ireland filmmaker has won 46,000 euros ($69,000) in damages after a judge ruled that his Irish island home was transformed into a park­ing lot while he was over­seas for six years. 
The case of 61-year-old Neville Presho captured national attention because of the apparent callous­ness of his treatment at the hands of the insular 170-strong community of remote Tory Island. Police investigating the vanished house found only a wall of silence. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday 



IN BRIEF 
The Department of Physics is sponsoring a colloquium on “Biosphere 2 — Under New Management” today at 4 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland. Pierre Meystre, Regents Professor of Physics and Optical Sciences at the University of Arizona, will be speaking. 

ROTC is hosting the Veterans Day Ceremony at the Clarke Memorial Fountain today at 5 
p.m. Retired U.S. Air Force Colonel Howard Hanson will be the guest speaker. In case of rain, the ceremony will be held in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library. 
The Department of Film, Television and Theatre is show­ing “The Sugar Wife” by Elizabeth Kuti in the Decio Mainstage Theatre of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center today at 7:30 p.m. The play depicts the moral dilemmas faced by a couple living in a nineteenth century Quaker community. Tickets are $10 for students. 
The Notre Dame Institute for Advanced Studies is hosting a lec­ture on “The Axial Age Debate As Religious Discourse” at 4 p.m. Thursday in the Andrews Auditorium of Geddes Hall. Dr. Hans Joas, an eminent sociologist at the University of Erfurt in Germany, will be speaking. 
The Women’s Boxing Club will be kicking off Baraka Bouts 2009 at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Those planning to attend should enter through Gate 3. Tickets are $4 at the door and all proceeds benefit the Holy Cross Missions in East Africa. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

saturday sunday 

Atlanta 59 / 58 Boston 62 / 42 Chicago 55 / 39 Denver 63 / 45 Houston 80 / 57 Los Angeles 75 / 55 Minneapolis 59 / 39 New York 63 /46 Philadelphia 65 / 48 Phoenix 90 / 63 Seattle 52 / 42 St. Louis 65 /43 Tampa 82 / 68 Washington 66 / 51 
Wednesday, November 11, 2009 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Peer group offers help with ResLife 

By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Comprised of students liv­ing in the residence halls and with no affiliation to the University’s administration, the Judicial Council’s Peer Advocacy Division has been working to improve the disci­plinary process on campus, according to its officers. 
“We ’re a student -run 
organization that is not affiliated with the adminis­tration, but we work con ­structively with the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ResLife) to improve the dis­ciplinary process, ” senior Jean Namkung, Judicial Council vice president for peer advocacy, said. 
The program, in existence since the 1970s, saw a record of 158 applicants for its 68 positions this year and will continue to help students through the disciplinary process, providing advice at key points, Namkung said. 
“We ’re composed of 68 trained student advocates that include several students who have personally been through the disciplinary process. We provide pre ­hearing and post -hearing advice to students who are going through a disciplinary conference or an administra­tive hearing,” Namkung said. “Advocates are allowed to be present during ORLH admin­istrative hearings, as well.” 


Senior Jennifer Burke, a ine his or her case report, compile witnesses and evi­dence that will be presented against him or her and guide the student through the usu­ally mystifying experience of being ResLifed. Advocates 


peer advocate with the pro ­gram, said the program is a great way to help fellow classmates dur­ing the discipli­nary process. 
“I talk with students who have received a letter from Residence Life and Housing about what to expect when 

“I can attend a hearing with a student should they request it as moral support, although I am not a llowed to speak on the student’s behalf.” 
Jennifer Burke senior peer advocate 
can provide assistance in areas where 
R.A.s or Rectors or Rectresses may not be able to.” 
Because there are at least two peer advo ­cates in every dorm, students are usually paired with 
they go to their hearing. I can go over guidelines set in duLac about expected conse­quences and expectations with a student,” Burke said. “Also, I can attend a hearing with a student should they request it as moral support, although I am not allowed to speak on the student ’s behalf.” 
Students often a fellow dorm resident, Burke said. 
“The biggest concern before a hearing is just about what to expect, ” Burke added. “After a hearing, the biggest concern is what the disciplinary consequence will be.” 
Namkung stressed that the 
program is 
confidential 

c o m e t o p e e r a d v o c a t e s f o r advice on han- “A student should know that there is a way to  a n d t h a t s t u d e n t s s h o u l d n o t  
d l i n g d i s c i p l i - prepare for a hearing or  f e e l i n t i m i - 
nary situations, Burke said. “ S t u d e n t s  conference with ResLife.”  dated by the process. “Our advo­ 
should  c o n ta ct  c a t e s  p o s - 
p e e r a d v o c a c y a f t e r t h e y receive a letter from ResLife to get set up with  Jean Namkung Judicial Council vice president for peer advocacy  sess knowl-edge that is e x t r e m e l y h e l p f u l t o s t u d e n t s ,  

a Peer Advocate,” she said. “However, students can feel free to talk to Peer Advocates at any time to clarify anything they want to know about duLac or the dis­ciplinary process at Notre Dame.” 
Namkung explained the specific ways that peer advo­cates can help students charged with ResLife viola­tions. 
“A student should know that there is a way to pre­pare for a hearing or confer­ence with ResLife,” she said. “Peer advocates will urge and help a student to exam-
and our pro­
gram is 100 percent confidential,” she said. “Being ResLifed is not the end of the world, and our program is in place to make sure that students are not overwhelmed or intimidated with the process. Also, it’s important to point out that ORLH doesn’t want to get students in trouble — they’re just a part of the administra­tion that is trying to estab­lish good moral conduct among the student body.” 

Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 11, 2009 


COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATVES 


VideoarcadeinLaFuntoberenovated 
By ANN-MARIE WOODS 
News Writer 
In an effort to use space in LaFortune more efficiently, the Student Activities Office is working with the Council of Representatives (COR) and the student body to renovate the video arcade space in the base­ment of the building. 
Ryan Willerton, director of Student Activities Facilities, introduced a video arcade ren­ovation survey, available to stu­dents, faculty and staff, which will help the renovation com­mittees decide how to best use the space. 
“One of our highest priorities is for just general social space,” Willerton said. “We want to make sure any available space is for the students.” 
Prompted by significant water damage and the video arcade room’s lack of use, a renovation committee will be created to restructure the space. 
Student input is important in the renovation process and the survey will be a valuable mech­anism for assessing the needs of the student body for the space, Willerton said. 
Possible suggestions for the 24-hour space are seating for dining, study space or an all-purpose lounge. Willerton encourages all students to fill out the survey on the Student Activities Office Web site to submit ideas. 


The survey cand be found at http://sao.nd.edu/venues/lafor­tune/index.shtml 
In other COR news: 
Steve Camilleri, executive director of the Center for the Homeless in South Bend, extended an invitation at the COR meeting to all Notre Dame students to the Center’s annual holiday luncheon, held on Dec. 3 from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the Century Center. 
“The luncheon is intended to educate the community and raise dollars for the Center for the Homeless,” Chief Development Officer Taya Groover explained. “We are asking organizations, dorms and groups to purchase tables and be a part of this event.” 
Tables are $400 and individ­ual tickets are $50. Student tickets are offered for a dis­counted price of $25. 
“You are invited to take on some aspect of what we are doing there, through intern­ships, research or volunteer­ing,” Camilleri said. “200 peo­ple live there and they need your help.” 
Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods4@nd.edu 




Local business leader speaks at Saint Mary’s 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 

Business leaders must be pas­sionate to realize their potential and they should be guided by Christian values, Perry Watson, the owner of Lexus of Mishawaka, said Tuesday dur­ing a seminar hosted by the Saint Mary’s Class of 2013 Board at 7 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. 
“You have an advantage by being surrounded by these Christian values,” Watson said during his lecture. “I will say to you that it is the most important thing I have embraced in my leadership.” 
“You have no idea how fortu­nate you are to be at a school with a religious foundation,” he continued. “Because what is wrong with our world today is corrupt leadership. There are no ethics or moral compass. That’s what’s wrong with the world today.” 
Watson said he worked as a Xerox salesman before working his way up to manager. He bought a Dodge dealership when the business was failing, and turned it around. 
Class of 2013 Board President Monica Murphy met Watson last year at a youth council meeting in South Bend where he gave a talk on leadership. She said she was inspired by his sound advice and thought it could ben­efit others. 
Leadership is not about always wanting to be a leader, but it is about being the best you can be, Watson said. Sometimes in your life you are chosen to lead, he added. 
During his talk, he asked stu­dents in attendance to gauge how much of their potential they use. 
After hearing low percentages across the audience, he directed questions to the students. 
“What kind of fire do you need lit under you before you begin to get with it?” Watson asked. “Whom are you waiting on?” 
“My point is that you are cruising with the pack. That’s not what it’s about,” he contin­ued. “It’s about tapping into your potential and bringing it forward,” Watson said. 
Murphy said she thinks events like this are important for all students, not just the freshman class. 
“A lot of students here at Saint Mary’s have leadership ability,” she said. “I think it’s important that all students are able to hear how adults have applied their leadership ability to their lives.” 
Class of 2012 Board member Murphy Dorn agreed. 
“Seniors and juniors are going be going off into the world and can benefit from leadership talks as well,” she said. 

Contact Megan Loney at mloney01@saintmarys.edu 






World & Nation 
Wednesday, November 11, 2009 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Ireland home goes missing 
DUBLIN — A Northern Ireland filmmaker has won euro46,000 ($69,000) in damages after a judge ruled that his Irish island home was transformed into a parking lot while he was overseas for six years. 
The case of 61-year-old Neville Presho captured national attention because of the apparent callousness of his treatment at the hands of the insular 170-strong community of remote Tory Island. Police investigating the vanished house found only a wall of silence. 
Presho successfully sued developer and hotelier Patrick Doohan after he returned from New Zealand to find no trace of his six-bedroom property beside the island’s harbor. In its place stood a septic tank and parking lot for Doohan’s newly built 12-room hotel, which remains the only one today on Tory. 

Dutch arrest wanted man 
THE HAGUE — Dutch prosecutors said Tuesday they have arrested a 43-year-old Somali man wanted by U.S. authorities for allegedly financing Islamic extremist terror­ists. 
Prosecutors said in a statement the man lived in Minneapolis before leaving the United States in November 2008; he arrived in the Netherlands about one month later. 
The identity of the man, who was arrested Sunday at an asylum seeker's center in Dronten about 45 miles (72 kilometers) northeast of Amsterdam, was not released in line with Dutch privacy laws. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Obama speaks at Fort Hood 
FORT HOOD, Texas — One by one, President Barack Obama spoke the names and told the stories Tuesday of the 13 people slain in the Fort Hood shooting rampage, honoring their memories as he denounced the “twisted logic” that led to their deaths. 
“No faith justifies these murderous and craven acts; no just and loving God looks upon them with favor,” Obama told the crowd on a steamy Texas afternoon. “And for what he has done, we know that the killer will be met with justice — in this world and the next.” 
He did not name Maj. Nidal Hasan, the military psychiatrist accused of the killings. 
As for the victims and the soldiers who rushed to help them, Obama said, “We need not look to the past for greatness, because it is before our very eyes.” He spoke at a memorial service before a crowd estimated at 15,000 on this enormous Army post. 

City warns against human trafficking 
BOSTON — Fourteen U.S. cities are being targeted in a new campaign aimed at alert­ing people about human trafficking, federal immigration officials have announced. 
The “Hidden in Plain Sight” initiative, sponsored by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, features billboards highlight­ing “the horrors and the prevalence of human trafficking,” which the agency says is equivalent to “modern-day slavery.” 
The words “Hidden in Plain Sight” are dis­played on the advertisements with a toll-free number people can call to report situations where they believe people are being sexually 


LOCAL NEWS 

City cleans up toxic waste 
KOKOMO, Ind. — The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency says the first phase of a toxic waste cleanup at a north central Indiana Superfund site is nearly complete. 
EPA officials visited the former Continental Steel site in Kokomo on Tuesday to check on the cleanup, which is being sup­ported by $6 million in federal stimulus funds. 
Crews began work in September to move about 80,000 tons of lead-and arsenic-con­taminated slag waste to a nearby lagoon area for use as fill. That effort is about 95 percent complete. 


SOUTH KOREA 
Countries clash in naval firing 
North and South Korean shipmen open fire one week before Obama’s visit 
Associated Press 

SEOUL — The navies of North and South Korea clashed at sea Tuesday for the first time in seven years in what some analysts said was a provocation by the communist nation a week before President Barack Obama’s visit to Seoul. 
The North Korean ship retreated in flames, South Korean Prime Minister Chung Un-chan said, and the South’s YTN television reported that one North Korean officer was killed and three other sailors were wounded. 
The South Korean Joint Chiefs of Staff said it could not confirm the report of the North Korean casual­ties. There were no South Korean casualties, the mili­tary said. 
Chung told lawmakers that North Korean ships violated the South’s waters, although he said it was probably not intentional. He said the North Koreans may have been clamping down on Chinese fishing vessels operating in the area. 
South Korean analysts, however, said North Korea was sending a clear mes­sage ahead of Obama’s two-day visit starting Nov. 18. 
“It was an intentional provocation by North Korea to draw attention ahead of Obama’s trip,” said Shin Yul, a political science pro­fessor at Seoul’sMyongji University. 
He also said the North was sending a message to Obama that it wants to replace the armistice agreement that ended the Korean War in 1953 with a permanent peace treaty while keeping its nuclear weapons. 
Traveling with Obama on Air Force One, White House spokesman Robert Gibbs said the administration was aware of the clash and urged restraint on the part of North Korea. 
“I would say to the North Koreans that we hope that there will be no further actions in the Yellow Sea that can be seen as an escalation,” he said, refer­ring to the body of water where the shooting took place. Koreans in both countries know it as the West Sea. 

U.N. 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon is closely watching the situation and called for “maximum restraint by both parties,” 

U.N. 
associate spokesman Farhan Haq said in New York. The incident shows the need to resolve all out­standing issues through dialogue and in a peaceful manner, Haq said. 


The two Koreas are still technically at war and the U.S., which fought as part of U.N. forces on South Korea’s side, has never had diplomatic relations with North Korea. 
Washington has consis­tently said that Pyongyang must abandon its nuclear arsenal for any peace treaty to be concluded. North Korea has conducted two underground nuclear tests since 2006 and is believed to have enough weaponized plutonium for half a dozen atomic weapons. 
The U.S. will send special envoy Stephen Bosworth to North Korea before year’s end to try to pull Pyongyang back into inter­national negotiations on nuclear disarmament, the State Department said. 
Bosworth also will try to get the North Koreans to recommit to an agree­ment they made in September 2005 — but subsequently abandoned — to verifiably rid the Korean peninsula of nuclear arms, department spokesman P.J. Crowley said. 
“The bottom line here is that North Korea has to take affirmative steps toward denucleariza ­tion,” Crowley said. 
He declined to say whether the North Koreans had promised — during a series of recent contacts about arrang­ing the Bosworth meet­ing — to rejoin the so-called six-party talks in which the U.S., China, Russia, Japan and South Korea have sought for six years to negotiate an end to North Korea ’s nuclear program The talks were last held in Beijing in December. 



Harsh weather devastates El Salvador 
Associated Press 

VERAPAZ — At least 10,000 Salvadorans are in urgent need of food aid after floods and mudslides destroyed huge swaths of crops during harvest season, the U.N. World Food Program said Tuesday. 
President Mauricio Funes told reporters the death toll had risen to at least 160, but lowered the number of homeless to 12,930. Dozens of peo­ple remained missing. 
Heavy rains caused a dozen rivers to jump their banks and sent torrents of mud and boulders tumbling down mountainsides across the Central American country over the week­end, burying entire neighbor ­hoods. 
Rescue workers used heavy machinery to dig through the rubble Tuesday, while survivors tried to unearth their belongings with any equipment they could get their hands on. 
The WFP is helping feed 500 people in shelters in San Vicente, one of the worst-hit provinces, the U.N. agency said in a statement. But it said thou­sands more would need help in the coming days. 
“Severe flooding washed away entire harvests, homes and liveli­hoods,” said Dorte Ellehammer, WFP representative in El Salvador. “This disaster has compromised the food security of thousands of people.” 
The WFP said 90 tons of high-energy biscuits will be ready for distribution in two days, a supply that can feed 70,000 people for four days. Another 1,000 tons of food is also available in the coun­try. 
In Verapaz, a farming town on the slopes of the Chichontepec volcano, many residents lost their sugar and coffee crops. Cornelio Lobato said his family returned to their ruined home to find that only their rooster, Pipo, had survived by flying up a mango tree. 
page 6 The Observer  NEWS Wednesday, November 11, 2009 


Lettermansuspectdoing business, lawyer says 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — David Letterman was on the receiving end of a sales pitch, not a shakedown, a defense lawyer said Tuesday as he argued that a TV producer accused of extorting the comic was simply peddling a screenplay. 
Robert J. “Joe” Halderman’s lawyer asked a judge to toss the attempted first-degree grand larceny case, which spurred Letterman to acknowl­edge his office dalliances in a startling on-air monologue last month. Attorney Gerald Shargel said the $2 million exchange was business, not blackmail. 
“This was a commercial transaction. Nothing more,” he said. 
The first outlines of Halderman’s defense spotlight­ed Letterman’s behavior, draw­ing a sharp response from the “Late Show” host’s camp. A lawyer for Letterman said the comic was prepared to testify if the case went to trial. 
“It’s classic blackmail, no matter how Mr. Halderman’s lawyer wants to dress it up,” Letterman attorney Daniel J. Horwitz said outside court. 
In papers filed Tuesday, Shargel argued that the indict­ment against Halderman should be dismissed because his conduct wasn’t a crime, among other claims. Assistant District Attorney Judy Salwen said she was confident a judge would find the indictment was on solid legal ground. 
State Supreme Court Justice Charles Solomon is expected to rule in January. 
Halderman acknowledges giving Letterman’s driver a package on Sept. 9 that includ­ed the supposed screenplay “treatment” — or synopsis — and some “source material.” 
Authorities say the materials included a letter saying Halderman needed to make "a large chunk of money" and a claim that the screenplay would depict how Letterman's world would "collapse around him" when information about his private life was disclosed. Photos, personal correspon­dence and portions of a diary also were enclosed, authorities said. 
The diary entries were allegedly written by Halderman's former girlfriend and outlined her affair with Letterman. 
Authorities then taped two conversations between Letterman's lawyer and Halderman — including an exchange in which the lawyer gave Halderman a phony $2 million check after he demand­ed it as hush money, the Manhattan district attorney's office said. Halderman was arrested after depositing it. 
The day before prosecutors unveiled the case last month, Letterman divulged it on his show, acknowledging he had had sex with women who worked for him. 
Shargel’s court filing said Halderman simply realized he had “a valuable subject for a book or a movie” and sold it to Letterman, threatening to do nothing more than sell it else­where if the TV host rejected it. 
“I have no plans to do any­thing other than either sell you this option — this screenplay — to you and therefore you own the story. Or if you don’t and you’re not interested, as I’ve said, then that’s fine, and I will proceed, and I will do what I want to do, which is what I’ve been thinking about doing, anyway — which is writing a book,” Halderman told Letterman’s lawyer in one of the taped exchanges, according to the filing. 

Letterman’s lawyer said criminal charges would follow if Halderman released the information himself, the filing said. Halderman, it said, responded: “I don't agree with your position on that.” 
Some other defendants in extortion cases have argued they were just doing business. In the 1980s, a Maryland union official accused of demanding cash to approve payments to a building contractor maintained the two had a business dispute over construction costs for the union headquarters; the union official eventually pleaded guilty. 
Legal experts say the line between extortion and playing hardball can be blurry. 
“A lot of blackmail and hush-money cases play right at the edge of legitimate transac­tions,” said Pace Law School professor David N. Dorfman. 
But Letterman’s lawyer said Halderman’s threats and tac­tics — such as delivering his message to the comic’s car around 6 a.m. and demanding a response within two hours — blunt any claim that his aims were purely commercial. 
Halderman had changed the characters’ names but envi­sioned a behind-the-scenes tale of the “atmosphere and con­duct” of Letterman and the “Late Show,” his court filing said. 
It said Halderman had evi­dence that “Letterman had cre­ated and fostered an environ­ment of workplace sexual mis­conduct” that amounted to sex­ual harassment — a question that has become an issue since the comic’s disclosure of his office affairs. 
The president of the National Organization for Women called on CBS last month to “recog­nize that Letterman’s behavior creates a toxic environment.” The network declined to respond publicly. 
Shargel did not detail what Halderman said he had found. The court filing noted that Letterman himself described his conduct with female employees as “creepy” and cited a recent Vanity Fair arti­cle by a writer who said she quit Letterman’s NBC talk show in 1990 partly because of alleged sexual favoritism and a hostile work environment. Officials from Letterman’s pro­duction company, Worldwide Pants Inc., have declined to comment on the article. 
Letterman’s lawyer strove to keep the focus on the extortion case but added that no one has ever made a formal sexual harassment claim against the comic. 
“His conduct’s not an issue here,” Horwitz said after the brief court session. 
Halderman declined to com­ment. The 52-year-old produc­er for CBS’ “48 Hours Mystery” has pleaded not guilty. He could face five to 15 years in prison if convicted. 
CBS declined to discuss his status at the network, where he has worked for more than 27 years. 


SMC play depicts women’s struggles 
‘Unveiled’ explores, counters American stereotypes of Muslim women 
Muslim women are stereo-with two children. Maryam’s 
By ALICIA SMITH 

typical and often very offen-troubles began when a man 
News Writer 

sive. I was influenced to told her to take off her hijab, write this play the traditional Writer and actress Rohina by the women headdress of Malik performed “Unveiled” of my commu-“When we think about the Islamic at Saint Mary ’s College nity, ” Malik women and Islam, the faith. Cursing Tuesday, a play sponsored by said in an and scream ­
frst thing that comes
Multicultural Services and interview with ing at her, the Student Programs that On The Go to mind is what the man assaulted explores the theme of Muslim Online. “I media has traditionally her. women stereotypes. wanted to A n o t h e r
portrayed — images of
“When we think about unveil who character women and Islam, the first they really oppression. ” Malik por ­thing that comes to mind is are, what trayed was what media has traditionally their faith is Layla, an 
Larisa Olin Ortiz 
portrayed — images of really about A r a b ­
director
oppression. However, these and what liv-A m e r i c a n . 
Multicultural Services 
images never address the ing in these Layla’s broth­
er died on 
September 11, 2001. When the planes hit the towers, her children, who were at an Islamic school, were forced to go home because someone threatened the school with a bomb. A mob formed outside of the school, and began to attack the Muslims. Layla stood up to the mob and told them to stop swearing and screaming. 
Malik also played two other characters, depicting the unique difficulties in their lives and the harmful effects of religious bigotry. 
The play demonstrated the effects of prejudices in the United States, Ortiz said. 
“We also want to send a message that we should rec­ognize and celebrate not only what we share in common, but also our differences,” she said. 

Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
diversity within the Muslim population nor their different experiences, ” Larisa Olin Ortiz, director of Multicultural Services, said. “Prejudice gets in the way of building authentic relation-times is like. I wanted to share with Americans’ cul­tures and languages that are so rich and beautiful.” 
Ortiz said she hoped the play would help students 

ships across difference and unfortunately “We also want to these stereotyp­
send a message that
ical images contribute to we should recognize cultural misun-and celebrate not derstandings.” 
only what we share
The solo play 

in common, but also 
demonstrates the challenges our differences.” faced by four Muslim women. 
Larisa Olin Ortiz 
Three of the 

director
women are Americans, liv-Multicultural Services ing in a post ­9/11 world. 
With her play, overcome mis­understand ­ings about people of dif ­ferent cultures and faiths. 
“The first step to chal ­lenging these generalized views of ‘oth­ers ’ is to be exposed to diverse voices within groups who may share certain identi­ties,” she said. 
In the per -
Malik aimed to reveal their true personalities as well as to accurately depict their faith. 
“The images I see of 
formance, Malik portrayed women from different walks 
of life. Her character Maryam was a Pakistani ­American who was married 


The Observer 







Business
Wednesday, November 11, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 



IN BRIEF 

States consider offshore wind power 
ANNAPOLIS, Md. — Maryland, Delaware and Virginia are joining forces to promote the offshore wind power. 
The governors of the three states announced Tuesday that they have signed an agreement to work together on promoting federal poli­cies, transmission strategies and other issues to advance offshore power in the Mid-Atlantic region. 
Delaware Gov. Jack Markell says his state is poised to become the first in the nation to develop an offshore wind farm and the agree­ment will help the region become a leader in development of the renewable energy resource. 
Delmarva Power signed a power purchase agreement last year with Bluewater Wind, which is hoping to develop a wind farm off the Delaware coast. 

Judge denies company credit bid 
PHILADELPHIA — Creditors trying to take over Philadelphia’s two major news­papers at a bankruptcy auction next week must bid in cash, not with the mil­lions owed them, a federal judge said Tuesday. 
The decision overturns a bankruptcy court ruling that seemed likely to give The Philadelphia Inquirer and Philadelphia Daily News to creditors by year’s end. 
The newspapers had appealed in an effort to keep the company in local hands. They also argued that few others would consider bidding if creditors were holding $300 million in “house money” or “IOU’s” with which to bid. 
U.S. District Judge Eduardo Robreno agreed the newspapers do not have to allow credit bidding. 
“This will encourage bidding, ” said lawyer Larry McMichael, who represents Philadelphia Newspapers and said a num­ber of potential buyers have expressed interest. “How many of them will bid, I don’t know.” 
The bankruptcy auction is scheduled for Nov. 18, with bids due two days earlier. However, McMichael expects creditors to seek a stay of the proceedings while they appeal the credit-bid issue. 

Unemploymentratetoremainhigh 
Federal officials warn that weak economic recovery won't spur jobs 
Associated Press  
WASHINGTON —  
Unemployment likely will  
remain high for the next  
several years because the  
economic recovery won’t  
be strong enough to spur  
robust hiring, Federal  
Reserve officials warned  
Tuesday.  
The cautionary note  
struck by the presidents of  
regional Fed banks were  
the first public remarks by  
Fed officials since the gov­ 
ernment reported last  
week that the nation’s job­ 
less rate bolted to 10.2  
percent in October. It  
marked only the second  
time in the post-World War  
II period that the rate sur­ 
passed 10 percent.  
In separate speeches,  
Janet Yellen, president of  
the Federal Reserve Bank  
of San Francisco, and  
Dennis Lockhart, president  
of the Federal Reserve  
Bank of Atlanta, warned  
that rising unemployment  
could crimp consumers,  
restraining the recovery.  
Consumer spending  
accounts for about 70 per­ 
cent of economic activity.  
“With such a slow  
AP rebound, unemployment  
Sonja Jackson, of Detroit, holds an Employment Guide while attending a job fair in Livonia, could well stay high for  
Mich. Unemployment will remain high for the next several years, officials warned on Tuesday. several years to come,”  
Yellen said. “In other  
words, our recovery is like- businesses contributed  ing wills” that outline  interest in limiting the size of  
ly to feel like something  about one-third of net job  wind-down arrangements  colossal firms or breaking  
well short of good times.”  growth. Lockhart said he  in the event of failure,  them up if they get too big.  
Yellen envisions the  doubted that would be the  rather than having the  Richard Fisher, president  
shape of the recovery kind  case this time.  government restrict the  of the Federal Reserve  
of like an “L’’ with a grad­ That’s because many  size or activities of finan- Bank of Dallas, told an  
ual upward tilt of the base.  small businesses rely on  cial firms. “I am skeptical  Austin audience Tuesday  
Lockhart said “very slow  smaller banks for credit.  such dramatic action  evening that consumer  
net job gains” may occur  But troubled commercial  would significantly limit  spending is growing, but  
“sometime next year.”  real estate loans are con- systemic risk,” he said in a  that he doubts it will recov- 
Troubles in the commer­ centrated at those banks,  speech in London.  er its pre-recession vigor  
cial real estate market and  hobbling the flow of credit.  The Obama administra­ “for some time to come.”  
the plight of small busi- Lockhart said he is “partic­ tion has called on Congress  He also said there is no  
nesses also will weigh on  ularly concerned” about  to set up a mechanism to  imminent willingness by  
the recovery, they said.  that linkage.  safely dismantle failed  businesses to rehire or  
Small businesses —  Meanwhile, Eric  financial companies —  expand capital expendi­ 
which held up reasonably  Rosengren, president of  along the lines of what the  tures during the recovery.  
well in the 2001 recession  the Federal Reserve Bank  Federal Deposit Insurance  “It may be some time  
— have been clobbered by  of Boston, weighed in on a  Corp. does for collapsed  before significant job  
the downturn, accounting  different hot-button issue  banks. Although key leg- growth occurs and even  
for about 45 percent of net  for Congress: how best to  islative proposals revamp- longer before we see  
job losses through the end  handle huge financial com­ ing the nation’s financial  meaningful declines in the  
of 2008, Lockhart said.  panies whose failure could  rules contain such a provi­ unemployment rate,”  
During the last two eco­ endanger the economy.  sion, some lawmakers and  Fisher said in prepared  
nomic recoveries, small  Rosengren endorsed “liv­ others have expressed  remarks.  


Engineers rejoice over Opel decision 
Associated Press picked to head GM’s engineering fears that GM would lose control 
shortly after the company emerged of Opel -designed technology, 
DETROIT — When General Motors from bankruptcy protection last sum-which includes next-generation Co.’s board halted the sale of the mer. designs for some key cars to be company’s European car business GM wouldn’t have lost all of its sold in the U.S. last week, no one was happier than designs and technology if it had sold GM would have kept 35 percent of the automaker’s chief engineer. Opel, which it has owned since 1929. Opel and the British Vauxhall unit, 
Engineers with the Ruesselsheim, “But I’m really happy that we’re but without controlling interest, Opel Germany-based Opel have designed keeping it,” Reuss said. resources could have been diverted the basics of GM’s new compact and The reason GM even considered away from GM’s global cars to proj­midsize cars that are sold across the selling Opel was because it was it ects that were priorities of the new globe, and they do much of the com-headed toward bankruptcy protec-owners, Reuss said. pany’s research on safety and tion when it agreed to the deal in “You ’re competing for electric vehicles. So it would be May. Since then, it’s cut its debt, resources at that point, because difficult to separate them from scaled back operations and seen car you ’ve only got a 35 percent engineering operations in the sales stabilize. share,” he said. 
U.S. and elsewhere, said Mark Under the deal, 55 percent of Opel He also had concerns about losing Reuss, vice president of global would have gone to a consortium of technology to rivals, even with a sale vehicle engineering. car parts maker Magna International agreement that put some controls on 
“It would have made everything a Inc. and Russian lender Sberbank. how the new owners could use GM lot harder,” said Reuss, who was The sale was ditched partly over technology. 
page 8 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 11, 2009 
Nuclear 
continued from page 1 
on nuclear weapons in many different forums since the 1980s. 
Burns described negotiations as important for reducing nuclear arms. Discussions between Washington and Moscow began with limiting production of nuclear arsenals, progressed to reducing the number of weapons and have made significant steps toward disarmament by doing away with non-strategic nuclear weapons, he said. 
“Justification for nuclear reduction in other countries lessens when the two major nuclear powers do not make adjustments,” said Burns. 
Burns said decisions about nuclear weapons must be made with an eye toward internation­al relations, and different issues arise today than appeared during the Cold War. 
For example, the rise of ter­rorism is central to the current disarmament debate. The effectiveness of deterrence is lessened by the unconventional relationships between nations and rogue organizations. Deterrence is not as effective with terrorist organizations, Burns said. 
“Is it possible to deter a non-territorial entity with the threat of nuclear retaliation?” he said. 
Burns also considered the financial consequences of nuclear disarmament. Maintaining even a small nuclear deterrent is a costly task, he said, and is connected with issues beyond security. 
The budgetary cost of main­taining a nuclear force is immense, and money is siphoned into these programs at the expense of both conven­tional weapons and humanitar­ian aid programs, Burns said. 
Legislation is currently under discussion that would redirect money from nuclear weapons maintenance to aid programs addressing hunger and poverty, Burns said. 
“Fundamentally, we need a new nuclear strategy to com­plement contemporary reali­ties,” he said. 
Asking questions about poli­cies concerning nuclear weapons is essential, Burns said. 
“Peace is not simply the absence of war,” Burns said. “It is the positive state in which elements of human nature are held in check to allow man to flourish.” 
Nuclear disarmament may appear to be a lofty goal, but Burns emphasized that it is an attainable and necessary one. 
“We should resume prayers for peace because it is perhaps the only solution in this trou­bled world,” Burns said. “These prayers are still needed today.” 

Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 




EMBA 
continued from page 1 
and a “B” in support, accord­ing to the BusinessWeek sur­vey, which described the pro­gram as having “a strong focus on ethics and principled lead­ership.” 
The Executive MBA program rankings are given every other year and are based on three separate surveys of EMBA graduates as well as a poll of EMBA program directors. Various measures, including teaching quality, career servic­es and curriculum, factor into the ranking. 
Graduates praised the quali­ty of professors and guest speakers, as well as the ethics-based curriculum, especially amid public scrutiny of corpo­rate management and head­lines targeting failed leader­ship. 
“There is this ethical approach steeped in our cur­riculum that has always been important,” Keane said. “This is where so many businesses have gone astray, but we need to lead with integrity.” 
Central to the EMBA’s mis­sion is a renewed focus on service to the community and leadership values, Keane said. 
“More and more people are seeing the value in personal integrity and an emphasis on serving the greater good and organizational effectiveness,” Keane said. “Business can be a force for good in the world, and that is a large part of what Notre Dame is all about.” 
The Notre Dame EMBA pro­gram was not ranked in 2007, but held the No. 20 spot in 2005. 
Northwestern University, the University of Chicago and the University of Pennsylvania Executive MBA programs held the top three spots in BusinessWeek’s survey. 
Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods4@nd.edu 




Sociologist Han Joas to speak at Notre Dame 
Special to The Observer 
Internationally known soci­ologist and social theorist Hans Joas, director of the Max Weber Center for Advanced Cultural and Social Studies at the University of Erfurt in Germany, will pres­ent a lecture titled “The 
A x i a l  A g e  D e b a t e  A s  
Relig i o u s Dis c o ur s e, ”  a t  4  
p . m .  T h u r s d a y  i n  t h e  

Andrews Auditorium of Geddes Hall at the University of Notre Dame. 
The lecture, which is open to all Notre Dame, Saint Mary ’s and Holy Cross College faculty, staff and stu­dents, is sponsored by the Notre Dame Institute for Advanced Study (NDIAS) and co-sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. 
Since 2000, Joas has served as professor of sociology at the University of Chicago, where he also is a member of the Committee on Social Thought. Formerly a profes­sor of sociology at the University of Erlangen ­Nuremberg, Joas also previ­
ously taught at the Free University of Berlin and served as a visiting professor of sociology at several uni­versities in Europe and the United States, including Duke University, the University of Toronto, the University of Wisconsin and the University of Vienna. 
Joas’ work has been trans­lated into English, French, German, Korean, Polish, Russian and Spanish, and his publications in English include: “G.H. Mead. A Contemporary Re-examina­tion of His Thought,” “Social Action and Human Nature,” “Pragmatism and Social Theory,” “The Creativity of Action, ” “The Genesis of Values,” “War and Modernity, ” “Do We Need Religion? On the Experience of Self-Transcendence,” and “Social Theory.” His most recent book in German is “Kriegsverdraengung,” a his­tory of social theorizing about war from Hobbes to the present. 
NDIAS hosts scholars from around the world and sup­ports research that extends beyond the analysis of partic­ular problems to the exami­nation of larger, often ethi­cal, ultimate questions. The institute is one of the five strategic research invest ­ments that Notre Dame recently has funded through a multi-million-dollar com­mitment of internal financial resources. 

Wednesday, November 11, 2009 The Observer  NEWS page 9 

ROTC 
continued from page 1 
fied by the idea of his pend­ing deployment to Afghanistan, the day has spe­cial meaning for junior cadet Colin Raymond. 
“I think that it’s particular­ly relevant to remember those who have to serve overseas in light of what hap­pened at Fort Hood,” he said. “I think it’s important for people to take a moment and recognize the sacrifice the men and women in the armed services make on a day-to-day basis. I think it’s particularly important in light of those events.” 
In past years, Vitter said, veterans have approached him on campus to express gratitude for his commitment to serve in the army. 
“It’s a really nice gesture, and it makes all members of ROTC feel great about the choice they made to join the armed forces,” he said. “At the same time, it drives home the fact that we’re at Notre Dame. We’re students and though we’ve signed up to help our country, we have not done that yet.” 
Since joining Army ROTC, sophomore cadet Griffin Bonnema said the meaning of Veterans Day has changed for him. He said it has focused his attention on the sacrifices of veterans and led 

Camp 
continued from page 1 
student knows about account­ing, marketing or finance, but it will give students an opportuni­ty to briefly experience those fields, network, work in teams and learn the basic principles to a feeling of unity with them. 
“When you’re in the mili­tary setting, it kind of brings [the sacrifices] to your atten­tion,” he said of the holiday. “These people are like kins­men, you can hold a lot more respect than you would with­out it.” 
Vitter said for him the day highlighted the contrast between the combat experi­ence of veterans and ROTC members ’ more abstract understanding of war. 
“The day is a lot more per­tinent, now that I’ve been in ROTC,” he said. “I’ve made some contact in the actual army and it causes me to think about their commit ­ment and their sacrifice in a more realistic way, it seems. And it highlights that one day soon, I will, and if not me, my classmates will be consid­ered veterans too in the near future.” 
For Raymond, Veterans Day has also taken on a more concrete meaning, as ROTC members will become com­missioned officers upon grad­uation. 
“I think the immediacy of the commissioning gives the cadets a greater sense of what it means to be a veter­an, not that we’re there yet,” he said. “I think we’re con­stantly reminded of what lies ahead.” 

Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 
those who want to be in busi­ness as a liberal arts major, their education in the humani­ties simply fosters a more broad understanding of the world,” junior Sara McLay said. 
Last year’s Boot Camp pro­gram — the first ever — had 11 sophomores and juniors partici­pate from a variety of majors. Some partici­pants from last 

of business.” S o p h o m o r e s and juniors are eligible to apply for the four-day program held in Notre Dame’s E x e c u t i v e  “I think it is important to show students they can study what they want to study and still choose a career in business.”  year who are now seniors are interviewing for fulltime busi-ness positions. Others have continued their business educa- 
E d u c a t i o n  tion in follow-up  
Building  in  Lissa Bill  activities such  
Chicago, but they must be pursuing a  counselor Business Career Programs  as internships. “I was an English major  

Bachelor of Arts from the College of Arts and Letters, according to Bill. 
Bill said The Arts and Letters’ Advisory Council started this program after discussions amongst themselves and with students made it clear there was a need for some education­al experience in business for Arts and Letters students. They then teamed up with the Career Center to offer the Boot Camp program to students. 
The program offers Arts & Letters’ students the opportuni­ty to learn various aspects of marketing, business operations, financial analysis and manage­ment. Students work in teams to develop and present solu­tions to business problems while engaging with employers, Bill said. Lectures are given by Career Center representatives, Arts and Letters alumni and employers of Notre Dame grad­uates. 
Some participants from last year’s program noted the value of a humanities education in the business world. 
“The program helped me appreciate the value of a liberal arts education, and that for who went into 
business prior to coming to work at Notre Dame,” Bill said. “I think it is important to show students they can study what they want to study and still choose a career in business.” 
Bill emphasized that employ­ers will hire students with a humanities degree, as long as they have the right skills and attitude. 
“Many Arts and Letters stu­dents do go into business. Employers are very open to stu­dents from this College and are trying to make sure that Arts and Letters students know these jobs are open to them, not just business students,” she said. “As long as they can show they have the qualifications and a desire to work in that field, they can get hired because nine times out of 10 an employer will teach them what they need to know 
An information meeting is being held tonight in the Dooley Room of LaFortune at 6 p.m., and applications are due Nov. 23 by 5 p.m. 


Contact Carly Landon at clandon@nd.edu 





D.C. sniper put to death 
Man responsible for 2002 attacks that killed 10 was executed Tuesday 

Associated Press 

JARRATT, Va. — Virginia’s gov­ernor refused to spare the life of John Allen Muhammad and cleared the way for his execution Tuesday night for the sniper attacks in 2002 that left 10 dead and spread such fear people were afraid to go shopping, cut grass or pump gas. 
The three-week killing spree in Virginia, Maryland and Washington, D.C., was carried out with a teenage accomplice who is serving life in prison without parole. Muhammad, 48, was to die by injection at 9 p.m. after he exhausted his court appeals and Gov. Tim Kaine denied clemency. 
Muhammad’s attorneys had asked Kaine to commute his sen­tence to life in prison because they said he was severely mental­ly ill. 
“I think crimes that are this horrible, you just can’t under­stand them, you can’t explain them,” said Kaine, a Democrat known for carefully considering death penalty cases. “They com­pletely dwarf your ability to look into the life of a person who would do something like this and understand why.” 
Muhammad was sentenced to death for killing Dean Harold Meyers at a gas station in north­ern Virginia. He and his accom­plice, Lee Boyd Malvo, also were suspected of fatal shootings in Alabama, Arizona, Louisiana and Washington state. 
Prosecutors chose to put Muhammad and Malvo on trial in Virginia first because of the state’s willingness to execute killers. He and Malvo were also convicted of six other murders in Maryland and both were sen­tenced to six life terms. 
The death penalty was later ruled out for Malvo because the 
U.S. Supreme Court barred the execution of juveniles, who was 17 during the killing spree. 
The motive for the shootings in the nation’s capital region remains murky. Malvo said Muhammad wanted to use the plot to extort $10 million from the government to set up a camp in Canada where homeless children would be trained as terrorists. But Muhammad’s ex-wife has said she believes the attacks were a smoke screen for his plan to kill her and regain custody of their three children. 
Muhammad has never testified or explained why he directed the attacks that terrorized the Washington region, with victims gunned down while doing every­day chores. People stayed indoors, and those who had to go outside weaved as they walked or bobbed their heads to make themselves less of a target. 
The terror ended Oct. 24, 2002, when police captured Muhammad and Malvo as they slept at a Maryland rest stop in a car they had outfitted so a shoot­er could hide in the trunk and fire through a hole in the body of the vehicle. 
Muhammad had been in and out of the military since he gradu­ated from high school in Louisiana and entered the National Guard. A convert to Islam, John Allen Williams would later change his name to Muhammad. 
He joined the Army in 1985 and trained in Washington state as a combat engineer. He did not take special sniper training but earned an expert rating in the M­16 rifle — the military cousin of the .223-caliber Bushmaster rifle used in the sniper shootings. 
However, his life was full of fail­ure. He was twice divorced, and after serving in the first Iraq war, he could never find financial sta­bility. 
He opened a karate school but it didn’t last; neither did his car repair shop. The man who looked for self-discipline in exercise and Islam found himself living in a homeless shelter in 2001 and a few months later was accused of shoplifting food. 
Muhammad met with family members in the hours before his execution but did not have a spir­itual adviser, Virginia Department of Corrections spokesman Larry Traylor said. One of Muhammad's attorneys, J. Wyndal Gordon, described the convicted killer as fearless and insisted he was innocent. 
“He is absolutely unafraid and he will die with dignity — dignity to the point of defiance,” Gordon said. 
The families of those killed were ready for execution day. 
Cheryll Witz was one of several victims' relatives who planned to watch the execution. Malvo con­fessed that, at Muhammad’s direction, he shot her father, Jerry Taylor, on a Tucson, Ariz., golf course in March 2002. 
“He basically watched my dad breathe his last breath,” Witz said. “Why shouldn’t I watch his last breath?” 
Death penalty opponents planned vigils across the state, and some were headed for Jarratt, about an hour south of Richmond, for the execution at Greensville Correctional Center. 
Beth Panilaitis, executive direc­tor of Virginians for Alternatives to the Death Penalty, said those who planned to protest under­stand the fear that gripped the community, and the nation, dur­ing the attacks. 
“The greater metro area and the citizens of Virginia have been safe from this crime for seven years,” Panilaitis said. “Incarceration has worked and life without the possibility of parole has and will continue to keep the people of Virginia safe.” 
Kaine, Virginia’s first Roman Catholic governor, has openly expressed his faith-based opposi­tion to capital punishment, but promised as a candidate in 2005 that he would carry out Virginia’s death penalty law despite his beliefs. 
In September, Kaine delayed the October execution of a former Army intelligence worker from Maryland convicted of killing a northern Virginia couple, saying he needed more time to consider the case. That execution is sched­uled for next week. 
The Observer 






Viewpoint 
page 10 Wednesday, November 11, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 


ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Robert Singer Michael Bryan Sarah Mervosh Jared Jedick Caitlin Housley Molly Sammon 

Graphics Viewpoint 
Sofia Iturbe Lauren Scene Brauweiler Alex Kilpatrick 


Three cheers for student government 
In my time at Notre Dame, I have never felt that I, as a student, had benefited from any of student govern­ment’s initiatives, programs or meet­ings. I like the idea of the readership program, but by the time I got to the dining hall, there were rarely any copies left. (I’m not a breakfast guy). The retreats are nice, but not my thing. As far as I can tell, there 

Jason Coleman
was never a printer in my section of the Man at Large dorm (and possi­bly not anywhere in Zahm). Perhaps this is my own fault. Maybe I didn’t reach out enough, or maybe I’m just a student government cynic and will remain so indefinitely. 
However, an article in this newspa­per last week started to make me a believer in the good people that dwell upstairs in LaFortune. In response to the outrage from students living and socializing off campus, and the need to keep students from being shot, mugged and assaulted, student gov­ernment pushed through the Transpo initiative. 
For those of you who did not read, or have not heard of this, let me explain. Student government has suc­cessfully found the funding (through cuts in student government and with additional help from Student Affairs) to run a Transpo bus route on Fridays and Saturdays from 9 p.m. to 3:30 a.m. that would cover the largest stu­dent neighborhoods. The proposed route, as far as I can tell, will run from the Library, past the Twyckenham apartments (Clover Ridge, Turtle Creek, Irish Crossings and Irish Row) to the ‘Backer, down past Eddy St. Commons to Notre Dame Ave. It will run South down Notre Dame Ave. past Club 23 to LaSalle, then take a right passing Corby’s mov­ing onto Finny’s and Fever, then to the South Station. This route would leave approximately every 18 minutes from the Library, and be free to the stu­dents. 
This is good. This is great. This is going to destroy any chance of me paying $3 for a cab again. This is also a great way to eliminate the need for students to choose between risking a free walk home or an expensive and short cab ride. However, with this great new power, as Peter Parker would say, comes great responsibility. 
Student Affairs was concerned, and probably rightly so, that this bus would encourage drinking and cause neighborhood disturbances by posting large groups of students along the side of the street waiting for buses long after midnight. There were also con­cerns about the true number of stu­dents that would take advantage of this new route. If any of these come to pass, then Student Affairs could easily pull the plug on the experiment, with­out ever looking back. To avoid this, we, as students, need to be careful in each of these regards. So let me pro­pose a few rules. 
One: No puking on the bus. This seems obvious, uncontroversial and socially decent. However, I have no problem imagining a few students, overjoyed at their new ride home, overindulge and proceed to ruin the fun for everybody. This would also vin­dicate Student Affairs of its concerns that this encourages more drinking. 
Second, stand at the bus stops. Don’t mull around in neighbor’s yards, on the side of Notre Dame Ave. or in the middle of the street. If calls start rolling in of student’s wrecking havoc on “Home for Sale” signs and yelling at each other at two in the morning, things will turn out badly for the bus. 
Finally, and most importantly, ride the bus. The easiest way to shut it down is to simply say not enough stu­dents take it to justify the cost. As a student body, we have just been given a chance to create a great new tradi­tion (the 7b Route), and shouldn’t mess it up because we don’t want to wait 15 minutes for a bus to come by. Instead, let’s take it en masse and show everybody how great of an idea this is. 
So, with some humility, I have to say thank you to student government for working to provide this opportunity for us, and I hope we can help you guys make it work. It’s certainly better than dropping $3 for a two minute cab ride. 
Jason Coleman is a senior accounting major. He can be contacted at coleman.70@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

A Notre Dame short story 
Part 6 by Nicholas Brandt 
A man in a beige-tinted jacket approached him from his council pedestal. He sloshed through the jagged debris and mumbled grumblings to him­self. He was squinting his green-brown eyes. 
“So why you done torn down this here wall?” 
Frederick looked at the man. The fol­lowing words were the only things that managed to escape his breath: “I … I couldn’t … get out.” The overwhelming feeling of hollow success began to engulf him. 
The man raised an eyelid. Putting his hands on his hips, he let out a feeble chuckle. 
“Heh! Couldn’t get out? Why, that’s about the funniest thing I ever heard,” he said. 
He offered Frederick his hand. As he got to his feet he noticed that the man’s other hand wasn’t moving and hadn’t been since he arrived. It just dangled by his side. Looked like more of a hindrance to him than an aesthetic advantage. They carried on, climbing through rub­ble. First his bricks, then more bricks, then shards of what looked like formerly 

OBSERVER POLL 
When should Charlie Weis be fired? 
Never Should have been fired yesterday After our next loss After the season 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
wooden planks, then tall grass, then thick mud. The going was tough, but the tough got going, so they say. They finally came to a point of solid ground. 
It was then that they saw the moun­tain. 
Part 7 by Mary Laird 
Frederick looked inquisitively at the man as together, they stood at the base of the mountain. Frederick’s fingers still bled from his desperate attempts to get through that wretched brick wall, and he grimaced as he wiped them on his tat­tered shirt. He winced once more as he ripped at his checkered sleeve for cloth with which to wrap his torn hands, and inexplicably, the man beside him chuck­led. 
“You know, Frederick, you really should have just used the door! Would’ve saved us all a great deal of time, and we would not have had any of this falling through the wall nonsense. That’s the trouble with your kind … always over-complicating things …” 
The man trailed off as he watched his own hand, previously motionless, give a small twitch. Beyond the mountain, he knew, was the place for which he searched. Rumors had reached his ears of a secret tunnel system, large enough only for several people to pass through, that would allow him to circumvent the biting winter weather and travel from beneath LaFortune all the way to the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. He would not lose another limb to frostbite, of this he was certain. 

The only obstacle between him and this ultimate power was the stone. He did not know if Frederick knew of the power it could bestow, or even of its existence, but it did not matter. Frederick would lead him, or he would return to the council and face death. 

Want to write the next paragraph to the story? Submit your paragraph to NDLFshortstory@gmail.com before 4 
p.m. Limit of 200 words. Title it Part Eight. This story will continue until Nov. 16. If your paragraph is selected, it will be published in Viewpoint and you will get to read it at the NDLF panel discussion Nov. 19. The visiting authors will write the ending para­graphs. Take advantage of the opportu­nity to write a story along with three New York Times bestselling authors! 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The bitterest tears shed over graves are for words left unsaidand deeds left undone.” 
Harriet Beecher Stowe 

U.S. abolitionist & novelist 
The Observer 





Viewpoint 
Wednesday, November 11, 2009 page 11 
No excuses 
It’s no secret that Notre Dame football and its dedicated fans have become a national punchline in the past fifteen years, and especially over the last two and a half seasons. After an unprecedented bowl los­ing streak, mediocre 
John Strong and
performance against 

Brendan
all but the weakest competition and Hanehan four failed coaching 
Guest
hires that the Irish 

Columnists
faithful would gladly banish from our collective memory, that punchline has been well-used and well-jus­tified. Nonetheless, some would point to the end of the nation’s most ignominious bowl losing streak and the influx of talent-laden recruiting classes as reasons for continued optimism about Coach Weis’ tenure. 
Fellow alumni, students and friends of Notre Dame: do not be fooled. Don’t be dis­tracted by the snapping of losing streaks against Boston College or by Hail Mary touchdown receptions against triple cover­age. Our football program is teetering on the edge of the abyss right now. Lest we be written off as deluded crackpot alums who think football is the most important thing in the world, let us explain why we feel more desperate now than we ever did as students when Tyrone Willingham was our coach, during last year’s lackluster performance, or even 2007’s unprecedented 3-9 humilia­tion. 
Given current circumstances, we feel a complete lack of hope for the future of our storied program, if allowed to continue on its current path. Weis has been given a longer leash than Willingham received, and, upon watching Tate and Floyd and Clausen (arguably the best college QB to ever lace up his cleats in the shadow of the Dome), it is easy to appreciate why. Weis’s recruiting acumen is undeniable. However, overall team management is another matter, and Irish fans have been left with an unholy litany of questions that highlight Weis’s ulti­mate and irredeemable failure as our head coach. 
Why have we lost two consecutive home games to Navy? Why has our losing streak to USC been extended by five more years, with losses by an average of 19.8 points? Why have we gone 3-16 in the last three seasons when playing teams with a winning record? Why is Ian Williams publicly derid­ed by his coach in a childish “he-said, she-said” manner for daring to suggest that our defensive scheme was ineffective against Navy? And how can a Notre Dame coach get away with announcing after a humiliat­ing loss that his coaching methods don’t, and will never, change? These last two occurrences are perhaps even more damn­ing than on-the-field performance of Weis’ teams. We heard it straight from his mouth: things aren’t going to change. Coming from the same man who titled his autobiography “No Excuses,” and once hung a defiant ban­ner proclaiming that “9-3 Isn’t Good Enough,” the hypocrisy is palpable. 
However, there is still a larger, more omi­nous reason for our desperation. Even after Saturday’s debacle, we cannot be sure that the Powers-That-Be at Notre Dame will show Weis the door by the end of the sea­son and hire a worthy replacement. Athletic Director Jack Swarbrick has expressed con­fidence that Weis is moving our program in the right direction. With all due respect to Mr. Swarbrick, the data has spoken unequivocally for the opposite conclusion. This season has been an object lesson in poor team management, from the madden­ing defensive failures, to consistent medioc­rity from our offensive line, and beyond. Further, Weis’ career winning percentage of .593 is on the precipice of sinking to the fatal .583 level, which earned both Bob Davie and Ty Willingham dismissals from the head coaching job. The only remaining question is whether Mr. Swarbrick, University President Fr. John Jenkins and the Board of Trustees will do what needs to be done. Sadly, we cannot be confident in the judgment of an AD who scheduled a game against Western Michigan and happi­ly filled our schedule with games against Purdue for the next 12 years, or of an administration that would agree to a money-grab scheduling scheme like the 7­4-1 model. Mandating a schedule with three teams per year that do not require return trips to their campuses, and scheduling “neutral-site” night games against subpar opponents that allow us to keep all the rev­enue, are ill-conceived plots to maximize short-term revenue. However, they demean the long-term value of the Notre Dame foot­ball program, insult Notre Dame’s national fan base, and ultimately do great harm to the University. 
We love Notre Dame for far more than football, and truly believe that it is one of the most special institutions in the world. To us Notre Dame stands as a symbol that one can accomplish great things without taking shortcuts or giving in to taking the easy route; it has been a great source of hope and inspiration for our lives, and we know the same is true for countless others, whether alumni or not. Truly, our school is great because it has stayed true to Father Sorin’s admonition that we should never dream too small. If Our Lady’s university is to continue to uphold this lofty principle, it must do so on all fronts: academic, religious and yes, athletic. So, Mr. Swarbrick, Fr. Jenkins, Trustees and Fellows: prove that we aren’t just satisfied with complacency, easy money and posturing. Restore our football program to a platform that show­cases the values that the Notre Dame family so proudly claims. Demonstrate, as we used to, that a program run the right way can excel. Until there is a sea change in our school’s priorities, we will be forced to won­der: if we are satisfied with mediocrity and the path of least resistance with respect to football, what’s next? 
John Strong is a 2008 and 2009 Notre Dame graduate. Brendan Hanehan is a 2007 Notre Dame graduate and is currently a third year law student. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A Veteran’s Day vigil 
The University of Notre Dame and the U.S. military share a very proud history. For over 60 years, students at the University of Notre Dame have trained as cadets and midship­men and commissioned as officers in the Army, Marines, Navy and Air Force. Many have gone on to serve distinguished careers in the armed forces along with millions of other Americans. Today, Veterans Day, is a day that we remember the sacrifices of these brave men and women. 
Here at Notre Dame the cadets and midshipmen in the Army, Navy and Air Force ROTC units show their respect for all Veterans during our annual Veterans Day Vigil and Ceremony. The vigil takes place at Clarke Memorial Fountain, more com­monly known as Stonehenge, and lasts 24 hours, beginning yesterday evening at 5 p.m., and ending this evening at 5 p.m. at the start of the annual ceremony. We stand guard at Clarke Memorial to show that we will never forget about the sacrifices that the men and women of the U.S. military have made for the freedoms that we all share. 
While you are walking by Clarke Memorial today and see your fellow students standing guard, or attend the ceremony this evening, we respectfully ask that you take a moment out of your day to reflect and give thanks to those who have served, those who are serving, and those who will serve in the defense of this nation. 
Thank you. 
Dan Lusardi 
senior off campus 

Brad Towne 
senior Pasquerilla Center 


Scott Vitter 
senior off campus Nov. 10 




Defending Charlie 
After Saturday’s loss I heard phrases such as “his head is on the chopping block” and other such references to Charlie Weis. While the buck does stop with him, I wanted to make sure my initial reaction to the game was correct. After watching the game again (yes it was painful) on nbcsports.msnbc.com, I found out why I initially thought the loss didn’t hinge upon Charlie’s coaching. Here is a list I compiled. 
Option defense: Horrendous is an under­statement. Option defense is quite simple. Tackle every single running back (each play­er is assigned a back to tackle) and they can’t run the ball because they are all on the ground under one of your players. Yet either John Tenuta (defensive coordinator) or our players failed to understand this and allowed Navy to run for a whopping 348 yards. 
Tausch missed 2 field goals. Either would have given us a win. 
Turnovers: Floyd, Clausen, and Parris had turnovers (Floyd caused an interception at the 5 yard line by not knowing what play was being run) and Clausen fumbled at the 1. 
Red zone offense has been terrible, and not just because of Charlie. Execution breaks down and we can barely run the ball three yards (all run plays are designed to go for more than one yard; that much I know). 
When your offense has more first downs (32-20), more net yards (512-404), and more plays (71-60), a mark in the L column cannot solely be an offensive coordinator’s fault. 
I hope the outline I have explained has helped convince some of you that Charlie is not the only one to blame. I know that I dropped a number of names while highlight­ing the game, but we must keep in mind that football is a team effort from the head coach all the way down to the water boy (you might laugh at the water boy, but if he does­n’t work hard, the players don’t stay hydrat­ed.) Despite some of the blame rightfully being put on Charlie’s shoulders, the football team’s recent loss does not merit the firing of its head coach. 
Tom Nield 
sophomore Morrissey Manor Nov. 10 


Respectful rivalry 
I have nothing but undying respect for the United States Navy. As it were, a close friend of mine is attending the Naval Academy. For these reasons, I refuse to tolerate any excuse to chant “kill” or “suck it” to the honorable members of our armed forces. Like Greg Robinson (“Show some respect,” Nov. 9), I cringed when I heard the band play the Imperial March, and I was utterly disappointed that the student section largely went along with it. I will concede Arthur Kostendt’s point (“Show respect,” Nov. 10) that many of our opponents may one day join the armed forces, but when they are on the football field, they are representing Nevada or Washington or Southern California, not Army or Navy or the Air Force. Last I checked, the order of importance went God, Country, then Notre Dame. I love Notre Dame. Like many of us (hope­fully all of us) I hope to see us compete for a BCS Bowl every year. But without the sacrifices of our men in uniform (the kind not on the football field), there would be no BCS. There would be no Notre Dame. 
So forgive me if I’m only sorry that we lost, not that we lost to Navy. Frankly, considering what those cadets are going to do when they graduate, I’m not sorry to see them make these great mem­ories and enjoy themselves. Lastly, our respect for Navy was not the reason the student section “sounded like s**t” (as you so eloquently put it). We “sounded like s**t” because we were watch­ing our season end (for all intents and purposes), which is a different argument for a different day. 
Michael Palena 
freshman Morrissey Manor Nov. 10 
The Observer 





Scene
page 12 Wednesday, November 11, 2009 

By KATHERINE GREENSPON 
Scene Writer 
For those of you who have been living under a rock for the past year I would like to intro­duce you to the newest and most eccentric pop phenomenon of our generation, Lady Gaga. Redefining what an entertainer is can be a challenge, but for 22-year-old Gaga, it is just another day at the office. The name says it all from her over-the-top fashion sense to her out-of-control vocal talent. Lady Gaga is the newest princess of pop making heads turns every­where she goes, whether she is strolling down the streets of New York in skintight leather jumpsuits or rocking red lace from head to toe at the MTV video music awards. For many, Lady Gaga is misunderstood. It is easy to label someone as crazy and out of their mind but being an entertainer in the music industry today requires a few of these traits. Many people think she is obnoxious and inap­propriate when in fact she is contemporary and confident. 
Lady Gaga commands crowds whether she is in sold-out amphitheaters or packed politi­cal protests in Washington D.C fighting for gay rights. She is loud and she knows it. Her debut album entitled “Fame” in August 2008 stopped every record label in its tracks. After being dropped from Def Jam Records at age 19, she teamed up with R&B artist Akon and Interscope Records where they let her creativity and lyrical masterpieces thrive. After hav­ing two hit singles, “Just Dance” and “Paparazzi,” she quickly fixed herself on everyone’s radar. Fans flock to her concert shows, which are actually more like theatrical performances where she wears everything from patent leather high boots to her signature blonde hair bows. 


Gaga has mastered the art of performance saying, “every minute of my life is perform­ance.” Her dedication to her work is inspiring, and it’s refreshing to see it being accepted by millions. She has said she would rather people recognize her performances and work as an artist then her­self as an actual individual. Her unique ideas and original cre­ativity is what has made her one of the biggest rock, pop and theatrical stars of our time. Her category-defying persona is addicting whether people listen to her over the radio or live. Her presence on stage is electri­fying with 70s glam-inspired moves and her jaw dropping sound. For such a petite woman she has no problem belting out an unbelievable voice that trav­els to everyone’s nightclub and iPod worldwide. 
Lady Gaga marches to the beat of her own drum, literally when she is comfortable enough to prance around in leotards and four-inch heels singing songs like “Beautiful, Dirty, Rich,” ‘I Like it Rough” and “Money Honey.” People choose to ignore her and think of her as a fraud, insane and com­pletely out of her mind but those who disagree are her devoted and obsessed fans. Whether she is practicing her English accent or writing her own lyrics, she has managed to keep the public eye focused on her. 
A New York native since birth, she proves she has what it takes to stay in the game and progress as an ultra-modern and groundbreaking artist who is consistently delivering unthinkable ideas. Lady Gaga is not afraid to express her art and that is why she has come this far. Her music videos act as mini movies and her dedication to her style and lyrics earn her front page covers of Rolling Stone and Asos magazines. People may not agree with her artistic approach and edgy dirty songs, but enough do. Whether you hate her or love her, she is laughing all the way to the bank. 
Contact Katherine Greenspon at kgreen01@saintmarys.edu 
to the Russian mafia. Taking a



By COURTNEY ECKERLE 
card from Saturday Night Live 
Scene Writer 
here by saying really Lady 

“Put on some pants. It’s cold Gaga? REALLY? Displaying outside,” would probably be the tough female spirit? First the first thing Lady Gaga of all, you should be worrying haters would say to her if about your toughness if you given the chance. Wearing can’t get away from a few nothing but a sparkly leotard, scrawny super models. tights, high shoes and some-Secondly, what does the thing weird and lacy on your Russian mafia want with a face doesn’t make you cool. It pop singer? And why are they makes you freezing. So cool using said models as their that you start heading in the henchmen? Were the usual other direction, and that is goons busy? They probably exactly what Lady Gaga has regretted the decision started to do. She’s gone from because (spoiler alert!) Lady different to being a caricature Gaga fries them to a crisp of herself. with an unusual weapon in 
Sure, the Lady gets paid, but the end. The video is horrify-that only shows how much the ing mental gibberish. It seems MTV generation is hooked as though she is banking on onto shock value and addicted people being so freaked out to the opinion of the and confused that they almighty Hilton. Gaga’s new video for her song “Ba Romance ” premiered this week, and the theme is meant to capture the “tough female spirit,” as she told MTV news in a recent i n t e r v i e w. Gaga said the video finds her kidnapped by a group “jealous super models,” then send her off think, “I can’t understand any of what’s going on here-it must be genius. Gaga is amazing, just so far beyond us!” 

Her big “fashion state­ment” of the music video is razor blade sun­glasses. She also told MTV, “I want­ed to design a pair for some of the toughest chicks and some of my girlfriends this at home — keep razor blades in the side 
of their mouths,” she expl ained. “That tough female sprit is something that around with a razor blade stuck in their mouths? That’s not 
spirit, that’s ... 


rorism. Or drug abuse. You 
don’t have to have seen “The 
razor 
go wrong. 
the stuff she pulls real ­ly for her, or is it 
an Fame” 
were with he be 
“The 
Surreal Life” with Verne 
Troyer. 
The only good thing that has come out of Gaga ­mania is her music. It’s fun to listen to, she deserves credit for it. Is it iconic, seminal, spanning-the-gen­erations music? No. If “Just Dance” becomes the next “Hey Jude” or “Vogue” ... God help us all. Yes, she can sing, but who even cares when she has blood tears coming out of her eyeballs at the VMAs? She told Alexa Chung earlier this week she was “upset there wasn’t more blood.” I guess some people just don’t understand the art 
behind a good eye-to-blood ratio. Then again, at this point, the only way any of us would be shocked by her is if she showed up somewhere in jeans and a T-shirt. The girl is from New Jersey. Don’t tell me she doesn’t own a pair of jeans. 
There is nothing worse than a cheap imitation. Whether it’s a knock-off purse or a knock-off artist, it’s just not the same. Madonna did it 25 years ago, and she did it bet­ter. There is no hating on dif­ferent here, it’s hating on dif­ferent for different’s sake. Crazy is a formula for fame. When were people talking about Britney Spears the most? Michael Jackson? She just put a new spin on mon­key -see, monkey -do. Lady Gaga, aka Stefani Germanotta, is a p-p-poseur. 
Contact Courtney Eckerle at cecker01@saintmarys.edu 
The Observer 




Scene
Wednesday, November 11, 2009 page 13 

By ERIC PRISTER 
Scene Writer 
Semi-Finals 
Paul Bunyan def. the Hydra 
Showing intelligence that many thought was far beyond his reach, Paul Bunyan used supreme strategy to defeat the multi-headed serpent. 
“Everybody thought that I was completely unaware that his heads multiplied,” Bunyan said. 
That was certainly the initial thought of the entire audience as Paul Bunyan started off the match by using his axe to sever seven of the Hydra’s heads. This, however, was his strategy, and he ran away soon after, avoiding the 16 heads that grew off the beast. 
Using his supreme size and axe-handling skills, Bunyan was able to keep his distance from the Hydra and dexterously hacked off heads, forcing the Hydra to grow many more. 
“I knew that the heads would eventually weigh him down,” the Hydra said. “I already had a size advantage, and the more heads that grew, the more speed I gained on him as well.” 
Apparently feeling like 742 heads made the Hydra suffi­ciently slow, Paul Bunyan ran up the cliff and began the next phase of his eventual victory. His move to the cliff drew the Hydra underneath, and Bunyan started to chip away at a large chunk of the cliff. 
The Hydra snapped away as Paul Bunyan broke off a gigan­tic chuck of rock, crushing the Hydra, who was unable to dodge the falling cliff because of his newfound obesity. 
The Dragon def. Godzilla 
Using a strategy that has served him well throughout the tournament, the Dragon used an aerial vantage point to dodge and destroy the king of the lizards. 
Taking off instantly as he is want to do, the Dragon was patient and was able to survey the match before attacking. Godzilla became frustrated early, which played into the strengths of the Dragon. Firing lasers out of his mouth in all directions, Godzilla exhausted himself quickly, giving the Dragon his opportunity to strike. 
“He’s just so dumb,” the Dragon said. “He gives all rep­tiles a bad name. King of the lizards? You’ve got to be kid­ding me.” 
After exhausting Godzilla, the Dragon flew through the air in circles, and Godzilla could do nothing but follow him, making himself dizzy. The Dragon then took his opportunity and dove into Godzilla, knocking the giant lizard off of his feet. Wishing to show his domina­tion, he used his fire breath and his claws to ravage Godzilla, who could do nothing now that he was both exhaust­ed and dizzy. 
“Intelligence over brawn, any day,” the Dragon said. “But wait, I was stronger than him too. Oh well, I was just better. And that’s why I won.” 
Finals 
The Dragon def. Paul Bunyan 
In what truly was a clash of the titans, the Dragon came out on top in a battle that was fiercely contested and truly came down to the wire. 
“Paul deserves credit,” the Dragon said. “I have all the respect in the world for him, and he beats me five times out of 10 in this battle. Having said that, I came out on top, and there’s a reason for that.” 
The Dragon characteristically took off to start the match and tried to scope his territory. Paul Bunyan was so large, and the Dragon had to fly so high, that his vantage point became skewed and he returned to earth. He kept his distance from Paul Bunyan, who was also being patient, having learned from those who had previously lost to the Dragon. 
“I knew that he would try to take me out of my element,” Bunyan said after the match. “I wasn’t going to let him do that.” 
The Dragon knew that he would have to fly to be victori­ous, so he took off, but swooped quickly and came towards the giant lumberjack. He had to swerve just as quickly, however, because Paul Bunyan was ready for him, and the Dragon narrowly missed a mighty swipe of Bunyan’s axe. 
Reading Bunyan’s intentions, the Dragon took off again, and faked a dive. Bunyan once again unleashed his axe, but the Dragon was ready, and dodged the attack before actu­ally diving towards Bunyan. He took a mighty bite out of Paul Bunyan’s arm, forcing him to drop his axe. 
The Dragon reacted quickly and grabbed the axe, flying it as far away from their current battlefield as he could. Upon returning, he faced Bunyan and they began to battle with brute force alone. 
The Dragon tried to take off once more, but Bunyan grabbed him and held him down. The Dragon then let out a stream of fire, which scorched Bunyan’s skin. In this moment of hesitation, the Dragon was able to bite down on Bunyan’s neck, pinning him to the ground in a nearly help­less position. Bunyan tried to struggle away, but the Dragon’s vice-like grip with his teeth was too much, and Bunyan finally conceded defeat. 
“I didn’t want to permanently damage such a fierce competi­tor,” the Dragon said. “He gave it his all, but I came out on top. I’m the champion, and that’s all that matters at this point.” 

Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 


page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, November 11, 2009 


ND CLUB SPORTS 

Rugby starts playoffs with win over Wisconsin 
Irish riders put in strong effort in IHSA show; seventh-annual Baraka Bouts set to kick off Thursday 
Special to The Observer 
The Irish rugby squad trav­eled to Madison this weekend to play Wisconsin in the first round of the Midwest play­offs. The Irish went 3-2 this year to finish fourth in the Eastern League and were competing in their first play­off match since their rein­statement. 
Wisconsin went undefeated in the regular season with a 6-0 record and received the No. 1 ranking in the Western League. 
The game started evenly, with both sides showing strong defenses and sure tackles. Wisconsin ran a bar­rage of crashes by the cen­ters and fly-half, which were met by a unified Irish defen­sive front. 
While the Irish gave up a large number of penalties, the Badgers were unable to take advantage of the good field position and turned the ball over on multiple occa­sions. 
Midway through the first half, Wisconsin found itself deep in its own territory. After a costly knock-on by the Badgers, Irish scrumhalf Andy O’Connor was able to push the ball wide to inside center Nick Severyn who touched the ball down in the try-zone to give Notre Dame a 5-0 lead. 
The Badgers struck back swiftly by obtaining the ball deep in Notre Dame’s territo­ry through an up-and-under kick. On the ensuing play, Wisconsin used its forwards to maul the ball past the try-line to tie the game at 5-5 as the half ended. 
At the beginning of the sec­ond half, the Irish marched down the field through a series of pick-and-gos from the forwards. When they reached the five-meter line, they gave the ball to the back-line. The ball moved through the backs’ hands and reached David Pemberthe, who touched the ball down to give the Irish a 10-5 lead. 
Defense controlled the next 20 minutes, with neither side breaking through the lines. After a costly penalty by Notre Dame with 15 minutes left in the game, the Badger fly-half booted a 30-meter penalty kick through the posts to bring the game to 10-8. 
Seven minutes later, the Irish again had a costly penalty, which gave the Badgers a 40 -meter kick, which the fly-half again con­verted to give Wisconsin an 11-10 lead with 8 minutes left in the game. 
With the clock winding down, the Irish pushed the ball past the halfway line, where a penalty was called on Wisconsin. With the crowd screaming, freshman fly-half Sean Peterson booted through a 42-meter kick from outside the posts to give them a 13 -11 lead, which they would keep until the end of the game. 
The Irish play Saturday in Elkhart against Indiana for a spot in the Midwest Championship, which will be played on Sunday. Teams remaining in the semi-finals are Notre Dame, Indiana, Bowling Green and Ohio State. 
Equestrian 
Notre Dame hosted an IHSA show this weekend at Culver Military Academy. Twelve schools from the region par­ticipated, with the Irish squad finishing eighth. 
Mary Cecila Mitsch took third in open fences; while Krista Jones’ third in class A and Jennifer Gilardi’s second in class B intermediate fences were among the high­lights of the squad’s perform­ance. 
In open flat, Gilardi and Mitsch were fourth and sixth in class A, and Mia Genereus and Jones finished fourth and fifth respectivly in class B. Amy Giordano claimed fourth in intermediate flat. 
The Irish had several plac­ings in novice flat: Emily Singer sixth in class A, Mana Espahbodi and Victoria Scheid, fourth and sixth respectively in class D, and Nicole Oberschmeid fifth in class E. 
Amanda Leon ’s second place finish and Patricia Walsh ’s sixth in class B advanced walk-trot-canter were followed by strong showings in beginning walk-trot -canter as Whitney Preisser, third in class A; Joanna Whitfield, second and Laura Tiche, third in class B and Caitlin Harris, second in class C all contributed to the team score. Amellia Griffin’s fifth in walk-trot completed the scoring for the Irish. 
Women’s Boxing 
The women’s boxing club will stage the seventh annual Baraka Bouts this Thursday, Nov. 12, at 6:00 p.m. in the 
J o y c e  A t h l e t i c  a n d  
C o n v o c a t i o n  C e n t e r  
F i e ld h ou s e . Nin e t y  wo men  

will compete as the 45 bouts will be held in two rings. Tickets are five dollars at the door, with proceeds benefit-ting the Holy Cross Missions in East Africa. 

NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 


Summit confident Lady Vols improved from last year 
2009-10. Only one of them — pen.” being a year older. She had “I’m a blue-collar worker. I
Associated Press 

6-foot-1 guard Taber Spani — The message got through. her own struggles as a fresh-come from that kind of family,” 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. — Pat ranked among the top 20 Strength and conditioning man, going through a slump Spani said. “Hard work is nat-Summitt thinks her six sopho-recruits in the nation. coach Heather Mason, who’s after New Year’s, but became ural for me, and I love it. I was more Tennessee Lady The Lady Vols claim that already known for her one of the team leaders and drawn to Heather Mason and Volunteers learned an impor-even without a game-changer demanding training style, said top scorers as a sophomore. the offseason stuff and the tant lesson last season after like Candace Parker in the the team worked harder than Sophomore point guard conditioning. I think that’s being a part of the program’s lineup, they’ll be better. They any in her seven years with Briana Bass agrees. She’s got a what help makes champi­worst finish say they’re Tennessee had better sense of onship teams.” last season. working harder ever worked in how to manage Summitt knows that hard 
“I would say this year and the offseason. her time as a work, a few new players and a all of our soph-better under-Junior guard student-athlete new attitude won’t automati­omores under-“I think this team just stand what it A n g i e “I’m a blue-collar and what to cally translate into more suc­stand that they takes to win. Bjorklund, who expect on the cess. The Southeastern 
thought they could all worker. I come from
can’t just step After the 71-with the most team. Conference is better this sea-out there, put come together.” 55 loss to Ball playing experi-that kind of family.” “It’s all about son, and there’s more parity in on the big State in the ence is the getting that women’s basketball across the orange uniform opening round team’s elder, year under nation. 
Pat Summit Taber Spani 
and win. That’s of the NCAA said all the your belt. You The Lady Vols will be tested 
Tennessee head coach Tennessee guard 
a good thing,” t o u r n a m e n t , players worked understand the early and often. They open at the coach said. Summitt held a out as a team system and how home against No. 7 Baylor, 
Now the team sort of spring every single day, things work which features top recruit must prove that training for the despite the around here,” Brittney Griner. They’ll also the lesson Lady Vols. She workouts being the 5-foot-2 face six other teams ranked in learned is enough to put No. 8 told them they could either optional. Indianapolis, Ind., native said. The Associated Press Top 25 Tennessee back on an NCAA commit to working hard in the “Coach always says champi-Spani and her fellow fresh-— all before Christmas. championship path after mak-offseason or don’t come back. onships are won in the offsea-men, Faith Dupree and Still, the Hall of Fame coach ing its first-ever first-round “I think this team just son. If that’s the case, we have Kamiko Williams, have been knows she and her players exit from the tournament in thought they could all come a good shot because we working hard too. Spani said have done the best they could March. together,” she said. “They had worked hard this summer,” the the three of them understand do in the offseason. That gives 
After coaching the youngest a lot of high school All-Spokane Valley, Wash., native the commitment they have to her a little hope, for now. team she’d ever fielded last Americans, and it was just said. make to avoid the kind of “I just will tell you I have a year, Summitt added three going to happen. It doesn’t Bjorklund says the sopho-experience last year’s fresh-different comfort level now new faces to her lineup for happen. You make things hap-mores will be improved just by man class went through. than a year ago,” she said. 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
4 BDRM HOUSE ON 32 ACRES OF  ———————————————  If you or someone  
FOR RENT  NATURE AND SERENITY. 9 MILES NORTH OF NOTRE DAME. $1,200  ——————————————— ———————————————WANTED  TICKETS  PERSONAL  you care about has been sexually assaulted,  
FOR WEEKEND. CALL GEORGIA  ———————————————  we can help.  
3 bdrm home on 1 acre wooded lot.  PEACH BED AND BREAKFAST  Need tutor for HS Calculus II stu- VICTORY TICKETS  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  For more information,  
Close to ND (1 block).  @269-357-6979.  dent in area. Will pay hourly. Email  Buy Sell  Do not go it alone.  visit Notre Dame's website:  
$1250/mo.  ———————————————­ jteghel@gmail.com  Trade  Notre Dame has many resources in  http://csap.nd.edu  
574-276-2333.  2 bdrm, 1.5 bath home, detached  ———————————————­ FB Tix.  place to assist you. If you or someone  ———————————————­ 
———————————————  garage, finished basement, hardwood  PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­ Victorytickets.net  you love needs confidential support or  Considering Adoption?  
andersonNDrentals.com. HOUSES  floors, new appliances. 1334 Corby St.,  appt., no experience needed, cus­ 574-232-0964.  assistance,  ND Alums Hoping to Adopt.  
———————————————  $650/mo. Avail. now or for 10-11  tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835.  ———————————————­ please call  If you are an expectant mother  
Furnished family  school year. 574-309-6961.  ———————————————­ HELP!  Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-17819 or  searching for a family,  
home walk to ND.  ———————————————  Part time help needed at UP Mall. Must  Need FB tix for family.  Ann Firth at 1-2685.  please see our  
4bdrm/2ba. $2K/mo.  5 bdrm, 2bath home. 705ND Ave.  be good with kids and have clean driv- Will pay top  For more information, visit ND's web- website at  
Spring semester.  $2150/mo. Avail. June 2010. 574-276­ ing record! Email resume and days  $$.  site at:  http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro­ 
574-968-7394.  2333.  available to: northcoastrr.com  574-251-1570  http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  file.net.  
———————————————  ———————————————­ ———————————————­ ———————————————­ ———————————————­ ———————————————­ 



Around theNat on 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Wednesday, November 11, 2009 
page 15 

USTFCCCA Men’s Cross Country Top 25 
team previous 
1 Stanford 1 2 Oklahoma State 3 3 Oregon 2 4 Northern Arizona 5 5 Colorado 4 6 Alabama 6 7 Portland 8 8 William & Mary 9 9 Iona 11 10 Wisconsin 15 11 Syracuse 14 12 New Mexico 19 13 Arizona State 16 14BYU 7 15 Georgetown 10 16 North Carolina State 30 17 Washington 13 18 Oklahoma 20 19 Virginia 12 20 Villanova 22 21 Florida State 21 22 Arkansas 28 23 Providence 17 24 Louisville 25 25 Auburn 24 
USTFCCCA Women’s Cross Country Top 25 
team previous 
1 Washington 1 2 Villanova 2 3 Florida 5 4 Princeton 7 5 Oregon 8 6 Colorado 3 7 West Virginia 4 8 Texas Tech 14 9 Florida State 6 10 Syracuse 10 11 Penn State 18 12 Georgetown 9 13 Illinois 13 14 Stanford 12 15 Duke 16 16 Arizona State NR 17 Minnesota 15 18 Iowa State 19 19 Virginia 11 20 New Mexico 20 21 Providence 24 22 BYU 21 23 Michigan 22 24 Arizona 17 25 SMU NR 

around the dial 
NBA 

Cleveland vs. Orlando 8 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA Football 
Toledo vs. Central Michigan 8 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 


GMs decide not to change instant replay 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO — Upon further review ... baseball general managers like instant replay the way it is. 
GMs failed to take a vote Tuesday on expanding instant replay following a postseason filled with blown calls by umpires. 
“I know there are some who have talked off line about the expansion of instant replay,” said Jimmie Lee Solomon, exec­utive vice president of baseball operations in the commissioner’s office. “Right now, the commis­sioner doesn’t see any rea­son to consider it.” 
While there was discus­sion, Solomon said “it was 
IN BRIEF 

Safin calls for Agassi to return titles due to drug use 
PARIS — Former No. 1-ranked Marat Safin believes that Andre Agassi should give his tennis titles back after confessing he tested posi­tive for a banned substance during his career and lied about it to the ATP. 
Agassi admitted in his autobiogra­phy “Open” that he used crystal meth in 1997 and failed a drug test, a result he says was thrown out after he lied by saying he “unwittingly” took the substance. 
Safin, who plans to retire this month, said in an interview with L’Equipe newspaper on Tuesday that Agassi should “give his titles, his money and his Grand Slam titles” back. 
“I’m not defending the ATP, but what he said put it in a delicate posi­tion,” Safin said. “The ATP allowed him to win a lot of tournaments, a lot of money. It kept his secret. Why does he need to be so cruel with it?” 
all confined to the current instant replay system that we have.” 
“I think it’s working great, and for the most part the umpires are getting the calls right when replay is used,” Los Angeles Angels GM Tony Reagins said. “Can we always tweak and get better? Absolutely. But I think were headed in the right direction. For the most part they’re getting calls right and not afraid to use instant replay. As long as things are moving in the right direction, I don’t see a need to change.” 
The GMs also heard a report from umpiring vice president Mike Port on training, evaluation and structure. 
Iowa coach Ferentz claims Stanzi’s return is unlikely 
IOWA CITY — Iowa coach Kirk Ferentz says junior quarterback Ricky Stanzi has had surgery to repair a severely sprained ankle and is “very doubtful” for Iowa’s final two regular season games. 
Stanzi injured his right ankle in the second quarter of No. 15 Iowa’s 17-10 loss to Northwestern last weekend and did not return. 
Ferentz says redshirt freshman James Vandenberg is now the No. 1 quarterback for the Hawkeyes (9-1, 5-1 Big Ten). He will make his first career start Saturday at No. 10 Ohio State (8­2, 5-1). 
Vandenberg was 9 of 27 passing for 82 yards and an interception against Northwestern. 
Stanzi started all 10 games this sea­son, throwing for 2,186 yards with 15 touchdowns and 14 interceptions. Ferentz says that he believes Stanzi has a good chance to play in a bowl game. 
“I think commissioner Selig is going to look at the entire umpiring structure and he’s going to seek ways to enhance the entire struc­ture,” Solomon said. 
Other topics touched on during the GMs’ initial 4½­hour meeting were restruc­turing the Arizona Fall League to include younger players and modifying the amateur draft to reflect the previous year’s postseason performance. 
Solomon said there was no discussion on pace of the game, a topic that came to the forefront during the World Series after numer­ous visits to the mound by Yankees catcher Jorge Posada. 
No major trades were 
Appeals court ruling defends Vick’s bonuses 
MINNEAPOLIS — A federal appeals court on Tuesday backed the judge who ruled against the NFL and let quarterback Michael Vick keep more than $16 million in roster bonuses from the Atlanta Falcons. 
The 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals on Tuesday affirmed Judge David Doty’s order saying Vick had already earned the bonuses before his dogfighting conviction, so the money wasn’t subject to forfeiture. 
Vick served 18 months in prison and is now with the Philadelphia Eagles. 
Doty has long handled matters arising from the NFL’s collective bargaining agreement. After Doty ruled in the Vick bonus case, the NFL accused him of bias and sought to end his oversight of its contract with the players union. 
expected at this shorter­than-usual annual meeting, which ends Wednesday. Agents also are on hand at the gathering, being held at a hotel in O’Hare International Airport. Among the top available free agents are outfielders Matt Holliday and Jason Bay, pitcher John Lackey and infielder Chone Figgins. 
Reagins said the Angels are interested in re-signing both Lackey and Figgins. 
“These guys have oppor­tunities to market them­selves, and they’ve earned that,” Reagins said. “And we’re hopeful that we can come to an agreement at some point. Right now it remains to be seen.” 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, November 11, 2009 
NHL 

Senators top Oilers with Spezza goal in shootout 
Kiprusoff earns first shutout in Flames win over Montreal; Maple Leafs blow out wild on strong showing from Koivu 

Associated Press 
OTTAWA — Jason Spezza scored the winning goal in the shootout for the Ottawa Senators, who twice came 
f ro m  beh in d  t o  bea t  t he  
E d m o nt o n  Oi l e rs  4  -3  o n  
Tuesday night.  

Chris Neil scored his third goal of the season with just under 7 minutes left in regu­lation to give the Senators a 3­2 lead. Just under 2 minutes later, Gilbert Brule tied the game with a hard shot from the slot that trickled past Ottawa goalie Pascal Leclaire. 
Jonathan Cheechoo and Nick Foligno also scored for the Senators. Leclaire made 31 saves. 
Dustin Penner and Ethan Moreau had first-period goals for the Oilers, and Jeff Drouin-Deslauriers stopped 22 shots. 
Leclaire denied Andrew Cogliano on a breakaway mid­way through the third period. Moments later he stopped Denis Grebeshkov with a toe save in close to keep the game tied. 
Down 2-1 after 20 minutes, the Senators scored the only goal of the second period. Foligno took a behind-the­back pass from Ryan Shannon and put a backhand shot past Drouin-Deslauriers to tie it. 
The Oilers sandwiched first-period goals around Cheechoo’s first with the Senators. The first goal was originally credited to Steve Staios, which would have been the defenseman’s first of the season. The goal was changed to Penner after replays showed the puck hitting Penner before Leclaire knocked it into his own net with the shaft of his stick. 
Less than 3 minutes after Cheechoo scored, Moreau gave the Oilers their second lead of the night. He took advantage of miscommunica­tion in the corner between Peter Regin and Alex Picard, stealing the puck and stuffing it past Leclaire. 
Flames 1, Canadiens 0 
Miikka Kiprusoff got his first shutout of the season and Jarome Iginla extended his goal-scoring streak to four games, leading the Calgary Flames to a victory over the Montreal Canadiens on Tuesday night. 
Kiprusoff made 25 saves and improved to 10-3-1 this sea­son as Calgary won its fourth straight to begin a four-game trip. It was his 31st career shutout, his first since Feb. 12, when he turned aside 36 shots in a 2-0 win over Los Angeles. 
Named the NHL’s first star of the week one day earlier, Iginla opened the scoring with his team-leading ninth of the season 14:55 in. 
Iginla, who has scored five times during the streak, took a return pass from Olli Jokinen and put a shot through traffic past Jaroslav Halak from the top of the right faceoff circle. 
Halak stopped 30 shots for Montreal, which has lost its 
NBA 

Heat upend Wizards 

Associated Press 
MIAMI — Dwyane Wade scored 41 points and the Miami Heat remained in first place in the Southeast Division by holding off the Washington Wizards 90-76 on Tuesday night. 
It’s the second time Wade has topped 40 this season, both against Washington: He scored 40 last Wednesday in the nation’s capital. 
Michael Beasley scored 15 points and Mario Chalmers added 13, including a 3­pointer that put Miami up by eight with 1:47 remaining. The Heat are 6-1 for the first time in a decade, matching the best seven-game start in franchise history. 
Gilbert Arenas finished with 21 points, eight assists and 12 turnovers for the Wizards, who wasted an 11-point sec­ond-half lead. Arenas was the first NBA player with that many giveaways since Feb. 1, 2007 — when Wade did it against Cleveland. 
Caron Butler’s jumper with 
6:24 left gave Washington a 73 -71 lead. It was the Wizards’ final field goal, as they were outscored 19-3 the rest of the way. 
Carlos Arroyo added 10 for Miami. Butler scored 19 for Washington, which got dou­ble -doubles from Brendan Haywood (13 points, 11 rebounds) and Andray Blatche (13 points, 10 rebounds). 
The already -depleted Washington bench got even thinner midway through the second quarter, when guard Randy Foye sprained his right ankle and did not return. He’s the fourth Wizards guard now sidelined, joining Mike James (broken left ring finger), Mike Miller (sprained left shoulder) Javarris Crittenton (left foot). Forward Antawn Jamison (shoulder) is also sidelined. 
The Heat came into the night as the only NBA team that hadn’t faced a 10-point deficit this season. 
It took Washington little more than a quarter to change that. 
Arenas — whose status was unknown until literally moments before tip -off because of a balky left calf — ended the first quarter with a straightaway 3-pointer and opened the second quarter with a 14-footer, both coming over Carlos Arroyo. Dominic McGuire followed about a minute later with an awk­ward, turning 19-footer as the shot clock was expiring, and Washington had a 31-21 lead. 
Miami’s deficit was only 49­41 at intermission, and it could have been worse. 
last three games at the Bell Centre. 
The Canadiens, who lost 4-3 in Calgary on Oct. 6, have dropped five of seven overall. 
Flames forward Curtis Glencross sat out the first game of his three-game sus­pension. Glencross was sus­pended by the league on Monday for his hit to the head 
of Chris Drury of the New York Rangers in Calgary’s 3-1 win Saturday. 
Rene Bourque drew his 12th assist of the season on Iginla’s first-period goal to increase his team-leading point total to 18. 
The sellout crowd of 21,273 came to life during a wild stretch of 4-on-4 play in the second that saw Montreal’s Scott Gomez go in on a break­away and deke Kiprusoff, only to lose control of the puck with an opportunity to shoot over the goalie’s right pad into an open left side. 
Kiprusoff protected his shutout with a fine stop on former teammate Mike Cammalleri just over 4 min­utes into the third. 
The Canadiens, who will cel­ebrate their 100th anniver­sary on Dec. 4, wore retro uniforms patterned after those worn by the 1910-11 team. Strikingly similar to the Minnesota Wild’s look, the red-white-and-green throw­back jerseys feature a green maple leaf crest on the front. 
Maple Leafs 5, Wild 2 
Mikko Koivu scored one goal and assisted on two others in the second period as the Minnesota Wild ended the Toronto Maple Leafs’ two ­game winning streak with a victory Tuesday night. 
Marek Zidlicky broke a 1-1 tie at 5:44 of the period. Then, 26 seconds after Koivu beat Jonas Gustavsson at 17:29, Greg Zanon made it 4-1. 
Niklas Backstrom made that stand up with 37 saves for the Wild (7 -10), who also got goals from Martin Havlat and Owen Nolan into an empty net to win for the fourth time in five games. Minnesota won in Toronto for the first time (1-4) since joining the NHL in 2000­01. 
Alexei Ponikarovsky and Phil Kessel scored for the Maple Leafs (3-8-5), who earned points in seven straight games (3-0-4). Toronto failed to build on the momentum of Saturday’s 5-1 win over Detroit. 
Compounding matters, defenseman Mike Komisarek left the game because of a lower body injury after taking just six shifts for 2 minutes, 47 seconds of ice time. There was no immediate word on the severity of his injury. 
Trying to give his team a spark midway through the second, Leafs coach Ron Wilson moved Matt Stajan from the fourth line to the first with Kessel and John Mitchell. Kessel ripped a shot off the post on a power play soon after, but that was close as that trio came to scoring. 
Stajan was back between Colton Orr and Wayne Primeau to start the third while Jason Blake returned to the top unit. 
The Wild took two penalties in quick succession, setting up a three-man skating advan­tage for the Leafs once they pulled Gustavsson, but Backstrom shut the door until Nolan’s empty-netter with 3 seconds left iced it. 
Minnesota decided the game in the second period. 
Given a two-man advantage when Ponikarovsky flipped the puck over the glass for a delay of game penalty, Zidlicky broke the tie when his slap shot from the point got between Gustavsson and the post. 
The Wild extended that lead to 3-1, taking advantage of an exhausted Leafs unit left on the ice following an icing call. Antti Mitettinen forced a turnover in the corner after the faceoff and sent a pretty pass in front to Koivu, who tipped it past Gustavsson. 


Wednesday, November 11, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
NHL 

Purdue ready for big games to come 
New headshot rule 

Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE — As spe­cial as Purdue’s wins against Ohio State and Michigan were, the Boilermakers’ year could have been much more impressive. 
Purdue lost five straight games 
by a combined 33 points early in the season, including a two-point loss at Oregon and a three-point loss at home against Notre Dame on a last -minute touchdown. 
Purdue has rallied to win three of four, but the Boilermakers (4-6, 3-3 Big Ten) Michigan since 1966. Those might not have been wins if not for the confidence gained in the 38-36 loss at Oregon in Week 2. 
“We’ve been on the road at Oregon, one of the best teams in the country, and gave ourselves a chance to win the ballgame,” 

“We started off saying that we were not going to have any regrets.” 
Danny Hope Purdue coach 
will need to win their next two in order to become bowl-eligible. The Boilermakers will play Michigan State (5-5, 3-3) on Saturday, then Indiana a week later. 
Coach Danny Hope reminded the media Tuesday that Purdue and bowl weren’t anywhere near the same sentence in the presea­son. 
“We had to do a lot of great things for that question even to be raised,” he said. “We started off saying that we were not going to have any regrets, and we were not going to look back and sec­ond-guess our efforts when this thing was all said and done, and we could all hang our hat on that. And when it’s all said and done, we are going to be in good shape somehow.” 
The Boilermakers certainly won’t regret their first sweep of Ohio State and Michigan since 2000, or their first win at quarterback Joey Elliott said. “That’s the way we’ll look back at this season — that we gave ourselves a chance to win most of the games we played.” 
But the Boilermakers have hurt them­selves with mis­takes. They fum­
bled two punt returns and fell behind Northern Illinois 28-7 
before losing 28­
21. After losing to Notre Dame the next week, the Boilermakers had six turnovers in a 27-21 loss to Northwestern. 
“Their Achilles heel has been their turnovers,” Michigan State coach Mark Dantonio said. “That’s what has hurt them. They’ve moved 
the football. I think coach Hope has done an outstanding job in his first year.” 
Elliott said the loss to Northwestern hurts the most. Purdue blew a 21-3 lead, then Elliott missed an open Aaron Valentin in the back of the end zone on Purdue’s final offensive play. 

on GM’s agenda 
“Fourth-and-five against 

Northwestern, any time I need motivation or focus, I go back and flip that last play of the game on,” he said. 
The Boilermakers then lost another mistake-filled game against Minnesota before bounc­ing back with wins over Ohio State and Illinois. 
After Wisconsin walloped the Boilermakers 37-0, Purdue’s first team offense chose to participate in drills to get refocused the next day rather than rest. 
They had to regroup again 

“That’s the way we’ll look back at this season — that we gave ourselves a chance to win most of the games we played.” 
Joey Elliott Purdue quarterback 

Associated Press 
TORONTO — NHL general managers are keeping those trapezoids behind the nets, and will discuss a potential new rule aimed at reducing hits to the head. 
On the first day of the GMs meeting Tuesday, the group decided to stick with the trape­zoid rule that limits where goalies can play the puck. The 

after falling behind Michigan 24­
possibility of 

10 at halftime. 
eliminating it 
“It wasn’t a Knute Rockne 
was discussed, 

speech or anything like that peo­
but didn’t gain 

ple would have visualized,” Hope 
much momen­

said, “but we came in there and 
tum. The trape­

sat down and talked about the 
zoid rule was 

fact that we had protected a 
introduced as 
move a bit, but it doesn’t move a whole lot. Everything we have is to better the game, which it has, but it also puts players in a posi­tion that they can get hurt more.” 
There have only been a few tweaks to the rule book since major changes were made after the lockout to speed up the pace. 
“I really think the game’s in great shape,” Maloney said. “The games are tight. Every 

“When you change one thing, it could impact two or three other things.” 
Doug Wilson Sharks GM 
game is live or die and it’s October or November, for every team. That’s probably a good thing for the competitive­ness of the league. 
“You’ve got to be careful about thinking you have to reinvent the wheel every time you get quarterback and had guys open and moving the football and we had some drops and looked like we were able to score some part of a pack­age of changes coming out of the NHL lockout in 2005. 
One discussion that is sure to take much together. That’s not the case.” 
Two very familiar faces could soon be making their way back into the NHL. Interest in free-agent defenseman Chris Chelios is picking up, and several clubs are checking in on oft-injured forward Peter Forsberg, who could be readying for a come­back. 
Maloney is badly in need of a defenseman and plans to travel to San Antonio to scout the 47­year-old Chelios in person on Friday night. Chelios is playing with the AHL’s Chicago Wolves. 
“He’s there, he’s savvy and he’s in great shape,” Maloney said. “(But) I don’t know — the pace of the NHL game is so 
points.” 
The Boilermakers hope the win over the Wolverines is a springboard to greater things. 
“With Media Day, there were 

question marks everywhere,” Elliott said. “Nobody knew what Purdue football was going to be. Hopefully, with coach Hope and the year that he’s had, he put his foot in the door and started some­thing new, and hopefully he can build on it with recruiting.” 
longer is headshots, which will be examined at length on Wednesday. It’s the current hot-button issue around the league, and there are a variety of opin­ions about what could be done to curb blows to the head. 
While some GMs favor the sta­tus quo, others want a change. 
San Jose Sharks general man­ager Doug Wilson thought it was time to take a closer look at the trapezoid rule, but he wasn’t upset to see it stay. 
“I don’t think there’s a great appetite to change it,” he said. “And I don’t mind that because you’ve got to be conscious that when you change one thing, it could impact two or three other 


on the agenda, we’d asked to  “The players are bigger, they’re faster,  The Coyotes haven’t had any  
talk about it, just to really spur thought.” The GMs meet  and (the game) happens so much quicker and  contract talks yet with Chelios. “We haven’t  
four times a year and examine several issues  everything is so much harder.”  s p o k e n , ” Maloney said. “He’s just  
around the sport.  another name,  
Many items are  Jim Rutherford  a right-handed  
on the agenda.  Hurricanes GM  s  h  o  o  t i  n  g  

things. We put it quick.” 
“Some of them take literally 30 seconds,” Phoenix Coyotes GM Don Maloney said. 
The discussion of head shots will not be one of the quick ones. 
“I’m more concerned long­term about what’s going on,” said Tampa Bay Lightning GM Brian Lawton, who recently lost rookie defenseman Victor Hedman to injury after a big hit from Ottawa’s Chris Neil. 
“I had raised some of the con­cerns long before Viktor got hurt. So I think it’s very timely and I don’t want to deviate from that (issue). I’m more interested in the long term, what are we going to do, because it costs the teams a tremendous amount when players are injured. That’s the bottom line.” 
Veteran Carolina Hurricanes GM Jim Rutherford, a former goalie, also thinks it’s time to institute a rule designed to help reduce headshots. 
“The players are bigger, they’re faster, and (the game) happens so much quicker and everything is so much harder (than it used to be),” he said. “We’ve got the seamless glass now, I know it’s supposed to defenseman, (so 
we’re) saying, ‘OK, let’s talk about it.’ A week ago we were in pretty good shape healthwise, a week later you have two of your top six down.” 
Maloney has been forced to explore all available options with Ed Jovanovski and Zbynek Michalek both out of the lineup. 
Forsberg is attempting yet another comeback. He has played three games for his native Sweden at the recent Karjala Cup. His agent, Don Baizley, was milling around out­side the meeting area on Tuesday and chatted with a few GMs. 
The Vancouver Canucks, Boston Bruins, Philadelphia Flyers and the New York Rangers have all publicly con­firmed their interest. 
“I’ve made it known before — a healthy Peter Forsberg, who wouldn’t be interested?” said GM Paul Holmgren of the Flyers, who have had Forsberg in the organization twice before. “I don’t know that he’s healthy. I know he played (with) those guys over there, we had a cou­ple guys there watching.” 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday. November 11, 2009 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Paterno to work on special teams before last game 
Associated Press 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. — Joe Paterno wasn’t in a nostalgic mood, even with his seniors preparing to play their last home game. 
Waxing on about linebacker Sean Lee, quarterback Daryll Clark and his other veterans will have to wait until after the No. 19 Nittany Lions play Indiana on Saturday. There’s a long to-do list for practice 
— starting with shoring up special teams. 
Paterno said he may spend a little more time focusing on special teams this week, and may mak e some lineup changes after the unit’s lack­luster showing in last week’s loss to Ohio State. 
“Right now I don ’t have time for that,” Paterno said Tuesday when asked to talk about his seniors. “We’ve got to get our football team ready to play a little better than we’ve played all year because it’s going to take a little better performance to beat Indiana.” 
It probably can’t get any worse than the dud that Penn State (8-2, 4-2 Big Ten) had against the Buckeyes. 
The offensive line got over­whelmed, giving little time for tailback Evan Royster or quarterback Daryll Clark to make big plays. The Nittany Lions ’ vaunted defense allowed season highs of 24 poi nts and 228 rushing yards. 
Perhaps most deflating were the miscues on special teams, a season-long con ­cern. 
Two long punt returns by Ohio State’s Ray Small set up two touchdowns — and Small would have taken one of those returns back for a score if not for the desperate tackle of punter Jeremy Boone. 
“Today we’ll go out there and challenge a couple guys a little bit so that we can find out whether we really have the right people in there,” Paterno said. 
Penn State solved one punt­ing problem last week, only to have another emerge. The Nittany Lions came into the game having had two punts blocked this season, includ­ing one returned for a touch­down during a September loss to Iowa. Paterno had said the blocks may have been in part due to Boone — who typically punts well — taking an extra half-step or two before punting. 
Linebacker Josh Hull, who helps protect Boone during punts, said the punter may have done too good a job Saturday and “out-kicked the coverage. ” The Buckeyes pounded the Nittany Lions up front and made it difficult to get downfield after the punt was away, Hull said. 
But he offered no excuses. 
“The one play, I think there was five missed tackles. That’s not what Penn State is about, that’s not wh at the punt team is about, ” Hull said. 
Exacerbating the problem is tha t the Nittany Lions average only five-plus yards per punt return, the second-lowest mark in the Big Ten. Put in perspective, Small’s 130 return yards on seven punts last week was more than Penn State’s combined punt return yardage (98) for all 10 games this year. 
Statistically, Penn State is even less productive in the kickoff return game with a Big Ten-worst 18.2 yards per return. It’s only on kickoff coverage where Penn State has been respectable, rank­ing third in the conference 
Paterno splits up special teams coaching duties among his staff rather than assign a special teams coordinator — a setup he’s had for as long as he can remember. 
“We haven’t been bad on special teams through the years. Let’s don’t get carried away, guys. I’m not about to change,” Paterno said. 
Any change he does make may come in personnel. 
“We’ve just got to do a little better job, get some better people in there. That’s my problem, all right,” Paterno said. “It’s not the scheme, it’s not the coaching, it’s a ques­tion of whether I’m giving th em enough time or I’ve emphasized it enough.” 
Penn State can still make a respectable New Year’s Day bowl game if it wins out — with an outside shot at get­ting back into the Bowl Championship Series picture. Currently No. 18 in the BCS standings, Penn State must move up four spots to be con­sidered for an at-large berth. 
If that were to happen, the Nittany Lions might still look like an attractive option in spite of the losses to Ohio State and Iowa because their fans are known to travel. 
Paterno will leave the post­season spec ulation to the fans and media. He’s concen­trating on getting two more regular season victories. 
“Right now, we’re only 8­2, ” Paterno said. “I think maybe if we end up 10 -2, that’s a pretty darn good year ... if we end up 10-2.” 


Wednesday, November 11, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
MLB 

Jeter wins fourth Gold Glove 
Longoria, Jones and Buehrle win honor for the first time in careers 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Derek Jeter sure is stuffing his trophy case this year. 
The steady Yankees short­stop won his fourth Gold Glove on Tuesday, joining New York first baseman Mark Teixeira among the American League players rewarded for fantastic fielding. 
“I’ve always taken a great deal of pride in my defense, and being honored with a Gold Glove is an accomplishment I will never overlook,” Jeter said in a statement. 
Los Angeles Angels center fielder Torii Hunter and Seattle right fielder Ichiro Suzuki both won for the ninth straight season. First-time winners included Tampa Bay third baseman Evan Longoria, Baltimore outfielder Adam Jones and Chicago White Sox pitcher Mark Buehrle. 
Minnesota catcher Joe Mauer and Detroit second baseman Placido Polanco each earned their second award. 
Rawlings has presented Gold Gloves annually since 1957. Managers and coaches vote on players in their own leagues before the regular season ends, but they may not select members of their own teams. 
National League winners will be announced Wednesday. 
It’s been a banner year for Jeter, who combined with Teixeira to help lead the Yankees past Philadelphia last week for the franchise’s 27th World Series title. 
In addition to his fifth cham­pionship ring, Jeter also took home baseball’s Roberto Clemente Award for excellence on the field and in the commu­nity, and his second Hank Aaron Award as the AL’s top hitter. In September, he broke Lou Gehrig’s club record for hits. 
The Gold Glove is perhaps his most sur­prising piece 
of hardware, however. Jeter, so 

“Playing
who turned 35 this award is in June, championship caliber very special to enjoyed one of baseball starts with me. It’s hum-his best defen-bling to have 
pitching and defense.” 
sive seasons your name after years of associated criticism for a Derek Jeter with some of 
lack of range. Yankees short stop the great 

A 10 -time All-Star, Jeter won three con­secutive Gold Gloves from 2004 -06. But detractors pointed to modern fielding stats that indicated his defense didn’t warrant such accolades. They said it was his bat that brought on the atten­tion — and the New York spot­light. 
This season, Jeter made a career-low eight errors and matched his personal best with a .986 fielding percent­age, both ranking at the top of the AL charts. He anchored an outstanding Yankees infield as New York set a major league record by going 18 games without an error from May 14 to June 1. 
“Playing championship-cal­iber baseball starts with pitch­ing and defense, and I think those two components were certainly the foundation for our success in 2009,” said Jeter, who underrated component of win­ning baseball, but it is some­thing I have always taken pride in,” Teixeira said. “Winning a third Gold Glove means a lot to me, especially when good defense helped our entire team reach the ultimate goal of a world champi­onship.” 
Mauer, a top contender for AL MVP, won his second con­secutive Gold Glove after lead­ing the Twins on a late charge into the playoffs. 
Longoria, last year’s AL Rookie of the Year, unseated Seattle’s Adrian Beltre at third base. Beltre, hampered by injuries this season, won the previous two years after a six-year run by Oakland’s Eric Chavez. 
“It’s the one award that I’ve wanted to win since I started pro ball,” Longoria said in a 
statement. “I 
take a lot of 
pride in my 
defense, 

“It’s one award I’ve 
made 56 July 31 in a errors as a 19-wanted to win since I package for year-old at ace Jake 
started pro baseball.” 
Class-A Peavy. Greensboro in “Hopefully, I 1993. Evan Longoria earned it this 
Teixeira Rays third baseman year,” Buehrle players who 
have won a 
Gold Glove, 
especially the third basemen.” 
In addition to the voters, Longoria thanked teammate Carlos Pena, last season’s Gold Glove winner at first base. 
“We all know how good he is. He probably saved me at least five errors this year, so without him the award might not have been possible,” Longoria said. 
Buehrle pitched a perfect game against Tampa Bay on July 23. But when he allows runners, he’s particularly effective at holding them on. 
The left-hander yielded only four stolen bases in eight tries this season and picked off eight runners. The only pitch­er with more pickoffs was for­mer teammate Clayton Richard, who had nine, according to STATS LLC. Chicago trad­ed Richard to San Diego on 
played a big part in New York’s title, too. 
In his first season with the Yankees after signing a $180 million, eight-year contract, Teixeira impressed with his reliable glove as well as his powerful bat. He saved runs with diving stops, nimble stretches and tough scoops. Teammates and opponents alike pointed to his substantial effect on the club’s overall defense. 
A Gold Glove winner in 2005 and ‘06 with Texas, Teixeira committed just four errors this year and had a .997 fielding percentage. 
“Solid defense is the most said. 
Polanco, 
who has filed 
for free 
agency, com­mitted two errors all season. He also won in 2007 — with­out making an error — before losing out last year to Boston’s Dustin Pedroia. 
With nine Gold Gloves apiece, Hunter and Suzuki are one shy of the AL record for outfielders, shared by Ken Griffey Jr. and Hall of Famer Al Kaline. 
Hunter receives a $100,000 bonus for winning the Gold Glove, while Suzuki gets $50,000. Buehrle, Longoria, Mauer and Polanco each earned $25,000. 

page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, November 11, 2009 


PAT COVENEY/The Observer Freshman guard Skylar Diggins dribbles in a 97-53 exhibition win against Indianapolis on November 3. 
Diggins 
continued from page 24 
2001, according to Masters, and the Irish are hoping to sell out large portions of their home schedule this year and eclipse that number. 
Diggins was a star at local Washington High School and 
was  a McDonald’s  All- 
American  as  well  as  a  two- 
time  USA  Basketball  gold  

medalist with the 2008 U-18 team and 2009 U-19 team. Diggins’ substantial local pres­ence on the team has added to an extensive cast of other local stars. 
Helping to start the trend of forming a local roster four years ago was Lechlitner, who attended St. Joseph’s High School. 
“I love to being home and in town and having my friends and family being able to come to every game,” Lechlitner said. “Just having the support of South Bend at every game is unheard of. We go to other away games and their support is nowhere close to what it is here.” 
The way the Irish are trying to connect with the community and get their faces out there is to get involved in local com­munity service projects. According to Masters, the team logged over 800 hours of community service last year, going out to local grade schools, pep rallies, and pedi­atric cancer clinics. 
“It is really important for us to give back and go out there and do things,” McGraw said. “They love doing it, and I real­ly like having them out there.” 
Barlow believes that the teams commitment to working in the community is serving to bring more fans into the stadi­um and creating one of the more intimidating stadium atmospheres in women’s bas­ketball. 
“We are always out in the community and we are always talking to people,” Barlow said. “We talk to little kids, we talk to older people. We are always out in the community and I think that makes it easi­er for them to support us because they have actually met us and they know us.” 
Lechlitner said she believes the team’s concerted effort to have a presence in the local community is paying off in fan support. 
“We try and get out there and try and hang out with the kids at their schools, and do community service like that and just try and get more peo­ple to come to the games,” Lechlitner said. 
The Irish hope that this fan support will make their first season in their renovated sta­dium one to remember. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 

against the No. 8 Panthers. scrutiny regarding his future 
“And maybe I’m trained at Notre Dame. that way,” Weis said. “But “It’s not a game for us,” he continued from page 24 it’s just a complete tunnel said. “This is our life. It’s not 
vision way of looking at it. I just the wins and losses. It’s it might be — I’m not the don’t spend any time reflect-everything that goes with it. doctor, once again. I think ing. I only worry about doing Positively and negatively. So that’s a reach. I think he’ll all I can to beat Pitt.” you do the math on how be able to He added that that’s going.” practice again he was uncon­in December.” cerned about Note: 
So far this his public per- Freshman kicker Nick season, “People don’t know ception. Tausch was named as a Rudolph was you, why do I care “People don’t semifinalist for the Groza second on the know you, why Award Monday. 
Rudolph 

what they think?”
team with 33 do I care what The Award is given annual-catches and they think? ” ly to college football’s top third with Charlie Weis Weis said. placekicker. three receiv-Irish coach “Really? What Prior to the season, Irish 
ing touch ­downs. Junior Mike Ragone, who missed all of last with a torn anterior cruciate liga­ment (ACL), is now listed as the starter at tight end on the Irish depth chart. Ragone has three catches on the season, all in the past two games. 
Senior Bobby Burger, who was held out of action against Navy with a neck injury, is listed as Ragone’s backup. Weis said that Burger, a former walk-on, is healthy and ready to play. 
As far as other injuries go, Weis said that junior running back Armando Allen and sophomore right guard Trevor Robinson, both of whom missed last week’s game, would start Saturday night in Pittsburgh barring any setbacks in practice. 
Weis also said that despite the nasty hit junior quarter­back Jimmy Clausen took on Saturday, he definitely did not suffer a concussion. 
“He was a sore puppy now,” Weis said. “But no, he didn’t have a cognitive test. He’s the king of the ice bags, as I told you. And he had them all over: Neck, shoul­der, toe. He was a one man 
M.A.S.H. unit.” 

Despite constant big pic­ture questions about his career and job security at Notre Dame, Weis refused to talk about anything other than Saturday night’s game do I care? If they don’t know you, they’ll 
have an opinion based off of what? They don’t know.” 
Weis did say, though, that he was concerned with how his family was handling the constant questions and junior kicker Brandon Walker was named to the award’s watch list. Walker is currently injured and has not seen action yet this sea­son. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 



Wednesday, November 11, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 21 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Collaros to start, Pike to play for UC 

Associated Press 
CINCINNATI — Quarterback Zach Collaros will start for fifth-ranked Cincinnati against West Virginia on Friday night, with Tony Pike expected to play as well for the first time since he hurt his non-throwing arm. 
Coach Brian Kelly announced Tuesday that Collaros will be his starter. The sophomore backup has played spectacular­ly and kept the Bearcats (9-0) in the national title conversation while Pike heals from surgery to replace a metal plate in his left forearm. 
Collaros threw for 480 yards—the second-highest total in school history— during a 47­45 win over Connecticut on Saturday night. Pike warmed up before the game, but didn’t play. Kelly said the senior will run some plays against West Virginia (7-2). 
“We’re going to try to put a couple different packages in and just go from there,” Pike said after practice Tuesday. “Obviously getting back out there and practicing is one thing, but in the game it’s a dif­ferent speed. That’s the biggest thing. 
“With how well Zach’s playing right now, it’s going to be a little better for him to be able to mix me in there a little bit and go from there and see how I’m feeling.” 
The Bearcats have a bye next week, giving Pike a couple more weeks of practice to sharpen his skills after so much missed time. Kelly said the plan is to have Pike start against Illinois on Nov. 27 in Cincinnati. 
Pike’s injury and Collaros’ remarkable job as the fill-in presented a conundrum for Kelly. Pike was one of the nation’s top passers before he got hurt, earning mention as a long shot for the Heisman Trophy. Collaros has won his first three collegiate starts, bringing a new element to the spread offense with his mobili­ty. 
Now, Kelly has to choose between them with a second straight Big East title on the line. If he goes ahead with his plan to start Pike against Illinois, he’ll be benching a backup quarterback who threw for 480 yards in a big game. 
“That’s new territory for me,” Kelly said. “I can’t say that in 19 years of being a head coach that I’ve had that kind of a dilemma, if you will. Again, the nice part about it is that our football team has absolutely no concerns over who’s leading them, if it’s Zach or Tony.” 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Team focusing on doubles play 
By KATELYN GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 

After having a successful fall season with their singles lineup, the Irish will focus on their doubles play during the offseason before beginning the spring season in January. 
“We need to work on better doubles play,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “This means embracing higher first serve percentages, more aggressive net play and being solid from the back when on defense.” 
The Irish seem to have their No. 1 singles position locked in heading into the spring season with sopho­more Casey Watt seeing the majority of the playing 
“We need to work on 
time at the fall, including position this better doubles play.” Blas Moros and fall. Michael Moore. 
“Casey had Bayliss noted 
Bobby Bayliss 
a significant that Moros has 
Irish coach
breakthrough at the ITA Regionals, ” Bayliss said. “Reaching the finals in a field that included some of the better players in the country is a terrific achieve­ment. Beating Justin Kronauge (of Ohio State) is quite an accomplishment, as he had been the No. 1 player in the U.S. in the juniors sev­
eral years ago.” Juniors David Anderson “His win over Michalika and Matt Johnson both [Wisconsin] is significant responded well to nagging 
because he beat Brett Helgeson twice last year. He clearly is becoming more aggressive and getting to the net more than a year ago,” Bayliss said. “He always had the heart and wheels of a champion, but 

injuries dur­ing the fall “[Watt] always had season and finished out 
the heart and wheels 
the fall sea-

of a champion, but he son with 
now is getting some strong per­formances at 
new weapons.” 
the William and Mary Bobby Bayliss Invitational. Irish coach Bayliss 
he now is getting some new weapons which allow him 
options he previously lacked.” 
The Irish have also seen good perform ­ances out of some of their freshmen this 
added some pop to his serve, and Moore is work­ing on moving 
forward and being more suc­cessful at the net. 
To go along with Watt and the two freshmen, fellow sophomore Sam Keeton has shown signs of improvement, playing well at the Harvard Invitational in Massachusetts. 
knows that 
while he may have his No. 1 set, he will need other guys to come up with some major wins at the lower spots in the lineup in order for the team to have success. 
“Maintaining motivation while awaiting playing opportunities is important,” Bayliss said. “We truly have nine players, at the very least, who we feel are capa­ble of winning big in the lower lineup. We may need to rotate our guys in and out of the lineup at the beginning of the season to see who is doing the best job.” 
Notre Dame will look to continue its fall success heading into the dual match portion of its schedule, which opens at home on Jan. 22 against William and Mary. 
Contact Katelyn Grabarek at kgraba01@saintmarys.edu 


page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, November 11, 2009 
Ducks 
continued from page 24 
said. “Especially for us because it’s something the dorm hasn’t experienced.” 
If Howard wins Sunday and gets to the finals, their oppo­nent might be another team chasing an unblemished record, Pasquerilla West. The Purple Weasels have won two titles in the past five years, and are used to success. They don’t put any extra stock in chasing a perfect record. 
“We kind of knew that the season would be preparation for the playoffs,” senior cap­tain Cynthia Curley said. “We realized there was a target on our backs because our dorm has had a lot of success. Every playoff game there is a lot of intensity, so being undefeated doesn’t particularly add to it.” 
Without a loss to their record, the two teams have had to look in unconventional places for lessons in overcom­ing the adversity that will inevitably come with a long playoff run. 
Bishop said a nail-biting matchup against perennial powerhouse and larger dorm Welsh Family was a character-


NCAAs 
continued from page 24 
bracket to make Notre Dame work for a berth in the Final Four of the College Cup. 
“I would say that you’ve got a few teams in there that we building game for her team. 
“When we played Welsh [Family] it was a tight game the whole way through,” Bishop said. “It really made us dig deep and figure out just what we were capable of early on in the season.” 
Curley remembered a game earlier in the season where her Purple Weasels battled not only Pangborn, their opponent in the semifinals this weekend, but also the elements. 
“We have a little bit of a his­tory with Pangborn ever since we beat them in the champi­onship, and there was a Thursday night game against them in the pouring rain,” Curley said. “The ball was slippery, there was no trac­tion. It was a big struggle for our offense. It was 0-0 the whole game and then we scored in the final minute. Every moment was high pres­
sur e  and  we  really  c ame  
together.”  
Both  Howard  and  

Pasquerilla West, despite being undefeated, are battle-tested, and while both teams chase perfect records, their focus is squarely on winning a championship. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
one of the toughest first round games we’ve had in years, just as Central Michigan could be for Purdue.” 
The Irish could run into the winner of a potential second round matchup between Florida and Ohio State in the third round. Both teams would 
be far from an easy out for the Irish, especially the athletic Gators. Fortunately for the Irish, Florida is one of two teams in their half of the pod from outside the Midwest, which could 
Jackson 
continued from page 24 

Irish coach Jackson’s teams has usually been the goaltender. The past two seasons, netminder Jordan Pearce started 38 and 42 games. Prior to Pearce, David Brown started in 39 and 30 games in his two seasons under Jackson. 
So far this year, though, the Irish have, for the most part, alternated between junior Brad Phillips and freshman Mike Johnson, with Phillips getting five starts and Johnson getting four. 
This past weekend against Alaska, Johnson was the first of the two goalies to start twice in one weekend. Friday night, he surrendered only two goals in a 3-2 Irish win. Saturday, though, Johnson gave up three third-period goals as Notre Dame lost to the Nanooks 3-1. 
Jackson said that he thought Johnson played well in both games, and that not all of Saturday’s goals were necessari­ly his fault. 
“He’s only a freshman,” Jackson said. “But if he contin­ues to play on a consistent basis, yeah, he’s going to compete to be the guy for sure. I’m not giving up on Brad or [senior] Tommy [O’Brien] at this point. I still need to give Brad more time to prove that he’s capable. I think he’s not had a lot of support in front of him offensively.” 
Jackson said that at this point he was still looking for one goalie to step up and become the full-time starter, but that eventually he may have to consider using multiple netminders for the rest of the season. 
“I’ve never been a two-goalie guy my whole coaching career, but that doesn’t mean that I wouldn’t try it,” Jackson said. “If I had to guys that were able to win for us, then, yeah.” 
While the situation in net works itself out, the Irish are also searching for consistency scoring goals. So far, the Irish rank ninth in the 12-team CCHA with 2.3 goals per game. 
Specifically, Notre Dame is having difficulty scoring goals even strength. In two games against the Nanooks, Notre Dame scored a powerplay goal in each game. On the season, the Irish have converted on 21.1 per­cent of their chances with the man advantage. 
“Now we know that for that whole two minutes we have a threat, no matter which unit goes first and which goes sec­ond,” Lawson said. 
Jackson, though, said he was still focused in improving Notre Dame’s 5-on-5 scoring efficiency. 
“You look the statistical cate­gories in our conference, there’s one that glaring for us,” Jackson said. “In the rest of them, we’re doing OK.” 
In fact, the Irish are in the top five in the conference in nearly every other statistical category. 
Jackson said that at the begin­ning of the season, he was trying to find the right line combina­tions, but that eventually the players just had to get into a scoring rhythm. 
“I’ve switched lines around so much I’m getting tired of it,” Jackson said. “At some point it’s up to the players to start building some confidence in their ability with the puck. We’ve got guys that really know how to score, but right now some guys are squeezing the stick a little bit too hard.” 
Despite the slow start, Lawson remained confident that the Irish would turn things around. 
“We’ve just got to get back to the little things,” he said. “We know it’s going to come eventual­ly and it’ll be fun once it does.” 
Note: 
 Jackson said that junior defenseman Teddy Ruth was expected to return this weekend against Northern Michigan. Jackson added that Ruth, who had missed the first couple of weeks with a leg injury, is not expected to be 100 percent healthy right away, but can pro­vide Notre Dame with valuable depth along the back line. 
“We’ve had four guys logging a lot of minutes the past month and I think that’s hurt us in the third period of a lot of games,” Jackson said. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
think can pose some problems,” Waldrum said. “Obviously we’re just focusing on IUPUI because it’s one loss and you’re out, but looking at the brackets and see­

“I would say that you’ve got a few teams in there that we think can pose some problems.” 
Randy Waldrum Irish coach 
ing who could be difficult teams down the road, there’s a handful of 4-5 quali­ty teams that can be a tough stretch not only for us but for Florida State as well.” 
In addition to the Seminoles, the Irish could run into quality opponents in each round of the tournament, starting with IUPUI, who is making its first appearance in the tourna ­ment. Should the Irish advance to the second round, they’ll face the winner of the fi rst-round matchup 

between Central “We have two diffcult el could be to Michigan and games, and IUPUI our advantage, Purdue. and the weath­
could be one of the
“We got the er might be group of four toughest frst round bad. Anytime a that we had games we’ve had in team travels to 
anticip ated the Midwest 
years.” 
before going into from the South the selection, but or West Coast I think the thing Randy Waldrum it’s gonna be you have to be Irish coach difficult.” 
add to Notre Dame’s home-field advantage. 
“I think it kind of depends on what’s going on with the weather at the time,” Waldrum said. “They’re gonna be up at Ohio State in that opening weekend, and I don’t think the weather’s gonna be too bad, but Florida is proba­bly as athletic a team as there is in our grouping, so it could be a problem if they got through, so you hope trav­


careful about is to make sure that you continue to stay focused, so at this point, IUPUI is the national champi­onship,” Waldrum said. “This is their first time and they walked right through [the Summit League] and their tournament, so they’re gonna be challenging and bring a lot of fans in from Indianapolis. They’ll be excited so it’s important to get our fans out, and we really need the stu­dents behind us this weekend at home. We have two difficult games, and IUPUI could be On the 
national level, three of the four pods appear to be very challenging. In Waldrum’s opinion, defending champion North Carolina has the easiest road to the Final Four. 
“I think Carolina has the easiest pod,” Waldrum said. “I just didn’t see much all the way through there that’s gonna pose a huge problem. The other three groupings all got a very difficult draw.” 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  
 
 16  
17  18  
 19  
20  21  22  
23  24  
25  26  27  28  29  30  31  
32  
 33  34  35  36  37  38  39  
 
40  41  42  43  
 
44  
 45  46  47  
 
48  
 49  50  51  
 
52  53  54  55  56  
57  58  59  60  61  62  63  
64  65  
 66  
67  68  
 
 69  
70  71  72  

Wednesday, November 11, 2009 The Observer  TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
67Nincompoop68Farm soils 69Temple cases 70De novo 71Dawn 72Overly docile 
Down 
1 Henry Higgins'screator 2 Home of the Dr Pepper Museum 3 Say withconviction 4 Pandemonium 5 ___ & Young(accounting firm) 6 Hungry cow, maybe7 Wed 8 Dramatic start 9 Pen filler 10Hand-held telescope11 Geographicalinfo 12Storm's predecessor13Richard Petty'sracing son 21Contest at 20 paces22Blue 
25Down-home breakfast serving
26Bear's landingplace?
27Added muscle,with “up”
29On ___ things
30Old carrier name 
31___ MaplesTrump
34One with defib training 

WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Puzzle by Tim Wescott 
35Chipped part of 49Laura's 1960s 57Cake with a kick a statue, maybe sitcom hubby 
58Dendrite's 36Bottom line 51Polite denial counterpart37Economic fig. 
53Artist Frida ___ 

5991/2 narrow, e.g. 
38Shelley's “___ to 
54Actress Kruger 

Naples” and others 60“Laughing” bird 41Referral for 
55Stop on ___ 61Monster 

further information 56“Thou ___, most 
62Certain W.M.D. 46“Lovely” Beatles ignorantgirl monster”: Shak. 63PC site 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

Across 
1 Sailor 5 Austen and Flaubert heroines 10Blitzing
linebacker's feat 14Own 15Raid target 16Ask 17Served as well 
as possible 18“El ___” (1983film) 19“Gimme a C! 
…,” e.g. 20See 57-Across 23Gene of 
westerns 24One likely tolend a needed 
hand 25“I'm stumped” 28Meter reading, 
e.g. 32Letter in Socrates'name 33Releases 

39Dominican-born player in the 600club 
40Writers Flemingand McEwan 42Center of a 57­Across 43Box gently 44Bird's home 
45When repeated,statement after an explosion 
47Wildcatter's find 48Annual feast 50Prefix with red 52___ choy
(Chinese green) 54Finnish architect Alvar ___ 57Setting for a 20­Across … as represented bythis puzzle's
circled letters 64Botanical angle 65Friend in the 
hood: Var. 66Flu feature 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Wednesday, November 11, 2009 page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Tight end down 
Rudolph expected to miss fnal three games 
By SAM WERNER 
Associate Sports Editor 
Just when the Irish thought they were out of the woods medically, the dreaded injury bug struck again. 
In sophomore wide receiver Michael Floyd’s first game back after a broken collar­bone, sophomore tight end Kyle Rudolph suffered a shoulder injury that will like­ly keep him out for the rest of the regular season, Irish coach Charlie Weis said Tuesday. 
“It’s some muscle — mus­cles on the shoulder,” Weis said. “I just know that they were fearing a collarbone being broken, and that’s not it. So it’s something that in all likelihood they said that 
VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer 
Stanford is a possibility. I say 

Irish sophomore tight end Kyle Rudolph breaks a tackle against Navy on Saturday. Rudolph see RUDOLPH/page 20 suffered a shoulder injury during the game and is expected to be out for the regular season. 

HOCKEY Jackson looking for consistency 
By SAM WERNER 
Associate Sports Editor 
If there is one word that has been used more than any other to describe Jeff Jackson teams over the years, it has to be “consis­tent.” 
So far this season, though, the Irish (5-4-1, 2-1-1 CCHA) are struggling to find that trademark steadiness. 
“I think this will be good for us in the end,” senior defenseman Kyle Lawson said. “It’s definitely tough right now to go through and little bit frustrating, but I think everybody still has a lot of confidence in this team. We’ve got a lot of great players and we know our coaches know what they’re doing.” 
The one rock of consistency in 
see JACKSON/page 22 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Local talent attracts big crowds to Purcell Pavilion 
been making a concerted effort Diggins on the court are senior ter is indicative of the level of 7,500, partly attributable to 
By JARED  JEDICK 

to get their faces out in the guard and captain Ashley play of local basketball. the newly refurbished Purcell 
Sports Writer 

community and draw more Barlow, from Indianapolis, and “It says a lot about the quali-Pavilion, but also intimately 
fans to the newly refurbished junior forward Becca ty of basketball here in South linked to local high school star 
The local South Bend com-Purcell Pavilion. Bruszewski, from Valparaiso. Bend, and in Indiana in gener-Diggins finding her way onto munity has been pouring out “This is the kind of team that A large part of this local slant al,” McGraw said. “I think that the roster. This culmination of in droves this season to get a you can really get behind,” to roster is a result of a direct-there is great basketball in this local interest in the team, chance to see the Notre Dame Irish coach Muffet McGraw ed recruiting effort from the area, it is exciting to watch, according to Masters, is just women play hoops, and one said. “You can really relate to coaching staff. there is great fan support and the final step on a chain of major reason why the number them and your kids can relate “We try to recruit the the community is really events that have intimately of players from the local com-to them.” Midwest,” McGraw said. “I involved. It is fun for them to connected the team with the munity, including South Bend The Irish this year have know parents want to see their continue to follow the players local community and spiked and Mishawaka natives fresh-taken on a very local flavor, daughters play, and it is great they followed in high school.” attendance since the national man guard Skylar Diggins and boasting four players from the for us to have the family in the According to Assistant Sports championship year in 2001. senior guard Melissa state of Indiana, as well as six stands.” Information Director Chris The team had an average Lechlitner. players from Illinois, Michigan McGraw said that the fact Masters, this season has attendance of 7,825 during 
Even beyond this local slant and Kentucky. Fellow Indiana that so many players from the already sold out a record num­to the roster, the team has natives joining Lechlitner and state of Indiana are on the ros-ber of season tickets, about see DIGGINS/page 20 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Irish face tough road to fnals 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
No. 4/5 Notre Dame was pleased to learn Monday evening that they had earned a No. 2 seed in what looks to be a challenging College Cup bracket. 
With their No. 2 seed, the Irish are guaranteed to host at least three home games during the championship and would only travel if they were to face No. 1 seed Florida State in the pod final. However, despite the luxury of playing in front of a home crowd, Irish coach Randy Waldrum said that there is enough competition in the 
see NCAAS/page 22 


PAT COVENEY/The Observer Junior Julie Scheidler fghts for the ball against a South Florida defender in Notre Dame’s 2-1 win over the Bulls Nov. 1. 
WOMEN’S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Howard looking for undefeated season 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 

For a small residence hall like Howard, success in interhall football is hard to come by. Howard houses around 150 girls, nearly 100 less than many of the dorms they compete against. 
Nonetheless, the Ducks have battled against those odds this season, not only making the playoffs but also compiling a perfect 7-0 record. Junior captain and quarterback Kayla Bishop doesn’t think being undefeat­ed entering the playoffs adds any pressure to her team. 
“This is a dorm that’s never even won a playoff game so we’ve already kind of made history,” Bishop said. “At this point we are just trying to finish the season strong, because we’ve already sur­passed our goals. Being undefeated doesn’t add any pressure.” 
The Ducks defeated Cavanaugh 13-6 in the quar­terfinals and will face Walsh in the semifinals. They are in awe of the opportunities their successful season has brought them. 
“[Playing in the Stadium] would be so special,” Bishop 
see DUCKS/page 22 







