
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Heallhca•-e debate 

Rising costs, limited access and lack of sustainability cause confusion 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
Editor's note: This is the first installment in a two-part series examining some issues in the health care debate in the United States. 
The complex health care pic­ture in the United States can be broken down into three major issues, according to Bill Evans, a professor of Economics and Econometrics who specializes in health eco­nomics. 
Evans said the main issues in the health care sector are rising costs, limited access and the lack of sustainability of Medicare. 
"We seem to have no handle on costs," Evans said. "The cost of medical care is increas­ing at a much higher rate than inflation. The cost of insur­ance is increasing faster than inflation." 
One problem with the rising cost of health care is that it impacts wages, Evans said. 
"Most people receive health­care from private insurance, and most insurance is provid­ed by employers," Evans said. "The cost of insurance is com­ing from the wages of work­ers." 
Evans said a common mis­conception about employer­based health insurance is that the employer is paying for the insurance. However, he said workers ultimately pay in the form of receiving lower wages. 
"Because of the rising cost in health care, there is a limited growth in other components of compensation," Evans said. 
The second problem of the 
U.S. healthcare system -lim­ited access -is the easiest problem to solve, he said. 
The uninsured rate can be lowered by heavily subsidizing insurance for low-income peo­ple and establishing individual mandates that require every­one to have health insurance. 
These solutions to the prob-

Initiative raises funds for water development 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
Student government will launch "The Global Water Initiative" -a year-long fundraising and awareness campaign for water develop­ment -with a T-shirt give­away, lecture and benr.fit con­cert Tuesday. 
The initiative marks the first time that Notre Dame studPnt government has forusnd on one social issue for an entire year. Hachnl Hoseb<'rry. chair of the Senate soeial concerns committee. said. 
"We can pick an issue and really make a differenee," Ros.-berry said. "Water is such a fundamental issue. Globally, more than one in six people are without access to safe drinking water." 
All of the mon2y that stu­dent government raises will go to The Water Project, a nonprofit organization. The funds wi11 be used to dig wells in Kenya and possibly Uganda, Roseberry said. 
Justin Pham, director of the Global Water Initiative proj­ect, said the organization was carefully chosen and they are confident in the work that The Water Project does. 
"The issue of water devel­opment is so complex and there are so many issues sur­rounding it, we wanted to make sure that we ehose a nonprofit that would address all those issues," Pham said. 
Student government also collaborated on the project with the Ford Family Program 
see WATER/page 4 

lem of access have been pro­posed in the ongoing Congressional debates on health care, he said 
But Evans said the proposals to expand acces.s are not prob­lem-free. 
"Few of the proposals are doing anything on the cost side," he said. 
They also do not address the third major problem of the healthcare "ystem, which is Medicare. 
"Medicare is a time bomb 
see HEALTH/page 4 

Hannah and Friends opens 30-acre farm 

By SAM WERNER News Writer 
With a count of "1, 2, 3" followed by a snip of some scissors, Maura and Hannah Weis officially opened the next chapter of the Hannah and Friends organization. 
The group officially opened its first residential home Monday with a ribbon-cutting ceremony at the foundation's 30-acre farm in South Bend. 
"It's great," Maura Weis, the wife of Irish football coach Charlie Weis, said. "It's emotional, but happy." 
Maura and Charlie Weis 
started Hannah and Friends in 2003. Charlie said Monday that the couple began think­ing about charity work after he suffered serious complica­tions from an attempted gas­tric bypass surgery. 
"Maura looked at me and said, 'You know, you could have died and we never would have done any good for anyone other than our­selves," Charlie said. 
Weis said he and Maura began thinking about their daughter, Hannah, who suf­fers from global development delays. He said the most 
see HANNAH/page 4 



islooksatreligious issues 
By JIM FERLMANN News Writer 
The government needs to make contact with non-profit groups to help shape faith­based initiatives from the federal level, The Rev. Joshua Dubois said Monday. 
Dubois, a Pentecostal min­ister and Executive Director of the White House Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships, spoke to an audience of about 50 students, faculty and community members at Geddes Hall auditorium. 
"President Obama's logic behind the re-launching of this office is based on two foundational concepts," Dubois said. "The first is that we are facing significant challenges in our nation and across the globe ... The sec-
see DUBOIS/page 4 


INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER SMC discusses technological improvements page 3 • Interhall football wraps page 24 • Miley Cyrus page 13 • Viewpoint page 10 

I I I 1 / 11 1 /,1,1,1,I I I  I  


page 2 The Observer + PAGE 2 Tuesday, September 29, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Civantos Hall 
The year is 2030 A.D. The coal plant on campus has been replaced by a wind­mill. The squirrels on South Quad are the size of cats. And I am a gazillionaire. 
That last thing is the least likely to Tess Civantos happen. I'm a Program of liberal News Writer 
Studies major, which means, by defmition, that I'll make peanuts after graduation, ifI'm lucky enough to have a job at all. But a girl can dream, and here's what I would do ifI had a gazil­lion dollars in 2030 A.D.: 
I would build a new College ofArts and Letters. I mean, take a look at O'Shag. It's not that I don't love the old place -Waddick's is my second home -but compare it to Jordan. Or Mendoza. We all know that Arts and Letters majors earn significantly less than Business or Science majors after graduation. Here at Notre Dame, we get to feel the status difference while we're still undergrads. We get an ancient building with cramped classrooms that probably haven't been repainted since Reagan was president, while they get, well, Jordan. 
The reason for this disparity is obvi­ous. Business and Science majors can afford to build gorgeous new buildings for their alma maters, and Arts and Letters grads just don't have those kinds of resources. That's all about to change, though, with the new College of Arts and Letters l'm going to build in 2030. 
Civantos Hall, as l'm calling it for lack of a better name, will feature everything beloved by liberal arts kids. There will be a Waddick's, of course, with its usual vast selection of coffee, fresh-baked muffins and scones, and those surpris­ingly tasty microwaved breakfast sand­wiches. My version of Waddick's, though, will have a lot more booths, and no pesky art gallery across the hall. 
As you approach Civantos Hall, the front of the building will resemble Plato's Academy, with huge steps and tall pil­lars. Inside, the high, arching glass ceil­ing will let in natural light, with all of the classrooms opening off this central great hall. 
The classes will be seminar-style (hey, I'm a PLS major) so the classrooms will be planned to feel like living rooms, with comfortable couches, squashy arm­chairs, warm broad-hearthed fireplaces and wide windows framed by long, luxu­rious curtains. 
That is, of course, when the classes are actually held indoors. Usually the classes will be held outside on a grassy knoll, or in a forest clearing. 
Best of all will be the library. It will be enormous, with at least three copies of each PLS book. Every effort will be made to exactly replicate the library from Disney's Beauty and the Beast. There will be a soaring ceiling topped by a chandelier, lots of cozy reading nooks tucked into the window alcoves and, of course, a rolling ladder. 
I've already picked out a location for Civantos Hall. Have you ever run around St. Mary's Lake and seen that plaque commemorating where Holy Cross Hall used to stand? That's where I'll build. Just wait for it. We only have 20 years to go. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Tess Civantos at 
tcivanto@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards irself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WERE YOU THINKING ABOUT DURING THE END OF THE PURDUE GAME? 







Brooke Reid  MaryJeanne Brenholts  Matt Cook  Michael Selep  Rory Norton  Zoe Evans  
sophomore Lewis  freshman Lewis  freshman o·Neill  freshman Keenan  senior offcampus  freshman Pasquerilla West  
..How much I wanted to push the Purdue fans in front ofme offthe stands. ··  ..Not again! ..  ../was lonely in a bar in Ontario and I wanted to kill myself."  ..It shouldn't be this close!"  ../ should probably wake up from my nap ••now ...  ..Woo! we·re going to win!"  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

GRACE KENESEYThe Observer Students participate In a barefoot three versus three soccer game Saturday to benefit Grassroots, an AIDS prevention charity. 
OFFBEAT 

lslamist party wants Beyonce to cancel concert 
KUALA LUMPUR (Reuters) -Malaysia's opposition Islamist party wants U.S. pop star Beyonce to cancel a planned concert in this Southeast Asian country, two years after it prevent­ed the singer from per­forming, citing moral issues. 
Foreign acts often draw protests by the Pan Malaysian Islamic Party (PAS), whose youth wing succeeded in forcing Beyonce to cancel a 2007 singer Avril Lavigne from performing in this mainly Muslim country of 27 mil­lion people. 
"We are against western entertainment that pro­motes hedonism. We do not want our youth to be mis­led," said Ahmad Sabki, vice-president of PAS Youth, was quoted as say­ing in Thursday's New Straits Times newspaper. 
Naked man arrested for stealing truck Thursday 
ATHENS, Ala. Authorities said a naked man was arrested after he 
concert and sought last allegedly stole a truck and year to prevent Canadian and drove it into a ditch on 
Thursday. Chief Investigator Stanley McNatt said the man was shouting "somebody's trying to kill me" when he appeared in an Ardmore neighborhood. He said the man jumped in the back of a truck and broke the window to the cab. The man's name has not been released. 
McNatt said driver then abandoned the truck and the naked man drove away with the vehicle. 
A man was arrested a short time later after the truck ran into a ditch. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURDSAY 
a:: 
1.&.1 

:::c 
~ 
1.&.1 
3: 
.... 
cr: 
(,) 


0 

..... HIGH 56 HIGH 49 HIGH 61 HIGH 62 
LOW 44 LOW 44 LOW 38 LOW 47 
IN BRIEF 

A lecture entitled ''Memor Across Generations: The Meanings of 1968 in Military Brazil" will be held at 12:30 
p.m. today. The lecture will be held in C-103 in the Hesburgh Center. 
"Experimental Characterization of Buffer Layer Structures Associate with Extreme Wall Stress Events in a Layer" will be held at 3:30 p.m. in 138 DeBartolo Hall today. 
Daily Mass will be held in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart today at 11:30 a.m. and 5:15 p.m. 
The Post Graduate Service Fair will be held in the Stapleton Lounge at Saint Mary's College today at 5:00 p.m. 
Part one of the four-part Internship Prep Seminar will be held at Saint Mary's College today. The seminar will be located in 137 Spes Unica and will begin at 6:30 p.m. 
The Catholic Culture Literature Series: "Close to Catholic: A Celebration of Kindred Spirits" will be held at 8 p.m. The lecture will be in 155 DeBartolo Hall today. 
A movie entitled "The Man Who Would be Polka King" will show at 6:30 p.m. in the Browning Cinema, DebBartolo Perfoming Arts Center tomorrow. To reserve tickets, call 574-631-2800. Tickets are free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
FRIDAY GAMEDAY 


HIGH 58 HIGH 60 LOW 47 LOW 43 

Atlanta 71 I 50 Boston 68 I 50 Chicago 55 I 44 Denver 82 I 56 Houston 85 I 68 Los Angeles 74 I 58 Minneapolis 58 138 New York 66 I 52 Philadelphia 66 I 52 Phoenix 105 I 78 Seattle 56 I 48 St. Louis 66 I 41 Tampa 89 I 69 Washington 70 I 53 


Tuesday, September 29, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Students, staff satisfied by Google 
Office ofInformation Technology says G-mail received an increase of36 percent in satisfaction 
SGA 

Budget to be set next meeting 
By NlKKl TAYIJOR 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Student Government Association (SGA) is off to a successful year with its first sponsored event, a trip to Wabash College, running smoothly this past weekend, student body president Jenny Hoffman said. 
A total of 37 Saint Mary's students went on the bus trip to the all-male Wabash college in Crawfordsville, Ind. Hoffman attended the trip and deemed it a "great success." 
With two resolutions passed and one event under their belt SGA is preparing to finalize their budget next week, Hoffman said. 
Clubs and organizations can 

now begin to request allot­
ments of funds. These funds 
will cover office supplies and 
other basics that clubs need to 
conduct regular business. Co­
sponsorships will be available 
for trips or conferences but 
will require a separate peti­
tion to SGA before funds are 
granted, Hoffman said. 
Another project that SGA is 

undertaking is researching the 
computer networks and serv­
ices of peer institutions in 
order to propose changes to 
Saint Mary's ResN et. SGA is 
currently talking to ResNet to 
see more HesNet support of 
SGA and other student organi­
zation computers. They would 
also like to see some printers 
in the residence halls and for 
all the halls to be equipped 
with wireless Internet access, 
Hoffman and student body viee 
president Meg Griffin said. 
Peer institutions are schools 

with similar statistics such as 
enrollment, including some 
that are also single sex. Some 
of the peer institutions that 
Hoffman and Griffin are talk­
ing to are Smith College, 
Mount Holyoke College and 
Stephen's College, which are 
all all-female, Hoffman said. 
Hoffman and Griffin are still accumulating data on peer institutions but did offer a report of what they have found thus far. 
The network administrators of most schools of similar size to Saint Mary's offer support to student organization com­puters, most HesNet offices hold similar hours tn that of Saint Mary's, and about half offer printers in the residence halls, Griffin said. 
"We're looking for better justification to ask our ResNct for what we want," Hoffman said. 
SGA's new Faeebook page is now up and running. Students can "friend" SGA to find links to their cvents ealendar and also to sPe status updates, which will servP as remindPrs for events around campus. public relations eommissioner Caitlin O'Brien said. 
"We've been here a month and we've already had a suc­cessful event and passed two resolutions. I think it's going really well," Hoffman said to the Board. 
Study Abroad in Perth, Australia 
Information Meeting Wednesday, September 30, 2009 5:30PM 140 DeBartolo Hall 
ForALPP and ANTH College ofScience College ofEngineering 
I f 
Contact Nikki Taylor at ntayloO 1 @nd.edu 
By JILLIAN STINCHCOMB 
News Writer 
The first year with Google has "absolutely" been a posi­tive experience, Katie Rose of the Office of Information and Technology (OIT) said. 
Incoming freshmen of the Class of 2012 were introduced to Notre Dame Gmail in May 2008, and the rest of the upperclassmen made the switch on Sept. 3 of last year. 
"All 12,000 accounts were switched in one day," Rose said. 
OIT made the switch for sev­eral reasons. "All of the stars aligned," Rose said. 
In January 2008, Legacy, the old Notre Dame server for e-mail, informed OIT that they would stop supporting parts of the old infrastructure. 
Meanwhile, the majority of student government candi­dates in that spring had at 
least part of their platform on the cheerleading team, based on improving e-mail, uses the cheerleading Coogle 
particularly by switching to calendar to 
Coogle. 
"Students were asking for Coogle in a vari­ety of ways," she said. 
Students are making use of the applications available to them on Gmail. 
"I use all the apps available," Kevin McKenzie, a sophomore, said. "Gmail, obviously, but I also update my calendar almost 
every day, chat with class­"We saw 
mates about projects, and I increase in student satisfac­use Google Docs consistently. tion with mail," Rose said in Also, I have the Ninja theme reference to the yearly satis­as my background of my faction survey. Gmail." It's harder to tell how much 
Junior Chris Dinkins, who is use the other apps are get­
..The biggest benefit is better teaming with the students. Coogle improved our relations with the students. It's been a fantastic move for us. ,, 
Katie Rose Office of Information Technology 
keep track of events. 
"It's very con­venient and easy to use," he said. 
He also uses Google Docs with his work at OIT, when they are testing new software. 
Sophomore Stephanie Sansone uses the start page for weather, Observer news and her Coogle Calendar. 
a 36 percent 

ting, since they weren't avail­able with the Legacy server, but students as well as clubs are using Calendars (such as the cheerleading squad) and Google docs. 
Google has been a great support. Since Google is in charge of their apps, "there's much less internal mainte­nance," Rose said. 
Google also has a blog and Twitter account to support students, give tips and answer questions, as well as their continued technological improvements. 
For OIT, however, the most important aspect is student satisfaction. 
"The biggest benefit is bet­ter teaming with the students. Google improved our relations with the students. It's been a fantastic move for us," Rose said. 
Contact Jillian Stinchomb at jstinchc@nd.edu 
Application Deadline is November 15, 2009 www.nd.edu/--ois 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 29, 2009 
page 4 
lation will ultimately work to solve one problem, but will



Health 
feature student performers, turing Notre Dame student free hot chocolate and infor­performers. Roseberry said.

Water 
mation about water develop­The idea originally grew out ment. of student body president
continued from page 1 
Throughout the day today, Grant Schmidt and vice presi­in human development studies there will also be information dent Cynthia Weber's cam­-a part of Notre Dame's tables at North and South paign last spring. They real­Kellogg Institute for Dining Halls and in ized that by focusing on one International Studies -to LaFortune. issue, student government better understand the issues At all of these events, stu­and the student body could behind the initiative. dents will have the opportuni­make a tangible difference, 
"We wanted to make sure ty to donate money and sign Roseberry said. that we also had experts on up to become more involved. "This is one of the best our side about what water "We want you to hear about places to start an initiative development was," Pham the Global Water Initiative, like this," Pham said. said. but we want you to learn Roseberry and Pham said 
The Global Water Initiative about it too," Hoseberry said. they are unable to set a spe­will begin with T-shirt give­After Tuesday's events, cific fundraising goal because away and information table Student Government will work they do not want to aim too this afternoon from 12 to 1 to involve more campus low. The cost of one shallow 
p.m. in the Dooley room of groups in the fundraising well in Africa is $4,500 to LaFortune. process. $5,000, but they hope that 
At 7:30 p.m., Professor "It's a unique way to bring they will raise enough money Steve Silliman will deliver a everyone together," Roseberry to build more than one. lecture in the Geddes Hall said. "Ideally, we'd like to "This hasn't happened Auditorium about the impor­involve every student and before," Roseberry said. tance of water development. have every student feel like "We'd like to present this 
An outdoor benefit concert they're a part of this." from as many perspectives as was planned, but weather Future events for the initia­possible because it's such a forecasts caused Roseberry tive will include a documen­complex issue." and Pham to move the event tary film screening, forums to the basement of LaFortune and fundraisers including the Contact Lawa McCrystal at from 9 to 10:30 p.m. It will possibility of a benefit CD fea-lmcryst@nd.edu 
after Notre Dame alumnus housing and the Board of Frank Eck, was the first Directors reviews applica­

Hannah 
building opened on the farm. tions and selects residents. Since then, the compound Maura said two residents ­
continued from page 1 
has added a fully functioning "huge Notre Dame fans" ­common concern about chil­barn with five horses, the have already been selected to dren with "different abilities" Peter Schivarelli and Chicago move into the Bon Jovi home is who will take care of them Home, which opened Monday, when it opens. if the parents are unable. and the Jon Bon Jovi Home, At the ceremony, Eventually, the Weis' settled which Maura expects to open Schivarelli, manager of the on founding Hannah and around Christmas. musical band Chicago, said Friends, and, in typical Each home can house four he was proud of how far the Charlie Weis fashion, they individuals with what Maura organization had come. The dreamed big from the begin­calls "different abilities," group donates 50 cents from ning. women in the Schivarelli every ticket sold to Hannah 
"This room was drawn up Home, and men in the soon­and Friends. 
on a napkin," Weis said as he to-be-completed Bon Jovi "We have done a lot of motioned to the spacious Home. The homes are being charitable things over the recreation room at the new run by Mosaic, another non­years before we got involved facility. "And it looks almost profit group with homes with Hannah and Friends," 
identical to that chicken around the country. he said. "But we never actu­scratch." The individuals must apply The Eck Rec Room, named to Hannah and Friends for see HANNAH/page 6 
continued from page 1 
that no one is doing anything about," Evans said. 
He said Medicare is in part a budgetary problem for the fed­~raJ government. 
"Medicare is going to go broke relatively soon," Evans said, citing the projection that the number of people eligible for Medicare will double over the next 30 years. 
Evans said Medicare is in part a problem because of inconsistencies in how much money the program requires. 
Medicare spending is deter­mined by counties, according to Evans. 
"If you look at the county level, spending on Medicare varies by a factor of three from the highest to the lowest," he said. "But the factors that influence the spending don't vary. 
"It appears that a lot of pro­cedures are being done that aren't medically necessary in the Medicare program." 
Evans also attributed prob­lems with Medicare to the healthcare bureaucracy. 
"Not all the dollars are going to patients," he said. 
He said the bureaucracy impacts the high cost of healthcare in general, and has ramifications beyond the Medicare program. 
Reducing the overhead costs of healthcare "is going to be difficult," Evans said. 
The political proposals that seek to solve health care issues won't address the fiscal prob­lems of Medicare and costs. 
"No one seems to want to touch the Medicare program at all," Evans said. 
Evans said he predicts legis­ignore the other two. 
"We'II get something on access, but the cost of that is that you're not going to make heavy inroads on costs," he said. 
The only viable way to reform the system is to over­haul it, and an overhaul cannot happen without making changes to Medicare, accord­ing to Evans. 
"I think you have to show the political will to do something about Medicare before you can ever do something to the sys­tem," Evans said. 
An overhaul to the health care system will cost money and the government will have to be creative to find sources for that money. 
"The money is going to have to come from somewhere and the most obvious place is Medicare," Evans said. "It's not going to be politically viable if you raise taxes." 
Despite the problems in the health care sector, Evans said it is not true that the sector's size is a problem. He cited the tremendous advances in med­ical care over the past 30 years as a benefit of the size of the industry. 
"The United States spends a lot of money on medical care, but if you take a look at partic­ular examples, we are getting a lot out of it," Evans said. "There's good evidence that there's a lot of waste, but there are also tremendous benefits." 
The second part of this series in Wednesday·s issue of The Observer will look at the relationship between health care and Catholic Social Teaching. 
Contact John Tierney at 
jtiemel@nd.edu 
DuBois 
continued from page 1 
ond thing is that we can meet these challenges, but we can't do it in Washington alone." 
DuBois stressed the impor­tance of the government enlist­ing the help of non-profit groups. 
"Instead, it's incumbent upon us in the govern­ment to connect with the real 
the government and religion have gotten together in the past, even if it was with the best of intentions, it hasn't always ended up roses," DuBois said. 
Dubois stressed that his fed­eral office, while working with and funding faith communities, was working within the bounds of the First Amendment of the Constitution. The communities could only use the federal dol­lars given to them to aid in their community 




Mass 
With an African ·American Flavor (aka Rejoice! Mass) 

change agents: ..My office is a service efforts, The churches and not to
facilitator to provide 
that are feeding explicitly fur­
the hungry. The a link between the ther their own 
non-profits that government and the religious agen­are giving das.

grassroots. ·· 
dropouts a sec­DuBois also ond chance and said his office helping prison­Rev. Joshua DuBois was not an ers." Protestant minister advocate for the 
According to DuBois, univer­sities and col­leges can play a major role in reform. 
"That's where change hap­pens: with community serving institutions and faith-based groups. With you," he said. 
He said he would like for his office to connect with smaller organizations to bring about change. 
"My office is a facilitator to provide a link between the gov­ernment and the grassroots, and to help organizations across the country connect with one another, strengthen their own capacity to serve, and have a greater impact on their communities," DuBois said. 
He did point out however, that this theory has its issues. "The problem is that when 
president's 
agendas, but 

there were still points in which political conjec­ture made its way into the lec­ture, especially concerning the health care debate. 
During a question-and­answer session, he was asked about what his biggest goal was before the end of President Obama's term. Dubois said, "We want to impact the way that the government sees this office and its own relationship with faith-based groups that's not standoffish, as it sometimes was before President Bush established this office. Also, it scope of aid should extend beyond grant money to broader notion of effective partnership." 
Sunday, Oct. 4 9:00p.m. 
Coleman-Morse Center Chapel ofNotre Dame Our Mother 
ALL ARE WELCOME Food & fellowship to follow! 
C-M 
Campus Ministry
a 

Contact Jim Ferlmann at jferlman@nd.edu 
For information, contact Jud Madden 631-8508 or jmadden2@)nd.edu 


Tuesday, September 29, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Terror chargesdropped againstactivH 
HARARE, Zimbabwe -A prominent human rights activist and her co-accused cannot be tried -now or in the future -on terror charges because they were beaten and tortured in jail, Zimbabwe's Supreme Court ruled Monday. 
Chief Justice Godfrey Chidyausiku said the court was issuing a permanent stay of prosecution in the case of Jestina Mukoko and eight other defendants because their constitutional rights had been violated. 
Such a ruling from judges appointed by longtime President Robert Mugabe could signal a new willingness on his part to meet demands for reform from Prime Minister Morgan Tsvangirai, his partner in the country's troubled unity govern­ment. But in a country that seems to lurch from promising to perilous from day to day, trends are hard to spot. 
Abuse led woman to kill daughter, self 
LONDON -Years of torment from young neighbors led a despairing single mother to kill herself and her disabled daughter, and police inaction contributed to the deaths, a British inquest jury ruled Monday. 
Fiona Pilkington suffered more than a decade of abuse from a gang of youths who terrorized her family by urinating on her house, taunting her developmentally challenged daughter and beating her severely dyslexic son. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Mom arrested for imprisoning son 
OKLAHOMA CITY -A woman was arrested after her 14-year-son told authori­ties he escaped from a home where he'd been kept for 4% years, spending most of his time locked in a bedroom closet, police said Monday. 
A security guard at a National Guard facility in Oklahoma City called police on Friday after the teen showed up malnour­ished and with numerous scars and other signs of abuse, police Sgt. Gary Knight said. 
"He was hungry. He was dirty. He had numerous scars on his body," Knight said. "It was very sad." 
The boy was taken to a hospital to be examined and then turned over to the cus­tody of the Department of Human Services, Knight said. 
Officers on Saturday arrested the boy's mother, 3 7 -year-old LaRhonda Marie McCall, and a friend, 38-year-old Steve Vern Hamilton, on 20 complaints each of child abuse and child neglect. 

Boy charged with rape cries in court 
PHOENIX -A 1 0-year-old boy charged in the alleged gang-rape of an 8-year-old Liberian girl cried in an Arizona courtroom Monday as his schoolteacher testified that he rarely did his homework and often got into fights with other students. 
Toya Abrams, a second-grade teacher at Camelview Elementary School in Phoenix, says the boy had various behavioral prob­lems. 
The boy eventually put his head down on a table and began sobbing, prompting his attorney to ask for a recess. 


LOCAL NEWS 
Boy loses foot to passing train 
INDIANAPOLIS-A 9-year-old boy is recov­ering after his left foot was severed by a pass­ing train. 
Authorities say Phillip Cross and two friends were walking along railroad tracks about 8 
p.m. Sunday as a 51-car CSX train traveling less than 10 mph approached. 
One friend said Phillip slipped on some rocks and his left leg fell across the track and as the train passed by. The other friend said the train dipped Phillip's shoulder from behind and spun him around until his leg landed beneath the train.The boy's foot was found on the tracks about 300 yards away. 
HONDURAS 



President tries to appease citizens 
Coup-installed leader claims he will back down from censoring and crushing opponents 
Associated Press  
TEGUCIGALPA -The  
coup-installed president of  
Honduras backed down  
Monday from an escalating  
standoff with protesters and  
suggested he would restore  
civil liberties and reopen dis­ 
sident television and radio  
stations by the end of the  
week.  
Riot police ringed support­ 
ers of ousted President  
Manuel Zelaya who gathered  
for a large-scale protest  
march, setting off a daylong  
standoff. The government of  
interim President Roberto  
Micheletti declared the  
march illegal, sent soldiers to  
silence dissident broadcast­ 
ers, and suspended civil lib­ 
erties for 45 days.  
But in a sudden reversal,  
Micheletti said Monday after­ 
noon that he wanted to "ask  
the Honduran people for for­ 
giveness" for the measures  
and said he would lift them  
in accordance with demands  
from the same Congress that  
installed him after a June 28  
coup. He said he would dis­ 
cuss lifting the measures  
with court officials "as soon  
as possible," adding: "By the  
end of this week we'll have  
this resolved." AP  
He also repeated his Supporters of Honduras' ousted president pray at the Brazilian embassy in  
pledge not to attack the Tegucigalpa Monday. The government is backing off of its measures to retain power.  
Brazilian Embassy, where  
Zelaya has been holed up  coup, while protesters put  the countryside.  the Micheletti government,  
with 60 supporters since  the number at 10. Protest  "There is brutal repression  and silenced both.  
sneaking back into the coun­ leader Juan Barahona said  against the people," Zelaya  Afterward. the TV station  
try on Sept. 21. He even sent  that could change.  told The Ac;sociated Press in  broadcast only a test pattern.  
"a big hug" to Brazil's presi­ "This mass movement is  a telephone interview  Radio Globo employees  
dent, a day after giving him a  peaceful, but to the extefl.t  Monday.  scrambled out of an emer­ 
10-day ultimatum to expel  they repress us, fence us in  The emergency decree  gency exit to escape the raid  
Zelaya or move him to  and make this method use­ issued Sunday bans unau­ that involved as many as 200  
Brazil.  less, we have to find some  thorized gatherings and lets  soldiers.  
The increasingly authori­ other form of struggle," he  police arrest people without  "They took away all the  
tarian measures by the gov­ said.  warrants, rights guaranteed  equipment," said owner  
ernment had prompted  Micheletti made clear that  in the Honduran  Alejandro Villatoro. "This is  
international condemnation,  even if the emergency meas­ Constitution. It also allows  the death of the station."  
though the U.S. representa­ ures are lifted, "that doesn't  authorities to shut news  Two journalists covering  
tive to the Organization of  mean the police are going  media for "statements that  the raid for Mexico's Televisa  
American States also had  back to barracks."  attack peace and the public  and Guatemala's Guatevision  
harsh words for Zelaya, call­ Monday's march drew  order, or which offend the  were beaten by security  
ing his return to Honduras  hundreds of people, many of  human dignity of public offi­ forces, who also took their  
"irresponsible and foolish."  whom covered their mouths  cials, or attack the law."  camera, according to  
The Micheletti government  with tape to protest govern­ In late afternoon, police  Guatemala's ambassador to  
says Zelaya supporters are  ment censorship. Protest  allowed the protesters to  the Organization of  
planning a violent insurrec­ leaders insisted that thou­ board buses and leave.  American States, Jorge  
tion. So far, protests have  sands more were trying to  Government soldiers raid­ Skinner. He asked the  
seen little bloodshed -the  join but were stopped from  ed the offices of Radio Globo  InterAmerican Human  
government says three peo­ leaving poorer neighbor­ and the television station  Rights Commission to inter­ 
ple have been killed since the  hoods or from traveling from  Channel 36, both critics of  vene.  

Recessionwill change religious life for good 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Organized religion was already in trouble in the U.S. before the fall of 2008. Denominations were stagnating or shrinking, and congregations across faith groups were fretting about their finances. 
The Great Hecession made things worse. 
It's further drained the financial resources of many congregations, seminaries and religious day schools. Some congregations have disappeared and schools have been closed. In areas hit hardest by the recession, worshippers have moved 
away to find jobs, leaving those who remain to minister to commu­nities struggling with rising home foreclosures, unemployment and uncertainty. 
Heligion has a long history of drawing hope out of suffering, but there's little gGod news emerging from the recession. Long after the economy improves, the changes made today will have a profound effect on how Americans practice their faith, where they turn for help in times of stress and how they pass their beliefs to their children. 
"In 2010, I think we're going to seP 10 or 15 percent of congrega­tions saying they're in serious 
financial trouble," says David Roozen, a lead researcher for the Faith Communities Today multi­faith survey, which measures con­gregational health annually. "With around 320.000 or 350,000 congre­gations, that's a hell of a lot of them." 
The sense of community that holds together religious groups is broken when large numbers of peo­ple move to find work or if a min­istry is forced to close. 
''I'm really still in the mourning process," says Eve Fein, former head of the now-shuttered Morasha Jewish Day School in Rancho Santa Margarita, California. 
--~-~-~ 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, September 29, 2009 

primary aspects of tion's name. Misericordia -a Home in "II e could have called it
Hannah 

Chicago, where Sister 'The Charlie Weis continued from page 4 Rosemary Connelly maintains Foundation,"' she said. "But a home for more than 550 it's Hannah and friends. You ally saw the fruits of the people with different abilities can se(~ just from the name 
labor. It makes it all worth­-that Hannah and Friends the cause and why we do the while." hopes to emulate is the things we do." 
Charlie Weis, for his part, placflment of residents into The next step, Bui Green said Schivarelli's generosity job environments. for exam­said, was to get the Notre was only natural. ple, residents who are inter­Dame student community
"People don't realize this, ested in horses are encour­more involved. Some groupsbut Peter Schivarelli has one aged to work and spend time have done events with of' the biggest hearts of any­in the barn. Hannah and Friends, and 
one I've ever met," We is said. "We have them brushing Alumni Hall donated the 
Perhaps the most astonish­the horses, helping with the farm's playground.ing part of Monday's ceremo­feeding, giving them hay and "It's great because !the stu­ny was simply that it was everything," Bui Green said. dents are] not only helpingtaking place already. Sharon While Bui Green and Maura other people," Bui Green Bui Green, Hannah and do most of the legwork for said. "But they help them­Friends' executive director the organization, the man selves become better people.said the farm originally most people associate with That's really what we want hoped to welcome its first Hannah and Friends is the message to be." occupants in 2015. Charlie Weis. Weis was The next buildings planned
"I've been working for appointed to President Bush's are a respite home for par­them for four years and Committee For People With ents of children with differ­we've literally just been col­Intellectual Disabilities in ent abilities, as well as an lecting our pennies to have 2008 and has continued to indoor community swimmingthis beautiful place," Bui work with Hannah and pool. Maura said the groupGreen said. Friends since then. Maura may eventually add more 
She added that the said even though most people homes, but faces oppositionextremely early opening was think of Charlie as a figure­from some special needs made possible by the gen­head, he plays a vital role in advocacy groups. She said 
erosity of the individuals in the foundation. these groups don't want too the Notre Dame and "Charlie doesn't mess many special needs peopleMichiana community. around," Maura said. "He living in one place, to avoid 
Couches and appliances wet:e acts like he doesn't do any­an institutional feel. donated at cost by local busi­thing and we're doing this. "My biggest thing is why nesses to complete the But he's such a big part it's can't our people have ehoic­
homes. not even funny." es," Maura said. "For now, 
Bui Green said the founda­It may be hard to imagine though, we're going to be tion bought the property in the screaming, hard-nosed fine with just doing thn 2006 and broke ground in Charlie Weis football fans sec respite home, these homes, 
After initially being charged 2007. on Saturdays as a ,caring and the community pool."
Associated Press 
along with his father and the 
While Hannah and Friends father, but Bui Green said the While it may seem like an NEW YORK -After inter­imam with lying to investiga­
doesn't plan on expanding two are one and the same. ambitious goal, Bui Green rupting what they believed was tors, Zazi was due in federal 
quite that much, Bui Green "I always see a guy who's a said the Hannah and Friends a terrorist plot on New York court in Brooklyn on Tuesday 
said the residents, as well as hard worker that loves his farm is only a natural fit for City with a series of raids and for an arraignment on charges 
Hannah herself, have taught family," she said. "Sometimes Maura, Charlie and Notre arrests, authorities have inten­he conspired to use weapons of 
her invaluable lessons. when we have dance parties, Dame. sified their focus on possible mass destruction. The 24-year­
"Even though [Hannah] has he'll just sit incognito and "This is the vision of Father accomplices of the suspected old airport van driver has 
a limited vocabulary. we call watch them dancing. lie's not Sorin," Bui Green said. "For al-Qaida associate at the heart denied any wrongdoing. 
her our professor of life," Bui the head football coach at Notre Dame to be the most of the case, a law enforcement A letter filed by Brooklyn 
Green said. "She really Notre Dame. He gets all powerful means of good in official said Monday. ·prosecutors last week argued 
teaches us to be better p<~o­giddy because he just sees the country." The official, who spoke on that that Zazi should be jailed 
ple. Wn learn values like kids so happy." condition of anonymity because indefinitely because, as an 
compassion and love beeause Bui Green also said Weis' the investigation continues, Afghan immigrant with ties to 
of Hannah." inherent generosity is pres­Contact Sam Werner at confirmed that investigators Pakistan, he could flee, and 
Bui Green said one of the ent simply in the organiza-swerner@nd.edu 
know the identities of at least thrne people believed to be in on a bombing plot they say might have targeted mass tran­sit in the New York area. 
Authorities released a Ourry of terrorism warnings for sports complexes, hotels and transit systems even while say­ing the plot was disrupted before it become an immediate threat. But many questions remain unanswered, including the whereabouts of co-conspir­ators and whether any may be cooperating with the probe. 
There also have been no reports that any of the bomb­making materials have been recovered. 
The accomplices are suspect­ed of traveling from New York City to suburban Denver this summer and using stolen credit cards to help Najibullah Zazi stockpile beauty products con­taining hydrogen peroxide and acetone, which can be key ingredients for homemade bombs, authorities have said. 
Before the raids, police detectives showed a source -a Queens imam at a mosque where Zazi had once wor­shipped -photographs of him and three people considered possible suspects. court papers say. It was unclear whether those three were the same ones suspected of traveling to Denver. 
The oflicial who spoke to The Associated Press declined to comment further Monday. Spokesmen James Margolin for the FBI, Edward Mullen for the New York Police Department and Hobert Nardoza for the 
U.S. attorney's office in Brooklyn declined to discuss the case. 
because he "poses a significant danger" to the community. 
Evidence gathered so far ­including bomb-making instructions found on his laptop computer -shows "that "'azi remained committed to deto­nating an explosive device" until he was arrested, the letter said. 
Prosecutors allege that Zazi has admitted that while living in Queens, he traveled last year to Pakistan and received explo­sives training from al-Qaida. Security videos and store receipts show that when he returned and moved to Aurora, Colo., he and three others bought several bottles of beau­ty products over the course of several weeks, court papers said. 
On Sept. 6, Zazi took some of his products into a Colorado hotel room outfitted with a stove on which he later left acetone residue, authorities said. He repeatedly sought another person's help cooking up the bomb, "each communi­cation more urgent in tone than the last," the papers said. 
The FBI was listening to Zazi and becoming increasingly con­cerned as the anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks and a New York visit bv President Barack Obama approached, officials said. They decided to track him on Sept. 9 when he rented a car and drove to New York. 
On Sept. 10, Zazi told the Queens imam in an intercepted phone call that he feared he was being watched, court papers said. The imam later tipped Zazi off, saying police had come around and asked questions, the papers said. 
OliO 

The Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business 
liD II 

and The Institute for ethical Business Worldwide
DIID 

Proudly Present 
Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the Jobn A. Berges Endowment) 
"The Corporate Responsibility of Multinational Corporations" 
Neville Isdell Chairman Coca Cola Company 
Wednesday, September 30, 2009 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
THE OBSERVER 
I

Tuesday, September 29, 2009 page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Stocks Dow 
Jones 9,789.36 +124.17 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,961 19 192 96,387,535 
AMEX,,·';:&. 1,764.11 .....··+t9...iO NASDAQ 2,130.74 +J<nu NYSE , 6,939.76 <+116.25 S&P 500 1,062.98 +18.60 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 10,009.52 OJX> FTSE 100 (London) 5,165.70 +86.43 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP (C)  -1.13  ~o.os  4.38  
XEROX CP (XRX)  -0.53  -0.56  104.45  
BK OF AMERICA CP (BAC)  -2.24  -0.38  16,60  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  +Ll4  +0.02  1.77  
·  Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  -0.81  -0.027  3.30  
13-WEEK BILL  0.00  0.00  0.09  
30-YEAR BOND  -1.17  -0.048  4.05  
S·YEAR NOTE  -1.14  -0.027  2.35  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.82  66.84  
GOLD ($/Troy o.z.)  +2.50  994.10  
PORK BELUES (cents/lb.)  +2.00  82.70  
Exchange Rates  
YEN  89.6950  
EURO  1.4614  
CANADIAN DOLLAR  1.0869  
BRITISH POUND  1.5879  

IN BRIEF Warner to return music to YouTube 
LOS ANGELES -Warner Music Group Corp. has agreed to return songs and music videos from its artists to the YouTube video site, after a monthslong boycott over what it called unfair terms, according to a per­son familiar with the matter. 
The deal would involve sharing advertis­ing revenue with the Google Inc. unit on music videos provided by Warner from artists such as T.l., Red Hot Chili Peppers and Michael Buble, as well as on song streams uploaded by users, said the per­son. 
The person spoke on condition of anonymity because a formal deal has not yet been announced. 
In December, Warner Music pulled all of its music from YouTube, saying the pay­ments it received did not fairly compensate the label or its artists and songwriters. 
Under the new arrangement, Warner will gain a greater share of advertising revenue because it is also bearing the burden of' selling ads, for which it will contract a third-party agency. Artists will have indi­vidual channels that will allow for greater fan interaction but also give advertisers a more defined demographic for marketers to target. 
It was not immediately clear when the channels would launch. 
Microsoft releases antivirus software 
REDMOND. Wash. -Microsoft Corp. says its new computer security program can be downloaded starting on Tuesday. 
Microsoft Security Essentials, as the free antivirus software is called, has been available in a beta test version since June. 
The software updates daily to stay cur­rent with the latest malicious programs, which can steal passwords or turn PCs into spam servers. Microsoft says it won't make computers run slower. 
Microsoft has said it isn't out to steal business from companies like McAfee Inc. and Symant<'c Corp., which make popular antivirus programs with more features. Microsoft says it hopes the free program will appt>al to peoplc> who don't already run antivirus software. 
U.S. role in Web security grows 
Debate rages over how active the government should be in policing the Internet 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -There 
is no kill switch for the 
Internet, no secret on-off 
button in an Oval Office 
drawer. 

Yet when a Senate com­
mittee was exploring ways 
to secure computer net­
works, a provision to give 
the president the power to 
shut down Intprnet traffic 
to compromised Web sites 
in an emergency set off 
alarms. 

Corporate leaders and privacy advocates quickly objected, saying the gov­ernment must not seize control of the Internet. 
Lawmakers dropped it, but the debate rages on. How much control should federal authorities have over the Web in a crisis? How much should be left to the private sector? It does own and operate at least 80 percent of the Internet and argues it can do a bet­ter job. 
"We need to prepare for that digital disaster," said Melissa Hathaway, the for­mer White House cyberse­curity adviser. "We need a system to identify, isolate and respond to cyberat­tacks at the speed of light." 
So far at least 18 bills have been introduced as Congress works carefully to hackers, cybercriminals online? And should the Homeland Security give federal authorities the· and mercenaries working government be able to dic­Committee bills would pro­power to protect the coun­for governments and pri­tate who companies can tect the electric grid and try in the event of a mas­vate entities are scanning hire and what they must do require the department to sive cyberattack. those networks, looking to to secure the networks that secure its networks. Lawmakers do not want to defraud, disrupt or even afl'ect Americans' daily life. The Senate Homeland violate personal and corpo­destroy. Government officials say Security and Government rate privacy or squelching Just eight years ago, the the U.S. must improve Reform Committee is writ­innovation. All involved government ordered planes efforts to share information ing legislation aimed large­acknowledge it isn't going from the sky in the hours about cyberthreats with ly at federal agencies. to be easy. after the Sept. 11 terrorist private industry. They also The Senate Commerce, 
For most people, the attacks. want companies to ensure Science and Transportation Internet is a public haven Could or should the presi­they are using secure soft­Committee is working on a for free thought and enter­dent have the same power ware and hiring qualified bill that promotes public prise. Over time it has over the Internet in a digi­workers to run critical sys­awareness and technical become the electronic con­tal disaster? tems. education, raises the trol panel for much of the If hackers take over a Much like the creation of planned White House world's critical infrastruc­nuclear plant's control sys­the Department of cyberadviser to a Cabinet­ture. Computer networks tem, should the president Homeland Security, cyber­level position and calls for today hold government order the computer net­security has attracted the professional cyberstan­secrets, military weapons works shut down? If there's interest of a number of dards. An early draft would specifications, sensitive a terrorist attack, should House and Senate commit­have given the president corporate data, and vast the government knock tees, all hoping to get a the power to shut down amounts of personal infor­users off other computer piece of the oversight compromised federal or mation. networks to ensure that power: critical networks in an 
Millions of times a day, critical systems stay Bills in the House emergency. 

Hotel workers union OKs deal withcasinos 
Associated Press eompany agreed to pick up all increases and is operating under Chapter 11 bank­
in health care (premiums), sight ruptcy protection, is studying the deal 
ATlANTIC CITY. N.J. -The union unseen." reached with the four Harrah's representing 15,000 Atlantic City casino Tl1e deal affects Harrah's Hesort Entertainment Inc. casinos. hotel workers approved a new contraet Atlantic City, Caesars Atlantic City, Bally's In his praise of the deal, Don Monday with four casinos, providing Atlantic City, and the Showboat Ca.~ino Marrandino, the Eastern Division presi­rai~•'s for most workers and guarantee­I Iotel. But it L'i expected to become the dent of Harrah's, appeared to refer indi­ing benefits won't be reduced. blueprint for deals with the remaining rectly to tortured negotiations V\ith the 
Local 54 of UNITE-IIEHE, which six casinos that are not yet under con­United Auto Workers involving dealers, brought the nation's second-largest gam­tract. which have degenerated into a costly, bit­bling resort to it.., knees with a with a 34-McDevitt said the union has "no inter­ter fight that L'i searing away customers. day strike five years ago, approved the est in negotiating changes now that we Two and a half years after the union new two-year deal by a 97 percent mar­have an approved contract." won representation elections at four gin, union president Robert McDevitt But he said the bargaining committee Atlantic City ca<;inos, it ha'i yet to sign a said. was careful to ask for a deal that would contract with any of them. 
'(he deal calls for hourly increa.<;es of bP acceptabiP to all 11 of the city's ('asi­"Harrah's is proud of it<; record as a 35 cent'> to $1 f(Jr all but the highest-paid nos. The union ha'i an existing contract responsible union partner as further evi­workers. Those workf.'rs will bP able to in place V\ith the Borgata Hotel Casino & denced by this contract which \Va<> dewl­m•gotiatc f(Jr rai-.Ps a year from now. Spa. oped and ahrrePd to in just a few short 
"The most important thing hen' is the Mcl>Pvitt said Trump Entnrtainm~nt weeks and without disruption to the hPalth eare is in place." lw said. "The HPsorts, which has thnw casinos here busitwss and Pmploynes," he said. 
page 8 The Observer +NEWS Tuesday, September 29, 2009 
Woman commits suicide byjumpingoffofbridge 
Daughter of heiress found 24 miles north of New York City after jumping Sunday 
Associated Press 
TARRYTOWN; N.Y. -A fami­ly tragedy came eerily full circle in the waters of the Hudson River when the daughter of a newspaper heiress leapt to her death after parking her BMW on a busy bridge north of New York City. 
The suicide came 15 years after the woman's stepfather killed her mother with a claw hammer, parked his own BMW on the same bridge at the same age -38 -and ended his life in the same way. 
The mother, Anne Scripps Douglas, and the daughter, Anne Morell Petrillo, were vic­tims of the same crime, said Jeanine Pirro, who handled the case in 1994 as the Westchester County district attorney and who is now TV's "Judge Jeanine Pirro." 
"When you commit a violent crime, people think it's over once the person is prosecuted or dies or the newspapers are done with the story," Pirro said Monday. "The truth is the effect of that crime lives on in the family and friends of the vic­tim." 
Police found Petrillo's body Sunday in the river about 24 miles north of New York City. Her BMW had been found Thursday on the nearby Tappan Zee Bridge with a suicide note inside. The Rockland County medical examiner's office con­firmed Monday that the body was Petrillo's. 
Peter Goodrich, a family 
friend and lawyer, said Petrillo's two sisters were "mourning and terribly upset." 
"They love their sister," he said. 
Pirro's career as district attorney began with the sensa­tional case; Scott Douglas attacked his wife in their Bronxville home on New Year's Eve 1993 and the crime came to light the next day, Pirro's first on the job. 
Anne Scripps Douglas was the great-great-granddaughter of James E. Scripps, who founded The Detroit News and built the Evening News Association, which was sold to the Gannett Co. in 1985. His brother E.W. Scripps founded Cincinnati­based E.W. Scripps Co., whieh owns newspapers, television stations and the Scripps Howard News Service. 
"Little did I think that on my first day as district attorney I would be facing a case that would garner national attention because of the uniqueness -or so it seemed at the time -of domestic violence occurring in the upper-economic strata of families," Pirro said. 
Douglas beat his 4 7 -year-old wife into a coma, and she died six days later. The couple's 3­year-old daughter, Victoria, was in the house and saw either the attack or its aftermath. 
"She kept saying, 'Daddy gave Mommy boo-boos,"' Pirro remembers. 
Meanwhile, Scott Douglas' BMW was found on the Tappan Zee, but his body could not be found in the icy waters. Investigators suspected a. fake suicide and launched a man­hunt. 
The little girl's two older step­sisters feared their father's return, and when his body washed up in the Bronx on March 30, 1994, Petrillo said, "We can get on with our lives." 
Because Anne Scripps Douglas had sought court pro­tection from her husband sever­al times and was turned away the last time because a judge was on vacation, the case pro­duced changes in Family Court procedures. 
"When the court realizes that a woman who came for help is murdered with a hammer with­in a week's time, they have to look at themselves and say, 'Why did we miss this one?'" Pirro said. 
These days, if no Family Court judge is available when needed, the Criminal Court judge on 24-hour duty can sign an order of protection. 
Petrillo and her sister Alexandra lost a custody case for Victoria and a lawsuit charging that the state failed to protect their mother. Petrillo was divorced or separated from her husband, and their son reportedly lived with his father. Petrillo's father died in 2005. 
"According to family, she lived with a sadness all her life, and it culminated in the jump last week," Pirro said. 
For Pirro, memories of the case linger strongly. 
"I remember going to the house in Bronxville," Pirro said Monday. "I remember it was freezing, there was snow on the ground, but it was sunny, it was quiet. A murder had occurred and yet the sun was coming through the windows. 
"I couldn't help but think of the horror, the screams, the blood. I remember thinking, 'The devil has been at this house."' 
Dam shows signs of wear 
Associated Press 

KENT, Wash.-For nearly 25 years Kathy Gladden has lived about 100 feet from the Green River, a normally placid stream that meanders past the many homes, offices, warehouses and shopping malls that blanket the area. 
Now, she and thousands of others face the all-too-real prospect that the river will gush past a leaky upstream dam and swallow up their homes once the rainy season starts in November, devastating a heavily developed area in the Seattle suburbs that is a vital hub of commerce. 
The Howard Hanson Dam began showing disturbing signs of vulnerability after a torrential rainstorm in January, and offi­cials have been warning resi­dents to buy flood insurance, stow valuables in safe places and be ready to flee. 
King County has declared a state of emergency that allows it to seek federal reimbursement and speed up work to bolster levees, while the Army Corps of Engineers bought 400,000 sand­bags and other flood-fighting materials in the round-the-clDck fight to save the dam. 
"I can't bear it. It's awful," said Gladden, 72, who hates the idea of having to leave her mobile home park and its tight-knit community. "I never even heard of the Howard Hanson Dam until the trouble started." 
The dam, located in the Caseade foothills east of Seattle, has prevented major floods in the Green River valley since it was completed in 1962. That changed when last winter's heavy rains weakened a hillside next to the dam. 
A record 15 inches of rain fell in 12 hours on the Green River's upper watershed in January, sending torrents into the 235­foot-high dam's reservoir. The reservoir rapidly filled 6 feet higher than ever before. 
The dam held the water back and remained sound. But at the high water levels, engineers saw worrying signs within the dam's right abutment, a 450-foot-wide pile of rock deposited by a huge landslide 10,000 years ago. 
As a temporary fix, the corps is spending $8.9 million to inject grout into the abutment. form­ing a shield to lessen the seep­age. Without such work, Col. Anthony Wright, the corps' Seattle District commander, said there would be a 1 in 3 chance this winter for flooding in the Green River Valley. 
But Wright won't know by how well the fixes will work until tests are performed. Wright said he's "going to do everything possible to prevent flooding downstream, but this structure's ability to do what it's done well for 50 years is hampered and therefore they have a higher risk ofthat flooding." 
The possibility of catastrophic flooding has caused consider­able anxiety in the flood-prone area. 
Besides homes and apartment complexes, the valley has hun­dreds of offices -including headquarters for Boeing Commercial Airplanes sprawling shopping malls, facto­ries and what the corps says is the third-largest warehouse area in the nation. 
"There's $50 billion of eco­nomic activity in the valley, and no one takes that for granted," says Kent city spokeswoman Michelle Witham. 
About 25,000 people live on the valley floor, which includes parts of the cities of Kent, Auburn, Renton and Tukwila, but hundreds of thousands work, shop or travel there daily. State officials say 22,000 people might have to be evacuated in a flood. 
In a flood, county officials esti­mate Kent's downtown could be under 6 feet of water, swamping businesses, city offices and the county's regional justice center, which includes courtrooms, offices and a jail that can house up to 1,384 inmates. Already, the county has relocated its elec­tion offices from Renton, just south of Seattle, to ensure it can count votes from November's election in the event of flooding. 
"I don't understand why they didn't repair it earlier," said Nathan Sorrell, 30, a truck driv­er who recently bought flood insurance for his Kent home. "This is people's lives. It's not going to be 'Oh, there's water on my lawn.' We're not going to have water, sewer, power. It's almost like a little Katrina.." 
Mamie Brouwer, Hanson Dam's program manager, said the problems weren't known until January's high water. She said the corps hopes to have a permanent fix -a. concrete wall the length of the abutment and reaching down to bedrock ­designed within a year and fin­ished after two years of con­struction -a. project that could cost up to $500 million. 
County Executive Kurt Triplett has asked the County Council to approve $8.4 million to strength­en 40 miles of levees, though he acknowledges there isn't enough time to complete the work before winter. He also wanlo:; the cash-strapped county to borrow more than $32 million for such things as protecting a critical sewage treatment plant, build­ing a flood-proof wall around the justice center, relocating offices and, if necessary, evacu­ating jail inmates. 

\'our Classroom in the Aran Islands 
Information Session University College Dublin Dublin, Ireland 
Immerse into an Irish University and still he part oj'a Notre Dame C..on1muttity 
VVednesday,Sept.30,2009 
6:00 pm 129 Hayes Healy 
Application Deadlines: NOVEMBF.R 15. 2009 FOR 
FALL 2010~ SPRING 2011~ ANI> ACAOEMIC YE.,\R 2010-201 l API,I.•ICATION AVAILABLE: \V\V\V.NI>.EDUI-<HS 
Judge allows Smart to testify in proceedings 
vant to the issue of Brian
Associated Press 
David Mitchell's competency 
SALT LAKE CITY -A feder­for trial. al judge says he will allow Smart is scheduled to pro­Elizabeth Smart to testify in vide her testimony Thursday. competency proceedings for Smart was 14 when she was the man charged with her abducted from her Salt Lake 2002 abduction. City home. She was found 
In a ruling monday, U.S. nine months later in a suburb District Judge Dale Kimball with Mitchell and his says Smart's testimony is rele-estranged wire. 

Tuesday, September 29, 2009 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Sex offenders set up camp 
Without a place to live, they make their home behind Atlanta office park 
Associated Press 
MARIETTA, Georgia -A small group of homeless sex offenders have set up camp in a densely wooded area behind a suburban Atlanta office park, directed there by probation officers who say it's a place of last resort for those with nowhere else to go. 
Nine sex offenders live in 

tents surrounding a 
makeshift fire pit in the trees 
behind a towering "no tres­
passing" sign, waiting out 
their probation sentences as 
they face numerous living 
restrictions under one of the 
nation's toughest sex offender 
policies. 
"It's kind of like a mind­game, it's like 'Survivor,"' said William Hawkins, a 34­y e a r -'(} l d w h o said he was directed to the campsite two weeks ago after being released from prison for vio­lating probation by failing to register as a sex offender in Georgia. 
The muddy camp on the outskirts of prosperous Cobb County is an unintended con­sequence of Georgia law, which bans the state's 16,000 sex offenders from living, working or loitering within 1,000 feet (300 meters) of schools, churches, parks and other spots where children gather. 
It's not the only place in Cobb County where offenders can live -there are hun­dreds of other sex offenders throughout the county living in compliance with the law. But Ahmed Holt, manager of the state's sex offender administration unit, calls the camp a "last resort" for homeless offenders who can't find another place to live that complies with the law. 
He said probation officers direct them to the outpost if other options fail, such as transferring to another coun­ty or state or sending them to a relative's place that meets the requirements. Homeless shelters and halfway houses are often not an option, he said, because of the restric­tions that bar them from being near children. 
Critics say it's an example of how laws designed to keep Georgia's children out of harm's way create a hazard where penniless sex offend­ers live largely unsupervised at the government's urging. 
"The state needs to find a responsible way to deal with 
this problem," said Sarah 
Geraghty, an attorney with 
the Atlanta-based Southern 
Center for Human Rights who 
represents another man liv­
ing in the camp. "Requiring 
people to live like animals in 
the woods is both inhumane 
and a terrible idea for public 
safety." 
On Monday, after The Associated Press' story was published, state officials told the sex offenders they had 24 hours to leave the property, according to Cobb County Sheriff Neil Warren. The sheriff said the decision was made by the Georgia Department of Transportation, which owns the property, and Warren was uncertain where the offend­ers would go. 
"It's not up to us to tell them where to live or not to live unless they are in viola­tion of the ordinance," he said. "It's not my job or my responsibility or obligation to tell them where to live." 
The outpost illustrates the unique dilemma the law cre­ates for homeless sex offend­ers, who unlike other home­less people, cannot take shel­ter in a church or curl up in a park because they are barred from both. 
Geraghty, the attorney, said she has found only one home­less shelter in the state that meets the residency require­ments for homeless sex offenders. The shelter, she said, is in the northwest Georgia city of Rome and has only two beds, which are often unavailable. 
The tent city is similar to one in south Florida, where dozens of sex offenders moved under a remote bridge because it was among the few places that complied with local ordinances. Florida offi­cials say the sex offenders found the bridge on their own, while some residents of the camp dispute that. 
In Georgia, however, Holt said state probation officers have directed homeless offenders into the woods. 
"WhiJe having an offender located in a camp area is not ideal, the greater threat lies in homeless offenders that are not a specified location and eventually absconding supervision with their where­abouts unkpown," he said. 
Several of the sex offenders in the camp said they did a double-take when their pro­bation officers told them 
about the outpost. 
"Even the probation officer, he looked at me and said there's nothing he can do," said Levertice Johnson, a 52­year-old who moved to the woods after he couldn't find a job and couldn't afford $60 a week for rent at an Atlanta shelter. "He knows it's wrong." 
Holt said the sex offenders 
at the camp were monitored 
closely by their probation 
officials, adding public safety 
is a chief concern. He said 
sex offenders at the site are 
required to report once a 
week and the office sends a 
field agent to the camp at 
least twice a week. 
He added two of the sex 
offenders at the camp have 
landed jobs and are now 
moving toward more perma­
nent housing, which he said 
is the department's "goal for 
all the offenders residing at 
this location." 
Some of the homeless sex offenders living in the woods say the rugged conditions make life seem hopeless. 
''I'm living like an animal. It's just bad," said Johnson, who was convicted in 2002 of child molestation. "You can't clean up, you can't clean yourself, you can't do noth­ing. I'd rather be dead. I'm serious. I'd rather be dead." 
For Hawkins, it feels like an extension of his prison time. 
The former truck driver has been on the registry since he was convicted of attempted sexual battery of a 12-year­old in 1991 when he was 15. He said after he emerged from his latest stint behind bars without a place to live, he was directed to the forest despite pleas from his wife to allow him to live at the cou­ple's home in Swords Creek, Virginia. 
"I don't understand how the state gets away with it," Mindy Hawkins said from her home in Virginia. "This is ridiculous -especially when he has a family, a home, a support system here. It's inhumane." 
Her husband had tried to make the meager outpost feel as much like home as possi­ble as he waits for his proba­tion to end early next year. Now he is scrambling to find another place to pitch his tent in the next 24 hours. 
"I don't know where I'm going to go," Hawkins said. "And if I don't have anywhere to go, they will re-arrest me." 
Man plots murder of Wal-Mart employee 
Three hatch plan to kill disabled cashier for hitting on girl, use her as bait in homicide 
and stabbed him. Gray, crying, 
Associated Press 
NORTH HAVERHILL, N.H.­It was a murder plot hatched over what happened at a Wal­
Mart. 

Christopher Gray, a develop­
mentally disabled cashier, had 
eyes for 17-year-old Amber 
Talbot. She worked in the health 
and beauty aids department ­
and she already had a 
boyfriend. Gray, 25, flirted with 
her and sometimes followed her 
around in the store, she told her 
boyfriend. 

Gray made no secret of it. He told her friend, Timothy Smith, who worked at a Subway sand­wich shop inside the store, that he was interested in her, and about the things he'd like to do with her. Smith told him to stop talking that way. 
Furious over what he was hearing but locked up in county jail on an unrelated charge, boyfriend Michael Robie, Talbot and Smith allegedly hatched a plot to kill Gray, using Talbot as the bait. 
On Oct. 6, 2008, police say, they followed the plan. Talbot invited Gray to watch movies at her home. Once there, Smith, 24, and cousin Anthony Howe, 19, said they stabbed and stran­gled Gray as they stood around a bonfireOn Monday, Talbot, Smith and Howe pleaded guilty to conspiracy and second-degree murder in exchange for long prison terms. Robie, 19, is awaiting trial. 
"It's such a waste of a young life," said Gray's aunt, Shirley Kingsbury. "It's just a brutal, vio­lent murder. It didn't need to take place over a stupid jeal­ousy." 
Gray, an aspiring auto mechanic with a low IQ, atten­tion deficit disorder and a speech impediment, attended special schools when he was young and lived in Groton, Vt., with a legal guardian who was once his care provider. 
His interest in Talbot blos­somed at the Wal-Mart in near­by Woodsville, N.H. 
On the night of the killing, Talbot -accompanied by Smith and Howe -picked Gray up after work and drove all four to her home. 
After building a bonfire, Smith and Howe set upon Gray, according to prosecutor Jeffery Strelzin. Howe grabbed Gray from behind and started choking him, and Smith pulled a knife 
tried to resist -he had defen­
sive wounds from the knife on 
one hand -before collapsing. 

Smith stabbed him more than 
30 times, bending the handle of 
the kitchen knife he was using, 
before pulling out a folding knife 
to finish the job, according to an 
autopsy that also showed signs 
ofstrangulation. 

The alibi -that the three had 
dropped Gray off at a nearby 
boat launch-unraveled quick­
ly. 

Police used Wal-Mart surveil­
lance footage to identify the peo­
ple with Gray when he left work. 
After lying to police initially, 
Talbot and Smith admitted to 
the plot. Smith wrote a letter of 
apology to Gray's family in 
which he admitted stabbing him. 
Investigators also obtained 
recordings of jailhouse phone 
conversations between Robie 
and Talbot in which they dis­
cussed the plot. 

Howe, a short, baby-faced 19­year-old with the body of a line­backer, eventually admitted his role, too. 
On Monday, each stood shack­led at the waist and the feet for nearly identical plea hearings in Grafton Superior Court. 
Talbot got 23 to 50 years, with the possibility of an earlier release if she gets a high-school equivalency diploma and other education in prison. Smith and Howe got 40 years to life, also with the potential for earlier releases if they complete educa­tion courses. 
Formal sentencing was delayed until Robie's case is resolved. 
Gray's family members and friends watched quietly from the gallery, several wearing big lapel buttons bearing his smiling face and the words "Remember Chris for Justice Sake." 
His brother, David Kemp, briefly ducked out of each hear­ing so he wouldn't have to listen to Strelzin describe Gray's wounds. 
"It's senseless, it's sad," said Gray's guardian, Annie Crowley. "It's a very sad and disgusting thing." 
His father, Michael Gray, said the terms of the plea were a dis­appointment. 
"I don't think 100 years would be enough, just for the fact that he's gone and they're still alive, and we gotta feed 'em, keep 'em alive," he said. "That's the sad part." 
Teens fatally beat 16-year-old boy with railroad ties 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Cell phone footage showing a group of teens viciously kicking and striking a 16-year-old honors student with splintered railroad ties has ramped up pressure on Chicago officials to address chronic violence that has led to dozens of deaths of city teens each year. 
The graphic video of the afternoon melee emerged on local news stations over the weekend, showed the fatal beating of Derrion Albert, a sophomore honor roll student at Christian Fenger Academy 
High School. His death was the latest addition to a toll that keeps getting higher: More than 30 students were killed last school year, and the city could exceed that number this year. 
Prosecutors charged three teenagers on Monday with fatally beating Albert, who was walking to a bus stop when he got caught up in the mob street fighting, authorities said. 
The violence stemmed from a shooting early Thursday morn­ing involving two groups of stu­dents from different neighbor­hoods, said Tandra Simonton, a spokeswoman for the Cook County prosecutor's office. When school ended, members of the two groups began fight­ing near the Agape Community Center. 
The attack, captured in part on a bystander's cell phone video, shows Albert being struck on the head by one of several young men wielding wooden planks. After he falls to the ground an appears to try to get up, he is struck again and then kicked. 
Prosecutors charged Silvonus Shannon, 19, Eugene Riley, 18, and Eric Carson, 16, with first­degree murder, and they were ordered held without bond on Monday, said Andy Conklin, a spokesman for the Cook County prosecutor's office. The Cook County Public Defender's Office, which represented the three teenagers in court, had no immediate comment Monday. 
Chicago police said charges are pending against a fourth suspect and that they are look­ing for at least three more sus­pects, but would not discuss a possible motive for the attack. 
Simonton said Albert was a bystander and not part of either group. She said he was knocked unconscious when Carson struck him in the head with a board and the second person punched him in the face. Albert regained consciousness and was trying to get up when he was attacked a second time by five people and was struck in the head with a board by Riley and stomped in the head by Shannon, Simonton said. 
Desiyan Bacon, Riley's aunt, said her nephew didn't have anything to do with the beating and was a friend of the victim. 
"They need to stop the crime, but when they do it, they need to get the right person," Bacon said. 

p 
THE OBSERVER 

page 10 
Tuesday, September 29, 2009 
THE OBSERVER Whose side is Holder on? 
P.O Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Merz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
ScENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 

SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmerz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersporrs@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverrisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Ediror, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and coiWlms present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all re-aders. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Obsen,er policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chiefjenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

lOr Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) ;., publish,,J Mond.y rhrougb Frid.y tX«p< during exam .md. vac.ni._,n periods. A subsc:iprion to The O~scrver is $120 for <InC acac:kmic 
year; $6'5 fur om: semester.  
lOr Ohscrvc< is puhli•hcd at:  POSTMASTER  
024 South Dining Hall  Send .lddr~ t:Ort«(inns to:  
Nun< Dam<, IN 46556-!177~  The Ob.~rvcr  
Pc:riodi4:at postage paid ,Jt Nom: Dame  P.O. Box 779  
dud addH:ional mailing nffius.  014 SoU!h Dining llall  
Notn: Dame. IN 465%-0779  

The Ol~rver i~ :1. mcm~r of tht' At.-s.ociaud Pres.i, All .n::prodnction right'"-;ur­rcscrvo:l. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Ashley Charnley Sam Werner Alicia Smith Jared Jedick Tess Civantos Barrick Bollman Graphics Scene Blair Chemidlin Joey Kuhn 
Viewpoint Lauren Brauweiler 

Last month, Attorney General Eric Holder announced that the Justice Department will investigate whether Bush­era CIA agents should face prosecution for suspected prisoner abuse. His statement came on the heels of the Department's release of a 2004 report from the agency's inspector gen­eral describing the alleged use of harsh interrogation prac­tices, with both deci­sions sparking fury among conserva­tives as well as CIA Director Leon Panetta, a Democrat and an Obama appointee. 
Critics received support from seven former CIA directors on Sept. 19, who requested that the presi­dent call off the criminal probe in a letter to the White House. These seven directors served under both Republican and Democratic presidents. 
"This approach will seriously damage the willingness ofmany other intelligence officers to take risks to protect the coun­try," the letter states. "In our judgment such risk-taking is vital to success in the long and difficult fight against the terror­ists who continue to threaten us." 
This latest debacle L-. not the first time Holder has interfered in a situation involv­ing imprisoned terrorists, nor is it the first time he has chosen to argue on their behalf. 
During the fmal days of the Clinton administration, for instance, Holder was one of those responsible for making rec­ommendations on who should receive executive pardons. Among the recipients of such pardons were former Weather Underground members Susan Rosenberg and Linda Evans. Rosenberg was caught in possession of 7 40 pounds of dynamite she intended to usc to carry out terrorist attacks, and Evans was imprisoned for conspiring to bomb the U.S. Capitol in addition to using false identification to buy weapons and harboring a fugitive. 
Yet the most alarming of Holder's actions involves his efforts to win clemency for a group of terrorists known as FALN. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
OBSERVER POLL 

What is your favorite new restaurant at Eddy St. Commons? 
Five Guys Chipotle Hot Box Pizza New Irish Bar 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Back in the 1970s and 1980s, members of the Armed Forces of National llberation (FALN is the Spanish acronym), a paramili­tary group seeking Puerto Rican independ­ence from the U.S. through violent means, carried out a series of brutal attacks on American targets that included bombings, arson, armed robberies, kidnappings and prison escapes. The most horrific ofthese attacks occurred in 1975, when a bomb exploded inside a tavern in Manhattan during the lunch-hour rush, killing four and injuring 60 innocent bystanders. 
The eventual capture and conviction of individual FALN members halted their reign of terror. Then in 1999, President Bill Clinton offered clemency to 16 of the pris­oners. Those who had worked tirelessly to put them behind bars were livid, along with family members ofthose slain. 
But it wasn't until January of 2009, dur­ing Holder's confirmation hearings, that the public learned of the details surround­ing our current attorney general's role in Clinton's contentious decision. 
In 1993, a self-identified human rights organization calling itself "Ofensiva '92" filed a petition for clemency on behalf of the imprisoned FALN members because the prisoners, according to a House Committee on Government Reform report, "refused to take part in any process that would legitimize the government's actions against them, therefore they refused to file their own petitions." Under normal cir­crnnstances, the Justice Department only considers clemency ifa prisoner files a petition. Officials were apparently willing to make an exception in this case, howev­er, because the petition portrayed the pris­oners as innocent freedom fighters rather than violent terrorists. 
In fact, the prisoners were described in the aforementioned congressional report as "very unlikely candidates for clemency" on the grounds that "they did not admit to wrongdoing and they had not renounced violence before such a renunciation had been made a quid pro quo for their release. They expressed no contrition for their crimes, and were at times openly bel­ligerent about their actions." 
Perhaps the most telling line in the report proclaimed, "The White House seemed to want clemency more than the terrorists." 
But these circumstances did little to 

wvvw.ndsmcobserver.co:m · 
deter Holder, who was serving as deputy attorney general at the time. After previ­ous efi'orts by Ofensiva '92 failed, they managed to win Holder's sympathy, and he spent months actively negotiating with FALN supporters pushing for clemency. 
Moreover, according to documents and interviews that remained undisclosed up until his confirmation hearings last January, Holder ordered his staff at the Office of the Pardon Attorney to replace its original report opposing any commutation of the sentences with a new one favoring clemency for at least halfofthe prisoners. Upon encountering resistance, Holder's chief of staff suggested the attorneys draft a neutral memo laying out possible options. This little maneuver effectively enabled Clinton to grant clemency while avoiding the appearance of conflict with the Justice Department 
Thanks to his repeated efforts to con­vince subordinates at the Justice Department to drop their opposition to the grant, Holder got exactly what he wanted: clemency for the terrorists and political cover for the president. 
Now, as the U.S. Attorney General, Holder is again taking the side of the ter­rorists while taking measures to shield his boss from the brunt. of criticism. 
Of course this does not necessarily mean that Holder is intentionally choosing to side with those who wish to do innocent Americans harm; perhaps he has had a change of heart after the fallout from the Clinton pardons and is now acting out of genuine concern for the law. Recently, however, the Washington Post reported that Holder "did not read detailed memos that prosecutors drafted ... to explain their decL-.ion to decline prosecution" of the CIA officials, suggesting he was more determined to carry out his own plans than to do what the law requires. This dis­turbing pattern of behavior that assumes the U.S. is at fault cannot and should not simply be dismL<>sed outright, especially wehen national security is at stake. 
Christie Pesavento is a senior who is majoring in political science and sociology. She can be reached at cpesaven@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
':4 smile is the shortest distance 
between two people.,, 
Victor Borge 
U.S. comedian and pianist 




LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Reasons behind the rule 
I'm Catholic and I think that God can bless women to lead others to Himself. In fact, both parents of a good friend of mine are Presbyterian ministers; I have no problem with his mother, a woman, being a minister. The Roman Catholic priesthood is different, however; it is not a position that is about power. Clearly there are occasionally those who abuse their vocation, but the priesthood is in its essence a position of service. 
Jesus is not sexist. The Catholic Church is not sexist. Jesus was not a man who was afraid to break with cus­toms [Lk 6:3]. In a time when women were scorned, he loved, healed and forgave males and females alike [Mt 9:22]. Though the misogynistic culture continued after Jesus' death, the Church demonstrates through its histo­ry that women and men can be as holy as saints, as wise as Doctors of the Church and as able to lead as priests and nuns. It has honored Mary, a lay woman, as the per­fect Christian model. We believe that Jesus is God. We believe that he founded one Christian Church [Mt 16:18], and that Peter taught from the center of civilization, Rome, which currently houses his 266th successor. 
He is omniscient. When Jesus established the priest­hood, He knew the effects that his actions would have across all time; he knew that the Apostles would ordain male successors by the laying of hands [Acts 8: 17] and that they would continue the breaking of the bread [Acts 
2:42] as He commanded [Lk 22:19]. In other occasions, when Jesus knew that He had been misunderstood by the Apostles, He corrected them [Jn 11:14]. 
The Church cannot add to or subtract from anything that has been revealed to it. Because Jesus did not cor­rect the Apostles in this case, the Church states that it cannot ordain women. The statement is not "will not" but "cannot" ordain. This is not because the Church deems women as inferior, but because it cannot change what its God instituted. The priesthood is a life of service to Christians, but not necessarily their ultimate goal. 
Vu Nguyen senwr off campus Sept. 23 
Burrito blues 
As a resident of the Eddy Street Commons, I was thrilled when I discovered that the Chipotlewould be opening so soon. I was even more thrilled when I discovered that it's luscious scent wafts directly into my bedroom window, and on "Free Burrito Day", no less! Naturally, I partook in the "Free Burrito" extravaganza. Everyone that was in line with me seemed really excited to be a part of this promotion. However, upon reading Friday's Observer, I was disturbed to see the comment<> of fellow students griping about not receiving free burritos. 
This ungratefulness is truly unattractive. Of course the store manager had to cut the line off. I promise, it DID take an hour and a half. Furthermore, the restaurant did not "not fulfill" any promises. When I left for band practice at 6:30, the line was still quite long, and I am certain that there were students who received a free burrito after 7 
p.m. If the manager had not cut off the line, they would have been serving burritos until at least 8:30 p.m. Is that what the promotion stated was the ending time? No. 
To those students who complained about not receiving free burritos: I am really happy for you that you enjoyed your Hot Box Pizza. Now stop complaining. You did absolutely nothing to earn that free burrito, and you showed up too late. That's nobody else's fault and it's just bad luck. Sorry. Just be grateful that you had food in your stom­ach Thursday night-many people around the world can not say the same. In gener­al, let's all be a little more grateful when we receive anything for free. Thanks. 
Kelsey Robertson semor offcampus Sepr. 25 
No band, no excuses 
We don't want to hear excuses about how the band is going to San Antonio this year, etc., etc. At the VERY LEAST, band members should have been encouraged to VOLUN­TARILY attend the Purdue game Saturday night, just like the 90 percent ofthe end zone fans who were there rooting for Notre Dame. The volunteer band members could have signed any necessary waiver to the University, etc. It was just SO depressing to see our fans in the end zone try to get up a chorus of the Notre Dame Fight Song, as the team was defending the opposite end zone 100 yards away, and hear the team members have to lead themselves in the alma mater after the game. No excuses. Time for the administration leaders of the band to start thinking outside the box, and make sure the band is represented at a game which is being played only a little more than an hour away from campus. 
Jim Blase law school alumnus class of 1981 Sept. 28 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The privilege of being a woman 
In response to Andy Hill ("Is God Sexist?", Sept. 25), I would first like to note that women, like all lay men, still participate in the common priest­hood by virtue of their baptism (CCC, 1547). While excluded from the ordained priesthood, women are also 'privileged' in ways that men are not. I highly doubt that the same God who chose a woman to effect the great mystery of the Incarnation was sexist or misogynistic. It was through the most humble and most ordinary of women, Mary, Mother of God, that the Word became flesh -that God became man. 
It was a woman whom God chose out of all people to be called 'theotokos,' her womb untouched by the seed of man. It was her 'Fiat' that brought Christ into the world to accomplish the salvation of all people. She is also the only human being to ever be conceived without original sin. 
This woman now sits at God's side as the Queen of Heaven. There is no ordinary man in all of history who is comparably privileged. If one looks at the images painted above the Bernini altar in the Basilica, he or she wiJl see that it is Mary, a woman, who sits at the center, being crowned by the Holy Trinity, and it is she who stands atop the Golden Dome. One can hard­ly call the Catholic Church 'sexist' when she, as our universitv. exalts a woman, Our Lady-Notre Dame, as "our life, our sweetness, and our hope" (Vita, Dulcedo, Spes). 
When we awaken ourselves to the astounding reverence which the Church pays to Mary, the humble vir­gin of Nazareth, and to ALL of wom­ankind who share her feminine nature, we will recognize that, far from being discriminated against, women are immensely privileged in the Church for their unique role in the work of redemption, which does not rely on the ordained priesthood. 
JoAnna Roman 
semor 
Lyons 
Sept. 28 
Bait 
For shame Notre Dame, for shame. The viewpoint section has been painfully monotonous this year; it is a disgrace to the reputable name of editorial columns everywhere. Where is the indignation? You didn't get accepted into this university because you were an apathetic, open-minded urchin. No, you are here because you can banter with the best. I implore you, write into The Observer and express that ire. Is it too much to ask for a little brim­stone and fire with my grande french vanilla latte? Release some of that repressed sexual frustration and show me passion, baby! 
Topic Suggestions: 
1. 
The Spoon Scandal: "two forks and a knife" barely touched on the possibly apocalyptic implications of this predicament. I've had to eat my yogurt with a fork on multiple occa­sions. Not OK. 

2. 
Lauren Greenfield's "THIN" exhibit: a truly inspiring piece of work that may even teach some struggling wannarexics how to drop those last few pounds and dive into a debilitating and life-threatening dis­order. 


3. 
Swine Flu: Why don't we just let it run its course? Natural selection, I say. The strongest will survive. 

4. 
Matisyahu: a Hasidic Jewish rap­per on a Catholic campus? What if he tried to brainwash us in the same way our President did when he spoke at commencement? Mmm, won't you pass me a glass of that embryonic Kool-Aid? 

5. 
Sluttle: the clamor of Saint Marys' girls, lost in the irony of self­efficacy, has demoted the original Urban Dictionary definition. Ugly and fat females of Notre Dame, it's time to stand up for yourselves! 

6. 
@ndsmcnews: empty promises about unpublished stories? Talk about failure to perform. 

7. 
Pep Rallies: Sorin, your boycotts were a fail. 

8. 
Charlie Weis' internship: did anyone see him at the career fair? 


It's your turn. Open your laptop and submit something inflammatory! Homogeneity? Not fine by me. 
Britt Burgeson sophomore Pasquerilla West Sept. 28 

~---~~-­
page 12 Tuesday, September 29, 2009 


By JORDAN GAMBLE Assistant Scene Editor 
I like it but I'm too ashamed to tell anyone except the entire readership of The Observer. Hello, my name is Jordan, and I'm a Mileyholic. 
After watching the Irish crush Purdue's hopes and dreams last Saturday night, after screaming and singing our fight song and weaving through throngs of disheartened Boilermaker fans, after trudging 4.8 miles to the public pay lot on the southern edge of Purdue's campus, I felt the urge. The urge to crank up Miley Cyrus in my Pontiac and belt out, "I throw my hands up, they're playin' my song, the butterflies fly away 
" Miley Cyrus's latest release is one of those songs that you don't like to admit to liking. It's derivative, nasally and ridiculous, which is exactly why I love it. I absolutely adore "Party in the U.S.A." because it never fails to make me nostalgic, giggly and incredibly confident in my singing ability all at once. 
It's derivative. 
It mashes together all the carefree summer songs of my youth, the ones that I enjoyed on my neon-colored stereo with the detached purple speakers. My sister and I would put on Hanson and sing along to the entire album on repeat. Then we graduated to the Spice Girls and their sassy pop. Then it was Britney Spears. Obviously, Miley Cyrus' people understand that about half her demographic consists of closet lis­teners who are yearning for the mindless, lyri­cally simple and catchy-as-heck music of the late 1990s. Miley's producers shrewdly dissected each of these songs, harvesting the catchiest ele-
By SZYMON RYZNER Scene Writer 
Miley Cyrus is a menace. Her lack of talent, annoying demeanor and overall hideousness frighten me. Other female artists attempt to have personalities, but Miley Cyrus is a parody of stardom, a caricature marketed appropriately to "tweens" by the Disney corporation. A more terrifying fact is that college students and even adults are listening to this shameful garbage. I have heard songs by the Chipmunks with better lyrics. Concerning the hooks in Miley's songs, they are catchy, but so is the flu, and I think I'd rather have the latter stuck in my head all day. 
She's not her own person. She doesn't have the absurd sense of style of Lady Gaga and Katy Perry or the "girl power" attitude of Pink and Kelly Clarkson. She's just a trashy, generic teen who rose to fame because her father sang "Achy Breaky Heart." I will repeat that: "Achy Breaky Heart." I hope that sunk in. Just for good meas­ure, she is famous because her father is ments of each. 
It's nasally. 

Duh. Everyone knows Miley Cyrus can't sing. (Or act, or dance, or speak whole sentences, or refrain from taking MySpace shots of herself to send to a Jonas Brother.) She is physically inca­pable of technicalities like "singing." She just yells the words in random order while standing in a recording booth and hopes for the best. 
Her lack of talent is useful, of course. With a little computer help, Miley's voice is just tuneful enough that just about every hearing person on Earth can sing along with gusto. I will snicker about how terrible she sounds, but inside, I'm so happy she's mediocre. Mediocre is accessible. 
Take, for comparison, "She Wolf." It's not fun to sing along to Shakira, guys. She's so experi­mental and high-pitched, and she howls. It's too darn complicated. "Party in the U.S.A." makes me feel good about myself because I can sing along competently. No one will look at me and think, "Oh, great, there's that girl who thinks she can sing but totally cannot. What a sad excuse for a human being." 
It's ridiculous. 

While I appreciate that the song rhymes "stilettos" with "memo," the lyrics are truly awful. "Nodding my head like yeah, moving my hips like yeah." What is this "yeah" you speak of, Miley? 
The song references Britney (one word). which I can understand. Like I said before, this song is a shameless reiteration of every feel-good pop ditty ever. But why a Jay-Z shout-out? Does Miley even know he does other things besides be Beyonce's husband? If she does, maybe Miley 
exploitative and sang "Achy Breaky Heart." I rest my case. 
"Party in the U.S.A." is the least effort I have ever heard put into a song. Half of the chorus consists of random throat sounds, and the other half consists of the words "Party in the U.S.A." What does that even mean? Miley rhymes it with "OK." What songwriting genius came up with that gem? But this is hardly the biggest problem with "Party in the U.S.A." How does an artist get away with singing about listening to other artists? This is a hit song? Referencing how much you love Jay-Z and Britney in a track of your own is shameful. 
The plot of the song isn't awful; it's the story of a girl coming into the big city, trying to fmd her place. But it doesn't have to be nearly as annoy­ing at it turns out to be. Also, why the pole danc­ing on an ice cream truck? She is attempting to create a risque image, and perhaps it is suc­ceeding, but hardly any young stars escape from that stratagem unscathed. Britney had her melt­down and it was spectacular; Miley is following Cyrus deserves an Oscar, because she's really been fooling me. 
Yet if the lyrics weren't ridiculous, I probably would­n't even like this song. I wouldn't like any Miley Cyrus songs if I couldn't play it "ironically" and sing along to the inane lyrics "ironi­cally." As if I don't enjoy it and am only putting myself through the horror to partake in some college ritual that demands I lis­ten to Disney stars in order to proclaim my college-fostered love of "irony." 
Don't even pretend you don't relish the chance to sing along to all three minutes and 25 seconds of that insidious ear crack that is "Party in the U.S.A." It's already a dorm party staple, obliterating the rule that stipulates songs must spend five months in popular release before they enter the iTunes of Notre Dame stu­dents. Obviously this song is the devil's work. 
(But I love it. I do.) 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 
her step for step. 
The greatest problem with Miley Cyrus is that adults dignify her with attention. Twenty-year­olds sing and dance to a song sung by a 16-year­old. Not written, not composed -just sung. There are plenty of more talented, non-sellout artists who demand our attention, yet as con­sumers we settle for the status quo. There is better, catchier, generally more fun music out there, so why is this spawn of Billy Ray getting so much attention? 
Genuine girl-power pop and rock is out there, and that is something I entirely approve of. Ultimately, though. I have probably been too extreme with my judg­ments of Cyrus. Lots of little girls look up to her, and she should act like an adult in recognizing that. I will even give Miley Cyrus one ounce of credit ­she's less infuriating than the Jonas Brothers. 
Contact Szymon Ryzner at sryzner@gmail.com 
THE OBSERVER 
E

Tuesday, September 29, 2009 


page 13 

By NICK ANDERSON Scene Writer 
Author's Note: I'm writing this in the interest offull disclosure: I fear Miley Cyrus. While I detest what she and the Disney brat pack have done to popular culture, that's not the source ofmy fear. I am afraid that Miley Cyrus will eat me. I'm not sure if that's a metaphor for her devouring my soul or if I'm 
actually going to be cannibalized. 
While not an academic resource, Wikipedia has proven extremely informa­tive. Because it is knowledge by democra­cy, it can help determine what is important to our culture. Miley Cyrus's wiki contains 6,132 words. That is six times the length of this article. It is also roughly 500 more words than both Mozart's and President James K. Polk's entries. The Beatles' entry comes in at 16,155 words, implying that Miley is equivalent to .380 Beatles. That's Ringo and a little bit of George. There's no way that is right. In Google results, Miley Cyrus also beats Elvis Presley and the Rolling Stones. 
Combined. 

The entry for Miley Cyrus' latest single, "Party in the U.S .A.," 
By ADRIANA PRATT Assistan t S'cene Editor 
It is impossible not to feel fantas­tic when "Party in the U.S.A." comes on. Ignore who sings it, ignore that it's pop to an extreme (unless you're like me and gen­uinely enjoy a quality pop song) and just embrace it. Although 
Miley Cyrus might not be a col­lege student's favorite ­unless you're Viewpoint writer Brooks Smith -her song has certainly made its way into almost every dorm party, work­out playlist and even The Observer office during a partic­ularly late night of editing. I have to say, Miley's done it 
again. 
This past weekend I visited a frat at DePauw University and, lo and behold, they had a dance to "Party in the U.S.A.," complete with camouflage and an American flag. The song has crossed even the most unlikely borders, and for good reason. How many of us have been caught in an uncomfortable or daunting situation runs for 3,796 words, about 25 fewer than "Stairway to Heaven." It's hard to be sure, but the title almost implies an allusion to Neil Young's classic, "Hockin' in the Free World." If it is, it fails as such. Young was harnessing his talent to criticize both our government and society. Cyrus is narrating her stressful move from Nashville to Hollywood, three years after she first became famous and 16 years after she was born into a rich, semi-famous family. The song also came out at the same time as her clothing line. Other than that, it's an every­day story. 
Even stranger, the video, while officially an homage to "Grease," channels Tupac's "California Love." A rumbling. gravelly base line filters through both songs. Both take place in a dystopian California desert, often in a twisted metal cage. Again, it's unclear if this is intentional. One thing is clear: although Tupac's video is about future warring tribes, Miley's desert party is orders of magnitudes scarier. 
This brings the real question: Haven't we seen this act before? An innocent Southern teenager who has stumbled into pop suc­cess, unaware that she embodies the Madonna/harlot complex, complete with press release-ready feuds and the remark­able ability to claim to be a role model for young girls. Miley even name drops her predecessor in the song: "And a Britney song was on." We all watched as Britney went down in flames. Let's just hope Miley follows the comparatively good example of the Olson twins by taking the money and leaving the public spot light. 
The worst part about this is how little quality music exists. At least we had an excuse before now. This song, along with the thousands of others like it released in the past 40 years, is manufactured from start to end. It may as well be a petroleum by-product. Miley's "aw-shucks, I'm just a country girl" gimmick is the latest in a long line of consumer-ready personalities, from the Sex Pistols' anarchism to anything disco. History doesn't look kindly upon any of them. 
What record companif~s offer today is the musical equivalent of corn syrup. We con­sume it in massive quantities and it tastes oh-so-good. Twenty years from now we'll be bloated and indifferent, with nothing to show for our misspent youths. If we don't clean up our tastes now, we're in for trou­ble in the long run. No one will be looking for MP3s to pass on to their children. Instead, we'll have to hang our heads in shame. On a related note, I would like those kids to kindly get off my lawn. 
Contact Nick Anderson at nanders5@nd.edu 

full of strangers? It might even have hap­pened to you when you first set foot on Notre Dame's campus. That's what Miley sings about -putting yourself out there, even though it's scary, and realizing it will all be OK. "Party in the U.S.A." is a song that calms your nerves, lets you take a deep breath and gets you excited for what is ahead. 
My recommendation is to take the song and put it on repeat while running. The beat keeps your adrenaline rushing, your face smiling and your legs kicking. It sufficiently distracts you from the miles ahead, and it throws you back into the night before, reminding you of the great time you had dancing to (or mocking) it. 
You know that awkward beginning-of­party hour when people start to arrive and stand around uncomfortably because there are only five of them there? The best way to avoid that scenario is to turn on "Party in the U.S.A." It is guaranteed to relax your guests, get the laughs started and propel the party ~orward to the fun portion. The best part is that you can play it again later once every­one has arrived, because by that hour, the original five won't remember they've already heard it. 
Unfortunately, the innocence of the song doesn't seem to reflect the real Miley Cyrus. The 16-year-old's performance of this hit at the Teen Choice Awards caused quite a bit of scandal, especially when she got up in extremely short shorts and danced around an ice cream truck pole. Here is my question: Why does her dad let her do that? Why would a parent of a 16-year-old think, "Yeah! Let's get Miley to dress like a miniature Britney and stick a pole next to her and let thousands of Disney fans and their parents see what happens! Genius!" Beats me. 
The music video isn't much better. If I watch her make a pouty face and look seduc­tively at the camera one more time while she runs her hands through her hair, I might hurl. Jt's just so strange and borderline creepy. I have a 16-year-old sister, and to picture someone her age dressing and danc­ing like Miley Cyrus ... it spells trouble. I'm thinking Miley might have given Britney a shout-out in her song for a reason. 
But take my advice and don't let the song's artist distract you from the greatness that is "Party in the U.S.A." Just nod your head like yeah and move your hips like yeah, and you won't regret it. Do it for America. 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 
Observer Graphic I BLAIR CHEMIDLIN 
page 14 Tuesday, September 29, 2009 
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB 

I aRoche's two homers keepDodgers from clinching 
Beckham's three RBis lift White Sox aver Indians; Detwiler getsfirst winfor Nationals 
NL-high 225 hits.
\ssodated Press 

Duke couldn't believe it 
PITTSBURGH (AP) when manager John Russell Former Dodgers prospect lifted him following Chin­Andy LaRoche homered Lung Hu's sacrifice fly, with a twice, doubled twice and sin­10-run lead and only one bat­gled, driving in six runs as ter to get for his fourth com­the last-place Pittsburgh plete game. and the fans Pirates again prevented Los booed loudly as Duke walked Angeles from clinching the to the dugout. NL West with an 11-1 romp LaRoche, traded to the Monday. Zach Duke pitched Pirates in the three-team shutout ball into the ninth deal Ia st year in which Los inning against a patchwork Angeles landed Ramirez, had Dodgers lineup. LaRoche set never had more than three a career high for hits in going hits or three RBis in a game. 5 for 5 and scoring four runs. LaRoche had a two-run 
Already assured of a playoff double off Hiroki Kuroda (8­spot, the Dodgers lost three 7) during the Pirates' big sec­of four to the Pirates, who ond inning that began with had dropped 23 of 26 going Loretta's throwing error on into the series -the fran­Lastings Milledge's grounder. chise's worst stretch in 119 Delwyn Young's double seasons. scored Milledge, Luis Cruz 
The Dodgers blew a three­singled and Duke drove in a run lead in the ninth inning run with a grounder ahead of Sunday and lost 6-5, then got LaRoche's double and Garrett blown out in the series finale. Jones' RBI single. Jones also Technically, their magic num­homered, his 21st, in the ber is two, but in reality it is fourth immediately after one because they own the LaRoche hit his 11th. tiebreaker against Colorado. Jones wasn't called up by 
Los Angeles was missing Pittsburgh until June 30, but Danks (13-10) allowed flip from Carroll at the bag as three games. During the the injured Manny Ramirez leads NL rookies in homers. three hits and one run, strik­another run scored. stretch he has doubled his (hamstring), Ronnie Belliard LaRoche had a chance for ing out seven in his first com­Beckham's two-run double career total -Morse had (groin) and Casey Blake the cycle his final two times plete game at any level since off Jensen Lewis made it 5-1 three before Saturday, all in (hamstring) and their up. He rounded second being drafted in 2003 by in the ninth. Beckham then 2005. makeshift lineup included sharply and thought about Texas. Shin-Soo Choo hit his scored on a throwing error Morse has had a hard time Mark Loretta at third, Juan trying to advance after he 19th homer leading off the by center fielder Trevor breaking into the lineup. He Castro at short and Brad doubled to center in the seventh to break up the left­Crowe, who fielded Paul was used at first and third Ausmus catching. sixth, but pulled up. He hit a bander's bid for his first Konerko's single and threw base the past two games, 
The Dodgers played like a two-run homer in the eighth. career shutout. home wildly. Beckham went started in right field Monday, team that couldn't wait to get Kuroda was 3-1 with a 2.16 Danks bounced back from to third when catcher Lou and Nationals manager Jim out of Pittsburgh -a senti­ERA in four starts since com­being hit hard in an 8-6 loss Marson retrieved the ball and Riggleman said he may play ment shared by few teams ing off the disabled list (con­to Minnesota on Tuesday in tossed it past Lewis attempt­second base before the sea­this season -while having cussion), but gave up eight which he gave up seven runs ing to cover home. son ends. three runners thrown out on hits and seven runs, only and eight hits, including a Danks held the Indians hit­Detwiler (1-6), who won in the bases and committing a three earned. career high-tying three less until Choo doubled with his 13th start, allowed seven key error in the first two homers, in six innings. He two outs in the fourth, finally hits and one run in six innings alone. For one day, White Sox 6, Indians 1 had been 0-2 in five starts reversing his fortunes against innings. Mike MacDougal the Dodgers who looked like Gordon Beckham drove in since beating the Boston Red Cleveland. He had been 1-5 pitched the ninth for his 17th the team with 96 losses, not three runs to help John Sox on Aug. 27 -but set a with a 5.63 ERA in nine pre­save. the Pirates. Danks earn his first win in career high in wins, one vious starts against the Nelson Figueroa (2-8) 
Orlando Hudson was caught more than a month and the more than he had last year. Indians, posting a 10.54 ERA picked up his fifth straight in a rundown trying to Chicago ·white Sox beat the The White Sox took a 3-0 in losing his last three. loss, allowing six hits and advance on an errant throw Cleveland Indians on Monday lead in the second against Laffey lost his fifth straight two runs in six innings. in the first. In the second, night. Aaron Laffey (7 -8) without start, allowing three runs Justin Maxwell led off the Loretta was picked off first Danks' first career com­hitting the ball hard. They and eight hits over 7 1/3 bottom of the first with a and Matt Kemp was caught plete game gave Chicago its loaded the bases on three innings. Cleveland has grounder that glanced off too far off second on James third win in four games fol­consecutive one-out singles totaled 12 runs of support third baseman David Wright's Loney's popup and was lowing a stretch of seven -then scored three times during the five losses. The glove as he tried to backhand thrown out. losses in eight games. without hitting a ball out of left-bander is 0-5 in seven it on the run. The ball 
The Dodgers had cham­Cleveland came in one-half the infield. starts since beating bounced deep into foul terri­pagne iced in their club­game ahead of last-place Brent Lillibridge topped a Minnesota on Aug. 16. tory. allowing Maxwell to house, ready to celebrate on Kansas City in the AL Central two-out slow roller that third reach second with a double. Sunday, but the Pirates after sweeping a three-game baseman Jhonny Peralta Nationals 2, Mets 1 He advanced to third on a scored four runs in the bot­series from Baltimore. The charged but could not field Mike Morse homered for groundout and scored on tom of the ninth. Now, it must Indians, trying to avoid a cleanly between the foul line the third straight game and Ryan Zimmerman's sacrifice be toted back to San Diego last-place finish for the first and the mound. It was ruled Ross Detwiler earned his first fly to right field. for the start of a two-game time since going a franchise­an RBI single. career win as the Washington New York's Carlos Beltran series against the Padres on worst 57-101 in 1991, are 6-Laffey then hit DeWayne Nationals beat the New York led off the sixth with a single, Tuesday. 20 in September. A year ago, Wise with a pitch to force in Mets on Monday night. advanced to second on a wild 
Duke (11-15) was in control they went 32-17 down the a run and Beckham grounded Morse led off the sixth pitch, and scored on from the start, allowing only stretch to finish at .500 -a ball up the middle that was inning with a home run over Fernando Tatis' single up the three singles until Orlando giving hope to Cleveland fans fielded behind second base by the out-of-town scoreboard in middle. Detwiler's wild pitch Hudson tripled with one out that the Indians could return J amey Carroll. Wise slid in right field to break a 1-all tie. put runners on second and in the ninth -a low total for to contention after winning safely before shortstop The home run was his third third with two outs, but a pitcher who has allowed an the division in 2007. Asdrubal Cabrera took the this season, all in the past Figueroa struck out. 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
HELP! Need FB tix f  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  Hal)py Birthday to me,  Reflecting in a watery mirror  
WANTED  or family. Will pay  FoR RENT  Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources  Happy Birthday to me, Happy Birthday dear Jared,  A glare that is blindness in the early afternoon.  
top$$.  
 in place to assist you.  Happy Birthday to me.  And glow more intense than blaze  
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­ 574-251-1570.  andersonND rentals.com. HOUSES  If you or  of branch, or brazier,  
appt.,no experience needed,cus­ someone you love needs confi­ Midwinter spring is its own season  Stirs the dumb spirit: no wind, but  
tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835.  Need 2 MSU & USC tix &  PERSONAL  dential support or assistance, please call  Sempitemal though sodden towards sundown,  pentecostal fire In the dark time of the year.  
TICKETS  parking pass.  If you or someone you care about  Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or  Suspended in time, between pole and tropic.  Between melting and freezing The soul's sap quivers. There is no  
574-276·8507.  has been sexually assaulted, we  Ann Firth at  When the short day is brightest, with  earth smell  
VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade  can help. For more information, visit  1-2685.  frost and fire,  Or smell of living thing. Th1s is the  
FB Tix.  Buying ND football tix.  Notre Dames  For more information, visit NO s  The brief sun flames the ice, on pond  spring time  
Victorytickets.net  GAs.  website:  website at:  and ditches,  But not in time's covenant. Now the  
574-232-0964.  574-277-1659.  http://csap. nd.edu  http:l/pregnancysupport@nd.edu  In windless cold that is the heart's heat,  hedgerow  


CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES
Tuesday, September 29, 2009 
page 15 
NBA 

NCAA Golf World/NIKE Men's Division I Rankings 
team previous 
1 Oklahoma St. (14) 1 2 Washington (8) 2 3 Stanford (1} 5 4 Alabama 4 5 Arizona St. 6 6 Tennessee {1) 18 7 Illinois 12 8 Georga Teeh 11 
9 usc 10 10 Florida 9 11 Arkansas 8 12 TexasA&M 7 13 UNLV NR 14 Florida St.. 25 15 Georgia (1) 3 16 North Carolina St. 13 17 South Carolina 15 18 LSU 17 
19 TCU ,. 14 20 UCtA 16 21 Chattanooga NR 22 Texas 23 23 Clemson 19 24 Duke 20 25 Augusta St. NR 
NCAA FCS Coaches Poll College Football 

team 

1 Richmond (28) 2 Villanova 3 Montana 4 Northern towa 5 William &Mary 6 James Madison 7 New Hampshire 8 Southern lflinios 9 McNeese St. 10 Appalachian St. 11 Weber St. 12 Central Arkansas 13 Elon 14 South Carolina St. 15 South Dakota St. 16 Massachuse«s 17 · Cal Poly 18 Eastern Washington 19 Texas State 20 Jacksonville State 21 Eastern Kentucky 22 Holy Cross 23 Florida A&M 24 Eastern ltlinios 25 Montana St. 
previous 
1 
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
9 
10 11 12 13 16 18 15 14 20 
19 
21 22 23 25 NR NR 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -Blake Griffin has battled Los Angeles' famous traffic. He's played Good Samaritan for a woman in a stalled car. lie's been photographedby paparazzi. 
Now if only he could get around to the real reason he came to town -helping the Los Angeles Clippers become a playoff team. 
"It's been a long time wait­ing for this," he said Monday. ''I'm ready to get going." 
The No. 1 pick in the NBA draft joined his teammates at Staples Center for media day, which began with a glitch. Power within several blocks of the arena went out, cutting the lights shortly before the players took the court. Backup power even­tually kicked in, allowing a small group of fans to meet and greet Griffm. 
He comes to a team that has had two winning sea­sons in the last 30 years ­they were 19-63 last season amid a slew of injuries ­and just one playoff appear­ance since 1997. 
Still, Griffin doesn't believe in a so-called Clippers Curse. 
"I did some research on my own and there's not enough evidence for me to believe," he said, smiling. 
The Clippers have focused their marketing campaign around Griffin, including a full-page color ad in the Los
AFCA Division Ill College Football Rankings 
team  previous  
1  Mount Union (39)  1  
2  Wis.~Whitewater (1)  2  
3  Mary Hardin-Baylor  3  
4  Wheaton (Ill.)  4  
5  Wesley  5  
6  St. John's (Minn.)  6  
1  Wash. &JeH.  7  
8  Central {Iowa)  11  
9  Linfield  12  
10  Wabash  9  

around the dial 
WNBA Finals 
Fever at Mercury 9 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 
Pirates at Cubs 8 p.m., WGN 
IN BRIEF 

Wisenhunt stresses patience
following offensive ineptitude 
TEMPE, Ariz. -Costly turnovers on offense. Critical breakdowns on defense. Boos from the home crowd. 
Sounds like the same old Arizona Cardinals. 
After a 31-10 home loss to the Indianapolis Colts on Sunday night, the defending NFC champions are 1-2 heading into their bye week. 
The once-feared offense of Kurt Warner, Larry Fitzgerald and Anquan Boldin -Pro Bowlers all -has pro­duced two touchdowns and five turnovers in two home losses. 
It's not what coach Ken Whisenhunt expected, but he's preaching patience_ 
"I don't think three games in that you hit the panic button or th~t you think, we want to blow up what we're doing," Whisenhunt said at his Monday morning news conference. 

That may be true, but some serious tweaking is in order during the week off. 
Angeles Times. 
"I don't feel like a lot of individual pressure to go out and do this or that," he said. "We have guys that can do all this stuff. l just need to come in and contribute." 
But coach Mike Dunleavy said Griffin will open train­ing camp on the bench, with last season's starters ­Baron Davis, Marcus Camby, Eric Gordon. AI Thornton 
and Chris Kaman  - retain­ 
ing their spots.  
"If I have to come  off the  

bench, I'm perfectly happy with that," said Griffin, who hasn't been in that position since getting hurt his fresh­man year at Oklahoma. 
He was the consensus col­lege player of the year after leading the nation with 14.4 
rebounds per game while averaging 22.7 points last season for the Sooners. 
The rookie forward strained his right shoulder during a summer league game in July, but Griffin said it was back to normal in iess than a month though the Clippers kept him sidelined longer as a precaution. 
Dunleavy liked what he saw from Griflin, who aver­aged 19.2 points and 10.8 rebounds in summer league play. 
"He came in defensively and I don't think he missed a rotation, knew exactly where he's supposed to be and was there and was on time," the coach and general manager said. "For a rookie that really impressed me." 

Colts hope Dwight Freeney
quadriceps injury not serious 
INDIANAPOLIS -Dwight Freeney spent the first three quarters Sunday night in the Arizona Cardinals backfield. 
He was relegated to watching the final 15 minutes from the Colts locker room. 
The Coltc; are hoping Freeney won't be a spectator this Sunday after hurting his right quadriceps in Indy's 31-10 victory over the Cardinals. Team officials were trying to get answers Monday about llie severity of the injury and how much time, if any, the Colts' top pass-rusher might miss. 
Coach Jim Caldwell and team presi­dent Bill Polian declined to provide specifics until getting results from an MRI. 
"The docs will report to us later this evening, so we'll know something then, but I don't think there will be anything definitive for quite a while," Pollan said on his weekly radio show Monday night. "The positive side is that he basically said, 'I can walk, I can play."' 
Yankees prepare for plaY.offs
after clinching AL EaSt title 
NEW YORK -Derek Jeter ambled into a clubhouse that still smelled of stale champagne, less than two hours before game time Monday. 
Other than the two bottles of bubbly stashed behind several bats in his locker, he saw scant evidence of the raucous celebration that took place a day earlier at Yankee Stadium. 
About 24 hours after wrapping up the AL East title, it was back to busi­ness for the New York Yankees. And that first order of business: resting the regulars. 
"I think it's important for them to relax their minds for a day or two before we turn it up again," manager Joe Girardi said Monday as the Yankees prepared to play the Kansas City Royals. 
But the festive mood could only last so long for a $200 million team that expects to go far in the postseason after missing the 2008 playoffs. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 29, 2009 
NBA 

Jackson still wants to be traded from Oakland 
Associated Press 

OAKLAND-Stephen Jackson was his typical candid self: Yes, he still would like to be traded from the Golden State Warriors and is fed up with all the losing. 
"What I said is how I feel, point blank. That's not going to change," Jackson said during Monday's media day, where the team's captain opened by calling the throng of reporters waiting for him "vultures." 
He's unhappy with Golden State's decline since reaching the second round of the 2007 play­offs to end a 13-year postseason drought. 
Jackson unloaded his frustra­tions with the franchise, reiterat­ing public comments he made last month that he wants out so he has a more realistic chance of getting to the playoffs elsewhere. The Warriors' leading scorer and top defensive player was fmed $25,000 by the NBA earlier this month for publicly request­ing a trade. 
"Don't ask me questions I already answered," he said. "I feel the same way I felt last time. Y'all know I got fined, so don't ask me the questions if you don't want me to get fined. Kobe (Bryant) said the same thing two years ago and didn't get a fine, but we're not going to beat a dead horse. They know they're wrong. But I can't beat the NBA so I've got to roll with it." 
Jackson said he will put all of this out of mind once the team hits the practice floor for the start of training camp Tuesday -and coach Don Nelson insists he won't have trouble dealing with the disgruntled swingman. 
"Nobody has any less faith in him," forward Anthony Randolph said. "This is a busi­ness." 
While at least some of the Warriors' front office and fans were caught off guard hearing Jackson's statements -made to Dime Magazine in New York while with buddy and former teammate AI Harrington at an event sponsored by their shoe company-he isn't concerned. 
"I mean, you gotta hear it some way," Jackson said. "You want me to send you an e-mail, Facebook or something? I'm a grown man, I have six kids, I'm married now, so I speak my mind. I thought I had freedom of speech but obviously I don't." 
He even went as far as to say he regrets nothing in his career, speaking specifically about going into the stands with then­Indiana teammate Ron Artest during an ugly brawl with the Detroit Pistons in 2004. 
"I don't have a regret about anything I've done. I don't have a regret about going in the stands with Ron Artest," Jackson said. "I say what I want to say when I feel like it, regardless of what the consequence is. That's just always been me." 
Jackson had a brief conversa­tion with team president Robert Rowell before a series of photo shoots Monday in his No. 1 jer­sey, and Rowell categorized it as "positive." But Jackson, given a three-year contract extension worth $28 million in November, said their relationship has become strained. 
Rowell said he told Jackson he's committed to fielding a com­petitive team. 
"We stick by Jack. Jack is Jack.... What that means is expect the unexpected," Rowell said. "We have a lot of respect for him and his game. Sports is emotional. I'd rather have peo­ple who speak their mind than people who don't." 
Nelson acknowledged last week he discussed the idea of Jackson being traded during a conversation they had early last season, before Jackson accepted the new deal. Jackson said Monday he was surprised Nelson brought the idea up to him then, but the coach has said he knew Jackson would struggle with the losing by a young roster. 
Why did Jackson make his feelings known now and not before signing the extension? 
"Who's going to turn down that money? I'm not stupid. I didn't go to college but I've got a lot of common sense," he said. "Even though I signed my exten­sion, that doesn't mean things can't happen. Shaq got traded. Michael Jordan went to another team." 
Jackson averaged 20.7 points, 
5.1 rebounds and 6.5 assists in 59 games last season. He insists he will continue to play hard as long as he's here. Nelson and general manager Larry Riley have said they will explore a trade for Jackson only if it's the right situation for the Warriors. 
"You don't hold it against the player," guard Speedy Claxton said. "It can only be a distraction if you let it be a distraction. A lot of guys in the NBA could be mad and don't think before they say certain things." 
Since Jackson arrived in the Bay Area in a trade with the Pacers in January 2007, he has rebounded from a rocky past to become a key piece for Nelson and a major spark for the Warriors. 
Golden State shocked Dallas in the first round of the 2007 play­offs, the organization's lone post­season trip since 1994. The 2008 squad barely missed the post­season despite winning 48 games, the most by a non-playoff NBA team in a quarter-century. 
"It don't feel good to me that ever since I've been here I know I had a big part in getting this organization back to a winning attitude, if not the biggest part," Jackson said. "Every year I've lost somebody I felt helped me get to that, with Baron (Davis), Jason (Richardson), AI. It felt like I'm next. It feels like we're not getting better. It's no disre­spect to guys on the team. I love all the guys on the team and I'm not saying the job couldn't get done with them, but at the same time I came into this game a winner and I want to continue to be a winner." 
Study Abroad in Perth, Australia 
Information Meeting Wednesday, September 30,2009 5:30PM 140 DeBartolo Hall 
For ALPP and ANTH College of Science College ofEngineering 

Please recycle The Observer. 
Tuesday, September 29, 2009 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Shamrocks begin title defense against Howard 
Pyros hope to stay hot against Lewis; Whirlwinds try to bounce back, return to dominance vs. Farley 

\VE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A \VEEK 
1290 E. IRELAND  138 S. MICHIGAH  5~570 H. IRONWOOD DR.  5343 N. MAIN ST.  ·  
574.291.1900  574.246.1020  574..277:8500  574.968.4600  
SOUTH BEND  SOUTH BEND  SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  

from last season, dominating Breen 
Philips 22-0. They look to improve 
to 2-0 tonight, leaving a forgettable 
season last year behind them. As 
they showed in the first game, this 
is a new Pyro team. 
"Last year was last year," senior 
capta.in Tara Pillai said. "We had a 
horrible record, no wins, a tie and a 
bunch oflosses. We have put that in 
the pa'>t. This year we are 1-0, it's a 
great start." 
Lewis is also trying to put last 
season behind them. as they fin­
ished 1-4-1. However they face a 
little more of an uphill battle than 
the Pyros do, trying to get their sea­
son on track after a 7-0 loss to 
Farley last week. However, the 
Oricks are staying optimistic. 
"Even though we lost, we thought 
we looked pretty good," sophomore 
Brandy Ceme said. 
"[We've looked] amazing in prac­
tice," senior captain Tara Gilbride 
said. "We definitely have some 
secret weapons we're going to 
use." 
The game should tell both teams 
a lot about their chances of reach­
ing the playoffs and accomplishing 
their goals for the season. 
"We want a winning record and 
to make the playoffs ... and of 
course the goal of every team is to 
make it to the stadium," Pillai said. 
Added Gilbride: "Our eyes are on 
the stadium." 
The two teams are set to square 
off at 8:00 p.m. at Riehle Field. 
Welsh Family vs. Farley 
When Farley faces Welsh Family under the lights tonight, one team will be hoping to build on its momentum while the other will be hoping to create some. 
Farley won a close 7-0 game over Lewis Sunday, while the Whirlwinds fell to Howard 13-12. Farley junior captain Emma Klosterman made it quite clear what the momentum has done to the Finest's mentality. 
"We are undefeated so far this season," Klosterman said. "We go out and practice hard to keep it that way." 
Even though Farley only man­aged one touchdown against Lewi'>, Klosterman expects the team's coaches, juniors Tommy Smith and Kevin Hitt, will help generate some point<; tonight. 
"We have to give a lot of credit to our oflensive coaches," Klosterman said. ''J'm sure they will think of something good, but for now it's a 
st~cret." 
Welsh Family hopes to change it<; recent fortunes senior captain Tara Schimpf said. 
"We are a very driven and talent­ed team," Schimpf said. "There is a new dynamic to our team this year, so we are concentrating on mesh­ing well." 
Farley hopes to continue its unbeaten season, en route to the ultimate goal. 
"We just have one common goal, [to] get to the stadium," Klosterman said. 
The Whirlwinds look to prove their talent on the field, returning to the. interhall dominance they have shown in pa<;t years. 
"No matter what ups and down'> we may have in a season, or what changes we have gone through as a team, we give our all on the field," Schimpf said. 
Kickoff will be at 9:00 p.m. between the two at Riehle Field. 
Contact Kaitlyn Murphy at 
kmurphy28@nd.edu, John

''VOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOIIN'S!''® © Helms at jhelms2@nd.edu and 
Kelly Zenere at kzenerO l @saint­
marys.edu 

By KAITLYN MURPHY, JOHN 
HELMS and KELLY ZENERE 
Sports Writers 
McGlinn vs. Howard 
When it opens its 2009 season tonight against Howard, McGlinn will be anxious to show that its championship victory in the 2008 season was not a fluke. 
"We're out for [the champi­onship] again this year," senior cap­tain Emily Dore said. "We want to show everyone that we're not just a one-trick pony". 
Not only was Dore confident that the Shamrocks could repeat a championship victory, she even cited some improvements in the team for the 2009 season. 
"We have a lot of depth on our team, even more than last year," she said. 
Dore highlighted the strength and versatility of both the offensive and defensive squads, saying that the team feels extremely confident put­ting the ball in the hands of sopho­more quarterback Lauren Miller and her favorite receiver, junior Kathleen Stanley. Dore also praised the ruthless defensive line, led by sophomore Jillian Stinchcom. 
"We're really excited for our opening game against Howard," Dole said. 'We've been waiting for this [game] for a long time now." 
Howard's (1-0) senior captain Kayla Bishop echood the same high hopes for the Ducks 2009 season, after winning their first game again'>t Welsh Family. 
"We're hoping to gather momen­tum from our win on Sunday and carry it through the season," she said. "McGlinn is an excellent team, we're expecting them to put up a good fight." 
In order to combat the touglmess ofthe Shamrock squad, Bishop said the team plans to rely on their solid wide receivers, particularly sopho­more Kristyn Jeffries and junior Kaitlin Robinson. 
"We're expecting [Jeffries and Robinson] to step up and make big plays," she said. 
As for the Duck's strategy to com­bat the defending champion Shamrocks, Bishop anticipates the team will play hard and fight hard. 
"We're hoping to come out strong and play with that same intensity throughout [the game]." she said. 
The McGlinn Shamrocks will open their season against the Howard Ducks (1-0) tonight at 7:00 
p.m. at Riehle Field. 
Pasquerilla East vs. Lewis 
Two teams looking to bounce back from lackluster seasons last year square off tonight as Pasquerilla East takes on Lewis. The two teams combined for one win last year and are both looking for statement wins tonight. 
In just one week, the Pyros have already surpassed their win total 
~­
a 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 29, 2009 
! 
'' ' 
I I 
I 
I 
l 
I 
l; I \ 
i 
I' 
\ l 
1 
~ 
( 
I 
Bullfrogs 
continued from page 24 

the end," said senior captain Kelley Daniels. "The freshmen were great, defense was fabu­lous and the offense set up some great potential plays." 
Daniels is already looking for­ward to next week, confident her team will rebound from this loss to face their next challenge, Walsh I I all on Sunday. 
"We've got to focus, sharpen our routes and be ready to play," she said. 
Badin will also face Walsh Hall this week, on Thursday. 
"We'll be ready for Walsh," said Cline. "We're always ready." 
Breen-Phillips 22, Pasquerilla East 0 
Despite a winless 2008 cam­paign, Pasquerilla East came out firing against Breen-Philips Sunday, shutting out the Babes. 
Senior captain and quarter­back Tara Pillai led the Pyros with a strong performance. Pillai proved to be a dual-threat as she used both her passing prowess and running agility to pick apart the Babes' defense. 
Pillai threw two touchdowns and ran for a third. On the Pyros' first ofiensive play from scrimmage in the second half, Pillai scrambled out of the pock­et, danced and weaved through the entire BP defense, and ended up in the end zone 45­yards later. On the three touch­downs, the Pyros were able to complete 2-point conversions twice. 
The Pyros' defense was simi­larly dominant, forcing several turnovers on downs and inter­cepting the Babes' quarterback once. They also had a handful of timely sacks to stall B P drives. 
Of course, Pillai was satisfied with the Pyros' performance as well. 
"We won," Pillai said. "It's our first win in two years. We had a shutout, and our offense scored three touchdowns." 
Breen-Philips' offense was simply unable to put a solid drive together against the strong Pasquerilla East defense. Despite several drives that gar­nered first downs on big plays, each drive eventually screeched to a halt, forcing the Babes to punt or go for it on fourth down, which resulted in a handful of turnovers on downs. 
However, the Babes are confi­dent in their ability to continue improving as the season pro­gresses. 
"We have a brand new team, a brand new quarterback and a lot of young players," senior captain and safety Stephanie Wuerdeman said. "This game gave us the opportunity to see a lot of things we can't see in practice." 
The Babes have work to do on both sides of the ball, but made several promising offensive plays and had a handful of cru­cial stops on fourth down. 
"We need to work on routes and most of our offense," Wuerdeman said. "The defense also needs to tighten up." 
Despite the loss, Wuerdeman said she was "definitely satis­fied" with the team's perform­ance, but the Babes remain hungry for their first victory in over a year. 
"This loss is just going to make us angry," said Wuerdeman. "We want to come out next week even stronger and play to win." 
Likewise, the Pyros' are not going to let this win satisfy them, and they are hungry to keep the winning ways going. 
"We are going to keep moving forward," Pillai said. "We'll take every game one week at a time." 
Farley 7, Lewis 0 
At the end of its first game, Farley's defense had given up as many points as it had before the game started. The Finest used the shutout and a second half touchdown pass to top Lewis. 
Farley sophomore quarter­back Megan Bastedo completed a touchdown pass to sophomore wide receiver Laura Yoviene for the game's only touchdown after neither defense allowed any lee-way in the first half. 
"We all played really well," Bastedo said. 
While the scoreboard may not indicate it, the Chicks played a solid game. Freshman running back Connaught Blood was responsible for some of the team's big offensive gains, and the defense effectively shutting down Farley's passing game in the first half. Two critical inter­ceptions by freshman Mara Catlaw and sophomore Margot Debot ended two Farley drives, and a big sack stopped a third threat in the first half. 
"Our D-line was pretty intense," Lewis sophomore Brandy Cerne said. 
The Chicks are confident they will learn from the mistakes of the loss to build their program up to where it needs to be to finish with a winning season. 
"We still looked good," Cerne said. "We've got some small problems to work out in prac­tice." 
The Finest defense did an excellent job containing the Lewis offense, with a crucial second quarter sack as well as forcing numerous turnovers. Big playmakers included sopho­more Clare Cooney, who made a clutch interception in the first half and helped regain the team's momentum after a dis­appointing offensive drive, as well as sophomore Katie Smith, who switched between ofi'ensive and defensive sides of the ball. 
"Katie Smith really stepped up and made plays," junior captain Emma Klosterman said. 
Klosterman commended her team's performance in the absence of many key players, especially on offense. 
"It was awesome," she said. 
Walsh 18, Pangborn 12 

Walsh pulled out all the stops to beat Pangborn Sunday, utiliz­ing everything from trick plays to "secret" ones. 
Junior wide receiver Lindsay Schanzer scooped up a punt and sprinted untouched to the end zone in the waning minutes of the game for what proved to be the game-winning touch­down for the Wild Women. 
"We called it our secret play because no one really knows the rules on kick returns, and well, it worked," Schanzer said. 
The play capped an improba­ble comeback for the v\'ild Women. They trailed by as much as two touchdowns to Pangborn as the Phoxes came out firing early. Pangborn's defense forced two quick turnovers to give the ball to a potent offense led by junior quarterback Gabbi Tate. Tate orchestrated two nearly flaw­less touchdown drives, tossing a touchdown pass to standout senior wide receiver Meghan Bescher and then running one in herself. 
"We've worked very hard on our offense, and even with the outcome, this game affirmed what we're trying to do," Tate said. 
The Wild Women closed the gap to a single touchdown when quarterback Amy Langnecker fired a touchdown pass to Kat Leach in the waning seconds of the first half. 
In the second half, Walsh faced a fourth-and-three at midfield. Langnecker took the snap and rolled right to draw the entire Phox defense. No one noticed Langnecker had flicked the ball to senior captain Meghan Hadley until she was 15 yards downfield and heading for the end zone to tie the game. 
Hadley's run set the stage for Schanzer's punt return heroics. 
"The ball bounced right to me, most of Pangborn thought the play was already over and even I did too," Schanzer said. "But the coach yelled at me to pick it up and I caught it and ran until I scored." 
The Walsh defense stalled the Phoxes on their final drive with two sacks. Junior Amanda Spiegelberg cemented the Wild Women's comeback victory with an interception in the final minute. 
"This was a huge win for us," Hadley said of Walsh's victory. "We came back from behind and showed everyone we're a fighting team and not going to take no for an answer." 
As for the Phoxes, the loss proved a step in the right direc­tion. 
"Today was a great effort," Tate said. "We gave it our all and even though it's a sad loss, we're stili very excited about this team." 
Pasquerilla West 12, Ryan 6 
In an exciting game between the newcomer and the estab­lished power, Pasquerilla West prevailed over Ryan 12-6 despite a valiant Ryan come­back that fell short. 
The Purple Weasels' defense came up with two big fourth down stands near the end of the game to come up with the win. 
"We had every confidence in the defense to make a stop and shut down Ryan," Pasquerrilla West senior coach Justin Betz said. 
After both teams traded three-and-outs to start the game, Pasquerilla West finally broke through with a quarter­back sweep by junior Simoni Bigi. The Purple Weasels fol­lowed on their next drive with the successful utilization of the option. Bigi pitched to freshman running back Alice Yerotun for a long run to the 3-yard line. They followed up with the same play to walk in for the score. 
Throughout the first half, Ryan was unable to create much offense. "We knew our offense wasn't moving the ball, so we put it on the defense to step up with a big play," Ryan senior coach Justin Smith said. "We focused on shutting down the option since the [Pasquerilla WestJ passing game wasn't working." 
Not only did the Ryan defense shut down the Purple Weasel option attack in the second half, but they also took their coach's words to heart and made a huge interception, which led to a touchdown on a toss. 
Despite this setback, the Purple Weasels were able to shut down the Ryan comeback attempt. 
"We came out a little flat in the second ha'lf and Ryan exploited our overconfidence," Pasquerrilla West senior cap­tain Cynthia Curley said. "But after Ryan scored that touch­down we switched the intensity back on. I was proud of the way the girls refused to panic. Defense stepped up after that score and only allowed one more first down the rest of the game" 
The game showed a lot about both teams. The Purple Weasels will focus on improving for next week. Ryan showed the ability to play with any team in the league after playing a close game with an established power. 
Howard 13, Welsh Family 12 
An extra point conversion was all that separated Howard and Welsh Family Sunday, as Howard was able to convert one more than the Whirlwinds did en route to a 13-12 victory and scoring the biggest upset of the season so far. 
Junior quarterback Kayla Bishop completed the winning conversion to senior Mary Jenkins late in the second half to create Howard's winning margin. 
"[Jenkins's conversion] was a key play in the game," Bishop said. 
The game started out in favor of the Ducks as they recovered a Whirlwind fumble on the opening drive of tho game deep in Whirlwind territory. Bishop capitalized on the opportunity as she completed an eight-yard touchdown pass that gave the Ducks the lead within the first two minutes of the game. 
Welsh Family began the game slowly with the turnover and a string of incomplete passes. Despite this slow start, the Whirlwinds offense clicked and they tied the game halfway through the first half. Welsh Fam looked comfortable head­ing into half timem, as an inter­ception by junior Sam Miller led to a touchdown to take over the lead with under a minute left. 
Howard. came out in the sec­ond half with a solid drive com­pleting six out of seven passes with the final completion result­ing in a 10-yard touchdown catch. The key conversion fol­lowed the touchdown. 
An interception in the second half by sophomore Kristyn Jeffries helped Howard seal the victory. 
With the win, the Ducks know that they still have a long sea­son to play. 
"It feels great to win, but we are going to take it one game at a time," Bishop said. 
The Whirlwinds will not be down and out following the loss. They know that there are still plenty of 'games left and a play­off seed to fight for. 
"We have a young team," sen­ior captain Stephanie Vossler said. "But it was a great learn­ing experience for us." 
"Welsh Fam only loses one game each season, this year it won't be in the playoffs," senior captain and quarterback Demi Hueth added. 
Each team looks to take that experience into the next game of the season. 
Contact Kevin Baldwin at 

kbaldwi2@nd.edu, Matthew 
Robison at mrobison@nd.edu, 
Colin King at cking6@nd.edu, 
Barrick Bollman at 
jbollman@nd.edu and Tim 
Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 

. I 
' 
I I 
i: 
! 
f 
' (
) ( 
.' 
.'' 
Schaefer 
continued from page 24 

"I got great experience from watching Matt Besler play and watching Cory [Rellas)," Schaefer said. "Practice is not that different from the games." 
And it is in practice that Schaefer was able to develop his competitive spirit and his work ethic that are finally pay­ing dividends now that he is seeing some real game action. 
"As a player at the bottom of 
the depth chart, you can either slack off, or say that you are going to push everyone around you harder," Schaefer said. "I chose the latter option. If we want our shot to play, we have to play hard or we won't get it." 
Clark is impressed with what he sees from Schaefer, noting a player with many of the skills needed to be a good leader. 
"[Schaefer] has a very good attitude," Clark said. "He has learned from his time on the bench. He has played a lot of soccer since he's been here in practice. He has matured well and been behind some pretty big people." 
And now that he has reached the sarting role, some of Schaefer leadership character­istics are finally getting an opportunity for expression. 
"Every day I prepared like I was going to play," Schaefer said. 
Clark likes having a player like Schaefer in one of the most important positions on the pitch, citing his ability to con­trol the game. 
"[Schaefer] is able to control the tempo and have the best view of the field from the cen­ter defenseman position," Clark said. "Schaefer has been playing next to a young player in [sophomore defenseman] Chris Sutton and he has taken on the leadership role. He is still growing, and he gets bet-ter every game." 
What Schaefer believes he brings to the game is an inten­sity and competiveness that he believes is key to any team having success. 
"Every time I step out onto the pitch, I know I am going to beat this guy no matter what," Schaefer said. "I know that I can do it and that I have the support of my team." 
This intensity is something Schaefer hopes will translate into more wins for the Irish. 
"I think we are much better than our record shows," Schaefer said. "Look for us to start coming up flying soon." 
The Irish will have the chance to start flying this Friday against Seton Hall. 
Contact Jared Jedick at 
jjedick@nd.edu 


Tuesday, September 29, 2009 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
Water polo squad loses heartbreaker to GVSU 
Associated Press 
The Irish participated thi<i week­end at a conference tournament at the Rolfs Aquatic center at Notre Dame. The games determined the seeding for the conference champi­onship tournament that will take plaee at the University of Dayton, Oct. 24. 
The Irish o~ned the set of gmnes against the winner of the confer­ences for the last seven years, Grand Valley State. Notre Dame came out early and after allowing a few early goal.:;, the Irish held Grand Valley's counter-attaek oflen....e in check. 
Notre Dame slowly built a lead throughout the game with many Notre Dame players contributing, including Seba..o;;tian T~iero with two goal'>, and Billy Bauman with three. Henry Short also contributed by put­ting in a great performance in goal. 
The Irish were winning 9-6 with less than three minutes remaining in the game. Grand Valley scored two goal<>, but Notre Dame still had pos­session with 30 second'> to go in the match. After a steal, Grand Valley put a shot on goal that hit offthe post and floated along the goal line. A questionable call by the official call­ing it a goal tied up the score and sent the game into a two period overtime. 
The Irish found themselves trailing 10-9 in the semnd period of over­time, when Billy Bauman tied it up from a nice cross pass on a Notre Dame 6 on 5, and sent the game into sudden death format. Unfortunately, the Irish were unable to capitalize on their first possession, and Grand Valley ended the game on the ensu­ing possession on their own man up opportunity. 
The next game was later that day against the University of Illinois­Chicago. Notre Dame came out slug­gish, spotting UIC a 5-1 lead by the middle of the second period. Through great defense and a solid performance in goal by freshman Tate Kernell, Notre Dame was able to slow down UIC's offense. The Irish did not give up, and found success with multiple Irish players scoring with lob shot., over the goali•~. 
Down three goals going into the fourth period, Notre Dame fought back to tie up the game at 8-8, <md force the second overtime ofthe day. The late charge was led by junior Matt Fordonski who scored three goal<>. and freshman Jolm Hancher and Chris Jennis who each scored two goals apiece. However, fatigue showed as the Irish failed to score in overtime, and went on to lose the game 10-8. 
Notre Dame's next game was against Ball State University. The Irish came out strong early, winning by a count of 8-0 after the first peri­od. 
After giving the entire Irish bench significant playing time, Notre Dame cruised to an 18-4 victory. Billy Bauman scored four goalo;; and jun­ior Oark Madison put in six. 
Despite the two tough losses, Notre Dame played well all weekend, and will work hard to come away with a victory in the conference champi­onship eoming up in a few weeks. 
F'leld Hockey 
The Notre Dame Oub field hockey team traveled to Cincinnati this Sunday to play Xavier University and the Centurions, a local club team. 
Notre Dame won the first game 6­
1. The Irish scored five times in the 
first half. Danielle Straccia scored 
twice, both assisted by Mary 
Ulliman. Nellie C.JOtebeski al'>O sc,ored 
a pair of goal., in the first half. as..'ii'it­
ed by Jen O'Neil and Mary Ulliman. 
Finally, Jen O'Neil put one in the 
back ofthe net to end the half. 
Xavier came back strong in the 
second half, allowing only a goal by 
Ellen Blatt. 
After playing Xavier, Notre Dame 
had a tough match against the 
Centurians, a local club team com­
posed of mostly international play­
ers. 
In the first half, Danielle Straccia rifled home a shot, making it 1-0 at half: The Iri"lh defense was very solid in holding the fresh Centurions to a single goal. The match ended in a 1­1 tie. 
The Irish will next face off this 
Sunday against both Xavier and St. 
Loui<> University at the LaBar Field. 
water Skiing 
The water ski dub L<> currently sit­ting ninth among 18 college teams in the conference championships held this weekend. The results of the men's jump will not be known until Wednesday to tabulate final rank­ings. 
Oliver Ounellled the men's squad, while Robin link and Alison Lindeen performed very well in women's competition. Twenty skiers repre­sented the Irish in the tournament. 
Squash 
An undermanned Notre Dame squa..<>h club dropped a pair of 9-0 matches this weekend at Purdue, losing to the host Boilermakers and Illinois. Four lri'ih starters missed the match due to ROTC, freshman/sophomore retreats, and 
tl1e t..~AT 

Of particular note, new players Jamie Urbana. Mark Hincapi, and Thomas Dore were very competitive at St.->cond, third, and foun."' singles. Urbana stepped up to take on the No. 2 spot despite being a freshman at hi'> first collegiate squash tourna­ment. Hincapi, a senior, played hard and quick against Purdue and Illinois, but the more sea'>Oned opJX>­nents took advantage ofhi.:; inexperi­ence. Dore showed significant potential, playing very well at times against both teams, but hie; ineonsi<>­teney led to his downfall. Peter Gallagher held number one for the Irish, while Matt Sushinskyk and Kenny Sehlax completed the line-up, with the Irish forfeiting the final three matches. 
Men's Rugby 

'Jhe Notre Dame Hughy club trav­eled to Elkhart, Ind. thio;; weekend to play in the "Big Ten Plus One Tournament." 
On Saturday, the team started oft' against a strong Michigan State side. The Notre Dame squad, led in part by David Bray and Dan Scheper, was able to take a quick advantage in the first half, leading by five going into halftime. Michigan State struck back at the open ofthe semnd half with a quick score, but the Irish pushed down the field with intensity and dis­cipline and were able to score a try within two minutes of Michigan State's strike. 
With five minutes left, Sean Peterson hit a penalty kick to put MSU away for good. 
In their second game, the Irish faced up against a sizable Purdue side. Within the first four minutes, Purdue punched in a try to take an 
early lead. However, the Irish were 
able to seore m-ice before halftime, 
taking a 14-7 lead. 

During the second half, both 
teams had trouble scoring, but with 
5 minutes remaining, Purdue threat­
ened to tie the score with offensive 
pressure in the serums. However, 
the Irish were able to hold them off 
until time expired and therefore 
would move onto the semifinals the 
next morning. 

On Sunday, Notre Dame played Indiana. The backs controlled the majority of the game with heavy in<>ertion from key forwards, includ­ing Jaime Urquijo and Michael Doran. Through heavy reliance on the kicks from Sean Peterson and Alex Macomber, the lri">h were able to keep the game in Indiana's side of the field and SCAlred two tries due to quick movementwithin the backline. 
Indiana struck back with a try in the second half, but they were not able to score again a..o;; the Irish won 12-5. 
Notre Dame's victory over Indiana qualified them for a spot in the championship game against No. 5 ranked Penn State, who had beaten Ohio State in their previous match. The game started with a series of kirks by Penn State, which planted the Irish deep in their own territory. 
Penn State took an early 7-0 lead, but the Irish came back with a penalty kick set up by a long line­break lead by Ja..'ion Gonzalez. The rest ofthe halfwas dominated by the Irish, who seored another try to go ahead 8-7 at halftime. 
During the second halt: the tides turned in favor of Penn State, who sc,ored two tries with 10 minutes left in the game to give the Nittany lions the win. 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, September 29, 2009 
Cossell 
continued from page 24 
Barrick Bollman and senior Matt Mooney, held the Duncan running attack scoreless all game. 
"Our defense played out of their minds all game," junior captain and quarterback Pat Rushford said. "With the young guys, it's looking good for the future." 
Alumni got on the board first after a couple of scoreless long drives. Midway through the second quarter the Dawgs put together a long drive kept alive by a third down comple­tion from Rushford to freshman wide receiver Carlos Cortes. Grojean, a fullback on the omm..'>ive side of the ball, finished the drive with a run for a touchdown to put Alumni up 7-0. 
"I thought our offense moved the ball really well," Rushford said. 'We moved it with the pass and the run." 
Alumni's defense continued to mntrol the game well into the sec­ond half, getting several stops including an interception by Bollman. 
The Highlanders finally caught a break with nine minutes left in the game and Alumni on offense. Rushford threw a swing pass that sophomore Duncan linebacker Adam Zaabel intercepted and returned 35 yards for a game-tying touchdown. 
"I knew I had the flat on that play and I really just read the quarter­back's eyes," Zaabel said. 
On Alumni's ensuing possession the Dawgs marched down the field, converting three fourth downs on Rushford runs. After a costly holding penalty brought back a big run, the Dawgs settled for libel's field goal try. 
The miss left both teams search­
I 
I . I ing for meaning in a tie game. 
I ~ . 
Rushford drew hope from the previ­ous game's outcome. "Knott and Siegfried are in our 
division and they tied," Rushford 
' ' I .I 
said. "It's really up for grabs, and if we're still in the running then I'm happy." 
Duncan, who appeared lucky to .' have mme away with a tie, aJso was ' ; optimL'>tic at game's end. 
I 
"I told the guys we fought a pretty big battle for a tie," Zaabel said. "We made a lot of mistakes but we're hapo/' . 
/ 

Dillon 14, KeenCI1 0 
The Dillon defense shut out its opponent en route to a victory for the second straight week. 
This week Keenan took it<> turn to be stifled by the Dillon defense. Tho Knight'> never threatened as they fell to 0-2 on the season with the loss. 
"We know we need to win next 
week," sophomore captain and ,. quarterback Terry Mahoney said. (' "We need to come out with the 
intensity we didn't show today. We just didn't mme out firing." 
Following a 7-3 loss last week to Keough, the Keenan offense once again failed to match the strong play of their defense. 
"The defense played great," Mahoney said. "The offense's strug­gles are on me. As the quarterback I didn't play up to the standards of this football team in the past. The
·' 
I 
·' i loss is on me. It's tough when guys 
are battling around you and the offense just can't put points on the board." 
Keenan's secondary, led by sopho­more ball-hound P.J. McHugh, never yielded any open space to the Big Red, thus Dillon relied on its ground attack. The Big Red took control of the game when they marched down the field without ever throwing the ball in the third quarter for the first score of the day. 'Ibe athleticism of freshman running back Terry Howard and junior running back Eric Herbert along with the leader­ship of senior quarterback Jason Miller allowed the Big Ht>d to travel 61 yards down the field in 11 plays.
fi 
"In the first half we were running
I 
the baJl well," junior captain Jordan dieted." running back Houston Clark -in Stanfortl16, Keough 0 Smith said. "We gained 15 yards but Fisher head coach senior Pat check for the majority ofthe game. Stanford came out swinging in we had a holding penalty so I Hogan chose not to comment on Both sidelines were unhappy with their season opener, shutting out thought it was just a matter of time specifics ofthe game other than that the result, considering how much Keough in a win Sunday. until we scored." he was upset that Miley Cyrus had the rivalry meant to the teams. The In their first offensive drive of the 
The Dillon offensive line controlled not attended. He also wished to seniors seemed especially crestfallen game, the Griffins' first-time starting the line of scrimmage the entire issue a warning from the Green as they realized that they would quarterback junior Tony Rizzo con­game, led by senior center Mike Wave to the St. Edward's never get another chance to fight for nected with fellow junior Dave Belotti. Gentlemen, who they will be facing Mod Quad supremacy. Galiyas for a touchdown, which was 
'That offensive line is just great," next week. ''I'm definitely disappointed that followed by a two-point conversion Smith said. "Last week they had an 'Watch out St. Ed's," Hogan said. we didn't get those points," said also orchestrated by Rizzo. awesome game and this week they "We will be blitzing all day." Fitzgerald. "Tying is about as un­"The offense did exactly what they were even better. They created a lot American as you can get." needed to do," senior r,aptain Chris of holes. [On] our scoring drive we Knott 7' Siegfried 7 Gill said. "Our offensive line play was never passed the ball, so that was The latest edition ofthe Mod Quad Sorin 20, Zatm 0 impressive." pretty good. I'd like to give our cen­rivalry between Knott and Siegfried Sorin's lock-down secondary and In the second half, it was Rizzo ter Mike Belotti a shout-out, he had ended in a tie that left both teams big-play ability overpowered Zahm's again with a pass to sophomore Pat a heck ofa game." feeling un'>atisfied and disappointed strong running attack Sunday. Kelly, who followed with a 55-yard 
The Big Red will try to keep in their performance. The Zahm offense got off to a run to the end zone for the game's smothering opposing offenses when Knott looked to have the upper quick start behind their running second and final touchdown. they face Stanford this coming hand early, forcing Siegfried into a backs, junior Greg Bennet and sen­Although the offense was certainly Sunday. The Knight'> will try to win four-and-out on the opening posses­ior captain Jared Carter. The two impressive throughout the game, their first game when they face off sion of the game and driving to the split Sorin's defense for large gains Gill highlighted the tough, mnsistent with O'Neill. Siegfried six-yard-line. The drive, on the opening drive, but a pivotaJ play of the Griffins' defense as the 
however, stalled and ended when fourth-down stop gave the Otters the main eontributor to the victory. FISher 6, Carroll 6 freshman kicker David Pratt's field baJI and the momentum. "Our defense played great. We 
Neither Fisher nor Carroll man­goal attempt missed on the last play From that point on, the game and were mi'>sing a few guys this week aged to convert an extra point, and of the first quarter, seemingly giving momentum belonged to Sorin. and we really stepped it up," Gill both failed to pull out a win over the Ramblers the momentum. Defensively, while the Zahm's per­said. their rival Sunday, as the game On Siegfried's first offensive play sistent run game was a nuisance, He emphasized defensemen jun­ended tied at six. after the turnover, Knott took the the secondary dominated the game. ior Josh Von Shaumburg, sopho­
The game was sloppy on both ball right back with a fumble recov­Zahm struggled to eomplete a pass, more Griffin Naylor and freshman sides of the ball, with half a dozen ery by senior cornerback Jeff and the defensive line frequently got Eric Zeltwanger as key contributors fumbled snaps, more incomplete Skourp. The series ofturnovers con­to the quarterback. in the shutout victory. passes than connected ones, and tinued one step further when Knott On the offensive side of the ball, Gill forced multiple incompletion two game-altering turnovers. senior quarterback Aidan Fitzgerald the Otters were firing on all cylin­and recorded the only interception 
Do-it-all senior Jamie Ellis set up threw an interception to Ramblers ders. The quarterback, senior Casey of the game. He returned the ball Fisher's touchdown with an impres­senior linebacker Dex Cure. "Pistol" McGushin, led Sorin the back to the Kangaroo's 11-yard line, sive interception near the sideline in After the wild sequence of consec­length of the field and scored on a but the Griffins were unable to con­the first quarter. utive turnovers, Siegfried pos.c;es.c;ed quarterback sneak from the one­vert the turnover into points. 
Fisher's touchdown went unan­the ball in Knott territory. The yard line witl1 40 seeonds left in the \t\lhile Keough's offense failed to swered until the second half when Ramblers took quick advantage by half. After a quick turnover by capitalize on key opportunities, such sophomore linebacker Albert virtue of a 30-yard touchdown run Zahm's offense, McGushin threw a as Stanford's fumble on their own 33 Toscano forced a crucial fumble by senior Michael DesJardins, taking long touchdown on the final play of yard-line, their defense had impres­leading to a scoring drive for Carroll. a 7-0 lead in the process. Siegfried's the half. At halftime, the Otters led sive stands throughout the game, The turnover was immediately put defense then forced a three-and-out, the Rabid Bats 13-0. particularly in the red zone. to good use by Toscano's fellow giving the Ramblers possession with 'Ibings seemed to be looking up at "We played pretty well, it was a sophomore, running back Nick two minutes remaining in the ftrst the beginning of the semnd half for much closer game than the score­Tammerine. Tammerine proved half and a chance to take complete Zahm. They resumed pounding the board indicated," Kangaroo sopho­himself not only as one ofthe fastest control of the game. Though football with the run game, and more captain Ryan Cordell said. players in the game, but thoroughly Siegfried was able to drive to the red McGushin left tl1e game after suffer­Keough's senior quarterback Matt capable of making a catch under zone, the half ended with another ing a concussion. Nonetheless, Bruggeman and sophomore run­any amount of pressure from the missed field goal attempt by fresh­Zahrn still struggled throwing the ning back Reed Loomey both played Fisher defense. Two deci'>ive pa'>sing man kicker Stephen Wandor. ball over the superior defensive in1pressive games, but were unable plays and one hand off later, junior Knott scored in the third quarter backs of Sorin and couldn't amass to string together enough successful quarterback Brian Vaio was able to on an 11-yard Fitzgerald touchdown more than a few first downs in the plays on a single drive. land the ball into tl1e arms of senior pass to junior tight end Connor second haJf. Cordell acknowledged thi'i as the re<"River Tommy Mumford for a 20-Smith after a long pa'>s to Skourp Despite the injury to their starting ultimate flaw in the loss. yard strike. Only needing one point gave the Juggerknotts excellent field quarterback, the Otters continued to "Stanford made big plays when it for the lead, Carroll set up for an position. thrive. Junior Jon Beckerle stepped counted," he said. extra point attempt but a missed The fourth quarter was a defen­in as the leader of the offense and The Griffins' impressive win snap left the game tied. sive struggle featuring multiple moved the ball well against the leaves the team feeling confident 
Neither defense allowed either fourth down stops and punt'> in the Rabid Bat<>. He threw a demoraliz­about the upcoming sea'>On. team to near the end zone for the closing minutes of the game. The ing touchdown pass in the fourth "We're looking forward to next remainder of the game, leaving the teams were unhappy with their quarter to seal the win for Sorin. week," Gill said. srAJre tied. offense, but the defenses seem to be "It was a play l'.ve executed 
While it wasn't a win for either the strong suit of these teams early 30,000 times in Madden," Beckerle Contact Chris Allen at team it was also not a loss and the into the season. said jokingly about the pass. "But callen 1 O@nd.edu, Andrew attitude of the coaches reflected the "We made some good defensive seriously, it was a great play by my Owens at aowens2@nd.edu, mediocre finish. plays," Fitzgerald said. "Our defen­receiver and it was a big win for Katie Gabriel at 
. ,

"We weren't clicking on offense," sive front played well." Sonn. kgabriel@nd.edu, Allan Joseph Carroll sophmore coach Patrick Siegfried's defense also kept The Otter's victory boosts their at ajoseph2@nd.edu, Lex Dennis Shanley said. "However, our defense Knott's playmakers -including record to 2-0 while Zahm moves to at bdennisl@nd.edu and Kaitlyn wa'> a'> impregnable as I had pre-Fitzgerald, Skourp, and sophomore 0-1 on the season. Murphy at kmurphy28@nd.edu 
& CLO 

.·A PRIME CAMPUS HOUSING COMMUNITY 
Deluxe Walk-to-Campus Student Apartments 
2Bedroom Apartments & Townhouses 1 Bedrooms Furnished Studios 


High Line Fitness Center • House ·__ 
• Free Tanning Beds ..-.. .• . Free Washer and Dryer in each unit 
• 
· High Speed Wireless Internet and Comcast Premium Cable Included 

• 
On Site Management and~~/7 Maintentul.t,e 

• 
On SiteSecurity Officer , >v*"".'""'··'t::•':',_,:.{· ... 



Tuesday, September 29, 2009 page 21
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
~­
. 
i 
I 
I 1 
l 
September 30 7:00-8:30 PM at Legends 
FREE SNACKS and CASH BAR COMING SOON! November 10, January 19, February 9 
Each night, 3 women and 3 men will get to know each other "in the dark." 
Be part of the live audience to witness this experiment and discuss with the participants: 
• 
Is love truly "blind"? 

• 
What attracts us to a friend? To a potential mate? 

• 
What does that tell us about our own mores and values? 



page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 29, 2009 
Weis 
continued from page 24 

Purdue averaged only 2.8 yards per carry as a team, and Weis said even that number was a touch inflated by three long runs. 
"You know, they had a cou­ple of carries where they got yards, and then the rest of the carries, I mean, they gained 56 yards on three carries, and they gained 11 yards on the other 14 car­ries," Weis said. "The rest of it averaged less than a yard a carry." 
That doesn't eliminate all concerns, however, as the Irish struggled to stop a mediocre passing attack for the second straight week. 
Notre Dame's two safeties, senior Kyle McCarthy and junior Harrison Smith, are the team's two leading tack­lers through four games. Both are relied upon to help significantly in stopping the run, especially when the front seven struggles to con­tain the ground game. 
When McCarthy and Smith creep closer into the box, that forces the corner backs to play a softer coverage to avoid being beat deep, and that likely accounts for the cushion that both Michigan 
, .. 
State and Purdue exploited
.,' 
in consecutive weeks for 354 

,,· and 289 yards, respectively. And the Irish still need to improve their tackling, which Weis mentioned as early as Week One. 
Even still, Weis said the improvement the defense showed against the Boilermakers was signifi­cant. 
"This is [coordinator] Jon [Tenuta] and the defensive staff deciding that they had to put a couple wrinkles in here to get a little bit of bal­ance," Weis said. "I think that especially when a lot of those coverage's they went to were bluff and blitzes, I thought it was a nice change of pace." 
Though he was used spar­ingly, there was one Irish player in particular who looked a major change of pace. 
Freshman linebacker Manti Te 'o still hasn't garnered consistent playing time, as junior Brian Smith and soph­omore Darius Fleming have flanked senior middle line­backer Toryan Smith in most base defensive packages. 
But when Te' o has been in the game, he has made his presence felt. Te'o surged through the Purdue line and sacked quarterback Joey Elliot for a loss of 12 to bury the Boilermakers on their first play after Notre Dame's final touchdown. 
"I think one thing we need to do both in practice and in games is just play him more," Weis said. "The only thing, when you have a young linebacker you'll go through some growing pains, but I think that you'll see him just playing more. 
"We talked about that today. I think as the year goes on, you'll see his play­ing time just increase more and more." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
Tryout 
continued from page 24 

"It was very worthwhile for us to do that because we felt if we could find somebody that could come in and help run the second team, it would be a really good thing for us," Brown said. "I think we had 13 people come out and I thought the tryout went well, but we just felt like the speed of the game and for what we needed, we didn't end up keeping anybody." 
Nicholas, who has been nursing a painful leg injury all season, leads the Irish in sets played with 43 and total assists with 473 (11 assists per set). Nicholas has played in more than 100 matches in her Irish career, accumulat­ing a total of 2,431 assists. 
"She's been hurt, so it's tough," Brown said. "She's doing everything she possibly can in terms of being as strong and in shape and any­thing she can do, but she's limited even with that. It's a lot of just her leadership and experience and determina­tion, but she's certainly been vital to the team's success." 
So for now Brown will employ a setter-by-committee solution, giving Nicholas breathers by substituting in freshman outside hitter Marie Roof and freshman libero Christina Theofilos, who has some experience at the setter position in high school. 
"Both Marie Roof and Christina Theofilos can help us in that role," Brown said. "Christina can set out of the back row and Marie out of 

the front row. Marie hasn't set before, but she's a very good blocker and she does have a good touch on the ball, so we're working with her a little bit to do a simple-side offense." 
Nevertheless, the lion's share of the playing time will still go to Nicholas, whose health will continue to be a concern for the Irish as they head into the season's grind. But Irish fans have every rea­son to believe that Nicholas will carry the load without complaint as she has done all season. 
''I'm totally fine with it," Nicholas said. ''I'll have to be careful on my leg and just start the offense like I have been running it all year. The girls who are going to come in have been around the game, they know what they need to do, just encourage them to be confident out there." 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

I 
I 
! 
I. 
1: 
I 
l 
\ ) 
I 
~ 
I 
~ 
i 
I I 
I'· 
i\ 
I ~ 
,.
'· 
Available through December 16 
8:00 pm -1:00 am I Sunday -Wednesday 
Walk-ins are available or students may reserve space In advance by calling (574) 631-9915 
~ tJ N I V E R S IT Y 0 F 
WNOTREDAME 
l)ivision ofStudent Affairs 
or w;tl o. 
(JOU.:p? 

The Career Center . 
UNIVt.lSITY Of i'lllTKl\ O.HH~ 
•
standout. 

Tuesday, September 29, 2009 
The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
64 Colonel North, informally 66 Put on the line 67 Dr. _ (Mike Myers character) 68 The Beav's big brother 69 Rose who surpassed Cobb 70 Religious offshoot 71 Soda shop order 
Down 1 Roadie's load 
2  Meadow calls  
3  Rights org.  
4  Front-line action  
5  Isolated, as a  
people  
6  Mummy's locale  

7 On a cruise 8 Casual slacks 9 Takeoff or 
touchdown site 10 Gem mined in Australia 11 It might have a "wide load" sign 12 It's good when 
airtight 13 Still in bed 21 Charged 22 At a distance 26 Hawaiian fish, 
on menus 27 arms (indignant) 28 Going-to-church clothes 29 Actress Scala 30 Conqueror of Valencia, 1094 31 Much Top 40 music 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Bob Johnson  
35 Closely related  46 Dugongs or  57 Do some yard  
36 Barbershop call  manatees  work  
38 Quirky habit  49 Lots and lots  58 Idle of "Life of  
40"_ to Billie  50 Bring back, as a  Brian"  
Joe" (1967 #1  fashion  59 Sentry's order  
hit) 41 Sir Georg of the Chicago Symphony  51 Islamic leader 52 Quick-witted 53 "_ eleison" ("Lord, have  60 Jazz's Fitzgerald 61 Symbol of smoothness  
44 Play opener  mercy")  65 Check out  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
("RLF.BRITIF.S BOR~-ON TillS DA\': S.k\·e l'lartii$Wl;., 17; HtUII'Y DniL 2:?: Mtra Sor \'ino. ~:?; M(l<'tl Usut Zlllppa .42 . . 
llappy Birthday; You'll be J()f<.'t:d t{t Ui.<lke ;;omc difficult ,lt,,·J~IOitS. Your Kk>a;; an: !1-'t"ld and the drcan~S you h3vc tmt on H~ hack l:».tm~or musl be lJ£oughl back to hit:. TinK-.,. ;.re .:han)!.m~ anrl the <\(:>(mt:r y(\0 stan dowuthat p;ith. tl~<: better tbiuf2" \\'tll gd. ihur sti\."S5 lcvd wdl flO dnwn and y(.:ntr ophmNn w1H floll lltl Yo11r number~ 11.re 5, 9, 12. :JO. 21, .W, 44 
.\Rff_$ IMan-It ll·.\pril 19); The hd1) you olkr oth.:r;, will be rep;tid in a \'Cry sp.-cial and Ulk':ol!"-'0:1\.'d way. Yt"~u wtU ha\<.~ ><1fll<' )!rear ~<ka~ but yuu IW'I)' have to h<)IJ~ th..•m In fd your hud!l<'l ..<\~k <lpproval hd<m.-you lll<lk<' >·our final <kx:i"i~1n. *** • 
T)I.LRUS (April 20-Mu,· 201: Don't tnl'>l :my.me with mform;ltion that lttiflh.l atJ~·c1 your c:att.tr or prnl~:s>ioual or iinall~·ial ~cmf.j. You h;;ve to b.' on your we> h:t (!llt:smm1 and out mm~nvcr Your mknllmh reg;mlint <\()!lle<»Jc y<llt dunk 1:> §t)(.'\.·ial :sbuuld he: reve:\kd. ** 
(;Jo:MINI(\fa' ll-June 201: You \\ill kam wn~el.biup wry >llluahk tf you listen to the n1i..--:i: of .rt>a.wm aud cx.pcnr:n,"e. Pt."!'iHIJl~ t~klnl! baby skp~ wm be mon: a<h·•un<l~C<)US. OoH't .:o~tm (>ll jldhll!'-~ny help fmm ymn' ftiends <lt lowr tht;; till~<'. :lit* *** 
(~AN('J<:R (Jullt' .21-,luly lll: Y(IUI'main ~~o.em hm to be your stl!tus 11t !rom.: arw.lmlhc workfOf!."C. A llL~~s;.uy dtlltl~<' may make you U<..'f'?Olts hue, in the end, yon ~ill prosper. Be lhe ~denf observer and t.hc 1h<1ll1llrthtl (.'t)otriburor ** * 
LEO !July 1.1-,\u~~:.Ut: Umn kt whal mlJC'M (kl ()f \illY all~t !Nllf lJI\]jl.u~1WliJ Crlll(;~tt Irate 011 !lloviuj! llungs alo!!lZ usmg i.nrer~ll\ su~e:sflons and a mellow per>t>ll<l Don't lmst hearsay m promi~s rh.at sound too j!.<'lllxi to he 1n1e. * * * 
\'1Rt10 lA~-Z..l·SqH.l:!): Oi''e your aU tv tltc ~-.;~•r.;e. projlxl or Jl('f'¥lll )'{It! ar~ ll)'ill~ til lll(>\'e altlllf!. YrJo~l.:/1.11 hmn au ~tlbOIJK'I.' Wltb ~,.lk'<ll~ who wlil<lrid IQ \'~If l>li:lll~ ~md ide~~ .. A dllltl~ lll lhc way ytm l.hlllk. will >Ul}lrl ~ W!IK' hut 001 lhvsc who are aire,ld)' Vll llk' 
S~~~uepa?e ***** 
UBRA i~t.l."-Cxt. z..n: Nunuw mid p;~y c~tra >ttl.:Uiion t() u~~: tluug~ y(•u <J(l mid tbc lll."<:'t>k yot' ltJ\'(' Make chllll~"" at home It> \!CC<l!lUU(xlak <,"Wf)Tllle aud you <.:lUI re.ad1 ynur fu~hr~i p<~tenll\11. S!~arin~ wb~ll yot1 b<t\'~ \\'ill t>t>en ~II> ntJ!Jf.lrtUmt«:~ }':.t.l 1.hdn't kn~,-.,;.·~:w 
~vai.lahte. ***** 
SCORPIO fOct.lJ·Nov.lU: You wonl he S~.-,:m~ t!UII!!!'~< ton d.;arly. Your mtmtl\<lllS <•tf largct and \\i.ll cauw y•.~tl tom:•M> atl .:mlr d~l ~'<l!dd affl.'ct you or )'(!llf home hfc rk'f!l\ uvdy. Look fOI' ;~dvicc limn an outsi(lt."l' who can view your Slh.tattotl ob~<Xtivdy *• 
SAGJTfA.R.IrS \N~v. 22-1~. zt): Vnc¢1'1ainty ;n h>.'l!llt.' and within ~rsonal ~lation~ti(JS. will take you by ~lupOSl" and must be lwmn~"l "''ilb d!p!omacy if yon d:tlft'l want It> suflcr wtbru:c!;.~. You may want !o dtvvy up what Y'-"' 5h;we ~i1h s<•m~'Oll( before Ibm~!> ~Cl mc\isy. 
**** 
CAI~RlCOR!'oi (1)1.'(:, ZZ·J<Ut. .J9l: (1<.1 mv\)h\."<1 m a no:~· mt~,-~·~t f:~.l';JK)~ad Y\:>l.tr ~~w;mm<~s. phtlvwphy Qr lmowledg.:. Making pcrwnal dUtlll;!t'~ ll, yv11r l"->11 II' ~>r w(rl:~p;~ee wiU enable ;.ou tv be nKm:: productive_ Invest .in )'imr f'uhm:. *** 
AQVARIIJS Untl. ZO·t'l"b. tlh: '1:'\:!!!'ll have trouhk k<"<:f'lll!l dun~"'''' yn•w;df •t~ wdlltS within )'otlr linnts. 't'l:tH will !:ot; prn1~ to cMyp..'lali<Jtt, mcril:tElul~Cfl(.~ iiJii::l rinre<~h.~1K' e:>~ !l('~'!.atk,ns. H..t~:m: }'<1U ~%·nd. rethmk yqttr stra!~l!Y •md plan ~>u:Jctlun~ dml ~~ \<.11lmt yo~tf 
hod!!d. **..,.. 
I'ISCK~ tf.t<b. IY·\fard\ ;m1: "''<"lluwet<x> mndt tl) n~k h\· ~~~~nul! httli:·Wil~lttn· tnfnr. mallou. You am dtanpe your mind or n.offire-..:t yotn dkms l~tt drn:l't lose Sl!l.ht of wl~<~t e'· ery·o1l<: amund you b ,lomg. A t)mhlem with pool' iuf,)rttl~liml or S~C:.tlll'OJ:~e rem-~~mt l'$ h.kt:ly lo so:1 yon ba.::k * * * 
mrtbt:lll) Baby: Y!m ilre slcadf<t~t aad lwnor.1hk. Y<:.l'IJ an-detmkd. h1We inwre~1Uigl(k<ts t~nd wall make a diilt>reu.::e. Y•:>u are l.;1yal. e<Jmp:.~!<<.K>II:~Ic and rell<~hle. 
f:mwnhn Rd:> .~ill!.~: <'llf.i<'tlitl!a.o;t.com}i:>r f'(>f1/)dnui,11 t'<>mullatiom, m,lc~f"'l<'t' .a~mkt1gcnial~lM.Pw 1: ugo1M '.~ Mog. <WI'Il<UI\kf'~·om fwjim 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
DAN POHLMAN 
Dear Viewpoint, 

Notre Dame girls are ugly. Saint Mary's Girls are dumb. Smoking is evil. Women would make miserable priests. Weis should be fired. Obama the antlchrist. 
Katie Katherine 
freshman lewis 

Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 NQtre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year :.. 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ __ Address 
City _______ State _____ Zip______ 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
EUQUE j
I I r 

DEPIT 


I BANCORj 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

( J ( I I
'----".:loo......"--...~.:......41---'--....1 suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: A " ( I I I ]" rI I J 
(Answers tomorrow) LEECH FISHY FEMALE MOSAICYesterday's IJumbles: 

Answer: When he wore the loud outfit, the partygoers said he was in a -CLASH BY HIMSELF 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

WHAr SHE: BOUGHr FOR HER BOYFRIEND. 

CROSSWORD 
Across Early calculators 6 What it takes not to say "I see you've put on a little weight" 10 Arabian Peninsula land 14 Georgia Music Hall of Fame city 15 Workplace watchdog org. 16 Fashion line named for a sport 17 Conceals, as a 
card 18 Golda of Israel 19 Just slightly 20 Residential area 
of California [think Chevy] 23 In the style of 24 Clumsy sort 25 Fresh talk 
26 Start of a stampede, maybe [think Ford] 
32 "The Simpsons" storekeeper 33 Commuter's option 
34 Realm of Tolkien's Middle­earth 
37 Subtle flavor 39 Sonora snacks 42 Elbow 43 Locale of many 
outsourced jobs 45 Altar exchange 4 7 Be sociable 48 Part of a peace 
treaty [think Honda] 52 Blue shade 54 Tot's "piggy" 55 Letter-shaped cross 

56 Cars suggested by 20-, 26-and 48-Across? 
62 Surface figure 63 Trevi Fountain throw-in, once 

SCHAD 8c FREUDE 
THE MOBILE PARTY 
I'm Bored Me too 
J 



THE OBSERVER 
p
Tuesday, September 29, 2009 

page 24 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Schaefer steps into starting role after Rellas goes down 
By JARED JEDICK Sports Writer 

The last thing a team wants to experience to begin the year is a season-ending injury to one of its key players, but that is exactly what happened to the Irish when fifth-year senior defenseman Cory Rellas went down with an ACL injury to his left knee just minutes into the first game of the season against Michigan. 
"We didn't want it to happen that way," head coach Bobby Clark said. "It was unfortunate. Cory missed last year with an ACL injury too." 
But the Irish had an answer when senior defenseman John Schaefer stepped up and took over the role seamlessly. 
"I didn't see Cory go down," Schaefer said. "But then [senior goalkeeper Phillip] Tuttle nudged me and I saw 
him limping off the field. I thought that this is it, you have to go in there and do what you do best." 
And that is exactly what he did, helping the Irish to earn an early opening win against one of the best teams in the country in Michigan. 
"I was not nervous at all," Schaefer said. "I knew I had to finish the game off for [Cory]. He is such a great leader. If we could get him back and he can do a better job for the team, we need to get him out there." 
Schaefer had a long road from playing ball with his brother as a young kid to becoming the starting defense­man for one of the premier col­lege programs in the country. He had only played in two pre­vious games in his college career, and both of those were in his sophomore year. 
"It kills you," Schaefer said. "In my junior year I really wanted to play, but I had some good players ahead of me." 
It is no small wonder why he did not see the field early in his career, as Schaefer has some big Notre Dame shoes to fill, having played behind players like Rellas and Matt Besler, currently a starting defense­
man  for  the  Kansas  City  
Wizards  of  Major  League  
Soccer.  

see SCHAEFER/page 18 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
All knotted up 
Three games finish deadlocked Sunday 
I ~ By CHRIS ALLEN, ANDREW 
i.' OWENS, KATIE GABRIEL, ALLAN JOSEPH, LEX DENNIS and KAITLYN MURPHY Sports Writers 
Only a couple of inches separated 
Alumni from its first victory of the 
season Sunday. 


Duncan and Alumni were tied at seven when sophomore kicker Matt Libel's 25-yard field goal bounced off the crossbar as time expired, leaving both teams with records of 0-1-1. 
The unkind bounce came at the end of a game in which Alumni's defense, led by freshman lineback­ers Anthony Cossell and Ryan Grojean, sophomore defensive back 
Knott running back Houston Clark runs past a diving Siegfried defender during Sunday's game. The see COSSELL/page 20 Mod Quad rivalry ended unresolved in a 7-7 tie. 

ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish hold tryout to find setter 
By CHRIS MASOUD Sports Writer 

One of a coach's most use­ful tools, a deep bench gives a team the flexibility to sub­stitute a fatigued player with­out a major drop-off in inten­sity or talent. Leading the Irish into Big East play with­out such a luxury at the set­ter position, coach Debbie Brown is confident her team will not be held back. 
Brown recently held an open tryout in an effort to provide some support for senior setter Jamel Nicholas, who has played in nearly every minute of every set this season. 
see TRYOUT/page 22 


FOOTBALL 

Rushing defense improves 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Editor 

The Irish defense was far from dominant in Saturday's heart-stopping 24-21 win at Purdue, but a quick look at the statistics shows Notre Dame did a pretty decent job of stopping the Boilermakers, particularly on the ground. 
The Irish held their hosts to 363 yards of total offense aud limited talented tailback Ralph Bolden to 67 yards on 17 carries in what was, by far, Notre Dame's best effort against the run since the opening shutout of Nevada. 
"The rushing defense I thought was dramatically improved," Irish coach Charlie Weis said in his Sunday press conference. "I think that was one of the things that I was pleased with the most, espe­cially in the second half." 
see WEIS/ page 22 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Robertson and Chaos power past Bullfrogs 
By KEVIN BALDWIN, 
MATTHEW ROBISON, 
COLIN KING, BARRICK 
BOLLMAN and TIM 
SINGLER 
Sports Writers 
Cavanaugh used two touch­down runs by its quarterback to top Badin 14-7 Sunday. 
Sophomore quarterback Megan Robertson ran the ball in on the Chaos' first possession to givn them a quiek 7-0 lead. 
J\ftor a long defensive strug­gle for both teams, Badin man­aged a touchdown in the second half to tie the game. But the Chaos responded on the very next possession with another spectacular touchdown run by Hobertson after a key block from sophomore running back Brittni Alexander sprung the quarterback fref'. 
The Bullfrogs had one final chance to score in the last minute of the game after a pass interference call gave them a first down in Cavanaugh territo­ry, but the Cavanaugh defense foiled Badin's desperation pass­es with pressure on the quar­terback and excellent coverage on the receivers. 
Chaos captain, senior Sarah Cline, was pleased with her squad's performance, pointing out that they played well on both sides of the ball. 
''I'm very proud of our team, especially the defense," Cline said. "The defensive line held strong and put constant pres­sure on their quarterback." 
The Bullfrogs remain opti­mistic, undaunted by the early season loss. The young team gave a solid performance and fought until the last down. 
"We stayed competitive until 
see BULLFROGS/page 18 




