the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 




Dorm Drinks experiences sales spike 
Two-year beverage delivery service helps students avoid Huddle Mart’s high prices 






Campus reflectson studyday changes 
By JIM FERLMANN 
News Writer 
Students will have fewer days off at the end of this week than in years past to study for final exams. 
Traditionally Thursday and Friday have been set aside as study days, but like last fall, Thursday will be the last day of University classes, reserving just Friday as a study day. 
This policy applies only to the Fall Semester and was intro­duced to the academic calendar last year after a meeting in 2007, University Registrar Dr. Harold Pace said. 
“This is the second year that the University had had this poli­cy, and it was the product of compromise between student representatives and the facul­ty,” Pace said. “Three years ago, we looked at the issue of the Wednesday before Thanksgiving as a travel day for students. The concern was that we were seeing low class enrollments on that day. It would be logical for students to travel the day before so they could be with their families on the holiday itself. We felt that Wednesday should be a travel 
see CHANGES/page 9 

By KATIE PERALTA 
Assistant News Editor 
Two years ago, then-soph­
omores Adam Hansmann and John Jeffrey, both enterprising business majors, created Dorm Drinks, hoping simply to provide a service to their fellow on-campus students. 
Dorm Drinks today is arguably the most success­ful student-run business at Notre Dame. 
The drink delivery service sells non-alcoholic bever­ages and snacks to students through an online ordering system, Hansmann, Dorm Drinks CEO, said. Dorm Drinks makes deliveries twice a week, Wednesday and Sunday, and currently employs six students to make deliveries. 
Whereas Dorm Drinks previously only provided beverages, it has expanded to selling “everything from candy, gum, pretzels and other bulk items [purchased from Sam ’s Club,]” Hansmann said. 
The service, he said, saves students from the high prices of the Huddle Mart and building vending machines. 
“A lot of factors created space for us,” he said. “It’s 
see DRINKS/page 8 


Studentsupsetbyinclementweather 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
Senior Kathryn Corcoran said the wind and snow was making so much noise outside on Wednesday that it dis ­tracted her from the exam she was taking. 
“I was not expecting it to be this bad today,” she said. “It makes me never want to go outside again.” 
The National Weather Service released a high wind warning, which was effective from 10 a.m. to 
see WEATHER/page 8 



ROTCclubfocusesonhelpingcommunity 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 

Members of Notre Dame’s Army ROTC are getting a jump-start on their career of service by participating in a club that promotes volunteer work throughout the greater community. 
Members of the battalion recently resurrected the service club Alliance To Lead And To Serve (ATLAS). 
The club has been dor­mant in the past but was recently brought back because of efforts made by Valparaiso University senior Kailyn van Beckhum and Notre Dame junior Geralyn Janke. 
“We heard that there was this fourth club in ROTC that 

Morestudy locations availablefor finals week 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
With finals in sight, the Hesburgh Library and other preferred study locations will fill up fast, but students needing a place to study dur­in g finals week now have other options. 
Rooms in So uth Dining Hall, North Dining Hall and the Career Center will be open for both individual and group studying. 
“At the Library, everything fills up even in the early hour s of the morning, ” Student Senate’s academic affairs chair Austin Holler said. “By noon, so many of the tables, the desks, espe­cially outlets as well, every nook and cranny is filled up.” 
For this reason, Holler said his committee worked with Food Services to open up rooms in both dining halls for studying during finals week. 
The east wing of South Dining Hall will be open for studying Sunday to Thursday from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. The gold and F dining rooms in North Dining Hall will be open from 8 p.m. to 2 a.m. Sunday to Wednesday, Holler 
see SPACES/page 6 

no one was doing anything with,” ATLAS vice president Janke said. “It’s turned out to be a really good thing.” 
“We really want to focus on the South Bend and Elkhart areas because there is such a need there,” ATLAS president Beckhum said. “We have a few mem­bers that are from those areas so that was also sig­nificant.” 
The club participates in one volunteer project each month and members try to organize a wide variety of service projects. This semes­ter, Janke said, the club has organized a blood drive, painted the parking lot at the Robinson Community Center, organized a food and 
see ATLAS/page 6 



INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC Craft show page 3 . ‘Scene says’ advice column page 13 . Men’s basketball defeats IUPUI page 24 . Viewpoint page 10 
INSIDE COLUMN 



American Christmas 
Mariah Carey’s “All I Want for Christmas Is You” is not the best Christmas song. 
It’s annoying and and a cliche ringtone and I only will tolerate it if it’s playing in the background of “Love Actually.” 
This year I only want the best American Christmas music. 
I have not listened to Christmas music in two years. 
Seriously. Ask my sis­ter, Ellen (who is crazy about 


Katie Peralta 
Nickelback and claims Newsong’s Assistant “Christmas Shoes” as News The American 
Editor 
Christmas song.) 

Last year, my par­ents and two sisters came to Spain, where I was studying abroad, for the holidays. 
My parents went out of their way to make our Madrid hotel rooms extra spe­cial — from the little faux Christmas tree to all the presents from Santa beneath. 
My sisters and I could not, however, lis­ten to Christmas music. That’s for home. That’s for America. It was simply too painful. 
With this Christmas music comes not only annual holiday cheer but also years of fond memories. 
My first and foremost plug goes to Kenny G’s Christmas album Miracles. The whole thing. “Winter Wonderland” brings back memories of snow days, gingerbread houses and my parents kvetching about the cats peeing on the Christmas tree. 
Number two absolutely is The Frank Sinatra Christmas album. Again, the entire thing. His sexy rendition of “Jingle Bells” is both classic and sassy. It just sounds so city. 
Bummed I never made it to Chicago this Christmas. 
How about James Taylor’s “Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas.” It reminds me of our beautiful old house on Wayne and how my mom’s way of deco­rating the house that made it seem like the most special place in the world. 
This list of classics most obviously also needs to include Brenda Lee’s “Rockin’ Around the Christmas Tree.” 
Who doesn’t just think of Kevin McCallister and booby traps when this song plays? (Buzz’s girlfriend, Woof.) 
Finally, I must mention my latest holiday fetish. Lady Gaga’s “Christmas Tree.” What an innovator. Only she can turn Christmas trees and the phrase falalalala into something totally raunchy. 
I love it. 

I made a vow to myself that I would not listen to Christmas music before Thanksgiving this year. 
As soon as November hit, however, I could not help myself. 
My sisters and I, in light of last year’s fabulous but un-American Christmas, said we would gaudily and obnoxiously double dose on the holidays this year, which explains why I might whistle Frank and James on my way to class. 
Sorry I’m not sorry. 

These holiday tunes, paired with some classic holiday flicks like “White Christmas,” “It’s a Wonderful Life,” “Home Alone,” “The Grinch” and obvious­ly “Gremlins,” are the perfect recipe to a very Merry Christmas. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT JIMMY AND GOLDEN LEAVING? 








Bronden Summa  Chelsea Kelso  Aiden McKiernan  Joe Hudson  Joe Nye  Ruby Lee  
freshman  junior  senior  freshman  freshman  junior  
Carroll  Lyons  off campus  Keough  O’Neill  McGlinn  
“It sucks.”  “A little  “Well ... I want  “Good for them.  “And I need you  “I wish them  
worried, but I  Golden to stay.  They are going  now tonight.  the best of  
wish them the  He’s my boy.”  to be paid  And I need you  luck.”  
best of luck.”  millions of  more than ever  
dollars.”  ... and you be  

trippin’.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

EILEEN VEIHMEYER/The Observer Notre Dame cheerleaders sing the Alma Mater at the end of yesterday’s men’s basketball game against IUPUI at the Purcell Pavillion of the Joyce Center. 
OFFBEAT 

Woman arrested for alleged­ly hitting man with steak 
DUNNELLON, Fla. — A 53­year-old was arrested after alledgedly hitting a man in the head with a raw steak. According to a Marion County Sheriff’s Office report, the man told deputies Elsie Egan repeatedly hit him with the uncooked meat and slapped his face after he refused a piece of sliced bread. The man said he wanted a bread roll. 
Egan denied hitting the man with the steak but did admit to slapping him, saying she did it “so that he could learn.” 
The man told deputies that Egan was his live-in girlfriend. 
He declined medical assis­tance. 
Egan was charged with abuse of a disabled adult. According to online records, she has been released on $2,500 bond and is scheduled to appear in court in January. It's unclear if she has an attor­ney. 
Man gets year in jail for uri­nating on police officer 
SHEBOYGAN, Wis. — A Waldo man accused of urinat­ing on a police officer during his fifth drunken-driving arrest has been sentenced to a year in jail. Court records released Wednesday show 36­year-old Daniel L. Shilts Jr. of Waldo was also fined about $3,600 and had his driver’s license revoked for three years. 
The Sheboygan Press said according to the criminal complaint, Shilts was pulled over in November 2008 in Plymouth after an officer saw his vehicle hit a pole at a gas station. 
The complaint said Shilts failed field-sobriety tests. It said as he was taken to the police station he urinated in the back of the squad car, spraying the back of the offi­cer’s head. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Friday Saturday 

IN BRIEF 
The film “An Education” will be shown today at the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 6:30 and 9:30 p.m. Tickets are $5 for faculty and staff and $4 for students. 
The Halftime Co-Ed Acapella Fall Concert will be performed today from 7 to 9 
p.m. at Washington Hall. Tickets are $5 and are avail­able at the door. 
Tomorrow is a study day. 
The opera Turandot will be performed tomorrow at 1 
p.m. at the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Ticket information is available at per­formingarts.nd.edu. 
The Undertones Winter Concert will be held Friday from 8 to 10 p.m. at Washington Hall. Tickets are $5 and are available at the LaFortune Box Office. 
The women’s basketball team will play Valparaiso Saturday at 2 p.m. at the Purcell Pavillion at the Joyce Center. Ticket information is available at 574-631-7356. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will perform its Christmas Concert Saturday at 6 and 
7:30 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $6 for faculty and staff and $3 for students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
sunday monday 


Atlanta 47 / 26 Boston 38 / 20 Chicago 13 / 11 Denver 30 / 18 Houston 54 / 44 Los Angeles 57 / 45 Minneapolis 8/4 New York 37 / 22 Philadelphia 38 / 22 Phoenix 59 / 41 Seattle 39 / 25 St. Louis 29 / 21 Tampa 70 / 53 Washington 40 /25 



Trusteechairmanemeritusdiesat94 
Special to The Observer 
Thomas P. Carney, chair­man emeritus of the University of Notre Dame’s Board of Trustees, died Monday (Dec. 7) after a long illness. He was 94. 
“Tom Carney was a great scientist, a great humanist, a great administrator and a great friend, ” Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame’s presi­dent during Carney’s years on the Board, said. “The Notre Dame family, of which he is so treasured a member, will always remember him with 

gratit ude, “Tom Carney was a respect and 
great scientist, a 
love.” Born in great humanist, a 
1915 in great administrator
DuBois, Pa., 

and a great friend.” 
Carney grad­uated from Notre Dame Fr. Theodore Hesburgh 
in 1937 with University President a bachelor ’s 
Emeritus
degree in chemical engineering, his $345-per­semester tuition paid from the savings of his father, a railroad inspector, his three maiden aunts and two bachelor uncles. 
“They had all said it was Notre Dame or nothing,” he once said. “It was so uncommon for people from DuBois to go to college that a lot of people from the town went down to the train station to see me off.” 

Among his Notre Dame professors was Rev. Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C., the inventor of the formulae for synthetic rubber, in whose odoriferous laboratory on the second floor of the Chemistry Building Carney later remembered becom­ing so comfortable that “it convinced me it was not necessary to have oxygen to live.” 
After graduation, that comfort level sustained Father Nieuwland’s appren­tice through the pursuit of master ’s and doctoral degrees in organic chem­
istry from Pennsylvania State University and post-doctoral research in medicinal chemistry at the University of Wisconsin. 
From the a c a d e m y, Carney went to the phar ­maceuti cal 

industry, working in all its phases for Eli Lilly in Indianapolis and G.D. Searle in Chicago. 
Before founding Metatech in 1976, he spent more than 35 years in research, development, planning, operations and administra­tion, working in and presid­ing over laboratories in which numerous patented antihistamines, antibiotics, anticonvulsants, barbitu­rates and other drugs were developed. He himself held numerous pharmaceutical patents. 
He also wrote widely on all dimensions of his chosen field and published three books, “Laboratory Fractional Distillation, ” “Instant Evolution ” and “False Profits.” 
Throughout his life, Carney was deeply engaged in the affairs of his alma mater. 
In addition to being a generous Notre Dame bene­factor, he served as presi­dent of the Alumni Association, founded the Alumni Senate, led fundraising projects and campaigns and sat on the advisory councils of the Colleges of Science and Engineering. Elected to the University ’s Board of Trustees in 1967, he served as its chairman from 1982 to 1986. 
Among several other Notre Dame honors, Carney received an honorary degree from the University in 1969, and, with his wife, Mary Elizabeth Carney, was awarded its highest honor, the Laetare Medal, in 1986. 
Preceded in death by his wife, who died in 2006, Carney is survived by his four children, all Notre Dame graduates, Thomas Jr., of Lake Forest, Ill.; Sheila Hopkins of Hingham, Mass.; James of Brooklyn Park, Minn.; and Janet O’Brien of Glenview, Ill. 


Saint Mary’s to host craft show 

By CAITLIN HOUSELY 
News Writer 
The 12 Days of Christmas Program at Saint Mary’s College is coming to a close this week, and Program coordinators want to end on a high note. Tomorrow the College will host a craft show, with over 60 local and regional vendors participating in the event, Carrie Call, director of the Saint Mary’s office for civic and social engage­ment, said. 
The show is open to the public and will take place from 12:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. in both the Reignbeaux Lounge and Stapleton Lounge of Le Mans Hall. 
Call said vendors will be selling crafts like handmade jewelry, pot­tery, woodworking, bags, purses, handmade cards, silk floral arrangements, fiber arts, knitting, quilting furniture and more. 
Items are authentic, and the Office for Civic and Social Engagement (OCSE) approves all vendors ahead of time, Call said. 
“We have a woman who raises alpacas and makes yarn from their wool, which is knitted or crocheted into gloves, hats, shawls and mit­tens,” Call said. “Another artist used antique silver-plated flatware to make pendants, pens, napkin rings and more. His work is gor­geous.” 
In addition, some vendors have made crafts with College emblems. 
“One potter is bringing some Saint Mary’s themed items espe­cially for the show,” Call said. 
Some crafts come from all over the world, Call said, but the majori­ty is generated by local artists. 
Saint Mary’s students will be facilitating the event by manning Saint Mary’s sponsored tables, by helping vendors unload and set up their items and by shopping at the event. 
Students can also contribute homemade items to be sold. 
All proceeds, Call said, go direct­ly toward the 12 Days of Christmas Program. 
“The money is used to buy food, clothing and gifts for the 25 fami­lies we have sponsored this holiday season,” said Call. 
Prices of the crafts, she said, range anywhere from less than $1 to over $100 dollars. 
This is the third year for the event, and Call said it has grown every year. 
“We hope for a great turn-out from the whole community [this year],” she said. 
Some students plan to take advantage of the event as an opportunity to shop for Christmas presents. 
“This is a great way for me to buy unique items for my family,” sophomore Eva Cavadini said. “The event couldn’t have been scheduled at a better time for me to get last minute Christmas gifts.” 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousle01@saintmarys.edu 




StudentssupportEconomicsdept.withuncertainfuture 
ports two economics depart-By JOHN TIERNEY ments — the Department of 
News Writer 
Economics and Econometrics and the Department of Economics and Policy Studies. 

Students concerned about the The Observer reported in uncertain future of the September that John McGreevy, Department of Economics and Dean of the College of Arts and 
Policy  Studies  Letters, did not  
have gathered over 1,000 sig­natures on an online petition supporting the department, but  “The ultimate goal is to have some sort of conversation about this. The way it’s  see two econom­ics departments in the University’s long­term interest and that  
have yet to see their efforts rewarded by the University.  happening has been very silent, without much input from  Economics and Policy Studies faculty were encouraged to  
The students, who are led by senior econom- Policy Studies faculty or from students.”  look for other opportunities. The College of  
ics major Matt  Arts and Letters  
Panhans,  are  Matt Panhans  has  not  yet  
prioritizing get- senior  released a for- 
ting information  mal  announce- 
about the future  ment regarding  

of the department, which is the future of Economics and “surrounded by mystery,” Policy Studies. Panhans said. “The ultimate goal is to have 
The University currently sup-some sort of conversation about 

STUDENT SENATE 


Health advisory board proposed 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Student Senate recom ­mended the creation of a health services advisory board and thanked security gate guards for their increased willingness to allow students access to campus in two resolutions passed at their final meeting of the semester Wednesday. 
The resolution suggesting a health services advisory board was passed unani ­mously. 
The proposed board would be comprised of members of Health Services and students appointed by the student body president. 
It “would be a source for students to give their opin­ions or comments about how 

health services is running, ” University Affairs chair Jeff Lakusta said. 
The resolu ­tion said the goal of Health Services is to provide “com­petent, sup ­portive, acces­sible and cost-effective health care services to minimize the interruptions in the academ­ic life of stu ­dents and pro-Services, ” the resolution said. “The director of Health Services, Ms. Ann Kleva, has been extremely willing and eager to receive student feedback.” 
Schmidt recognized the enthusiasm for such a reso­lution on part of both the University and student gov­ernment. 
“Health Services is very eager to see this happen and a recommendation from us will further it along,” student body president Grant Schmidt said, 
Senate also passed a reso­lution thanking security gate officers for their efforts and for their willingness to meet with a student government representative. 
The resolution recommend­ed that security gate guards continue to understand and 

“Our committees have done really substantial work. It really has been an extraordinarily successful year, primarily in the committee work and the discussions we had in Senate” 
Cynthia Weber student body vice president 
vide a valuable medical resource for the campus.” 
Since students are the pri­mary recipients of the healthcare resources on campus, the University should seek the evaluation of students so that they can continue to improve their services, the resolution said. 
Both students and Health Services employees expressed interest in the cre­ation of the board. 
“Numerous members of the student body have expressed an interest in providing input to University Health recognize legit­imate reasons that students need access to campus. 
The resolu ­tion passed in a 21-1-0 vote. 
Schmidt said the resolution was represen­tative of the student body’s concerns. 
“This Student Senate has not passed that many resolu ­tions,” he said. “This is one thing though 
that students have consis­tently asked about — that it’d be nice if the gate guard understood and had a little bit more leniency about let­ting students coming through.” 
Schmidt also emphasized the power of resolutions. 
“When you have the power of Student Senate, you’d be surprised that when Student Senate resolved that they’d like to see X, Y and Z hap­pen, it ’s taken into much more consideration,” he said. 
Student body vice president Cynthia Weber concluded the this,” Panhans said. “The way to keep talking about this stuff.” it’s been happening has been Panhans said Jenkins is “kind very silent, without much input of aloof” from the decision from Policy Studies faculty or process. from students.” “It’s mostly the dean and kind 
The Economics Club invited of the provost,” Panhans said. 
McGreevy to dis- P a n h a n s ’  
cuss the future of Economics  “At least we can keep  group is continu­ing discussion  
and Policy Studies at a forum earlier this semester. M c G r e e v y declined to par­ticipate in the forum, however, citing the sensi­ talking about the stuff we want to learn about. If we can’t do it in the classroom, we’re still going to do it outside the classroom.”  about the plural­istic view of eco­nomics support­ed by Economics and Policy Studies, even as the department is able to offer fewer classes.  
tivity of the situ­ “At  least  we  
ation and the “ p e r s o n n e l issues” involved,  Matt Panhans senior  can keep talking about the stuff we want to learn  
Panhans said.  about,” Panhans  
Panhans said  said. “If we can’t  

he and other students spoke do it in the classroom, we’re with University President Fr. still going to do it outside the John Jenkins about Economics classroom.” and Policy Studies in his office To further conversation about hours this semester. non-traditional economics, 
“He did say he agreed with Panhans and fellow senior eco­us,” Panhans said. “He wants us nomics major Nick Dan are co-teaching a one-credit course in the Department of Economics and Policy Studies next semes­ter. 
The course, titled “Beyond Economic Man,” is officially list­ed on insideND as taught by Jennifer Warlick, chair of the Department of Economics and Policy Studies. Panhans and Dan, however, designed the syl­labus and arranged guest lec­turers for the class. 
Panhans said his group plans to meet with McGreevy next week. The group will decide after the meeting whether or not they will officially present McGreevy with the online peti­tion. 
Contact John Tierney at jtierne1@nd.edu 

meeting by thanking sena­tors for their work this semester. 
“Our committees have done really substantial work,” she said. “It really has been an extraordinarily successful year, primarily in the com­mittee work and the discus­sions we had in Senate.” 


Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 



World & Nation 
Thursday, December 10, 2009 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 


Court upholds Gaza student’s expulsion 
JERUSALEM — Israel’s Supreme Court on Wednesday upheld the expulsion of a univer­sity student from the West Bank to Gaza just before her graduation. 
The student, Berlanty Azzam, said she was two months away from completing her degree in business administration at Bethlehem University when she was stopped at an Israeli army checkpoint. After present­ing her Gaza-issued identity card, Azzam said she was blindfolded and driven in an Israeli army jeep to Gaza. 
The ruling could set a precedent for expul­sion of other Gaza Palestinians who live in the West Bank. The Israeli human rights group Gisha estimated their number at 25,000. 

Bolivia exports rodent jerky 
LA PAZ, Bolivia — Where some see only an edible, hog-sized jungle rodent, others see economic opportunity. 
Indigenous communities from Bolivia’s eastern lowlands are planning to export dried meat of the world’s largest rodent to Venezuela, where the animal is widely con­sumed. 
The pioneering effort is endorsed by the Friends of Nature Foundation. 
Foundation leader Ruth Delgado says plans to export the meat of between 200 and 500 capybara a year are environmentally sustainable. 
Delgado said Thursday that the product must sell for $4.45 a pound to be profitable. 
NATIONAL NEWS 


Some abuse medical marijuana card 
EUGENE, Ore. — For as long as people have sold marijuana on the black market, pot dealers and growers have gone to great lengths to keep their stashes hidden. 
Now police say some Oregon marijuana farmers are taking advantage of a relatively new tool — a state-issued medical marijuana card — to help conceal their criminal activity. 
“For some growers, the card adds to a hoped-for ruse. They’re hoping that if some­body sees their marijuana and checks it out, (police) will think it’s a legal grow,” said Oregon State Police Sgt. Ted Phillips, who supervises Lane County’s Interagency Drug Enforcement Team. 

Lawmakers nix gov.’s impeachment 
COLUMBIA, S.C. — South Carolina law­makers voted down a measure to impeach Gov. Mark Sanford on Wednesday, but rec­ommended a formal rebuke that said his travels and trysts with an Argentine mistress brought the state “ridicule, dishonor, dis­grace and shame.” 
Most of the seven legislative panel mem­bers said the Republican should resign, though his affair, use of state planes and a 2008 taxpayer-funded trip to Argentina were not serious misconduct that merited removal from office. 
Instead, the lawmakers unanimously approved a resolution saying he has “brought ridicule, dishonor, disgrace, and shame not only upon Governor Sanford but upon this state and its citizens which rises to a level which requires a formal admonish­ment and censure.” 
LOCAL NEWS 


Dalai Lama to visit Bloomington 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. — The Dalai Lama will teach about the “heart” of Buddhism during his sixth visit to Bloomington next May and also present a public talk in Indianapolis. 
The Tibetan Mongolian Buddhist Cultural Center, founded by the Dalai Lama’s broth­er south of Bloomington, announced the May schedule on its Web site. 
It says the 74-year-old Tibetan spiritual leader and Nobel Peace Prize laureate will discuss the “heart sutra” during three les­sons at the Indiana University Auditorium May 12 and 13. A sutra is a teaching of 

First winter weather hits states hard 
Heavy snowfall and pounding winds cause problems for Midwest and New England 
Associated Press 

DES MOINES, Iowa — A fierce storm left dangerous ice, heavy snow and vicious winds in its wake as it slogged eastward Wednesday, snarling traffic and closing hundreds of schools from the Upper Midwest through New England. 
More than a foot of snow was expected in parts of Illinois, Wisconsin and Iowa, where the National Weather Service warned of “extremely dangerous bliz­zard conditions” and near whiteout driving conditions. Wind gusts of up to 50 mph could build snow drifts between 8 and 15 feet tall. Parts of New England also girded themselves for bone-chilling wind gusts and snow accumulations of up to a foot. 
The storm was blamed for at least 12 deaths, most in traffic accidents. 
“It’s horrible out there,” said Todd Lane, an assis­tant manager of a Quik Trip convenience store in Des Moines, where about 6 inches of new snow was reported overnight. Plow drivers came into the store all night seeking energy drinks and coffee to keep them alert. 
Motorists got stuck on drift-blocked highways all over Iowa. State troopers were dispatched with National Guard soldiers in Humvees. 
“They’re not even plow­ing the streets anymore because the wind will just blow it back down and cover it,” said Dan Hansen, a carrier for the U.S. Postal Service in Iowa City. He was bundled up in hand and feet warmers, snow boots and a parka to brave his route. “It’ll get worse before it gets better.” 
High winds knocked down the two-story Christmas tree that, until Wednesday morning, stood in the center of downtown Champaign, Ill. 
With classes canceled and more than a foot of snow on the ground, University of Wisconsin-Madison stu­dents planned to try again to hold the world’s largest snowball fight on Wednesday. An attempt in January to break the record — 3,700 people who hurled snowballs at Michigan Technological University in 2006, accord­ing to the Guinness Book of World Records — fell far short. 

The storm felt like a rude surprise after an unseason­ably warm and dry November in parts of the region. The massive system is the first major blast of winter weather for many parts of the Midwest. 
“I’ve been dreading this day,” said Kim Brust, shov­eling the sidewalk in front of his Minneapolis home before sunrise Wednesday. 
“I was starting to enjoy the global warming.” 
Hundreds of flights were canceled or delayed at O’Hare International Airport in Chicago, and only a few were scheduled at Des Moines International Airport. Travelers at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport were experiencing long delays. 
Blizzard warnings also covered eastern Nebraska, where overnight snowfall reports of 12 inches were common, and parts of Kansas, Illinois and Minnesota. Snow also fell in western and central Michigan. Thousands of power outages were report­ed in Illinois, Missouri, Michigan, Wisconsin, Kentucky, New York and New Jersey. 
By the time the storm moves off the Maine coast Thursday night, it may have affected as much as two-thirds of the country, said Jim Lee, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in Des Moines. 
“It’s a monster of a storm,” Lee said. 
In northern New York, as much as a foot of snow was expected to accumulate Wednesday and more than 3 feet was expected by the week’s end near the Great Lakes. Maine and New Hampshire could see snow accumulations of 6 to 10 inches capped off by rain and sleet in the evening. 
Gavin Graham, 8, of Concord, N.H., spent two hours sledding in the morn­ing and planned to head out again in the afternoon. 
DENMARK 


Chinaurges‘soul-searching’forU.S.onclimate 
Associated Press 

COPENHAGEN — The U.S. and China exchanged barbs Wednesday at the Copenhagen climate talks, under­scoring the abiding suspicion between the world’s two largest carbon pol­luters about the sincerity of their pledges to control emissions. 
U.S. chief negotiator Todd Stern urged China to “stand behind” its promise to slow the growth of the country’s carbon output and make the declaration part of an international climate change agreement. 
China rejected that demand, and renewed its criticism of the U.S. for failing to meet its 17-year-old com­mitment to provide financial aid to developing countries and to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide and other gases warming the Earth. 
“What they should do is some deep soul-searching,” said Yu Qingtai, China’s chief climate negotiator. 
The remarks during separate news conferences reflected the heavy lifting that remains in the 10 days before 110 heads of state and government conclude the summit, which aims to create a political framework for a treaty next year to succeed the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. 
President Barack Obama helped break the ice in the troubled negotia­tions last month, saying he would deliv­er a pledge at Copenhagen to reduce 
U.S. greenhouse gas emissions by around 17 percent from 2005 levels by 2020. It will be the first time the U.S. has committed to a reduction target. 
China responded a day later, announcing it would voluntarily reduce the carbon intensity of its industry by up to 45 percent, meaning its emissions would continue to grow but at a rate lower than the economy. 
Stern said China’s announcement boosted optimism before the confer­ence, but didn’t go far enough. 
“What’s important is not just that they announce them domestically but they put them as part of an interna­tional agreement,” Stern said. 

ATLAS 
continued from page 1 
Salvation Army and have cur­rently adopted a family for the Christmas season. 
“We’re really excited about the mother and daughter that 
semester is the construction of a house for a family in need through the group Rebuilding Together. Van Beckhum hopes to increase club membership so that there can be more labor oriented service within the club. “This is a group where we have the manpower to do labor,” she said. “We don’t nec­essarily have the financial 

we adopted,” Janke said. “We’re collect­ “It’s important to learn to work with  resources to raise money for a cause every  
ing donations to buy presents for the three-year­old girl and a gift card for gro­ceries for the mother.” Variety of projects is an important focus of the club as well as an  poeple in different situations. We want to show the diversity of the military and that we’re about more than warfare.” Mihai Iancu sophomore  month.” Devotion to service is a familiar value within the ROTC community and Janke and van Beckhum see ATLAS as a means of prepa­ration for the cadets’ future  

important aspect of the mission of Army ROTC as a whole, sophomore ATLAS member Mihai Iancu said. 
“It’s important to learn to work with people in different situations,” he said. “We want to show the diversity of the mili­tary and that we’re about more than warfare.” 
ATLAS, which currently has 20 members, is hoping to expand and get more cadets involved so that they can expand on the level of their service projects. 
“The more people we have the more we can do,” Janke said. 
ATLAS’s first event of the new 
careers as mem­ber of the U.S. military. 
“Our future is all about serv­ice,” Janke said. “It’s all we’re going to be doing.” 
Van Beckhum says ATLAS builds on the mission of the mil­itary but community service should never just be about preparation for the future. 
“It is important for ROTC because the military serves everyday,” she said. “But it’s something you should do with­out even thinking. ATLAS’s focus is about trying to do that little extra to make the commu­nity better.” 

Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 


Holler said. “There could be groups in there on one side of the dining hall and then if you continued from page 1 want to study there individually, 
there is definitely room.” North Dining Hall will be open In addition to the dining halls, from 8 p.m. to 2 a.m. Sunday to the Career Center will open up Wednesday, Holler said. interview rooms on the first 
“Especially now that it’s get-floor of Flanner Hall. The rooms ting really cold, will be open if somebody all Sunday to 


Spaces 

the way down in Duncan doesn’t want to walk all the way to the Library, they can just go to South Dining Hall,” he said.  “This is a quiet space that offers students a great place to study. We are excited to help students acheive their academic goals  Wednesday 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. In total, 24 rooms will be available for both individual and group study­ing, director of  
Holler said this  which will translate  the  Career  
year is the sec­ond year that the dining halls are open to stu­dents for study­ing, and that last year students welcomed the  into exciting career opportunities and internships.” Lee Svete director  Center Lee Svete said. Some rooms will have space for up to two people, while others will be able to hold four  
increase in study space. “Last year was  Career Center  to eight people, he said. “This is a quiet  

a really good turnout and a space that offers students a really good response,” he said. great place to study,” he said. “I went [to South Dining Hall] “We are excited to help students one night and achieve their when I was academic goals there, there “Especially now that which will trans-were a good late into finding 
it’s getting really 
amount of peo-exciting career 
cold, if somebody all 
ple there.” opportunities The dining the way down in and internships.” halls are large Duncan doesn’t want Holler said he 
enough to be hopes that word 
to walk all the way to
used for group will spread about and individual the library, they can the extra study studying, Holler just go to South spaces available said. and that students 
Dining Hall.” 
“The big will take advan­tables are defi-tage of them. nitely conducive Austin Holler “Not everybody to big groups academic affairs chair knows about it, 
being able to but it’s one of 
Student Senate 
come in and those resources since it is hard that we have to find group study space, espe-available,” he said. “Whereas cially in the library, these dining Hesburgh, Bond and Nieuwland halls provide that possibility,” he libraries all … get so filled up.” said. 
“But it’s definitely not Contact Sarah Mervosh at reserved for group studying,” smervosh@nd.edu 

The Observer 





Business
Thursday, December 10, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Truckes petition for delay of rules 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. — Citing the poor economy, the trucking industry Wednesday asked California air regulators to delay the nation’s toughest rules to reduce diesel emissions. 
The pitch came at a California Air Resources Board hearing, where regulators were review­ing whether trucking companies should be given more time to replace their fleets with cleaner trucks. 
Board scientists said diesel emissions are 20 percent lower this year than originally esti­mated, a result of many trucks sitting idle dur­ing the recession. 
Trucking companies said they are bringing in less business and unable to pay for costly new equipment. 
“I’m concerned these regulations could put us out of business,” said Christina Ramorino, controller at Roadstar trucking based in Hayward. “With everyone hurting for busi­ness, it’s hard for us to pass on this cost to our customers.” 
Board chairwoman Mary Nichols said California is required by federal law to clean up pollution and meet federal air standards by 2014. She suggested the state might be able to give truckers more flexibility in the first few years but rejected calls to set aside the stan­dards. 

Feds fight cybercriminals overseas 
WASHINGTON — The tip came from another country’s law enforcement officials: Eight major banks in the U.S. were being targeted by cybercriminals operating there. 
FBI agents fanned out that night to warn the branches that hackers were aiming to break into their computer systems. The banks were able to spot the attempted breaches, and block them, FBI officials said. 
Concerned about the rise in this type of sophisticated computer attack from abroad, the FBI and the U.S. Secret Service are beefing up their international cybercrime enforcement, sending agents who specialize in the threats overseas to specifically deal with digital perils. 
Their growing coordination with other nations, however, faces legal and political challenges posed by conflicting laws and the lack of broadly accepted international guide­lines for Internet oversight. 

General Mills to reduce sugar 
Growing consumer, regulator scrutiny over nutritional value prompts change 
Associated Press 

PORTLAND, Oregon — General Mills — the maker of Lucky Charms, Trix and Cocoa Puffs — plans to reduce the amount of sugar in its cereals mar­keted to children. 
The move, announced Wednesday, comes as many food companies alter their products and face growing scrutiny from con­sumers, regulators and health groups over the nutritional value of their foods. 
General Mills said it will cut the sugar in 10 of its cereals to single-digit grams of sugar per serv­ing. It did not provide a timeline for reaching this goal, but it builds on reductions the company rolled out two years ago. 
The sugar in Cocoa Puffs, for example, could drop at least 25 percent from its original level and 18 per­cent from its current 11 grams per serving. 
“This is a significant development across some of our biggest and longest-term brands,” said Jeff Harmening, president of the company’s Big G cereal division. 
General Mills, which is based in Minneapolis, said the updated products will the sugar content in both generally considered chil-pany, and six of 10 least-begin to roll out in the next Fruity Pebbles and Cocoa dren’s cereals and once healthy cereals in its study year. The timing will vary Pebbles by 20 percent. And had 15 grams of sugar were made by the compa­by product. it increased the vitamin D each. General Mills has ny. 
“The reduction ... doesn’t in Pebbles and Honeycomb since reduced that to 12 “Children deserve to be represent perfection but it cereals this year. grams, but the cereals marketed products that represents improvement,” “The cereal companies aren’t included in the new are healthier to them than said Kelly Brownell, direc-have really been under a effort because they don’t what is being marketed tor of the Rudd Center for lot of pressure,” Brownell advertise on TV shows or now,” Brownell said. Food Policy and Obesity at said. other media aimed at chil-General Mills said the Yale University. The Food and Drug dren. move is a reaction to con-
Several cereal makers Administration has been And some of the compa-sumers’ desire for less have adjusted their prod-cracking down on food ny’s other cereals, such as sugar, rather than a ucts to address the grow-packaging that touts mis-Cheerios, already meet the response to criticism. The ing concern. leading health benefits. goal with 1 gram of sugar company said it has taken 
Last year, Kellogg Co. That led to one industry per serving. a number of steps — reformulated a number of organization halt its The Rudd Center recent-including increasing whole its U.S. cereals including “Smart Choices” labeling ly published a study that grain and nutrients in its Froot Loops, Apple Jacks program, which was found the least-healthy cereals — to improve their and Corn Pops. The attacked because sugary breakfast cereals are the healthfulness. changes vary according to cereals like Fruit Loops most frequently and The company wouldn’t product but decreased the qualified for the label. aggressively marketed say how the cereal’s for-sugar by 1 to 3 grams per General Mills’ effort directly to children. It also mulas would be adjusted serving. Kellogg also added won’t change some prod-found that General Mills except for the sugar reduc­fiber to some of its cereals. ucts like Franken Berry markets to children more tion but said it would not 
Post Foods said it has cut and Boo Berry, which are than any other cereal com-use artificial sweeteners. 



Dollar weakens after five-week steady gain 
Associated Press expectations for the Federal Reserve rencies, the dollar retreated from a 
to hike rates sooner, he said. 5-week high. 

NEW YORK — The dollar weak-Higher interest rates can boost a The dollar, which is considered a ened slightly from 5-week highs currency as investors transfer funds safe-haven currency, is also getting Wednesday. It’s been gaining steadily to where they expect to earn higher support from concerns about govern-since the start of the month. returns. ment finances. Earlier this week, a 
On Wednesday, the 16-nation euro The British pound dipped to credit ratings agency downgraded rose to $1.4714 in late New York $1.6248 from $1.6261 as U.K. the creditworthiness of Greece’s sov­trading from $1.4685 late Tuesday. Treasury chief Alistair Darling down-ereign debt, while Moody’s cited the Earlier in the session, the euro fell as graded his forecast for the British U.K.’s deteriorating public finances. low as $1.4670, its weakest point economy in 2009. He also said he It also cut its ratings on six Dubai since Oct. 5. expects the British government to state-linked companies. 
The euro has dropped as much as borrow slightly more next year than The Greek prime minister is prom­4 cents against the dollar this month, he previously thought. Earlier this ising to do “everything necessary” to as investors are locking in the gains week, Moody’s Investors Service said reduce its growing deficit. they’ve already made on the euro’s the U.K. must fix its public finances “The key questions now being rise this year, said Joseph Trevisani, in order to avoid threats to its top asked is, will the rest of Europe have chief market analyst at FXSolutions. triple-A credit rating. to help Greece out, and will Greece The dollar has also gotten a boost Meanwhile, the dollar dropped to be the beginning of other debt down-from concerns over European coun-87.77 Japanese yen from 88.34 yen. grades across Europe,” said CMC tries’ public finances and higher Against a basket of six major cur-Markets’ Michael Hewson. 
Drinks recently cut its mar­
keting budget but has dou-

Drinks 

bled its sales this semester. continued from page 1 This fall, he said, the busi­
ness provides service to over inconvenient to go off campus 300 different students and [to shop for refreshments] has generated over $10,000, and the Huddle as opposed to prices really its approxi­
d r ive our sales.” Water, which, J eff r ey said ,  “The growth has been phenomenal. Most customers order at  mately 75 cus-tom ers an d $600 in sales in its first semes­ 
c o n s t i t u t e s ab out 65 per-c ent of t o ta l  least two times a week.”  ter of operation. “With the cost of the product,  
sal es,  can  b e  gas and employ- 
p u r c h ase d a t the Huddle and in m o s t U n i v e r s i t y  John Jeffrey founder Dorm Drinks  ee s , w e still gross a couple thou s and dol-lars per semes­ 
v  e  n  d  i  n  g  ter,”  J ef frey,  

machines for $1.35, but Dorm Dorm Drinks CFO, said. “It’s Drinks sells bottles for what good spending money.” ends up being about 25 cents Jeffrey said he attributes each. the growth of the business to 
Hansmann said Dorm the loyalty of the customer 


Weather 
continued from page 1 
degrees Fahrenheit on Wednesday afternoon at the South Bend Regional Airport, but with wind chill it felt like 10 degrees, according to the National Weather Service Web site. 
The site also reported wind speeds of 41 
Service forecasts wind chill val­ues as low as -10 degrees and wind gusts as high as 35 mph, although no additional snow is expected during the day. 
Kicki Astuno, also a fresh­man, said she not looking for­ward to a cold and snowy winter because college students have to spend so much time walking outside. 
“I’m so nervous for the next three months,” she said, “I don’t know how I’m 

mph. W  h  e  n  “I was not expecting  going to handle it.”  
Corcoran  left  it to be this bad  Astuno  said  
class on Wednesday, she said it was mis- today. It makes me never want to go  she was sur­prised by the cold weather  
erable to walk  outside again.”  because  she  
outdoors in the  thought  the  
wind and snow. “The walk from DeBartolo  Kathryn Corcoran senior  weather this fall was relatively mild.  
to  LaFortune  Corcoran said  

was so brutal, and all I could she was happy the weather think about to get me from one remained nice through the last point to the next was a hot cap-home football game at the end of puccino from Starbucks,” she November, but she is not looking said. forward to the winter months. 
Corcoran said when she “And I think it’s going to be a reached LaFortune, the line at longer one that normal,” she Starbucks was exceptionally said. long, which she attributed to the Senior Ronnie Thompson said cold weather. he works at Rolfs, where 
Freshman Kayla Colvill is from Wednesday’s wind gusts were Texas and said she was sur-strong enough to blow the front prised by the doors open. snow and cold Thompson also 
weather. She “I have just never said winter began wearing weather pres-
experienced anything
her winter coat ents additional 
several weeks like this in my life. I problems for 
ago because she can’t really imagine students who thought the fall live off campus. 
it feeling colder.” 
weather was “If I lived on already very cold. campus I’d be 
“I have just Kayla Colvill more excited for never experi-freshman winter,” he said, enced anything “but now just like this in my snow and driv­life,” she said. “I can’t really ing on the roads is a huge has-imagine it feeling colder.” sle.” 
Temperatures are predicted to drop even lower during the day Contact Laura McCrystal at today. The National Weather lmccryst@nd.edu 
base. 
“The growth has been phe­nomenal,” he said. “Most cus­tomers order at least two times a week. We have a backbone of 25 to 30 sub­scribers that constitute about 20 percent of what we do.” 
Hansmann and Jeffrey hope the success of Dorm Drinks as younger students take over next semester. 
“A couple guys [sophomores Tyler Hudson-Crimi and Richard Gonzalez] will take over in January,” Hansmann said. 
Hudson-Crimi and Gonzalez, both sophomore business majors who have been making Dorm Drinks deliveries, are excited to take over after break. 
“We’re very enthusiastic to continue the tradition of pass­ing on the savings of purchas­ing off-campus to on-campus students while simultaneously providing the convenience of door-front delivery,” Hudson-Crimi said. 
Hansmann and Jeffrey both said they will oversee the business in its transitional phase for a while. 
“We really want to see it stay [at Notre Dame,]” Hansmann said. 
Hansmann and Jeffrey both said the experience of run­ning a business has helped them in their professional aspirations. 
“It’s given me an entrepre­neurial spirit,” Hansmann said. “It made me enjoy busi­ness more than my classroom experience. It was also a huge résumé boost.” 
Jeffrey echoed Hansmann’s sentiment. 
“It gave me an edge in all interviews,” he said. Next year, he said he will “do something similar to this but on a larger scale.” 
Jeffrey will work for Macquarie Capital in Chicago and Hansmann will work for McKenzie in New York. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 



ers are more accepting of the change. 


Changes 
“From my experience, I think that students should 
continued from page 1 
have a full week of studying 

for finals,” Bipasha Deb, a to be made up at another graduate student of chem-time in the semester. istry, said. “Finals are 
“It was very that we main­tained the total number 
of class days for the semes­ter at 70, ” Pace said. 
Deciding on a day to make up the classes, he said, required addi­tional deliber­ation. 
“We original-

important always intensive, and stu­
“It was very important that we maintained the total number of class days for the semester at 70.” 
Dr. Harold Pace University Registrar 
dents should have time to study for them accordingly.” 
Junior Kevin Danchisko said he supports the change. 
“I would much rather have a travel day before Thanksgiving than an extra day of studying 

ly suggested making the for finals, ” he said. Monday before classes, “Seriously, it’s a really big 
originally a class registra­tion day, as a school day to make up the diff erence. The student representa ­tives, however, disagreed with this idea, say­ing that a day of acclimation before classes was beneficial to the stu ­dents. We therefore reached a 

“From my experience, I think that students should have a full week of studying for .nals. Finals are always intensive, and students should have time to study for them accordingly.” 
Bipasha Deb graduate student 
compromise that students would have classes on what was once one of their study days.” 
While some students are unhappy with the University’s new policy, oth­help in getting home for Thanksgiving.” 
Another jun­ior, Brittany Schmier, echoed Danchisko ’s sentiment. 
“I’d rather have four study days, and I think you could get more done on that extra day, but I still think it ’s a small price to pay 
for having a travel day before Thanksgiving. It ’s much more convenient this way.” 
Contact Jim Ferlmann at jferlman@nd.edu 




Idaho to begin cobalt mining in 2011 
Associated Press 
BOISE, Idaho — A Canadian mining company won initial federal approval for a plan to mine cobalt used in hybrid car batteries and jet engines from deep beneath the central Idaho mountains. 
Formation Metals Inc., a Vancouver-based company, said Wednesday that winning the U.S. Forest Service’s blessing for the first stage of its operations plan means workers can log the mining site and build roads in January. 
Mining is due to start in Salmon-Challis National Forest, about 200 miles northeast of Boise, in 2011 and could continue for 30 years, it said. 
Cobalt is used in jet engines, hybrid vehicle batteries, pros­thetic knees and hips, even radio frequency identification tags that help retailers including Wal-Mart Stores Inc. track their products. 
Exploration companies are hunting for cobalt from Duluth, Minn., to Cuba to rich deposits in Africa’s Zambia and Congo, where much of today’s cobalt supply is mined. 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mari-Ann Green said Formation aims to supply as many as 1,600 tons annually of 99.9 percent-pure cobalt to companies like United Technologies Corp.’s Pratt and Whitney unit, Rolls Royce Group Plc and Portland, Ore.-based Precision Castparts Corp. 
Green expects to employ 150 at the mine and another 77 people at the company’s existing smelter 200 miles to the northwest in Kellogg, where the cobalt will be refined. 
Though the price of cobalt dropped from about $52 per pound in 2008 to $18 earlier this year, optimism that the worst of the recession is over is again pushing prices high­er. It traded at about $23 this week, Green said. 
Canada’s Formation has been exploring Idaho’s Cobalt belt — the U.S. government bulldozed trenches here dur­ing World War II to recover the chemical element for use in aircraft engines — for 14 years. 
Before this week’s mile­stone, its efforts have been hampered by a financial crisis that followed the Sept. 11 ter­rorist attacks as well as com­plicated dealings with Xstrata Plc, a Swiss-based cobalt pro­ducer that indirectly owns a defunct mine next door that’s on the federal Superfund pol­lution cleanup list. 
In April, Xstrata lost a fed­eral appeal aimed at halting Formation’s project. And three months ago, Formation won a separate state court order giving it access to cobalt mining claim across its Swiss rival’s property. 
The Forest Service’s approval this week marks another significant develop­ment, even though additional work, including planning for mining below the water table as well as for facilities con­struction, remains to be com­pleted, said Forest Service District Ranger Kimberly Nelson. 
“There’s a lot of technical reporting information that still needs to be established and created before they can go underground,” Nelson said. “But this is a major step.” 
So far, Formation has spent $50 million, including $17 million on permits. 
To complete the mine by 2011, it’s finalizing a stock­and-debt deal with investors to raise another $140 million by the end of 2009, Green said. 
Formation must put up reclamation bonds totaling $29.6 million to address even­tual impacts of its mine and has agreed to chip in another $150,000 annually for the life of the mine for watershed improvement projects. In return, the Idaho Conservation League, an envi­ronmental group, agreed in 2008 not to challenge the mine in court. 
The company has also worked with other groups including the Shoshone-Bannock Indian tribes to win support, Green said. 
“We’ve gone that extra mile,” she said. “We’re quite proud of the fact that none of those fellows are appealing the project.” 


The Observer 




Viewpoint 
page 10 Thursday, December 10, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 


ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471
FAX 
(574) 631-6927
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 



Let’s set some things straight 
In light of the latest Viewpoints, the significance attached to the content of stolen e-mails from climatologists, the current Copenhagen Climate Change Conference and recent U.S. federal legislation, I think it would benefit 
Lisa Bunn

and elevate the discussion if we straighten a few Guest things out. Columnist 
1. The Earth has a natural green­house effect which is a product of sev­eral gases that naturally exist in the atmosphere including carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and even water vapor. These greenhouse gases trap some infrared radiation and warm the Earth, allowing plants, ani­mals and humans to live here (where­as nothing lives on the moon or Venus 
— the moon due to the lack of the greenhouse effect and Venus due to a very pronounced greenhouse effect). Levels of these greenhouse gases have fluctuated several times over the last 400,000 years, reflecting the ice ages and the interglacial periods. However, the concentrations of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere today have not been seen in the last 400,000 years. 
2. 
However, ever since humans began burning wood, coal, oil and nat­ural gas, we have slowly begun to put more greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. Since the Industrial Revolution, greenhouse gas emissions have greatly increased. We have also created synthetic chemicals like chlo­rofluorocarbons and hydrofluorocar­bons, which did not previously exist, now act as greenhouse gases as well, and do not have a natural sink or process to decrease their presence in the environment. 

3. 
Thousands of scientists have been monitoring and analyzing the Earth’s climate and have seen evidence that 


we are changing our climate. Thousands of other scientists have studied the chemistry of the atmos­phere and the processes that affect the climate and have written thou­sands of papers documenting their observations and analyzing the results to understand what makes the climate function as it does, what impacts it, what effects the climate has on natu­ral systems and ecosystems, and what the climate is likely to do in the future. 
4. 
The results of this body of scien­tific research were summarized by scientists for policy makers in the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Assessment Reports, of which there have been four over the last 20 years. The scientific understanding of global climate change found in the IPCC is based on a wide range of scientific assessments, and therefore is not dependent on one university in England or anywhere else where cli­mate science is studied. Despite recent claims that stolen e-mails in England disprove climate change, the emails do not state that global climate change is not happening or is a conspiracy among scientists. Whether or not the data from the university in England is faulty, a substantial amount of other legitimate climate research exists and proves that global climate change is happening. 

5. 
The hardest thing for the general public to understand about climate science, and any science in general, is uncertainty. If scientists have a degree of uncertainty about something, that does not mean that it is a lie or untrue. Climate scientists, like doc­tors, predict that certain processes will happen based on their knowledge and research. For example, if a doctor tells a smoker that he or she is likely to get cancer if that person does not stop smoking, the smoker could still live a long, full life and never develop 


cancer. That does not mean the doctor lied; it means that based on past evi­dence and scientific knowledge about the effects of smoking on the body, lung cancer is a highly likely outcome of smoking. Similarly, climate scien­tists can make predictions with high probability about the effects of global climate change and when and to what extent those effects could happen. The Earth and its climate are even more complex than the human body, and the effects of climate change will vary across regions (this is why global cli­mate change is a more accurate term than global warming). 
6. While I have tried to explain the climate science as I, as a science major, have learned it, I encourage each reader to educate him or herself from the science itself. Get the infor­mation from the climate scientists themselves (www.realclimate.org). Even better, go to lectures around campus and meet the scientists them­selves. How you value that informa­tion, the humans and other creatures affected by it, and what you decide to do about that is your prerogative. As one of my science professors, ecologist Jessica Hellmann has said, “Saying I don’t believe in cancer does not mean it ceases to exist. It just means that I am ignoring reality.” Let us argue about what we do in response to the scientific facts, not whether or not global climate change exists. I chal­lenge you to listen to the sources of scientific knowledge, evaluate the results, and decide what that means for the world you want to live in and leave for future generations. 
This week’s column was written by Lisa Bunn. She is a senior from Pasquerilla West. She can be reached at lbunn@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

News Sports 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Katie Peralta Michael Bryan QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Irena Zajickova Chris Masoud Megan Loney Matt Robison 

Graphics Scene 
“My definition of an expert in any

Blair Chemidlin Alexandra 
field is a person who knows“Necessity has no law.” 

enough about what’s really going on to be scared.” 

Viewpoint Kilpatrick 
Stephanie Vossler William Langlandauthor 
P.J. Plaugerauthor and entrepreneur 
The Observer 




Viewpoint 
Thursday, December 10, 2009 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Find undisputed facts 
Dear Ms. Pesavento, 

You continue to try and spread your extreme ideals through bias and misinformation. The docu­ments you spoke of in your most recent column (“Too much faith in humanity,” Dec. 8) states, “an unknown source leaked more than 1,000 e-mails and technical documents.” These e-mails and docu­ments were “leaked” by a source responsible for illegally hacking and stealing this information, which therefore has credibility issues due to the nature under which it was obtained. Furthermore the inci­dent is still being investigated as to the credibility of the documents and the source of the security breach. 
As for the facts of global warming, simple research conducted via the National Climatic Data Center (NCDC) and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Web site provides a plethora of statistics on the subject of temperature comparisons to the historical means. As stated by the data col­lected by the NCDC, “Evidence is mounting that the global climate is changing. The extent to which man is responsible is still under study.” While the effects of man are under question, the simple state­ment that the climate is changing is not. By looking at the average global temperature from the years 1901 to 2000 in comparison to the yearly data from 1880 to 2009, the NCDC found that from 1880 to 1935 the average temperature was below the established: the lowest it was seen was at .4 degrees Celsius below the mean from 1907 to 1912. Then from the years 1935 to 1980 the temperature fluctu­ated about the mean. Since 1990 there has been a steady increase in the temperature. For the past seven years, this level has been .6 degrees Celsius above the mean. For the past 30 years the upper and lower bounds have not included the mean (since 1980). These are undisputed facts presented by a well-respected and official government institution that has been in operation during both political parties terms. The question should not be whether the temperature is rising, but what are the effects of it rising and how can we help prevent any damaging effects. 
There is only one certainty: The human species developed under very specific geological climate conditions. If those conditions disappear, will we survive? 
Luke Ricci 
senior 
off campus 
Dec. 8 


Not definite assertions 
After reading the letters in the Viewpoint by Mr. Bangs (“The best from Europe and America,” Dec. 8), Mr. Kobeski (“Let’s approach climate change,” Dec. 8) and Ms. Fitzgerald (“I’m a believer,” Dec. 8), who each sought to reaffirm the litany on climate change, I have come to recognize the need for more debate on the subject. Each author, and probably many others, believes that climate change is occurring, is beyond doubt manmade, will be catastrophic and can be averted by reductions in CO2 levels. While the first point is undisputed by anyone who has done serious research into it, the other three points are highly con­tentious. Before we spend billions on cutting carbon emissions, we need a real debate as to the practicality of such a measure. 
That climate change is undoubtedly manmade is a ridiculous assertion. Earth’s climate is a highly com­plex nonlinear system with literally thousands of variables. To assert that we know for a fact that a 100 ppm increase in a relatively minor greenhouse gas is the primary driver of observed warming is to assume more than be possibly proven, especially when the impact of variables like cloud cover is as of yet undeter­mined. This point is further driven home by research showing that the correlation between arctic tempera­tures and solar variance is much closer than between arctic temperatures and CO2 emissions. The fact that CO2 driven models of climate change have fared very poorly in modeling the last decade seems to show that our knowledge of the link between CO2 and warming is at best incomplete. 
The third point, that warming will be catastrophic, is based off the second. The models showing drastic warming, while scary, do not predict past weather well when run backwards and have thus far failed to accurately predict coming weather. 
The fourth point, that it would make economic sense to limit CO2 emissions, is indefensible. Bjorn Lomborg, who has commissioned some of the most extensive studies on the possible benefits of cutting CO2, found that the massive (and expensive) cuts mandated by the Kyoto Protocol, if extended to 2100, would have cut warming by .06 degrees Celsius by 2100. This is a statistically insignificant benefit from a vastly expensive program. His models further assumed 100 percent CO2 influence on warming, which as I have stated earlier does not capture the full picture. When other impacts are taken into effect, the benefit of cutting CO2 would be even less. 
I know that the authors of the articles to which I am responding would find these points I am making contentious. Therefore I challenge any of these authors to a full, open debate about the subject of climate change sometime in the next semester. We can set a time and place of your choosing. Please respond to mgore@nd.edu if you wish to accept this challenge. 

Matt Gore 
senior 
Stanford Hall 
Dec. 9 


Disrupting the natural atmosphere 
Unfortunately for Mr. Easley (“Global warming skeptic,” Dec. 7), we already know that climate change has been sped up by humans. Wildfires, volcanoes and other natural phenomena that occur annu­ally have been occurring for a long time. But the amount of carbon dioxide released every time they occur has not been enough to cause a significant long term climate change because nature has counter-mechanisms to remove it from the air. Yes, Mt. Pinatubo’s eruption in the Philippines in 1991 did lower global temperatures for a few years. But over time, temperatures returned to levels simi­lar to before the eruption as the greenhouse gases produced by the volcano were removed through the Earth’s natural processes. Let me provide an example. When a wildfire occurs, an entire chunk of a forest could be burned down. What happens afterwards? First pri­mary succession, involving the growth of bacteria, fungi and other photosynthetic microorganisms that extract carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, occurs. Otherwise, they would not be able to live on land lacking living organisms. Then photosynthetic mosses and lichens grow, removing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Subsequently, we get more higher-order plant growth and thus start a new circle of life. But starting a new cycle requires a huge carbon source, which most organisms get from the air to which large amounts of carbon dioxide had just been added. Thus, the accumu­lation of carbon dioxide emission is somewhat negated. 
However, most of the gaseous emissions that human products and factories release into the air are unnatural and, sadly enough, there is no counter-mechanism to negate our actions. Mr. Easley is right in saying that we aren’t the only ones who cause a rise in greenhouse gases; but I believe we are the major contributors to its recent rapid accumulation. Compared to “pre-industrial” times, carbon dioxide emissions have risen by about 25 percent as of 1992 (Cline, William R., The Economics of Global Warming). That is why I would like to push for Climate Change Legislation and look forward to the results from Copenhagen. In addition, I also believe that supporting sustain­ability and “green” practices are a good idea because that would be our version of a “counter-mechanism” to the carbon dioxide release we cause. Initiating an “Elevated Discussion,” as was presented in Tuesday’s Observer, would also help others better understand why climate change is an issue and why sustainability should be support­ed. 
Jessica Choi 
sophomore Pasquerilla East Hall Dec. 9 

Thanks dining hall 
I would like to express my appreciation for the staff of the South Dining Hall, who clearly worked very hard to provide a wonderful Christmas season dinner on Tuesday night. From the cheerful greeters to the people wading through the sea of students with more food or dishes to whoever did the beauti­ful decorations, everything came together to create a fun, festive atmosphere. Despite the crowds, I saw many off-cam­pus people returning to have dinner in the dining hall with their friends. The food was also delicious. 
So thank you, everyone, for all the work you do during the year, and especially for giving us such a wonderful meal. 
Johanna Kirsch 
senior 
McGlinn Hall 
Dec. 8 



A most notable debate 
Ah, the global warming debate: perhaps the most infamous and noble human struggle of the last centu­ry. It saddens me that so many people argue about the climate, using random facts which only jumble up any sense that can be made from such a pivotal, nay, tran­scendent issue. I personally would never subject myself to baseless, meaningless debate with other articles. Actually, never mind. Here goes: 
Oh my gosh. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (sounds illustrious, doesn’t it?) says that a bunch of carbon dioxide is being emitted into the atmosphere? I see. Explain to me how CO2, which plants metabolize to make oxygen, is harmful. The real blame could be on the billions of organisms who continue to fly in the face of the environment and breathe 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Shame on all of us for perpetuating this horrendous act. 
Mr. Kobeski (“Let’s approach climate change,” Dec. 
8): I don’t know you read your “sources” yourself. No citations, just opinion. We must be enlightened by not only your piercing truth, but also the sources you got these opinions from. For our sake (and for decent journalism), please cite something. 
Now, which foreign, somewhat unknown organiza­tion should I use for my position? Hmmm ... how about NASA? An article from the July 1, 2008 Wall Street Journal states “NASA ... confirms that the hottest year on record was not 1998, as previously believed, but 1934, and that six of the 10 hottest years since 1880 antedate 1954. Data show there has been slight cooling in the past five years.” The article also cites that “The Arctic ice cap may be thinning, but the extent of Antarctic sea ice has been expanding for years. At least as of February, last winter was the Northern Hemisphere’s coldest in decades.” Furthermore, the forecast for the world’s temperature is that it will begin rising again in 2020. The world’s climate is cyclical. (We’re doomed.) 
Finally, a recent article written on Dec. 7, for “The Space Review” notes that “NASA’s Goddard Institute for Space Studies (GISS) has long been resisting dis­closing its data following a U.S. Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request made by Chris Horner of the Competitive Enterprise Institute (CEI), a well-known skeptic.” 
Why should NASA protect its statistics concerning global warming, for any reason? The answer is that this issue is a political game, nothing else. 
Long Live Al Gore. 
Douglas Schuda 
senior 
O’Neill Hall 
Dec. 9 
The Observer 





Scene
page 12 Thursday, December 10, 2009 


On a regular Tuesday afternoon, the week before finals, we hopped into our car and drove three and a half hours to Pontiac, Mich., to watch a Phoenix concert. The French electro-rock band is on their U.S. tour, and our plan was to leave Brandy Cerne Notre Dame at 2 p.m., 
and Tashi 
watch the concert and be 
Spragin
back before parietals. Yet after a long drive on Michigan’s road kill 
Scene Writers 
infested highways, we arrived at the Clutch Cargos, a church-turned-concert venue, only to wait another two hours for them to actually start playing. 
Due to the late start, we left later than expected and were hit with a snow storm. Also, because so many people were smoking at the concert, one of us (the only one with a driver’s license) got an irri­tated eye and couldn’t see properly, making it impossible to drive. A Holiday Inn Express shown like a beacon of hope in the dark snowy night. We had to drive back in the morning, and go straight to our 10:40 a.m. class with last night’s clothes. 
In the end, was it worth it? Absolutely. 
Phoenix put on such a high energy show that the crowd never took a break from dancing. The band played almost all their songs from their newest album, “Wolfgang Amadeus Phoenix,” as well as all their older fan favorites. Lead singer (and Sofia Coppola paramour) Thomas Mars seemingly did not stop to take a breath. The only times he did pause, it was to express his strong gratitude to the crowd. 
Opening with one of their most popular songs, “Lisztomania,” Phoenix continued to play another two songs before even addressing the crowd, leading to the show’s fast paced momentum which fed the audience with their energy. This kept the crowd moving, singing and dancing the entire time. One girl even tried to crowd surf but failed horribly as she immediately fell and knocked one of us down. 
One of their best performances, “Lasso,” came early — although all of them were incred­ible. Mars walked up to the audience and sang straight into the front row, which only further excited the crowd. From afar, all we could see were people’s hands touch­ing his face and ruffling his hair. The band did an outstanding job at making their live music sound even better than on the record, largely due to the combination of their talent with their spirited per­formance. 
After singing “Rally,” “Fences” and “Long Distance Call,” Phoenix slowed the pace down with “Love Like a Sunset,” a largely instrumental track allowing for everyone to appreciate their all around talent (and for the couples to dance closer together). Another notable performance, “Napoleon Says,” captured more excitement than when recorded, giving this older song new vigor. 
Before we even knew it, Phoenix was announc­ing their last song, “Rome.” Yet, moments after exiting the stage they returned for a four song encore. They played an acoustic version of “Everything is Everything,” a beautifully pre­formed cover of the Virgin Suicides soundtrack, “Playground Love” by Air, and “If I Ever Feel Better.” Phoenix ended on a high point with their current hit, “1901,” making the crowd jump even higher and sing even louder than they had been before. As if we weren’t all going crazy for the band already, Mars also walked amongst the crowd from the end of the room and back, saying thank you the entire time. 
Phoenix made our trip so worthwhile that the whole hassle of getting there and back only added to the excitement of our adventure. Definitely take the time to listen to their music. In short, they’re awesome. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Brandy Cerne at bcerne1@nd.edu and Tashi Spragin at tspragin@nd.edu. 


The Observer 


Scene
Thursday, December 10, 2009 page 13 

LAUREN BALDWIN | Observer Graphic 

NFL 

Eagles, Reid agree to three-year extension 
Brass shows confidence in 10-year coach; Reid to reportedly earn between $5 and $6 million per year 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — On the day he signed a new contract, Andy Reid joked about his weight. 
The usually stoic coach has plenty of reasons to be happy, and it’s not because he can afford his own cheesesteak joint. Despite failing to win a Super Bowl in his first 10 seasons with the Philadelphia Eagles, Reid got a three-year extension through 2013. 
“He has all the ingredients: leadership, football knowl­edge, the ability to gain the respect of everybody that he works with, especially the players, assembling the staff,” owner Jeffrey Lurie said Wednesday. 
“Every ingredient you could possibly look for, including a phenomenal track record of getting very far and if you don’t get very far you have no chance. I am extremely confi­dent that we have a great opportunity going forward.” 
Terms of the deal weren’t disclosed. Reid reportedly will earn between $5 and $6 mil­lion per season. 
“I’m a piece of the puzzle here, and by my waist size I’m a big piece, but in reality I’m just a piece of the puz­zle,” Reid said. “I love Philadelphia. The fans, there is nothing like them. They have just been unbelievable. They’re fair. If we stink, they let us know we stink, if we’re doing OK, they let us know we’re doing OK, but they’re always there. That support is phenomenal, absolutely phe­nomenal.” 
Reid is the winningest coach in team history, leading the Eagles to the playoffs seven times with five trips to the NFC title game and one Super Bowl appearance in 10 sea­sons. The Eagles are 8-4 heading into Sunday’s game at the New York Giants and in solid position to make anoth­er postseason run. 
Since joining the team in 1999, Reid has won 115 games and compiled a .611 winning percentage, both best in Eagles history. 
Reid took over a franchise that was considered a laugh­ingstock in the NFL a decade ago. He inherited a team that was 3-13 a season earlier and quickly turned them into perennial contenders. Reid selected quarterback Donovan McNabb with the No. 2 overall pick in the 1999 draft, a crucial piece in the rebuilding process. 
The Eagles improved to 5­11 in their first season under Reid then went 11-5 a year later and made the playoffs five straight years. 
“It’s well-deserved for him,” McNabb said. “I’m happy for him. It was a great move for them. He’s a great coach.” 
Though he’s one of the most successful coaches in the NFL, Reid has drawn criti­cism from fans because the team hasn ’t won a Super Bowl. The closest the Eagles got was a 24-21 loss to the New England Patriots follow­ing the 2004 season. 
“Our No. 1 priority by far is to win a Super Bowl,” Lurie said. “One of the reasons for the contract is the obsession and prioritization of that. 
“Does he have that burning desire to take it one more step to win a Super Bowl? This man here has a tremen­dous burning desire and obsession and will do nothing short of every attempt possi­ble.” 

The Eagles have reached the NFC championship game four other times, including three straight losses before their Super Bowl appearance. The Eagles also reached the conference title game last season, losing 32-25 to the Arizona Cardinals. 
“I would say very simply that that’s where all of my energy goes and the players’ and the coaches ’ energy goes,” Reid said of winning a Super Bowl 
Reid took a leave of absence during the offseason in 2007 after two of his sons were arrested on drug charges. 
One son is out of prison after completing a drug treat­ment program and the other is serving a two-year sen­tence after pleading guilty to smuggling prescription pills into a county jail. 
Asked how he avoids getting burned out from coaching, Reid made another joke about his sizable waist line. 
“I have a lot to burn off, so I have a lot of energy stored in this body,” he said. “I still love what I’m doing. I can’t say I love press conferences, but I love everything else about it, and so I don’t feel I’m at that point. If I ever get to that point, I’ll be the first to raise my hand and stop coaching football.” 
NCAA FOOTBALL 


House panel passes bill to establish playoff system 
The measure passed by voice undefeated teams — TCU, championship game “or make a spending taxpayer money to 
Associated Press 

vote in a House Energy and Cincinnati and Boise State — similar representation,” unless dictate how college football is 
WASHINGTON — A House Commerce Committee subcom-will play in a BCS bowl game, it results from a playoff. played.”subcommittee approved legisla-mittee, with one audible “no,” but not for the championship. There is no Senate version, The subcommittee chairman, tion Wednesday aimed at forc-from Rep. John Barrow, D-Ga. “What can we say — it’s although Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Rep. Bobby Rush, an Illinois ing college football to switch to “With all due respect, I really December and the BCS is in Utah, has pressed for a Justice Democrat who co-sponsored the a playoff system to determine think we have more important chaos again,” said the bill’s Department antitrust investiga-bill, said, “We can walk and its national champion, over the things to spend our time on,” sponsor, Rep. Joe Barton of tion into the BCS. chew gum at the same time.”objections of some lawmakers Barrow said before the vote, Texas, the top Republican on Shortly after his election last Yet Barrow wasn’t alone in who said Congress has meatier although he stressed he didn’t the House Energy and year, Barack Obama said there criticizing his colleagues’ priori-targets to tackle. like the current Bowl Commerce Committee. He said should be a playoff system. ties; Reps. Zach Space, D-Ohio, 
The bill, which faces steep Championship Series, either. the BCS system is unfair and In a statement before the and Bart Stupak, D-Mich., made odds, would ban the promotion The BCS selections won’t change unless prompted vote, BCS executive director Bill similar arguments. Space said of a postseason NCAA Division I announced last weekend pit two by Congress. Hancock said, “With all the that with people facing tough Football Bowl Subdivision game unbeaten teams, No. 1 Alabama The legislation, which goes to serious matters facing our times, the decision to focus on as a national championship and No. 2 Texas, in the Jan. 7 the full committee, would make country, surely Congress has college football sends the unless it results from a playoff. national title game. Three other it illegal to promote a national more important issues than “wrong message.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
OFF-campus housing, IrishCrossings and Dublin Village 3 and4 bdr, furnished and unfurnished.January and June 2010 leasesavailable. www.cespm.info Call574-968-0112 
HOUSE FOR RENT $500/PERSON2 FULL BATHS 4 BDRM **WALK TO ND** 54650 WILLIS CALL 
——————————————— andersonNDrentals.com. HOUSES 

OFF-Campus housing, IrishCrossings and Dublin Village 3 and4 bdr, furnished and unfurnished.January and June 2010 leasesavailable. www.cespm.info Call574-968-0112 
Apt for rent. Furnished, utes incl. 1or 2 people. $750 or $900. 54186Ivy Rd. Green House. 574-252­6628. 
——————————————— 
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt., no experience needed, cus­tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835. 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt., no experience needed,customer sales/service, 574-273­3835. 
——————————————— 
TICKETS 
Seinfeld Dec 18 7PM 7th Row Ctr. 4 Tkts $80. ea 631-9620 
NOTICES 
Hi Lisa! -Brooks ——————————————— 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame hasmany resources in place to assistyou. If you or someone you loveneeds confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at1-17819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu ——————————————— Considering Adoption? ND AlumsHoping to Adopt. If you are anexpectant mother searching for afamily, please see our website athttp://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro­file.net. 
If you or someone you care abouthas been sexually assaulted, wecan help. For more information, visitNotre Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu 
Save money and protect the envi­ronment: don’t use trays. ——————————————— 




Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Thursday, December 10, 2009 
page 15 


NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball AP Poll 
team previous 
NFL 



Ochocinco fined $30K for celebration 
Associated Press 

CINCINNATI — Bengals receiver Chad Ochocinco is taking the NFL’s fine for his latest touchdown celebra­tion as a challenge to do more. 
Ochocinco was fined $30,000 for briefly donning a mock poncho and a som­brero next to the bench fol­lowing his touchdown catch during a 23-13 win over Detroit on Sunday. That’s $10,000 more than the fine he got for pretending to bribe an official during a game earlier this season. 
The receiver said Wednesday he’s not sure why the amount went up so much. 
“That’s OK,” he said. 
“They keep jacking them up, I’ll keep jacking up the celebrations.” 
Earlier in his career, Ochocinco regularly got fined for his celebrations. Some of his most memo­rable included doing a river dance, pretending to per­form CPR on a football and using the end zone pylon as a golf club. He also donned a mock Hall of Fame jacket on the sideline. 
With receivers competing to top each other’s celebra­tions, the league cracked down, making it illegal to use a prop on the field or have a rehearsed celebra­tion with teammates. 
Ochocinco scaled back on the celebrations earlier this season. He did a Lambeau Leap — into a section of Bengals fans — during a win at Green Bay, but toned down his act as the team won games and moved into first place in the AFC North. 
There had been no chance to celebrate a touchdown lately. Ochocinco went four games without one before finally getting into the end zone against the Lions. Asked if the brief celebration — he wore the hat for only a cou­ple of seconds — was worth the hefty fine, he said, “You’re damn right it was. That was fun.” 
The league fined him $20,000 and reprimanded him for taking a dollar bill onto the field as a pretend bribe during a win over Baltimore on Nov. 8. He held the dollar in his right hand as he approached the officials during a review of one of his catches. He kept the dollar after an official motioned for him to stay away. 
Ray Anderson, the league’s executive vice president of football opera­tions, sent Ochocinco a let­ter over the pretend bribe that said: “The very appearance of impropriety is not acceptable. Your con­duct was unprofessional and unbecoming an NFL player.” 
Ochocinco said Wednesday that he’ll keep doing things that cross the league’s line. 
IN BRIEF 

Cowboys to put Romo Orioles trade Chris Ray Tigers manager Leyland 
back as place holder for Millwood, cash agrees with new rule 
IRVING, Texas — The Dallas INDIANAPOLIS — The Texas Rangers INDIANAPOLIS — Jim Leyland has Cowboys might have a new holder on sent pitcher Kevin Millwood and about gotten into his share of spats with kicks, a guy who made a costly flub $3 million to Baltimore for reliever umpires. But the Detroit Tigers manag­the last time he tried — Tony Romo. Chris Ray on Wednesday night, giving er would have no beef with a rule that 
Romo practiced as the holder for the Orioles a durable starter and cash cuts down on disputes. kicker Nick Folk on Wednesday and to help pay for him. “I’ve thought about this long and might do it Sunday against the San Texas also got a player to be named in hard. I’ve always said that I think they Diego Chargers. He would replace a deal where money was a major factor. ought to change one thing,” he said punter Mat McBriar, whose hold on a Millwood is owed $12 million next Wednesday at the winter meetings. “I costly missed field goal this past season in the final year of his contract, don’t think you should be able to argue Sunday prompted kicker Nick Folk to a salary he guaranteed himself by an out-safe call at first base. throw up his arms in disgust. reaching 180 innings this year for “Talk about delaying the games and 
Folk has missed five of his last Texas. everything,” he added. “I think if they seven kicks, with at least one miss in The Rangers had cash flow problems don’t allow you to argue that call — he four straight games. He’s been espe-this year, with Major League Baseball said he was safe, he said he was out, he cially erratic on kicks between 40 stepping in to provide assistance, and never changes his mind — plus he’s and 49 yards, hitting just 4 of 10 owner Tom Hicks is trying to sell the behind the plate the next time.” after making 17 of 18 over his previ-team. Rather than ruffle the umps, Leyland ous two seasons. Millwood was 13-10 with three com-said it’s better to stay in the dugout. 
“We feel like we need to do some-plete games last season. His 3.67 ERA “So why go out and argue? I think the thing,” coach Wade Phillips said. “I was eighth-best among AL starters — in only time you would do it is if a player just think something new for our fact, it was the lowest by a Texas pitch-was involved and you got a little upset kicker would maybe help him mental-er who qualified for the ERA title since and you wanted to get him out of ly, I guess.” 1997. there,” he said. 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 Kansas Texas Villanova Kentucky Purdue West Virginia Syracuse Duke Tennessee Florida North Carolina Michigan State Ohio State Connecticut Georgetown Texas A&M Washington UNLV Cincinnati Wisconsin Gonzaga Butler Texas Tech Georgia Tech Mississippi 
1 2 3 5 4 7 8 6 11 13 10 9 15 14 16 19 12 24 22 NR 17 23 NR NR NR 

NCAA Division I Women’s Basketball AP Poll 
team  previous  
1  Connecticut  1  
2  Stanford  2  
3  NOTRE DAME  5  
4  Tennessee  6  
5  LSU  7  
6  Baylor  8  
7  Duke  11  
8  Xavier  9  
9  Ohio State  3  
10  Texas A&M  10  
11  North Carolina  4  
12  Florida State  12  
13  Georgia  13  
14  Arizona State  15  
15  Pittsburgh  19  
16  Oklahoma  18  
17  Texas  17  
18  Vanderbilt  16  
19  Virginia  14  
20  Dayton  25  
21  Michigan State  22  
22  California  20  
23  Kansas  24  
24  Nebraska  NR  
25  Maryland  NR  




around the dial 
NBA 
Celtics at Wizards 8 p.m., TNT 

NCAA Basketball Syracuse at Florida9 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 

Jets sit dissapointed Sanchez 
Associated Press 
FLORHAM PARK, N.J. — The Sanchise is taking a seat this week, and he’s not happy about it. 
New York Jets coach Rex Ryan decided Wednesday that Mark Sanchez will not play at Tampa Bay on Sunday because of a sprained right knee, and Kellen Clemens will start in his place. 
“It’s just a frustrating part of this game,” a clearly irritated Sanchez said. “I asked him if I could at least try to practice (Thursday) and he said, ‘No way, because I know if you practice tomorrow, then you’re going to play and we don’t want to run any risk of further injury.’ It’s difficult to handle.” 
Ryan said he consulted with team doctors and made the call to sit Sanchez, who’s “mad as a hornet” at him. 
“He wants to play in the worst way and he’s going to play,” Ryan said. “It’s just not going to be this week. I have a lot of confidence in Kellen Clemens and I think that instead of delaying this deci­sion, I’m just going to make it now.” 
Sanchez sprained the poste­rior cruciate ligament in the knee during the third quarter of the Jets’ 19-13 win over Buffalo in Toronto last Thursday. He said he’s still not sure if the injury occurred on his dive for a first down, or a previous play. He didn’t appear to be noticeably hob­bled when he stepped up and down from the podium. 
“I’d love to play,” he said. “I think if this was the Super Bowl, I would definitely be playing.” 
Sanchez had started every game this season since beating out Clemens for the job. The injury came two days after the Jets brought in Yankees man­ager Joe Girardi to help Sanchez learn how to slide. Sanchez frustrated Ryan on the play as he was injured by diving headfirst, with the coach calling him a “knuckle­head.” 
“It’s Rex’s decision right now and I’d love to play,” Sanchez said when asked if he thought Ryan might have been sending a message to him by sitting him. Ryan said through a team spokesman that the decision was not punitive. 
Sanchez didn’t practice Monday or Wednesday, and is expected to get a fitted knee brace Thursday. He already wears a brace on the left knee from a previous injury. 
“At first, I guess I was upset that he wouldn’t even give me a chance to practice and try to wait until the last second,” Sanchez said. “At the same time, I understand that Kellen needs all the reps as possible if he’s going to start this week. That’s totally fair to him, and I understand where Rex is com­ing from, but that doesn’t nec­essarily mean I agree or I’m happy about it.” 
Ryan, who was optimistic about Sanchez’s chances Monday, said there were no setbacks in the quarterback’s recovery that swayed his deci­sion. He added that Sanchez will be “shut down completely” and not travel to Tampa Bay. 
“The last time I felt like this, I was a redshirt freshman where you don’t travel to the 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

9Mich.St.playerscharged 
Associated Press 
LANSING, Mich. — Authorities charged nine Michigan State football players with misde­meanor assault and conspiracy Wednesday following a dormito­ry brawl last month that has left the team short-handed for its Jan. 2 bowl game. 
All nine players were charged with conspiracy to commit assault and battery, according to Ingham County prosecutor Stuart Dunnings III and campus police chief James Dunlap. Each was also charged with at least one count of assault or assault and battery. 
Coach Mark Dantonio has sus­pended 11 players, up from eight following the Nov. 22 incident. Two days afterward, he dis­missed running back Glenn Winston and defensive back Roderick Jenrette, both of whom have been charged in the inci­dent. 
The players could face up to a one-year maximum sentence on the conspiracy charge, and up to 93 days on the other charges. All are misdemeanors. 
Dunnings said more charges could be filed. 
“There’s an ongoing investiga­tion, so I wouldn’t rule that out,” the prosecutor said. 
The suspensions come as Michigan State (6-6) prepares for a Jan. 2 game with Texas Tech (8-4) in the Alamo Bowl matchup of Big Ten and Big 12 teams. 
Michigan State spokesman Terry Denbow said none of the suspended players is allowed into the weight room, study areas or other parts of the foot­ball building. They will not travel with the team to the game in San Antonio. 
“They don’t have access to any of the activities,” he said. “None of them are preparing for the bowl game.” 
Karl Price of Louisville, Ky., national president of Iota Phi Theta fraternity, has said the dis­pute started with a run-in between a few football players and members of the fraternity at an East Lansing nightclub on Nov. 21. 
One night later, Michigan State held its annual football awards banquet. Roughly 90 minutes after it ended, a group of players allegedly went across the street to Rather Hall, where the frater­nity was wrapping up a potluck dinner in the dorm lounge. 
Versions of what happened next vary. Some have said 15 or more people — some wearing ski masks — got involved in a brief fight. Others say there were no ski masks and that most in attendance were just bystanders. 
Campus police have not said if any injuries resulted from the altercation. Iota Phi Theta said one of its members was treated at a hospital. 
game,” Sanchez said. “It’s just a weird feeling.” 
The Jets (6-6) got back in the AFC playoff mix by winning their last two games, and take on a Buccaneers team that has struggled to a 1-11 record. Ryan said the quality of the opponent was not a factor in deciding to go with Clemens, who’ll make his ninth NFL start Sunday, and first since 2007 when he took over for a struggling Chad Pennington. 
“I think I’d be a little bit more concerned if it was my first start ever,” Clemens said, “but I have some experience under my belt.” 
Clemens came in after Sanchez was injured and was 1 for 2 for 14 yards, helping lead a scoring drive against Buffalo. 
“You never like to see a teammate that’s injured, but it’s a good opportunity for me,” Clemens said. “I’m excit­ed to be out there playing again.” 
Clemens was drafted in the second round out of Oregon in 2006 and was considered the Jets’ quarterback of the future. He sat for most of his rookie season, but started half the games the following year with mediocre results. Clemens barely got on the field last season with Brett Favre in town, and has only thrown three passes this year. 
“It hasn’t been an easy road sitting on the bench on Sundays,” he said. 
This is the last year on Clemens’ contract, and there’s some speculation that he won’t be back next season — making this a chance to showcase him­self. 
MLB 
LHP Wolf, Hawkins sign with Brewers 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — The Milwaukee Brewers landed a pair of free agent pitchers Wednesday, reaching agree­ments with starter Randy Wolf and reliever LaTroy Hawkins, two people familiar with the negotiations told The Associated Press. 
Wolf’s deal is worth $29.75 million over three years and includes a $10 million option for 2013, one of the people said Wednesday. Hawkins will get $7.5 million over two sea­sons, the other person said. 
Both agreements are subject to completion of final details, the people said. Both spoke on condition of anonymity because no announcements had been made. 
Wolf, a 33-year-old left-han­der, was 11-7 with a 3.23 ERA this year in the lone season of his second stint with Los Angeles Dodgers. He had a $5 million base salary and earned $3 million in performance bonuses based on innings. 
Wolf also was a free agent last offseason. He agreed to the deal with the Dodgers on Feb. 6, about 1½ months after Houston offered a $27 million, three-year contract in an attempt to re-sign him. The Astros then withdrew the pro­posal a week later, citing the poor economy. 
He is 101-85 with a 4.13 ERA in 11 major league sea­sons with Philadelphia, Los Angeles, San Diego and Houston. The New York Mets also were interested in trying to sign Wolf. 
Hawkins, a right-hander who turns 37 on Dec. 21, spent the last two seasons with Houston and went 1-4 with a 2.13 ERA and 11 saves in 15 chances this year. He had 45 strikeouts and 16 walks in 63 1-3 innings. 
A veteran of 15 major league seasons, he is 60-81 with 87 saves and a 4.51 ERA. He also has pitched for Minnesota, the Chicago Cubs, San Francisco, Baltimore, Colorado and the New York Yankees. 



NBA 

Josh Howard’s return spurs Mavs past Suns 
Associated Press 
DALLAS — Josh Howard looked sharp coming off a 13­game break to rehabilitate his surgically repaired left ankle, scoring 18 of his 20 points in the second half and leading the Dallas Mavericks to a 102-101 victory over the reeling Phoenix Suns on Tuesday night. 
Howard missed the first five games of the season recovering from the surgery, then lasted just 2½ games. The Mavs put him through some grueling workouts to make sure he’s all the way back, and he sure looked it by scoring 16 points during a stretch late in the third quarter and early in the fourth when Dallas went from being tied at 66 to leading 88-79. 
Phoenix made three 3-point­ers in the final 47.9 seconds to make things interesting all the way to the buzzer, but the Suns wound up losing for the fourth time in five games. All those losses are on the road, and they’ve all come during the first eight days of December. Phoenix lost only three times over the last week of October and all of November. 
Dirk Nowitzki had 33 points and eight rebounds, and Shawn Marion had 10 points and seven rebounds in his first game against his longtime team since rejoining the Western Conference. The Mavericks also ended their first two-game los­ing streak of the season. 
Steve Nash scored eight of his 27 points in the final minute and had eight assists. Jason Richardson scored 25, including a long 3 during the final push. Amare Stoudemire had 20 points and Jared Dudley 11. 
Jason Terry had 15 points and kept the drama to the buzzer by missing a free throw with 3.7 seconds left. He intentionally missed the next one. Stoudemire got the rebound, took a few dribbles then heaved it about 75 feet. It was pretty much on line but short. 
J.J. Barea, who had what like­ly will become Howard’s spot in the starting lineup, scored 14. Jason Kidd had 11 assists and seven points. 
Howard entered to a nice ova­tion with 5:07 left in the first quarter. He missed a jumper on a fast break, but before fans could wonder whether he pulled up because he was tenta­tive about the ankle, he proved otherwise by hustling back on defense and blocking a shot by Grant Hill. He soon after went to the rim on a fast break and was knocked down but got right up. 
Howard was 0 for 2 with two points in the first half. Dallas didn’t have much going right outside Nowitzki the first two-plus quarters, yet managed to remain close. 
When Howard came in mid­way through the third quarter, he put up a brick from the out­side, then passed up a shot on a fast break and dished to Kris Humphries; he wasn’t expecting the pass and the ball rolled out of bounds. 
MLB 
Pettitte to stay with Yankees 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Andy Pettitte asked himself all the important questions: Was he ready to prepare for another long year? Could he top last season? Was his family on board? 
And then he decided — rather quickly, too — he indeed wanted to pitch again for the New York Yankees. 
“I didn’t want to regret not playing,” he said. 
Pettitte and the World Series champions agreed Wednesday on an $11.75 million, one-year contract. The deal represents a raise for the 37-year-old left-hander, who made $10.5 mil­lion last season and helped the Yankees win their 27th World Series title. 
“I wanted to get this decision made,” he said on a confer­ence call. “It’s nice to get it wrapped up.” 
Pettitte became the first pitcher to start and win the clincher in all three postsea­son rounds. After beating Minnesota and the Los Angeles Angels in the AL playoffs, he defeated the Philadelphia Phillies on three days’ rest in the sixth and final game of the World Series, earning his fifth championship ring. 
The year ended so well, it prompted Pettitte to wonder whether it was time to retire. 
“There’s no doubt it did,” he said. “What else is there to do? Why even continue to play? Why would you go back? How could you finish any bet­ter?” 
But, he just wasn’t done. 

And with the backing of his wife and family, he had his agent call the Yankees during Thanksgiving weekend. 
“Let’s do it another year,” Pettitte said. 
Pettitte was 14-8 with a 4.16 ERA in 32 regular-season starts, and 4-0 with a 3.52 ERA in five postseason starts. His 18 postseason victories are a major league record. 
A two-time All-Star, Pettitte pitched for the Yankees from 1995-2003, helping them win four World Series titles and six AL pennants, before spending three years with his hometown Houston Astros. He returned to New York in 2007 and admitted to using human growth hormone after the Mitchell Report was released that December. 
Pettitte had a $5.5 million base salary last season and earned $3 million in bonuses based on innings and $2 mil­lion for staying on the active roster the entire season. He missed $750,000 bonuses for 200 and 210 innings, finishing with 194 2-3. 
New York originally offered him $10 million last December but cut the guaranteed amount after it agreed to big-money contracts with CC Sabathia, A.J. Burnett and Mark Teixeira. 
Because the season lasted so long, Pettitte said he would consider pushing back his throwing program for two weeks. He usually starts around Jan. 1. 


NCAA FOOTBALL 
Mack Brown receives raise from Longhorns 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN, Texas — Texas coach Mack Brown is a $5 million man, not just this season, but for the life of his contract. 
With the Longhorns playing for their second BCS national championship in five years, school officials on Wednesday agreed to raise Brown’s annual salary from $3 million to at least $5 million. 
Brown was scheduled to receive a one-time $2 million payment early next year. University system regents agreed to make that an annual payment for the rest of his con­tract, which runs through 2016. 
The length of the contract has not changed. Brown also will continue to receive an annual $100,000 raise already in his contract. He’ll also get a $450,000 bonus if Texas (13-0) beats Alabama (13-0) on Jan. 7 in Pasadena, Calif. 
Brown’s counterpart in that game, Nick Saban, recently signed a one-year extension to his contract with Alabama that pays him $4.7 million annually. 
“Mack is the best college foot­ball coach in America and this action recognizes him for that,” Texas athletic director DeLoss Dodds said. “He brought new life to our program and he’s done it with great integrity and class. 
He is who we want at Texas for as long as he is willing to serve as our head coach.” 
Texas has raised Brown’s salary more than 500 percent since his first $750,000 deal signed in 1997. Texas has given Brown restructured deals with raises in 1999, 2000, 2002, 2005 and 2007. 
Texas’ second-year defensive coordinator Will Muschamp has been designated as Brown’s replacement when he decides to retire, but Wednesday’s deal seems to make that unlikely to happen anytime soon. 
Brown is 58 and just won his second Big 12 championship. Texas won the 2005 national championship and has won at least 10 games for nine consecu­tive seasons, the second-longest run of 10-win seasons in NCAA history. 
The Longhorns also earned their third trip to one of the lucrative BCS bowls in the last five years. 
With Brown still reeling in recruiting classes that are con­sistently ranked among the best in the country, he’ll be expected to maintain that run of success. 
“Mack Brown has built one of the nation’s premier football programs, and he’s brought credit to our university,” univer­sity President William Powers Jr. said. 

NBA 

Roy scores 29 to lead Portland past Pacers 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — The Portland Trail Blazers can’t afford to lose any more players — or coaches. 
Despite having only nine active players and missing coach Nate McMillan, the Trail Blazers got 29 points from Brandon Roy and beat the Indiana Pacers 102-91 on Wednesday night. 
Portland’s laundry list of injuries includes center and Indianapolis native Greg Oden (left knee), guard Rudy Fernandez (sciatic pain) and for­ward Travis Outlaw (left foot). McMillan, who didn’t travel, had surgery on his right Achilles’ ten­don after injuring it during a team practice Dec. 4. 
“That’s just the type of guy Nate is,” said Roy, who added seven rebounds and five assists. “We were down a lot of bodies that day, he wants to get out there and play. It’s just too bad his body couldn’t hold up. It says a lot, though. He cares about this team.” 
Trail Blazers assistant Dean Demopoulos, who’s assuming head coaching duties while McMillan recovers, plans to teach from the sideline. 
“Even when I was young enough, I wasn’t good enough,” Demopoulos joked. “I’m 10 or 11 years older than Nate. I’d blow both Achilles’ out.” 
Demopoulos and the Trail Blazers didn’t need a full com­plement of players to beat the struggling Pacers. LaMarcus Aldridge had 20 points and eight rebounds, and Andre Miller scored 15 for Portland (14-9), which snapped a four-game road losing streak. 
“When you talk about team wins, this is the essence of team,” Demopoulos said. “Everyone stepped up, held hands and collectively got it done.” 
The Pacers, on the other hand, continued their downward spi­ral. Dahntay Jones had 19 points and rookie Tyler Hansbrough added 13 points and 11 rebounds for Indiana (6-13), los­ers of six straight. 
The Pacers played without injured All-Star Danny Granger, who is expected to miss at least four weeks with a torn right plantar fascia. The team’s lead­ing scorer won’t require surgery. 
“It’s back to the drawing board,” Jones said. “Losing is not fun.” 
The Pacers, who trailed by 11 in the first half, tied the score at 83 on Luther Head’s jumper with 8 minutes left in the fourth quar­ter. Portland used an 8-2 run, capped by Miller’s layup, to take a 100-91 lead. Roy had consecu­tive baskets to spark the rally. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
‘Cats hold on to top Huskies 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Freshman John Wall scored a season-high 25 points, including 12 of Kentucky’s last 15 in the game, and the fourth-ranked Wildcats beat No. 14 Connecticut 64-61 on Wednesday night in the SEC/Big East Invitational. 
Wall lived up to his billing in his first appearance at Madison Square Garden, overcoming first-half foul trouble and domi­nating the game over the final 7½ minutes. 
The Wildcats (9-0) moved John Calipari closer to one of the icons at the school that has more wins (1,996) than any other program. The only coach to have a better start to his career at Kentucky was Adolph Rupp, who started 10-0 in 1931. 
There were two totally differ­ent halves played in front of the crowd of 15,874, which seemed split down the middle. 
Jerome Dyson had 17 points for the Huskies (6-2), who fin­ished 14 of 24 from the free throw line, including 2 of 4 in the final 3 minutes. 
After a first half of runs and big swings, neither team had a lead of more than five points over the final 7 minutes. 
Wall, the 6-foot-4 guard who has drawn raves in his fresh­man year as Calipari tries to lead Kentucky back after two disappointing seasons under Billy Gillispie, scored almost every way possible in his game-closing spurt. 
His three-point play on a breakaway dunk gave the Wildcats a 54-47 lead with 7:16 left. Stanley Robinson, Connecticut’s skywalking for­ward, finally became a factor for the Huskies, scoring six straight points. When Gavin Edwards scored on a break dunk with 
4:24 to play, Connecticut was within 56-55 with 4:24 to go. 
Kemba Walker, who had 12 points and six assist for the Huskies, gave them their final lead of the game on a jumper with 1:12 left. 

Wall put Kentucky ahead for good on a three-point play after he drove to the basket that made it 63-61 with 30 seconds left. 
Connecticut called two time­outs then went for the tie as Walker drove and there was a tip by the Huskies as well. But Walker was forced to foul on the rebound, and Ramon Harris made one of two free throws with 13 seconds left. 
NFL 

Eagles’ Westbrook practices, but not game-ready 
and has been cleared to return to “I think all the signs right now Jackson said, “back to normal, things that are happening now, 
Associated Press 

practice. Westbrook will work are aiming toward being able to back to being DeSean Jackson.” concussions, head injuries, can 
PHILADELPHIA — Back at with the scout team, and coach play before the end of the sea-Though he’s eager to help the affect my life down the road. That practice for the first time since Andy Reid hasn’t ruled him out son,” he said. Eagles (8-4) pursue a Super really concerns me.” sustaining two concussions in a for Sunday’s game at the New While Westbrook eases his way Bowl, Westbrook is taking a cau-So why risk coming back? three-week span, Brian York Giants. back, wide receiver DeSean tious approach. “I still think I can play, still Westbrook said he wasn’t com-“You gradually get him back in, Jackson expects to play against “I’m more concerned about think I can produce,” Westbrook pletely healed the last time he take baby steps,” Reid said. “I’m the Giants after missing one how things will happen for me in said. “And I’ve learned from the returned to the Philadelphia not going to throw him in if he’s game with a concussion. The the future, how having concus-doctors that I won’t have a high Eagles. not feeling right.” dynamic playmaker was a full sions now will affect me 20, 30 risk of getting another concussion 
“That’s what the doctor said, he Westbrook didn’t sound like a participant at Wednesday’s prac-years from now,” he said. “I don’t after healing completely and said that although some of the guy who expects to play this tice. think I’m scared to play the game that’s the No. 1 thing is to heal symptoms were gone, I was not week. “I’m pretty much good,” of football. I’m concerned that completely.” healed completely,” Westbrook said Wednesday. 
“Me and (head athletic trainer) Rick (Burkholder), the trainers and the coaching staff, we did every test we could, but until you get hit, you’re not so sure if you’re healed completely. It’s not like an ankle, you can feel it every single day or a knee. A con­cussion is a different thing for me. It just wasn’t healed com­pletely.” 
The 30-year-old former All-Pro running back sustained his first career concussion when he hit his head on a defender’s knee during a Monday night win at Washington on Oct. 26. He briefly lost consciousness but walked off the field under his own power. 
Westbrook sat out two games and returned against San Diego on Nov. 15, only to sustain anoth­er concussion when he got sand­wiched between a blocker and a tackler on a screen play. 
He has since been examined twice by specialists in Pittsburgh, 




NBA 

Bryant leads the way as Lakers roll past Jazz 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — Kobe Bryant scored 27 points, Pau Gasol had 19 points and 12 rebounds, and the Los Angeles Lakers rolled off 19 consecutive points in the fourth quarter of their 10th straight victory, 101-77 over the Utah Jazz on Wednesday night. 
Ron Artest scored 17 points for the Lakers, who improved to an NBA -best 17-3 by holding the Jazz to six points and two field goals in a comically one ­sided fourth quarter. 
After leading by just two points entering the fourth, Los Angeles held the Jazz scoreless for more than six minutes while getting points from five players. 
Deron Williams scored 17 points for the Jazz, who couldn’t manage a field goal in the first 7:25 of the final period of their 13th consec­utive loss to the Lakers at Staples Center, counting six losses in the past two play­offs. 
Mehmet Okur and C.J. Miles scored 14 points apiece for Utah, which man­aged just two field goals in the fourth quarter on 2-for­18 shooting. 
Andrew Bynum scored 14 points for Los Angeles, which forced two shot clock violations by the Jazz dur­ing that fourth quarter stretch while getting eight points from Jordan Farmar, the inconsistent backup guard. Williams ’ jumper with 4:35 to play was the Jazz’s first field goal of the period, and they didn’t get another until Miles’ basket in the final minute. 
Carlos Boozer had 11 points and 12 rebounds for the Jazz, failing to score at least 21 points for the first time in nine games. Utah, which hasn ’t beaten the Lakers at Staples Center since Jan. 1, 2006, rebound­ed from a loss to lowly Minnesota with a win over San Antonio on Monday, but its fourth-quarter woes in Los Angeles led to just the Jazz ’s third loss in 11 games. 
Los Angeles ’ winning streak is its longest in a sin­gle season since winning 10 straight in February 2008. 
Bryant played after skip­ping the morning shootaround, telling the Lakers he was shaken up after a home-invasion rob­bery occurred in his family’s gated community in Orange County last night, leading to a police standoff. 
The Lakers are one game away from completing an undefeated six-game homes­tand, which concludes Friday with a visit from Minnesota. Los Angeles ’ lofty record is little surprise after an exceptionally gen­erous schedule featuring 17 
of its first 21 games at home, but the Lakers are on the road for all but nine of the following next 28 games. 
Most of the Lakers’ victo­ries have been easy, with the notable exception of last Friday’s one-point win over Miami on Bryant ’s self ­acknowledged lucky 3-point­er at the buzzer. Coach Phil Jackson felt a few close games would help his team’s late-game execution later 
on, and they got another test of their tenacity against Utah — until the fourth quarter, that is. 
Los Angeles had been out­standing in the middle two periods during its winning streak, repeatedly pulling away from its opponents to render the fourth quarter fairly meaningless. But Utah took the lead in the second quarter and held it largely through superior offensive rebounding until late in the third, when Bryant and Lamar Odom shook the Lakers from their slumber. 
NFL 
Belichick disciplines Moss 
Associated Press 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. — Tom Brady wants his team­mates to prepare harder to keep a playoff berth from slipping away. On Wednesday, Randy Moss and three key defensive players didn’t even make it to prac­tice. 
Coach Bill Belichick declined to elaborate on their absence from the first practice since the New England Patriots‘ lead in the AFC East dropped to one game. Moss and linebackers Adalius Thomas, Gary Guyton and Derrick Burgess were sent home after show­ing up late for an 8 a.m. team meeting, according to the Web site of the Providence Journal. 
“That’s coach’s decision,” said Brady, who made it to work despite a moderate snowfall that caused traffic snarls. “I’ve got to do my job. I’ve got plenty of things to do. Like I said, I’ve got to show up every day and bring whatever I have — the ener­gy and the leadership that I have — to this team, because that’s what all those guys (do). That’s what our job is.” 
Brady went to work the day after his wife, super­model Gisele Bundchen, gave birth to their son. He said they hadn’t chosen a name and touchdown pass to Moss on the first series of last Sunday’s 22-21 loss at the Miami Dolphins. The Patriots fell to 7-5 and suffered their third loss in four games for the first time in seven sea­sons. 
“We didn’t change much” because of the injury, Belichick said. He probably won’t change 
she and the  “It’s not about  muc h  for  
b aby w ere doing well. “I didn’t  playing hard on Sundays. I mean, we  Sunday’s home g ame agai n s t the Carolina  
get  m u ch  do that.”  Panthers (5-7)  
sle ep,”  he  just  be ca us e  
said. Brady did-n’t practice  Tom Brady Patriots QB  M o ss an d t h e l i n e b a c k e r s missed practice.  
either.  He  All  were  listed  
was listed by  on the practice  
the team, as  report as miss­ 

he’s been all season, with a ing the session for reasons right shoulder injury. The not related to injury. Moss practice report also listed a has been listed on the right finger, which, he said Wednesday report several “is hanging in there.” times this season with that 
The finger didn’t stop him designation. from throwing a 58 -yard Belichick declined to dis-cuss their absence. 

“Anything that happens with discipline on the team stays between me and the players on the team,” he said. 
After the latest loss, Brady said the Patriots don’t always show enough fight. 
“It’s not about playing hard on Sundays. I mean, we do that,” he said Wednesday. “That’s three hours a week that you have to show up and really commit yourself to. I don’t think that’s too much to ask of anybody and guys do that. It’s not like we think we’re not fighting out there in the game. 
“I think what coach tells us and what I was alluding to was probably more of just the other six days of the week. We’ve got to make the commitment to each other. … I think at times we all feel a little bit sorry for ourselves and you’re beat up and you’re tired and you’re sore and it’s the end of the year and you go, ‘Why is (Belichick) doing this?’ But, in the end, you’re either gaining ground on a team or you’re losing ground, and I always prefer to be gaining ground.” 
As a team leader, Brady’s comments carry weight with other players, but he was saying what some of them already knew. 
“It’s dead-on. We need to respond to adversity better,” running back Sammy Morris said. “I think we all either know it or felt it and I think him just saying it kind of just put a little more emphasis on it.” 
Carolina coach John Fox said players must be disci­plined. 
“I’m not likening players to children,” he said, but “everybody has roles and jobs and needs to be held accountable and needs to be dependable people. As a head coach, that’s what you have to do. Sometimes, it’s not easy.” 
Players who did practice Wednesday deflected ques­tions about how Belichick handled the situation regarding Moss and the three linebackers. 



CCHA 
continued from page 24 
on five scoring going and maybe get some shorthanded goals,” Thang said. 
On the other side of the ice, sophomore wing Billy Maday leads Notre Dame with 15 points on four goals and 11 assists on the season. Junior wing Calle Ridderwall is second on the team with 14 points on 10 goals and four assists. Ridderwall and Maday, along with senior center Kevin Deeth, make up the line that is most likely to bust the Irish out of their scoring slump. Last weekend, in a pair of losses to Miami (Ohio), the Irish failed to score a goal in a weekend series for the first time under Jeff Jackson. 
“It’s just a matter of trying to create some chemistry and get­ting the little things going,” Thang said. 
The Irish and Wolverines face off at 7:30 p.m. Friday night in Ann Arbor, Mich. and 4:05 p.m. Sunday in the Joyce Center. 
“It’ll be fun to get some fans here, get going,” Thang said. “And see if this can help turn the season around.” 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
BOXING 

Pavlik to defend title versus Espino 
Associated Press 
YOUNGSTOWN, Ohio — Middleweight champion Kelly Pavlik says his left hand is finally recovered from a staph infection and he feels great heading into a Dec. 19 title defense against Miguel Espino. 
Pavlik was throwing jabs with his left on Tuesday, three days after he was supposed to fight Paul Williams in defense of his WBC and WBO titles. The infec­tion forced Pavlik to twice cancel fights, creating a backlash within the boxing community and even among his most ardent support­ers. 
Now Pavlik (35-1, 31 KOs) is healthy again and preparing to face Espino (20-2-1, 9 KOs) in a pay-per-view title defense in Pavlik’s hometown at Youngstown State University. It will come nearly 10 months after his last fight, a win over Marco Rubio on Feb. 21, and end what has become the longest layoff of his career. It also will put to rest to fears that Pavlik would never fight again. 
“You get a lot of keypad push­ers that sit at home on their computers and get in these blogs and they write that my career is over,” Pavlik said. “But they don’t know the difference between a left hook and a fishing hook.” 
Jack Loew, Pavlik’s trainer, has heard all the criticism — even from fans in Pavlik’s hometown. 
His camp addressed rumors that Pavlik had entered rehab for alcohol abuse and was dealing with personal problems. All the rumors, they say, are false. 
“I don’t understand it,” Loew said. “Here’s a kid that has done more for charities in this town than any other boxer — any other athlete — ever has. Because he’s turned down two fights and then schedules this fight, everything kind of blew up and went the opposite direction we thought it was going to go. So many people have turned on him. It hurts me because I’ve known him since he was 9 years old.” 
The fight against Espino is mandatory — Pavlik would have lost his WBC and WBO belts had he again refused. Still, he wasn’t healthy when he agreed to the fight in October. He didn’t begin hitting a heavy bag until about two weeks ago, forcing him to cram a typical eight-week train­ing camp into about five weeks. 
His hand has responded better than anyone could have hoped, considering he needed two sur­geries and still couldn’t make a fist with his left hand in late October, prompting the second cancellation of the Williams fight. 
“I’m glad they forced it on us. We needed to get back in the ring,” Loew said. 
“Even two weeks ago, we weren’t 100 percent … I was worried. We had our work cut out for us.” 
NBA 
Crawford leads Hawks victory 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA — Jamal Crawford and Atlanta’s other backups gave the Hawks the lift the Chicago Bulls were missing. 
Crawford scored a season-high 29 points and the Hawks opened the second half with a 20-4 run and beat the Bulls 118-83 on Wednesday night. 
The Hawks led by 14 before pulling away with the big run. 
‘‘At halftime we told ourselves ‘no letdown,’’’ said Atlanta’s Josh Smith, who capped the decisive run with an alley-oop jam to push the lead to 30 points at 76-46 with 3:35 remaining in the third period. 
‘‘We didn’t want them to come back and get some momen­tum,’’ said Smith, who had 18 points. 
Maurice Evans had 18 points as Atlanta’s reserves outscored Chicago’s backups 66-32. Rookie Jeff Teague had eight points and eight assists as 12 Atlanta players scored. 
‘‘We came out and took care of business from beginning to end,’’ Hawks coach Mike Woodson said. ‘‘Everybody got a chance to play. It was a total team effort.’’ 
The Bulls, who have lost four straight and nine of 10, remained close only in the first period. Atlanta pushed its lead to double digits for good on a jam by Smith with 5:17 remain­ing in the first half. 
Joakim Noah said he has ‘‘no idea’’ why the Bulls are strug­gling after winning four of their first six games. 
‘‘The way we started the sea­son I thought there was defi­nitely some optimism,’’ said Noah, who had only two points but led the Bulls with 11 rebounds. ‘‘But I think we’re definitely going through it right now as a team. We’ve just got to find a way to snap out of it.’’ 
Derrick Rose , who led Chicago with 19 points, said the loss ‘‘really hurts.’’ 
‘‘Either you want it or you don’t,’’ Rose said. ‘‘Hustle, if you want it. Rebound. The score tonight speaks for itself. We’re just not playing hard.’’ 
Taj Gibson, who had 11 points, was Chicago’s only reserve to score in the first three periods. Each team played backups through most of the fourth period. 
Backup forward James Johnson had 17 — all in the final period — and John Salmons added 16 for Chicago. 
‘‘They jumped on us early in the third quarter, and then we ended up playing catch-up,’’ said Bulls coach Vinny Del Negro . ‘‘We didn’t score well enough to play catch-up like 
that.’’ The Bulls shot a season-low 
36.4 percent (28 for 77) from the field. 
‘‘It’s not good. It’s not good,’’ Del Negro said. ‘‘But you know, the guys are working. ... It’s frustrating but you’ve got to battle through it.’’ 
Noah said the Bulls ‘‘are not competing together at all.’’ 
‘‘We really need to stick together,’’ Noah said. ‘‘I think there’s enough character on this team for us to turn this around. We’ve got to turn this around. We will.’’ 
Joe Johnson and Marvin Williams each had 12 points for Atlanta. 
The Hawks have won two straight for the first time since a seven-game winning streak from Nov. 7-20. 
The Bulls scored only two points off the Hawks’ eight turnovers. Atlanta scored 22 points off Chicago’s 19 turnovers. 



he liked the production from five we can all pass.” attempts. 
Abromaitis but still rode him The starters, plus Peoples Notre Dame led by 27 in the 
Jaguars Break 

about some of the finer points. and junior forward Carleton second half, but eight straight continued from page 24 “I thought he was a little ten-Scott, have begun to mesh into points from Glenn and a 3­
continued from page 24 

tative with the ball against a group used to playing togeth-pointer from Young cut the lead he’s a good shooter.” their zone,” he said, but noted er, Brey said. to 16. 
McGraw said. “It’s a nice trip to Hunter cited Hansbrough’s that he was “thrilled” with “I thought this was another When asked if he was wor-
Florida, too. But when you come effect on how the defense Abromaitis. night starting with the Saint ried about giving up 48 second-
around finals, you really don’t guards the rest of the Irish as Harangody scored 16 points Louis game … where the seven half points, Brey said, “Not 
want to travel.” important. and had 11 rebounds. His guys all complemented each really. Not if we can score 50.” 
Notre Dame had been sluggish “He will make [senior for-reduced scoring was partly a other and knew who they “I told the team we got 20 
in two close wins over Iona and ward Luke] Harangody’s shot a function of the Jaguars’ match-were,” he said. “You want to minutes to get better,” he said 
Eastern Michigan, but overcame lot easier because you can’t up zone defense, but keep building the seven-man of his halftime speech. “Ignore 
a lackluster start to rout IPFW double on him,” he said. Harangody handled it well, group.” the score.” 
96-60 Tuesday. McGraw said the IUPUI fell to 8-3 with the loss. Brey said. The Irish jumped ahead 11-2 Abromaitis’ 3-pointer and 
game might have acted as a Junior forward Tim “We couldn’t get [Harangody] and led by seven for most of senior guard Tory Jackson’s 
spark for the team. Abromaitis scored 18 points in as many touches in the zone,” the first half. Abromaitis’ dunk layup edged the lead back to 
“I think they liked the way his second straight start. In his Brey said. “He didn’t panic and 3-pointer gave the Irish a 21, and Scott tipped in a 
they played offensively, they first start, a 90-72 win at home because he wasn’t getting 33-17 lead with 7:15 left in the missed free throw to give Notre 
played really well,” she said. over Central Florida Sunday, he touches.” half. Dame a 64-40 lead with 13:04 
“We had a lot of intensity, the scored 31 points on 10-of-17 Harangody was fine with Near the end of the half, remaining. 
press looked good, we turned shooting and made eight of his being the third-leading scorer, Hansbrough sank two free Notre Dame plays Loyola-
them over a lot. I think they’re nine free throw attempts. an unusual role for him. throws and a transition layup Marymount Saturday, and then 
pleased with their perform-Abromaitis started over “It’s a great thing to have off of a long pass from has a week off before UCLA vis­
ance.” guard Jonathan Peoples, who these weapons around us,” he Harangody to make the score its South Bend on Dec. 19. 
Valparaiso (3-4) is coming off came in off the bench. said. “That never happened a 44-21. 
of a 77-52 loss to No. 15/15 “I’ve been comfortable ... all lot last year. It takes a lot of IUPUI struggled to make Note: 
Pittsburgh. The Crusaders will year out there, I think,” pressure off myself.” shots in the first half. The • Harangody’s 16 points 
enter the Purcell Pavilion in its Abromaitis said. “It’s just confi-The Irish moved the ball well Jaguars, who shot 51.1 percent moved him into fifth place on 
second of three straight road dence from coaches and other and looked comfortable playing from field goal range prior to Notre Dame’s all-time scoring 
games against Big East teams. players on the team just trans-with one another. They had 22 Wednesday’s game, made only list with 2,070 points. He 
The Crusaders bring a chal­lating to me being a little bit assists as a team, a season 25.9 percent of their shots in passed Troy Murphy, who had 
lenge in the back court and in more loose out there and ready high, and out-rebounded the the first half. 2,058, and has Pat Garrity 
the paint, as guard Betsy Adams to go.” Jaguars 41-32. The Irish made 53 percent of (2,085) in his sights. 
leads the team with 17.1 points Hansbrough called “We’re a great passing their first-half shots. 
per game while forward Lauren Abromaitis the best backdoor team,” junior forward Tyrone Hansbrough had 15 first-half Contact Bill Brink at 
Kenney is right behind her with cutter he’d ever seen. Brey said Nash said. “From the one to the points and made 3-of-4 3-point wbrink@nd.edu 
16. Kenney is 40-of-76 shooting 
(52.6 percent) in seven games this season. 


“Our intensity’s good right now,” McGraw said. “I think we’re pretty focused, despite the finals looming. I think they’ve done a really good job of putting that aside for now and hopefully we’ll be ready to play.” 
The game begins at 2 p.m. 
Charlotte will come to South Bend on Dec. 20 for a 1 p.m. game. The 49ers (4-5) have won three straight after a rough start to the season and will play one more home game before travel­ing to Notre Dame. 
After that game, the Irish will have over a week off for Christmas, and will head to Orlando on Dec. 29 to play Central Florida. It will be the fourth straight home game for the Knights (2-2), who lost a 62­59 heartbreaker to Washington in their last contest. 
The game will begin at noon. 
The Irish will play No. 14/16 Vanderbilt just two days later in South Bend in a 2 p.m. start. The Commodores (8-1) will present a significant challenge to the Irish offense, who will need to recover quickly. So far in the season, Vanderbilt has allowed just 59 points per game, while scoring 76.4. Their defense averages 10.1 steals and 23.6 forced turnovers per game. 
Notre Dame’s first game of 2010 will be Jan. 4 against Purdue and will be nationally televised on ESPN2. The Boilermakers (3-5) began the season ranked at No. 23 but have had a disappointing start, including recent losses to then-No. 14/15 Virginia and Northwestern. The game, which begins at 7 p.m., will be the fifth straight home game for Purdue. It will also be both teams’ last game on the non-conference schedule. 
Upon returning to South Bend for the beginning of the spring semester, the Irish will take on their first Big East foe in Villanova on Jan. 9. 
“We’re trying to get through the non-conference part of the schedule and then head into Big East,” McGraw said. “We look at it as three different seasons, the non-conference, the Big East and then the NCAAs. We want to finish strong in the non-confer­ence part so we can get ready for Big East.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 


future. 
“There are great resources that the University has and these things won’t change,” Ianello said. “I think the message is clear to the guys we’re dealing with at this time, and that will be what we go throughout the country and be on the forefront here in the nest few weeks. 
Ianello also said at the press conference that while recruiting he would look to “reach out to some other people to secure my future.” 

Kelly 
continued from page 24 
since its opening. Over the last few days, coaches have been quick to withdraw them­selves from the discussion. 
Urban Meyer was the first to do so, followed by Iowa’s Kirk Ferentz and finally Bob Stoops. After a week of rumors that Stoops was inter­ested, the Oklahoma coach issued a firm denial, leaving Swarbrick and Notre Dame fans with their focus on Kelly. 
The Bearcats coach has been the hot name for good reason. Kelly led Cincinnati to a 12-0 season this year, along with a second consecutive Big East Championship and BCS bowl berth. 
Critics will doubt his ability to recruit, or that he can transform this team. They’ll point to his similarities with Weis — a strong offensive scheme with a struggling defense. 
But in reality, Kelly is extremely different from Weis, in all the right ways. He has motivated and coached his less-talented players to wins over ranked opponents. Defensively his teams have been underrated, letting up just over 20 points per game in 2009 and ranking in the top 10 nationally in sacks and tackles for a loss despite los­ing 10 starters from last year. 
Kelly’s offensive abilities are unquestioned. The Bearcats offense has been one of the most potent in college foot­ball, and when first-year starting quarterback Tony Pike went down, backup Zach Collaros and the offense didn’t skip a beat. 
His teams have been disci­plined and overachieved for their level of talent, a sign of coaching ability rarely, if ever, seen at Notre Dame since the Holtz era. And unlike Weis, Kelly is a proven winner at the college level, with just one losing record in 19 seasons as a head coach. 
Kelly has won at every stop, and is as good a hire as any­one could expect. The arro­gance and ludicrous expecta­tions of some fans will leave them dissatisfied with anyone that isn’t a coaching star like Meyer, Stoops or Saban, but no coaches just pack up and leave top programs, not even for tempting destinations with the tradition of Notre Dame. 
Thankfully, it appears there have been serious talks between Swarbrick and Kelly. There appears to be mutual interest, although in this clan­destine coaching search it seems every nearly report is contradicted or denied the next day (sorry Adam Schefter and Joe Schad). 
If Kelly isn’t hired though, which should be completed by the end of the week if it will ever happen, it will be time to panic. After three consecutive failed coaching hires, Notre Dame badly needs to nail this one. 
And if not Kelly, there’s no one left. That’s not to say there is no other available coach who couldn’t turn the program around, but there is no coach with the winning history and talent of Kelly that can immediately stabilize the program. 
Randy Edsall is by all accounts a great guy and good coach, but Notre Dame needs a great one. And if people think Kelly will struggle with recruiting, how many current commits do you think know who Edsall is? 
If Kelly is not the answer, it means that again Notre Dame has botched the coaching search. Maybe they should have reached out to candi­dates earlier, or compromised with other coaches supposed demands, but whatever the case, anything less than Kelly will send the message that once again, Notre Dame has made a faulty hire. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
FOOTBALL 
Akron names Ianello head coach 
secure the recruiting that we 
Observer Staff Report 
have so far ... And the third 
Notre Dame interim coach Rob thing is supply any support that Ianello will be the I have for our coach-next head coach at es and our support 
See Also 
Akron, the school staff and our admin­
ndsmcobserver.com 
announced late istrative staff during Wednesday. for full and continued this time [of] transi-
Ianello will tion. So that’s how I
coverage of the
replace the fired see it breaking 
J.D. Brookhart, who Notre Dame down.” had a disappointing coaching staff Ianello spent the 3-9 record with the past week and a half Zips last season. coordinating working 
During the Charlie Weis era on recruits despite his uncertain Ianello served as the wide receivers coach and recruiting coordinator, helping Notre Dame to land four top-15 national recruiting classes. 
Ianello is expected to be offi­cially introduced at a press con­ference at noon today. 
Ianello had served as the interim head coach for the short period after Weis’ firing. 
“Rob is a skilled coach and has played a central role in coordi­nating our recruiting, and I know he will provide us with the leadership we need going for­ward between this period of time and when we have a new coach in place,”director of ath­letics Jack Swarbrick said at last Monday’s press conference. 
As a receivers coach, Ianello has coached some of the great receivers in program history, including Jeff Samardzija, Maurice Stovall, Golden Tate and Michael Floyd. 
Ianello described his role as interim coach at last week’s press conference. 
“Well it’s a threefold thing right now,” Ianello said. “First of all, to supply the support to our current student-athletes that they need during this current transition.” 
“The second thing is to help 


CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 





JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D 



THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Thursday, December 10, 2009 page 24 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Ending it early 
Hot .rst half shooting leads ND over Jaguars 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
IUPUI coach Ron Hunter knew he was in trouble quickly Wednesday night. 
“When you see the ball going in early it makes a difference,” he said. “The ball was going in early for them.” 
Especially for senior guard Ben Hansbrough, who scored 22 points during Notre Dame’s 93-70 win over IUPUI at the Purcell Pavilion Wednesday. 
Hansbrough made 6-of-8 field goals and 3-of-5 3-point­ers to go with his five assists. He also made 7-of-9 free throws, although the Irish (9-1) made only 65.2 percent of their foul shot attempts. 
“I like the fact that [Hansbrough] took jump shots he had,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “When he’s got an open look, he’s got to take it because 
see JAGUARS/page 21 
HOCKEY 


EILEEN VEIHMEYER/The Observer Senior point guard Tory Jackson defends an IUPUI player during Notre Dame’s 93-70 win at Purcell Pavilion Wednesday. Jackson had .ve points and four assists in the game. 
FOOTBALL COMMENTARY 
Kelly the right pick for ND job 
Ten days after the announcement of the dis­missal of Charlie Weis, and still no one knows who will be Notre Dame’s next coach. What is clear now, however, is that Director of Athletics Jack Swarbrick and the Irish have 

Michael Bryan 
only two possible results left Associate in their Sports Editorsearch: Brian Kelly or bust. 
The Cincinnati coach has been the hot name for the job ever since the crushing loss to Navy, and has been the odds-on favorite to win the job 
see KELLY/page 22 

Irish look to get back in CCHA race against Michigan 

By SAM WERNER 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish have some work to do to get back to the top of the CCHA standings, and there’s no better weekend to start than this one. 
Notre Dame (4-4-4-2 CCHA, 7­7-4 overall) sits tied for fifth in the conference, 10 points behind leader Miami (Ohio). The Irish aren’t the only traditional power underperforming this season, though. 
Michigan (4-6-0-0 CCHA, 8-8-0 overall) has slid all the way to 10th in the conference. After two wins over Lake Superior State — in which the Wolverines scored 11 total goals — Michigan dropped five straight games against Miami (Ohio), Michigan State and Bowling Green. 
Red Berenson’s squad has rebounded to take three of its last four, but the Wolverines need a prolonged winning streak to break back into the CCHA’s elite ranks. 
“Michigan’s had some struggles, just like us,” senior center Ryan Thang said. “But they’re very tal­ented offensively. In a way they’re just like us.” 
Michigan holds a 66-47-5 life­time advantage over the Irish in Notre Dame’s longest-running hockey rivalry. 
In the teams’ last meeting, though, the Irish took the win on the conference’s biggest stage. Despite trailing 2-0 in the second period, Notre Dame scored five unanswered goals to claim a 5-2 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Team busy over winter break 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will be home for Christmas — for the most part, anyway. 
The No. 3/4 Irish will host Valparaiso Saturday and, after a break for finals week, will play five games over Winter Break. Three of those games — against Charlotte, Vanderbilt and Villanova — will be played at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Another, against Purdue, will be in West Lafayette, Ind. The team will leave the state for just one game, against Central Florida in Orlando. 
“It’s always great to be home with our crowd, they really give us energy,” Irish coach Muffet 
see BREAK/page 21 


victory in last year’s CCHA Championship at Joe Louis Arena in Detroit. 
The win gave Notre Dame its second conference crown and a 2­1 win in the season series over the Wolverines. 
The Irish will face a familiar face between the pipes this week­end in junior Wolverine netmin­der Bryan Hogan. Despite a wealth of experience, Hogan has struggled this season, posting a 
2.71 goals against average, 10th in the CCHA. 
Up front, junior Carl Hagelin leads an offensive attack that has averaged 2.6 goals per game in the CCHA season. Hagelin and freshman Chris Brown have each posted 15 points on the season, tops on the team. 
Defensively, the Wolverines sport the league’s toughest penal­ty killing unit, successfully shut­ting down 90.4 percent of oppo­nents’ powerplays. 
“We really need to get the five 
see CCHA/page 20 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Weather postpones Belles and Knights 
Observer Staff Report 
Tuesday’s scheduled game between MIAA rivals Saint Mary’s and Calvin was post­poned due to inclement weather. The game has been rescheduled for Friday at 5 
p.m. at Calvin’s Van Noord Arena. 
The away game is sched­uled to be the Belles (4-2, 1­
0) second game of the MIAA season after they defeated Trine at home in their open­er 60-50. 
The Knights (7-1) are ranked No. 19 in Division III, and should be Saint Mary’s toughest test so far in the early season. 
The game is a rematch of last season’s MIAA semifi­nal, which was won by the Belles 67-58. 
Saint Mary’s also won both regular season games against Calvin last year, including a 72-68 overtime win on the road. 
The Belles lost four valu­able seniors from last sea­son’s team, and will be the underdog against the Knights, who are the favorites to win the MIAA, this season. 
Saint Mary’s will look to forward Kelley Murphy to lead them against the Knights. The sophomore is averaging 13.2 points and 
7.5 rebounds per game to lead the team. 







