

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

OLUME 44: ISSUE 19 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18,2009 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Jenkins announces pro-life Task Force 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 
University President Fr. John Jenkins said Wednesday that Notre Dame will take steps "to witness to the sanctity of life" in light of the controversy that resulted from President Barack Obama's Commencement visit last May. 
In an e-mail message to the Notre Dame community, Jenkins annomi.ced the formation of the Task Force on Supporting the Choice for Life and wrote of his intention to join Notre Dame stu­dents in the national March for Ufe event in Washington, D.C. on Jan. 22. 
Jenkins wrote that the Task Force has been asked to "consider and recommend to me ways in which the University, informed by Catholic teaching, can support the sanctity of life." 
The University, its administra­tion and Jenkins specifically faced criticism last spring after inviting the pro-choice president to cam­pus to deliver the Commencement address and 
receive an honorary degree. 
Jenkins also wrote in the e-mail that he hoped the Notre Dame 

community Jenkins might "over­come divisions to foster construe­
tive dialogue and work together for a cause that is at the heart of Notre Dame's mission." 
The Task Force, according to the e-mail, has already begun considering ways to foster "seri­ous and specific discussion about a reasonable conscience clause, the most effective ways to support pregnant women ... and the best policies for facilitating adoptions." 
The Task Force is co-chaired by Margaret Brinig, professor of law and associate dean at the Law School, and John Cavadini, pro­

1Thin' exhibit generates discussion 
Counseling Center official says 10.3 percent of visits on campus regard eating disorders 
By ANN-MARIE WOODS News Writer 
Eating disorders affect one in every seven American woman, with as many as 10 million women and one million men fighting the painful psychologi­cal and physical effects of the disease. according to the National Eating Disorders Association. 
In response to this trend and as an assignment for "Time" Magazine, Lauren Greenfield created "Thin," a collection of interwoven large-scale docu­mentary photographs with accompanying biographical stories and journals. 
The traveling exhibition, housed at the Snite Museum of Art until Oct. 18, follows the lives of young women at the Renfrew Center in Coconut Creek, Fla., for the treatment of eating disorders. 
The exhibit seeks to expose the reality of the disease while bringing the issue to the public consciousness to spark greater discussion, awareness. and understanding, according to Greenfield's Web site. 

"The exhibit brings the sub­ject of eating disorders to the surface where we, as a culture, can begin to deal with this thought-provoking subject in our homes and schools," the Web site says. 
Steve Moriarty, associate pro­fessional specialist and curator of photography for the Snite Museum, said the exhibit has particular relevance of this subject matter here on cam­pus. 
"When deciding what we will bring to the Snite, we ask the question 'Is it relevant and will it speak to the audience here?"' Moriarty said. "This exhibit enables dialogue and gets people talking about [eat­ing disorders]." 
Greenfield's work has been displayed at Notre Dame prior to "Thin," with her documen­tary exhibit called "Girl Culture," more general in theme, exploring girls' rela­tionships with their bodies and popular culture. 

"There was enormous response to that exhibit," Moriarty said, noting the influx of female dorms, therapy groups and classes who used the exhibit to create discussion of the issue. 
Greenfield came to speak to 
Diversity recruibnent a University priority 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Associate News Editor 
The class of 2013 has been 
touted as the most academically 
accomplished group in Notre 
Dame's history as well as the 
most diverse the University has 
had in the past three years. 
But despite the increase in overall diversity, this year's class was lacking in both black and international students. 
"The success that we're hav­ing with Asians, Hispanics and Native Americans, we expect, will continue," Director of Undergraduate Admissions Dan Saracino said. "Last year was our best year and we want to continue." 
This year's class is made up of 23 percent ethnic minorities ­10 percent Hispanic, 3 percent Asian, 3 percent black, 3 per­cent international students and 1 percent Native American. 

"The two areas where we really came up short were African Americans and the internationals," Saracino said. "Those are two groups of stu­dents that we want more of at Notre Dame." 
Saracino said more black stu­dents were admitted to Notre Dame last year, but the issue was simply that fewer chose to enroll at the University. 
"If we had a yield like the pre­vious year, we would have been closer to 5 percent [black stu­dents]," he said. "The yield was in the 30 percent-range." 
Saracino said one of the chief reasons many black students did not attend Notre Dame was 
see DNERSITY/page 9 

students during the first exhib­it, explaining her work and the critical problem it addresses, while also answering questions from men and women about body image. 
"When she visited here. we had an evening at Saint Mary's where she came to talk to the girls," Moriarty said. "When we got there, there were over 200 women, a huge group. She went on stage, pulled up a chair, sat down· :md said 'Girls, let's talk."' 
For Moriarty and Greenfield, this is the objective for an exhibit of this nature -to get people to talk about the issue and come to a greater under­standing of the complexity of the problem. 
Valerie Staples , the Coordinator of Eating Disorder Services at the University Counseling Center, agreed. 
"To me the value is it brings eating disorders to people's 
see THIN/page 6 
fessor of theology and director of the Institute for Church Life. 
Brinig said the Task Force has met and is currently learning about what University programs and groups exist deal with life issues. 
"We want to work with many of the groups on campus, especially the students," she said. "In other words, we want to build off some pieces that are already in place." 
Brinig said it is too early to see 
see JENKINS/page 9 

INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER Latin American financial crisis page 3 • Interhall football preview page 32 • Project Runway review page 17 • Viewpoint page 14 

---.__.='-_j 
Friday, September 18, 2009 
page 2 The Observer + PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Reekers: 
• 

a new v1ew 
This past weekend, I worked my first "late-night" shift at Reekers. Translation: I clocked in at one in the morning and left the building a little after four. My experience was enter­taining to say the least. 
Thanks to my lovely picture to the side of this col­umn, some of you might even remember me as the girl who was standing behind the line cranking out smoothies to suit your every whim. Or, more than likely you don't remember me, ordering a smoothie, or even being at Reekers at all, but I digress. 
When I showed up, my manager asked me if I had ever been at Reekers during the early morning hours. I guiltily responded that I had to which she replied, "Oh good, so you know that karma is going to come and get you tonight." 
Great. 
The night proceeded just as I had expected; the place was packed to the brim with students and here I was, the constant observer, taking in all of the actions of my classmates as I tried not to mix up my smoothie orders and to avoid getting sticky at all costs (which was an epic fail on both accounts just in case you were wondering). 
Did I mention that I was sick and my throat was so sore that I was almost rendered incapable of normal speech? Luckily my job entailed yelling out drink orders to a seriously impaired clientele; I do recall saying more than once that just because you were drunk that didn't mean you were deaf, to which I received numerous blank stares. 
After hearing me yell about a vanil­la shake for a solid 10 minutes, a very nice young man turned to the room and bellowed "Yo! There's a vanilla shake up here!" to which the masses were rendered silent and someone finally materialized to retrieve her drink. As I turned to say thanks, I discovered that my knight in Notre Dame sweats had disap­peared. And just when you think you've found a nice guy ... 
There were some memorable per­formances to be sure. A girl coming from hip-hop night attempted to reenact, to use her wording, the "Beyonce bounce." When said bounce was attempted in Reekers, all that occurred was a bounce right onto the floor. But don't worry, she got back up, adjusted her skirt and proceeded to order a cheeseburger. At Notre Dame we're nothing if not resilient. 
I guess my overall message is this; when you're acting the slightest bit amusing, you'll always have an audi­ence, even if it's just people trying to make their work night go by a little bit faster. But don't worry, chances are the next Saturday evening we have off we'll be standing on the other side of the counter with you. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmaddenJ@nd. edu 


CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QuEsnoN OF THE 0AV: IF YOU aJUW BE ANYVVHERE IN THE VvORLD RIGHT NON, WHERE 'MJULD YOU BE AND WHY? 







Erica Borst  Fraser Desmond  Isaac Reichman  Mary Catherine Levri  Serene Cuenco  
freshman Walsh  senior offcampus  junior Fisher  grad student O'Hare Grace  sophomore Lewis  
"'Italy. It's  "London, cause  "My bed,  "'In the choir loft  "New York City  
someplace I've  /miss  asleep."  ofthe  and the  
always wanted  Wednesday  Basilica, making  Phillippines. I  
to travel. "  nights at  beautiful music. '  miss both  
Fabric."  places.,,  

Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

IN BRIEF 
The tunnel of Notre Dame Stadium will be open for the pub­lic to walk through from 10 a.m. until 5 p.m. today. This event is free. 
Gregg Steinhafel, CEO of Target wiU deliver a lecture in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business at 
10:40 a.m. today. The lecture is part of Mendoza's Boardroom Insights Executive Speaker Series and it is free and open to the public. 
The Notre Dame Men and Women's Cross Country teams are hosting the National Catholic Invitational today at 3:30 p.m. at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
The football pep rall)'· for the Notre Dame vs. Michigan State game will take place at 6 p.m 
Bikes are lined up at one of the bike racks outside of DeBartolo Hall 
today at the new outdoor hospi­
Thursday afternoon. 
tatlity village south of the Debartolo Performing Arts Center on the south edge of campus. It is free and open to the public. 
' 
The Notre Dame women's soc­
cer team will play DePaul at 7:30
OFFBEAT 

p.m. tonight at Alumni Stadium. Teenager kills 10-foot 18-foot boat early Sunday in feeding wildlife. Park 
For ticket information call the alligator with crossbow the headwaters of Lake spokesman Joe Zarki said 
athletic ticket office at 574-631­COLUMBIA, S.C. -A 16-Marion. Wednesday that Jones tossed 
7356. year-old girl has bagged a 10-They have 40 pounds of alli­some 3,000 golf balls from his foot alligator in a South gator steak in the freezer now. vehicle. 
Michael Desch, professor and Carolina swamp. In the middle Cammie says most of her Jones also scattered a few 
chairperson of Notre Dame's of the night. With a crossbow. teachers are using her new tennis balls and park literature 
department of political science, The State newspaper in nickname, "Killer." and left fruit and vegetables 
will deliver the lecture, Columbia reported that along park roads. Jones says 
"International Security Studies: Cammie Colin won one of Man sentenced for throwing rangers spent 370 hours 
What the Eggheads Can Teach 1,000 lottery slots for the 3,000 golf balls into park cleaning up, at a cost of 
the Generals," at 12 p.m. state's annual public alligator RNERSIDE, Calif. -A man $9,000. 
Saturday in the Annenberg harvest. Hunters are required who said he hurled thousands Finally spotted in action last 
Auditorium of the Snite Museum to use a crossbow or a har­of golf balls into Joshua Tree month, Jones allegedly told 
of Art. The lecture is free and poon. National Park for more than a rangers he threw the golf balls 
open to the public. Cammie was the only per­year to honor deceased golfers to leave his mark and honor son in her group authorized to will be explaining his tribute to deceased golfers. The food 
To submit information to be 
shoot the 353-pound gator. a federal magistrate. was for stranded hikers. 
included in this section of The 
The Lexington resident was Park rangers cited 57-year­

Observer, e-mail detailed infor­with a guide, her father, an old Douglas Jones for aban­Information compiled from 
mation about an event to uncle and her brother in an doning property, littering and the Associated Press. 
obsnews@nd.edu 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
:::c !ci 
LLI 
3: 
...1 
<C 



(.) 

.... 0 HIGH 75 HIGH 74 HIGH 74 HIGH 75 LOW 60 LOW 58 LOW 57 LOW 56 

66 58 

75 
50 

Friday, September 18, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


IDB official discusses Latin American economy 
Chief economist, head of research says financial situation in region improving but not 'out of the woods' 
By SCOTT ENGLERT News Writer 
"The worst seems to be over," said Eduardo Lora, chief economist and head of research at the Inter­American Development Bank (IDB) in Washington, D.C., of the recent financial crisis in Latin America. 

Lora, a native of Colombia, spoke Thursday night at the Hesburgh Center of International Studies on the impact of the financial crisis in Latin America. 
"We are back to levels of risk similar to those before the crisis," Lora said. "Prospects are clearly improv­ing for Latin America ... it could have been worse." 
Lora noted the important role the United States' econo­my plays in the economy of Latin America, eiting the trade relations of the two regions. He indicated signs of financial improvement in a graph portraying the United States' economy since the eco­nomic collapse last year. 
"That's a sign things are 

improving," he said. 
In addition to the United States, there are other impor­tant economic influences on Latin America. 
"The world demand for manufacturing goods, com­modity prices, cost of financial resources, amount of financial resources and remittances" were identified by Lora as the five primary "channels of influence on Latin America." 
Consequently, the future of Latin America will rest, at least in part, not only on the financial stability of the United States, but also on the stability of the entire world market. 
"The game is not over," Lora said. "We don't know how fast the U.S. and world economies are going to grow." 
Though economies are beginning to show signs of revival, the United States and world economies are still rela­tively unstable. Latin America is plagued by a number of other factors, among which include the recent H1Nl virus outbreak (commonly known as swine flu). The disease, which has heavily impacted tourism, 


MACKENZIE SAINfThe Observer Eduardo lora, chief economist and head of research at the Inter-American Development Bank lectures about the economy in Latin America Thursday in the Hesburgh Center. 
has taken a particularly harsh  Mexico shows that despite the  "In spite of the recovery, big  
toll on Mexico.  upward swing, the crisis is by  risks are still present."  
"This was a terrible, terrible  no means over.  
year for Mexico," Lora said.  "[Latin America is] not out  Contact Scott Englert  
If anything, the situation in  of the woods yet," Lora said.  at senglert@nd.edu  




,';:,

21 ~homesite de<.elopmenr on a 600~acre aJI·sport.s year-round lkci\1!1\., "-''I., lake. Everything you·fc looking fori~ right here:. just QO minnlt.~ from 
' '"' 

Spe\.'1:K'uia:r upt.-n-pbr: h.-.mes ltCWcd amid~. downto\\-n Ciucago. 
ma~" trw.. Sailing.. ~ling and canoeing on Inquire afxJUt introductory pricmg on our lat."fmot 
o.p:ansh<e L.ac Chapm.. hsj ~>to ~Dame hoole:s from lhc s;oo·s. and l.lkt."\"te'W .and WOllded
~·illCJ"ti!j; ...h-'11". antiqw..~ and rc,.w...ram.. Your ••wn htlm&!S from tht mid-SJOI.fs. 

: ";' 
'-.... 

Just 20 minutes from Notre Dame Campus. \ Start Now -Be Ready for Next Summer· and Next Season 



Read The Observer online at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Friday, September 18, 2009 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Mendoza's Dean Woo returns from Afghanistan and Pakistan 
Special to The Observer 
Names such as the Swat Valley and the Kashmir Mountains are becoming increasingly familiar to Americans as Afghanistan and Pakistan regularly com­mand the news, mostly due to the violence and conflict that continue to convulse the countries. 
But for Carolyn Y. Woo, recently returned from a trip through both countries, the names are more than head­lines. They carry strong images of the people she met, often living in harsh poverty, but with a spirit of hospitality, enterprise and hope. 
Woo, Martin J. Gillen Dean of the Mendoza Colle.ge of Business at the University of Notre Dame, traveled through Afghanistan and Pakistan with representa­tives from Catholic Relief Services (CRS) from July 27 to Aug. 5. A member of the CRS Board of Directors, she journeyed from major cities to remote villages, seeing first-hand the organization's relief work aimed at improv­ing education, agriculture, water resources and other significant needs. CRS is the official international human­itarian agency of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops dedicated to provid­ing assistance to people in need in more than 100 coun­tries. 
"The decision to go was a difficult one, because of the ongoing violence and insecu­rity," Woo said. "But I felt that it was extremely impor­tant to visit these places, to meet the people and see where Catholic Relief Services is making differ­ences in lives. And despite the seemingly overwhelming challenges, there really are reasons for hope." 
During the trip, Woo visit­ed Mardan, where thousands of people who fled fighting between the Taliban and the Pakistani army stayed as 

they waited for the all-clear to go home. CRS has built thatched-roof shelters and new latrines for the dis­placed people, and given them non-food essentials, including mats for praying. 
"As this is a farming area, space is not an issue. People just camp on their relatives' land," Woo said. "One farmer we visited hosted nine families. This gave me a profound sense of what family and hospitality mean. While space is not a chal­lenge, proper shelter and sanitation facilities are urgently needed." 
Woo also spent time at a primary school in Pakistan's Kashmir Mountains, which CRS built at the site of a devastating earthquake that occurred in 2005. In the remote town of Chaghcharan, Afghanistan, she walked through wheat fields and green terraces grown on formerly barren land with the help of CRS irrigation systems. 
In Kabul, Woo visited the 
U.S. Embassy, meeting with a deputy ambassador and staff members to describe the CRS approach. During her stay, Taliban militants fired missiles targeted at the international airport and other government buildings as a pre-election warning. 
Though Woo primarily observed humanitarian proj­ects in Afghanistan, she also saw signs of economic rebuilding. Some CRS-spon­sored projects involved planting fruit trees, wheat and other revenue-produc­ing crops that can replace the poppies grown for opium trade. Other ventures were smaller and entrepreneurial in nature, including a bak­ery headed by a woman who previously lost her 5-year­old son to starvation. 
"The work that Catholic Relief Services is doing in these countries is so vital," Woo said. "But there is a testimony here, too, for the power of business to change 
lives. As a business educa­tor, l find this to be an increasingly important mes­sage tu pass on to our stu­dents. Economic enterprises must serve people, not the other way around." 
Woo assumed the deanship of the Mendoza College of Business at the University of Notre Dame in 1997. Her research focuses on strategy, entrepreneurship and orga­nizational systems. She lec­tures regularly on individual integrity, ethical systems and corporate citizenship, and recently addressed U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki­moon during the first Global Forum for Responsible Management Education. She holds honorary doctorates from the University of St. Francis and Providence College. 
Woo was elected chair of the AACSB International, the global accreditation body for business schools in 2002. 
The Mendoza Coliege of Business at the University of Notre Dame is home to about 2,200 students in the bachelor of business admin­istration, master of business administration, executive master of business adminis­tration, master of science in accountancy and master of nonprofit administration degree programs. The busi­ness school was founded in 1921 as the College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce and became the Mendoza College of Business in 2000 as a result of a nam­ing gift from Kathy and Tom Mendoza, a 1973 Notre Dame graduate and vice chairman at data technology company NetApp Inc. 
The college's continuing mission is to build a premier Catholic business school that fosters academic excel­lence, professional effective­ness and personal accounta­bility in a context that strives to be faithful to the ideals of community, human development and individual integrity. 
Panel discusses 


U.S. Constitution 
"No one-including Americans By CAITLIN HOUSLEY -should take freedom of the 
News Writer 
press for granted, even if it is guaranteed in the Constitution," 
Saint Mary's celebrated Fosmoe said. Constitution Day with "The Lutkus said the Supreme Court Constitution Today -Three case New York Times v. Sullivan Perspectives," a panel designed to was a landmark case that deter­emphasize the importance of the mined a universal definition of document. libel regarding public officials. 
Panelists spoke on aspects of But Lutkus said a new problem the Constitution that were most is arising in today's society: the relevant to both their personal Internet, calling it the "New and work lives. Views on journal­Frontier." ism, law and academia were Kramer then emphasized the combined to stress the universali­fact that the Constitution is still ty of the document relevant today. in today's society. He referenced 
Panelists includ­"We must always President ed Margaret Abraham
have faith in the
Fosmoe, a Notre lincoln's Cooper
Constitution.··
Dame graduate Union speech, and reporter for noting that the South Bend Lincoln related
Michael Kramer 
Tribune, Gerald F. to the
Communication Studies, Constitution _
Lutkus, a First­Amendment attor­Dance and Theatre almost 100 years ney, and Professor professor after the 
Michael Kramer of Communication Studies, Dance and Theatre at Saint Mary's. 
Fosmoe admitted she has taken the Constitution for granted in the past. 
But when reflecting on the issue as a panel member, she said she began to realize the importance of the document, especially regarding the freedoms it guaran­teed the press. 
Fosmoe said journalists face dangers when reporting on over­seas stories. 
Statistically, 42 media represen­tatives have been killed on the job this year, and the United States ranked 36th on a list of countries with the most press freedom. 
Constitution was 
written -to prove the accuracy of his argu­ments, proving that the document still had merit a century after it was written. 
"We must always have faith in the Constitution," Kramer said. 
Both Lutkus and Kramer stressed there are many more freedoms guaranteed to the peo­ple of the United States in the document in addition to those guaranteed by the First Amendment. 
"There are 26 more fabulous ones," Lutkus said. "Please read them." 
Contact Caidin Housley at chouseO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

ND professor becomes Pioneer Award finalist 
Special to The Observer 
Ann Tensbrunsel, professor of management at the University of Notre Dame, has been named a finalist in the 2009 Faculty Pioneer Awards by the Center for Business Education (CBE) at the Aspen Institute. 
This annual recognition pro­gram, dubbed the "Oscars of the business school world" by The Financial Times, celebrates business school instructors who have demonstrated leadership and risk-taking in integrating ethical, environmental and social issues into the MBA cur­riculum. 
Tenbrunsel, the Arthur F. and Mary J. O'Neil Co-director of Notre Dame's Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide, conducts research on decision making and negotiations, with a particular emphasis on ethics. In recent papers, she has inves­tigated the psychological processes of ethical fading, the cause and consequence of behavioral forecasting errors, the impact of ethical infrastruc­tures in organizations, and the forces behind unintended defec­tion in social dilemmas. Tenbrunsel also was recognized as a finalist in the Aspen Institute's Faculty Pioneer Awards in 2008. 

"Professor Ann Tenbrunsel's research has probed the condi­tions that compromise an indi­vidual's ethical judgment and helps us better understand the phenomenon of ethical fading," said Carolyn Y. Woo, Martin J. Gillen Dean of the Mendoza College of Business. "By so doing, her insights have chal­lenged us to not just want to do the right thing, but actually to do it; and also to be mindful when self-rationalizing blunts our moral senses." 


~ut.itiL .eeg,e1~! 
Join us Friday night for foody drinks. and plenty of football coverage on our 144" screen and 16 large. flat screen TVs. Return on Saturday for our pregame party and enjoy breakfast. Iundt. and our tailgate menu. 
(jt}FENc;;T~ !'JoP~~ 

Hr:Jrne. 0{ Tile Official Notre Dame Football Radio Show 
Wlrh Rl:!ggti;l i:irott;J;(s ana ~ I'IDI-an 
FOOTBALL HOURS 
FRIDAY Restaurant: 11:00 am -Midnight Pub-1"1':00 am-2:.00 am 
SATURDAY Restaurant: 8:00 am -Midnight Pub-: 8:00am-2:00am 
574.63l.2582 
vvww,legendsofnotredame.vrg 


Friday, September 18, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVEF:S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iran may have nuclear capability 
VIENNA -Iran experts at the U.N nuclear monitoring agency believe Tehran has the ability to make a nuclear bomb and worked on developing a missile system that can carry an atomic warhead, according to a confidential report seen by The Associated Press. 
The document drafted by senior officials at the International Atomic Energy Agency is the clearest indication yet that those officials share Washington's views on Iran's weapon­making capabilities and missile technology -even if they have not made those views public. 
Canadian bill supports U.S. deserters 
TORONTO -A Canadian member of Parliament has introduced a bill that would allow U.S. and other war resisters to stay in Canada. 
The bill, introduced Thursday by the Liberal Party's Gerard Kennedy, would allow other countries' military deserters to stay in Canada if their refusal to serve is based on sincere moral, political or religious objec­tions. 
Parliament has already voted twice to sup­port war resisters, but those were non-bind­ing motions. 
Kennedy's bill would be binding because it would amend the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act. 
At least two war resisters seeking asylum in Canada have already been deported to the U.S. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Video causes rape accuser to recant 
MINEOLA, N.Y.-A Hofstra University freshman whG had claimed she was raped by five men in a dormitory bathroom changed her story after prosecutors confronted her with the revelation that a video of the encounter may have been recorded, a prose­cutor said Thursday. 
The recantation on Wednesday night led to the immediate release of four men, including one student at the Long Island college, who had been arrested on rape and other charges. Police had been seeking to arrest a fifth man when the charges were dropped. 
The sex did occur in a bathroom but was consensual, a prosecutor said. Authorities could decide within weeks whether to charge the 18-year-old woman for making up the story. 
Jewish leaders call for ethnic revival 
NEWARK, N.J.-Jewish leaders are call­ing on U.S. rabbis to emphasize the faith's ethical requirements in their sermons dur­ing Rosh Hashana in response to recent financial scandals involving its members, including Bernard Madoff. 
Jews have been embarrassed the past year by the arrest of former Wall Street tycoon Madoff, who is serving a 150-year prison sentence for defrauding investors out of billions of dollars, and several rabbis who were arrested in July on money laun­dering charges, said Richard Joel, presi­dent of Yeshiva University in New York. 
Widely distributed images showed them being led into the FBI building in Newark in rabbinical garb and handcuffs didn't help. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Penrod treas. accused of theft 
INDIANAPOLIS -The former volunteer treasurer of an arts group that stages one of Indianapolis' best-known art fairs has been charged with embezzling about $400,000. 
Brandon Benker was charged Thursday with seven forgery counts and one count of theft. If found guilty, he could be sentenced to 10 years in prison. 
Benker now lives in Tennessee. Last year, he controlled the accounts of the Penrod Society, which puts on the Penrod Arts Fair each September at the Indianapolis Museum of Art. 

Police make arrest for Yale murder 
University animal lab technician is charged; death a case of "workplace violence" 
Associated Press 

NEW HAVEN -As police charged a Yale animal lab technician with murdering a graduate student who worked in his building, a portrait began to emerge Thursday of an unpleasant stickler for the rules who often clashed with researchers and considered the mice cages his personal fiefdom. 
Police charged 24-year­old Raymond Clark III with murder, arresting him at a motel a day after taking hair, fingernail and saliva samples to compare with evidence from the grisly crime scene at Yale's med­ical school. 
Bond was set at $3 mil­lion for Clark, who kept his head down and said "Yes, your honor," when asked whether he understood his rights. 
The muscular former high school baseball and football player is charged in the death of 24-year-old Annie Le, a pharmacology doctoral student at Yale who vanished Sept. 8. Her body was discovered five days later -her wedding day -stuffed into a utility compartment behind a wall in the basement of the research building where she and Clark worked. ney declined to give a rea­The investigator also said ABC News reported that 
Authoriti e s offered no son. authorities do not necessar­Clark sent a text message to details about the crime Public defender Joseph ily need to prove a motive Le on the day she vanished Thursday. They would not Lopez said he was still because they have an abun­requesting a meeting to dis­
discuss a motive, largely reviewing the case and dance of strong forensic cuss the cleanliness of because Clark will not talk declined to comment. evidence. mouse cages in the to police, and would not Co-workers told police As a technician, Clark's research lab. disclose the DNA test that Clark was a "control duties included cleaning At a news conference results or how they con­freak" who viewed the lab­mouse cages and the floors Thursday, New Haven nected Clark to the slaying. oratory and its mice as his of the lab. Police Chief James Lewis 
The Rev. Dennis Smith, a territory, according to a law Le's work involved experi­called Le's death a case of Le family spokesman, said enforcement official who ments on mice that were workplace violence. He he was not authorized to spoke to The Associated part of research into would not elaborate except comment on the arrest. Press on condition of enzymes that could have to say reports that the two Smith said he did not know anonymity because the implications for treatment had a romantic relationship whether Le had ever com­investigation is ongoing and of cancer, diabetes and were untrue. plained about Clark. many details remain sealed. muscular dystrophy. "It is important to note 
Clark appeared in court The official said police The New York Times that this is not about urban with two public defenders are looking into whether reported that Clark at times crime, university crime, who were new to the case. Clark's attitude led to a grew angry if lab workers domestic crime but an issue A private-practice attorney deadly workplace con­did not wear shoe covers. of workplace violence, who had represented him frontation with Le, who was "He would make a big deal which is becoming a grow­during the investigation did just 4-foot-11 and 90 of it, instead ofjust request­ing concern around the not attend the hearing and pounds. But investigators ing that they wear them," country," Lewis said, said Thursday he no longer say that's just a theory at said a researcher who adding that he would not represents Clark. The attor-this point. asked not to be identified. rule out additional charges. 

EGYPT 

U.S. couples convicted for illegal adoption 
Associated Press  say they face enormous obstacles from · authorities, so many couples and those  arrested in December and went on trial in May on charges of child trafficking  
CAIRO ­ Two American couples who  arranging adoptions resort to forging  and forgery. Andros, Hagoulf and  
say they were trying to adopt children  documents and bribes.  Metyas  -who are both from Egypt's  
in Egypt were convicted of human traf­ The case was first time such an adop­ Christian community-all hold U.S. cit­ 
ficking and sentenced to two years in  tion case has been tried in Egypt, and  izenship. Court documents said Botros,  
prison Thursday in a case that high­ lawyers of the two couples have said  also an Egyptian Christian, holds U.S.  
lighted the murky process for adopting  Egypt was prosecuting because of U.S.  residency.  
in this predominantly Muslim country.  pressure on the country to crack down  The four were also ordered to pay a  
Islamic law observed in Egypt bans  on human trafficking. The couples were  fine equivalent to around $18,000,  
Muslims from adopting children, in the  discovered when the U.S. Embassy in  each.  
name of maintaining clear bloodlines to  Cairo reported to authorities that it was  Botros and Andros adopt(:ld twin new­ 
ensure lines of patrimony and inheri­ suspicious of them after they tried to  born boys, while Hagoulf and Meytas  
tance.  ·  get their adopted children out of Egypt.  adopted a male toddler. They adopted  
However, adoptions within the minor­ The four  - Iris Botros and Louis  them from  a Cairo orphanage that  
ity Christian community in Egypt do  Andros of Durham, North Carolina, and  allegedly gave them forged documents  
take place  -including by Egyptian  Egyptian-born Suzan Hagoulf and her  stating the children had been born to  
Christians living abroad. But experts  husband  Medhat Metyas  - were  them.  

Friday, September 18, 2009 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 



Thin 
continued from page 1 
awareness on a different level with more of an emotional con­nection that draws you in," Staples said. "It helps people become aware of eating disor­ders as more than just a super­ficial thing." 
Given that the exhibit has gar­nered so much discussion and controversy on campus illus­trates the significance of the dis­ease and its prevalence in cur­rent culture both here at Notre Dame and globally, she said. 
"[The creation of this exhibit obviously speaks to eating disor­ders and their prevalence," Staples said. "It resonates with so many people because it's hard not to be touched by this." 
Of the students who seek help at the counseling center, 10.3 percent list eating disorders and/or body image concerns as the presenting problem. Staples said this is consistent with pre­vious years, with the lowest sta­tistic at 9 percent and the high­est at 12 percent. 
The exhibit has been the object of both criticism and praise. Moriarty said. 
"The question is how do you provide information but don't encourage?" undergraduate student assistant for the Gender Relations Center Patrick Tighe said. "It is a fine line and we have to be mindful of this, mak­ing sure we provide the resources for people to go somewhere and talk about it." 
Moriarty said a visitor's jour­nal has become a medium for discussion and debate. 
"The debate has been inter­esting with pros and cons, and dialogues between people in the exhibit's visitor journal," Moriarty said. 
"This is exhibit is NOT ART!" 

wrote one visitor in the com­ment book, to which others responded "Yes it is!" and "May I ask what you do consider art?" 
"Where are the men?" a respondent in the journal asked. 
"Art is something different to every person," Staples said. "It makes people think and feel something. One of the aspects of being at a university is giving stu dents the opportunity to learn." 
Moriarty said the exhibit is similar to highlighting former exhibits of war, destruction, poverty and death, which are considered art because they are "powerful images that stand together as a whole and have a message." 
"First you have to define art and then see if [the exhibit] fits," Moriarty said. "No one who has made the argument that it is not art has first defined what art is." 
But Moriarty said an exhibit of this nature is likely to be contro­versial. 
"We were hoping it would elicit discussion, conversation and argument, which it has," Moriarty said. 
He said "Thin" has been well­visited at the Snite over the past few weeks, as the discussion and debate continues over the issues surrounding the exhibit. 
"I think it's really powerful, as people walk through and they're quiet and that's a posi­tive thing right there," Staples said. "It helps people on our campus ask what are some things we can do to help." 
This exhibition was curated by the artist and Trudy Wilner Stack, and was organized by The Women's Museum: An Institute for the Future, Dallas, Texas, and Greenfield/Evers, LLC. 
Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods3@nd.edu 
Ul£ ~enik. Dn~ 
£4~~raJ 
4b6lb 
Ask about our Move in Specials! 
Gather mur mommates ami more mone ofour Iorge two or 
•three bethoom spacious apartment homes. 
• L5 Miles lrom campus 
• Dogs and Cals Welcome 
• 
Carditl Fitness Room 

• 
Swimming Pool, Putting Gn.-cn, Nature Walk &


Try Our CmnnumifJ' Today.' 
Outdoor Grilling Area
M,mday..friday: 9:00am-5:30pm 
• Inquire about our fully
Saturday: 10:00am-4:00pm furnished apartment CaD Now! 574-233-2212 • Weekly, wt:ekend &monthly 1643 NRiverside Drive rentals! Some football South &nd. IN 46616 weekends still available. 
Quality Off-campus Houses Now leasing for 2010 •2011 
• Close to campus •Washers &dryers i Student neighborhoods • Dishwashers 
•Security systems • 2 .. , 0 bedrooms 
•lawn service 
We have over 100 properties-see them at www.kramerhouses.com For more information call 
(574) 234·2436 






Find us on Twitter. Follow us @ndsmcnews 




Friday, September 18, 2009 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 

Jones 9,783.92 -7.79 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
1,631 113 2,128 3,355,394,436 


COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP(C)  +5.24  +0.22  4.42  
GEN ELECTRIC CO {GE)  -1.42  -0.24  16.66  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  -0.15  -0.16  107.16  
BK OF AMERICA CP (SAC)  +2.09  +0.36  17.61  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  -2.10  -0.073  3.40  
13-WEEK BILL  0.00  0.00  0.095  
30-YEAR BOND  -2.06  -0.088  4.18  
S·YEAR NOTE  -2.42  ·0.059  2.38  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.04  72.47  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -6.70 1013.50  
PORK BELUES (cents/lb.)  +0.03  86.60  
Exchange Rates  
YEN  91.2150  
EURO  t.4n2  
CANADIAN DOLLAR  1.0667  
BRITISH POUND  1.6425  


IN BRIEF 
EU officials to press U.S. on bonuses 
BRUSSELS -British Prime Minister Gordon Brown expressed confidence Thursday that leaders of rich and poor nations will agree next week on global oversight of banks and other financial institutions that will include limits on bankers' bonuses. 
"There is no going back to the bonus struc­ture of the past," Brown said before a summit at which the 27 European Union leaders will discuss the aftermath of the global financial meltdown. 
He told reporters that next week's G-20 summit of rich and developing countries in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, needs to provide more financial oversight and create a global understanding on stricter international eco­nomic cooperation. 
His comments were in line with those of other European leaders who will meet in Pittsburgh next Tuesday and Wednesday, who are saying the time for concerted action ­including on limiting bonuses -is at hand. 
"We need to deliver on this," Swedish Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt, the EU summit chairman, told reporters. "It is time to say enough is enough." 
Anti-abortion group broke 
WICHITA -Operation Hescue, one of the nation's highest-profile groups in the anti-abor­tion movement, has told its supporters it is facing a "major financial crisis" and is very close to shutting down unless emergency help arrives soon. 
The group's president, Troy Newman, blamed the economic downturn for it.-; money woes in a desperate plea e-mailed Monday night to donors. But the Wichita-based organization has also been under attack from both fringe anti-abortion militants and abortion rights supporters since the May 31 shooting death of Dr. George Tiller. 
"We're now so broke (as the saying goes), we can't even pay attention," Newman wrote. 
Newman told The Associated Pross in an inter­view after the mailing that the group has only four paid employees left, compared to nine a year ago. The group typically has an annual budget of $600,000, but donations this year have been down 30 to 40 percent. Newman, who earns $60,000 annually, said he hasn't been paid in two months. 
page 7 





Media president embodies future 
Cesar Conde to oversee largest Spanish-language media empire in the nation 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -When Cesar Conde walks into a room, his youthful looks and earnest countenance have at times led people to con­fuse the trim executive with an intern. 
But such confusion is increasingly rare. The 35­year-old was tapped last month to head Univision Networks, the most prominent holding of Univision Communications Inc. -the nation's largest Spanish-language media empire. Its signature net­work regularly ranks fifth among all broadcast and cable networks, English or Spanish. 

Conde, who takes over Oct. 1, is the Miami-born son of Peruvian and Cuban immigrants who came to the U.S. "with absolutely nothing except for the spare change and the clothes they had on their back," according to their son. He is also a Harvard graduate with an MBA from the University of Pennsylvania, embody­ing not only the immi­grant dream but also the network's future including second-and third-generation Hispanics drawn to the to The Associated Press. offices. "But it's that third community. They weren't network because of cul­"I believe a person's early one, of empowerment, speaking about the tural, as well as language accomplishments are an that I feel can really solid­Hispanic community. It's a ties. important signal of their ify our unique connection subtle but important dif­
It is his Gen X ability to future success, and Cesar with our audience." ference." move from talk of political has had many of them. With the support of Conde was also instru­
empowerment to market His sense of purpose and Univision CEO Joe Uva, mental in Univision's "Ya statistics to the company's maturity allow him to lead Conde pushed for the first es bora (Now is the time)" latest reality TV offerings by bringing out the best in Sunday morning news citizenship campaign that makes Conde such a those around him despite talk show, "AI Punto" or along with National force in shaping the his young age." "To the Point." He also Association of Hispanic future of one of the Univision, and Spanish­backed the nation's first Elected and Appointed nation's fastest growing language media in gener­Spanish-media presiden­Officials and other 
networks. al, have long embraced tial candidate debate. groups. He is now helping 
Former Secretary of advocacy journalism pro­"We wanted to ensure to coordinate the second State Gen. Colin L. Powell, viding a "we're on your that the Hispanic elec­phase of the campaign to whom Conde served as a side" ethos for its audi­torate was able to hear ensure Hispanics are White House Fellow from ence, but Conde is part of their voices on Election counted in the 2010 cen­2002 to 2003, said he a new leadership looking Day," explained Conde. sus. quickly noticed something to expand the tradition. "Both Democrat and Besides the signature 
special about the young "Our goal is to inform, Republican candidates Univision network, Conde businessman. entertain and empower spoke directly to the also oversees the compa­"It was clear to me that the Hispanic community," Hispanic community ny's cable channel he had great potential," Conde recently told the about issues of impor­Galavision, and its smaller Powell said in an e-mail AP from his new Miami tance to the Hispanic network, TeleFutura. 


FedEx first-quarter earnings fall 
and hourly personnel as package In late July its larger rival -UPS 
Associated Press 
volume improves, but it doesn't Inc. -said its second-quarter prof­expect that to happen soon. It also it sank 49 percent and warned that 

NEW YORK -FedEx Corp. said doesn't expect to start adding back its near-term outlook probably Thursday it sees signs of improve­employees it cut during the worst wouldn't be any better. ment in the global economy as of the downturn in the near future. FedEx said sales are still hurt by 
international shipments pick up, Over the last year, the company the soft economy, as people ship but warned its profit will remain has laid off workers and cut wages slower and less often. Lower fuel weak at least through the end of for thousands of employees to cut costs also meant FedEx collected the year. costs. lower fuel surcharges -fees 
The world's second-largest pack­The Memphis, Tenn.-based com­passed on to customers based on age delivery company, considered a pany reported earnings of $181 the price of fuel. bellwether of economic health, said million, or 58 cents per share for In its Express segment, U.S. pack­fiscal 2010 first-quarter earnings the quarter ended in August, com­age revenue fell 22 percent on fell 53 percent -matching its pre­pared with $384 million, or $1.23 lighter and less expensive packages diction released last week. It also per share, a year ago. and lower fuel fees. But the num­reiterated a fiscal second-quarter Revenue fell 20 percent to about ber of packages FedEx shipped view that implies a modest uptick $8 billion. domestically grew slightly. in worldwide economic activity. Analysts predicted profit of 58 FedEx's Ground segment revenue 
FedEx indicated it might start cents per share on revenue of fell 2 percent and average daily beefing up schedules for flight crew $8.24 billion. volume slipped 1 percent. 
. ' 
~ 
J 

Friday, September 18, 2009 
page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



9:00p.m. 
(Please note specialtilne) 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Join students, rectors, hall staff. hall government, and priests-in-residence for this celebration of the Eucharist. 
Friday, September 18, 2009 

The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

Diversity 
continued from page 1 
they were offered spots at other top colleges. 
"They are going to excellent, Ivy League-type schools," he said. "We're up against tough com petition." 
Jarred Carter, president of Wabruda, the black men's asso­ciation on campus, said he knew of many students who chose to attend other top-notch 
universities over Notre Dame. 
"As far as prestige -wise, just based off the name, a lot of kids are going to choose Ivy League schools," he said. 
President of the African Students Association Brigitte Githinji said the difficul­ty of obtaining tion remains committed to meeting the full need of anyone who is accepted to Notre Dame, something that has helped the school become more diverse over the years. 
"It wouldn't be possible with­out the incredible commitment of the administration here, including [University President] Fr. John Jenkins, to financial aid," he said. 
Saracino also said the University has just instituted the new Hesburgh-Yusko Scholars Program, which has 

"The University expects that ofus ­building a class that is stronger and more diverse each year. ,, 
Dan Saracino director Undergraduate Admissions 
financial aid at Notre Dame forces many black students to choose other institutions. 
"If you're going to stipulate that they have to follow all these rules before they can get the package, they're going to go to other schools where they are getting f1,1ll rides," she said. 
Saracino said the administra­an endowment of $35 million. The program will provide 20 top students in Notre Dame's incoming class with $25,000 annually. 
"It will be based on aca­demics and it will be students who we believe have the poten­tial to be trans­formational 
leaders," he said. "We want someone who is really going to make a difference ... We want someone like a Fr. Hesburgh." 
Saracino said as the University has become more diverse, it was natural they would also have to increase the funds for financial aid. 
"The University is still trying to increase the amount of aid 
for needy students because we 
are increasing the amount of 
students that need money," he 
said. 
However, another problem 
for prospective black students 
is that there are not many other 
black students currently here. 
"We still don't have that criti­
cal mass of African-American 
students where recruiting 
becomes a little bit easier," 
Saracino said. "Right now I 
think, because we don't have 
that critical mass, there are 
some students who are just say­
ing, 'It is too white for me."' 
Carter said one shocking sta­tistic was only 69 members of the current freshman class are black, and 11 of those are ath­letes. 
"What kind of message does that send?" he said. 
Saracino said recruiters are already actively recruiting black students in Chicago and New Orleans, and events fea­turing prominent alumni and current students are being planned for those cities. 

"Chicago is in our backyard," he said. "And we've always been getting African Americans out of New Orleans and it is a high percentage of Catholic African Americans." 
Saracino also said alumni are crucial to all recruiting efforts. 
"The alumni can help us more by personally contacting the students in their area who 
should be thinking of Notre 
Dame," he said. "Alumni locally 
have to help and, with greater 
contact over the course of the 
year, we think that we can 
boost the yield." 
Saracino said the University 
has also stepped up efforts 
recruiting internationally. 
Traditionally, Notre Dame has 
only recruited in Latin America 
and some Asian countries, but 
this year marks the first time 
recruiters are targeting 
Europe. 
"We have a person who is working out of Paris ... and she is going to going to Ireland, London, Spain, France and Germany," he said. 
Saracino said he would like to increase the number of minori­ty students to 25 percent next year, with 4 percent black stu­dents and 4 percent interna­tional. 
"That would be a goal, and if we could go past that it would be great," he said. 
Long-term, Saracino said he would like to see Notre Dame's student body composed of 30 percent minority students. 
"The University expects that of us -building a class that is stronger and more diverse each year," he said. "We're not trying to change Notre Dame, we're trying to make it a better Notre Dame." 
ContactJoseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 


Jenkins 
continued from page 1 

what kinds of recommendations 
the Task Force will make. 

"We have talked about initia­
tives that would be internal to 
Notre Dame, things that might 
draw outsiders to us and ways 
that the larger Notre Dame com­
munity could witness to its sup­
port for life," she said. 

Mary Daly, a senior and leader 
within ND Response, a student 
group that formed last spring to 
protest the University's decision 
to invite Obama, said she was 
pleased with the announcement 
from Jenkins. 

"It was a good step in the right 
direction for Fr. Jenkins and the 
University," she said. "It's pleas­
ing to see that now we might be 
able to expect more direct 
involvement and support from 
the University administration and 
Fr. Jenkins himself." 

Daly was the author of an April 
2009 letter on behalf of ND 
Response to Jenkins that asked 
him to "formally support pro-life 
initiatives on campus through 
financial and personnel 
resources" and also invited him to 
participate in the national March 
for Life, which a number of stu­
dents, including Daly, march in 
annually. 

"We'll be glad to have him join us," Daly, former president of Notre Dame Right to Life, said. "We've been going for over 15 years as a club." 
Law professor Rick Garnett called the creation of the Task Force and Jenkins' intention to participate in the March for Life "positive and welcome develop­ments." 
Garnett spoke publicly last spring about the Obama invita­tion, expressing concerns with the decision. He said Thursday the announcement was a "renewed, energetic, and public commitment by Notre Dame to the pro-life cause" and said he hoped the announcement would be welcomed by those who dis­agreed with the University's deci­sion. 
"The creation of this Task Force is the kind of concrete and visible step that, I believe, the University needed to take in order to make more clear its commitment to the pro-life cause," he said. 
Garnett added that he believes Jenkins sees the Task Force as "one of many appropriate steps" that Notre Dame should take. 
The Task Force also includes members of Notre Dame's faculty, administrators and one student representative. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 



Friday, September 18, 2009 

page 10 The Observer +NATIONAL NEWS 

Pelosi: Health care rhetoric troubling 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Thursday that the anti-govern­ment rhetoric over President Barack Obama's health care reform effort is troubling bccatL'iC it reminds her of the violent debate over gay rights that roiled San Francisco in the 1970s. 
Anyone voicing hateful or violent rhetoric, she told reporters, must take responsibility for the results. 
"I have concerns about some of the language that is being used because I saw this myself in the late 70s in San Francisco," Pelosi said, suddenly speaking quietly. "This kind of rhetoric was very frightening" and created a climate in which violence took place, she said. 
Former San Francisco Supervisor Dan White was convict­ed of the 1978 murders of Mayor George Moscone and Supervisor Harvey Milk, a gay rights activist. Other gay rights activists and oth­ers at the time saw a link between the assa.-';sinations and the violent debate over gay rights that had preceded them for years. 
During a rambling confession, White was quoted as saying, "I saw the city as going kind of downhill." His lawyers argued that he was mentally ill at the time. White com­mitted suicide in 1985. 
Pelosi is part of a generation of California Democrat.<; on whom the assassinations had a searing effect. A resident of San Fransisco, Pelosi had been a Democratic activist for years and knew Milk and Moscone. At the time of their murders, she was serving as chairwoman of her party in the northern part of the state. 
On Thursday, Pelosi was answer­ing a question about whether the current vitriol concerned her. The questioner did not refer to the murders of Milk or Moscone, or the turmoil in San Francisco three decades ago. Pelosi referenced those events on her own and grew uncharacteristically emotional. 
"I wish that we would all, again, curb our enthusiasm in some of the statements that are made," Pelosi said. Some of the people hearing the message "are not as balanced as the person making the statement might assume," she said. 
"Our country is great because people can say what they think and they believe," she added. "But I also think that they have to take responsibility for any incitement that they may cause." 
Pelosi's office did not immediate­ly respond to a request for exam­ples of contemporary statements that reminded the speaker of the rhetoric of 1970s San Francisco. 
The public anger during health care town hall meetings in August spilled into the House last week when South Carolina Republican Joe Wilson shouted "You lie!" at Obama, the nation's first black president, during his speech. On a largely party-line vote, the House reprimanded Wilson. 


i_: -. 



Pr-ay etC NV {v<Jmt whe-veNe-v yOtV cvv& 
Visit Pray.nd.edu & NDPrayercast.org for daily prayers and gospel readings, and weekly audi<> Prayercasts and vide<> Masscasts. 
Brought to you by the Office of Campus Ministr')· and the Alumni Association 
Friday, September 18, 2009 

The Observer +NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Failed Ohio execution causes controversy 
Associated Press COLUMBUS -Lawyers plan state and federal lawsuits and a request to Ohio Gov. Ted Strickland to stop next week's unprecedented second execu­tion attempt of a man whose lethal injection failed on Tuesday. Cleveland attorney Tim Sweeney said Thursday that he expects lawsuits to be filed no later than Friday in an effort to halt the next attempt to put Hornell Broom to death. Sweeney argues that a sec­ond try at an execution is unconstitutional. At the very least, he said, Strickland should further delay Tuesday's execution. Broom "sustained both  physical and mental injuries," face with a tissue and Sweeney said. "It's going to appeared to be weeping, told take time for his attorneys he all the psychic was pricked as trauma to dis­many as 18 sipate. Even if ~'Its going to take time times. it never goes Broom, 53,for all the psychic trau­away, I think was sentenced toma to dissipate. Even ifit's wrong to die for the rape try to do it it never goes away. I and stabbing again so quick­think its wrong to do it death of a 14­ly in these cir­year-old Trynaagain so quickly incumstances." Middleton, a girl Strickland these circumstances. •• he kidnapped in stopped Cleveland in Broom's exe­1984.Tim Sweeneycution after CuyahogaCleveland attorneyexecutioners C o u n t y tried unsuc-Prosecutor Bill cessfully for Mason said it two hours to was ironic that find a usable vein. Broom, Broom was complaining about who at one point wiped his the execution given the  could include the same veins nearly a year while the U.S. they tried accessing Tuesday Supreme Court considered or other points on his arms, whether a second electrocu­legs or feet, Walbura said. tion would be unconstitution­Late Thursday, U.S. District al. Court Judge Gregory Frost The court ultimately ruled agreed to give lawyers chal­against Francis 5-4 and he lenging Ohio's lethal injection was put to death in 1947. system in an unrelated law­Broom has a much stronger suit more time to gather case than Francis, said information related to the Deborah Denno, a Fordham Broom case. Their original University law professor and deadline for gathering infor­death penalty expert. mation had passed. It was unclear how far the Federal public defender first execution actually went David Stebbins, who's work­and whether Francis experi­ing on the ear­enced the elec­lier lawsuit, tric current, she said he plans to said. The court's interview uncertainty Broom on about that fact"There's absolutely noMonday in the played a major Southern Ohio question that the role in its deci­ 
nature of his crime. "I am absolutely certain that it was Tryna Middleton  facility in Lucasville. The fact that  execution process started.,,  sion to return him to the elec­tric chair,  
that suffered from cruel and  Broom survived  Denno said.  
unusual punishment," Mason  the execution  Deborah Denno  In the case of  
said. Broom remains at the Southern Ohio Correctional  "creates a sin­gular opportu­nity to confirm  Fordham University law professor  Broom, howev­er, "There's absolutely no  
Facility, where the prison sys­ that he, in fact,  question  that  
tem is monitoring how much  experienced  the  execution  
he's drinking, said prisons  serious pain in  process  start­ 
spokeswoman Julie Walburn.  violation of his  ed," she said.  
Officials want to make sure  constitutional rights, not just  Justice Felix Frankfurter, a  
Broom  is  not  dehydrated  a  'substantial risk' of serious  swing vote in the court's 1947  
before the execution, but they  pain," Stebbins and attorney  decision, also said a  different  
can't force him to drink more,  Allen Bohnert argued in  a  set of facts could have led to a  
she said.  court filing.  different decision.  
Dehydration could make it  The only case similar to the  Those facts could include "a  
more difficult to find veins,  Broom execution happened in  series of abortive attempts at  
however, Walburn said there's  Louisiana in 1946, when a  electrocution," he wrote.  
no  evidence  that  caused  first attempt to execute Willie  Denno said that's clearly the  
Tuesday's problems.  Francis did not work. Francis  case with the Broom execu­ 
Another execution attempt  was returned to death row for  tion attempt.  








Go Irish!! 
Try our Unique. tnenu items: Shamrock Benny...ymnmy eggs Benedict with an Irish flare~ our Desperado Skillet for the hardy appetite or our Fosters Pancakes...our fluffy cakes smothered in bananas sauteed in our gooey butter!! Remen1ber to eat before vou tail,gate!!! 
Hours: 

127 South Michigan Street 
Monday-Friday 6:30-2:00pm Downtown South Bend 
Sat -Sunday 7:00-2:00ptn 574-288-PEEP 
EAT LIKE A CHAMPION TODAY! 


Friday, September 18, 2009
page 12 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
SPAIN 


Judge indicts three alleged ex-Nazis 
Associated Press 
MADRID-A Spanish judge on Thursday indicted three alleged ex-Nazi death camp guards who all lived for many years in the United States, charging them with being accessories to genocide and crimes against humanity. 
Judge lsmael Moreno of the National Court issued inter­national arrest warrants for Johann Leprich, Anton Tittjung and Josias Kumpf. The 18-page indictment says Kumpf apparently now lives in Austria and the other two are still in the United States. 
Joseph McGinness, a lawyer in Cleveland, Ohio, said he represents Leprich and Tittjung. 
"They are both mentally and physically incompetent," McGinness said. "Spain's going to have an enormous amount of problems taking care of these people." 
He said they were simple guards forced into service who "stood out in the rain, watched the snow come down .... That's your Nazi war criminal. They hated it." 
Leprich is from Macomb County's Clinton Township, near Detroit. 
The judge acted in part under Spain's observance of the principle of universal jurisdiction, which allows particularly heinous crimes such as genocide, torture or terrorism to be prosecuted in Spain even if they are alleged to have been committed else­where. 
lie also acted because thou­sands of Spaniards were among the millions who died in Nazi concentration camps. Moreno has been investigat­ing the issue since July 2008 at the request of several Spaniards who survived their ordeals. 
A fourth suspect named in the original complaint, retired Ohio autoworker John Demjanjuk, was deported from the United States to Germany in May and faces trial there. He is not included in the Spanish indictment. 
Moreno wrote Thursday that he has concluded the three suspects were members of the Nazis' Totenkopf SS guard corps and served in death camps, either Mauthausen in Nazi-occupied Austria or Sachsenhausen in Germany. 
The Simon Wiesenthal Center in Israel said the Spanish indictment marks a huge change for a country it described as a refuge for Nazi war criminals when Gen. Francisco Franco was in power until 1975, and even after the return of democracy in Spain after his death that year. 
"But this is obviously some-

Write News. E-mail mbuckley@nd.edu 
thing completely different. This is a really welcome development," said the cen­ter's chief Nazi-hunter, Efraim Zuroff. "We eommend the Spanish court for making this decision." 
All three suspects settled in the United States after World War II and eventually acquired U.S. citizenship, but were stripped of it in recent years after U.S. authorities concluded they had con­cealed their Nazi past. The United States has tried for years to deport them but found no country willing to take them in until Kumpf was deported to Austria in March. 
Tittjung, born in what is now Croatia, lives in Kewaunee, Wisconsin, and Romanian-born Leprich lives near Detroit, Michigan. Both were born in 1925. 
Kumpf, 84, was born in what is now Serbia and had lived in Racine, Wisconsin before being deported. 
In Vienna, Justice Ministry spokeswoman Katharina Swoboda said Austria has not been officially notified of the indictments but ministry offi­cials were contacting their Spanish counterparts about them. Still, she said there was no legal basis in Austria for extraditing Kumpf to Spain because his alleged crimes fall under a statute of limitations. 
Swoboda stressed that Austria had tried to make that point clear during intense negotiations with the United States before Kumpf was deported. In the end, Austria had to take him in because he emigrated to the United States from there. 
After his deportation, Kumpf spent the first few months in the westernmost 
Austrian  province  of  
Vorarlberg  but  was  then  
reportedly  moved  to  the  

Austrian capital of Vienna after local authorities came under fire for covering his health care costs. 
Neither the Interior nor the Justice Ministry on Thursday could provide information on Kumpf's whereabouts or medical condition. 
Spanish judges have used the principle of universal jus­tice to go after former Chilean ruler Augusto Pinochet in 1998 and Osama bin Laden in 2003, but extra­ditions and convictions have been extremely rare. 
The cross-border cases have angered other countries and this summer Parliament narrowed the doctrine to cases involving Spaniard vic­tims or when the alleged per­petrator of a crime was phys­ically in Spain. But the change was not retroactive, so cases already on the books remained active. 
BELGIUM 
EU leaders pressure Obama on bonuses and climate change 
Associated Press 
BRUSSELS -EU leaders issued a joint plea to U.S. President Barack Obama on Thursday to back their call for rich and developing nations to cap bankers' pay and to impose deeper cuts on emissions for a new global climate change pact. 
All 27 EU nations are in "total unity" that the world cannot repeat the "scandal" of bonuses for executives and traders that triggered banks to take huge risks, French President Nicolas Sarkozy said. 
"The bonus bubble burst tonight," said Swedish Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt, whose country holds the EU presidency. "We have agreed to say that enough is enough and we need to move away from the current culture of compensation based on short-term performance." 
The plea came during a meeting to decide what European nations will push for at talks between rich and developing nations at the 
Group  of  20  summit  in  
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,  on  
Sept. 24-25.  
Neither  Sarkozy  or  

Reinfeldt gave details of the kind of bonus cap the EU is seeking. An earlier draft of a joint statement to be issued called for G-20 nations to ensure bankers' pay is linked to how well their business is performing. 
Sarkozy has threatened to 

3, 4 and 5 Bedroom Tovvnhomes 2 1/2 Baths Free Internet Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher Security System Located Close to Notre Dame 
walk out of the meeting if the United States and others won't strike a deal to curb banking bonuses. 
On climate change, Reinfeldt said that while EU leaders welcomed draft cli­mate change legislation by the U.S. Congress, "it needs ... more done to reach the levels we have in Europe." 
The EU is urging other rich countries to match its pledge to cut emissions by 20 per­cent by 2020. In a joint state­ment the European leaders called on the U.S. and others to "urgently make ambitious commitments" to deeper cuts. 
Japan pledged to cut emis­sions by 25 percent from 1990 levels. The U.S. is con­sidering a far lower cut -17 percent from 2005 levels or about 3.5 percent from 1990. 
A panel of U.N. scientists has recommended that devel­oped countries make cuts of between 25 percent and 40 percent by 2020 to avoid a catastrophic rise in sea lev­els, harsher storms and droughts and climate disrup­tions. 
The leaders are stepping up pressure on the U.S. and China, the world's two biggest polluters, to tackle global warming and commit to cuts in global greenhouse gas emissions at climate change talks later this year in Copenhagen. 
The EU says poor countries need euro100 billion a year to restrict their own emis­sions and to adapt to a warming climate that could endanger the homes and food supply of billions of people. 
Britain's Gordon Brown said European leaders must be forceful enough to con­vince Obama to agree to cap bankers' bonuses, and must also make a bigger effort on an ambitious climate change pact. 
EU Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso has warned the United States that "the issue of bonuses is criti­cally important" to Europe. 
"It is a question of ethics," he said. "Our taxpayers are horrified with the idea that their money is being used for exorbitant bonuses." 
EU nations want G-20 countries to threaten sanc­tions on banks that pay excessive bonuses to execu­tives and traders as part of a sweeping overhaul of the global financial system. They say they need to end payment systems that can trigger reckless risk-taking. 
Huge payoffs to bankers have become a hot-button issue on both sides of the Atlantic as governments stepped in with massive bailouts to prevent banks from collapsing late last year. 
New York-based Citigroup Inc., which is now one-third owned by the U.S. govern­ment as a result of its bailout, gave 738 of its employees bonuses of at least $1 million each, even after it lost $18.7 billion during the year. 
Friday, September 18, 2009 page 13 
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS 
Mass. House of Reps. passes Kennedy replacement bill 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -The Massachusetts House of Representatives has approved a bill allowing Gov. Deval Patrick to name an interim appointment to the Senate seat left vacant by the death of Edward Kennedy. 
The House voted 95-58 in favor of the bill Thursday evening. The bill now moves to the Massachusetts Senate. 
House Speaker Robert DeLeo, a Democrat, said the change is needed to ensure Massachusetts continues to be represented by two senators until voters can choose a replacement during a Jan. 19 special election. 
"I just want to make sure that Massachusetts has a say ... that Massachusetts has their voice heard <>n health care, on the environment, on clean energy," DeLco said. 
Patrick, a Democrat and ally of President Barack Obama, also supports the change. 
Republicans, who number just 16 in the House, oppose the bill. 
They point out that Democrats changed the succession law in 2004 to create a special election and block then-Gov. Mitt Romney, a Republican, from naming a temporary replacement if Sen. John Kerry had won his presi­dential bid. 
To change the law now that there is a Democrat in the gover­nor's office smacks of hypocrisy, they said. 

"When Senator Kennedy passed away we started (with} the law that was on the books and we shouldn't be changing the law midstream," said House Republican leader Rep. Bradley 
H. Jones Jr. "Everything else is ancillary and extraneous to that.'' Kennedy died of brain cancer on Aug. 25. 
Rep. Michael Moran, House chairman of the Committee on Election Laws, said lawmakers shouldn't be handcuffed by past votes if they are not in the best interest of the state. 
"I ask you to focus on the needs of Massachusetts not in 2004, but in 2009," the Boston Democrat said. 
Other Democratic lawmakers conceded a political motive in the vote, saying they wanted to pro­tect Kennedy's legacy, including his signature issue of expanded health care. 
"Some people say it's political. Of course it's political," said Rep. Cory Atkins, a Concord Democrat and Kennedy supporter. 
The bill initially would have required the appointee be from the same party as the person who created the vacancy, a Democrat in the case of Kennedy's successor. 
That requirement was stripped after critics raised constitutional concerns and noted that more 
than half of voters in 
Massachusetts aren't enrolled in 
any party and would be barred 
from consideration. 
Kennedy, in a letter sent to lawmakers before his death, urged the change in law saying "it is vital for this Commonwealth to have two voices speaking for the needs ofits citizens." 
The debate is being followed closely in Washington, where Democrats hope to regain a 60­vote, filibuster-proof margin in the U.S. Senate ahead of any debate on President Obama's health care overhaul. 
Massachusetts Sen. John Kerry, Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid of Nevada and Massachusetts' all-Democratic delegation to the U.S. House also back the change, saying they need all the votes they can to support the health care change. 
Obama presidential counselor David Axelrod has contacted Massachusetts officials, accord­ing to White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs. The Massachusetts branch of Obama's political arm, Organizing for America, has sent out e-mails advocating for the change. 
DeLeo said lawmakers wanted to bar any appointee from also running as a candidate in the special election, but said they could not constitutionally include that provision in the bill. 
Texas debates civil rights lessons in schools 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN, Texas -Minority activists urged Texas education officials on Thursday to not minimize the importance of civil rights leaders Cesar Chavez and Thurgood Marshall in public schools. 
The State Board of Education heard testimony in a plan to update the social studies requirements for the state's 4.6 million K-12 students. Two members of a board-appointed advisory panel had suggested removing Chavez and Marshall from some grades' curriculum, triggering a strong backlash from civil rights groups, teach­ers and parents statewide. 
"Democrat or Republican, lib­eral or conservative, white, black or Latino, we all agree on the importance of education," said state Rep. Eddie Rodriguez, D-Austin, urging the board not to downplay Chavez, who helped improve conditions for Hispanic farm workers. 
Yannis Banks, spokesman for the NAACP's Texas chapter, told the board that to not include Marshall -the attorney who won the case that integrated the nation's schools and later became the first black U.S. Supreme Court justice -was an insult to his contributions. 
"This board has not yet decid­ed anything," said board chair­woman Gail Lowe, adding that no one on the board wanted to 
delist Chavez or Marshall. "This 
is our first meeting in the 
process." 
Final standards for the 2011­

12 school year won't be adopt­
ed until May and are expected 
to change several times before 
then. The standards will be 
used to develop state tests and 
will be the basis for many text­
book publishers who develop 
material used across the coun­
try. 
The standards will remain in place for the next decade, dic­tating what is taught in govern­ment, historv and other social studies classes in public schools. 
Supporters argued that Chavez shouldn't be taken out of fifth grade classes as sug­gested because he greatly improved conditions for Hispanic farm workers. Critics said he lacked the stature and impact to be listed next to the likes of Benjamin Franklin. 
Lowe said the board would likely side with some teachers and other groups that said Chavez should be moved from a list of model citizens, which includes Franklin, to a list of people who contributed to soci­ety, such as Rosa Parks and Martin Luther King Jr. 
A member of the advisory panel also criticized Marshall's inclusion, saying he wasn't a strong enough figure in the civil right movement to merit stronger reference. 


THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Men 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Man Gamber 
ScENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARy's EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO1@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574} 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS {574) 631-8839 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter 
OBsERVER ONLIN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on coment. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leners is encouraged. Leners m the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions regarding Observer polici(S should be 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Obscm:r (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday"""'!" during <"""'and """''ion p<riods. Asub<criprion to The Obsctvet is S 120 ror on< acad<mi.: yur; $65 for one ><me><<r. 
1bc Oboervcr is publiohod u: POSTMASTER Ol4 Smuh DminK Hall Send addral; corn::ctiom to~ Notre Dam•. IN 46556-0779 1bc ()b..,..-..r . PctiodicaljX>""II" paid at Noll< Damo P.O. Box779 and additiotul mailing uffia!s. C24 South Dining H.JI 
Notre Dame, IN 46556.{)779 
1bc ~is a m<mh..r ofth< As.ociue<l Pros. All t<pmdocrion rigbu >r< ~ 
TooAv's STAFF 

News Sports Madeline Buckley Sam Werner Laura McCrystal Eric Prister Molly Madden Molly Sammon Graphics Viewpoint J aclyn Espinoza Michelle Maitz Scene Adriana Pratt 
Exhibit a worthwhile experience despite disturbing nature 
Go and see "Thin" by Lauren Greenfield. Yet some of the photographs and stories in the exhibit are Some believe these images are art. hopeful. Greenfield does not simply display images of emaci­Some believe these images raise awareness for a wide­ated girls for the sake of shocking her audience. She also 
spread social problem. displays the entire process of the eating disorder, including Some believe these images are exploitive and simply a the recovery stages. cheap shock tactic used to gain attention. Some photos show the progress of women who have gone 
Whichever camp you fall in -or maybe it is a combination through treatment at Henfrew and are approaching a of all three -go and see the exhibit because healthy weight. Some of the women talk about the images of these women are real. how they are recovering because of the treat­
The exhibit, displayed by the Snite Museum of Tt-lf: ment they received and are gradually learning
OBSERVER

Art from Aug. 2 -Oct. 18, has garnered atten­to accept their body. tion on campus and has received both criticism So while students may not agree with the dis­and praise for the images of females suffering Editorial play of images of anorexic and bulimic girls, from eating disorders. there is undeniably something to learn from this 
Greenfield took most of the photographs at exhibit. the Renfrew Center, a treatment facility for individuals with The National Eating Disorders Association estimates 10 eating disorders from 2004 to 2006. million females and one million males are fighting a life-and­
"While following their individual stories, the documentary death battle with an eating disorder, generally anorexia or investigates the process of treatment, the culture of rehab, bulimia. the cycle of addiction and the unique relationships, rules and Greenfield states on her Web site that eating disorders rituals that define everyday life within the institution that is affect one in seven American women. their temporary home," Greenfield says of the project on her At Notre Dame, of the students who seek help at the Web site. "What emerges is a portrait of an illness that is University Counseling Center, 10.3 percent list eating disor­frustrating in its complexity and tenacity, and shattering in ders and/or body image concerns as their reason for seeking the pain it inflicts on its sufferers and their loved ones." help, according to Valerie Staples, coordinator of Eating 
The Renfrew Center has 10 facilities nationwide. Disorder Services at the Center. Greenfield collected the material for the exhibit at the facili­As eating disorders are a problem both nationally and on ty in Coconut Creek, Fla. campus, gaining a better understanding of the disorders only 
The material in the exhibit is dealt with honestly and sen­yields a better-educated and more sensitive student body. sitively. The women tell their stories, and their accounts are Regardless of Greenfield's method, the exhibit is a way for displayed next to their photographs. The viewer can then students to educate themselves about the reality of eating read about the experiences of the women in the photo­disorders. graphs, giving the sometimes-shocking images a context. Some photographs are shocking, but they are a reality that 
The exhibit is disturbing. The artist confronts the viewer plagues the women in the photographs as well as students with images and stories of women that cut themselves. The on campus. women detail their near-paralyzation, hair loss, diarrhea So go and read about women who fought an eating disor­and the severe emotional problems associated with their eat­der. See photographs of these women, empathize with them 

ing disorders. It is ugly and disconcerting, but it is true. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
New music on student radio 
As the staff of WSND 88.9 FM, we were pleased to read the article tracing the history and mission of our station and the unique role it plays linking the campus to the greater South Bend community. 
In that spirit, however, we took issue with Mr. Prister's depiction of listeners to "dated" radio as somehow lazy or not technologically savvy enough to determine their own musical programming. The programs and music we play on the air provide a valuable service to Notre Dame students and South Bend community members, introducing them to new music and opening their ears to new bands, styles of music and genres. 
If Mr. Prister truly thinks that people only listen to radio for lack of a higher-tech alternative, we invite him to join the thousands of listeners who tune into our specialty, classical and alternative programming and maybe even discover new musi­cal tastes beyond his comfort zone. Introducing new music and bands to Notre Dame and South Bend is a service WSND has provided for the past 65 years, and one the students, staff and volunteers of 88.9 FM take great pride in performing every day. 
Patrick Brown 
JUniOr 
St. Edward's Hall Sept. 16 

and learn about the problem. 
The sexist Church 
Flipping through the pages of 'Responses to 101 Questions on the Church,' by Notre Dame Theology Professor Richard McBrien, I came across a section regarding "women who feel that they must leave the Church to be ordained." Professor McBrien seemed to imply that the Church's stance on female priests is unfair. Women who experience a 'calling' to the priesthood are discriminated against, but the Church may change this teaching in the future. 
I vividly remember discussing the issue of women priests with a deacon over the summer. His response was, "I like babies . . . I like kids, they're cute. So why can't I have babies? Is it unfair that 1 can't have babies, because I am a man?" Is God sexist, because men can­not have babies? 
In our society, we have become so accustomed to questioning authority and engaging in dissension that we forget our place in the cosmos. There are things that God and His Church proclaim and preach that can never be fully explained. I cannot fully explain why the Church only ordains men to the priesthood, just as I cannot fully explain why God chose only women to bear children. I can question so that I may more fully understand, but it is not my place to demand that God make certain changes. 
The idea of women priests is not a new idea. However, there is no evidence to suggest that the Church has ever ordained women, nor do I see any evidence for a change allowing women to become "Fathers" in the future. In the words of Catholic philosopher Peter Kreeft, "Only boys can be daddies." So maybe we should take a break from being the judge of God's Church and take our place as those judged by God. 
Christopher Damian freshman Dillon Hall Sept. 16 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Oh my gosh. job insecurity in sophomore year of college. who knows what that's like?" 
Franci Swalwell Junior, former PLS major 

Finding the path to God at Notre Dame 
In this column, "The Notre Dame They Know," I will interLJiew individuals who haLJe been influenced by the University ofNotre Dame. 
I will seek to discover the unique role that Notre Dame has played in their life and vocational journey. 
It is hoped that this column will inculcate a deeper, more honest and more profound love for Our Lady and Her l!niLJersity. 
The lamp hanging above the Lyons Hall Arch glows orange in the early evening as students bustle beneath the yellow-bricked dormitory on their way across campus. 
Through the old wooden door on 

Thomas Bounds 
the left, and down a flight of stairs into the 

The Notre Dame 
basement, a room 

they know 
marked with a red nameplate stands ajar. 

Inside, a small bookshelf doubles as a makeshift altar with a picture of Veronica's Veil taped to the wall above. The mirror over the sink is covered in brown paper. On a wooden chair, wear­ing a black-and-white flower print dress and flip-flops, sits Sarah Johnson. Soft-spoken, with dark hair and an easy smile that gives way frequently to laughter, Sarah begins her story. 
"I was born in Michigan, and attend­ed Marion High School. I decided to go to Notre Dame because I thought it was pretty and liked that it was Catholic. 
"When I first came here I wanted to 
solve poverty. I was going to study eco­
nomics and do things ... to help individ­
uals get out of their poor economic sit­
uations." 

Plans for the future soon changed with a new interest in a life of prayer. "I sought out quiet as a sanctuary from all the constant activities. I started to pray in the chapel and then go to Eucharistic Adoration. 
"I realized that Christ who I was praying to in the tabernacle and in Adoration was a person and that He was there and I was talking to Him ... and I fell in love. 
"Then I knew that I wanted my whole life to revolve around Christ." 
Responding to this sense of vocation, Sarah served with the Missionaries of Charity the summer after her freshman year. 
"When I got back to Notre Dame, I was praying about it a lot, and I discov­ered that this vocation was not my vocation. 
"I realized that Christianity is not only about helping people. None of it makes sense unless Christ and prayer and becoming more virtuous and more holy are your goals. 
"The world gets so caught up in these misperceptions today, I think. God alone is sufficient; that's the only thing we should be concerned about. 
''I've always been struck by the verse in the Gospel that says, 'Without me you can do nothing.' (John 15:5) I think that needs to be emphasized so much. 
Apart from God, we can do nothing." 
Soon after, Sarah discerned that her 
vocation was to the contemplative reli­
gious life. 

"At first glance," she says, "the con­templative life is hard to understand, just like the Cross or Christianity. 
"But if you're trying to strive for holi­ness yourself, you are helping other people to become more holy ... you show love to the people around you even if they're hurting in other ways. 
"Especially in America ... we don't recognize that God gives us everything, and that we will only be happy with Him. 
"To show this simply by the very fact of what you're doing, of how you are living as a Carmelite, is a greater serv­ice to the poverty in America, because we're so poor spiritually." 
Sarah intends to graduate from Notre Dame a year early, spend a year work­ing to pay off student loans and enter the Carmelite Monastery in Buffalo, N.Y. in 2011. 
On life as a Carmelite, Sarah says, "They live a life of work and prayer in the tradition of St. Benedict. They will do any kind of work that poor people do ... working for the bread they eat doing simple things, so they can be mindful of the presence of God." 
This life is not without its sacrifices. You really are making a commitment to leave everything in a pretty radical way," Sarah comments. "When you take final vows you are committing to living in that monastery for your entire 
life. You also take vows of poverty, 
chastity, and obedience, which allow 
you to be free to love with your entire 
being." 

To those seeking help in discerning vocations, Sarah says, "I don't think that Christ only calls certain people. He calls everyone, and He offers this to everyone. 
"Discernment is learning how to be generous in whatever circumstances you find yourself." 
Sarah also encourages education in the Faith as a help in discernment: ••the knowledge of the Faith is really knowledge about who you are and who God is. I like what Augustine says: 'The only way you know God is that you know yourself as being loved by Him."' 
"It's really hard sometimes," Sarah concludes. ··sut I've already set my will on it. I'm not going to go back. 
"I discovered that God loves me so much. How am I going to respond to that? 
"My answer was, 'I have to do this. I have to give You everything!"' 
Thomas Bounds is a senior double majoring in math and philosophy. He can be contacted at tbounds@nd. edu 
Sarah lives in Lyons Hall and can be contacted at sjohns12@nd.edu 
She encourages you to read "Religious Vocation: An Unnecessary Mystery n by Fr. Richard Butler, OP. available from Tan Books and Publishers, Inc. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Arts & Letters career? 
Fellow Arts and Letters peers, 

The worst is over. Wait, who am I kidding? 
The Career Fair was only the first step in a series of many that is sure to bring anxiety, confu­sion, and above all, feelings of hopelessness and despair for all liberal arts majors. Despite con­stant reassurance from the Career Center and various companies that Arts and Letters majors are actually in very "high demand," I'm still hav­ing trouble alleviating my concerns over my Cut:­rent job prospects, or lack thereof. · · 
One recruiter assured me that, "Yes, of course we hire liberal arts majors. You guys have very valuable skill sets, such as critical thinking and logical reasoning." Yet once I start talking about the analytical term paper I once wrote regarding the systemic and voluntaristic factors that led to Spain's first wave of democratic collapse and how this really does add to my abilities as a problem­solver and team player, I can tell he has already zoned out and is secretly hoping that the next siP­dent he talks to is majoring in Finance or Computer Programming. To make things worse, the Accounting major standing behind me is impa­tiently rolling his eyes and tapping his foot as he anxiously waits for his turn to wow the recruiter with his summer experiences as a tax intern. 
All of this is not to say that l regret my decision in pursuing a liberal arts education. In fact, there are many perks that come along with being labeled an A & L student: 1) We're not expected to know math. 2) We never have Friday class. 3) We look cool studying in one of the coveted booths at Waddicks. Furthermore, I would much rather dis­cuss the political effects that Socrates gadfly anal­ogy has had on modern democratic politics than analyze the tax benefits of various organizational structures, or even worse, determine the coeffi­cient of thermal expansion. (Who cares?) 
Hopefully, your business or engineering friends are as understanding and accommodating as mine and will also let you sleep on their couch for the next year, maybe two, depending on the economy. 
Justina Tong senior off campus Sept. 16 
The 21st birthday 
When I first made the commitment to leave the coun­try for a year of post-graduate service the things that I initially thought about were not the places I would go, the people I would meet and how much different my life would be for a year in China, but 
rather the things that I would be certain to miss while I was gone. I instantly knew there would be four times when I would desperately wish I hadn't left the country and was home with my friends and fami­ly. 
This weekend marks the first of them (with the other three being Christmas, USC Weekend and 

Thanksgiving). Bob Kessler Those of you that have gotten past 
The 17th 
that painfully boring intro are prob­
Grade

a'hlv now wondering why this week­end h so important. Sure our team is playing in the make ot '"'reak game of the make or break season against a te"-fll whose players and supporters always seem to find ne., lows in classlessness; but how could I be so disappointeo. ...bout not being at a game against a team whose fans once•Qld me with complete serious­ness, "win or lose: we but"' couches." 
I am disappointed not beca.tse I am missing another Notre Da_me. Football_weeke.nd ~pd all of the revelry that comes wtth tt; I am dtsappomted Lh"ause today is my little sister's 21st Birthday and I canno~ ~e in South Bend to celebrate. 
While all birthdays can be fun if they are celeu . .,ted correctly (at least until you turn the age of 37) the l1..... Birthday is the landmark birthday for American youth. Sixteen is nice and all because you can get your driver's license. Seventeen is fine and dandy because you can enter R-rated films. Eighteen is overrated because nobody really gets that excited about cigarettes, strip clubs and lottery tickets (at least not most Notre Dame Students). Twenty-one, however, is the one truly life­altering birthday. 
The difference between 21 and other significant birth­days is that the privileges we earn on the others are nice to have, but things we had previously lived just fine without. Most of us had older friends to drive us bdore we turned 16, didn't really need to see those R-rated films before we were 17 and probably haven't utilized our rights as an 18-year old to this day. By the time we turn 21, however, most of us have been illegally drink­ing alcohol for quite a few years and are relieved to know that we are no longer breaking any ridiculously unnecessary laws. 
Turning 21 not only gives us the privilege to order 
wine with our parents at dinner (I hope you like red, Julie because the Kessler family can now legally kill a bottle over dinner); the privilege of entering Finny's, The Backer and Fever with our friends {although, Julie, I'm pretty sure I already saw you once at Fever); and the right to purchase our own beverages in stores (but hopefully not for any 18-year old brothers that attend the University of Wisconsin); turning 21 also marks the end of our law breaking years. Julie, now that you are 21, you will probably never break the law again (but then again, there is that 18-year old brother ... and the ­15-year old one). 
The great thing about celebrating a 21st Birthday is that it is the only birthday where everybody is as excited as you are. When you turn 21 you get the right to legal­ly drink, and your friends get the right to legally drink with you. I enjoyed my friend's 21st Birthdays more than I enjoyed my own because as great as it was to enter Finny's for the first time, it was even better when I was first able to bring my closest friends to there and The Backer. Twenty-first birthdays are a group celebra­tion and for my sister's, l wish I could be a part of the group {actually, I would have been leading the group). 
When I first arrived at Notre Dame I was told that by the end of four years my friends would be family, which turned out to be completely true. What I never expect­ed when my sister arrived two years ago was that by the time I left Notre Dame she would be one of my friends, something that really hadn't been true since we were running around the family room to our dad's Maynard Ferguson records 18 years ago {and on select Sunday nights in high school when we bonded over the attractiveness of Jennifer Garner and Michael Vartan in Alias). 
While I can't be there for her 21st Birthday today, I tn.t~ .that my family will make sure she has the time of her hfe, 'lld when I say family I don't just mean our parents anu ''rothers, but all my Notre Dame friends that have prom1---cf me they will take her to The Backer tonight, do as I wouu ltave done and strongly encour­
age her to stay until 3 a... ' 
So if you see my s~ster aro~ci campus today, at tail­
gates tomorrow, or m the bars tt.~ weekend wish her a 
happy birthday, and maybe buy her ....lcmg island iced 
tea, because oh, what a night it will be. 
Happy Birthday Julie. 

Bob Kessler is a 2009 graduate that arrogantly 
considers himselfto be the foremost expert on Notre 
Dame culture. He currently writes Things j'l/otre Dame 
Students Like, and you can read more ofhis work at 
the17thgrade.com. He can be reached at 
bob020 7 8 7@gmail. com 

The views expressed in this column are those ofthe 
author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 
E

page 16 


Friday, September 18, 2009 
r 
I 
1 
2 
3 4 5 6 
7 
8 9 

Music They Should Play at Finny's or Dorm Dance Party Playlist 

. By: Szymon Ryzner Lights & Music-Cut Copy 
19-200-Gorillaz (Soulchild Remix) Blind-Hercules and Love Affair Estelle vs.The Ting Tings-The Hood Internet 
Can I Get Get Get-Junior Senior 
D.A.N.C.E. -Justice Run Away -Real McCoy We Are Your Friends-Justice vs. Simian 
Pianoo -Eric Prydz 

1Q Ready for the Floor-Hot Chip 
Notre Dame, it is time to put on 
your dancing shoes and pants and 
start flailing those appendages. 
Whether you flashdance at Finny's 
or get down in your dorm room, 
these tracks will get yq_ur~et 
//--· 
• __/
mov1ng. 
,/ 



13Weekend 17 
1H 19 

20 21 26
2Calendar 

2{)lFcrUciJ.~.. . 
. . ' ' 
c-:lfP'R 
Df'A,IU'U"'\lii. .. ~ ' 1 ' r<, .. 
:____J '···-~ ', ___} ­
-y-­
-~ ..~,~,.. ..... ' -·-..:-· ....·:~~;( ""'...,.. 
13~~'~t.:M=
.................. _.... 
..... _....
-~·.~ 

"Trouble on the Water" offers a new perspective o Hurricane Katrina which few have been exposed to. It focuses on a couple, Kim and Scott, who document their experiences through this harrowing time. Beginning a day before the storm hits, the film tracks Kim and Scott's jour­ney to higher ground, their return to New Orleans and their attempts to find friends and neighbors. Part home movie, part documentary, this film is sure to offer an entirely new perspective on a defining disaster in America's recent mem­ory. 
Put on by Fortnight Productions, Total Request F will feature live performances of songs requested by the stu­dents. Fortnight Productions is a student group spons~d by Student Activities Office. In the past they have Jlt':rftJtined the musical "Titanic" and a show titled "Songs from the 2009 Broadway Season." Practicing all ~ho-Ws for a mere two weeks, Fortnight Productions wolj:s-'to allow otherwise busy students an opportunity to participate in musical theatre. This is sure to be an excellent show. 
,/

After every.Jt"bme game, the Student Activities Otlice spun­
End ;Jt'fne, a themed party of sorts which always includes usir.Aild food. The theme for this week's End Zone is "Be ,t.'fiicago." There will be live jazz music, food from differen 
urants in Chicago, door prizes and more. You are wel­come to drop by anytime between 10 p.m. and 2 a.m. to take part in the fun. Also, look for more exciting End Zone themes in the future. 
Sunday, DPAC is showing the noteworthy foreign "Departures," winner of the 2009 Academy Award for best foreign film. It is set in Japan and centers on a professional cellist, Daigo, whose orchestra loses funding. He is forced to 
ove to his hometown in order to find employment. He 
•..."''"'"' a job titled Departures, believing it to be at a tra agency, but comes to discover that it is actually th 
Japanese equivalent of an embalmer. Daigo's wife and friends do not approve of the morbid job, but Daigo begins to find a certain sense of enjoyment and fulfillment from h new position. He takes pride in his role in helping the dead find peace in their next life as well as helping families through this difficult time. With its multilayered story-line and intriguing characters, "Departures" is sure to be touch­
on multiple levels. 

r 
Contact Genna ···-'--·""­gmccabe@nd.edu
JACLYN ESPINOZA I Observer Graphic 

----------------------~ 

Friday, September 18, 2009 page 17 

Scene Writer 
"As you know in fashion. one day you're in. And the next day, you're out." So goes model Heidi Klum's mantra on Lifetime's hit reality
'·""n.._. 

_,;· show, "Project Runway," where designers bring out the best (and the worst) in the fashion world. Now in its sixth season, K1um and fan favorite Tim Gunn recently ieft the fast-pulsed 7th Avenue, N.Y. for the more laidback, surfer-chic 
L.A. They've also said goodbye to their former network: in a switch from Bravo that more closely resembled designer drama backstage at Fashion \Veek than a corporate deal between two companies, "Project Runway" moved to Lifetime. 
So far, this year's cast seems tamer than years past. No one has stood out quite like Season 4's Christian Siriano and his "Team Fierce" looks or too-cool-to-care Santino from Season 2. However, meltdowns. No one wants to see their work criticized, but sometimes for designers, it gets personal. In Season 1, after an embarrassing showing in the "Clothes Off Your Back" chal­lenge, Andrae Gonzalo wept profusely during the judging. Then there was Kenley Collins who, with her bright red lipstick and puffy red eyes, tried to defend her work which all too resem­bled other more famous designer looks. 
The judges too have had their run-ins with contestants. Top designer Michael Kors and Elle magazine editor Nina Garcia have dished harsh criticism throughout the years, ranging from Nina's "Pretty can be boring," to Michael's "She looks like Barefoot Appalachain Lil' Abner Barbie." Heidi Klum usually sits back and agrees with the judges, though of course in her stiletto heels (while pregnant) and too-tight dresses. 
Of all reality hosts though, none is more 
beloved than Tim Gunn. 
Former dean at Parson's
Everything and anything
with only five episodes aired, School of Design and no re's still plenty of time for the has been featured on chief creative officer at Liz.·· , meltdowns and outlandish ..Project Runway,,, with Clairborne, Tim supplied thet tyles that have made "Project show with the catchphrase"
no material too ecentric
Runway" famous. that has made fashion histo-The premise is simple. Each for the show ry: "Make it work!" An advi­pisode features a different fash-sor for the designers, Ti 
on challenge, ranging from 
signing prom· dresses to jumpsuits for dogs. 
the end of the season, the three best contest­
ts in the challenges present their collections 
at Fashion Week in Bryant Park, N.Y. The win­
ner of this final challenge gets $100,000 capital 
to start a fashion line; a feature in Marie Claire 
magazine and a trip to ·Paris. The model who 
features the winning designer's outfits also gar­
ners $25,000 from L'Oreal and a spread in 
Marie Claire. 
Everything and anything has been featured on "Project Runway," with no material too eccentric for the show. Fabrics ranging from elegant chiffon to plants and flowers have been used in dresses, pantsuits and even wrestling · outfits. Memorable looks Include the licorice dress from Season 4, the cornhusk dress from ason 1 and Christian's two-toned runway 
looks at Fashion Week. 
critiques their works progress, and a smile or look of disapproval send a designer into panic. After all, no one wants to hear that their design looks like "elongated marshmallow." 
With Season 6 underway, the contestants ha faced their set of run-ins and challenges Epperson and Qristyl teamed up on a challenge and proceeded to have dress color issues, Mitchell was voted off after being on a wi .... ",..o team and Ari created a look resembling a cer ball more than a red carpet design. All in a day's work on "Project Hun way." 
The three lucky contestants presenting thei collections at Bryant Park Fashion Week w· not be revealed until the fall, but until then viewers can catch "Project Runway," Thursday at 10 p.m. on Lifetime. 
Contact Emily Dorel at edore@nd.edu 
I 
JACLYN ESPINOZA I Observer Graphic 


News flash -Rowling did not invent British boarding schools, she just inserted the magic. 
occasions} students baselessly claiming that our own South Dining Hall provided the inspiration for J .K. Howling's Hogwartian Great Hall. To whichever tour guide tried to fool unsuspecting tourists with this litt~e false factoid: You're an idiot. 
For starters, Rowling has, to 

Kara King 
the best of my knowledge, never visited Notre Dame. And, given her selection of Christchurch Scene College, Oxford, as the setting 
Columnist 
and her love for all things British, I think her true inspira­tion for the magical eatery lies somewhere across the 
pond. I 
doubt that she was somehow inspired by the glimpse of South in "Rudy." 
And, while I hope it is 

only a Image courtesy of http:/fsao.nd.edu select few Notre Dame's South Dining Hall Is called students an inspiration for "Harry Potter." dumb 
--~--·-----------------------------------------·------------------------------~' 


received word that admissions encourages spreading 
this rumor) the rest ofthe student body is just as culpa­
ble in overusing this far-from-adequate comparison. 
Just because one dining hall is slightly more Potter­esque than another does not mean "Harry Potter" is a suitable means of description. Like, OMG! A large room with high ceilings and tables. It's JUST like in "Harry Potter!!" 
No. 

How ever did people describe the inside ofSouth before the first movie came out? Maybe by comparing it to any other collegiate dining hall at any older U.S. uni­versities? Or any school in the U.K. for that matter? You all were smart enough to get in here, come up with a better comparison without resorting to children's litera­ture.. _, _-~­
I get that Harry Potter is a global phenomenon. and maybe people are just trying to give our visitors a visual, albeit a faulty one. But utilizing this description high­light." the underlying fact that a child's novel is the sole point of reference to anything British for most on cam­pus (Given the number of you who studied in London, this is more than a little embarrassing). I can't begin to count the inane questions people ask me on a regular basis -Your school had houses? (Why would I make that up'!) Were you in Gryffindor? (No moron, our hous­es were named after the'conquerors of Britain rather than imaginary dead wizards. I was a Norman). You were a prefect? Those things are real? But it just suits Percy so well! 
I know Notre Dame can find references to itself every­where­from Hascall 
Platts 
songs to "Shrek" to virtually any movie starring Vmce Vaughn. We don't need to seek them 

Image courtesy of http://dorkus.net OUt where 
Christ Church College's dining hall Is they don't used in the Harry Potter films. exist. As a 
student body we're already perceived as arrogant, why do we feel the need to perpetuate this aura of self-importance by forcing ourselves into the Harry Potter world? 
I'm fighting a losing battle here, I know. Comparing South to the Great Hall is becoming as ND as complain­ing about the winters in South Bend and losing winnable I 
I 
I
football games. But it's about time to stop it now. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe I author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Kara King at kkingS@nd.edu 
JACL YN ESPINOZA I Observer Graphic 
Friday, September 18, 2009 

page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 

James to star in Universal Studios comedy 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND LeBron lames is leaving Cleveland­for Hollywood. 
The Cavaliers superstar and reigning NBA MVP will make his feature film debut by playing himself in an upcoming comedy. 
James will appear in "Fantasy Basketball Camp" by Universal Pictures. The movie is about five guys from different backgrounds who come to Las Vegas to live out their fantasy by attending James' basketball camp. Production will begin next summer, when James can become a free agent. 
James is experienced in front of the camera. Along with appearing in numerous TV commercials, he has hosted "Saturday Night Live." 
Producer Brian Grazer is convinced the All-Star for­ward can make the transi­tion to the big screen, as rapper Eminem did in "8 Mile." Grazer also produced that picture. 
"I initially sought LeBron out because my 8-year-old 

son, Thomas, and I were just dying to meet him," Grazer said. "But I felt that beyond being one of the world's great superstar athletes, here was someone so relaxed and comfortable with himself that he would have the capa­bility to be that way on screen. Later, when I watched him host 'Saturday Night Live,' and saw his advertising work, it was clear he can do this." 
James will be an executive producer on the project along with his business part­ner, Maverick Carter. 
This summer, James has been promoting "More Than a Game," a documentary which chronicles how he and four childhood friends achieved their dream of win­ning a high school national 
championship.  The  film  
opens Oct. 2.  
James  is  following  new  

Cavaliers teammate Shaquille O'Neal into the film world. O'Neal, acquired by Cleveland in June to help James win his first NBA title, has starred in several motion pictures, including "Blue Chips" and "Kazaam." 

MLB 

Division-leading Tigers drop game to last-place Royals 
Kansas City ace Zach Greinke injured in 5th, earns 14th victory of the season; Jackson gives up five in loss 
at the Metrodome on Friday. ed several warmup pitches makes his money with, so innings.
Associated Press 

"It's going to be a playoff and a visit from a trainer we were concerned," Leyland said Jackson's DETROIT -Jim Leyland atmosphere," Detroit's before he continued. Hillman said. "At first, his outing was "not very good," was unhappy. Brandon Inge said. "When I started warming arm was numb, so the pitch­and he's concerned about 
Leaning back in his chair Greinke (14-8) gave up up, I didn't have any con­es were wild, but once the the right-hander's troubles with his feet propped up on three hits, struck out eight trol, so I told Trey that I blood got running, he got with his slider. top of his desk, the Detroit and walked two. He has needed more pitches," he his control back. We had six Jackson conceded the manager didn't relish dis­allowed only one earned run said, referring to manager or seven sets of eyes on pitch hasn't worked in cussing his team's latest in his past four starts, low­Trey Hillman. "Once I got him, and if anything had "some games," but that loss to last-place Kansas ering his ERA from 2.43. used to it, I was able to get changed, he was coming out fatigue isn't the issue. City. Miguel Olivo and Josh my fastball over and the off­of the game." "Maybe (I'm) rushing a lit­
"There's no excuses," he Anderson hit three-run speed pitches were fine. I Hillman removed his ace tle bit," he said. said. homers for the Royals, and wasn't scared -the only after 77 pitches, 46 for Alberto Callaspo hit a two­
Zack Greinke lowered his Willie Bloomquist had four thing that scares me is get­strikes. out, two-run double in the major league-leading ERA hits. ting hit in the face." "I never want to only go first, a ball just out of the to 2.14 with five scoreless Greinke struck out two in Hillman said X-rays were five, but it was the right reach of center fielder innings in a 9-2 victory the first and three in the negative, and the team will move, because I didn't feel Curtis Granderson . Olivo's Thursday over the Tigers. second. The only real trou­monitor Greinke during the like I was pitching very well 21st homer made it 5-0 in 
Kansas City, an AL-worst ble he faced was in the next several days. in the fifth." Greinke said. the third and Anderson ­59-87, has won six of its fourth, when the right-han­"That was a scary moment "Before I got hit, I thought I acquired from Detroit on last se.ven games against the der was struck on the upper for me, and I'm sure for was good, though. I had July 30 -connected in the Tigers (78-68), whose AL part of his throwing arm by anyone who cares about great command." sixth off Armando Galarraga Central lead over second­a liner off the bat of Miguel Zack Greinke . We didn't Edwin Jackson (12-7), like for his first homer since hit­place Minnesota (74-72) was Cabrera . Greinke gathered know what we would see Greinke a member of the AL ting two for Atlanta against cut to four games. Detroit himself and threw out when we got out there, but All-Star team, gave up five Houston's Brandon Backe on starts a three-game series Cabrera at first, then need-that's the arm that he runs and six hits in five Sept. 27 last year. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt.,no experience needed,cus­tomer sales/service, 574·273·3836. 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST: Womans silver link Citizen eco-drive watch. Round face encir· cled by crystals. Lost outside LaFortune Saturday, Sept. 5, follow­ing the band to the stadium. High sentimental value. $50 reward. Cheryl 574-272-9037. 

FOR SALE 
12 x 65 mobile home, 3 bdrm, car· port, patio, all appliances, low utili· ties, new roof. $300/mo for lot rent. Extra storage. $6,500. Call 269­683·7506. 10 minutes from ND. 
YOU ARE INVITED OPEN HOUSE THIS SUNDAY 2-4PM. 51760 VIL· LAGER. CLOSE TO CAMPUS, OVER 2000 SQ. FT. QUIET AREA. ONLY $144,900. Call574-339-9534 for more info. 
FoR RENT 
Looking for a quiet place to relax after the game? Charming rental unit for 2-4. beautiful view, free canoe and kayaks with direct access to St. Joe River. Adults only, no smoking, no pets. See pictures on www.TheRiverGetaway.org or 269-815-3000. Great to stay for Notre Dame Events. 3 day mini­mum. 
APARTMENT right off campus. 1· bdrm. $500/mo. all inclusive. 574­243-7777. 
You have seen the rest -now CHECK OUT THE BEST. Open Houses Sun. 9/20/09 4-7. andersonNDrentals.com Start at 203 E. Navarre 
TICKETS 

HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top $$. 57 4-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232· 0964. 
Need 2 MSU & USC tix & parking pass. 574·276·8507. 
PERSONALS 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1·2685. For more information, visit ND s website 
at: 
http //pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
EARN $50 FOR 1 HR OF WRITING ACT, Inc. invites you to participate in an essay-writing study. Limited number of participants so register soon to secure a spot. www.act.org/essaystudy 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame s website: http://csap. nd. edu 
If I can't scuba, then what have I been working for? 
I must have a trustworthy face. I think it's my low cheekbones. 


OUNDTHE 
ATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVE~s WIRE SERVICES 
Friday, September 18, 2009 page 19 
NBA 
Men's Cross Country USTFCCCA Top 25 

team previous 

1 
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
9 10 
11 
12 
13 14 15 16 
17 
18 19 
20 
21 22 23 24 25 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 
12 
13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 
24 
25 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 
Oregon Oklahoma State Stanford Wisconsin Northern Arizona Colorado lona Portland Georgetown Alabama Tulsa BYU Auburn Virginia William & Mary Providence Minnesota Arkansas North Garolina Butler Cal Poly Michigan Florida State Washington Iowa State 
Women's Cross Country USTFCCCA Top 25 

1 2 
3 4 
11 10 7 
6 8 5 
17 16 13 15 14 28 
12 
24 23 25 
30 9 
20 21 22 
team· previous 
Vfashington Oregon 
florida State ¥fest Virginia Villanova Stanford Princeton Minnesota Georgetown Illinois Arizona State Providence Baylor Florida 
Wisconsin Northern Arizona Michigan State Virginia Michigan 

Rice Colorado New Mexico Syracuse Texas Tech BYU 
Women's Volleyball Bison/ UVCA Top 10 

1 
2 
3 
f 
7 12 
4 6 17 14 15 
20 
18 16 
10 26 
13 28 8 19 
NR 21 25 
9 
NR 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -The lead negotiator and spokesman for the N BA's referees union said Thursday a lock­out appears "imminent and unavoidable" following the latest breakdown in talks. 
Lamell McMorris said the officials made another $1 million in concessions in their proposal, but believes it's evident the league is not interested in further dis­cussions. The officials then headed home after spend­ing the last 24 hours meet­ing in Chicago. 
"It's become evident that the league would not be interested in continuing conversation at this time," McMorris said. 
The NBA had a similarly pessimistic view. 
''I'm not going to handi­cap it, other than to say there's always time to make an agreement if the parties want to do that," NBA gen­eral counsel and lead nego­tiator Rick Buchanan said. ''I'm not optimistic based on what happened today. We'll just have to see what happens." 
The contract between the NBA and its officials expired Sept. 1 and the sides have been trying to reach a new two-year deal. McMorris said they largely agree on salaries, but the union has balked at the league's attempt to change retirement benefits. 
Besides the severance 

and pension disagree­ments, the officials are resisting a league develop­ment plan for young offi­cials. 
Without a new deal, replacement officials will be used when preseason play opens Oct. 1. The NBA last began a season without its regular referees in 1995-96, when the caliber of officiating was roundly criticized. 
"We're prepared to be locked out by the NBA but also remain open to ongo­ing dialogue," McMorris said, adding that negotia­tions have been difficult because the league "has made pretty clear they have a goal they are trying to achieve as it relates to 
IN BRIEF 

Players' fines from 2009 U.S. 
Open total $31,500 
NEW YORK -Roger Federer has been fined $1,500 for using a profanity while arguing with the chair umpire during the U.S. Open final. 
CBS microphones picked up the exchange during its live broad­cast of the match. 
Tournament spokesman Chris Widmaier says Federer is being docked the same amount as two other players -Vera Zvonareva 
and Daniel Koellerer  - for audi­ 
ble obscenity.  
Widmaier  says  a  total  of  

$31,500 in fines is being collect­ed by the tournament, topped by Serena Williams' $10,000 for unsportsmanlike conduct. She also was fined $500 for racket abuse. 
Daniel Nestor was docked $5,000 for unsportsmanlike con­duct toward a fan. 
South Korean J!Oifers Kim,
Shin lead in TOrrey Pines 
SAN DIEGO -Song-Bee Kim and Jiyai Shin each shot a 6-under 66 to share the lead atop the elite 20-player field in the opening round of the Samsung World Championship at Torrey Pines on Thursday. 
Kim was the runner-up in this tour­nament last year, losing by one stroke to Paula Creamer at Half Moon Bay in Northern California. Kim started strong, with five birdies in her first eight holes on the South Course. Shin, coming off her tour-leading third victo­ry of the year at the NW Arkansas Championship, had four birdies on the back nine. 
Both are from South Korea. 
Top-ranked Lorena Ochoa of Mexico and Sophie Gustafson of Sweden were one stroke behind the leaders on a per­fect, calm day on the blufttop municipal course overlooking the Pacific Ocean, where Tiger Woods claimed his epic win in the 2008 U.S. Open. 
these long-term benefits." 
All 57 active referees arrived in Chicago on Wednesday, meeting for more than seven hours and unanimously rejecting a proposal the league made earlier that day. McMorris said the officials recon­vened early Thursday morning to finalize the counterproposal they made to the league. 
Talks previously broke down after NBA commis­sioner David Stern ended a meeting in New York, say­ing the officials had reneged on previously agreed to items. McMorris sounded hopeful of a deal Wednesday night, but little progress was made in Thursday's talks. 
team  previous  
Penn State  1  
Texas  2  
Washington  3  
Hawaii  6  
Florida  4  
Michigan  7  
UCLA  8  
Nebraska  5  
Minnesota  9  
Iowa State  11  

around the dial 
MLB 
Cubs vs. Cardinals 
7:15 p.m., CSN 
NCAA Football 
Boise State vs. Fresno State 9 p.m., ESPN 

Roethlisber~er's lawyersclaim women s story is fake 
CARSON CITY, Nev.-Lawyers for Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger said in court documents made available Thursday that the woman who has accused him of raping her at a Lake Tahoe hotel-ca_c;;ino concocted the story, in part, to try to shield herself from possible layoffs at the resort. 
The woman fabricated the rape allega­tion againc;;t the two-time Super Bowl win­ner to try to prevent Harrah's Lake Tahoe from t.enninating her after she had taken prolonged bereavement leave, Roethlisberger's lawyers said. 
Tbe woman has said she was hospital­ized for several months last fall because of trauma from the alleged July 11, 2008 attack by Roethlic;;berger. 
The quarterback's lawyers have said the woman's emotional collapse had nothing to do with a rape but resulted from a failed relationship with a married man and then a long-distance relationship that turned out to be a hoax. 
page 20 The Obsen,er + SPORTS Friday, September 18, 2009 
NFL 

Former Detroit coach dies at 72 
Clark coached the Lions for seven years, earned postseason bids in 1982 and 1983 

Associated Press 
DETROIT -Monte Clark, who coached the Detroit Lions for seven years and led them to the playoffs in 1982 and 1983, has died. He was 72. 
He died Wednesday night at Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit, the team said Thursday. He had a bone marrow malignancy associ­ated with lung and liver dis­ease. 
Clark was the offensive line coach for the Miami Dolphins team that went 17­0 in 1972. He became the Lions' coach in 1978. 
"Monte will always be remembered as a consum­mate football man," Lions president Tom Lewand said. "He knew football inside and out, and had a passion for it. He played the game at a high level and had success wherever he coached." 
Under Clark, the Lions went 43-63-1 and made back-to-hack postseason appearances for the first time since their three straight playoff runs from 1952-54. The Lions lost both 
games. 
Seven players were named to 14 Pro Bowls during Clark's stay in Detroit, including lineman AI "Bubba" Baker, running back Billy Sims and kicker Eddie Murray. 
Clark was born in Kingsburg, Calif., and starred as an offensive line­man at Southern California before San Francisco drafted him in 1959. He spent three seasons with the 49ers and one with the Dallas Cowboys before playing for the 

Cleveland Browns from 1963-69. 
Clark served as an assis­tant in Miami from 1970-75 before becoming head coach in San Francisco in 1976, leading the 49ers to an 8-6 record. 
Don Shula, whose 26 years as coach in Miami included the perfect 1972 season, called Clark an "outstanding coach." 
"Monte was an outstanding teacher and knew how to present information to his players in a way that made it interesting and exciting for them," he said in a state­ment released by the Dolphins. 
Clark also was on Shula's staff when Miami again won the Super Bowl in 1973. After his coaching stints in San Francisco and Detroit, Clark returned to Miami as director of pro personnel in 1990. 
Clark served as offensive line coach at Stanford in 1993-94 and was Miami's offensive line coach in 1995, Shula's final season as coach of the Dolphins. He spent the 1998 season as offensive line coach at Cal-Berkeley and joined the Lions that year for the first of 11 seasons as a consultant. 
After his coaehing career, Clark was a football broad­caster in Detroit and color analyst for the University of Michigan. He was a sideline reporter for the Michigan State radio network in 1992. 
Survivors include Clark's wife of 52 years, Charlotte, three sons and eight grand­children. 
Funeral arrangements are incomplete. 
Please recycle The Observer. 
NFL 

Gonzalez out up to eight weeks 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Anthony Gonzalez may be out longer than the Colts first feared and they appear to have a replacement for him, too. 
Coach Jim Caldwell said the third-year receiver could miss up to two months after spraining ligaments in his right knee during Sunday's 
14-12  victory  over  
Jacksonville.  
Indy  has  signed former  

Philadelphia receiver Hank Baskett to take Gonzalez's place, and three-time league MVP Peyton Manning hopes he can find his way around the offense fast. The team made the announcement fol­lowing Thursday's practice. 
"Hopefully we can catch him up as soon as possible," Manning said. "It's a lot of offense to learn in a couple of 
days but he's a veteran, so he could help us." The Colts play Miami on Monday night. 

Team president Bill Polian said this past Monday that the Colts would only sign a veter­an receiver if Gonzalez was expected to miss more than four weeks. The next day, in an interview on NFL Network, Polian acknowledged Gonzalez was going to get a second opinion on the injured knee. 
Caldwell did not provide any new details about the injury Thursday other than to say: "It could be two to between six and eight weeks." 
Initial reports indicated Gonzalez would not miss more than six weeks. 
Losing Gonzalez for an extended period is a big blow to the Colts, who expected their 2007 first-round draft pick to replace Marvin Harrison, the franchise's career receiving leader, in the starting lineup this season. Harrison was released in a cost-cutting move in February and remains a free agent. 
Gonzalez and Harrison put up nearly identical numbers last season, and the Colts thought Gonzalez was headed for a breakout year until he stepped across the line of scrimmage late in the first quarter Sunday and crumpled to the ground without touch­ing another player. 
The injury left the Colts (1­
0) thin at receiver. Aside from Reggie Wayne, the only other healthy receivers on the ros­ter are second-year pro Pierre Garcon and rookie Austin Collie, a fourth-round draft pick from Brigham Young. 


Notre Darne Apartrnents 

$300 Signing Bonus £or 2010-2011 
Le•se tnust be signed befor• Octobet-10, 2009 
Leases start atonly$350 per month,perstudent/ 
View the floorplan at www..kramerhouses..com 
: call {574) 234-2436 
..._...,n_..a sn 
Men's &Women's Cross Country 
NATIONAL CArnOLIC INVITATIONAL FRI.. @ 4:15PM @NoTRE DAME GoLF WtJRSE 

Friday, September 18, 2009 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 
Hamels takes perfect game into sixth in win 
Phillies ace goes eight innings, allows one run on five hits and strikes out ten in victory over Nationals 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Cole Hamels is again pitching like Philadelphia's October ace. 
Hamels has turned his sea­son around down the stretch for the NL East-leading Phillies, putting himself in position for another postsea­son run. 
Hamels took a perfect game into the sixth inning, masterfully using his changeup while matching a season high with 10 strike­outs and leading the Phillies to a 4-2 win over the Washington Nationals on Thursday night. 

"I think you have to enjoy it," Hamels said. "Sometimes, the games get a little bit more meaningful. The fans know it, we know it. It's just going out there and doing what we know best." 
Hamels (1 0-9), the MVP of last season's NL champi­onship series and World Series, allowed one run and five hits in eight strong innings. He even chipped in with an opposite-field RBI single to help the Phillies win their fifth straight game. 
"There's nothing better than pitching at home in 
HOUSE for SALE 738 N. Twyckcnh;-un Drive South Bend. IN 46<; J7 
J--Ialf mile south ofcampus Three bt'drooins. 2 hathroon1s (:entral air~condirioning t\tradu.~d garage Appliances retnaitt 
Pam f ~Cola S74..5:32..0204 (:re~sy & Everett 
September," he said. "The fans are great and it kind of gives you that extra motiva­tion." 
Hamels was as sharp as he's been all season and continued a sensational string of quality starts from Philadelphia's rotation. He finally ran into trouble in the seventh when he gave up a run and loaded the bases. The 25-year-old left-bander got Mike Morse to fly out and struck out Josh Bard to escape the jam. 
Hamels retired the first 15 batters before Morse led off the sixth inning with a clean single to left. He quickly regrouped against the last­place Nats, striking out Bard, Jorge Padilla and Justin Maxwell to end the inning. 
Hamels got some help in the fourth when third base­man Pedro Feliz made a leaping catch to rob Ryan Zimmerman, sending a spark through the crowd and ending the inning. 
Zimmerman had a nice grab of his own when he made a tumbling catch over the tarp and banged his head on the railing to retire Chase Utley in the sixth. 
Hamels was looking at a no-decision until the fifth. Feliz walked and scored on Jimmy Rollins' two-out dou­
ble into left field for a 1-0 lead. 
Hamels got ahead of hit­ters all night and threw 7 3 strikes in 109 pitches. He walked one. 
"That's as good as we've seen him this year," Nationals manager Jim Riggleman said. "All their pitchers did very well against us this year. He had it all going 
feeling good about their rotation as they inch closer toward their third straight division title. When the Nationals scored off Hamels in the seventh, it ended a streak of 29 straight score­less innings from the starters. 
"This is the best starting pitching we've had since I've 
been here," 
Phillies man­
ager Charlie 

tonight." ..There·s nothing bet­Manuel said. Brad Lidge ter than pitching at Manuel's 
gave up a run only gripe with
home in September.·· 
in the ninth Hamels was before finishing that he for his 30th Cole Hamels favored the save in 40 change almost
Phillies Pitcher 
chances. The Phillies (85-60) moved 25 games over .500 for the first time since they finished the 1993 season 97-65. 
"We do firmly believe that we have the best team," Hamels said. 
Ross Detwiler {0-6) had perhaps his finest start of the season for Washington, striking out six and allowing one run in five innings. 
Nice, just not close to per­fect. 
Hamels struggled for most of this season until finding his way again in late August. He's 3-1 in his last five starts and has the Phillies 
too much at 
the expense of 

his other pitches. Batters know it's coming, can wait on it and have a better chance of hit­ting it-sometimes. 
"It can get him in a jam at times," Manuel said. "It took them a long time to get wood on it." 
The Phillies scored twice in the sixth to give Hamels a cushion. Ryan Howard scored on a bases-loaded walk to Carlos Ruiz and Hamels added his run-scor­ing single. 
Utley scored on a wild pitch in the seventh to make it 4-1. 

FridaJ, September 18 Noon V&Iiity Shop on the ldRh Or•on Opens 
3:00p.m. lfiffh Oro•n Op<truJ with OJ Mutic 
3:00 p.m. ltD Student Tailgate TOI8 Toumameat 
HpunHO!fJIJ hy HunurUJfi Not!IJ tlomli 8<)t)kWJift 
3-'.AI p.m. ViJit !tom the Notte Dam.t Penn Pon Squad 
.00 p.m... Live Perfotm4nt:e by Httlf Pint JoMt~ 

e-.30 p.m. 8tX1llkom.· Atmltnlit> AJ/on !Jam YoiJnq, John Ry~Jn, Cotl<.'IJ Ca1wm [Jtown 

.Aa.o: ND Stadium Tunnel ~n to t;M pubiU:, frlday; JO;OO a,m,-6;00 p~m, Campuf Toor1from Eck Vimt.ott' ~~ Yrltfay: 1.1.:00 e.m,, 1 ;00 p.m, and 3~00 p.m, 
Saturday, September 19 8:00a.m. Vallity Shop on the lriMh Orn.n O~n• 
10:00 a,m.. Jri~b Green Open• 10=00 a.aa.. OJ Muiic 11~ &.IlL Live Performai1C4 by R.ed AU.rt 
I*'p..m, ND Pttrt;.On.e.Utkf• hofltltd by Chuck lAnnon and a VJftt from tuND ChMrJ8~'t tsJO p,-. Hmro DaJWJ Olo# Club 
2:01 p..-.. DJ MUIW ,_p..& lri§b OtMn CloMis ,.....p..a KJt:ktJII ND Vfl, Mlchjqon fkaw 
GAME 
DAY 

page 22 Friday, September 18, 2009
The Observer+ SPORTS 
NCAA FooTBALL 


Harris leads Hurricanes to second ACC victory 
Miami quarterback tosses three touchdowns in win, snaps four-game losing streak to Yellow Jackets 
Miami (2-0, 2-0 Atlantic afterward -and finished Jackets in basketball. Meanwhile, Harris was 
Associated Press 

Coast Conference) matched with 7 yards on five car­"This offense is not self­the picture of cool, setting 
MIAMI -Jacory Harris its best league start since ries. Josh Nesbitt complet­ish," Byrd said. "As long as the tone for the Miami watched Georgia Tech run 2004, outgained Georgia ed 6 of 15 passes, all to we're winning." sideline. over, past and around Tech 454-228 and set up a Demaryius Thomas, for 133 Since taking a 24-0 lead A 35-yard pass to Miami's defense on the Coastal Division showdown yards, including a 56-yard against Clemson last Leonard Hankerson was opening series of the game, at Virginia Tech on Sept. touchdown midway through Thursday night, Georgia immediately followed by a barely showing any emo­26. Graig Cooper ran for 93 the fourth quarter. Tech has been outscored 40-yard toss to Byrd for tion on the sideline. yards, Javarris James "We could never get them 60-2 3. Miami's first touchdown. 
He saved it all for the rushed for 72 more and a off the field," Georgia Tech "We just killed our-Dedrick Epps caught a 13­field. touchdown, and LaRon coach Paul selves," yarder for a 14-3 lead And Georgia Tech's hex Byrd caught five passes for Johnson said. Dwyer said. early in the second quarter,
"Big win for us
over Miami? It's over. 83 yards and another "In a game "We didn't and Bosher connected on a Cool and in control score. like that, you tonight. Big, huge play Georgia 34-yard field goal with throughout, Harris com­It's the first time Miami better maxi­Tech football. 5:45 left in the half.
win. Big for this foot­
pleted 20 of 25 passes for has won consecutive games mize and we I think we "As long as we play as a 
I 
ball team and this 
270 yards and three touch­against ranked opponents didn't. We finally learned team," Harris said, "we'll
,,

downs, and the 20th­since the end of the 2003 played very program. our lesson. We come out with victories like ranked Hurricanes snapped season. poorly on realized that this." 
a four-game losing streak "Big win for us tonight," offense." if we don't go Meanwhile, even when
Randy Shannon
against No. 14 Georgia Miami coach Randy Miami didn't. out here and Georgia Tech caught a
I 
Hurricanes coach 
Tech with a 33-17 victory Shannon said. "Big, huge Other than work hard, break, the Jackets couldn't 
Thursday night. win. Big for this football two late we're going to cash in. A pass interfer­J Miami scored on its first team and this program." missed field goals by Matt get our butts kicked." ence call against Vaughn 
> • 
.\ three possessions, built a Georgia Tech (2-1, 1-1) Bosher, there wasn't much Georgia Tech ran the ball Telemaque on fourth-and­24-3 lead shortly after blew Miami out a year ago, for Miami to complain on its first 12 plays, quick­12 from the Miami 29 halftime and outgained the dooming the Hurricanes' about, and the Hurricanes ly forcing Miami into a extended one drive; the Yellow Jackets by nearly a conference title hopes by sauntered off celebrating series of frantic substitu­Yellow Jackets went for it 
2-to-1 margin. rushing for 4 7 2 yards. This their most significant win tions. Eric Moncur there because kicker Scott I' I "One thing I congratulate time, Miami handled the in years. Even tight end Miami's sixth-year defen­Blair was 0 for 7 lifetime this team on is how we stay triple option with relative Jimmy Graham -who sive end who was injured from outside 40 yards. 
I 
! : 
focused," Harris said. "You ease, holding the Yellow spent four years on Miami's most of last season and Thr€!e plays later, he
I I 
know, there's a lot of peo­Jackets to 95 yards rushing basketball team -got into was held out of thts year's tried a field goal from 39
I 
ple around campus and in -60 of those coming on the act, catching a 14-yard opener -got a big stop on yards: Wide right it sailed
I 
I I 
the community, they praise the game's first drive. touchdown pass in the third-and-6, forcing Tech off the Florida Marlins' us now and they've got our Tech's reigning ACC play­third quarter. to settle for a field goal. in fie 1d dirt, on I y B I air'sit back and all this. But the er of the year, fullback Graham was the only The Yellow Jackets ran second miss in 19 career 
I: I) thing I know about this Jonathan Dwyer, was Miami player ever to beat for 60 yards on that drive tries from that distance or 
I ,I 
team, we're not (letting} slowed by a shoulder injury Georgia Tech before: He -and managed only 27 less, according to STATS anything go to our head." -only a stinger, he said was 4-1 against the Yellow more the rest of the half. LLC. 

,•THIS IS THE FINAL WEEK!!!!!! SIGN UP@ www.LaurenStudios.com to ensure your place in the 2010 DOME Yearbook (Use the school password "Dome 2010" to access the Notre Dame Portrait Schedule) Who: Class of2010 Students When: Pictures taken next week only.Sept. 21-25, 2009 Where: La Fortune 108 Why: To be in your 2010 Notre Dame Dome Yearbook Remember Sign Up Today! www.LaurenStudios.com School Password­DOME2010  

Friday, September 18, 2009 

The Observer + SPORTS page 23 

''Come to the Tal:11e •.•.• " 
mse.en f • ::az.. ' --­
.,ti•J' 

Are you -ehlnklnQ •1:1out 1:1ecomtne C•thollc? 
Tate. tfm• to t.arn mor• alto~ ttt. C.thotJo ~~~~byJotntne th• ~JA prooOH (IIUW ofChrf~n Jnftlatlon ofAduiH) 
".•,.., ·­
-·~· ~tA •• for thOH who ar•s unl1apttud, 0~ lta~&M In anot~r Chrl~n t.r.,.ttfon 
Ott hav• .,.,." ••ptlu"Cat.hofte and hav• 
rwc.~vu no D'tNr eaoram•nte 
f •"-llm•IOdftJHM t.tt• mtlflfmpor-Witt p•.-tQfyour Jtf•s YOUR f'AtTHt 
NFL 
Eagles still hopeful McNabb will play 
Philadelphia holding out hope after quarterback broke rib during victory over Carolina 
Associated Press 
PHilADELPHIA -The Eagles aren't giving up hope of having Donovan McNabb on the field when they play their home opener Sunday against the New Orleans Saints. 
McNabb made a brief appear­ance on the practice field Thursday afternoon but did not take part in any drills, after frac­turing his rib on a touchdown run late in Philadelphia's 38-10 victory over the Carolina Panthers last weekend. 
"Donovan is working very hard," offensive coordinator Marty Mornhinweg said. "You know Donovan, he's doing every­thing in hi<; power to get back out there, make it to this game. He's played with a broken ankle, a broken sternum and all these things. Donovan is a very tough man." 
If McNabb isn't available, the Eagles will go with Kevin Kolb, the team's second-round draft pick in 2007. Kolb would make his first NFL start ahead of veter­an Jeff Garcia, who signed Tuesday as an emergency backup. 
"If Kevin starts the game, he's our quarterback," Mornhinweg said. "It's that simple. I don't know if I can be anymore clear. I have great confidence in Kevin." 
Kolb took nearly all the reps with the first team on Thursday. Garcia and Miehael Vick, who is on the active roster but still must serve one more week of his league-mandated suspension, split the remaining snaps and worked with the scout team. 
"I would expect him to play at a high level," Mornhinweg said of Kolb. "He doesn't lack for any confidence and that's a good thing. That's a good thing because I'm not saying he's cocky, but if you get a player that's even on the cocky side, it's a good thing to have." 
Kolb has appeared in eight games in his career, including last week against Carolina. His most notable appearance came in 2008 against Baltimore, when McNabb was benched at halftime of a 10-7 game. The Ravens went on to win 36-7, with Kolb completing 10 of 23 passes for 73 yards with two interceptions, one of which was returned for a touchdown. 


·~ .,. ~-4i.. ·.;ir 


'"· . t ..,., 
,:#~ 
1'!-·-' ·;; ' 

-A PRIME CAMPUS HOUSING COMMUNITY 

• 
State(){ the Art BriUJd Ne-w lilgh tint· f.itn~foJ' Ct"nler • Swimming Pool. Tennis Court, l4 Hour Atnat and CtHnmunrty t :lnb Houw: Center, Basketball Court 

• FretTanning Bed5

• 
Fr"ianning ~ 


• FretWuher and l>ry«r in ~h unit

• 
PrlVHt4 ~!.:OJdfJ and FrC~t P•rking 

• Hip SJ>ftd Wirelea Internet and (~

• 
Swimtninl Pool, Sun Deck, l-lut Tub and B,,~kMhaiJ Court 


Premium C'Atblt' Included 
• 
OaSite Manapmcnt •nd 24/7 Maintenance 

• 
On Sitt' Management •nd 24/7 MaintenaRCe ~ On Site Securtf)' Officer • On Site Se~urity Officer 


2Bedroom Apartment.fi 1,2, &3 &TownhOIIHI Bedroom I Bedrooms .' Apartmmtl Furnished Studio. 

... _.;. ~ 



' 
'' 
l Friday, September 18, 2009 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS
I 
'I
' 
' 
, I 
. I 
, . I I HIGH ScHooL FooTBALL 
' \ 
I I Coach found not guilty of reckless homicde 
David Jason Stinson acquitted after being charged with the death of a player who died after windsprints 
Free (Seasonal) Flu 
Shots 
FOR 

Notre Darne students, faculty, staff, retirees, & spouses of retirees 
(ND 10 card and short sleeves REQUIRED) 
THERE IS A LIMITED NUMBER OF SHOTS AVAILABLE TO THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY. A LIMITED AMOUNT WILL BE GIVEN EACH DAY UNTIL THE TOTAL ALLOTMENT IS GONE. 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE. Ky. -A former Kentucky high school football coach was found not guilty Thursday in the death of a player who collapsed at a prac­tice where the team was put through a series of sprints on a hot summer day. 

I 
' ' Attorneys said the case was the first time a football coach was charged in the death of a player. It was closely watched 
\ 
by those involved in youth ath­letics and has already resulted t in changes to Kentucky law and 
\ 
I other efforts to make practices safer for athletes. 
Former Pleasure Ridge Park High School coach David Jason Stinson, 37, was charged after 15-year-old Max Gilpin col­lapsed at an August 2008 prac­tice as the team ran a series of sprints known as "gassers.•• He died three days later at a Louisville hospital of heat stroke, sepsis and multiple organ failure. His temperature reached at least 107 degrees. 


The jury deliberated for about 90 minutes, and Stinson hugged defense attorney Brian Butler after the verdict was read. 
"That's why they came back quickly, because he was inno­cent," said Butler, who charac-


Tuesday September 22 1:OOpm -8prn 
'i 
terized the prosecution on charges of reckless homicide and wanton endangerment as a "witch hunt." Stinson left with­out speaking to reporters. 
During the trial. players said Stinson ordered the gassers as punishment for the lack of effort they showed at practice on a day where the tempera­ture and heat index were both 94 degrees. 
Prosecutors relied on a series of Gilpin's teammates who tes­tified that several teens became ill during the gassers, vomiting or bowing out with ailments. 
Several experts testified that Gilpin suffered from exertional heat stroke. which led to his death. One witness, University of Connecticut associate profes­sor Douglas Casa, testified Gilpin could have been saved if he'd been immersed in ice water almost immediately after collapsing. 
Stinson's defense relied on players who testified that they only ran a few more wind sprints than normal that day. Three of Gilpin's classmates. along with his stepmother, tes­tified that Gilpin complained of not feeling well throughout the day he collapsed. 
Defense medical experts told jurors that it appeared a com­bination of heat, the use of the 
_--..., 
. ~.... ;
'•· 
I
-

don"t share eating or drinking utensils, and get the 'ree nu vaccine! 
VVednesday September 23 9arn-4prn 
AT 

Stepan-Center 
Enter south side 
dietary supplement creatine and attention deficit disorder drug Adderall, and being ill were the main factors that con­tributed to Gilpin's death. which they called an accident. 
The medical experts also said little could have been done to save Gilpin because his temper­ature was so high for so long before he made it to the hospi­tal and began cooling down. 
Gilpin's mother, Michele Crockett, said the trial told the story of what led up to her son's death and was "an uphill battle" for prosecutors.. But because the public heard the details of what happened, the trial was worth it, she said. 
"We feel fortunate that it was even brought to the jury," Crockett said. "We can live with it. We can live with that." 
"We know Max didn't die in vain," said Gilpin's father, Jeff Gilpin. 
One of the prosecutors, Assistant Commonwealth's Attorney Leland Hulbert, said he hoped the case would prompt coaches to pay closer attention to their players. 
"I do think some good will come out of this trial." Hulbert said. 
Some of those changes came in the months before the trial: Kentucky lawmakers this year passed legislation that led to a four-hour online course for coaches on emergency planning and recognition; temperature­related illnesses; head. neck and facial injuries; and first aid. 
Jefferson County Public Schools also now require all athletes and at least one parent to watch a 40-minute video that touches on everything from dietary supplements to bacteri­al infections. Local high school coaches must attend a seminar on using positive reinforcement when dealing with students. 
Also this year. the National Athletic Trainers' Association issued a report recommending more stringent heat-related guidelines at the high school level. Among the recommenda­tions were eliminating two-a­day practices during the first week of August drills and giv­ing players more time to recu­perate. 
"As public and private discus­sions of this verdict and its impact on coaches and admin­istrators take place over the coming days and weeks, no one should lose sight of the fact that a young man lost his life in this tragic situation." Grant Tcaff, executive director of the American Football Coaches Association, said in a state-
Want to cough, run a 'ever, 
have .,atlgue and tee/ n'liserable 'or ~0-2~ days this vvinter? Then DON•T get a flu shot! But ifyou'd like at least an 85% chance of preventing it. then wash your hands frequently, 
Thursday Septernber 23 1 :OOprn-Sprn 
ment. ..This case serves as a reminder to all of us that player safety should be of paramount concern to coaches in every sport." 
The executive director of the Kentucky Football Coaches Association said the trial was closely watched because a con­viction would have affected all teams. 
"Looking forward on what the ramifications could have been if he had been found guilty, I would be afraid to even guess what could have possibly hap­pened," Jimmie Reed said. 
"It's a tragic situation on everyone's side and we fol­lowed this with great sadness for the athlete and also for the coach involved," said Marje Albohm, president of the National Athletic Trainers Association. "It truly puts a focus on the health care of our high school athletes." 
Sheldon Berman. superin­tendent of Jefferson County Public Schools. said in a state­ment that Stinson. who has been working in a non-instruc­tional position, is now cleared to return to teaching and eligi­ble to apply for a coaching position. Berman said adminis­trators would meet with him to determine his future place­ment. 
For further inforrnation regarding Seasonal or H1N1 Influenza and vaccinesp please go to . (' ~ When the novel H1N1 vaccine becomes available later, the campus community will be notified_ 
Offered by University Health Services and the Office of Human Resources 
~ ---------------­
j," 
Friday, September 18, 2009 page 25 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
_l;r• 

SALMON 
-..... 
CHASE.ORG 
lOK RUN-SK RUN & WALK 
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 19,7:30 a.m. 
Runners, walkers and kids of all ages are 
( 
invited to take part in these great events:
...... 
5K Run • 1 OK Run • 5K Walk
~·. 
Guppy Run (ages 2-7)
,··./: 
Register at www.salmonchase.org or call574-283-1115 for more information. 


) ·. 

MLB 
McCann homers and Braves take down Mets 
Marlins fall behind in wild-card race after tough loss to Reds' rookie pitcher 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA-Brian McCann hit 
a tiebreaking three-run homer 
in the fifth inning and the 
Atlanta Braves beat the reeling 
New York Mets 7-3 on Thursday 
night for their first seven-game 
winning streak since 2006. 
McCann's fifth four-RBI game 
of the season helped the Braves 
move 10 games over .500 for the 
first time since May 16, 2007. 
Atlanta (78-68) is 4 1/2 games 
behind NL wild card-leading 
Colorado. 
New York (63-84) has lost five 
straight and nine of 10 to fall 21 
games under .500 for the first 
time since Oct. 2, 2004, when it 
fewer wins than at the same 
point of the 2008 season, when 
they were 83-64 and in first 
place in the NL East. 
Jair Jurrjens (12-10) worked 
seven solid innings for Atlanta, 
allowing two runs, one earned, 
and six hits, while lowering his 
ERA to 2.75. 
McCann gave the Braves a 5-2 
lead with a two-out drive to 
right for his 19th homer. Nate 
McLouth and Martin Prado had 
one-out singles before Nelson 
Figueroa struck out Garret 
Anderson, bringing McCann to 
the plate. 
Atlanta had six hits in its four­
run fifth, including a run-scoring 
single by Matt Diaz. 
The start of the game was 
delayed 2 hours, 3 minutes by 
rain. 

Prado also had a two-run dou­
ble in the third for Atlanta, 
which finished with 13 hits. 
Daniel Murphy collected three hits for New York, including an eighth-inning homer off Eric O'Flaherty. Fernando Tatis had a two-run single in the fourth. 
Figueroa (2-6) gave up six runs and nine hits in five innings. 
Diaz was hit by a pitch in the second and is tied for second in the National League with 13 total, including nine times since Aug. 1 7 -a span of exactly one month. lle has been hit by four times in the last three games. 
The Braves' last seven-game winning streak came in July 2006, wrapped around the All­Star break. They had not been 10 games over .500 since they were 25-15 on May 16, 2007. 
Reds 3, Marlins 2 
A rookie pitcher with a bum finger and no career wins kept the Florida Marlins running in place. 
Emergency starter Matt Maloney gritted it out for five innings to get his first big league victory Thursday night, leading the Cincinnati Beds to a victory that cost the Marlins a chance to gain ground in the NL wild-card chase. 
The Marlins remained 4 1/2 games behind Colorado and a game behind San Francisco, both of whom were off. They couldn't break their extended slump at Great American Ball Park, where they've dropped nine in a row. 
Whenever they come to Cincinnati, things never quite add up. They fell behind 3-0 in the first inning and never made up the ground in the NL's most 
hitter-friendly ballpark. 
"It held up," manager Fredi 
Gonzalez said. "You figure with 
the way we're swinging the bats 
and the ballpark, it wouldn't." 
It did, and a lot of it had to do 
with their inability to get to 
Maloney (1-4), who couldn't 
throw all his pitches because of 
a sore finger. The 25-year-old 
rookie was forced from a game 
on Sept. 8 because of a blister 
on the middle finger of his left 
hand, and hasn't fully recovered. 
When scheduled starter 
Johnny Cueto got sick on 
Wednesday, the Reds decided to 
let Maloney give it a try. 
Maloney avoided throwing his 
cut fastball because it bothered 
his finger, staying with the softer 
stuff. 
"It was sore, but I was able to 
get through it for the most part," 
Maloney said. "My sinker was 
good. I used it a lot more than I 
had the last couple starts." 
Afterward, Maloney collected 
the lineup card and four balls 
from the game as keepsakes. 
Right-hander Anibal Sanchez 
(2-7) gave up a leadoff homer by 
Darnell McDonald in the first, 
then let the Reds load the bases. 
Jay Bruce, making his second 
start since returning from a bro­
ken wrist, hit an opposite-field 
single for a 3-0 lead. Sanchez 
threw 39 pitches in what turned 
out to be the decisive inning. 
"I was just trying to hit [catch­
er Ronny] Paulino in the strike 
zone," said Sanchez, who lasted 
Jive innings. "I wanted to try to 
make them swing." 
The Marlins wasted chances to 
catch up by stranding runners in 
scoring position in the first, sec­
ond, third and fifth innings. 
"Rarely do you score three in 
the first like that and get no 
more and end up winning," 
manager Dusty Baker said. 
Chris Coghlan had four hits for the Marlins, including a pair of doubles. The outfielder leads all NL rookies with 136 hits and 41 multihit games. 
llanley Ramirez, who is trying to become the Marlins' first NL batting champion, went 1 for 4 with a run-scoring single, drop­ping his average a point to .356. Hamirez became the ninth Marlin to drive in 100 runs in a season and the first since Miguel Cabrera in 2007. He's the sec­ond Marlin to drive in 100 and steal 20 -Preston Wilson had 36 steals and a club-record 121 HBis in 2000. 
Dan Uggla also doubled home a run off Maloney, extending his hitting streak to a season-high nine games. Florida failed to score off four Reds relievers. Francisco Cordero pitched a perfect ninth for his 38th save in 41 chances. 
The Marlins have lingered in the wild-card race by winning 10 of their last 15. They've struggled against the Reds, los­ing 11 of their last 14 since 2007. 
The Reds sold only 9,685 tick­ets for the game, the second­smallest gate in Great American Ball Park's seven-year history. The smallest was 9,087 for the second game of a day-night dou­bleheader against Pittsburgh on Aug. 31. 

\' 
' ' 
\' 
: ' '· ' \
I \ 
Friday, September 18, 2009

( 
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 
I '\ '· 
'· 
I 
'\ 
, I 
MLB 

Davis pitches shutout to end Rays' slump 
Guillen flummoxed as White Sox blow late two-run lead and ultimately lose to Mariners in 14 innings 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE -Wade Davis had just thrown a four-hit shutout to earn his first major league win, and getting the game ball wasn't nearly enough to mark the occasion. 
During the postgame television interview, the rookie got a shav­ing-cream pie to the face from Tampa Bay teammates Matt Garza and Evan Longoria. That was followed by a beer shower in the clubhouse. 
With Davis leading the way, the Rays beat the Baltimore Orioles 3-0 Thursday night to salvage a split of the four-game series. 
Making his third big league start, Davis (1-1) struck out 10 and walked two in his first com­plete game. The right-hander worked out of a bases-loaded jam in the first, then permitted only one runner past first base over the fmal eight innings. 
Davis capped his outstanding performance by striking out the side in the ninth. He threw 124 pitches. 
Then came the antics. It was only the second win in 15 games for the Rays, who desperately needed a reason to smile. 
"The shaving cream didn't taste very good," Davis said. "But it's fun. It's supposed to be." 
The 24-year-old was coming off a horrid outing in Boston in which he yielded eight runs in 2 2/3 innings. His effort against the Thursday night, the White Sox blew a two-run lead in the ninth inning then lost in 14 innings to the Seattle Mariners on lchiro Suzuki's game-ending single. 

"Go on and ask [the players]," Guillen said. "I don't have any more quotes. Seriously, what am I going to say?" 
Jose Lopez and Bill Hall each homered off White Sox closer Bobby Jenks in the ninth to tie it. Chicago, third in the division, trails Detroit by 6 1/2 games and Minnesota by 4 with 15 games to play. Detroit lost to the Royals 9­2. 
With one out in the 14th, Ryan Langerhans singled to center ofT Scott Linebrink (3-7). Pinch-hitter Kenji Johjima was hit by a pitch then Suzuki hit his 205th hit of the season, scoring Langerhans. 
As he rounded first base, the Mariners spilled out ofthe dugout and chased the star right fielder all the way into the outfield. 
"Ifwe don't win games, it does­n't matter what we tell our­selves," White Sox catcher A.J. Pierzynski said. "There were a couple of games on this trip we should have won and we didn't." 
The Mariners seventh reliever, Shawn Kelley (5-3), pitched two hitless innings. 
"The story for me was 8 1/3 shutout innings for the bullpen," Mariners manager Don \'Vakamatsu said. "Thank God it was September. We had some arms down there. But they did a phenomenal job." 
The Mariners rally cost John Danks a victory. The left-bander pitched eight strong innings for the White Sox, allowing just four hits and a run. 
Mariners starter Brandon Morrow was not nearly as sharp and his latest outing also raised some concerns about where he'll fit in with the team in 2010. 
Morrow again struggled with his control, walking a career-high six in 5 2/3 innings. The Mariners' 2006 first-round pick gave up three runs -two earned -but failed to live up to his man­ager's insistence that he pitch deeper in games. 
Before the game, Don Wakamatsu intimated Morrow could be pitching for his future. The team has been unimpressed with the right-hander's approach, mostly his inability to throw strikes and running up high pitch counts. 
"We try to find some improve­ment in every outing," Wakamatsu said. "If he can keep getting better, that would put him in position for next year. He's def­initely a candidate, but he has to go out and ·prove out." 
To help Morrow acclimate, Wakamatsu even started his bat­terymate at Triple-A Tacoma, Adam Moore, who was making hi'> major league debut. 
"He's going to remember this one," Wakamat.<>u said of Moore's debut. 


The Saturday Scholar Series invites you lo experience disc.ussions wi1h Notre Dame's most engaging faculty on some of the most pressing and fascinating issues ofour times. 
Each lecture and Q&A is free and open t.o the public. 
I 
Ir' 
"International Security Studies: What the Eggheads Can Teach the Generals" 
Michael Desch 
Professor and Chairperson Department ofPolitical Science 

12 Noon Saturday, Septen1ber 19, 2009 Annenberg Auditorium Snite Museum ofArt 
i. 
Why do we make memorials in America todayt and whr do we make so many of rhem? ]lL'>t in the past lew decades, rhousands ofnew memorials-from permanent war memorials to £emporary roadside memorials-have materialized 
i I 
in the American landscape. This ralk focuses on contemporary American interests in 
I 
memory. history, and public feelings. and the urgent desire ro express rhem in publk art and commemoration 
( l 
' I 
; I 
(' 

d~ 
i' '' 
'' 
Orioles lowered his ERA from 8.38 to 4.34. 
"I didn't get to watch too much film and maybe I should have," said Baltimore's Nick Markakis, who went 0 for 4. "I don't know. You've got to tip your hat. He threw a great game." 
Davis outdid seven Baltimore pitchers, led by Mark Hendrickson (5-5), who gave up two runs and five hits over 3 1/3 innings in his first start since May 
12. The left-bander was removed from the rotation after going 1-4, then made 42 relief appearances before returning as a starter in place of rookie Brian Matusz, who has been shut down for the remainder of the season. 
Hendrickson is 1-5 as a starter and 4-0 out of the bullpen. 
Michael Aubrey had two hits for the Orioles, who failed for the lOth time this season to win a four-game series. They're 0-5-5. 
Baltimore wasted an opportu­nity to grab an early lead. After a walk, a double and another walk loaded the bases with no outs in the first inning, Nick Markakis hit into a forceout at the plate, Melvin Mora struck out and Luke Scott hit a routine fly to right. 
"The first inning, you couldn't have scripted it any better, the way we started the game," Orioles manager Dave Trembley said. "But then when you get nothing out of it, boy, he's got to take a deep breath and go, 'OK, here we go. Lady Luck's on my side tonight." 
As the game wore on, the only suspense was whether Davis would go the distance. 
"I was just trying to get to the sixth, just battle it out," he said. "When I had the real quick inning in the seventh and eighth, I figured I could go out there and do it again." 
Manager Joe Maddon was happy to let him try. 
"I am a firm believer that a young guy like that, if he has a chance to throw a complete game and a shutout, it can really cata­pult him," Maddon said. 
Tampa Bay went up 1-0 in the third. With two outs, Jason Bartlett hit a sinking liner to left that bounced to the waH after Nolan Reimold's ill-advised bid to make a sliding catch. Bartlett was credited with a triple, and Carl Crawford followed with an RBI single. 
In the fourth, Ben Zobrist hit a leadoff double, took third on a fly ball and scored on a squeeze bunt by Gabe Kapler. 
Longoria's third hit of the game, an RBI single in the ninth, made it 3-0. 
Mariners 4, White Sox 3 
Manager Ozzie Guillen was at a loss for words after the Chicago White Sox's latest loss. And he rarely is ever at a loss for words. 
With an opportunity to improve their slim shot of catching the Tigers in the AL Central on 


FALL 2009 SCHEDULE 
81 9.5.09 (vs. N~..da) 
"M<:morii11 ~1-mi.-t: Public Art and Publk Feelings in AmtrietToday" Erika Doss, Professor and Chairperson. Department ofAmeriCJn Studies 
~ 9.19.09 (vs. Michigan Stare) "lntcrruuional Securitr Studies: Wlut rhe E~he<td., Can leach the Generals" Michael Descb, Prof<:SSor and Chairpenon, Department of Political Science 
~ 10.3.09 (vs. Washjngton) ")mages lhar Marter: 'Ihe U.S. a.-. Seen ·nuough Latin American Eyes" Thomas F. Anderson, ~iare Proft.-ssar. Department <l Romance l.anguagt-s 
and Utcraturcs 
~ 10.17.09 (vs. USC) 
"'Shakespe'J.re in the 21st Century" Peter D. Holland, McMcd Family Professor in Shakt:·spearc S~t~d[es. fkpartmem of Film, Television. and Theatre 
Scott jackson. Exct1Hive Director, Shakt::speare at Notre Dame 
~ 10.24.09 ('vJ. Boston College} "The French Revolution, or How ro Keep Your Head in Turbulent Times" Julia V. Douthwaite, Professor, Dcpanmcnt of Romance Langu;tgt'S and Literatures 
~ 1031.09 (n. Washington State) gamr. in Stm A11to11io; kctul'( (Jt 10 mn, Mtmiott Rh'frrmttr 
"Latinos and the Renewal ofAmerican Catholid~m" Virgilio P. Elizondo. Norre Dame Professor of l'asroral and Hispanic 'lheology, Department of'lheology 
DanjeJ G. Groody. CSC. Assistant Professor, Deparrmcnr ofTht:ology Timothy M. Matovina, J>rotessor~ Departmem of'lheology 
~ 11.7.09 (vs. Navy) 
"Going Global: Medical Ethi~ in the Agt of AIDS" Maura Ryao, John Cardinal O'Hara Associate Professor ofChristian Ethics, Departml>nt ofTht."'logy 
~ 11.21.09 (vs. Connecticut) "Understanding the Cultural, Religious, and Spiritual Uvcs ofEmerging Adults (18-23 Y"'M Olds)" Ouistian Smith, William R. Kenan, Jr. Protl-sMlr ofSodtJlogy, Dcpartmcm ofSociology 
~UNIVERSIT. Y OF .NOTRE DAME hup:/lsaturdayscholar.nd.edu College of Arts and Letters hnp://al.nd.edu/ 
Friday, September 18, 2009 page 27 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Saint Mary's set to race at Calvin 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Spons Writer 
The Belles opened their season with a solid showing at the most­ly-Division I Husky Open last week, but the true test for Saint Mary's will come this weekend in its first MIAA meet of the fall. 
The Belles will travel to Grand Rapids, Mich., Saturday for the Calvin Invitational. The meet fea­tures four MIAA squads, includ­ing Saint Mary's, as well as a col­lection of strong regional talent, and the Belles are hoping to make a statement after their sixth-place finish at NIU last week. 
The showing encouraged Belles coach Jackie Bauters in light of the difficult conditions of the 5­kilometer race. 
"All things considered, I was really happy with our perform­ance last weekend at NIU," Bauters said~ "Jt was a hot one, and, with a lot of our training in the morning, I think some ofthem struggled through it. I lowever, the effort was there, which is what we want." 

The Calvin Invitational is slated to be dry and mild, ideal condi­tions for a team still trying to get iL'> feet under them. While senior captain Megan McClowry has consi'ltently led the Belles, a well­spring of young talent has pow­ered Saint Mary's recently. 
"We have some very hard working underclassmen, and I'm thrilled to see them perform well," Bauters said. "[Freshman] Julia [Kenney] is a worker and always looking to improve. I'm excited for her performance last weekend and believe it will be even better at Calvin." 
Kenney's 21:20.20 at NIU was good enough for second on the team, behind McClowry's 
20:42.69. Three other Belles fin­ished under 21:30, including the sophomore tandem of Arianne Rodriguez and Joanne Almond. 
Saint Mary's will face strong conference competition at Calvin, with Olivet, Alma, and the Knights among the field. Calvin has taken the MIAA champi­onship 18 of the last 1 9 years, and the Belles will have to go through them to get a shot at a conference title. 
The women's 5-kilometer race begins at 10 a.m. Saturday in Grand Rapids. The smooth and hilly course begins at the Gainey Athletic Fields one mile east of the main Calvin campus, weaving through the Calvin Nature Preserve. 
"Calvin is a great course," Bauters said. "The returners loved competing there last year. Calvin always puts on a great event." 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 

By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's took first with a team score of 317 Thursday at Albion in its first of four MIAA Jamborees this season. 
Freshman Martyna Minerzwa tied Trine University's Katlyn Pero for the top spot for the day with a round of 76 on the Par-72 course at the Medalist Golf Club in Marshall, Mich. 
"The team is improving everyday," Minerzwa said. "We practice hard during the week and play hard on the weekends. The time we put in during the week is worth it when we take home first place titles." 
Defending conference champion Olivet placed sec­ond behind the Belles with a total of 332, followed by Hope with 341. Trine took fourth with 354, trailed by host Albion in fifth with 371. Kalamazoo was six strokes behind with a 377 while Calvin took seventh with a 
389. Alma and Adrian rounded out the nine-team set with a 404 and 412, respectively. 
Minerzwa, a Ponzan, Poland, native, has led the Belles in all three of their competitions so far this fall. 
Three strokes behind Minerzwa was senior cap­
tain Perri Hamma, taking third overall and second for Saint Mary's. Juniors Mary Kate Boyce and Rosie O'Connor each took a share of fourth for the day, shoot­ing an 81. Sophomore Natalie Matuszak tied for 28th with a 97 to round out the Belles scoring. 
Saint Mary's individual players all had successful scores for the day, with freshman Cara Kielty shoot­ing an 87, tying her for 13th, sophomore Christine Brown an 89 and tied for 17th and freshman Andrea Fritsch a 105, giving her a share of 40th. 
"Before we went out today we understood that after a great weekend like we just had that we should be confi­dent but not cocky," Ilamma said. "We needed to go out there, play well, and back up the good scores we had at the Warren. We had great scores today and have a great start off lead in the conference this fall." 
MIAA runner-up last sea­son and 10th at the NCAA Tournament, the Belles are looking to take back the title of conference champion that they held from 2002-2005. Next up for the Belles is the second MIAA Jamboree at Hope on Sept. 23. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
Call or stop by your nearest Notre Dame Federal Credit Union brandl for full disclosure. tAnnual Percentage Rate tAPR). Rate of 7.9%APR valid only on balance transfers from another fioat!Cial institution's credit c.1rd. Paynrents will apply to balances of 7.9%APR first If you are aV'tSa Platinum Card holder. the Annual Percentage Rate (APR) on an account past due two (2) cycles (payments) will increase to 17.9%. Accounts one payment late revert to tile standard prevailing rate. Independent of tfte UniVersity. 
SMC GOLF 
Belles take first in MIAA tourney 

~~ 
.\\
.\\ 
.\ \\ \\ ' \I 
• I\ 
( ~~ 
-. \ page 28 
. : I 
. ; I 
• I 
: i ~ 
. I \ 
. ) \ 
. ( \ 
Crabbe

ll 
continued from page 32

\ l 
'\ 
. I 
.·, 
' 
d 
from a less than stellar 2008 
campaign with many returning

. . 
I 
veterans. 
The Belles will also be look­ing to work out some problem areas before they head into their MIAA portion of their schedule beginning Sept. 30 at Adrian. 
"Defining the roles of players is becoming clearer as we con­tinue to get closer to the con­ference portion of our sched­ule," Crabbe said. "Also, by playing against such strong teams we are getting a more clear understanding of how to matchup in certain situations, how to read the game, and becoming more disciplined with sticking to a game plan." 
After they take on Wilmington and Hiram the Belles will host the Saint Mary's College Fall Classic on Sept. 25 and 26. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

' 
I weekend and was really
' 
\ I impressed by their style of play. 
~ He noted that they are extremely organized and play hard, and how well they sus­tained their effort throughout the tournament. In the second game of the weekend the Belles will face off with Hiram College, who beat the Belles 3-1 last year. "We played Hiram in 2008 and I feel it was a game we should have come away with a better result," Crabbe said. "They are a solid team and I think we will match up pretty well with them," Crabbe said. "Certainly traveling and playing away from home increases the challenge we face this week­end." Hiram ( 4-1-1) is coming ofT a 
I win over Baldwin Wallace
\ 
> College. Much like Saint Mary'ss they are looking to rebound 
-----.....,.,­
Friday, September 18, 2009 
The Observer + SPORTS 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish set to host National Catholic Invitational 
By MOLLY SAMMON Sports Writer 
Thirty-three cross-country teams from around the nation will travel to Notre Dame to compete against the Irish at the 30th National Catholic Invitational Friday. 
"Friday will be good experi­ence for the guys to run in a large field environment," men's coach Joseph Piane said. 
About 230 people will run in each the men's and women's divisions, with the toughest competition to be expected from runners from DePaul, Xavier and Holy Cross. 
As the first of two home meets and only the second meet overall this season, many of the standout members of the team will be participating for the first time this year. 
"Friday's meet will be the first race of the season for many of our runners, so we are still trying to get a better idea of what we have," women's coach Tim Connelly said. "Most of our top runners will be competing for the first time, although we will still hold out a couple whom we expect to be capable of being in our top group by the end of the season until we know they are completely healthy and ready to race." 
Senior Dan Clark, sopho­more Molly Hirt and junior Abby Higgins will be the only runners among the top that will be sitting out this race. 
For their first meet, Connelly has stressed the team's strate­gy of running in groups to ensure optimal team perform­ance. 

"We will really try to focus on running together in groups and hopefully help some of the freshmen and less experi­enced people through the race by focusing on being with their teammates," Connelly said. 
Piane began the annual meet 30 years ago with inten­tions of providing an outlet for the country's most prominent teams from Catholic institu­tions to be able to compete against each other. 
"I thought it would be an interesting hook to get people together, a conclave of Catholics," Piane said. 
As the hosts of the annual 
event, Notre Dame has had great performances at the National Catholic Invitational over the years. The men's team has won 17 out of the last 21 years, and the women have won 15 of the last 17. 
In preparation for this meet, not much changed from the teams' normal practice sched­ule. 
"Our more experienced run­ners know that they won't be very well rested or fresh going into the race, bu.t are still expected to line up, run hard, and compete as well as they can," Connelly said. 
The meet is Friday at 4:15 
p.m. on Notre Dame's Burke Golf Course. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
MLB 

Angels end Red Sox winning streak 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -The Los Angeles Angels couldn't afford to give the Boston Red Sox yet anoth­er psychological advantage in their budding postseason rivalry. 
One night after a ninth­inning collapse, the Angels rallied behind Howie Kendrick's tie-breaking bloop­er in the ninth to beat Boston 4-3 on Thursday night and avert a three-game sweep. Brian Fuentes, who blew the previous game, earned the save and snapped Boston's seven-game winning streak. 
"Winning cures everything," outfielder Torii Hunter said. "I have already forgotten about the Red Sox and am thinking about our series with Texas." 
Los Angeles improved to 6 1/2 games ahead of Texas in the AL West, and the Red Sox hold a six-game lead over the idle Rangers in the wild-card race. If the standings hold, Boston will open the playoffs in Anaheim; the Red Sox have beaten the Angels in 12 of their last 13 postseason 

games dating to 1986 and are 4-0 all-time in postseason series against them. 
"Let's get there first," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said. "No messages to send tonight or feelings to get. Our first goal is to make the play­offs." 
Kendrick also homered in the third and score the tying run in the seventh, and Fuentes rebounded from Wednesday night's collapse to hand the Red Sox their first loss at Fenway in 11 games. Kevin Jepsen (6-3) got four outs, then Fuentes got the last two batters to earn his major league-leading 42nd save and end Los Angeles' three-game losing streak. 
"I thought he had a nice inning last night," said Scioscia, who was still agitat­ed over the questionable calls that prolonged the ninth on Wednesday. "I think it was good for him to get back out there, but he's been around. He knows what's it's all about, being in that closer role. He did a good job coming in to get those last couple of outs." 










3:00 PM -5:00 Pll  3:00 PM -5:00 PM  3:00 PM -5:00 Pll  3:00 PM -5:00 PM  11:30 AM-1:30PM  11:30 AM ·1:30PM  11:30 AM-1:30PM  12:30 AM ·1:30PM  
Mice Col#ins + Tim  Jim Dent & Bill Flesher  Jim Lefebvre  GaO McKenna  Jim Dent  Bill Flesher  Digger Phelps  Gerry Faust  
IJcCanhy  
May I Have Your Attention Please?  Resurrection & Ecttne. Awak~nftd  Loyal Sons  Seeking God While Serving Time  Resurrection  Echoes Awakened  Undertaker's Son  Tales from the Notre Dame Sidelines  

Friday, September 18, 2009 page 29
The Observer + SPORTS 
Clark 
continued from page 32 

our first game created a hole. This has been further com­pounded seeing both [sopho­more] Aaron Maund and [freshman] Dillon Powers jet off to Egypt to represent the 
U.S. National Team in the [under-20] World Cup. In spite of these losses, I still feel very optimistic that this squad can be very good." 
Notre Dame will open the conference slate Friday against the Blue Demons (3-2-0) in Chicago. 
wins. By contrast, the Irish are averaging two goals per game while sitting at .500. 
USF has surrendered only one goal all season, with junior goalkeeper Jeff Attinella's .947 save percentage largely responsible. The Irish will have to keep Attinella on his heels with their sustained attack; Notre Dame has outshot its opponents this season 84-58. 
"Our schedule is tough through the entire season and there are no letups," Clark said. "DePaul doesn't lose many games at home and then we head to No. 5 South Florida. But we are looking for­ward to this 

DePaul has wins nour schedule is weekend. I feel against ranked road trips really 
tough through the
Northwestern bring some
entire season and
and UC Irvine camaraderie to 
and is coming there are no letups. ,, the team. I off a 5-1 win think we'll be against Buffalo. ready to play."
Bobby Clark 

The Irish will While the
Irish coach 

have to keep 
track of senior forward Steffen Vroom, the reigning Big East Player of the Week. Vroom leads the Blue Demons in goals {3) and points {7). 
On Sunday, Notre Dame will travel to Tampa to take on the undefeated Bulls (4-0-0). The reigning Big East tournament winners have collected a string of narrow victories, with only five goals despite their four 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bou9ht and sold 

• 
2.s Categories of Books 


• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search servtc.:e 

• 
Appraisal5 larqe and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday throu~h Sunday 
1027 E. Wayne 
South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 
Irish offense has 
given their 

opponents fits, lllJUries have forced Notre Dame to mix up its defense. The deep and talented Irish roster has given Clark some room to maneuver on his per­sonnel losses. 
"Our defense has been hit the hardest," Clark said. "[Seniorl John Schaefer has already stepped up and [sophomore1 Chris Sutton has all the tools necessary to be a top player. If we can sort things out at the back, then we have got some tremendous players in midfield and in attack." 
Notre Dame takes on the Blue Demons Friday at 4 p.m. at DePaul's Wish Field in Chicago. The Bulls will host the Irish at 1 p.m. Sunday at USF Soccer Stadium. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
Stanford 
continued from page 32 
and No. 3/2 Stanford. The two losses marked the first time in two seasons that the Irish posted consecutive 
losses.  
DePaul  (4-2-2)  enters  
Friday's  contest  having  
already  matched  its  win  

total from a year ago. The Blue Demons' signature win came in a 1-0 upset of No. 11 Missouri, which propelled them to a No. 20 ranking in the Aug. 31 edition of the Soccer America poll, their first ranking in school histo­ry. Junior midfielder Tara Strickland leads the Blue Demons with seven points on three goals and one assist. DePaul's defense is anchored by freshman goal­keeper Claire Hanold, who has recorded five shutouts to date, which ties her for first in the Big East with Marquette's Natalie Kulla. 
DePaul, however, has never posted a win over Notre Dame, as the Irish hold a 4-0-0 all-time advan­tage over the Blue Demons. In addition, DePaul's next goal against the Irish will be their first, as the Irish hold a 16-0 goal advantage. Last season's contest was the closest match of the series, as Notre Dame edged passed DePaul 1-0 in a defensive struggle. The Irish win is part of Notre Dame's school record 52-game unbeaten streak against Big East opponents that extends back to the 2005 season. 
Northwestern (3-3-1) took a three-match winning streak into their Thursday night contest against BYU with wins over Loyola­Chicago, Penn and Yale. Senior Kay Sampson leads 
Fostering the BaptismalPriesthood in the"Year for Priests" 
Cardinal Roger Mahony 
Archdiocese ofLos Angeles 
Friday, September 18 4:oo pm Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
Sl'ONSOR ED B\' offtn• of tlw Pa-.;itk·lll I Dt•parltn('lll of Theology I Campus Ministry I Ct>ntt•r fur Sudal Conn•m., 
UNIViRSITY OJI 
NOTRE DAME 


the Wildcats with 5 points on 2 goals and 1 assist. Junior goalkeeper Carolyn Edwards has posted a 1.24 goals-against average and three shutouts. 
The Irish and Wildcats have only faced each other twice and have not faced each other since 1990. The Irish won both previous con­
li(!";L~D"'F':E;:a. '~'IJ::Ll:Ll44.,D;]I~!C 
A PRJI"''E CAMPUS HOUSING COI"''MUNIT"Y 
formerly Turtle Creek Apartments 
Fe»c:atba.ll Gc.••~-=-Dcay Pc.rkirlg 
Adjc.c::~.-.t te» Stc.di....-.~ 
S:.i!..All Day 
Enter on State Road 23 Entrance ("1 block vves1: of Eddy) 
VVallc to Tailgate al7d Game 
'17"1 0 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 46637 Ph 574.272.8"1 24 Fax 574.272-8.204 
vvvvvv.clovervilla.geapa.rtmen'ts.com 
Recycle 
The Observer. 


tests, outscoring the Wildcats by a combined score of 14-0. 
Notre Dame will face off against DePaul tonight at 
7:30 and will take on Northwestern on Sunday at 1 p.m. at Alumni Stadium. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 


_.~------------------------------------------------------------~-------­

page 30 Friday, September 18, 2009 
The Observer + SPORTS 

., 
"[McGushin] is the best ath­reasons for the Mob to be dominating performance Rushford said. lete I've ever seen," said jun­optimistic. O'Neill has rein­against St. Edward's. Morrissey hopes to surpass
Keenan 

ior captain Michael Browder. vented their offensive play­"[We need to] have a tough Alumni's defense with its tal­continued from page 32 "He's got quick feet and a book to an option-style attack defense and not give up the ented offense. 
strong arm." geared toward passing. big play," Ruof said. "We can't "We are going to come at can count on our defense to Behind McGushin's arm and "I like the looks of it," senior make any mistakes on them hard with a balanced make stops." Browder's leadership, the captain Charles Johnson said. offense." attack offensively," senior 
Though the team has a great Otters are confident heading "Our type of offense is some­The expectations are just as linebacker Phillip Yuhas said. deal of incoming freshmen into the 2009 season. thing not seen too often in high for the Gentlemen this "Both the run and the pass replacing senior leadership "Our goal is to make the Interhall football, with so season as they fully expect to will be utilized in order to from last year, the Knights' playoffs," Browder said. many receivers and passing be playing once the playoffs keep them on their toes." roster is certainly not lacking Fisher will try to finally get plays." roll around. Alumni returns mostly soph­in athleticism. a win while Sorin aims to Johnson anchors both the The Gentlemen went 3-0-1 omores, many of whom are 
"We've got the advantage of replicate the success of last offensive and defensive lines. in 2008 before losing in the key returning players. size and experience this sea­season when the teams meet On the offensive line, he will first round of the playoffs. Despite their young team, they son," he added. Sunday at Riehle Fields at 2 aim to give Mob freshman They hope to build on that are not lacking skills or team 
,
' . Keenan has high expecta­p.m. quarterback Chris Delillo time success this season, as only unity. tions for 2009, after a thrilling to throw the ball. three players graduated from "The freshmen have come turn-around last fall, as quar­Duncan vs. Knott The transition from league last year's squad. out willing to compete and terback Mahoney led the team Duncan looks to make a doormat to threat will hinge "We're going to try to have a make an impact for the team," to three consecutive victories name for itself in its second on an abundance of play-mak­little fun this year," senior Rushford said. "Everyone before a heartbreaking defeat year of Interhall football when ing receivers. Seniors Tim captain Andy Nester said. really wants a successful sea­to Siegfried in the champi­it faces Knott Sunday. Lang and Nate Forte and Nester plays on both sides of son and is committed to mak­onship game. Last season the Highlanders sophomore Julian Murphy are the ball, starting at both line­ing it a reality." "It will be difficult, but we were largely considered an Delillo's targets this season. backer and center. Morrissey hopes its veter­want to take it back all the afterthought by opponents, Dillon's opportunistic He believes the key to stop­ans, including senior quarter­way," Mahoney said. but this season the team aims defense will look to exploit ping Carroll is to contain jun­back Danny Deveny, can lead The Knights will face a to surprise its opponents as a Delillo's inexperience when ior quarterback Brian Vaio. the team to a strong start of Keough team in search of a vastly improved team. the ~ig Red meets O'Neill "They're a good team," the season. Sunday will be the victory. Last season the "This year our aim for Sunday at 3 p.m. at Riehle Nester said. "They have a real first snaps Deveny takes with Kangaroos finished 0-2-2. Duncan 1s to greatly improve Fields. athletic quarterback. We have his lnterhall team, but he did Sophomore captain Ryan on last year's inaugural sea­to account for that when we play at St. Olaf's College Cordell is optimistic that his son," junior captain Pat Scheel Carroll vs. St. Edward's play them Sunday if we want before coming to Notre Dame. squad will fare well this sea­said. St. Edward's and Carroll will to win." As for Morrissey's team spir­son. "Everyone is healthy," Duncan is more seasoned open their Interhall seasons in By the end of the weekend, it, they have already held an 8 Cordell said. "We've got a lot than last year, but inexperi­a competition for the hearts of one team will be 1-0 with all a.m. practice, an accomplish­of experienced guys coming ence still plagues the roster. Lyons Hall Sunday. of Lyons Hall on its side while ment in itself. ·' back." For the second year in a row The Vermin and Gentlemen the other will need to play "We are all friends and '· \ The opening game will be a the Highlanders are without a know each game is crucial better the rest of the season in enjoying giving each other a crucial point for the single senior on the team. when fighting for a playoff order to earn a berth in the hard time on and off the Kangaroos to gauge them­"The team is very young," berth, but as both are the playoffs. field," Yuhas said. "That selves for the games to follow. Scheel said. "But there is also brother dorm of Lyons Hall Carroll and St. Edward's will chemistry translates very well "We're going to keep it sim­a lot of talent on the team. this year, extended bragging face each other Sunday at 1 at on game day as a trust in each ple all around, move the ball, Every team should be pre­rights will also be on the line. Riehle Fields. other's abilities." and block and tackle," Cordell pared to play us." Carroll enters the season full Yuhas and Morrissey's high­said. "We'll find out after Unlike Duncan, the of optimism with nearly its Morrissey vs. Alumni octane offense will test Sunday where our strengths Juggernauts return all of their entire roster returning. Alumni's defense will chal­Alumni's stringent defense and weaknesses are." starters from last year, and "I think we'll do well," jun­lenge Morrissey's high-pow­Sunday at 1 p.m. at Riehle Cordell said his squad is thus have more ambitious ior captain and wide receiver ered offense in a clash of Fields. undaunted by the defending goals. Nick Ruof said. "We're experi­styles Sunday. runners-up and is enthusiastic "I'm hoping for a 3-1 enced, and we have a couple Last season Morrissey's deep about the upcoming football [record] in the regular season freshmen who will con­passing game hurt Alumni, season. and then going deep into the tribute." but the Dawgs are ready with Contact Kevin Baldwin at "We've got a lot of respect playoffs," sophomore lineman "Last year was a fluke," an improved team and a new kbaldwi2@nd.edu, Chris Allen at for Keenan," Cordell said. Kevin Soran said. sophomore Albert Toscano agenda this season. callenlO@nd.edu, John Helms at "We're going to come out and An impressive freshman said in reference to the "Our game plan for them is jhelrns2@nd.edu, Colin King at play hard like we do every turnout has added depth to Vermin's 1-2-1 record in 2008. essentially to play disciplined cking6@nd.edu, Andrew Owens at year." Knott's roster. The Vermin hope to match defense and not get burned aowensl@nd.cdu, and Megan Kickoff will be at 3 p.m. "We've got all our starters last year's win total with a deep," junior captain Patrick Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu Sunday at Riehle Fields. back from last year and a big freshman class," Soran said. Fisher vs. Sorln "We are going to be pretty Fisher hopes to win its first decent." Interhall game in nearly two While the Juggernauts are years Sunday against Sorin. looking forward to bigger Last season the Green Wave games later on in this fall ver­struggled to an 0-4 record. sus Siegfried and Morrisey, 

"We were pretty awful," Duncan is putting a strong sophomore captain Geoff emphasis on using their first Barcus said. "However, we game to deliver a message. lost each of our games on the · "We are viewing the game last play." against Knott as a way of 
This season Fisher hopes to showing we are no longer an turn that luck to its favor, afterthought in our division," even if the varsity team has Scheel said. depleted its roster. The game is at 2 p.m. 
"We didn't lose too much to Sunday at Riehle Fields. graduation," Barcus said. "But we did lose !junior fullback Dillon vs. O'Neill and defensive lineman] Steve An inexperienced 0' Neill Botsford to the varsity team." squad will challenge the expe­

Without Botsford, Fisher will rience of Dillon Sunday. rely on youth and an exciting While Dillon hopes to contin­brand of football, highlighted ue last year's success, O'Neill by sophomore cornerback has reinvented its team in Andrew Hessert, sophomore hopes of reinventing its defensive lineman Pat record. The Big Red returns Newcomer and do-it-all senior several starters from a 3-2 Jamie Ellis. campaign a year ago. 
"Expect a touchdown a "We won the division last game !from EllisJ," Barcus year and are looking to build said. upon last year's success," jun­
Coming off such a tough ior captain Jordan Smith said. year, Fisher is setting simple Dillon's chances of repeating goals and hoping that results as champions of the Green will follow. League rest upon their 

"Our goal is to play football defense. Last year's unit well," Barcus said. outscored their offense. Smith 
The Green Wave's opponent, expects just as many s()ri n ' is c() ming 0 ff a 3 -1 -1 turnovers and big plays this season that saw them make year from a defense anchored the playoffs only to lose to by senior linebacker Ryan Morrissey. In order to dupli­Shestak. cate last season's winning O'Neill finished last season ways, the Otters wiJl need to on the opposite end of the account for the loss of gradu­Green League, failing to make ated quarterback Bobby the playoffs with a 1-2-1 Sullivan. The focus now shifts record. The Angry Mob 
~ I / to senior quarterback Casey returns only six starters.
I 
I I I McGushin. However, there are plenty of 
.P l ' ( ~ ,' 


Friday, September 18, 2009 
page 31

The Observer+ TODAY 
CROSSWORD 
Across 33 E.U. mem. since Alternative to 1995 newspaper 34 Like the classifieds scriptures on 
11 Loses intensity which Hare Krishna is based
15 Constitution precursor 35 Thing caught near the shore
16 Short 36 Sch. in the New
17 Cura~ao 
England Footballingredient Conference 
18 Top status 37 School area with 
19 Member of the mice 
Julio-Ciaudian 38 A light may bedynasty set on one 
20 "Stillmatic" 39 Restaurant 
rapper 
staffers 21 Stuff 
41 They're 23 19th Amendment 
reflective champion 
42 Groups 25 Editor's job, 
43 "The Human 
often 
Stain" novelist 26 Dessert, in 
44 Storied shrine Dover 
45 Something to 29 Time before TV 
shoot for 
30 Had a spirited 46 Bodice fastener session? 
50 Lumber 31 Rate 
51 A bout to 32 "Les remember? 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


54 Golden Triangle land 55 Have some humble pie 
56 Possible result of pulling the plug 
57 ''The Wrecking Crew" actress, 1969 
Down 1 "Don't be shy!" 2 Like some gases 3 Food stabilizer 4 Papal name last 
used in 1724 5 Shut up 6 Dogs often pick 
them up 7 Splash gently 
against 8 Burns up 9 Ursule, e.g.: 
Abbr. 10 Like yeshiva studies 11 Her 1965 Met debut was as Cio-Cio-San in "Madam a Butterfly" 12 Play for which Peggy Cass won a Tony in 1957 13 Largest tributary of the Colorado 14 Night 
watchmen? 
221n a row 
24 Major ancient construction project 
25 Native Trinidadian 
26 It goes up and down at dinner 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Barry C. Silk 

27 Picnic staple 38 Subject of a 47 Muslim honorific 28"Mmm!" 
1976-79 Met 
48 Many people do exhibit

29 ". . . thy cheeks it online look Titan's 40 Like the smell of face": Shak. fresh pine 49 Couch extension?
31 Unites 41 Puerto Rican­
34 Maxell products born Oscar 52 Motivation winner of 1961 exclamation
35 It has things you 43 Trimming aid
want 53 Setting for 37 Ponderosa pal 45 Bun alternative sedges 
For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords. 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Cf:l.I<:BRITII:':..t:; BORN ON TlfiS DA\': \\'':Ide Rohs.'lll, 27; Mark Hnuk!ll, W: Kyle 
Chandler..U; Cassamln! l'etel':iQfl, 58 
Happy Birthday: 1111:!> ts a gtx"~<i hmc lo llllike cruclalrw.we~ lh.al cau sa\·c youlml'~ and money Qf to inv.:-st in ~(>Uic!'lltlll)ll<.l() )!O<.Id to 1><~~~ up. Either way. you ~rand 10 cr•me OIU t">u tOp ;~nd wi1il extr<1 ca\h m your txx;kl1. Don't he afratd m lll:t f<~sr. Put yom insight and pra~.·uc:.l vtlllocll to ~tood usc Your numl11.."1'S ;m.· 4. II. 17. ::6, 21'!. Jl!, 4:1 
,\.R.IE.."l IMan.'b 2l·Aprll19.1: R~"C\<tluatc ~lmrsiru;t!mu aud <.'OilSJtkr wb<.-re )·our pnon 
tics slwtdtf ~ Do thm~~ ti.:tt w1U utilw~ your talent<; to tht> fullest. A new -.pin to <;ome 
fllill!! yt'lll\-e d.;mc in the p<~sl will n:~·itali1e ih potculi<ll. *** 
l'A\ 'Rrs (April lO.May lth: You'>'e !!.ol more ~oin!! ror yon tlmu you realile. Yo•u have 
added d:i~iplmc and the k.lll)'\\d~lw to tum somcthiu~ Jllt'dJ<:.t.-re mlo l.Pntclhin)l sp..'<."tacu 
l.ar. l.>tnn ~ ~hy \\ik:n ytlu are sock~.: to J!Cttill!! what yt'ltl waur. ** * ** 
GEMINI IMay 21-Junt' 101: Know I.'Xao:tly whAt you ;If<! l:tllUI~ al.Jouland have lhc i'acts to b:lek your alk~li~'lllS. S~>m~m~e !on.l.:mg for tilly liulc lllll>tal:.c will put whl11' yon dam1 llll<k-r tt micn)M'OJ>C. As lou~ as. you k11ow yottr stuff :uKI you a~ ,·outident. you h1W~ notb Uljl to worry about. ** 
CANCt:.K 1Jmw ll-Jut~· 22): Yt')lt've 1.101 pknty to offer so dt>trt ~U yom~lf ~hort. Hard l>:.upaitu»)t will hrill!1 ymt ~~~~cc-!>" and help you (l('compb~h It~ :tlt.emtion~ Y'"t wall! I<• make bl:.1tl1 pct'Klllally aud proles'kiooall)' _D•.:m't t>a~k ili,;wn. * * ** 
......

LEO (july 2.\-Al~, 221: Your m1tJ<.l may be on odJCr rb.in~:<> hut it's import;mt that you 
truuk aboul ytlUr pas1.Jlll'st'llt aud httun· lirulnC'ial aut! prote~sloual dcalmgs. tJse your ex tX>rit."t'll'e to amid maklfl!'l. a wttunon bull"''>tly uliswkt·. A trip will pay uff. *** 
VIRGO tAug.l.\-S~:pt. 211: You'll be cmoll.(>nal alK»It yuur ht'c ;md yonr fnhtrv. (\t><t•r up yollf (,:tmcems for Jl'lW ;ul'l <.k+;~l with wbalewr JI(.W~ tcmiintt to. Your perfvnnan(;e ;uld ~u~ of re~pousibility wiU bdp )'Oil will ill tl~e end. *** 
l..IIJR..\. {8q)l • .Ll.Qd. 221: Put a littb: added pressure ou S<lllleQIIC who owes you n favor and you will be 11bk to meet an)' tkmand bemg Jlllt on you. Showm~ your true feelings wiJinollieiJl you gt<t wlutl you wan!. K<.~l' your ttltlllJthh to yoursell' for tk.lW. *** 
SCORPIO (Od.lJ-Nov. ll): Tntsr in vour own talent :md abilirv. fbcus em the <k>ablc and you will ~C()mplisb the 1n<:>st. Pt'ociss and put into play ~-hat 'you already 0,-we to offer and you will be po~itioncd ti.1r rhc future. * * ** 
S,\GITL\RiliS tNuv. :U-IHc. :U 1: You'U be caufhl if }~'In II'} to get ~way with ~ome thing. Nt) null:tn how i~<"»l~tltelltial, il i"~< Ul:'lf a )I:EXK1tirt..:~ to rake a rhk If~ ll~ .if ~)II lll\~ ml(kr a nu<-r<.!Sl.:op~~ and ev.:!)·one is wat.-:ruut: aud wa1•mg to see what }'0\l'll do ue~ ** 
CAPRICORN (llec..U-Jan. l9): Tllm onlbe t·harm and go ~Her cxm:;lly what yo111vau1. You will nQt be dcrued and tllt' options made :m1ilabk will allow you tQ do C\'CIIIl~ wuh what you receive. A hn.'locial wmdi:Ul c:~n eban~· your bfl.'. ***** 
AQUARIUS (jau. 20-J;~b. 18): A~ soon <IS you t:tkc on too l!real a t11sk. pay lOLl IIIIlCh OT nlitkt: a pm!llise you cannot k<.>t.1>-p:o~t wrll face oppositi.:.·ll an<l complamt~ A Jon• intt•rest may le:11J you on or Wllhbold ir.th)mlation I hal. ~'otl.ld .-tf~1 fht.• way you k-el or a ~~ommk menl you made.*** 
l..lS<'t:s (l.'eb. 19·.March :lOJ: Don't be tricl>ed by sorneone playm~ emotional }!:llll'IC~ A~ diR::(.1 (jll<:r.lwns ami don't ><"ttk for c"·asw~~ a~t~w~·n:. D1g <k~-p to deh .."rttm~e wltafslhe be<.! route 10 take in tenns nf p:uta~erslup> and prnt'es~>iona! pmposals *** 
Birthday llaby: You are nn~.iual, .:.~~h\'<: and wtlli.nf! lt>lry tJe"V<· thin~s after y<~t ha¥<: ckme y()trr 1\"Seltn•h. Yi:lll strive f'rn· s<'('IIJ'ity <UII.i •t::~bility throujthmlllife. 
l-:ll.!!''m<l·.~ ~kl.> .~itl!)',' f'll,l/<>f~Mdt~~t..nHn Jhr nmfi<l•''lfia/;·t-.rsuf!ati<•m. mnp<U..,.f.'t>mkt.ger~wia.•t thr f.~•!l<'•lio'~ l>r<>g, .~~m~<lf>·l(:·t·.<:~'.>ffl for lim 
SCHAD & FREUDE WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 

THE MOBILE PARTY 


JUMBLE 
JmJMmr£ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
SULPH 

j
l r
1 
©2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved. 

POURC  
\.  II'" " ~ ~  

tORREBB I
IIJ II 
NEW.brtlle iPt'ole AllP go to:,_,:/~.~ 

I QUETEA ±
I I r J I 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Je!i Knurek 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer. as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: rI I I I JAN rI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) GLADE ABYSS TINKLE BAKING
Yesterday's IJumbles: 
Answer: What the poker group played for ­BIG STEAKS 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester Name ____________________________________________ Address ____~----------------·----------------­
Ci.ty ______________ State ____ Zip___________ 
------....,­
~ . 
THE 
OBSERVER
\ . 
> 


p
Friday, September 18, 2009 page 32 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

'.' Notre Dame to take on Hurricanes, Seminoles in Florida 
:./ 
,', \ 
,, 
. ~­n 
n 
Hi. r ~ 
HI 
I 
':'' I {_ ' 
,_ 
,, ' 

By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame heads to the Seminole Tri-Tournament hosted by Florida State this weekend in Tallahassee to take on the No.19 Seminoles and Miami. The Irish are coming off a two-match win­ning streak after sweeping the Notre Dame/adidas Invitational last weekend. 
Notre Dame (5-3) defeated 

Wisconsin 3-1 (15-25, 25-18, 25­16, 25-18) last Friday for the first Irish victory over the Badgers since 1987 and the end of a losing stretch for the Notre Dame team. Mter taking a day off, the Irish won their second straight victory Sunday, this one a 3-0 win over New Mexico. Notre Dame swept again (25-18, 25-19, 25-19) in the two squads' first meeting. 
This weekend presents the Irish with another opportunity to take on non-conference competition and go up against another ranked team. Earlier this season, Notre Dame defeated No. 11 Stanford and lost to No. 6 'Michigan. 
The Irish start competition Saturday against the Hurricanes (7-2), the first time the teams have met since the Big East championship in 2003. Notre Dame leads the series 3-1, win­ning each of the last three meet­ings. 
Miami's losses this season have been to in-state rivals USF and Florida International, however they did gain a 3-0 victory over Albany last weekend. The Hurricanes are coming ofT their second-best season with a 26-6 record, which was still not enough for them to appear in the NCAA Tournament. 
Notre Dame will face No. 19 Florida State this weekend for the first time since 2000, with the Irish leading the series 2-1. The Seminoles (9-1) moved up from No. 22 this past week when they 
MEN'S INTERHALL ·foOTBALL 
Starting off strong 
Keenan opens season Sunday vs. Keough 
By KEVIN BALDWIN, CHRIS 
ALLEN,JOHN HELMS, 
COLIN KING, ANDREW 
OWENS and MEGAN 
FINNERAN 
Sports Writers 
Two teams are out to redeem themselves in this season, with last year's run­ner-up Keenan eyeing a return to the championship game as Keough simply hopes to win a game. 
Keenan sophomore captain Terry Mahoney is confident that his team's balanced offense and solid defense will prevail on Sunday. 
"We've got speed on the outside and the line will be strong," Mahoney said. "We 
see KEENAN/page 30 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish open Big East season 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
If the Irish plan on going somewhere this season, they had better get going soon. 
No. 21 Notre Dame sits at a middling 2-2-1 as they head on the road this weekend to take on two Big East foes, DePaul and No. 5 South Florida. The Irish won consecutive Big East titles in 2007 and 2008, but currently sit at fourth in the Big East Blue Division. 
Notre Dame will attempt to pick up road wins against a tough pair of conference oppo­nents while missing several key players on th~ Irish roster. Irish coach Bobby Clark said he believes that his team can fight through the losses. 
"It certainly has not been an easy start to the season," Clark said. "Losing fifth-year captain Cory Rellas 10 minutes into 
see CLARK/page 29 won all three of their matches last weekend in the FlU/Miami Invitational. Their only loss this season was to No. 5 Florida on Aug. 31. 



Notre Dame hopes to keep their winning streak going and have high hopes for this weekend. Competition begins for the Irish at 2 p.m. Saturday in Tallahassee against the Hurricanes. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveseiO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
NO hopes to rebound from losses 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 
After dropping two match­es last weekend on the West Coast, No. 14/13 Notre Dame returns home for its confer­ence opener against DePaul and its final non-conference tilt against Northwestern. 
The Irish look to rebound against the Blue Demons and Wildcats this weekend after a six-game stretch that included three matches against teams currently ranked in the top 10 of the NSCAA poll. On their recent trip to California, the Irish dropped consecutive 2-0 decisions against Santa Clara 
see STANFORD/page 29 

Belles prepare to take on Wilmington, Hiram 
By KATELYN GRABAREK 
Sports Wrirer 
The Belles fell to No. 7 Indiana Wesleyan Wednesday by a final score of 5-0, and will travel to Ohio to play No. 21 Wilmington and Hiram this weekend. 
"I have been very pleased with the growth of our players over the first few games," Belles coach Ryan Crabbe said. "We have played some out­standing competition so far. While it has been tough to come by positive results in the win column, the players are learn­ing that nothing is going to come easily and we have to continue to work hard and con­centrate every minute on the field." 
Indiana Wesleyan notched four goals in the first half of their game and added a fifth in the second half to secure the win over Saint Mary's (2-4). 
Indiana Wesleyan is only adding to the list of talented schools Saint Mary's has played early this season, and despite their losing record Crabbe and his team know they are playing well. 
"Our players recognize the level of the teams we have been playing and they have shown a great willingness to meet the challenge," Crabbe said. "No one is going to improve or feel rewarded by playing lesser competition game in and game out. From my observations of our players the team morale has been fantastic from day one." 
Wilmington will be up first for the Belles Friday. Crabbe had the opportunity to see Wilmington play twice last 
see CRABBE/page 28 



page 2 COMMENTARY 

Not sneezing at MSU rivalry game 
THE COLLEGE FOOTBALL HALL OF FAME PRESENTS 
KeyBank 

Don't miss your
Tuesday, September 22, 2009 
Heisman Trophy wlnner hailing from Ohio State who became the NFL ROOkie of the Year in 1996 
chance to bear 

and went on to play in the Pro Bowl four times. 
from some of the greatest legends to ever play the game
Thursday, October 29, 2009 This wide receiver from Mississippi Valley State 
of college football! 
is widely regarded as one of the greatest receivers tn NFL history. 

TickettPricing Information: 'To ordar lickets or tor locations, dhectioos and other inknmation. :::an 574·235-S?tt luocnecns begin at 11:30 a.m..lur'ICht?Of'ls: $35 ~rperson, $270 per table of eight Space is limited. 
LUNCHEON SERIES 

The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 18, 2009 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Five players to visit ND for game 
land him. His personality college choice until January's
By MATT GAMBER 
should fit in well with every­Under Armour All-American 
Sports Editor 
body that is there and all the Game, but Oklahoma State, players," Frank said. "A Texas A&M and Notre Dame 
A rebound win against commitment from him would look to be the Missouri City, Michigan State would go a be a big thing. I'm not going Texas, senior's top three, long way for Notre Dame, as to say it's going to happen, irishillustrated.com said. the Irish fight to remain but I think there's a chance it "He's a very, very good stu­competitive in the recruiting could happen." dent," Frank said. "He's battles for some of the Monstrous defensive tackle never been to Notre Dame, nation's top high school sen­Louis Nix has so it'll be iors. already made interesting to 
Notre Dame will host four a verbal com­"'[David Amerson is] a see his reac­recruits -including one ver­mitment to guy that can run and tion. I would bal commitment -on official play for assume the
make a whole lot of
visits this Saturday, and one Miami next academic side of the nation's top offensive season, but plays, and he has made of things will lineman will also make an the 315-a lot ofplays already certainly be unofficial visit to campus as pounder from impressive to
this year. ,, h.
the Irish challenge the Jacksonville, Im. " Spartans. Fla., will Wide receiv­
Free safety prospect David make an offi­Mike Frank er Bennett Amerson is one of three cial visit to Irish recruiting analyst Jackson, who defensive players high on the campus has already Irish recruiting board that Saturday given the Irish will visit Notre Dame this with the option to potentially his verbal commitment, will weekend. reconsider that verbal. travel to Notre Dame from 
"He's extremely athletic for Nix spent three days at a his hometown of Hazlett, N.J. a free safety," said Mike Notre Dame camp this sum­"He's a wide receiver they Frank, a Notre Dame recruit­mer and was impressed like quite a bit, someone who ing analyst who runs the enough with the program's can run really well," Frank ESPN-affiliated website irish­facilities to grant the Irish a said. "He's a faster, stretch sportsdaily.com. "A lot of coveted official visit, Frank the field type of guy." people think he's good said. Matt· James, one of the enough to play corner, and "A lot of people think if it nation's top offensive line­yet he has the size of a big isn't Miami, it'll be Notre man prospects, will take an safety. He's a guy that can Dame. Miami has the inside unofficial visit to campus this run and make a whole lot of track with the verbal, but he weekend. The 6-foot-7, 280­plays, and he has made a lot does seem to have a keen pounder from Cincinnati, of plays already this year." interest in Notre Darne," Ohio, is favoring Notre 
At 6-foot-2, 180 pounds, Frank said. "How he fits in Dame, Cincinnati and Ohio Amerson has room to bulk with the students and the State, Frank said. up, but has dominated his Notre Dame players will have high school competition after a lot to do with whether For more on Irish recruit­only one full season of com­Notre Dame is really in this ing, check out Mike Frank's petitive football. The race." irishsportsdaily. com. E-mail Greensboro, N.C., product Elite corner Toney Hurd is Mike at mikefrank18@sbc­had nine interceptions in · the third defensive standout global.net and tell him The leading his high school to a who will make his official Observer sent you. state title as a junior. visit to Notre Dame for the 
"I've long thought Notre Michigan State game. Hurd Contact Matt Gamber at Dame has a real chance to · doesn't plan to make his final mgamber@nd.edu 
half into his first term -but I'd much rather look forward than back, and that's the same attitude this team has taken. 
While they should be aware of the 16-year drought, focus on the one-year winning streak that should start Saturday. From a short-term point of view, learn from last week's loss, but don't let it consume you. 
"It's just one loss," Clausen said in a press conference Tuesday. "And now there's 10 more games to be played in the season. As much as we don't want to lose a game, that's in the past. That hap­pened Saturday, and we are getting ready to play Michigan State this Saturday." 
You see, this is a team that knows a thing or two about ending streaks. 
They went to Hawaii last December and, in addition to the demoralizing losses to Syracuse and USC, Notre Dame had a not-so-little bowl losing streak on their minds. 

Weis to finish out the season -but a loss prior to USC will commence the final count­down of Weis' Notre Dame career. 
There's no excuse for sloppy practices this week. Weis is coaching for his job, and the players have a streak-buster mentality. 
"Last week was last week," defensive captain Kyle McCarthy said. "It wasn't our worst week of practice but I would definitely say it wasn't our best. So obviously the leaders and the coaches are going to take care of that, and we'll get it right this week." 
Put me in the camp who believes the Irish will get it right this week, and Notre Dame can finally end one more embarrassing streak. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
Michigan State may not be the most storied rival in Notre Dame football history -that distinction would belong to USC -and the Spartans are not Notre Dame's most hated enemy -we visited them last week. 
No, the series with the 
Spartans doesn't have the glitz and glamour of the Irish­Trojan rival­ry, or the good ol' 

fashioned hate of a Sam Werner showdown 
with the 
Associate 
Wolverines, 
Sports Editor 
but the Spartans sure do have Notre Dame's number of late. 
The Irish have beaten USC and Michigan four times apiece in Notre Dame Stadium since the last home win over the Spartans, and that includes two two-year breaks from the series with the Wolverines. 
Read that last paragraph again. 
Michigan State has never lost in the renovated Notre Dame Stadium. Lou Holtz was the last Irish coach to beat the Spartans. . 
I could go on all day with fun facts about the last time Notre Dame beat Michigan State at home -Jimmy Clausen was five years old and Bill Clinton was a year and a They blew out the Warriors, and this team, virtually all the same players from the Hawaii Bowl, should use that experi­ence Saturday. 

By all accounts, this year's team is better prepared to respond to a loss than last year's squad, and that was evident in miniature form last weekend. When the Wolverines took a 31-20 lead early in the fourth quarter, instead of packing up shop a la the 2008 team, the Irish responded to eventually take the lead. That mini comeback should be replicated in macro form this Saturday, only this time, Notre Dame might actu­ally hold on to the lead. 
There's one other factor at work this Saturday that should motivate Notre Dame, or at the very least inspire coach Charlie Weis. 
In terms of job security, this game, and the two that follow it, are collectively the most important games of We is' tenure at Notre Dame. 
If Weis wins all three, against Purdue and Washington after Michigan State, the team will have momentum and a top-25 rank­ing heading into the matchup with USC. A 4-1 Irish team may even have a puncher's chance against the mighty Trojans. 
But if Notre Dame should lose one of these three games, well, Weis might not even make it to the USC game. 
That's an exaggeration of course -I fully expect Charlie 

Please visit collegefootbaU.org for more information. 
r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~­
Friday, September 18, 2009 page 3 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
One last chance 
Senior right tackle Sam Young leads veteran Irish offensive line into rivalry game with MSU 
their final seasons with the better."
By SAM WERNER 

Irish. The offensive line certainly
Sports Writer 

The 6-foot-8 freshman started did improve in 2008, with every game of that 2006 cam­Young playing a large role. The There's very little Sam Young paign, experiencing comeback much-maligned unit allowed hasn't seen in his 40 straight wins over the Bruins and only 22 sacks in pass protec­starts. Spartans and disappointing tion, although run blocking still 
He was there for the come­blowouts to rivals Michigan and proved to be an issue. backs against Michigan State USC. Those experiences now "As you play more and more, and UCLA in 2006, and there help Young as he has gained the game slows down a lot," for every painful game of 2007. more experience and his role Young said. "You start seeing He's been a starter on a team on the team has little keys you that went to the Sugar Bowl, a evolved. never saw team that finally broke the bowl "You go from ..He obviously has so before, tons of losing streak in Hawaii and a the student to much experience on the things you team that tied for the worst now I'm the never noticed."
field, he's been around 
record in school history. teacher," Young Entering
for so long.,,
So when it comes to the ups said. "You pass 2009 the Notre (like a blowout win over on those same Dame offensive Nevada) and downs (like a things you line had 100
Trevor Robinson 
heartbreaking loss on the road learned from career starts
Irish right guard
to Michigan) of a season, there's  the leaders to  from its return- 
hardly anyone more prepared.  those younger  ing unit,  tied  
"After that kind of loss, you're  guys now."  for  the  most  in the NCAA.  
upset, and it's OK to be upset,  In Young's sophomore year  Thirty-eight of those starts  
and sometimes a good thing,"  the low points far outnumbered  came  from Young, who has  
Young said. "But you have to  the highs,  as  the  team  and  been a leader on the deep and  
forget about it the next day and  offensive  line  struggled  experienced unit.  
then go back to work."  throughout a 0-5 start and 3-9  "He obviously has so much  
Young has come a long way  season. After graduating three  experience on the field, he's  
from his freshman season, a  seniors, the 0-line gave up an  been around for so long," soph­ 
year in which he said he relied  NCAA high 58 sacks, including  omore guard Trevor Robinson  
heavily on his veteran team­ nine  in  the  season  opener  said. "He has a really good abil­ 
mates. A consensus five-star  against Georgia Tech and at  ity to gather information before  
recruit coming out of power­ Michigan.  the snap, and the more infor­ 
house high school St. Thomas  The offensive line was at the  mation you have the more you  
Aquinas in Ft.  center  of  the  expect and less likely you are to  
Lauderdale, Fla., Young became the  &"After that kind ofloss, you're upset, and it's  criticism for the Irish, and Young said it  be surprised. He uses that help me out, help Eric [Olsen] and Kyle [Rudolph]."  
first true fresh­man to start a season on Notre Dame's  OK to be upset, and sometimes a good thing.,  was a tough learning experi­ence. "You have to  Through two games, the experience looks to have helped Young and the offensive line fin ally put it all together.  
offensive line  learn  to  push  Against both Michigan and  
since freshman became eligible in 1972.  Sam Young Irish right tackle  through adver­sity," Young said. "You've  Nevada the line did not give up IAN GAVLICK!The Observer a sack, and junior running back Irish right tackle Sam Young glares at a Nevada player after having Armando Allen has been able his helmet knocked off during Notre Dame's 35-0 win Sept. 5.  
"There were  got to go when  average 5.9 yards per carry  
so many guys that helped me  you lose into the next week and  behind improved run blocking.  just our job to make it happen."  last week, that team [in 2005]  
out, on the offensive line my  regroup and stop the bleeding  "I think we've gotten  a  lot  Entering this  season  one  had that as well. Going into  
guy Ryan Harris, Brady [Quinn].  and keep plugging it. No one  better, we're getting close to  major change for Young and the  those last couple plays where it  
John Sullivan and John Carlson,  likes to lose."  where we want to be, but aren't  offensive line was the addition  could go either way, we had ice  
just a laundry list of guys," Young said. Teaming with future NFL line­ Young said the performance of the team and offensive line as a unit in 2007 served as a  there yet," Young said. "We as an offensive line want the team to be able to rely on us,  of coach Frank Verducci to replace John Latina. Young said he definitely feels the line has  water running through our veins," Young said. "It's a big game every time we play  
men Harris, Dan Santucci and  huge point of motivation for  whether it's that short yardage  made strides under Verducci's  them."  
Sullivan, Young was named a  2008.  play where we have to get one  tutelage and with new blocking  Mentally, Young said he has  
freshman All-American for his  "We had to work our rear  yard or whether it's holding up  schemes.  been impressed with how the  
part in protecting Quinn and  ends off in winter conditioning,  on third and long to give Jimmy  "He's a technician," Young  team has responded to its first  
opening up holes for Darius Walker. Quinn threw for more  in spring ball and in the sum­mer to improve," Young said.  [Clausen] time. We have all the confidence in the world with  said of Verducci in the spring. "For me that's a really good  setback on the season. Coach Charlie Weis said the task of  
than 3,000 yards and Walker rushed for more than 1,000 in  "Everyone worked together to put in a lot of hours and get  Armando back there or any running back and in Jimmy, it's  thing because I think that's something that I've been lack­ improving the effort and per­formance in practice was led by  
ing is my technique. It's some­ Young and Olsen, the senior  

 thing that I needed to work on.  leaders on the offensive line.  
It's a  different perspective.  "I couldn't be anymore happy  
There's a lot of stuff he brings  with this team's attitude coming  
to the table that I haven't heard  into this week," Young said.  
before and a lot of the guys on  "We don't want the coaches  
the line have heard. It's a dif­ having to yell at us, we don't  
ferent perspective. It's a differ­ want Eric, coach, myself, who­ 
ent way of doing things."  ever, after a game to say 'You  
Young  was  named  to  the  know,  we  wish we  had done  
Outland Award watch list in the  better last week.' That has to  
offseason for the nation's best  stop in practice, we have to cor­ 
offensive lineman, and has a  rect that and that has to start  
great chance to set the Notre  from the players."  
Dame record for most starts in  Physically, Young said this  
a career. The senior said he  game will be more of a chal­ 
attributes his streak of starting  lenge against a very d8ep and  
games and consistency to his  physical Spartan front.  
attitude and approach to the  "It's probably the most blue­ 
game.  collar game on our schedule,"  
"The way I look at myself is I  Young said. "There's  a  few  
just try and be consistent day in  games you prepare for physi­ 
and day out, whether that's  cally the day after  -Michigan  
coming to work every day or  is one, Michigan State is one,  
playing on Saturdays. Its gone  USC is one, you keep  some  
fast, freshman year it seemed  ibuprofen in your back pocket  
like it took forever, and since  for the day after."  
then its just hit high gear and  Nevertheless, Young said he  
motored along," he said.  looks forward  to  playing  a  
As one of the elder statesmen  smash mouth game against a  
on  this  Notre  Dame  team,  quality opponent.  
Young is one ofjust a handful of  "You know from the first play  
players that has experienced  to the last play there's going to  
beating a Michigan State team,  be collisions, not just hitting but  
the comeback victory in 2005.  
Irish right tackle Sam Young has started every game of his Notre  Dame career and has been an  "Looking back, the poise we  Contact Sam Werner at  
integral part of the offensive line since his freshman campaign.  showed at the end of the game  swerner@nd.edu  



page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 18, 2009 

Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 1-1 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
5th season at Notre Dame 
career record: 30-22 at home: 
19-13 

against MSU: 
1-3 



Irish Offense vs. Spartans Defense 



2009 Schedule 

Sept.S Nevada-W Sept. 12 @ Michigan -L Sept. 19 Michigan St. Sept. 26 @Purdue Oct.3 Washington Oct.17 Southern Cal Oct. 24 Boston College Oct. 31 Washington St. Nov. 7 Navy 
Michigan proved to be a game, and while Michigan was able to play the entire game against the (!J tougher test for the Irish passing bring pressure at times, Clausen Spartans Saturday.
Nov.14 @ Pittsburgh 
z game, but only by a little. Jimmy looked very calm moving around in Dan LeFevour torched the Michigan
Nov. 21 Connecticut 
-Clausen had another spectacular the pocket and getting rid of the ball State secondary in Central Michigan's ~ performance in front of a hostile when he had to. upset, racking up 328 yards and three
Nov. 28 @Stanford 
'f!. crowd of over 110,000, throwing Michael Floyd is still yet to be con­touchdowns. The Spartan secondary ... for 336 yards and three touch­tained this season, as he torched the is deep, but should be outmatched by e downs. Wolverines for 131 yards and a score Notre Dame's talent and size.
Head-to-Head 

z The offensive line did not allow before receiving 15 stitches in his a sack for the second straight knee. Floyd is expected to be fine to EDGE: NOTRE DAME
NDOFFENSE MSJ,l DEFENSE Scoring: 34.50 ppg (35th) Scoring: 16.00 ppg (39th) Total: 500.00 ypg (17th) Total: 289.00 ypg (44th) 
Notre Dame's running attack matured as a runner. Jonas Gray had the Big Ten preseason defensive
Rushing: 166.00 ypg (54th) Rushing: 64.00 ypg (23rd) (!J looked as good as it has during a costly fumble in Ann Arbor but will player of the year.
Passing: 334.00 ypg (lOth) Passing: 225.00 ypg (79th) 
z the Weis era against Michigan. have to quickly forget the mistake Michigan State's defensive line is
Turnovers against: 1 (7th) Turnovers for: 1 (IOSth) 
~ The Irish were able to convert against Michigan State. very athletic and probably the deep­
Fumbles lost: l (27th) Fumbles rec.: 0 (99th) 

en on third down and short, a feat The Spartans allowed just 66 yards est front Notre Dame will face all
Interceptions: 0 ( lst) Interceptions: 1 (68th) 

::J that has been a struggle rushing against the Chippewas on 29 season. Senior Trevor Anderson had
Sacks Allowed: 0 (lst) Sacks: 6 (I 8th) 

a:: throughout the past two years. carries, including containing eight sacks last year and is off to a
T.O.P. for: 32:33 (21st) T.O.P. against: 31:32 (83rd) 
Q Armando Allen has averaged LeFevour's scrambling ability. The strong start in 2009. z 5.9 yards per carry through two Spartan linebackers are some of the games and looks to have best in the nation, led by Greg Jones, EDGE: EVEN
Statistical Leaders 
NDOFFENSE MSUDEFENSE Despite a missed field great performance in the 

Charlie Weis kept Michigan Tate and Rudolph, Weis
QBJIMMY CLAUSEN LB GREG JONES 

goal in the 'Big House', kickoff return game, almost off guard for nearly the entire can use the pass to set
40-60, 651 yds., 7 TO 10 solo, 4 TFL, 1.5 sacks 
Nick Tausch bounced breaking one return against game, and was able to estab­up the run. Dantonio has z
RB ARMANDO ALLEN LBERICGORDON 

back with two makes the Wolverines, and should lish the run game for one of
36 rush, 211 yds., 2 TO 6 solo, 1 TFL 

stifled the Irish in his 8~0 
and should be confident be effective when paired with the few times in his career. two games against them, J:
WR MICHAFL FLOYD DTJEREL WOR1HY 

back at home. Eric Theo Riddick. The Irish are The statue of liberty play on but faces a much more :f
II rec., 320 yds., 4 TO 5 solo, 1.5 sacks 

Maust was shaky at yet to have a punt return 
the two point conversion was a mature and talented ~
WR GOLDEN TATE DE COUN NEELY 

Michigan and needs to worth noting. 
great indicator of Weis' cre­team.
I2 rec., I74 yds., 2 TD 3 solo, I sack 
improve his consistency. 

ative ability and a great call. 
TE KYLE RUDOlPH DE DAVID ROLF 

Barry Gallup had a EDGE: EVEN 
With weapons like Floyd, EDGE: NOTRE DAME
7 rec., 67 yds., I TO I sack, I pass break-up 





The offense isn't the problem. The rush­ing game has shown remarkable produc­tivity this season and will continue to do so. Neither of Michigan State's D-ends weigh more than 260 pounds, and Paul Duncan weigh a smidge more than this. Armando Allen will run well. Clausen, Floyd, Tate and Rudolph work effectively, as they have in the past two games. The questons arise on defense: can they stop 
_______ the run? Can they clamp down to finish a game? I think the defense can. whether
Managing 

they make personnel changes or not. The
Editor 

Irish take an early lead, and Michigan State battles back. But Notre Dame remains the better team and hangs on to win. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 30, Michigan State 27 

Even in losing in Ann Arbor the Irish proved they aren't the same team from the past two years. The 2007 or 2008 Irish never would have come back from two 11-point deficits on the road. This Notre Dame team 
~ 

ha..c; the poise and maturity to withstand the .... ~·, ) 
Michigan heartbreaker and take care of . 
business at home without opening jitters. A few stitches will not stop Michael Floyd from Michael Bryan a 1 00-yard day, but rushing the ball will be a _______ challenge against the Spartans linebacking Associate corps. The Irish defensive line needs to step Sports Editor up against the run, but. Michigan State does­n't have the personnel or complex systems of Nevada and Michigan. It's close early, but 
Notre Dame finally gets a leg up in this rivalry. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 35, Michigan State 24 

~:. For more ntatchups and pregan-h.: a IRISI-1 INSH)ER 
at ndsmcobserver.c()n
PC;LJr~;.., ::, f 
Friday, September 18, 2009 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 

Michigan State 
Spartans Record: 1-1 AP: NR Coaches: NR 

2009 Schedule 
Sept. 5 Montana St. -W Sept.12 Central Mich. -L Sept.19 @Notre Dame Sept. 26 @Wisconsin Oct.3 Michigan Oct.lO @ Dlinois Oct.17 Northwestern Oct. 24 Iowa Oct. 31 @Minnesota
Sophomore Kirk Cousins won the start­100 yard games to start the year. White safties and corners played well in run ing quarterback job for the Spartans over was a second-team all-Big Ten selection in support as the front seven failed to 3: 
Nov. 7 Western Michigan 
classmate Keith Nichol, and has been 2008 and will be the primary receiving contain the Wolverines rushing. tn 
Nov.14 @Purdue
solid but not spectacular in controlling the target. Despite the struggles against C: offense. Cousins has 347 yards with four The Irish secondary struggled against Michigan, Notre Dame should again -a 
Nov. 21 Penn St. 
touchdowns and no interceptions on the Michigan's passing game, especially down bring the heat against a less evasive l> year. the stretch. Notre Dame's inability to bring quarterback and force Cousins to C/) Michigan State returns its top three down Tate Forcier gave the Wolverine beat an experienced secondary. ~ 

Head-to-Head 
wide receivers from last season, and sen­wide receivers time to break the Irish cov­z ior Blair White has quickly notched two erage and make some big plays. The EDGE: EVEN G) 
MSUOFFENSE NDDEFENSE Scoring: 35.50 ppg (33rd) Scoring: 19.00 ppg (50th) Total: 404.50 ypg (48th) Total: 368.50 ypg (78th) 
Redshirt freshman Caulton Ray has Michigan, and should also spread out rushed for five yards per carry. , 
Rushing: 138.00 ypg (72nd) Rushing: 171.50 ypg (88th) 
received the majority of the carries carries with redshirt freshman Larry The Irish run defense was ;:a. 
Passing: 266.50 (26th) Passing: 197.00 ypg (58th) 
for the Spartans, rushing for 122 Caper and true freshman Edwin inconsistent in the loss, at times tn 
Turnovers against: 0 (1st) Turnovers for: 4 (37th) 
yards on 28 attempts through two Baker. containing the spread offense but C: 
Fumbles lost: 0 (1st) Fumbles rec.: I (64th) 
games. As a team Michigan State has The Irish struggles against the run going through lapses late in the :a 
Interceptions: 0 (1st) Interceptions: 3 (I 5th) 
run for 138 yards per game, a total continued against Michigan as game, including allowing more C: 
Sacks Allowed: 1 (13th) Sacks: 4 (42nd) 
inflated by 175 yards against Division Brandon Minor and Tate Forcier ran than 100 yards rushing in the tn 
T.O.P. for: 28:28 (83rd) T.O.P. against: 27:27 (21st) 
I-AA foe Montana State. wild in the second half. The tandem third quarter. :!: The Spartans rushed for just 3.4 combined for 176 yards against Notre z yards per carry against Central Dame, and as a team the Wolverines EDGE: MICHIGAN STATE G) 
Statistical Leaders 
MSUOFFFNSE NDDEFENSE The Irish allowed an four this year. In a close game, 
Jon Tenuta's aggressive have usually been con­
I 
QB KIRK COUSINS SS KYLE MCCARTIIY uncharacteristic kick Swenson's experience could 
defense struggled to tackle servative against the 3: 
23-35, 347 yds., 4 TO 12 solo, I TFL, 2 INT 
return against Michigan, give the Spartans an edge. 
against the Wolverines, but Irish but won by play-(') Ul 
QB KEITH NICHOL FS HARRISON SMITH 
and Tausch needs to get Junior punter Aaron Bates 
the game plan was not the ing mistake free foot-o c:: 
i 
12-26, 186 yds., 3 TO 9 solo, 1.5 TFL 
more distance on his kick­has averged 48.9 yard per 
issue. The Irish are still try­ball. Tenuta will hope :1> ~ 
RB CAULTON RAY LB BRIAN SMITH 
oflfs. punt this year, and has had 
ing to figure out defensive his pressure on a less ~ ., 
28 rush, 122 yds., 1 TO 7 solo, 2 TFL, l sack 
Senior kicker Brett every punt called for a fair 
personnel and packages that mobile quarterback will z~ 
WR BLAIR WHITE LB TORYAN SMITH 
best fit their talented but give the Irish the edge. G)!!!
Swenson converted 22 of catch. 

16 rec., 267 yds., 2 TO 7 solo, 3.5 TFL, 1 sack 
it 28 attempts last season 

young front seven. < 
WR B.j. CUNNINGHAM LB DARIUS FLEMING
ITI 

~ and is a perfect four-for-EDGE: EVEN 
Don Treadwell's offenses EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
7 rec., 117 yds., 2 TO 3 solo, 2 TFL, 1 sack 

3rd season at
Spartans Offense vs. Irish Defense 
Michigan St.
a
f 
career record: 
17-11 
on road: 
5-6 

Mark Dantonio against NO: head coach 2-0 

~ 
..-... 
t ..~ r..-' 
~ 

Don Treadwell Pat Narduzzi Off. Coordinator Def. Coordinator 



I wasn't sure I believed Charlie Weis when, after Saturday's loss, he said that this team was different than the last two and would be capable of bouncing back from a tough defeat. But the more I think about it, the more I believe the Irish will roll on from here. Notre Dame will come out hungry and physically dominate Michigan State on the offensive side of the ball. Michael Floyd and 
Matt Gamber  Armando Allen should both be healthy and  
ready for big days, along with Jimmy  
Clausen, Golden Tate and Kyle Hudolph.  
Sports Editor  Weis said to look for some changes on the  
defensive front, and while the Irish won't  
completely shut down the Spartans' offense,  

this one won't be close at any point. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38, Michigan State 14 

Considering I was four the last time the Spartans won at Notre Dame Stadium, I can't say this game will be a walk in the park. Michigan State always plays the lri.<>h tough, especially in South Bend. That being said, though, there's a certain point where Notre Dame just has to out-talent other teams, right? With no Javon Ringer and a first-year quarter­
back, the Irish should at least be able to contain  
Sam Werner  the Spartan offense. On the other side of the  
------­ ball, well, we've all seen what Jimmy Clausen  
Associate  and company are eapable of. In the bigger pic- 
Sports Editor  ture, this is a game Charlie Wei<> absolutely ha'i to win. Last week's loss didn't h0lp hi<; job sceu­ 
rity, and a 1-2 start could begin the final count­ 
down.  

FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34, Michigan State 17 
analysis, check out the Irish Insider podcast 


,.r­
1~ 
II
,, 
I I 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
I \ 

21 (0-1) ... 
MI(HJ0At4
....... (2-0) 
;,/ ;;;'*'
. 
.~ 
( 1-1) (1-1) ( 1-1) (2..Q) (2-0) 


(0-2) 
( 1-1) 
. 
Bye •

W 38-34 NO 
L 29-27 Cent. Mich. L38-36@0regon W 42-23 Idaho 
W 18-15 @ ·Qhio St. W 34-7 Kent St. 
L,38-20 Hawaii W 32-14 Louisiana Tech . 
'.~ ·.··· .... ·•.· (2-0). WS4-27 Buffalo 
· ....•. :-"-. -·-. 
., =~ 
' ... 
. . 
. .. .. . ',(.~ . . ~­

.. ·~@ Baylor· 
•· ·'}··· ';. 
:~----. 


@ Colorado St. 
Eastern Michigan 
@ND 
Northern Illinois 
usc 
@ Washington 


@Clemson 
Southern Methodist · 
@ Pittsburgh 
Navy 
..·•· ~-; 
., ...j. 

Friday, September 18, 2009 


If you could have a cameo on any TV show, what would it be? 
HBO's "Entourage." 

What is the most played song on your iPod right now? It's probably Dave Matthews' "Stay or Leave." 
Is there a reason you wear No. 90? 
Nope, none. It's what they gave me. 
Who's the toughest player you've gone against in your career? Probably Michigan's Jake Long . 
If you could have any superpower, what would it be? 
To fly. 

What's your favorite part ofgame day? The whole preparation -going to mass, the walk, then obviously running out of the tunnel. 
·.•. :, '~{ -~.Ot­
t 

ND's recent struggles against MSU no secret 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Editor 
A quick glance at the stats indicate that Notre Dame holds a 44-27-1 advantage in its all-time series with Michigan State -a pretty good marker of success for the Irish program. 
But anyone who has watched Notre Dame's match-ups with the Spartans over the past 

decade or two ..We know Michigan the last time knows the tale they were here
State is a good football 
hasn't been it was tough."
team, and you guys are
that pretty for The streak the Irish. all aware ofthe history itself, however, 
Michigan that they have in won't over­
State has won whelm Notre
this place. , 
nine of the last Dame by any 12, including means. Smith the last six Kyle McCarthy pointed out games in Notre that while the
Irish safety
D a m e Stadium. The three Irish wins in that period came by a total of 14 points, and in two of those games, a favored Notre Dame squad needed late comebacks to overcome the Spartans. 
The lesson -even if the Irish look to be the better team on paper, when it comes to Michigan State, anything can happen. But by now, Notre Dame knows that. 
"We know Michigan State is a good football team, and you guys are all aware of the his­tory that they have in this place," Irish safety Kyle McCarthy said. "We are going to be ready for them." 
There isn't much talk of the possibility that Notre Dame will overlook Michigan State, even as the Spartans are com­ing off a tough loss to Central Michigan. Last week's Irish defeat at Michigan, combined with their recent struggles against Michigan State, will have Notre Dame on high alert. 

"Yeah, we are aware of the streak they have here," McCarthy said. "[Special teams captain Scott Smith] and myself were here two years ago. That was a pretty dis­heartening loss. Obviously 
Irish have 

indeed strug­gled against the Spartans at home in recent years, the players on the current roster have only been around for one, maybe two, of the losses in the Battle for the Megaphone. 
"Really the only thing that's been somewhat within our control is what's happened since we've been here:· Smith said. "From my perspective, I don't really look back to what happened in 1993 or anything like that. 
"So for me, it's just focusing on since I've been here and what I can do and our team can do to hopefully switch that in the other direction." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
The Observer's Moments You Should Remember in the ND-MSU Series 

2006: No. 12 Notre Dame 40, Michigan State 37 
It took a rain-soaked miracle comeback for Brady Quinn and the heavily favored Irish to escape East lansing. Terraillambert took an interception of Drew Stanton 27 yards to the house to give Notre Dame the lead with 2:53 to play, and lambert sealed the victory with another pick on Michigan State's final drive, prompting one of the best ti.'rades in recent memory from Detroit radio man Mike Valenti ("Maaaaaake plays IN). .. " :'· .. 
. .·"-.-~ :. ' 
. .. 
2005: Michigan State 44, No. 10 Notre Dame 41 (OT) 
The Spartans withstood a furious Irish rally, hanging on to win in overtime before planting the Michigan State flag at midfield in Notre Dame Stadium. Quinn set career-highs with 487 yards passing and five . touchdowns, but that wasn't enough for Notre Dame to come all the way back from a 21-point third-quarter deficit. The Irish managed only a field goal on their opening overtime possession, and Michigan State's Jason Teague scored on a 19-yard run to hand Charlie Weis a loss in his first game at Notre Dame Stadium. 


2002: No.12 Notre Dame 21, Michigan State 17 
Quarterback-turned-wide receiver Arnaz Battle took a short pass 60 yards to the house with 1:15 on the clock to give the Irish the win in a game they almost gave away. Notre Dame led 14-3 to start the fourth quarter, but the Spartans took a 17-14 edge with less than two minutes remaining when Charles Rogers out-leapt two defenders for a spectacular 21-yard touchdown catch. Notre Dame's victory was its first over the Spartans since 1994, and first-year coach Tyrone Willingham improved his record to 4-0 with the big win over his alma mater. 
2000: No. 23 Michigan State 27, No. 16 Notre Dame 21 
A freshman quarterback throws for a late score to upset a favored Irish squad -sound familiar? Spartans quarterback Jeff Smoker connected with Herb Haygood for a 68-yard score on a 4th-and-10 with 1:48 to play to lead Michigan State to a big home victory. Notre Dame had rallied back from a 20-7 deficit behind the strong running of Julius Jones, as then-quarterback Arnaz Battle was out because of a broken wrist. Jones ran in a score from two yards out to give the Irish a 21-20 lead with less than eight minutes to play, but Michigan State's late score gave the Spartans their fourth straight win over Notre Dame. 
1966: No. 1 Notre Dame 10, No. 2 Michigan State 10 
Even a lrish-Spartans discussion focused on recent matchups wouldn't be complete without a mention of "the game of the century." A banged-up Notre Dame team fell behind 10-0 early but tied the game with a field goal on the first play of the fourth quarter. A late interception put the Irish on the Michigan State 18-yard line with a chance to take the lead, but the Spartans defense held and Notre Dame missed a fteld goal. The Irish took the ball back with 1:10 to play on their own 30, but coach Ara Parseghian opted not to risk a turnover with starting quarterback Terry Hanratty knocked out. Notre Dame instead ran out the clock to preserve the tie en route to a 9-0-1 season and a national championship. 
Recycle The Observer. 

page 7 

Friday, September 18, 2009 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Dantonio has Spartans ready to compete 


Menu Item* 
\vith purrhase ofany reHttlar prited nu~r1u itt~nl and large drink (*of equal or lesservalue) 

By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Mark Dantonio certainly knows how to forget last week's problems and bury the pain in Xs and Os. 
"If I sat down and said, hey, you got to play cover four, wizard red magic, those types of things -it means nothing to anybody here," he said Tuesday. 
What? 
"When you run a cut route, have a moving tray, it means nothing to anybody sitting here or any fans, but it means something to our play­ers," he went on. 
Spell-casting and moving trays aside, Dantonio's point, he said, was that his team knows it has problems but if the players are truly invested in the program, the Spartans can fix them. 
"We have to re-gather our­selves and find strength in each other," he said. 
As much as Charlie Weis knows the importance of 
Saturday's game, Dantonio does too. "This is a big rivalry game for us," he said. 
Dantonio has run into for­mer Spartans from years past who talk about their memo­ries of playing Notre Dame. 
"They all talk to you about the past games and what it's all meant to them, so it's a very important game," he said. 
Dantonio, who took over Michigan State on Nov. 27, 2006, after six years as an assistant, is in his third sea­son with the Spartans. He's enjoyed good fortune over the Irish, winning the two games he's coached against Notre Dame. But then, Michigan State has done well as a whole against the Irish. Notre Dame has only won three games against the Spartans since 1997. 
What's more, Notre Dame hasn't beaten Michigan State in South Bend since 1993 ­when Michael Floyd was three. 
Dantonio chalked it up to fundamentals, but acknowl­edged other factors were at work in Michigan State's suc­cess. 
"Things have happened," he said. "We've not turned the ball over. We've done things that allow us to win." 
But he said, ''I'm sure there is an emotional edge to both teams when you play in this game." 
The Spartans lost a close game to Central Michigan last Saturday. A missed field goal by Central Michigan should have ended the game, but an offsides penalty gave the Chippewas a second chance and they converted, winning 29-27. 
Dantonio said he and the team will move on. 
"We'll focus on the future. Right now, the focus is on Notre Dame," Dantonio said. 
Dantonio, like Weis, had to deal with a team that was down in the dumps after a tough, final-minute loss. And like Weis, Dantonio said he felt good about where his players were Sunday. 
"So what we have to do is understand that this is a game. I know [the outcome] of it influences a lot of peo­ple, but at the same time, you move forward and you play the next game," he said. "That's what we'll do." 
Good thing to remember for Colin Neely, the guilty party who jumped offsides and gave 
Central Michigan  another  
shot.  
"Colin is having  a  tough  

time right. now, much like all of us," Dantonio said. "All I've asked our team to do and what I do is ask what could I hav done differently? 
"There are thing that hap­pened prior to that snap where we could have gotten out of this game and won the football game." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

-
.. 

' 
' 
I~ 
I­
\ 
page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 18, 2009 
' 
1­

(: 
\: 

( 
/ 
( 
( 






