r----­
VOLUME 43: ISSUE 109 WEDNESDAY. MARCH 25,2009 

Bishop, White House issue responses 
D'Arcy refuses to attend Commencement, believes University chose "prestige over truth" 

THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ByJENN METZ News Writer 
Fort Wayne-South Bend Bishop John D'Arcy and the White House released statements Tuesday regarding the contro­versy over the announcement that President Barack Obama will be the 2009 Commencement speaker. 
D'Arcy, who has been openly critical of the University in the past, announced in his statement he will not attend the 2009 Commencement. 
D'Arcy wrote in the statement, which is posted on the diocese's Web site, that he was made aware the president accepted the invitation to speak to the class of 


Lewis Hall decreases -water use 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
Lewis Hall environmental com­missioners Caitlin Foster and Melissa Vondriska placed timers to track the amount water use in each of the dorm's showers on Monday, marking the beginning of a water conservation competition between each section of the dorm. 
"I am really concerned with water conservation and I wanted to spread this awareness around the dorm and thought thi<J was a good, fun way," Vondriska said. 
The commissioners installed an hourglass timer in every shower, Foster said. The timers measure five-minute intervals, which encourages residents to finish their showers before the hour­glass runs out. 
They turned the use of the timers into a competition between the sections to increase incentive for water conservation, Vondriska said. 
"We're asking the girls to keep traek of how many showers under five minutes they take and record 

~ thorn on slmets outside the bath­rooms," she said. At the nnd of the three-week competition, Vondriska said the sPc.tion with tho most five-minute showers would win a prizo. "We don't have a way to moni­tor actual water-savPd, but we would like people to bn aware of how long their showers aw and cut down on the water they use," Vondriska said. Foster said Lewis' Rector, Linda Cirillo, supported the commission-
see WATER/page 8 

2009 and receive an honorary degree by University President Fr. John Jenkins on March 20, shortly before news was made public at a White House press briefing by Press Secretary Robert Gibbs. 
D'Arcy challenged the University, as a Catholic institu­tion, to question whether or not "by this decision it has chosen prestige over truth." 
The bishop's statement is reflective of the response of some members of the national Catholic community, citing Obama's stance on issues relating to the protection of life as a reason for his decision to not attend the 2009 graduation, which will be 
see D'ARCY/page 9 



Student performs Irish music for President 
Shannon Rovers Irish Pipe Band invited to play bagpipes at White House on St. Patrick's Day 

Photo Courtesy of William McTighe From left to right, freshman William McTighe poses in the White House with the wife of the Prime Minister of Ireland, Mary Cowen and McTighe's father, Bill McTighe. 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 
La Fuerza, a club that cele­brates Latino heritage, present­ed Immigration Monologues Tuesday as a part of their Action Week activities. 

The monologues consisted of l"ive speakers, who discussed their personal stories or moving to the United States. Both pro­fessors and students told their stories of immigrating to America. 
Luzmila Camacho-Platero, a Spanish prof{Jssor at the College, talked about her many struggles while living in the United States. She immigrated to America from Spain. Camacho-Platero was a 
By MOLLY MADDEN News Writer 

William McTighe, a freshman and a member of the Shannon Rovers Irish Pipe Band ­based in Chicago -invited, along with eight of his fellow band members, by President Barack Obama to perform at the White House on St. Patrick's Day last week. 
"President Obama was host­ing a party at the White Houso on St. Patrick's Day and ho wanted to put on a display of Irish music and culture," McTighe said. 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


NDSP investigates assault 
Observer Staff Report 

Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) is investigating an alleged assault that took place around 1:20 a.m. Sunday out­'S ide of Legend's of Notre Dame, according to Dave Chapman, assistant director of NDSP. 
Chapman said a man report­ed the assault after he exchanged words with another man, who then hit him in the face with his fists. 
The man was treated at a local hospital and has been 
see ASSAULT page 8 
The Shannon Rovers Irish Pipe Band is a bagpipe ensem­ble that was founded in 1926 to "promote the music of the Gael." The band has more than 90 members and has played for every sitting president since John F. Kennedy. McTighe's connections with the prominent band go back to his infancy. 
"I got involved because my father has been the band man­ager since I was a baby," McTighe said. 
McTighe said when he first heard about the invitation he was excited, but was unsure as 
see MUSIC/page 8 



College hosts Immigration Monologues 
Students, professors tell personal stories, challenges about moving to the United States 
student, and eventually decided to stay. After that decision, she was forced to try to get a work permit. 
"I think for the amount of $5,000 dollars I got my working permit," Camaclxl-Piatero said. 
Camacho-Platero also dis­cussed the hardships she faced after living away from Spain after many years. , 
"AI'tnr almost 17 years in this country, you realize that you are alone here. You might have a group of friends, but you are alone. You are alone for the good moments and the bad moments," she said. 
According to Camacho­Piatero, immigrants often do not 
see STORIES/page 9 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, March 25, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Graduation 


input 
Dear Father Jenkins, 
I would like to commend your deci­sion to accept the President of the United States as this year's Commencement speaker. It is an honor to the University and to its stu­dents, especially those in the Class of 2009. If only I were so lucky. 
Now, I know that some people are less than pleased about your choice. They say that some of the President's opinions differ from theirs, and thus 
you should  
rescind the offer  Laura Myers  
immediately.  
I struggled with  
this too, at first.  Sports Writer  
The guy's' a  
Steelers fan, for  

crying out loud. That's not something to take lightly. 
However, I was raised to respect people for their opinions, not to ostra­cize them. I can also acknowledge that no matter how hard I cheer on the Browns, it will not make Obama any less of a Steelers fan. But I'm sure that everyone can find some common ground. As I told a friend at church camp a few years ago, she could freely root for the Steelers as long as she threw in a "Go Irish!" 
I realize that many of those upset by the President's upcoming appearance feel that his political actions violate Catholic Social Teaching, and I do understand their concern. 
But what about Notre Dame's last Presidential graduation speaker? 
The former President Bush spoke here in 2001, his first Commencement address after ascending to the presi­dency. Before that, he was Governor of Texas and oversaw the execution of 155 people. How does that go along with Catholic social teaching? 
Personally, I would be honored to have George W. Bush as my gradua­tion speaker. I think his speech would be great. 
I don't know this for a fact, but I bet that when the former president spoke here, those currently in an uproar were less outraged and more akin to South Park's portrayal of tween girls at a Jonas Brothers concert. Please, please, Fr. Jenkins, do not Google that. 
Maybe everything doesn't have to be about perfect Catholicism or even about politics. Maybe our President is a good example of hard work paying off, of breaking barriers, of having a positive impact. Maybe that's what Commencement should be about. 
I have always loved Notre Dame, from the days I toddled around in a cheerleader outfit to the days I got my acceptance letter, took my first theol­ogy class and sat in the press box on a football Saturday. Sometimes I just walk around and think about how amazing it is that I actually go here. 
President Obama obviously recog­nizes how special this place is as well -he chose us as one of only three colleges at which he will speak. 
I respectfully request, Fr. Jenkins, that you do not let the voices of the few deter you from showing the presi­dent the same respect he has shown to this institution and all those who love it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a reporting error in the March 23 edition of The Observer, the article on the ChiefExecutive Assistant should have said student body president­elect Grant Schmidt. Bob Reish is still student body president. The Observer regrets this error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD YOU ''ASK BRENNA"? 


Caitlin Albany  Whitney Fricke  
senior  junior  
Opus  Regina  
''I'd ask her  "Who's  
who's her  Brenna?"  
publicist?"  


Cameron Muhlenkamp 
senior Zahm 
''I'll watch her on WNDUats tonight and get back to you. " 



Kelli Minor Leah Hall Becky Whitaker 
sophomore sophomore senior 
Holy Cross Holy Cross Opus 
''I'd ask her _"Who the heck "/ think I met 
what's going 
, 
on. 

are you, her last night, Brenna?" right?" 

IN BRIEF 
A lecture hosted by the Theology department titled "The Igbo and their Perception of God, Human Beings and Creation," will take place Wednesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of Mendoza College of Business. Nigerian novelist and poet Chinua Achebe will deliver the Third Biennial Blessed Pope John XXIII Lecture Series in Theology and Cultufe. The talk today will focus on "Human Beings."· and the talk on Thursday will focus on "Creation." 
A lecture on "Holocaust Denial in the 21st Century: New Forms of Antisemitism" will be given at 7:30 p.m. in McKenna Hall Auditorium today. The speaker is Deborah Lipstadt, Dorot Professor of Modern Jewish and Holocaust Studies from Emory University. 
Men Against Violence will be hosting a lecture titled "Tough Guise: Media, Violence and Masculinity" today from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. in the Carey Auditorium of Hesburgh Library. Sut Jhally will be conducting the lec­ture. 
A symposium on "Change, Hope and Expectation: The Obama Presidency in Global Perspective" will be held with a lecture at 6 p.m. fol­lowed by the symposium at 7 
p.m. on Thursday in Eck Visitors' Center auditorium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 


0,,,,,,,

,,,,,,, 
e

It~ I~ I~ 

HIGH 50 HIGH 35 LOW 30 LOW 25 
VANESSA GEMPISfThe Observer 

The Notre Dame Handbell Choir practices in Coleman Morse on Tuesday night. The Handbell Choir will hold a concert Monday at the homeless shelter. 
OFFBEAT 
Robot model no challenge yet to human rivals 
TOKYO -It may have been a fashion first, but supermodel Naomi Campbell has nothing to fear. 
The HRP-4C humanoid robot showed off her stormtrooper-like silver and black frame and bowed to a fashion-savvy audience at the start of the annual Japan Fashion Week in Tokyo --but even her creators admit the mechanical model needs more work. 
The HRP-4C has battery­powered motors in her body and face, allowing her to imitate the expres­sions, gait and poses of a supermodel -up to a point. 
"Our robot can't move elegantly like the real mod­els that are here today," Shuji Kajita, director of humanoid robot engineer­ing at the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST), told Reuters. "It'll take another 20 to 30 years of research to make that happen." 
Guard fired after locking new hire In with Inmate HOLLIDAYSBURG, Pa. ­A western Pennsylvania 
county prison guard has been frred over a prank in which a new guard was locked in a cell with an inmate involved in a police shootout. Blair County offi­cials didn't release the guards' names, but con­firmed the incident after The Altoona Mirror received an anonymous report. · 
The report said the new guard was locked with the inmate for 20 minutes by a guard who wanted to see 
what the  new  hire  was  
made of.  
Information  compiled  

from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0:: 
1.&.1 
:I: 
~ 
1.&.1 
3: 
..... 
c( 

ee
(,) 
..... 0 HIGH 55 HIGH 45 HIGH 58 HIGH 60 LOW 38 LOW 35 LOW 40 LOW 37 
Atlanta 61 I 51 Boston 48 I 30 Chicago 50 I 44 Denver 53 I 24 Houston 73 I 63 Los Angeles 67 I 52 Minneapolis 41 I 36 New York 50 I 31 Philadelphia 49 I 31 Phoenix 81 I 53 Seattle 50 I 40 St. Louis 59 I 46 Tampa 81 I 60 Washington 51 I 33 
Wednesday, March 25, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 


Judicial Council leaders present Peer Advocacy Progratn 
By LIZ O'DONNELL 
News Writer 
Judicial Council president George Chamberlain and vice president Christina Harmon gave a presentation on the Peer Advocacy Program to members 
of  the  Council  of  
Representatives  (COR)  in  
Monday's meeting.  

The pair presented on the progress that the program has made this year as well as the goals they have for the program next year. 
"The Peer Advocacy Program provides discipline advice to students who have been disci­plined," Harmon said. 
Chamberlain said his goal for the program thi_s year was to expand it to offer real legal advice available to students. However, this goal was not met due to the unavailability of resources. 
Initially, Chamberlain said he had looked to the free legal aid clinic at the law school for help, but found the infrastructure there to be inadequate to help students. He also looked to lawyers in the South Bend Community to swap legal advice in exchange for advertisement on campus, but the Office of General Counsel prevented this, citing the liabilities it could raise. 
There are currently seven peer advocates trained to know the procedures of the Office of 
Residence Life and Housing 
(ORLH) and help students deal­
ing with them. They have all 
undergone strategic training 
processes with Kathleen 
Brannock, the assistant director 
of Residence Life and Housing. 
The advocate's focus is strictly 
to prepare students for the dis­
ciplinary process. They are only 
allowed to sit in on hearings. 
"We're not going out defend­
ing people. We're only there for 
support. The main goal of the 
program is to be a support sys­
tem in a healthy, confidential 
and safe manner," Harmon 
said. "Confidentiality is a really 
important aspect of our pro­
gram." 

The peer advocates deal with 
discipline on a number of levels 
on a case-by-case basis. 
Harmon said the program is 
strictly voluntary and is open to 
all students who have been dis­
ciplined. 
In· a presentation to the Council, Harmon explained the process students go through to get help from the program. When the ORLH issues a disci­plinary letter to a student, a card is issued to the student ·with contact information for the Judicial Council. The student is then able to contact the mem­
bers if they wish, Harmon said. 
She said the program usually 
helps out with 20 to 30 cases 
each year and is hoping to 
increase those numbers. 
"We are looking to expand by 
an ad campaign. We will make sure it's effective, implementing it during heavy times of ResLife violations," Harmon said. 
Student body vice president Grant Schmidt asked the pair about the incentive a student has for coming to the Judicial Council for help. 
Harmon said students might be more likely to. use their peers as a resource rather than some­one in OBLH. 
"It's a peer, somebody you're more comfortable talking to. It is a relaxing process that helps when you're tense and freaking out," Harmon said. 
Student body president Bob Reish then turned the discus­sion to what COR can do to improve upon the awareness of the Peer Advocacy Program. 
. Among suggestions was the idea to address the program during freshman orientation. 
"We should think about get­ting the word out at Frosh-0 activities when explaining ... ResLife," Junior Class President Kim Kyrouac said. 
The council would like to make dorm resident assistants more familiar with the program as another way to increase pub­licity. 
Reish suggested it might be smart to train one person in every dorm. 
"It would be two-fold," Reish said. "If a person is not com­fortable with someone in their dorm they could speak with a trained advocate from another dorm or vice versa." 


Reish said the peer advocacy process is something that will be moved on to next· year's administration to be looked at more closely. 
In other COR news: 
+Eight approvals for new stu­dent government positions were made at the meeting. They include Grace Concelman, assis­tant Student Union treasurer; Sarah Hurtubise, assistant Student Union treasurer; Mallory Davidson, Student Union co-director of program­ming; Matt McKenna, Student Union co-director of program­ming; Mary Jo Espinoza, Student Union Board art direc­tor; Nicole Sugiyama, Student Union Board director of publici­ty; Malcolm Phelan, Student Union director of operations; and Kim Kyrouac, Student Union Board chief controller. All were approved unanimously. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at edonne1 @nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, March 25, 2009 

College sells flowers to benefit cancer 
letter with the information Students are still needed to 
By ALICIA SMITH about Daffodil Days. They can help unwrap flowers and put

News Writer 

send their daughters fresh them in vases for distribution, daffodils in a vase for a dona­Call said. 
Saint Mary's College will tion of $15," Carrie Call, "Saint Mary's students help host Daffodil Days, a director of with setting up fundraising program, for the OCSE, said. flowers and American Cancer Society Students facilitating the
"To the American 
Thursday. receive an e­distribution 
According to the Web site mail if their Cancer Society, the during the day," for the American Cancer parents have daffodil symbolizes Call said. Society, "Daffodil Days is one sent them flow­Students can
the hope we all share 
of the American Cancer ers. Lists are sign up for a Society's oldest and most also posted in for a future where one-hour shift beloved fundraising pro­each of the res­cancer no longer from 8 a.m. to 5 grams." idence halls p.m. Thursday.
threatens those we
The fundraiser has taken with the names If students are
love.. ,,
place each spring for the past of the recipi­interested, they 35 years, according to the ents. can contact 
Web site. Each year, donors "We have all American Cancer Society OCSE, Call said. are asked to accept daffodils the daffodils Web site The entire in appreciation of their dona­and vases here Daffodil Days tion to the fundraiser. on campus this campaign has 
This year the College will be coming Thursday," Call said. raised over $240 million in participating as well. The Flowers will be available the past 14 years, according Office of Civic and Social for pick-up in the Student to the American Cancer Engagement {OCSE) sent let­Center Atrium on Thursday Society Web site. The money ters to all parents of current from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. raised has benefited a variety students. According to Call, this year of programs to help cancer 
"At Saint Mary's, all parents the College raised $8,725 patients cope and heal. 
of current students receive a from the fundraiser. Money also benefits cancer research to find the causes and cures for cancer. 
According to the Web site, "As the first flower of spring, the daffodil repre­sents hope and renewal. To the American Cancer Society, the daffodil sym­bolizes the hope we all share for a future where cancer no longer threatens those we love." 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



Researcher looks into frog love lives 
research, says Boyd,
Special to the Observer 
because they bear a consid­
Notre Dame biologist erable resemblance to Sunny Boyd's research is a humans -they have the little like "Match.com" for same basic brain areas, and amphibians. Say you're a the same basic behaviors. female tree frog looking for "Frogs use vocal commu­
a mate -how do you nications -as do humans, choose among a number of she explains. "Obviously potential suitors? they have fewer words than 
Boyd, along with two post­we do, and their behaviors doctoral researchers, two are simpler. Because their graduate students and three behaviors are simpler, we're undergraduates, goes out looking at three behaviors into the real world -the instead of a hundred." real world being UNDERC, Another area of research the University's environmen­looks at the vocal behavior tal research center in Land of bullfrogs, something 
O'Lakes, ·Wis. and that's often a critical compo­observe what frogs are nent of social interaction. doing in nature. Many behaviors-including 
"Then we create computer vocalization! aggression and models where we explore reproduction -are influ­what might be causing the enced by neuropeptides and behavior," says Boyd, an steroid hormones similar to associate professor in Notre those found in humans. Dame's Department of "The frog peptide is vaso­Biological Sciences. tocin. Humans have a vari­
Female frogs prefer males ety called oxytocin. The very with longer calls-a trait same peptide is involved in linked to better offspring. pair bonding mammals," But how does she choose? Boyd says. "The same chem­The lab's resea'rch is investi­ical is linked to autism." gating two possible strate­An exciting new line of gies. Does she pick the first research involves African male that meets the basic clawed frogs and a new criteria, or-in what Boyd technique called microarray. calls the "best of" strategy, The lab is investigating a make comparisons among steroid hormone that's pro­several males? duced directly in the brain, 
Frogs are useful organ­and trying to understand isms for conducting basic how it works. 

The Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture Presents the 24th Annual Philip and Doris Clarke Family lecture on Medical Ethics 
A Moral Foundation for the Helping Professions: Medicine, Law, Ministry, and Teaching 
... 


Edmund Pellegrino, M.D. 
Professor Emeritus ofMedicine and Medical Ethics Center for Clinical Bioethics, Georgetown University Medical Center 
Friday, March 27, 2009 4:00PM McKenna Hall Auditorium 


Sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni Association and the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture 






ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, March 25, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES · page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Money offered to nuke test victims 
PARIS -The French government offered 
, for the first time Tuesday to compensate vic­tims of nuclear tests in Algeria and the South Pacific. bowing to decades of pressure by people sickened by radiation -and seeking to soothe France's conscience. Victims cautiously welcomed the move, nearly 50 years after France conducted its first atomic tests. But they say it's still too stingy, and is only a first step toward healing wounds left by explosions that sent blinding white flashes cascading over French Polynesia and the Sahara Desert. The French government will set aside some €10 million ($13.5 million) forth~ compensa­tion for the first year, Morin said. The U.S. government, by comparison, has approved more than $1.38 billion in compensation to victims of nuclear tests since the enactment of the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act in 1990. 
Gov~rnment arrests TV manager 
KABUL -The manager of an Afghan tele­vision network who refused to censor images of women dancing in short skirts and plung­ing necklines was arrested in what appeared to be a new sign of the government's struggle to define the role of Islam in a country once led by extremists. 
The government has previously censured television stations and taken others to court, but the arrest of Emrose TV's Fahim Khodamani on Monday was the frrst for air­ing overly salacious content, the Afghan deputy attorney general said Tuesday. 
The debate over television in this conserva­tive Muslim country heated up after U.S.-led forces toppled the Taliban in 2001. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

City puts non-bias rules to a vote 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. -Voters went to the polls Tuesday in an election that could strip the local government's anti-discrimination protections for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender residents. 
The fight began after the city commission last year revised Gainesville's anti-discrimi­nation ordinance to protect transgender peo­ple -those who are born one sex but identi­fy with the other. That allows the city's approximately 100 transgender residents to use the public restroom of their choosing, along with protecting them from job and housing discrimination. 
The charter amendment on Tuesday's bal­lot would void the city's ordinances barring discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. 

Legislature to change state song 
ANNAPOLIS, Md. -Maryland lawmakers are thinking maybe it's time to find a way to scrub "Northern scum" -and a few other sensitive pre-Civil War phrases -from the official state song. 
"Maryland, My Maryland," set to the tradi­tional seasonal tune of "0, Tannenbaum," was written in 1861 and adopted as the state song in 1939. But now some lawmakers are pushing for a change to the warlike language in what was originally a poem that doubled as a call to arms. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Senate passes unemployment bill 
INDIANAPOLIS -A plan that would cut benefits to most jobless people to help fix Indiana's bankrupt unemployment insurance fund moved to the House -and a showdown with majority Democrats. 
The Senate passed a Republican plan on Tuesday that is designed to make the fund solvent. It was approved on a mostly party­line 30-20 vote in the GOP-controlled cham­ber and sent to the House, where Democrats have some major problems with it. 
House Speaker Patrick Bauer, D-South Bend, said he would quickly send the bill to a joint House-Senate conference committee. 

Flooding draws Fargo conununitytogether 
Community joins forces to fill2 million sandbags to prepare for record flooding 
Associated Press 
FARGO, N.D. -As the swelling Red River lapped within 30 feet of his back door, Carlis Kramer's proper­ty resembled nothing so much as a bustliiJ.g construc­tion site. 
In a well-ordered ballet, four people loaded sandbags, four others hauled them to the house and another per­son stacked them into a dike. 
This is how Fargo responds to the threat of record flood­.ing: Hundreds of people from all walks of life have joined forc{ls to shield the communi­ty from the rising river, rac­ing to fill 2 million sandbags. 
The effort has drawn foot­
ball players, soldiers, high 
school students, even a 
Microsoft engineer -all 
fearful of enduring another 
disaster like the devastating 
floods of 1997. 
"A friend of mine brought his neighbor's kids, and friends of family bring boyfriends and girlfriends," Kramer said. 
The 1997 floods forced tens 
of thousands of people to flee 
homes in North Dakota, 
Minnesota and southern 
Canada in one of the costliest 
and largest flood evacuations 
in U.S. history before 

Hurricane Katrina. The dis­In Fargo, Noah Addy was Hansen grew up in North help each other out. That's 
aster killed 11 people in the among dozens of volunteers Dakota, then went on to play how it works around here." 
Dakotas and Minnesota and who gathered !\round huge pro football for the Buffalo The prospect of staying 
caused an estimated $4.1 bil­sand piles at the Fargodome Bills. In his playing days, throughout the flood actually 
lion in damage. indoor football stadium to Hansen teamed with Bruce brought a smile to JoAnn 
This year, the river has shovel sand into bags. Smith to form one of the Gray's face as friends and been swollen by heavier­While most workers need­NFLs best pass-rushing duos. neighbors helped fill sand­than-average winter snows, ed two hands to drag the On Tuesday, Hansen's bags in her front yard. combined with an early bags onto piles, the muscular mouth was bloody from the "In '97, I had three kids in freeze last fall that locked a Addy tossed them like they work. diapers," and had to leave as lot of moisture into the soil. were pillows. "I bit my tongue. and I floodwaters approached. This The threat has been made A native of Ghana, he haven't stopped bleeding for time, her family, friends, and worse by spring rains. moved to Fargo about eight two hours," said Hansen, neighbors filled sandbags 
The river was expected to years ago for college. Now an who now lives in nearby until midnight, with her chil­
crest in Fargo late Friday. As engineer for Microsoft, he did Detroit Lakes, Minn. "It feels dren doing some of the work. 
sandbagging continued in not hesitate when the compa­good to help, though." Still, Gray became somber 
Fargo and neighboring ny offered its Fargo employ­Some people nearest the when discussing what would 
Moorhead, Minn., residents' ees time off to help. river said they would stay no happen if the dike failed. "My 
hopes were raised by word of "I didn't experience the matter how bad conditions kids have their bags packed," 
a lower-than-expected crest 1997 flood, but everybody got. she said. 
about 30 miles upstream. told me how bad it was, so I Michael Hagan was caked Out-of-towners flocked to 
The 18-foot crest forecast feel that helping is the right in mud as he prepared to the Fargo area, looking for for Wahpeton, N.D., and its thing to do," Addy said. jack up his trailer beyond the some way to ·help. From cross-river neighbor, Not far away, near a home reach of floodwaters. Grand Forks, the town hard­Breckenridge, Minn., was in south Fargo, Phil Hansen "No one's going to run est hit by the 1997 floods, well within both cities' flood handled sandbags as easily around here," he said. came hundreds of high protection. asAddy. "They'll stick around and school and college students. 

JAPAN 


First survivor of both atom bombs ID'd 
a U.S. B-29 dropped an atomic bomb ing monthly allowances, free medical
Associated Press 

on the city. He suffered serious burns checkups and funeral costs -but 
TOKYO -A 93-year-old Japanese to his upper body and spent the night Yamaguchi's compensation will not man has become the first person cer­in the city. He then returned to his increase, Miyamoto said. tified as a survivor of both U.S. atom­hometown of Nagasaki just in time Yet. Yamaguchi is satisfied that his ic bombings at the end of World War for the second attack, city officials record is now a historical fact. II, officials said Tuesday. said. "My double radiation exposure is 
Tsutomu Yamaguchi had already "As far as we know, he is the first now an official government record. It been a certified "hibakusha," or one to be officially recognized as a can tell the younger generation the radiation survivor, of the Aug. 9, survivor of atomic bombings in both horrifying history of the atomic 1945, atomic bombing in Nagasaki, Hiroshima and Nagasaki," Nagasaki bombings even after I die," but has now been confirmed as sur­city official Tashiro Miyamoto said. Yamaguchi was quoted as saying by viving the attack on Hiroshima three "It's such an unfortunate case, but it the nationwide Mainichi newspaper, days earlier as well, city officials is possible that there are more peo­Japan is the only country to have said. ple like him." suffered atomic bomb attacks. About 
Yamaguchi was in Hiroshima on a Certification qualifies survivors for 140,000 people were killed in business trip on Aug. 6, 1945, when government compensation -includ-Hiroshima and 70,000 in Nagasaki. 
page 6 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, March 25, 2009 


V.Vflll\""' .SliD._, 
premiere scll8lar mhlw advertisilg 
aneets il•titJ clllstrucdon 
8=00-10=ooum M8rCh25aesburuh librarv 10011 PrOVided 

Wednesday, March 25, 2009 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 7,660.21 -115.65 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,222 107 2,560 3,582,719,464 
AMEX 
NASDAQ 
NYSE 
S&P 500 806.25 -16.67 
................. ,.....··.·..-.·..·.·.····.··..·.·.·.·.·.·.•.... ·.·.· 

NIKKEI (to..j!~liifil&llfilillllll-i :l'i'i;'iiii'! FTSE 100 (London) 31911.46 -41.35 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
BK OF AMERICA (SAC) -7.31 -0.57 7.23 CITIGROUP INC (C) -3.83 -0.12 3.01 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -1.97 -1.62 80.60 FINANCIAL BULL3X (FAS) -13.41 -0.95 6.11 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.23 -0.006 2.654 13·WEEK BILL +7.89 +0.015 0.205 30-YEAR BOND -2.36 -0.087 3.606 5-YEAR NOTE +0.71 +0.012 1.693 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.18 53.98 GOLD ($/Troy OZ.) -28.70 92.3.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 0.00 88.50 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 97.7700 EURO 1.3466 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2301 BRITISH POUND 1.4679 
IN BRIEF 
Labor Dept. mishandling complaints 
WASHINGTON -The Labor Department reg­ularly bungles its handling of complaints from workers who say their bosses are cheating them on overtime pay or committing other labor violations. an undercover investigation found. 
The probe by the Government Accountability Office says agency officials often took too long to respond to complaints. failed to record them and, in one instance, lied about investigative work that was never performed. 
"This investigation shows that the Department of Labor has left thousands of actual victims of wage theft who sought federal government assistance with nowhere to turn," GAO investigator Gregory Kutz said in pre­pared testimony, a copy of which was obtained by The Associated Press. 
The House Education and Labor Committee plans to hold a hearing on the investigation Wednesday. 
To test the agency's intake process, GAO investigators posed as workers or companies on 10 occasions. Kutz said the agency mishan­dled nine out of 10 of the fake complaints. 
Specter shifts stance on union bill 
WASHINGTON -In a setback for organized labor, Pennsylvania Sen. Arlen Specter said Tuesday he will oppose a bill that would make it easier for workers to form unions. 
Specter was the only Republican to support the Employee Free Choice Act two years ago, and unions were hoping he might be the cru­cial 60th vote needed to overcome an expect­ed GOP filibuster of the measure when it's taken up this summer. 
Specter has faced unusually heavy pressure from both labor and business interests and is likely to face a tough Republican primary challenge next year from former Pennsylvania Rep. Pat Toomey. In a state­ment, Toomey called Specter's decision a "flip 11op," prompted by the threat of primary opposition to the five-term senator. 
business or overseas." 
Specter said his vote to end a filibuster on the bill two years ago was not support for the mnrits, but instead for Congress to take up the issue of labor law reform. 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS 
page 7 

Democrats to scrap $400 tax credit 
Senate budget blueprint will not include Obama's signature tax cut in 2010 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A top Democrat in the Senate announced a budget blue­print Tuesday that would scrap Barack Obama's sig­nature tax cut after 2010 and blends sleight of hand with modest cuts to domes­tic programs to cut the deficit to sustainable levels. 
Senate Budget Committee Chairman Kent Conrad, D­N.D., promises to reduce the deficit from a projected $1.7 trillion this year to a still-high $508 billion in 2014. But to do so, he assumes Congress will let Obama's "Making Work Pay" tax credit delivering $400 tax cuts to most work­ers and $800 to couples will expire at the end of next year. Those tax cuts were included in Obama's stimu­lus package. 
Conrad, D-N.D.. who has for decades sought to high­light the dangers of perma­nent deficits and rising gov­ernment debt, produced a budget plan bristling with both -even after propos­ing to bring tax rates on income and capital gains to largely rebound to pre-Bush administration levels. 

At the same time. Obama's controversial glob­warming. year to growth of about $27 defense programs and al warming initiative expe­"It puts us on the path billion, or 6 percent for next domestic programs whose rienced a setback as House over 10 years for a very dif­year. budgets are set each year Democrats are declining to ferent kind of country, one But Conrad also makes by Congress, and it sets advance them under fast­with less freedom, one with several shaky assumptions, out the fiscal priorities of track rules that could have more government, one with especially that Congress will the governing party in effectively cut Senate this extraordinary debt, and raise taxes by more than Congress. Republicans out of the one which our children will $114 billion over 2013-14 to The House wants to use debate, Rep. John Spratt Jr., have a very difficult time make sure middle-class tax­the filibuster-proof measure D-S.C., said Tuesday. affording," said Sen. Lamar payers won't get hit by the to advance Obama's health 
The developments come Alexande~ R-Tenn. alternative minimum tax. reform initiative, but is opt­on the eve of debate in the Conrad's plan was He also saves $87 billion by ing against giving his global House and Senate budget released in the wake of new promising Congress will warming initiative fast­committees as they take the budget estimates that pre­come up with spending cuts track consideration. first steps to pass Obama's dicted Obama's plan would or new revenues to avoid Obama's plan to combat $3.6 trillion budget plan for produce alarming estimates cuts in Medicare payments global warming would the fiscal year starting in of red ink -$9.3 trillion to doctors. impose higher energy costs October. over 10 years and $2.3 tril­Under Congress' arcane on consumers and business­
Obama's budget has ignit­lion more than estimated by procedures, the annual con­es through a so-called "cap­ed a firestorm on Capitol the White House just last gressional budget resolution and-trade" system for auc­Hill, with Republicans month. is a nonbinding measure tioning permits to emit assaulting it over record In grappling with the that sets the terms for fol­greenhouse gases. spending and budget deficit, Conrad would cut low-up legislation. Neither budget includes deficits, while many Obama's proposed increas­The congressional budget Obama's $250 billion set­Democrats remain wary of es for domestic agencies plan also determines how aside for more bailouts of his plans to combat global funded by lawmakers each much money to usn for banks and other firms. 

Consumers buy groceries at auctions 
Associated Press Pennsylvania last month, nearly 300 estate jewelry and other auction sta­
DALLAS, Pa. -Out of toilet people showed up. Astonished by the ples have "fallen off a cliff." Williams paper? Need to pick up a few things turnout, he's scheduling auctions at said. He hopes to average about for dinner? Take a number and start locations throughout northeastern $12,000 in sales per auction. which bidding. Pennsylvania. would net him a profit of about 
Many bargain hunters these days "Right now, people don't have a lot $1,000. are trading supermarket aisles for of spare pocket change," said The popularity of the auctions ­the auction circuit in search of deep Williams, 50, operator of Col. which sell leftover or damaged discounts on everything from cereal Kirk'sAuction Gallery near goods from supermarhts, distribu­to spare ribs. Past the sell-by date? Bloomsburg, Pa. "They're looking to tion centers and restaurant suppliers Bidders are happy to ignore that save money." -comes at a time when people are detail if they're getting a good deal. Rich Harris, 28, who was recently strntching their grocery budgets by 
As consumers seek relief from the laid ofT from his welding job, showed using more coupons, buying inferior recession and spiraling food prices, up at Williams' auction in Dallas cuts of meat, and choosing store grocery auctions are gaining in pop­earlier this month looking for meat brands over national brands. ularity as an easy way to cut costs. for his freezer and snacks for his The economic downturn, paired The sales operate like regular auc­kids. With his wife pregnant with with the worst food inflation in near­tions, but with bidders vying for dry their third child, ''I'm basically try­ly 20 years (grocery prices spiked in goods and frozen foods instead of ing to expand my dollar right now," 200H before easing in January and antiques and collectibles. Some auc­he said. "The deals. they seem tn be Frbruaryl. has caused a "seismic tioneers even accept food stamps. fairly good." shift" in consumer behavior, said 
When Kirk Williams held his first Grocery sales make sense for auc­Brian Todd, president of The Food grocery auction in rural tioneers, too. Sales of baseball cards. Institute. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 25, 2009 
Music 
continued from page 1 
to why the president had selected the Shannon Rovers specifically. 
"We are not sure why we got invited, but since we are the official band of Chicago's St. Patrick's Day Parade and are supported by Mayor Daley of Chicago, we think that might have had something to do with it," he said. "But we do know that he wanted a connection to the Irish com­munity in his hometown." 
McTighe recalls being in a state of disbelief when he first heard that an invitation had great," he said. "As the time got closer though, I was hon­estly very nervous and did not know how I would react once I was there." 
McTighe said he and the other Rovers were flown out of Chicago on Tuesday morn­ing so they would be there in time to perform later that afternoon. 
"When we first got to the White House, we were shown to a changing room in the basement after a security check," McTighe said. "We waited there and finished tun­ing before we were ready to play. A couple of minutes before we played a military person that was on staff came in and gath­ered us 
been extended together for a
"The most memorable 
to the Shannon group shot 
Rovers. thing about my White with Mr. and 
"I first found House visit was that I Mrs. Obama. out about the We got to
got to go there
invitation on the meet them 
Tuesday before pantsless; not many and shake fall break when people can say that. ,, their hands." my dad called After meet­me, but I didn't ing the
William McTighe
believe him at President and all; I thought he freshman First Lady, 
was joking," he said. "I didn't know he was serious until he asked me for my social securi­ty number and driver's license number because the White House needed them for a background check." 
Once the knowledge that he would be performing in the White House had sunk in a lit­tle bit, McTighe said the excitement began to take hold of him. 
"I was on cloud nine for a couple of days and just felt McTighe and 
his band mates performed in various locations in the East Wing and then they were moved to play in the State Dining Room. 
"Afterwards we were allowed to put our instru­ments away and come up and enjQy the party and mingle with the guests," McTighe said. 
The party guests included prominent Irish Americans as well as Irish dignitaries including the Prime Minister of Ireland, Brian Cowen. 
"We got to meet Joe Biden, Nancy Pelosi, Ethel Kennedy, the Cowens, and John Kerry," McTighe said. "We also talked to other senators and con­gressman at the party. but we had no idea who they were outside of Dick Durbin from Illinois." 
McTighe also got to talk to President Obama once more and found him to be an aver­age, personable guy. 
"It was quite the experience meeting President Obama, but at the same time he seemed like a real person," McTighe said. "While it is definitely pretty cool meeting someone like that, it didn't seem out of this world; he was still an average person. I liked that aspect very much and thought that was what was most intriguing." 
McTighe said his experience at the White House was a memorable one and will stay with him for years to come. 
"Overall, I thought it was a great experience and was something that comes around once in your lifetime so it is definitely something that you have to take advantage of," he said. "It is very cliche but it is one of those things that you can tell your children and grandchildren about." 
One memory from the trip stood out to McTighe. 
"The most memorable thing about my White House visit was that I got to go there pantless; not many people ean say that." 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden@hcc-nd.edu 


Water 
continued from page 1 
ers' idea and helped them order the timers. 
Lewis residents also seemed enthusiastic about the installation of the timers and the beginning of the competition, Foster said. 
"Generally, we've had a positive response," she said. "The resi­dents that we've talked to have been eager to see how long they actually take in the shower. Some have said this is a good way not just to save water, but to save time in general." 
The competition ends April 8, but Vondriska said they plan to keep the timers in the showers after the competition. 
Foster said the shower timer competition is important because Lewis residents will learn about water conservation. 
"Most people don't know how long the showers that they take are and this is a good way just to get people thinking about it," she said. "Educating people is the first step in correcting environmentally unfriendly behaviors." 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 

Please recycle the Observer. 


collegia.te.conference·· 
nd right to.life/ 
P:r~::dJ®~~nd:edq•·"'"·n(:J 
thi!ii conference is fr~~ 
and Js open to the pubJf<Z~ 



Assault 
continued from page 1 
released, he said. 
Chapman said he cannot dis­close whether one or both of the men are students at the University because of privacy issues. 
A suspect has been identi­fied, but Chapman said NDSP cannot release any further details because the case is still under investigation. 
"We talked to some witnesses and we will go from there," he said. "The case is still under investigation." 


""vvhat the abortion debate is really about.., 
lrbiiJnul!tis liihwuzi<MZi:t:n.*' Wi,:~itt~.#am?tM:isJii*i hng !feUmw ~ l;1) e tilfter iillrtU" !lillft.h fi;;) so ®'tw:tOOffi ·'lim~®:&; !tilt we , 
....say no to the status quo: sup ort for women and children'' 
Wednesday, March 25, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
D'Arcy 
continued from page 24 
the 25th Commencement held during his time as bishop. 
"President Obama has recently reaffirmed, and has now placed in public policy, his long-stated unwillingness to hold human life as sacred," D'Arcy wrote in the stateme.nt. "While claiming to separate politics from science, he has in fact separated science from ethics and has brought the American government, for the first time in history, into support­ing direct destruction of innocent human life." 
A White House statement released Tuesday said the presi­dent welcomes the "spirit of debate and healthy disagreement on important issues." 
"While he is honored to have the support of millions of people of all faiths, including Catholics with their rich tradition of recog­nizing the dignity of people, he does not govern with the expec­tation that everyone sees eye to eye with him on every position," the White House statement said. 
Nationally, 54 percent of Catholics voted for the pro-choice Obama, with 45 percent voting for Arizona Sen. John McCain in the 2008 presidential election, according to CNN exit polls. 
D'Arcy wrote his decision to not attend Commencement "is not an attack on anyone, but is in defense of the truth about human life." 
University Assistant Vice President for News and Information Dennis Brown told The Observer that "Bishop D'Arcy has been a long-time friend and supporter of Notre Dame, and we're sorry he will not be there," in response to D'Arcy's statement. 
Brown said D'Arcy is usually a member of the platform party at Commencement, but has, in the past, decided to not attend the exercises when the University has chosen to honor pro-choice politicians. 
The last time this occurred, Brown said, was the 1992 Commencement exercises, when President George H.W. Bush was the principal speaker. That year, the Laetare Medal recipient was 
U.S. Sen. Daniel Patrick 

Moynihan. D'Arcy was one of many American bishops to express opposition to the University's choice of the Senator to receive the honor -the highest award given to American Catholics -because of his pro­choice voting record on the issues regarding abortion. 
The bishop was quoted in a May 1992 Observer article stat­ing he decided to not attend that year's Commencement exercises because Moynihan's "stated posi­tion on the question of human life in the womb is totally unac­ceptable." 
He said in the 1992 article his presence at the ceremonies "could be interpreted as an approval of [Moynihan's] position relative to the issue of pre-born 
l!l' " 
rue. He did, however, preside over the 1992 Baccalaureate Mass. 
D'Arcy wrote in the statement Tuesday he was keeping the 2004 United States Conference of Catholic Bishops' (USCCB) docu­ment titled "Catholics in Political Life" in mind when making this decision. 
The document states: "The Catholic community and Catholic institutions should not honor those who act in defiance of our fundamen.tal moral principles. They should not be given awards, honors or platforms which would suggest support for their actions." 

The Observer reported Monday Jenkins said the critical lines in this statement by the USCCB are that politicians "should not he given awards, honors or plat­forms which would suggest sup­port for their actions." 
Jenkins said in his interview with The Observer the invitation of Obama to be the Commencement speaker "should in no way be taken as condoning or endorsing his positions on specific issues regarding the pro­tection of life, such as abortion and embryonic stem cell research." 
D'Arcy wrote: "[T]he measure of any Catholic institution is not only what it stands for, but also what it will not stand for. 
"I wish no disrespect to our President, I pray for him and wish him well. I have always revered the Office of the Presidency. But a bishop much teach the Catholic faith 'in sea­son and out of season,' and he teaches not only by his words ­but by his actions," D'Arcy said. 
D'Arcy's office did not provide The Observer with additional information after inquiries were made Monday. 
In his statement, D'Arcy wrote he has spoken with Mary Ann Glendon, former U.S. Ambassador to the Vatican and the announced 2009 recipient of the Laetare Medal. 
"I have known her for many years and hold her in high esteem," he wrote. 'We are both teachers, but in different ways. I have encouraged her to accept this award and take the opportu­nity such an award gives her to teach." 
D'Arcy has released statements in the past related to controver­sial University decisions, includ­ing "The Vagina Monologues" and the Queer Film Festival events on campus. On March 9 he also released a statement regarding Obama's decision to allow federal funding for stem­cell research. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 


Stories 
continued from page 1 
feel as though they belong to either country. 
"You just don't belong any­where. Which, at the same time. there is something positive about this. It gives you a perspective. From outside you see both coun­tries and both societies. and you become more objective," she said. 
Mari Cardenas, a sophomore at Saint Mary's, is an immigrant from Mexico. 
"I came to the United States when I was 11 years old and I did not speak any English," she said. 
Cardenas talked about her father's struggles working in the United States. 
"My dad came to the states and like I said, he fits the stereotype of the Mexican immigrants. He worked in the fields and he would go from state to state," she said. 
Her father was 16 when he first came to the United States. Since her father moved back and forth, he too did not feel like he belonged to either country. 
Cardenas said, "It was kind of like he had two identities, one from over there and one from over here." 
Randa Al-Assadi is currently a foreign exchange student at the College from Iraq. Al-Assadi emi­grated from Iraq to Syria after the war began in 2006. 
Al-Assadi decided to come to Saint Mary's in order to become successful. 
''I'm happy to be here and be part of the Saint Mary's students. I've been here just six months, but I feel·like I'm learning. Now I'm working hard and hoping to reach my goal of finishing my col­lege education," Al-Assadi said. 
Latifa Oudghiri, a teacher in the South Bend Community School District, immigrated to Canada and the United States. She said she has had many struggles while living in America. 
"That enchantment changes into homesickness," she said. 
However, even after her strug­gles, she found that there were many positive aspects of immi­gration as well. 
"You meet a lot of people from all over the world. My best friend is a Russian, and she lives right now in Saudi Arabia. We always keep in touch," she said 


UNIVERSITY OF 

NOTRE DAME 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
Invites Nominations for the 

Sheedy Award 
Each year, the Shet.>dy Award, named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, honors one member of tht~ Arts and Letters faculty fnr outstanding teaching. 
Both stud€·nts and facultv are invited to submit nomination letters for this year's <lWard to: 
Stuart Greene Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Monday, April13, 2009 

Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
page 10 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, March 25, 2009 
Obama claims gains in revival from economic chaos 
President says the country is "moving in the right direction" in second prime-time news conference ofhis presidency 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President 
Barack Obama claimed early 
progress Tuesday night in his 
aggressive campaign to lead the 
nation out of economic chaos and 
declared that despite obstacles 
ahead, "we're moving in the right 
direction." 
At the second prime-time news 
conference of his presidency, 
Obama also toned down his criti­
cism of bonuses to executives at 
bailed-out AlG, and shot back at 
Republican critics of his budget. 
In office for 64 tumultuous days, 
Obama cast his budget -now 
under review in Congress -as 
essential if the economy is to 
recover. The tax and spending 
plan "is inseparable from this 
recovery because it is what lays 
the foundation for a secure and 
lasting prosperity," he said. 
The president also defended the 
U.S. dollar in the wake of China's suggestion for a universal curren­cy, saying: "The dollar is extraor­dinarily strong right now," and "I don't believe that there is a need for a global currency." 
The news conference, lasting 55 
minutes, came at a pivotal, early 
moment in Obama's young presi­
dency. Democrats in Congress are 
readying budget proposals that 
will largely determine how much 
of his first-term agenda will be 
passed, Treasury Secretary 
Timothy Geithner is churning out 
near-daily proposals to solve the 
nation's economic crisis and the 
administration is struggling with 
public and congressional outrage 
over bonuses paid to executives of 
bailed-out AIG. Additionally, 
Obama departs next week for his 
first European trip as commander 
in chief, with the global economy 
a major focus. 
Flexible on some points, Obama 
was unyielding on others. Pressed 
on why he seemed to delay before 
condemning the AIG bonuses, 
Obama said, "It took us a couple 
of days because I like to know 
what I'm talking about before I 
speak." . 

The news conference was-domi­nated by questions about the economy. Obama defended the steps his administration has taken to counter the recession and an unprecedented credit crisis. He said teachers and others have jobs today because of the economic stimulus measure that Congress . passed, and the nation is "begin­ning to see signs of increased sales and stabilized housing prices 
for the first time in a long time." 
He said full-fledged recovery is 
months away, and he added, "It 
will take patience." 
At the same time, he said, 
"we're in a better place because 
of the decisions that we made." 
Obama put in a plug for the 
reqQest Geithner made to 
Congress earlier in the day for 
extraordinary authority to take 
over failing companies like 
American International Group 
Inc., much as the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corp. now does for 
banks. 
"It is precisely because of the 
lack of this authority" that AlG's 
problems threatened to bring 
down the entire U.S. economy, he 
said. Top Democrats in Congress 
reacted positively to the proposal, 
although it is not clear when legis­
lation might be considered. 
Obama has been vocal in his unhappiness over the $165 mil­lion in retention bonuses paid to executives at AIG, although his favorable reference to business men and women ·seeking profits was a new twist. 
"Bankers and executives on Wall Street need to realize that enriching themselves on the tax­payers' dime is inexcusable, that the days of outsized rewards and 
. reckless speculation that puts us all at risk have to be over," he said.· "At the same time, the rest of us can't afford to demonize every investor or entrepreneur who seeks to make a profit. That drive is what has always fueled our prosperity, and it is what will ulti­mately get these banks lending and our economy moving once more," he said. On other issues, Obama: -Said the American people are assessing his ability as chief exec­utive based on his skills and work. not the color of his skin. He said there was justifiable pride in January, when he was inaugurat­ed as the first black president. -Strongly dofended his pro­posal to rais11 taxes on the wealthy by reducing the value of the deductions they may take for 

items such a<> home mortgages or charitable donations. It's a "realis­tic way for us to raise some rev­enue from people who benefited enormously over the last several years. Its not going to cripple them. They will still be well-to­do," he said. 
-Called his decision to expand federal support of embryonic stem cell research the "right thing to do and the ethical thing to do." He said he wrestled with the ethics of the decision but is hopeful that the science will lead to help for people with debilitating diseases. 
-Said the recent elections in lsraol would not make it easier to creato a stable onvironment with sidc-by-sido Israeli and Palestinian states. 
The president opened the news eonfimmco with a prnparnd stato­ment read from a scre1m, turning the event's opm1ing moments into a brid speech dnlivnred to a nationwide TV audinnce in addi­tion to tho roomful of reporters. 
Hn said his administration was taking steps to make sure banks have money to lend "even if the economy gets worse." 
Obama said he did not feel the government should call on Americans t<) make sacrifices beyond those imposed by the recession and credit crisis. "Folks are sacrificing left and right ... across the board, people arc mak­ing adjustment.•; large and small," he said. 
Obama wa<> quick with a retort when asked about Republican criticism of his budget, with its huge projectod deficits. 
"First of all," he said he inherit­~d a deficit of ovor $1 trillion from his predecessor. And secondly, he said the Hepubli1:ans have yet to ofl'nr an alternative to his own tax and spending plan. 
Obama has nmphasiz1~d a desire to cut projoet1~d doficiL'i in half by the end or his curront term, although rncont estimates make it appear almost impossibiP barring an extraordinary snries of events. 

Given mncern in .Congress over. 
the red ink, Senate Democrats are drafting a separate budget plan that assumes Obama's proposed middle class tax cut expires after two years -the sort of sleight of hand that other administrations of both parties have used in the past. 
While Congress' budget does not go to the White House for a president's signature, the White House traditionally seeks to influ­ence its provisions. Obama restat­ed his objectives Tuesday night ­health care overhaul, a new ener­gy policy and more money for education and deficit control. 
Obama stepped to the micro­phone one day after his adminis­tration unveiled a plan to melt the credit freeze by helping banks shed bad loans. Undor the propos­al, the government will finance the purchase by private investors of as much as $1 trillion of the $2 trillion in bad assots still held by the nation's banks. in the hopes of freeing banks to begin lending more freely and churn up eco­nomic activity. 


THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Wednesday, March 25, 2009 page 11 
THE OBSERVER A booth at Waddick's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN~CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink John Donovan 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 
AssT. MANAGING f,DITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
SPORTS EDITOR: Man Gamber 
ScENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS 'i'-DITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
{574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asreiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
achamO I @sainrrnarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independem, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the studenrs of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Ediror in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and deparrment editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer: 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letrers is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informarion. 
Questions rq,arding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief]enn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Th~:: Observer (USlJS 599 2-4000} is published MruJday thro~ Fd~y e~(ept dt1ring a;am and vaation pctiods. A subscr.iptlan to Th~ Ob!ietver is $100 fur one .aca~kmic )'df; $55 fut utn: !>Wldt-rr. 
Tht: Observer is publi1hcd :~.t: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Stnd addrtSS corrections tQ: Notre: Dame, IN 46556--0779 Th<Ob.,.-m Periodkal po!R:agc pald at Ncl:t«: Dame r.o. B<»<779 ;md addirional mailing -()ffi~ "024 South Dining Hall 
Nou. Dam<:. IN 46556-()779 

The Observer is a member ofthe 1\s$otiat~ Plus, All teproduaion righrs ate reserved. 
I don't write about Notre Dame. It's not that I have anything against this place or that I don't care enough to pay it homage. It's just I don't have much to say regariling it and my fellow columnist Mr. Kessler does a good enough job covering all thlngs under the Dome. 
But lately I've been turning somethlng over in my mind: the sheer joy and pleas­ure of being able to sit in one of the three booths at Waddick's. Less than a handful of times have I been privileged enough to grace that cafe's wooden comer with my presence. Less than a handful of times haye I been able to gaze out the grand win­dows onto Malloy and Decio's shared front lawn. Less than a handful of times have I been able to remove myself from the lines out the door and the mad-cap dash of O'Shaughnessy's post-class bum-rush. Yet it is in that less than a handful of times that I have realized (internalized, even) my favorite spot on our Lady's campus. 
During my year abroad, most mornings I would walk to Blackwell's Book Shop and ascend to the Cafe Nero on the first floor. I would pull out whatever novel or set of poems I was reailing that term (Fitzgerald, Milton, James, Arnold, Joyce, Hemingway, Wilde, Pope, Woolf), purchase a latte, choose a small table and read. Simply read. I returned to Notre Dame this year looking for a similar routine. I only had classes in the afternoons and would have plenty of time to wake each morning, drink a latte and read whatever essay or book was assigned for that day in class. 
But I encountered somethlng unexpect­ed. Not only was I no longer living in a city but I was no longer living in a place where I could easily find my spot; I tried Starbucks (and to this day still go to the LaFortune Starbucks due to my penchant for a boldly roasted cup of American cof­fee) but it didn't feel right. The counter space was far too close to the seating space. There seemed to be an air vent above every seat I chose, no matter which seat I did choose (does anyone else feel the chilling cold upon entering Starbucks? Is it for the benefit of the baristas? Ifnot, who benefits?) I tried the Glynn Family Honors Program lounge. This had always been the place I had gone freshman and sophomore year to get free coffee from the Keurig machine. Maybe returning senior year was supposed to include a conflated return to my old stomping grounds. But the Honors Program lounge was no longer my place. I had left it behind in my old age. I had grown out of its milieu. 


Then I thought to myseJf, "What about Waddick's?" No-the lines were just far too long and you can never get a seat. But one day I thought I would try and sure enough, ifyou go to Waddick's in the mid­dle of a class period (as opposed to in between class periods) there are plenty of seats to scoop up. And one fateful morning, I was able to get my Green Mountain Breakfast Blend, pay the cashier with my Flex Points and walk to my right to see an empty booth. It was here that I first fell in love with the Waddick's booth. And here, gentle reader, are the many reasons why the Waddick's booth is the best booth of all the booths. 
Why Waddick's? 
Why Waddick's indeed. With all the food service shops that cover the grounds of our fair University, it has become increasingly hard to decide which one is the best. The Dining Halls offer the forced-meal encounter for on-campus undergraduates. Reekers stays open at all hours of the night. LaFortune, the Whitman of restau­rants at Notre Dame, contains the multi­
tudes of culinary delicacy withln its singu­lar entity. Greenfield's has high-quality food and the professional atmosphere desired by business major, professor and University employee alike. Crossroads at the Eck Hall of Law has the cache of new­ness. But only Waddick's, oh my Waddick's, has the fulfilling atmosphere of a quaint, community-oriented coffee shop. 
Why the booths? 
Well, why not the booths? The hallway­facing counter is too rigid, too imposing. The outer tables aren't really a part of the shop at all. And the inner tables, while great, just don't have the same intimacy of the booths. 
Will I ever get a booth again? 
Sadly, it takes an extraorilinary amount of skill and cunning to win a booth at Waddick's. As I mentioned earlier, I have only been able to sit in one a few times. The time schedules of when to go to Waddick's in general do not apply to the booths therein: once somebody has one, he or she will hold onto it with dear life. 
So I'm left in a quandary. I love the Waddick's booth but I can never access it readily or reliably. Should I forego my love of the Waddick's booth and settle for a less­er place? Or should I continue to claim the Waddick's booth as my favorite on-campus spot and hope each morning upon rising that I will be able to win one? I don't know, friends. I simply don't know. 
In these last few weeks of my senior year I will go to Waddick's every day in the "hope of fincling an empty booth. And if I don't, I will walk slowly, contemplatively away. You will see me often in O'Shaughnessy. But I cannot say whether you will find me in rapture or in despondency. 
Andrew Miller is a senior English major. He can be contacted at amille15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Basketball· needs support 

The score is final, Kentucky beat Creighton so we will have one more game in the NIT on our home court. The Leprechaun Legion is the second (and should be first) best student section in the country. I thlnk that is a pretty cool thlng. To be honest however, it was a little embarrassing that the first two NIT games were broadcast on ESPN because the crowd was so small and dull with the exception of a few exciting moments. The people who were there were loud, and I give them 100 percent credit for making up for all the empty seats, but it was like comparing Notre Dame Stadium on a game day to the Blue­Gold Game. 
I know the season was disappointing, but come on people, we need to show up for this game and be the loudest, most hostile sl!hdent sec­tion Kentucky has ever played in front of. I am fully (not) condoning the "suck it" cheer, momma jokes and anything we can come up with as a student section. We have one more game left in the JACC, let's show the team that we are still 100 percent behind them so that they can be fired up and get back to Madison Square Garden to win! 
Go Irish! Beat Wildcats! 

Matthew McManus 
sophomore 
Fisher Hall 
March23 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Ashley Charnley Matt Gamber Sarah Mervosh Douglas Farmer 
Is your bracket faring better than 

Megan Loney Chris Mesoud 
Obama's?

Graphics Viewpoint "Ifyou're never scared or embar­
Mary Cecilia Stephanie Vossler rassed or hurt, it means you never 
take any chances. " 
Mitsch Yes Scene No 
Julia Sorel 

Joey Kuhn author Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 12 Wednesday, March 25, 2009 
Student~ voice opinions on Obama visit 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
It's our graduation 

On Monday, March 23, The Observer published a two­page Viewpoint section that contained nine letters about the recent announcement that President Obama would be speaking at this May's Commencement. Of the nine letters in Monday's Observer, a mere two were from seniors. As a Republican and a member of the Class of 2009, I have mixed feelings about seeing President Obama address my class as we prepare to go forth from this campus. While I am honored the president has chosen to come to South Bend, I disagree with almost every political view he holds. I also understand the sentiment that some of his policies are not in line with Catholic teachings. While I have mixed emotions about the speech, there is one thing I am truly upset about. I am upset that the people who are complaining are not the ones graduating. 
I understand there are intense emotions when it comes to a politician delivering an address of this nature. If it were up to me, John McCain would be here as president instead of Obama. But what makes me even more upset is the idea that others want to mar the graduation of myself and my friends. Alumni and underclassmen are express­ing their outrage. One alum threatened to bring pictures of abortion victims. While I am completely in opposition to President Obama as a staunch pro-life advocate, this is the last thing I want to see as I celebrate my graduation with my friends and family. 
My classmates and I have earned the right to enjoy our commencement. We have worked hard over the last four years to earn the right to receive a diploma from Our Lady's University. Please do not let your disagreements with President Obama take away from our celebration. We've earned this. No one, not alumni, not undergradu­ates, not even President Obama himself, can take it away from us. 
Michael Scholl 
senior 

off campus March 23 
The goals of higher eduacation 

I just wanted to express, from the bottom of my heart, how honored I am that the President of the United States is going to speak at my graduation. I can not think of a greater honor this University could bestow on the senior class. Over the last few days I have heard many people toting the phrases "Obama is a disgrace" and, "his values are completely against the values and mission of the University." 
To these people, and to you if you have been worry­ing the same, I would ask you: what are the most important values of this University? Is .the University's number one mission to rid the world of abortions, stem cell research, and homosexual marriage? While these may be important issues for some of our students, fac­ulty and staff; I can not believe that Notre Dame would be the incredible and successful University it is today if these political and religious agenda's were the funda­mental base of the University's mission. I was always under the impression that the University was "to culti­vate in its students not only an appreciation for the great achievements of human beings, but also a disci­plined sensibility to the poverty, injustice, and oppres­sion that burden the lives of so many. The aim is to create a sense of human solidarity and concern for the common good that will bear fruit as learning becomes service to justice." 
Barack Obama is helping to make education manda­tory for all children, combating employment discrimi­nation, urging the role of religion (in a pluralistic sense) in politics, and encouraging all young people to participa'te in service. It sounds to me like Obama upholds the fundamental values and mission of the 
-University. And the true "slap in the face" here is that · if this unenlightened debate continues, the Notre Dame Class of '09 will be remembered for nothing more than protesting a man who has risen to one of the highest, and most honorable, positions our country offers. Thank you. 
Kathleen Hession 
senior 

off campus March 23 
Pro-life 
represent~d 
As both a proud Notre Dame law student and a conscien­tiou.<; Catholic, I share the excitement of my many col­leagues who welcome President Obama to give our com­mencement address, as well as the chagrin ofthose who feel the invitation clouds our Catholic identity. I would invite those ctitical of the selection to note that the University has chosen to bestow "its highest award, the ~e Medal, upon the renowned pro-life, pro-familycrusader Mary Ann Glendon. IfProfessor Glendon is willing to share the stage with President Obama at graduanon, I am certainly willing to share the auditorium with him. As a former member of President Bush's Council on Bioethics, Professor Glendon could provide a healthy -and likely far more learned ­counterpoint to Obama's pro-choice politics. The University would do well to allow her the opportunity to speak at length during the commencement activities as well. 
David Roberts rhird year law student off-campus March23 



Playlist 
With the recent controversy ofObama's selection as this year's commencement speaker at graduation, I have put together a short list of songs that I feel summarize the reac­tions (and some reactions to reactions) that this issue has sparked in our student body and beyond: 1. "It's the End of the World as We Know It (and I Feel Fine)"-R.E.M, 2. "We Can Work It Out"-The Beatles, 3. "Grounds for Divorce" -Wolf Parade, 4. "The Best Day Ever"-Spongebob Squarepants, 5. "Don't Come Around Here No More" ­Tom Petty & the Heartbreakers, 6. "Idiot Wind" -Bob Dylan, 7. "I Don't Care"-The Ramones, 8. "What Have I Done to Deserve This?"-The Pet Shop Boys, 9. "J*zz In My Pants" -The Lonely Island. 
Ryan Simmons 
senior 
Keough Hall March 23 

Don't decide based on one issue 
The news of Notre Dame inviting President Obama to alumni. I understand that many at this university oppose cussion, debate, and free speech. Four deeades ago, Father speak at our Commencement in May certainly has travelled ·President Obama's pro-choice policies and support of stem Hesburgh linked arms with Martin Luther King Jr. to decry far Md fast. My friends abroad, in China and Europe, have cell researeh. And I understand how Catholic identity matters the racism that infected our soeiety and stand for justice and sent me emails exclaiming their excitement. My grandfather, so much to this sehool. But to deny the leader of the free equality. This May, our University will bestow an honorary who lives in Hawaii and has absolutely no idea how to use world a place to speak at Commencement because of his pro­degree on the first African-American President, a man mar­the Internet, somehow figured out about our invitation to choice policies and support for gay marriage is not just ried to a woman who is the direct descendent of slaves. This Obama and called to congratulate my parents before I could wrong, it's a dangerous way to look at the world. Viewing the is America at its best. I'm proud to call Barack Obama my even break the news. Personally, I was thrilled to hear that world through the prism of a single issue tends to create a President. And I'm proud that my university has taken the President Obama will speak at our graduation, just as I black and white picture; while, in my experience, there are initiative to invite him to speak. would have been thrilled to hear that President John McCain plenty of moral issues that exist in shades of gr<~y. If you dis­Gavin Payne would give the address. agree with th~ President's policies on abortion, then oppose seruor 
Consequently, I was surprised to see the Viewpoint pages of his every initiative and mobilize support against them. But offcampus The Observer filled with vitriolic articles expressing the don't deny President Obama a place to speak on the basi<; of March23 extreme disappointment and outrage of both students and one issue when universities are meant to be a plaee for dis-
Embrace the President's address 
To the many Viewpoint writers who oppose President Obama's future commeneement address: You need to take a step back and truly think about what you are saying. You may not agree with the president's views -especially those on abortion, as you have clearly voiced -but needless to say, he is still the president, and you should be honored that he ehose our institution to deliver a commencement address. 
Think about it: Any sitting president could speak at essen­tially any university graduation he or she wants, and out of the thousands of colleges and universities in our country, ours was chosen as one of three this year. In 2001, then­President Bush spoke at graduation here at Notre Dame. I'm not going to hide my religious or political beliefS. I am a Catholic who is liberal. I agree with little of what President Bush did during his eight year presidency, but if I had been graduating from Notre Dame in 2001 instead of 2009, I still would have been honored that the current president spoke at my graduation. It is a point of great distinction and some­thing that all current students, alumni, faeulty, and staff should be proud of. It is absurd for all of you to suggest that simply beeause his beliefs on abortion difler from yours that he should not be welcomed here. Let me ask you some­thing: As a Catholic university, should we no longer wel­come the study of stem cells? Should we not learn about other religions besides <:;atholicism? Should we ban the Alfred R. and Lee Abrams Colleetion in llebrew and Jewish studies from the library? The obvious answer is no ­because ifwe did that, this university would not be living up to the ultimate goal of being both the preeminent and pre­eminent-Catholic institution in the world. 
Even if you do not agree with stem cell research or share the beliefs of members ofother religions, it is still essential to learn about, discuss and welcome speakers who do maintain these beliefs because otherwise, it would be close­minded and perpetuate a "bubble" around the university. . 
You cannot ignore the world around you. You have to listen and learn about other people's opinions-even if you dis­agree with them -because that is what being a university student (not to mention an informed, intelligent individual) is all about. If your "love affair with the University of Notre Dame" has truly come to an end after learning about the president's future visit, and you honestly do not want to attend your child's graduation this May (as one of you sug­gested in your letter), then I think you should sell your com­meneement ticket online. There are thousands of people who would buy it from you and would be thrilled to hear our president speak. You should be honored for the oppor­tunity, not disgraeed. 
David Onuscheck 
senior 
offcampus March 23 


THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Wednesday, March 25, 2009 page 13 
Alumni, parents speak out 
LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Where do you draw the line? 

I, too, am shocked that Notre Dame is inviting Obama, who is as pro-abortion a politician as it is possible to be. 
I am all for academic freedom and invit­ing people of opposing views to campus for academic debates. For instance, if Notre Dame were to hold a forum on the abortion issue, I think it would be aeceptable to invite a speaker or debater who is in favor of legalized aBortion to make.the case for that side, so that the issue will have a full hearing from both sides. 
But this is completely different. Here, we are not inviting Obama to an academic debate, but rather, we are giving him an honorary degree, and giving him one of the most prestigious honors the university has -promoting him as Commencement speaker and holding him up as a role model to our graduates and the Notre Dame com­munity as a whole. The standard here should be much higher than for inviting someone with controversial views to speak on campus at another forum. 
Then the question arises: what about other Catholic issues? The church is against the death penalty -so why were Reagan and Bush allowed to speak, when they favor the death penalty? And should we exclude any politician that does not favor a legal ban on contraceptives or in vitro fer­tilization? Where do you draw the line? I think this is a fair comparison, as those issues are against church teaching and I doubt you would ever fmd a single politi­cian that proposes to ban the pill or con­doms. 
I think the death penalty is the closest comparison, as in both issues, it is truly a matter of life or death. So I think to be con­sistent, those who want to ban Obama should also say that Notre Dame should also ban any Commencement speaker who favors the death penalty. Then again, the death penalty hits how many? Thirty or 40 a year? And these people are convicted of heinous crimes. There are over a million abortions a year, and these victims are 100 percent innocent. So do you make an argu­ment based on this that the abortion issue is a deal breaker, while the death penalty or other Catholic issues are not? Again, where do you draw the line? A difficult question. 
I fear that this issue will tear the Notre Dame community apart, and this is the most important reason that the invitation was a bad idea. The "prestige" of having a President visit Notre Dame is simply not worth the anguish that will be produced. 
Mark Rolfes alum class ~f 1984 March23 
.Risking it all 

I am ashamed of Notre Dame today. As a Saint Mary's graduate, sibling, spouse and mother of Notre Dame alums and prospective students, you have crossed a line. President Obama is on record as saying "if my daughters get pregnant, I don't want them punished because of a mistake." President Obama supports FOCA, has already pledged my tax dol­lars to perform abortions overseas and has signed over money for stem cell research. 
President Obama is in stark contrast to our Catholic teachings. This is not the same as inviting Ronald Reagan to speak when the opposition was anti­war, not the same as supporting Ford when Notre Dame was pressured to break ties because of Ford's plant in South Africa. In those situations, Father Hesburgh thought it best to keep the other camp close so as to have some influence. 
Your decision to invite President Obama to speak at Commencement is a slap in the face to Catholics and pro-life supporters who toil endlessly and donate hard-earned money to fight the pro-abortion movement in this country. By inviting Obama -in spite of his fla­grant disregard for human life -you have everything to lose. 
Catherine Kelly 
alum 
Omaha, NE 
March 23 

Rescind invitation 

As the mother of two sons currently enrolled at Notre Dame, I am deeply sad­dened by the decision to have President Obama as the 2009 Commencement speaker. His blatant opposition to Catholic values disqualifies him as one who should be given such a distinction at the University. The title "President of the United States" should not fog the University's ability to make wise choices in people that they bestow such an honor. This decision is contrary to the ideals and strong Catholic identity that is Notre Dame. If President Obama is allowed to speak, Our Lady will surely shed a tear over all of Her University on graduation day. I would ask Father Jenkins to please take a stand and be a Catholic role model to all. Father Jenkins, please rescind the invitation to have President Obama speak. 
Susan Montalbano Wellesley, MA March 23 


Elated for Obama 

Thank you! We are thrilled that President Obama will be speaking at our son's graduation. Anyone who wants to protest by not attending, please send us their extra tickets. We have plenty of relatives and friends who would be thrilled to attend. 
Ginny Pauwels 
Rochester Hills, MI 
March23 

Allow Obama to speak 
As one who decidedly did not support Barack Obama in the 2008 election and does not support the vast majority of his policies today, I will admit that when I found out that my alma mater had invited the president to speak at my son's graduation this May, I wasn't exact­ly elated. In fact, I was a bit stunned, given Obama's radically pro-choice a_genda. 
Due to the uniqueness of its mis­sion, Notre Dame will always be striving to strike a balance between the moral values it espouses and the academic freedom that is the hallmark of great universities. So long as Mr. Obama does not use his speech to advocate his pro-life poli­cies, how does this differ from simi­lar invitations extended to George 
W. Bush or his father, both of whom supported the death pPnalty, which also stands in contrast to the pro-life position? To the class of 1988 graduate who suggested "that if the administration does not want to suffer the embarrasment of pic­tures of dismembered children lin­ing Notre Dame Ave. on what should be the happiest day of our newest graduates' lives, they with­draw this invitation immediately" ("Obama choice unacceptable," March 23)-maybe that person ought to give a little thought to the graduates, whom the commence­ment ceremony is being held to honor. Before anyone angered by this choice chooses to turn gradua­tion into a circus, they might want to think about that. If we can't trust our graduating students to have a strong enough moral compass not to be swayed by a president who doesn't even speak about his pro­choice views from the podium, what strength of character have we, their parents, instilled in them? 
I didn't vote for the Barack Obama. I don't often agree with him. I vehemently disagree with his position on life issues. He is, nonetheless, the president of the United States. I urge Fr. Jenkins to resist the pressure, out of respect for the Office of the U.S. Presidency, which transcends any given occupant. 
Diane Dirkers Jones alum class of 1984 March 23 


Hitting them 
where zt hurts 
This past Friday I received the quarterly notice from Notre Dame requesting my contribution to the Annual Fund. Rather than make my usual donation to the fund, this year I will instead make a second donation to the National Right to Life Committee. This donation will b11 made in honor of Notre Dame University. The entire Notre Dame family is obliged to express our feelings in some tangible way. I hope that this will inspire others to respectfully protest the misguided choices made by the leaders ofour beloved Notre Dame. 
Joseph Losito alum class of 1981 March23 


Speaking from experience 
01 keep this short and sweet: I'm saddened by the University's commence­ment invitation to President Obama. I say this as a 1992 graduate of Our Lady's University and as a woman who found herself young, alone and pregnant­and chose life. What policies and positions of Obama can matter if he can't pro­tect the very least among us -the unborn. How do I tell my daughter, the wonder of my life, why the school she aspires too attend can't stand against society and stand for Christ, for our faith, and for Our Lady? 
Bridget Zappa alum class of 1992 March24 


Disgusted by choice 
I have just thrown in the trash four Notre Dame t-shirts, a Notre Dame hat, sweatshirt and flag. Needless to say, I will never write another check to the University. I will not associate myself with a university that offers an honorary degree to a politician who lauds abortion and, just within the past month, has issued an executive order that forces every American to pay for the murder of the unborn of the world. I never thought it possible, but Notre Dame is no longer my university. 
Eoghan McGill 
alum 
class of1988 
March22 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE

page 14 Wednesday, March 25, 2009 
Quick Facts about U2: 
• 
Formed In Dublin on Sept. 25, 1976 

• 
Over.145 million albums sold worldwide 

• 
Winner of 22 Grammy Awards, more than any other band 

• 
Band members Include Bono (vocals and guitar), The Edge (guitar, keyboard, and vocals), Adam Clayton (bass guitar), and Larry MuUen, Jr. (drums and percussion) 

• 
Band members featured prominently In numerous human rights and social justice campaigns, Including Amnesty In ternatlonal 

• 
Bono's lyric writing Is largely Inspired by the Bible 

• 
All four band members appeared on postage stamps In Ire land In 2002 

• 
The 1987 album "The Joshua Tree" has sold more than 25 million copies making It their most'popular album to date 

• 
The name. "U2"' may come from the Hfte of the Irish unemployment form 

• 
Band members are good friends with the members of Coldplay, who are also very active 


In social justice campaigns 

inspired 
Scene Writer 
It all seemed pretty clear-cut for a while there. We all had U2 figured out. "Pop" had just been released to low sales and mixed reviews. The following "PopMart" tour, which famously involved a 40-foot mirrored lemon, seemed to be the final nail in the coffin of a once great band. The only reasonable response to U2 was to pay lip service to their early work while ignoring their current releases. 
All of this worked until Bono declared that they were "reapplying for the job of the best band in the world." Ridiculously, this worked. By their 2005 "Vertigo" tour, U2 was cool again. Musicians such as Franz Ferdinand, Interpol, Kanye West, Scissor Sisters, Keane, and The Killers all lined up to play a support­ing role in their shows. U2 had regained its 

No Line On The Horizon 
U2 Label: lnterscope Recommended Tracks: "Get On Your Boots," "Cedars of Lebanon," "Magnificenf' 

place as the premier stadium rock group. No one else was even close. 
So how did they go from dead in the water to the most important band in the world? Largely by redoing what they had done before. By returning to the classic rock sound of their ear­lier work, they regained much of their early acclaim. They could do no wrong. They released a U2 iPod with barely a mention of commercialism. Six years after Bono's fateful proclamation, his words were fulfilled. U2 was the "best band in the world." The only major criticism leveled was the lack of experimenta­tion. Still, U2 never was a group to leave well enough alone. 
The band turned to musical titan Rick Rubin, who was responsible for the reinvention of Johnny Cash. After two promising singles, "The Saints are Coming" with Green Day and "Windows in the Skies," a roadblock caused the 
band to release Rubin and return to two other 
legendary producers, Brian Eno and Daniel 
Lanois. They were each veterans of U2 master­
pieces, "The Joshua Tree" and "Achtung 
Baby." 

The resulting album, "No Line on the 
Horizon," is less than inspired. It finds U2 
standing in place for most of the album, and in 
its weaker moments, trying to catch up. Hints 
of promise are spread throughout the album, 
but they only entice the listener, failing to fol­
low through with a complete song. 

The most promise is found in the t1rst single 
from the album, "Get on Your Boots." The 
Edge takes full advantage of his crunching gui­
tar in the opening riffs. Bono's staccato, half-

speaking vocals find their perfect environment 
by exploring a new style different from the .· 
impassioned wailing we've come to expect. ·· 
It's hard, however, to accept such a light sin­
gle from a band that has always appeared to 
take itself so seriously. The listener can even 
begin to feel slightly guilty about buying into 
the image and forgetting the music. This feel­
ing disappears immediately when Bono sings, 
"I don't want to talk about the wars between 
nations," a line that sounds entirely unbeliev­
able and artificial. U2 is a band capable of · 
great music, but they are just as serious as 
ever. 

The other high point of the album, "Cedars of 
Lebanon" takes advantage of Brian· Eno's 
atmospheric production. It's a departure from 
the stadium sound of most of the album and 
instead delivers a dark, moody song that feels.··· 
like a true exploration of sound. 
The remaining nine songs on the album suf< 
fer from weak writing (''I'll Go Crazy If I Don · · 
Go Cray Tonight", "Magnificent") and compla­
cent instrumentation ("Moment of Surrender", 
"White as Snow"). While not terrible songs, 
they merely rank rather low in U2's catalogue. 
• "No Line on the Horizon" is a disappoint­ment, but not one without merit. To anyone with a preconceived notion of U2, it will fit fectly. It will appease their fans while ammunition for those who dislike U2. And those of us without strong feelings, it will be essentially forgotten. 
Contact Nick Anderson at nanders5@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Wednesday, March 25, 2009 
page 15 

It W(,I,S a warm St. Patrick's Day after-
n and everyone on campus was rev­
in all things Irish. Off in the dis­
a stereo could be heard blasting 
's "City of Blinding Lights" in celebra­tion. 
No band in the modern -rock era has influenced more bands than U2. The ased baud created a new genre of rock music with an atmospheric, lay-red feel, passionate lead vocals, lyrics, and a longer form than at of the classic rock era. Their themic, post-punk sound has influ­most modern rock bands, includ­acts like Coldplay, Radiohead, the 
and Kings of Leon. 
The Irish rock band first got its start with 1980's "Boy" but first gained inter­national commercial success with 1983's "War." This album included "Sunday Bloody Sunday," the band's first overtly political song, whose lyrics contrast the devastating events of the Bloody Sunday incident with Easter Sunday. The subsequent year, Bono and company released "The Unforgettable Fire" with another hit political single, "Pride (In the Name of Love)." The song was written about Martin Luther King, Jr. and is still one of the band's most easily recognizable singles. 
I.n July 1985, Bono jumped off the 
age in the middle of U2's performance of the song "Bad" at the Live Aid con­cert for Ethiopian famine relief, 
I remember being a freshman. I remem­ber all those slow Saturday nights last year when the other freshman guys in my hall­way and I would sit around in someone's dorm room, waiting for a call or text from somebody, anybody, that would release us from our boredom. I remember all those times when the longed-for call or text never came. 
Then we would pack up our hopes into winter jackets and trek across the icy cam­pus to Main Circle. There we would hope to solicit a party invitation from a random group, or at least get an address from a cabbie. With any luck, there would actually be a party at said address, which we could then attempt to sneak into or else submit to paying five dollars for a cup. Usually, these nights just led us on wild goose chas­es, and we would end up back at Main Circle at about 1:00 with nothing to do. 
It was then, and only then, that we would turn our weary souls to the absolute last resort for late-night entertainment: Legends. 
What has happened to turn this estab­lishment from campus laughingstock to hot spot? Nowadays kids are clamoring at the door to get into Legends. One can often overhear people talking excitedly about Techno or Blacklight Nights, but the crown jewel of the club's newfound popularity is clearly the perennial Hip Hop Night. On embracing and dancing with one of the fans. This performance marked a turn­ing point in the band's career because it showed the television audience the Irish rock star could make a personal con­nection with his audiences. As "Rolling Stone" magazine put it in 1985, "for a growing number of rock-and-roll fans, U2 [has] become the band that matters most, maybe even the only band that matters." And after nearly 30 years in the spotlight, U2 still has a very large fan base and a lot of respect. 

In 1987, Bono and the band released "The Joshua Tree," which built on their previous albums' atmospheric sound but featured more exploration of American roots rock, including blues-rock and country music. The album brought sev­eral hit singles to the public, including "Where the Streets Have No Name," "With or Without You,'~ and "I Still Haven't Found What I'm Looking For." 
"With or Without You" became the band's first American No. 1 hit single, and as one of U2's most emotional songs, it was featured as Ross and Rachel's break-up song on "Friends." The song has a very slow, romantic, mesmerizing sound and insightful lyrics: "Sleight of hand and twist of fate I On a bed of nails she makes me wait I And I wait without you." 
As new forms of music such as dance and alternative rock influenced the band, they reinvented their sound for 1991's "Achtung Baby" with such hits as "One" and "Mysterious Ways." They then returned to a more traditioaoal 
the line to get exte all the way to the street and around the corner. Bouncers literally have to hold the crowd back, and a fight that broke out in the parking lot back in the fall has become the matter of campus lore. 
I should be happy that Legends has got­ten so popular. I remember constantly wishing last year that there were some­thing else to do at Notre Dame on week­ends besides go to a dorm party or go to a party off campus. Legends seemed like the perfect place to fill that void, except that nobody ever wanted to go there. The few times I convinced any of my friends that we should check out Hip Hop Night, we got there only to discover about 10 people dancing awkwardly on an empty floor. 
I wanted Legends to be cool because I wanted an option for underage· kids who couldn't find or didn't want to go to a party on weekends, but also did not want to just sit in their rooms and watch movies or play Mario Kart. And then, slowly but surely, Legends started to gain street cred. I heard people who used to dismiss it with a laugh saying things like, "Hip Hop Night is actu­ally not that bad. I went last night, and there were a decent number of people there." 
That was when Legends hit its high point. It was a socially acceptable option to go to Legends, and it didn't even have to be a last resort. Most importantly, anybody could spontaneously show up there with a group of friends and they would get in sound with the release Can't Leave Behind" in included "Beautiful Day" "Elevation" as successful singles. 
A personal favorite and one of U2 most famous songs, "Beautiful Day" is very optimistic anthem that features drum machine and a rhythm The song contains lyrics about a who has lost everything yet finds fort in what he has: "It's a beautiful I Sky falls, you feel like I It's a uu•:LuLuu• day I Don't let it get away." Obama used the song as an tional entrance to some campa events last year. 
Wanting to present harder-hittin rock, the band released "How t Dismantle an Atomic Bomb" in 2004 which included "Vertigo." featured one of the first iPod commercials, well as "City of Blinding Lights" "Sometimes You Can't Make It on Own," a tribute to Bono's father died in 2001. 
Bono and company created a ne kind of rock that has be1m influential so many bands over the past 30 but they have also evolved by various kinds of music and incorpora ing these forms into their albums Because of their widespread influence musical experimentation, inspirati lyrics and political activism, U2 is one of the greatest rock bands today. 
Contact Alexandra Kilpatrick at akilpatr@nd.edu 
to mingle inside. 

Then, around the beginning of school year, a certain tipping point breached, a slight shift in weight caused a popularity landslide. ouuwvu•y,' getting into Legends on Hip Hop became harder than unsticking the at North Dining Hall. I don't know happened to spur this drastic Perhaps people suddenly realized everybody pre-gamed, Hip Hop be just like a giant, less party. Maybe, given the softening stance toward the nightclub, new freshmen were not bombarded anti-Legends propaganda from day leading to record turnouts. Or maybe entire incoming freshman class just liked to dance. 
Whatever happened, Legends went acceptable to grossly overrated. Like rock star whom everyone loves eve though his music is mediocre at b (Bono, anyone?), Legends has gotten slightly big head. It is my duty to bring back down to its level. Students never have to wait in line to get Legends, barring a concert by some name artist. So fellow students, I thought I'd be saying this, but please, going to dorm and off campus p again. 
Contact Joey Kuhn at jkuhnl@nd.edu 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, March 25, 2q09 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Lawson will lead Tar Heels against Gonzaga 
Mills' double-double leads Saint Mary's past Curry, Davidson; Alabama asks VCU to interview Grant 
Associated Press 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. -Ty Lawson is starting to feel better, just in time for North Carolina. 
The speedy point guard said his troublesome toe is still achy after returning to the lineup over the weekend, but he plans to play in the Tar Heels' game against Gonzaga on Friday. And coach Roy Williams also sounds optimistic, too, that the Atlantic Coast Conference player of the year will be ready for the NCAA tournament's round of 16. 
"It's getting better," Lawson said Tuesday. ''I'm walking on it better. Hopefully in a couple of days, it'll be back to 100 per­cent." 
Lawson had missed three straight games with a jammed right big toe before helping the top-seeded Tar Heels (30-4) rally past LSU in Saturday's sec­ond-round game in the South Regional. 
He experienced some minor swelling in the toe afterward, but nothing like what followed the regular-season finale against Duke that forced him to the sideline. 
He participated in the team's shootaround Monday and expected to go through some drills during practice this week. But the team has been cautious, keeping him out of practice for almost two weeks, in addition to missing both of the Tar Heels' ACC tournament games and their NCAA opener against Radford. 
Williams said the injury will linger. 
"It's here," he said. "It's going to be here. It's not going to go away. It's going to hurt the whole rest of the season until he can take that time off." 
Lawson injured the toe in practice two days before the Duke game and needed a. painkilling shot beforehand. He nearly had a triple-double in 36 minutes in the win, but the toe swelled unexpectedly after­ward. It turned out Lawson-on advice from his father-might have exacerbated the problem when he soaked his foot that night in hot water and Epsom salt. 
These days, Lawson is stick­ing to a steady regimen of king his foot in the morning, before practice and after practice. Then, when he's at home, he fills a trash can with ice and water and soaks his foot a few more times in the evening. He's also worn a compression wrap to limit swelling and exercised in a swimming pool. 
The injury has been the topic of conversati4ln around Chapel Hill for weeks, creating a hub­bub that has grown tiresome for his teammates. 
"I get a lot of questions about 
how does Ty's toe feel?" senior ·Tyler Hansbrough said. "''m like, 'It's not my toe. I don't know.' I don't ask him how his toe's doing because I'm sure 100 other people have. I under­stand other people's curiosity. They want to know if he'll be able to go because of his impact on this team and what he's 
done this year. Either way, I 
thought we were a solid team 
with or without him." 
Still, Lawson makes the Tar 
Heels' fast-paced offense go­
and that was apparent during 
his return against LSU. 
After fans greeted him with a 
loud roar that drowned out his 
name during starting lineups, 
the junior looked rusty and hes­
itant early on. At one point in 
the first half, he came out of the 
game after feeling a pop in his 
toe, took off his shoe and was in 
obvious discomfort while a 
trainer looked at him on the 
bench. 
But he got better as the game 
wore on, helping the-Tar Heels 
rally from a five-point deficit 
midway through the second 
half. He finished with 21 of his 
23 points after the break, 
including a pair of driving bas­
kets during the decisive 11-0 
second-half run that looked like 
the same ol' Lawson. 
"I don't think he's going to be 
100 percent," Williams said. 
"But we'll take whatever we 
can get, especially if it's like 
that performance Saturday. 
That's about as good as I've had 
a point guard play in 21 years 
as a head coach. I even told him 
that I was thinking of calling 
him 'Rambo' instead of 'Dennis 
the Menace."' 
Lawson said the performance 
gave him confidence, joking 
that it proved the toe "wouldn't 
fall off'' as he tried to play at his 
normal fleet-footed pace. He's 
also hoping it will answer all 
the questions about the injury. 
"It's just one toe," he said. "I 
don't think it's that big of a 
deal. But to everybody else, I 
guess it is. I'm just trying to get 
it better. I'm ready for it to be 
over." 

Saint Mary's 80, Davidson 68 
Patty Mills screamed over the 
final buzzer and waved both 
arms joyously skyward, goading 
the raucous Saint Mary's fans 
into what might have been the 
first storm-the-court celebra­
tion in the history of the NIT's 
second round. 
This was no ordinary early­
round game in college hoops' 
consolation tournament, howev­
er. After winning a full-tilt duel 
with Davidson's Stephen Curry, 
Mills wanted to leave his fans with one last memory to match this entertaining matchup. 
Mills had 23 points and 10 assists while leading Saint Mary's into the NIT quarterfi­nals with a victory Monday night. • . 
Curry had 26 points, nine rebounds and five assists in what might have been the natiorral scoring leader's final game for the Wildcats (27 -8), but Mills overcame his awful 3­point shooting with effective passing and just enough of his usual daredevil drives to the hoop, preventing Davidson from rallying late. 
Mills and Curry briefly chat­ted before the game, each telling the other to simply have fun. 
After occasionally guarding each other, they met up again briefly afterward while dodging the red-clad fans whooping it up at McKeon Pavilion, wishing each other luck until their paths cross again -probably in the NBA. 
"It was a personal challenge, and the sort of personal experi­ence you don't get every week," Mills said. "I thrive on things like that. It took the whole team to guard [Curry], and we did that, a little bit. He had 26, but we guarded him." 
The NIT rarely gets more intriguing matchups than this showdown between Mills and Curry, two high-scoring point guards who felt their teams were unfairly denied NCAA tJ,Jurnament berths. Neither guard disappointed, buj Curry acknowledged Mills and the Gaels (28-6) were a bit sharper overall. 
"Hostile crowd, big atmos­phere, it was definitely a fun game for all involved," Curry said, describing Mills as "relent­less. He's just always on the attack." 
Omar Samhan added 18 points and nine rebounds for the Gaels, who will play Wednesday night at San Diego State, with the winner getting a trip to Madison Square Garden next week for the NIT semifi­nals. 
Mills, the Australian Olympic star, scored 17 points in the first half of what probably was his final game at McKeon Pavilion, where fans chant "Aussie Aussie Aussie!" after his baskets. He struggled with 1-of-10 3-point shooting, a com­mon theme since his return from a broken hand two weeks ago. 
But Curry, last season's NCAA hero during Davidson's run to the regional final, couldn't quite spur a second-half comeback late in the Wildcats' cross-coun­try trip, missing 11 of his final 17 shots in an 11-of-27 per­formance that included four 3­pointers --but none in the final 10 minutes. 

With the loss still fresh, Curry wasn't ready to announce whether he'll return for his sen­ior season. 
"I haven't thought about it," Curry said. "I tried to put it off until our season is over. I'll just have to get together with all the people involved in the decision, but I don't have a timeline or anything like that." 
Thanks to the NIT's clever scheduling, Curry and Mills got a memorable head-to-head matchup -although both wished their seasons would have ended in the bigger tour­nament. 
Diamon Simpson had 12 points and 15 rebounds for Saint Mary's, which took charge with a 14-5 run early in the sec­ond half largely made on bas­kets by Mills' teammates. The Gaels maintained the lead with Mills' scoring -and the occa­sional incredible pass, such as his 45-foot lob to Wayne Hunter for a layup while getting fouled with 4:43 to play, driving the crowd wild. 
"It was a special game," Saint Mary's coach Randy Bennett said. "I don't know if I remem­ber a game that's been a better atmosphere. I'm pretty sure I've never been involved in a game in here that's had more hype and more attention. To play in a game like that, to play well, it makes you really proud of your kids." 
The Gaels' cacophonous bandbox of a gym high in the Oakland hills was packed to the rafters 30 minutes before tipoff. Fans stood shoulder-to-shoulder on the concrete walkway behind the last row of seats, craning their necks for a partial view of warmups -during which Curry tripped over his pants and crashed to the floor on a layup attempt, getting up with a sheepish grin. 
"Is this the atmosphere that they have for every game?" Davidson coach Bob McKillop asked. "It just blows my mind that they have this kind of crowd. This is very similar to [Duke's] Cameron [Indoor Stadium] in terms of the noise level, the heat, the intensity, the passion. Saint Mary's deserves credit for that." 

Alabama pursues VCU's Grant 
Anthony Grant, who has led Virginia Commonwealth University to the NCAA tourna­ment twice in the last three sea­sons, is again a popular figure as major conference schools look for a coach. 
Alabama athletic director Mal Moore received permission from VCU's Norwood Teague over the weekend to speak to Grant about its coaching vacan­cy, Teague said Tuesday. 

So far, Alabama is the only one to have asked, Teague said. 
It's not clear whether Grant and Alabama have had any dis­cussions. Grant did not return calls Tuesday and phone and e­mail messages to his agent, Mark Carmony, were not returned. 
Alabama spokesman Doug Walker said the school would have no comment until a coach is hired. 
VCU, which does not have a football team, pays Grant a base salary of $400,000, with bonuses and incentives that boost his pay to nearly $1 mil­lion. 
Potential suitors for Grant that already have a vacancy are Georgia and perhaps Virginia. Alabama and Georgia both play in the Southeastern Conference, and the Cavaliers are in the Atlantic Coast Conference. 
The 42-year-old Grant spent 12 years as Billy Donovan's right-hand man, including 10 at Florida, before taking over as the Rams' coach when Jeff Capel left for Oklahoma three years ago. He has led VCU to three Colonial Athletic Association regular season titles. 
Florida had just won the national championship, and in his first season in Richmond, Grant led the Rams to the CAA regular season and tournament championships, and then to a victory against Duke in the NCAA tournament. The Rams took Pittsburgh to overtime in the second round before losing, and the showing quickly made Grant a hot commodity in the coaching ranks. 
Only Donovan having second thoughts at the last minute after agreeing to leave Florida for the NBA's Orlando Magic prevented Grant from leaving after a year to coach the Gatofs. 
But the interest in Grant has hardly waned. 
Last season, the Rams again won the CAA regular season, but lost in the tournament semi­finals and were snubbed by the NCAA tournament, and this year they won the conference regular season and tournament titles. In the 2009 NCAA tourna­ment, they lost 65-64 in the first round to UCLA when Eric Maynor's contested 17-foot jumper at the buzzer missed. 
A year ago, Grant was among the candidates for the job at LSU before the Tigers hired Trent Johnson, and the Rams' success this year made it likely other schools would call. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
SUMMER CAMP COUNSELOR for children w/disabilities. Must have strong work ethic and be interested in making a difference in the life of a child. $9-$11 hr., 35 hrlwk, sum­mer only. 4 sites in Summit County, Ohio. Must enjoy outdoor activities. Visit www.akroncyo.org to down­load an application from the Careers link. EOE 
,fOR RENT 
1-3BR Contemporary Urban APTS across from Notre Dame Stadium. The Foundry features private baths for every bedroom, washer/dryer, fitness center, theater room, tanning salon, game room. Preleasing for August. Call 574-232-1400 or lease online www.foundryliving.com 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 
Need off-campus housing for next yea (09-10)? 2,3,4 and 5 bedroom houses available 1/2 miles from campus, ND ALUMNI OWNED. As low as $275 per student. Contact on-campus rep at ebarloh@nd.edu or 1-513-706-9655 
2009/1 0 student rentals Angela St./St. Peters & S.B. Ave. $1300­$2000/mo. Contact Bruce Gordon 57 4-876-3537. 
-------------'---­

Houses for the 09-10 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or www.kramerhous­es.com 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer­ing 10-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 
Lux twnhs: 3 bdrms 3 ba, next to St. Marys $680 moper bdrm. 574­271-7030 harvey.18@nd.edu 
AA 1 Walk to Campus 2-5 bedroom homes 574-277-0116­Cooreman.com 


PERSONAL 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: http://osa.nd.edu/health­safety/assault/ 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NDs Assistance for Pregnant Students//Office of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd.edulhealth-safety/assis­lance-for-pregnant-students. 
April3rd April 25th 

.---------------------------------------------­



OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, March 25,2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 

NFL 
ITA Men's Tennis Division I Top25 
team points 
1 Virginia 85 2 Mississippi 77 3 Georgia 75 4 Stanford 73 5 Tennessee 72 6 Ohio St. 70 7 Florida 64 8 S~;~uthern California 61 9 Illinois 58 10 Baylor 56 11 UCLA 53 12 Texas 53 13 Kentucky 5d 14 Texas A&M 48 15 Florida St. 47 16 South Carolina 45 17 Alabama 42 18 Pepperdine 41 19 Louisville 41 20 Arizona 41 21 Virginia Tech 37 22 Auburn 35 23 Boise St. 33 24 Wisconsin 32 25 Wake Forest 30 
NCAA Women's Lacrosse Division I Top 20 
team record points 
1 Northwestern 9·0 400 2 Maryland 8·0 365 3 Penn 7·0 365 4 North Carolina 7-2 319 5 Duke 8·2 296 

6 Georgetown 5·3 291 7 Princeton 5·1 289 8 Syracuse 6·2 274 quarterbacks subse­them. year, $20.2 million con­
Associated Press 

9 NOTRE DAME 8·1 234 quently were injured, "I like both guys. I like tract, lasted just three 10 Virginia 6·3 223 DANA POINT, Calif. -and Mangini replaced a lot of the things that games before breaking a 11 Vanderbilt 4·3 210 Brady Quinn or Derek Romeo Crennel as coach I've learned about them finger on his right hand 12 Boston U. 178 Anderson? Eric Mangini aft~r Cleveland finished in terms of through the ana needing surgery.
5·3 12 Loyola (Md.) 6-1 140 

isn't sure, so he's throw­4-12. conversations and also Anderson returned, but ing the Cleveland Browns Mangini, who was fired things that I've seen on he injured left knee liga­
14 Stanford 6-2 128 

quarterback job into a by the Jets after they col­tape." ments in the 12th game
15 Penn St. 4·4 86 

free-for-all. lapsed from 8-3 to 9-7 What he also has seen and was done, too.
16 Dartmouth 3·3 78 

"I don't have a project­and didn't make the on tape are lots of mis­Anderson was 3-6 in
17 Ohio St. 7·1 78 

ed starter at this point," playoffs, has been on a takes and lots of losses his starts last year with
18 James Madison 4·3 59 

Mangini said Tuesday at quarterback carousel as the Browns plummet­nine touchdowns, eight
19 Cornell 5-2 55 

the NFL meetings. "What before. He had three ed from 10-6 in 2007 to interceptions and a pass­
20 New Hampshire 6·3 52 we're going to do is we'll starters in his three sea­last place in the AFC er rating of 66.5. Quinn have an open competi­sons in New York: Chad North. Anderson was 1-2 with two touch­tion where they'll both Pennington, Kellen received a big contract downs, two intercep­get a chance to establish Clemens and Brett Favre. after his breakthrough tions, and a 66.6 passer that they'll be the "''m excited about both '07 season, a throe-year, rating.
NCAA Men's Volleyball starter." of them," he said of $24 million deal with a They weren't helped by Anderson, coming off a Quinn, heading into his $5 million bonus he col­a leaky line and poor
Division 1-11 Top 15 

Pro Bowl season in 2007, third season, and lected this month. But he performances by their opened last year as the Anderson, who will be in struggled beforE' being receivers, particularly starter. As the Browns his fifth. "I sat down with replaced by Quinn for with wideout Braylon
team record 

struggled, he was both of them, been able the ninth game. Edwards dropping many benched for Quinn. Both to spend some time with Quinn, who has a five-passes.
1 UC Irvine 
17-3 2 Cal St. Northridge 19·3 


3 4 5  Pepperdine -Southern California BYU  -•·•-• I••• ••J···~·::~ 13·8  IN BRIEF  
6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15  Long Beach St. Stanford Penn St. UC San Diego UCLA Lewis UC Santa Barb. Hawaii Ball St. Loyola (Ill.)  10;10 14·8 17~3 10~10 9·12 16-5 6-13 6·13 13-7 10-8  Armstrong still plans on racing in Tour de France PALENCIA, Spain -Astana team manager Johan Bruyneel is confident that Lance Armstrong's broken collarbone will not pre­vent him from taking part in the Tour de France or the Giro d'Italia. "I don't think this changes any­ Phillies' pitcher Hamels returns from injury LEARWATER -Phillies ace Cole Hamels pitched in a minor league game Tuesday, his first start since experiencing elbow tightness last week. The World Series MVP threw 3 2/3 scoreless innings against Pittsburgh Pirates minor leaguers at  Younger Curry to transFer from Liberty LYNCHBURG, Va. -Seth Curry, the high-scoring younger brother of Davidson star Stephen Curry, says he is transferring out of Liberty to seek a higher level of competition. Curry, 6-foot-3 and 180 pounds, led the nation's freshman with a 20.2 scoring average.  
thing for the Tour de France,"  Philadelphia's spring training com­ Liberty went 23-12 this season,  
Bruyneel said Tuesday. "A broken  plex. It was his first appearance in a  finishing with an 88-65 loss to James  
around the dial  collarbone in the month of March does not at all compromise the start of the Tour de France or  game since receiving an anti-inflam­matory shot in his arm last Tuesday. "It felt good," Hamels said after  Madison on Monday night in the Collegeinsider.com tournament. Curry scored eight points in the loss.  
your performance in the Tour de  his first outing since March 15. "I  "This is a difficult decision that I  
NBA Celtics vs. Magic 8:00p.m., ESPN  France." The Tour de France runs July 4-26. Armstrong, 37, also had planned to ride in the Giro,  think it was really just trying to establish feeling each pitch, one at a time, in each inning. And that was kind of the big thing -­how I'd feel in between innings. And I felt  have reached after close consulta­tion with my family and othnrs close to me," he said in a statement released through the school. He said the decision "is based on  
which runs  from May 9 to  May  great."  my desire to develop as an athlete to  
Jazz vs. Suns  31.  Hamels allowed one hit and one  the fullest of my potential and take  
10:30 p.m., ESPN  Bruyneel said the team was also "not ruling out the Giro at  walk while striking out five of his 13 batters. The left-bander threw 35 of  advantage of new opportunities that may be available to me in a higher­ 
all. I think it's perfectly possible."  48 pitches for strikes.  rated conference."  

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, March 25, 2005 
NFL 

League work stoppage looms 
Lobbyist hired in anticipation of possible inquiry by Congress 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Politics has 
always been a contact sport, 
and the National Football 
Lea~ue is suiting up for the 
game. 
The NFL has established a 
Washington office in the last 
year, hired a full-time lobbyist 
and created a political action 
committee to make federal cam­
paign donations. The moves 
come as a work stoppage looms 
as a possibility in two years, 
which could geRerate some 
unwelcome congressional atten­
tion for the league. 
The NFL also is facing more 
immediate controversies from 
how games are broadcast to 
whether a ban on Internet gam­
bling on games should be con­
tinued. 
Commissioner Roger Goodell, the son of a former New York Republican congressman and senator, orchestrated the Washington blitz after talking with owners on the league's leg­islative committee three years ago. That commit.tee was mak­ing a presentation to the owners on Tuesday at the NFL's annual meeting in California. 
"I agreed with those who told me that during these changing times in Washington, the league should have full-time represen­tation there like so many other business and entertainment organizations that have issues on the Hill," Goodell told The Associated Press in a statement. 
Coincidentally or not, the NFL player's union last week chose Washington lawyer DeMaurice Smith as its new executive director, replacing the late Gene Upshaw, who had predicted a lockout. Smith served on the Obama transition team and pre­viously worked for Eric Holder, who is the nation's attorney general. 
Washington Redskins safety Fred Smoot said he thinks Smith's connections will come in handy if Congress gets involved in an NFL work stoppage. 
"He knows all the steps to take, and I think we made a very smart decision on that," Smoot said during a recent visit to Capitol Hill to lobby for a fit­ness bill. 
The NFL hired Capitol Hill vet­eran Jeff Miller. 38, to serve as its in-house lobbyist. Miller spent eight years as an aide to Sen. Herb Kohl, most recently as chief counsel and staff direc­tor of the Senate Judiciary antitrust subcommittee, which Kohl chairs. Kohl, a Wisconsin Democrat, owns the Milwaukee Bucks basketball team. 
''I'm a lifelong NFL fan, grew up in Wisconsin, rooted for the Packers at my father's knee every Sunday," Miller told The AP in his first interview since taking the job. "I had had opportunities in the past to leave the Hill and do other things, such as work at a law firm and lobby firm. But when the NFL calls, you can't turn that down." 
Among his tasks: Leading the effort among major sports leagues to protect a ban on Internet gambling, which some members of Congress want to overturn. 
"We want to maintain the integrity of the game, and gam­bling threatens that," he said. 
Miller said the league will also be watching as Congress renews satellite broadcasting legisla­tion. The NI1L must respond to any changes, Miller said, "because so much of our busi­ness is finding the most fan­friendly way to get our games to the people who want to watch them." 
Members of Congress have criticized some of the NFL's broadcasting policies. Last year, for example, 13 senators wrote to Goodell, asking him to make NFL Network games available to more fans on free television. The league has said it provides free broadcasts in the home cities of competing teams, but the senators argued that the NFL too narrowly interprets "home markets." 
Prior to Miller's hiring, the NFL outsourced its Washington work to outside lobbyists, and has continued to do that on some issues. 
"The emphasis is to have a full-time person spending every waking moment thinking about how what Congress or the administration is doing is going to affect the NFL's business model," Miller said. 
Miller's operation is overseen by NFL vice president Joe Browne, who is based at league headquarters in New York. In a phone interview, Browne said the league looked around, and saw that other entertainment businesses and sports had full­time Washington operations. Major League Baseball, for example, brought on a full-time lobbyist in 2000. 
"It was time for us to come into the 21st century," Browne said. He pointed out that Goodell, given his political line­age -his father was Charles Goodell, who served in the House in the 1960s and the Senate from 1968-71, "appreci­ates the role that Congress plays perhaps more than some do." 
Browne coined the name of the NFL's new "Gridiron PAC," which raised $313,000 through the end of last year, the most recent reporting period. Donors included NFL officials such as Goodell, as well as owners and executives of all but two of the league's 32 teams. 

The only holdouts: the Oakland Raiders, owned by longtime league nemesis AI Davis, and the Cleveland Browns. Neither team returned telephone messages seeking comment. 
Browne said the prospect of labor troubles wasn't a factor in establishing the PAC and the Washington office, noting that over the years, the league and the union have come before Congress together to work for common goals. 
But the NFL's long history of labor peace is in jeopardy; last year, the owners voted to opt out of the current collective bar­gaining agreement in 2011, raising the possibility of a work stoppage in two years. 
If baseball's experience with the 1994-95 strike is any indica­tion, the NFL could be in for some unfriendly reaction on Capitol Hill. Several lawmakers introduced legislation to take away MLB's coveted antitrust exemption after the 232-day strike wiped out the 1994 World Series. 

RUNAWAY BAY 
LUXURY 1~2 BEDROOM APARTMENTS 
·SAUNA ·POOL 

•2 
LAKES WI WATERFALl 


•VOLLEYBALL 
BASKETBALL TENNIS COURTS 


..
·WAtK-IN CLOSfTS •FIREPLACES ·WID CONNECTIONS 
•7 MIN. TO NOTRE DAME ·FITNESS CENTER 
•IIOTTUB 

ENJOY THE ATTRACTIVE SURROUNDINGS AND AFFORDABl.f RATES 
CALl TODAY fOR OUR SPECIALS (574) 256-1350 

Write Sports Email Matt mgamber@nd.edu 
!Now £easina Por2009-2010 .Jlpp{y 'Today LimiteaSpace.Jlvaifa6Cel I I 
Offerintl %e (Best Wgnta{t]@tes in crown! $99 Por 1st :Mont/is Wgnt 'Witli 12 :Montli Lease! $300 OffJS1 :Mont/is Wgnt 'Witli 9 :Montli Lease! 
Pree.Jlppfication fFee PorSttufents 'lith'tli 1.(]).! 
Cfose to Campus! 



Castle1Joint
An t t. 1..01.1. Cl.e~ .act. South Bead, D1 46637 
rar. '»fen .~ a-.: ttJ74) z1z-u1.o 1!-.: (514) zu-•u4 
....,...,aldaa•.com 
15th Annual Min-i-Medical School 

Hosting the 9th Annual Otis R. Bowen, M.D. Lecture: 

"Health Care Under President Barack Obama: An Insider's Debate" 
Ralph Neas, CEO, National Coalition on Health Care, Washington,D.C. Robert E. Moffit,PhD. The Heritage Foundation, Washington, D.C. 

Thursday, March 26, 2009 
7:00-8:00 p.m. (EST) Indiana University School of Medicine -South Bend Raclin -Carmichael Hall 1234 Notre Dame Avenue South Bend, IN 46617 (The southeast corner of Notre Dame main entrance, at Angela Blvd) 
Free of charge and open to the general 
for more information call Memorial Hospital: (574) 647-7381 
Wednesday, March 25, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NCAA MEN's BASKETBALL 
Call or stop on by & reserve today! 



15741 203-0572 
t\462 6rkk Road, South ll"tld 

t<><i>t<>d ~~ Cleveland Rd. & US 20 BYP"•1l. 7 minut·e• fmm c~mpus 
Please recycle The ObserVer 

Pitino preaches defense 
Louisville not worried aboutfree throw woes as long as defense is strong 
Associated Press 

LOUISVILLE, Ky. -Andre McGee can admit it now. He was scared. Really scared. Like "uh-oh, is this it?" kind of scared. 
Walking out of the huddle late in the second half of top­seeded Louisville's second­round game against Siena last Sunday, the senior guard looked up at the clock, saw the Cardinals trailing by four and wondered just for a second if his team's two-month roll was finally over. 
"It's definitely a fear when time's winding down and you had a comfortable lead·-you thought -at one moment and then that lead was gone in a minute and they were up, they were in control," McGee said. "They were in the driver's seat. Our backs are to the wall and we were tested." 

It's the kind of exam the Cardinals (30-5) have managed to ace again and again this se1).son. Louisville stormed back to a 79-72 victory and a spot in the Midwest region semifinals on Friday against 12th -seeded Arizona (21-131. 
The win was Louisville's lOth straight in games decided by 10 points or fewer. They've done it the way teams anm't suppos.ed to be able to do it in the nation's toughest confer­ence. 
Louisville doesn't roly on great guard play. Instead, it's do-everything senior forward Terrence Williams who handles the ball when it matters. 
The Cardinals don't make their free throws. Louisville shots 64 percent from the line as a team -including 50 per­cent so far in the NCAAs -and only two regular contributors have percentages north of 70. 


P:hlshlng scams look real, b,ut don't be foo·led. 
They're an attempt to stealyouridentity. 





secure 


At this point in the season, coach Rick Pitino holds no great hopes that the Cardinals will somehow turn into a dozen Reggie Millers at the line. 
Sure they'll practice them, go through the whole routine of making so many in a row before they can head off the court. But they've been doing that most of the season. 
If they make them? Great. If they miss? Deal with it and dig in. It's what they've done all season. 
"You win with defense," Pitino said. "We have weak­nBsses like everybody has weaknesses. There are games when we shoot well from the foul line also. I think the bot­tom line is it comes down to shooting the basketball, creat­ing turnovers and creating a style that wins out." 
It's a style the Cardinals have used to win-the Big East regu­lar season and conference titles, one that is a grittier ver­sion of Pitino's Kentucky teams of the mid-1990s. 
Those teams won as much with talent as toughness. This team doesn't have those star qualities. What it does have, however, is Williams, one of the best all-around players in the country. 
More of an athlete than a basketball player as a fresh­man, Williams has evolved into the unquestioned leader and most outlandish character on a team McGee calls "the funniest in the country." 
Williams leads the Cardinals in assists and steals and "gotta have 'em" plays. He scored seven points during Louisville's game-turning 9-Q run and added a couple of late free throws, a good sign for a play­er who shoots 58 percent at the line. 
Running the offense -and doing it while logging heavy minutes -isn't exactly a role he envisioned. Yet his play has­n't given Pitino a choice. Pitino tinkered with his lineup for weeks early in the season hop­ing McGee, Edgar Sosa or Jerry Smith would take control at the point. 
None of them did. So Pitino turned to Williams, whose 2:1 assist-to-turnover ratio is the best on the team. Oh, and a midseason adjustment to his shooting form has made him one of the best 3-pointer shoot­ers on the team as well. 
The co-captain, however, refuses to take the credit. While his coach likened him to Superman for the way he res­cued the Cardinals against the Saints, Williams looks at it more as the next step in a learning process that began in November and December. 
Louisville hardly looked like a team capable of a deep March run while fosing to Western Kentucky and Minnesota. Their last loss in a close game? A 56-55 defeat to UNLV on New Year's Eve, a loss cemented when Williams missed a contested layup at the buzzer. 
And the final seven minutes against Siena looked an awful lot like wins over Pittsburgh, Syracuse and Marquette. Great defense, a couple of big stops and enough will to survive even as they missed free throws. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, March 25, 2009 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Michigan State upsets Huskies; Duke rolls 
Associated Press 
EAST LANSING, Mich. ­Michigan State fans came to boo their former coach. 
They left cheering for the Spartans. 
Mia Johnson scored 17 points and Lauren Aitch had 15, lifting ninth-seeded Michigan State to a 63-49 win Tuesday night over the top-seeded Duke Blue Devils and former coach Joanne P. McCallie in the second round of the NCAA tournament. 
Duke didn't make a shot for the last 71fz minutes as it was outscored 16-2, leading to stu­dents rushing the court to cele­brate. 
In more than a decade, the only top-seeded team to lose in the second round was Ohio State in 2006 against eighth-seeded Boston College. 
Michigan State (22-10) will face the winner of the Iowa State-Ball State game on Saturday in the semifinals of the Berkeley Regional. 
Jasmine Thomas had 14 points for Duke (27 -6) and leading scor­er Chante Black was held to just four. 
The Blue Devils, who scored at least 75 points in each of their last six games, were held to a season-low total and made just 27 percent of their shots. 
Raucous fans and flying elbows might've rattled them. 
The game was so physical there were sequences in the lane that looked like an NHL goal­mouth scramble. 
McCallie was booed -again ­when she was introduced and she simply smiled as she shook the hand of her successor, Suzy Merchant, and shared a laugh with her coaching staff. 
Coach P knew how loud it could get in the Breslin Center because she coached there for seven seasons before bolting two years ago. Her team found out Tuesday night. 
Duke insisted it wasn't unfair, as a top-seeded team, to play on Michigan State's home court. But it certainly seemed to give the Spartans a lift to have most of the lower level in their arena tilled and to rattle Duke. 
Michigan State men's basket­ball coach Tom Izzo and some of his players even took time away from preparing for their third­round matchup with Kansas to watch the game. 
Izzo stayed for the whole game, cheering from a suite, and his players were on their feet on a baseline as were 5,000-plus fans in the stands. 
The Spartans, though, looked like they were going to be in trouble early in the game. 
They turned the ball over on their first possession and then gave up a 3-pointer to Abby Waner, who returned to the line­up after resting her sprained knee during the first-round rout of Austin Peay. 
But the Blue Devils went score­less for 4 minutes after Waner's shot and were plagued by turnovers. 
Duke had more turnovers (seven) than field goals (five) when Michigan State led by six after surging ahead with a 14-4 run. 
Michigan State led 25-20 at halftime after the Blue Devils made just 27 percent of their shots, leading to their second­lowest total in a first half this season. 
Duke was determined to turn things around early in the second half led by Black, who scored on an aggressive move in the lane on the opening possession to match the two points she had in the first half. 
Then, Black caused a turnover and assisted on Waner's 3-point­er that tied the game 34 seconds after halftime and helped the Blue Devils go back ahead for the first time since the 12:00 mark of the first half. 
Michigan State, though, proved it could take Duke's best shot by competing the rest of the way in the closely contested game. 

Connecticut 87, Florida 59 
Next stop on the UConn express -Trenton. · 
Renee Montgomery scored 25 points in her fmal game at home and undefeated Connecticut beat eighth-seeded Florida in the sec­ond round of the NCAA tourna­ment on Tuesday night. 
The Huskies (35-0) advanced to the regional semifinals for the 16th straight season where they will play fourth-seeded California on Sunday. This is the fourth time that UConn has been undl'!­feated while playing in the NCAA tournament. Connecticut went on to win the national championship in 1995 and 2002. In 1996-97, the Huskies lost to Tennessee in the regional fmal. 
Tina Charles followed up her 32-point effort in the first round with 22 against Florida. She also had 10 rebounds for her 11th double-double this season. 
Maya Moore added 22 points 

and 14 rebounds for her 16th double-double of the season. Marshae Dotson scored 22 to lead Florida (24-8). 
With her No. 20 hanging in Gampel Pavilion on the wall in the Huskies of Honor, Montgomery started her 136th straight game to break the school record she shared with J en Rizzotti. 
The senior guard is hoping to cap her storied career with UConn's sixth national champi­onship. Besides Kerry Bascom, Montgomery is the only honoree of the 11 who hasn't won an NCAA title. 
She left the game to a long standing ovation from the crowd with 6:23 left and UConn up by 36. 
The Huskies continue to steam­
roll opponents. No one's come 
within single digits of them all 
season and they've beaten their 
previous six ranked opponents 
by an average of 31 points. 
UConn took a little while to get rolling against Florida. Connecticut built a 25-12 lead . before Florida went on a 8-1 run 
to cut the deficit to six. 
Then Montgomery took over. 
She scored nine straight points 
during a 13-0 run to put the 
game away. Montgomery fol­
lowed up a four-point play with a 
3-pointer and two free throws. 
Charles ended the burst with a 
three-point play to make it 39­
20. 


After Stem Sorensen hit a 3­pointer to stop Florida's drought, UConn scored the next eight points to go up 47-23 and end any thoughts of a comeback. 
Sorensen's 30-footer at the buzzer made it 47-26 at the half marking the 14th time this sea­son that UConn led by at least 20 at the break. 
Florida could get no closer than 20 in the second half. 
The Gators' leading scorer, Sha Brooks, never was able to get going, picking up three fouls in the first seven minutes of the game. The Gators committed 16 team fouls in the first half to UConn's four leaving Florida coach Amanda Butler shaking her head in disgust. 


NOW HIRING TOUR GUIDES 
FORTHE SUMMER AND NEXT SCHOOLYEAR 
Applications available for pick up in the Office of Undergraduate Admissions, 220 Main Building s? Contact Beth Giudicessi, d.edu 

NIT THIRD ROUND-TONIGHT 0 7:00 PM NOTRE DAME VS. KENTUCKY 
FINAL GAME EVER INSIDE THE OLD OYCE CENTER 

Wednesday, March 25, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
MLB 
Yankees overcome Wakefield knuckleball 

Hawkins saves Houston victory over Mets; Bradley, Soriano, Ramirez power Chicago Cubs past Colorado 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. Tim Wakefield had his pitches mov­ing all around the strike zone. 
The Red Sox knuckleballer allowed one run and four hits over 5 2-3 innings in Boston's 7-1 loss to the New York Yankees on Tuesday night. 
"Today was a good test, probably facing their starting lineup the rest of the way," Wakefield said. "I'll take all the positives out of it and go on to my next one." 
Derek Jeter went 1-for-2 with a walk in his first game since rejoining the Yankees 

Clue #3: 
Only Domers are allowed on this quest But doctors and lawyers would be better than the rest 
Their contribution is marked near the treasure's nest For according to us, Dr. J is the best 
Return the Medallion to Room 001 in Morrissey Manor between 9:00 and 10:00 PM. 

THURSDAY, MARCH 26,2009 
6:30 & 9:30p.m., Browning Cinema 
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
Tickets: $6, $5 faculty/stat( $4 seniors citizens, and $3 all students Calf 574-631-2800 or visit performingarts.nd.edu 
DEBARTOLO 
!J! PERfORMtNGARTS CENTER 
NANOVIC INSTITUTE FILM SERIES 
2008~2009: CONTEMPORARY EUROPEAN ANIMATION 
from the World Baseball Classic. He grounded out in the first, hit a fourth-inning soft liner to right for a single and walked during the sixth against Wakefield. 
"If I'd known that, I would have waited until Thursday (to play)," Jeter said, joking about facing Wakefield's knuckler. 
The 42-year-old Wakefield struck out five and walked one. His spring ERA dropped from 7. 71 to 5.40. 
"The ball is starting to dance around a little bit better," Red Sox manager Terry Francona said. "He's starting to get his legs under him. Like every-
Morrissey Manor Medallion Hunt 

body else, he's got to build up arm strength." 
New York right-hander A.J. Burnett allowed one run and three hits over 5 2-3 innings. 
"We had fun out there," Burnett said. "It's getting bet­ter every time out there." 
Burnett has given up two runs over 15 innings in his four starts. 
"His stuff is as nasty as any pitcher in baseball," Jeter said. 
The Yankees' starting lineup against Boston -Johnny Damon , Jeter, Mark Teixeira , Hideki Matusi, Jorge Posada , Robinson Cano , Xavier Nady , Cody Ransom and Brett Gardner -could be what New York will use on opening day. 


"That's pretty close," manag­er Joe Girardi said. "We might do something a little differ­ent." 
Yankees third baseman Alex Rodriguez , the regular No. 4 hitter, is expected to be out until May after undergoing right hip surgery on March 9. 
Austin Jackson hit a grand slam during the Yankees' six­run eighth, then was reas­signed to minor league camp after the game with infielders Juan Miranda and Eduardo Nunez. 
Jackson has been working with Hall of Farner Reggie Jackson , a team special advis­er, for the past couple of sea­sons in the minors. 
David Ortiz had an RBI sin­gle for the Red Sox, who had won seven in a row. 
The crowd of 11,113 was a record for George M. Steinbrenner Field, which originally opened as Legends Field in 1996. 
Astros 5, Mets 0 
LaTroy Hawkins picked up where he left off with the Houston Astros . 
The middle reliever returned from the W o r I d Baseball Classic to 
"{A.J. Burnett's] stuff
pitch a score­The left-bander less inning is as nasty as any allowed four runs, Tuesday and three earned, and
pitcher in baseball. , 
start a double seven hits. He play in struck out two 
Derek Jeter 
Houston's 8-0 and walked two. win over the Yankees shortstop Chicago picked 
just one run in his previous 10 innings. 
"Pelfrey is a guy that usually has a little bit better command and control," manager Jerry Manuel said. "He's probably going through a period here where it's a little bit of a strug­gle, but he'll be OK." 
Pelfrey !'!aid he's almost 100 percent recovered from a shin injury. 
"It's almost to the point where it's completely gone," Pelfrey said. "I was debating whether or not to even wrap it today." 
Rodriguez hit his first home run for Houston, driving Peffrey's pitch to left in the fifth inning. He finished 2-for-3 and Geoff Blum went 3-for-4, including a three-run double in a six-run fifth. 
Carlos Lee added a pair of RBis for the Astros. 
Cubs 9, Rockies 8 
Greg Smith 's fatigue was understandable. 
Smith pitched three innings in the Colorado Rockies ' 9-8 loss to the Chicago Cubs on Tuesday in his first Cactus League game since March 3 after being sidelined with flu­like symptoms. 
"I felt OK," Smith said. "I 
dido 't feel weak, 
but I did get a lit­
tle tired toward 
the end." 

New York Mets . New catcher Ivan Rodriguez homered for the Astros in their fifth straight victory. 
Hawkins was 2-0 with a 0.43 ERA in 21 innings over Houston's final 24 games last season. 
"I thought he threw the ball well today," manager Cecil Cooper said. "He looked nice and crisp to me." 
Cooper expected Hawkins, along with starting pitcher Roy Oswalt , to get some work in beginning Friday, with Hawkins throwing light bullpen sessions until then. But the 6-foot-5 right-hander arrived in Kissimmee ready to pitch, so Cooper put him in. 
Though he had good results, Hawkins said he felt "terrible" on the mound. 
"I couldn't throw the hall over the plate and I threw a lot of pitches," he said. "But I need that rhythm from last season when it counts." 
Astros starter Wandy Rodriguez pitched four score­less innings against a New York team that was without several key players including David Wright , Carlos Beltran and Jose Reyes . The lefty appears to have recovered from last week's left index lin­ger injury -he allowed two hits and walked two with a pair of strikeouts. 
"I controlled my curveballs," Rodriguez said. "I felt the fin­ger, but not bad. I need to work more because today I missed my location a little bit." 
Mets starter Mike Pelfrey gave up six runs and 10 hits in 4 2-3 innings, after allowing 
up two runs in the 
first. Derrek Lee 

hit an RBI single and Aramis Ramirez had a sacrifice fly. 
"In the first inning I felt like I made some pitches, but they had some hits with a bloop over second or a broken-bat hit," Smith said. "As the game went on, I felt good, I felt good, but then I would leave a breaking ball up, or leave a changeup and that's when I started getting a little tired. It wasn't as crisp as I wanted to be later." 
Chad Gaudin allowed two runs and two hits in two innings for the Cubs in his first spring outing since last Wednesday. The right-hander is transitioning to the bullpen after falling out of the compe­tition for the fifth starter spot. 
"Some things just don't go your way sometimes," Gaudin said. "Try to make some adjustments and get back to where I was. I felt good. I felt good about what I was doing out there. It was a lot better than I had been before. It's a work in progress." 
Gaudin has a 10.03 ERA this spring. He got the start even though he lost to left-bander Sean Marshall in the competi­tion for the final rotation spot. Manager Lou Piniella said his role likely will be as a middle reliever. 
Milton Bradley hit his second spring homer and finished with three hits for Chicago. Alfonso Soriano went 2-for-2 with two walks and two RBis, and Reed Johnson scored three runs." 
Dan Ortmeier hit a two-run homer for Celorado. 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, March 25, 2009 
NFL 
U111enyiora returns to Giants defensive line 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -If Justin Tuck had concerns about Osi Umenyiora coming back from knee surgery, they ended the first day the two entered the weight room for the New York Giants' voluntary offseason program. 
Umenyiora promptly declared he was the stronger man. 
Tuck laughs telling the story, knowing that's how the defensive linemen push themselves, by challenging each other. 
When asked who really was stronger, Tuck admitted it was Umenyiora, at least for now. 
"He calls himself the king right now. and me the prince," Tuck said Tuesday after the Giants held another voluntary practice at Giants Stadium. "But he has had six months of training and I had six months of being beat up." 
Looking at Umenyiora, there is no doubt that he's happy to be back at work. 
The defensive end tore the lat­eral meniscus in his left knee in a preseason game against the Jets, sidelining him for the year. He said Tuesday his knee is at 99 percent and he will be ready for the start of training camp in July. 
Surprisingly, Umenyiora said the injury was not something new. It had been bothering him for two years and finally gave out in the exhibition game in August. 
"I haven't been in a situation like that my whole life," Umenyiora said. "To see the way it unfolded and the pain and rehabilitation process, how gruel­ing and how hard it was, I think that added an extra motivation [for this seasonI." 
The 27 -year-old, who earned Pro Bowl berths in 2005 and '07, said the Giants didn't take any chances with his injury. 
Doctors could have "burned" out the torn cartilage, giving Umenyiora the chance to play again later in the season. 
However, that could have short­ened his career substantially. 
'That shows you what type of organization the Giants are," Umenyiora said. "If they would've said I should do that, I would've actually thought about it, like maybe I can go out there and help them. But it wasn't even a part of the discussion. They were like 'Fix it. Get it over with and come back next year."' 
Umenyiora said his recovery went so well that his knee was at about 80 to 85 percent late in the season and he would have consid­ered returning had the Giants not put him on injured reserve. 
Now, Umenyiora is focusing on the coming season. 
"I haven't put on pads or noth­ing yet, but I've been out there doing the exact same things everybody else has been doing with no problems," Umenyiora said. "As long as I'm able -to do that, then I think it's where it needs to be." 
The only obstacle in his recov­ery is getting back on the field, which he said is more a mental thing. 
After his injury and surgery, Umenyiora stayed away from the team, saying it would have both­ered him if he remained. He added that it was tough watching, noting the Giants' loss to the Eagles in the playoffs was hard to accept. 
"It was very frustrating for me," he said. "I wasn't able to help the team. I was able to call them and give them support, but that was the extent of my help. To see the way it ended, it was very frustrat­ing. It was a team they should have beat and would have beaten if everything was in order, and it wasn't. We'll reload next year and go at them." 
With the signing of defensive end Chris Canty and tackle Rocky Bernard and the return of Umenyiora, the Giants are deep on the defensive line. 
Leasing now for 2009-2010* 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 

Enjoy the good life when you live off campus at a very reasonable price! 
3, 4 and 5 Bedroom Town homes 2 1/2 Baths Free Internet Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher Se<;:urity System Off-Street Parking Located Close to Notre Dame 

Only $350 per month, perstuden 
*Our townhomes rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our town homes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 

(574) 234-2436 

It's not too late... 
TO LIVE IN ONE OF THE BEST CRIBS IN TOWN NEXT SEMESTER 
Be the first person to ever live in a brand new Irish Row Apartment or Irish Crossings Townhome which will be complete this summer. 
There are still afew units available for fall and plenty !eft for the 2010·2011 school year. 
Just one block. east of campus, you'll find: 
• 
Furnished residences 


-Including a 42'' flat panel HDTV in every living room 

• 
Up to 4 bedrooms per unit -Private, full bath in each bedroom 

• 
FREE Internet & 200+ TV stations 

• 
Laundry room with washer & dryer in each unit 

• 
Fitness center and lounge, including tanning 



• 
Brand new construction 

• 
Commuruty social events 

• 
Nearby groceries, restaurants and entertainment 


Visit the Irish Rovv leasing otfice at the corner of Vaness and Burdette Streets and get a FREE Irish Row or Irish Crossings "Kiss Me I'm Irish" t-shirt, whHe they last. You can also find us on the web at www.lrishRowApartments.com. 
Ill rish 
ROW 

lrishRowApartments.com 1 lrishCrossings.com kanem@irishrowapartmeots.com l S74Jll.6666 
us Minsitry, lnt'l Student Serv. & Activities, and Walsh Hall 
All are invited to____ _ 
.iftdt·~t~·"~ 




#t# n 
Con1munal and contemplarive. with song. reading o(scripture.intercession & silence 
Uniting all Christians in their comn1on search, while always respecting the traditions of each individual_ 
Recycle The Observer 
Wednesday, March 25, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
NBA 

Bulls top Pistons vvithout Rose 
CENTER FOR APPLIED MATHEMATICS 2009 Nieuwland Lecture Series 

Dr. Charles Westbrook Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (ret.) 
Tht! Holt! of Comb11stion in 
lluturt! E11ergy See11arios 

IIC(I&lglnt 
i~~ ~!!><i®l 

\Vedncsday, April l, 2009 3:30PM McKenna Hall Auditorium 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 


Leasing now for 2009-2010* 
Notre Dame Apartments 

Notre Dame Apartments are a Notre Dame tradition! 
2 Bedroom, 1,200 sq. ft. Apartments Newly Remodeled Free Internet Free Water On-Site Laundry Off-Street Parking Only Three Blocks from Campus 
*These apartments rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 

View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
(574) 234-2436 ' 




Write sports. Contact Matt at, ·mgamber@nd.edg 




Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Just in case anyone forgot, Kirk Hinrich showed he's not a bad point guard, either. 
Hinrich scored 24 points filling in for injured phenom Derrick Rose, and the Chicago Bulls beat Detroit 99­91 Tuesday night to pull with­in a game of the seventh­place Pistons in the Eastern Conference. 
"By no means is Kirk a backup point guard," Chicago's John Salmons said. "But we've got the best back­up point guard in the league." 
This hasn't been an easy season for Hinrich, but he was at his best on a night when his team needed it. With Rose sidelined, the vet­eran delivered a performance that brought back memories of his first five years, when he was the starter and the Bulls made three straight playoffs. 
Of course, everything changed after last season's free falL 
Hinrich lost his job when the Bulls drafted Rose with 
· the No. 1 pick, then sustained a thumb injury early on that knocked him out for 30 games. "It's been challenging at times, just trying to stay with it," he said. "I feel like I've been playing well lately in somewhat limited minutes. I'm just trying to stay in and do whatever I can to help the team make the playoffs." Consider this performance one big assist from Hinrich, who actually distributed eight. He had plenty of help from the rest of the starters-all of 

whom scored in double fig­ures while playing at least 29 minutes. 
Ben Gordon scored 19, Tyrus Thomas had 18 points and 12 rebounds, Joakim Noah scored 15 points and grabbed 10 rebounds, and Salmons added 16 points as the Bulls earned their fifth win in six games. More importantly, they now lead Charlotte by two games and Milwaukee by 2lfz in the race for the Eastern Conference's final playoff spot and are right behind seventh-place Detroit, which has lost five of six. 
Tayshaun Prince and Will Bynum scored 20 each for the Pistons, who clearly miss injured stars Allen Iverson, Rasheed Wallace and Richard Hamilton. Bynum also had nine assists while Antonio McDyess scored 16, but the Bulls simply pulled away in the second half. 
"We really need those guys back," Prince said. "But at the same time, while they're not here, we've got to figure out a way in the situation we have. We almost have to play perfect basketball to come out with a win." 
Trailing by one early in the third, Chicago scored 10 straight to go ahead for good, 60-51, and broke it open early in the fourth. 
An off-balance Thomas started the final quarter by banking a short transition jumper and buriPd the free throw, and Hinrich followed with a jumper that made it 80-68. Another layup by Hinrich midway through the quarter made it 92-73, and while he certainly didn't make anyone forget about Rose, the veteran did an admirable job filling in for the star rookie. 
· His only failure was at the end, when he missed the sec­ond of two free throws and denied fans the free Big Macs that come when the Bulls score 100. They let him hear it then and during a postgame interview. Otherwise, he gave them plenty to cheer. 
"I've got a thicker skin than that," a grinning Hinrich said. 
Tuesday's game was the first of two remaining between these old rivals, who are jockeying for playoff posi­tioning while dealing with injuries. 
Rose's absence was a mild surprise for the Bulls, consid­ering he wound up playing 39 minutes at Washington the previous night despite injur­ing the wrist on a dunk attempt in the second quar­ter. X-rays and an MRI showed ·no damage. Even so, he was in too much pain to play on Tuesday. 
·The Pistons, meanwhile, have their injury issues. 
Iverson missed his 14th game in a row with a sore back, while Wallace (strained left calf) and Hamilton (strained left groin) missed their eighth and fifth straight, respectively. Clearly, the Pistons miss their stars. Then again, they weren't exactly rolling when they were healthy. 
They dropped eight in a row before Iverson went down, and after a four-game win streak, the losses started pil­il).g up again. 
"We need to stay the course and try to control what we can control," Pistons coach Michael Curry said. 
page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, March 25, 2009 
NBA 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 

Spurs hold on to edge Warriors 
Parker scores 30 in win; Bryant sits fourth quarter in blowout victory 
Associated Press 

SAN ANTONIO -The San Antonio Spurs didn't let a third straight game slip away in the final moments. But boy, was it close. 
Gnawed by last-second losses in their previous two outings, the Spurs got redemption when Roger Mason made an 18-footer with 23.9 seconds left and watched Monta Ellis clank a running 3-pointer at the buzzer to escape with a 107-106 win over the Golden State Warriors on Tuesday night. 
Tony Parker scored 30 points and Tim Duncan scored 13 of his 21 in the fourth quarter, when the Spurs blew a late six­point lead but survived at the end. 
It was thanks to Mason, who scored the last of his 24 points when he took a handoff from Duncan, rolled to the top of key and swished the game-winner. 
"Definitely a relief," Mason said. "Those last few games stung." 
Those included an 80-77 loss to Boston on Friday -when the Spurs missed their last six free throws in the final 2:32 -and an 87-85 defeat Sunday against Houston that cost them the Southwest Division lead to the Rockets. They could move back atop the division should the Rockets lose later Tuesday to Utah. 
This one could've been anoth­er stinger. Ellis missed one chance to win the game on a jumper with 5.9 seconds left but missed, then the shot as time expired. He led the Warriors 27 points. 
"It was goQd," Ellis said of final try. "Brought it up and let it go." 
In all, five of San Antonio's last six games have been decid­ed by three points or fewer. They won only two, and have fallen to 11-6 in games decided by three or fewer points after once being 9-2 in that category. 
The Spurs, who have lost three of five, broke a two-game skid and avoided dropping th_ree straight for only the second time this season. 
"We're obviously going through a rough patch," Spurs coach Gregg Popovich said. "We can't seem to sustain what we're tying to do offensively, and Golden State's a high-scor­ing team." 
San...Antonio led 103-97 with 

3:01 left before the Warriors regained the lead with a half­minute remaining. Swarming Duncan in the paint, Golden State stripped the ball and Kelenna Azubuike scooped it up to race down the court for an easy layup with 33.9 remaining. 
That put the Warriors ahead 106-105, but not for long. Mason answered t~e next time down. 
Warriors coach Don Nelson said he thought Ellis could've gotten a better look than the long 3-pointer he fired at the buzzer. 
"I thought Monte could have gotten to the rim, certainly in five seconds get to the rim," Nelson said. "But anyways, that was what he chose to do. They made a big shot and we didn't. That's really the bottom line." 
Azubuike finished with 13 for the Warriors, who have lost 17 of their last 19 road games. They have two more left on their four-game road swing with a stop in Dallas on Wednesday. 
The Spurs head to Atlanta on Wednesday and may face the Hawks without Duncan. Popovich is trying to preserve his 32-year-old forward for the playoffs, and already sat out Duncan in a back-to-hack games earlier this month. 
He gave no indication Tuesday whether Duncan would play against Atlanta. 
Golden State played again without Jamal Crawford, who missed his fourth straight game in what has become a bizarre subplot with Warriors coach Don Nelson. In the past week, Crawford has been benched, allowed back, and benched him­self -all while being perfectly healthy. 
Nelson doesn't want Crawford back next season and sat him on March 17 in favor of playing youngsters. He wanted Crawford back into the lineup two games later, but Crawford said he wanted more practice time before jumping back in. 
Golden State's next practice won't be until Thursday, after the Spurs play Dallas on Wednesday night. 
Not that the Warriors didn't keep pace in San Antonio with­out him. 
Facing the NBA's second-best defense, Golden State went into halftime ahead 54-52 with the league's worst. It was a seesaw match the rest of the way. 
Ellis hit a jumper to p.ut Golden State ahead 89-87 with under 7 minutes left before Duncan answered to knot it back up. They traded baskets before the Spurs went ahead by three when Parker converted a 3-point play before the frenzied finish. 
Lakers 107, Thunder 89 
To Kobe Bryant, a little bit of rest is way overrated. Getting ready for the playoffs is what the last stretch of the season is all about. 
Bryant scored 19 points before taking the fourth quarter off, and the Los Angeles Lakers cruised to a win against the Oklahoma City Thunder on Tuesday night. 
The Lakers led from start to finish for the ninth time this season and closed within a game of idle Cleveland for the best record in the NBA, and they did it without any of their starters stepping on the floor in the last 8 minutes. 
That rest could prove helpful as the Lakers continue a seven­game road trip, having won the first two games. 
"I don't really care about that too much," Bryant said. "It's all about how well we're playing, if our bench comes in and holds our leads." 
Lamar Odom scored 18 points before fouling out and Pau Gasol had 14 points, 14 rebounds and seven assists for Los Angeles. . 
Kevin Durant scored 24 points to lead Oklahoma City, which had all five starters reach dou­ble figures but never cut the Lakers' lead to less than 17 points in the second half. 
"We should try to do that more often, absolutely," Gasol said. "I think it's something that shows character and consisten­cy, and we haven't been able to do that as often as we should. 
"Hopefully when we get big leads, on the road especially, we can take care of the game and make sure you continue to exe­cute and stay focused on what you need to do well every single possession and sustain the lead.," Gasol said. 

Los Angeles was up by nine within the first five minutes and then closed out the first quarter with eight straight points to go up by 17. For a team that hasn't lost this season after leading by 17 or more, the Lakers could feel pretty comfortable by then -if not for their last visit to Oklahoma City. 
In that game last month, the Lakers let an 18-point lead get whittled down to one before Bryant came to the rescue by scoring 15 of his 36 points in the fourth quarter of a 107-93 win. 
This time, Bryant and the rest of the starters could get plenty comfortable as the bench was emptied. Even seldom-used reserves Adam Morrison and Shannon Brown -picked up in a trade last month with Charlotte -got into the game. 
"We can't complain about that," Lakers coach Phil Jackson said. "I think we played all right in the first quarter. After that, I think we just kind of toyed with the game. I didn't like that so much." 
Josh Powell had 14 points and Luke Walton 11 to lead th-e reserves, and Derek Fisher also scored 11. 
"I just think towards the end of the season we have to take each one of these games and start thinking about the playoffs and gearing ourselves towards that," Powell said. "Every game is important, and we're just try­ing to do what we can do to sus­tain the effort." 
Jackson suggested it could be tough for L.A. to catch Cleveland, considering that the Cavaliers play eight of their last 
12 games at home  - where  
their only loss  came  to  the  
Lakers.  

"We've got a few more road games than they do, they've got a better home record than we do, so that means that they have a better chance right now," Jackson said. "But the tie goes to us, so that's important that we keep pressure on them." 
Bryant said the chase is more about bragging rights than home-court advantage. 
"We want to have the best record just to have it, just because of the challenge of it, to say that we did it," Bryant said. "Outside of that, it's just about us getting better." 
Jeff Green scored 12 points, Nenad Krstic added 11 and Thabo Sefolosha, Russell Westbrook and Nick Collison each had 10 for Oklahoma City. 
"That's one of the best teams in the league right now," Thunder guard Chucky Atkins said. "We have a young team, we're learning and we just got to move on." 
The Lakets all but put the game away when they finished the first half on an 11-0 run shortly after Oklahoma City went with an oversized lineup, pushing their lead to 62-38. After Westbrook picked up his third foul, Thunder coach Scott Brooks went without a point· guard and instead had Sefolosha and Durant in the backcourt with forwards Green, Collison and Krstic. 
Center for Applied Mathematics 

THt 2No INTtRNATIONAl WORK~HOP ON MOOtl RtOUCTION IN ~tAGING rlOW~ 
March 30-April 1, 2009 Center for Continuing Education (McKenna Hall Auditorium) 
INVITED SPEAKERS 
• 
Henry Cumm, National Uiliverslty of Ireland 

• 
Yannls Kevrekidis, Prin<eton University 

• 
linda Petzold, University of California-Santa Barbara 

• 
James Rawlin~, University ofWisconsin 



Registration is required.Visit http://cam.nd.edu/upcoming<onferences/spring2o09 

apartments available for 2009·2010 ::walking distance to campus: 2·bedroom, 2-bath with 990± SF :: free internet :: washer, dryer and dishwasher :: central air condrrloning ::large balcony:: cathedral ceilings 
Call Cnristina at ~1~·1~J.1jJij to scneaule an a~~ointment or email us at mana~er@nastaaiumcluo,corn 

Change, Hope and Expectation: 
II II 
ttl ...

The Obama ~residency in Global Perspective uu 

IIIJJUJUIIJ..IIIIIIIIIU iiEU: 
Ifill JUUtiUUIUfll llIflit Ulf ftiiiii¥UUUIU JUU Ill u•UIU:UUiltiU tUftit 
. 
IU UUJUUUttllltiUUitUI IU UUIIIItllf..lllllUIIUU 
·::::::::::.~::::::::::::::. 
tllUIUUII..IfiUUI U 
ltllillfUIIfUII:UIIlft 
11111-ltllnlllliUI 
..................,.¥... IHUUUIIU¥U. JIIIIUUU!Ialttl f:t-UIIUIIIUIU: I lllfii..IIJI
...........
..... . 
,, *Ufl 
ThU!Way, Ma!tn 26, 2009 Eck CenterAud1oium 


' .. I 
,. nnu 
fU Ull!lllll JIU 111 i UU..IU lltll" 
•• ntttll¥1t n • U t U:UUIUUUUI II I IUUlUUJUII111tll Ill I IUU1UUIUIIIIU:JII IIUf ,. IUUtUUIItllltUUI IIIIUUJt it 
': lJUtliliUti!!IIUt<"n(.HJI,-tiiU:H:t.~ Ua < ::n:~nuJ.U8UJU ..Ji · · · · · · · ~' ·~UUlUUIIIIUf · :~~::-••~ :-tUHUUUIJIItt-·· 

i-~·=~t: JH~h ~I"""H.tUUlllitiiU~·: ... 
u; UUlJ ~'~~:::::' ·· .::=~-..ll:UUUUUii ,., n • ~ P·' · · XJ.UiEU:JUtut., · I a • :' > ' >¥iHUJIUifUI51H I II ihht-~.: ·:. ~UUfUIUU~­
... 

~! .::::::~.,::::~~;. .-,~:~:;::::::::::. 
itiUU:· ··ut.:t<·: :UUiEUUUJU:=: JIIUIJ ·.·lfl!l~'~' "'UHUtUII:UI-IUUif ·~tN u:uu:~•uuu 
u ..nu= ··~~·:· · ·:;:tfJ'···A =u:••~ U¥1JilfJ"L .. ,· •:.:>·· <·:~~;:,~:: :<·.:::Ul~-: .>tHU1f 1: IIIU¥1,, ,:·ss=t=H: ~ · ·· .. , ::·=·:: ,,., :,·.·;qa:: ..,~uuu•fttiU 
au:1ut:::~-:.~~*~ ~-=:: · ··, :=, ~%<:a-~===f~~~nutunu t J UlllllUIBU.:H't~ · ~ ,.; ~;:;>:::{:<:::~:f::f:~UUUilU It fl!lf$ lltUH-~t: < -:.,;~>-><<:::~>~·: -~~.!IUJIE1UI J tUI 1~ ~F~ =·~ <HH'W~xPUUtU U ¥ lUi ';-:.F=·· ,. · =·~·~-~::~H~~<ll:n:ttnnn • 11 Ulfll* t: . : .• :;:; . .:;:,.,..,tiiiUIIJ J II IUttllt tn ····, .. ;.:,:·=-•utnnnnt ' 
lflltlflt. U·f~U·: ''SH~1SSJH!l!tUIIU:Uitl t tltUIJitlh~~:·::' ~~==<~~U:BiUUUfltlU ttn•u•un•ua:= =· ····· ·=·atJ~t::'•n•UJUt·U 
IU.III..IIIUIU:::::: '·'~,, IJtt~H~tunu.­llfUIIIfltiU'!:H:=' uunt 
UH~~ 
. : ~.:::: ,.., 
tunnut1Mtll1B? , 
I 
:?;g:=·:>.~==~o: 
titlM~O:U 
....·ntUi!UII 
I •
;. ~.Y-t•~><lf. 
·,;~ u 
. . 
.. , •• 
.. ~ .. " 
.dunn 
i:$¥U:H"f-11f >I 


Ra~plion $J;C p.m  u:nsu••=ut lltliUUfl.  UJt -~-~­fl ' ,.__ '  b, UUI~.  
$:1lfj){)Si"1lt 1:00p$!. Th$fof;!tf'Wtr~W>~<a  fltliiUUI lt;IEii!JtCH NIIIIIIIIU JlJIEt11UI Ulfltt Uttll UIJII nnt..,.  ·~ ::':·' fh.:ib~ :::un*>:H*ll  ~  tUIItl:ti:k. Ultlltllftt~. tllil¥liUIIIUt u••nn-..tn UIJ IIIJU I IUUt... ..  •I....  
''iltsaw~&o~l'iW!tia~.: irnliitl.m1he~~~  uu.........  ~  II II  
rl!f'®">i1J!£1.%11l~ilwril  l'Mi~l!1T'i !l! Mll.i i~W  
~g:,~~'i"  ~w¥;.·~·-~iii·~:.;i.iit~%·  

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Wednesday, March 25, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 

Cardinals 
continued from page 28 
brought home Jorgensborg to give Notre Dame the 5-1 advantage. 
"Same as with the defense, any window they thought they had to get something going, with a combination of good pitching and good solid defense, we just shut them down," Marrone said. 
The Irish will hope to take the momentum from the non­conference victory into this weekend's doubleheaders at Georgetown and South Florida. 
"We're going to work on team chemistry on the field," Marrone said. "We have all the right parts, we just need get everything clicking again. The hitters are there, pitchers are there, it's just a matter of put­ting it all together." 
Notre Dame will return to action today with a home dou­bleheader against Western Michigan. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

FOOTBALL 




Wife ofPirates prospect suspect in kidnapping 
Associated Press 
PLANT CITY, Fla. -A 2­month-old is back in the arms of her parents and the wife of a top Pittsburgh Pirates minor league prospect is suspected of taking the infant from a health clinic outside Tampa, authorities said Tuesday. 
Amalia Tabata Pereira, 43, was being questioned by Florida detectives in Manatee County, where the girl was found unharmed Tuesday afternoon, a day after she was taken from the clinic. Plant City Chief of Police Bill McDaniel said authorities are looking to charge Pereira with false imprisonment. 
She is the wife of Jose Tabata, 20, an outfielder and one of the top three prospects for the Pirates, who train in Bradenton, which is in the county where the infant was found. In a state­ment, Pirates president Frank Coonelly said they have received "no indication that Jose is believed to have had any involvement in this matter." 
Sandra Cruz-Francisco was taken from her mother, Rosa Sirilo-Francisco, about 3 p.m. Monday by a woman her family only knew as 'Janet,' Plant City police said. The mother had taken her baby for a checkup at the Plant City Health Department, where she met Janet, who said she was an immigration official, Sirilo­Francisco told the Tampa Tribune. The woman told Sirilo­Francisco that there were offi­cers at her home waiting to deport her and the child's father to Mexico. 
Janet offered to help, but said she had to take the baby. 
The two women drove with the infant to a farm where the child's father works and Janet told him the same story, and the mother later handed the child over. 
Plant City police Capt. Darrell Wilson couldn't confirm the mother's account of events. 
"We believe that may have been the story, but we haven't spoken with the suspect," he said. 
Investigators now believe Janet and Pereira are likely the same person. Wilson said Pereira has a criminal record that includes theft and fraud convictions and that police did not have a hometown for her because she has several aliases. 
"We don't know if it's an iso­lated incident or not," he said. 
There were conflicting reports regarding exactly how the infant was found. 
Plant City police said Pereira turned herself and the baby in to the Manatee County Sheriff's Office early Tuesday afternoon. But authorities in Manatee said Pereira was detained after an anonymous tipster called police to report a woman on a street corner in downtown Bradenton had information about the miss­ing baby. 
When deputies responded to the scene, the baby was found and a woman was detained. 

CCHA 
continued from page 28 
Four. 
"As much as I don't want to have to play Michigan again, I'd like to see them get to the Frozen Four," Jackson said. ''I'd love to see Miami take a shot at it and Ohio State. But it would be tough to do that because there are a lot of good teams all over the country." 
The Irish received the sec­ond overall ranking behind only Boston University. Despite the fact that the Irish had the No. 1 ranking and a higher winning percentage, the Terriers were able to edge Notre Dame because its PairWise Ranking was one point higher. The PairWise rates teams based on common 

opponents, wins over ranked teams, head-to-head reeord and the RPI. Boston University .won its only game against Michigan this season, and its winning percentage (1.000) against the Wolverines tops Notre Dame's (.667), which most likely gave them the 
edge. 
Both teams had plenty of 
chances to take on top compe­
tition as the Hockey East ­
the Terriers' conference -is 
the only other conference with 
four teams in the tournament. 
Notre-Dame is looking forward 
to the chance to prove itself 
against the strong Hockey East 
teams. 
"Any time you get the chance 
to showcase your team and 
your conference's skill against 
other conferences you really 
want to do well and let people 
know you're one of the better, if not the best, in the country," Irish senior Christian Hanson said. 
All of the Notre Dame play­ers are looking forward to see­ing their conference do well in the tournament. 
"I think even if there was a situation where we didn't make the tournament we would still be rooting for the other CCHA teams," sopho­more Ben Ryan said. 
The Irish have a lot of pride in their conference. That was never more evident than last weekend when they won the CCHA's Ma~n Cup. 
"We put a lot of pride in the trophy,'' Hanson said. "It was a big deal to win it and we're not going to let anyone take it from us. We're protecting it." 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 



Izzo leads MSU to the top 
Associated Press 
EAST LANSING, Mich. ­Late March would be a bad time to line up Tom tzzo for a GQ magazine cover photo shoot. 
The Michigan State coach tends to look a little haggard this time of year, with tired eyes, a weary smile and a no-frills green warmup suit reflecting the long hours he's working as his team advances deeper into the NCAA tournament. 
And Izzo wouldn't have it any other way. 
"I might look worse," Izzo said Tuesday with a sandpa­per voice. "I might feel worse. But as far as inside ... this is it. I don't live for opening day. I live for March and I love every minute of it. 
"If I was looking good and feeling good -probably wouldn't be playing." 
Second-seeded Michigan State (28-6) fac·es No. 3 seed Kansas (27-7) in a Midwest region semifinal Friday in Indianapolis. The Spartans have been in the round of 16 eight times in the past 12 years, more appearances than any program in the nation except Duke. 
The Spartans have looked good in their first two NCAA games, defeating 15th-seed­ed Robert Morris and No. 10 seed Southern California in the first and second rounds. The victories give Izzo a 28­10 record in the NCAA tour­nament, tied for the fifth­best winning percentage among active coaches. 
Michigan State's 12-year NCAA tournament appear­

ance streak is fourth longest "They go into a game, they in the nation behind only know they are prepared for Arizona, Kansas and Duke. what's going to happen," Izzo won the 2000 national Izzo said. "I guarantee you title and has coached in four every player is going to say Final Fours, with a potential all the rocks have been fifth trip now two victories turned over, all the stones away. have been flipped. We know 
Not bad for the native of what's going on. There will Michigan··s rural Upper be no surprises. That's the Peninsula, who labored as only thing I can give to them. 
an  assistant  The rest of it,  
under  Jud  they  have  to  
Heathcote for more than a  "They go into a game,  give to me." Michigan  
decade before taking over the Spartan program  they know they are prepared for what's going to happen."  State defeated Kansas 75-62 on Jan. 10 in East Lansing.  
before  the  But  Izzo  says  
1995-96 sea­son. The 54-year­ Tom lzzo Michigan State coach  his team real­izes the young Jayhawks have  

old Izzo is the longest-tenured coach in the Big Ten. He won his fifth regular season conference title this year. 
The Spartans made the NIT in Izzo's first two seasons. It's been nothing but the NCAA tournament since. 
Izzo's recipe for success? Hard work, exhaustive game preparation, a fiery demeanor and a disdain for contentment. It's no fluke that his teams almost always are among the national lead­ers in the statistics that reflect toughness rebounding and defense ­even when the offense is inconsistent. 
Izzo takes a football-like approach to video study and game preparation that gets his assistants and players up to speed on opponents with the best in the nation. 
improved dra­
matically since. 

Center Cole Aldrich and guard Sherron Collins were significant contributors dur­ing last season's NCAA title run for Kansas. Several new­comers, including guard Tyshawn Taylor, have steadi­ly improved over the course of this season. 
Michigan State is led by Big Ten player of the year Kalin Lucas, a point guard averaging 14.6 points and 
4.5 assists per game. 
But the Spartans have been getting key contributions from a host of players, including a career-high 18 points from defensive spe­cialist Travis Walton in the win over USC. 
The Michigan State-Kansas winner advances to play Sunday against No. 1 seed Louisville or No. 12 seed Arizona in the Midwest final. 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, March 25, 2009 
CMU 
continued from page 28 
with the Notre Dame offense struggling to overcome a 7-6 deficit. But Pollock's blast turned the tide for the Irish. who would score one more in the seventh and five in the eighth to turn a tight game into a rout. · 
Frflshman lefthander Ryan Richter (2-0) tossed three shutout innings in relief for the victory, allowing just two hits and two w'alks while striking out four. 
"Our whole focus tonight was to play nine innings hard," Schrage said. "This team needs to establish an identity, and we want the identity of playing all 27 [outs) hard and laying it all out on the field, and we didn't do that on Sunday. That was disappointing, but tonight it was not disappointing." 
After a rough start, Central Michigan starter Trent Howard kept the Irish offense at bay through the middle innings, and Notre Dame trailed 7-4 until chasing Howard in the bottom of the sixth. 
Sophomore third baseman Greg Sherry made it 7-5 with an RBI single that plated sen­ior shortstop Jeremy Barnes, who had reached on an error. After sophomore catcher Cameron McConnell's single, freshman second baseman Tommy Chase ripped his first career hit past first base to score Sherry and make it 7-6. But sophomore left fielder Golden Tate would ground into an inning-ending twin killing to end the threat. 
After Richter got out of trouble in the top of the sev­enth, Notre Dame took advan­tage of a leadoff error in its half that put junior right fielder David Mills on second base. Pollock wasted no time in turning the score around, blasting a no-doubter over the left-field fence off reliever Jesse Hernandez, who took the loss. 
Notre Dame continued with four straight singles, and though one runner was gunned down at the plate, the Irish scored once more on a McConnell groundout to grab a 9-7 lead. 
Pollock drove in another run in the eighth with a sin­gle, and after B'arnes' sacri­fice fly, Sherry cleared the bases with a single up the middle that went under the glove of the Chippewas' cen­ter fielder. That gave the Irish a 14-7 lead, and Central Michigan would add just one on a solo home run by Scott Phillion in the ninth. 
"We had to come back from the Seton Hall series," Pollock said. "Just picking up wins ­every win is a win, so it helps. Hopefully we'll win tomorrow and get some momentum going for Pittsburgh [this weekend)." 
The Irish started quickly, scoring three runs in their half of the first' without hit­ting the ball particularly hard. 
Tate led off with an infield single, and after a four-pitch walk to Mills, Pollock blooped a single to right to load the bases. Freshman designated hitter Mike Scioscia guided a bouncer right through the middle of the infield, scoring two before a double-play groundout scored Pollock. 
Notre Dame allowed Seton Hall to score 19 two-out runs in a three-game series over the weekend, and Central Michigan struck right back in the second with six two-out runs, all after a throwing error by Sherry extended the inning. 


Freshman starter Dustin Ipsas, who lasted just two innings, allowed three straight hits before retiring the side. 
"It was a repeat of Sunday," Schrage said. "In the dugout we were like, boy, this is just a repeat. We need pitchers to either close the door and make a pitch, or we've got to make a play behind them." 
Notre Dame cut the deficit to 6-4 in the bottom of the second, when back-to-hack singles from Tate and Mills plated Chase, who reached after being hit by a pitch. 
Senior lefthander Sam Elam came on for lpsas in the third and threw three innings of one-run ball to keep the Irish in it. 
Elam, who didn't appear in a game last year, allowed just two infield hits while striking out five and showcasing a low-90s fastball and an impressive curve. 
"We've been waiting for a day like this for him," Pollock said. "He's got great stuff, he's worked hard every day, and it's great to see him come out here and actually see some results. He's got a. lot of confidence now after today, so if we get him going, it's going to be pretty scary I think." 
Elam, who was once pro­jected by Baseball America as the Big East's top Major League draft prospect for his live arm, could work his way back into the mix if he can continue to improve his com­mand. 
"Mentally, to be able to flght through that and come back like he did is a real credit to him," Schrage said. "I could­n't be happier for him and hopefully he keeps building from there." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

Knights 
continued from page 28 
Even though Corrigan won't talk about it, the Irish are on the short list of teams in con­tention for a Mtional cham­pionship, and a win against the Knights today would only further their cause. 
The Knights (5-2) are also opening their conference sea­son today, and hope to improve on 2008's 0-5 GWLL record. Bellarmine relies pri­marily on three players for their offensive production ­sophomore midfield Dereck Hopcroft, junior attack Sean Doyle and freshman midfield Jarrett Davis. In this respect, Corrigan said the Knights are comparable to Vermont, who the Irish beat 13-7 O'n Saturday. 
"I do think they're similar in that way," he said. "They're also similar in the way they tr-y to generate their offense. I think some of the challenges on the defen­sive side of·the ball will be 
similar."  
Corrigan  also  said  he  
expected Bellarmine to  use  
picks  offensively,  as  the  
Knights  did  against  the  

Catamounts. 
"They did some things offensively with picks that could be problematic," he said. "We didn't do a great job against Vermont in the way we played picks." 
In order to come out with a win against the Knights, Corrigan noted that the Irish would have to focus on {heir 

Senior midfielder Peter Christman makes a move during Notre Dame's 19-7 win over Dartmouth on Feb. 28. 
own team first, before they worry about the opposition. 
"While we certainly respect Bellarmine and appreciate what challenges they bring, we really need to concern ourselves with our execution right now," he said. "And make sure we're doing the things that we need to do before we worry too much what they're doing." 
One part of the Irish game­plan that Corrigan said need­ed improvement was the "offensive fluidity." 
"We've done a lot of things well at different times offen­sively over the course of a game, but we haven't estab­lished our identity at that end of the field," he said. 
Even if Corrigan is con­cerned with Notre Dame's offensive efficiency, the one 
positive point for the Irish on that side of the field is the team's ability to spread the scoring around. So far this year, seven different Irish players have netted hat tricks, and 16 have regis­tered a point. Most recently, it was senior attack Ryan Hoff who netted five goals in the win over the Catamounts. The Irish are averaging 
12.33 goals per game, while giving up only 7.33. The defense is anchored by senior netminder Scott Rodgers, who has started every game for the squad. He will be faced with a Bellarmine offense that comes in averag­ing 11.86 goals per game. 
The match begins at 4 p.m. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
NIT 
continued from page 28 

night because I didn't want to go over to Midway and fly to Omaha quite frankly," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "We're thrilled W!l get to play again in front of our home crowd." 
Now Notre Dame is left to won­der if any of' its fans will notice. Last week the Irish drew 2,064 and 3,013 fans, respectively, for their games against UAB and New Mexico despite the incentive or free tickets for the first 1 ,000 students. Brey is optimistic that an opponent of Kentucky's pedi­gree will help put fans in the seats. 
"We need a good crowd, and I f'eeljust talking to our ticket peo­ple and being out in the commu­nity the last two days that we're going to have a good crowd," Brey said. "There's no question when our crowd is rolling we play better." 
Those in attendance Wednesday night will be treat!ld to an opponent usually occupied with another tournament held in March. The winningest team in the history of college basketball, Kentucky had made the NCAA Tournament each of the past 17 seasons. 
The history of the Wildcalc;' pro­gram is a laundry list of accom­plishments. In addition to topping any other school in all-time wins (1 ,988) and all-time winning per­centage (.758), Kentucky also leads the nation in NCAA Tournament appearances, victo­ries and games played. The Wildcats' seven national titles put them behind only UCLA. 
"One of the famous names in college basketball," Irish forward Luke Ilarangody said. "That just adds to it. This is the matchup we kind of wanted, and we get to play another home game which is great." 
The Wildcats have had Notre Dame's number in their meetings over the years. Kentucky leads the all-time series 41-17 and has won the past 10 meetings between the two schools. The last Irish victory over the Wildcats came on March 5, 1990. 
This year's Kentucky squad doesn't possess the talent of many past teams, but it does one of the most dynamic players in the country. Meeks -who Brey paid a house visit to before watching him commit to Kentucky one week later -is sixth in the nation in points per game with 24.2. 
A 6-foot-4-inch slasher with range, Meeks has topped the 30­point plateau seven times this season. He drew national atten­tion on Jan. 13 when he scored 54 points in leading Kentucky to a 90-72 win over Tennessee. 
"You have to be really aware of him at all times. You can't rest," Irish forward Ryan Ayers said of defending Meeks. "You have to be on his hip the whole time, make him feel uncomfortable. Maybe deny him the ball a little bit, so he can't have the ball in his hands. You just really concentrate on team awareness and helping out." 
Wednesday's game will begin at 7 p.m. and will be televised on ESPN2. It will be the final game in the current Joyce Center: which is set to be renovated at the end of 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 


.--------------­
Wednesday, March 25, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIFS BORN ON THIS DAY: f'l.><yMl Mauninj!. H; Alyson Hamu~au. 35; Sf~m>n Cm:r. W: Tonlf.>ll' Hilh)!er. 58 
Happy Birthday: Keep a d<'•r b~ad if Y<•tt w;u1t !<> tak~ ;Jdvant<>ge of \\·hat"~ commg your w11y. Not '"·~-ryrhin~ wtl! be olwious, so tk> your r~11rdL An ''~-"'"Ill!! you've I>~.~ II bopm~ for will emerl?" "ud lhe t·bam:e to do '«lmething wem V<i!l be possihl<. N~'·er )liW up <Uld Y"" will ,...,•;11 yo11r !(«1h. Younlllrlltli.'r" are 7, W. 16. 27. .H, .W.-11• 
ARIES (March Zl·April 19): )\m can alfwd lo he a lilt!<-impuhnv 1f you""' al.o rt'ady I<> go the distanc<'. Rem~ sure of your uexl mo,·e will enlumc~ Ill¢ confidence !bat olbcrs have in you. I.A-..,k tor any opportumty ii:.r treater firumdal security.*** 
TAURUS (April 2(). May 20): It'~ a d{>W·, •to:ady p:.ce th•t w•ll karl to adrit-•wm~nt A ~nsitil•e '''11<: ,·an now he hr<>llf'hl out in lh" OJ>CII ami f1J<cd to your likln¥. I.X>tl'l hack "way ff<•lio dtm•!'<' wh<·t• tl•"t\ wb<~~'s ll."<!"ired. **** 
GEMlNl (M:ay 2).June 20):. Someone wllltakeadvantajl.eofyoulfyou are too open · "ll<.~Ul your pln!h and id;"' lk '' little more <lis~ru<t •f ymt want to ~ct the cred.il you Je. serw ft>ttlle work you plH iu. Stand up for yournglll> "ud your bdid5. ** 
CANCER (Jm>e 21 .July 22): Surprise eYC1)'<ln< by hriutilljl •hom rome much ueeded diallj!c. U yool all." the one l<ho i• Sl<:ppoug nut"" l),., limb. you will~~"' be the one'" \1<"11· dil In ilw m>d. Atrip will reinlt,r<.'<' b<.>W imp<.>rtanl a role you play in holh your pcr.;onal 
•mdprofessi<>uallif~. ***** 

LEO (July 23·Aug. 22): C'h:m~mg Y<lllr numl to<.> much may be <.-..>Stly. When 11 c<>lll<!$ I<> tinm"'"'' Y<lll haw to he prtt!W ;utd w!llin)t I<> •a)i uotl'•mly de3l Y<llld<.IJI't ltk~.l.<>'e >bou!d be ltly.b on yunr ll~t. You cau b;1w fuu imtmake >tin' ymtr work i;, ~(>lupkte before· 
bat~<l. *** 

VIRGO (Aug. 23·SepL 22): Kick hock and have a little hm. l>artiCipale m sume a<:tivities tim! \\ill sct yoor hem1 f'Ulllpltl)l •nd enable Y<>l110 m.'\k~ S<llll<" new friends. Acbl!llp.e in the way y<luthonk "'"l ,J., thm~· will .et the st~·~lnrd for the !'uii~W. *** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23·0ct. 22}: l..ln<"<:rtl!iuty aud a.dvcrsuy 31 work slro11ld push ruu in a new '!lid ntr.lliw dirnrtion Believe 111 y<>urs<-lf. Bd<•re you k~~<IW it. y"u will b<-lookin!! ill Y<>Uf options a little moreoplimhti~ally.l..<:we is on the rise.*** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23·Nov. 21}: Don't confnw ntath?f< by l'<'ehlljl. ym• haw to explain ,:v.· tll)"tllirtg von do. Ste1> into the renl world lind don't be afruid to do thi11~s doe way y<>u (.,.,! !My W(ilf be>t for ymLAc.realiVe Ol!fle! wiU lltrn info a UlOIIC!(UJaker ***** 
SAGITfARlUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21); Re,.,usider your p<>'iiti<.lll ttt!llthe f)<"<>pk W>th wbmu yo11 an: slmring inlonmuiou 'n•ere may be someone tryi111< to sabolag<: wmething you are trying to p.et off 111< ground. Uon'i let yonremotio•os take over.** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Y<>l' may want ttllllilk~ ~lew adjtt~lmenh 10 a (kill you are itW<.tlve<l in Prot«:! your ll(~Ytioo and yoor as.wts h'lllll :tnyoue who is pushy or 3!1!(reS· sive.. lxuft he •l~aid lo lmck aw•y if you arc tii!C<'tl:tlll. **** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20··Feb. 18): A tuemory al1<mt some01"' from your pa;t may he an eye·opcner.l)()n't ll<'loo qui<:k to giw ""'' ~""'"''"! infonmtmn m l~t this!"''~"'"" have lie"<'>< to ym!l" home m hel<mp.iup5. Take til¢ •~fe mute.. 1t ** 
PISCES {Feb. 19-M arch 20}: Yon'lll>e able to manipulate a sitW~tloo y<>n fac.,, helpill![ y<m ret ahead. f.)()n'tl~ afru1d I<> make wmc dmmati.: cbanj1""-'. You can rely ou >Otneoue who lla~ llw CXJ>ericncc to c~rry mattw; you want tlnished lo the end *t< * 
Bir!ltday Baby. Y<>u Ill!\'<? M:mtiu~ oml are c<~llf'<%~ionate. Cltll>lional ~nd mterest~d in <Jiber<. Yo>~ are h>revet lonkmp for smnethin)! new and unique to !cam or try. 
fl•gcnia'$ lkb <h~~·: tllgf'mrdml.t't:!lfl/m· e<mfidnlfi•>i mnmllittiml$. mvsp<I<W~YJmf~lf.~l'mttlnsl for l:'ugenin'~ Mr>g, astromfvice .rom forfim 

CROSSWORD 
Across Hits with bug 

spray 5 Jaguar, e.g. 8 With 61-Across, 
a possible title for this puzzle 13 It may be bright 
14 Ex-politico with a Nobel and an Emmy 
15 The Beatles produced it 
16New entrepreneur's need 
17 Cadets' org. 18 English county on the North Sea 19 Home of the Sundance Film 
Festival 22 Dipstick coating 23 King, in Portugal 24 Debussy subject 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
53 Parting word 56 Poverty, pollution and such 57 Have to 
one's head 58 Closet filler 59 Look out for? 60 "Quo Vadis" role 61 See 8-Across 62 Mosquito 
protection 63 Mushroomed 
Down 1 Nada 2 First name in 
1950s politics 3 onion 4 Brought to ruin 5 Bug-building 
game 6 Pseudo-cultured 7 Shawnee chief 
at the Battle of Tippecanoe 8 Artists' boo-boos 
9 Beanery fare 10 Favored bunch 11 "For shame!" 
12 Cigarettes have it 14 Show sorrow 
20 Minos's land 21 Ticked (off) 25 Word of woe 
26 Aw1ully small 27 Porter's regretful 
~~Miss" 
28 Physician/synon ymist 
29 Gads about 30 Plain English 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Susan Gelfand  
31 Library sign  40 Most likely to  50 Animal on XING  
32 Excessive, as  sunburn  signs  
force  42 Off-season  51 Hamburg's river  
35 Clark's crush on "Smallville"  offerings 43 Shakespearean  52 Summoned, in a way  
36 From Sucre, say  soliloquist  53 Subj. with  
37 Battlefield shout  47 Hoops player  unknowns  
39 ''The Persistence of Memory"  48 Like a clear sky  54 Go kaput  
painter  49 At this point  55 "_ pig's eye!"  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit ny1imes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, ny1imes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: ny1imes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: ny1imes.com/learning/xwords. 
25 Foofaraw 28 Corporate action that increases the par value of 
its stock 31 "And I 33 Wordsmith's ref. 34 Sari-clad royal 35 Fencing move 36 Dickensian cry 37 Makes fun of, in 
a way 38 Right hand 39 Monk's title 40 Like gnats 41 Bone, for one 44 Grazed, e.g. 45 One of the 
Manning brothers 46 Noted convert to Islam in 1964 47 Semi part 50 1999 Melissa Joan Hart movie 


www. BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 
THE DOME PIECE 
~A 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

JUMBLE 

~ 
Unscramble these lour Jumbles. one letter lo each square. to form four ordinary words. 
FEZOR 


[ J I 

tli'2009 Tribune Media Servlces. lnc. 
All Rights R&ser\illd.  
HYNIS j 
I [ltCEEDOD I  I I  
J rJ  I I  

JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

WHAT THE 0 AREDEVIl­EXPERIENCED WHEN HE TRIMMED iHE 13USHE5. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 


I

/ I 
........-A­
.....A.
A 

~~~~~~A. 
.......~A
A. ..... A 


Ans:(XJJ) R~"(llllJ' 
(Answers tomorrow) SOGGY AVAIL PIGEON CANOPY
Yesterday's IJumbles: 

Answer: When they married in haste, they ended up-ELOPING 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________________ 
Address ______________~--------------------­City _________ State ____ Zip_______ 
THE OBSERVER 













PORTS
Wednesday, March 25, 2009 
page 28 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Back to the Big Apple? 
Team can advance to New York with victory 
By GREG ARBOGAST Senior Staff Writer 
In an odd bit of symmetry, the finish of Monday's Kentucky­Creighton game ensured that this year's seniors would go out in style. 
Just days after Tory Jackson's last-second shot put Notre Dame one game away from the NIT semifinals in New York City, Jodie Meeks' last-second basket ensured that its next game would take place in the Joyce Center ­and that it would be against Kentucky, arguably college bas­ketball program's most storied program. 
"I was trying to rally the spirit of Adolph Rupp throughout the 
see NIT/page 26 


MEN's lACROSSE 

Irish take 6-0 record into league 
By SAM WERNER Associate Sports Editor 
The No. 3 Irish will go into today's matchup against Great Western Lacrosse League (GWLL) foe Bellarmine sporting a 6-0 record for only the second time in school history, but don't expect Notre Dame coach Kevin Corrigan to get caught up on his team's record. 
"The record is about what you've done in the past," he said. "And if we're focused on the past then we're missing something." 
see KNIGHTS/page 26 

ND SOFTBALL 

Solid defense keys nonconference win over Ball State 
sophomore right fielder Erin Christine Lux for an RBI and the game, a double play from early on. Shortly after, MillerBy MOLLY SAMMON Marrone said. put the Irish in the lead, which Miller to sophomore shortstop hit a home run, bringing
Sports Writer 
Neither team managed to they kept for the remainder of Katie Fleury at second to Lux Northway, Johnson and herself score in its first inning, as the game. showed that defensively, the around the bases for a 4-1 
Notre Dame used a pair of Irish (12-11) senior Brittney "Defense is where we took Irish were on top of their Irish lead. crucial double plays and a Bargar and Cardinals (9-13) control of the game," Marrone game. In the fourth inning, the Irish three-run homer by freshman pitcher Elizabeth Milian each said. "We shut down any "The double plays just pump found a big hole in left field as second baseman Dani Miller to started strong. momentum that they had." us up. They were big plays, Jorgensborg, freshman top visiting Ball State 5-l In the bottom of the second, The game was a defensive and they ended innings," Kristina Wright and Fleury Tuesday. an overthrow from Cardinals gem for the Irish. A double Marrone said. "It switched the each placed the ball just out of 
"We put the ball in play hard shortstop Alicia Barkley moved play from junior third base­momentum in our favor." the reach of the Cardinals' left and consistently, we put con­Irish runners to second and man Heather Johnson to Lux Notre Dame's big inning fielder. Freshman Alexa stant pressure on their third. Senior Brianna at first base and back to came in the third. Both senior Maldonado's · sacrifice fly defense, and we capitalized on Jorgensborg hit a grounder Johnson gave the Irish a little designated hitter Beth mistakes that they made," that brought in junior defensive momentum. Later in Northway and Johnson singled see CARDINALS/page 25 
BASEBALL 
ND tops Central Michigan 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Editor 
A three-run seventh inning, capped by junior center field­er A.J. Pollock's two-run blast to left, turned a one-run deficit into an Irish lead as the hosts piled on late to beat Central Michigan, 14-8, on Tuesday afternoon. 
Notre Dame (14-7, 1-2 Big East) snapped its first two­game skid of the year by scoring at least two runs in each of its last three at-bats. Pollock's four hits. two stolen bases, three runs and three HB!s paced an Irish attack that ripped 20 hits against the Chippewas (9-13). 
"A.J. 's such a versatile player." Irish coach Dave Schrage said. "He's just such a talented player, and what can you say -he showed all his tools today at the plate." 
He did it in a big situation, 
see CMU/page 26 


HOCKEY 


Conference sends four teams into tournament 
By DAN MURPHY Senior Staff Writer 
With four CCIIA teams in this year's NCAA Tournament, Notre Dame and its confer­ence mates are one of the most dangerous groups in this year's postseason. 
Ohio State and Miami both received No. 4 seeds despite railing to make tho semifinals or the eonrnrnnce tournament. Both or them have wins over Notre Dame and Michigan this year. If not for their early exits in tlw CCIIA playoffs they most liknly would have reeeived a bnttnr draw. Irish eoaeh JefT Jaekson said they will be a tough challenge for any No. I send. 
"I think Boston University is going to have their hands full against Ohio State and we know what Miami ean do. We saw that first hand in the beginning of the year," Jackson said. 
Miami swept the Irish at home back in October, and the RedHawks are the only team in the country to beat Notre Dame more than once. 
Notre Dame and Michigan. which met in Saturday's CCHA Championship game, were both given No. 1 seeds. Michigan is playing out of the Bridgeport. Conn. braeket, and Notre Dame is staying close to home in Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Neither of those teams will have to faee orr against the tough CCIIA No. 4 seeds because the NCAA rules pre­vent a team from playing someone in its own confer­ence in the first round. 
Each team is in separate brackets, giving the opportu­nity for an all-CCIIA Frozen 
see CCHA/page 25 







