
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Bishops support universal health care policy 
Obama's conscience clause statements at Commencement eased concerns, discussion continues about Church's role in debate 
according to the United States Social Teaching (CSC) comes under the principle of right in the human condition."
By JOHN TIERNEY Conference of Catholic out of human dignity, the and responsibility. This emphasis on health 
News Writer 
Bishops (USCCB). Church cares not only about Health care was first care as vital to human dignity But the bishops have stated the dignity of life, but also the addressed by the Vatican in has led Catholic bishops to 
Editor's note: This is the sec­that any universal health care quality of life," Purcell said. Pope Paul VI's encyclical "On talk about universal health ond installment in a two-part initiative must be tempered by The Church understands the Development of Peoples," care for the past 30 years, series examining issues in the a respect for life. health care as a basic human which expanded the realm of Purcell said. health care debate in the "Because Catholic Social right, even though it's not cov­Catholic Social Teaching, The Church affirms there United States. The first Teaching comes out of human ered by the United States Purcell said. must be "universal, affordable installment looked at the dignity, the Church cares not Constitution, Purcell said. According to this encyclical, health care for everyone in debate's economic questions. only about the dignity of life, "Under the principle of right "the development of people is the United States," Purcell 
but also the quality of life," and responsibility, health care not just about peace, but said. 
Universal health care is an associate director of the is a human right," he said. about the whole development The health care system must intrinsic human right that Center for Social Concerns Bill He cited education as anoth­of people," Purcell said. proceeds from human dignity, Purcell said."Because Catholic er example of a human right Development "includes things see HEALTH/ page 8 
College holds service fair for graduating seniors 

By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 
A collection of various national and international agencies came together yesterday for the Postgraduate Service Fair held at Saint Mary's College. The fair pre­sented service opportunities for students trying to decide their plans for after college. 
"The Postgraduate Service Fair is a gathering of 15 agencies that provide programs for students after graduation," Carrie Call, director of the Office for Civic and Social Engagement (OCSE) said. "These volunteer service pro­grams are located in different parts of the world, domestic and abroad, and some agencies have 
Jenkins leads ROTC units on annual run 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Associate News Editor 
While most students were still warmly asleep in their beds, members of Notre Dame's Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine HOTC units gathered outside the Pasquerilla Center early yester­day morning to embark on an annual run with University President Fr. John Jenkins. 
"It shows me that he really supports what we're doing and what we have committed to do in the future and showing that the University as a whole is behind us," Army HOTC Cadet Marina Rodriguez said. "The fact that he is willing to come out here early in the morning is a really strong indicator of how much he values having pro­grams like this at the University." 
The cold, rainy conditions did not deter Jenkins from arriving promptly at 6:45 a.m. to lead all four ROTC units on a jog that lasted about a half hour. 
"I think it just shows Notre Dame's commitment to the ROTC programs. That sends a strong message when you have the president running with the cadets," Captain Joseph Kosek, one of the Army ROTC Cadre, said. 
Jenkins and the ROTC units have not let poor weather slow them down in the past, includ­ing once running through a mild snowstorm. The annual run dates back to the tenure of University President Emeritus Fr. Edward "Monk" Malloy, according to Kosek. 
Naval ROTC Battalion Commander Brad Towne said 
see ROTC/page 8 multiple placements. Students can learn about a variety of opportuni­ties." 
This is the second year the fair was held, and the College plans to continue to offer one each year, Call said. 
The fair was sponsored by OCSE and the Career Crossings Office and was held from 5 to 7 p.m. in the Reignbeaux Lounge in LeMans Hall. 
Call said the fair aimed to "introduce students to the idea of post-graduate service and to pro­vide information." 
The fair presented information about what working for a service program is like and also how to get involved in such a program. 
"[I came] to get some more information and look at some 
more options because I'm a senior and time is running short it seems," senior Desiree Fischer said. ''I've heard a lot about the [Alliance for Catholic Educationl ACE program. [I came] to meet some other groups that do the same thing. Doing a service pro­gram would be great to do to get my feet wet." 
Call said more students join service organizations after gradu­ation each year, and with the increase in demand, the College has decided to increase awareness as well. 
"The numbers of students at Saint Mary's who have entered into postgraduate service has been going up every year," Call said. 
see FAIR/page 8 



OIT uploads new installer 
Print@ND fixes problems with 64-bit version of Windows Vista 
By AMANDA GRAY News Writer 
The latest version of the Print@ND installer, released Sept. 17, should help printing problems for students run­ning Windows Vista, Brian Burchett, Notre Dame's Office of Information and Technology (OIT) Manager of Learning Spaces. said. 
Students voiced printing problems starting last year with the 64-bit version of Windows Vista, Burchett said. Windows Vista comes in a 32­bit and 64-bit edition. 
"We had the ability last year to set up the few 64-bit computers, but it was labor intensive," Burchett said. This year, there are more stu­
see PRINTER/page 9 

INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER Police arrest teens who carjacked students page 3 • Women's soccer copes with injury page 24 +Movie rewind page 12 • Viewpoint page 10 

page 2 
INSIDE CoLUMN 


Where the skies aren't so grey 

The College Football Hall of Fame is departing from South Bend, leaving Notre Dame as Northern indiana's sole tourist attraction. 
But why do they get to be the only ones to move? 
This town is get­ting more boring by the day, and I'm sug­gesting that we transport the whole university to some­where better. Chipotle is every­where. Sunshine is apparently not. 
The first require­ment for our new home is to get out of the Midwest-far enough away that we never again play a team officiated by a Big 10 crew. 
We can't go to the Northeast because our tiny library would be laughed at. 
Moving to Florida would just cause more praise for Tim Tebow as he tries to evangelize us. 
The West is also out of the question. As Catholics we are a peaceful people, but I don't think we could be held responsible for our actions ifplaced too close to USC and Stanford. 
The answer is pretty clear. The Hall of Fame is going to Atlanta. Let's put Notre Dame one state over. 
The perks of settling in Alabama are huge: 
Property taxes are super-low down there, so the Powers That Be might be able to knock off some tuition. 
The chilly weather here this week? Mid-winter in Alabama. 
Instead of an in-state "rivalry" with Purdue, we would have a real rivalry with the University of Alabama. At the very least Swarbrick would have to schedule that home-and-home we all want so badly. 
Everyone drinks iced tea, all the time. 

Moving 11,000 Catholics down there would increase the state's total number by roughly 2200 percent. 
Relocating to a red state might quell the people who are still riled up about certain events of last spring. 
It has some rich areas but also some poor areas, so there are plenty of oppor­tunities for community service. 
I kid you not, their Targets give out free cookies. 
Our engineers could get internships with NASA, giving Notre Dame influence on this planet and in outer space. 
Our environmental science majors would have tons to study with all the nature reserves and mountains. 
Mariachi bands play "Sweet Home Alabama." 
The CCHA would have no choice but to admit UAH into the conference ifwe live right next to them. 
The only down side is that buildings in Alabama don't have basements, so there would be nowhere to go after parietals for some three-foot-on-the-floor fun with your sweetheart. 
Aside from that, though, this is a great plan. Let's start uprooting the campus buildings. Put them on giant trailers and send them down I-65. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd. edu 

Laura Myers 
Assistant Sports Editor 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, September 30, 2009 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT COULD BE WORSE THAN THE WEATHER RIGHT NOW? 







Andrew Haley  Erika Hansen  Colin Sullivan  Lei Lei  Travis Evert  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
Stanford  McGlinn  O'Neill  Badin  Fisher  
"North Dining  "Losing to  "Being a  "Comcast in  "You kidding  
Hall catching  Washington in  woman.  the dorms going  me? I love this  
on fire just as  this weather. "  out."  weather."  
you're getting  
your food."  

Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

TOM LAfThe Observer Notre Dame firefighters respond to a small fire in North Dining Hall Tuesday evening. Students were evacuated for 10 minutes while the fire was put out. 
OFFBEAT 
Teen brands friend with fork, cookie cutter 
NEW SALEM, Pa. -State police have charged a south­western Pennsylvania teen 'hith branding a friend using heated metal objects because the boys thought it was "cool." Trooper James Pierce, of the Uniontown Barracks, says Tuesday he filed one count of illegal tat­tooing and body piercing against a 15-year-old New Salem boy with Fayette County juvenile probation officials. 
Pierce said the suspect branded his friend, a 15­year-old boy from Uniontown, by heating a fork, key ring, cross, a heart­shaped cookie cutter and a crucifix over several hours on Sept. 19-20. The brands were on the second boy's arms, shoulder and chest. 

Pierce said the boys "thought it was cool" but the victim's parents didn't and alerted authorities. 
Teen charged charged with trying to eat marijuana 
SHEBOYGAN, Wis. ­Sheboygan prosecutors have charged a young woman with trying to eat marijuana as police pulled over the car in which she was riding. Jamie L. Salonen, 18, was charged Friday with misde­meanor marijuana posses­sion and felony bail jumping. The criminal complaint said a trooper stopped her car after seeing the occupants weren't wearing seatbelts. It said the trooper saw Salonen move around suspiciously. 
Prosecutors said the troop­er found her with green material around her mouth and lips, and marijuana strewn about her side of the car. 
The complaint said she was surprised she was being arrested, saying, "I only ate some weed, officer." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 0:: 
LLI 
::z::: 
!;;: 
LLI 
3: 






0,,,,,,,
..... 
,,,,,,,
ct 
u 
IN BRIEF 

The exhibit "Thin: Photography by Lauren Greenfield" will be shown today from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the Suite Museum of Art. The exhibit is free. 
The exhibit "In Praise of Donors: Selections from the Dr. and Mrs. R. Stephen Lehman Collection" will be shown today from 10 a.m. to 5 
p.m. in the Suite Museum of Art. The exhibit is free. 
The Class of 2010 Trip will take place today at Wrigley Field. The class will leave cam­pus at 5 p.m. The Chicago Cubs will play the Pittsburgh Pirates. Tickets are available at the LaFortune ticket office. 
The CSC will host the Postgraduate Service Fair today from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. in the JACC Concourse. More than 80 organizations will be present. Dress is casual. 
Actor and director Richard "Cheech" Marin will deliver a presentation titled "An Interpretation of Culture through Chicano Art" today at 
7:30 p.m. at the Decio Mainstage at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are free and will be distributed on a first-come, first-serve basis. 
Engineering professor Alan 

C. Seabaugh will speak at a colloquium titled "Interband Tunnel Transistors" today from 4 to 5:30 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland Hall. The event is free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

0,,,,,,,
,,,,,,, 

0 
....
The Observer regards itself as a professional 

publication and strives for the highest standards of LOW 39 LOW 42 LOW 51 LOW 45 LOW 44 LOW 44 journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 
Atlanta 73 I 50 Boston 61 I 42 Chicago 62 I 45 Denver 75 I 44 Houston 87 I 73 Los Angeles 77 I 58 Minneapolis 63 I 47 
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so 

New York 62 I 47 Philadelphia 63 I 46 Phoenix 95 I 66 Seattle 59 I 51 St. Louis 70 I 50 Tampa 85 I 64 Washington 66 I 48 
we can correct our error. 

Wednesday, September 30, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Police arrest teens who
Entrepreneurswinscholarship 
carjacked students
Senior business students receive monetary award, recognition 
By JILL STINCHCOMB News Wrirer 
The Fanning scholarship is about more than money for senior recipients Amber Lattner and Adam Hansmann. For them. the award is recognition 
of their pas­"Fanning embodied Council," O'Rourke firms. Hansmann additionally 
investigation and the 

sion and said. plans to tour western Europe
[the] Notre Dame 
teenagers are being held at 

excellence O'Rourke said he over the summer. 
the St. Joseph County Jail,
spirit.''

in communi­also looks for "Hopefully with some Dorm 
according to the report.

cation. "people who are Drinks profits," Hansmann 
The Holy Cross students

"It was Adam Hansmann learning how to joked. 
were robbed at gunpoint and

cool I won, 
senior 

but it was cool because I love [busi­ness communication] so much," Lattner said. 
Hansmann, who also start­ed Dorm Drinks, an on-cam­pus business that delivers affordably priced soft drinks to students. wrote his college essay about his love of writ­ing. 
"It's great to see that [love] recognized four years later," Hansmann said. 
Professors select nominees from their Business Communications courses. The faculty then gives the nomi­nee suggestions to professor James S. O'Rourke, director of the Eugene Fanning Center for Business Communication. O'Rourke then conducts fac­ulty interviews and narrows the list to the top three men and top three women, based on eonsultation with other faculty members. 
The students are notified over the summer of their nomination, and are inter-
Observer Staff Report 

viewed by O'Rourke and "Fanning embodied [the] 
Sondra Byrnes, another pro­Notre Dame spirit" Hansmann 
Police have arrested three

fessor in the Fanning Center said. 
teenagers for the carjacking

for Business Communication O'Rourke said almost all 
of two Holy Cross students,

O'Rourke said. have graduate degrees and 
according to a South Bend

"We ask students who they now work in Fortune 500 or 
Tribune report.

are, their intellectual ambi­Big Four companies. 
The three teenagers, two 

tions and whether they would Lattner and Hansmann are 
18 and one 1 7, are accused

be good speakers both currently interviewing 
of criminal confinement and

in front of the with various banking, con­
armed robbery.

Business Advisory sulting and management 
The case is still under 

learn." For both students, the 
forced to ride in the trunk of

A two to three award was significant minute speech in because it recognized some­
their vehicle late Thursday. 
The students told police they were approached in a parking lot on the 800 Block of Notre Dame Ave. by sever­al men, one with a gun. 
The men forced them into the car and drove to several ATMs where the students withdrew cash. 
Police said an officer pulled the vehicle over on McKinley Rd. because the driver failed to turn off the high beams, and the sus­pects fled the vehicle. The officer found the two stu­dents in the trunk with minor injuries. 
front of the thing they care deeply about. Business Advisory Council is "Notre Dame is a liberal a requirement of scholarship arts school. It's important for winners, O'Rourke said. Mendoza to remember those 


SMC serrrinarprepares
During their speeches, liberal arts roots," Hansmann 
Students describe their ambitions, their college_ Business comunication 
experience and 
is about saying
what Notre Dame means to them. something true and 
"The alumni [of validated, but also 
the Advisory 
[about saying
Council] like 
hearing about something] that strikes 
Notre Dame from a chord beyondjuststudents" 
the facts." 

O'Rourke said. 
Eugene Fanning graduated from Amber Lattner Notre Dame in senior 1953 and taught business courses 
said. "It meant a lot to me to get 

students for internships 
that recog­
nition." 
Lattner e c h o e d Hansmann's appreciation of the award. 
"Business communica­tion is about saying something true and validated, 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 
A series of four internship seminars will be held at Saint Mary's College to prepare stu­dents with the skills neces­sary to obtain internships. The first of the series was held yesterday. 
"These seminars are a part 

at Notre Dame from 1989­ but also Labout saying some­ of  the  Cross  Currents  
1995. A successful business­ thing] that strikes  a  chord  Program," Tricia  Dunton,  
man, board member of the  beyond  just  the  facts,"  assistant  director  of  the  
Chicago Bulls and White Sox  Lattner said.  Career Crossings Office, said.  
and dedicated professor, Fanning never forgot a stu­ Contact Jill Stinchcomb at  "We understand that internship experience  an is  
dent's name, O'Rourke said.  jsteinchc@nd.edu  invaluable  to  a  student's  
preparation for entering the  


wor.~force after they gradu­ate. The College has many pro­
grams that provide students
·.c_
... _ .....

L··D-::::--~y-'···£!1•-!R_·,J::J]_.·,..
& I >-, '-&n ~ ~-~, -' ·.. ) 
with important skills to help
! :,.. : 
._J 
them succeed in their future careers.

A PRIME CAMPUS HOUSING COMMUNITY 
"The Career CrossingsDeluxe Walk-to-Campus Student Apartments Office and Cross Currents 
• 
Stateofthe Art Brand New High Line Fitness Center and Community Club House 

Free Tanning Beds Private Balconies and Free Parking 


• 
Swimming Pool, Sun Deck, Hot Tub and Basketball Court 


• 
OnSite Management and 24/7 Maintenance 

• 
On Site ~~urity Officer 



l Bedroom Apartments &Townhouse& 
I Bedrooms 
Furnished Studios 
574.272.8124 

1710 Turtle Creek Drive • South Bend) IN www.dovervillageapartments.com 
• Swimming Pool, Tennis Court, 24 Hour Fitness Center, Basketball CoUrt 
• Freet~gBeds 

• 
FreeWasher and Dryerin eacll unit 

• 
High SpeedWireless Internet and Comcast Premium Cable Included 

• 
OnSite Management and24/7 ~aintenance OnSite Security Officer ~~,,m, >· 


1,2, &3 
Bedroom 
Apartments 
574.272.1441 
1801 Irish Way • South Bend) IN www.cloverridgcapartments.com 
what type of internship they want, evaluate their interests and then enhance and solidify their intended career choice. 
The sessions are geared towards sophomores and jun­iors, though freshmen and seniors are allowed to attend. 
"All students were invited and asked to HSVP so we can have the appropriate materi­als available," Dunton said. "We really encourage sopho­mores and juniors to attend these sessions as they are in place in their academic cur­riculum to seek out and be successful in an internship experience, although all stu­dents are encouraged to learn the skills needed for a suc­cessful internship." 
Though the first seminar was held Tuesday, there are three other opportunities. Each session, however, will focus on a different topic. 
"There will be four sessions, Tuesday, Sept. 29, Thursday, Oct. 1. Tuesday, Oct. 6 and Thursday, Oct. 8," Dunton said. 
There will be several other opportunities for students to participate in this type of seminars, Dunton said. 
"This will not be the only time this seminar is offered. If you did not sign up for the seminar this time around, look for when it will be held again," Dunton said. "You can also set up appointments in our office to gain the informa­tion you are looking for if you are unable to attend." 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Program hope to develop additional necessary skills outside the classroom for stu­dents to feel confident in what they can bring to an employer and the job site," Dunton said. 
The seminars are geared towards students who aspire to learn about the basics for finding internships. 
"Students will learn the basics of internship searching -resume writing, cover let­ters, correspondence, search­ing for an internship, making the most of your internship experience, etc.," Dunton said. 
According to Dunton, stu­dents will learn how to assess 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 30, 2009 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 




Off-campus safety to be discussed with Trustees 
By ANN-MARIE WOODS NewsWrirer 
With the increase in off-campus burglary, theft and assaults in recent weeks, the Council of Representatives (COR) proposed off-campus safety as a possible topic for student government's first meeting of the year with the University Board of Trustees. 
"We want to address the things most relevant to students," stu­dent body President Grant Schmidt said. "This is a great opportunity for us to go before the Board of Trustees with our issues." 
As a means of collaboration between students and the University administration and Board, the student body president, vice president and chief of staff present to the student affairs com­mittee of the Board of Trustees three times a year to address the most pressing student issues and work in partnership with the University to create change. 
COR members agreed that off campus safety is the most relevant and imperative concern for the student body at this time. 
"It is an important subject to all of us, especially as more people are being affected by it," Schmidt said. 
Schmidt initiated the discussion by asking COR members whether or not they felt it is the University's responsibility to be looking out for students off campus. 
COR was in agreement that stu­dents are feeling specifically tar­geted when they are off campus, regardless of whether or not they live off campus. Because of this, members concurred that the University needs to play an impor­tant role in protecting and keeping students safe off campus. 

The impending Transpo initia­tive will be a successful solution to many off campus transportation problems, offering a shuttle serv­ice for students to get to and from campus, as well as around the South Bend area, Schmidt said. While still in its final planning stages, the Transpo initiative will help prevent many of the assaults taking place off campus, Schmidt explained. 
However, this new form of transportation does not solve the problem of burglary and property damage, a crucial aspect of off campus safety, COR member Chris Tillet said. 
Increased communication between the University and the community as well as the use of Notre Dame Security Police for off campus patrolling were offered as initial suggestions for improving safety. 
Repainted crosswalks and new yellow arrow signs are recent ini­tiatives for increasing safety at the intersection of Tywckenham Dr. and Vaness St. There is a strong likelihood that a flashing light will be put in at this high traffic area to increase pedestrian safety, Schmidt said. 
Schmidt along with Vice President Cynthia Weber and 

Chief of Staff Ryan Brellenthin will continue to work with Denise Baron, representative for the Committee on Community Relations, and COR members to construct tangible proposals for off campus safety solutions to present to the Board of Trustees. 
In the meantime, Schmidt encouraged students to present their ideas to the appropriate rep­resentatives, and said student gov­ernment is open to suggestions as they create a proposal for the University Board. 
"It is a consensus that [off cam­pus safety] is something we would like the University to take action on," Schmidt said. "We want to let people know we are having dis­cussions [about this issue]." 
In other COR news: 

+ Through the COR Collaboration Appeal, University and student groups have the opportunity to collaborate on funding for projects or initiatives. 
COR approved $1200 in funding for a fall break service trip to New Orleans to assist the Gulf Coast Action League, Lewis Hall, O'Neill Hall and the Center for Social Concerns as they travel to the hur­ricane-devastated area to work with Operation Helping Hands. 
Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods4@nd.edu 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

Monday, October 5, 2009 
!suMMER ENGINEERING PROGRAMS I 
FOREIGN STUDY IN LONDON, ENGLAND OR ALCOY, SPAIN 



Information Meeting: 

Room 138 DeBartolo Hall 

7:00p.m. 

Application Deadline: November 23 for Summer 2010 
Application On-line: www.nd.edu/-engineerI sumlon/apply.html 

ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 





ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, September 30, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Polanski arrested in Switzerland 
GENEVA -First numbered bank accounts and now Roman Polanski. Switzerland is no longer a place for foreign fugitives and tax evaders to live above the law. 
Polanski's arrest for extradition to the United States in a 31-year-old statutory rape case was just the latest crack in the Alpine nation's cherished legacy as a safe haven, and it set off widespread anger across the country. 
"Swiss neutrality is about not taking sides," said Julien Grollier, a Geneva resi­dent. "They're doing a favor for the United States that they wouldn't do for another country. 
Chile invites Peru to military exercise 
SANTIAGO -The Chilean air force said Tuesday it has invited its Peruvian counterpart to send observers to military maneuvers that Peru has interpreted as threatening and wants canceled. 
The air exercise is set for late October in an area of northern Chile near Peru and is to include participation by the air forces of the United States, France, Brazil and Argentina. 
"The government has complete control of the maneuvers over solely Chilean territory. To show our transparency in the matter, the Chilean air force has invited the air force of Peru to send inspectors to witness these maneuvers," Chilean Defense Minister Francisco Vidal said. 
Peru's defense secretary, Rafael Rey, called earlier this month for Chile to suspend the exer­cise "to avoid misinterpretations." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Professor gets 25 years for child porn 
PIIILADELPHIA -A longtime Ivy League professor preyed on vulnerable teenage boys at home and abroad as he pursued them for sexual encounters and pornographic videos, prosecutors argued at his sentencing Tuesday. 
Lawrence Scott Ward, 66, was sentenced to 25 years for manufacturing child pornography and lying to authorities to get one of his young victims into the U.S. He also must pay $100,000 restitution and remain on probation for life. 
The former University of Pennsylvania pro­fessor already is serving a 15-year sentence for importing the illegal images when he returned from a 2006 trip to Brazil. Defense lawyers called the additional charges excessive. 
NYC terror suspect pleads not guilty 
NEW YORK-An Afghan immigrant plead­ed not guilty Tuesday to plotting a New York City terrorist attack with bombs made from beauty-supply chemicals and was ordered held without bail. 
A lawyer for 24-year-old Denver airport shuttle driver Najibullah Zazi entered the plea in a federal courtroom in Brooklyn. Officials say he and co-conspirators bought products in Colorado containing hydrogen peroxide and acetone -key ingredients for homemade bombs. 
Prosecutors believe Zazi received explosives training from al-Qaida in Pakistan and may have planned to target mass transit in the New York City area. 
''I'd like to stop this rush to judgment because what I've seen so far does not amount to a conspiracy," said Zazi's attorney, J. Michael Dowling. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Driver arrested outside police station 
LEBANON -A man who applied for a job with the Lebanon Police Department saw his prospects disappear when he drove into the department's parking lot with a blood alcohol count more than four times the legal limit. 
Two officers were standing outside police head­quarters early Tuesday when they saw a car pull into the parking lot and strike a curb, flattening one of its tires. They found 23-year-old Zachary Phillips behind the wheel and performed field sobriety tests. 
Phillips was taken to Witham Hospital, where his blood alcohol content was measured at .33 per­cent. Indiana's threshold for drunken driving is .08. 
AMERICAN SAMOA 
Samoas' residents flee homes 
Earthquake with magnitude of8.3 strikes South Pacific island nations; injuries reported 
Associated Press 

PAGO PAGO -A power­ful earthquake with a mag­nitude of up to 8.3 struck in the South Pacific between Samoa and American Samoa around dawn Tuesday, sending terrified residents fleeing for higher ground as a tsunami swept ashore, flattening at least one village. 
Samoan officials report an unspecified number of deaths and injuries. 
Officials said they were checking reports of fatali­ties, including people being swept away from coastal communities, but communi­cations and power outages were hampering rescue efforts. 
The quake hit at 6:48 a.m. Tuesday (1748 GMT) midway between the two island groups. In Apia, the Samoan capital, families reported shaking that last­ed for up to three minutes. 
The U.S. Geological Service, which estimated the magnitude at 8.0, said the quake struck 20 miles (35 kilometers) below the ocean floor, 120 miles (190 kilometers) from American Samoa and 125 miles (200 kilometers) from Samoa, with a 5.6-magnitude after­shock 20 minutes later. 
The Pacific Tsunami "There is some water whole village has been house was going to go down Warning Center put the damage to residences," wiped out," Ansell told as well. Thank God, it did­quake's magnitude at 8.3 Ilaoa said. "To what extent National Radio from a hill n't." Along with neighbors, and issued a general alert and how much, and how near Samoa's capital, Apia. they fled to high ground. for the South Pacific region, many villages are effected, "There's not a building A five-foot (1.5-meter) from American Samoa to that is a mystery at this standing. We've all clam­tsunami wave swept into New Zealand. It said there time." bered up hills, and one of Pago Pago, capital of were indications a tsunami In Samoa, waves washed our party has a broken leg. American Samoa, shortly wave could be "destructive" cars and houses from vil­There will be people in a after the earthquake, send­along some coastlines. lages along the south coast great lot of need 'round ing sea water surging Several hours away from into the sea "and out to the here." inland about 100 yards the epicenter, Hawaii was reef," Radio Polynesia Schools and businesses (meters) before receding, put under a tsunami watch reporter Jonatui Lutifoga were closed, with the leaving some cars and that later was downgraded told New Zealand's Samoan capital virtually debris stuck in mud. to an advisory. National Radio. There were deserted with thousands of Electricity outages were 
Amercan Samoa Gov. reports that several people people reportedly clustered reported. and telephone Togiola Tulafono was at his were missing, but police on nearby hills. lines were jammed. Honolulu office assessing said they had no confirma­"Our house has been The staff of the port ran the situation but was hav­tion. taken by the tsunami and to higher ground, and police ing difficulty getting infor­New Zealander Graeme we have lost everything," soon came by, telling resi­mation, said Filipp Ilaoa, Ansell said the beach vil­Teresa Sulili Dusi told dents to get inland. Several deputy director of the lage of Sau Sau Beach Pale National Radio, adding that students were seen ran­office. Ilaoa could not con­was leveled. "everything dropped on the sacking a gas station/conve­firm any deaths or injuries. "It was very quick. The floor and we thought the nience store. 
PHILIPPINES 

Flood in Manila kills 246, injures many 
Associated Press that cuts through the capital, including rising and more rain was forecast for the 
wealthy suburbs and shanty towns. region Wednesday. 
MANILA -Flood victims trudged The presidential palace was opened as a In the Philippines, where at least 38 peo­through ankle-deep sludge to crowded relief center, and President Gloria ple remained missing and more rain was relief centers in the Philippines on Tuesday, Macapagal Arroyo's executive chef cooked forecast, some of the displaced families as the death toll rose to 246 from water that gounnet food for victims at another shelter. recalled their ordeal from a covered court inundated the homes of nearly 2 million Ketsana strengthened and crashed into in the town center where they sought shel­people. central Vietnam on Tuesday, killing at least ter. 
Tropical Storm Ketsana brought the 23 people who drowned, were caught in "What happened was the water suddenly worst flooding to the Southeast Asian coun­mudslides or hit by falling trees, officials rose. We did not know that the water would try in four decades, cha<;ing some victims to said. Some 170,000 people were evacuated. reach the second floor, so we went up to the their rooftops to escape the rising water "The rivers are rising, and many homes roof but the roof gave in, so we just floated and sweeping others down raging rivers. are flooded, and several mountainous dis­in the water holding on to a trunk of a 
The storm struck Saturday in Manila, one tricts have been isolated by mudslides," said banana tree," said Herminia Abahat, of the world's largest cities with about 12 Nguyen Minh Tuan, a provincial disaster whose wife is still missing. million people, and dumped more than a official in Vietnam. Abahat said he and his wife were swept month's worth of rain in just 12 hours. The storm weakened as it moved inland to a river and eventually separated by the Flooding was worst around the Pasig River and appro~ched Laos, but rivers were still raging currents. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 30, 2009 

Senior receives Yarrow Award in peace studies 
Salvador and spent time  at  mostly Mexican immigrant fami­ After graduation Knapp hopes  photo that you see in the media.  
By SARA FELSENSTEIN  homes for at-risk and street chil­ lies and have been able to gain a  to return to El Salvador for the  There's so much structural vio­ 
News Writer  dren.  better understanding of the real­ fourth time to continue her  lence that leads to the hot vio­ 
In addition to her experiences  ly hard reality for immigrants,  peace building efforts.  lence that is covered in the  
Senior Jenna Knapp will be  abroad, Knapp  especially during  "I'm applying for a Fulbright  media. I've gained an apprecia­ 
the recipient of the Peter Yarrow Award in Peace Studies for her exceptional academic work and  has continued her community­building efforts  "By getting inovlved in the South Bend  times of economic hardship." These families  [Fellowship] to go back to El Salvador to work with an organ­ization that is developing peace  tion for the complexity and the urgency of peace building efforts and how they need to be sus­ 
her peace building efforts both at home and abroad. Knapp was informed her reception of the award last night. She will be  during the school year in South Bend. "I volunteer at  community as well as the international community, I've  have invited Knapp to a few oftheir own Baptisms and  building programs within pris­ons. I would work with prison staff, prisoners and community members ... I feel called back to  tained for long periods of time post-conflict," Knapp said. Knapp said she is confident that she will continue to work  
presented the award in May,  [the]  St.  decided that this is  quinceaiieras,  [El Salvador! because of the  against violence.  
closer to graduation. Each year the Yarrow Award in Peace Studies is given to an outstanding student in the con­ Adalbert's [School] in South Bend," Knapp said. "I  where I want to keep going with my life. "  which are Latin American cele­brations of 15th birthdays.  relationships I've made there and the ways I've seen violence intimately affect everyone I know."  "I don't know where I'll end up but more and more I'm okay with that because with the reali­ty I've seen in my undergradu­ 
centration of Peace Studies with a commitment to justice and service work.  help with an after school pro­gram there ...  Jenna Knapp senior  "I think that by getting involved in the South Bend  Knapp said her experiences both in the classroom and abroad have broadened her  ate experience I know I'm com­mitted [to the peace building cause]," she said. "I don't know  
Knapp said her experiences in  it's just accom­ community,  as  understanding of exactly what  in what way lmy passion] will  
a Jesuit high school that empha­ paniment. I tutor them and  well as the international com­ peace building means.  manifest."  
sized social justice, as well as a service trip to El Salvador in high school are what first  mostly play with them. After I tutor I go to the families' homes. I've built relationships with  munity, I've decided that this is where I want to keep going with my life," she said.  "I see peace building now as a lot more multifaceted and com­plex than the typical handshake  Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu  

sparked her interest in conflict resolution. 
"I went to El Salvador ... and really fell in love with the coun­try and the people that I met there. I knew that I wanted to study something that would con­tribute to peace and justice in the world." 
Knapp said she chose to come to Notre Dame because of the opportunities offered by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
"Their mission is so unique, and [it is] unlike other schools in that there is a whole program that is just dedicated to Peace Studies," she said. 
One thing that distinguishes the Kroc Institute, Knapp said, is that undergraduate students and graduate students take classes together. 
"You'll study conflicts from all around the world and these graduate students come from the places of conflict, which really humanizes the experi­ence. I have grad students in my classes that come from Sierra Leone, Pakistan, Uganda ­places all over the world," she said. 
Knapp said she spent six months last year studying abroad in Uganda and worked with children who lived in sew­ers and ate out of dumpsters. She lived in a home with 11 chil­dren from the street. Knapp and others treated hundreds of wounded children every day. 
"I was working with street children, who are a lot more vis­ible [in Uganda] than they are in El Salvador," she said. "I got to see the way violence affects their lives. They [run away from home] and then they get to the streets and are faced with a greater violence." 
Police, Knapp said, are the children's greatest enemy. 
"These children are seen as criminalized. They are beaten and taken to detention centers," she said. 
Knapp spent much of her time treating wounds inflicted upon children by police. 
Knapp has spent each of her summers during college con­tributing to the peace building cause abroad. 
In 2007 she traveled to El Salvador and taught 18 classes a week to first through ninth graders. In 2008 she was in Uganda teaching in rural vil­lages and learning about the challenges of rural education, and in 2009 she returned to El 


What's the big idea? 
Seriously, we want to know. At GE. we're so hungry for innovators that our leadership team funds the best ideas through our Imagination Breakthrough program. And whether you've got big ideas about engineering, finance, manufacturing, marketing and sales. human resources or information technology, GE has an opportunity for you. 
• imagination at work ge.com/careers 

THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Wednesday, September 30, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 9,742.20 -47.16 
Up: 1,789  Same: 138  Down: 1,931  Composite Volume: 1,357,495,353  
AMfX,,,:,,,,,,,,  
 
NASDAQ NYSE S&P 500  2,124.Q4 6:t926~s~ 1,062.61  -6.70 -i~l;i -2.37  

NIKKE1'5rrokyo) '0il+·,·ro;lmm;ll)[;!,i~:;~ml'llill FTSE 100 (London) 5,159.72 -5.98 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP {C) +2.84 +0.13 4.38 CIT GROUP INC (DEL} +31.74 +0.53 104.45 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) ·0.30 -0.32 16.60 BK OF AMERICA CP (BAC) ·0.35 ·0.06 1.77 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.30 -0.01 3.29 13-WEEK BILL +33.33 +0.03 0.12 30-YEAR BOND ·0.54 -0.022 4.02 5-YEAR NOTE ·0.13 ·0.003 2.34 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.13 66.71 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +0.30 994.40 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) +2.00 84.70 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 90.2050 EURO 1.4595 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0843 BRmSH POUND 1.5974 
IN BRIEF 
GM ends partnership with eBay 
DETROIT -General Motors Co. said Tuesday that it is concluding its partnership with eBay Inc. in which the automaker used the auction site to sell new cars through California dealerships, as it shifts focus to broader, national marketing programs. 
GM and eBay said the program was slated to end Sept. 30, and was not canceled for lack of participation. GM spokesman John McDonald deemed the program a "success" because it helped the Detroit-based compa­ny improve strategies to reach car buyers who typically don't consider GM products. 
"We're taking what we learned from eBay and applying it to our digital and social marketing media marketing strategies," he said. "From our view, it was a success." 
Through eBay's auto marketplace, car shoppers in California were able to negoti­ate a price with a dealer, or purchase the vehicle at a fixed price and pick it up at a dealership. 
Colleges treat betting like booze 
LAS VEGAS -Colleges and universities should take more steps to curb problem gambling by piggybacking outreach efforts onto campaigns against alcohol and drug abuse, a national gambling task force said Tuesday. 
The Task Force on College Gambling Policies said in a report that schools should treat gambling as a health issue, and estab­lish policies to restrict wagers on campuses and treat students who develop addictions. 
While nearly half of college students sur­veyed reported gambling during the past year, a 2005 report shows only 22 percent of colleges have written gambling policies, said the group, which was established last year by the Cambridge Health Alliance and funded by the National Center for Responsible Gaming. The health alliance is a teaching affiliate of Harvard Medical School. 
"It is important, we believe, for schools to send a clear, unified message about accept­able behaviors," said Christine Reilly, a task force member and executive director of the Institute for Research on Gambling Disorders in Beverly, Mass. 
u.s. Income gap Increases 
Recession, job layoffs affect middle-income, poor families the hardest 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The recession has hit middle­income and poor families hardest, widening the eco­nomic gap between the rich­est and poorest Americans as rippling job layoffs rav­aged household budgets. 
The wealthiest 10 percent of Americans-those mak­ing more than $138,000 each year -earned 11.4 times the roughly $12,000 made by those living near or below the poverty line in 2008, according to newly released census figures. That ratio was an increase from 11.2 in 2007 and the previous high of 11.22 in 2003. 
Household income declined across all groups, but at sharper percentage levels for middle-income and poor Americans. Median income fell last year from $52,163 to $50,303, wiping out a decade's worth of gains to hit the lowest level since 1997. 
Poverty jumped sharply to 
13.2 percent, an 11-year high. 
"No one should be sur­prised at the increased dis­parity," said Richard Freeman, an economist at Harvard University. "Unemployment hurts nor­mal workers who do not also had sharp disparities. bubble burst, more of the income, the highest since have the golden parachutes Up-and-coming cities with population may be headed 2006. the folks at the top have." growing middle-class popu­back to the high-inequality u Twenty-one states and 
Analysts attributed the lations, such as Mesa, Ariz., areas, stemming their mid­the District of Columbia had widening gap to the wave of Riverside, Calif., Arlington, dle-class losses." higher poverty rates than the layoffs in the economic Texas, and Henderson, Nev., As to poverty, the biggest national average, many of downturn that have devas­were among the areas shifts last year were increas­them in the South, such as tated household budgets. showing the least income es in metropolitan areas in Mississippi (21.2 percent), They said while the richest differences between rich Florida and central Kentucky, Arkansas and Americans may be seeing and poor. California. Stockton, Calif., Louisiana (each with 17.3 reductions in executive pay, It's unclear whether jumped from 14.1 percent to percent). That's compared those at the bottom of the income inequality will con­16.8 percent, while with 19 states and the income ladder are often tinue to worsen in major Lakeland-Winter Haven, District of Columbia that unemployed and struggling cities, said William H. Frey, Fla., rose from 12.7 percent ranked above U.S. poverty in to get by. a demographer at the to 15.4 percent. Tampa-St. 2007. 
Large cities such as Brookings Institution. Many Petersburg, Orlando, u Use of food stamps Atlanta, Washington, New Americans are staying put Bradenton and Palm Bay -jumped 13 percent la<>t year York, San Francisco, Miami for now in traditional cities all in Florida -also saw to nearly 9.8 million U.S. and Chicago had the most to look for jobs and because gains in the share of poor households, led by Louisiana, inequality, due largely to of frozen lines of credit. residents. Maine and Kentucky. The years of middle-class flight "During the years of the increase was most evident in to the suburbs. Declining housing bubble, there was Among other findings: households with two or more industrial cities with pockets middle-class movement u Income at the top 5 per­workers, highlighting the of well-off neighborhoods, from unaffordable metros cent of households -those impact of the recession on such as Pittsburgh, with high-income inequali­making $180,000 or more­both working families and Cleveland and Buffalo, N.Y., ty," Frey said. "Now that the was 3.58 times the median unemployed single people. 


Crime victims receive stimulus money 
Associated Press 

MINNEAPOLIS -The govern­ment's economic stimulus money isn't just for hard hats, contractors and teachers. It's also keeping battered women's advocates on the job and compensating crime victims for lost wages and uncovered medical costs. 
The government is spending $225 million in stimulus money on pro­grams that deal with violence against women, and $100 million more to help victims of crime. This comes amid a general decline in private and state funding for such programs. The money is spread among states, terri­tories, American Indian tribes and nonprofit social service providers. 
"This is critical survival money to keep emergency crisis shelters open," said Rita Smith, head of the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence. 
Domestic violence and other pro­grams have been laying off workers as private donations shrink and states including California and Illinois cut their domestic violence budgets. 
Advocates are reporting more vio­lence in crimes -even as the FBI says the number of violent crimes declined slightly in 2008 for the sec­ond year -and needier victims as support systems fray in the bad econ­omy, said Susan Howley at the National Center for Victims of Crime. 
Foundations and big donors are giving less, while some deficit-ridden states have cut aid to the programs, Howley said. Many are laying off workers. Some are even closing their doors for good. 
Fighting crime was one of the ratio­nales for the $787 billion American Recovery and Reinvestment Act ­but most of the focus has been on police, not victims. 
"These funds are a vital component in our effort to not just revive our economy, but to build a new founda­tion for lasting prosperity and securi­ty," President Barack Obama said in March. "By keeping police officers on the streets whose jobs were threat­ened by budget cuts and ensuring states and municipalities have the tools and equipment necessary to fight crime, this money will simulta­neously help jump-start the American economy and protect our citizens." 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 30, 2009 
Health 
continued from page 1 
'include everyone, "even those at the fringes," he said. 
The Church's concern with the dignity of life, however, includes not only the quality of life, but also the dignity of life. 
"A cornerstone is that there can't be health care that would be in violation of that human dignity," Purcell said. "It must protect life from con­sumption until natural death." 
The U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB) declares "the current health care system is in need of fun­damental reform," according to 
"The Church often care 
their Web site, debate. www.usccb.org picks up the pieces During the 
"When mil­when the system presidential 
lions of campaign,
breaks down. " 
Americans are Obama support­without health ed the Freedom coverage, Bill Purcell of Choice Act, when rising which would
associate director 
costs threaten force faith-based
Catholic Social Traditon 
the coverage of health care facil­
and Practice 
millions more, 
when infant mortality remains shockingly high, the right to health care is serious­ly undermined and our health care system is in need of fun­damental reform," according to the bishops' pastoral letter "A Framework for Comprehensive Health Care Reform," which was first released in 1993. 
The bishops believe health care is a fundamental right. 
According to the Web site, "Every person, created in the image and likeness of God, has a right to life and to those things necessary to sustain life, including affordable, quality health care." 
Pope Benedict XVI wrote in 
Fair 
continued from page 1 
"Even though Notre Dame has a very large service fair of their own, we wanted to host a smaller one for our students at which they could meet representatives up close and have the opportunity to ask questions and learn more." 
The organizations who attended the fair included the ACE, Amate House, Cabrini Mission Corps, Capuchin Franciscan Volunteer Corps, Echo: Faith Formation Leadership Program, Inner-City Teaching Corps, Jesuit Volunteer Corps, Leveraging Educational 
ROTC 
continued from page 1 
he was impressed by Jenkins' physical fitness. 
"To tell you the truth he's a really good runner, too," he said. "We sometimes have trouble keeping up." 
Towne said, however, the most important aspect of the run was the solidarity Jenkins showed with the ROTC members. 
"The fact that he comes out here really means something," he said. "All throughout the year the administration is really support­ive of ROTC. This event just embodies that." 
When addressing the ROTC members after the run, Jenkins thanked them for their service to the country. 
his encyclical released this year, "Caritas in Veritate," that health care should not be the exclusive property of the wealthy. 
He denounced the "exces­sive zeal for protecting knowl­edge through an unduly rigid assertion of the right to intel­lectual property, especially in the field of health care." 
Benedict's position on health care is reflected in the U.S. bishops' concern that "the poor will be left out in health care reform," Purcell said. 
Dignity of life in health care 
President Barack Obama's mention of the conscience clause for abortion in his Commencement address at Notre Dame last May was a 
critical develop­
ment in the 
health 
ities to perform 
abortions. In his 

Commencement address, however, he shied away from that position. 
"Let's honor the conscience of those who disagree with abortion and draft a sensible conscience clause," Obama said. 
He also acknowledged an ethical dimension to health care in general. 
"[Let's] make sure that all of our health care policies are grounded not only in sound science, but also in clear ethics, as well as respect for the equality of women," Obama said. 
Cardinal Francis George, president of the USCCB, released a statement following 
Assistance Program (LEAP), Loyola University CHOICE, Maryknoll China Volunteer Teachers, Operation TEACH, Pacific Alliance for Catholic Education (PACE), Magis Catholic Teaching Corps, Responsibilities and Partners in Los Angeles Catholic Education (PLACE) Corps. 
Although no representative was able to come to the fair, informa­tion about the Dominican Volunteers was available as well. 
Information about the fair is available at http://www.cnvs.org'volunteerslse arch.php. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
"I want to say how much we appreciate having you," he said to the cadets. "Your commitment to ROTC is a service to our nation." 
Jenkins said the run carries special importance given the fact that many ROTC members will serve in a war zone at some point in their military careers. 
"I always reflect on the fact that I am addressing you at a tin1e when our nation's in a con­flict," he said. 
Jenkins said ultimately the run gives him a great opportunity to spend time with the ROTC mem­bers while doing something fun. 
"It's just a way of spending time with them and being involved in one of their activities," he said. "It is kind of a fun activity." 
Contact Joe McMahon at mcmaho6@nd.edu 
Obama's address supporting his inclusion of the conscience clause. 
"I am grateful for President Obama's statement on May 17 that we should all 'honor the conscience of those who dis­agree with abortion,' and his support for conscience clauses advancing this goal," George's statement said. 
Purcell said the Church will only support a health care reform plan that accepts this principle of ethics and that includes a conscience clause. 
"There has to be protection of conscience rights," Purcell said. "One of the largest providers of health care is the CHA [Catholic Health Association], and we can't have Catholic hospital violat­ing our own principles." 
Although the Church will not support a health care plan that publicly funds abortion, it does call for a plan that "safe­guards health for children and has an adequate safety net for the poor and vulnerable," he said. 
"Yes, there needs to be health care; it has to be uni­versal, especially for the poor and the vulnerable; but health care has to protect life from conception to natural death," Purcell said. 
Role of the Church 
Purcell said people often question whether the Church has a right to speak in the health care arena. 
He said the Church should 
play  a  role,  and  not  just  
because  it  "has  a  moral  
voice."  

"The Church is providing health care," he said, citing clinics and Catholic hospitals. 
"The Church often picks up the pieces when the system breaks down," Purcell said. 
He listed the works of Catholic Charities, St. Vineent de Paul and the emergency rooms of Catholic hospitals as examples of how the Church responds to the broken health care system. 
"If the system's broken, Catholic institutions pick up the pieces," Purcell said. 
Despite the Church's role in the health care reform debate, Purcell said the bishops "won't go into the prescrip­tive." 
"They want people to argue the details out, to find out what way is best," he said. 
The bishops will promote various pieces of legislation, but they will not take a lead in proposing legislation. 
"They don't want to be seen as ideological," Purcell said. "The bottom line is there are problems with both parties, but there's also good with both parties." 
He said the bishops seek a 
Contact John Tierney at 
jtiernel@nd.edu 

Leasing now for 2010-2011 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 

3, 4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 2 1/2 Baths Free Internet Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher Security System Located Close to Notre Dame 
$300 Signing Bonus for 2010-2077 
Lease must be signed before October lO, 2009 
Lease for only $350 per month, per student! 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
call (574) 234-2436 
The sustainable management and use offresh water is one of the pre-eminent <::hallenqes of our time. As the chrnate rhanqes, populations grow, and e<::cmomie> e~pand, pre.sune> on the planet's litr1ited freshwater resources are increa5ing, rais­ing the risk of pnlitk.ill and military conflict. worsenin9 human health, and expanding N:ologica! cte>tru<:tion. Dr. Peter H. Gleick, one of thli' world's experts on glob<)! water bsw6, will discuss the water nhis and new w<~ys ofsofving it, Including innowHive use of new and old t!O'dmologies, thli! smart uw of economics, ecosystem re~­toration. and re-thinktn9 both water supply ilnd water demand. The~e ~olu· tions-wh;~t G!eick t:illls ''the soft path for water"-offer a positive vision for watN ln the cominq decades. 
Wednesday, September 30, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
decided to release a new ver­Prior to this year, Mac users sion of the installer for had to manually set up any




Printer 
Print@ND -a version that printer connection -orr only continued from page 1 removed much of the headache had instructions, no printer 
for 64-bit users. driver to download, Burchett dents with the 64-bit version of The new driver solves many said. This year, OIT made some Vista. problems, Burchett said. One of large changes. A driver is now 
"By the end of the first week the major problems was chang­available for OS X software. of classes, we could tell num­ing computer log-ins on com­"Mac users still have to bers were large [for 64-bit puters to match a student's change the short name [screen users! and netiD name. name to log into a computer], doing printing With Print@ND but OIT can help with that," installs manual­"If there's someone who 2.0, the print Burchett said. ly was not effi­can confirm running driver available OIT hopes to have an update cient," Burchett at the begin­available between fall break
the latest utility and
said. ning of the and the start of second semes­
One benefit still having problems, year, this prob­ter so the students aren't from the large contact 0/T., lem was solved. required to change the short number of stu­Print@ND 2.1 name, Burchett said. 
.
dents with helped correct Both drivers are available at 
Brian Burchett
problems was problems of www.oit.nd.edu/print. Also enough prob­manager of learning spaces print jobs dis­included are simple instruc­lem reports to Office of Information appearing in tions. diagnose the transit from Burchett said there may still

Technology
problem, computer to be some glitches to work out. Burchett said. printer. "If there's someone who can 
"In the past, there were very "If students are having prob­confirm running the latest utili­few problem reports," Burchett lems with printing, we want ty and still having problems, said. "It's difficult to trou­them to download the new contact OIT," Burchett said. bleshoot if you don't know the [Print@NOJ utility," Burchett "There may still be a PDF file problem." said. printing problem. Anything stu­
The printing problem was OIT has not, however, limited dents can do to help OIT dupli­determined to be a printer driv­its focus just to PC users. Mac cate the problem will help trou­er mismatch, which means the users now have a new utility bleshoot the problem." communication between the that has been available since computer and printer was the start of the school year, Contact Amanda Gray at blocked, Burchett said. OIT Burchett said. agray3@nd.edu 



Lecture honors life of spiritual woman 
of theology, published an article
By TESS CIVANTOS 
relating the works of Simone 
News Writer 

Wei! to that of Saint Edith Stein and philosopher Rene Girard. Pope Benedict XVI, philoso­"I sat at my desk morning pher Albert Camus and poet and night for days, reading 
T.S. Eliot were only three of the [Weil's writings] during spring countless people who were pro­break of 1993," Astell said. foundly influenced by the "She made me think and com­works of philosopher and pelled me to write." activist Simone Well, Sister Ann Astell began her lecture by Astell said in her lecture describing Weil's brief, eccen­Tuesday. tric life. Weil feared a futile life 
Most of Well's writings, Astell without children. said, were published after her "The fear of being a barren premature death at age 34. fruit tree tears my heart," she 
Astell's lecture was the sec­said. ond of four in a series spon­Well was also known for her sored by the Center for Ethics odd clothing, clumsiness, con­and Culture. The series, enti­stant illness and "partly tled "Close to Catholic: A acknowledged, partly denied" Celebration of Kindred Spirits," psychological obsessions, Astell includes one lecture each about said. Her quirks made it diffi­Simone Wei!, C.S. Lewis, T.S. cult for her to interact with Eliot and Fyodor Dostoyevsky. other people. The lecture series is part of the Despite her dislike of social Center's annual Catholic interaction, Wei! cared deeply Culture lecture series, held for social issues. She was very every fall since 2002. politically active in her youth. 
Astell, an associate professor Then, at age 28, Weil had a 
Study Abroad in Perth, Australia 
Information Meeting Wednesday, September 30, 2009 5:30 PM 140 DeBartolo Hall 
For ALPP and ANTH College of Science College of Engineering 

mystical vision of Christ that changed her life. 
Astell distributed to the audi­ence Weil's written transcrip­tion of this experience and asked assistants to read it aloud. 
"Weil responds immediately in obedience to this Christian vocation," Astell said of the vision, "but it doesn't call for Baptism." 
Wei! remained un-baptized throughout her life, however. Her rationale for this included, Astell said, her own imperfec­tion, her dislike of the Church as an institution, her desire to remain united to the mass of unbelievers and her dislike of the Church's social teachings because of her own distaste for social interaction. 
"Well agonized for years over whether to accept Baptism," Astell said. "She asked, 'What is the Church to say about a case like mine, that falls out­side the bounds of a Church that claims to be catholic, to be open to all Christian voca­tions?'" 
Wei! suggested that the Church had read itself "too nar­rowly, too humanly" and that her experience called it to a truer universality. 
Although Wei! never formally joined the Church, she deeply influenced the Second Vatican Council, Astell said. The docu­ment "Lumen Gentium," which emerged directly from the Council, answered her call for a truly Catholic church. 
Pope Benedict XVI, who attended the Council in his youth, is known to quote Weil's writings. 
Astell suggested that Well is perhaps a non-Catholic saint. She waited for many years "at the threshold of the Church," Astell said, and perhaps at the end of her life, Christ carried her across it. 
"Well thought she wasn't lov­ing enough to be baptized," Astell said. "Only a saint would think that." 
Astell noted in closing that instead of being "close to Catholic," Wei! may in fact have been truly Catholic. 
Meanwhile, Astell's interest in Wei! is only beginning. 
''I've had this interest in her," Astell said, "and I certainly hope to continue my research on Well." 
Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
page 10 
IEWPOINT Wednesday, September 30, 2009 THE OBSERVER 
In search of help 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Merz 

MANAGING EDITOR 8USINFSS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Mairz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mart Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jesi; Shaffer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: !an Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmerz@nd.edu 
MANAG lNG EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersporrs@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshalfel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY's DESK 
acharnOl @saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the sruden ts of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of rhe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on conrenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lerrers and colwnns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor-in-Chiefjenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday (')CC(:pt during exam and vacadon pttiock A rubscriprion ro The Observa isS12(} for on~ acotdrnJic year; $65 tOr one: strnestcr. 
Th<:: Obsc:tvct is published at: POSTMASTER U24 South Dining Hall Send address. cortections to: Notre D;,mc. IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical pAA"age paid .at Norrc-Dame P.O. Box779 and .tddicional mailing offices. 024 Sou£h Dining Hall 
Nom: Dame, IN 46'556-0n9 
The Observer is;~. member uf the Asl;ociarcd Pttsli. All .reproductinn rights an: 
fC'&CfVCd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Katie Peralta Matt Gamber Sarah Mervosh Meaghan Veselik Carly Landon Molly Sammon Graphics Viewpoint 
Sofia lturbe Patricia Scene Fernandez Jordan Gamble 
You would think that after two years that I would have Notre Dame figured out by now. But here I am, still con­fused as to why some things are the way they are here. If anyone could give me a hand on any of the following Andy Ziccarelli issues, it would be greatly appre­Moment of ciated. Inertia 
Can anyone tell me why the men's bathroom in DeBartolo is near the staircase on the first floor, but on the second 11oor, the men's and women's are inexplicably switched? For any freshman that has accidentally walked into the wrong bathroom absentmindedly, thinking that they would be the same as the first floor, I feel your pain. There is no way that I am the only one that has made that mistake. 
Speaking of DeBartolo, next time you are have a class in there, take a look at th«~ clock. Then, take look at the clock on your phone. Without fail, the DeBartolo clock will be at least ono or two minutes behind your phone. I would specify a room, but it really doesn't matter. Every single clock in the entire building is slow, and has been that way for as long as I can remember. I have spent an untold number of hours in class pondering reasons as to what practical purpose the University has for keeping its clocks set at the wrong time, but I still have not come up with a good answer. 
Over the past few years, we have all noticed Notre Dame making an effort to "go green." Well, if the University ever thinks that they have become as envi­ronmentally friendly as possible, I have found a new challenge: fixing the water sprinkler system. Yes, the system is responsible for keeping grass on the school's beautiful quads and courtyards green and healthy. But it is also respon­sible for watering what seems like 98 percent of the University's available sidewalk. I realize that, inevitably, some water is going to end up on the sidewalks. But if you have ever been unexpectedly drenched by a sprinkler late at night, or guessed the amount of time you had walking between sprin­klers only to find out how wrong you were, you begin to wonder why a school that supposedly produces rea­sonabln and intelligent problem-solvers can't figure out a way to water only grass, and not waste it on concreto. 
We have all heard that duLac and its rules technically apply ofT-campus, including parietals. That may be so, but if it is true, does that mean that stu­dents can nstablish a room of their choosing in their apartment as a 24 hour space? It only seems fair. 
Now, it is widely accepted that Notre Damn students are an intelligent bunch. We would have to be, not only to get in here, but also to make it through. Sometimes, though, I wonder. Early every Saturday and Sunday morning, tho clock strikes 2 a.m. and parietals come into effect, signaling the forced end of every dorm party on cam­pus. Students, both male and female, come pouring out of the dorms, looking for a place that will not only allow them to continue to interact with the oppo­site sex, but one that will also satisfy beer-induced hunger. Many students will turn to Recker's. Frequently upon entering, however, the 1\ne will bend out and around, sometimes reaching all the way back to the entrance, creating a 45 minute human barrier between hungry, drunk student and the front of the line. Even after the line has been successfully conquered (no small feat), the wait for a pizza can last almost as long as the wait to get to the cash reg­ister leaving the student, now fam­ished, waiting until as late as 3:30 a.m. to satisfy their munchies. As anyone who has drunkenly craved pizza will tell you, nine minutes is far too long to wait for satisfaction. let alone 90. Why people continue to endure the pains of the seemingly never-ending line is beyond me. 
As a student body, what was behind our collective obsession with Taylor Swift's "Love Story" last spring? 
And why do we, all of a sudden, take the moral high road when it comes to the "Suck it, (opponent)!" chant when we play a service academy? I realize the intent is to show respect for those who have chosen to defend our country in the future, but is this really the best we could come up with? And ar(' the Navy football players really that hon­ored we refrained from telling them to "suck it"? 
I'm ,just an average student still try­ing to make sense of this crazy world I was dropped into. Again, any help would be much appreciated. 
Andy Ziccarelli is easily confused. He is a junior majoring in civil engineer­ing. lie can be reached at aziccare@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those orTh.e Observer.. 
[ft 'J ' . • j 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

GIVE METiiE SERENITY TO 
ACCtYr M THINGS I CANACCEPT; GlVE ME. TH'E COURAG-E TO TURN DOWN THE TIUNGS I CANNOT L'EGALl.YACCEPT; AND GIVE ME '11iE WISDOM TO KNOW THE DIFFERENCE. 
OBSERVER POLL 

What is your favorite new restaurant at Eddy St. Commons? 
Five Guys Chipotle Hot Box Pizza New Irish Bar 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''There is a lot more to life than just
struggling to make money." 
Ann Richards 
U.S. politician 

THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Wednesday, September 30, 2009 
page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
McBrien is backw-ard, not adoration 
Dear Observer "Viewpoint" Editor, It pains me to publicly remonstrate a Catholic priest (especially following the recent inane clamoring for priestesses), but the latest public theological blunder by a University-affiliated priest cannot go without correc­tion and admonition. In a Sept. 8 article in the National Catholic Reporter, Fr. Richard McBrien casually dismisses a Papal endorsement of and declares regressive a centuries-old Catholic practice now burgeoning in popularity -quite the feat for our Crowley-O'Brien Professor of Theology. In the article, McBrien states, 
"Notwithstanding Pope Benedict XVI's personal endorse­ment of Eucharistic adoration and the sporadic restoration of the practice ... it is difficult to speak favorably about the devo­tion today." He concludes, "Eucharistic adoration, perpetual or not, is a doctrinal, theological, and spiritual step backward, not forward." 
The value McBrien fails to see is better understood by our Holy Father, noting in Sacramentum Caritatis, "The act of adoration outside Mass prolongs and inten­sifies all that takes place during the liturgical celebration itself," and speaking to Polish priests in May 2006, "In a world where there is so much noise, so much bewilderment, there is a need for silent adoration of Jesus con­cealed in the Host ... It is a source of comfort and light, par­ticularly to those who are suffer­ing." 
The "sporadic restoration" of adoration is described on Holy Cross College's Web site: "The last two decades of the 20th cen­tury have witnessed an explosion of this kind of prayer ... By 2000 A.D., the Church in the United States had been blessed with over 6000 special parish pro­grams of organized weekly or daily Eucharistic Adoration ... Hundreds of churches across America currently have pro­grams of perpetual or nearly per­petual Eucharistic Adoration." 
Those who adore the Blessed Sacrament-myself included ­will testify to the graces obtained and the prayers answered through adoration. Anyone at the University can adore the Blessed Sacrament each weekday, and hopes are high for perpetual adoration on campus. Backed by the Holy Father and nearly a mil­lennium of history, devotions to the Sacrament continue to increase in frequency and fer­vency. 
Should a Catholic priest with such a misconception of the Catholic faith be, or be called, a priest? This not being McBrien's first heretical dissention, one must further question why the University of Notre Dame employs such a misguided the­ologian. 
Sincerely, 
Kyle Sladek freshman Sr. Edward's Hall Sept. 29 

Trust the Church 
I don't usually write in when it comes to newspaper articles, but after reading Andy Hills' letter to the editor ("Is God Sexist?", Sept. 28), I felt obliged to give my two cents, to defend God's honor. The hard evidence sup­ports the fact that a male figure, when it comes to religion, will draw more people than a female one. 
In 2000, the Council of Europe Directorate General III published demographic data regarding men, women, children and church attendance, and the results were conclusive: If both father and mother attend church regularly, 33 percent of their children will end up as regular churchgoers, and 41 percent will end up attending irregularly. 
However, if the father doesn't attends church but the mother regularly does, only 2 percent of the children will subsequently become regulars themselves, with 37 percent irregularly attending. But what about if the father is a regular church attendee and the mother is not? The percentage of children becoming regular attendees stays at a hardy 44 percent. Thus, if a father does not go to church, a pious mother can expect a one out of 50 chance that her kids will follow her example. 
However, in the reverse situa­tion a pious father could expect almost half of his children to continue attending church, fol­lowing his lead. 
If parents can have such an affect on their children's reli­gious lives, how much more so do priests? Maybe we should trust the Church on this one If one cares to look at the evidence for oneself: "The demographic characteristics of the linguistic and religious groups in Switzerland" by Werner Haug and Phillipe Warner of the Federal Statistical Office, Neuchatel. It appears in Volume 2 of Population Studies No. 31, a book titled The Demographic Characteristics of National Minorities in Certain European States, edited by Werner Haug and others, published by the Council of Europe Directorate General III, Social Cohesion, Strasbourg, January 2000. 
On the internet, one can find the article that provided this information at http://www.fisheaters.com/mena ndchurch .html 
Dale Parker freshman Knott Hall Sept. 29 

Arrogance the ansvver 
Now that I have my laughter in control, I'd like to respond to (and commend) the Schad & Freude comic in the Sept. 28 issue of The Observer. There could be no better comic to describe so many students here, besides maybe the other brilliant Tool Meter comic published earlier in the year. 
Since when did it become such a big deal to just go out with someone? Is it really that huge of an issue to give someone a casual, nothing-to-it invite to something? 
Correct me if I'm wrong, but usually, rings aren't used in the process. Are we stuck in second grade where if anyone of the opposite sex talked to you, y' all were the new "couple" on campus and the breaking news at school? Let me be the first to propose an explanation for why this comic is so true here at Notre Dame: arro­gance. 
It looks like the arrogance present in other facets of Notre Dame life, such as the idea that it's cool to talk about ACT/SAT scores and GPAs during Frosh-0 week, has extended to gender relations here. 
That's right, we're all too arrogant to realize there's nothing to a "Wanna get coffee sometime?" or "Let's have dinner soon" statement. The asker isn't in love with you, the asker doesn't want to date you immediately, nor is the asker that physically attracted to you that s/he wants to watch you eat and drink, complete with likely awkward conversation. 
Ladies, trust me, just because a guy asks you to dinner doesn't mean you're his next big thing. And fellows, the girl doesn't "want you" because she asked if you want­ed to get coffee. But of course, the conven­tional wisdom here is that if any of the above happens to me, it obviously is because I am just that darn good, attrac­tive, and irresistible (insert three similar words of choice here). Three words: 'get over yourself.' I guess 'please grow up' could work too. 
Kudos to The Observer on finally having a comic strip that is hilarious while telling it like it really is. 
Kevin Kimberly junior O'Neill Hall Sept. 28 

Leave Miley alone 
I am the first to admit that I do not know anything about pop music or pop singers. I did not even know that when students talked about "Party in the U.S.A" they were talking about a new Miley Cyrus song until the Scene Section on Sept. 28. 
Miley Cyrus is 16. Let that sink in. If I could look back on the poetry I wrote for my high school English classes at 16 I am sure they would be far worse than the lyrics to the new Cyrus song, and I am sure I am not alone. If any of the Scene writers who knocked Cyrus' lyrics listen to any other pop or hip-hop music and think that those lyrics are any more artistic or relevant to college students, they have lost all credibility to knock her. To say that Cyrus is not her own person because she does not wear the type of trashy get-ups that Lady GaGa wears, or actually wears clothes unlike Pink, is unfair. 
Would any other 16 year old verbally threaten Radiohead's career? To say that Cyrus' voice is nasally to a fault is saying that Bob Dylan should be kept on paper. And though I do not like pop music, the industry or the artists, I chose to not listen or buy the music as my form of protest rather than attacking 16-year-old girls. 
If the students of Notre Dame do not like the new Miley Cyrus song, then do not listen to it. If the students of Notre Dame do not like Miley Cyrus, then they should be picking on someone their own age. 
Martha Karam sophomore Welsh Family Hall Sept. 29 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



THE OBSERVER 
CENE 
Wednesday, September 30, 2009 
SCENE'S TOP VIDEO PICKS 
You 
Animated Bohemian Rhapsody 

Simba, Aladdin and Anastasio toke turns imitating Freddy Mercury. 
Golden Dives into MSU Band 

Epic. 
AVery PoHer Musical Ad 1Part 1 Surely J.K. Rawling orproved 

o this. 

Creative editing with aNick Jr. Show. 

By MATT BROWN 
Scene Writer 

Immeasurable pleasure can be gained from revisiting the great clas­sics. No, not "Psycho," "Casablanca," "Citizen Kane" or other black-and­white snorefests. This is about the clas­sics: the golden age of bailer movies was the age of the World War II movie. Any antagonist could be made a Nazi and boom! The movie suddenly has a widely disliked, sinister character capa­ble of numerous atrocities. "Indiana Jones," "The Dirty Dozen," "The Guns of Navarrone" and "The Great Escape" all eapitalize on this movie-making gift from above. 
The premier escape movie, "The Great Escape" (1963), is about a group of American and British prisoners of war imprisoned behind enemy lines. The Nazis rounded up all the most troublesome prisoners with an uncanny propensity towards eseape. The prison­ers are placed in a special "stalag," a camp they are all assured is ineseapable. Within the first 20 min­utes or the film we see many impromptu e s c a p e attempts, all foiled by the German oflicer in charge. 
After the beginning excitement the prisoners begin to settle down and put more thought into their plans. The ranking officer, a British captain named Ramsey, and several other higher-rank­ing officers get together and plan a dar­ing escape through three separate tun­nels stretching out under the fence into the woods beyond. Work begins almost immediately on these tunnels as the prisoners organize into teams, digging, forging papers, obtaining supplies and creating disguises to be worn after escape. 
Meanwhile, the American protago­nist, Captain Hilts (Steve McQueen) continuously attempts escape (often inspiring laughter) and is captured, spending long lengths of time in "the cooler," throwing his trusty baseball against the wall. As the movie pro­gresses, the prisoners must overcome various hurdles, wlille McQueen contin­ues to lend comedic relief and reckless bravado. 
The moviemakers take full advantage of the British and American military stereotypes when creating their char­acters and the result are complex men that you can imagine running into on the street. The gentle ribbing banter between British and American prison­ers is completely believable and keeps the audience laughing. And there is a motorcycle chase, never a bad thing. 
The British officer Ramsey is just as you would expect him to be, a polite, soft-spoken man with a dry sense of humor, and a penchant for tea and biscuits. The "Cooler King," Captain Hilts, is the brash American, out looking for fun and glory without a care in the world. He doesn't mind paying the price, and hope springs eternal that this next time, ever the next time, he will be successful. Flight Lieutenant Hendley "the Scrounger" is the second American and he is the American good ol' boy, tall and broad­shouldered, yet gifted with a big heart. He looks after one of the men whose sight is slowly going bad and stays with him even if it means getting 
caught. Good action and explo­sions make a fun movie, good plot makes an inter­

esting movie and good characters make an engag­ing movie. When a movie has all three like "The Great Escape," audiences beware. It is a movie chock full of action and 
comedy, with rises and falls that take the audience for a wild ride even now, 46 years after it first hit theaters. 
Contact Matt Brown at mbrown 14@nd.edu 
SOFIA ITURBE I Observer Graphic 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, September 30, 2009 
page 13 
In the film, gambling Johnny Aysgarth (Grant) tries to get more money by marrying heiress Lina McLaidlaw (Joan Fontaine). Sounds pretty simple, right? But with Hitchcock, it never will be. 
~._ -tl J I.,. 
o • 

By KAITLYN CONWAY Assistant Scene Editor 
No one can film a thriller quite like Alfred Hitchcock. Okay, Michael Jackson might give him a run for his money, but let's face it: Hitchcock is one or the quintessential thriller movie directors. You have not witnessed cinema until you have watched llitchcock. 
Since August, the DeBartolo By ERIC PRISTER Scene Writer 
On a list of priorities for college students, pleasure reading is likely not near the top. It can however be a great way to take one's mind off mindless home­work. Starting an entire novel is prob­ably out of the ques­tion, though, because time is limited. Reading short stories is an excel­
lent way to remedy this problem and still partake in the ben­efits of reading something for enjoy­ment. 
For those who have little experi­
ence with short stories or their authors, here are some recommenda­tions with which to start. 
Stephen King 

Though his novel writing may not be of the highest quality, Stephen King does an excellent job with his short sto­ries, and has writ­ten numerous vol­umes of them. His short story "Battlefield" is an excellent example of his fine work. It follows an army assassin as he arrives home from a job and receives a package containing toy soldiers, which come to life. Also recommended is "One for the 
Road," which takes place in a small town that is being ravaged by a snowstorm, and an old bartender's attempt to save a stranded family from both the snowstorm, and something far more dangerous. 
Richard Connell 
Connell's well-known short story is the often-read "The Most Dangerous Game." One of the most famous short stories, "The Most Dangerous Game" tells the story of Sanger Rainsford, a big-game hunter from New York who is shipwrecked on an island and experi­ences an entirely new version of hunting at the hands of the owner of the island, General Zaraoff. This is a must read for the few who have not already done so. 
W.W. Jacobs 

The most popular Jacobs short story is "The Monkey's Paw," an interesting take on the story of someone granted three wishes and the problems that they can cause. Mr. and Mrs. White, the main characters of "The Monkey's Paw," receive the talisman from an old friend, who tells them that it grants them these wishes. He gives them this description, which is only foreshadowing for what is to come: "It had a spell put on it by an old fakir... a very holy man. He wanted to show that fate ruled people's lives, and that those who interfered with it did so to their sor­row." 
Roald Dahl 

The author of "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory" and "James and the Giant Peach," Dahl also wrote a compilation of short sto­ries, which included his most famous, "The Landlady." Known for writing twists, Dahl masterfully does so in this story about a man and his encounter at the Bell and Dragon, a small bed and breakfast. For those who enjoy stories with a twist, "The Landlady" is an excellent choice. 
Saki 

Hector Hugo Munro, known by his pen­name Saki, is considered one of the best short stories writers of all time. "The Open Window" is a good place to start, and shows how good Saki is at making the reader learn one thing, only to have that completely turned on its head. Framton Nuttel comes to call on a friend of his mother's, and talks with her daughter Vera, who tells a very interesting story concerning the large open window in the house. Saki keeps his readers guessing as to who is trustworthy in the story. 
These are only a few recommendations for places to start entering the world of short · stories. By the nature of their length, short stories are often published in compilations, so one should find an author that he or she likes, and then explore to find his or her favorites. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 

has been screening Hitchcock films as a part of their movement Celebrating 1-Iitchcock. The screenings are to commemorate his 110th birth­day. DPAC is celebrating the very beginning of a man who redefined modern cinema with his surprising plot lines and movies that blended commercial and critical success. The result? A filmography that is nothing less than iconic today. 
There are three films left in the 
I 

out the man who rep­I resents Hitchcock { movies almost as well as Hitchcock himself. 
"Suspicion" will be at the Browning Cinema on Oct. 11 at 3 p.m. The movie is 99 minutes long, and will be shown in 35mm (only the best for Hitchcock). 


This time, Grant is 
a retired thief, John Robbie, who is working with police to find the person responsible for a series of and the film's climax at Mount Rushmore. So when you feel like someone's 
watching you, go to DPAC and watch Hitchcock instead. It won't do any­thing to lessen your paranoia, but it will leave you with a wonderful cinematic experience. 
Contact Kaidyn Conway at kconway2@nd.edu 
Observer Graphic I SOFIA ITURBE 

Leading Man," 
singling The next weekend (Oct. 18), "To Catch a Thief" will be the movie on the Browning screen. This movie runs 106 minutes. 
··-.... 

jewel heists. The movie also stars 
The final film in the series plays Halloween afternoon (3 p.m.). "North by Northwest" is part action movie, part suspense thriller, and it will keep you guessing until the very last moment. Grant portrays Hobert Thornhill, an executive who gets mis­taken for a spy, leading him into a series of adventures that he just can't seem to sort out. The movie co-stars Eva Marie Saint, James Mason and Martin Landau. It is particularly well 
Performing Arts Center (DPAC) 
known for a prairie biplane encounter page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, September 30, 2009 

MLB 

Phillies one game away after 7-4 win over Astros 
Maxwell breaks tie vs. Mets; Orioles suffer 12th straight loss; Lind homers three times 
center with two runners on. 
\ssociated Press 

Happ fanned Keppinger to end Pedro Feliz hit a grand slam, the inning. 
J .A. Happ pitched effectively Werth went deep off Wesley into the sixth inning and the Wright to give the Phillies a 7­Philadelphia Phillies moved 2 lead in the fifth. Werth, an closer toward clinching their All-Star outfielder, has 35 third straight NL East title with homers and 96 RBis in his first a 7-4 victory over the Houston season as a full-time starter. Astros on Tuesday night. Matsui hit a two-run shot in 
The defending World Series the sixth to cut it to 7-4. champions reduced their The Phillies had lost five of magic number for winning the seven coming in, prompting division to one when Atlanta manager Charlie Manuel to lost shortly afterward to hold a closed-door meeting in Florida. the clubhouse 3 1/2 hours 
Happ (12-4) allowed four before the first pitch. runs -three earned -and Whatever he said worked. nine hits in 5 2-3 innings, After Berkman put the striking out six. He's the first Astros ahead 1-0 in the third rookie to win 12 games for inning with his 25th homer, Philadelphia since Jim Owens the Phillies tied it in the bot­in 1959. tom half on Jimmy Rollins ' 
Jayson Werth hit a two-run RBI double. homer and Philadelphia's injury-plagued bullpen tossed Nationals 4, Mets 3 3 1-3 scoreless innings. Jamie Pinch-runner Justin Maxwell Moyer got four outs and Ryan scored the tiebreaking run in Madson pitched the last two the eighth inning thanks to two innings for his lOth save in 16 wild throws, and the chances. He allowed two hits Washington Nationals beat the in the ninth, but he struck out New York Mets on Tuesday Carlos Lee on a 96 mph fast­night. ball and got Hunter Pence With the scored tied at 3, the Mets scored once in the Orioles (60-97) are a season­double play, had a runner looking to end it. Mike Morse walked with one first and twice in the second. worst 37 games under .500. thrown out at plate trying to 
Madson knocked down Pence out against Nick Green (1-4) The first four Mets reached Davis (2-1) gave up seven score on a single and another with a 97 mph fastball on an and Maxwell ran for him. against starter J.D. Martin. hits, with six coming in the retired at third after a pitch in 0-2 pitch before freezing him Cristian Guzman grounded to Pagan led off with a double. first three innings. The right­the dirt. with another 97 mph heater. short, but former Nationals Castillo bunted for a base hit. hander retired his last 11 bat­Tampa Bay went up 3-1 in 
Moyer landed awkwardly on infielder Anderson Hernandez Wright walked to load the ters. the seventh on B.J. Upton's his final pitch in the seventh 's throw to first was off target, bases, and Pagan scored when Ben Zobrist had a run-scor­sacrifice fly. Grant Balfour, the and was helped to the dugout allowing Guzman to reach. Carlos Beltran walked. ing double during a two-run fifth Tampa Bay reliever, got by catcher Paul Bako. Center Ian Desmond . who had ear­New York added two runs in first for the Rays, who are 9-5 the final two outs for his third fielder Shane Victorino made lier hit a two-run homer, the second on a double by after an 11-games losing save. an outstanding, twisting catch grounded to short. Hernandez Wilson Valdez , starting pitch­streak. on Jeff Keppinger 's drive as threw to second baseman Luis er Mike Pelfrey 's sacrifice Baltimore's Jeremy Guthrie Blue Jays 8, Red Sox 7 Moyer watched on his hands Castillo to force Guzman, but bunt, an RBI single by Pagan (1 0-17) allowed three runs and Adam Lind hit three of and knees. Moyer strained his Castillo's relay to first landed and a two-out RBI double by seven hits over seven innings. Toronto's six homers to lead left groin. in Washington's dugout and Wright. The major league leader in the Blue Jays to victory over 
Kazuo Matsui and Lance Maxwell scored. In the first four innings, defeats this season has lost the Red Sox and spoil Boston's Berkman homered for the Castillo also cost the Mets a Pelfrey had allowed just one four consecutive starts. hopes of clinching a playoff Astros, who won the first five game in June when he hit -Martin's slow roller -in Crawford walked, stole sec­berth for the second consecu­meetings,Jbetween the teams. dropped Alex Rodriguez 's the third. In the fifth inning, he ond and scored on Zobrist's tive night. 
Wilton Lopez (0-1) allowed popup in the bottom of the allowed three runs. Desmond RBI double in the first. Willy It was the fifth straight loss five runs and six hits in 3 2-3 ninth inning. blasted a two-run home run, Aybar 's run-scoring single for the Red Sox , who would innings in his first career start. The win was the Nationals' his second. With two outs, later in the inning put the Rays clinch the AL wild-card berth Lopez had made six relief second in a row against New Willie Harris , Elijah Dukes ahead 2-0. with their next win or the next appearances. York -just the second time and Ryan Zimmerman singled. Crawford joins Boston's Texas loss. The Rangers played 
Feliz put the Phillies ahead this month the club with 103 Zimmerman's RBI tied the Jacoby Ellsbury (2009) and at the Los Angeles Angels later 5-l in the fourth when he con­losses has managed back-to­game at 3. Chone Figgins (2005) of the Tuesday night. nected off Lopez for his sev­hack victories. Los Angeles Angels as the only The Red Sox scored five enth career slam. Ryan Tyler Clippard (3-2), who Rays 3, Orioles 1 AL players this decade to have times with two outs in the Howard started the inning pitched two scoreless innings Rookie Wade Davis allowed 60 or more stolen bases in one eighth inning to cut a six-run with an infield single and Raul and worked his way out of a one run over seven innings, season. deficit to 8-7, but Jason Frasor Ibanez followed with a single. bases-loaded jam in the eighth, Carl Crawford stole his career­Baltimore got to 2-1 in the got the last four outs for his After Werth walked to load the got the win. Mike MacDougal high 60th base and the Tampa third when Brian Roberts set a 11th save. bases, Feliz drove the next picked up his 18th save with a Bay Rays handed the major league record for a Jose Bautista hit the first pitch to the seats in left for his scoreless ninth thanks to Elijah Baltimore Orioles their 12th switch-hitter with his 56th pitch of the game high over the 12th homer. Dukes ' spectacular catch to straight loss with a victory on double of the year and later Green Monster, Aaron Hill sin­
A sellout crowd stood and end the game. Tuesday night. scored on Luke Scott 's RBI gled on the second pitch he waved their white-and-red With Angel Pagan on first, The Orioles' slide is the single. Roberts had shared the saw and then Lind hit a 1-2 "Fightin' Phils" rally towels, David Wright hit a long fly to longest in the majors this sea­doubles' mark with Lance pitch from Clay Buchholz to giving Feliz a curtain call. right. Dukes ran, caught it and son. Tampa Bay (Sept. 3-13) Berkman . who had 55 doubles center for another homer. Lyle 
Lee's broken-bat single plat­slammed face-first into the and Cleveland (Sept. 13-24) in 2001. Overbay walked and scored on ed a run in the fifth to cut it to scoreboard in right field. He both had 11-game skids. The Orioles scored one run Travis Snider 's single to give 5-2. The Astros just missed fell backward, but held on to It is Baltimore's longest through three innings despite the Blue Jays a 4-0 lead after tying the game when the next the ball for the final out. slump since dropping 12 in a having six hits and three one-half inning for the second batter, Pence, flied out to deep The Nationals trailed 3-0 as row Aug. 16-28, 2004. The walks. Baltimore hit into a night in a row. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
HELP! Need FB tix f  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  Jim: Does that include 'that's what  Jim is like, Big Bird. He is tall and  
WANTED  or family. Will pay  FoR RENT  Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources  she said'?  yellow and very nice. But would I put him in charge? No. I don1 think  
top$$.  
 in place to assist you.  so. Big Bird doesn1 make the tough  
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­ 574-251-1570.  andersonND rentals.com. HOUSES  If you or  Michael: Mmhh, yes.  decisions. If I was gonna put some­ 
appt.,no experience needed,cus­ someone you love needs confi­ one in charge I would put Bert in  
tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835.  Need 2 MSU & USC  dential support or assistance,  charge. Or I would put one of the  
tix &  PERSONAL  please call  Jim: Wow that is really hard. You  real grown-ups in charge like Marie  
parking  Sr. Sue Dunn at  really think you can go all day long?  or Gordon, maybe.  
TICKETS  pass. 57 4-276-8507.  If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we  1-7819 or Ann Firth at  Well, you always left me satisfied and smiling.  
VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade  can help. For more information, visit  1-2685.  Guess what? I have flaws. What are  
FB Tix.  Buying NO football tix.  Notre Dames  For more information, visit NO s  they? Oh I donna, I sing in the  
Victorytickets.net  GAs.  website:  website at:  Michael: Mmmm ... THAT'S WHAT  shower? Sometimes I spend too  
574-232-0964.  574-277-1659.  http ://csap. nd.ed u  http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  SHE SAID!  much time volunteering.  


OUND THE NATION 
CoMPilED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES
Wednesday, September 30, 2009 
page 15 


1 
2 3 4 
,, u5d 6 7 
8 
9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 
23 
24 
25 
1 2 3 4 5 
6 7 8 9 10 
NSCAA/ Adidas Men's Soccer Top 25 
team previous 
Akron 1 Maryland 4 Wake Forest 6 UCLA 10 
.l!lortb,Caralilla 2 South Florida 3 California 5 Harvard 
8 Indiana 13 Monmouth 14 UC Santa Barbara 7 Virgini!l 11 Kentucky 20 Duke 
12 Ohio State RV Boston University 19 Louisville 
9 UMBC RV Old Dominion RV Stanford NR Portland NR Charlotte RV Brown 
25 North Carolina State 16 Northwestern RV 
Golf World/Nike Men's Golf Top 10 

team previous 
Oklahoma State 1 Washington 2 Stanford 5 Alabama 4 Arizona State 6 Tennessee 18 Illinois 12 Georgia Tech 11 Southern California 10 Florida 9 
around the dial 
MLB 
Minnesota vs. Detroit 7 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA Football 
Hawaii vs. Louisiana Tech 8 p.m., ESPN2 
Associated Press 

DETROIT-The AL Central race got even wilder. Orlando Cabrera hit a go-ahead single in the 1Oth inning after a pair of wild pitches and the Minnesota Twins closed with­in one game of first-place Detroit, beating the Tigers 3-2 Tuesday in the opener of a day-night doubleheader. 
The Twins trailed Detroit by seven games only two weeks ago. But Minnesota would pull even with a sweep ­Tigers ace Justin Verlander was set to pitch against Brian Duensing in the nightcap. 
Minnesota clinched the sea­son series 10-5 against Detroit, meaning a division tiebreaker would be at the Metrodome. Because Brett Favre and the Vikings host Green Bay on Monday night at the stadium, a baseball playoff would likely be pushed back until Tuesday. 
A rainout Monday night delayed the start of this four­game series. and forced a dou­bleheader. Each team has six games left. 
It was tight throughout at Comerica Park. Scrapping for a run, the teams combined for five sacrifice bunts and used three pinch-runners. 
The Twins missed a chance to take the lead in the ninth when Nick Punta popped up a suicide-squeeze bunt, result­ing in a double play. Speedy Minnesota right fielder Denard Span made a fine running catch on Ramon Santiago's deep drive toward the line with a runners on second and two outs in the bottom half, leaving it tied at 1-all. 
Span led off the 1Oth with a single. He advanced on con­secutive wild pitches by Brandon Lyon (6-5), who had thrown just one wild pitch all season. 
Cabrera followed with a single and Delman Young added a bases-loaded saeri­fice fly for a 3-llead. 
Curtis Granderson hit a leadoff homer against Joe Nathan in the Tigers lOth. Nathan retired the next three batters for his 45th save -he is 30-for-30 in career save tries against Detroit. 
Jon Rauch (4-1) walked Carlos Guillen to start the bot­tom of the ninth, and Gerald 
IN BRIEF 

Richardson hired as head coach 
of possible new WNBA team 
OKLAHOMA CITY-Investors trying to bring a WNBA franchise to Tulsa said Tuesday that they have hired Nolan Richardson to be the coach -if the city is able to secure a team. 
Richardson, who signed a three-year deal, said his first job will be trying to help the group of investors led by Oklahoma City businessmen David Box and Bill Cameron secure the addi­tional support they need for the WNBA to grant the city an expansion fran­chise. 
"In order to have a team, you've got to have people working," Richardson told The Associated Press. "Hopefully them hiring a coach will send a mes­sage that they are very serious." 
Box said a decision could be made about whether Tulsa will have a fran­chise by the first week of October, but that "we sure wouldn't have named Nolan Richardson as the coach if we didn't feel positive about it." 
Delonte West skips P-ractice for 
personal, mental health reasons 
INDEPENDENCE, Ohio -Less than 24 hours after saying he was focused on basketball, Delonte West skipped Cleveland's first day of practice. 
The Cavaliers' troubled guard did not show up for Tuesday's morning workout to the surprise of coach Mike Brown, and missed the evening ses­sion at Cleveland Clinic Courts. 
General manager Danny Ferry said West, who has been treated for bipo­lar disorder, was not in any harm. 
"Delonte is in Cleveland," Ferry said via e-mail Tuesday night. "He is addressing a personal matter." 
West, who has battled depression and mood disorders for years, was recently arrested for gun possession in Maryland after police pulled over his three-wheel motorcycle for a traf­fic violation and found he was carry­ing three loaded weapons -two handguns and a shotgun in a guitar case he had on his back. 
Laird bunted pinch-runner Wilkin Ramirez to second. Brandon Inge hit a shallow flyout and Span ran down Santiago's liner on the warn­ing track. 
Both starters finished with no-decisions. Tigers rookie Rick Porcello allowed one run in 6 1-3 innings, while Nick Blackburn gave up one run in seven innings. 
The Tigers stranded seven runners in the first four innings, getting their only run on Santiago's single in the second off first baseman Michael Cuddyer's glove. 
Minnesota tied the game in the fifth when Matt Tolbert led off with a double, took third on one of the Twins' four sacrifice bunts and scored on Span's sacrifice fly. 
Michael Vick ~eaks againstdogfighting at Baptist cfiurch 
WASIDNGTON -Michael Vick told a sparse crowd at a Washington church on Tuesday that dogfighting is pointless and he doesn't know why he risked his career for it. 
"I got caught up in the culture," the Philadelphia Eagles quarterback said at Covenant Baptist Church, in one of the city's poorest neighborhoods. "I never thought that I would get caught." 
The former Atlanta Falcons star was released from federal custody July 20 after serving 18 months of a 23-month sentence for running the ring in Surry County, Va. 
The church appearance was sponsored by the Humane Society of the United States. Vick has been working with the group since his release and has appeared at similar events in Atlanta, Chicago and Philadelphia. 
"I used poor judgment. I had people around me who didn't have my best interests at heart," he said. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 30, 2009 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Frosh Tuel earns starting QB spot 

Associated Press 

SPOKANE, Wash. -Ryan Leaf didn't do it. Neither did Jason Gesser, Matt Kegel or Alex Brink. 
On Saturday, Jeff Tuel will become the first true fresh­man to start at quarterback for Washington State since Drew Bledsoe in 1990. It's an effort to improve a rare two­year run of woeful passing. 
Tuel earned the start Saturday at No. 16 Oregon after playing well in last weekend's loss at Southern California. 
"He got his first opportuni­ty to play last week and did some good things and gave us some ability to move the ball," coach Paul Wulff said Tuesday. "He's got a lot to learn, but that's where the program is now, bringing in a lot of young kids." 
Tuel, from Fresno, Calif., entered the USC game in the second quarter in relief of Marshall Lobbestael and completed 14 of 22 passes for 130 yards and one inter­ception. He also ran nine times for 34 yards. He was sacked four times. 
Freshman quarterbacks are a trend in the Pac-10 this season. True freshman Matt Barkley is starting at Southern Cal. while redshirt freshman Kevin Prince leads UCLA and redshirt freshman Andrew Luck starts at Stanford. 
Tuel was expected to red­shirt this season, but poor quarterback play prompted Wulff to make the change. 
Previous starters Kevin Lopina and Lobbestael left 



NCAA FOOTBALL •
USC RB Johnson 1n post-surgery recovery 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -Southern California tailback Stafon Johnson probably wouldn't have survived his weightlifting accident with­out his muscular athlete's neck, which helped maintain 
his airway when 

"It's very uplifting
a weight bar 

for his mom and
crashed down on it, a doctor his family and all said Tuesday. 
the guys who got a 
Johnson could 

chance to go down
communicate non-verbally there." with his family members and 
Pete Carroll 
teammates on 

USC coach
Tuesday morn­ing, less than 24 hours after his bench-pressing accident in the Trojans' weight room. The bar crushed his neck and larynx, which required seven hours of surgery. 
Johnson's fitness helped him survive, said Dr. Gudata Hinika, the trauma medical director at California Hospital Medical Center. 
Johnson is unlikely to play again for USC, but coach 
the Cougars (1-3, 0-2 Pac-10) last or n·ear the bottom in most offensive categories this season and last. The team is averaging just 17 points per game, ranked 109th among FBS teams. The passing game has produced just three touchdowns with six interceptions in four games. 
Tuel, 6-foot-3 and 207 pounds, started only his sen­ior year in high school, throwing for 1,714 yards and 12 touchdowns. 
Bledsoe, one of the greatest players in team history and a longtime NFL star, started the seventh game of his InJuries to both. The result was a passing attack that produced just 1,898 yards, six touchdowns and 21 inter­ceptions. By contrast, Gosser threw for six touchdowns in one game against Arizona in 2000. 
Lopina and Lobbestael competed for the starting job this year, but neither could stake a strong claim. Wulff settled on the senior Lopina, but the offense sputtered in two opening losses. 
Wulff then announced that Lobbestael would start against SMU, and the red­shirt would be pulled off Tuel. Playing the entire 
freshman year, against Oregon State. He 
"He's got a lot to
remains near the top of most learn, but that's WSU career 
where the program
passing 
is now, bringing in 
records. 
Washington a lot of young kids." State has a long tradition Paul Wulff of top quarter­Cougars coach backs and could count on a 3,000-yard or 
g a m e , Lobbestael led the offense to just 16 points against SMU, but a pair of interceptions 
returned for touchdowns produced WSU's only vic­tory so far. 
Lobbestael, a sophomore, started against 

Pete Carroll is grateful for the team leader's improved health. 
"He's not talking, but he was doing his wave and writing," Carroll said. "It's very uplifting for his mom and his family and all the 
guys who got a chance to go down there." 
Hinika said Johnson is recovering well and is in stable condi­t i o n Johnson, who was taken away from USC's campus wearing a neck brace, 

woke up Tuesday morning after undergoing an emer­gency tracheotomy, followed by reconstructive surgery. 
Johnson's mother, Kim Mallory, happened to be working at the same down­town Los Angeles hospital where her son was trans­ported Monday. 
It's unclear when Johnson will be able to speak again, but he's expected to fully recover. 
Quality Off-campus Houses Now leasing for 2010 •2011 1 Close to campus 1 Washers &dryers 
•
Student neighborhoods •Dishwashers 

•
Securi~ systems • 2 ·10 bedrooms 


•Lawn service 
We have over 100 properties-see them at www.kramerhouses.com For more information call 
(574)234·2436 
Please recycle The Observer. 
so passer most years the past two decades. Mark Rypien and Timm Rosenbach pre­ceded Bledsoe, also going to the NFL. After him came Leaf, Gesser, Kegel and Brink. 
But the wheels came off last season. Career backup Gary Rogers inherited the job from Brink, but was knocked out for the season with an injury after four games. Lopina and Lobbestael alternated the rest of the games, between 
Southern Cal but was yanked in the second quarter after completing 2 of 9 passes for 14 yards. Tuel finished the game, leading the Cougars on some impressive drives. lie displayed an impressive arm and more mobility than the other quarterbacks. 
"It was an amazing experi­ence, and it meant the world to me to have my teammates getting my back like they did," Tuel said after the game. ''I'll learn from every­thing tonight." 
Wednesday, September 30, 2009 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Meyer vvon' t na111e ti111etable for Tebovv 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. ­Florida quarterback Tim Tebow went through more post-concussion tests Tuesday, and this time, he had his coach tagging along. 
Coach Urban Meyer took several balance and memory tests with his star player because he was curious about the process. 
"It's been an amazing week," Meyer said. 
It's just getting started, too. 
Meyer was inundated with questions about Tebow's recovery for the second straight day. Meyer said the quarterback still has a headache, but he was able to attend a team meeting. Meyer said Tebow hasn't been allowed to watch televi­sion or read, and didn't attend practice. 
Meyer also said Tebow understands the severity of his brain injury. 
"This isn't a turf toe or a shoulder," Meyer said. "This is a concussion. He's a grown man, so he's going to take care of himself. I'm very proud of the way he's han­dled it." 
Tebow spent Saturday night in a Kentucky hospital after his helmet struck team­mate Marcus Gilbert's leg following a third-quarter sack against the Wildcats. Tebow dropped to the ground and lay motionless as teammates and trainers rushed to his side. 
He eventually sat up with help and slowly made his way off the field. He started vomiting on the sideline, was carted off the field and taken to the hospital. 
Meyer said Tuesday that Tebow probably would have been pulled from the lop­sided game following that drive. Some have questioned why Tebow was still in the game with the Gators lead­ing 31-7. 
"Ultimately, it's my call," Meyer said. "If we go in and score right there, I think we do yank him out of the game. But you also want to make sure you secure the game." 
Meyer said there is no timetable for getting Tebow back on the practice field. He also made it clear that Tebow could miss practice this week and next and still start the team's next game, at LSU on Oct. 10. 
"You have to earn that right, and obviously the left­handed quarterback's earned that right," Meyer said. 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Svveed possibly sitting out Sunday 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH -Steelers receiver Limas Sweed may have dropped his way onto the bench. 
Pittsburgh coach Mike Tomlin said Tuesday he may deactivate Sweed, the team's second-round pick last year, 
for  Sunday  night's  game  
against  the  San  Diego  
Chargers (2-1).  

"Absolutely," Tomlin said at his weekly news conference when asked if he was consid­ering benching Sweed in favor of veteran Shaun McDonald. 
Sweed had one catch for 5 yards and dropped a pass in the end zone in the third quarter on Sunday as the defending Super Bowl cham­pions fell to 1-2 with a 23-20 loss to the Cincinnati Bengals (2-1). Sweed, who missed the previous game with a foot injury, has a history of dropped passes in his young career -most famously a drop while wide open during last season's AFC Championship game. 
"Quite frankly, he's not catching the football when he's deep down the field," Tomlin said. "He's got some tape that shows that. He's got to shake that off. If and when he's given his next opportuni­ty to make a similar play, he better make it." 
Tomlin said he was "con­
cerned" about Sweed's inabil­cute details of their assign­ity to catch the ball when he's ments. He didn't do that to my open. It is clear that rookie satisfaction last week and Mike Wallace, who is third on didn't get any playing time on the team with 12 catches for offense as a result. I took 147 yards, has moved ahead action, but I don't take any of Sweed on the depth chart. baggage into this week." 
McDonald, a seven-year vet­Tomlin also said the eran, has 220 receptions for Steelers would look into sign­2,490 yards and 11 touch­ing a fullback this week downs in 84 games with the because of two injuries at the St. Louis Rams and Detroit position. Rookie Frank Lions, including 79 catches Summers has a back injury for 943 yards and six touch­and was examined by doctors downs with Detroit in 2007. on Tuesday, and rookie tight 
Another high draft pick end/H-back David Johnson from the sustained a Steelers' 2008 high ankle class who is not sprain. Tomlin
"Quite frankly, he's
meeting expec­said Johnson tations is run­not catching the will be evaluat­ning back ed throughout
football when he's 
Rashard the week but
deep down thefield."
Mendenhall. that he could Mendenhall did be out several not have a carry Mike Tomlin weeks. or a reception The Steelers
Steelers coach 
in Cincinnati after Tomlin said he had a poor week of practice, but Tomlin suggested he would be back as the No. 2 running back for this week's game. 
"I don't have a doghouse," Tomlin said. "A doghouse is something you have when you let things stew and don't take action. He lacked a little detail in preparation last week. Young guys have to earn their opportunities. They have to make coaches confi­dent with their ability to exe­
released Carey 
Davis late in 

the preseason. Davis was their starter at the position for much of 2007-08. 
Tomlin said he "liked the progress" injured All-Pro safety Troy Polamalu was making in recovering from a torn medial collateral liga­ment in his left knee and said that starting running back Willie Parker has turf toe. Parker is expected to be fine this week but Polamalu is not expected back for at least another week. 
fiJH £ititd Wmnfrmws lite Gscrv Hl&v * October 7 • With /i.uthta Lmot bi.sz i?vmNJ]!tl ' Odnbot 9 ' Wmh Dimcior Ramin Bohrani 
Wortd Vktw is an initiative from the Office of the President to promote constructive 
f;ti1UNIVERS !TY OF 
DEBARTOlO

dialogue about issues of race, class, ethnicity, religion, and gender through the arts. 
WNOTREDAME l'ERI'ORMINGARTS crNl£R Office ofthe President 
by Multicultural St<Jdent . and Ser~ices. The Office of !he President and the Institute lor Latino Studies 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, September 30, 2009 
NBA 
Rose claims he took SAT test on his own 
Associated Press 
DEERFIELD, Ill. Derrick Rose tutored the top teens in China on a basketball teaching tour with Dwight Howard. He shot a video game com­mercial with Kobe Bryant, too, so there really were some fun moments during the offseason no matter how bad it looked at times. 
That photo of him flash­ing gang signs wasn't one of his finest moments. That scandal at Memphis was another blow to his reputation, even if he insisted several times he did nothing wrong. 
On the eve of the Chicago Bulls' training camp, Rose did it again. The star point guard reit­erated that he took the SAT exam to get into Memphis and dismissed the idea that someone did so in his place. 
"I took it, I took it," Rose said Friday. 
The NBA's Rookie of the take it," he said. "If that's the case, somebody would have then said it." 
Rose couldn't recall his score, saying, "I don't even remember my last report card." 
All that matters to him now is how he and his teammates grade out once the season starts. 
Despite all the accolades last season, Rose said he would give himself just a "C," which shows how hard he is on himself. As explosive as he is, he real­ized he needed to work on his defense and jumper over the summer, particu­larly with leading scorer Ben Gordon gone to Detroit. 
The burden is not just on Rose. 
It's also on John Salmons and Kirk Hinrich, who will make up the rest of the three-guard rota­tion, not to mention on Luol Deng and young for­wards Tyrus Thomas and 
Joakim 
Noah. 
The Bulls 
believe they 

Year last sea­h a v e
"J wasn't worried 
son, Rose enough to
about anybody 
found himself compensate at the center saying I didn't take for the loss of a scandal it.,, of Gordon over the sum-now that mer when the Hinrich and
Derrick Rose 
NCAA ruled Deng are that Memphis Chicago Bulls player b 0 t h must vacate healthy its 38 wins after being 
MLB 
Congress investigates supplelllents 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Food and Drug Administration told Congress Tuesday that it has limited abilities to keep dietary supplements with steroids from hitting market shelves. 
"FDA generally cannot identify violative products before they enter the market­place," said Michael Levy, director of the FDA's division of new drugs and labeling compliance, at a hearing of the Senate .Judiciary crime and drugs subcommittee. "After products enter the market, we must undertake a painstaking investigative and analytical process" to show the products violate the law. 
Levy said that dietary sup­plement makers need not prove a product is safe unl11ss it contains a new ingredient not previously part or the food supply. That allows unscrupulous companies to market products that can pose health risks, he said. 
"Marketing a steroid prod­uct as a 'dietary supplement' conveys to the consumer a false sense of safety and legitimacy for these potential­ly harmful products," Levy said. 
Daniel Fabricant, interim executive director and CEO of the Natural Products Association, which represents retailers, manufacturers, suppliers and distributors of health foods and dietary sup­plements, said his industry is being "victimized by a gueril­la-style criminal drug-ped­dling operation." lie said the solution is enforcement of 
current laws. 

The subcommittee chair­man. Sen. Arlen Specter, a Pennsylvania Democrat and Philadelphia Phillies fan, said before the hearing that his interest was piqued in part by the case of' Phillies pitcher 
J .C. Homero, who was sus­pended for 50 games this sea­son after testing positive for androstenedione, a substance that slugger Mark McGwire used in the 1990s that was later banned by baseball. 
Homen> sued the manufac­turer of an over-the-counter supplement earlier this year, ar·guing that it should bear the blame for his suspension because it misrepresented its products and ingredients. 
"We're looking at whether there's adequate protection for consumers from getting these supplements which have steroids or steroid-like substances," Specter told The Associated Press in an inter­view. "These tainted products can cause life-threatening injuries, sueh as kidney fail­ure and liver injury." 
Congress rewrote the dietary supplements regula­tions in 1994. Some critics say the regulations are not strong enough. 
Now, the Major League Baseball Players Association is pressing Congress to estab­lish stricter reporting requirements for supplement manufacturers and tougher penalties for repeat offend­ers. The union is also lobby­ing Congress to require that supplements be analyzed by a federally certified lab that would determine the ingredi­ents to be listed on the label. 
Don Fehr, head of the base­ball players union, said the lack of government regulation is especially problematic for amateur and professional athletes who might use over­the-counter supplements because a positive test for a banned substance can lead to suspension. 
"Players, like everyone else, have no idea what they're taking," Fehr said in an inter­view. "I'm sure there are some good supplement prod­ucts in the market that are safe, effective and accurately identified. I hope these prod­ucts can be protected. But as of now, there is no way a player or anyone else can know with certainty that what they are taking is accu­rately described on the label." 
Last week, Food and Drug Administration investigators executed a search warrant of BodyBuilding.com, seeking evidence that it deals in designer steroids and andro. The FDA conducted a similar probe of American Cellular Labs in July. 
Steve Mister. president and CEO of the Council for Responsible Nutrition, which represents the dietary sup­plement industry, said there is a "small fringe" of manu­facturers that offer products which include steroids and other banned substances. He said sports nutrition supple­ments account for about 10 percent of the $25 billion supplement industry, and "those muscle enlargement products that seem to be a concern are just a small frac­tion of that." 
and national championship game appearance during the 2007-08 season for using an ineligible player. The school is appealing the ruling. 
The NCAA said an unknown person took the SAT for a player -with his knowledge -and that the player used it to get admitted. The governing body said the athlete played for the Tigers only during the 2007-08 season and the 2008 NCAA tour­nament. Rose is the only person who fits that description, but he insist­ed no one took the test for him. 
"That's for sure," he said. 
A former No. 1 draft pick, Rose has emerged as one of the league's top young players and helped his hometown team get back to the playoffs after missing the postseason the previous year. He led all rookies last season with 6.3 assists per game and was second in scoring average at 16.8, thanks to quickness and strength that allowed him to burst past defenders. 
But as smooth as his transition to the NBA was, his offseason was just as bumpy. 
An Internet photo sur­faced with him flashing a gang sign, and Rose apol­ogized for that. The viola­tions at Memphis were another hit. 
"I wasn't worried about anybody saying I didn't 
injured for 

much of last season. It also helps that Salmons and center Brad Miller are with them from the start after spark­ing a turnaround follow­ing a midseason trade. 
"We have a lot of guys who can put the ball in the basket on this team," said Hinrich, who missed 31 games after surgery on his right thumb early in the season. "We have a lot of talent without Ben." 
They believe they'll be better on defense, which was a strength during their three-year playoff run under former coach Scott Skiles. 
They also expect more from Deng, who looked like a budding star in 2006-07 but has been slowed by injuries the past two years. He missed the final six weeks of the regular season and the playoffs with a stress frac­ture in his right tibia and averaged just 14.1 points -his lowest output since his rookie year in 2004­05. 
''I'm excited to be back. I want to be on the floor," Deng said. "As a leader, going through things like that, you see things sitting down and watching the game. I feel like I'm even more mature, and I'm going to come into the year and just bring that to the team, try to be a bet­ter leader on the floor or talking to the guys on the side. I really want to do a better job of it." 

Your Classroom in the Aran Islands 
Information Session University College Dublin Dublin, Ireland 
Immerse into an Irish Universi(v and !iti/1 he part ofa Notre .Dame Community 
Wednesday, Sept.. 30, 2009 6:00pm 129 Hayes Healy 
Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15,2009 FOI{ FALL 2010, SPRING 2011, ANI> ACAI>EMIC VEAl{ 2010-201 I APPLICATION AVAILABLE: WWW.ND.EDU/-OIS 

,-------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, September 30, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 

Hmnsbing 
continued from page 24 
tweaked my right [compen­sating for her injured left hamstring] and still played on it. I officially pulled it in the Santa Clara game." 
Notre Dame was held scoreless in the Santa Clara/adidas Classic, also falling to No. 2 Stanford 2-0, and has continued to strug­gle offensively in Weissenhofer's absence. 
"We have lost a really good player who could be con­tributing," coach Randy Waldrum said. "We have had some inconsistencies this season scoring goals . . . One thing Michele can do well is score goals, and you hate to lose a key player who can do that for the offense." 
Weissenhofer has been scoring goals for the Irish since her freshman season when she netted 18 goals and assisted on 17 more. That year the Naperville, Ill., native was named Big East Rookie of the Year and start­ed every postseason game for the Irish, highlighted by a hat trick in a 4-0 victory over No. 8 Penn State in the NCAA Semifinals. 
Waldrum has had to try to suppress those memories and keep Weissenhofer off the field despite Notre Dame's tumultuous opening to the season. 
"It is hard from a coaching standpoint because there are temptations to try to get her back on the field," Waldrum said. "At the end of the day, the coach has to sit back and not look at it from a one­game, two-game standpoint and ask what is best for the player." 
While keeping Weissenhofer sidelined, Waldrum has done his best to fill the void she left. 
"We have to find some combination of players who can come in and give us sim­ilar production," he said. "The hard part of it is the actual productivity in terms 
Leasing now for 2010-2011 
Notre Dame Apartments 
,,,;m;;···· 

of just scoring goals or get­ting assists on goals. [Michele] is so productive when in and around the goal." 
In his attempt to fill the void, junior defender Lauren Fowlkes has moved up to forward. Since the Santa Clara/adidas Classic, Fowlkes has matched her career totals with three goals and an assist, including the game-winning goal over Louisville Sunday. 
While Fowlkes' recent suc­cess is promising for the Irish in the short-term, Weissenhofer's return will be a prominent factor to the team's long-term success. 
"You just can't lose key players and expect the team to be the exact same," said Waldrum, comparing the loss of Weissenhofer and fellow senior captain Courtney Rosen (broken foot) to the football team losing both sophomore receiver Floyd and junior quarterback Jimmy Clausen. "Considering the injuries we have taken, that is a pretty big integral part of what we do on offense. That really hurts," Waldrum said. 
Weissenhofer hopes to help solve Notre Dame's offensive woes as soon as she can, aiming for a match-up with Connecticut Oct. 16, the beginning of a four-game home stand to close the Irish regular season. 
''I'm hoping to get back on the field as soon as possible, and be completely ready to go as soon as my hamstring is ready to go," she said. 
Waldrum echoes Weissenhofer's sentiments, knowing that in the grand scheme of the season, these games do not matter nearly as much as the ones yet to come. 
"I am hopeful we get Michele back sooner than later, and especially ready for the stretch run at the end of the season," Waldrum said. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmerl@nd.edu 
2 Bedroom, 1,200 sq. ft. Apartments Newly Remodeled Free Internet Free Water On-Site Laundry Only Three Blocks from Campus 
$300Signing Bonus for 2010 -2011 
L..se must be signed before October10,2009 
Leases start at only $350 per month, per student! 
View the floorplan at www.kramerhouses.com 
call (574) 234-2436 
MLB 
Griffey homers Mariners past A's 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE -Ken Griffey Jr. started what might be his final homestand with career homer No. 628, and Felix Hernandez added another strong effort to his AL Cy Young Award resume in the Seattle Mariners' 6-4 win over the Oakland Athletics on Tuesday night. 
Griffey has been mostly evasive about his future plans following the end of the season, but the Mariners icon jolted the meager crowd that showed up on a chilly night with a three-run homer off Oakland starter Trevor Cahill in the fifth inning. 
Cahill became the 406th differ­ent pitcher to give up a long ball to Griffey in his storied career. Cahill (10-13) was just 13 months old when Griffey smacked his first career homer off Eric King on April10, 1989. 
Griffey's homer gave Seattle a 5-1 lead and was more than enough run support for Hernandez, who bolstered the best season of his young career on a night he didn't have his best stuff. 
Hernandez (18-5) struggled with his control, walking four and hitting two batters, but last­ed 7 2-3 innings and improved to 7-1 since Aug. 1. He gave up seven hits, struck out four and threw a season-high 120 pitches in his next-to-last start of 2009. 
Mark Lowe struck out Cliff Pennington to end the eighth after Hernandez loaded the bases with two outs. Seattle clos­er David Aardsma gave up a two-run single to Kurt Suzuki in the ninth, before getting the final two outs. 
Oakland missed its opportunity to capitalize on Hernandez's early struggles, failing to score with runners at first and second and no outs in the second, and with runners on second and third and two outs in the third. 
Mark Ellis had an RBI single in the fourth, but the A's left run­ners at second and third in that inning as well. 
Hernandez is among the favorites for the Cy Young in the American League. For wins, he trails only CC Sabathia, who has 19, and his 2.48 ERA is second to Kansas City's Zack Greinke (2.06). 
Hernandez will start Sunday in the season finale against Texas. 
The 21-year-old Cahill saw his four-game winning streak snapped. He matched Hernandez early but fell apart in the fifth. Josh Wilson started the inning with a double and scored on Franklin Gutierrez's sacrifice fly to deep center field for a 2-1 lead. 
Jose Lopez then followed with a single, and after the A's infield met at the mound, Griffey turned on Cahill's first pitch for his 17th homer of the season. 
Griffey indicated earlier this month he'd be open to playing in 2010 for Seattle if the situation worked for both sides, but has stayed silent recently. 
"We actually went fishing yes­terday, and he never brought it up," Seattle manager Don Wakamatsu said before Tuesday's game. "That's Junior's decision, that's (GM) Jack (Zduriencik's) decision. All I can speak of is my experience with him this year, and it's been an honor to have a player of' that caliber." 
The win assures Seattle (81­
76) of at least a .500 record a season after losing 101 games. The loss means Oakland will fm­ish last in the AL West for the first time since 1998. 
Rockies 7, Brewers 5 
Pinch-hitter Chris !annetta hit a two-run homer off' David Weathers in the 11th inning to give the Colorado Rockies a vic­tory over the Milwaukee Brewers on Tuesday night. 
!annetta sent a 3-2 fastball into the Rockies' bullpen in right-cen­ter for his 16th homer and first career game-ending drive. 
The Rockies widened their NL wild-card lead to three games over Atlanta with five games remaining. 
The crowd of 39,087, pretty big for a Tuesday night in down­town Denver, let loose a loud cheer when the Braves' 5-4 loss to the Marlins was announced on the scoreboard in the middle of the sixth. 
And there was a collective groan when light-hitting Jason Kendall hit a three-run homer off closer Huston Street with one out in the ninth to tie it at 5. 
Matt Belisle (3-1), the seventh Rockies pitcher, picked up the win with a 1-2-3 11th. Weathers (4-6) walked Brad Hawpe and got pinch-hitter Jason Giambi to pop out before !annetta connect­ed. 
Jason Marquis gave up two earned runs and six hits in six innings, and was in line for his career-high 16th win before Street absorbed his second blown save of the season. 
Kendall, who entered with one homer on the year, drove an 0-1 slider from Street into the tunnel in left. Street had been perfect in 15 save chances at Coors Field this season. 
Marquis again struggled to throw his sinker for strikes early in the count, but he got three double plays, twice with the bases loaded. The bullpen got seven straight outs after he left. Matt Daley pitched a perfect sev­enth, Rafael Betancourt struck out the side in the eighth and Street struck out his first hitter and looked well on his way to his 35th save in 36 chances. 
But after getting ahead of Mike Cameron 0-2, he threw four straight balls, then served up a single to J .J. Hardy before Kendall's homer. 
Milwaukee left-bander Chris Narveson baffled all of the Rockies except Todd Helton, who hit a run-scoring single in the first inning and chased him with an RBI double in the sixth that tied it at 2. 
Helton's double into the right­field alley followed Ryan Spilborghs' double down the left­field line and prompted Milwaukee manager Ken Macha to lift his rookie, who was charged with three runs and five hits in five-plus innings. 
Todd Coffey gave up a single to Troy Tulowitzki and a walk to pinch-hitter Ian Stewart before Yorvit Torrealba's sacrifice fly to center put the Rockies ahead 3­2. 
Brad Hawpe hit a routine ground ball to second baseman Felipe Lopez, but Stewart avoid­ed the tag, allowing another run to score, and slid safety into sec­ond when Lopez overthrew shortstop J.J. Hardy for an error that sent Stewart to third. 
Helton also hit into a double play that scored another run to make it 5-2 in the seventh. 
Marquis struggled with his sinker over his previous seven starts, and with batters laying off his signature pitch, he had to come at them with sliders and fastballs, and they teed off'. That's what happened for three innings against Milwaukee. 
In the first, Lopez singled and Ryan Braun doubled off the right-field wall. After intentional­ly walking Prince Fielder, Marquis got Casey McGehee to ground into an inning-ending double play. 
Mike Cameron led off the sec­ond with a walk and easily stole second on Marquis' slow deliv­ery. He advanced on a groundout and scored on Jason Kendall's bouncer to tie it at 1. 
The Brewers loaded the bases again in the third inning when Corey Hart hit a one-out single, Braun doubled and Fielder again was walked on purpose. This time, McGehee drew a walk him­self, giving Milwaukee a 2-1 lead. Marquis limited the dam­age by getting Cameron to hit into a double play. 
Angels 5, Rangers 2 
Bobby Abreu homered, fill-in starter Sean O'Sullivan earned his first win in two months and the Los Angeles Angels eliminat­ed the Texas Rangers from play­off contention with a victory Tuesday night. 
Texas' third straight loss clinched the AL wild card for the Boston Red Sox, who will meet the Angels in the first round for the third consecutive postseason. 
One day after the Angels clinched their third straight AL West title with an 11-0 victory over the second-place Rangers (85-72), Los Angeles took it easy, resting two-thirds of' its usual starting lineup. 
Yet pinch-hitter Mike Napoli had a two-run single as the Angels improbably battered Texas ace Scott Feldman (17 -7), who has lost three of his last four starts in a blow to his Cy Young Award hopes. Feldman yielded seven hits and three walks while failing to get out of' the fourth inning. 
Brian Fuentes worked the ninth for his major league-lead­ing 46th save, a career high and a new AL record for the most saves by a pitcher in his first season with a team. Joe Borowski had 45 for Cleveland in 2007. 
O'Sullivan (4-2) allowed three hits over five easy innings as a late replacement for Scott Kazmir, who was pulled from his start about two hours before the game. Los Angeles manager Mike Scioscia also said Jered Weaver and John Lackey won't make their scheduled starts in this series to give all three pitch­ers a little extra rest for the Red Sox. 
Boston has won all four of its playoff series against the Angels, including first-round victories in 2004, 2007 and 2008. Add the 1986 AL championship series, and Boston has won 12 of its past 13 postseason games against the Angels. 
Sciascia also scratched Juan Rivera, Torii Hunter, Kendry Morales, Erick Aybar, Maicer Izturis and Napoli from his regu­lar lineup Tuesday. Leadoff hitter Chone Figgins, Abreu and Vladimir Guerrero were the only regular Los Angeles starters in the lineup, and all three played only half' the game. 
But Abreu hit his 15th homer in the first inning, and Jeff' Mathis had a run-scoring single in the second. Napoli's bases­loaded drive chased Feldman in the fourth, and Howie Kendrick added an RBI double in the sev­enth. 

September 30 ~~~s~;g:s~:~~;~~~R 
COMING SOON! November 10, January 19, february 9 
Each night, 3 women and 3 men will get to know each other "in the dark." 
Be part of the live audience to witness this experiment and discuss with the participants: 
• 
Is love truly "blind"? 

• 
What attracts us to a friend? To a potential mate? 

• 
What does that tell us about our own mores and values? 


Wednesday, September 30, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Pyros 
continued from page 24 
A 40-yard bomb put Lewis on the Pyros' 25-yard line with 30 seconds to go. The game ended on four consecu­tive deep passes falling to the ground, either slipping through a Lewis (0-2) receiv­er's hands or being knocked down by a defending Pyro. For Pasquerilla East (2-0), the final stand was icing on the cake for an outstanding defensive game. 
"The shutout was key," Pasquerilla East senior defen­sive captain Liz Ruiz said. "Our defense was definitely feeling the pressure at the end there, but we managed to get the job done." 
For Lewis, it was a disap­pointing end to a hard fought game. 
"It was really uptight and tense at the end, we had a lot of momentum but it was just unlucky," junior Christy Nypaver said. 
Until that point, the game had been mostly a defensive struggle. Pasquerilla East scored on their first posses­sion of the game, as senior captain quarterback Tara Pillai dove in to the end zone. 
"Our running game has improved 10-fold from last year," said Ruiz. "We were 
moving the ball and using up the game clock." 
The Pyros look poised to reach their season goal of reaching the postseason. 
The Chicks are still looking for their first win but are far from giving up on the season. They had decent success run­ning the ball throughout the game, but two costly inter­ceptions in the second half stalled any momentum they had gained. 
"We feel like we have improved a lot since last game," Nypaver said. "From here we need to practice, practice, practice and just get it down. We have a lot of new people together." 
With four games left in the regular season for each team, the year is far from over. 
Farley 12, Welsh Family 6 
Undefeated Farley managed to keep a zero in the loss col­umn with a 12-6 win over Welsh Family Tuesday. 
Farley (2-0) used a strong passing game to overpower the Whirlwind (0-2) defense, and an opportunistic defense to limit Welsh Family's scor­ing chances. 
The Finest intercepted Whirlwind senior quarter­back Demy Hueth twice in the game, as sophomore Katie Smith and senior Chrissie Andrews each pulled in Hueth passes while on 
defense. 

Each interception gave Farley sophomore quarter­back Megan Bustedo good field position, and Bustedo capitalized twice with two touchdown passes to lead the Finest. 
"Our offense had great posi­tion," junior captain Emma Klosterman said. 
A long first-half drive resulted in Welsh Family's touchdown and a tied half­time score. After Farley went ahead 12-6, the Whirlwinds had a glimmer of hope after an interception of their own by sophomore Jenna Spizzirri, but Farley's defense held the Whirlwinds out of the end zone with only four minutes left in the game. 
"We improved from our last game," Welsh Family senior captain Julia Dombrowksi said. "We need to keep work­ing." 
The Whirlwinds play Pasquerilla East Sunday, while Farley looks to keep its record unblemished when it faces McGlinn. 
"We will continue to work and win," Klosterman said. "We cannot wait for Sunday's game against McGlinn." 
Contact Kaidyn Murphy at kmurphy28@nd.edu, John Helms at jhelms2@nd.edu and Kelly Zenere at kzenerOl @saintmarys.edu 

WNBA FINALS 
Mercury win league's highest-scoring game 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX -The WNBA finals was supposed to be Phoenix's offense against Indiana's defense. 
How about offense vs. offense? Enough for the high­est-scoring game in WNBA his­tory. 
Cappie Pondexter missed a potential winning tip-in at the fourth-quarter buzzer then scored seven of her 23 points 
in overtime Tuesday night to help the Mercury beat the Fever 120­116 in the high­est-scoring game in WNBA history. 
"Well, if you didn't like women's bas­
ketball," Phoenix coach Corey Gaines said, "I think you do now." 
Pondexter, frustrated and in foul trouble in the first half, scored the final five points to close out Game 1 of the best­of-five series. 
"You got to let the game come tv you," the Mercury 
point guard said. 
Penny Taylor points and newly crowned league MVP Diana Taurasi had 22 for Phoenix. 
Katie Douglas tied it with a 3­pointer for Indiana with 7.1 seconds left in regulation, then scored eight in overtime for the Fever to reach a career playoff high 30 points. Ebony Hoffman 
"Well, ifyou didn't after a timeout, the Fever got
like women's 
the ball to the

basketball, I think 
open Douglas, you do now. " who sank the 3 that tied it. The Mercury
Corey Gaines 
pushed down­

Mercury coach 
court, where 
scored 23 

had a career-high 27 on 12 of 14 shooting as the Fever set a franchise scoring record in just the second 100-point game in the club's history. 
Before this one, the league's highest-scoring game was Phoenix's 111-110 victory over Houston in triple overtime on Aug. 10, 2006. 
The Mercury and Fever each scored more points than any team previously in league his­tory. The old mark was 115, of course by Phoenix, in an over­time victory over Sacramento on June 13. 
The Mercury 
Did Indiana coach Lin Dunn think her team had that much offense in it? 
"Sure I did," she said. "When the ball goes in we're really good." 
Indiana's Tamika Catchings had just eight points before fouling out with 2:42 left in overtime but harassed Taurasi into a 5 of 17 shooting night. 
Rookie DeWanna Bonner's two free throws put Phoenix ahead 105-102 with 14.2 sec­onds left in reg­ulation, then 
Bonner missed a driving layup, but Pondexter went up for the uncontested tip-in. Her shot bounced off the rim to send the game into overtime. 
After trailing most of the sec­ond half by as many as eight points, the Mercury used a 9-0 spurt to take the lead late in the fourth quarter. 
Taurasi sank a 3 pointer, made one of two free throws, 
then had an 
assist • on 

"It was fun kind of Temeka 
Johnson's 3 that

showing a different 
put the Mercury

side ofwomen's ahead 102-98 basketball -how with 2V2 min­
utes to play in

high a level it is. It's 
regulation. The

fun to be in the game other basket in 
and I'm sure it was the run was a driving bank
fun to watch." 
shot by Taylor that tied it at Diana Taurasi 98. Mercury guard The unintimi­
'7 think every game 
scored exactly drive to put the three points a you see from here on Mercury ahead minute Tuesday 117-116 with
out will be like Game 
night. 1:27 to go, then 
I was. Incredible. " 
"It was fun," sank a 16-footer Taurasi said, with 20.2 sec­"kind of show­Cappie Pondexter onds to go to ing a different make it 119­
Phoenix guard 
side of women's basketball how high a level it is. It's fun to be in the game and I'm sure it was fun to watch." 
Paul Westhead, who installed the offense for the Mercury and won a WNBA title with it as Phoenix coach two years ago, must have loved it. 
Phoenix improved to 22-2 in games in which it scored 100 points. The Mercury are 10-0 in 100-point games this sea­son. 
The Fever, though, are sup­posed to be built on defense. 
dated Fever, 

who had won three straight in Phoenix, came back. Catchings made two free throws, then rookie Briann January, who played at nearby Arizona State, made a layup to tie it at 102 with 47.8 seconds left. 
Taylor was fouled and made one of two free throws with 
27.9 seconds remaining to give Phoenix a 103-102 lead. 
The lead changed hands six times in overtime. Douglas' 15­footer gave Indiana its final lead 
at 116-115 with 1:40 left. Pondexter scored on a 
116. She finally 

finished off the Fever by making one of two free throws with 3 seconds to play. Dunn lamented Phoenix's offensive rebounds, especially late in the game. 
''I'm telling you," she said. "At the end of the day we can't give up 24 second-chance points." 
Pondexter expects more of the same the rest of the series. 
"I think every game you see from here on out will be like Game 1 was," she said. "Incredible." 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 30, 2009 
Adrian 
continued from page 24 
cross. We created the chances we needed, but we need to take responsibility in front of goal." 
After a few tough matches early in the season, Crabbe said his team has really begun to hit its stride. 
"We are playing very hard right now and that is a byproduct of [the team's] out­standing fitness level," he said. "Our team defending and [tactical understanding of the game] has really improved this season. I feel that our players are becoming smarter soccer players every time they're out on the field." 
But everything isn't quite where Crabbe wants it to be yet. One area where the Belles have struggled mightily this season is on the offensive end. 
"Where we have struggled is finishing and scoring goals," Crabbe said. "In our last four games we have created a lot of quality looks at goal, but in 
Albion 
continued from page 24 
were not able to ·finish strong when we had the lead." 
With their season nearing its midpoint and their confer­ence record below .500, it would be understandable for the Belles to feel the pressure to turn it around. Last year's team set the bar high with a 9-7 record and the confer­ence's No. 4 seed. and Saint 
Mary's surely "All of the games we set its sights on 
play are very
repeating, or 
surpassing, that important to win to 
feat. be able to finish in Kuschel, how­
the top ofthe 
ever, has her 
conference."
team even-keeled and focused on the 
Toni Kuschel 
task at hand. 
Belles coach 
L o r n a Slupczynski, freshman Stephanie Bodien, and junior Andrea Sasgen, who each havfl amassed more than 100 kills this season already. 
The Hornets are coming off a 3-l_win against Olivet, who the 


"All of the games we play are very impor­tant to win to be able to finish in the top of the conference," Kuschel said. "However, I don't feel that my team feels added pressure. They always want to go out and play their best." 
With the losses in the past, the Belles now will focus on the Hornets, who they play for the first time this year. The Belles swept the two-game series last year against Kalamazoo with two 3-1 victo­order to win games we need to finish those chances." 
Last season, the MIAA schedule was unkind to the Belles as they went 1-7 with a very inexperienced squad. Crabbe believes his team is ready to be a real contender this season. 
"Honestly, the conference stretch is going to be a toss­up," he said. "We have played such a tough non-conference schedule that there will be no surprises for us at the level of play. What will make the biggest difference in confer­ence is how teams deal with these games emotionally. We could go 7-1 just as easily as 1-7 ." 
In a very close match last season, Adrian edged out Saint Mary's 1-0 after capital­izing on an early Belles mis­take. 
After their conference open­er against the Bulldogs, the Belles will return home for a four-game home stand begin­ning with conference rival Trine Oct. 3. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker@nd.edu 
ries. 
But this year the Hornets have a more balanced attack, with a number of players who can score at any given time. Sophomore outside hitter Colleen Leonard is their main target on offense, with a team-high 147 kilts• on the year, a number closely fol­lowed by senior outside hitter Kim Marble's 128. 
The Belles will counter that offensive force with three hit­ters of their own in senior 
Belles swept earlier in the season. The match is schedule to start at 7 p.m. Wednesday in Angela Athletic Facility. 
Looking ahead on the sched­ule, the Belles will have a six­day break from conference play as they play a non-league double header Saturday before returning home to face No. 10 Calvin College. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 
MLB 

Dodgers fail to clinch NL West title 
Associated Press 

SAN DIEGO -Tony Gwynn Jr. homered and Kevin Kouzmanoll" singled in the go-ahead run as the San Diego Padres beat Los Angeles 3-1 on Tuesday night, keeping the Dodgers from clinching their second straight NL West title. 
The Dodgers have lost three straight since securing a playoff spot on Saturday night. Colorado didn't do the Dodgers any favors, beating Milwaukee 7-5 in 11 innings. 
Tuesday's results forced the Dodgers to keep on ice the champagne they'd lugged with them from Pittsburgh, where they lost three of four to the Pirates, the NL's second-worst team. 
!Ieath Bell, who turned 32 on Tuesday, pitched a perfect ninth for his NL-best 41st save in 47 chances, striking out Manny Ramirez, Matt Kemp and James Loney. 
With his I!all of Fame father doing color commentary on the local cable broadcast, Gwynn hit a drive down the right-field line with two oul<; in the third inning for a 1-0 lead. It was his second homer of the season. 

The Dodgers tied it in the sixth when Orlando Hudson hit a leadoff triple into the gap in right-center field and scored when rookie shortstop Everth Cabrera booted Andre Ethier's grounder. 
That brought up Ramirez, and Padres manager Bud Black pulled rookie left-bander Cesar Hamos, who was making his first big league start, in favor of rookie righty Hyan Webb (2-0), who got the slugger to hit into a double play. Kemp grounded out to end the inning. 
Hamirez missed Monday's 11­1 loss at Pittsburgh with tight­ness in his left hamstring. I le went 0 for 4 with two strikeouts on Tuesday night. 
Chad Billingsley walked the bases loaded with two outs in the sixth before Kouzmanoff sin­gled up the middle to bring in David Eckstein with the go­ahead run. Adrian Gonzalez was thrown out trying to score from second. 
Billingsley (12-11) lost for the fifth time in his last seven starts. He hasn't won since Aug. 18 against St. Louis. He allowed two runs and two hits, struck out five and walked five in six innings. 
Billingsley has yielded a home run in seven of his last eight starts, and Gwynn's shot was the 17th allowed by the right­hander this season, extending his career high. 
San Diego added a run in the seventh on Hong-Chih Kuo's wild pitch. 
The first two Dodgers batters of the game reached and nei­ther scored. Hafael Furcal sin­gled to left to extend his hitting streak to 12 and Hudson walked. Ethier hit into a 4-3-6-5 double play, where the Padres had Hudson in a pickle between first and second, then let him advance as they caught Furcal at third after he took a step too many toward home, then tried to get back to the base. 
The Dodgers stranded two runners in the sixth. 
success that the Irish team hopes to have, and Kubinski has no doubt that they will be up to the challenge. 
"I ean sen now that [Chen and Alan-Lee] are both equipped to be outstanding leaders next season," he said. 
Notre Dame will resume action Monday in the first round of the two-day Fighting Irish Gridiron Golf Classic at the Warren Golf Course. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
Juniors 
continued from page 24 
his game, he'll be a top play­er nationally." 
Both Chen and Alan-Lee bring more to thn team than simply their playing ability, focusing on the team's sue­eess over their own. 
"During their respective freshman years, I wasn't sure what kind of leaders they might become down the road and not due to any particular factors," Kubinski said. "It's just hard to predict at that point, given the great changes most young people experience throughout their college years. 

"Both have gained a great deal of playing experience. More importantly though, they're both very team ori­ented, respectful of all around them and dedicated to achieving." 
Chen and Alan-Lee are key eomponents to any future 

Wednesday, September 30, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
Across 32 Vehement speech
Hurts 35 Roman
7 3, 4 or 5, household godtypically, in golf 36 "_, please"10 Best-selling (awards showcomputer game presenter'sfrom the early request)
2000s, with "The" 40 G. I.'s mail drop 
14 When Hamlet 42 "Twelfth Night" says ''To be or duke nol to be" 
43 Malodorous 

15 Payment critter 
promise 47 Mexican
16"1'm_!"("Will 
revolutionary

do!") 
glayed by 17" P.lease" Branda (aJMr s request) 
51"_, please"

19 Endangered (operator'sstate btrd request) 20 PC capacity, for 54 18 oz., maybe,short 
on a cereal box 21 "Full" sign 55 Hardware store 22 Shot using one's boxful 
noggin 56 Springsteen's birthplace of
24 Beethoven song
dedicatee 58 Gerber eater
27 "_, please" (announcer's 59 Old salt's request) direction 29 What to do at a 60 "_,please!" crossroads (Henny 31 Postpone yet Youngman's again request) 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

64 Past the golf pin, say 
65 Direction from 
L.A. to K.C. 66 Band with the 1975 #1 hit "One of These Nights" 67 Ferrara family 
name 68 Blazed a trail 69 Dada, to many 
Down With 45-Down, something not to criticize 2 Ernest Borgnine title role 3 _ FireBall (hot candy) 4 Job for a tailor 5 Rejoinder to "'tain't!" 
6 Collects splinters, so to speak 
7 Embroidery loop 8 Just fine 9 Fraternity 
hopeful 1 0 Beethoven keyboard work 
11 Like poisonous mushrooms 12 Seat of Nassau County, N.Y. 
13 Less lenient 
18 401 (k) alternative 
23 Fangorn in "The Lord of the Rings," e.g. 
25 Jedi enemy 
26 Falco who played Carmela on "The Sopranos" 
28 Familial diagrams 30 Bard's before 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Gary Cee  
33 "I can't sing_" 34 TiVo, for one 36 Broad-minded 37 Taylor who said "I do" eight times 38_ equal footing 39 Wearer of a triple tiara 40 Last Supper guest  41 Some rainwear 44 Come into prominence 45 See 1-Down 46 Dutch brew 48 The Scourge of God 49 Get-one-free deal 50 Swear (to)  52 Microwaved, slangily 53 "The Waste Land" monogram 57 Grace ender 61 "I'd like to buy _,Pat" 62 Hoopster _ Ming 63 Chicago Cubs' station  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CEU1lRI1U:'l RORS ON TtllS IH\': Erika Fkttialt. 40; llrv:mt GumbeL 61, krrv Lee Lewr•. 74: Amt.1l'kl""'¥, 71\ • · 
Uupp} Birthtla!·: Slick 10 yottr ttl&u; ami thl1 ld other penpk SJ,ktraek }'(~I wu.b J.~'''ihih ties thod hav~ litlh..-"S.U.h:-,tanc<t... hX'!lL~ on wb:11\ llnJ"H)t1~»:tl tn ymt ,J yt1U waul tt) >ldV>Uh.'C ~J"Ilk'~ lionally.rueulal.ly aud 1\na.m:ullly. Your imuu.imt wlll >IK'f yon iu u.., nj!ht <lil>:CII<'Il w don't l~m aJMi h~w wbeu a.;;t.ion "!Wjllir<:d. Yorrr·mm.lhcr"'l'<' 10. 11.24,29, n. ·14. 47 
ARIK'i tMan:h 21-Apriii!IJ: Ollertn): your lime. mlb or s..n1ce w.illtakc yo11111k• a new 
)l.roup tllal has a lot to bnll!liO lh~ table.The tavors.ptoJl()rnh and kn~·t<~d~tc yoo Will ac. 
q111W, daw to your kltldncss and ~~u1iclp;l!Klll, "iU help '" cstal>li«h yo11r po~ilion. • * • * 
TAUtLS (April lO"Muy 2lh: Sll\lW confidcm:e and <!>hili!)·. Chan!l-111g your pl••" I>CC•n«: ;;;;ml!:<>!\C ~~"" dws will m11 kave y.m in a str<>!lj! J><l<llion. Retu«: to let your onIDitOl" cau"" yon to ac! impuhi<ely Your actions must reflt'<'l }'<JIIr O"'U tdeas. ** 
Gf:J\UNI (Ma~· 2l·Jnne llh: l)o:ijl'tleaw an)1hmg. to dou~ee or Ntmt on romeone else It> 
do ynur jt'll;. !~lt your pONlllc< in order •nd fil•hh what you Wll'l. Atdatumship mny nt:\1 be 
m; g<MI f(l!" you a> you thoulltl!, l'rt.>M:t w'hat yon have "·<•rked w hard ,.., acquire. *** * * 
CANCER (.June li-July 121: You c:•n k1w a u~w you i1111<> rime if you mako alt<:rarit~l\ 
toyonr tif<*rylc.appe~ratM or even ytM ,kills -<Ill briugiug. l..:ndicial rc,ulls. Yl'tu \\'til 
lt.we 3 hcncr ctmnc'\1.' 10 lo!lnw yrmr dr\~am'. hop<'~ and wi4~t.>s iutn till' litlllre. *** 
l.f;t) (July l.'k\ug. !Z!: A relationship or partlt<,Nlnpi• J.IO'<~bk I!IJI k IR>IICSI :.t..ml wh~t yo11 are brill)!ill~ to llw: table. Too tu1d.1 talk may )!iw romevu< ~\»tare d<-alin~t wi!lt a fa I);<' impres~ion Donl make promi>~os y~tmay "'~ be al>k to fulfilL ** * 
VlRGO tAug.l.~S."J''.lll: TI~e mosltmlikely situation or set of cirnuustaJI<"t'> willlllm mn 1.0 be tlle m<tsl satisfyin!! ami profitable. Tl)iug ll(W ttriugs \\'111 eual.>k you to otlcr ntoo: lop.,'<lpk you work with or wlt.odepcud on y.,u.11l<'re i> UKti!CYIO he made *** 
UliRA tsq,l. l.I.Ocl.lZI: You may fill"e a k3rn.tn~ tUNc but it wtll set yon apart fmm C\'· cryrnw: dsc. Y()llf iutdk<:tual input coupled wilh your un~que skill to develop :MJ!ethilt@ with sul>.>tat~<:e mto sott~ethiug oold and hreatlltakn1g "111 win fan•n, fncnds ruld rut un~otn~ 
1"\.''iJWCl. ***** 

SO.>RPIO (Ocl.l.'-Nov.ll ): Y<.>n'lllmw lmuN~ ~lt.in)>l your JX)illt ;l<.·ms~ to S<l!lteim~ ~'011 ,;re do.t to. Qtie>tion wb.:lll~r you are beinl! t<lld the mltb. Sort throtJ~h \\ilat'S real arkl wllllf, n<~ ~l"l rl"n't be fouled by fal!>!: imprcs;,.>ns. *** 
SAHflTARJl.IS INuv. 11-Uec. ztl: Y<1lll!lUsl >l~} ou t<>ttr.IC and rd'r:ritt fl'<llll nlakiujt any abmJff. dunpes !bat will alt<:r tl~e way yon live or ll~e lif~styk ym1 lead.. Trawl for pka~nre will ea-;e $tre3.~ hut \\111 cau~e fiMtlcial pmblan~. **** 
CAPRICORN IJ)«, Zl·Jan, .1?1: Your tllk!h~t1K"e ~ud illi\littW aw<UI:IK~s Ill·ill nt>! )Jt'Cf 
ymt wrong hl'atWi~llly <ll ''l<l<>ti(»l~lly. hk~ sMtdhm~ l!mt illkr<'<'h y<•u and t<W<llk it '" II 
will OO;w ilucre;t fr<)lll ~>;.'<!pk l<X'Ikmg to mwst. *** 
AQt'Akt(IS (jan. 20·1'cb.l8):\'0u'll want too much. too fa.o;t.l'km't make a r..,_, If ~'m don' I ~WI your way. S.:.meon~ b trylnp. to <;ave you rrom making a poor chnk'r.l..htm to tlw advke bclltlll!h'en and slo\v down tlw proct'S'> until yoo han m<Jre !aets. *** 
l'ISCt~'i (Feb. 19-Marcb 20l: You'll be in tlle 111\Xxl !\> <'lliWJUcr a11<l ;!<;<"<llllJ>h~h l»t! <k>n'! 1.: too quick 1<1 >h~re Y"'" i<le.%, l>latt< or stl<.~<-~ S.>!ll<.'<tll<' lllliY try to l:;kc :l<h'atl!a)!C of )'i)U Put your ,;kith 10 W<llk !<.>r ynu Tile'''"'' aud soli(! mtllc \\illlmn~ )'0!1 su<:"e" *** 
Blrlhd~y Baby: Ynu '"" inqmsith•c ,ltrtnitive rul<l inventive. You haw a stn>n~ "'~''"'of jtl' lice at~lt>oke t-esfMt~ih!luy senously. 
Euxe<ni(f',f n~~b ,file,t: CUf!,eni~l!aJI.&.'tlmfi,.r (,'(mfid<~mial t't.m,n.fltmitll1,\, 111)'.\!"IC< ~'<mlfl'lt.~<'lli<lill~l ji1r f:olgfl1i<!',\ l>!vg; a.wn~nlri<'e .wmfiw.fim 
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
SCHAD & FREUDE 

\VOIL~t...-Cs.. \IU \ Ttt T tH~ ----'? oot.'9o..,.,.___~ 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
FAiri. TOo7 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
JUMBLE 
~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form tour ordinary words. 
CUFOS 
I [J (] 

tWOINDS I 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

J [) I I 
NEW.A!rrble iPhone Appgo IO:h!II)JI!r~ 
IWHEPEN I 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
1 rJ () 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: ( I I JAND rI I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) QUEUE TEPID FAUCET CARBONYesterday's IJumbles: 
Answer: What she bought for her boyfriend ­A"BEAU" TIE 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address City _______ State _____ Zip_______ 
r-----------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, September 30, 2009 
page 24 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Lost production 
Irish looking for goals with Weissenhofer out 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sporrs Writer 
Michael Floyd is not the only Notre Dame offensive star out for a prolonged period right now. Senior captain Michele Weissenhofer has not seen playing time since the No. 10 Irish lost to No. 11 Santa Clara 2-0 Sept. 11. 
Instead of adding to her 87 career regular-season points, Weissenhofer has spent much of her senior season on the bench battling lingering ham­string issues. Currently, a pulled right hamstring limits the forward's ability to play. 
"I pulled my left [hamstring] in the pre-season," Weissenhofer said. "Then I 
see HAMSTRING/page 19 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Squad set for MIAA challenger 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 

Something's got to give Wednesday, as Saint Mary's and Kalamazoo are set to face off in a battle of teams with 2­4 conference records. 
The Belles (6-6, 2-4) recent­ly squandered an opportunity for advancement in the stand­ings against Albion, which also had the same conference record at the time. A combi­nation of hitting errors and an inability to hold a lead led to a 3-1 loss for the Belles, drop­ping them below the Brits. 
"We were very evenly matched with Albion," Belles coach Toni Kuschel said. "We 
see ALBION/page 22 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Howard, PE pitch shutouts; Farley edges Welsh Fan1 
all aspects of the game from zone by consistently placing ceptions into scores. chanting "championship" bothBy KAITLYN MURPHY, JOHN the start, as both their offen­the ball in the hands of her Despite the disappointing during halftime and after theHELMS and KELLY ZENER£ 
sive and defensive units con­capable targets. loss, the Shamrocks' senior game.
Sports Writers 
trolled the Shamrocks (0-1). Jeffries, Hobinson and captain Emily Dore expressed "We're really excited," 
Howard proved it means Bishop had her pick of capa­Coletti each provided multiple confidence in her team and Bishop said. "We're looking to business this season with a 33-ble receivers, namely sopho­receptions and were the ulti­their season. go all the way." 0 shutout of defending cham­more Kristyn Jeffries, junior mate offensive contributors to "It was our first game," Dore pion McGlinn Tuesday. Kaitlin Robinson and freshmen Howard's 33 points. said. "We were getting our Pasquerilla East 6, Lewis 0 
"We were really excited to Laura Coletti. When it came to The Ducks' defense used kinks worked out. I think we'll What had been a slow defen­show that our win against the multiple opportunities for consistent pressure to record have a strong showing of sive battle turned into a wild Welsh Family wasn't a fluke," touchdowns and extra points, four interceptions of McGlinn offense and defense on finish as Pasquerilla East junior captain and quarter­the Ducks ran well-executed sophomore quarterback Sunday." topped Lewis 6-0 Tuesday. back Kayla Bishop said plays and Bishop effortlessly Lauren Miller. The offense Howard already has its 
The Ducks (2-0) dominated painted the corners of the end converted two of these inter-sights downfield this season, see PYROS/page 21 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles set to open conference 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
The Belles open MIAA con­ference play when they travel to Adrian, Mich., for a matchup with Adrian College today at 4 p.m. 
Saint Mary's (3-6-1) enters conference play after splitting two games at its SMC Fall Classic last weekend with a 2­1 victory over Bethel and a 3­0 defeat against Marian. Despite the lopsided decision against Marian, second-year Belles coach Ryan Crabbe said his team was just a few plays away from running neck-and-neck with a very good Knights team. 
"I was not disappointed with things Saturday because we simply did not finish our chances," Crabbe said. "They beat us on two corners in a short span and a miss-hit 
see ADRIANIpage 22 


MEN'S GOLF 

Chen, Alan-Lee emerge as team's junior leaders 
By ERIC PRISTER Sporrs Writer 

As integral parts of Irish coach Jim Kubinski's first full recruiting class, juniors Jeff Chen and Connor Alan-Lee are ready to assume their role as upperclassmen and lead­ers, both on the course and ofT. 
"They have really blossomed over the last year or so," Kubinski said. ':J've seen dra­m<ttic changes in their approach, confidence and in their willingness to vocalize their thoughts from how they arrived as freshmen." 
Chen and Alan-Lee have been successful in the two matches so far this season for the Irish. All three of Chen's rounds counted in Notre Dame's 6th place finish at The Gopher Invitational in Wayzata, Minn., where he f1n­ished in a tie for 27th place overall on Sept. 14. 
"[Chen] has few weakness­es," Kubinski said. "He is very solid in every facet of the game. He can improve in each area and should given his work ethic but is without a glaring weakness." 
Alan-Lee shot finished in a tie for 30th and shot a three­under 69 in the f1rst round of the Mason Rudolph Championship in Franklin, Tenn., one of only four rounds in the 60s so far for the Irish. lie also competed individually in The Gopher Invitational. 
"IAlan-Lee] is one of the best strikers of the golf ball not only on our team but, really, any team," Kubinski said. "lie's working hard at improving his short game. When he elevates that part of 
see JUNIORS/page 22 





