--~­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Students struggle to find on-campus jobs 
ND employment still available, but scarce 
By ANN-MARIE WOODS News Writer 
Given the current state of the economy, Notre Dame students are facing more competition in the on-campus job market than they have in previous years. 
Managers at popular on-cam­pus locations have noted slight increases in the number of stu­dent applications for employ­ment. 
"Shifts were filled pretty quickly this year," general man­ager for the Huddle Jim LaBella said. "Normally, we have more openings at this time in the 
see NO JOBS/page 4 



Study abroad requires new health care 
Students must now use HTH Worldwide insurance for International Studies programs 
All program participants are now required to have health insurance from HTH Worldwide, which "special­izes in study abroad and international networks," Opel said. 
In the past, students were allowed to use their own policies. 
Opel said HTH Worldwide provides comprehensive cov­erage, and in most instances students can go to the doctor without having to pay any additional fees. 
"With [HTH Worldwide] there is no co-pay, and we 
see ABROAD/page 4 


CLC discusses plans for coming year 
By ROBERT SINGER Assistant News Editor 
To jump-start their first meeting of the year, members of the Campus Life Council (CLCl reviewed last year's accomplishments and voiced their ideas for 2009 -2010 school year, including student legal services, a more inclu­sive orientation experience for transfers and a safety awareness campaign. 
"To start this conversation, one of the things that we've looked into is student legal services on campus. There are some things that are very easy to do," student body president Grant Schmidt said. "We've talked to Captain [Bill] Kirk to make sure students know what they're looking for when they sign a lease. There are certain other things that we want to look into, for example, if a student is given a citation for drinking." 
The members emphasized that since the CLC proposes 
see CLC/page 4 



By JOSEPH McMAHON Associate News Editor 
While there is much debate about health care reform in town halls across the country, the Office of International Studies (OIS) has taken steps to insure full health care coverage for all program participants. 
"We have a standardized system where we know what is covered everywhere," OIS director Kath~een Opel said. "For us we think this is the safest and most comprehen­sive thing we can do to help our students abroad." 

SMC positions fill fast as economy worsens 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 
Campus employment provides students the luxury of a job that is willing to work with their schedules and is within walking distance. This year, however, students are finding employ­ment opportunities at the College rather scarce. 
According to Kathleen Brown, director of financial aid, jobs have been much harder come by this year than before. 
"I would say the most notable difference is that the students seem to be snapping up the jobs 
see SMC/page 4 

Suspect in rape case no longer enrolled 
Observer Staff Report 
The man charged with felony rape associated with a February 2009 on-campus incident is no longer enrolled at Notre Dame, University spokesman Dennis Brown said. 
The former student and mem­ber of the swim team was charged with felony rape on Aug. 19, according to St. Joseph County court documents. 
Sgt. Bill Redman of the St. Joseph County Police said the man was arrested Aug. 20 when he turned himself in to police after the rape charges were filed. 
Redman said he was released on $5,000 bond. 
He was not arrested on cam­pus, said Dave Chapman, assis­tant director for Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP). 
The court documents said the woman was found in Knott Hall around 4 p.m. in February 2009 wearing only the man's shirt. 
The man told police he had sex with her, but she said she had no recollection of any sexual rela­tions with the man, according to the charges. She told police she would not have consented. 
The woman had a blood-alco­hol level of 0.13, according to the documents. 
Court documents indicate the case is active. 
INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER Center celebrates 25 years page 3 • Defensive line preview page 24 • Lollapalooza review page 12 • Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Those hot sumi1ler days 
As the weather has been a frigid 60 to 70 degrees these past few days, I find myself facing the dismal comprehension that summer is finally over. The days of rest and relaxation have officially come to an end, and I am back here at school. 
Not that I don't enjoy my college Alicia Smith days, because I do. I wouldn't trade 
News Writer 
them for anything. But nothing can compare to the hot summer days I spent outside at the park. 
This past summer, I worked as a coun­selor for a day camp at my local park department. My days at Elmwood Park consisted ofentertaining 10 to 25 kids. We would play games, do crafts and run semi-organized sports. 
I worked with a great guy, who I had a great time hanging out with. This guy was six-foot-seven. He was lean and ath­letic, and plays basketball on a scholar­ship at the local university. Though he was ridiculously tall, he was the nicest, most non-intimidating person on the planet. 
I, on the other hand, am five-foot-four­inches tall. And for some reason the kids were scared ofme. I had their full respect everyday. Not that I was mean to them; I never yelled at them, even if they did something very wrong. I never really even snapped at them that much. I sim­ply asserted my authority, and even with my small stature, they accepted it. 
Two days into the job we had our first fist fight. Luckily, I didn't have to break this one up. This fight was over dodge ball, a game the kids adored and I hated. Every time we played, the kids went nuts. No matter how hard we tried, they wouldn't listen to the rules, and eventu­ally the game was banned. 
Day three hosted another round of fighting. This time it was over four square. Apparently, ifyou are an 11­year-old boy, cheating is not tolerated. 
As the weeks went on I faced many other difficulties. One boy decided that he didn't like the restrooms because there were bugs in the toilet (keep in mind we are at a park!). So he proceed­ed to go to the bathroom on the sidewalk right outside ofthe bathroom instead. When I caught him in the act, I told him to go inside and go to the bathroom. He did, and continued to pee the whole way there. 
We had one girl fight while at the park. This one didn't consist offists. It was simply a "so-and-so called me this" type of fight. It ended in a frank discussion about respect. A few days later, the girls causing the trouble left the park. 
We had another kid who was a run­away. He often would do the craziest things. One day, he climbed all the way on top ofthe playground equipment. Now I don't mean the legal way you are supposed to climb it. No, he climbed on the outside ofthe equipment, and was putting his life in danger. He was five. Later, he decided to leave the park, and ran to the road. My co-worker chased him for about half an hour. In the end we called his parents and he wasn't allowed to come back anymore. 
After my second summer at the park I have several fond memories. I remem­ber the sweet summer breeze. I remem­ber my kids at the park, and I remember all the magnificent stories that I now have to tell about my awesome kids at my park. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer incorrectly reported the former Notre Dame student charged with felony rape was arrested on campus in an Aug. 28 article. The student turned himself in to police and was not arrested on campus. The Observer regrets this error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, September 1, 2009 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT SONG BEST DESCRIBES YOUR LIFE RIGHT NOW? 





Katie Riojas  Leon Zhou  Micaela Telleria  Priscilla Choi  
sophomore Breen-Phillips  sophomore Stanford  sophomore, Breen-Phillips  sophomore Breen-Phillips  
"Baby You  '"Break Even'  "Come As You  "There's no  
Wouldn't Last  by the Scripts.  Are."  song that can  
Another Minute  Wait, no, that's  describe me  
on a Creek.,,  a lie. I'm not  right now!"  
even close to  
breaking even."  

Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

COLEMAN COLLINSfThe Observer 

The Duncan interhall football team practices Monday night. Their first contest is in two weeks. 
OFFBEAT 
pickup a check from an audi­torium where South Florida Stimulus Coalition banners hung. 
When the fugitives arrived, they were identified and arrested on offenses ranging from grand theft to fraud to attempted murder. 
Police spokesman Sgt. Frank Sousa says the two­day sting was dubbed Operation Show Me The Money. Sousa says the sting saved man hours and allowed police to make arrests in a controlled envi­ronment. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Largest mariachi band consists of 549 members 
GUADALAJARA,Mexico-­Ay, ay, ay, ay! Guadalajara finally boasts the worlds biggest mariachi band. 
A total of 549 musicians got together to win the record for the birthplace of mariachi Sunday, playing several songs in just over 10 minutes, closing with favorites Cielito Lindo and Guadalajara. 
A representative of the Guinness Book of World Records, Stuart Claxton, made it official at the International Mariachi Festival. 
The old record belonged to 520 mariachis who per­formed in San Antonio, Texas, in 2007, said Francisco Beckman, an organizer of the record­breaking attempt. 

Record-breaking is all the rage in Mexico. 
Florida police promise checks to make arrests 
MIAMI --Police in Florida are using the promise of a stimulus check to make some arrests. 
Authorities in Fort Lauderdale say they sent let­ters to fugitives offering them stimulus money. The suspects were asked to call a hot line and set up an appointment to 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a: 
1.&.1 ::z::: 
!ci: 
1.&.1 
3: 
-I c( (,) 



76 53 

77 55 
0 
...I 
LOW 49 LOW 50 
IN BRIEF 
An exhibition entitled Graffiti Art Project will be held in the Crossroads Gallery today at 9 a.m. The collection consists of artwork from a summer program made up of 10 to 17-year-olds with inter­est in art. 
Para Ia Gente: Art, Politics and Cultural Identity of the Taller de Gnifica Popular is taking place at today at 10 
p.m. in the O'Shaughnessy Galleries in the Snite Museum of Art. The exhibition has selected works of the Charles Hayes Collection of Twentieth Century Mexican Graphics. Admission is free. 
A photography exhibit enti­tled Thin: Photographs by Lauren Greenfield will be pre­sented in the O'Shaughnessy West Galleries in the Suite Museum of Art. The collection has 53 color photos of groups of women. The exhibit opens at today at 10 a.m. 
Mass will be held in the Sacred Heart Basilica today at 
11:30 a.m. and 5:15p.m. 
The Emerging Concepts in Cancer Biology From Molecular Mechanisms to Nanotechnology lecture will be held in room 129, DeBartolo Hall today at 3:30 p.m. 
Activities Night will be held in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse today at 7 p.m. It will feature many different clubs and origanizations offered at the University. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


76 57 

HIGH LOW 

Tuesday, September 1, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Center celebrates 25 years 
By BRITTANY VANSNEPSON News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Center for Spirituality has reached its 25th year while battling obstacles, making improve­ments and focusing on future education based on the inter­action between reason and faith. 
A special symposium will be held on Oct. 8 and 9, in mem­orandum of the life of Monika 
K. Hellwig, the first Madeleva lecturer. 
"When the Center started, the first program was quietly established as the Madeleva Lecture Series," director Dr. Kathleen Dolphin said. 
Hellwig's career as a the­ologian brought about advances for the Center by inspiring both the academic study of spirituality as well as implementing it as a way of life. She did so through the Madeleva Lecture Series. 
Since the Center has been 
in the public eye since 1984, it has moved to a new build­ing, transitioned under the care of a new directors and has seen an endless number of Saint Mary's students pass through its doorways. 
With the Center's first fund­ing, donated by the Sisters of Holy Cross, the Center for Spirituality became the first establishment of its kind in the United States. Under the lead of Keith Egan, the first director, spirituality was introduced as having an aca­demic component, Dolphin said. 
"What started out on a smaller scale," Dolphin said, "has become very successful." 
Evidence of Dolphin's state­ment can be found in the recently funded Quest Project, a program that spon­sors events that stress the importance of a healthy rela­tionship between the spirit and the mind. 
The Center's goals for the future are to become less of 
an external face to the stu­dents and more of a resource to the public. Ultimately, the Center hopes to capture the students' attention and acquaint them with what is going on in the Center. 
"We want to ask the stu­dents the question," Dolphin said, "can you be a critic and a believer at the same time ... and our answer is yes." 
In order to commemorate the Center's beginning, Dolphin will be hosting a series of activities. The first will be an open house on Sept. 10 on the first floor of Spes Unica from 3 to 5 p.m. 
A lecture will be held the following Tuesday at 7:30 
p.m. in Vander Vennet Theatre, where speaker Kathleen Sprows Cummings, a history professor at Notre Dame, will discuss "Reflections on Catholicism, Feminism, and History." 
Contact BrittanyVanSnepson at bvansnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Confirmation 

Sunday, August 30, 4-5 P.M. Thursday, September 3, 5:30-6:30 P.M. Sunday, September 6, 4-5 P.M. 
Contact: Fr. John Conley 631-7888 or John & Sylvia Dillon 631-7163 
C-M 
Campus Minl$tl 

ND alutnnus piloting NASA space shuttle 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame alumnus Kevin 
A. Ford is serving as the pilot of Space Shuttle Discovery on the STS-128 mission that launched last night from NASA's Kennedy Space Center in Florida. 
Ford is carrying the jacket of a book titled "Aeronautics to Aerospace at the University of Notre Dame," which was writ­ten by Thomas J. Mueller and Robert C. Nelson, professors of aerospace and mechanical engineering, into space. 
During a 13-day flight, the crew of seven Discovery astro­nauts will deliver science and storage racks, a freezer to store research samples, a new sleeping compartment and a treadmill named after comedi­an Stephen Colbert to the International Space Station. The treadmill is a consolation prize for Colbert, who hoped to have a room in the space sta­tion named after him. 
Ford, who was born in Portland, Ind., and considers Montpelier, Ind., his home­town, was graduated through Notre Dame's ROTC program in 1982 with a degree in aero­space engineering. In 1989, he earned a master of science degree in international rela­tions from Troy State University and, in 1994, a mas­ter of science in aerospace engineering from the University of Florida. He earned his doctorate in astro­nautical engineering in 1997 at the Air Force Institute of Technology at Wright Patterson Air Force Base in Ohio. 
This is Ford's first flight aboard the space shuttle. He joined NASA as a pilot in 2000 and has had a variety of assignments, including techni­cal duties, advanced explo­ration issues, and avionics and testing. 
In 2004, Ford was director of operations at the Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center in Star City, Russia. Between 2005 and 2008, he was capsule communicator in the mission control center for six shuttle missions. 
A retired U.S. Air Force colonel, Ford has 4,300 flying hours and Federal Aviation Administration commercial certificates for planes, helicop­ters and gliders. 
Notre Dame alumnus Michael 
T. Good flew as a mission spe­cialist on Space Shuttle Atlantis Mission STS-125 in May of this year. 
Alumnus and astronaut James D. Wetherbee, who retired from NASA in 2005, flew six times aboard the space shuttle and is the only U.S. astronaut to command five space flights. 
W. Michael Hawes, a 1978 graduate, is associate adminis­trator for program analysis and evaluation in NASA's office of the Administrator. 
Annette P. Hasbrook, a 1985 graduate, is a lead space sta­tion flight director at NASA's Johnson Space Center. 
New AgencyND director appointed 
choose their own sources require
Special to The Observer 
new ways of thinking and mar­
Don Schindler, a University of keting communications skills. Notre Dame graduate and for­Don has lived in this world and merly a senior digital strategist we are excited have him join us for the digital marketing and and lead the AgencyND team." advertising firm MediaSauce, has Schindler has worked in digital been appointed managing direc­media since 1999 and has led the 

tor of AgencyND at the University of Notre Dame, effective Monday (Aug. 31). 
A seasoned professional in strategic plan­ning and posi­tioning, Schindler will oversee the operations of AgencyND, Notre Dame's integrat­ed marketing communications agency. 
"The world of communications is rapidly expanding and changing," said Todd Woodward, associate vice 
'The fragmentation of our media and the ability for individuals to own their own content and choose their own sources require new ways ofthinking and marketing communications 
skills.,, 
Todd Woodward associate vice president for marketing communications 
digital marketing and advertising efforts of interna­tional and nation­al clients, includ­ing RCA, ParaPRO, Keynote.org, Mars, Kimball Office, Riley Children's Foundation and Indiana Tourism. 
During his time with MediaSauce, Schindler was instrumental in developing and executing the "Digital Blueprint," a dig­ital strategic marketing plan based on emerg­

president for marketing commu­nications. "Where once we made phone calls, sent press releases and relied on brochures, we now have social networking, video and digital communications. 
"In just the last two to three years we have moved from e­mail, to text messaging, to YouTube, Facebook and Twitter. The fragmentation of our media and the ability for individuals to own their own content and ing technologies, social network­ing and conversational advertis­ing. He formerly served as a product marketing manager for RCNfhomson and is co-editor of "The Social Media Bible." 
After serving for four years in the Navy aboard the U.S.S. Woodrow Wilson, Schindler earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Missouri and his master's degree in cre­ative writing from Notre Dame. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 1, 2009 
NDJobs 
continued from page I 
year." 
While the Office of Student Financial Services cannot pre­dict what the upswing in stu­dent employment will look like this year, on average, 40 per­cent of the student body is employed each year by the University in an on-campus position. 
"It is difficult to know at this point whether or not there will be an increase in students seek­ing employment," senior stu­dent service representative Yolanda Teamor said. 
However, Teamor said she is optimistic that students will still have the opportunity to find campus jobs, citing the large number of postings listed on the student job board. 
The majority of on-campus 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
a lot earlier than in the past," Brown said. 
Although there is no defmitive answer as to why campus employment has become so pop­ular, Lisa Karle, library assistant as well as supervisor of the col­lection management department at the Cushwa-Leighton Library, speculated that the current state of the economy might have something to do with it. 
"Demand is higher than I've ever seen it since I've been here, since 1997. I believe it's partial­ly the economy and partially tuition levels, and situations that families are in," Karle said. 
Although the number of posi­tions at the College has not fluc­tuated much in recent years, this year more students are looking for employment. 
"In past years, we would end the school year with some jobs that were just never filled. Last school year if I recall correctly, all of the student jobs we had available were pretty much taken by January," Brown said. 
jobs are updated frequently on the online job board provided by the Office of Student Financial Services. While the listings range from tutoring positions to building services jobs, the greatest number of available positions are in food services, specifically the dining halls and the LaFortune restau­rants. 
"There is still employment available if students are willing to work the late night shifts," LaBella said of the Huddle. "They are not the most desir­able shifts but if they want to work, we have shifts available." 
Beginning on Aug. 24, the hir­ing for student jobs at LaFortune was described as "first come, first serve," as stu­dents were encouraged to come early to sign up for shifts at the various locations in the student center, junior Karina Galvin said. 
"When I signed up on [Aug. 
"This year, even if you look at the number of jobs we have left as of today it is a lot less than we usually have at this time of the year. But there are still jobs available, as of today." 
According to the College's Student Employment Database, there are 204 different campus jobs, many of which have more than one position for employees. As of Monday, there were only nine different job types available for student employment on cam­pus. Each of these jobs only had limited positions remaining. 
Another cause for concern in campus employment stems from the recent increases in the mini­mum wage. 
Although positions have not been cut, students may find themselves with fewer hours to work in order to compensate for the increase of pay. 
"In the library, we have the same amount of positions even though the minimum wage increased. So maybe the num­ber of individual student hours would be lowered, but we're trying to employ as many stu­dents as we did in the past," Karle explained. "We're sort of offsetting the number of hours 24]. the schedule was already pretty full," Galvin, who was hired at Starbucks, said. "I do not know if jobs at Starbucks are in greater demand this year than in other years, but it did seem like a lot of students were interested in applying there at the same time that I was apply­ing." 

In addition to the most popu­lar and sought-out locations on campus, the student employ­ment branch of the Office of Student Financial Services is encouraging students to be proactive and creative in their job search, exploring opportuni­ties at various places on cam­pus and within their particular colleges. 
"Start early when searching for an on-campus job," Teamor advised. "Check the job board often as it is regularly updated." 
Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods4@nd.edu 
they would get to compensate for the amount of pay. "In the past two years, the increase of the minimum wage has had a significant impact on student employees' paychecks. Over the past two years the average pay­check for a student worker has increased by about a dollar an hour. 
"Of course every year mini­mum wage increased we had to correspondingly adjust our pay rate," Brown said. "We've got four pay rates. The majority of our jobs are in our second level. Two years ago that pay rate was $6.35 an hour and this year it's $7.35. Our other pay rates have also changed in the last two years." 
Although jobs may seem scarce this fall, both Brown and Karle encouraged students to continue to search for an employment opportunity. 
''I'd like to encourage students to persevere in finding a posi­tion, because it will be helpful when they need their resume and when they need references for the future," Karle said. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

our planning. I think the CLC is a good balance of not
CLC 
continued from page 1 

ideas directly to Vice President of Student Affairs Fr. Mark Poorman, the com­mittee can bring about more immediate change. 
"This is a much more effi­cient channel 
just talk, but also action." 

Drunk driving could be the focus of an effort to raise student awareness about safety issues, said senior Gustavo Gari, director of external affairs. 
"I think that one of the problems that we saw this summer is 
than some of our other boards,"  "Essentially it's to speak on behalfofthe  student drunk driving," Gari said. "I think  
Schmidt said. The mem­bers also dis­cussed the  student body to take on tasks that student government might not  with Father Pete in the awareness campaign that  
possibility of a transportation service that would be  feel ready to take on, given the power we have to present  should be an essential ele­ment." Gari also  
freely  avail­ certain resolutions to  said it would  
able to stu­dents wanting  Father Poorman."  be important to help the  
to  travel  to  student body  
popular ven­ Fr. Pete McCormick  adjust to the  
ues in South Bend. "Having a  Keough Hall director  opening of Eddy Street Commons, as  
free  ride  off  issues  could  

campus is a lot better than arise with the close proximi­walking and possibly getting ty of a business develop­mugged," senior Brendan ment to campus. McQueeney said. With security changes 
While discussing ideas for being implemented as part the upcoming year, the of this year's effort to members also improve foot­
defined their purpose. "Essentially  "/ think that one of the problems that we  ball game-day weekends, the CLC also  
it's  to  speak  saw this summer is  plans  to  
on behalf of the student body to take  student drunk driving."  address any issues that develop  
on  tasks that  regarding stu­ 
student gov­ Gustavo Gari  dent arrests,  
ernment might not feel ready to take  director of external affairs  Schmidt said. Next meet­ing, the CLC  
on, given the  plans to pro­ 

power we have to present pose focus groups to begin certain resolutions to Father addressing these issues for Poorman," said Fr. Pete the upcoming year, Schmidt McCormick. "When you added. think of the printers that are all throughout the Contact Robbie Singer at dorms, that's a byproduct of rsinger@nd.edu 
Abroad 
continued from page 1 
have negotiated agreements so that in many of the places students don't have to pay a thing," she said. "The doctor just bills directly to HTH." 
HTH will provide coverage in the most extreme situa­tions. 
"With the policy we have now, we have emergency evacuation [and] repatriation of remains, if something terri­ble should happen," Opel said. 
According to Opel, the insurance premium is covered by raising the study abroad fee from $600 to $750. However, the increased fee also helps pay for rises in air­line costs. 
"What that covers is the increase in air fare that we've had and it includes insurance coverage for all students," she said. 
Opel said plans to extend universal coverage to all abroad participants have been in the works for some time. 
"We've been looking to do this for over a year, starting with the fall students. But we announced it last year," she said. "As we did our recruit­ing session last year, we announced to all students that, beginning with fall 2009, we would have insurance for everyone." 
HTH Worldwide coverage has proven valuable to stu­dents in the past. While spending last spring semester in Chile, senior Nellie Gotebeski contracted a mild strain of E. Coli. 
"I actually got a strand of E. Coli and went into kidney fail­ure, but luckily I purchased the insurance that Notre Dame had recommended," Gotebeski said. "It actually covered everything. I was in the hospital for over a month." 
Gotebeski said she almost did not buy the insurance before she left, but it ended up saving her thousands of dollars and her mother was able to visit her. 
OIS administrative assistant Paula Worhatch said the University was planning on mandating insurance before Gotebeski fell ill. 
"Even prior to Nellie's expe­rience, OIS determined that many of the coverages offered through HTH Worldwide insurance could prove invalu­able to our students and their families in certain situations and decided to provide HTH insurance to all-academic year, fall and spring semester international program partici­pants," she said. 
Opel said when she first 

heard about Gotebeski's ill­ness, her first thoughts were hoping that she had the prop­er coverage. 
"I feel great relief because I have worried many times," she said. "When I first heard Nellie was sick, I thought, 'I hope she has liTH,' because we just don't know what other insurance companies pro­vide." 
Opel said in the past some students have relied on their own insurance policies or bought into national health insurance systems in the countries they visited. 
However, Opel said in some cases countries will reject the policy, leaving students with expensive medical bills. 
"A lot of countries won't accept your home policy because they don't have time to scour through and see what things are covered by which policies," she said. 
Opel added students are often traveling while abroad, and although they might have coverage in one country, they are often not covered when visiting others. 
Ultimately, Opel said having everyone on the same cover­age will help ensure the safe­ty of all future study abroad participants. 
Contact Joe McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 



•sR 23@ Ironwood •sR 933 North •oowntown •speedway 
SR 2 3@ EdiSOh

eat tresh 
•1n dian Ridge Pia :z:a 


---------------------------------, 

ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, September 1, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE O:ssERVER:s WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Turkey, Armenia start diplomatic talks 
YEREVAN, Armenia-Armenia and Turkey, bitter foes for a century, took a step toward reconciliation Monday by announcing they would launch fmal talks aimed at establishing diplomatic ties. But they won't discuss the deepest source of their enmity: the World War !-era massacres of Armenians under Ottoman rule. 
Both sides said in a joint statement they expected the talks to take six weeks and to end with an agreement setting up and developing ties. The two countries, whose shared border is closed, are U.S. allies and came under American and European pressure to move toward peace. 
The talks face pitfalls, and will follow months of inactivity after signs of promise earlier in the year when President Obama appealed for rec­onciliation during a visit to Turkey. 
Hurricane Jimena heads for Mexico 
LOS CABOS, Mexico -Extremely danger­ous Hurricane Jimena roared toward Mexico's resort-studded Baja California Peninsula on Monday, prompting emergency workers to set up makeshift shelters and chasing away an international finance conference. 
Jimena is just short of Category 5 status ­the top danger rating for a hurricane -and could rake the harsh desert region fringed with picturesque beaches and fishing villages as a major storm by Tuesday evening, fore­casters said. Heavy bands of intermittent rain moved across the resort town of Los Cabos on Monday evening. 
Workers at the Cabo San Lucas marina nailed sheets of plywood on storefront win­dows while fishermen secured their boats ahead of Jimena, which was packing winds near 155 mph (250 kph). 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Warrant out for Conn. mayor's arrest 
HARTFORD, Conn. -Mayor Eddie Perez, already scheduled to go on trial on bribery charges, said Monday a state judge had signed a new arrest warrant accusing him of wrongdo­ing involving a former state lawmaker. 
Perez, one of the state's most powerful politi­cal figures, did not go into detail about the alle­gations other than saying they involved former state Rep. Abraham Giles, whose dealings with the city have been investigated. He said he was innocent and vowed to complete his term, which expires in 2011, and to restore his repu­tation. 
"I will fight for the facts to come out because the truth is on my side," Perez told reporters at his attorney's office. 
White mayor a possibility in Atlanta 
ATLANTA-The city that became a post-civil rights movement emblem of the political power held by African-Americans could have a white mayor for the first time in a generation -a pos­sibility that has some in the black community scrambling to hold on to City Hall. 
Atlanta Councilwoman Mary Norwood, who is white, is one of the front-runners for the Nov. 3 election, along with City Council President Lisa Borders and state Sen. Kasim Reed, both of whom are black. 
All three have bristled at a racially charged e­mail circulated by a black leadership group call­ing for Norwood's defeat before a possible runoff. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Police crack down on university 
BLOOMINGTON,lnd.-When Indiana University held Welcome Week, the Indiana Excise Police were ready and waiting. 
Excise police issued 84 tickets from Wednesday to Saturday at the Bloomington campus. Officer Travis Thickstun says in a statement that number is up from the 63 tickets issued during Welcome Week 2008, but down from 181 in 2007 and 107 in 2006. 
Most of the citations handed out last week were fbr illegal possession of alcoholic beverages, illegal consumption of alcoholic beverages, possession of false identification and furnishing alcohol to a minor. 
JAPAN 

Japanese party transitions into pow-er 
Conservative newcomers scramble to make good on campaign promises 
Associated Press 
TOKYO -Japan's newly empowered leader Yukio Hatoyama rushed Monday to select Cabinet ministers and start making good on promises to revive the world's second-largest econ­omy after his party's historic trouncing of the ruling con­servatives. 
Hatoyama, who also has signaled he wants to rede­fine Tokyo's diplomacy to make it less reliant on Washington, said in a victo­ry speech late Sunday he would focus on a quick and smooth transition and make a priority of choosing the nation's next finance minis­ter. 
Hatoyama spoke only briefly with reporters on Monday before huddling with his party leaders. 
Prime Minister Taro Aso, conceding defeat, said he would step down as presi­dent of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party. 
"I have no plan to run for re-election," Aso said. His successor is expected to be named late next month. "The most important thing is rejuvenating our party." 

Although the nation gave the Democrats a landslide win, most voters were seen Hatoyama's Democratic years, Japan is facing its bill comes to 16.8 trillion as venting dissatisfaction Party of Japan had won worst crisis of confidence in yen ($179 billion) when fully with the Liberal Democratic more than 300 of the 480 decades. implemented starting in the Party and the status quo seats in the lower house of In the long-term it faces a 2013 fiscal year. more than they were parliament. That would eas­bleak outlook if it isn't able The party has said it plans endorsing the policies of the ily be enough to ensure that to figure out how to cope to cut waste and rely on opposition. he is installed as prime min­with a rapidly aging and untapped financial reserves 
The Liberal Democrats ister in a special session of shrinking population. to fund their programs. But have governed Japan for parliament that is expected Government estimates pre­with Japan's public debt virtually all of the past 54 to be held in mid­dict the figure will drop to heading toward 200 percent years. September. 115 million in 2030 and fall of gross domestic product, 
The Democrats will also The task ahead for the below 100 million by the the Democrats plan has face next year an election Democrats is daunting. middle of the century. been criticized as a fmancial for the less powerful upper Japan managed to climb The Democrats' solution is fantasy that would worsen house of parliament. They out of a yearlong recession to move Japan away from a Japan's precarious fiscal have controlled that cham­in the second quarter, but its corporate-centric economic health. ber with two smaller allies economy remains weak. model to one that focuses on Japan's stock market since 2007, but if they fail to Unemployment and anxiety helping people. They have surged early in the morning deliver quickly on their over falling wages threatens proposed an expensive on the news of the election, promises the Liberal to undermine any recovery. array of initiatives: cash but then fell back -indicat­Democrats could resurge. The jobless rate has risen to handouts to families and ing uncertainty among 
Official results were still a record 5.7 percent. After a farmers, toll-free highways, investors about what the being counted, but exit polls rapid succession of three a higher minimum wage Democratic government will by all major media said administrations in three and tax cuts. The estimated bring. 

Eight slain in mobile home killing 
Heinze yelled in the background as a to jeopardize the investigation, frustrat­
Associated Press 

maintenance man at the mobile home ing residents who want to know if they 
park stayed on the phone with the dis­should be concerned about their safety. 
BRUNSWICK, Ga. -Guy Heinze Jr. patcher. "He's beat up! His face is The Georgia Bureau of Investigation arrived home from a night out to fmd a smashed in!" was conducting autopsies, but Glynn gruesome scene -seven people dead, a A 12-minute 911 call released Monday County police, who would release cousin with Down syndrome clinging to provided some of the only details about a results, declined to do so. The FBI is also life and another critically injured. crime -which the county police chief investigating but referred calls to county 
"My dad's dead, my uncle's dead. calls the worst murder case in his 25 officials. There's like six. My whole family's years on the job -that has this coastal Heinze's neighbor, Margaret Orlinski, dead!" Heinze said, struggling to Georgia community on edge. told a dispatcher she was half-dressed describe the scene to a dispatcher after Heinze's cousin, whom police identi­Saturday morning when Heinze ran to his neighbor called 911 and handed him fied as 19-year-old Michael Toler, died her door at New Hope Plantation, a the phone. "It looks like they've been later at a hospital, bringing the total mobile home park on the grounds of a beaten to death. I don't know what to do, slain to eight. A ninth person remained historic plantation a few miles north of man." in critical condition Monday. Police have Brunswick, a city of about 16,000 
Moments later, the 22-year-old went not named any of the other victims and between Savannah and Jacksonville, Fla. back inside and discovered his cousin said they have no suspects. "He sounds hysterical. I can't under­Michael still breathing. They have released little information stand him," Orlinski said on the call. 
"Michael's alive, tell them to hurry!" about the case because they do not want "He's freaking out." 

page 6 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September 1, 2009 
Two firefighters killed in L.A. fire 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -As the roaring wall of flame raged through the Angeles National Forest, firefighters Ted Hall and Arnie Quinones worked feverishly to protect their fire-crew camp, made up mostly of prison inmates. 
But all too suddenly, the fire invaded the campsite. Hall and Quinones shepherd­ed 55 inmates and several corrections and fire person­nel into a cinderblock dining hall to shelter them from the blaze. 
The fire burned through the camp, leaving it in ruins. The dining hall provided ade­quate shelter for now, but Hall and Quinones knew they had to get everyone to safety. So they jumped in an engine truck and left to search for an escape route down Mount Gleason. 
It proved a fatal move. 

Smoke blanketed a winding road that is perilous in the best of conditions. The truck careened off the blacktop, tumbling as it plunged 800 feet down the steep moun­tainside. The vehicle crashed upside down, killing the two men. 
The fire they had tried to outrun quickly caught up to them and left the truck a scorched hulk -a reminder that death lives in the shad­ows of firefighting. 
Quinones, 35, leaves behind a pregnant wife who is due to give birth to the couple's first child in the next few weeks. Hall, 47, had a wife and two adult sons. 
The deaths, the second and third of firefighters in the line of duty in California this year, have shaken the ranks of men and women battling the 105,000-acre fire. Morale is dim and the mood somber. 
"It hits home," said Los Angeles Fire Capt. Sam Padilla. "This morning my daughter hugged me a little tighter than usual." 
The department is sending a crisis management team to the camps that worked close­ly with Hall and Quinones in the Air and Wildland Division, and will hold a memorial service later this week at the firefighters' stag­ing camp. 
"They were selfless," said Terry Thornton, spokes­woman for the state Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation. "They put others' safety ahead of their own." 
1,000 attend funeral for slain Baptist pastor 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY -As many as 1,000 people packed a church Monday for a nearly three-hour service to cele­brate the life of a pastor who was found slain inside her church in southwest Oklahoma and to remember her as a sweet, loving woman of God. 
More than a dozen speakers, most who knew her and some who didn't, told mourners at Greater New Zion Baptist Church that Carol Daniels was not just a victim of a violent crime. 
"Rain, sleet and snow-she was faithful to the word. Not very many pastors are that committed to their ministry," Elder Steve Taplin said. 
Hall was a captain with 26 years in the Los Angeles County fire department, while Quinones, a specialist, had eight years of service. They worked together super­vising a state Department of Corrections fire crew, which later was rescued from the lire. 
Neighbors and colleagues described both men as devot­ed to their families and their jobs. 
Hall lived with his wife Katherine in Oak Hills, a rural area of San Bernardino County where homes sit on 2.5-acre lots. His sons ­Randall, 21, and Steven, 20 -and his parents live near­by, neighbors said. 
"Ted was very family-ori­ented," said next-door neigh­bor Sandy Nuckolls. "lie loved going motorcycle riding with his boys." 
Quinones lived in Palmdale with his pregnant wife Loressa. 
Los Angeles County fire­fighter Karen Zakowitz, 46, of Fontana, recalled Quinones as a "gung ho and happy person" who was called "Q." 
"I would have taken his place in a heartbeat," she said, choking back tears. "The wildland firefighting family is special, even if you don't like each other, you hang together and we're grieving together. You can feel it all across the camp." 
The deaths also hit fire­fighters who have come from around the state to pitch in. 
Fremont Fire Capt. Hick Cory, 41, said he immediately called home to let his family know he was safe. "It was pretty shocking," he said. "But it's part of the job. Bad things happen even if you do everything right." 
Wildfires pose particular challenges for firefighters because of the rugged terrain and narrow access roads. Firefighters often have limit­ed access to oxygen tanks, and toil in close proximity to flames that are notoriously unpredictable 
But that feeling of being on the edge was one reason fire­fighters said they loved their jobs. "Pretty much anyone who fights fires likes the excitement of it, the adrena­line rush, the atmosphere of the unknown," said U.S. Forest Service firefighter Angie Bishop, 29, of Mendocino County. "It is really scary, but you don't really process that." 

Judge halts vvork on Gadhafi home 
Associated Press 

ENGLEWOOD, N.J.-A judge on Monday ordered a halt to work being done outside a man­sion where Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi wanted to stay during his first U.S. visit and pitch a ceremonial Bedouin-style tent to entertain guests. 
Englewood Mayor Michael Wildes had sought to stop all renovations to prevent Gadhali from staying at the 5-acre estate when he visits the United Nations in September. Bergen County Superior Court Judge Peter Doyne gavn the city a par­tial legal victory, ordering a halt to work on the estate's pool and lengthy driveway. 
Pick up your • 
(xpr~ss Un1t Passport 
Make apurchase atthe express unit locations in your passport and receive astamp. Turn in your completed passport to any express unit before fall Break and you'll 
iPhone, $100 in flex Points, and more. 
Alsor find us on facebook! Justsearch for "HDfS (xprrss Unit Passportn to learn about weekly specialsand discounts at each express unit location. 
I R.· ;(f.{f';,.Jl
CROSSINGS 

£Z2 Cll Q 
.£:~ 
Wildes said he was happy with the ruling because it leaves the grounds unsuitable for a head of state. He said that's the only way to assure the Libyans keep their promise last week that Gadhafi won't travel to New Jersey, which lost dozens of residents in an air­plane bombing widely believed to have been the work of Libyan intelligence. 
"This is a victory for the peo­ple of New Jersey, because Gadhali won't come here if he doesn't have the kind of opulent presence worthy of a national leader," Wildes said. "But this is a Band-Aid on a long-term problem for our community because· we don't want the Libyans here if they're not going to be good neighbors." 

NOTRE DAME FOOD SERVICES 


._..... 
C"rt P9Ct1t 
The dispute arose after a Scottish court recently freed a man convicted in the 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, and let him go back to Libya, where he received a warm welcome. The bombing killed 270 people, including 38 from New Jersey and 59 from New York. 
Talk of Gadhafi's possible visit to Englewood sparked angry protests by residents, who said he wasn't welcome. 
Englewood attorneys claim the Libyans failed to secure all the construction permits and plans they needed in the upscale community of 28,000 residents about 12 miles north of Manhattan. The judge ruled renovation may continue inside the mansion and a poolhouse. 


ala Descartes 
Notre Dame Graduate 
Joins Leading Area Veterinary Hospital 

Magrane 
Pet Medical Center 


Conveniently located to N.D. in the Edison Lakes Business Park (Mishawaka) 8 minutes from Notre Dame, directly east on Angela I Edison Road 
Magrane Pet Medical Center Welcomes: 
Keith Kitson Logue, DVM 
Dr. Logue is a graduate of University of Notre Dame and Purdue's School of Veterinary medicine. 
Dr. Logue brings a wealth ofexperience in emergency and critical care medicine -care of the sickest pets, to our experienced staff. 
"Caringfor yourpet is caring for a famify memher and /.feel privileged to work with a greal team to careforvour pet, whether health}' or ill." 
To schedule an appointment call: 574.259.5291 Email questions to KKLogue(a magranePMC.com 



Tuesday, September 1, 2009 
MARKET RECAP 

IN BRIEF 
Cigarette makers sue over tobacco law RICHMOND, Va. -Two of the three largest 
U.S. tobacco companies filed suit Monday to block marketing restrictions in a law that gives the U.S. Food and Drug Administration author­ity over tobacco, claiming the provisions violate their right to free speech. 
ILl. Reynolds Tobacco Co., maker of Camel cigarettes, and Lorillard Inc., which sells the Newport menthol brand, filed the federal law­suit with several other tobacco companies. 
It is the first major challenge of the legisla­tion passed and enacted in June, and a lawyer for tobacco consumers doubted the lawsuit will be successful. 
The tobacco makers claim provisions of the law "severely restrict the few remaining chan­nels we have to communicate with adult tobac­co consumers," Martin L. Holton III, senior vice president and general counsel for Reynolds, said in a statement. 
The Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act gives the FDA authority over tobac­co for the first time and lets the agency reduce nicotine in tobacco products, ban candy flavor­ings and block labels such "low tar" and "light." Tobacco companies also must put large graphic warnings over any carton images. 
Stocks end strong month with selling 
NEW YOHK-After giving the stock market a big gain during August, investors still worried about the economy backtracked the final day of the month. 
Stocks fell in light trading Monday after a 6.7 per­cent plunge in China's main stock market sent a wave of selling around the world and added to con­cerns that stocks have rocketed too high, too fast since hitting 12-year lows in March. 
The Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 3.4 percent in August for its sixth straight monthly gain, advanc­ing despite some periodic choppy trading as investors fretted about an economic recovery. It is up 50.9 percent since early March, the best six­month run since 1938. 
Monday's trading followed a pattern seen several times during August, with U.S. stocks falling along­side other world markets after China's Shanghai exchange slid on uneasiness about country's econo­my. If China is struggling, it'> problems could affect the recoveries in other countries including the United Sta.tes. 
r-----------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 


Disneycatches Matvel in$4 billionweb 
Acquiring Marvel superheroes will lend Disney credibility with men, boys 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -The Walt Disney Co. is punch­ing its way into the uni­verse of superheroes and their male fans with a deal announced Monday to acquire Marvel Entertainment Inc. for $4 billion, bringing characters such as Iron Man and Spider-Man into the family of Mickey Mouse and "Toy Story." 
The surprise cash-and­stock deal sent Spidey senses tingling in the comic book world. It could lead to new rides, movies, action figures and other outlets for Marvel's 5,000 characters, although Marvel already was aggressively licensing its properties for such uses. 
The deal won't have ben­efits right away, and Disney stock sank on the news. Disney expects a short-term profit hit, and Marvel characters from X­Men to Daredevil are locked up in deals with other movie studios and theme parks. But Disney's CEO. Robert Iger, promised an action-packed future. 

'"Sparks will fly' is the expression that comes to Wonder Woman, was Disney's recently rebrand­those rights in perpetuity mind," Iger told analysts. bought by Warner Bros. -ed, boy-focused cable net­unless they fail to make 
Stan Lee, the 86-year-old now part of Time Warner work, Disney XD, and that more movies. co-creator of "Spider-Man" Inc.-in 1969. looks likely to increase, Separately, Viacom and many more of Marvel's Buying Marvel is meant !ger said. The shows are Inc.'s Paramount Pictures most famous characters, to improve Disney's follow­"right in the wheelhouse has a five-picture distribu­said he was thrilled to be ing among men and boys. for boys," he said. tion deal for Marvel-made informed of the marriage Disney acknowledges it There will be some lag movies, the first of which Monday morning. lost some of its footing with before Marvel's trove of will be "Iron Man 2," set 
"I love both companies," guys as it poured characters are fully devel­for release next May. he said. "From every point resources into female oped at Disney, because of Paramount said it expects of view, this is a great favorites such as "Hannah licensing deals Marvel has to continue working with match." Montana" and the Jonas with other studios. Marvel and Disney. 
The deal is expected to Brothers. For example, Sony General Electric Co.'s close by the end of the "Disney will have some­Corp.'s Columbia Pictures Universal Studios has an year and marks Disney's thing guys grew up with is developing the next attraction called Marvel biggest acquisition since it and can experience with three "Spider-Man" Super Hero Island in purchased Pixar Animation their kids, especially their sequels, starting with Orlando, Fla., that will stay Studios Inc., the maker of sons," said Gareb Shamus, "Spider-Man 4" set for a in existence as long as "Up" and "Cars," for $7.4 whose company Wizard May 2011 release. News Universal wants to keep it billion in stock in 2006. Entertainment Group runs Corp.~ 20th Century Fox there and follows the con­
Marvel would follow several of the Comic-Con has the long-term movie tract terms, Universal said. another storied comic book conventions around the rights to the "X-Men," Disney said it will honor publisher into the arms of nation. "Fantastic Four," "Silver and re-examine Marvel's a media conglomerate. DC Marvel TV shows already Surfer" and "Daredevil" licensing deals upon expi­Comi-cs, the home of account for 20 hours per franchises. ration and may extend the Superman, Batman and week of programming on Both studios maintain profitable ones. 

FormerMiss California sues over firing 
Associ a ted Press pageant that marriage should be The suit also claims Moakler and 
between a man and a woman. Lewis improperly revealed that Miss 
LOS ANGELES -Former Miss She was named first runner-up, California USA had paid for Prejean's California USA Carrie Prejean sued and many believe she lost her shot at breast implants. pageant officials Monday for libel, the Miss USA crown because of her Moakler's attorney, Mel Avanzado, slander and religious discrimination, answer. said in a statement that Prejean's accusing them of telling her to stop LiMandri said Prejean filed suit lawsuit was without merit. mentioning God even before her con­only after he sought detailed infor­"More importantly, as everyone troversial remarks against gay mar­mation on what events Prejean who watched or read her public riage. missed. statements is well aware, Ms. 
Prejean sued California pageant "I wanted to give them every Prejean's unfortunate and bigoted executive director Keith Lewis and opportunity to provide the basis for statements are responsible for any actress and former Miss USA Shanna those claims," LiMandri said. public humiliation or damages to her Moakler, who served as a co-director He said he found no proof that reputation that she has claimed to before resigning in protest of Prejean. Prejean missed events. "There were have suffered," Avanzado wrote. "Ms. 
Prejean was fired in June by pag­no contract violations," he said. Moakler strenuously denies that she eant officials who said she missed ·The lawsuit claims Lewis and did anything wrong and looks for­several scheduled appearances. Moakler both told Prejean not to ward to proving that in a court of 
Her attorney, Chuck LiMandri, said mention God on her Miss USA appli­law." that wasn't true, and Prejean was cation or at public events at least two Prejean is also suing publicist ousted because of controversial months before she gave her anti-gay Roger Neal, who handles press for remarks in April during the Miss USA marriage answer. Miss California USA and Lewis. 

page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September l, 2009 
Fragment of bone found in backyard 
Tobacco companies file lavvsuit 
Associated Press 
RICHMOND, Va. -Two of the three largest U.S. tobacco companies filed suit Monday to block marketing restric­tions in a law that gives the 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration authority over tobacco, claiming the provisions violate their right to free speech. 
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., maker of Camel cigarettes, and Lorillard Inc., which sells the Newport menthol brand, filed the federal law­suit with several other tobac­co companies. 
It is the first major chal­lenge of the legislation passed and enacted in June, and a lawyer for tobacco consumers doubted the law­suit will be successful. 
The tobacco makers claim provtstons of the law "severely restrict the few remaining channels we have to communicate with adult tobacco consumers," Martin 
L. Holton Ill, senior vice president and general coun­sel for Reynolds, said in a statement. 
The Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act gives the FDA authority over tobacco for the first time and lets the agency reduce nicotine in tobacco products, ban candy flavorings and block labels such "low tar" and "light." Tobacco companies also must put large graphic warn­ings over any carton images. 
The companies say in their lawsuit that the law, which takes full effect in three years, prohibits them from using "color lettering, trade­marks, logos or any other imagery in most advertise­ments, including virtually all point-of-sale and direct-mail advertisements." The com­plaint also says the law pro­hibits tobacco companies from "making truthful state­ments about their products in scientific, public policy and political debates." 
The tobacco makers say the new mandated health warnings for cigarettes would relegate the compa­nies' branding to the bottom half of the cigarette packag­ing, making it "difficult, if not impossible, to see." 
The lawsuit doesn't chal­lenge the decision to give the FDA authority over tobacco products, and Reynolds spokesman David Howard said the company opposes only portions of the law. 
Joining in the suit filed in 
U.S. District Court in Bowling Green, Ky., are: National Tobacco Co., Discount Tobacco City & Lottery Inc., and Kentucky-based Commonwealth Brands, which is owned by Britain's Imperial Tobacco Group PLC. 
"We believe that many of the provisions within the Act violate our constitutional rights and are not reason­ably related to the goal of reducing youth access to tobacco products," Jonathan Cox, president and chief executive of Commonwealth Brands said in a statement. 
FDA spokeswoman Kathleen Quinn said the agency does not comment on pending litigation. 
The tobacco makers name the FDA, the government and individual officials as defen­dants in the lawsuit, which seeks to put portions of the law on hold while the case is heard. Ultimately, they want 
the marketing provtstons stripped from the law. 
"My expectation is that this lawsuit will be ultimately unsuccessful," said Ed Sweda, a lawyer for the Tobacco Products Liability Project in Boston, pointing to previous laws limiting ciga­rette advertising and market­ing that have been in place for more than 40 years. 
Floyd Abrams, a lawyer representing Lorillard in the case, said he was confident the suit would be successful. 
"Some of these regulations go so far in the direction of stifling the entirely lawful speech of Lorillard to its cus­tomers that it violates the First Amendment," he said. 
The law doesn't let the FDA ban nicotine or tobacco, but the agency will be able to regulate what goes into tobacco products, publicize those ingredients and pro­hibit certain marketing cam­paigns, especially those geared toward children. 
Richmond, Va.-based Altria Group Inc., parent company of the nation's largest tobac­co maker, Philip Morris USA, supported the bill, saying the company backs tough but fair regulation. 
Altria's chief rivals-No. 2 Reynolds American Inc., par­ent company of R.J. Reynolds, and No. 3 Lorillard, both based in North Carolina -opposed the bill, saying FDA restric­tions on new products would lock in Altria's share of the market. Altria's brands include Marlboro, which held a 41.2 percent share of the 
U.S. cigarette market in the second quarter, according to data from Information Resources Inc. 

Grassley hopeful for health reform 
Associated Press 
DES MOINES, Iowa -Iowa Republican Sen. Charles Grassley said Monday he remains hopeful a limited health care reform measure can be negotiated, but that a small bipartisan group of sena­tors working on the issue agrees a government-run public option won't be part of the package. 
Senate Finance Chairman Max Baucus, D-Mont., mean­while, said an overhaul meas­ure will be presented this year with or without bipartisan sup­port -though he said a com­promise would be far better than any bill pushed through solely by Democrats. 
The senators are among a group of three Democrats and three Republicans on the piv­otal Finance Committee who are negotiating a proposal to overhaul the nation's health care system. Both said Monday they were hopeful a bipartisan deal could be reached. 
"I think the chances are still good," Baucus told The Associated Press. "I talked to (the Republicans) and they all want to do health care reform. But the sad part is a lot of poli­tics have crept in." 
Grassley, the GOP's key nego­tiator, expressed similar deter­mination, but made clear he doesn't expect a public health care option sought by President Barack Obama to be in a fmal deal. 
''I'm still hopeful, but I'm hopeful based on I think you're talking about something a little less sweeping than what we talked about before," Grassley told the AP in a telephone inter­view. 
Grassley in the past has roundly criticized the public option, but went a step further Monday in saying the core group of senators agreed such a provision would not be in a bill. 
"It's pretty clear that's some­thing not on the table," Grassley said. "It's fair to say that not every one of the six is opposed to it, but they realize the reality of it." 
The six senators have sched­uled a conference call Friday, but Grassley said nothing can be resolved until next week when Congress returns and the affect of nationwide town hall meetings can be assessed. 
Grassley reiterated that there are limits on what he can accept in a final health care reform package. 
"There are things that for months have been things I have said can't be in a bill," Grassley said. "There are some instruc­tions from my caucus I have tried to take to the table: no public option, no rationing and tort reform." 
He declined to be precise 
about what he could accept. 
"I think that would be negoti­ating through the press, and I don't think I should do that," he said. 
In Monday remarks to the Center for American Progress, a liberal think tank, AFL-CIO sec­retary-treasurer Richard Trumka -who is expected to become the labor union's next president -said lawmakers would pay a political price if they abandon a government­run option. 
Baucus meanwhile promised constituents that health care reform would not increase the deficit, would pay for itself over time and is necessary to rein in costs. Baucus also said he understands criticism is weigh­ing heavily on the minds of Hepublicans. 
"They are in their home states and they are hearing a lot of what I am hearing: con­cerns," Baucus said. "In some ways it is easy in the short term to vote against it." 
During the congressional recess, Grassley has been among the many Congress members who attracted huge crowds at town hall meetings, where many speakers expressed anger about health care proposals they believed were being pushed in Washington. Grassley said it remains unclear how much they have changed the debate. 
Associated Press 

ANTIOCH, Calif. -Police say they have found one small bone fragment on the property next door to the home of a Northern California man charged with kid­napping a little girl and hiding her in his backyard for 18 years. 
Contra Costa County Sherifl''s Department spokesman Jimmy Lee said Monday authorities do not know if the bone is from a human or animal. 
Authorities have been searching Phillip Garrido's property and the one next door for any possible links to unsolved crimes in the area. 
Garrido and his wife, Nancy, were charged last week with kid­napping Jaycee Lee Dugard in 1991. They allegedly kept her captive in a backyard encamp­ment of tents and sheds. They have pleaded not guilty. 


d}!)~ 
Sam• tllrlitCIIII!Ifrtcuf 1\t 
lillltlihliiiUlf~tl<lld 
JIMIIY TO co• CATERING 
w w~ms twrw mfl!!' 
DrtlmTUJm-r.llt:,~-1 l.t!.ttrr 'hrttri!S::ptltlt!t·'·'k.. 
FREEBIES WJiS. WJ~l OliLl'l 
h u ltmu 1ill'l1 t#t'lliM t·nwa 1111 rhut 
:mm~tr.ll,u!ltuw' ~llltU[ll msr~~m 


WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS AWEEK 
1290 £WHO I~ SllfiC!jii:AJI ~570 H1l!tlli11Wif DR-$3.13 llillllllSl 574.291.1900 574.246.1020 574.277.8500 574.968.4600 SOUTH BEND SOUlll BEND SOUlH BEND MISHAWAKA 
''VOOR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JO~N'S!""· © 
,------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, September 1, 2009 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Nevv strategy needed for Taliban 
Associated Press 
FORT WORTH, Texas -The United States and NATO need a new strategy to defeat the Taliban, the top commander in Afghanistan said Monday as he delivered a classified assessment that is widely seen as the groundwork for a fresh request to add more American forces next year. 
Gen. Stanley McChrystal said the nearly 8-year-old war is winnable, but his report is expected to be a blunt appraisal of the Taliban's increasing tactical prowess and diminishing popular sup­port in Afghanistan for both the foreign-led war effort and the fragile, corruption-riddled central government. 
"The situation in Afghanistan is serious, McChrystal said, and success "demands a revised imple­mentation strategy, commit­ment and resolve, and increased unity of effort." 
McChrystal did not ask for more troops but is expected to do so in a separate request in a couple weeks, two NATO officials said on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak on the matter. NATO nations have repeatedly declined U.S. requests to send larger num­bers of new troops or to lift restrictions on many of those now fighting in Afghanistan. 
Defense Secretary Robert Gates said Monday that the Obama administration will look closely at the "resources requests" expected to flow from McChrystal's assessment. Gates said the review's hard look at the U.S. military's per­formance contains bright spots amid "gloom and doom." 
"We have been very explicit that General McChrystal should be forthright in telling us what he needs," Gates said following a tour of the Texas factory where next-generation F-35 fighter jets are built and tested. 
U.S. officials are bracing for a troop request above the 21,000 new American forces President Barack Obama com­mitted to Afghanistan this year. That would force an unpleasant choice on Obama: Add more troops to Afghanistan just as the strain of the huge force commit­ments to the Iraq war begins to diminish, or risk losing the war he had argued the United States neglected in favor of Iraq. 
White House spokesman Robert Gibbs said the presi­dent has not seen McChrystal's review yet. Gibbs described the review as "an assessment of where we are and what in his assessment needs to change." 
"Any resource -specific resource recommendations, I'm told, will be made in the coming weeks, but are not a part of this report," he said. 
There is little appetite at the White House and in Congress for further expansion of a war that is backsliding despite nearly eight years of fighting and millions in development money. 
U.S. and NATO commanders have said they do not have sufficient troops and support to expand the fight against a resilient and well-organized Taliban insurgency. But Gates noted his oft-repeated worry about placing too many forces in Afghanistan, a strategy that failed for the Soviet Union in the 1980s. 
"I think there are larger issues," Gates said. "We will have to look at the availability of forces; we will have to look at costs. There are a lot of dif­ferent things we will have to look at." 
McChrystal's recommenda­tions were being sent up through U.S. Central Command commanders, including Gen. David Petraeus, who would add their com­ments to it. Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman would not say whether Gates had seen it yet, but said the report would not be made public. 
In Brussels, NATO spokesman James Appathurai said the report would also be examined by NATO's political and military leadership. He stressed it was an assessment by the commander of NATO forces in Afghanistan, "not a change of strategy." 
McChrystal's report recom­mends focusing the U.S. and NATO counterinsurgency efforts on the Afghan popula­tion and less on militants, one of the NATO officials in Afghanistan said. 
Last week, McChrystal said troops "must change the way that we think, act and oper­ate" in newly released coun­terinsurgency guidance. McChrystal hopes to instill a new approach in troops to make the safety of villagers the top priority. 
McChrystal said the supply of fighters in the Afghan insurgency is "essentially end­less," the reason violence con­tinues to rise. He called on troops to think of how they would expect a foreign army to operate in their home coun­tries, "among your families and your children, and act accordingly," to try to win over the Afghan population. 
Gates requested the report as a gut check following Obama's announcement of a pared-down counterinsur­gency strategy and the rare wartime firing of a top general this spring. McChrystal was sent to Afghanistan this sum­mer to oversee the addition of 17,000 U.S. combat forces, part of a record U.S. commit­ment of 68,000 by the end of this year. 
"While there is a lot of gloom and doom going around, I think that General McChrystal's assessment will be a realistic one, and set forth the challenges we have in front of us," Gates said. "At the same time, I think we have some assets in place and some developments that hold prom­ise." 
The allied strategy in Afghanistan hinges on increasing the number of Afghan soldiers and police so 
U.S. forces can one day with­draw. Some 134,000 Afghan troops are to be trained by late 2011, but U.S. officials say that number will need to be greatly increased, an expansion that the U.S. will finance. 
The deaths of two U.S. serv­ice members Monday in the south -raising the record death toll to 47 in August, the deadliest month of the eight­year war -underscored the escalating violence. 
Concerned about the grow­ing use of roadside bombs or "improvised explosive devices," Gates said he wants to send additional armored vehicles and more surveil­lance equipment. 

Wildfire ravages California homes 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -A couple . sought refuge in their hot tub only to get badly burned by the encroaching flames. Five people who decided to ride out the wildfire threat became trapped at a ranch, leaving firefighters helpless to do anything but wait for the fast-moving blaze to pass. 
Other residents managed to flee, but left precious posses­sions behind, like Adi Ellad, who lamented losing to flames a family heirloom Persian rug and a photo album he put together after his father died. 
"One second I'm crying, one second I'm guilty, the next moment I'm angry, and then I just want to drink tequila and forget," said Ellad, who lost his home in Big Tujunga Canyon over the weekend. 
The human toll of the fires began to set in Monday as the more than 164-square­mile blaze destroyed at least 21 homes and forced the evacuation of 12,000 more, feasting on tinderbox-like conditions as it swept north, south and east through the rugged foothills northeast of Los Angeles. It was the largest of at least eight wild­fires burning across California after days of triple-digit temperatures and low humidity. 
On Monday, four men and a woman who refused to evac­uate threatened areas reported they were trapped at a ranch near Gold Creek, Los Angeles County sheriff's spokesman Steve Whitmore said. A sheriff's helicopter was unable to immediately reach them because of intense fire activity, Whitmore said, but would try after the flames passed. 
"What this says is, 'Listen, listen, listen,"' Whitmore said. "Those people were told to get out two days ago, and now we are putting our peo­ple _!n danger to get them out. 
Already, two firefighters 

have died. Their truck drove off the side of a road Sunday on Mount Gleason near Acton, with flames all around them. 
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger urged peo­ple to heed evacuation orders. 
"There's so many that think that they have to stay behind and protect their home, but ... they sometimes pay dearly for that," said Schwarzenegger, who on Monday toured remains of a Northern California neigh­borhood leveled over the weekend by a quickly moving grass fire, marveling at the extent of the devastation and consoling a sobbing resident whose home burned to the ground. 
Near Los Angeles, fire crews set backfires and sprayed fire retardant at Mount Wilson, home to at least 20 television transmis­sion towers, radio and cell phone antennas, and the cen­tury-old Mount Wilson Observatory. The observatory also houses two giant tele­scopes and several multimil­lion-dollar university pro­grams. It is both a landmark for its historic discoveries and a thriving modern center for astronomy. 
The fire about a half-mile away was expected to reach the mountaintop eventually, said Los Angeles County fire Capt. Mark Whaling. If the flames hit the mountain, cell phone service and TV and radio transmissions would be disrupted, but the extent was unclear. 
The blaze in the Los Angeles foothills is the biggest but not most destruc­tive of California's wildfires. Northeast of Sacramento, a fire destroyed 60 structures over the weekend, many of them homes in the town of Auburn. 
The 275-acre blaze was 50 percent contained Monday morning. It wiped out an entire cul-de-sac, leaving only smoldering ruins, a handful of chimneys and burned cars. 
Cocaine lacedwithveterinarydrug kills three, more than 100ill 
Associated Press 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. -Nearly a third of all cocaine seized in the United States is laced with a dangerous veterinary medicine -a livestock de-worming drug that might enhance cocaine's effects but has been blamed in at least three deaths and scores of serious illnesses. 
The medication called levamisole has killed at least three people in the U.S. and Canada and sickened more than 100 others. It can be used in humans to treat colorectal cancer, but it severely weak­ens the body's immune system, leaving patients vulnerable to fatal infections. 
Scientific studies suggest levamisole might give cocaine a more intense high, possibly by increasing levels of dopamine, the brain's "feel-good" neuro­transmitters. 
Drug Enforcement Administration doc­uments reviewed by The Associated Press indicate that 30 percent of all U.S. cocaine seizures are tainted with the drug. And health officials told the AP that most physicians know virtually nothing about its risks. 
"I would think it would be fair to say the vast majority of doctors in the United States have no idea this is going on," said Eric Lavonas, assistant director of the Rocky Mountain Poison and Drug Center in Denver, where as much as half of the cocaine is believed to contain lev­amisole. "You can't diagnose a disease you've never heard of." 
Authorities believe cocaine manufac­turers are adding the levamisole in Colombia, before the cocaine is smug­gled into the U.S. and Canada to be sold as white powder or crack. 
Economic pressures may play a role. Decreased supply in the U.S. has raised cocaine prices and lowered street-level purity. Cocaine traffickers may believe levamisole adds an extra boost to an otherwise weakened product. 
Levamisole started showing up fre­quently in cocaine from Colombia in January 2008. By late last year, the DEA concluded that the spiked cocaine was in wide circulation. 

At the same time, hospitals around the country began noticing more cocaine users coming in with agranulocytosis, an illness that suppresses white blood cells necessary to fight off infections. 
In Spokane, Wash., a woman in her mid-40s who tested positive for cocaine turned up at a hospital suffering from rashes and other maladies. She eventu­ally died, and the doctor who investigat­ed suspected she had used cocaine laced with levamisole. Doctors suspect lev­amisole in at least three other illnesses in the Spokane area. 
"It's hard to know where this contami­nation (is), in what part of the country it's located, because there's really no systematic testing for it," said Dr. Joel McCullough, health officer for the Spokane area. 
"I don't think it's on the radar of a lot of people, so if there are some other symptoms, I don't know if many clini­cians would think to consider that." 
Other suspected levamisole deaths 
occurred in New Mexico and in Alberta, Canada. 
Many other people have become gravely ill, including about a dozen patients in Denver and 10 more in Seattle. At least one patient in each city required intensive care or extensive sur­gery. 
In a study published in the Annals of Internal Medicine, researchers suggest­ed that the medication might increase dopamine in the brain, as it has in previ­ous animal experiments. 
Levamisole "elevates opiate levels in various brain regions, like codeine and morphine," said Don LeGatt, a clinical toxicologist at the University of Alberta who has studied levamisole in cocaine. "Once you get those elevated, people tend to feel fairly comfortable and not too bad." 
The tainted cocaine has received only limited attention in the U.S., though fed­eral authorities are monitoring its use, said Paul Knierim, a DEA spokesman in Washington. 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 

P.O. Box 779, Norre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 


Clever marketing methods can often mask the true quality or effectiveness of what is being sold. Case in point: infomer­cials. Every day, thousands of otherwise 
rational people are lured into purehasing products that they might not have bought under nor­mal circumstances beeause of the employment of cer­tain tried and true techniques by mar­keting profession­als. Some prod­ucts seem fairly useful (those green bags that prolong the shelf-life of fruits and vegetables). Some are obvi­ously too good to be true {boost your metabolism, control your appetite, and shed body fat just by taking a pill!). Some sound intriguing until you realize how pointless they are (who eould say no to a blender that can grind concrete into dust?). Some products are kind of silly (a blanket with sleeves comes to mind ... ). And some are just plain disturbing (the Tiddy Bear? Honestly?). 
But what most infomercial products have in common is that despite how utter­ly fantastic they sound on television, they never quite live up to one's hopes or expeetations in real life. 
Which brings me to our current state of affairs. 
It might be hard to believe, but at the end of the school year last April, approxi­mately 65 percent of Americans approved of President Obama's performance. Today, that number is hovering around 50 per­cent, a full15-point drop in only four months. 
So, besides Michael Jaekson's untimely demise and the ever-enthralling Jon and Kate Gosselin separation saga, what hap­pened this summer? Did Amerieans, who had just elected a man with the most lib­eral record in the U.S. Senate in a seem­ingly decisive denunciation of the conser-


MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 

VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber ScENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 

SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: !an Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CoNTROLLER: Patrick Sala SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.I@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 63!-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief]enn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

~ 0~ (USPS 599 2-4000) i.s. published Monday through Friday aa::pt during e:nm and vac:atHm periods. A sub$criptinn ro The Obscrva is $120 for one academic year: $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published ac POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Srnd ~CQrrcctions ro: Nou·e Dame~ lN 46556-0n9 Th<Obser= PeriodicaJ postage~ at Nout: Dame W. S.,x779 and ~ddi~i()tllll mWing offkes. 02.4 South Dining Hall 
None Dam<. IN 46556-0m 

The Obst:rvc:r is a mem~r of the Associated Ptes5. AU reprod~tc:tion rights are 
"'":rV<d. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Voters bevvare 
vative Bush administration, have a sud­
den change of heart? 
This explanation is highly doubtful. 
Such a dramatie switch in political philos­
ophy on a societal level cannot happen 
overnight; that kind of change would take 
decades, not months. 
What is more likely is that a significant 
portion of the electorate, namely inde­
pendents, has experienced a eollective 
onset of voter's remorse since the elec:­
tion. On Election Day, Obama carried 
independents by a margin of 21 points 
over John McCain. Today, 66 percent of 
independents now disapprove of Obama's 
performance as president. 
And who can blame them? In 2008, 
candidate Obama promised not only to 
overturn the prineiples of the previous 
administration, but to fundamentally alter 
our political discourse. He assured us that 
we would transcend petty partisan bick­
ering that has dominated Washington as 
long as anyone can remember. "In this 
country, we rise or fall as one nation, as 
one people," Obama declared. "Let's rnsist 
the temptation to fall baek on the same 
partisanship and pettiness and immaturi­
ty that has poisoned our politics for so 
long." 

On top of that, he deliberately distaneed 
himself from the far left. His eampaign set 
a tone of moderation and eompromise, 
perhaps best summarized by this state­
ment from his keynote speech at the 2004 
Democratic National Convention: 
"There is not a liberal America and a 
conservative America -there is the 
United States of America." 
In fact, Obama's campaign promises 
ineluded support for measures like tax 
cuts, earmark reduction, more troops in 
Afghanistan, offshore oil drilling, and 
merit pay for teachers, each of which are 
traditionally part of the conservative plat­
form. This observation led former 
Republican National Committee Chairman 
Mike Duncan to conclude, "Barack 
Obama just ran the most suceessful mod­
erate Republican presidential campaign 
since Dwight Eisenhower." 
Yet instead of the bipartisanship and 
civility candidate Obama promised, Americans are witnessing the same old partisanship and the same old tax-and­spend liberalism they supposedly rejected on Nov. 4, 2008. Obama continues to blame his predecessor for the state of the economy, months after ramming his $787 billion stimulus package through Congress. At a political rally in Virginia, the president had this to say: "I don't want the folks who created the mess to do a lot of talking. I want them to get out of the way so we ean clean up the mess." Apparently, Obama's version of biparti­sanship is more akin to the "my way or the highway" approach for which Bush received criticism. 
Moreover, charges of un-Americartism and fear-mongering are becoming com­monplaee among members of Obama's party, aimed at those rejecting the Democrats' latest efl"orts to put healthcare in the hands of bureaucrats. While voters may have been willing to rally against the Bush administration, they were hardly ready to endorse the radical left-wing agenda embraced by the likes of Nancy Pelosi and llarry Reid, as recent polls on presidential performance indicate. 
Thus, many independents are now wak­ing up to find that Obama's campaign promises may have been too good to be true. Of course, unlike those of us who have beeome the unfortunate victims of infomercials, we cannot send the presi­dent back for a full refund. And instead of a mere $19.95 price tag (plus shipping and handling), the economic cost of the Obama presidency is in the trillions ­yes, that's trillions with a T-and count­ing. 
The truth is that compelling rhetoric, complete with a vague yet powerful slo­gan and an inspiring messenger, says lit­tle about the quality of what is being sold, whether it be a consumer good or a presi­dential candidate. And the same warning still applies to both: voters beware. 
Christie Pesavento is a senior and can be reached at cpesaven@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
News Sports \shley Charnley Michael Bryan Did you like the Block Party last Alicia Smith Eric Prister weekend? 
"I once had a sparrow alight upon my
Tess Civanto Chris Michalski shoulder for a moment, while I was hoe­Graphics Scene Yes ing in a village garden, and I felt that I was more distinguished by that circum­
3lair Chemidlin Joey Kuhn No 
stance that I should have been b!f any
Viewpoint Didn't go 
epaulet I could have worn. ' 
Lauren Mmm, beer... Brauweiler Henry David Thoreau US Transcendentalist author 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 1, 2009 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Attention all members of ND Nation: 
Your nation needs you. Football season is upon us, and a new chapter will soon be added to the greatest tradtition in all of sports. The outcome of that chapter is up to you. A great opportunity stands before us, and we must heed the battle call. It is our duty as loyal members of ND nation to defend the honor of Our Lady as we come together this season on the field, in the stands, and at the rallies. 
So ask yourself this question: What will YOU do for ND Nation this season? 
Darners: We are the lifeblood of ND Nation. Our energy drives the overwhelming spirit that can only be felt on this hallowed campus. Our time here is only temporary, but we can make it last forever in the col­lective memory of our nation. It is up to us to embrace our coming glory and welcome it with unbridled 
A call to artns 
enthusiasm. 

Freshmen, newest members of our nation: You are now part of something that is much larger than your­selves, and something that is beyond explanation. Take it all in as you enter the student section this weekend because you will remember it for the rest of your lives. Remember that for each one of you there are hundreds more who wish they could stand in your place. Live up to this honor by throwing your support behind your nation with unparalleled fervor. 
Seniors: This is our last chance to leave a legacy. Hold nothing back. 
Faithful Alumni: We need you to reawaken the echoes of your glory days as students. We must fill our entire stadium with energy on gamedays. The student section will bring the noise, but we need backup. Feed off of the energy, recall your passion, and support your nation. 
Subway Alumni and all avid fans: You are an inde­spensable part of our nation and we thank you for your loyalty. Continue your passionate fanaticism this year and you will be greatly rewarded. 
The greatness of our nation will be on full display for the first time this season at the rally on South Quad this Friday. As we prepare for glory, we expect nothing less than a deafening roar and a zealous crowd at every one of our rallies and games. We must rise and strike as one nation. I have full confidence in our ability to do so as we celebrate our nationhood with the type of intense, raucous, confident, and pas­sionate energy that can only be created here at Notre Dame. 
For glory, for honor, for Notre Dame, 
Your Fightin' Irish Leprechaun 
U-WIRE 
Invasion of the elders 
It's an average Monday night and my family has just finished watching their latest Netflix rental. While we wait for Conan O'Brien to come on, the volume on the television is lowered so my mother can hear herself shoot zombies on her favorite iPhone app. 
Still waiting for Conan, mom checks what movie is in her queue, has a conversation with relatives through Facebook Leslie Ventura Chat, updates her status on Twitter and downloads mp3s University of from indie music blogs -all via Nevada, Las her MacBook. Vegas
My mom is cooler than me. 
The Rebel Yell 

As much as we may hate to admit it, our parents are proba­bly having more fun than we are. 
The days when mom and dad weren't hip enough to know anything about teenage technology are gone. Here are the days where many parents not only use the tech­nology, but know more about it than we do. 
More importantly, kids and young adults alike are not. happy about it. 
The issue isn't really about technology. If parents want to use computers to pay bills and check stocks, more power to them. 
The issue is what they use technology for and why that technology is important in the first place -Web sites like MySpace and Facebook were originally creat­ed as a little spot in the World Wide Web to help people define themselves from everyone else. 
Before parents' involvement became a concern, kids were already furious that teachers were "invading their privacy," digging into a place as private as their bed­rooms. Using photo evidence of students partaking in underage drinking readily available on MySpace, schools could now keep kids off of football teams and out of school dances. 
Next, it was employers notifying employees that they would be checking MySpace profiles to ensure that their new hires weren't misrepresenting the company or dis­cussing confidential information outside of work. Many employers go as far as checking potential employees' profiles before they are hired. 
Now that parents are using the same networking sites, younger MySpacers don't have anywhere else to hide. Not that they ever did or could because the Internet is public domain. The Internet was never pri­vate and it probably never will be. Many Web sites allow users to enable privacy settings on their pages, but that doesn't stop mom from friend-requesting you 13 times until you finally cave in and accept. Millenials are angry that Facebook has been "invaded" by adults and annoyed that parents try to follow our tweets: The atti­tude that youth has toward adults is "get out and stay out." 
But in a time where we denounce racism and sexism, what makes this discrimination against older people OK? 
The fact is, the allure of having your own space that defines who you are is transcendent. This phenomenon is not limited by age -almost everyone enjoys talking about their lives and reminiscing about the past. It is a way of casting memories into stone, like scrapbooking, but on a much larger scale for everyone to see. These Web sites have woven themselves into the fabric of human culture. 
And while the youth of today is worried that there won't be any money left for social security when we are old, our parents have the amazing ability to stay young socially even as they age physically. They are "getting old" in a time when some of the most interesting and fun technology is being invented, and they should have the right to know how to use it. Parents aren't limiting themselves to boring games of cards, bingo and re-runs of "The Price is Right" anymore. Instead, parents are defining themselves on MySpace while making new friends, networking on Facebook while organizing events and speaking their minds on Twitter, just like we are. 
As I get older, I'm starting to realize that our person­ality quirks and characteristics stay with us no matter how old we get. The ability to speak your mind and con­vey your thoughts to the world in seconds may not have been fathomable when our parents were our age, but the appeal is just as real to them as it is to us. 
Most days, I come home to my mom playing table ten­nis on the Wii she bought for herself. Having already read her latest Twitter update, I ask how yoga went and we end up talking about how our days went and even play a match of virtual golf. 
In fact, technology might be bringing us closer. 
You can run from it or you can embrace it. Either way, the technology we once thought was ours alone is now available to all ages. 
Instead of being horrified that your mother added you on Facebook, maybe it's a sign that you really shouldn't have all of those pictures of you doing beer bongs up for the world to see. And what goes on in your parents' lives may be as cool and interesting as your own. 
This column first ran in the Aug. 27 edition ofThe Rebel Yell, the daily newspaper serving University ofNevada, Las Vegas. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
College is vvhere character is built, not changed 
Looking back three years in my life, I was in the same boat as all of you freshmen are in now. I was wide-eyed and looking for adventure, dreaming about making an impact over my college career. I was coming to college to become a "new" person. I had plans of what I was going to do, what I wanted to learn while studying and how I wanted 
Bret Babcock 

to leverage myself for the future. As I fast-forward three years, I University of really haven't changed all that 
Toledo 

much, and I still have similar 
The

plans. I still want to learn, and 
Independent

I'm still trying to leverage myself 
Collegian

towards that great career which will give me a great future. The fact is, the person that I was, coming into college, isn't much different than the person I am now. In this fact, I can find security and reservation, because I can look back on my college career and say that I didn't change who I am; I only got better. I say this in all humbleness, because I have truly had shortcomings these last three years, but these shortcomings have contributed to my betterment. It can be said that character is built; it isn't changed or shifted -it is simply built. And that saying gets back to something I learned in my first few weeks here at the University of Toledo as a freshman. 
I was in my first Honors Reading Conference, and I had a professor that was a very intelligent man but was very frustrating at the same time. Needless to say, after my first two papers were returned with bad grades, I really couldn't stand him. I ended up working through the rest of the semester and I got progressively better in my writings and became better because of it. (I even thanked the professor at the end of the semester for challenging me.) This taught me what it means to be persistent, but it was something that he said in one of my classes that has meant the most to me. 
It was early on in the semester, and he stopped a dis­cussion on one our readings to say something along these lines, "Over your college career you are going to learn and experience things that will challenge the things you learned as a child. These experiences could change the way you think or believe about issues and could challenge what you thought was right and wrong. But I will give you fair warning: Everything you have learned growing up isn't wrong, and you should not abandon your principles just because you came across something else that has challenged it. It is okay to chal­lenge your beliefs, but don't throw them away easily." 
Now, the above quote is not verbatim, but it gets the point across. 
You come into college around the young age of 18 (you're more of a child than you are an adult), and you will meet new people who think differently than you. Through meeting new people, you will be exposed to new philosophies and belief systems that are foreign and intriguing to you; and there is great value in this. However, don't let this exposure change who you are; instead, learn about these beliefs and study them, then see ifthey align with who you are. 
As I stated earlier, character is built, it isn't changed or shifted. You already have a character foundation, so you can only build onto it-you can't move your foundation. You may think you have "changed" your character, but that is just a distraction, and you will soon find that out. In essence, success is found in constant building, not radical changes. So look at these new experiences as ways to build up your character and become a better person, instead of changing who you are. 
I took this advice to heart, and I believe I have become better because of it. I have challenged my own beliefs while in college and because of that I am more firm in those beliefs today than I was when I first got here. 
College isn't a time or place where you come to change who you are; it is a time to experience exciting new things and become a better person. Take this principle to heart: Success in life is not found in changing who you are; it is found in constantly becoming a better person. 
Lastly, to all the freshman out there: Look at these next four to five years as a time where you can grow stronger in what you believe in right now and learn as much as you can, because college isn't about becoming a "new" person, it's about bettering yourself. 
Best of luck and have fun! 
This column first ran in the Aug. 31 edition ofThe Independent Collegian, the daily newspaper serving University ofToledo. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


By MAIJA GUSTIN Scene Writer 
Lollapalooza, the annual alternative music festival, kicked off with an incredible lineup August 7. The festival, which has been held yearly in Grant Park, Chicago, since 2005, featured a slew oftoday's hottest up and com­ing artists. 
For the indie rock-loving folks at Lollapalooza, Friday was the highlight to an impressive weekend. Acts like Manchester Orchestra, White Lies, Bon Iver, Ben Folds, Fleet Foxes, The Decemberists, Andrew Bird and Kings of Leon thrilled cold crowds on a rainy Chicago day. Rounded out with hip-hop duo The Knux, dance-rockers The Virgins, Nintendo-on-speed electro band Crystal Castles, Asher Roth, Peter Bjorn and John, experimental rockers Of Montreal, and straight-from-the-80s Depeche Mode, Friday proved to be a solid day of good music for anyone and everyone. Even a little rain (actu­ally, a lot of rain) couldn't keep the crowds away. 
Manchester Orchestra, an indie-rock band from Atlanta, played early in the day, but they had a huge crowd singing along with every song. Without knowing any of their songs, they were a little hard to get into, but they played a pretty good set anyway. They dis­played high energy and were definitely crowd pleasers. All in all, they put on a good show, but not a totally memorable one. 
The Knux, a small hip hop/rock outfit from New Orleans, provided a nice change of pace for a festival that didn't feature many hip hop acts. They started off slow with some of their lesser-known stuff, but picked it up quickly with their biggest single, "Cappuccino." They were good entertainers and had the crowd dancing, but they really ruined their set with long ruminations on their post-Lollapalooza plans for the evening and other stories that cannot be repeated here. 
Bon Iver, best known for their song "Skinny Love," usually sound great live, but they really weren't at their best at a festival of this size. Their songs arc so wonderfully intimate that a large crowd kind of ruins the effect of the music. That being said, they sounded good, and if you were close enough to the stage you could have had a great experience. Definitely check them out ifever given the chance to see them in a smaller venue. 

Fleet Foxes were easily one of the best acts of the weekend. What makes their music great is their really tight harmonies, both 

vocal and instrumental. Typically, such pre­cise harmonies are really ditli.cult to pull-oft" at a live show, but these guys definitely did it. 
In fact, they blew their recordings out of the water. Fleet Foxes are best live because their subtle nuances really take center stage. And unlike Bon Iver, the large crowd didn't dwarf the sound or the effect of the music. 
The Decemberists put on a great show. Their most recent album, "The Hazards of Love," is something like a rock opera, featur­ing defined characters and a plot. Rather than play a set featuring hit<> from both "Hazards" and their previous albums, the Decemberists played "The Hazards of Love" straight through, acting as the characters in costumes. This album was a departure of form for the Decemberists, but playing the album straight through is clearly how it was meant to be heard. When taken as a continuous whole rather than a series of songs, "The Hazards of Love" is really a great piece of music. 
Andrew Bird is known for putting on bizarre live shows, particularly because of the way he plays his music live. Rather than have one performer play each different instrumen­tal part, he has only a small band on stage with him. They begin each song by playing various melodies and then electronically loop them so that they will continue playing while Andrew Bird and company play something entirely different. 
But for whatever reason, this seems to add to the overall effect of Andrew Bird's music. He clearly envisions his music as multi-lay­ered instrumental pieces, and he has mas­tered the technology to make possible the lay­ering of music in a live show. It's an incredibly unique experience, enhanced by Bird's amaz­ing overall talent as a musician and show­man. He definitely knows how to put on a show. His set was without a doubt another highlight of the weekend. 
While most of the younger attendees were watching Kings of Leon Friday night, the crowd for Depeche Mode was having a blast, even though the median age was significantly higher. Everyone was up and dancing to the '80s electronic band. They played all of their biggest hits from back in the day, like "Personal Jesus" and "Enjoy the Silence," along with songs from their newest album, "Sounds of the Universe." Their old hits were definitely the highlights of their set, with most of their new songs falling pretty flat. But they put on a great show and proved that they still have it. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 
---------~-------­
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, September 1, 2009 
page 13 


By ANDREW SEROFF Scene Writer 
This year at Lollapalooza, Saturday was widely criticized as the day with the weakest lineup. Its headliners included the psychedelic-metal niche group Tool as well as the Yeah Yeah Yeahs, who received the prestigious invitation as a last-minute substitute for the Beastie Boys. 
The bill of acts for the day presented a hodgepodge of foreign artists such as Federico Aubele, British groups like the Arctic Monkeys and Los Campesinos!, and the neo-metal pro­gressive-rock of Rise Against and Coheed and Cambria. For casual music listeners seeking to put faces to the bands they hear on the radio, Saturday was probably not the day to get a one­day pass. For audiophiles seeking a cornucopia of unique acts, however, Saturday was the highlight of the weekend. Unfortunately, because of the scheduling logistics and the size of Grant Park, even the most ambitious festival-goers had to prioritize the groups they wanted to catch. 
The first group of the day, and possi­bly the most pleasant surprise of the entire festival, was an Americana bar­rock quintet from San Diego called Delta Spirit. The youthful group is freshly arrived on the music scene, having made a quiet entrance by sign­ing to an indie label and cutting an EP in 2006. They received national atten­tion for their 2008 full album "Ode to Sunshine," in support of which they performed on late-night television cir­cuits and opened for the Shins. 
Delta Spirit's set was exceptional, showcasing the multi-instrumental ver­satility of the group's musicians. They played their own brand of heavy, bluesy soul-rock, but their sound drift­ed from the extremes of thrash metal to mellow folk. They even ended their set by venturing into jazz for a thun­derous, half-time rock cover of Louis Armstrong's "St. James Infirmary." 
ByALEXANDRA KILPATRICK 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Lollapalooza literally held its own on Sunday, the final day of a relaxing weekend of good music at Chicago's Grant Park. The laid-back summer music festival became more crowded than ever on Sunday, bringing in a total of more than 75,000 people. Many of them were there to see Perry Farrell's band Jane's Addiction, whose farewell tour back in 1991 became the first Lollapalooza festival. In spite of the annoying bottlenecks formed through­out the park because of the large crowds, Sunday went smoothly in terms of the musical quality of the perform­ances and the responses of the audi­ences. 
One of the first acts of the day, Airborne Toxic Event, played at the Chicago 2016 stage to a surprisingly large audience, most of whom were likely there to stake out spots for the well-anticipated, New York-based band Vampire Weekend. The Los Angeles­based Airborne Toxic Event certainly drew in the crowds, and for good rea­son. 
A harmonic distorted violin and slow drumbeat accompanied by entrancing lead vocals seemed to translate well to the dehydrated and sweaty yet enthusi­astic audience, especially during the band's angsty hit single "Sometime Around Midnight." The alt rock band certainly seemed well rehearsed and precise during their show, but they inexplicably decided to end the set 10 minutes early. 
Vampire Weekend performed an hour later on the same stage. The preppy indie band certainly got the audience dancing to familiar favorites from their debut LP, heard in college dorm rooms throughout the nation last year. An unexpected yet welcomed mosh pit 

The most disappointing performance of the day came from TV on the Radio. Music critics have hailed the band as possessing a "new sound," one of the ultimate compliments musicians can receive. While the members of the Brooklyn-based alternative group strug­gle to break into the mainstream, they have been in the critically acclaimed indie spotlight since their debut album was released in 2003. Showing progress in this regard, their latest album, "Dear Science," was named Album of the Year for 2008 by several popular music estab­lishments, including "Rolling Stone," "Spin" and MTV. 
Unfortunately, that "new sound" was horrendously lifeless live. A fan or an attendee who had done her homework would have been anticipating a highly articulate, thoroughly composed, orches­tral sound. Instead, listeners were treat­ed to deflated renditions of the melodic ambiguity featured so prominently throughout their recorded works. The charm and ingenuity of 
their songwriting were lost somewhere between the artificial-sounding sampling and the Lou Reed-esque arrogance of their stage presence. 
The highlight of the day came in the Arctic Monkeys' rare trip to the United States. Other than their "Riot Van" tour sev­eral years ago, the UK band tends to gratify their extremely loyal British fan base almost exclusively, touring their own stomping grounds and the rest of Europe. They hardly ever venture to this hemisphere, and rarely for more than a few days when they do. The group was in the awkward void of time, between recording and releasing their third 
album, "Humbug," but they gave an extraordinary set worthy of their journey across the pond. 
The crowd for the Arctic Monkeys was the largest for any non-headliner act over the entire weekend. Every person­sized patch of grass within visual range of the Budweiser stage was filled with two to three people eagerly anticipating the band. Alex Turner and his mates came out promptly, filling their hour-long block with the maximum amount of sonic splendor they could manage. The materi­al ranged from the dance rock of "Whatever People Say I Am, That's What I'm Not" to the pulsating power rock of "Favourite Worst Nightmare." They touched upon the new material of "Humbug," performing the single "Crying Lightning" and one or two other songs, but they mostly stuck to their hits, almost completing the impossible task of fitting them all into an hour. 
Contact Andrew Seroff at aseroff@nd.edu 

formed in broad daylight within the hyper-excited crowd when the band mem­bers, decked out in bright sunglasses, polos, and shorts, began playing the ever­popular "A-Punk." A few new tunes from the band's upcoming sophomore album were sprinkled throughout the set for everyone's enjoyment as well. 
Neko Case was simultaneously playing her rocking set on the Budweiser stage. Her strong lead vocals, backed by the oddly fitting instrumentation of banjo, steel guitar and tenor guitar, soared throughout the park. Case, all dolled up in a black cocktail dress, performed singles from her new album "Middle Cyclone," including the breezy and beautiful new favorite, "This Tornado Loves You." 
Back on the south side of the park, happy-go-lucky Passion Pit played an upbeat set on the Citi Stage. The synth­pop indie band from Cambridge, Mass., drew in the gleeful crowd, who backed lead singer Michael Angelakos' signature falsetto vocals on the "higher and higher" chorus of "Little Secrets," a new single from their debut LP, "Manners." The audi­ence also received "The Reeling" well, 

dancing exuberantly and again singing along with the chorus. 
Los Angeles-based alt-rock band Silversun Pickups, whose spacey, distorted sound has often been compared to that of the Smashing Pumpkins, performed at the Vitamin Water stage. The crowd was small because many were just leaving the Snoop Dogg dance party, which received a very large, enthusiastic audience and excellent reviews on behalf of the polished party jams and covers of club favorites. 
In spite of the small crowd, Silversun Pickups lived up to expectations, with catchy driving tunes like the new hit sin­gle "Panic Switch" and the ever-popular "Lazy Eye." Lead Singer Brian Aubert's vocals were not quite up to par as he seemed to blow out his voice with his loud, raspy, high-pitched singing. Nonetheless, the fuzzy, distorted guitar riffs and Aubert's outspoken thankfulness for the audience's support certainly charmed the crowd. 
It's tough to headline opposite the band whose farewell tour started it all. Nevertheless, the Killers' headlining show Sunday night at the Chicago 2016 stage not only was a wild success, but also proved to their loyal fans and many oth­ers that the band is not "losing touch." The Las Vegas-based alternative rock band opened the set with "Human," the first,single off their new album "Day & Age. 
The show was entirely over-the-top, including a Las Vegas-themed stage setup complete with neons, sequins and plenty of palm trees, but each and every song brought enthusiasm from the audience, who danced to the point of exhaustion by the end of the hour and a half show. 
Altogether, Lollapalooza came to an end Sunday with a lineup of talented musi­cians and enthusiastic crowds. 
Contact Alexandra Kilpatrick at akilpatr@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 1, 2009 
NCAA FooTBALL 

Michigan coach RodrigUez denies any wrongdoing 
Statement responds to allegations by current and former players that practice time exceeded NCAA standards 
to "tear up" the effort to 
>ssociated Press 
rebuild a program that 

ANN ARBOR, Mich. stumbled to a 3-9 record last Michigan coach Rich season, including a dismal 2­Rodriguez said Monday that 6 in the Big Ten. It was his football program has Michigan's first losing sea­abided by NCAA rules, son since 1967 and its first despite allegations from without a bowl in 34 years. anonymous players and for­"Nobody on my staff would mer players who say the ever tell a player to miss a team has practiced far class ... never have, never beyond the time allowed. will," Rodriguez said. 
"We know the rules," Michigan athletic director Rodriguez said, "and we fol­Bill Martin announced the low the rules," school investigation, saying 
At a news conference in the allegations were taken Ann Arbor, Rodriguez seriously. became emotional and had "We believe we have been to gather himself several compliant with NCAA rules, times with glassy eyes as he but nonetheless we have denied any wrongdoing. launched a full investiga­
"I guess I'm here to tell tion," Martin said in a state­you that whatever you've ment released by the school heard or want to believe, the Sunday night. truth is that this coaching Martin's statement also staff cares very deeply about indicated the school had the young men in our pro­reached out to both the Big gram," he said. Ten and the NCAA about the 
The school on Sunday allegations, adding the uni­launched an investigation versity would have more to into allegations that the foot­say after its inquiry was ball program regularly vio­done. lates NCAA rules limiting Like Rodriguez, the univer­how much time players can sity's compliance director, spend on training and prac­Judy Van Horn, has denied tice. that the football program 
The announcement came violated NCAA rules. after a Detroit Free Press Those regulations allow article in which players from players to spend eight hours the 2008 and 2009 teams a week on mandatory work­said the amount of time they outs during the offseason. spend on football during the Players told the Free Press season and in the offseason that they have spent two to greatly exceeds NCAA limits. three times that amount on The players spoke to the required workouts. newspaper on condition of The players said the 
Earlier this summer, Chargers tweet saying the report was 
Associated Press 

anonymity because they amount of time they spent on 
cornerback Antonio Cromartie incorrect. feared repercussions from football activities during the 
NEW YORK -Tweet away, was fined $2,500 by the team The NFL's security depart­coaches. season exceeded the weekly 
boys. Just save it for before and for criticizing the food service at ment assists players in remov­Big Ten compliance offi­limit of 20 hours and often 
after the games. training camp on Twitter. ing fake sites on Facebook and cials arrived on campus exceeded the daily limit of 
The NFL said Monday it will The Miami Dolphins imposed Twitter. Sunday to assist with the four hours. They also said 
allow players to use social restrictions on players, "The growth of social media investigation, according to quality-control staff often 
media networks this season, but reporters and even spectators platforms such as Twitter and two people at the school. watched seven-on-seven off­
not during games. Players, at their training camp, and sev­Facebook has created impor­One person, who spends a season scrimmages that are 

coaches and football operations eral other teams also set up tant new ways for the NFL and lot of time with the team, supposed to be voluntary 
personnel can use Twitter, some restrictions on practice clubs to communicate and con­said the school's compliance and that only training staff 
Facebook and other social fields, including the Broncos, nect with fans," the league said office often makes unan­are allowed to attend. 
media up to 90 minutes before Patriots, Bills, Colts, Saints and in a statement. "The NFL ... will nounced visits to make sure Rodriguez said what has 
kickoff, and after the game fol­Lions. continue to emphasize innova­the program is following the bothered him the most is the 
lowing traditional media inter­But NFL players have tive and appropriate use of rules. Both people spoke on perception that he and his 
views. embraced the network to the these new forms of communica­the condition of anonymity staff do not care about their 
During games, no updates point that some announce news tion." because the school will not players. 
will be permitted by the individ­by tweeting, including Saints Commissioner Roger Goodell publicly discuss the case "That is disheartening," he 
ual himself or anyone repre­rookie cornerback Malcolm tweeted from the draft in April. until the probe is completed. said. 
senting him on his personal Jenkins. He sent out word of his Other leagues have not issued "Our office does not con­Rodriguez, who is guiding 
Twitter, Facebook or any other signing with the team on formal policies on social media. duct investigations in situa­college football's winningest 
social media account, the Twitter. Charlie Villanueva, then With tions such as this," the Big program after a successful 
league said. The Cincinnati Bengals sent the Milwaukee Bucks, posted a Ten said in a statement. "As stint as West Virginia's head 
The use of social media by out first official word of first­message on Twitter during half­that task is undertaken by coach, opens the season 
NFL game officials and officiat­round draft pick Andre Smith's time of a game and got a stern the institution and Saturday at home against 
ing department personnel will signing Sunday on a tweet on lecture from coach Scott Skiles, depending the circumstances Western Michigan. He said 
be prohibited at all times. The their Web site. That came one who thought it gave the impres­-the NCAA. To the extent he is not worried about the 
league, which has always day after Bengals receiver Chad sion that Villanueva wasn't we get involved, it is purely allegations becoming a dis­
barred play-by-play descrip­Ochocinco sent out a tweet say­focused. Villanueva also tweet­in an advisory capacity." traction. 
tions of games in progress, also ing Smith had signed, which ed that he was signing as a free Rodriguez suggested the "Nothing is going to change 
extended that ban to social was wrong. So Smith's agent, agent with the Pistons earlier complaints were an attempt their focus," Rodriguez said. 
media platforms. Alvin Keels, sent out his own this summer. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at tbe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Need 2 MSU & USC tix & parking UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Hold it now and watch the hoodwink pass. 574-276-8507. not go it alone. Notre Dame has As I make you stop, think WANTED many resources in place to assist Youll think youre looking at aqua-
FoR RENT TICKETS 

you. If you or someone you love man PART TIME WORK $14.25 base-needs confidential support or assis-I summon fish to the dish, although appt.,no experience needed,cus-Charming,clean 3 brm, 3 full bath Businessman buying season GA lance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at I like the chalet swiss 
PERSONAL 
tamer sales/service, 574-273-3835. house available for football week-tickets. 574-277-1659. 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For I like the sushi cause its never ends. $700 for two nights. Call ---------------more information, visit NO s website touched a frying pan Liane 574-287-2822 or 574-309-HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will at: Hot like wasabe when I bust 4158. pay top$$. 574-251-1570. EARN $50 FOR 1 HR OF WRITING http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu rhymes
LOST AND FOUND ACT, Inc. invites you to participate in ---------------Big like Leann Rimes 
------------------------------an essay-writing study. Limited If you or someone you care about Because lm all about value LOST: Silver ring with gold cross Home tor rent football weekends. VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade number of participants so register has been sexually assaulted, we Bert Kaempfert's got the mad hits and anchors in or around Rockne. Walk to stadium, sleeps 6-10. FB Tix. Victory1ickets.net 574-232-soon to secure a spot. can help. For more information, visit You try to match wits 
J. Denn CSC 631-3999. williamckelly@gmail.com 0964. www.act.org/essaystudy Notre Dame s website: You try to hold me but I bust http://csap.nd.edu through 


OUND THE NATION 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES
Tuesday, September 1, 2009 page 15 

team previous 

1 Penn State 1 2 Texas .,{):;.2 
3 Washington ... 
4 Hawaii 7 
5 Florida 
a 

6 Nebraska 3 7 Michigan 16 
"I didn't think it was possi­But Bruschi was listed longest tenured member of
Associated Press ble" to play again. with the second unit this the team. Quarterback Tom
8 Illinois 16 
9 UCLA 9 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. -Bruschi's performance summer behind second­Brady, drafted in 2000, is
10 California 
Tedy Bruschi retired declined last year. He year pros Jerod Mayo and the second most senior
11 Stanlord ·is6 
Monday after a 13-year missed much of training Gary Guyton. Even before Patriot.
12 Iowa State '13' 
NFL career in which he camp with an undisclosed Bruschi's retirement, Mayo On defense, 2001 first­
13 Minnesota 11 
14 Oregon won three Super Bowl titles injury but played in two of had taken over the defen­round pick, defensive end
14 

15 San Diego with the New England the team's last three exhi­sive signal-calling. A first­Richard Seymour, has been
15 

16 Southern California 12 Patriots and made a gallant bition games. round draft choice out of with the team the longest. 
17 Utah 17 return from a stroke. Coach Bill Belichick, usu­Tennessee, he was the In the offseason, the 
18 Kentucky 21 The inside linebacker ally stoic, choked up as he Defensive Player of the Patriots lost two other 
19 St. Louis 20 played for no other team discussed Bruschi. Year last season. defensive leaders -safety 
20 Michigan State NR and leaves football with "How do I feel about Tedy "I wouldn't specifically Rodney Harrison to retire­
21 Pepperdine NR only one unachieved goal Bruschi?" Belichick said. say the torch has been ment and linebacker Mike 
22 UC Irvine NR -a fourth championship. "He's a perfect player." passed to me, but it's been Vrabel in a trade with 
23 Kansas State 22 ''I'm 36 years old," Bruschi's reaction? passed to this whole Kansas City.
24 Purdue 19 Bruschi said at a news con­"That's something you'll defense," Mayo said. "It's "I don't think you can fill 
25 Wichita State 1iJ ference. "Your body doesn't never hear during your just going to take a group that (leadership) void with 
heal as quickly." career," he said as he and effort to really pick up the one person," outside line­
He came back from a Belichick laughed. "To slack for his absence." backer Adalius Thomas 
mild stroke in February have him say that to me is Bruschi's retirement said. "(Bruschi) has been
NGCA Women's Golf Dlvisionl 
2005 to play eight months probably the best compli­leaves running back Kevin here. He's seen so much,Coaches Poll later. ment he could ever give Faulk, drafted by the been through so many "I was retired," he said. me." Patriots in 1999, as the things."
team points 

1 Atilona State 448 2 UCLA 431 
IN BRIEF 

3 Southern California 412 4 Oklahoma State 395 
5 Auburn . 369 Favre may have cracked Chiefs head coach fires Court limits Delaware sports 
6 Virginia 342 rib, still slarts vs. Texans offensive coordinator betting to professional games 
7 Wake Forest 319 HOUSTON -Vikings quarterback KANSAS CITY -Rookie head coach DOVER, Del. -A federal appeals 
8 Alabama 291 Brett Favre says he might have a Todd Haley fired offensive coordinator court on Monday dealt another body 
9 Purdue 
257 cracked rib, although it didn't prevent Chan Gailey and assumed that role him­blow to Delaware's plans for a new 
10 LSU 254'''''''·'' him from starting against the Texans. self Monday, 13 days before he opens sports betting lottery, saying it must be 
11 North Carolina Favre told ESPN before Monday the season with a very unsettled quar­limited to parlay bets on professional 
12 Duke night's game at Houston that he has­terback situation. football games. 
13 Pepperdine n't received an official diagnosis but Matt Cassel was injured in Saturday A three-judge panel of the 3rd U.S. 
14 Georgia that taking a deep breath caused him night's preseason loss to Seattle, limping Circuit Court of Appeals declared last 
15 Arkansas 
some discomfort. He also doesn't plan away with a knee injury. But Haley week that Delaware's sports betting 
to wear any kind of special padding, refused to discuss the injury to Cassel, plan, which included single-game bets 
saying "the damage is done." who signed a six-year contract for a and wagering on a variety of profes­
Favre didn't appear to be in any guaranteed $28 million. sional and collegiate sports, violated pain when he handed off to Adrian Yahoo! Sports, citing a source in the federal law but it did not expressly say 
around the dial 
Peterson on the first play of the organization, reported Cassel sprained why. 
game, and Peterson scored on a 75-the medial collateral ligament in his left On Monday, the panel outlined its MEN'S TENNIS yard run. knee and could miss two to four weeks. reasoning in a 23-page opinion. The Favre was expected to play the The top candidates to replace Cassel court said it interpreted language that
U.S. Open 

entire first half against the Texans. are Tyler Thigpen and Brodie Croyle, exempted Delaware from a 1992 feder­
1 p.m., ESPN2 

He wasn't listed on the injury report, who are 1-18 as starting quarterbacks al ban on sports gambling -known as and none of his teammates men­in the NFL. Thigpen took about 80 per­the Professional and Amateur Sports WOMEN'S TENNIS tioned the injury before the game. cent of the snaps with the first team in Protection Act -as precluding any 
U.S. Open The three-time MVP signed a $25 practice Monday, but a decision could be type of betting beyond what it had million deal with the Vikings on Aug. based on who plays well in the final pre­offered in a failed National Football
7 p.m., ESPN2 

18. season game at St. Louis on Thursday. League lottery in 1976. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 1, 2009 
NFL 
Several teams deal with quarterback injuries 
Culpepper injury gives Stafford opportunity; Cassell's status still uncertain; Bulger to sit out final preseason game 
I know all three of our plays. I 

Associated Press 
would probably just throw to 

ALLEN PARK, Mich. -For Calvin Johnson on every play. one day, there was no ques­''I'm not scared, though. tion that Matt Stafford was the Write that down: Nick Harris Detroit Lions' first-string is not scared." quarterback. 
Injuries to both Daunte Knee injury may sideline Culpepper (foot) and Drew Cassell Stanton (knee) meant Stafford Brodie Croyle kept getting was Detroit's only healthy hurt and Tyler Thigpen quarterback at Monday's seemed ill-suited for an NFL practice. offense, so the Kansas City 
"It was fun -it was like Chiefs traded for Matt Cassel being back in college," said and gave him a guaranteed Stafford, who took every snap $28 million contract before for Detroit on Monday. "I got the first snap. to do everything -even play Now Cassel is hurt, Croyle is Peyton Manning on the show healthy and Thigpen is proba­team." bly still ill-suited. But either 
Coach Jim Schwartz, howev­he or Croyle could start er, cut the session short. He against the tough defense of said he doesn't know if he will the Baltimore Ravens on Sept. have either Culpepper or 13 in the season opener. Stanton for Thursday's final Cassel injured his knee in preseason game in Buffalo, or Saturday night's preseason if he will have to find an loss to Seattle and the Chiefs emergency quarterback. may be down to Croyle and 
Stafford, the first pick in Thigpen, who between them April's draft, has been battling are 1-18 as NFL starters. Culpepper for the starting job, The decision will be up to with Stanton solidly head coach Todd Haley, who entrenched at No. 3. Nothing stirred his team's murky changed during Saturday's 18-waters even further on 17 win over Indianapolis, but Monday by firing Chan Gailey the situation got strange over as offensive coordinator and the weekend. assuming the role himself, just 
First, Culpepper cut the top 13 days before opening his of his foot at home Saturday first season as a head coach. night. The wound required "It's almost unheard of that eight stitches and left him you have something like that was designated as the founda­well for what he was working "You want to get as many unable to practice on Monday. happen right now," Thigpen tion quarterback for Hcrm with. It's not like we were out reps as you can on the field, 
"He sort of stubbed his toe, said. "We've got to take Edwards' rebuilding program. there with 11 Pro Bowlers." but I think I'll be ready," and when the skin stretched, responsibility." But Croyle missed almost the Bulger said. "That won't be an it tore behind his middle Haley refused to breathe a entire season with knee sur­Broken right pinkie keeps excuse once the season toes," Schwartz said. "If you word about the status of gery and, when backup Bulger out starts." or I had done it and gone to Cassel or any of his other Damon Huard was also The St. Louis Rams plan to Spagnuolo said he constant­the hospital, they probably injured starters. But Yahoo! shelved with an injury, the job sit quarterback Marc Bulger ly weighs the benefits of play­would have put in two or Sports, citing a source in the fell to Thigpen. in the preseason finale to ing in the preseason vs. the three stitches, but they want­organization, reported he Croyle would certainly wel­lessen the chance of him downside of aggravating ed to secure it tightly, so they sprained the medial collateral come the opportunity to win aggravating a broken right injuries, and has consistently put in eight. We'll have to wait ligament in his left knee and the starting job after spending pinkie. erred on the side of caution. and see about his status for could miss two to four weeks. several months getting over Bulger got his arm warmed "If we were playing a regu­Thursday." The players indicated they the surgery. up for the second straight day lar season game, my guess is 
The situation got worse had no inkling how long "You've got to be ready for Monday, throwing 25-30 pass­probably all those guys would when Stanton reported on Cassel might be gone. it. This is what I've rehabbed es with the pinkie and right be pushed to play," Spagnuolo Monday with a badly swollen "It's unfortunate for Matt," for," he said. "This is what ring finger taped together for said. "They'd probably want left knee. The team was Croyle said. "Who knows the I've tried to get back for." stability. That's more throws to play. But at this point I awaiting the results of an MRI timetable when he'll be back? So far in preseason duty, than on Sunday, and the plan don't know if it's a smart thing test. If it comes time to go, I'll just Croyle has looked the best. In calls for even more on to do." 
The lack of quarterbacks led have to be ready." a dismal loss to the Seahawks Tuesday in a gradual buildup. If the game against the Schwartz to remove about 20 The fourth preseason game, on Saturday night with But he's yet to take a snap Chiefs counted, Bulger said percent of the plan for usually little more than a final Thigpen playing most of the from center since being he'd be in the lineup with the Monday's practice. tryout for rookie free agents way, the Chiefs were 1 for 10 injured Aug. 17, routine for a help of an injection that would 
"We advertised for a quar­and long-of-tooth veterans on third down. healthy quarterback but numb the affected area. terback on Craigslist, but no straining to stretch their "When you're 1-10 on third potentially jarring for one "When it's a pain thing, guys one answered, so we just had career one more year, could down, you're not getting it with Bulger's injury. So back­find ways," Bulger said. Matt," he said. "We cut some be critical for the Kansas City done at quarterback," Haley up Kyle Boller will get his "There's ways to get around things, because we didn't quarterbacks. Whoever shows said. "There's just no way. third consecutive start on that. But you don't want to do want to work him too hard. It well against the Rams on Even if there are breakdowns Thursday night against the it too much. So when the time isn't just the passing, but all Thursday night could find at other places, the quarter­Kansas City Chiefs in the comes and if there's still a the dropbacks and everything himself calling plays in back, it's his responsibility to annual Governor's Cup game pain issue, it won't be an else. He had worked up a Baltimore. move the chains. At 1-10, in St. Louis. issue." pretty good sweat by the time "We've got to have our there really wasn't much good "Right now we're planning Bulger uses the pinkie most­we finished." ducks in a row, no doubt," happening." on him not going," coach ly for gripping the ball and 
Stafford laughed when Haley said. "They're going to Thigpen, a former seventh­Steve Spagnuolo said. "He'd joked a week ago that if he asked if he had planned to kick off in 12 days, or 13 days. round draft choice, started 11 have to come in here tomor­had to amputate one finger, eliminate his competition. We've got to have everything games last year and caused row begging to play and say the pinkie would be the one. 
"No -this isn't a situation lined up and be ready for any­the Chiefs to switch their that it's OK." He said the swelling is gone where I'm pushing people thing." offense to a spread formation Spagnuolo said Bulger and he's able to bend the fin­down the stairs," he said. "I Whoever starts and whoever because he had trouble lining would have likely played in a ger with just "a little pain" knew about Daunte when I got calls plays is likely to have a up and executing under cen­regular-season game, along when he grips the ball. here, but I hadn't heard about tough time until the Chiefs get ter. This time last week, with other players nursing The most recent X-rays Drew. It was a bit of a sur­their offensive line straight­Thigpen was also the subject injuries. Defensive end show there's still a break. prise." ened out. In just 19 pass plays of trade rumors. Leonard Little (knee), guard Bulger expects more X-rays 
Schwartz could use one of the first three preseason "That's the way this busi­Richie Incognito (knee) and this weekend but said they'd his current players -Nick games, Cassel was sacked four ness works," said Thigpen, fullback Mike Karney (ankle) be more for his "piece of Harris or Derrick Williams -times, including the play when who took most of the snaps also will be held out. mind." as an emergency quarterback. he got hurt. with the first team in practice Bulger knows missing the Boller is 26 for 45 for 212 Harris seemed startled by the "Until we get on the field on Monday. "You've got to be last three games of the pre­yards with one touchdown and idea of switching from punter and we're winning games and ready." season is far from ideal, espe­no interceptions in the presea­to quarterback. doing the things we need to do Johnson winces at memories cially for a franchise rebuild­son. The former Ravens 
"I've never played quarter­detail-wise, it doesn't matter of last year's 2-14 campaign. ing after going 5-27 the previ­starter signed with St. Louis back in my life -well, I guess who calls the plays," running "It was tough. We went ous two seasons. But he reit­after missing last season with I ran the scout team a few back Larry Johnson said. through three different quar­erated he'd be ready for the a shoulder injury and has times at Cal, so I could run the "We've got to go out and exe­terbacks, then we had to regular-season opener Sept. been getting more comfort­option and some sweeps," cute and do the things we change almost the whole 13 at Seattle, and promised able running a low-risk West Harris said. "I do know how to need to do right." offense to fit one quarter­not to blame inactivity if he Coast offense in Bulger's get under center, though, and This time a year ago, Croyle back's strengths. (Gailey) did struggled in the early season. absence. 

Tuesday, September 1, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
Have you thought about teaching Religion and becoming a Catechist?  
*Do you enjoy working with children or adolescents? *Can you give one-two hours of your time each week? *Do you welcome the challenge to articulate and share your faith? *Would you like to be a valuable as­set to a local parish?  
Important Information Meeting: Wednesday, September 2 5:30-6:30p.m. Room 330 Coleman-Morse Center Call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-7163 C-M Campus Ministry  


}liDu,SaintMary's 
Hotel & Suiles 
Availability for the following football weekends: 
Nevada 
Washington 
Connecticut 

For information e-mail tstewartcorwin@innatsaintmarys.com or ca111-800-947-8627. 

lliHon
r;nrden lnn-
Evtrythlng, ~i9fit uffttffl}\JU need it~ 
Availability for the following football weekend: Connecticut For information e-mail brooke.gallagher@hilton.com or call574-232·7700. 


TENNIS 
U.S. Open begins at Flushing Meadows 
Defending champions Federer and Williams advance, along with former winner Clijsters 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Former world No. 1 Kim Clijsters marked her return to the U.S. Open with a 6-1, 6-1 victory over 79th-ranked Viktoriya Kutuzova of Ukraine on Monday and a warm welcome from the Flushing Meadows crowd. 
Clijsters' lone Grand Slam championship came the last time she played at the U.S. Open in 2005, and her first­round victory was the 26­year-old Belgian's first Grand Slam match since January 2007. 
In the intervening years, Clijsters retired, got married and, in May 2008, gave birth to a daughter. She came to the 
U.S. Open unranked and needed a wild-card invitation from the U.S. Tennis Association. 
"Little more nervous than usual. It's a very special court to me, but I really enjoyed it," Clijsters said. "I felt really good out there." 
Clijsters came back this month at two hard-court warmup tournaments, win­ning five of her seven match­es. 
Defending champions Roger Federer and Serena Williams won, too, and Andre Agassi came back to the site of the final match of his career in 2006, participating in an opening-night ceremony. 
By beating 18-year-old American Devin Britton 6-1, 6-3, 7-5, Federer ran his win­ning streak to 35 matches at the tournament and became the first tennis player to sur­pass $50 million in career prize money. Williams also beat an American teenager in straight sets, eliminating Alexa Glatch 6-4, 6-1. 
"Tricky match for me, play­ing a guy who's got absolutely nothing to lose," said Federer, seeking a sixth consecutive 
U.S. 
Open title. No one has won five straight 

U.S. 
Opens since Bill Tilden won the American Grand Slam tournament every year from 1920-25. 


"That's what I'm here for, trying to equal Bill Tilden's record. But I've never met Bill Tilden. Never saw him play. So it's hard to kind of relate to him in any way, except through records," Federer said. "It's fantastic to be sort of compared to someone who played such a long time ago, I guess." 
Other winners included American John Isner, who knocked off No. 28-seeded Victor Hanescu of Romania 6­1, 7-6 (14), 7-6 (5); No. 21 James Blake of the United States; former No. 1 Lleyton Hewitt of Australia and French Open runner-up Robin Soderling of Sweden. 
Two-time major champion Amelie Mauresmo of France won easily, as did No. 7 Vera Zvonarev of Russia and No. 8 Victoria Azarenka of Belarus, Italian No. 10 Flavia Pennetta, No. 12 Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland and No. 14 Marion Bartoli, whose next opponent is Clijsters. 
France's Bartoli, the 2007 Wimbledon runner-up, was also the first woman Clijsters played in her comeback. Clijsters beat her. 
"I just have to go on court and think I'm still the player with the better ranking, so I'm supposed to win," Bartoli said Monday. "This time I know what to do. I have a plan, so it's going to be different." 
That was only one of several impressive wins for Clijsters already, including against Azarenka and French Open champion Svetlana Kuznetsova. 
"Where I was the most sur­prised," Clijsters said, "is how comfortable I felt out there from the beginning." 
She hit seven aces against Kutuzova, and won 60 of the 88 points to shouts of "Come on, Kim!" from the crowd. There also were some mis­takes and some rust, includ­ing four double-faults. 
Clijsters started thinking about ending her retirement seriously early this year, after being invited to play in exhibi­tion matches to test Wimbledon's new Centre Court roof. 
As Clijsters began to get in shape for that, she knew a return to the tour was what she wanted. Maybe even needed. 
"I wasn't surprised when Kim told me she wanted to give her tennis career another go. I knew she was young enough, and the more times she picked up the racket, the more the competitive bug bit her," said her husband, Brian Lynch, an American who played professional basketball in Belgium. ''I'm excited and happy for her -that our fam­ily has a chance to go on this adventure together." 
Clijsters looked at times Monday like she never went away: those deep forehands, all-over-the-court movement, the occasional volley. 
"Just the match rhythm, I think, is something I have to get used to," Clijsters said. "OK, matches like this today -I didn't really get tested." 
Kutuzova explained why afterward: She was bitten by a spider a couple of days ago and had a bad allergic reac­tion, one that left parts of her arms red and swollen. A doc­tor gave her some medicine ­too much medicine, Kutuzova said. 
"I wasn't even sure if I can play, because I was feeling very bad. When it was long points, I couldn't breathe," she said. "I couldn't really see the ball, and everything was twisting." 
Still, Kutuzova was impressed by the woman across the net: Kim Clijsters, back on a Grand Slam stage, back at the U.S. Open. 
"I didn't see any difference," Kutuzova said, "between how she was playing before and how she's playing now." 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, September 1, 2009 
MLB 

Pena's home run, four RBis lead Rays over Tigers 
Reds' right fielder McDonald scores on wild pitch in bottom of ninth to lift Reds over Pirates in first game ofdoubleheader 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -Carlos Pena and the Tampa Bay Hays headed into September on a high note. 
Next up, a key series against the Boston Red Sox . 
Pena hit his AL-best 38th homer and drove in four runs to help the Rays beat the Detroit Tigers 11-7 on Monday for a split of their four-game series. 
Tampa Bay scored six times in the first inning against the AL Central leaders, capped by Pena's two-run drive. James Shields remained unbeaten against Detroit, and Jason Bartlett added a solo homer as the Rays moved within five games of idle Boston in the wild-card race. 
Tampa Bay hosts the Red Sox on Tuesday night, the start of a three-game set. 
"I don't know if it gets any bigger," Evan Longoria said. "Today is a great way to head home. It should be fun." 
Tampa Bay is 4-1 against the Red Sox at Tropicana Field this season and has won seven of the first 11 meetings. 
Carlos Guillen had four hits for Detroit, including a pair of two-run homers. 

Tigers starter Jarrod Washburn (9-8) allowed his first six batters to reach base. The last was Pena, who hit a shot down the right-field line. Pat Burrell had a two-run double earlier in the inning. 
"It was great," said Pen a, who finished August with 12 homers and had his seventh game this season with four or more RB!s. "That first inning really put momentum on our side." 
Pena added an HBI double in the fifth and Bartlett homered in the sixth off Washburn, who lost for the second time since joining the Tigers in a July 31 trade with Seattle. He left the mound to a chorus of boos after allowing eight runs and nine hits in 5 2-3 innings. 
"He certainly didn't have very good success today," Detroit manager Jim Leyland said. "Some of it by his own doing and some of it was that's just the way it is sometimes. 
"S.~)metimes it just isn't your day. 
Pena singled in the first of three Tampa Bay runs off reliever Ryan Perry in the sev­enth and finished a seven-game road trip with four homers and 12 HBis. 
"Carlos is looking extremely sharp," Rays manager Joe Maddon said. 
Shields (9-10) allowed both two-run homers by Guillen, one in the first and another in the seventh, but had little trouble in between. The right-hander yielded four earned runs in seven innings and struck out six to win his second consecutive outing and improve to 3-0 in five career starts against the Tigers. 

Guillen had his sixth career multihomer game. Detroit got its last two runs in the ninth ofT reliever Brian Shouse . 
"It feels good," Guillen said. "I hit the ball good. I was just try­ing to stay short and make good contact." 
Reds 4, Pirates 3 
CINCINNATI-Shhh! 

A tiny crowd rinally cheered when Darnell McDonald scored from third baso on a wild pitch in the bottom or thn ninth inning Monday, giving the Cincinnati Reds a victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates in a makeup game played with ten­nis-match silence most or tho time. 
Fewer than 2,000 fans showed up for the first game of a day-night doubleheader at Great American Ball Park, which turned into a red-seat echo chamber. Fans could hear the players' banter. Players could hear the fans' chatter. It didn't take long to take a head count. 
"I felt like I was back in the Florida State League," said rookie Drew Stubbs , who led off the Heds' first inning with a homer. "I could hear (announc­er) Jeff Brantley 's voice from out on the concourse and the cars on the highway outside." 
Foul balls clattered around the 42,000-seat ballpark. There wasn't much competition for the T-shirts shot into the stands between innings. 
"You could hnar evnrything," Reds manager Dusty Baker said. "I saw one guy who was missing a finger catch a foul ball, and I could hear him say, 'That hurt like hell,· but he caught it. That's one of those days where evnryone could get a foul ball and aT-shirt." 
Neithnr of these teams has bnnn able to get many wins this season. turning it into a matchup of the NL Central's bottom dwellers. 
It ended when McDonald scored on Jesse Chavez 's wild pitch with two outs in the ninth. McDonald got the first of Cincinnati's two singles off Chavez (0-4), who then skipped a pitch past catcher Jason Jaramillo . Nick Masset (5-1) got the victory with one inning in relief on an eery afternoon. 
"You could hoar everything," McDonald said. "I think that makes it harder to focus when you c~~ hear individual com­ments. 
The game originally was rained out on April 10. A lot of bad things have happened to both teams since. 
The Pirates went on yet 
another trading spree, getting rid of most of their starters. Only Ryan Doumit and Adam LaHoche are left from the line­up that manager John Russell wrote out on that rainy April 10 night. 
For the Reds, it's been all about injuries. Every starter from that game has been side­lined at some point in the sea­son -18 players overall have gone on the disabled list. Joey Votto was the only mainstay left in the lineup from April. 
The mood matched the moment. 
When the game began, 11 fans were scattered in the upper-deck bleachers in left 11eld, attended by two ushers. When Pirates starter Daniel McCutchen -called up before the game and given No. 62 ­threw a 92 mph fastball for his first pitch in the majors, a fan behind the Pirates dugout yelled: "There you go!" 
The next pitch was gone, a homer by Stubbs into the lower deck in left. Two fans gave chase as the ball bounced up the empty concrete aisle. 
After the fourth inning, the video board showed one fan surrounded by empty seats and played Eric Carmen's "All By Myself," drawing a smattering of applause and laughs from the other fans who knew the feel­ing. 


Community of Sant'Egidio 
The Community of Sant'Egidio started in Rome on February th, 1968 when a young high-school student, Andrea Riccardi, shared with a few friends the call ofthe Gospel to live a life ofprayer, service, and friendship. 
The Community of Sant'Egidio is a lay Catholic association in which the members live out their Christian vocation fully and radically, while at the same time facing the challenges of performing the tasks of everyday people. In this sense, members ofthe Cotnmunity of Sant'Egidio do not live together in community-style, sepa­rated from others; rather, they live out their regular lives according to their preference and age, working or studying. 
The regularity of our lives does not prevent us from listening and responding radically to the caB ofJesus in the Gospel, a call to change our lives and to live them for and with others. We believe that Jesus did not sum­mon special people, but that he called as disciples those who were regular men and women and who accepted in their lives the primacy offollowing Jesus. 
From this initial intuition arose the reality ofthe Community ofSant'Egidio, as you can read on our website: \Vww.santegidio.org. The life of the Community centers around prayer, service, friendship, and peace: ail of these aspects weave throughout our daily being -we cannot experience one without the other 
There will be a weekly prayer 
at 7:00 p.m. each Wednesday in the Log Chapel. 
We also visit Cardinal Nursing Home at 7:00 p.m. every Thursday. 
C-M 

Please contact Charlie Gardner for more information: cgardneJ@nd.edu Campus Ministry 
Tuesday, September 1, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB 
Pettitte takes perfect game into seventh in victory 
Braves move within three games of NL Wild Card with victory; Lee's homer, four RBis spark Astros in win 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE -After an error ruined Andy Pettitte's bid for perfection, the left­bander's effort to console his dejected teammate was absolutely flawless. 
Pettitte retired his first 20 batters before a lamentable seventh-inning sequence spoiled both his perfect game and no-hit bid, and the New York Yankees beat the Baltimore Orioles 5-1 Monday night. 
Pettitte (12-6) was poised to finish the seventh without allowing a baserunner, but for­mer Oriole Jerry Hairston Jr. let a two-out grounder by Adam Jones slip through his legs for an error. Hairston was playing in place of Alex Rodriguez, who was given the night off. 
Nick Markakis followed with an opposite-field single inside the third-base line, drawing fmther groans from a crowd of 25,063 filled with Yankees fans. 
Hairston felt terrible, but Pettitte eased his pain by giv­ing him a hug in the club­house. 
"He was kind of funny," Hairston said. "He was like, 'You took the pressure off me.' He goes, 'If I haven't thro-wn a no-hitter by now, then I'm not going to do it.' He was proba­bly the best. lie said he didn't want to throw nine innings anyway. That's what type of attitude he has." 
Major leaguers long ago found out what kind of pitcher Pettitte is, and h(s perform­ance against the Orioles showed that he's still got plen­ty of talent. 
"After the fifth inning, I kind of started thinking about it a little bit. It was cool," Pettitte said. "You can't not with the fans; it seemed almost like we were at home, the fans were getting into it so much. 
"It's neat for me to be able to do something like that this late in my career. There's not a whole lot that gets me excited, and I didn't get too, too excited about it yet, because I had a whole lot of outs to get. But it was fun." 
After Melvin Mora led off the eighth with a home run, Pettitte completed his master­ful effort by getting three straight outs. 
The 37 -year-old Pettitte took his dominance of the Orioles to a new level with a vintage pitching gem that enabled him to move into sole possession of third place on the Yankees career wins list. He broke a tie with Lefty Gomez with his 190th victory with New York, a number bested by only Hall of Famers Whitey Ford (236) and Red Ruffing (231). 
Pettitte allowed one run and two hits, struck out eight and walked none to improve to 4-0 in his last seven starts. He's 26-6 lifetime against the Orioles, including 16-4 in Baltimore. 
"I think that's the best I've 
seen Pettitte since I've been up 
here," said Markakis, in his 
fourth season with the Orioles. 
"lie was just mixing up his 
pitches, going in and out, just 
putting it where he wanted it. I 
think his ball-to-strike ratio 
speaks for itself. He was on tonight and he was tough." 
Pettitte threw 104 pitches, 73 for strikes. It was the first time he went eight innings since July 20, 2008. 
After retiring his first 15 batters, Pettitte began thinking he just might pull off the per­fecto. 
"1 went out there feeling like I've had such good stuff before and gone a few innings, two or three.... It never comes about, ever," he said. "Like I said, after the fifth inning I really felt good, and I was throwing everything for strikes, putting it right where I wanted to. So it's like, hey, it could happen." 
Then, after Hairston botched the grounder, he sheepishly returned the ball to Pettitte. 
"I didn't look at him. Nobody feels worse than I do. It's kind of tough to swallow," Hairston said. "It's unfortunate. I really wanted him to do it. All of us did. It's just a shame. But what can you do? I just missed it." 
Brian Bruney gave up a walk and a single in the ninth before Mariano Rivera got two outs for his 37th save -and career-best 33rd in a row. 
The only thing resembling a close call against Pettitte over the first six innings came when Matt Wieters topped a slow grounder to third with one out in the sixth. Hairston picked up the ball barehanded, and his off-balance throw got Wieters by a step. 
Nick Swisher homered and had three hits for the AL East­leading Yankees, who have won four straight and 21 of 
27. New York is 10-3 against the Orioles this season. 
Baltimore starter Jeremy Guthrie (9-13) allowed two runs and four hits in six innings. The right-hander was good, but on this night he needed to be near perfect to outpitch Pettitte. 
Guthrie matched Pettitte for two innings, retiring the first six batters before Swisher led off the third with his 22nd homer and fourth against Baltimore. Melky Cabrera fol­lowed with a one-out double but did not advance. 
New York used successive doubles by Robinson Cano and Swisher to make it 2-0 in the fourth. 
The Yankees pulled away with a three-run eighth that featured an RBI single by Johnny Damon and a two-run double by Cano. 
Braves 5, Marlins 2 
Six innings in, Chipper Jones and the Braves didn't feel too good about their chances against the Marlins. 
Then they figured out Josh Johnson. 
Omar Infante hit a two-run triple in the seventh and Kenshin Kawakami pitched six effective innings to carry the Atlanta Braves past the Florida Marlins on Monday night, 5-2 in a matchup between NL wild-card con­tenders. 
Johnson did not allow a hit 
until the sixth inning, when 
Matt Diaz lined a 2-2 slider to 
center field with two outs after 
Kawakami had a 10-pitch at­
bat. 
"It's a huge win, probably the biggest one of the year 

especially sitting back and watching how the first six innings went," Braves third baseman Chipper Jones said. 
David Ross, Adam LaRoche, and Yunel Escobar each drove in a run for the Braves in the opener of a four-game series. 

With the win, Atlanta (69-62) moved within three games of wild-card co-leaders San Francisco (72-59) and Colorado (72-59), both of which were idle on Monday. Florida (68-63) has lost four of five to fall four games back. 
"We are very fortunate we have played some really good baseball since the All-Star break," Jones said. "Pretty much all of September we are going against teams in our division so there won't be any surprises. We have two big series with Florida and I'm sure it's going to be tooth and nail the whole way." 
In the seventh, Chipper Jones and Escobar singled off Johnson (13-4) ahead of Infante's triple to deep center field with two outs. Ross then made it 3-1 with a base hit up the middle, forcing Johnson out of the game. 
"Just one bad pitch," Johnson said. "The other pitches were a broken bat and a jam shot. They hit one hard ball. It's just one of those days when things don't go your way." 
Johnson allowed three runs and five hits in 6 2/3 innings. He struck out eight and walked three. 
"Johnson is one of the top guys in baseball," Braves man­ager Bobby Cox said. "You have to put him in the top five anyway, for me, in all of base­ball and that's with some real­ly good ones. He's that good. The kid is that good." 
Kawakami (7-10) quietly kept the Braves in the game as he allowed one run and six hits in six innings. He threw 51 of his 7 5 pitches for strikes and struck out five without walking a batter. 
"After giving up that one run, I knew I couldn't give up any more runs with how (Johnson) was pitching," Kawakami said through a translator. 
LaRoche and Escobar each drove in a run with back-to­hack base hits to right field off Dan Meyer in the eighth to stretch Atlanta's lead to 5-1. 
"Anytime your best pitcher is on the mound, you want to win those games," Marlins manag­er Fredi Gonzalez said. "We didn't add on runs." 
The Marlins took a 1-0 lead in the second inning when Jorge Cantu led off with a dou­ble down the left-field line and scored on a sacrifice fly to center by Dan Uggla. 
Uggla added an RBI double in the ninth. 
"There's no sense of urgency," Uggla said. "There's still time, there's still a lot of games left. We're all calm and relaxed and I'm pretty sure we're going to stay that way." 
Astros 5, Cubs 3 

Carlos Lee has a simple rea­son for putting up big numbers at Wrigley Field. 
"I just think that I see the ball real good here," Lee said. If you take a ballpark that you see the ball real good, for me it's here. I hit a lot here -I got places I don't see the ball good and it's the other way around. It's funny how it works." 
Sure is. 

Lee hit a two-run home run and drove in four runs Monday night, leading the Houston Astros to a 5-3 victory over the Chicago Cubs . 
Lee has hit 20 of his 31 homers against the Cubs at the "Friendly Confines." He also had a two-run single to give him 85 RBis against the NL Central division rival. 
Lee came into the series after going 1 for 12 in a three­game series at Arizona. 
"Guys have places that they swing the bat well they see the ball good in and Carlos swung the bat pretty good just in Arizona but he didn't get a whole lot of luck. Most guys usually have a ballpark where they're pretty comfortable," said Astros manager Cecil Cooper . "Maybe it's because he was a White Sox or some­thing." 
Roy Oswalt pitched seven strong innings for Houston, who won for just the second time in eight games. 
Oswalt (8-5) bounced back after giving up a season high­tying 10 hits in six innings of a 3-2 loss to St. Louis on Wednesday. Oswalt is 5-1 since June 29 and the Astros have nine wins in Oswalt's last 11 starts. He allowed two runs on six hits, striking out three and walking one. 
"Didn't really have my good stuff, though," Oswalt said. "I was able to locate some pitch­es but as far as feeling 100 percent I didn't really feel 100 percent." 
Astros reliever LaTroy Hawkins allowed a solo shot to Derrek Lee in the eighth inning and Jose Valverde pitched a scoreless ninth for his 20th save in 24 opportuni­ties. Michael Bourn made a diving catch in center on Koyie Hill 's ball to end the game. 
The Cubs fell six games behind Colorado and San Francisco in the NL wild-card race. 
Chris Coste led off the fourth inning with a walk and advanced to second on a Oswalt's sacrifice bunt. Bourn followed with an RBI double off the ivy in center against Rich Harden . Harden walked Jeff Keppinger and Lance Berkman to load the bases. Then Lee lined a single to left, scoring Bourn and Keppinger. 
In the fifth inning, Keppinger led off with a single and, one out later, Lee homered to left­center to put the Astros up 5­
0. It was Lee's 22nd of the sea­son. 
Harden (8-8) allowed five runs on five hits in five innings. He struck out nine but walked six. 
"It was one of those nights where I felt really good, maybe too good. I just had trouble getting a feel and getting into a rhythm and obviously walks killed me, I had a lot of those," Harden said. "It was either strikeout, a hit or a walk, not what the team needed tonight." 
Harden was reportedly claimed on the waivers by the Twins, but Cubs general man­ager Jim Hendry said there was no serious trade discus­sions between the Cubs and the Twins. 
Harden said the reports were on his mind throughout the week. 
"It was. You just can't ignore it," Harden said . "The whole thing was ridiculous. It had nothing to do with my per­formance today. Can't make excuses." 
With one out in the fifth, Jeff Baker singled and scored from first on Hill's double. With two outs, Ryan Theriot hit an RBI single. 
Milton Bradley was 0 for 4 for the Cubs and was booed after every out he made. 
Twins 4, White Sox 1 
Home runs by Joe Mauer and Jason Kubel in the third inning lifted Nick Blackburn and the Minnesota Twins to yet another Metrodome victory over the collapsing Chicago White Sox, 4-1 on Monday night. 
The Twins crept within 3 1/2 games of first-place Detroit in the AL Central, leaving the White Sox six games back. Minnesota has won 15 of 17 against Chicago in its soon-to­be-vacated domed home. 
The White Sox have lost eight of nine overall. They were so bad last week that manager Ozzie Guillen joked he was stealing money from owner Jerry Reinsdorf, and they finished August at 11-17. 
Blackburn (9-9) matched his career high with seven strike­outs in seven strong innings, a big boost for his confidence and the team's struggling staff. Joe Nathan pitched a perfect ninth for his 35th save. 
After giving up consecutive singles to start the first, Gavin Floyd struck out Mauer and finished unscathed, and short­stop Alexei Ramirez made two sharp, off-balance throws for outs from deep in the hole after snagging grounders in the second and fourth. 
The Twins built their lead, though, with the defense-proof offense: the long ball. Mauer crushed the first pitch of his at-bat in the third into the upper deck for his 26th homer, and after Justin Morneau smacked a single, Kubel took Floyd's fastball into the foot­ball seats behind center field for a 3-0 lead. 
That was all Blackburn needed. With the rotation deci­mated by injuries an~! a lack of minor league depth, the Twins are desperate for Blackburn to help stabilize the staff the way he did in the first half. 
As the deadline to finalize postseason rosters arrived without any further action by the front office, the Twins are taking a rotation with two rookies into the September stretch drive after recently acquiring Carl Pavano to sup­port their best starter, Scott Baker. 
The third inning was a good sign Blackburn had his swag­ger back. With speedy Scott Podsednik at second base, the right-hander battled through a pesky at-bat by A.J. Pierzynski and struck out the scrappy catcher with a low fastball the stadium radar flashed at 93 mph. 

342 Progressive Student All!ance

302 Alumni Student Club 515 Inspire .c 303 Amateur Radio Club 417 Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 716 Project Fresh 501 American Cancer Society Club 418 International Development Research Council 
529 Proponents of Animal Welfare Service 
a: E ...
430 Psychology Club

404 American Chemical Society 419 Investment Club 431 Quizbowl Club of Notre Dame
405 American Institute of Aeronautics &Astronautics (AIAA) 712 Irish Dance Club 432 Real Estate Investment Club 
IIIII co 0 

406 American Institute of Architecture Students, (AlAS) 516 Irish Fighting forSt Jude Kids 353 Right To Life 0
407 American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE) 105 Irish Gardens 
z: t')1­
343 Risk Club

502 American Red Cross Club 901 Irish Rover ,.... 433 Roosevelt Institution
408 American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) 322 Iron Sharpens Iron I 225 Rugby Football Club ~ 
409 Arne. Soc. of Mechanical Engineers/Soc. of Automotive Engineers 626 Italian Club 622 Russian Club M
410 Anthropology Club, Notre Dame 612 Japan Club 218 Sailing Club. Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College 
IIIII CD 
602 Asian American Association 323 Jewish Club 
u 
...
723 Saint Edward's Hall Players
603 Asian International Society 103 Judicial Council/Class of 2013 
CD 
108 Scholastic Magazine
411 Association of Women in Mathematics 713 Juggling Club 
c 

701 Bagpipe Band 519 Knights of Columbus, Notre Dame Council, No. 1477 434 Science Business Club :I 344 Scrabble Club of Notre Dame 
...

702 Ballet Folklorico Azul y Oro 613 Korean Student Association 345 Shades of Ebony 
IIIII ... 0

703 Ballroom Dance Club, Notre Dame/Saint Mary's 614 La Alianza 304 Baptist Collegiate Ministry 615 Le Cercle Francais (French Club) 530 Slice of Life N D LL. 522 Best Buddies 517 LEAD-NO 346 Social Justice in American Medicine (SJAM) ftS 
435 Society of Physics Students 
u ...

503 Big Brothers/Big Sisters of Notre Dame and St Mary's 324 Leprechaun Legion 436 Society of Women Engineers
412 Biology Club 325 Linux Users Group II) 536 Sociology Club 
>

604 Black Cultural Arts Council 518 Literacy Awareness -Notre Dame ~ 605 Black Student Association of Notre Dame 911 Liturgical Choir, Notre Dame 347 Sorin Rifle Team [AROTC) M 623 Spanish Club
201 Bowling Club, Notre Dame 521 Logan Recreation Club c 523 Special Friends of Notre Dame 
= ·­
606 Brazil Club of Notre Dame 420 Management Club 504 Camp Kesem 421 Marketing Club 219 Squash Club, Notre Dame 348 St. Xavier Club of Notre Dame (XND)

505 Campus Gin Scouts, Notre Dame • Saint Mary's 209 Martial Arts Institute -· ~ 305 Chess Club 422 Math Club of Notre Dame 437 Student Association for Women in Architecture (SAWA) Cl) 
101 Student Government
306 Children's Defense Fund 616 MEChAde ND 
E ... u

438 Student International Business Council 
506 Circle K 327 Men Against Violence 717 Student Players ftS 718 Student Stand-ups of Notre Dame 
607 Chinese Culture Society 326 Mediaeval Society of Our Lady of the Lake 
a. ...
104 Classof2011-Junior Class Council 210 Men's Boxing Club 202 Climbing Club, Notre Dame 212 Men's Running Club 102 Student U.n ion Board 
0

531 Students for Environmental Action
001 Club Coordination Council 214 Men's Volleyball Club 
en c 
CJ
524 Super Sibs
307 College Democrats of Notre Dame 215 Men's Water Polo Club 
I

349 Sustained Dialogue at the University 507 College Mentors for Kids 328 Militia of the Immaculata 719 Swing Club 
...CD 309 College Republicans, University of Notre Dame 617 Minnesota Student Club of Notre Dame 532 Taking Education Abroad at Notre Dame (T.E.A. NO) CD 424 533 Teamwork for Tomorrow of Notre Dame .c 
308 College Libertarians of Notre Dame 423 MexicanAmericanEngineers&ScientisUSocietyofHispanicProf. ~· 
310 Communion and Liberation at Notre Dame (CLU@ND) Minority Pre-Medical Society 508 Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics 329 Mock Trial Association .... ,
624 Texas Club 
109 The Juggler
413 Computer Club, Notre Dame 330 Model United Nations Club 
CD 
106 The Shirt Project 
en ...
705 Coro Primavera de Nuestra Senora, El 331 MOTOdomers (MXD) 
en

203 Cycling Club 525 Ms. Wizard Day Program 534 Timmy Foundation 706 Dance Company 332 Muslim Student Association of Notre Dame 
220 Triathlon Club 
·­
-
... 

520 Daughters of Isabella 333 Mustard 720 Troop Notre Dame 
0

TwiND: the Twin Club of Notre Dame
107 Debate Team 334 National Alliance on Mental illness-Notre Dame 350 
c 

311 Detachment 225 Flyin' Irish, Notre Dame [AFROTC] 618 National Association for the Advancement of Colored People 221 Ulftmate Club of Notre Dame 110 Dome Yearbook 425 National Society of Black Engineers 721 
Unchained Melodies .a 
:I

Undergraduate Women in Business Association
509 Demers Mentoring Kids 619 Native American Student Association of Notre Dame 439 
-
University Young Ufe

414 Economics Club 335 ND for Animals 351 CJ 
415 Entrepreneurship Society 336 ~~ ~ Vietnamese Student Association 
ftS
Voices ofFaith Gospel Choir

204 Equestrian Club, NDISMC 526 Neighborhood Study Help Program 722 
en .e ... 

707 Farley Hall Players 906 Notre Dame Television (NDtv) 352 Wabruda, The 312 Feminist Voice 714 Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company 222 Waterski Club of Notre Dame 205 Field Hockey Club 527 Operation Smile Student Organization 440 m
Women in Politics Club 206 Figure Skating Club :m Orestes Brownson Council 211 Women's Boxing Club 
IIIII c 

313 Filii Mariae/Children of Mary 620 Organizacion Latino Americana 223 Women's Ice Hockey Team 
~ 
Women's Liturgical Choir

608 Filipino American Student Organization 338 Orthodox Christian Fellowship Club 912 
0 

708 First Class Steppers 33g Park Flyers Pilots Club 213 Women's Running Club 0 
= ·­
1-...

207 Fishing Club 715 Pasquerilla East Musical Company 216 Women's Water Polo Club 
World Hunger Coalition 510 Foodshare 528 Pentathlon Coaches of Notre Dame 224 
314 FlipSide 340 Peace Fellowship-Notre Dame 535 
World Taekwondo Federation 

416 Forum on Biomedical Ethics 341 Perspectives 913 WSND-FM SPECIAl GUESTS 511 Friends of the Orphans 621 PoHsh Club 
914 WVFI Radio 002-003 Student Activities OffiCe
609 German Club 004 Legends
315 Glass Club COMMUNITY AGENCIES 902-903 RecSports512 Global Health ND 801 Big Brothers Big Sisters 811 Uttle Flower Catholic Church 821 Ronald McDonald Family Room 
904 Athletic Promotions 
316 Glu1en-Free ND 802 Boys and Girls Club 

812 Logan Center 822 SBCSC Partner Up/Read to a Child 
go5 First Aid Services Team317 GreeNO 803 Catholic Worker House 
813 Memorial Hosprral & Health System 823 Sisters of the Holy Cross 
907-910 Campus Ministry318 Gulf Coast Action League 804 Center for the Homeless 
814 Milton Adult Day Service 824 S-0-S of Madison Center 
915 Educational Talent Search 208 Gymnastics Club 805 Dismas Hoooe 815 Near Northwest Neighborhood Inc. 825 South Bend Juvenile Correctional Facility 916 Gender Relations Center513 Habitat for Humanity 806 El Campito, Inc. 
816 Neighborhood Resources Corporation 826 Sunshine Clubhouse 
917 Core Council709 Halftime 807 Hannah & Friends 
817 Notre Dame Upward Bound 820 Take Ten 
918-921 Center for Social Concerns710 Harmonia 808 Healthwin 
818 Reins of Life, Inc. 827 United Religious Community 
922 Career Center610 Hawai'i Club -Na Pua Kai 'Ewalu 809 Hope Ministries 
819 Robinson Community Learning Center 828 Women's Care Center 
923 Undergraduate Admissions514 Helpful Undergraduate Students 810 La Casa de Amistad, Inc. 
829 Youth Service Bureau 924 Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 925 Alliance for Catholic Education 


Tuesday, September 1, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
D-Line 
continued from page 24 
Hawaii Bowl win. 
Irish head coach Charlie Weis said he expects a more physical­ly mature Johnson to take another step forward this sea­son. 
"Ethan Johnson played a whole bunch last year, but he wasn't 285 [pounds] like he is right now," Weis said in a press conference. "There's a big dif­ference. You look at him right now, he looks like a big mucha­cho." 
The Irish will have their most experienced defensive lineman starting up the middle in junior nose tackle Ian Williams, who has played in all 25 games of his Notre Dame career. Last year, Williams totaled 40 tackles, including two for a loss. Weis said Williams also added a great deal of strength in the off-sea-
Dealy 
continued from page 24 
"It was fun to play," Dealy said. "The team played really well, especially against Stanford." 
Although young, Dealy is no stranger to contributing to the team. She was one of only two players to start every match in 2008, her first season. However, she said it was noth­ing special to be starting so much as a freshman. 
"You have to make sure [you're] working hard, because it is a big responsibil­ity," she said. "But I didn't really think about it." 
Dealy put up several big numbers in her freshman sea­son. She led the team in serv­ice aces (30), digs (325) and service receptions (30), and son, and could now power clean close to 400 pounds. 
"Ian is probably in the best shape he's ever been in," Weis said. "It isn't just the power clean numbers, he's in really good shape." 
Rounding out the starting line is sophomore Kapron Lewis­Moore, who may just be the biggest question mark. Even though he has yet to play a down for Notre Dame, Weis said he was confident in Lewis­Moore's ability to contribute in 2009. 
"He came here at 220 [pounds], he's 265 [now]," Weis said. "He's a lot more ready for prime time than he was a year ago, without a drop off in his athleticism as well." 
The Irish have several other players who will contribute in the defensive trenches in 2009 as well, most notably junior defensive end Kerry Neal and sophomore defensive tackle Hafis Williams. 
was second in kills (324) and points (390.5). 
"As a freshman it was hard," Dealy said. "But now I feel I can back up my spot better. I feel like I've earned my position on the team." 
By starting every game, Dealy learned by doing as a freshman. She said she hopes those lessons will carry into her sophomore year. 
"It helps knowing how the season goes," she said. "As a freshman you don't under­stand that every game is so crucial. This year I'm going to push as hard as I can in every game." 
The Irish finished 2-1 in the Shamrock Invitational, defeat­ing No. 5 Stanford Saturday but losing to LSU the next day. 
"It was a wake-up call," Dealy said of the loss to LSU. "It let us know how hard we have to work. The Shamrock 
"We're excited about our youth, our athleticism," Weis said. "I think with youth and athleticism comes some uncer­tainty as you go in." 
The Irish also have a new face coaching the defensive line in Randy Hart, who was hired after Jappy Oliver resigned. Hart had coached at Washington for the previous 21 seasons, and said he was excit­ed about taking over a line full of potential. 
"Because we don't have the experience, the guys are excited and working hard," Hart said. 
At the end of the day, Hafis Williams said what the Irish defensive line lacks in experi­ence, they'd make up for in intensity. 
"Our opponents are going to see a team that's like really hun­gry dogs and get after the ball every time," he said. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
is definitely indicative of the rest of the season, I think, if we play as well as we did against Stanford." 
Dealy credited the older girls with helping her to feel comfortable right away. 
"They definitely gave me advice," she said. "They didn't treat me like I was younger. They show you the way, but not too much, which was nice." 
It can only mean good things for a team when even the sophomores are veterans, and Dealy said she thinks the Irish are going far. 
"Obviously beating Stanford showed what we can do, but I think we can do even better," she said. "This is a really spe­cial year for Notre Dame vol­leyball." 
Contact Laura Myers at 1myers@nd.edu 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
Five freshn1en could start for Vols in opener 
Associated Press 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. -Five true freshmen are among the possible starters for the Tennessee Volunteers when they open Sept. 5 against Western Kentucky. 
Tennessee released a depth chart for the game on Friday that listed running back Bryce Brown, wide receiver Nu'Keese Richardson, defensive tackle Montori Hughes, cornerback Mike Edwards and free safety Janzen Jackson as freshmen who may start. 
Coach Lane Kiffin has repeated­ly said all players would have a chance to win a starting job. 
'These coaches, they stuck to that so much, and I respect them so much for that," said junior Nick Stephens who is listed as backup to starting quarterback Jonathan Crompton. "I couldn't have asked anything more of coach Kiffin and these other coaches. It was a great opportuni­ty." 
Kiffin did not address the media after the depth chart was released on Friday afternoon. 
The depth chart lists Brown or senior Montario Hardesty as the starting tailback with freshman David Oku behind them, though all three could see playing time in a game. 
Projected to start with Richardson from a wide receiver corps depleted by injuries is sen­ior Quintin Hancock, who did not catch a single pass last season. 
Killin had already announced Crompton would start at quarter­back and senior center Cody Sullins would start as Josh McNeil recovers from knee surgery. Junior Luke Stocker is projected to start at tight end and junior Kevin Cooper at fullback. 
Also listed as offensive starters are: senior tackle Chris Scott, sen­ior guards Vladimir Richard and Jacques McClendon and either redshirt freshman Aaron Douglas or junior Jarrod Shaw at tackle. 
All-American safety Eric Berry was the only Vol with a guaran­teed starting position at the start of fall camp. He will be joined in the secondary by sophomore right cornerback Art Evans, sopho­more Anthony Anderson or Edwards at left cornerback and Jackson or junior Dennis Rogan at free safety. 
At defensive line is junior ends Gerald Williams and Chris Walker, senior tackle Wes Brown and either senior tackle Dan Williams or Hughes. Junior LaMarcus Thompson, junior Nick Reveiz and senior Rico McCoy will start at linebacker. 
Richardson is listed to return punts and Oku and Rogan to return kickoffs. Junior Daniel Lincoln will start at place-kicker and junior Chad Cunningham will handle punts and kickoffs. 
The Vols completed one last tough practice on Friday and were scheduled to do light scrim­maging work on Saturday before beginning their Western Kentucky game week preparations. 
"Everything is getting ready for Western Kentucky now. After that big scrimmage (on Aug. 15), prac­tice is a little toned down and all of that, but it's still high-tempo. Right now, a lot of us are basically still just fighting and battling, and the coaches are still pushing us hard, and we're just trying to come out here and deliver," Richard said. 

C-M 
Campus Ministry 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Sophomore Smith named Vandy QB 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. Vanderbilt coach Bobby Johnson went with youth over experience for his starting quarterback Monday. 
Johnson announced redshirt sophomore Larry Smith is his starter, beating out senior Mackenzi Adams and redshirt junior Jared Funk. Smith start­ed the Commodores' historic Music City Bowl win last December and is a former Alabama Mr. Football who led his high school team to a state title. 
"All the time you do think of the future, but your big charge now is to win Saturday's game," Johnson said at his weekly news conference. "That's all we're concerned about. We're not playing for 2010, 2011. We're trying to have a big year this year. So our top charge is to try to get the player in there who's going to help us win games this year." 
The Commodores love Smith's strong arm and his poise under pressure. Smith appeared in two games last season and was 19-of-34 for 167 yards with one touchdown and one interception. That arm is what Johnson wants for an offense that must improve on 2008 when the Dores ranked 117th out of 119 Football Bowl 
Subdivision  teams  in  total  
offense.  
"We're going to try to  move  

the ball, throw the ball down­field a little bit more than we have the last couple years. Larry also has a presence in the pocket. I think he sees the field very well and knows what we're trying to do with the offense. He's also used to win­ning a bunch of games," Johnson said. 
Smith led Prattville High to a state title as a senior when he was Alabama's Mr. Football in all classes. A three-year starter, Smith led Prattville to a 39-2 record and set school records by throwing for 6,011 yards and 54 touchdowns. Better still, Smith never lost a regular-sea­son game in high school. 
"The best way to develop it is to get him in the game," Johnson said. 
The Commodores open the season Saturday night at home against Western Carolina, eager to pick up where they left off 2008. 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 1, 2009 
Mierzwa 
continued from page 24 
play for Saint Mary's. Even as one of the newest additions to the team, Mierzwa has definitely stood out. 
"It's a little early, but things have been going very well so far," Hamilton said. "She's been learn­ing a lot from the other girls, and vice versa." 
Mierzwa isn't new to the com­petitive golf scene, however. She has already made her mark in Poland on the golf course as a two­time national women's amateur champion. 
"No doubt she is a great player, and definitely has that competitive drive," Hamilton said. "I think she'll learn how to play college golf from our team. She's a great addi-
Belles 
continued from page 24 
tions," Crabbe said. ''I'd like to see us get off to a positive start; however, I do expect some nervous energy and there will be mistakes." 
The team has seven freshmen on the roster to open the sea­son and Crabbe will look to them along with 17 returning players to help improve. 
"They have done quite well so far," Crabbe said. "There are two in particular that will be called on to start and con­tribute. We have added depth at goalkeeper as well which was by far for our biggest pri­ority coming into the 2009 sea­son." 
The Belles are returning eight players this fall that scored at least two goals last season to provide some offensive support. 
Senior Micki Hedinger will be a major offensive weapon for the Belles this season again. She scored eight goals last sea­son and, along with senior Sam Smogor and sophomore Katelyn Tondo-Steele, will look to pro­vide a strong attack. 
"From an attacking perspec­tive I have high expectations from Micki Hedinger, Sam Smogor, and Katelyn Tondo­Steele," Crabbe said. "In addi­tion, Colleen Ferguson, Jess Slean and Keely Noonan bring a full season of playing together in the midfield this year." 
Crabbe also said he believes the defense has enough return­ing starters and depth to improve dramatically from last season. 
"On our backline sees two new faces, Corissa Hart and Taylor Paton joining Bridget Ronanyne and Michelle Marshall," Crabbe said. "Also, we get Katie Wehrli back in 2009 after she missed much of 2008. I expect every player on our roster to contribute this fall." 
Hedinger, and Tondo-Steele were second and third on the team respectively in scoring last season. 
With last season's centralized scoring attacks, Crabbe hopes for everyone to contribute this season. 
"I am looking for a good com­petitive attitude from all of our players, regardless of their role on the field," Crabbe said. "Our energy level when we defend will be important. Finally, we need our attacking players to take greater responsibility in front of goal this year. In 2008 we spent too much time waiting for one player to score all of our goals. This year we have quite a few players capable of contributing on the score­sheet." 
tion to a good squad we already have." The Belles have been showing  Michigan  shutting out Northwestern 1­0 in their last game at old Alumni Field.  every year, and playing a strong Michigan team right off the bat is a good way to  
their strength the last few years on the conference and national stage.  continued from page 24  "We are all looking forward to the Wolverines," Clark  test the waters immediately. "This is a great opportunity  
Finishing second in the MIAA last  points in the season, and per­ said. "Scrimmages are great,  to get off to a good start this  
fall, they came out strong in the  haps knock a chip off of the  but there is no substitute for  season," Clark said. "This  
spring and finished 1Oth at the  Big Ten, one of the top soccer  real action."  first game can set the  
NCAA Championships. However,  conferences in the country.  Now that the players have  tempo."  
for Hamilton and his Belles team,  "The Big Ten is a great con­ gotten into the rhythm of  This Irish team has a  
second in the conference isn't good  ference, but you would  studying and playing, Clark  chance to rebound from its  
enough.  always like to see more  believes the team is ready to  early postseason exit last  
"Our fall goal is always to win  teams from your own confer­ step out on the pitch and  year and have a very strong  
the MIAA championship which has  ence in the postseason,"  make a statement.  showing this season.  
eluded us the last three years,"  Clark said. "This is a good  "We are ready to start the  "We have a good group. We  
Hamilton said. "We want to posi­ opportunity to get some early  season," Clark said. "We like  have a very focused group.  
tion ourselves well again for the  points, both for us and for  this group and they have  They are ready," Clark said.  
National Championship in the  the Big East."  worked extremely hard all  The Irish will have a  
spring.  The Irish are glad to finally  offseason. I am optimistic  chance to prove they are  
"We want to learn not how to  be out of preseason play and  about what we can do this  ready at 7 this evening in  
just be a good team, but a great  actually play some games  season."  Alumni Stadium.  
team."  that really count. The Irish  Clark said he believes the  
swept the preseason, beating  team is well-served by facing  Contact Jared Jedick at  
Contact Meaghan Veselik at  Northern Illinois twice and  the best teams in the country  jjedick@nd.edu  
mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu  

After taking on Holy Cross today, the Belles will travel to Danville, Ky. this weekend to take part in the Centre College Tournament where they will face teams from Centre and Trannsylvania College. 
Contact Katelyn Grabarek at 
kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Save the date! 
Friday, September 11, 2009 

An "Amazing Race" style contest brought to you by the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, in coniunction with Anthony Travel and 1he NO Alumni Association with proceeds beneRting the United Way 
The first person to win trfhe Race" gets a free trip to see Notre Dame play at the Alamodome! 
• 
For more information, please contact Kristin Blitch ~kbUtcn@nd.edu ~ 574.631.5791) or Julie Nave [jnave@nd.edu ~ 57A.631.6A69) or visit ndcatalog.com 
-

-----------------------.., 
Tuesday, September 1, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
Across 41 Like dessert Tight-lipped wines 4 "Stat!" 42 Water co., e.g. 
8 Seven-up and 43 "Doubtful" crazy eights 
50 Turned on 13 Lennon's second 
51 Studio wife 
constructions 14 Jane of 
52 Close by"Monster-in-law" 53Gitmomil. 

16 Disco-era suffix 
branch 17 "Sure thing" 
54 Counselor's20 Note In an E clients, perhaps 

major scale 56 "Forget it!"
21 Word before sheet or music 62 Perfect 22 Loughlin of 
63 Fluctuates wildly "90210" 
64 Ill temper

23 Bygone despot 65 Apt to pout
25 OUtfielder's asset 66 Had a bawl 
28 "Chances are 67 Ballpark fig. 
good~ 
33 • _ Said" (Neil 
M 
Down

Diamond hit) 34 Lama 1 "The Jungle Book" hero
35 "It could go either way" 2 Oneness 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

3 Insect monster of Japanese film 4 Get an _ effort 
5 Borscht. e.g. 6 Amazon_ (aggressive 
insect) 7 "Stat!" 8 Shocked 
reaction 9 F.B.I. worker: Abbr. 10 "You don't mean 
ME?!" 11 Self-esteem 12 Sequel title 
starter. sometimes 15 Surrounding glows 
18 Precipitation lhat may be the size of golf balls 
19 Banjoist Scruggs 23 The so-called fourth dimension 24 Attire on the slopes 25Melville's obsessed 
captain 26 Thing to play 27 Haunted house 
sound 29More than 
deceive 30 Put down 31 Pastoral poems 32 God, in Roma 35 AOL alternative 36 Whom an M.P. 
hunts 37Hutking Himalayan of legend 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puule by Tony O!bech  
38 Asteroid area, e.g. 39 Range units: Abbr. 40 Bailed-out co. in the news 44_buco 45 "South Park" boy 46 "Movln' _. ("The Jeffersons" theme)  47Cheechor Chong persona 48 Gawking sorts 49Whereone might see "'MG"or "TTYL" 53 Hideous 540ojob\ow 55 Brewery dryer  56 Deadeye's skill 57 Words said after • ... so help you God?" 58 Keanu's "The Matrix" role 59 Wee bit 60"Stat!" 61 Floor vote  

For answers. call 1-900·285-5656. $1.49 a minute; ot, with a credit card, 1-600-814-5554. · Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years; 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles. or visit nytirnes.comlmobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share lips: nytimes.comtwordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytlmes.comlleamlng/xwords. 
HoRoscoPE EUGENIA LAST 
t'El.El\RITlF-S BORN ON TillS DAY: C!l.1d Hrmmon, :10; Jeff Hardy. J2; C\m~ Tndr.er, 37: Ridlllrd (1<.-re. 60 
Happy llirthd~ty: Gel ready to put all the ideas ~1m've bren mulling owr !he p;t~t cnupk of ~·e~rs t;;~ work tru-y~u. You'll rc.1uire p:llicncc to make the n!!bt cl1<1ices and p.N the bc~t lkals 
lncrc \\1ll be plenty <>f pl~~cs to put your knnwkdge and <~Xf>W<"n<:e to ,good II«". l'ocus on makin,g things happ<.'ll. no! ju~ talking abi:tUt it. Your number< are .~.s. lO, 22. 25, 37,·U 
AIUE.'l (March 21 -Aptil 19)' '11te tit~kr yoo put wlmtevcr isn't M>dr.iii$(W'"'rly lkhind yon, the ><.'<>uer you Cll!llllove rm !<>more Important aud lucrative ''ell!llr«S. Now ts the tm~e to <'al11h up and prUjlRSS. ** 
TAlTRllS (AprlllO-Muy 201: Your o:onlld.:ncc sltonld lead you inw a professional or per· sonal opport!mity. Rely on \'Our own ahibti~-s and fore~ight. Dqu't bend to criticism when }tlll feel comfonable with the plans you haw.***** 
UEMINl (May 2J.,Iune :ZO): Oive more thought before cmnmittin!! to something you v.ill haw trouble finisl1ing. Even if yon find ~lllllCtbin!! easy to do, it doesn't mean you should give yt~tr time and talent away without chllf!ling. h,d11 for y<.~tr rights. *** 
C-""''Ct:R \Juut< :Zt-July 211: l:t•u k.uow how much yol!li!C capable ol ooiug; to c~llll quus too soon wilt work agamst you Set your sights 011 bi~r ~oal~ and ymo end up in a positmo of power. An al'Ftllltem is likely loOC<1tr: don't backdnwn. *** 
LEO (jUIJ :H-Aug. :UJ: You h;ove to ;;bow wiK>eV<"r you are de~liup Wt!h tlmt you meall ­bn<i!IC"-< All that's reqnired i.\ a littk acti<mnud fair play. Low and r01n:mce ~botold he pen· ci!M m for the evl!flittj! bonn. A liulc cd~hratiou will reinforce yootrft<lak *** 
VIRGO {Aug.l.1&pt.ll}: Y•Ju h;~ve to ~Q all<:<Ut your 1.>\osi.nes~ m!<lmake the lx•st of what vou'w ~QI soiu~. U' you are qwck to react, you can parley somedlllil! you come at'WSS mtQ a ftlUUJcial gain. Adoanp.c will help you see how uumy .:-hoi<-es and oplions you have. 
***** 

UBRA !&pt. 2.~-0ct. 22): A,·oid negative lll!ople or lllly<>ue trying 10 !!CI you 10 do things you don't want to 00. Don't take risks. CS!X"Cially when duilll! wmetbin~. physical. Fair play will win iu tbceud. ** 
!WORPlO !0<1.l.'-Nm·. 21): Take your ttmt but don'! do the same thing e\uyone else i~ doing. It's )l<.lllf uniquctiC~$ thai will make pcopk lake notta:. Tr,wcl will do yott gocxl ;md ltdp yrm reali1.c what you sboult! be dt>ing next.**** 
SA(>IT'f..\RIUS (N11v, ll·l:lec. Zll. Sometimt'i lllking• lmck scat or kniuf <lllR"" have a d•111L'C to /?." fin;t pays off Waiting to ;;cc bow p••opk read bdf.lfe you make a dee1siuu will spa~ you 11 costly mistake. Pmien~:e isn't <>n~ tlf jllllf stron~ points l~tt. for no~t·. \\~lit your 
tum.*** 

CAPRlCORN !lkc.l2-Jnn, 191: Your abilitv to mak~ concessions to acc<mllllO<late otl~er.; will give ym1 the lli'Jl!.'f !mud. Knowing the Jl<.-Qpk you are dealing "ith will bdp you make !be n)lh! ~hoiws wbeu liCg<Jtiatiug. Gdtmg au_ruy or pw;hm): your "ill on otl~ers wtll wvtk araiusl yon.*** 
AQtJAIUVS (Jan. 2U..f'eb.tll): Do not conti<k m anyone f\}f the t1111<: OCJII!).. The less am· unmitiun }~ill giw, oti~CTS, ll1e bt.1kT. Make )llllr dtoices bawd 1m. familiarity a.ud good comm<.m """"' Tryinj1 to l.>e somcom: or son~etltiug you are II(~ will kml to los.• *** 
l'ISf'FB (t'tb. I.'I·Mllrch !tll: Yau tiC<~! to he iu control \f ynu waut to p.t•t your plans off the ~trnuud. Dott'l allow an)'Uile eiJO: lo r;!k<, over. Y(»t .:an ma~t' IJCadway by partueriu~ with <mnt'Ollt' tlyiujttoat~cnmplish tht• ~al!lt' re>nlK **** 
6irlbday Baby: You .~ll'e r•n'<Me!H. cmnr~titive anti demandml'. You ;tre wdhJX>ken. fkx tble ;tnd mong and wtll do ll:batt."Wr ts lt<X.'eSS<UJ' In r..ado your )Wah. 
SCHAD & FREUDE 
How'S THE. HlJ.f\JT CJOtNt:r, b AVE? 
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
t •vr ""1 No or F'cts :r ME A\JT T H £ lltt.J D tJ o ot.J E \1\Jh,.t... ..H> 8 ~ \4 I>..IT".~ ~ C1 T" GtVIL. Mt A Vt>\Ai. l> A-T t NOr Clt'"-I...IIAGK tP. 
T 


JUMBLE 

~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
GIMAC 
(IJ b
@2007 Tribune Media Serms. trn::. 
All Rights Reserved. 
CABIS 
[) [ j 

tENDECT I I I 
J I I (]
tSTENOX t

IJ I ] I 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

WHAT TI-lE SINGL.fE 
WOtviEN DID WHfEN THfEY TOOK A CRUI'SfE. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: 

II r x x I xr J" THE rI I I J 
(Answers Monday) PAYEE LOVER QUARTZ PARITYYesterday's IJumbles: 
Answer: When the golfer caught a cold, he wasn't­UPTO.PAR" 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City _________ State _____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, September 1, 2009 
page 24 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish open season, Alumni Stadium against Wolverines 
By JARED JEDICK Sports Writer 
The No. 10 Irish look to kick off the regular season with a win this evening at newly con­structed Alumni Stadium against a No. 21 Michigan team that defeated Notre Dame 3-1 last year. 
"There is huge excitement to be playing in the new stadi­um," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "It must be one of the finest college venues in the country." 
The new $5.7 million stadi­um was the generous gift of the alumni and in particular of former Irish soccer players Tom Crotty and Rob Snyder. 
"We would really like to thank the former players for coming back and doing this for us," Clark said. 
Taking the pitch opposite the Irish is No. 21 Michigan, who were able to best the Irish last year by scoring three goals, a rarity in that season. 

"They were able to put three on us, which you did not see much last year," Clark said. "I do not want to say we are out for revenge this year, but we will definitely take them seri­ously." 
The main issue for the Irish will be containing the Wolverines' potent attack. 
Michigan brings back five starters and 17 letter-winners from last season's squad, rep­resenting a team that knows how to score. 
"Michigan is a good team with some very good players," Clark said. "They are a good attacking team that gets play­ers forward." 
Clark believes Notre Dame has an answer for the Wolverines attack as long as they stay within their game 
FooTBALL 
Young and restless 
Defensive line filled with youth and talent 
By SAM WERNER Associate Sports Editor 
Heading into the 2009 season, the Irish defensive line may be one of Notre Dame's most talent­ed, if least experienced, position units. 
"I think we've got a lot of young guys who've got a lot of poten­tial," sophomore defensive tackle Ethan Johnson said. "We've got a lot of team speed." 
Johnson appears to have the most potential of any Irish defen­sive lineman. As a freshman in 2008, the Portland, Ore. native appeared in all 13 games, rack­ing up 18 tackles and 3.5 sacks, including two in Notre Dame's 
see D-LINE/page 21 


and play balanced soccer. 
"I believe a team always needs to take what the other team is giving them, and then use whatever is appropriate," Clark said. "We are a well­rounded team. We have good speed, good technical ability, and a good idea of how to play together." 
This game also marks a good opportunity to get early 
see MICHIGAN/page 22 
SMC SocCER 
Hopeful Belles face HolyCross 
By KATELYN GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The Belles hope to rebound from a disastrous 2008 cam­paign when they host Holy Cross in their home opener at 4 
p.m. Saint Mary's went 2-13-1 last season and 1-7 in the MIAA. 
The players have been train­ing for two weeks, and second­year head coach Ryan Crabbe wants to see how ·the team responds to a more competitive atmosphere. 
"There are some new faces in the lineup along with some returning players in new posi­
see BELLES/page 21 

SMC GOLF 
Polish freshman leads Belles in tourney debut 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports Writer 
Freshman Martyna Mierzwa may be a long way from home, but nothing could stop her as she led the Saint Mary's golf team to a sec­ond place finish in their first invita­tionallast weekend. 
The Ponzan, Poland, native tore up the course last Saturday and Sunday to start off the season with a two-day finish of 155, tying her for third place. 
Shooting a 76 the first day and coming back with a 79 the second, Mierzwa stood out as the lead freshman in the four-team tourna­ment. Mierzwa tied University of Indianapolis individuals Megan Kiley and Lauren Vogt for the third place title, only two strokes behind Indianapolis's Sarah Prascsak's second place finish. Greyhound junior and 2009 D-II Individual Champion Lyndsay McBride was only seven strokes ahead of the freshman Belle to win the invita­tional overall. 
Saint Mary's coach Mark Hamilton heard about Mierzwa through a friend of a friend on the golfing scene, and brought her to 
see MIERZWA/page 22 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

Dealy shines at Shamrock 
By LAURA MYERS Sports Writer 

It seems Notre Dame's six seniors have dominated the storylines in the early part of the new season -but don't tell Kristen Dealy. 
The sophomore outside hitter is already distin­guishing herself after post­ing 33 kills, 25 digs and 34 total points at this week­end's Shamrock Invitational. The perform­ance earned her recogni­tion as part of the all-tour­nament team. 
see DEALY/page 2 I 

Notre Dame sophomore Kristen Dealy follows through on a spike against LSU on Sunday il'l a 3-0 victory for the Tigers. 



