Photo Illustration by ANDREA ARCHER 
Peaks and valleys define four years 
Four seasons ago, Notre Dame was ranked as the sec-ond-best team in the country. Brady Quinn, Travis Thomas and Tom Zbikowski were on the cover of Sports Illustrated. 
The Irish were a true national champi­onship con­tender, had the Heisman frontrunner under center and a top-tier recruiter and play-caller on the side­lines. 
Four sea­sons later, the Notre Dame football experience has been nothing we thought it would be. This senior class has been through a whirlwind of improbable successes and sudden failures, and we’ve learned to take nothing for granted. 
Our first home game was a 41 -17 stomping of No. 19 Penn State. This followed a shaky opener at Georgia Tech, but after rout­ing Joe Pa and the 


This senior class 
Nittany Lions, generation of the title talk has been through students. 
was reignited a whirlwind of The last — only to be year Notre 
improbable successes
doused by Dame won a Michigan a and sudden failures, national week later. and we’ve learned to championship And even was the same 
take nothing for
though 2006 year many of was largely a granted. us were born. 
put it all together again, and prove sophomore year was a fluke on the way back to prominence. There was a win over Michigan for the first time, and a 4-1 start to begin that junior campaign. 
Everything quickly went downhill again, though, beginning with small disap­pointments in the close losses to North Carolina and Pittsburgh, and ended with the Senior Day loss in the snow to Syracuse and yet another crushing at the hands of the Trojans. 
Then, suddenly three years had flown by. For this group, and for us students, it was the last try. The last home opener, last chances at beating Boston College and USC and now the final home game in these seats — although I’m not dis­counting sneaking back in the student section the next few years. 
This season again hasn’t been what we expected, but I think by now we’re starting to get used to a little disappoint­ment. A program like Notre Dame should have higher standards than its perform­ance over our four years and 
the last 
decade, but 
we’re a new 
disappoint ­ment, we took for granted everything that was good about that team. 
Sure, we were dismantled by our two biggest rivals and against LSU in the Sugar Bowl, but we were ranked in the top-10 all year. 
We had the comeback at Michigan State in the rain and, subsequently, a celebra­tion in Stonehenge. We enjoyed a last-second win against UCLA and yelled “Beat SC” for half an hour after an unbelievable senior class played its last game in green at Notre Dame Stadium. 
And more than anything, we had hope and optimism. We were 19-6 and in BCS bowls during two seasons with Charlie Weis, and while we would definitely take a step back with Brady, Samardzija and Co. leaving, our junior and senior years looked to be full of promise. 
But our sophomore year, we fell a lot further than expect­ed. We were humiliated by our biggest rivals and became a national punch line. We lost to Navy for the first time in 44 games, and we couldn’t keep the game close at home against Air Force. Our coach suddenly seemed a little lost and confused, but we still had some hope left. So we blamed it on the poor recruiting of the last coach. 
At least we had talented young players, we thought, and as gifted a quarterback as anyone in the nation. It looked like we would start to We shouldn’t 

tolerate low­ering the standards of the greatest college football pro­gram and tradition in the country, but we’ve grown to accept that that was long ago, and we’re a long way away from the days where we expected to compete for titles every year. 
Instead of looking back at this season in frustration and calling it another failure, I want to remember the great parts of Notre Dame football we were a part of. We saw two of the greatest quarter­backs at a school with a histo­ry of great quarterbacks. We had numerous last-second wins and have seen some of the most phenomenal receivers in program history. 
And really, in the end, I just want this one to end on a good note. One of the worst parts about the Syracuse loss was thinking how terrible it would be for the seniors that were on the field and in the stands to have that be their last home game as students. 
This could be the last home game for a few players that aren’t seniors, too, and I hope as a team they just get this one. As a gift for the seniors playing their last game on that field, and for the seniors standing together one last time. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 

Prater, Ferguson make official visits 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Editor 
Notre Dame will host a pair of highly touted recruits — wide receiver Kyle Prater and defen­sive tackle J.R. Ferguson — for Saturday’s game against Connecticut, but high school players with an interest in the Irish will have their eyes and ears tuned in to South Bend this weekend. And that may have as much to do with the product on the field as the media circus off it surrounding Charlie Weis’ future at the school. 
“It would be foolish to say that recruits don’t hear the specula­tion, but the coaches have to do their best job of explaining the situation,” said Mike Frank, an Irish recruiting analyst who runs the ESPN-affiliated site irishsportsdaily.com. “At the end of the day, I think recruits should choose a school because of the school, the players. Obviously coaching plays a huge part, but coaches come and go, and assistant coaches especially come and go all the time. It’s more about selling the Notre Dame program, tradition and academics.” 
Frank said while winning games is a program’s best recruiting tool, the close nature of Notre Dame’s four losses — which have come by a com­bined 18 points — allows the Irish coaches to tell recruits just how close they believe the pro­gram is to achieving greater success. 
“They get on the phone and just say ‘Hey, we need you. If we get a few of these players, we get over the hump,’” Frank said. “That’s really the message you can sell at this point — that you’ve done a lot of good, bad bounces and things not quite going our way, but we’re close in every game.” 
Notre Dame hopes to take one step closer to securing commit­ments from both of its guests 
this weekend. Ferguson are both 4-star prospects by ESPN .com ’s rankings. 
The 6-foot-6 Prater is one of the top receivers in his class. The Proviso West 
H.S. product out of Hillside, Ill., has issued a verbal commit­ment to USC, but after com­ing to Notre 
Prater and 
Dame for the Irish-Trojans matchup, he decided to take an official visit to South Bend. 
“I think he’d like to stay closer to home if he could, but at the same time, I think he likes a lot about USC and their offense,” Frank said. “That’s something that really intrigues him. It’s a nice environment out there as well.” 
“He’s always been involved with Notre Dame, and they have always liked him,” Frank said. “It’s all about the offense and how he’s going to fit in there. And more importantly, if he likes hanging out with the Notre Dame players, and the environ­ment, what he thinks about that.” 

Unlike Prater, Ferguson has yet to declare a leader in his recruiting search. ESPN lists Miami, LSU, Oklahoma and Maryland as schools the Frederick, Md., product is con­sidering in addition to Notre Dame. 
“He’s an athletic guy that can move,” Frank said. “He’s got a 
“It would be foolish to say that recruits don’t hear the speculation, but the coaches have to do their best job of explaining the situation.” 
Mike Frank Irish recruiting analyst 
lot of offers and there’s good reason for it. Guys that big usually don’t move like he does.” 
At 6-foot-3, 275 pounds, Ferguson is already a physi­cal force. But Frank said schools are even more excited about his poten­tial to add mus­cle with a col­
lege strength and conditioning program. 
“He’s just scratching the sur­face of his real potential,” Frank said. “He’s got great upside. Where other guys might come in as a polished project, he’s got a whole lot to work with. That’s why so many teams are inter­ested in him.” 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com. 
E-mail Mike at mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Matt Gamber at 
mgamber@nd.edu 





Olsen holds down offensive line as captain 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Editor 
As one of Notre Dame’s four co-captains — and as the “quarterback of the offensive line,” as Irish coach Charlie Weis put it — center Eric Olsen has been doing a lot of talking in his senior season. 
Not that it’s a problem for the Staten Island, N.Y., native. 
“I’m a New York guy and I’ve got a big mouth anyway,” Olsen said. “The position suits me, being able to make the calls for the offensive line. And as a captain, I’m a vocal guy on the team anyway. I’m not afraid to let my voice be heard, so it’s something I’ve excelled in.” 
Olsen made the move from guard, where he had started 19 straight games entering the season — the last 13 on the left side, the first six on the right — over to center after the arrival of first-year offen­sive line coach Frank Verducci following the 2008 season. 
way,” Olsen said. “To get his advice and use his experiences is definitely to my benefit.” 
It also hasn’t hurt that his new role has allowed him — forced him, even — to keep on talking. 
“I’ve really embraced it and tried to have as much fun as I can with it,” Olsen said. “I feel like I’ve been doing a solid job helping the other guys. It real­ly fits my personality, being in the middle of all the action, making the calls.” 
As a captain Olsen plays a similar role for the team as a whole. While he said he had been one of the team’s more vocal players in the past, serv­ing as a captain has given a new perspective and a new set of responsibilities. 
“I’ve got to keep my cool a lot more. I can’t let my emo­tions get the best of me in cer­tain situations,” Olsen said. “I just have to see the big picture as a leader of the team and make sure I stay open-minded throughout the course of the 
game and in 
practice.” 


“When he The additional 
“I’ve got to keep my
went through responsibilities winter work-cool a lot more. I bestowed upon outs, just watch-can’t let my emotions Olsen this sea­
ing him move son are ones 
get the best of me in
and then look-he’s proud to ing at his body certain situations.” have earned — type, just in my and that will eye, he looked keep him talk-
Eric Olsen 
like he had cen-ing for some 
senior center
ter qualities,” time. Verducci said. “Being voted a “One of the captain at Notre things we thought we could Dame is something that’s going upgrade at the time was the to stay with me for the rest of push in the middle at the cen-my life. It’s something I’ll ter position, and he’s done a always be proud of and will nice job of that.” tell my grandkids and so on,” 
Olsen said he embraced the Olsen said. “That responsibili­position switch right away and ty is something I wanted to be enjoyed learning the intricate put on my shoulders, and I differences between guard and embraced the role of being a center. And the fact that captain. I’ve tried to have as Verducci, with eight years of much fun as I can with it.” NFL coaching experience, was Weis said his team’s choice there to guide him will only of Olsen as one of its four co-help Olsen as he prepares for captains was one he support-a professional career. ed, both because of the cen­
“Someone with that kind of ter’s role on the field and knowledge, I try to pick his Olsen’s personality off of it. brain all the time and use that “He’s a tough guy and people as a tool for myself in a selfish kind of gravitate to him,” Weis said. “I think that’s why the team voted him as one of the co-captains. He happens to be one of my personal favorites, too. A little of that Northeast bias.” 
Olsen said the relationship with his head coach goes both ways. He initially took a liking to Weis, a New Jersey native, because of their similar back­grounds. But Olsen said he quickly got to know, and like, his coach for other reasons. 
“We have real similar per­sonalities in many ways, just our whole outlook on life,” Olsen said. “We kind of clicked over the past few years and obviously got a chance to get to know each other a lot bet­ter. Our relationship just grew from there.” 
The same could be said for Olsen’s relationships with his fellow offensive linemen. A naturally tight-knit group, the fact that the offensive line includes fifth-year senior tack­le Paul Duncan and three other seniors who regularly see playing time — tackle Sam Young and guards Chris Stewart and Dan Wenger — makes for a good time, Olsen said. 

“We’ve got some real char­acters in our group. Everyone’s got their own per­sonality and brings something different to the table,” Olsen said. “If you sit in on one of our meetings, we have a lot of fun.” 
And that’s one place where Olsen certainly isn’t the only one doing the talking. 
“Everyone’s pretty much a talker, but everyone can be quiet at times too,” Olsen said of his fellow linemen. “We’ve got really good personalities across the board. We have fun with each other and give each other a hard time, but we’re a really close-knit group.” 
In some respect, Olsen said they have had to be over the last few years, during which the line shouldered some of the blame for an inconsistent offense. 
“These guys work hard and have a lot of pride,” Olsen said. “We’ve taken the whip­pings around here for the last few years, but it hasn’t really stopped any of us from show­ing up to work every day and busting our butts.” 
That hard work is gratified, Olsen said, when the line can partake in the successes of the offense as a whole. With stars like Jimmy Clausen and Golden Tate, there have been plenty of spectacular plays to celebrate this season. But one that comes to mind for Olsen 
— and one that illustrates his role as one of Notre Dame’s most important leaders — doesn’t include either of those guys. 
After Dayne Crist through his first career touchdown pass, a 64-yard strike during the 40­14 Irish win over Washington State, the sophomore quarter­back looked almost too excited to celebrate — at least in the way Clausen does, by running over to Olsen, who lifts his quarterback toward the sky. 
“When I was a freshman, I was running out there like that too, looking for something to do. It took the older guys to kind of reel me in,” said Olsen, who eventually found Crist and completed the touchdown cele­bration ritual. “It’s funny how things go full-circle and now I’m one of those guys. But being a veteran and being around here for so long, I know how things work and now it’s my turn to teach it to the younger guys.” 
That is especially true this week, as Weis Tuesday told the media that he had informed his seniors that this was “your week.” Weis said he’d have his veterans address the team after each practice during the week, and there’s no doubt Olsen would be one of those guys. 
“I think it’s a compliment to the seniors and the leaders on the team that he can trust put­ting it on our shoulders to lead the team this week,” Olsen said. “That’s what we have to do.” 
With that in mind, Olsen said he thinks back to last year, and specifically, the week leading up to Notre Dame’s Senior Day game against Syracuse. That week, Olsen said, then-Irish tackle Mike Turkovich addressed all the offensive linemen and explained what playing for Notre Dame meant to him while offering advice to those who still had some time left to strap on that gold helmet. 
“He still wishes he was part of the team now, and he’s still texting me like he is on the team,” Olsen said. “I can see how much guys like that do miss it. When you’re a senior and your time is winding down, it really starts to hit home.” 
So what is that message that Olsen received last year and will pass on this week? 
“Cherish it,” Olsen said. “Whether you’re a freshman or a senior walking out the door, you’re not going to have football forever. You’re not going to be at this place forev­er. Just cherish every moment. Injuries can happen any time and you never know what can happen in your football career. So just cherish every game, every practice, and make the most of every opportunity.” 

Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 




Parents encourage defensive lineman to keep trying out 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
The motto of St. Joseph High School, where Martin Quintana suited up for the Chargers, is Vincit Qui Laborat 
— “victory belongs to those who work.” No statement describes the senior defensive lineman better. 
“I take a lot of pride in com­ing in every day and working my butt off,” Quintana said. “You’re waking up at 5:30 
a.m. and not getting back until 8 at night. It’s challenging and it’s tough, but this has pre­pared me for anything that life will throw at me.” 
In Quintana’s three years suiting up for the Irish, he has given the program everything he could, knowing that it would give him everything back in spades. Quintana, a Berwyn, Ill., native, is a walk-on senior with three seasons of experience at defensive line for Notre Dame. 
Quintana, formerly of Stanford and then Duncan Hall, came to Notre Dame after attending St. Joseph High School in Westchester, Ill., on the west side of Chicago. He was drawn to South Bend by the same quali­ties that have called Domers for decades. 
“There’s something special here. It’s something you want to be a part of,” Quintana said. “You come here, and you have an identity and a culture right away. It’s the community and the atmosphere. It’s so differ­ent than anywhere else.” 
Quintana tried out for the Irish as a freshman, but was cut. 
“I was decent in high school, and I tried out freshman year,” Quintana said. “I got cut and didn’t make it. The coach­es, even though I got cut, said they liked me and wanted me to keep working hard at it.” 
Despite the encouragement from the coaching staff, Quintana needed a little boost to keep going, which came in the form of his father. 
“My dad really pushed me for it,” Quintana said. “He encouraged me to keep work­ing hard. He kept my head up when I got cut, and he was the first guy that brought me back up from how I felt.” 
Quintana brought his work ethic to the interhall fields as a freshman, playing for Stanford. The 6-foot-1, 250­pound lineman was part of a dominant Griffins defense that surrendered only seven points in seven games, going 7-0 en route to a victory over Keenan in the Interhall Championship in Notre Dame Stadium. 
With a season on the grid­iron under his belt — and a taste of playing in the House That Rockne Built — Quintana took another shot at trying out for the varsity. This time, his tenacity and effort earned him a spot as a walk-on. 
Who was happiest? Quintana’s parents, naturally. 
“He was ecstatic,” Quintana said. “My mom was going around to everyone at work, saying how her son was play­ing for Notre Dame. They were so excited.” 
Although he had played foot­ball at a high level for a long time, playing for the Irish was something different entirely. Quintana said being around guys like Pat Kuntz and other defensive linemen was surre­al. 


“I had heard a lot of stories about Pat Kuntz and some of the other guys,” Quintana said. “They were very intimi­dating guys. But they’re so fun, and I had so much fun around them. I tried to soak it all in.” 
Quintana has spent his time playing for the Notre Dame scout team trying to soak in as much as possible, calling it an honor to be around the likes of defensive line coach Randy Hart and graduate assistant and four-time NFL all -pro Bryant Young. 

“[Hart’s] been coaching for 40-plus and to hear all the knowledge and expertise that he brings to the table is incredible,” Quintana said. “Bryant has very high expec­tations, and he brings the best of you. He coaches me directly on the scout team, and getting coached along by a future NFL Hall of Famer is amazing.” 
Still, Quintana said just put­ting on the uniform was the best part of his time at Notre Dame. 
“It’s such a unique experi­ence that only a few people get to be a part of,” Quintana said. “It’s a great feeling to say that I represent the University of Notre Dame foot­ball team.” 
Quintana is a finance major and plans to work in that capacity after graduation. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 

MORRICE RICHARDSON 

Richardson eyes success in the business world 
11 in 2008. degree and a job, every other 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 

“It has been frustrating, being day is a party.” 
News Writer 

able to make plays but still not But Richardson isn’t done getting much [playing time],” he thinking about football. He has Short-term glory might be fun, 
said. been coached for four years by a but senior defensive end Morrice 
Dealing with his frustration, coach with NFL experience, and Richardson has eyed long-term 
Richardson gained a work ethic Richardson relished every lesson success since the day he decided 
that should attract offers from Charlie Weis dispensed. to come to Notre Dame. 
big businesses. “[Weis] knows what he’s talk-The Atlanta native always 
“Even though I haven’t been ing about,” Richardson said. “So dreamed of playing football in 
playing, I still have prepared like whenever he yelled at me it did-the Southeastern Conference, 
I was playing,” he said. “It is n’t really bother me. I would dis-for a powerhouse like LSU or 
that type of position where when regard the tone and listened to Georgia, but opted to come 
you get on you have to produce the words.” north for one reason. 
right away.” In listening to the words, “The thing that won me over 
That preparation has carried Richardson’s NFL dreams live about Notre Dame was the aca­
right back to the classroom as on, as after listening to stories demics,” Richardson said. 
well, where Richardson will from Weis and other Irish play-In letting academics determine 
graduate with a management-ers from the NFL, he has his decision of where to play 
consulting degree from the learned sometimes it is the play-football, Richardson’s time in 
Mendoza College of Business in er you don’t expect who makes college was not going to be 
May. it in the next level. gauged only by his success on 
“There were some times after “There are a lot of guys that the field, but also his progres­
an accounting final — notice I left a college program who sion in class. 
keep saying accounting — we’d played every snap but didn’t “The academic aspect has 
be walking out of Jordan Hall play any snaps at the next been really good. I can’t com-
wanting to cry thinking, ‘What level,” he said. “And there are a plain about that,” he said. “I’ve did I just do?’” he said. “It’s lot of guys who didn’t play in learned a lot and met a lot of worth it, definitely worth it.” college but made it in the next people. One day when I decide Richardson said all the work level.” to go into the business world I’ll Richardson said. “Hopefully one to be strong to deal with,” he he has put in at Notre Dame is Not that Richardson is overly have a leg up coming from the day, I’ll be able to branch off said. worth it because he knows what concerned about making it in number two business program and start my own consulting One of those football situations rewards he will reap in the the NFL. He knows Notre Dame in the country.” company.” has been his scarce playing future. has prepared him for long-term 
He will need a leg up to reach Richardson said football has time, even through relative suc-“Some people say that college success as well as possible his goals, which are just as lofty helped prepare himself for the cess on the field. Richardson has is the best time of your life and short-term glory. off the field as they ever have elite business world. seen action in all four of his it’s the time to party,” he said. “I “Whatever is for me, I have a been on the field. “A lot of the things you come years, but has never started a think those are the people that good degree and have a good 
“After football I want to try to across in the real world I came game, and through his first don’t go to Notre Dame. Every work for one of the top four pri-across playing football here as three years with the Irish had day we have to struggle, but Contact Douglas Farmer at vate consulting firms,” well, a lot of situations you have recorded 18 tackles, including after here, when you have a dfarmer1@nd.edu 

Parris catches everything thrown his way 
meaningful action of his Irish 
By SAM WERNER 
career in the season opener 
Associate Sports Editor 

against Georgia Tech, and caught three passes for 30 Not many players on the yards. Two weeks later, Parris Irish roster can say that recorded his first career start they’ve also been a YouTube at Michigan Stadium against superstar. the Wolverines. Parris also Robby Parris can. scored the first touchdown of 
This past spring, Parris, his Notre Dame career that along with junior running season against Boston back Armando Allen, senior College. running back James Aldridge His junior season, Parris and then -senior defensive was forced to compete with lineman Pat Kuntz, recorded five-star freshman Michael a music video titled “Bend but Floyd for playing time. While Don’t Break.” The video gar-Parris was still an effective nered some notable, if only receiver for the Irish, he also fleeting, Internet fame. learned to take on a mentor 
“We had a couple thousand role to Floyd and then-sopho­views within like five hours,” more wide receiver Golden Parris said. “But then we had Tate. to take it down.” “You definitely get into 
Even though his career as more of a teaching role, an Internet celebrity may because when these guys have been short-lived, Parris’ come in you know there’s time on the gridiron has not. something special about Coming out of St. Ignatius them,” Parris said. “I could High School in Cleveland, tell when they came in that Parris played in six games his these guys were going to play. freshman year, catching one So just being a little bit older, pass for seven yards in Notre being on the field, seeing a Dame’s loss to Michigan. little bit more than they’ve 
Despite the limited playing seen, you just kind of turn before that, and then the next there and make sure I do because my leg got so twisted time in his first season, Parris into more of a teacher role for year we’re in Hawaii living it everything mentally right.” up. I thought I had torn my knew that a college football them.” up. We had fun down in Parris said he considered ACL because my leg got so career was more about the Wide receivers coach Rob Hawaii and then had a big his hands to be his biggest twisted. I was in excruciating long haul. Ianello said Parris has been game, kind of laid it on them attribute as a receiver, and so pain in my leg.” 
“In high school, you’re the invaluable in the film room really good.” far those hands have caught Despite the pain, Parris said man and then you come in helping the younger receivers Parris said the win over the 22 passes for 210 yards and a his main goal was just to not and want to be the man in develop. Warriors, as well as Notre touchdown this season. let go of the ball. college,” Parris said. “When “Robby asks good ques -Dame ’s dominating 35 -0 “When a ball’s thrown to “I mean, my leg literally just things don’t go your way, it’s tions,” Ianello said. “And a lot shutout of Nevada to open me, I have confidence in bent backwards and then I definitely a little wrinkle in of times he might ask ques-2009, helped the Irish get the myself that I’ll catch it if it’s got drilled in the back of your plans, but just sticking it tions for other guys as ball rolling in a positive direc-anywhere near me,” Parris head,” he said. “But it was out and staying confident for opposed to himself. He asks tion. said. “I take a lot of pride in fourth down, do or die, so I four years and you’ll get your good questions when looking “When we do put it all that because I’m obviously just had to hold on to it.” chance.” at the film, and he’s a very together and have big wins not the fastest guy, but if the Ianello, though, wasn’t sur-
Parris got that chance in heady player.” like that, it does get your con-ball’s thrown to me, I can prised by Parris’ tenacity. 2007, his sophomore season. Parris caught nine passes fidence going and get your catch it, and that’s a good “I think Robby has been a With the graduation of Jeff for 50 yards in 2008, and, like morale up a little bit,” he thing.” guy with us for four years Samardzija and Rhema the rest of the Irish squad, said. Many of those catches came that’s been a real steady guy, McKnight. Parris was one of enjoyed a trip to Hawaii at Heading into the 2009 sea-when Floyd suffered a broken a guy we can count on,” only three receivers on the the end of the season for the son, Parris said he knew his collarbone in the third game Ianello said. “He’s really Irish roster that had regis-Sheraton Hawaii Bowl. He role on the team as a compli-of the season against shown some great toughness, tered a catch the previous added that the team’s strug-ment to the All -American Michigan State. In the five mentally and physically here.” season. gles the season before made skills of Floyd and Tate. games Floyd missed, Parris As his collegiate football 
Even though the Irish strug-the trip to paradise — and “I’m not going to go out caught 13 passes for 156 career comes to a close, gled to a 3-9 record in 2007, Notre Dame’s 49-21 victory there and have 200 -yard yards, even though Parris Parris said he’ll remember Parris flourished, finishing over Hawaii — just a little bit receiving games like these himself missed the majority of the off-field moments more third on the team with 29 sweeter. guys [Floyd and Tate],” Parris two games due to injury. than anything that happened catches and second with 361 “It does taste a little bit bet-said. “These guys are miracu-“When [Floyd] went down, on the gridiron. receiving yards. ter. We didn’t even get to go lous at how they could do we just knew it was time to “The best thing about play-
The sophomore saw the first to a bowl game the year that. I’m just going to go out pick it up,” Parris said. “I ing is just hanging out with mean, Michael’s probably one these guys in the locker room, of the top five receivers in the just screwing around,” Parris country, so when he got hurt, said. “That’s better than any-it left a lot of opportunities thing that’s happened on the for me and the other field.” receivers to step up.” Parris said he wants to give 
Parris had his biggest game professional football a try, but of the season, and his Irish that he has a backup plan career, against USC. Despite ready. catching nine passes for 92 “Maybe this football thing yards, Parris was quick to will work out, maybe it downplay his performance. won’t,” Parris said. “I’m not 
“It was cool, I guess,” he going to put all my eggs in said. “I really didn’t even that basket, though.” think of it like a ‘breakout Parris has continued his game’ because I just did what music endeavors, recording I had to do. They threw it to songs with teammates as well me and I caught it. I didn’t do as local musician and Notre anything spectacular.” Dame senior Pat McKillen. He 
The biggest catch of the said former Notre Dame nine was undoubtedly a 13-receiver David Grimes also yard grab Parris made on a helped out with his music. fourth -and -10 pass from “Grimes is the man,” Parris quarterback Jimmy Clausen said. “He’s always around. on Notre Dame’s final drive. He’s like wisdom. Everything The play gave the Irish a first that comes out of his mouth, down and drove them down to you want to listen to it USC’s 16-yard line. because he’s just so helpful in 
“I knew it was fourth down, anything you’ve got.” so all I was trying to think One thing is for sure, about was holding on to the though. Parris’ career as an ball,” Parris said. Internet personality has come 
After he caught the ball, to a close. Parris’ leg got twisted in the “We always screw around turf, and he was drilled by with it,” Parris joked. “But no Trojans safety Taylor Mays. more YouTube videos for us.” 
“At the time, I didn’t even know that he came in from Contact Sam Werner at behind and hit me in the head swerner@nd.edu 


Dillon player overcomes injury to make team 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
For most who compete at Riehle Field on Sundays repre­senting their hall, the thought of donning a gold-painted helmet, touching the “Play Like a Champion Today” sign and run­ning out of the tunnel to the cheers of more than 80,000 fans on a Saturday afternoon is noth­ing more than a pipe dream. 
For Dillon Hall’s Joshua continued to work out in hopes of making the team, waking up at 4:45 a.m. for months to work out despite his injuries. 
“I was in Rolfs working out with a broken leg,” he said. Despite his earlier setbacks, Stull again tried out for the team last spring, making the cut in time to be on the roster for this season, his senior year. 
“My favorite memory has to be running out of the tunnel for Nevada,” he said. “It was just an 
unbelievable expe­
rience.” 

Stull, however, To Stull, that 
“After two years, I 
that dream moment repre­
fnally got a chance
became a reali-sented the culmi­ty. on my last nation of all of the 
Stull, a 5-hard work he had 
opportunity.” 
foot-8, 189-put in over his pound corner-time at Notre 
Joshua Stull
back from Dame and toward Brownsburg, senior linebacker his ultimate goal Ind., wears the of putting on the number 43 for blue and gold on Coach Weis’ team now, but his Saturdays. He had fought path to the home sideline of through injuries and rejection to Notre Dame Stadium was not, finally make the team for one by any means, a straight one. year, and entering the Stadium 
Stull played on the Big Red showed him the value of his per-Interhall team his freshman severance and what he was able year at Notre Dame and was to achieve. poised to do so again during his “Everybody wants to do this,” sophomore year when he broke he said. “To actually be able to his leg, ruining any chance of do it, that’s a really special his playing for Dillon Hall that thing.” year. Though he is small by most 
In the spring, however, Stull football standards, Stull enjoys tried out for the varsity team but being a part of the football team. failed to make the roster, as he “Yeah, I’m definitely one of the was still not fully recovered smallest guys in the locker from his injury. He doggedly room,” he said with a laugh. 

“It’s actually one of the first things my mom noticed about the team.” 
He also vividly remembers the opportunities he has had during practice — the first time he heard “Stull, get in there!” dur­ing the first week of practice was a “wow” moment, he said. 
Stull was appreciative that the coaches made an effort to see what the walk-ons had to offer the team, though they may not be in the same physical category as the four-and five-star recruits. 

“It’s a little intimidating being around all these Division I ath­letes,” he said. “It’s definitely a humbling experience. In high school I was one of the top play­ers on the team, but here, your confidence gets a check and you realize who you are.” 
Naturally, Stull’s favorite aspect of the Notre Dame expe­rience is the football games, though of course the academics of the University are important to him as well. He is not just paying lip service to the idea of studying, however — Stull is a double history and theology major. He plans to work at General Mills in Minnesota after graduation. 
“My favorite part of being on the football team,” Stull said, “is just being a part of something so special. After two years, I finally got a chance on my last opportu­nity.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
TOM BURKE 

Walk-on linebacker gets starting role against BC 
exceptional numbers in high on the gridiron. 
By CHRIS MASOUD 

school, including a 14-tackle “Naturally all the walk-ons 
Sports Writer 

ga m e ,  B u r k e  r e a l i z e d  h i s  are  really close,” Burke said.  
dream could become a reality.  “You go through  a  lot of the  
T he  s t a t  l i n e  of  N o t r e  “I always wanted to go to  s ame  th i ng s , y o u ha ve t he  
Dame’s victory  over  Boston  Notre Dame since I was little,”  same  experiences and natu- 
College this  season  featured  Burke said. “I’m the first in  rally that binds you pretty  
the numbers Irish fans have  my family to go here, but I  tight. It doesn’t really matter  
come  to expect from the star  always knew it  was  a  special  who it is, whether it’s Brian  
p l ay m a k e r s . W h a t t h e b o x  place. It  was  always  a  goal  Smith at linebacker,  a  really  
score  and game notes don’t  going through high school,  welcoming guy, or Kerry Neal  
show is the biggest moment in  and I’ve worked hard and was  or John Ryan. They’re all just  
senior Tom Burke’s career.  able to come.”  really good guys and we have  
Starting  on  the punt return  While balancing the work- a really good team dynamic.”  
te am  fo r  t h e  I r i s h ,  B ur k e  l o a d  o f  a  d ou b l e  majo r  i n  Unless your  name  is Rudy,  
stepped onto the field for the  finance and economics and  walk-ons usually don’t get the  
first time in  a  regular  season  the commitment to the team,  praise and glory attached to  
game.  Burke says he appreciates his  s c h ola r s h i p  pla y e rs .  
“That was  just really  surre­ d e cis i on  t o  c o m e  t o  N o t r e  Nevertheless, Burke has come  
a l , ”  B ur k e  D a me  eac h  to take pride in his role  as  
s a i d .  “ A s  a  day.  scout team middle linebacker,  
w a l k -you’re on  o n the  “The frst time stepping off  “I’ve met my b e s t fr i e n d s  pushing himself and his team-m a t es t o g e t b ett e r e a ch  
s i d e l i n e s ev e r y w e e k , but that day w a s m y d a y  that sideline actually onto the feld to play a down against an opposing team  o u t her e i n sc h o o l , an d I’m sure they’ll b e m y b e s t  week. “It does get pretty intense between the scout team and the offense, and that’s our job,  
to contribute  with the crowd and the  friends for the  to  make it intense,” Burke  
a n d p l a y m e a n i n g f u l tim e i n t h e  intensity of the game, it was really special, and I’ll  res t o f my life,” he said. “ N ot r e D am e  said. “We’re never going to be VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer able to completely mimic the Senior linebacker Tom Burke got his first opportunity to start look that another team is giv­as a specialist against Boston College.  
g a me. f i r s t  T h e t i m e  never forget that.”  j us t b rin gs a l o t o f peo p l e  ing on Saturday because natu­rally we have some limita-I’m right around from that  Irish.  
s t e pp i n g o f f that sideline actually onto  Tom Burke senior linebacker  wh o a re v ery similar togeth­e r, w h o h av e  tions, but we bring it as hard as we can and we like to think that we compete pretty hard.”  area where he’s from, and I think I get his attitude,” Burke said. “Playing at Notre Dame  “I just think being a walk-on especially is going to pay divi­dends in a lot of ways in the  
th e  field  t o  g o o d  v a l u e s  More  so  than other football  i s  k i n d  o f  u s  a g ain st  t h e  future,” Burke said. “A lot of  
play  a  down  and do well in  programs, Notre Dame’s lega­ world, and he understands  times, you’re the low  man  on  
a g ain s t  a n  sc h o o l ,  bu t  cy commands the unwanted  that. He’s always going about  the totem pole and you have  
opposing team with the crowd  also who like to have  a  good  attention of critics and the  for the team and for our play- t o  w o r k  j us t  a s  h a r d  an d  
and the intensity of the game,  time.”  media that  can  bring  a  team  ers and for the University, and  harder than everyone else to  
it  was  really special, and I’ll  A commitment to play foot- down before it even takes the  I really respect that.”  get noticed to  earn  that kind  
never forget that.”  ball for the Irish is much more  field. Burke says Irish coach  With his football days  num­ of respect. The people who  
A  5-f o o t -10, 2 42 -p o u nd  than just a season of practices  Ch a rlie  We i s’  m en t a l i t y,  a  bered, Burke says he will miss  can survive as a walk-on have  
inside linebacker from New  a n d  S at u r d a y  a fte r n o o n  mentality that he has come to  running out of the tunnel and  the attributes to be successful  
City, N.Y., Burke had the aspi­ games. The relationships and  adopt, keeps the team focused  strapping  on  the gold helmet  in whatever they want to do.”  
ration of suiting up for the  community Burke has formed  every week.  every day. More importantly,  
Irish implanted at  an  early  with his teammates will last  “I’m from New York, but I  he will never take for granted  Contact Chris Masoud at  
age. After putting together  longer than any achievement  was  born in New Jersey,  so  the opportunity to play for the  cmasoud@nd.edu  

Stalwart tackle has started since week one, 2006 
forget about it the next day and 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
then go back to work.” 
Associate Sports Editor 

Young has come a long way from his freshman season, a Editor’s note: This article first year in which he said he relied appeared in the Sept. 18 edition heavily on his veteran team-of The Observer. mates. A consensus five-star recruit coming out of power-
While the past four years house high school St. Thomas have been an up-and-down Aquinas in Ft. Lauderdale, Fla., journey of wins, losses, success Young became the first true and failure, the one constant freshman to start a season on through every Notre Dame Notre Dame’s offensive line game has been offensive tackle since freshman became eligible Sam Young. in 1972. 
When he takes the field on “There were so many guys Saturday, Young will set the that helped me out, on the Notre Dame record for most offensive line my guy Ryan career starts by any player, Harris, Brady [Quinn], John with his 49 straight surpassing Sullivan and John Carlson, just former teammates Maurice a laundry list of guys,” Young Crum Jr. and Tom Zbikowski. said. He is the only offensive lineman Teaming with future NFL line-in the long and storied history men Harris, Dan Santucci and of Irish football to start every Sullivan, Young was named a game of his career. freshman All-American for his 
“It’s been a lot of hard work part in protecting Quinn and and a little luck [starting 49 opening up holes for Darius 
straight],” Young  Walker.  Quinn  
said. “It’s really  threw for  more  
been a roller-coaster ride for  “It’s really been a  than 3,000 yards and Walker  
this senior class,  rollercoaster ride for  rushed for more  
there’s been highs and lows and in-betweens.  this senior class. There’s been highs  than 1,000 in their final sea­sons with the  
It’s been crazy.”  and lows and  Irish.  
He was there for the come-backs against  in-betweens. It’s been crazy.”  “I remember, before that first game [at  
Michigan State  Georgia Tech in  
and UCLA in 2006, and there for every painful  Sam Young senior offensive tackle  2006], I was fully suited up about ten min- 
game  of  2007.  utes after we got  
He’s  been  a  off the bus, I was  

starter on a team that went to so anxious,” Young said. the Sugar Bowl, a team that “Looking back, it’s crazy to finally broke the bowl losing think about where I was then streak in Hawaii and a team and where I am now.” that tied for the worst record in The 6-foot-8 freshman started school history. every game of that 2006 cam-
So when it comes to the ups paign, experiencing comeback (like a blowout win over wins over the Bruins and Nevada) and downs (like heart-Spartans and disappointing breaking losses to USC, blowouts to rivals Michigan and Michigan or Navy) of a season, USC. Those experiences now there’s hardly anyone more help Young as he has gained prepared. more experience and his role 
“After that kind of loss, you’re on the team has evolved. upset, and it’s OK to be upset, “You go from the student to and sometimes a good thing,” now I’m the teacher,” Young Young said. “But you have to said. “You pass on those same things you learned from the leaders to those younger guys now.” 

In Young’s sophomore year the low points far outnumbered the highs, as the team and offensive line struggled throughout a 0-5 start and 3-9 season. After graduating three seniors, the O-line gave up an NCAA high 58 sacks, including nine in the season opener against Georgia Tech and at Michigan. 
The offensive line was at the center of the criticism for the Irish, and Young said it was a tough learning experience. 
“You have to learn to push through adversity,” Young said. “You’ve got to go when you lose into the next week and regroup and stop the bleeding and keep plugging it. No one likes to lose.” 
Young said the performance of the team and offensive line as a unit in 2007 served as a huge point of motivation for 2008. 
“We had to work our rear ends off in winter conditioning, in spring ball and in the sum­mer to improve,” Young said. “Everyone worked together to put in a lot of hours and get better.” 

The offensive line certainly did improve in 2008, with Young playing a large role. The much-maligned unit allowed 
only 22 sacks in pass protection, although run blocking still proved to be an issue. 
“As you play more and more, the game slows down a lot,” Young said. “You start seeing little keys you never saw before, tons of things you never noticed.” 
Entering 2009 the Notre Dame offensive line 
Young and the 
“It’s gone fast. 
offensive line 
Freshman year 
was the addition seemed like it took of coach Frank Verducci to 
forever, and since 
replace John 
then it’s just hit high 
Latina. Young gear and motored said he definite-along.” ly feels the line has made strides under Verducci’s 
Sam Young 
tutelage and senior offensive tackle with new block-

had 100 career starts from its returning unit, tied for the most in the NCAA. Thirty-eight of those starts came from Young, who has been a leader on the deep and experienced unit. 
“He obviously has so much experience on the field, he’s been around for so long,” soph­omore guard Trevor Robinson 
said. “He has a really good abili­ty to gather informati on before the snap, and the more information you have the more you expect and less likely you are to be sur­prised. He uses that help me out, help Eric [Olsen] and Kyle [Rudolph].” 
The Irish have allowed 21 sacks this season, but the emphasis and improve­ment in run blocking has 

“We as an offensive 
tive. It’s a differ-
line want the team to ent way of doing things.”
be able to rely on us, 
Young was 
whether it’s that 
named to the short yardage play Outland Award watch list in the 
where we have to get 
offseason for the
one yard or whether 
nation’s best it’s holding up on offensive line-
third and long to give man, and on 
Saturday will 
Jimmy [Clausen] 
take the Notre 
time.” Dame record for most starts made in a
Sam Young 
career. 
senior offensive tackle 

been evident. Behind Young and the offensive line, Notre Dame’s running backs are each averag­ing close to or over five yards per carry, a dramatic improve­ment from last season. 
“I think we’ve gotten a lot bet­ter, we’re getting close to where we want to be, but aren’t there yet,” Young said. “We as an offensive line want the team to be able to rely on us, whether it’s that short yardage play where we have to get one yard or whether it’s holding up on 
third and long to give Jimmy [Clausen] time. We have all the confidence in the world with Armando back there or any running back and in Jimmy, it’s just our job to make it happen.” Entering this season, a major change for 
ing schemes. “He’s a techni­
cian,” Young 
said of Verducci in the spring. 
“For me that’s a really good 
thing because I think that’s 
something that I’ve been lack­
ing is my technique. It’s some­
thing that I needed to work on. 
It’s a different perspective. 
There’s a lot of stuff he brings 
to the table that I haven’t heard 
before and a lot of the guys on the line have heard. It’s a dif­ferent perspec-
The senior 
said he attrib­
utes his streak of starting games and consis­tency to his attitude and approach to the game. 
“The way I look at myself is I just try and be consistent day in and day out, whether that’s coming to work every day or playing on Saturdays. It’s gone fast. Freshman year seemed like it took forever, and since then it’s just hit high gear and motored along,” he said. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

Wide receiver starts own tradition on the field 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
Those F-18 Super Hornets that buzzed Notre Dame Stadium before the Navy game can put nine times the force of gravity on the pilots during tight turns and loops. Intense, right? Sort of. 
Consider: the players on the field below can generate up to 100 times the force of gravity when they hit and tackle each other. The pinnacle of these hits, naturally, occurs on kickoff coverages, when both units sprint as fast as they can direct­ly at one another. 
At the center of this mael­strom is wide receiver and return man Barry Gallup, 5­foot-11 and 190 pounds of speed and quickness. It’s OK, though, because he’s got the mentality for the job. 
“It’s real violent out there,” he said. “I’m a pretty violent person so I don’t mind that.” 
Football isn’t the only violent sport Gallup has played. Growing up in Wellesley, Mass., he was a right wing in hockey, which he played year-round. While similarities between a game played on grass and one played on ice are rare, some skills translate, Gallup said. 
“I feel like hockey requires a lot of balance, and also you have to play tough to play hock­ey,” he said. 
Gallup balanced playing hock­ey, football and track at Belmont Hill H.S., but when it came time to pursue a sport in college he went with football — and he went against the family. His father, Barry Sr., played football and basketball at Boston College and now is the director of football operations there. 
“We definitely have some fun conversations at the dinner table,” Gallup said. “Obviously it’s a great rivalry. It’s a lot of fun. That game’s always circled on my calendar.” 
Barry Sr. didn’t push for his son to attend Boston College, instead leaving it up to him. Gallup said he chose Notre Dame when he fell in love with the school during his official visit. 
“Coach [Charlie] Weis, I knew because he was with the [New England] Patriots [as offensive coordinator from 2000-04] and I was a big Patriots fan,” Gallup said. “It was a combination of those things and just the feeling I got when I came here, it was something I wanted to be a part of.” 
Upon arriving in South Bend, Gallup saw the truth behind college football — never-ending hard work. 
“You don’t realize these guys are working out 6 a.m. every day,” he said. “You come in the summer, no one’s really on campus, you’re working out in the morning and going to class­es. It’s really a full-time job.” 
The ends justify the running and lifting and practice and meetings, however. 
“I feel all the work is definite­ly worth it, to put on that hel­met and run through the tun­nel,” he said. 
Gallup didn’t see the field his freshman year, but played on the special teams units in 2007. In 2008, despite missing four games because of an ankle injury, he made 49 special-teams appearances. 
That injury hindered his speed, which he called his biggest asset. He worked out in the offseason with the trainers and strength coaches to build the speed back up. 
Gallup plays with some fast guys, but he feels he should be right up there. 
“We got some fast guys but I’ll never concede that someone’s faster than me,” he said. “I don’t know how many races I’ve lost but it’s not too many.” 


Senior wide receiver Barry Gallup, Jr., 21, ran a 52-yard kick return up the middle of the feld from the 3-yard line in the third quarter at Michigan. 
This season, an early injury to That return, and everything field and recovering from his fullback and return man James he’s done on the field this sea-ankle injury. He someday wants Aldridge gave Gallup a chance son, come from the hard work to own his own company and to return kickoffs. Against he’s done while at Notre Dame. said he could see himself going Michigan, he capitalized. After Even though the environment into the business side of sports. Michigan threw a touchdown was originally not something he He stays in close touch with pass to take a 24-20 lead in the was used to, he said he kept his mom, dad and sister, a con-third quarter, Gallup caught the working for his chance. dition for him going to school ball at the 3-yard line and took “I came from a school in far from home, and cherishes off straight up the middle of the Massachusetts where they don’t the relationships he’s formed. field for a 52-yard return. produce a lot of big-time foot-“You create so many special 
“I made a big play and I was ball players,” he said. “There bonds and we have so many hoping to spark a big come-weren’t any Brady Quinns or great guys on the team that I’m back,” he said. “I can make Jeff Samardzijas at my high going to miss that,” he said. people miss in space.” school. Mostly, he’ll remember the 
Gallup has run back seven “It’s been a long time coming, final minutes before game time, kickoffs this season and aver-a lot of long hours when you’re after he’s put in the work but ages 22 yards per return. That thinking what am I getting out before he takes those stagger-52-yard return is the longest of this? [But] I’ve always kept ing hits, when he runs out of for the Irish of the season and my nose to the grindstone.” the tunnel onto the field. the longest since Armando Gallup graduated from Notre “It’s unbelievable every time Allen ran a kickoff back 96 Dame in three years and was you run out there,” he said. “I yards for a touchdown in Notre accepted to Notre Dame’s grad-never take it for granted.” Dame’s 49-21 Hawaii Bowl vic-uate MBA program, but tory over Hawaii on Dec. 24, deferred it for a year so he Contact Bill Brink at 2008. could focus on getting on the wbrink@nd.edu 
CHRIS STEWART 

Offensive guard enters with unique football perspective 
out.” to bring in some American Studies 
By ERIC PRISTER 

After seeing the majority of his classes, so it ended up being pretty 
Sports Writer 

sophomore playing time on special cool. Taking Common Human teams, Stewart has started all but Diseases gave me my first glance Senior offensive guard Chris 
three games since the beginning of into Haiti and Caribbean society, Stewart has succeeded both on the 
his junior year — the three being so I wanted to learn the history field and off since he entered as a 
games he missed due to injury. and backdrop of all that, so that freshman in the spring of 2006. 
Despite his individual success, was the reason that I did it.” Stewart came to Notre Dame 
Stewart still has more he wants to The doors that were opened for with a unique football perspective. 
accomplish, both on and off the him at Notre Dame have also been He played high school football in 
field. a large part of Stewart’s off-the-Texas, which he said can be more 
“Football-wise, I’d like to go field experience, along with the scrutinizing than playing football 
undefeated and win a national ability to get to know people that under the Dome. 
championship,” Stewart said. “But he might not have otherwise got­“It’s a different culture coming 
I’ve gotten a lot of the experience ten a chance to meet. from Texas to Indiana for foot-
out of it. Academically, I still want “I’ve enjoyed a lot of the people,” ball,” Stewart said. “It’s an 
something out of grad school, I Stewart said. “Notre Dame has upgrade, but I guess the society is 
guess that’s something that’s left some really down-to-earth people, different. Not that Notre Dame 
wanting. Other than that, I’ve had successful people but still-down-to fans aren’t die-hard, but it’s almost a pretty good experience with peo-earth. It’s not unusual to have like a cult following down south ple and everything like that. With friends from all over the U.S. and and in Texas. Little kids from the football, you can always wish all over the world, being in the top age of four are indoctrinated into things had gone better, but hind-earning bracket in the U.S. and the cult of football and school. It’s was right on that,” Stewart said. and low of Irish football, and both sight’s 20/20.” still be down-to-earth, cool people. just a little bit different, and it’s “It was a mix of academics and of these experiences helped shape Stewart took advantage of the So, I’ve really enjoyed that part, hard to explain or pinpoint, it’s just football. I was able to have a his Notre Dame experience. academic opportunities offered by getting to know people from differ-the way things are done. Even tail-national spotlight, every week get “One of the best memories, even attending Notre Dame, majoring in ent backgrounds. And I’ve enjoyed gating, it’s just different.” to be on TV and get a chance to though the game didn’t go so well, history and international peace the educational side, getting to 
It was both athletics and aca-showcase talent in front of every-was going to New Orleans for the studies, and even creating his own know professors and counselors 
demics that drew Stewart to Notre one in the nation every week. It Sugar Bowl, to go back down history specialization — Caribbean and people like that. It’s been Dame from his hometown in lived up to my expectations. There south,” Stewart said. “And actually Studies. great. It’s been a really good expe-Spring, Texas, despite the change were some down times which a recent one was going to San “I kind of made [the Caribbean rience.” in climate that a move to Indiana were hard, but that happens, just Antonio. That was nice to get back Studies specialization] up,” would entail. like anything else in life.” down south. I’d say those two are Stewart said. “So I took a lot of Contact Eric Prister at 
“I expected it to be cold, and I Stewart has seen both the high the football memories that stick political science classes and I had eprister@nd.edu 

Unexpected fifth year pays off for Sharpley 
After that, it was back to 
By SAM WERNER 
school to complete his educa-
Associate Sports Editor 
tion degree and become, in 
his own words, “the best ­

Usually the players that looking backup quarterback come back for fifth years at in college football.” Notre Dame can be predicted “Adding depth at the quar­well ahead of time. There terback position was great,” was one this year though, Sharpley said. “And plus I that came out of left field. just love playing football and 
Well, actually first base. being competitive.” 
Quarterback Evan Sharpley Even though it was five long gave the Irish a boost of years ago, Sharpley said he unexpected depth at the could still look back and quarterback position this remember his recruitment to summer when he announced Notre Dame in 2004. He said that he would return for a that along with Notre Dame, fifth season. Sharpley, who he was also considering also plays first on the Irish Michigan, Purdue and LSU. baseball team, returned to “I wanted to play both play football after being sports, and a lot of the places drafted by the Seattle I was looking at they weren’t Mariners in the 50th round of going to let me do that, ” the 2009 Sharpley said. Major League “A couple that Baseball draft. were like, 
“Initially, it “Initially, it was just to ‘Well, maybe,’ 
was just to kind of cover my bases, but that ’s kind of cover really what it 
in case baseball didn’t 
my bases, just came down 
work out.” 
in case base-to. I knew I ball didn’t was going to work out, ” Evan Sharpley get a great Sharpley said degree. I
Fifth-year quarterback 
of coming knew I was back. “I didn’t going to play have the baseball, I greatest season I’ve ever had knew I was going to play with baseball, but I still got football, and compete in both drafted.” sports.” 
Sharpley was drafted Sharpley saw little action 1,593rd overall, which he backing up Brady Quinn in said caused mixed emotions. 2005 and 2006, but finally 
“It was kind of bittersweet,” got his shot in 2007. Sharpley said. “It’s still awe-The junior saw extensive some to get drafted, and I action both backing up then-wanted an opportunity. I’m freshman Jimmy Clausen and still going to remember those starting games against USC 1,592 guys that got drafted in and Navy. The game against front of me.” the Trojans was Sharpley’s 
After being drafted, first career Notre Dame start. Sharpley played summer ball He said he had to walk a in Peoria, Ill. for the Seattle fine line that season, both Mariners’ rookie league teaching Clausen and fighting team. for playing time himself. 
“I had a great time, had a “At the same time you want great summer playing sum-to see the team you’re play-mer,” he said. “It was really ing on and the program fun.” you’re in be successful, so whatever I would have to do, I would do,” Sharpley said. “I wasn’t holding anything back. I wanted to see him do well if he was playing, and hopefully likewise if I was playing he wanted me to do well.” 
Sharpley said the highlight 
of his Notre Dame career came earlier in the season, when he relieved Clausen against Purdue. 
“My first touchdown pass against Purdue was great, coming in and playing pretty well then,” he said. 
On the season, Sharpley fin­ished his junior year with 736 passing yards with five touch­downs and three intercep­tions. 
There was one play in 2007, though, that Sharpley said summed up his up-and­down career at Notre Dame. 
“We were playing Boston College,” he said. “And I came in the second half, played pretty well, threw a couple of touchdown passes.” 
The play was a fourth-and­one from the Eagles’ 13-yard line with the Irish trailing 27­
14. Sharpley said as he was running out on the field, Irish coach Charlie Weis called him back and changed the play. 
“We go with a pop pass, and I throw a touchdown pass,” Sharpley said. “It was one of the best feelings ever, then I look over and see a flag on the field. Can I buy a break?” 
Irish tackle Mike Turkovich had been called for holding and the Irish couldn’t convert after being pushed back 10 yards. Notre Dame ended up losing 27-14. 
Clausen seized the starting job in 2008 and hasn’t looked back. With the addition of Dayne Crist last season, Sharpley has taken on even more of a teaching role for the young quarterbacks. 
“I’ve kind of always felt like a teacher or a coach, just with my knowledge that I have,” Sharpley said. 


In fact, when Sharpley was running the scout team as third-string quarterback ear­lier this season, coaches often raved about how he ran the opposing team’s offense better than they did. 
“It’s a running joke between coach [Jon] Tenuta and I when I’m running the other team’s offense, it’s, ‘Well, better than this guy again,’” Sharpley said. 
Sharpley’s teaching ability, though, stretches far beyond the football field. Currently a student teacher at Adams High School in South Bend, Sharpley is close to finishing his degree in secondary edu­cation from Saint Mary’s, in addition to having a history degree from Notre Dame. 
“I had to do some twisting and I was on kind of a special program because obviously a football player had never done this before, especially a football/baseball-type guy,” he said. “So it was kind of difficult, but ultimately I wanted to get that done now, so if I wanted to in the future I could be a teacher or coach, which is what I want to do eventually.” 
After he saw his first action 
of the season against Washington State, Sharpley said he was greeted in class on Monday with cries of “Mr. Sharpley, why wouldn’t they let you throw the ball?” 
Sharpley said his students have become some of his biggest fans. 
“They come in and each week it’s like ‘Can we sign a petition to coach Weis to let you play?’” Sharpley said. 
Sharpley teaches five class­es at Adams, two senior gov­ernment classes and three geography classes. He said that an average day starts at 
6:30 a.m., with school until 
2:30 p.m. and football until 8 
p.m. After that, it’s back home to lesson plan or grade papers. 

“It’s been a great experi­ence,” Sharpley said. “It’s dif­ficult at times just because I am splitting time with both. Where I would maybe like to do more with a certain sub­ject, I don’t have as much time as the other student teachers to plan those things.” 
Being a Division I football player, though, has taught Sharpley some useful skills. 
“Being here over the past four years has helped me with time management, knowing when I can do some­thing, when I need to sleep, when I need to eat,” he said. 
Sharpley said his plans after graduation are to try to give pro baseball a shot, but that a teaching degree is a good fallback plan. 
“My plans as of now are to go back in the spring for spring training and play great and try and make a name for myself,” he said. 
As for his time at Notre Dame, though, Sharpley said it’s about more than just ath­letics. 
“I’ve tried to not just be defined as a football player or as a baseball player,” he said. “I have several different groups of friends outside of football, which I really think is important because you don’t want to get termed as an athlete because there’s kind of a negative connota­tion with that.” 
Looking back, Sharpley said he couldn’t think of anything he would have done different­ly over the past four years. 
“I try not to live like that,” he said. “Started dating my girlfriend earlier, I guess. 
“It’s been a fun time so far, and hopefully it finishes up well, too.” 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 

Big-time experience inspired ‘Big Body’ walk-on 
get on the field for the it real. Sometimes off the field 
By JARED JEDICK 

Connecticut game,” Vos said. we will go out to eat together, 
Sports Writer 

“I will take what I can get, but stuff like that.” I have hopes of getting in A result of these relation-For walk-on wide receiver 
there as a receiver.” ships with the receiving corps Sam Vos, his college football 
Beyond the rigors of playing and the walk-ons is his nick-experience has been all about 
football and practicing every-name, which refers to his personal growth and making 
day, it has taken a great deal stocky build. the most of what opportunities 
of effort to be able to balance “The other receivers thought he has gotten in life. Being 
class, football and having a I was a kind of a stocky dude, able to have the chance to be 
social life. so they started calling me ‘Big around a major college pro­
“Day to day you are waking Body,’” Vos said. gram like Notre Dame has 
up in the morning and doing Vos said he loves it when the given Vos a deep sense of 
some kind of workouts,” Vos receivers get together because pride in what he is able to 
said. “Sometimes it is as early he believes they are all a accomplish. 
as six in the morning for bunch of fun-loving guys. “You hear the cliché that the 
workouts. That takes a couple “When you get the receiving speed of the game in college is 
hours and then we have class-crew together, they are a real so much different than it is in 
es until about two. After that bunch of clowns,” Vos said. high school,” Vos said. “And 
its meetings and practices for When asked what advice he now I really take pride in the 
a couple hours.” would give to a freshman try-fact of how far I have come 
All that work makes it hard ing to walk on to the team, Vos since I walked on. When I first 
to find time to socialize and responded that he would want started everything was going 
wind down, but Vos said he them to focus on the positive so fast, and now I can actually 
believes that it is important to side of things, not the hard compete with the guy I am lin­
make that kind of time. work. ing up against.” 
“I don’t get to go out and “I would tell them to really As a member of the scout 
have as much fun with my look on the positive side,” Vos team offense and special 
friends, but you have to set said. “There are a lot of things teams unit since the spring of aside some time away from that can get you down when his freshman year, nothing has school and football,” Vos said. you aren’t playing and you come easily for Vos, but noth-“I have been able to fit it in.” aren’t traveling. You really ing means more for him about Vos has formed some impor-have to look at the big picture his walk-on experience than to Coach Weis is work ethic and high school and just being tant friendships in his time at and your whole college experi­be a part of team with big-time management,” Vos said. introduced to football.” Notre Dame, including his fel-ence.” time players and big-name “Those two things will defi-Football was also a big part low receivers and walk-ons. But Vos said what he has coaches. nitely be useful going for-of his life in high school, as he “All of the receivers are gotten out of his experience, 
“Probably the greatest part ward.” went to Catholic Central in really tight. My other clique is from being with the players on of my football experience is Vos grew up in the small Burlington, Wis., where he the walk-ons,” Vos said. “It is this team and the coaches that just being able to be a part of town of Burlington, Wis., with learned a lot about football really a unique experience of have taught him, is that you this team and be around all his mom and dad and two and life from coach Tom what we all went through with have to make the most out of these guys,” Vos said. “I am a younger brothers, and that Aldrich. the tryouts and what we go every opportunity you are walk-on, I wasn’t really family experience has pre-“It was just the way he cre-through every day.” given. recruited by anyone coming pared him for his future life, ated a winning program and One of Vos’ closest friends is “The most valuable thing for out of high school, so I took a both as a man and as a foot-taught us life lessons,” Vos fellow walk-on and fullback the rest of my life is that you shot at making this team, and ball player. said. “He used football as a Mike Narvaez, as they have get limited opportunities and once I made it, being around “My mom and dad come to a tool to teach us things we gone through this journey of you have to make the most of these types of players is spe-lot of games and are really could use the rest of our being a walk-on together. every opportunity that you cial.” supportive of me, they have lives.” “With me and Mikey, the ever get,” Vos said. “Seize 
Vos also puts a lot of stock in taught me how to be the man I Coming to Notre Dame and reason we are friends is things as they come and make having played under coach am today,” Vos said. “My walking on to the football because we walked on at the the most of them.” Charlie Weis, as he has taught younger brother Max got a team has been tough for Vos, same time, and we have been Vos has been the living him life lessons that he will scholarship to Northern as he has not yet gotten onto through the whole process embodiment of this motto for carry with him for the rest of Michigan after leading our the field during a regular together,” Vos said. “As walk-his entire Notre Dame career. his life. high school to the state cham-game. ons we are not always getting 
“Two big things I have got-pionship, and my youngest “I have not made it onto the the special treatment, so we Contact Jared Jedick at ten out of my relationship with brother Mitch is a freshman in field yet, but hopefully I will joke around together and keep jjedick@nd.edu 

RAY HERRING 

Video game addict only plays himself on feld 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Ray Herring spends much more than 20 hours a week on football-related activities. But don’t call the authorities, because he’s not always play­ing himself. 
“I like to play video games, NCAA,” Herring said. “I try to avoid [playing myself]. I feel like that’s kind of weird. I play other people, friends of mine who are at other colleges.” 
When he plays the video game, Herring said, Notre Dame “usually” wins. 
In real life, though, the fifth-year safety has been around for both ups and downs. 
Herring was recruited out of Melbourne, Fla., and began his career in 2005. He played eight games that year, mostly on special teams. He said his favorite memory of college football was the 2005 game against USC in which the Irish lost at the last second. 
“I know we lost, but it was a good game,” he said. “I think I’m the only one left who played in that game. It was an exciting time. Maybe it was because it was my freshman year, but I was amazed.” 
In 2006, Herring played all 13 games, again mostly on spe­cial teams but starting as strong safety against Stanford when Tom Zbikowski went out with an injury. He recorded 18 tackles that season, which he said was his favorite year. 
“It was my first time actually getting a chance to play Division I college football,” Herring said. “I was just hav­ing fun. That’s the only way to play, having fun.” 
Herring fell to a groin injury four games into the 2007 sea­son and was sidelined for the rest of the year. In his few appearances he made three tackles and two fumble recov­eries. 
He returned his senior year and was granted a medical redshirt that allowed him to come back for a fifth season as well. Since coming back he has not missed a game, playing all 13 in 2008 and all nine so far this year. 
In 2009, he has recorded eight tackles on special teams and one punt return. He also plays backup to fifth-year sen­ior strong safety Kyle McCarthy. 
Herring said he doesn’t pre­fer one position over the other. 
“Special teams is fun because that’s where I started off,” he said. “I’ve been doing it my whole career. 
“It doesn’t really matter, as long as I get a chance to help the team win.” 
Herring was always ready to help Notre Dame win — though he was recruited by teams such as Georgia Tech and Tennessee, he said he always wanted to play for the Irish. 
“I was happy when I got this offer,” he said. “It’s Notre Dame. Who doesn’t want to come here? The degree, the people, the atmosphere, the football aspect, being on NBC every Saturday. If you’re away from home, people can still see you play.” 
Five years later, Herring said he is glad he came to Notre Dame and had a lot of fun both on and off the field. He will miss his Irish teammates, but hopes to continue playing foot­ball. 
“This is the part where you’re looking at the next trying to avoid playing himself step,” he said. “I’ll try out for in the NFL video game. the next level on pro day here.” Contact Laura Myers at 


Maybe next year he will be lmyers2@nd.edu 
McCarthy stands apart as defensive leader 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Editor 
Editor’s note: This article first appeared in the Nov. 13 edition of The Observer. 
On a Notre Dame defense, and particularly in a second­ary, that has shuffled on an almost weekly basis in 2009, one piece of the puzzle has remained intact. 
And does it come as a sur­prise to anyone that that piece is free safety Kyle McCarthy? 
“It’s been very important [to have him back there],” Irish defensive backs coach Corwin Brown said. “I think what he’s done more than anything else is be able to keep the guys fairly settled, no matter who has been in there with him.” 
Ironically — or appropriate­ly — enough, the same could be said about McCarthy’s role in his off-campus home last year, when he lived with three of his teammates, including current fifth-year tackle Paul Duncan. In an Oct. 19, 2008, Irish Insider cover story, McCarthy called himself “the dad” of the house, where it was his job to keep his team­mates in line. 
It’s not a perfect analogy — no analogy is — but McCarthy’s role on the defense has been comparable this season. 
“He understands the bigger picture better, and he’s taken on more of a leadership role,” Brown said. “He’s the older guy back there, and he under­stands where he’s at.” 
Old Reliable 
Whenever the Irish have struggled and have been in need of a big play, it seems like McCarthy’s been there, with game-clinching intercep­tions in wins against Michigan State and Boston College con­tributing to his total of five picks for the year. 
Often the last line of defense, McCarthy leads the Irish in solo (44) and total 
(72) tackles this season, and it isn’t close. Junior linebacker Brian Smith places second in both categories with 28 and 51, respectively. 
And as the captain and unquestioned leader of the Notre Dame defense, it’s McCarthy who is often responsible for making defen­sive calls and arranging his teammates in accordance with offensive formations and audibles. 
“He makes a lot of calls. He’s really football smart,” senior defensive back Darrin Walls said. “That’s one thing that we need out there. He directs people, tells them where to go and how to line up. When you have a guy like that who you can trust, that’s always good.” 
McCarthy’s persistence in having to wait until 2008 to earn a full-time starting spot make him a good example for younger players to follow as well, Walls said. 
“I think the whole process for him, coming here behind [former Irish standout and current Baltimore Ravens safety Tom Zbikowski] and then finally having the chance to play and making the best of it — that’s the kind of guy you want leading your team,” Walls said. 
Family affair 
Like any of his fellow fifth-year seniors, McCarthy has been around long enough to see just about everything, from back-to-back BCS berths to the worst two-year run in school history. 



McCarthy has even been long around long enough to play two seasons with his younger brother, Dan, who as a sophomore has climbed the depth chart to become his 
older brother’s backup. Looking at their resumes com­ing out of Cardinal Mooney 
H.S. in Youngstown, Ohio, it’d be hard to tell the McCarthy brothers apart. 
Both were two-way stand­outs that won state titles as quarterbacks and also posted gaudy statistics at defensive back while gaining state and national recognition for their individual efforts. 
After earning all -confer ­ences honors as a junior wide receiver, Kyle became the team’s starting quarterback as a senior in 2004. McCarthy passed for 557 yards and five touchdowns and rushed for 1,273 yards and 14 touch­downs on just 135 carries to earn all-state recognition. As a defensive back, he recorded 70 tackles and made five interceptions, returning two for scores — including a record-setting 93-yard pick-six in the state title game to earn the game’s MVP award. 
McCarthy also displayed his supreme athletic ability on the baseball diamond, where he set a school-record with 20 stolen bases as a senior and also posted seven wins and a sub-4.00 earned run average. 
As for younger brother Dan? He was the Gatorade Player of the Year as a senior in 2007, and a finalist for the presti­gious Mr. Football award in Ohio, earning second-team All America honors from USA Today, according to und.com. He rushed for over 3,000 yards and 36 touchdowns in two seasons at quarterback while posting 249 tackles and 16 sacks in his final two years on defense. 
“It’s been great playing with him. He’s a real good player,” Kyle said of his brother. “The guys on the team all think he’s their little brother, too.” 
But Dan isn’t the only broth­er Kyle sees on a daily basis at Notre Dame. After the craziness of his house last year, Kyle opted for a more quiet alternative this year, he said. 

“I’m living with my older brother, who’s also a grad stu­dent,” Kyle said, referring to his brother Brian, 2006 Notre Dame graduate. “It’s definite­ly been a lot more laid-back. It’s been great.” 
Growing as a leader 
Following in the footsteps of NFL -caliber safeties like Zbikowski and David Bruton, a Denver Broncos draft pick last season, McCarthy has improved not only as a player, but as the leader of the defense — a particularly important trait because 
Bouncing back 
After Notre Dame’s 23-21 loss to Navy, the second straight at home to the Midshipmen, the Irish season reaches a crossroads at Pittsburgh Saturday. And with big-picture questions abound­ing about the state of the Notre Dame program five years into the Charlie Weis era, one might think McCarthy and his fellow cap­tains would have a tough time keeping their team focused on a talented Panthers team. 
That’s not the case, McCarthy said. 
“It has zero effect on how we go about doing things,” 
McCarthy 
said. “That’s 
all going out­
side the lock-

of his role as a v e t e r a n and his posi­t i o n i n t h e  “He (McCarthy) directs people, tells them where to go and how to line up.  e r r o o m . I n s i d e t h e locker room, t h e re ’s n o  
d e f e n s i v e backfield. “ K y l e ’ s grown to be  When you have a guy like that who you can trust, that’s always good.”  questions or anything like that. We just g o ou t a n d  
a great play- p  r  e  p  a  r  e  
e r  a n d  a  Darrin Walls  e v e r y d a y  
great leader, a n d o u r  Senior defensive back  with trust in t h e g u y s i n  
p l  a  y  e  r  s  t h i s  l oc k e r  
notice that,”  r o o m  a n d  
Wa l l s  s a i d .  t ru s t  in  t he  
“He’s t ake n  c o a c h i n g  

control in the weight room, in staff, and we’re excited to the locker room, and when play Pitt on Saturday.” you have a guy like that you Weis declared after the can depend on, it really helps Navy loss that the theme the team.” would be “accountability,” 
Walls said McCarthy is more and McCarthy said after Navy of a “lead-by-example” type that early in the week — but knows the right time to beginning Monday, when the step up and address the team. players have the day off but it 
“He doesn’t always speak was reported a larger number much, but when he does than usual came in to work speak, people listen to him,” out and watch extra film — Walls said. “They do what he the returns were positive. tells them to do. He leads by “As far as preparation and example and everyone follows prepping for the game, our behind him.” guys need to be accountable 
Brown said the type of per-for the job at hand,” McCarthy son McCarthy is makes him a said. “The coaches are going good leader. to put us in the position to 
“Kyle is a classy dude, and I make plays, but it’s up to the think the best thing about players to go out and execute Kyle is he’s not selfish,” and make plays. Last week we Brown said. “He’s trying to struggled a little bit, so we help out others. I believe just need to maybe prepare a when you put others first, little harder, pay attention to when it’s not always about detail, and hopefully get it you, everybody else appreci-corrected this Saturday.” ates that … That’s why he’s played the way he’s played Contact Matt Gamber at this year.” mgamber@nd.edu 
Brothers, parents inspired Ryan to lead by example 
By JARED JEDICK 
Sports Writer 
The most important part of defensive end John Ryan’s Notre Dame football experi­ence has been the opportuni­ty to be a part of something greater than himself and a part of a meaningful tradi­tion. 
“I think just a big thing for me is just being a part of the Notre Dame family, ” Ryan said. “I like being a part of the whole community, kind of just being a part of something special, with all the tradition and the pregame rituals.” 
Having spent four years here, Ryan feels that he has been able to become a part of that tradition, something he 
Ryan sees his role as the oldest brother in his family as one that comes with impor­tant responsibilities, not the least of which is working to provide opportunities and inspiration to his younger brothers. 
“The role of being the older brother has always inspired me to work harder to achieve things to give to them, to be the person they look up to,” Ryan said. “I want to set the standard and be a role model for them.” 
Another great inspiration for Ryan has been his par­ents. 
“In terms of my parents, they are biggest reason why I am the person I am today, from morals to work ethic,” Ryan said. “They have 

f e e l s v e r y h o n o r e d a n d humbled by. “Yeah, I def­ “Every game you hit the same sign as Jerome Betis, you walk out of  b e e n t h e r e t h r o u g h t h e u p s a n d d o w n s , a n d  
i n i t e l y f e e l like I am part o f t h e t r a d i - the tunnel and you see the band and the fans.”  t h e y h a v e always been a great asset to  
t i o n , ” s a i d .  Ry a n “ E v e r y  John Ryan  me.” Ry a n  s a i d  
gam e y ou h i t  senior defensive end  h i s  b i g g e s t  
the  same  sign  hero in life is  
a s  J e r o m e  h i s  f a t h e r,  

Bettis, you walk out of the Kevin, who has played the tunnel and you see the band same type of role model for and the fans.” him that he said he hopes to 
That kind of love of family play for his younger brothers. and tradition is something “My biggest hero is proba­that’s been a cornerstone for bly my dad, just because he Ryan’s entire life — not just has really taught me to be the at Notre Dame. man that I am,” Ryan said. 
Ryan is the oldest brother “He has really been an unbe­of three. He said it’s his two lievable role model, in terms younger brothers that inspire of carrying yourself with him to work hard every day. class and how to act in the 
“My brothers are definitely classroom and on the field.” the inspiration of my life,” This heavy reliance upon Ryan said of Patrick, a sopho-the importance of family was more at Georgetown, and what first led him to St. Michael, a sophomore at St. Ignatius High School, and Ignatius High School in then onwards into Notre Cleveland, Ryan’s alma Dame. mater. “I think, obviously, where I 
“They have definitely been went to high school played a a huge impact on my life.” big part in my choice to come here, ” Ryan said. “It is a Catholic university, a strong football program with a great tradition. I think going to Ignatius had a big part in my coming here.” 
Ryan said he still remem­bers being recruited by head coach Charlie Weis. 
“The whole process was kind of a whirl-wind,” Ryan said. “I had to pinch myself every morning because I was deciding to come to Notre Dame. I don’t regret it at all because it was one of the best decisions of my life.” 
The experience of being recruited to Notre Dame, and the family-oriented and at-home feeling that Weis gave off is what really made the process special for Ryan. 
“The whole thing was sur­real,” Ryan said. “Opening up the mailbox and seeing three letters from Notre Dame, get­ting my one phone call every month, and having him come make his visit to my house, it was wild. It was something that was obviously a once-in­a-lifetime experience.” 
Ryan’s emphasis on sticking together through thick and thin fortified him for a roller-coaster ride of college foot­ball career, from the highs of a BCS game to the lows of a 3-9 season. 
He said he has no regrets about coming to play at Notre Dame. 
“In terms of regrets, that is just how the game goes, you play a game with a ball with edges, and you don’t always know which way the ball is going to bounce,” Ryan said. “I can’t regret anything. I don’t regret coming here for a second. Some might look at it as a low point, but it’s all a matter of perspective. In terms of maturity and togeth­erness and work ethic I do not regret anything.” 
Ryan still remembers well the first time he got on the field, freshman year in the win at home against Penn State, 41-17. 



“It was unbelievable,” Ryan said. “The whole game I was waiting to go in there, the game was close, we were winning by a lot, but not quite enough for my to go in, but when [former defensive back Tom] Zbikowski picked up a fumble and ran it in, they said, alright, you are going in.” 
Once Ryan got in, he was nervous, but after that every­thing settled down for him. 
“Once I got out there, the first play, I felt butterflies, but once the ball was snapped that all went away,” Ryan said. 
Ryan said the coaching staff has also had a big impact on his time at Notre Dame, from Weis to defensive coordinator Jon Tenuta and first -year defensive line coach Randy Hart. 
“One of the biggest things [Coach Weis] has taught me is dedication, that if you are going to do something you have to put your whole heart into it,” Ryan said. “If you want to succeed in life, it really begins with your work ethic, and putting everything you have into your work.” 
Beyond work ethic, his rela­tionships with Tenuta and Hart have taught him to love the game of football. 
“Coach Tenuta has been a huge influence as well, along with coach Hart,” Ryan said. “When they came here they really turned my outlook on football around, they put a positive spin on it. You could really tell that they care about their players and how they do.” 
Ryan said he believes the biggest way in which he has grown as a player while he has been at Notre Dame is in his knowledge of the game. 
“I have obviously become more well-rounded in terms of my knowledge,” Ryan said. “When you put an emphasis on studying the game, it real­ly helps out.” 
Some of Ryan’s best friends 
on the football team have been wide receiver Robby Parris, safety Kyle McCarthy and nose tackle Paddy Mullen, who have all spent a lot of time together. 
“With Robby, we can sit and stare at blank walls and have fun. In terms of Kyle it is the same way. Whatever we do we are going to have fun,” Ryan said. 
Outside of practice and school, Ryan only has a few needs, which involve resting and hanging out with his friends. 
“I like sleeping,” Ryan said. “Because that is one thing I can definitely say I have not gotten enough of since I have been here. I enjoy sleep and playing a good round of golf with my buddies.” 
Beyond college, Ryan is not sure what direction he wants to take his life, but he plans to have that figured out as soon as possible. 
“I really don’t know what I want to do,” Ryan said. “I really haven’t even sat down to figure it out yet. I am only taking a couple credits next semester, so hopefully I will have plenty of time to figure everything out.” 
Ryan’s biggest message is that he wants to have people know that he did things the right way and has always tried to be good to everyone. 
“I always want to be nice to people. I want to be good to people,” Ryan said. “I just have tried to do things the right way, good or bad I want to leave with no regrets and do things the right way on and off the field.” 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 

Cincinnati native learns new defensive positions 
able to separate home life 
By BARRICK BOLLMAN 
from school.” Wade said. 
Sports Writer 
“Also, Notre Dame offered the 
best of both worlds when it 

While he might not be as came to athletics and academ­well known as some of his ics. other Fighting Irish team-Wade has spent most of his mates, senior Kallen Wade has Notre Dame career at either been just as important of a defensive end or outside line-contributor. The 6-foot-5, 250-backer, changing positions as pound hybrid defensive end the Irish switched between the and outside linebacker hails 3-4 and 4-3 defensive fronts. from Cincinnati, Ohio. In his “It was a little awkward at prep career, Wade started at first because I never played safety before moving to defen-linebacker before, but I played sive end and defensive tackle. sort of defensive end and out-
While in high school, Wade side linebacker at the same was selected to participate in time,” Wade said about his the prestigious Big 33 position switch. “I was able to Ohio/Pennsylvania All-Star adapt to being in coverage Game, which counts NFL more because of what I did as greats like Joe a sophomore in Montana, Jim high school at Kelly, Ben safety. Roethlisberger “I feel like this has After redshirt­and Marvin ing his freshman 
been the most we’ve 
Harrison as year, Wade saw 
ever clicked as a
alumni. Wade his first playing became the team.” time against fourth recruit Georgia Tech in in Irish coach 2007. Since then, 
Kallen Wade 
Charlie Weis’ he has played in 
senior defensive end
first full reserve roles and recruiting on special teams. class. While his action 
Wade chose may be limited Notre Dame for its location in on the field, Wade has made relation to Cincinnati. an impact on the practice field, 
“My mother had health prob-preparing the front line play­lems, so I wanted to be close ers for the week’s games. enough to home so I could get “My main role is to show a back if anything happened, but look for the starters, like Sam also far enough away to be Young and Paul Duncan,” Wade said. “Basically, I try to mimic whatever team we are about to play that week and go as hard as I can to try and make them a better player and have the best preparation they can get.” 

Wade suffered a fracture-dis­location of his ankle during his junior year that required four months of recovery. Through a persistent effort in the recov­ery process, he was able to participate in the spring game ahead of schedule. 

While Wade has many favorite Notre Dame moments, he considers the 2009 season as a whole the best part of his career. 
“It has been remarkable how we have come back from where we were two seasons ago to be the team we are today,” he said. “It’s great to be part of it.” 
Another one of Wade’s favorite parts of his Notre Dame experience has been the camaraderie of the team. 
“The whole unity of the team is great,” he said. “I feel like this has been the most we’ve ever clicked as a team.” 
Even though football is a huge time constraint, Kallen applies himself in the class­room as well. He is a double major in psychology and com­puter applications. In the spring semester of 2008, he carried a 3.33 GPA. 
Contact Barrick Bollman at jbollman@nd.edu 



Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 
HEAD TO

Record: 6-4 AP: NR Coaches: NR BCS: NR 
5th season at 
Irish Offense vs. Huskies Defense 
Notre Dame 

career record: 
35-25 
at home: 
19-13 
against Big East: 
2-3 



Jon Tenuta Corwin Brown Def. Coordinator Co-Def. Coord. Assistant HC Associate HC 





I don’t believe determination, senior day 
I think it’s going to take another fourth-

excitement or the hope of hearing the Victory 
quarter comeback for the Irish to beat 

Clog one last time will factor into Saturday’s 
Connecticut, but I think this week they pull 

result. Notre Dame needs preparation and exe­
it off. Notre Dame hasn’t looked prepared 

cution, two things it hasn’t had in recent 
and had a strong first quarter in weeks, 

weeks. Preparation to utilize its weapons and 
and there’s no reason to think it will hap-

execution to slow a talented UConn run game. 
pen again this week. This game should be a 

Notre Dame has shown itself to be a team that 
lot like the Boston College game, with the 

wins ugly. The Irish will win this one ugly too. 
defense selling out against the run and 


Bill Brink 
Managing Editor 

Michael Bryan 
Associate Sports Editor 
They’ll get run on, the offense will splutter and the run game will be under-utilized, but the Irish have too much talent not to click. Golden’s a known commodity. Michael Floyd, Armando Allen and Theo Riddick make the difference in this game and the seniors chow down on left­
over marshmallows as they celebrate one last win (barely). 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 16, Connecticut 13 
forcing Zach Frazer to beat them in his return to Notre Dame. The Irish defense will give up some big plays, but Clausen and Tate will come up with some highlights of their own at the end. It will be another ugly game, but the Irish are too talented to 

play to play two bad halves against the Huskies. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 28, Connecticut 24 


Connecticut 
Huskies

O HEAD 
Record: 4-5, 1-4 Big East AP: NR Coaches: NR BCS: NR 

11th season at Connecticut 

Huskies Offense vs. Irish Defense 

career record:
T

E
A
M
S
P
C
I
L
O
NU
62-65 
at the FBS level: 
53-41
Randy Edsall 
head coach 

P
A
H
G
R
A
C
H
I
N
G

In two weeks, it’s gone from hard to predict Given the recent history of both these 
a blowout Irish victory to hard to predict any teams, this game should be a high-scoring 
Irish victory. It was no secret all year that one. Notre Dame will be challenged to stop 
Notre Dame was a flawed team, but since the Connecticut’s two-headed rushing attack of 
Navy loss, it seems like those flaws have been Jordan Todman and Andre Dixon. 
exposed at an incredible rate. That being Fortunately, Notre Dame should be able to sell 
said, I think the last two weeks serve as a out and stop the run, daring former Irish 
wake-up call for a tightly-knit Irish team that quarterback Zach Frazer to beat them with 
wants to send its seniors out on a high note. 
his arm. Even though the Notre Dame second-







Notre Dame won’t play a perfect game, and chances are both defenses will look clueless against opposing offenses with big-time play-makers. It probably won’t be pretty, but for a group of seniors that has had a rough go of it over the last three years, that victory lap 
around Notre Dame Stadium will be sweet nonetheless. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34, Connecticut 27 
ary has struggled this season, Frazer has thrown seven interceptions to only four touch­downs. To win, the Irish will have to get up early and prevent the Huskies from running the ball down their throats. I’m not very confi­dent, but Notre Dame just has too much talent 
to let this one get away, especially on senior day. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 35, Connecticut 30 

Lineman transitions from guard to center 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
Most players know how to play one position on the field. A good quarterback may even know what every position’s role is on every play, but by no means could he line up anywhere but under cen­ter. 
Dan Wenger knows how to play three positions on the gridiron, and has started in two of them. 
The senior lineman did not see any playing time his freshman season due to various injuries, but he did not need in-game action to show the coaching staff his poten­tial. Wenger received praise throughout the season for giving the first-team defense tough com­petition in practice. He said this coincided with his goals coming to South Bend. 
“Just going from high school to college, the speed of the game [picked up], and now you are playing against guys with every­one on scholarship, so everyone is pretty good,” Wenger said. “I defi­nitely saw myself developing into a pretty good football player and working hard and aspiring to play at the next level.” 
Wenger’s sophomore season involved eight games of action, including five starts. His first three starts, against Georgia Tech, Penn State and Michigan, were at right guard. He then started at center against Duke and Stanford, the last two games of Notre Dame’s worst season in the histo­ry of its program. Wenger said the trials of such an experience taught him lessons that carried past the football field. 
“Nothing is guaranteed, nothing at all,” he said. “You just have to go with the situations that are handed to you every day and go with what is best for the team.” 
The Florida native started every game at center his junior year, including the Hawaii Bowl. Wenger said the experiences in Hawaii highlighted his four years at Notre Dame. The Irish broke a postseason winless streak that dated back to 1993 by beating Hawaii 49-21. 
“Absolutely phenomenal, to be a part of [breaking the losing streak]. [It was] definitely one of my highlights,” Wenger said. 
In the victory the Irish offense relied on a strong offensive line en route to 413 passing yards and 478 total offensive yards, but it might not have been the success on the field that Wenger remem­bers best. 
“I’m going to move there some­day,” he said of the island chain. “Weather-wise, I still hate it [in South Bend]. I haven’t gotten used to this stuff yet. I still love the Florida sun, going to the beach. I miss it every day.” 
The weather led to some lighter moments during preparations for the bowl game, including some odd practice techniques, referred to by Wenger as his favorite prac­tice moments. 
“Our last practice before the game, it was pat-and-go with the receivers, but instead of the receivers running it, [Coach Weis] let the offensive and defensive linemen run it so we ran the fade routes and caught the balls,” the 300-pound lineman said. “It was­n’t about scoring, but I caught a few passes. I might have to drop a little weight and work on my hands a little more [before I can line up out wide].” 
After starting all 13 games last season, Wenger reasonably expected to pick up where he left off this season, but new offensive line coach Frank Verducci had a different idea. Verducci wanted to get sophomore right guard Trevor Robinson some playing time, so he moved senior Eric Olsen into Wenger’s spot at center, and Wenger found himself on the sec­ond team for the first time since his freshman year. 
“At first it’s pretty disheartening to get that information,” Wenger said. “Unfortunately, that is the way football and life go some­times. You just have to deal with the situation at hand and make the best of it. I wasn’t going to be in the dog house or lose any intensity out on the field.” 
Wenger set about giving the coaches reason to get him back on the field, and before the season even started he was the backup for all three interior line positions. 
“There is a sense of self-confi­dence that comes along [with knowing three positions],” he said. “You can sit there and say to yourself ‘Hey, if I’m in there or someone goes down, I have the confidence in myself and I’m going to show the coaches I’m going to get the job done.” 

Wenger got that chance after Robinson sprained an ankle against Washington State. The senior played the majority of the game in San Antonio, and made the start against Navy at right guard. 
“That definitely made me stronger and motivated me more,” he said. “I can tell that I appreciate not only where I am at, but the amount of snaps that I get, and realize nothing is guar­anteed.” 

There is one guarantee — Dan Wenger can line up on the inside of the offensive line wherever needed, and he will continue to do so as often as asked. 
“I think I’m a better person for having gone through this and for having to deal with it,” he said. “You learn a lot about football that way too.” 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
ERIC MAUST 

Baseball player walks on, wins starting role 
Maust said. “So after the game I

By CHRIS MASOUD Sports Writer  talked to the baseball coaches, they talked to the football  
coaches,  so  I walked-on and  
Balancing the work load of a  made the team.”  
Notre Dame curriculum and an  As the rule goes, walk-ons  
active social life can be quite a  generally don’t see much of the  
challenge  for  the  average  field on Saturday afternoons,  
Domer. Try balancing that on  especially quarterbacks. Unable  
top of commitments to the varsi­ to continue at that position,  
ty football and baseball teams,  Maust made the transition to  
and you have Eric Maust.  punter and placeholder seam­ 
“My social life takes a huge  lessly. Backing up former Irish  
hit, but I balance it,” Maust  punter  Geoff  Price,  Maust  
said.  “Freshman  year  the  learned the intricacies of the  
increase in the academic load  position for almost two years  
up from high school and then  before seeing his first game  
athletically the increase com- action.  
mitment-wise and time-wise, it  “Being a specialist, it’s a tricky  
was hard to juggle. But I can  position because for the majori­ 
say  that  I’ve  ty  of  the  time  
found the bal­ you’re not play­ 
ance, and the challenges that I went through,  “Playing football period, cool. Playing for  ing, but you know you’re going to play at some  
that’s been the most rewarding thing. If it was  Notre Dame, wow, that’s awesome..”  point and you know your role is VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer fairly important,” Senior punter Eric Maust originally came to Notre Dame to play baseball but chose to play  
easy,  then  it  Maust said. “I try football as well. The former quarterback has been involved in multiple fakes this season.  
wouldn’t be  as  Eric Maust  to have our spe­ 
special.” A scholarship  senior punter  cial teams period in practice mimic  however, was not. “I’m a real competitive guy, so  “The thing I like about Coach Weis is he’s very goal-oriented,”  career. But wherever he goes, he will never undervalue the  
baseball player  the intensity of  we’d always have during prac- Maust said. “It’s always what’s  impact Notre Dame football has  
and one of the Irish’s top pitch- the game, so I’m trying to hype  tice throwing competitions,”  the next step, because if you  had on his life.  
ers heading into the 2010 sea- myself up every kick. I’ve never  Maust said. “The Thursday  look at everything at a whole  “My favorite moment is to  
son, Maust verbally committed  considered myself just a punter,  before USC week we had game- and don’t chop it up into pieces,  know that my parents are in the  
to play baseball out of high  I’ve always just considered  planned the fake, so everyone  it can really seam insurmount­ stands too,” Maust said. “You  
school. But after seeing his first  myself an athlete.”  was trying to coach me, and  able at times. Each week there’s  couldn’t pay me any amount of  
game at Notre Dame Stadium,  Maust’s athlete-mentality has  Clausen’s giving me pointers.  a goal, and at the end of the  money to exchange the experi- 
Maust felt he had the skills to be  come through on more than one  But in the game, when we just  week you get to look back and  ence I’ve had. It happens every  
a part of the Notre Dame foot- occasion for the Irish in key sit- executed it perfectly, I’m going  see  if you accomplished that  time  I  put  on  the  helmet.  
ball tradition.  uations in big games. Maust  to be telling that story for a long  goal, and that resonates with  There’s nothing that can replace  
“I had a couple of offers out of  found the end zone following a  time. That was game evidence  me because that’s the way I’ve  the feeling you get. Playing foot- 
high school to play quarterback  bad snap during  a field goal  that ‘Hey, I’m an athlete.’”  structured my life.”  ball period, cool. Playing for  
at some smaller Division-I AA  attempt in the first half against  Like many players, Maust has  Majoring in finance and theol- Notre Dame, wow, that’s awe- 
and Ivy League Schools, but in  Boston College before the touch- drawn parallels between his  ogy, Maust recognizes the value  some.”  
my mind I was thinking I’m just  down was called back. His com- experience on the gridiron and  of  a  hard-earned education.  
playing baseball. But in my  pletion to Robby Parris  on  a  his experiences outside of foot- Upon graduation, he plans on  Contact Chris Masoud at  
heart I couldn’t let football go,”  fake field goal play against USC,  ball.  pursuing a professional baseball  cmasoud@nd.edu  

Outgoing safety gives Irish a shot of athleticism 
breakups and a pair of blocked 
By MATT GAMBER 
punts. 
Sports Editor 

“I just had to be patient and wait for my time to play,” Brown Editor’s note: This article first said. “A lot of special teams, and appeared in the Nov. 6 edition of then my role got bigger last year The Observer. playing some nickel. Now I’m on the field a lot, and I’m loving it 
His teammates and coaches right now.” call him Notre Dame’s best ath-His coaches are loving it, too, lete. But just how athletic is sen-as Brown’s play at safety the ior safety Sergio Brown? past two weeks has allowed the 
He’s been dunking alley-oop Irish to shuffle its personnel to passes on the basketball court produce Notre Dame’s best con-since early in high school. He secutive defensive performances says he’s never lost a foot race in of the season the past two his hometown of Maywood, Ill. weeks. 
And he can do back flips — in Brown made his first start at full pads after playing a football safety for the Irish in their 20-16 game in front of 80,000-plus. Or win over Boston College, as in a Notre Dame polo shirt, Notre Dame bumped junior baggy blue jeans and street Harrison Smith back to the line-shoes, as he did for a photo backer spot where he enjoyed shoot. success last season. After the 
“Me and my brother were Irish thumped Washington State always just goofing around in 40-14 last weekend, Brown is the house. It really started after slated to make his third straight the movie ‘3 Ninjas’ came out,” start at safety — and seventh of Brown said. “We just started try-the year overall — Saturday ing to flip and stuff outside with against Navy. mattresses. My mom started get-“I think he’s earned his way ting scared, so she said if we’re into being a full-time player on going to do all this flipping, we defense,” Irish coach Charlie might as well learn how to do it Weis said. “So just the fact that so we won’t hurt ourselves. I’ve it’s taken some time for him to just been flipping since.” get there, but he’s there now, 
Brown’s back flips have only he’s playing on every down. I high school 40-yard dash time at solo tackles for the season, but Jimmy while they were talking, recently become a staple of the think that’s where he’s made the a blazing 4.40 seconds, the kind perhaps his greatest contribu-acting like a fool. Jimmy started Irish postgame celebration. But most significant progress.” of speed that can’t be taught. tions have come with the emo-to bust down laughing. We just position-wise, he’s been flipping There’s never been a shortage He’s come a long way from his tional spark he has provided a all mess with each other.” since he arrived at Notre Dame. of ability for Brown, who was a tumbling days, but he can still defense that, at times earlier in But Brown’s fun isn’t limited to 
Until now. long jump state qualifier and, as flip and fly. the season, lacked the confident jokes with teammates. Last 
A four-star safety recruit out of a high school junior, returned “He’s one of the most athletic swagger and positive attitude he spring, he filmed a one-minute Proviso East H.S., Brown made five of his six interceptions for guys on our team,” sophomore brings. spot for insidenotredamefoot­97 special teams appearances in touchdowns. In fact, Brown was defensive lineman Ethan “You say he’s emotional, but ball.com in which he and Jack 11 games as a freshman in showcasing his athleticism long Johnson said. “He can jump really, he’s upbeat,” Johnson Swarbrick, Notre Dame’s direc­2006, making four tackles in before he suited up at the high through the roof, and he’s really said. “He’s a good kind of emo-tor of athletics, mimicked the kickoff and punt coverage. The school level — and on a much fast. He can bring so much to the tional. It’s infectious, and he popular Geico commercials fea­next season was much of the different stage. table at the next level, too. He’s really brings something else to turing celebrity spokesmen for same, as he played in nine He performed with Mr. Ernie’s definitely a special player.” our team that’s going to be hard “real people.” The video idea games and made seven tackles Flip, Flop ‘n Fly, a Maywood-Brown’s teammates say he’s a to replace next year.” stemmed from Brown’s comedic but saw limited action in the sec-based tumbling group, as a special person as well. His per-It seems no one, not even performance as a presenter at ondary. grade school student — times he sonality and his relationships Weis, can talk about Brown the 2008 OSCARS (Outstanding 
Brown emerged as an impact couldn’t help but laugh about as with his teammates have made without a chuckle and a smile. Student-Athletes Celebrating player out of the nickel defense he looked back. his success even more enjoyable “He’s a passionate kid,” Weis Achievements and Recognition as a junior last season. He made “We did parades and shows for the entire Irish squad. said. “He’s fun to be around. Showcase), held annually to his first career start in the 2008 and all that other stuff,” Brown “He’s a guy you can’t help but He’s a goof ball. But I really like highlight the achievements of season-opener against San Diego said. “Once I got bigger, it start-root for,” sophomore linebacker being around Sergio, and so do Notre Dame’s athletic teams. State and flashed much of the ed getting a little harder to flip.” Steve Filer said. “He’s a great his teammates. And I think that Brown said Charmelle Green, potential that had excited the So he started to use his athlet-guy. You can’t help but just he’s not selfish. He wants to be senior assistant athletics direc-Irish coaching staff in his first ic ability in other ways. cheer for him and hope he does around the fellas, and he’s just tor for student-athlete welfare two seasons. Brown made six “We race a lot in the neighbor-his best.” one of those heart-and-soul type and development, approached tackles (one for a loss), broke up hood to see who’s the fastest,” So far, so good for Brown, who players that people like being him with an idea for a video that two passes and blocked a punt Brown said. “I’m still undefeat-has looked comfortable in his around.” would air at last spring’s against the Aztecs to set the tone ed.” move back to safety alongside Notre Dame students who OSCARS. for a solid junior season, high-That’s not hard to believe, con-senior captain Kyle McCarthy. have had a class with Brown “They asked if I wanted to do a lighted by 28 tackles, six pass sidering Scout.com listed his He is fifth on the team with 18 might know him by something little commercial with Jack 
else, since he asks all his teach-Swarbrick, and I was like, OK, ers to call him by the nickname sure,” Brown said. “They want-he picked up from a rap song ed us to be like the Geico com-during his freshman year. mercials, so we set it up and it 
“One of my teachers, it’s hilari-was hilarious, a lot of fun. “ ous,” Brown said. “I’m the only In the video, Brown yells at the football player in there with camera, dances with a Notre dreads, so every day he’ll look Dame blanket draped over his around the class [joking] like, ‘Is back and, of course, does a back Splurge here today?’” flip — all while Swarbrick talks 
The Nelly song by the same about Notre Dame’ Monogram name may have faded from Club in a professional office set-memory, but the nickname ting. Splurge seems to have stuck — “They had me do a back flip though some of Brown’s team-at least 12 times — way more mates may have a new one for than you all had me do one,” him. Brown said. 
“Fake Whoopi Goldberg!” Not that it was a problem for Johnson yelled at Brown as he Brown, who will likely be in the left Wednesday’s media session, north end zone, preparing him-no doubt ragging on the safety’s self for another back flip after patented dreadlocks. Saturday’s game as his team­
That’s the kind of relationship mates gather to sing the alma Brown has with his teammates mater. 
— and the fun goes both ways. “I like to have a lot of fun,” he 
“One time we were in the said. “I’m serious when the time training room and Jimmy is called, but everything’s always [Clausen] was talking to [former better when you’re having fun.” Irish quarterback] Joe And that includes the Irish Theismann,” Brown said. “I defense, especially with Sergio really didn’t know it was Joe Brown. Theismann at the time, and I was just standing behind him, Contact Matt Gamber at waving and making faces at mgamber@nd.edu 


Local kicker always keeps ND close to heart 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
He was just another local kid attending kicking camp the summer before his senior year of high school, but that’s when it all started for Ryan Burkhart. A kickoff specialist out of Northwood High School in Wakarusa, Ind., a half-hour away from campus, Burkhart has been living his dream the past four years by wearing the Notre Dame uniform. 
“Being so local, growing up everything was Notre Dame football,” Burkhart said. “It’s an incredible opportunity to actually play for them. But I’m humble about it, I don’t take it for granted.” 
Recruited out of high school, Burkhart knew com­ing to play for the Irish would be a different experience than any he’d had before. Captain of his high school team senior year, Burkhart recalls memo­ries he had there as some of his most special times. Most exciting was his senior sea­son, where, although they were 3-6 in the regular sea­son, his team was able to bat­tle against the top teams to win it all. His dream job is even going back there and being his high school athletic director. 
“I still want to be around sports, I have been my whole life,” Burkhart said. “There’s a lot of tradition there and a lot of memories.” 
The decision to come to Notre Dame was an easy one for Burkhart. The Irish were the first team to offer, and once he knew the Irish were interested Burkhart was quick to accept. 
“I knew it wouldn’t get any better with the academics, football history and the tradi­tion. I accepted right away,” he said. 
Coming in as a freshman meant a busy schedule from the start with practices, drills, study hall, classes and team meetings. It made the adjust­ment process pass by quickly, however, and gave him a chance to meet some of his teammates who would become mentors and lifelong friends, such as J.J. Jansen and Geoff Price. 
His decision paid off as he made it on the field in the fourth game of his freshman season after kicker Bobby Renkes was injured against Michigan State. He kicked in the final nine games of the season and made 45 special teams appearances, including in the Sugar Bowl against LSU. 
“It was an incredible expe­rience,” Burkhart said. “It’s an experience in the first place to come to play at Notre Dame and then to play as a freshman. 
“Going to the Sugar Bowl was my favorite memory,” he said. “Just the hype and going to a BCS bowl game, and that chance to play for the University.” 
Burkhart also recalled play­ing in the Hawaii Bowl, and being part of the team that broke the Irish bowl streak, as being one of his best times on the team. 
“Hawaii was great just to say that you’re on that team that broke the bowl streak,” he said. “It’s all about football here, but there it was the first time we all got to hang out and get to know each other better.” 
His teammates have made Burkhart’s experience on the Notre Dame team the one that it has been. Not only does he still keep in contact with for­mer players like Jansen and Price, he also cherishes the relationships he has formed with other specialists, on and off the football field over the past four years. 
“We’ve strengthened our friendships, know more about each other and know what each other has been through. They’re a great bunch of guys.” 
Another mentor Burkhart has found in his time at Notre Dame is special teams coordi­nator, Brian Polian. 
“Coach Polian is a great person to get to know,” he said. “He helps you to mature and develop as a player and as a person. He is definitely someone I want to stay in touch with.” 

As he works on keeping in touch with those he’s met here, Burkhart, a manage­ment consulting and psychol­ogy major, hopes to find a position in either Chicago or Indianapolis for a few years before returning closer to home and, hopefully, working as a high school athletic director, whether at his alma mater or not. 
Looking back on his four years at Notre Dame and wearing the uniform, Burkhart can only describe it as one of his best life experi­ences. 

“I’m going to miss life in the dorm, roommates, walking by the Dome and Touchdown Jesus, little things like that,” he said. “It brings chills, I can’t even explain it. I’ve had the chance to be around a great group of guys and coach for four years and the oppor­tunity of playing and wearing that helmet on Saturdays. It’s incredible, all for a couple moments.” 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 


Scrappy walk-on becomes special teams star 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
Originally Mike Anello saw walk-on tryouts as a way to avoid the freshman 15, not as a way to end up speaking to thousands of fans before the USC game this year. 
“At the end of [my senior] season [in high school] I was talking to my football coach, and I decided I’d try walking on the football team [at Notre Dame],” Anello said. “Worse comes to worse it would keep me in shape for another nine months.” 
The Chicago-suburb native barely even played football in high school, only seeing the field his senior season. Rather, he shined on the wrestling mat, where he learned the skills that helped him work his way onto the Irish football team in the spring of 2006. 
“The wrestler mentality of just really pushing yourself so hard and just going beyond your limits helped me out so much,” he said. “Everything we have done here has been a lot easier than what I did in high school in wrestling.” 
Irish coach Charlie Weis agreed with Anello that his wrestling background helped him on the football field. 
“[Anello is] a guy from Chicago, came in here a little rugrat wrestler … Everyone told him he couldn’t play foot­ball,” Weis said. “He comes out, walks out on the team, ends up being a pain in the butt on the scout team, a real nuisance.” 
While Weis used “rugrat,” Anello sees more of a competi­tive aspect to the matter. 
“When I came here I was just like I’ll try walking on the team just to see, stay and compete and everything like that,” he said. “Once I got out there and started competing, I said, ‘You know, I might be able to make some hay with this and actually provide on the field and make some plays.’” 
And make plays Anello did, at first only in practice to his coach’s frustration, but before long he made it to the field on Saturdays. 
“[He’s] one of those guys where every time you go around he is blowing up a play then you are getting mad because he is blowing up a play,” Weis said. “Next you thing you know you put him on the punt team … The one guy making plays was Mike Anello.” 
After spending 2006 on the sideline, he cracked the depth chart in 2007, and earned notoriety in 2008. Opposing teams had 72 returns in the 12 games Anello played in last season, and he was a part of the tackle on 23 – nearly one-third – of those returns. 
In the season opener against San Diego State, the then-anonymous special teams player made four solo tackles. The following week Anello sparked the Irish victory over Michigan with three more tackles, an early forced fum­ble and the ensuing recovery to set up the Irish to take a 14-0 lead. The play occurred directly in front of the Notre Dame student section, and Anello was no longer an unknown. 
“It was incredible. I talked to my mom and dad every week and it seemed like every week we were like, ‘Can it get any better?’” Anello said of his instant fame. “The next week it would get better. It was an incredible experience and it literally changed my life.” 
Again, it was the wrestler showing through in Anello that made him into a special teams stud, as he always looked for the chance to make plays when chasing down a return man. 
“I just can’t wait to get down there [on returns],” he said. “As long as they don’t call for a fair catch you are licking your chops getting ready to get after him.” 
Anello finished last season with 23 total tackles in 12 games. A broken leg suffered on his first play against USC kept him out of the rest of that game as well as the Hawaii Bowl. 
Despite not being able to play in Hawaii, Anello still enjoyed everything about the bowl-game experience, espe­cially the first postseason vic­tory for the Irish in its last 10 tries. 
“I had a metal rod put in my leg with a screw on top to keep it secured so I couldn’t really do too much in Hawaii. … But just being there with all the guys and getting that big monkey off our back, to finally get people off us, felt good,” he said. 
After the two games on the sideline, especially the USC game, Anello had two games circled on the schedule for this season — Michigan and USC. The week before the USC con­test, he was casually talking with Weis about certain aspects of the rivalry and how important it was for the fans to understand the true mean­ing of it when Weis said Anello should be on his other average freshman. 



“It’s incredible to be in the stands for a game. I was there for the USC game my fresh­man year when the Bush Push happened, and that was a lot of fun,” Anello said. “But run­ning out of the tunnel is really something you’ll never understand 
toes during the “I just can’t wait to until you do it. pep rally that It’s an incredi­
get down there [on
week. ble experience.” 
returns]. As long as 
“[Weis and I] While Anello had just been they don’t call for a repeatedly talking earlier referred back to 
fair catch, you are 
that week and sprinting out of 
licking your chops
there were the tunnel in some things that getting ready to get front of a full I wanted to stadium, he has 
after him.” 
make sure never been sat-everyone knew isfied with that what was going Mike Anello alone. In 2006, on with the situ-senior cornerback the season the ation; we had to then-sophomore get the crowd spent on the up and there sidelines watch-were a few other things I ing the Irish, he only thought wanted to get across when about playing in the game, [the captains] were speaking,” even as a walk-on. Anello said. “He told me not to “I would always be out and be surprised if he called me people would ask if I played up there, and I was hoping it for Notre Dame, and I could would happen.” only reply ‘Kinda,’” Anello 
It did happen. After Rocket said. “I wanted to be con-Ismail had coaxed the crowd tributing; I didn’t want to just into a frenzy with yells of be a part of it.” “This is not a game!” and Yet again, the wrestler “Let’s go get it!” Weis handed inside showed through his the mic to Anello. The walk-on pads as Anello turned his side-was not fazed by the Notre line status into motivation of Dame legend’s antics before-the strongest kind. hand and topped the pep rally “I’d walk off the field on off promising the throngs of Saturdays after not playing Irish fans “a victory lap and take that to heart and use around campus with the goal-that as motivation to push posts on our shoulders.” myself in the off seasons and 
“That was an awesome feel-during the season to find a ing, looking out over that way onto the field,” he said. crowd of people,” Anello said Success on the football field a few weeks after the pep was slow to find Anello, a rally. “I never could have problem he never had in the imagined I’d be in that situa-classroom, where he earned a tion with a chance to speak.” 3.937 GPA. 
The first time Anello saw the “For me it is basically the Irish play the Trojans he was student life. I don’t really get certainly not in a position to noticed at all,” he said. speak to the Notre Dame Such excellence on and off masses; he watched the game the field has already earned from the stands with every the walk-on numerous job offers, which he has narrowed down to two possibilities. 
“I might try the pro day depending how everything fin­ishes up for me,” Anello said. “But if I don’t do that I’m going to head out to Boston to work for a venture capital firm.” 
Weis said Anello may want to hold off on any plans involv­ing a desk job for a bit longer yet. 
“He’ll end up in somebody’s camp this summer,” Weis said. “He’ll be one of those pains in the butt to get rid of because he’ll be one of those guys on kickoff team and on punt teams that’s down there involved in every play.” 
Weis already sympathized with whoever is debating cut­ting Anello in the summer, as Weis knows the feeling from a few years ago. 
“You going to want to look at him and cut him just by look­ing at him,” he said. “Then about halfway through you are going to say what are we going to do about this guy?” 
Summer training camp or Boston desk job, Anello said he’ll thank the past five years for much of what he has become. 
“The easiest way to put it is life changing,” he said. “From day one when I got out there it has just been incredible.” 
The most incredible part of it all for the seemingly aver­age student, shorter than six feet and weighing less than 200 pounds, has been some­thing that only the far-from­average every get to do, and Mike Anello surely has proven himself to be more then he looks and to be much more than average. 
“Running out of the tunnel and seeing 80,000 people fill­ing the Stadium, I still get the mental image in my head,” Anello said. “It is an unbeliev­able experience.” 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 

Aldridge relishes unique college experience 
Dame began as a high school 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
senior at Merrillville H.S. in 
Sports Writer 

Merrillville, Ind., where he finished with 3,803 all-pur­“Live unique.” pose yards in just two years These two words help to at the school, including 1,433 exemplify the career of Irish yards and 21 touchdowns in running back James Aldridge his senior season. That during his four years at earned him a spot as one of Notre Dame. Arguably no nine running backs on 
other senior has taken Parade’s Prep All-America advantage of the many bene-team, and he was also one of fits of playing Notre Dame 16 candidates for the Parade football both on and off the All -America High School field, making his experience Football Player of the Year truly unique. award. 
Aldridge’s Notre Dame Like so many others before career began in a way that him, Aldridge was attracted was decidedly unique when to Notre Dame because of the 
compared with  U n i v e r s i t y ’ s  
how most other  prestige.  
t o p  r e c r u i t s  “ Yo u  c o m e  
e n t e r  c o l l e g e .  here, you really  
T h e h e a v i l y recruited run- “It was a culture  know about the t r a d i t i o n , a n d  
n i n g became t h e  b a c k one of f i r s t  shock, but I thought it was a culture shock  o n c e h e r e w h a t  y o u a n d i t ’s  g e t s e e a l l  
recruits under  that I needed.”  a b o u t ,  t h a t ’s  
I r i s h  c o a c h  w h a t  r e a l l y  
Charlie Weis to p a r t i c i p a t e i n t h e e a r l y  James Aldridge senior running back  drew me here,” A l d r i d g e s a i d . “They play this  
enrollment pro- recruiting video  
g r a m .  T h e  f o r  a l l  t h e  
experience had  r e c r u i t s  w i t h  
s u c h  a  b i g  a l l  t h i s  N o t r e  

impact on Aldridge that he Dame stuff, and I was just still considers it his favorite like ‘alright, I’m coming.’” memory at Notre Dame four Once he got to campus, years later. Aldridge began to make his 
“Moving in, I was an early Notre Dame experience enrollee, you know, when I unique almost instantly. He was in high school one week learned to embrace all of the and the next week I was in opportunities and special college,” Aldridge said. “So spots on campus — including just the transition period and his favorite place, North getting acclimated to every-Dining Hall. thing when I first got here “You know, spring semester was the most expansive when I first got here and memory I have.” after nights of going out, you 
It was an experience know I’d wake up in the Aldridge thought was impor-morning and go to North tant for him, and he feels it [Dining Hall] with my room-helped him grow a lot as a mates, and I would be sitting person. in the dining hall for hours 
“It was a culture shock, but on end just looking at girls,” I thought it was a culture Aldridge said with a laugh. shock that I needed,” he said, “But it’s just kind of the way “As a person I grew up, and I I was when I was younger grew to like everything. I you know.” mean I love it.” Since those early days 
Aldridge’s road to Notre where he would spend hours in the dining hall taking it all in, Aldridge has taken advan­tage of many of the opportu­nities available on campus, including the football field. 


Aldridge came into Notre Dame as a freshman on the talented 2006 team that fea­tured stars like Brady Quinn and Jeff Samardzija. Although he missed the first five games of that season, he played in seven 
of the team ’s final eight games, finish-and registered his first career multi -touchdown game. For the season, Aldridge finished with 357 yards on 91 carries. 

In 2009, in the middle of a crowded backfield, Aldridge moved from halfback to full­back. Although injuries have limited the psychology major to only four games this sea­son, Aldridge plans to finish 
out his career 
strong. 
“I want to 
continue to 

i n g b e h i n d Dari us Wal ke r a s t h e t e a m ’s second leading rusher with 142  “I’m having fun, I’m happy, I’ve learned a lot as a person, and I don’t know what else  e mbrace w ha t this University is about while I ’ m h e r e , ” Aldridge said.  
y a r d s carries.  o n  3 7  you could ask for.”  s  A f t e r e a s  t h i s o n ,  
Aldridge was then one of the  James Aldridge  Aldridge plans t o cont inue to  
b r i g h t d u r i n g  s p o t s N o t r e  senior running back  train, but in his s p a r e t i m e  
D a m e ’s  r o u g h  a s i d e  f r o m  
2007 campaign,  that, he’ll  con- 
l e a d i n g  t h e  t i n u e  t o  a d d  

team with 463 rushing yards. the “unique” streak he has His most memorable start with respect to other football came against Michigan State players by launching his own when he became the first clothing line, aptly named Irish running back since Tony “Live Unique.” Fisher in 1999 to register “I’m going to continue to more than 100 yards in his train and see how that goes, first career start with 104 but I started my own clothing yards on 18 carries. line not too long ago. It ’s Aldridge’s biggest highlight called ‘Live Unique,’ that’s in that game came when he launching in the spring,” busted out a 43-yard carry Aldridge said. “It’s something on Notre Dame’s second scor-that I spend a lot of my time ing drive that resulted in only on you know besides football. their second offensive touch-I’ve always been interested in down of the season. fashion, and it’s just some-
He also rushed for a career thing that I’d figured why not high 125 yards against Navy. start it up now.” 
During his junior season in When he leaves here, 2008, Aldridge notched his Aldridge says he’ll miss the first career touchdown when locker room and the team-he burst through the line of mates inside of it the most. scrimmage from two yards He also will miss the more out against North Carolina. laid back aspects of college Two weeks later at life because he realizes that Washington, Aldridge led the he’s lucky to have had this team with 84 rushing yards opportunity. 
“It ’s camaraderie, ” Aldridge said. “I mean, I don’t have any of the respon­sibilities. When you think about it, I mean this stuff’s hard, but there’s people my age who are in the war right now. I mean I got to go to college, play ball, I don ’t have to pay for anything, you know, you couldn’t ask for much more, and I just appre­ciate that. 
“It really puts things in per­spective when you see where you are I guess in compari­son to a lot of other people. I’m having fun, I’m happy, I’ve learned a lot as a person, and I don’t know what else you could ask for.” 
Ultimately, Aldridge has been extremely pleased by the unique opportunities that have presented themselves to him throughout his time at Notre Dame and has enjoyed his time on campus and clearly thinks that it’s a spe­cial place that will continue to help him foster his goal to continue to “live unique.” 
“It’s been a great experi­ence,” he said. “Best decision I’ve ever made in my life. I mean, this place in particular is a special university, and I guess in every situation, every student has their unique experience here and mine isn’t any different. You know a lot of our time is invested [in the Gug] and a lot of our time is invested in the books and everything, and there’s things out there that let you embrace what this University’s all about. 
“I got a chance to go to London and travel to the Netherlands, and I’ve never seen that before and it ’s things like that [that make Notre Dame special].” 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 

West still treasures 2006 score against Purdue 

By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 
In 2006, Notre Dame was stocked with talent and head­ed toward a BCS bowl. It was not surprising to fans then when quarterback Brady Quinn marched his offense 70 yards down the field for a score capped by an 11-yard end-around on the first drive of the game against Purdue. 
But to senior wide receiver George West, this play meant Dame career, nothing has taken away from his overall experience as a Irish football player. 
“I’m happy to be a part of it. It’s something that helps me keep my head up, some­thing to strive for,” West said. “I’m not just playing for myself; I’m playing for the story, the University. Wearing that gold helmet means a lot to me.” 
With all of the special places on Notre Dame’s cam­
pus that are 
filled with tradi­

much more. He tion, the Grotto, 
“I’m playing for the
was the receiv-Touchdown
story, the University. 
er who scam -Jesus and pered into the Wearing that gold St onehenge, end zone for there are many 
helmet means a lot 
the score, his things that all 
to me.” 
first and only students can touchdown of enjoy. But run-his Notre Dame George West ning through career. The the tunnel and 
senior receiver 
play was the onto the field is only time West one thing that is touched the ball on offense reserved for football players, that game, but it was his and something West will favorite memory and a never experience after this moment he said he would season. never forget. “[Coming out of the tunnel] 
West had his best produc-is something that you can’t tion his sophomore year compare, something that you when he tallied 172 receiving can’t duplicate,” West said. yards and 22 return yards. “Coming out of that tunnel is He also notched 271 return an opportunity that a lot of yards his freshman year people don’t get, something a where he started on the kick lot of people wish they could return team. Although his do. It’s something I’m really injuries his junior year have going to miss.” caused his playing time to Although West’s favorite decrease late in his Notre place on campus, and what he calls his second home is the Guglielmino Athletic Complex, his story doesn’t end with football. Like many student -athletes at Notre Dame, getting a good educa­tion is just as important for West. In fact, the academics of Notre Dame were on par with its tradition as far as what drew West to campus. 
“You might see good foot­ball somewhere and you might see good academics somewhere but you don’t see both at many schools, and the combination of both is really what brought me here,” he said. 
West is currently enrolled in the Mendoza College of Business as a finance major. 
“I love numbers, and it kind of gave me the opportunity in the big picture to work with numbers and work with peo­ple.” 
He said both his parents are the main contributors in getting him to where he is today. 
“They helped me with my work ethic and they taught me what it means to be a hard-working guy, a stand-up guy,” West said. 
What has really made West’s experience unforget­table is the people he experi­enced it with. He said his favorite things about Irish football are his teammates and getting to know people in general. 
“There are a lot of guys that since I’ve been here have become my best friends,” West said “They are friends for life, friends that I will never forget.” 

Specifically, West is closest with his roommates, running back James Aldridge and linebacker Toryan Smith. 
“They are guys I’m with every day,” he said. “Guys I knew since I’ve been here, when I came early with them. 
We’ve been in this relation­ship together for about four years now and it should just keep going from there.” 
Already proving this point true, West paused halfway through talking to laugh and say goodbye to a friend, a teammate, as he left the Guglielmino. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 
MIKE NARVAEZ 

View from the stands not good enough for walk-on 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports Writer  However, he had never been to a Notre Dame home foot­ball game until the fall of his  more and decided to try-out in the spring of his freshman year.  friends for Narvaez. “It gives you a new perspec­tive running out of the tun­ as part of his spring schedule, he plans on making the most of his free time, and is excit­ 
freshman year, and the expe­ “I thought I’d give it a try,”  nel,” h e sai d. “I’ m sti ll  on  ed for the  new  opportunities  
A walk-on from Ridgewood,  rience was life-changing.  he said. “The opportunity was  cloud nine.”  presented to him.  
N.J., fullback Mike Narvaez  “My first game  was  Penn  there, and I didn’t  want  to  “It takes up  a  lot of time  “Life without football  — I’m  
sees being a part of the Notre  S t a t e  f r e s h m a n  y e a r, ”  have any regrets while I  was  and is different from my fall  going to take ballroom danc- 
Dame team as a dream come  N a r v a e z  s a i d .  “ I t  w a s  a n  here, and I’m very fortunate  of freshman year, but some of  i n g , p i a n o  l e s s o n s  a n d  d o  
true. After growing up watch- unreal experience.”  with how it turned out.”  my best friends  are  on  this  things I haven’t been able to  
ing the Irish on TV, and visit- After standing in the stu- For Narvaez, football  was  team,” Narvaez said. “Once  do. I don’t regret football; I  
ing the University during high  dent section throughout the  not part of his life until fresh- you hang out and get to know  just want to take advantage  
school, he knew it  was  the  2 0 0 6  s e a s o n ,  h o w e v e r,  man year of high school  — he  these guys, they’re not just  of the opportunities. Notre  
place for him.  N a r v a e z  k n e w  h e  w a n t e d  was  too big for the Pee-Wee  football players. You get to  Dame is  a  great school all- 
l e a g u e s  w h e n  h e  w a s  know them behind the scenes  around, and I don’t want to  
younger.  and they’re really good guys.”  take anything for granted.”  
S t a r t i n g  o f f  a t  f u l l b a c k ,  Not only  are  his teammates  After graduation, Narvaez’s  
Narvaez volunteered to play  p a r t o f N a r v a e z ’s f a v o r i t e  busy schedule will most likely  
left tackle to help his team  t h i n g s  a b o u t  b e i n g  o n  t h e  start all over again as he has  
out.  t e a m ,  b u t t h e t r a d i t i o n  o f  plans to go to medical school.  
H i s  t e a m  w e nt  o n  t o  wi n  Notre Dame football is also  This time, though, he’s hoping  
state in both his sophomore  very important. “It’s being  to stay closer to home, look- 
a n d  j u n i o r  s e a s o n s ,  b u t  able to go back to my home  ing  at  schools in New York  
N a r v a e z  t o r e  h i s  A C L  h i s  town and say, ‘I play Notre  and along the East Coast with  
sophomore year.  Dame football,’” he said. “It’s  hopes of becoming  an  ortho­ 
“ I t  w as  toug h b ei ng hu r t  a n  a c c o m p l i s h m e n t  a n d  I  pedist or sports medicine doc- 
watching them play in a giant  gave it my best shot.”  tor.  
stadium,” he said. “But my  One of his favorite  memo- Wherever he goes, it looks  
senior  season  I  came  back  ries of the past three years on  l i ke h is fo o t b a ll  r o ots  wi l l  
and had a lot of motivation, a  the team? Traveling to Hawaii  stick with him. Reflecting  on  
lot of energy, and that  was  a  and breaking the bowl streak.  his four years at Notre Dame  
lot of the  reason  I tried out  “ I t  w a s  l i k e  a  f u l l y p a i d  a n d  t h r e e  s e a s o n s  o n  t h e  
[at Notre Dame]. I felt like I  vacation. We had a lot of free  team, Narvaez couldn’t help  
h ad  some  unfini s h ed busi -time, and spent it hanging out  but keep  a  big smile off his  
ness.”  with the team. I got to know a  face.  
His “unfinished business”  lot  more  about  some  of my  “ I  w a n t e d  t o  h a v e  n o  
turned into  a  strict schedule  teammates and make Notre  regrets,” he said  once  more.  
h e impos ed  on  himself the  Dame history.”  “The opportunity  was  there,  
spring of his freshman year.  Being part of a varsity team  and I tried to take advantage.  
“Everything was so regiment- does have its time commit- I’ve learned  a  lot of lessons  
ed trying out, I went to bed at  m e n t s ,  b u t  N a r v a e z  h a s  and made  a  lot of friends. I  
9:30 and had to be up at 4:30  retained his strong ties to his  wanted to make the most of  
for practice.”  d o r m ,  M o r r i s s e y,  a n d  t h e  it.”  
The results are evident  — a  friends he made there fresh- From the excited look on his  
walk-on  spot  on  one  of the  m a n  y e a r,  l i v i n g  w i t h  t w o  face, it seems like he did.  
VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer  nation’s most legendary col- Morrissey friends off-campus  
Senior walk-on fullback Mike Na rvaez knew after watching only  l e g e  f o o t b a l l  t e a m s  a n d  a  this year.  Contact Meaghan Veselik at  
one game from the stands that he wanted to be on the feld.  w h o l e  n e w  g r o u p  o f  c l o s e  However, without football  mvesel01@saintmarys.edu  

Duncan eager to leave Notre Dame with a win 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
From the time he stepped on campus back in 2005, fifth-year offensive tackle Paul Duncan has been in the mix on the Irish offensive line. The Dallas, Ga. native played just a few snaps during his very first game in a Notre Dame uniform but it was an experience he said he would never forget. 
“I wouldn’t say I was sur­prised to be out there,” Duncan said. “I was just really anxious to get in there and play. There were so many emotions going on at one time that it’s hard to pick out just one feeling.” 
In that game, Notre Dame clobbered Pittsburgh 42-21 on the road in Charlie Weis’ Irish coaching debut on Sept. 3, 2005. Duncan said he wants nothing more than to achieve that same result in his final home game against Connecticut Saturday. 
“You don’t want to think about the last time you played in Notre Dame Stadium as a loss,” he said. “It’s never an appealing thought to anybody. A lot of the younger guys are going to come out hard trying to get a win for the seniors and fifth-year guys and it means a lot that they respect us like that.” 
The biggest surprise for Duncan came during his first home game when he walked onto the field for the first time in front of a sell-out crowd against Michigan State on Sept. 17, 2005. 
“Running out there, I had been used to a high school sta­dium, expecting to be able to hear my family screaming,” Duncan said. “But obviously you’re not going to be able to do that here.” 
After playing as a reserve lineman throughout his sopho­more year behind then-fresh­man Sam Young, Duncan stepped into a starting role his junior year and experienced Notre Dame’s horrific 3-9 sea­son first hand. Duncan acknowledged that he has grown to become a much better player since that season. 
“I feel that from my stand­point, I’m more prepared now going in to each game physically and mentally,” he said. “It’s just a different feeling and attitude going in to each game that I didn’t feel then.” 
After suffering a hip injury that forced him to sit out all of last season, Duncan was grant­ed an extra year of eligibility and returned to the starting lineup at the left tackle position this season. 
“I think [having an extra year] helped me out a lot,” Duncan said. “When [Mike Turkovich] was leaving last year, I was thinking that could have been me sitting right there next to him. I was thinking about where I was and that I wasn’t ready to go yet physically or mentally. I just wasn’t ready to go and it was just a blessing being able to come back for another season.” 
Despite being granted the extra year of eligibility, Duncan said his years at Notre Dame have gone by all too fast. 
“It’s weird. I remember com­ing up here freshman summer and going through all the stuff,” he said. “There’s ups and downs along the way, but its crazy to believe that the end’s right here for me as a Notre Dame football player.” 
As for next year, Duncan has his eyes set on continuing his football career at the next level. He plans to keep training and enter the 2010 NFL Draft next April. After playing in NFL he hopes to follow in his father’s footsteps in the construction industry. But whichever way it turns out, he credited football and Notre Dame for preparing him so well for any scenario in the future. 
“My parents have always talked about how sports teaches life lessons,” he said. “There are so many things that you learn like adversity. Our season didn’t really go how we wanted it to, but life goes on and you still have to keep pushing and trying to improve and get better.” 
While Saturday’s game will have a much different feeling for Duncan, he said that he isn’t going to be making any changes in the way of game preparation. 

“I’ve never been that vocal,” he said. “I just try to do things by example because you can’t have too many guys saying stuff or it just all gets lost in the mix. So I’m just going to try to lead by example.” 
With that in mind, winning is still the focus for Duncan and his fellow seniors who have experienced a number of ups and downs during their Irish careers. And Saturday marks the final time that they will be able to accomplish that goal within the friendly confines of 

Contact Alex Barker at abarker@nd.edu 
TORYAN SMITH 

Linebacker credits family for helping him succeed 
wanted him to play the line, 

By BILL BRINK but Smith ended up at line-Sports Writer backer instead.  
“It was a real smooth tran- 
As Toryan Smith stood in sition,” he said.  
the hallway of the athletics T h e a c a d e m i c s a n d t h e  
fac ility, talk ing ab o u t how p r e s t i g e o f N o t r e D a m e  
important his family was to a t t r a c t e d S m i t h t o S o u t h  
him, his phone rang. He took Bend, but once he got here,  
a look and chuckled. h e s a i d h e r e a l i z e d h o w  
“ T h a t ’s m y m o m , c a l l i n g tough the college game was.  
right now,” he said. “It just went real fast,” he  
T h e l i n e b a c k e r, a s e l f -said.  
described homebody, said he During his freshman year,  
t a l k s t o h i s Smith played in  
f a m i l y e v e r y nine games and  
day. h a d nin e t a ck- 
“ T h a t ’s r e a l l e s . H e s a i d “Any time you’re on i m p o r t a n t , t o keeping himself the feld you have to keep in touch i n s h a p e a n d with my fami­try to make the best maintaining his  
l y, ” h e s a i d . opportunity of it.” s t r e n g t h a n d “ T h e y k e e p s p e e d w e r e  
y o u r h e a d i m p o r t a n t t o Toryan Smith straight.” adjusting to col-Wh e n Sm i t h senior linebacker lege.  
s a y s t h e f o u r “ T h e m a i n IAN GAVLICK/The Observer  
y e a r s h e ’s t h i n g w a s j u s t Senior linebacker Toryan Smith has tried to make the most of his opportunities on the field  
s p e n t h e r e to make sure to throughout his career with the Irish. 
seemed to have taken only a get yourself in good condi- 
y e a r t o c o m p l e t e , k e e p i n g tion, good shape,” he said.  “ A n y t i m e y o u ’ r e o n t h e  playing football as long as I  E v e n m o r e t h a n t h a t , h e  
one’s head on straight may “The game’s a lot faster, the  field you have to try to make  h a v e t h e o p p o r t u n i t y, ” h e  said, the bonds he’s formed  
be harder than it looks. players are a lot stronger.  the best opportunity of it,” he  said.  with his teammates super- 
Smith was no stranger to You got to come in and work  said. “I was ready to go.”  Thanks to his coursework,  sede everything else from his  
the spotlight of Notre Dame. a little extra hard.”  This season, he’s played in  he’ll have the opportunity to  time here.  
By playing his high school His sophomore season, he  a l l 1 0 g a m e s a n d s t a r t e d  t r y. H e w i l l g r a d u a t e t h i s  “I think really just meeting  
ball in Rome, Ga., he experi­p l a y e d i n 1 1 g a m e s a n d  two . F res h m an M a n t i Te ’ o  D e c e m b e r w i t h a d o u b l e  these guys that I’ve played  
e n c e d t h e i m p o r t a n c e o f started two of them. He made  has taken over Smith’s line- major in sociology and com- with,” he said when asked  
southern high school foo t-14 tackles and also played on  b a c k e r r o l e a s t h e s e a s o n  puter applications and will  what he’d remember. “You  
ball. special teams. In 2008, his  progressed; Smith said the  train for the NFL Combine.  can talk about all these big  
“ Yo u g o t o a g a m e , y o u junior season, he played in  season has taken some unex­ “We’ll see what happens,”  games, big stadiums, parties,  
seen 10,000 people,” he said. 10 games and started two.  pected turns.  he said.  whatever y ou w ant t o talk  
“It’s real big, there are a lot Against Navy, when starting  “It’s a lot of ups and downs.  Whatever happens, Smith  a b o u t , b u t w h e n i t r e a l l y  
of big rivalries, lots of big-linebacker Brian Smith was  A lot of change, a lot of dif­ said the community he expe­ comes down to it … [it’s] the  
time players, lots of big-time s i d e l i n e d b e c a u s e o f a n  ferent things going on,” he  rienced at Notre Dame will  friends that I’ll have the rest  
football.” injury, he stepped up. Smith  said. “It’s been a ride.”  stick with him.  of my life.”  
S m i t h ’s f a t h e r, C h a r l e s , r e c o r d e d 1 0 t a c k l e s a n d  T h a t h a s n ’t s t o p p e d h i m  “ I t ’s a n i n s t a n t c o n n e c - 
p l a y e d o f f e n s i v e l i n e a t returned a blocked punt for a  from working.  tion ,” he s ai d. “You re ally  Contact Bill Brink at  
Georgia. Smith said his dad touchdown.  “I’m going to try to keep  feel it.”  wbrink@nd.edu  

Being on team fills void for wide receiver 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
From the start of his freshman year at Notre Dame, Brian Coughlin knew something was missing, something was just not right about being away at school and not being a part of the foot­ball team. 
So he turned down Division III offers in the hopes of suiting up for the Irish. 
Now he’s a senior wide receiver. 
As a senior at Brother Rice High School outside Chicago, he had the opportunity to talk to a few different college coaches about the prospect of playing football at the college level. But Coughlin had different plans. 
“I had some Division III coaches talk to me, they would come out to the school, and we could talk to them,” Coughlin said. “But more specifically, I wanted to come to Notre Dame so I didn’t pursue playing in college.” 
Coughlin and his younger broth­er, Patrick who is also a walk-on wide receiver at Notre Dame, went to a few games when they were younger and both fell in love with campus and with the fighting Irish. He remembers one of his first games in South Bend clearly, a rainy game against Navy. 
“I still have a picture in my basement of my brother, my grandpa, my dad, and me at Notre Dame from that game, and we all look so excited,” Coughlin said. “It was so long ago, but I remember being so happy.” 
These early memories helped Coughlin decide that attending Notre Dame as a non-athlete ruled over the prospect of being recruited to play football at a dif­ferent school. 
“Seeing Notre Dame football on television and hearing about their academics made me want to come here,” Coughlin said. “I real­ized I had a chance to get in when I was a sophomore in high school, I applied, and I decided to come to Notre Dame.” 
During his freshman and sopho­more years, Coughlin played Interhall football for Dillon Hall, but was not satisfied and began tossing around the idea of playing on the varsity football team. After discussing the walk-on tryouts with his roommate who had gone through the process, Coughlin decided to prepare himself physi­cally and give it a try. 
“I talked to some of the other guys and they told me, and at the time when I made it after the first cut where they cut a lot of peo­ple,” Coughlin said. “I was really nervous at the first cut, but then it kind of sunk in that I had a really good chance at making it.” 
Upon surviving all the cuts and maintaining consistency in prac­tice and workouts, Coughlin was picked to be a member of the Notre Dame football team. 
”The first time running out of the tunnel was just amazing,” Coughlin said. “We ran out of the tunnel for the Blue and Gold game, but it just wasn’t the same.” 
Coughlin walked on the team during the spring of his sopho­more year, which has allowed him to be on the football roster for his junior and senior year seasons. 
”It’s really like a 180-degree turn,” Coughlin said of the neces­sary changes in transferring from a regular full-time student to a Division-I athlete. 
“The brotherhood you have with your teammates is definitely something I’m going to miss after graduating,” Coughlin said. 
The term brotherhood on the football team has a more literal meaning to Coughlin in particular, as his younger brother Patrick also decided to come to Notre Dame and walk on the football team. 
“It was fun to know that we both made it on our own,” Coughlin said. “Without having me helping him, he knows that he made it himself.” 
An important part of team structure that Coughlin noticed is the bond that the coaches have formed with all players by stress­ing the importance of every mem­ber of the team. 
“I got to sit next to coach Weis in meetings this year, so I got to know him better, which was cool because you wouldn’t really expect the head football coach to have a good relationship with even the walk-ons of the team,” Coughlin said. “He and all the other coaches want to make even the walk-ons feel like they are valuable players.” 
After graduating in the spring with a major in accounting, Coughlin will be interning at Deloitte Accounting and Consulting Firm. He then intends to return to Notre Dame for a fifth-year masters of accounting program and hopes to find a job as an accountant. 

“Accounting gives me the best options down the road,” Coughlin said. “I learned a lot in my sopho­more year accounting class, and I knew I wanted to be in the busi­ness school.” 
This week’s final home game against Connecticut marks Coughlin’s last football game,and next semester, his last as an undergraduate at Notre Dame. 

“I am definitely going to miss the fact that at Notre Dame you have a community of 8,000 peers and people your age all around you,” Coughlin said. “I am going to miss the people the most.” 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
PADDY MULLEN 

Irish Catholic nose tackle cherishes his time at ND 
By DOUGLAS FARMER Sports Writer  of the recruiting experience. “It was a lifelong dream. Growing up Irish Catholic I’ve always been an  same time,” he said. “You push yourself even harder to stand out from the crowd.”  said. “It was the last play, time ran out as I did it, so most of the guys were on the field. They congratu­ when you’re up,” Mullen said. “You just keep a level head and keep on plugging.”  
When your first career sack comes in the second half of your senior season, you tend to treas­ure the moment. Fortunately, Paddy Mullen has been treasuring his time at Notre Dame since he was first recruited to play for the Irish. The senior was recruited out of DeSmet Jesuit H.S. in St. Louis as a defensive end who could play some tight end as well by recruit­ing coordinator and receivers coach Rob Ianello. “It was pretty cool,” Mullen said  Irish fan.” Once he arrived on campus and saw some of his teammates, Mullen’s dream was in for a reali­ty check. “It was a bit of a shock. There is a change from high school, from being the man and coming here where everybody was the man,” he said. “Everybody could play.” The blue-collar Irish Catholic side of Mullen showed through quickly in how he approached the competition. “[The competition within the team] is kind of a blessing at the  Mullen did not see any game action in 2006, but in his sopho­more campaign he played in three games. Mullen recorded a tackle in his first game on the field against Georgia Tech. By then he played exclusively on the defen­sive side of the ball, and last sea­son the nose tackle played in 12 games as a large — literally and figuratively — part of Notre Dame’s goal line defense. “You have to be ready at all times [when seeing limited play­ing time],” Mullen said. “You kind of deal with it, fulfill your role and do what you can to be ready  lated me and I did my dance.” Mullen said plugging away for Mullen may have received some four years has benefited him tips on dancing on the team’s trip already, and the four years aren’t to Hawaii last even over yet. D e c e m b e r. “You learn More impor­from anything. tantly, Mullen This whole grew closer to “It (my first sack) was experience, in teammates he another surreal moment. the past four now compares years, I have Everything moved so slow. to brothers learned so I just kept thinking, ‘Just during the much about work-vacation. tackle him. Just tackle myself … You “We prac­have to take him. Don’t miss him.’” ticed hard and things away we got to visit from it for life a few sites in Paddy Mullen afterwards.”  
whenever the coach calls upon  Hawaii while  senior nose tackle  As that life  
you.”  we  were  a f t e r w a r d s  
This season Mullen’s role has  there,”  he  a p p r o a c h e s  
not changed much. He provides  said. “It was a  quickly, Mullen  
some depth on the Irish defensive  great bonding  knows he will  
line, and is ready whenever  experience. I learned a lot about a  miss his teammates when this  
defensive line coach Randy Hart  lot of the guys on the team.”  season finally ends.  
tells him to get in the game.  Not only did the Irish bond, but  “Oh yeah, [I’ll miss] the locker  
Mullen played in the closing  they broke a not-so-favorable  room and the camaraderie as a  
moments of Notre Dame’s 40-14  bowl streak that had been hound- team. I’ve grown to be pretty  
victory over Washington State,  ing them for some time.  much brothers with some of the  
and the former Morrissey Manor  “Winning that game was a great  guys. It’s going to be hard.”  
resident made the biggest play of  thing,” Mullen said. “Getting that  The familial feel extends past  
his career on the final play of the  bowl streak out of the way was  the locker room for this Irish  
game, sacking the Cougars quar­ pretty cool.”  Catholic though. He said he knows  
terback for the first of his Irish  Though Hawaii was a good  what separates Notre Dame from  
career.  memory, other parts this senior  every other school, and knows  
“[The sack] was pretty cool,” he  class’ tenure were not: Mullen  he’ll miss it more than anything  
said. “It was another surreal  and his classmates saw the Irish  else.  
moment. Everything moved so  finish the year 3-9 in the 2007  “It’s the Notre Dame family, the  
slow. I just kept thinking, ‘Just  season. Mullen possibly took as  tradition, the classmates. Just all  
tackle him. Just tackle him. Don’t  much away from that season as  the people and the family feel of  
miss him.’”  he did during the more pleasant  this place.”  
Mullen’s teammates knew the  2008 season.  
COLEMAN COLLINS/The Observer  significance of the moment, and  “As my father always told me,  
Senior nose tackle Paddy Mullen saw coming to Notre Dame as  paid him his due.  you never get too low when you’re  Contact Douglas Farmer at  
fulflling a lifelong dream.  “I just soaked it up a bit,” he  down, and you never get too high  dfarmer1@nd.edu  

Fifth-year linebacker becomes mentor on field 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
Not many players can say the first person they tackled in their college career was Steve Breaston. 
Scott Smith has that distinc­tion. In his first game as a freshman, he tracked down the former Michigan wideout and kick returner, who now plays for the Arizona Cardinals and had more than 1,000 yards receiving last season, on a reverse. 
“One of those situations everybody has when it seems like things are moving so fast, you really don’t have a chance to kind of get your Weinburg told him he’d be playing middle linebacker. 
“I ended up just sticking there for the next three years and playing a bunch of differ­ent positions on offense,” he said. “I guess I was able to make a pretty good impression on some people.” 
Smith said he liked getting off the line of scrimmage and working in space rather than pounding around in the trench­es. 
“I think [the coaches] tried to make it as easy for me as pos­sible. Just find the ball and go tackle someone,” he said. “As I got more comfortable and as I got more used to playing the 
position my 
responsibili­
ties kind of 
increased.” 

bearings I Aside from 
“Its kind of weird how it’s 
guess,” Smith the combi­
come full circle. One day
said. “That’s nation of defi nitely you’re this wide-eyed academics 
somethi ng freshman, the next you’re and big-time 
that’ll proba-football that 
kind of like this wise old
bly be one of Notre Dame the ‘tell my veteran. It’s pretty neat.” offered, grandkids ’ Smith said stories. ‘This the size of 
Scott Smith 
was grandpa’s the school 
senior linebacker 
first play, first attr acted tackle,’ proba-him and he bly be a way liked the to build myself opportunity up in the future.” to be more than a number. 
He doesn’t have to build him-“Smaller classes, [having] an self up now, though. The fifth-opportunity to interact with year senior acts as a coach on professors and build relation-the field, the man who distills ships,” Smith said. “Those rela­defensive coordinator Jon tionships too are something Tenuta’s schemes for the that will help me in the future younger players and someone looking for jobs and getting who portrays consistency and references and things like character. that.” 
“He’s just a regular guy. Goes As a freshman, Smith played to class, goes to work,” fellow behind linebacker Corey Mays, senior linebacker Toryan Smith who graduated in 2006 and said. “Does everything he’s now plays for the Kansas City supposed to do. He’s a great Chiefs. In a way, Mays was to student. He’s a really good Smith as Smith now is to the guy.” younger linebackers. 
Smith’s skills at linebacker “He seemed like that old guy developed late. Due to weight who knew everything and was restrictions in middle school, the best guy to go to for advice Smith played on the offensive and always had a good and defensive lines. At answer,” Smith said. “I really Highland Park High School in appreciate him taking me Highland Park, Ill., he played under his wing. I’m sure I got a defensive end and tight end, little annoying with all the but at the beginning of his questions. I’m sure I look like sophomore year, coach Kurt that old guy to a lot of the freshman now, so I’m trying to return the favor, I guess, with them.” 

Now Smith answers ques­tions for younger linebackers like Manti Te’o, Carlo Calabrese and Dan Fox. 
“Its kind of weird how it’s come full circle,” he said. “One day you’re this wide-eyed freshman, the next you’re kind of like this wise old veteran. It’s pretty neat.” 
Smith didn’t play his sopho­more year, but appeared in every game in his junior and senior years. He made 18 tack­les, seven solo, during his jun­ior season. 
Smith said the biggest improvement in his game is his ability to shed blocks. In high school, he said, he could blow by the blockers, but now he needs to use his hands. This is especially true since he’s moved from middle linebacker to outside linebacker at Notre Dame, where he faces the tight end on a regular basis. 
“Obviously they’re a threat as a receiver playing man cover­age,” he said. “It’s a little bit different just because of the athletic difference, but some of these linemen who are 315 pounds, you don’t expect them to move what they do, but they can get you too.” 

For the past two seasons, Smith has played under defen­sive coordinator Jon Tenuta. He’s acted as an intermediary between Tenuta and the play­ers. 
“He’s like JT in that he’ll get JT’s mes­sage across very well,” associate head coach sleeping and spending time with roommates Paul Duncan and Bartley Webb. He’s also got his TV schedule dialed up every week — on this particu­lar Wednesday, Law and Order: SVU awaited him. 
“Probably the greatest show ever made on TV,” he said. 
Smith is currently taking graduate classes, but as an undergrad he finished with a 
3.65 grade point average. Time 
management helped him, he said — as did playing to his strengths. 
“I’ll be hon­est, I didn’t do 

C o r w i n Brown said of Smith.  “He’s (Smith) really taken on the player-coach role.  all the reading for class,” he said. “You kind  
“He  cuts  He’s the coach when the  of  pick  and  
through the  coach is not there.”  choose  your  
fat.”  spots  where  
S  T o r y a n m i t h  Toryan Smith  you think you can be suc- 
agreed.  senior linebacker  cessful. It’s  a  
“  H  e  ’  s  factor of know- 
really taken  ing  my  
on the play- strengths and  
e r -c o a c h  w e a k n e s s e s  
role.  He’s  and  applying  

the coach when the coach is effort where it was needed.” not there,” Toryan said. “I feel In the same way a defense like he really accepted the has moving parts, Smith wants leadership role on the team. He to be part of a business with a wasn’t asked to do it.” lot of moving parts and change. 
Smith said playing under He said he’d like to work in Tenuta not only gives him an business problem solving and opportunity not many other possibly re-enter the sports players get but a chance to world. learn lessons for a potential “I wouldn’t mind doing some-future in coaching. thing in sports, obviously, just 
“To have the opportunity to because that’s where the have one of the best defensive majority of my life has been coordinators in the country as spent,” he said. your position coach is not Whether it’s football, course something a lot of guys can work, a future job or dealing say,” he said. “The way that he with his family, Smith said he talks to us, and the way that he strives for consistency and helps us, and the way he cri-character. tiques our play is all geared “As a person the most impor­toward us becoming better tant thing for me is to be con-football players and us being sistent, to be approachable and better prepared to help the be that guy that you know has team win. It’s kind of nice to a real good character,” he said. get that view of being almost in “You hear a lot of people say his head, because everything character is what you do when he sees gets transferred right no one else is watching. That’s to us. what I try to be, the same per­
“In the future possibly want-son all the time. Just know the ing to coach, having that per-people in my life, like my spective on how to approach friends in family, they know different types of opponents.” what they’re going to get. I’m 
Being a fifth-year senior just going to be me.” gives Smith more time to relax, something that previously Contact Bill Brink at eluded him. He said he enjoys wbrink@nd.edu 

Once a pupil, Irish cornerback becomes a teacher 
By SAM WERNER 
Associate Sports Editor 
Just because Raeshon McNeil is a starting corner­back on a Division I football team doesn’t mean he doesn’t feel the same about his col­lege experience as most stu­dents. 
“It seems like it’s flown by,” McNeil said. “These four years have just really flown by.” 
From his role as a special teams player in 2006 to his full-time start­ing role now, McNeil said that players have trouble adjusting to being a role player early in their college career, he was ready for the transition. 
“It really wasn’t that bad for me,” McNeil said of his adjust­ment to college. “I’m really not a bigheaded type of guy. I understood what I had to do, I understood paying my dues.” 
While McNeil’s sophomore season, in which the Irish went 3-9, may have been for­gettable for most fans, it did have some bright spots of the young cornerback. McNeil recorded the first start of his career at 

the anticipation for games in the fall, and looking forward to foot­ “I just like helping people. Being in this role for me is natural,  P u rdu e , a n d notched his first sack ag ain s t Stanford.  
ba l l s e as o n i n the spring made h i s fo u r y e ar s at Notre Dame  trying to coach up some of the younger guys, keeping them  On a w ho le, though, he said the season was di sa p p oi nti ng ,  
speed by. I t ’s e a s y fo r McNeil to look ba ck a t h i s  focused during games and stuff. All that stuff just comes  but that it moti­v ated h i m s e l f, and the rest of th e t e am , t o  
r e c r u i t m e n t du ri ng h ig h  naturally to me.”  work harder for every win from  
school — after all, it feels like just ye s t e r d ay  Raeshon McNeil senior cornerback  that point for-ward. “Like a lot of  
to him. He said  gu ys ,  I  ha d  
th at  N o t re  never been on a  
D a me’s  ac a- te a m  t ha t lo s t  

demic prestige, as well as the that many games,” McNeil camaraderie of the team, said. Really going though it attracted him to the Irish. and seeing that other side, it 
“Meeting some of the other really made every win that we guys, Darius Walker and had in 2008 and this year Chinedum [Ndukwe], I just felt [2009] that much more spe­like it was a good fit for me,” cial.” McNeil said. McNeil finally broke out in 
Once he got to South Bend, 2008, his junior season. He McNeil said that those same started all 13 games for the players helped him get accli-Irish and had a number of mated with the program and career highlights. began his career as a college In fact, McNeil said that the cornerback. most memorable moment of 
“Ndukwe was one of the his Irish career came in a 23­guys that really attracted me 7 loss to Michigan State in to this place, one of the guys I East Lansing. Early in the could really see myself hang-game, with the Irish trailing ing out with,” McNeil said. “I by only three, McNeil broke really got to be great friends up an attempted deep pass with Tommy Zbikowski, and from Spartan’s quarterback we still text and talk all the Brian Hoyer to receiver B.J. time. Also, Mike Richardson, I Cunningham. liked the way he played, the “They ran a little combina­instincts that he had.” tion route, where basically I 
His freshman year, McNeil had to push and help the played in 11 games for the backside corner and what Irish, and totaled four tackles happened was there was a lit-in mostly special teams duty. tle breakdown in the coverage 
He said that while some and the backside corner was-n’t there, so there I was left on his guy,” McNeil said. “I end up making a play on a deep ball in the end zone, which was probably one of the bigger plays of my career.” 

Later that season, McNeil got to experience another memorable moment, when the Irish played at North Carolina, the Cooleemee, N.C., native got to play a college football game just two hours from his hometown. 
Prior to the game, McNeil said that there was some com­petition between himself and fellow Tar Heel state residents Robert Blanton and Kerry Neal for who could get tickets for their friends and family in attendance. McNeil said he had to start planning in the summer in order to get enough tickets for the more than 20 friends and family members that would be in attendance. 
“Blanton actually got a pret­ty good deal,” McNeil told The Observer last season. “He got most of the freshman class. He swooped them up real quick.” 


While he said the experience was great, McNeil was fast to admit the game, which the Irish lost 29 -24 to North Carolina, could have gone bet­ter. 
“It was great. It was horri­ble that we lost, but it was great for me to go back there,” McNeil said. 
At the same time, McNeil said he would always remem­ber the experience for getting to play in front of his friends and family. 
“I had a lot of family in town,” he said. “A lot of peo­ple that aren’t able to make it up here to see my play. My grandmother was in the stands, all my brothers and my aunts were in the stands. It was great being able to go back there and them being able to see me play again.” 
McNeil set another career high in his homecoming game, notching a then-career high six tackles. 
Later in the season, the jun­ior notched his first two career interceptions in Notre Dame’s quadruple-overtime loss to Pittsburgh. 
Now, McNeil is one of the more experienced players in the defensive backfield. He said that over the past four years he’s become close with the other upperclassmen in the secondary. He finished the season seventh on the team with 41 total tackles. 
“I’ve gotten really close to a lot of the DBs,” he said. “Me, Sergio [Brown], Leonard [Gordon] and Darrin [Walls]. We’ve been really tight since we’ve been here.” 
With the experience, though, comes an added responsibility. McNeil said that he’s had to take on the role of mentor to the younger defensive backs, like sophomores Robert Blanton and Jamoris Slaughter. To McNeil, though, being a teacher is no big deal. 
“I just like helping people,” he said. “Being in this role for me is natural, trying to coach up some of the younger guys, keeping them focused during games and stuff. All that stuff just comes naturally to me. It feels good to be in this posi­tion.” 
So far this season, McNeil has notched eight total tackles while playing in all 10 games to date. After the Irish wrap up their season in two weeks against Stanford, McNeil hopes that it won’t be the last regular season football game he plays in. 
“I’m going to give this foot­ball thing a shot,” he said of his post -graduation plans. “God willing, I’ll still be play­ing. So hopefully my last game won’t be Stanford.” 
While professional football is still the primary goal, the industrial design major said he has a good backup plan ready. 
“[Pro football is] the plan, but if that doesn’t work out, I’m getting some things going with industrial design,” he said. “I plan on working on my portfolio in the spring, and sending out my portfolio and my résumé, try and get things rolling.” 
Either way, McNeil said he’s a much more mature person now than he was four years ago, both as a football player and as a person. That person­al growth has also paid off on the field, McNeil said. 
“I just think that I’ve not only matured as a player, but as a person,” he said. “I feel like that’s only helped my game. Over these past four years, the game has really slowed down, and I think that comes from maturity, being able to see things, being able to understand the game more.” 
Things may have slowed down for McNeil on the field, but the past four years have still gone by more quickly than he ever could have imag­ined. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 

Notre Dame obvious choice for South Bend WR 
By  CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Coming out of high school, the decision of choosing the right col­lege can be a stressful process. But for South Bend native Dan Franco, the decision to come to Notre Dame couldn’t have been easier. 
“It just seemed to be the perfect fit for me,” Franco said. “I was raised in South Bend since I was 8 months old, and I’ve been immersed in the whole tradition and everything, and I just loved it since the beginning.” 
A graduate of nearby Clay H.S., Franco compiled some impres­sive numbers at the wide receiver position. Coupling that with the desire to play for the Irish instilled at an early age, Franco walked onto the team as a fresh­man. 
Franco learned early on that coming to play for the Irish is much more than just a commit­ment to the football program. He knows his Notre Dame experi­ence will be defined by more than simply his accomplishments on the field. 
“The student body, just the character of kids that are here, it’s just a special group that I’m really proud to be a part of,” Franco said. “Just about anybody I run into on campus, the profes­sors, there’s been a number of extraordinary people that I’ve been fortunate to meet through football, outside of football. Just about everybody I’ve met through here has been special.” 
Grinding through the daily rou­tine of a football season is more than just preseason workouts and a three-month schedule. Franco says the relationships he has developed with his 108 team­mates, and especially within the wide receiver unit, has become an important part of his career. 
“I feel close to all my team­mates, but just being around the guys in your same position, I mean they’re so funny,” Franco said. “They know how to focus, but they know how to not take themselves too seriously at the same time. There’s a lot of laugh­ter that goes on from a real deep place.” 
One of those moments came in practice at the end of last season as the team prepared to travel to the Sheraton Hawaii Bowl. During a one-on-one drill between wide receivers and cor­nerbacks, Franco was the last receiver picked for the drill. His opponent was starting senior cor­nerback Raeshon McNeil. 
“I went and scored a touch­down, and it was so unassuming and it came out of nowhere,” Franco said. “It was pretty nice and everybody just swarmed me. It was a blast. He let me get the best of him that one time, that one time.” 
Franco says he owes a lot of his improvement and overall devel­opment as a player to wide receivers coach Rob Ianello, who has taken on more than just the role of a position coach. 
“He’s on all of us about the small things that we do right, the small things we do wrong,” Franco said. “He’s always paying attention to us and taking notes, so it’s really in the small details that he won’t let us get away with. Maybe we’ll notice, maybe we won’t, but he’ll notice them and make sure that they get cor­rected. Every coach is sort of like a father figure because it’s not always about football.” 
Franco has never started a game for the Irish, but he has come to understand his role as a valuable member of the offense and taken it upon himself to make his teammates better. 
“As a walk-on, you know that you’re not going to be playing in any games but when the fresh­men first get here, they’re learn­ing from everybody, the ropes and things like that,” Franco said. “Especially during the summer when we do seven-on-seven stuff, just helping them get along with the plays, the tempo of practice, how things are and even just talking to them about everyday life.” 
Conversely, Franco’s team­mates have made him a better player through their efforts to compete for a job, and none more than junior cornerback Nick Lezynski, a fellow walk-on. 
“We both share the same num­ber, and we’re constantly compet­ing,” Franco said. “‘Oh you made this play, what did you do today, who’s the real 42?’ We’re joking around in good fun, but we’re on each other’s coattails, just getting after one another, making sure we’re both doing our jobs.” 

Without a doubt, Franco real­izes that when he graduates this spring, his teammates and the relationships he has developed will be missed the most. 
“It sort of just happens,” Franco said. “You just get really close with the guys day in and day out, with early morning lifts or just in the middle of practice. The memories and the stories that you get to carry with you, that’s what I treasure most.” 

Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
LEONARD GORDON 

Fifth-year builds relationships with teammates 
At other schools, he said, 

By ALLAN JOSEPH Sports Writer  the football teams often broke u p i n t o s m a l l g r o u p s a n d  
players rarely spent time with  
Leonard Gordon passed up  teammates  outside of their  
a  c h a n c e  t o  a c h i e v e  t h e  small social circle. To Gordon,  
dream of most Southern foot- that simply isn’t the case here  
ball players by bypassing the  a t  N o t r e  D a m e .  
Southeastern Conference to  “I  can  hang with any of the  
flock North to Notre Dame.  guys  on  the team,” Gordon  
The fifth-year senior from  said. “I obviously hang  out  
Clarksville, Tenn., chose the  with the defensive backs the  
I r i s h  o v e r  most, but I  can  
Vanderbilt and  really hang with  
L S U ,  a n d  h e  any of the guys  
h a s n ’t l o o k e d  on the team.”  
back.  T h e  f o r m e r  
“I d efinite ly made the right d e c i s i o n , ” h e  “I’ve really become a man here.”  Dillon Hall resi­d e n t h a s b e e n around football  
said.  h i s e n t i r e l i f e ,  
F o r  t h e  5 - Leonard Gordon  he said, and the  
f o o t -1 1 , 1 8 9 -p o u n d s a f e t y  senior safety  t e a m p h e r e  a t m o s -h a s  
w h o d o n s t h e  a l w a y s  b e e n  
N o .  2 4 ,  t h e  very central  to  
N o t r e  D a m e  h i s  f o o t b a l l VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer  
f o o t b a l l  t e a m  e x p e r i e n c e , Senior safety Leonard Gordon chose Notre Dame over southern schools like Vanderbilt and LSU  
reflects what he considers the  which is  one  of the  reasons and says he does not regret it.  
defining characteristic of the  why he loves Notre Dame  so  
U n i v e r s i t y  a s  a  w h o l e :  a  much. He said there is a true  loud.”  some  of this “growing up” at  program, he will serve in the  
v i b ra nt co mm un i t y  a t m o s-team atmosphere here both  Gordon began seeing action  o t h e r  p r o g r a m s ,  G o r d o n  United States Army as a phys­ 
phere defined by strong rela­ on  and off the field, which  on  special teams during his  believes that Notre Dame was  ical therapist.  
tionships.  means a lot to him.  second year of eligibility and  t h e  b e s t  p l a c e  f o r  h i m  t o  Vanderbilt had the academ­ 
“My favorite part of Notre  Gordon’s favorite football  earned increased game repe­ learn to become an adult.  ics, and LSU had the high-cal- 
Dame is the people and the  memory is of the UCLA-Notre  t i t i o n s  a s  t h e  y e a r s  p r o - T h o u g h  t h e  c o m m u n i t y  iber football  — and they both  
relationships that I’ve built,”  D a m e  g a m e  i n  2 0 0 6  w h e n  gr e s s e d ,  as  well  a s  s e e i n g  aspect of Notre Dame and the  play in the famed SEC  — but  
h e  s a i d .  “ E v e r y o n e  f r o m  Brady Quinn threw a 45-yard  some  action  as  a  safety last  football team  was  enticing to  when looking back, the prod- 
classmates  to professors  to  pass to Jeff Samardzija with  year.  Gordon, the academics of the  uct  of the South is glad he  
teammates to coaches.”  less than a minute left in the  G o r d o n  s a y s  t h a t  h e h a s  University were also extreme­ didn’t attend either of those  
That attitude extends into  ga me  to  cap  a  com e-from- done  a  lot of maturing from  l y a t t r a c t i v e . H e i s b o t h  a  schools.  
what he loves about being on  beh i nd v i cto r y. Th ou gh he  t h e  t i m e  h e  e n t e r e d  a s  a  political science and prepro­ “You can’t get better than  
the football team.  At Notre  w a s  r e d s h i r t e d  t h a t  y e a r,  freshman to  now.  Coming in  fessional studies major and  this, athletically  or  academi- 
Dame, he said, the coaches  Gordon said it  was  an  unbe­ as a freshman, he was not as  aft er gr aduati o n , plans  on  cally,” he said. “There’s noth­ 
and players have a true com­ lievable experience during his  mature as he needed to be  — attending Baylor University in  ing like playing football  at  
munity, which is what drew  first year on campus.  but that’s no longer the case.  Texas to attend physical ther- Notre Dame.”  
him to South Bend over Baton  “As  a  freshman, that really  “I’v e reall y b eco me  a  man  apy school through the Army- 
Rouge and Nashville in the  stands  out in my mind,” he  here,” he said.  B a y l o r  d o c t o r a l  p r o g r a m .  Contact Allan Joseph at  
first place.  said. “The Stadium  was  so  Although he may have done  After graduation from this  ajoseph2@nd.edu  

Division III transfer found right atmosphere at ND 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Defensive back Chris Bathon’s path to Notre Dame wasn’t a direct one from his hometown of Pleasantville, 
N.Y. But after playing football at Division III Carnegie Mellon as a college freshman, Bathon knew transferring to Notre Dame and trying out for the Irish squad was right for him. 
“Football was a big deal in high school, and it wasn’t too different at Carnegie Mellon,” Bathon said. “I wanted to take a chance and come here, try out and I don’t regret it. I don’t know what I’d do with­out football.” 
In high school, Bathon played both quarterback and safety, starting three of his four years. Close with his teammates and from a small town, many of his former teammates, coaches, friends and neighbors still kept tabs 
on him, first at Carnegie Mellon and now at Notre Dame. 
“It’s a big deal in my town to play Division I at a school,” Bathon said. “Everyone from home follows me, will send me e-mails. I have four younger siblings and they’re always telling me of someone asking them about me or just keep[ing] up with Notre Dame football. It’s been a great experience.” 
Coming from a small school to a much larger university was an adjustment, but not a difficult one for Bathon. Playing in a stadium like Notre Dame’s was a differ­ence, though, he said. 
“There is nothing like that in size at Carnegie Mellon,” Bathon said. 
However, his experience playing there prepared him well to try out for the Irish team. 
“I was not imtimidated,” he said. “Playing at Carnegie Mellon got rid of any nerves that I had. It was a big adjust­ment but nothing that I could-n’t handle. I was pretty confi­dent coming from Carnegie Mellon and found I stacked up well athletically.” 
The walk-on process did not phase Bathon much, either. Coming in as a sophomore, he found himself no more nerv­ous than he would have been had he been at Notre Dame a year earlier, he said. 
“Football is something I’ve played my whole life,” he said. 
Bathon said the goal of don­ning the Irish blue and gold was a lifelong dream. 
“I’ve always been driven to play Notre Dame football, and this was my chance,” Bathon said. 
And when the time came sophomore year, Bathon was ready to take whatever the tryouts threw at him. The results are clear as he stands smiling after another grueling Notre Dame practice, but still can joke around with his teammates walking by. 
“I thought I’d have to kick it into another gear at practice, to show myself to the other guys, but it wasn’t like that,” he said. “Everyone treats you just as well. You earn your respect from the other players and they earn yours. Everyone starts to realize who you are and that you can play.” 
Although he is a walk-on, Bathon has found that the friendships made on the Irish team are some of his most valuable. 
“Everyone here is my best friend,” he said. “Scholarship, recruit, walk-on — doesn’t matter. These guys are my closest friends.” 
When faced with the ques­tion of what his life will be 
once the season closes, Bathon could only shake his head in wonder. 
“I don’t know what life will be like without football,” he said. “I’m happy things worked out the way they did. It’s just football. At the end of the day, I realize I’m playing Notre Dame football and it’s a dream come true.” 
His plans for when he leaves the familiar grounds of Notre Dame are working in the trad­ing field closer to home and to his family. But he will take his three years at Notre Dame, and two seasons on the team, as well as the friends he has made, with him for the rest of his life. 

“It’s been an experience I’m never going to forget,” Bathon said. “Sometimes I have to stop and get it back in my head that I’ve done this. I’m going to remember all the friends I’ve made here, the ones I see every day. The guys I’ve built up a relationship with, the ones I go out with and hang out with. It’s been a dream come true.” 

Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 


Photo Illustrations by ANDREA ARCHER and IAN GAVLICK 




