the 
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Poorman steps down after 11 years 
Vice president of Student Affairs to be succeeded by Fr. Thomas Doyle on June 30 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
Fr. Mark Poorman, vice presi­dent for Student Affairs, will step down from his position at the end of the school year, the University announced Tuesday. 
Poorman has served as vice president for 11 years and will be succeeded by Fr. Thomas Doyle on June 30. 
Doyle currently serves as executive vice president at the University of Portland, a Catholic university in Portland, Ore. affiliated with the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
“I am profoundly grateful for the privilege of serving the University for the past decade,” Poorman said in a University press release. “This ministry to our outstanding students has been one of the most rewarding of my life as a priest and mem­ber of the Congregation of Holy Cross.” 
Poorman, who took the posi­tion of vice president in 1999, said in the release he will be on sabbatical leave next year, and then he will return to the theol­ogy department faculty. Previously, Poorman served as executive assistant to the exec­utive vice president and as executive assistant to the presi­dent, and he is an associate professor of theology. 
The Office of Student Affairs oversees residence life at the University and is involved in programs such as Campus Ministry, the Gender Relations 
see POORMAN/page 3 






Stanford loss ‘fitting end’ to season 
overwhelming sea of red as the football team and coach Charlie Weis left the field, ending the regular season and notching their fourth loss in a row — something most students said was not a sur­prise. 
“It (the loss) is a fitting end to a tumultuous season,” sen­ior Kristie Koch said of the game, saying the team had its ups and downs, but the string of four losses will define the season. 
Freshman Tim Czech agreed the loss Saturday was 
see GAME/page 4 

WorldAIDS day to raise awareness 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
Countries, cities, communities and people around the world are working to raise awareness of the effects of HIV/AIDS today in observance of World AIDS Day. 
On campus, the Center for Social Concerns (CSC), ND-8 and other student activists are spon­soring several events to educate the Notre Dame community about the disease and to stimu­late discussion about the dis­ease’s effects and its prevention. 
The CSC conducted a campus-wide survey to assess the aware­ness of the Notre Dame commu­nity and over 2,000 students responded to the survey. 
“The number of responses is telling of campus that there are a number of students that are aware of the issue and take it seriously and have been affected by it in some way,” Michael Hebbeler, director of student leadership and senior transitions at the CSC, said. 
According to Hebbeler, the survey results, which will be posted today in LaFortune, demonstrate that, though some students are educated about AIDS, others believe the epidem­ic is only a problem in Africa and it does not affect Notre Dame at all. 
Hebbeler hopes this miscon­ception will be proven wrong on World AIDS Day. 
“This is definitely a global issue on a massive scale, a 
see AIDS/page 3 


By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 
As the clock ran down to zero in Palo Alto Saturday, Cardinal fans put a final punctuation mark on Notre Dame’s disappointing season when they stormed the field amid various cheers — some advocating Charlie Weis’ ouster, and some advocating star Stanford running back Toby Gerhart as a Heisman candidate. 
Despite a large contingent of Irish fans in Stanford Stadium, the field became an 




SMC celebrates holiday with service activities 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
The Office of Civil and Social Engagement (OCSE) is celebrat­ing Christmas this year by bringing together service activi­ties for students and staff to participate. The 12 Days of Christmas will take place from Dec. 1 to 12. 
The project has several goals, according to the project sheet provided by the director of OCSE, Carrie Call. The event draws together several different service opportunities for stu­dents and staff that allow them to adopt families and individuals to buy gifts, collect food and make ornaments for, among other things. 
“[The names of families and individuals] come from our partner Title 1 schools, through the College Academic Tutoring program, REAL Services, Mental Health America and the Salvation Army,” according to the project sheet. 
The funds for the project will be raised through various activi­ties throughout the next 12 days and then purchased by OCSE. 
Students will be given the 

see CHRISTMAS/page 3 



Girls to cut hair in support of charity 

By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
Female Notre Dame students thinking about changing their look might want to think twice about getting a short haircut, according to sophomore Catherine Soler, the president of the sophomore class council. 
Next spring, the sophomore class council will be holding an event around the time of the spring Blue-Gold football game, tentatively named “The Bald and the Beautiful: Notre Dame Fights Cancer,” to benefit the St. Baldrick’s foundation and Pantene Great Lengths, a pro­gram similar to Locks of Love. 
see HAIR/page 3 



INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Irish Insider analysis pullout  Christmas music page 12  Women’s soccer heads to semifinals page 24  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Tuesday, December 1, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Green beans are evil 
I’m writing to bring light to a seri­ous issue — perhaps the most impor­tant of our time. I realize there has been loads of bad news lately, but this one overshadows it all. It’s one that affects at least 
Ryan Raffn 
half of the stu­dents living on 

Scene Writer 
this wonderful campus. For too long, the menace has been ignored. The time has come to out the greatest threat that many of us will ever encounter. I’m speaking, of course, about the green beans at South Dining Hall. 
Their legume-y evil cannot be con­tained. With their rubbery texture, awful flavor and haunting aftertaste, they are beans of pure malice. It is clear upon tasting them that the beans were grown somewhere in the Sixth Circle of Hell, and then boiled using the tears of Army widows (though the salt was removed, lest the beans have some element of appetizing flavor). They are then transferred to a chafing dish, where they are kept at a temper­ature best described as somewhere between “tepid” and “lukewarm.” No less than Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi described them as “the cause of 47 of the last 65 wars [worldwide]” in his recent speech to the United Nations General Assembly. Can we really allow such a threat to exist, nay 
— to flourish, on this campus? 

We need to be proactive — we need to go to the source. The green beans need to be removed completely from this campus, if not the world. And if you still have objections, let me con­front you with some cold hard facts: 
Green beans voted against your can­didate in the 2008 presidential elec­tion. 
Green beans killed Michael Jackson. 
Green beans saw “The Hangover” and didn’t laugh once. 
Green beans think O.J. Simpson has never committed a crime. 
Does this sound like the kind of plant we want in our dining hall? After all, this is a Catholic institution. If those facts aren’t enough for you, this should be the final nail in the cof­fin: In a recent survey, historians nationwide ranked green beans at No. 27 on the list of Worst Things Ever, above Pol Pot (29), but narrowly below the bubonic plague (26) and Josef Stalin (25). I can only speculate as to the long term effects of eating those wretched beans, but I wouldn’t be surprised if they caused lung can­cer. Certainly they won’t stop you from getting cancer. 
Let’s not waste another second, lest another naïve freshman dump a por­tion of that horrid legume on their plate. We cannot stand idly by and allow stomachs to be taken advantage of. The proliferation of those beans across the fruited plain is one of the great tragedies of our era. Students of Notre Dame, I implore you to take a stand against the green beans. Only by uniting can we succeed against the tyranny of their foul taste. We the peo­ple are more powerful than any plant can, or ever will, be. It is time for change to come to this campus. Make yourselves heard. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W O DO YOU T INK IS REPLACING C ARLIE WEIS? 






“Santa Claus.”  “Brady Quinn.”  “Hire back Bob  “Ted Bundy.”  “Keep Charlie, hire  “Jesus.”  
Davie, He had a  Ralph Friedgen  
better record.”  and Mark  
Mangino to  
compile the most  
imposing  
sideline.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 
77-year-old woman feels pressured to buy new car 
DES MOINES, Iowa — A woman filed a lawsuit claiming a Clive auto deal­ership pressured her to buy a new car while she was waiting for an oil change. The Polk County lawsuit said a Holmes Hyundai saleswoman pres­sured 77-year-old Audrey McKnight to buy the car while she waited for the service on her 2006 car. McKnight claims she was adamant she couldn’t afford a new car but finally gave up after being pres­sured for hours. 
Dealership owner Max Holmes disputes those claims and says his lawyers will respond in court. He said his lawyers are trying to resolve the situation. 
McKnight made her claim under a new state consumer fraud law that makes such suits easier to file. 
Deer crashes through patio window, charges at Ohio man 
LIMA, Ohio — A man in Ohio said he had to do some running of his own while watching football on TV when a deer came crashing in through a window. Jeff Berger said he managed to get out of the way when the animal charged at him Sunday evening inside his fiancee’s house in Lima in northwest Ohio. The deer jumped on the living room sofa Berger had been lying on. 
The deer, which author­ities said appeared to be a doe, had smashed through a patio window making a noise that Berger said led him to fear someone was trying to break in to kill him and fiancee Marianne Tate. Neither was injured. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Wednesday Thursday 
IN BRIEF 
There will be a blood drive held in the Student Center Lounge at Saint Mary’s College today. The drive begins at 10:30 a.m. 
The Monthly Luncheon Series “Telling HerStory: Highlighting Women as Role Models in the Life of the Mind, Body and Soul” will be held in the Coleman-Morse Study Lounge today. The series will begin at 12 p.m. 
“Framing Programmatic Competition in Latin America: Neoliberal Reforms and Strategic Party Behavior” will be held at 
12:30 p.m. today. The lecture will be held in C-103 in the Hesburgh Center. 
A seminar titled “Filtered Density Function: Basic Theory and Modern Developments” will be held at 
3:30 p.m. today in 138 DeBartolo Hall. 
“The Great African War” will be held at 4:15 p.m. in C­103 in the Hesburgh Center today. 
Bible study will be offered in the Campus Ministry Resource Room in the Student Center at Saint Mary’s College today. It will begin at 6 p.m. 
“Indigenous Human Rights: The Case for Hawaiian Sovereignty” will be held at 7 
p.m. today. The lecture will be held in the Annenberg Auditorium in the Snite Museum of Art. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Friday Saturday 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Ryan Raffin at rraffin@nd.edu 

HIGH 

CORRECTIONS 
48 HIGH 41 HIGH 44 HIGH 33 HIGH 32 HIGH 36 

The Observer regards itself as a professional 
publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so 
we can correct our error. 
Atlanta 60 / 44 Boston 44 / 32 Chicago 52 / 37 Denver 50 / 26 Houston 54 / 45 Los Angeles 68 / 46 Minneapolis 45 / 29 

New York 49 / 36 Philadelphia 51 / 36 Phoenix 70 / 46 Seattle 49 / 36 St. Louis 59 / 38 Tampa 77 / 65 Washington 56 / 40 

Tuesday, December 1, 2009 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 




Club presents convention overview 
By NIKKI TAYLOR 
News Writer 
The Communicative Disorders Club gave a presen­tation to the Saint Mary’s Student Government Association (SGA) about the National American Speech­Language-Hearing Association Convention they attended in New Orleans with sponsorship money from SGA during the meeting Monday night. 
Communicative Disorders Club president Kendra Fallet and member Christine Dits spoke about what they learned at the national conference. The members who attended had the opportunity to see cut-ting-edge technology in their field, Fallet said. 
For example, they learned about a new technology that tracks how much a child talks 

Christmas 
continued from page 1 
opportunity to decorate cookies and make ornaments for “opportunities for fellowship and holiday-related activities,” according to the project sheet. 
Call said students could also offer to ring bells for the Salvation Army or participate in reflection time for students with vespers services and discussion sessions. 
Students and staff can be as involved as they want. 
“Students, faculty and staff are involved in a wide variety of ways. This is a campus-wide 


Hair 
continued from page 1 
The freshman class council held a similar event last year, but Soler hopes to expand the event to raise more even more money than last year’s event did. 
“Last year the freshman class council put on a two-day event for the St. Baldrick’s founda­tion. We had about 140 people shave their heads,” Soler said. “It was a big success and every­one loved it. This year we’re doing the same thing but expanding the event.” 
Soler said a fundamental part of broadening the event’s scope was to get more women involved, which is why she wants to get out the message that girls should put off cutting 
their hair until the event. 
“If we’re going to do the Pantene Great Lengths pro­gram, you need [to donate] eight inches of hair, so we can’t have peo­ple cutting their hair and not having enough,” Soler said. 
Soler said she hopes if and how much they are prompted by their parent. This new invention will provide effective screening for autism, Fallet said. 
The club members also attended a luncheon for stu­dents where Fallet was ran­domly selected and won a $500 scholarship for graduate school. 
Dits was able to meet up with a group she was interest­ed in at a career fair called Friends, who work with stut­tering, an area that she is par­ticularly interested in, having battled stuttering herself. 
Thanks to her attendance at this and other conferences Dits was offered a position to help man the booth for Friends at next year’s conven­tion. 
“The conference was fabu­lous and we learned a ton,” Fallet said. “One girl met a 

event and people can be involved as little or as much as they would like,” according to the sheet. 
To get involved, Call said stu­dents can volunteer to join committees for the group. 
The idea for the 12 Days of Christmas has grown since Call began at Saint Mary’s. 
“The project kind of grew on its own over the years. I started the family/individual adoptions when I came into this office in 2004 and it has expanded over the years,” Call said. 
There are several events planned for every day through Dec. 12. 
Today, there will be a blood drive, stocking decorating and 
getting girls involved we’ll raise money and it brought a lot of a lot more funds,” Soler said. awareness to service work in Last year, the event raised general,” Robak said. “Also it $25,000 and Soler said this was really good for myself. I 
year’s goal is  realized what  
to double that  c  a  n  c  e  r  
amount.  “I actually thought  patients had to  
Among the other goals for the event are  shaving my head was the best thing I’ve ever  go through when they lose their hair.”  
to  get  more  done. I raised a lot of  To publicize  
campus groups involved. Soler said she  money and it brought a lot of awareness to  the event, Soler hopes to contact local  
already  has  service work in general.”  news outlets to  
organizations  get media cov­ 
such Army  as the ROTC  Tiffany Robak senior  erage, as well as attempt to  

and football team who want to partic­ipate, as well as individual resi­dence halls such as Duncan and Lyons. 
“This year, we want to make it more interactive and get 
“[St. Baldrick’s Day] was a big success and everyone loved it. This year we’re doing the same thing but expanding the event.” 
Catherine Soler president sophomore class council 
more Notre Dame students involved,” Soler said. 
Tiffany Robak, a sen­ior who shaved her head for the event last year and raised almost $4,000, said she thinks students who participate in the hair-dona­tion event will benefit not speech pathologist from Indianapolis who she is going to shadow.” 
The Communicative Disorders Club was grateful for their sponsorship as it helped them attend a confer­ence that will help further them in their career paths. 
In other SGA news, as a board SGA has decorated the six trees outside the Student Center to spread holiday cheer, Jenny Hoffman, student body president, said. 
SGA had a short meeting Monday night but are getting ready to undertake some big­ger goals such as writing new by-laws and creating an SGA handbook which they will begin work on at their meeting next Monday night, Hoffman said. 
Contact Nikki Taylor at ntaylo01@saintmarys.edu 
photos will be taken next to the Christmas tree in Reignbeaux Lounge in Le Mans Hall. 
The rest of the week’s activi­ties will include fudge decorat­ing, card making, a St. Nicholas festival, breakfast with Santa at the homeless center, ginger­bread house making and sever­al more. 
The complete list of activities can be found at the Saint Mary’s Web site. 
Anyone interested in partici­pating can visit the booth set up in the Student Center atrium from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. during the remainder of the week. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
set a Guinness 
World Record 
for most hair donated, if enough students participate. 
Soler’s goal in raising publici­ty is to open the event to mem­bers of the South Bend commu­nity as well, and invite people who live in the city but are not necessarily associated with Notre Dame to shave their heads. 
Soler said she hopes students who see the event in progress will also be inspired to partici­pate, even if they were not orig­inally planning on doing so. 
“I think that one of the big things that made it successful last year was that it’s a really fun event and you feel a lot of camaraderie,” Soler said. “It’s contagious and you want to be a part of it. I think that makes it unique because you see that you’re doing a good thing, you see that you’re helping.” 

Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 



Poorman 
continued from page 1 
Center, health and counseling services and Notre Dame Security Police. 
During his tenure, Poorman worked on ongoing initiatives to maintain a diverse student body and oversaw construction on Duncan and Ryan Halls, the newest campus residence halls. 
“Fr. Poorman has provided outstanding service to the stu­dents, faculty and staff of Notre Dame as our vice presi­dent for Student Affairs,” University President Fr. John Jenkins said in the release. “On behalf of the University community, I thank him for his organizational leadership, his generous contributions as a Holy Cross priest-administra­tor, and, most importantly, his wholehearted dedication to our students.” 
Fr. Doyle graduated from Notre Dame in 1989 and was ordained in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart in 1998. He has served as a rector in Keough Hall and an adjunct professor of business ethics in the Mendoza College of Business. 
“Notre Dame has been a physical and spiritual home to me and returning again is a privilege,” Doyle said in the release. “Fr. Poorman is not only a friend, but he has also been a mentor during my early years as a priest and rector. The Student Affairs Division is the integrating heart of a Holy Cross education that touches the intellectual, emotional and spiritual dimensions of stu­dents, faculty and staff.” 
Poorman graduated from the University of Illinois in 1976, earned a master of divinity degree from Notre Dame in 1980 and received a doctorate in Christian ethics in 1990 from the Graduate Theological Union in Berkeley, Calif. 
“I look forward to continued collaboration with him in our efforts to reach our academic aspirations and to deepen Notre Dame’s Catholic identi­ty,” Jenkins said of Poorman. “I am grateful that Fr. Doyle has accepted the challenge of following in some big foot­steps. I know he will be up to it, and I enthusiastically wel­come him back to his alma mater.” 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
to express 
opinions 
regardi ng “This is definitely a abstinence, 
global issue on a
contraception 
massive scale, a
and factors in the spread national issue and a and preven­
local issue, both in St. 
tion of AIDS. 
Joseph County and on 
While some students campus.” shared their personal sto-
Michael Hebbeler 
ries and expe­
director 
riences with 
the issue, oth-student leadership and ers expressed senior transitions a lack of knowledge community ­based learning coordinator who focuses on AIDS, will show a 25­minute film on people affected by the issue in St. Joseph County at the CSC coffee­house in Geddes Hall at 
6:30 p.m. 
Stanley will be accompa­nied by some of the people 
about the effects of AIDS on campus. 
“The main purpose of the sur­vey was to elicit student responses to see where they stand in terms of awareness and education,” Hebbeler said. “We also want to put a face on the global issue, discuss its social and medical effects and find methods of intervention and prevention.” 
Hebbeler said making the issue real for students is anoth­er function of the survey because the 15-24 year old age group has one of the fastest growing rates of contraction of the HIV virus. 
The CSC is overseeing the day’s events, but the ND-8 club and a student task force are the primary student groups getting the word out on the issue. The task force, which includes stu­dents who participated in sum­mer service learning programs in AIDS clinics, created the sur­vey and came up with on-cam­pus events. 
featured in the film, and they will speak about the experi­ences and challenges of living with AIDS. 
“Real learning comes with personal encounters, and this presentation will show that AIDS is not just an issue in sub-Saharan Africa,” Hebbeler said. 
In addition to posting the sur­vey results and some student responses, a piece of the National AIDS Quilt will be dis­played in the lounge area of LaFortune. 
Students are encouraged to wear red on Tuesday and to stop by the information table in LaFortune, run by ND-8 and Student Government, which will provide information on the effects of AIDS on the communi­ty and on college-age people. 
Free, anonymous testing will also be available in the University Health Center from 6-8 p.m. Wednesday. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
enough women listen to this advice, the event will be able to pull in substantially more money than last year. 
“We’re really hoping that by only cancer patients but also themselves. 

“I actually thought shaving my head was the best thing I’ve ever done. I raised a lot of 

AIDS 
continued from page 1 
national issue and a local issue, both in St. Joseph County and on campus,” Hebbeler said. “We want to juxtapose divergent voices on matters of sexual ethics, church teaching and the stigma endured by AIDS patients and their friends and family.” 
Although the survey results have not been released, the sur­vey clearly elicited a wide vari­ety of student responses. The last survey question was open ended, which allowed students 
“The main goal for the project is to get students engaged on an intellectual level about this seri­ous issue that is clearly affect­ing the Notre Dame communi­ty,” Hebbeler said. “We want to get the word out, prompt stu­dents to think about the issue critically and gather and discuss the varying viewpoints and pos­sible preventive measures.” 
According to Hebbeler, World AIDS Day is just one day to spread the word about the issues surrounding AIDS, and he hopes the conversation will continue. 
In order to facilitate this con­tinued conversation and put a face on the issue, Deb Stanley, a 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, December 1, 2009 

Game 
continued from page 1 
appropriate, given the sea­son. 
“The Stanford game seemed to sum up the season — start strong and then lose it at the end,” he said. 
Students speculated widely about the futures of quarter­back Jimmy Clausen and receiver Golden Tate after the loss. Clausen told reporters after Saturday’s game that Weis was “the reason [he] came to Notre Dame.” That statement and other rumors led some to believe Clausen would leave Notre Dame for the NFL next year. 
Senior Tracey Chuckas said she wouldn’t blame Clausen or Tate for leaving the team. 
“They’d be smart to move on next year. They have a world of possibilities,” she said. 
Czech disagreed, saying both would have better chances of winning the Heisman if they stay, and Clausen could have a stronger position in the NFL draft were he to stick it out another year. 
At the conclusion of Charlie Weis’ fifth and final season at Notre Dame, students and Irish fans were left disap­pointed with a program that failed to meet expectations. 

But Czech pointed out the team’s record could have eas­ily turned out much better — or much worse. 
“This season could have been very extreme, one way or the other. We could have very easily ended up 2-10 or 12-0,” he said, seeing as Notre Dame’s losses came in games with a less than seven point spread, and the victo­ries — Nevada and Washington State excluded — came with only seven point margins or less. 
Senior Tracey Chuckas — among plenty of other ana­lysts — pointed to the Irish defense as the cause of most of the season’s woes. 
“Football is all about the defense. Notre Dame lacked it, and therefore we aren’t going to a good bowl game, again,” she said. 
Chuckas said Notre Dame needs a new start after the Weis era. 
“A synonym for Notre Dame is champions and we have not had a championship in a long time,” she said. 
She said the program needs a new coach and new start to “turn this team around and bring back the champi­onships.” 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 



New book gives advice to students 
Special to The Observer 
College-bound students know they have to be book-smart in order to get in to a top school. But when it comes to impressing professors and standing out in the crowd, good grades are only one part of the equation. 
A new book by a University of Notre Dame psychologist emphasizes the importance of “practical intelligence” and offers advice to new college stu­

dents on how to give their teachers what they really want and get the most out of their hard-earned — and often expen­sive — college education. 
“The Clever 
Student:  A  
Guide  to  
Getting  the  

Most from your Professors” by Anita E. Kelly, professor of psychology at their peers. 

In conjunction with the book’s release, Kelly also has launched a new Clever Student blog, which can be found on the Web at http://thecleverstudent.com. 
“It is my hope that through the book and the blog, I can help students use their social intelli­gence to get the most out of their professors, including get­ting very good grades and amaz­ing letters of recommendation,” Kelly said. “At the very least, I 
“It is my hope that through the book and the blog, I can help students use their social intelligence to get the most out of their professors, including getting very good grades and amazing letters of recommendation” 
Anita E. Kelly professor of psychology 
Notre Dame, aims to give stu­dents a leg up by offering strate­gies for top performance in the college classroom. 
In the book, newly released by Corby Books, Kelly offers strate­gies to college students on such topics as social intelligence and classroom participation, as well as an insider’s perspective on how professors think. The book also provides practical tips for how to handle missed classes or exams, write a great paper for a demanding professor, and get top-notch faculty letters of rec­ommendation. It also contains a test of social intelligence in the classroom so students can see how savvy they are compared to hope these tools will help students feel better about confusing or upsetti ng interactions with their pro­fessors.” 
Kelly also is the author of “The Psychology of Secrets” and numerous sci­entific articles on secrecy, self-presenta­tion and self-concept change. Her 

work on secrecy has been fund­ed by the National Institutes of Health and has been featured in the Chicago Tribune, New York Times, Los Angeles Times, Newsday, Glamour and Health. 
A 1986 graduate of Northwestern University, Kelly earned her doctoral degree in psychology from the University of Florida in 1991. She became a licensed psychotherapist in 1993 while serving as an assis­tant professor at Iowa State University, where she was awarded Outstanding Faculty Member for teaching. She has been at Notre Dame since 1994 and became a Kaneb Teaching Fellow in 2008. 

Labopportunitiesopenforundergrads 
Special to The Observer 
Undergraduate research, a longstanding natural element of a College of Science educa­tion at the University of Notre Dame, has accelerated in recent years with an increased commitment to make such opportunities available in a systematic way. 
New and expanded pro­grams, both during the aca­demic year and during the summer, are bringing more students into research, with the goal that any science stu­dent who wants them can have access to research opportuni­ties. 
The University of Notre Dame Environmental Research Center (UNDERC), which straddles the state line between Wisconsin and Michigan’s Upper Peninsula in Vilas County, Wis., and Gogebic County, Mich., has long offered research opportu­nities for undergraduates, says Dominic Chaloner, who came to Notre Dame in 2000 and was appointed coordinator of undergraduate research in the College of Science in 2007. 
Students have always been able to do research for aca­demic credit, he says. 
“The question was providing opportunities over and above that.” 
In his 2005 inaugural address, Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., Notre Dame’s president, signaled a strong University commitment to undergraduate research. 
“(Fr. Jenkins) wanted the institution as a whole to be encouraging students to be doing scholarly engagement beyond just going to lectures,” Chaloner said. “At that point, I think it became more widely accepted that we had to do more than we were already doing.” 
Chaloner’s strategy involves three components: providing information about opportuni­ties; engaging students in opportunities, such as courses in which research is a central component; and supporting research with, for example, travel grants and fellowships. 
Specific programs that pro­vide summer opportunities include: 
• 
Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships that started with a handful of stu­dents a few years ago and sup­ported some 45 this year. “This summer, the program blossomed,” said Marissa Runkle, marketing communi­cations specialist for the College of Science. “They were funded by a number of sources,” including Clare Boothe Luce and Balfour pro­grams and the Indiana University School of Medicine. 

• 
The Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU), a longstanding program sup­ported by the National Science Foundation. The summer pro­gram brings students from other schools to campus, but some Notre Dame undergradu­ates can participate here as well as going to other labora­tories. 


REU in biological sciences is the successor to a program started in 1993 with support from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute and organ­ized by Michelle Whaley of bio­logical sciences, who teaches research-based genetics and cell biology courses. 
The departments of chem­istry and biochemistry, physics and mathematics also offer REU programs: 
• 
An alumni mentoring pro­gram organized by Whaley that connects undergraduates with alumni for research. Four students participated in the first such this year. 

• 
Other research opportuni­ties that Chaloner, Whaley and Laura Flynn of the Career Center help students identify. Four of Whaley’s cell biology students this year continued their spring semester research during the summer. 


“It’s a challenge to find opportunities, but we have a lot of ways we can work with students,” says Flynn, who networks with university med­ical centers, pharmaceutical and medical device companies, among others, and shows stu­dents how to look for research opportunities. 
Chaloner says the variety of 
options  is  important  for  
increasing  undergraduate  
research.  

“I think what we’re going to get to is a multitude of differ­ent ways of providing opportu­nities,” he says. “The research is appropriate to the student’s career aspirations. A medical school isn’t going to look for the same level of depth of undergraduate research,” as, say, a doctoral program. “Undergraduate research can­not be a monolithic thing— research is not one thing,” he says. 
“A Notre Dame student has a diverse experience. We want research to be a common part of that experience.” 



World & Nation 
Tuesday, December 1, 2009 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 


Guantanamo detainees reach Italy 
ROME — Two Tunisians who had been detained at Guantanamo arrived in Italy late Monday and will be tried on international ter­rorism charges for having allegedly recruited fighters for Afghanistan, officials said. 
Adel Ben Mabrouk, 39, and Mohamed Ben Riadh Nasri, 43, are suspected of being mem­bers of a terror group with ties to al-Qaida. They were immediately taken into custody upon arrival in Milan and were being interro­gated, a prosecutor told The Associated Press. 
In addition to the Tunisians, an Algerian detainee, Saber Lahmar, was heading to “rebuild his life in France,” his lawyer Robert Kirsch said in a statement Monday. Lahmar was arrested along with five other Algerians in Bosnia in 2001 on suspicion of plotting to bomb the U.S. Embassy in Sarajevo. A judge ordered him and four others released for lack of evidence. 

First gay marriage in region blocked 
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina — An Argentine judge put a hold Monday on another court’s decision to permit the first gay marriage in Latin America, but supporters of the couple said they would try to go ahead with the cere­mony anyway. 
The official court Web site said national judge Marta Gomez Alsina ordered the wed­ding blocked until the issue can be considered by the Supreme Court. 
Jose Maria Di Bello and his partner, Alex Freyre, set plans to wed Tuesday based on an earlier ruling by a city judge in Buenos Aires. 
NATIONAL NEWS 


Ex-soldier challenges ruling 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. — A former U.S. Army soldier who raped a girl and killed her and three family members in Iraq challenged his convictions Monday, saying he was wrongly tried in a civilian court and should have faced a military trial. 
In a 71-page appeal filed with the U.S. 6th Circuit Court of Appeals, attorneys for Steven Dale Green are seeking to have the law used to prosecute him — the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act — over­turned. 
The law, passed in 2000, allows the federal government to try former soldiers, their spouses and contractors in civilian courts for crimes that happened overseas. 
“That’s the overarching issue,” said Green’s defense attorney, Darren Wolff of Louisville. 
Green is also contesting whether the mili­tary validly discharged him before he was charged in civilian court. 

Doc. sentenced for groping patients 
SACRAMENTO — A former California plas­tic surgeon was sentenced Monday to three years and eight months in state prison for groping female patients. 
Dr. Scott Takasugi was convicted of sexual­ly exploiting two of his patients by touching their genitals before he operated on them. 
His sentencing had been delayed twice, the first time because of the Nov. 19 death of his father, former state Assemblyman Nao Takasugi. Sentencing was delayed again while the 56-year-old former Kaiser surgeon underwent a 72-hour psychiatric evaluation in Ventura. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Couple wins lottery jackpot 
INDIANAPOLIS — A Daleville woman who discovered she had won a $14 million Hoosier Lotto jackpot while preparing her Thanksgiving dinner has collected the prize with her husband. 
The Hoosier Lottery says Drena and Albert George chose the jackpot’s cash option and received $6.1 million before taxes Monday. 
Drena George discovered they had hit the jackpot when she awoke at 3 a.m. on Thanksgiving to start cooking and checked their numbers against those that had been drawn the night before. 


Measure proposed to ban divorce 
California Web designer pushes satirical law to ‘protect sanctity of marriage’ 
Associated Press  
SACRAMENTO — Til death  
do us part? The vow would  
really hold true in California  
if a Sacramento Web design­ 
er gets his way.  
In a movement that seems  
ripped from the pages of  
Comedy Channel writers,  
John Marcotte wants to put a  
measure on the ballot next  
year to ban divorce in  
California.  
The effort is meant to be a  
satirical statement after  
California voters outlawed  
gay marriage in 2008, largely  
on the argument that a ban is  
needed to protect the sanctity  
of traditional marriage. If  
that’s the case, then Marcotte  
reasons voters should have  
no problem banning divorce.  
“Since California has decid­ 
ed to protect traditional mar­ 
riage, I think it would be hyp­ 
ocritical of us not to sacrifice  
some of our own rights to  
protect traditional marriage  
even more,” the 38-year-old  
married father of two said.  
Marcotte said he has col­ 
lected dozens of signatures,  
including one from his wife of  
seven years. The initiative’s  
Facebook fans have swelled  
to more than 11,000.  
Volunteers that include gay AP  
activists and members of a John Marcotte looks on as Ryan Platt, left, signs the petition to put the divorce ban on  
local comedy troupe have the ballot, in Sacramento Nov. 21. Platt said he signed in support of his lesbian sister.  
signed on to help.  
Marcotte is looking into  those involved in last year’s  annulment.  viewed by American Family  
whether he can gather signa­ campaign for and against  Prentice said proponents of  Association, a Mississippi­ 
tures online, as proponents  Proposition 8.  traditional marriage only  based organization that con- 
are doing for another pro- As much as everyone  seek to strengthen the one  tributed to last year’s Yes on  
posed 2010 initiative to  would like to see fewer  man-one woman union.  8 campaign.  
repeal the gay marriage ban.  divorces, making it illegal  “That’s where our intention  He was mentioned by Keith  
But the odds are stacked  would be “impractical,” said  begins and ends,” he said.  Olbermann on MSNBC’s  
against a campaign funded  Ron Prentice, the executive  Jeffrey Taylor, a  “Countdown” during his  
primarily by the sale of $12  director of the California  spokesman for Restore  “World’s Best Persons” seg­ 
T-shirts featuring bride and  Family Council who led a  Equality 2010, a coalition of  ment for giving supporters of  
groom stick figures chained  coalition of religious and con­ same-sex marriage activists  Proposition 8 their “comeup­ 
at the wrists.  servative groups to qualify  seeking to repeal Proposition  pance in California.”  
Marcotte needs 694,354  Proposition 8.  8, said the coalition supports  Marcotte, who is Catholic  
valid signatures by March 22,  No other state bans  Marcotte’s message but has  and voted against Proposition  
a high hurdle in a state  divorce, and only a few coun­ no plans to join forces with  8, views himself as an acci­ 
where the typical petition  tries, including the  him.  dental activist. A registered  
drive costs millions of dollars.  Philippines and Malta, do.  “We find it quite hilarious,”  Democrat, he led a “ban  
Even if his proposed constitu- The Roman Catholic Church  Taylor said of the initiative.  divorce” rally recently at the  
tional amendment made next  also prohibits divorce but  Marcotte, who runs the  state Capitol in Sacramento  
year’s ballot, it’s not clear  allows annulments. The  comedy site BadMouth.net in  to launch his effort and was  
how voters would react.  California proposal would  his spare time, said he has  pleasantly surprised at the  
Nationwide, about half of  amend the state constitution  received support from across  turnout. About 50 people  
all marriages end in divorce.  to eliminate the ability of  the political spectrum. In  showed up, some holding  
Not surprisingly, Marcotte’s  married couples to get  addition to encouragement  signs that read, “You too can  
campaign to make divorce in  divorced while allowing mar- from gay marriage advo­ vote to take away civil rights  
California illegal has divided  ried couples to seek an  cates, he has been inter- from someone.”  

SWITZERLAND 


Unpopular ban on minarets may not last 
Court of Human Rights condemning in Strasbourg, France, was created to 
Associated Press 
Switzerland for violating freedom of ensure member states abide by. 
GENEVA — A Swiss ban on expression, freedom of religion and The referendum backed by nation-minarets could violate fundamental prohibition of discrimination. alist parties was approved by 57.5 liberties, Europe’s top human-rights Swiss Justice Minister Eveline percent of the population Sunday, watchdog said Monday in an indica-Widmer-Schlumpf said the ban would forcing the government to declare ille­tion that the heavily criticized vote come into force immediately, but also gal the building of any new minarets could be overturned. indicated that the court could strike in Switzerland. It doesn’t affect the 
The Council of Europe said banning down the Sunday vote, which country’s four existing minarets. “new minarets in Switzerland raises incurred swift condemnation at home France’s Foreign Minister Bernard concerns as to whether fundamental and abroad for banning the towers Kouchner said he was “a bit scandal-rights of individuals, protected by used to put out the Islamic call to ized” by the vote, which amounts to international treaties, should be sub-prayer. “oppressing a religion.” ject to popular votes.” “The ban contradicts the European “I hope that the Swiss will go back 
The statement by the 47-nation Convention on Human Rights,” Zurich on this decision rather quickly,” council’s secretary-general, Thorbjorn daily Blick cited Widmer-Schlumpf as Kouchner said on France’s RTL radio. Jagland, suggests a case may be made saying, referring to the 1950 treaty “It is an expression of intolerance, to seek a ruling by the European laying out basic rights that the court and I detest intolerance.” 

page 6 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, December 1, 2009 

City official charged with murder 


Longtimeboyfriend 

Man on trial for shooting of wife, two daughters, aggravated burglary 


proposes to Clinton 

Associated Press 
LYNDON, Kan. — A former Missouri city official previously accused of assaulting his wife was charged Monday with capi­tal murder in the shootings of her and their two teenage daughters in eastern Kansas. 
James Kraig Kahler, 46, also was charged with one count of attempted first-degree murder in the shooting of his estranged wife’s 89-year-old grandmother and one count of aggravated burglary. Authorities suspect he broke into the grandmother’s home near Topeka, where the shootings occurred. 
During Kahler’s first appear­ance in Osage County District Court, Judge Phillip Fromme set bail at $10 million and scheduled another hearing for Dec. 10. 
Kahler, who often went by his middle name Kraig, declined to comment as sheriff’s deputies escorted him in handcuffs from jail to the courthouse. He had been scheduled to appear in court in Columbia, Mo., on Wednesday on a domestic assault charge stemming from an altercation with his wife in March that led to the loss of his job as director of Columbia’s Water & Light Department. 
A divorce trial for Kahler and his 44-year-old wife, Karen, was scheduled to start Dec. 21, but a settlement hearing was planned for Friday. Court records showed that he complained of financial pressures and the couple had been sparring over their chil­dren. 
The Kahlers’ daughters, Emily, 18, and Lauren, 16, were killed Saturday, along with their moth­er. His wife’s grandmother, Dorothy Wight, 89, was wound­ed. The couple’s 10-year-old son, Sean, was at Wight’s house south of Burlingame on Saturday but was uninjured. 
Wight remained in critical con­dition at a Topeka hospital, said Ashley Anstaett, spokeswoman for the attorney general’s office. She declined to say where the boy was staying. 
Dan Pingelton, a Columbia attorney representing Karen Kahler in the divorce, described her husband as “controlling.” 
“From the facts I heard, I think he was a misogynist,” Pingelton said. 
He said Kahler refused to see his daughters. Emily attended the St. Louis College of Pharmacy and Lauren was an honors student at a Columbia high school. 


Pingelton said Kahler set up a visit with his son over the Thanksgiving holiday. 
“He never was interested in his daughters — only his son,” Pingelton said. “And I think that is the reason that little boy is alive today.” 
A single capital murder count covers the three killings; Kansas law allows the death penalty for multiple murders arising from a single “scheme or course of con­duct.” 
But the Kansas attorney gen­eral’s office also filed three alter­native charges of premeditated first-degree murder in what Deputy Attorney General Barry Disney called a “fallback posi­tion” should jurors fail to convict Kahler of the capital charge. 
Kahler and his family had moved to Missouri from Parker County, Texas, in July 2008, after he’d been utilities director for the city of Weatherford for nine years. In Columbia, Mo., his $150,000 annual salary made him the city’s highest paid employee. 
But he was asked to resign in September and was paid two months’ salary and one month of severance. In an Oct. 9 court fil­ing, he asked for relief from the temporary monthly payments of $2,030 in child support and $1,500 in maintenance he was required to provide his family. 
Kahler said he expected to 


Chelsea Clinton announces the celebration of her engagement to Marc Mezvinsky Fri. 
remain unemployed “for a sub­stantial period of time,” adding that he was prevented by court order from withdrawing money from his retirement account pending the divorce. 
In court on Monday, Fromme asked Kahler whether he could afford an attorney and Kahler responded that he had “some funds.” Nevertheless, the judge appointed the state’s death penalty defense unit in Topeka to represent him. 
Kahler lived in Columbia until several weeks ago, according to neighbors. On Nov. 25, he noti­fied the Missouri court of his new address in Meriden, Kan., northeast of Topeka. 
NEW YORK — Turns out those discredited rumors of a possible Chelsea Clinton wed­ding last summer were mostly just premature: The 29-year 
old daughter of former President Bill Clinton and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton has become engaged to her longtime boyfriend, 31-year old invest­ment banker Marc Mezvinsky. 
The couple sent an e-mail to friends Friday announcing the news, saying they were looking at a possible wedding next summer. Matt McKenna, a spokesman for the former president, confirmed the engagement Monday. 
Mezvinsky is a son of for­mer Pennsylvania Rep. Marjorie Margolies -Mezvinsky and former Iowa Rep. Ed Mezvinsky, longtime friends of the Clintons. Ed Mezvinsky was released from federal prison last year after serving a nearly five-year sentence for wire and bank fraud. 
Margolies-Mezvinsky served just one term in Congress before losing her seat in 1994 after voting in favor of President Clinton’s 1993 budget, which was controver­sial at the time. 
The former first daughter and her fiance became friends as teenagers in Washington and both attend­ed Stanford University. They now live in New York, where Mezvinsky works at G3 Capital, a Manhattan hedge fund, and Clinton is pursuing a graduate degree at Columbia University’s School of Public Health. 
Before returning to gradu­ate school, Clinton worked at Avenue Capital, a hedge fund run by prominent Democratic donor Marc Lasry. She also worked at McKinsey and Company, a management con­sulting firm. 
Since her debut on the pub­lic stage as a curly haired 12­year old during her father’s 1992 presidential campaign, Clinton has maintained a fair­ly low public profile. That changed in 2008, when the press-shy Clinton stepped out on the campaign trail to help her mother’s bid for the Democratic presidential nom­ination. 
Before beginning a relation­ship with Mezvinsky, Clinton dated Ian Klaus, a Rhodes Scholar she met while study­ing international relations at Oxford in 2002. Klaus dedi­cated his first book, “Elvis is Titanic,” about his experience teaching in the Kurdistan province of Iraq, to Clinton. 
In her court petition, Kahler’s wife described a “history of con­trolling force” throughout the couple’s 23-year marriage. She 

Infant found inside car 
recounted a New Year’s Eve 2008 fight in Weatherford, Texas, during which Kahler pushed her hard enough that 

along with stolen items 
she banged her head on the 
street. 
“I’m afraid it will escalate so far that someone is going to be seriously hurt,” she wrote. 
Pingelton said Karen Kahler believed her husband was hack­ing into her e-mail and commit­ting minor acts of vandalism around her home. 
“Karen was fearful of him, but really she was honestly more afraid he was going to kill him­self,” he said. “Nobody had any idea he would consider doing this.” 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY — Oklahoma City police have dis­covered an infant in the back seat of a car buried beneath items they believe were stolen in home burglaries. 
Police arrested the baby girl’s mother and another man early Monday after finding the infant. 
Police Sgt. Jennifer Wardlow says an officer first spotted the car parked illegally. Two people were inside the vehicle, but the officer saw the woman walk away from the car toward a house. 
Wardlow says a 7-month-old girl was later discovered in the back seat of the car, covered by two strollers and a large toy. 
Police say the pair was arrested on complaints of receiving and concealing stolen property. The mother also faces an additional complaint of child abandonment. 



Smartabductorportrayedascontrollingintestimony 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY — Witness testimony during a federal court hearing for the man charged in the 2002 abduction of Elizabeth Smart on Monday began to paint a picture of a self-absorbed, intel­ligent and controlling person. 
Brian David Mitchell was also concerned about his public image, wanted to be recognized as a Mormon prophet and was obsessive about his personal habits — eating on a rigid sched­ule and exercising for hours at a time — and his religion, said stepdaughter LouRee Gaylor. 
“Religion was everything,” said Gaylor, whose mother, Wanda Eileen Barzee, has already plead­ed guilty to kidnapping and other charges in the case. 
Gaylor, 34, was the last of four prosecution witnesses who testi­fied. 
Mitchell, 56, was indicted on charges of kidnapping and unlawful transportation of a minor across state lines in 2008 
— five years after he was arrest­ed. He faces a lifetime prison sen­tence if convicted. 
Religion was at the center of daily life, said Gaylor, who lived with the couple for two years beginning in 1988. But the kind image Mitchell projected to out­siders was a ruse, she said. 
“It was a cover-up,” said Gaylor, who moved out after learning the couple had cooked and served her a pet rabbit for dinner one night. “It was so they could get people to do things for them.” 
At home, Mitchell was dominat­ing, used abusive language and displayed inappropriate sexual behavior, including showing her pornographic pictures during a family prayer session, Gaylor said. 
Mitchell’s federal public defenders did not challenge Gaylor’s statements on Monday. 
Federal prosecutors contend Mitchell is competent and faking or exaggerating psychiatric symptoms to avoid prosecution. 
But defense attorneys dispute that conclusion and say the for­mer street preacher is unable to participate in his defense. In state court, Mitchell was diagnosed with a rare delusional disorder and twice deemed incompetent for trial, stalling a criminal case there. 
On Monday, Mitchell repeated a pattern of disruptive court appearances, singing Christmas carols — including “Silent Night” and “Joy to the World” — for 12 minutes before being removed to a holding cell where he could hear and watch the hearing. 
After the hearing, U.S. District Judge Dale Kimball’s will deter­mine how the case proceeds — either to a trial or toward treat­ment that could restore Mitchell’s competency. 
Also Monday, two psychiatric technicians who worked at the Utah State Hospital when Mitchell was held there testified. Tye Jensen and David Talley both said Mitchell was smart and formed relationships with other patients. 
He often walked the hospital halls for hours and prayed while standing at a window with a towel over his head, sometimes bouncing up and down on his feet, Jensen said. 
Daniel Peterson, a Brigham Young University professor of Islamic studies and Arabic, gave the court an analysis of Mitchell’s religious writings, including the 27-page manifesto known as the “The Book of Emmanuel David Isaiah.” 
The Observer 


Business 

Tuesday, December 1, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Neb. meat business settles lawsuit 
LINCOLN — A western Nebraska meat busi­ness has settled a 2-month-old lawsuit after agreeing to following federal inspection laws governing businesses that sell to commercial customers. 
Federal prosecutors had said Marky’s Meat Market in Gering violated meat inspection rules since 2006 because the business sold meat to commercial customers without having USDA inspectors present during preparation. 
Owner Mark Gies said in September that he’d been working with the U.S. Department of Agriculture since he became aware of the issue in 2007. The lawsuit helped resolve the issue and publicity about the case even helped attract some new customers, Gies said Monday. 
“Everything worked out good,” he said. 
USDA officials did not immediately respond to a message left Monday. 
The settlement agreement was filed in court Nov. 10. U.S. Attorney Deborah Gilg said Gies promised to comply with the federal meat inspection act — either by making sure his business is inspected or by reducing his com­mercial sales. 
“It has been resolved because he is agreeing to comply with those requirements,” Gilg said. 

Inphisues Netlist for patent infringement 
NEW YORK — High-speed analog chipmaker Inphi Corp. said Monday it is suing server and storage systems maker Netlist Inc. for patent infringement. 
The news sent Netlist shares tumbling in aftermarket trading. 
Inphi, of Westlake Village, Calif., said Netlist’s DDR3 memory modules infringe on two Inphi patents. It said the U.S. patents relate to memo­ry interface technologies used in business serv­er and storage applications. The suit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. 
Irvine, Calif.-based Netlist said it had not yet reviewed the lawsuit. The company filed a patent lawsuit against Inphi in September, say­ing Inphi’s iMB isolation memory buffer inte­grated circuits infringed on a patent held by Netlist. 
Netlist stock dropped $1.54, or 26.7 percent, to $4.22 in aftermarket trading. During the day, shares fell 8 percent to close at $5.76. 


Pilots unions clash over deal 
U.S. Airways’ pilots decry proposed transaction; Delta’s support it 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA — US Airways’ pilots union said Monday it is concerned a deal with Delta Air Lines to swap takeoff and landing slots could lead to higher fares and a reduction in service to smaller communities. 
The US Airline Pilots Association said it sent a let­ter to the Justice Department seeking a full investigation on the impact of the proposed transaction between US Airways and Delta at New York’s LaGuardia and Washington’s Reagan National airports. 
The dispute pits the US Airways pilots union against its counterpart at Delta, which supports the slot swap deal. The Delta pilots union encouraged members in a memo Nov. 6 to help in the effort to get government approval. 
In August, US Airways said it had agreed to trans­fer 125 operating slot pairs to Delta at LaGuardia. In exchange, Delta agreed to transfer 42 operating slot pairs to US Airways at Reagan National. 
Slots, especially at peak times of day and in busy corridors like the Northeast, are valuable to airlines. 
A slot is an interval of time deal may raise antitrust believes the transaction will ure an airline’s capacity for during which an airline can 
implications. pass government review. carrying passengers. It take off or land its aircraft “We are extremely con-It’s not clear when govern-equals the number of seats at an airport. A pair refers cerned about the market ment regulators will reach a available multiplied by miles to cities airlines fly between. 
concentration that this decision. flown. 
The same week as the transaction would create if it The transaction would US Airways, meanwhile, Delta-US Airways deal was 
is allowed to be consummat-add 11 gates to Delta’s has said it would expand its announced, it was disclosed ed,” union President Mike LaGuardia operations. The service at the Washington that AirTran Airways Cleary said in a statement. world’s biggest airline oper-airport and reduce its planned to stop flying to and “Those conditions raise the ator has said the deal would Express flights at from Newark, N.J., effective prospect of much higher allow it to create a domestic LaGuardia, while mainline Oct. 25 and would give its fares and, if history repeats hub at LaGuardia, even as and Shuttle flight levels takeoff and landing slots itself, a reduction in service Delta maintains a strong would not be affected. 
there to Continental Airlines to smaller communities.” presence at New York’s John The airline’s regional car-Inc. in exchange for A spokesman for Delta Air F. Kennedy International rier Piedmont has been Continental slots at Lines Inc., based in Atlanta, Airport. At the Washington expected to be hit hard by LaGuardia and National air-said nearly 10,000 of Delta’s airport, Delta said previous-US Airways’ plans to discon­ports. 
customers and employees ly it expected to cut its daily tinue service to 26 destina-Continental has a hub at have voiced their support departures from 89 to 55. tions served by US Airways Newark Liberty for the proposed transaction If its deal is approved, Express. The airline has International Airport, which directly to the Delta has projected it would said that would result in the is used by many travelers Transportation and Justice operate nearly 30 percent of elimination of roughly 300 heading to or from New departments. US Airways the total available seat miles Piedmont positions at York City. 
Group Inc. spokeswoman from the three main airports LaGuardia when the US Airways’ pilots union 
Michelle Mohr said her air-serving New York City. reduced flight schedule is said it believes the Delta line, based in Tempe, Ariz., Available seat miles meas-implemented in early 2010. 



Iconic Las Vegas hotel to close; casino stays 
Associated Press rooms in Binion’s hotel and 266 Jack Binion, began hosting the tour-rooms in the property’s former Mint nament in 1970 with 38 invited play-
LAS VEGAS — The owner of an tower will close Dec. 14, Robinson ers. iconic downtown Las Vegas hotel that said. The champion, Johnny Moss, was hosted the World Series of Poker for About 100 of Binion’s 800 workers elected by his competitors. He was 34 years will close the property’s will be laid off. awarded a silver cup. hotel rooms, coffee shop and keno “This economy has severely affect-The aging hotel-casino ran into operations as a cost-cutting move, a ed our operations,” Robinson said, financial trouble after Benny Binion’s spokeswoman said Monday. citing decreasing occupancy and daughter, Becky Behnen, acquired it 
“It’s the downturn,” said Lisa hotel room rates. “The hotel rooms in 1998. It closed in January 2004 Robinson, spokeswoman for TLC were just not competitive.” after U.S. marshals seized cash from Casino Enterprises Inc., owner of the Binion’s, also known as Binion’s the casino to pay outstanding 58-year-old Binion’s Gambling Hall & Horseshoe, opened in 1951 after col-employee benefits. Hotel. “We had to make some diffi-orful owner Benny Binion moved to Casino giant Harrah’s cult decisions in order to keep the Las Vegas from Texas and bought the Entertainment Inc. bought the prop-rest of the property operational.” Apache Hotel and Eldorado Club. erty, kept the Horseshoe and World 
The casino facing downtown’s Over the years, the casino became Series of Poker brands, and sold the Fremont Street Experience pedestri-famous for its carpeting and velvet casino-hotel to MTR Gaming Group an mall will remain open, along with walls, no-limit wagering, a glass dis-Inc. of Chester, W.Va. the poker room, sports book and the play of $1 million in cash, and for the MTR reopened it in April 2004 as Binion’s Ranch Steakhouse. All 99 World Series of Poker. Binion’s son, Binion’s Gambling Hall and Hotel. 

page 8 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, December 1, 2009 


Huckabee helps to pardon prisoners 
Associated Press 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. — As gov­ernor of Arkansas, Mike Huckabee had a hand pardon­ing or commuting many more prisoners than his three imme­diate predecessors combined. Maurice Clemmons, the suspect in Sunday’s slaying of four Seattle-area police officers, was among them. 
For a politician considering another run for the White House, Clemmons could become Huckabee’s Willie Horton. 
“In a primary between a law­and-order Republican and him, I think it could definitely be a vulnerability,” said Art English, a political scientist at the University of Arkansas at Little Rock. “It is very damaging when you have someone like that whose sentence was commuted. That’s pretty high profile and very devastating and very trag­ic.” 
English said it’s hard to avoid comparing the case to Horton, a convicted killer who raped a woman and assaulted her fiance while on release as part of a prison furlough program sup­ported by Michael Dukakis when he was governor of Massachusetts. 
Allies of former President George H.W. Bush ran ads criti­cizing Dukakis for his support of the program, undermining the Democrat’s presidential cam­paign. 
As recently as Sunday, hours before the shooting suspect was linked to him, Huckabee said he was leaning against running again for president, telling “Fox News Sunday” he was “less like­ly rather than more likely” to run. 
On Monday, Huckabee offered little explanation for why he made Clemmons eligible for parole in 2000, and called the case a failure of the justice sys­tems in Arkansas and Washington. 
“If I could have known nine years ago and could have looked into the future, would I have acted favorably upon the Parole Board’s recommenda­tion? Of course not,” Huckabee told Fox News Radio on Monday. 
Huckabee was expected to discuss the Clemmons case Monday night during an inter­view with Fox News Channel’s Bill O’Reilly. 
Clemmons was among 1,033 people who were pardoned or had their sentences reduced during Huckabee’s 10½ years as governor, a number that far surpasses that of his three pred­ecessors combined. Bill Clinton, Frank White and Jim Guy Tucker granted 507 clemencies in the 17½ years they served. Beebe, Huckabee’s Democratic successor, has issued 273 com­mutations and pardons since taking office in January 2007 — all but one of them were par­dons after the completion of the inmates’ prison terms. 



Sharpton’s daughter arrested, faces charges 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — The Rev. Al Sharpton’s daughter told a police officer in a profanity-laden rant that she cut him off in traffic because she was in a rush to get to a theater, prosecutors said Monday. 
“You were driving too slow. I have a play to go to,” Dominique Sharpton told an officer who pulled her over Oct. 30, prosecu­tors told a Manhattan judge. 
Dominique Sharpton and the civil rights activist’s ex-wife, Kathy, face charges including resisting arrest after the Harlem traffic stop. 
Defense lawyer Michael Hardy denied the allegations, but also said they amounted only to com­plaining, not crimes. 
Police said Dominique Sharpton veered out of her lane, ran a red light and forced anoth­er car to swerve out of her way. After being ticketed, she and her mother cursed at the officers, ignored orders to return to their cars and resisted being hand­cuffed, according to a criminal complaint. Kathy Sharpton pushed an officer with her hands, police said in the complaint. 
Hardy said he would ask the court to dismiss the charges, all misdemeanors or violations, call­ing them “frivolous” and saying there were no grounds for the arrest. 
“Since when did a verbal objec­tion become criminal in America?” Hardy said. 
The top charges are punishable by up to a year in jail. 
Dominique Sharpton, 23, and her 53-year-old mother didn’t enter a plea Monday. They declined to comment afterward, as did a spokeswoman for Al Sharpton. He didn’t attend. 
He railed about the arrest on Twitter on Nov. 1, questioning “how two unarmed women with no record could be taken in cuffs from a traffic dispute with NO personal or property damage involved,” nor any allegations of drug use or drinking. 



Kennedygainssupportwithhisfaith 

U.S. Rep. advocates healthcare reform to students at Brown University 
Associated Press 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. — Rep. Patrick Kennedy used the lan­guage of faith Monday to rally support for expanding the nation’s health insurance sys­tem in his first public appear­ance since escalating a public feud with Rhode Island’s Roman Catholic bishop over health care and publicly financed abortion. 
Kennedy, a Catholic, refused to address head-on his weeks-long war of words with Bishop Thomas Tobin, the spiritual leader of the nation’s most heavily Catholic state. The fra­cas escalated just over a week ago when it was revealed that Tobin asked Kennedy in early 2007 not to receive Holy Communion because of his support for abortion rights. 
“In the final analysis, all of us are children of God, all of us have the spark of divinity,” Kennedy told a Brown University audience during a panel discussion of the politics of health care reform. “And if any one of us is denied health care, it really is a threat to who we call ourselves as human beings.” 
He borrowed from the Old Testament story of Cain and Abel to further his point. 
“I hope we agree with the notion that we ought to be there and be our brother’s keeper because all of us needs each other in the final analy­sis,” Kennedy said. 
Kennedy, a Democrat, ignit­ed a sharp exchange of words with the outspoken bishop when he criticized church leaders in an October inter­view for threatening to oppose a plan to overhaul the nation’s health insurance system unless it included tighter restrictions on abortion. 
Kennedy voted against the abortion restrictions sought by the bishops, but he ultimately supported a version of the bill that included the restrictions he opposed. 
Tobin accused Kennedy of making an unprovoked attack on the church, publicly ques­tioned his faith and requested a meeting that ultimately fell apart. Tobin said the meeting was canceled by mutual agree­ment and issued a scathing public letter to Kennedy. 
“Your position is unaccept­able to the Church and scan­dalous to many of our mem­bers,” Tobin wrote. “It absolutely diminishes your communion with the Church.” 
The Congressman accused the bishop of breaking an agreement to stop discussing his faith publicly. 
Their dispute appeared to simmer down after Kennedy said he was done discussing the issue. But in a story pub­lished just over a week ago, Kennedy told The Providence Journal that Tobin had banned him from receiving Holy Communion because of his support for abortion rights. Kennedy also said Tobin had instructed priests in Rhode Island not to give him the sacrament. 
Kennedy did not explain when Tobin issued those instructions. 
The bishop fired back, saying he wrote a letter in early 2007 asking that Kennedy abstain from receiving Communion. Tobin denied ever telling priests to withhold it from Kennedy or any other elected official. Tobin said Kennedy, who has struggled with mental illness and drug abuse, was acting erratically. 


Tuesday, December 1, 2009 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 9 



Police search for suspect 
Hunt continues for the man wanted in the murder of four officers 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE — Using search dogs and going door to door, hundreds of police intensified the hunt Monday for the man wanted in the coffeehouse killings of four officers after a SWAT team came up empty-handed in a raid on a house where he was thought to be holed up. 
The realization that the suspect had not been cornered after all further rattled people in the Seattle area, many of them unnerved by the thought of a mentally unstable killer in their midst. 
Police canvassed the neighbor­hood around the Seattle house and fanned out across the city, looking for any sign of Maurice Clemmons, 37. Authorities post­ed a $125,000 reward for infor­mation leading to his arrest in the Sunday morning shooting rampage. 
The manhunt came as authori­ties in two states took heat for the fact that Clemmons was allowed to walk the streets despite a teenage crime spree in Arkansas that landed him a 95­year prison sentence. He was released in 2000 after then-Gov. Mike Huckabee commuted his sentence. 
“This guy should have never been on the street,” said Brian D. Wurts, president of the police union in Lakewood, where all four slain officers worked. “Our elected officials need to find out why these people are out.” 
Police said they are not sure what prompted Clemmons to assassinate the officers as they worked on their laptop comput­ers at the beginning of their shifts. He was described as increasingly erratic in the past few months and had been arrest­ed earlier this year on charges that he punched a sheriff’s deputy in the face. 

Sheriff’s spokesman Ed Troyer told the Tacoma News-Tribune that Clemmons indicated the night before the shooting “that he was going to shoot police and watch the news.” 
Authorities said the gunman singled out the officers and spared employees and other cus­tomers at the coffee shop in a suburb about 35 miles south of Seattle. He then fled, but not before he was apparently shot in the torso by one of the dying offi­cers. 
Police later learned he may have been holed up at the house in Seattle. After an all-night siege in which they tried to get him out using loudspeakers, explosions and a robot sent into the house, a SWAT team stormed the place and discovered he was not there. 


Forest Service discusses night attacks on fires 


Police would not say who lived at the house or whether it was someone Clemmons knew. 
It was not clear whether he slipped past police, left before they arrived, or was never in the house at all, but Seattle police spokesman Jeff Kappel said there was evidence Clemmons at one point was on the property. He would not elaborate. 
Police spent the day frantically chasing leads, visiting hundreds of locations as they followed up on tips, at one point cordoning off a park where people thought they saw Clemmons. They also alerted hospitals to be on the lookout for a man seeking treat­ment for gunshot wounds. 
University of Washington offi­cials alerted students by e-mail and text messages to an uncon­firmed report that Clemmons might have gotten off a bus on or near the campus about three miles from the home. 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — The U.S. Forest Service is considering allowing its helicopters to attack wildfires at night, a practice the agency has long discouraged because of risks to pilots, a senior official said Monday. 
The change would be a major shift for the agency that manages 200 million acres of public land. 
Forest Service Fire and Aviation Management Director Tom Harbour said the current policy was being reviewed. 
“We are in the process ... of one more time taking a look at night-flying operations. But we will have to make sure that those operations, before we change our policy, are worth the benefits,” Harbour told The Associated Press. 
“Night flying is a risky oper­ation,” he added. 
Last week, the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors pushed for broader use of night flying after a wildfire in Angeles National Forest last summer burned more than 250 square miles, destroyed 89 homes and led to the deaths of two firefighters. 
Harbour said the Forest Service experimented with night flying against wildfires in the 1970s and early 1980s but abandoned it after a heli­copter collision. 
The Forest Service has been criticized by local officials for the way it managed the blaze in Angeles National Forest, which became the largest fire in Los Angeles County history. 
The county Fire Department concluded in a report that experienced county helicopter pilots could have made water drops on the first night of the fire — although it conceded that it was not known if that would have made a differ­ence. 
In addition, Los Angeles County Supervisor Mike Antonovich has said the Forest Service erred by not calling in more aircraft to drop water and fire retardant in the early hours of the blaze. 
The Forest Service can allow pilots from local agen­cies to fly on its land at night in some cases, Harbour said. But a federal review this month found the Angeles Forest wildfire raged out of control because it jumped into inaccessible terrain, not because the Forest Service failed to deploy enough fire­fighters and aircraft. 
Harbour said there were scant cases where aircraft alone extinguish fires, since embers, brush and grasses on the forest floor can continue to burn even after a water or retardant drop. 
“We’ve got to get boots on the ground to be effective. And there were places on that (Los Angeles County) fire ... where we simply couldn’t get boots on the ground” because of the steep slopes, he said. 
“It’s a red herring to keep talking about helicopters and air tankers,” Harbour said, referring to the same blaze. 
“Aircraft serve a useful pur­pose in assisting the folks on the ground. ... Firefighters on the ground put out fire,” he said. 




Evidence found in missingteen’shome 
Associated Press 
HEMET, Calif. — Police who found charred human remains at the Riverside County home of one of two missing Southern California teens also found a machete, butcher knives and burned and bloodied clothing there, according to documents made public Monday. 
The search warrant shows Hemet police recovered those items and a shovel, a .22-caliber spent shell casing and an empty gas canister on Nov. 18 at Jose Campos’ home. Among the human remains was a charred human foot, the documents state. 
Campos, Adrian Rios and Felicia Sharp, all 17, were reported missing earlier this month. 
Investigators are trying to determine if the burned and fragmented remains belong to Campos or Rios. Sharp was ini­tially reported missing, but was brought to the police station Wednesday by her parents. 
Authorities have not released any information from her two-hour interview and said they have no suspects. Calls to the Hemet police were not returned Monday. 
The warrant filed in Riverside County Superior Court outlines the investigation, which began Nov. 17 when Rios’ mother, Elodia Lopez, called to report her son missing. She told police she had not seen him for two days and went to the Campos home, where her son was last seen by his friends. 
Lopez found no one home but saw a bloody sneaker in the backyard and found drag marks in the dirt. She told police the sneaker looked like her son’s shoe. 
Police recovered what was later identified as a charred right human foot in the back­yard and documented a fire pit with drag marks leading to it. They also noted a number of flies clustered on a saturated area of the ground, according to the warrant, which was first obtained by The Press-Enterprise newspaper. The human foot was found near a shovel. 
Neighbors told the AP last week that they smelled a power­ful and unidentifiable smell com­ing from the area of Campos’ house the night of Nov. 15. 
Matt Miller, who lives two houses behind the Campos address, said he spoke with two teenagers matching Campos and Rios’ description after they ran onto his lawn in a panic that night. 
The Observer 


Viewpoint 

page 10 Tuesday, December 1, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 

VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 


ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
Today, John Demjanjuk stands trial in Germany as an accessory to 27,900 murders. This is not the first time Demjanjuk has been tried for war crimes. In 1988, after the United States stripped him of his citizenship, an James Napier Israeli court con­victed him of Demarcating being a particu-Democracy larly brutal Nazi called Ivan the Terrible. The Israeli Supreme Court overturned the verdict after new evi­dence indicated Demjanjuk, though an SS guard, was not Ivan the Terrible. Israel did not pursue further charges against him and he was allowed to return to the United States. 
Now, he once again faces charges as a war criminal. This new case has been developed by the Office of Special Investigations since 1999 with the cooperation of German officials and the Simon Wiesenthal Center. Evidence indicates Demjanjuk worked as a guard from 1943 to 1944. The evidence in the current case against him seems to be very strong and is likely he will be con­victed. What is interesting is when the Israeli Supreme Court freed Demjanjuk, it acknowledged he was probably a SS guard but had already served his time. 
Before going on, I would like to take a moment to clarify a few things. The Holocaust was one of the largest human tragedies to unfold in the histo­ry of the world. The crimes committed by Nazi Germany were unspeakably horrific. To this day, Nazi atrocities still cause emotional responses. Anyone who has ever seen a Concentration Camp knows the sadness and horror that still hangs in the air. Holocaust 



True justice 
survivors and their relatives are right to be angry; I am angry. 
Even so, I have to ask if Demjanjuk’s trial is truly justice. I do not question the evidence against him. My question is whether it is worth prosecution. Anyone who played a significant role in the Holocaust has already been tried or has died. In fact, Demjanjuk is the low­est ranking Nazi to be charged for war crimes without being accused of a spe­cific incident. It is true the Holocaust could not have happened without guards or the consent of the general populace. However, does that mean the courts should go after every German citizen who knew what was happening in the camps? Granted, Demjanjuk is more culpable than the average citizen but what is gained by prosecuting an 89-year-old man clearly on his last leg? His deportation was stayed twice because his ill health would have made it tantamount to torture under U.S. law. 
From a broader perspective, is it really worth it to continue hunting Nazis over 60 years after the fact? At this point, Nazi hunting has trans­formed from a desire for justice to a thirst for revenge. How can one thrive in the present while focusing on revenge for the wrongs of the past? Throwing these old men who played minor roles in this disaster does not help correct wrong doings or serve the interest of justice. Many will disagree with this last statement because the Nazis are evil and therefore must pay for their sins. To this let me say, why are the Nazis so special? Why should every last Nazi be hunted while Japan’s and Russia’s war crimes go essentially unnoticed and unpunished? Why is Hitler considered so evil when Stalin was more ruthless and Pol Pot nearly as bad? Why should we think of every Nazi as less than human? 
When speaking of the Holocaust peo­ple say never again will we let genocide happen. I too desire justice but not at any cost. Let men like Demjanjuk die in peace. True, many of the innocent men, women and children whom he guarded did not have that choice. But we are not Nazis; if we truly want to prevent another holocaust we must remember every single person on this planet deserves respect even if respect is not shown by that person. We must also remember justice not tempered by mercy or prudence is no virtue. In short we need to be better than the Nazis. 
We have failed in another respect as well — genocides have happened since the Holocaust and have only drawn international attention after much of the damage had been done. Resources are finite and it is illogical to spend mil­lions of dollars and thousands of hours bringing men like Demjanjuk to “jus­tice” when millions around the world suffer and are in great need of resources. 
If we truly want to fight injustice, prevent genocides and improve our world then we need to fight the evils of the present and stop focusing on those of the past. Fight for justice in North Korea, Sudan, Somalia, Yemen, the DRC, just to name a few of the places where millions suffer daily. Above all, remember to act out of love and respect, not hate and revenge. 
James Napier is a senior history major. He can be contacted at jnapier@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


News Sports 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Ashley Charnley Laura Myers Alicia Smith Mike Gotimer Tess Civantos Matthew Robison Graphics Scene 
Mary Cecilia Alexandra “When a deep injury is done to us, 
“Better shun the bait, than struggle we never recover until we forgive.” 
in the snare.” 

Mitsch Kilpatrick 

Viewpoint 
Alan Paton 

John Dryden Lauren South African author 
English dramatist & poet 
Brauweiler 
The Observer 




Viewpoint 

Tuesday, December 1, 2009 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

World AIDS Day 
Today, Dec. 1, is World AIDS Day. While 33.4 million people around the world, including 1.1 million Americans, are currently living with HIV/AIDS, this is not an issue most Notre Dame students feel they have to worry about. A recent HIV/AIDS campus survey revealed that 90 percent of the 2,000 Domers who replied do not personally know anyone with the disease, though nearly 200 students responded with stories of their family members, friends and even themselves being affected by HIV/AIDS. They shared experiences of encountering HIV/AIDS while doing service work across the world, of family members suffering from the disease, of class­mates being mocked and of the challenges of being HIV positive them­selves. Clearly, this is an issue that affects Notre Dame. 
The issue of HIV/AIDS is not without controversy, and this was also revealed in the survey. Several respondents cited the Catholic Church’s position on the immorality of contraception, while many others flatly called for an end to abstinence-only education and advocated condom use in preventing HIV/AIDS. 
One thing that we can hopefully agree on as Catholics is that each of us is called to recognize the dignity of our brothers and sisters infected with HIV/AIDS. Locally we are called to help overcome the stigma and isolation from community that HIV/AIDS often brings (six percent of survey respon­dents said that they would not hug or shake hands with a person who was HIV positive). Globally we are called to aid in efforts to prevent the spread of the disease through education and to increase access to the expensive anti-retroviral drugs that are widely available in wealthy countries but are scarce in areas such as sub-saharan Africa. 
You can help Notre Dame commemorate World Aids Day by wearing red today, stopping by LaFortune to get a red ribbon and see a piece of the AIDS quilt along with results from the survey, and attending the 6:30 p.m. discussion and soup supper in the Geddes Hall coffeehouse. In addition, free and confidential HIV/AIDS testing will be available at St. Liam’s from 6-8:00 p.m. on Wednesday. 
In addition, the Center for Social Concerns has a created a space online to respectfully discuss the issues of HIV/AIDS, Catholicism and Notre Dame. Please visit http://tiny.cc/NDAIDS to voice your opinion. 
Claire Brosnihan 
junior Pasquerilla East Hall Nov. 30 


Retaining Weis 
In light of the near universal enthusiasm for the notion that Notre Dame should buy out the remaining term of Coach Weis’s contract and spend whatever it takes to improve the football team, here is a thought in this season of Advent and in praise of folly: In these times of continuing economic difficulty, when so many faculty but especially staff who love and have dedicated their lives to the Catholic education we aim to pro­mote, continue to experience hardship amongst themselves, and are either falling behind or by the wayside, it strikes us as not only unjust but frankly obscene to pay an employee millions of dollars to do nothing. 
So we expect the coach to remain and honor his contract, as we intend to honor it by retaining him. And if that means we lose more football games, so be it, for the Lord did not ask us to be successful, he asked us to be faithful. If that means the football program will not earn as much as it normally does and contribute to the University as much as it usually does, well so be it. For we will all suffer together as once Christians were proud to do, rather than bow reverently before the gods of this world. If you want to know what someone thinks is sacred, look to what he treats as sacred. 
Through this decision we hope to help all of our fans and supporters to know what Notre Dame stands for as a Catholic institution. What we really fight for. We don’t merely play like champions here. We act like them. 
John O’Callaghan 
faculty Dept. of Philosophy Nov. 30 



A letter to Charlie 
Dear Coach Weis: 

I wanted to thank you for the five years of service that you have given to our alma mater. Regardless of what happens next week, I wanted you to know that there are a lot of Notre Dame alumni who really do appreciate your efforts, who still support you and who are very hurt and offended by the way that some of our fellow alumni and other members of the Notre Dame community have treated you. It may be that you were not meant to be the coach that leads our football team to its next national championship, but regardless of your final record, you and your family have made our school a better place by your presence. Thank you for being our coach. May God protect and bless you in your future endeavors, be they in South Bend or elsewhere, and may He for­give those who have acted towards your family in un-Christian ways. 
Lars Knudson 
Law School alumnus Class of 2002 Nov. 24 

Thank you, Coach Weis 
Charlie Weis was easily the most scruti­nized coach in the country over the last five years. That’s what comes with the ter­ritory as head football coach at Notre Dame. And while it’s easy to focus on the negatives of his dynasty, especially over the last three years, I think we should thank Weis for some of the positives he provided for our football program and our University: 
Weis has shown us that Notre Dame can still recruit the top high school students in the country, students who live up to all aspects of the term student-athlete. He has kept Notre Dame’s graduation rate up in our football program, which is something we should be proud of at this University. He nurtured a number of walk-on players into downright nasty athletes. He guided us to two straight BCS Bowl appearances, and this improvement in our football program put our school back on the map and attracted many more top students to our University (to see this, all you have to do is look at the jump in admission statistics over this period of time). And I don’t know the exact numbers here, but I think the revenue our first two BCS appearances brought in more than enough to cover the price of his contract, and helped to provide needed funding for academic improvement such as portions of Jordan Science Hall. In fact, Weis has helped carry out an impor­tant and recently-lost ideal in college ath­letics: that your strong academic standing can attract top athletes, and your strong athletic standing can improve your aca­demics. Academics and athletics were working for each other under Weis, and that’s how it should be. 
Additionally, Weis has brought a lot of pride to our program with his philanthropy through Hannah and Friends. Weis got our football players, whether in victory or defeat, to sing the Alma Mater with the student section and the band after the games, something lost under Willingham. It was Weis’ own expectations that raised the bar on our expectations of what is required out of the Notre Dame football coach and a football team, and he simply hasn’t been able to keep up with these expectations. 
We all agree that it’s time to move on to the next coach, but as we search for the next person to undertake the extremely difficult task of meeting the expectations Weis set up for us, let’s not forget this important lessons Weis has taught us regarding football at Notre Dame. It’s not worth it to become a top football program if it compromises the academic standards we expect from our athletes, if we have to graduate fewer of our athletes, or if we have to see the athletes run up the tunnel without sharing the words “Love thee Notre Dame” with us. But we also don’t have to trade one thing for the other. Our sports teams can be top performers on and off the field. 
Thank you Coach Weis for all of your accomplishments over the last five years, and I wish you all the best with whatever you end up doing next. 
Jonathan Toups 
alumnus 
Class of 2009 
Nov. 30 



Marching with the band a wish come true 
As a Notre Dame alum and Make A Wish volunteer assigned to Jacob’s wish; I could never be more proud of Notre Dame, espe­cially the Marching Band, Jennifer Laiber, the Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Dept and everyone who had a chance to meet Jacob. When I talked with Jacob’s mom Nov. 24 upon their return to Colorado she could not thank you all enough. It was a dream come true for Jacob and her and they will never ever forget your kindness. 
As Jacob said in his own words: “I want to play with the best. Band, you are the best! Thank you.” 
Below is what Jacob’s mom posted on the NBC Sports College Sports Inside The Irish story on Friday, Nov 20. 
“I have never been more proud of my son. This opportunity is definitely a once-in-a­lifetime experience and I am very proud of his decision for this wish. I did not influ­ence him one bit on how to utilize such an opportunity in his life. I am very grateful to all involved in making this happen for my son. He struggles with cystic fibrosis every day and to be able to give him this makes me truly speechless! My brother and best friend passed away just over a year ago in a car crash and I truly have not been able to smile with such intensity since than, as I have these past few days! I am truly forever greatful for this opportunity for my son! God bless all of you!” 
Mike Williams 
alumnus 
Class of 1972 
Nov. 24 
The BCS Winnebago 
I’m heading into my senior year and have yet to experience BCS glory. I’m not asking for a national title. I’m just asking for a BCS bowl and an excuse to drive my soon-to-be Winnebago across the country to watch our team. We need nine wins and I think we can get there if you make the right hire. 
We need someone who knows college football and all that it entails — recruiting, player man­agement, press relations, etc. We need a guy who is up and coming. We need Brian Kelly. 
Matt Cheston 
junior O’Neill Hall Nov. 28 

The Observer 



Scene 

page 12 Tuesday, December 1, 2009 

By JOEY KUHN 
Assistant Scene Editor 
While I was shopping in the mall over break, I was saddened and sickened to see every store boasting a full Christmas dis­play and blasting Yuletide tunes, a sign of how commercialized and ungodly Christmas has become. But now that Thanksgiving, the official starting flag for the holiday season, is in the rearview mir­ror, everybody should be ready to bust out the tidings of comfort and joy. 
As such, here are a few Christmas music recommendations so that you’re not stuck listening to those same three Bing Crosby songs over and over again for the next month. Take your pick of genre; there’s something here for everybody (that’s the generosity of the Christmas spirit breaking through my hard exterior shell). 
An Indie-Folk Christmas 
For scenesters and hipsters of all kinds, and also for those who simply enjoy mel­low acoustic music with unconventional instrumentation, Sufjan Stevens’s “Songs for Christmas” is the place to start. This is actually a five-disc collection of 42 songs, so there’s no shortage of listening material here. About half the songs are originals, and half are Christmas classics lovingly rearranged in typical Sufjan fashion. That means acoustic guitar, sugary-soft singing, exotic wind instruments whose names I can’t pronounce, and banjo. Lots of banjo. But it’s not annoying banjo; it’s just enough to give the songs a slight, folky twang. This collection is perfect for some chill back­ground music while decorating a tree or snuggling with a special someone. Standout track: “That Was the Worst Christmas Ever!” 
An Arena Rock Christmas 
If you think you haven’t heard the Trans-Siberian Orchestra, you’re probably wrong: Their song “Wizards in Winter” features in that Youtube video of the house whose Christmas lights are perfectly syn­chronized to music. If you’re still grasping for what they sound like, imagine that Queen and Metallica collaborated to pro­duce a Christmas album. Crunching gui­tars and blazing solos are mixed in with some softer moments for good variety. They have come out with five full-length albums, three of which are Christmas albums. Trans-Siberian Orchestra’s epic take on holiday favorites can make any trip to the store for more eggnog seem like a wild Christmas adventure. Listen to “Christmas Eve (Sarajevo 12/24)” and you’ll see what I mean. 

A Swingin’ Christmas 
If you’re more of a flapper than a hipster or a headbanger, then you might enjoy Harry Connick, Jr.’s three Christmas albums. Although he is not exclusively a Christmas artist, Connick has become known for covering holiday favorites with a swinging rhythm section and a smooth, sultry voice. Like the others, his albums consist of both originals and classics, and his music ranges from bouncy to ballad. Listen to “(It Must Have Been Ol’) Santa Claus” and “Sleigh Ride.” Also on the jazz side, check out “Cool Yule” by Louis Armstrong and the Commanders, “Sugar Rum Cherry” by Duke Ellington and “Jingle Bells” by Diana Krall. 
A Barenaked Christmas (and Hanukkah) 
For those feeling a little bit racy this holi­day season, try the Barenaked Ladies’ “Barenaked for the Holidays.” This album contains some of the most fun Christmas songs ever created, and if you like diversi­ty, it has a few Hanukkah songs, too. Here you’ll find zany synthesizer renditions of some classics, more respectful and heart­felt renditions of others and some origi­nals, too. Standout tracks are “Elf’s Lament” (feat. Michael Bublé) and “Auld Lang Syne.” 
A Traditional Christmas 
Of course, part of the charm of Christmas music is the comfort of hearing the same old songs year after year. Some of the biggies you definitely can’t afford to have missing from your collection: “It’s the Most Wonderful Time of the Year” by Andy Williams, “Rockin’ Around the Christmas Tree” by Brenda Lee, “Santa Claus is Comin’ to Town” by Bruce Springsteen and Bobby Helms’ “Jingle Bell Rock,” which is enshrined in our memories from the movie “Mean Girls.” Most of these can be obtained easily in one fell swoop by simply purchasing “Now That’s What I Call Christmas!” 
Contact Joey Kuhn at jkuhn1@nd.edu 

The Observer 


Scene 

Tuesday, December 1, 2009 page 13 

By EMILY DORE 
Scene Writer 

On the first day of Christmas, my true love gave to me … an oven mitt? So goes the infamous “Office” episode in which Phyllis gives Michael an oven mitt as part of their annual Secret Santa Christmas exchange. He despises the present and decides to “salvage” his Christmas pile through a new game called White Elephant — a gift exchange ritual in which presents are passed around in often humiliating fashion. But don’t be fooled by the name; Pam was right when she called it by its other alias, Nasty Christmas. 
The rules are as follows. With exchange gifts in tow, all eager participants sit in a circle, play­ground style. Not only does the sitting seem like the old days of duck-duck-goose, but friends may even turn into children with the grabbing and screaming that is to fol­low. Setting the gifts in the middle of the circle, everyone awaits their designated turn to pick a present. They are given the option to either pick a new wrapped gift or steal an unwrapped one from another per­son. If a gift is stolen, the victim can either choose to steal another gift (not the one taken from him) or a new gift. Gifts may only be stolen three times, before they are safely in someone ’s hands. Tears and shouting ensue, as it becomes ever clearer who 

has good taste in gift-giving. In a game of such high stakes, it seems difficult 
to leave with a beautiful 
necklace instead of 
grandma ’s tradi ­
tional fruit cake. 
A prized gift 
already in 
hand can 
be 
snatched 
in no time and traded for every­
one ’s favorite Christmas sweater. But there are ways to guarantee suc­cess in this game. 
First, ensure the gift bought for White 
Elephant is completely ridiculous. Drop the sentimentality, and remember the other name for this game: Nasty Christmas. SkyMall is 
highly suggested, as well as the always lovely Miley Cyrus blonde wig-Dora the Explorer sparkly gloves combination. 
Next, mark out the good gifts. This can be tricky with the wrapping paper, but usu­ally it is easy to tell who has brought a classy gift by the facial expression. Small packages bring great rewards, and large cushy packages might mean a sweet new Snuggie. 


Then, assume poker face. As stated before, this is a high stakes game, and if another person rec­ognizes someone else’s desperate desire for a gift, there might be some spite, instead of good cheer, spreading around the 
circle. 
Finally, “thou shalt not steal ” applies for one time only in this 
game, so use it 
wisely. The ele ment of surprise is always advised to 
stir things up. However, make sure to tread lightly for friendships to be 
main­tained 
post-game and into the New Year. 
This advice i not given prema ­turely but from years of experi ence. How else could someone get stuck with an ugly yellow 
box rather than two beautiful green 
bracelets? The answer: White Elephant … and of course, a somewhat malicious friend. 
Christmas is a time to come together, when people gather around the Yule Log share laughs, memories and good cheer with friends and family. In the spirit of Christmas, a dose of gift-giving and receiv ing is necessary … but make sure to hold on tight to that gift. 

MARY CECILIA MITSCH | Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, December 1, 2009 
NFL 

Rams look to improve run defense 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS — The St. Louis Rams’ run defense has been horrible lately, even though the personnel’s pretty much the same. It’s becoming a weekly sore spot for rookie coach Steve Spagnuolo, who built his repu­tation on stopping opponents. 
On Sunday, the Seattle Seahawks more than doubled their NFL-low average with a season-best 170 yards in beat­ing the Rams 27-17. Before that, the Rams (1-10) gave up a season-high 183 yards to Arizona, and 203 yards to the Saints. 
To defensive end Leonard Little, the numbers are dis­graceful. 
“I’ve been doing this since I was 5 years old,” Little said. “If you don’t know how to tackle, then you might not need to be in this business.” 
Justin Forsett, a seventh-round pick last year, had a career high 130 yards and two touchdowns on Sunday while the Seahawks averaged 5.5 yards per carry overall. Tim Hightower has 480 yards for the Cardinals this season, 110 of them with a 7.9-yard average two weeks ago against St. Louis. 
“There were situations where we had them at the line of scrimmage and whatnot and they broke tackles,” defensive end Chris Long said after losing to the Seahawks. “I don’t think they outschemed us, I think we should have tackled better.” 
Just like last week and the week before that, Spagnuolo cites a combination of poor tackling and mistakes across the board in gap responsibility. Regarding the mistakes, he said it’s not something that can be pinpointed, except for the fact it’s not a case of getting physi­cally manhandled. 
“It’s a little bit of everything,” Spagnuolo said. “I keep saying that, but I’m not lying to you. If I thought it was one person every time, that person would be out. That’s not the case.” 
Rams coaches revise tackle counts from the Sunday statisti­cal sheet after reviewing game tape, and credit rookie line­backer James Laurinaitis and safety O.J. Atogwe with 10 tack­les apiece along with Laurinaitis’ first career sack. Laurinaitis, a second-round pick, leads the team with 106 tackles, 25 more than any other player. 
Revised totals do not include missed tackles, and Spagnuolo declined to reveal the count from the Seahawks setback. 
“I’m not going there,” Spagnuolo said. “We had enough that caused us to not play good defense. Too many.” 
Players are not shirking responsibility after losing their 11th in a row at home and 10th straight against the Seahawks. St. Louis is 6-37 the last three seasons. 
“All that matters is the next snap, and we’ve got to have that mentality,” Long said. “Nobody is going to dig us out of a hole except ourselves.” 
Running back Steven Jackson, who had a full load against the Seahawks after missing three days of practice with lower back spasms, is likely to get light duty this week before Sunday’s game at Chicago. Jackson fell short of a fifth straight 100-yard game but had 89 yards rushing and totaled 116 yards from scrimmage. 
“He’s not looking to take any time off, but we’re going to be careful,” Spagnuolo said. 
Jackson said after the game the back bothered him through­out the game. 
“A lot of people questioned why did I play,” Jackson said. “Well, I play because I love to play.” 
NFL 

Stars reluctant to hide concussions 
Associated Press 
Kurt Warner headed to a meeting with Arizona Cardinals medical staff and coaches before Sunday’s game wrestling with the question of whether to be honest about the post-con­cussion symptoms he was expe­riencing. 
“Do I want to stretch the truth a little bit? Do I want to not tell them everything so I could play?” he wondered. 
“I know I could dictate it,” he said Monday. “But then I had to go, ‘What are you thinking?’ Because I know this is bigger than that.” 
The issue of concussions is front and center in the NFL, illustrated starkly Sunday when the two quarterbacks from last season’s Super Bowl sat out — after saying during the week they planned to play despite sustaining head injuries the pre­vious game. 
Warner didn’t play against the Tennessee Titans, and the Cardinals lost. Pittsburgh’s Ben Roethlisberger didn’t play against the Baltimore Ravens, and the Steelers lost. 
Their absences came against the backdrop of increased atten­tion to the issue, from studies highlighting the dangers of repeated head injuries to sever­al statements issued by the NFL on how teams should handle concussions. 
“We weren’t involved in the decisions (regarding Warner and Roethlisberger). ... But there’s no question there’s been a culture change in sports regarding concussions,” NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said. “Everybody is much more aware and more conservative in the way they’re managing them. And that’s a good thing.” 
Aiello said league officials wouldn’t hesitate to question a team if they saw indications that concussions guidelines were possibly not being followed, even without a complaint from somebody within the club. 
But as Warner’s comments emphasize, all the harrowing stories and the policy changes won’t completely solve the prob­lem if players aren’t honest about their symptoms. Thirty of 160 NFL players surveyed by The Associated Press from Nov. 2-15 replied that they have hid­den or played down the effects of a concussion. 
“The players have to raise their hand and say, ‘You know what? I got hit and I don’t feel 100 percent,’” commissioner Roger Goodell said recently. 
That seems to be happening. 
“I’m sure all the reports that are out there about concussions and the long-term effect, that those things weigh in your mind heavier than maybe they did five or six years ago,” Warner said. 
In Philadelphia, Eagles coach Andy Reid acknowledged that the increased attention to the issue is on his mind, too, as dynamic receiver DeSean Jackson recovers from his own concussion. 
“I know a lot is being said about concussions,” Reid said Monday. “We are as conscious as they come with concussions. We are going to do everything within our power to get (Jackson) the proper treatment and diagnosis.” 
U.S. OPEN TENNIS 
Williams receives record-setting fine 
Associated Press 
Serena Williams was fined a record $82,500 for her tirade at a U.S. Open line judge and could be suspended from that tournament if she has another “major offense” at any Grand Slam in the next two years. 
Grand Slam administrator Bill Babcock’s ruling was released Monday, and he said Williams faces a “probation­ary period” at tennis’ four major championships in 2010 and 2011. If she has another “major offense” at a Grand Slam tournament in that time, the fine would increase to $175,000 and she would be barred from the following U.S. Open. 
“But if she does not have another offense in the next two years, the suspension is lifted,” Babcock said in a tele­phone interview from London. 
He said Williams is handing over $82,500 right now to the Grand Slam committee, already far more than the pre­vious highest fine for a Grand Slam offense. In 1995, Jeff Tarango stormed off the court at Wimbledon and accused the chair umpire of showing favoritism to certain players in exchange for their friend­ship. Tarango was fined a total of $43,756, which was reduced to $28,256 on appeal, and barred from Wimbledon the next year. 
Williams lashed out at a lineswoman after a foot-fault call at the end of her semifinal loss to eventual champion Kim Clijsters at the U.S. Open in September. It was a profanity-laced, finger-pointing, racket-brandishing display in which Williams approached the offi­cial with what U.S. Open tour­nament director Jim Curley called at the time “a threaten­ing manner.” 
“I am thankful that we now have closure on the incident and we can all move for­ward,” Williams said in a statement released Monday by her publicist. “I am back in training in preparation for next season and I continue to be grateful for all of the sup­port from my fans and the tennis community.” 
She earned $350,000 by reaching the U.S. Open singles semifinals, part of her more than $6.5 million in prize money in 2009, a single-sea­son record for women’s ten­nis. Her career prize money tops $28 million. 
The American is an 11-time Grand Slam singles champion and ended the 2009 season at No. 1 in the WTA rankings. 
Williams’ outburst drew a $10,000 fine from the U.S. Tennis Association in September — the maximum onsite penalty a tennis player can face. But because it hap­pened at a Grand Slam tour­nament, Babcock was charged with investigating whether further punishment was mer­ited. 
He concluded that Williams violated the “major offense” rule for “aggravated behav­ior.” The Grand Slam commit­tee — with one representative from each of the sport’s four major championships, includ­ing USTA president Lucy Garvin — approved his deci­sion Saturday. 
“As a voting member of the Grand Slam committee, the USTA agrees with the addi­tional penalties levied against Serena Williams for her on-court behavior during her semifinal match at the 2009 
U.S. Open,” the USTA said in a statement released to the AP. “The USTA looks forward to Ms. Williams competing in the 2010 US Open.” 
Babcock said a “major offense” under Grand Slam rules is “any conduct that is determined to be the ‘major offense’ of ‘aggravated behav­ior’ or ‘conduct detrimental to the game.’” There is no specif­ic definition of what sort of actions constitute a “major offense.” 
He said the highest possible fine that Williams could face 
— $175,000, if she violates her Grand Slam probation — was chosen because it is the difference in winnings between reaching the quarter­finals and semifinals at the 
U.S. Open. The $10,000 Williams already was docked by the USTA will be counted toward that total; that’s why she is paying half of $165,000 now. 
During the Sept. 12 match at Flushing Meadows, the foot fault — a call rarely, if ever, made at that stage of such a significant match — resulted in a double-fault for Williams, moving Clijsters one point from victory. 
Williams paused, retrieved a ball to serve again and then stopped. She stepped toward the official, screaming, curs­ing and shaking the ball at her. Williams was penalized a point. It happened to come on match point, ending the semi­final with Clijsters ahead 6-4, 7-5. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

OFF-Campus housing, Irish Considering Adoption? UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Crossings and Dublin Village 3 and FOR RENT 4 bdr, furnished and unfurnished. PERSONAL Do not go it alone. WANTED 
January and June 2010 leases Irish Crossings and Dublin Village 3 available. If you or someone you care about ND Alums Hoping to Adopt. Notre Dame has many resources in PART TIME WORK $14.25 base-and 4 bdr, furnished and unfur-www.cespm.info has been sexually assaulted, we place to assist you. appt., no experience needed, cus­nished. Call 574-968-0112 can help. tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835. 
——————————————— If you are an expectant mother If you or someone you love needs ——————————————— 
522 Napoleon Street: 1-2 student searching for a family, please see confidential support or assistance, Hey, I know a joke! January and June 2010 leases Nice ktchn,bath,2bdrm,storage For more information, our website at please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-17819 A squirrel walks up to a tree and available. Washer/dryer. or Ann Firth at 1-2685. says, "I forgot to store acorns for 
5 blks W. off ND Ave. $580/mo+utl the winter and now I am dead." Ha! www.cespm.info (219)629-5483 For more information, visit ND's ——————————————— visit Notre Dame's website: http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro-website at: http://pregnancysup-It is funny because the squirrel gets Call 574-968-0112. andersonNDrentals.com. HOUSES http://csap.nd.edu file.net. port@nd.edu dead. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around the Nat on 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 

Tuesday, December 1, 2009 
page 15 

NCAA Division I Football BCS Rankings 
team previous 
1 Florida 1 2 Alabama 2 3 Texas 3 4 TCU 4 5 Cincinnati 5 6 Boise State 6 7 Oregon 8 8 Ohio State 10 9 Iowa 11 10 Georgia Tech 7 11 Penn State 13 12 Virginia Tech 14 13 LSU 15 14 BYU 19 15 Pittsburgh 9 16 Oregon State 16 17 Miami (Fla.) 17 18 Southern California 20 19 California 22 20 Oklahoma State 12 21 Houston 23 22 Nebraska NR 23 West Virginia NR 24 Stanford NR 25 Utah 21 
NCAA Division I Football AP Rankings 
team previous 
1 Florida 1 2 Alabama 2 3 Texas 3 4 TCU 4 5 Cincinnati 5 6 Boise State 6 7 Georgia Tech 7 8 Pittsburgh 8 9 Ohio State 9 10 Oregon 11 11 Oklahoma State 12 12 Penn State 13 13 Iowa 15 14 Virginia Tech 16 15 Clemson 18 16 Oregon State 20 17 LSU 10 18 BYU 19 19 Miami (Fla.) 21 20 Mississippi NR 21 Calfornia NR 22 Utah 23 23 North Carolina NR 24 Southern California 22 25 Houston 24 


around the dial 
College Basketball 
Michigan State at North Carolina 9 p.m., ESPN 
NHL 

Blue Jackets at Blackhawks 8 p.m., Versus 
NBA 

Allen Iverson meets with former team 
between the Sixers and leave of absence to attend The Sixers have lost six 
Associated Press 
their former MVP. to personal matters. He straight games and are 
PHILADELPHIA — Allen Stefanski said the Sixers was waived after the two 13th in the Eastern Iverson and the “will continue to discuss sides agreed to part ways. Conference under first-Philadelphia 76ers have internally whether or not The New York Knicks year coach Eddie Jordan. met to discuss a possible to pursue this course.” considered signing Iverson Williams’ injury has return to the team. The 10-time All-Star, after he cleared waivers, paved the way for rookie 
Team president Ed who retired last week, is before deciding he would Jrue Holiday, the 17th Stefanski said in a state-among the free-agent can-take too much playing pick in the draft, to start. ment that both parties didates the Sixers are con-time from younger players Iverson had a bitter remain noncommittal sidering to replace injured they are trying to develop. parting with the Sixers in about a final decision point guard Lou Williams, Iverson, the No. 1 over-2006, making this a truly after a nearly two-hour who’s expected to miss all pick in the 1996 draft, surprising reconciliation. meeting Monday in Dallas. eight weeks after jaw sur-played 10-plus seasons But both parties are in The 76ers are in town to gery. with the 76ers. He was various states of despera­play the Dallas Mavericks Iverson announced his traded to Denver in tion. The Sixers need a on Monday night. intention to retire last December 2006, and was guard on the roster and 
Iverson, his agent and week after no other team then dealt to Detroit early an electrifying personality business manager met expressed an interest is last season. such as Iverson to jolt with Stefanski, coach signing the four-time scor-The 34-year-old Iverson, sagging ticket sales. Eddie Jordan and two ing champion. The 6-foot who has never won an Iverson wants to prove 
other members of the Iverson played three NBA championship, he’s not finished yet and organization during the games this season with wouldn’t be returning to a can still play at his All-first formal meeting Memphis before taking a winner in Philadelphia. Star level. 
IN BRIEF 
Michael Vick visits his 
old middle school 
NEWPORT NEWS, Va. — Michael Vick tells students at his old middle school in Virginia that they should avoid the kind of bad decisions that landed him in federal prison for dog­fighting. 
The Philadelphia Eagles quarter­back spoke Monday to about 400 stu­dents at Huntington Middle School in Newport News. The event was closed and Vick did not speak to reporters outside. 
Vick has been speaking to school and community groups to aid the Humane Society of the United States. Society spokesman Dale Bartlett says Vick acknowledged his wrongdoing and told students he believed he could get away with it because he was wealthy. 
Vick was released in July after serving 20 months of a 23-month sentence for running a dogfighting ring. 
Mets sign Alex Cora to 
one -year, $2M deal 
NEW YORK — Alex Cora is staying with the New York Mets, agreeing to a $2 million, one-year contract. 
Details of the infielder’s deal were revealed Monday by two people familiar with the negotiations who spoke on condition of anonymity because the Mets had not yet formal­ly announced it. 
Cora can earn an additional $1 mil­lion in performance bonuses: $250,000 each for 80, 90, 100 and 110 starts. There is a $2 million option for 2011 that becomes guaran­teed if he has about 80 starts next season. 
The 34-year-old played 82 games this year, batting .251 with 18 RBIs and eight steals. He made 54 starts at shortstop, becoming the regular after Jose Reyes got hurt. Cora didn’t play after Aug. 12 because of torn liga­ments in both thumbs that required surgery. 
Cardinals sign catcher 
Jason LaRue to deal 
ST. LOUIS — Catcher Jason LaRue has agreed to a $950,000, one-year contract to remain with the St. Louis Cardinals. 
Yadier Molina’s backup for two sea­sons, LaRue hit .240 with two homers and six RBIs in 104 at-bats last sea­son. He started 26 games and appeared in 51 overall. 
“Jason is a great fit for our ballclub in his current role,” Cardinals general manager John Mozeliak said Monday. “His veteran leadership both on and off the field is something we value highly.” 
LaRue’s deal, the same as his 2009 contract, includes a $50,000 perform­ance bonus if he has 60 starts. 
St. Louis also agreed to a minor league contract with infielder Ruben Gotay, who hit .272 with 29 doubles, 11 homers and 57 RBIs last season for Reno, Arizona’s Triple-A farm team. 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, December 1, 2009 
NFL 

Manning downplays injury’s effect 
biggest thing,” he said. 
Associated Press 

“Having the weekend and the EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. bye week and off week helped 
— Despite the New York some. Time to rest it is help-Giants’ recent slump and his ful. It is not something I think own mediocre performances, will linger or bother me.” quarterback Eli Manning says Manning also said he has a stress reaction in his right no pain when walking and foot is not affecting his play. there are no concerns that 
Manning developed the the stress reaction can lead injury while dealing with to him being sidelined for any 
a no t h e r pr o b - of the remain- 
lem on the bot­ ing five games.  
tom of his foot d u r i n g a w i n O c t . 4 a t K a n s a s C i t y.  “It’s one of those things that time and rest is probably the  “It is frustrat­ing, kind of one thing leading to another. When  
T h e were  G i a n t s 4-0 after  biggest thing.”  you have to go to the training  
t h a t v i c t o r y, but are now 6­ Eli Manning  r o o m a n d t r e a t m e n t ,  g e t i t  
5  a s  M a n n i n g  Giants quarterback  t h r o w s  y o u r  

has struggled in recent weeks, even though his inflamed arch has healed. 
On Monday, he said his lat­est health issue has not been a factor on the field. 
“In the games it doesn’t bother me and I don’t think about it. This is not some­thing I am overly concerned with,” Manning said. “It has been the same for probably the last three to four weeks, it’s nothing new. I can go out and practice and do all I need to do.” 
Manning doesn’t believe he would eventually need sur­gery on his foot. 
“It’s one of those things that time and rest is probably the 
schedule out of 
whack. It kind of pushes things back. I am a guy who doesn’t like to be in a training room. That’s been probably the biggest annoy­ance trying to deal with it.” 
The Giants play Dallas (8­
3), Philadelphia (7 -4) and Washington (3-7) in the next three weeks and pretty much need a sweep of those games for any chance to the win the NFC East. They beat the Cowboys in Week 2, their most impressive victory of the year, and also won the season opener against Washington. New York lost to Philadelphia 40-17 a month ago in per­haps its worst game of the season. 
Right now, the Eagles and Packers lead the wild-card race by one game over the Giants and Falcons. Atlanta has lost to New York, so the Giants have the edge there. 
“There’s got to be a sense of urgency,” Manning said. “We don’t have time to kind 
of figure out and slowly become a better team and make strides. We’ve got to make a jump, a jump back to playing good football. 
“Sometimes you will falter, and we have a lot. But we are still capable of beating teams and playing at a high level.” 
Manning and defensive end Justin Tuck said the players have held a few meetings during the season, but not since they lost at Denver 26­6 on Thanksgiving night. Tuck noted such meetings are “valuable when it works. Obviously we didn ’t (get results) because we lost a few games here.” 
Manning recognizes that the message among team ­mates needs to be the same, meetings or not. 
“Stick with each other,” he said. “We know we have lot of people doubting us now and there are probably rea­sons for them to. If we want to pull this out and make a run ... it’s about the players coming together and trusting each other and going out there and doing it.” 
NFL 
Sanchez shouldn’t miss game at Bills 
Associated Press 
FLORHAM PARK, N.J. — New York Jets rookie quarter­back Mark Sanchez was limit­ed during the team’s light practice Monday with a sore left knee, but should play against the Buffalo Bills in Toronto on Thursday. 
Coach Rex Ryan said Sanchez had some soreness in the knee after he tweaked it in the Jets’ 17-6 win over Carolina on Sunday. Sanchez downplayed it, saying he woke up Monday and the knee was fine, showing no concern that it might hamper him. 
“It felt really good,” Sanchez said. “The training staff looked at it this morning, stretched me out and we went through the walkthrough, pretty seamless. It feels fine. We’ll see how it goes as the week goes on and make sure we take it slow and be smart about it.” 
Ryan said he thought Sanchez would be able to play against the Bills without any major limitations, despite the quick turnaround. 
“I know he’s sore, so we’ll see how that goes,” he said. “It is a short week ... but he finished the game. I thought he was still moving around pretty good, so hopefully he’ll be 100 percent when we play.” 
Sanchez said he missed no snaps in Monday’s practice, but Ryan listed him as limited anyway. 
“I think it’s appropriate to put him there because he did miss some time during the game,” Ryan said. “And, he does have some soreness there.” 
Ryan also characterized the injury as a tweak without going into details. 
“The tweak is good because nobody knows what that is, so tweak,” he said. “I think he tweaked his knee. There’s obviously no major damage, so that’s the first thing.” 
With the Jets leading 14-3 Sunday, Sanchez scrambled to the sideline on first-and-10 from New York’s 46 when he was tackled by Richard Marshall after an 8-yard gain. He went down, grabbing at the leg and giving the Jets a scare. He missed the next four offensive plays before return­ing and finishing the victory. 
“I thought it almost looked like it scared him and that’s why I was like, ‘Just breathe. You’ll be all right,’” Ryan said. “We’re fortunate that that’s probably what it was more than anything.” 


Tuesday, December 1, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
PGA TOUR 

Host Woods to miss tournament this weekend 
Associated Press 
THOUSAND OAKS, Calif. — Tiger Woods still isn’t talking. Now he’s not playing, either. Woods withdrew Monday from his own golf tournament, cit­ing injuries from a car crash near his Florida home. His decision comes as questions continue to mount regarding what exactly happened in the wee hours of the morning last Friday — questions that most certainly would have been asked of him had he played. 
The world’s No. 1 golfer posted a statement on his Web site saying that unspecified injuries prevented him from playing in the Chevron World Challenge. He had been scheduled to hold a press con­ference Tuesday for the tour­nament, which he hosts annu­ally for a small, invited, field. 
“I am extremely disappoint­ed that I will not be at my tournament this week,” Woods said. “I am certain it will be Woods will escape having to with the Florida Highway an outstanding event and I’m face TV cameras and a horde Patrol still investigating and very sorry that I can’t be of media seeking more details the media in full pursuit, there.” about the smashup. The tour-Woods may not get his way. 
Tournament officials said nament was to be the last of Woods even faced questions fans who bought advance tick-the year for Woods anyway, from fans who left comments ets with the hope of seeing and he did not say when or on his Web site. Most voiced Woods could get where he would support for him, but some refunds begin-make his return said he should address the ning next week. next year. questions about his own 
“I am extremely 
Those who keep The first tour-actions and those of his wife, 
disappointed that I 
their tickets will nament of the Elin Nordegren, before and get a 20 percent will not be at my 2010 PGA Tour after the accident. discount when is the SBS Woods hasn’t answered 
tournament this 
they buy them Championship questions from Florida troop-
week.” 
next year. in Hawaii, an ers, either, turning them down 
Woods sus -event for win-three days in a row when they tained cuts and Tiger Woods ners from the came to his house. bruises when he previous year, Four cars were parked in 
PGA Tour golfer 
crashed his SUV beginning Jan. Woods’ driveway Monday, but into a fire 7, but Woods no lights appeared to be on hydrant and a tree at 2:25 wasn’t expected to be there. inside. A new fire hydrant had a.m., outside his home in an He’s more likely to play at already replaced the one that exclusive, gated community Torrey Pines in La Jolla, Woods plowed into. A dirt hole near Orlando. He was treated Calif., the week of Jan. 25. and an orange barricade and released from a hospital, Woods released a statement remained in the old hydrant’s and has not been seen in pub-Sunday saying the accident place. lic since. was his fault and asked that it A woman at the address list-
By skipping the tournament, remain “a private matter.” But ed on a FHP news release as the scene of the crash, told the Orlando Sentinel that her husband didn’t call emergency responders, but that someone else in the house did. The tape of the call was released Sunday. 


The Associated Press called the home of Linda and Jerome Adams on Monday morning and asked to speak with the Adams’ son. The woman who answered the telephone told a reporter to call back later in the day. When the AP called back Monday evening, attor­ney Bill Sharpe answered and said he was representing the family. He said there was no comment at this time, but said a statement might be made Tuesday. 
Woods, who both hosts and plays in the Chevron World Challenge, was there last year even though he couldn’t play because he was recovering from knee surgery. His absence this year will be the first since the tournament — which has only an 18-player field — began in 1999. He was replaced by Graeme McDowell. 
Though he cited injuries from the accident in with­drawing, Woods didn’t specifi­cally say what those injuries included. The neighbor, who called 911 after Woods ran over the hydrant and hit a tree, said he was unconscious and laying outside his SUV. His wife told Windermere police she used a golf club to smash the back windows to help him out. 
“This is a private matter and I want to keep it that way,” Woods said in a state­ment Sunday, his first since the crash. “Although I under­stand there is curiosity, the many false, unfounded and malicious rumors that are currently circulating about my family and me are irresponsi­ble. ... 
“I appreciate all the concern and well wishes that we have received,” he said. “But, I would also ask for some understanding that my family and I deserve some privacy no matter how intrusive some people can be.” 
The reference to “false, unfounded and malicious rumors” may have involved a story published last week in the National Enquirer alleging that Woods had been seeing a New York nightclub hostess, and that they recently were together in Melbourne, where Woods competed in the Australian Masters. 
The woman, Rachel Uchitel, denied having an affair with Woods when contacted by The Associated Press. On Sunday, she flew to Los Angeles and was met by high-profile attor­ney Gloria Allred at the air­port. 
Still, even the release of the 911 tape and Woods’ state­ment failed to answer several basic questions about the accident: 
• 
Where he was going at that time of the night? 

• 
How did he lose control of his SUV when it wasn’t going fast enough to deploy airbags? 

• 
Why were both rear win­dows of the Cadillac Escalade smashed? 

• 
If it was a careless mis­take, why not speak to state troopers trying to wrap the investigation? 



page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, December 1, 2009 
MLB 

Yankees’ Jeter named SI’s Sportsman of the Year 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Derek Jeter posed in his crisp pinstripe uniform, resting a shiny black bat on his shoulder, while a photographer lying on the ground near the entrance to a Bronx subway station snapped pictures of the New York Yankees shortstop from a low angle. 
Photographing the Yankees captain from below to make him look more regal seemed beside the point. Jeter already has an image that is larger than life. 
Jeter was back at Yankee Stadium a couple of weeks after winning his fifth World Series title, capping a stellar season with a photo shoot for his latest achievement: Sports Illustrated’s sportsman of the year. 
The magazine made the announcement Monday. 
“It’s unbelievable. It was completely unexpected. It came out of the blue,” Jeter told The Associated Press dur­ing a break in the photo shoot. “When I heard it, what can you say? It’s one of the great­est honors you can achieve in sports.” 
The 35-year-old Jeter is the first Bronx Bomber to be tapped for the award that has been given out since 1954. Swimmer Michael Phelps was last year’s recipient. 
“That’s even harder consid­ering all the great Yankee players that have played for this organization,” said Jeter, standing under the banners depicting Yankees greats that hang in the Great Hall of the new stadium. “So I hope I’ve done them proud.” 
Sports Illustrated Group edi­tor Terry McDonell certainly thinks he has. 
“This verifies my idea that he is on the level of Ruth and Gehrig,” McDonell said. “He’s the greatest shortstop in the history of the game.” 
Some other baseball players to win the award are Sandy Koufax (1965), Tom Seaver (1969), Cal Ripken Jr. (1995); and the recent nemeses of Jeter’s teams, Randy Johnson and Curt Schilling (2001), and the Boston Red Sox (2004). 
All business between the lines, Jeter has become one of the untarnished ambassadors in the steroids era of baseball through steady play and quiet leadership on and off the field. 
“He’s so classy,” McDonell said. “He brings a dignity and elegance to the game.” 
Jeter’s 2009 season was remarkable. 
He batted .334 with 18 homers and 66 RBIs with 30 steals to help lead the Yankees to their first World Series title in nine years — a frustrating drought for the player who won four champi­onships in his first five sea­sons. 
And as calls swelled for Jeter to switch positions after his contract expires in 2010, the 10-time All-Star went out and had one of his best defen­sive seasons: He made a career-low eight errors in winning his fourth Gold Glove. 
He also passed Yankees icon Lou Gehrig’s club record for hits, won the Hank Aaron Award as the AL’s top hitter, and was given the Roberto Clemente Award for excel­lence on and off the field. 
The World Series victory might have been Jeter’s most cherished accomplishment this year, but what clinched the sportsman award for him was his philanthropic work. Jeter’s Turn 2 Foundation has doled out over $10 million in grants since 1996 to organiza­tions that help keep young people away from alcohol and drugs. 
“It’s about the manner of the striving and the quality of the effort, too, ” McDonell said. “Off the field he has grown so much as a member of the community.” 
Coming 15 seasons into a career full of honors, the award could be seen as a life­time achievement, but both McDonell and Jeter dismissed the idea. 
McDonell was impressed by Jeter’s leadership, how he “stepped in and molded a team” this spring with the arrival of three expensive free agents, Rod r i g uez ’s admission to using steroids from 2001-03 and then hav­ing hip sur ­gery that kept him out until May. 
For Jeter, who only looks as far ahead as the 
and Alex the end 
“It’s one of the greatest honors you can achieve in sports.” 
Derek Jeter Yankees shortstop 
of an illustrious career that could culminate with 4,000 hits. 
“I’ll take it one hit at a time. That’s a long way in the future, ” said Jeter, who has 2,747 hits. “I ’m going to play as long as I’m having fun. Right now I’ m 
next game, he’s nowhere near having a blast.” 


Tuesday, December 1, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
GOLF 

China to crack down on illegal golf courses 
Associated Press 
BEIJING — China plans a major crack down on illegal golf course construction. First, though, it needs to fig­ure out how many of the illicit links are in the coun­try. 
Construction of new cours­es has been so rapid, wide­spread and unregulated that Beijing officials can only estimate how many have been built. One guess, appearing in the China Daily newspaper Tuesday, put the number at 2,700 by 2015 — up from none before 1984 and more than 500 today. 
“We still don’t know the exact figure, but we’re work­ing on it and will have the information by 2010,” the head of land planning at the Ministry of Land and Natural Resources, Dong Zuoji, was quoted as saying. “The cul­prits will face harsh punish­ment.” 
Alarmed at the loss of arable land in this crowded nation of 1.3 billion people, China began restricting golf course construction in the earlier part of the decade, with Premier Wen Jiabao vowing in 2007 to enforce a total ban. 
Construction has plowed ahead, however, with devel­opers apparently counting on presenting a fait accompli to regulators as has been the case with housing develop­ments built on farmland sur­rounding Beijing, Shanghai and other major cities. 

An estimated 3 million Chinese play golf and indus­try revenues from courses and equipment rose as high as 60 billion yuan ($8.8 bil­lion) last year, China Daily reported. The sport’s back­ers forecast as many as 20 million potential Chinese golfers taking up the sport. 
Golf is very much an elite sport in China, where a round can cost $150— about the average monthly wage for many factory workers. 
Memberships at elite clubs such as Shanghai’s Sheshan, home to the HSBC Masters, have risen to about 1.5 mil­lion yuan ($220,000). A growing number of interna­tional and domestic events have attracted droves of fans and players, while golf ’s reintroduction into the Olympic program for 2016 is bound to raise its profile still further among sports offi­cials obsessed with topping the gold medal tally. 
How officials will reconcile that popularity with the need to rein in course construc­tion isn’t clear. 
WNBA 
Track star to try basketball 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO — Disgraced track star Marion Jones is training for a comeback in the WNBA. 
San Antonio Silver Stars coach Dan Hughes confirmed Monday night that Jones has been training with his assis­tants to possibly play in the WNBA, more than a year after the 34 -year-old was released from federal prison for lying about her doping use. 
The New York Times first reported that Jones has been working on her skills and conditioning in San Antonio since October. Jones told the newspaper she received a call in May from someone in the NBA asking if she might play in the WNBA. 
“I thought it would be an interesting journey if I decid­ed to do this,” Jones said. “It would give me an opportuni­ty to share my message to young people on a bigger platform; it would give me an opportunity to get a sec­ond chance.” 
Jones played college bas­ketball at North Carolina, where she was the starting point guard on the Tar Heels ’ national champi ­
onship team in 1994. She told the Times that she hopes to play in Europe this winter and in the WNBA next season. 

WNBA spokesman Ron Howard did not immediately return a phone message late Monday. 
Jones was released in September 2008 from a Texas federal prison after completing most of her six-month sentence for lying about doping and her role in a check-fraud scam. 
After long denying she had ever used performance ­enhancing drugs, Jones admitted in federal court that she used a designer steroid from September 2000 to July 2001. She was stripped of three gold medals and two bronzes she won at the 2000 Sydney Olympics. 
Hughes told The Associated Press that his assistants haven ’t briefed him on Jones’ skill level or whether she has shown the ability to play in the WNBA. But he applauded Jones for trying, and said her prison time or admission of steroids use wouldn’t factor into his deci­sion about signing her. 
“I deal with people where they are right now,” Hughes said. “If she’s interested in playing, great for her. The past is the past.” 
Jones said she thinks she can be an asset to a WNBA team. 


page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, December 1, 2009 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles win easily over Cardinals 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s traveled to Naperville, Ill. Saturday and defeated North Central on the road. 
The Belles (3-1) broke away from the Cardinals (2-2) mid­way through the first half and never looked back, winning by a final score of 91-57. 
The Belles were locked with North Central with eight min­utes remaining in the half when sophomore guard Maggie Ronan sank a jump shot to give Saint Mary’s a lead it would not relinquish for the rest of the contest. 
At halftime, the Cardinals trailed but remained within striking distance at 38-28. In the second half, however, the Belles used a 12-2 run to put away any thoughts of a North Central comeback. 
Sophomore forward Kelley Murphy led the team with 18 points, while four other players scored in the double digits. Junior guard Liz Wade fell one assist short of a single-game school record, racking up 11 over the course of the game. 
Saint Mary’s benefited not only from good ball distribution but from razor-sharp shooting 
— the Belles shot over 59 per­cent from the floor, one of the most accurate showings in recent history. In addition, Saint Mary’s scored more than 90 points for the first time since a 91-84 win against Hope on Jan. 3. 
Belles coach Jenn Henley said she was happy with the shoot­ing performance, especially the high shooting percentage. 
“We did shoot well against North Central,” she said. “We were able to get inside and get a lot of looks in the paint.” 
In addition, Henley said she was happy with the offensive rebounding and ability of the Belles to create “easy transition layups” with defensive pres­sure, especially in the second half. 
The depth of the team and wide scoring distribution were also cause for the coach to be optimistic looking forward this season. 
“Anytime we can go deep in our bench, [we] get stronger as a team,” Henley said. “That type of depth will be needed in order to be successful down the stretch.” 
The Belles face their next test at home against Ohio Northern Wednesday night, followed by an MIAA home game against Trine Saturday afternoon. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 

NBA 
Kiki Vandeweghe takes over Nets 
Associated Press 
New Jersey Nets general manager Kiki Vandeweghe will coach the team for the rest of the season, multiple sources told Yahoo! Sports. 
After convincing veteran coach Del Harris to join his staff, Vandeweghe met with Nets president Rod Thorn late Monday afternoon and accepted the job replacing Lawrence Frank on the team’s bench. 
Frank was fired as the Nets coach on Sunday, before the team matched the NBA’s worst start ever at 0-17. 
Yahoo! Sports first reported Vandeweghe was leaning toward accepting the job with Harris on his staff. 
Vandeweghe’s coaching experience has been limited to serving as an assistant for the Dallas Mavericks. Harris has previously served similar associate head coaching roles in Chicago and Dallas. 
Vandeweghe’s contract is expected to be finalized in the next couple days. Harris will arrive in New Jersey on Wednesday. 
Vandeweghe won’t make his debut until Friday against the Charlotte Bobcats, a move that will allow two things for the new coach: First, he will have a day to practice on Thursday with the Nets. And second, he could avoid having the record -setting 18th straight loss on his résumé. Assistant coach Tom Barrise will coach the Nets against Dallas on Wednesday. 
Vandeweghe’s only coach­ing experience came with two years as an assistant coach with the Dallas Mavericks. 
There had been a great deal of tension between Frank and Vandeweghe over the past two years, with sources saying Frank resent­ed the GM’s intrusions into his practices and locker room. Sources say Vandeweghe wanted to replace Frank last season, but team president Rod Thorn resisted the change. 


Tuesday, December 1, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 21 
Bench 
continued from page 24 
good things when they enter the game.” 
Freshman guard Skylar Diggins was named the tourna­ment’s Most Valuable Player after scoring 49 points over the course of the weekend. 
“Skylar had an outstanding tournament, and she shot 

the ball “Skylar [Diggins] had 
extremely well,” 

an outstanding 
McGraw said. “For a fresh-tournament, and she man to step up 
shot the ball 
for us like that, 

extremely well. For a
it is superb.” Diggins was freshman to step up 
on the Big East for us like that, it is weekly honor 
superb.” 
roll as well for her play this past week. Muffet McGraw 
“Whether she 

Irish coach 
was coming off the bench or starting, she came in and played extremely well, it made no difference,” McGraw said. 
The Irish have defeated three ranked teams in their first six games. It is only the second time the Irish have achieved that feat, the first being in the 1998-99 season. The Irish hope this success bodes well for the rest of the season. 
“I think it is a good confi­dence builder, but it is also too early in the season,” McGraw said. “We are exactly where we need to be at this time of the year, but we still have a lot to work on. I am especially con­cerned about our defense.” 
First up was a No. 23 San Diego State squad that McGraw characterized before the game as the best team they have played to date. The Irish were able to come away with the 84­79 victory, behind the strong scoring performance of 21 points from Diggins and 15 points from junior guard Brittany Mallory. 
The Irish got off to a quick start against the Aztecs, earn­ing a 21-point advantage in the 
first half, only to see that lead reduced to two with 29 seconds left in the game. 
“It is a game of runs,” McGraw said. “I was a lit­tle concerned with four min­utes to go against San Diego State. They scored 17 points in the last four minutes. We need to play steadier. The good thing is that 
we answered all the runs.” 
The Irish were able to pull out the win, however, as Mallory made three out of four free throws to seal the win. 
Mallory has been an unsung hero for McGraw and the Irish this year, helping Diggins to make a difference offensively. 
“Brittany Mallory played extremely well,” McGraw said. “She really had a great tourna­ment. She added so much to our team. She is big reason, along with Skylar, why our team is doing very well.” 
The Irish next took on South Carolina and dominated for most of the game en route to a 78-55 blowout. 
Senior guard Melissa Lechlitner led the way for the Irish with 15 points, and senior guard Ashley Barlow (14), Diggins (12) and junior forward Becca Bruszewski (11) all scored in double digits. 
“I loved the second half defense,” McGraw said. “I thought we did an outstanding job in the zone.” 
The Irish finished off the tournament with a game against another ranked team, No. 20 Oklahoma, to see who would come home with the tournament hardware. The Irish used a 20-0 run in the second half to outlast Oklahoma and claim the 81-71 victory and overall tournament crown. 
“Everybody wants to win, everyone is playing together and there is a great kind of chemistry when everything is going your way,” McGraw said. 
Diggins chipped in 16 points to lead the Irish in scoring for the second time in the tourna­ment. 
The win against San Diego State marked the 500th career win for McGraw as the head coach at Notre Dame, an expe­rience she says has been a blessing. 
“It means I have been here for a long time,” McGraw said. “I am just so thankful for the opportunity to coach here at Notre Dame. This is such a magical place and it has been such a blessing.” 
The Irish will next take the court Wednesday against Eastern Michigan at home in the Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
SEC 
continued from page 24 
proven to be the Achilles’ heel for the Irish thus far, Brown is confident her team can break the trend in the event of a matchup in the NCAA Tournament. Four teams from the conference, includ­ing the three previous Irish 
opponents, will host the first and sec­ond rounds of the tourna­ment. 
“Th ey’re very good, they’re all in the top 25, but I don’t think it’s nec­essarily the conference as much as we went up against three very strong teams,” throughout the season. 
“We have had pretty good balance,” Brown said. “There’s no question that our outsides, Kristen, Kaelin and Serinity Phillips, have done a great job all throughout the year as our starting outside hitters. But I do think that our middles are very offensive as well. They don’t get the ball as much as the outsides, but that’s pretty much the case on any team. If you didn’t have the balance 
“It’s a brand new then they wouldn’t be as 
season, it’s the NCAA 
successful as 
Tournament. It’s very they are.” 
easy to be motivated, With the reg­ular season 
to be up for this 
officially
whole tournament 
wrapped up, 
and to play well.” the Irish will turn their full attention to 
Debbie Brown 
their first-
Irish coach 
round matchup 
Brown said. “If you look at the NCAA Tournament, the PAC-10 has eight teams in the tournament. The Big Ten, the Big 12, they’re all pretty com­petitive. We just happened to play three very strong SEC teams this year.” 
If the Irish are to right the ship, they will need to get back to one of their greatest strengths on offense — bal­ance. Highlighted by the exceptional performances of sophomore Kristen Dealy and seniors Christina Kaelin and Serinity Phillips, the Irish have maintained a .259 attacking percentage against Ohio in the champi­
onships. Although the squad finds itself in a rut, motivation should not be an issue Friday. 
“It’s a brand new season, it’s the NCAA Tournament,” Brown said. “It’s very easy to be motivated, to be up for this whole tournament and to play well. I think we’ll be absolute­ly fine. We’re just going to get back in the gym and work on the fundamentals, that’s serv­ing and passing, and try out a few other things, and we’ll be good to go.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 


Register Now! 
BAUG-30210 
Ten Years Hence is a one-credit-hour course that will explore issues, ideas and trends likely to affect business and society over the next decade. In 2010 the series will investigate “The Future of Capitalism.” Ten Years Hence is sponsored by the O’Brien-Smith Leadership Program. business.nd.edu/tenyearshence

 January22 Video Presentation, The Ascent of Money, Part One, discussion led by Scott Malpass, Vice President and CIO and Prof. Rick Mendenhall, Finance Department Chair
 January29 Harris Diamond, Chief Executive Of.cer, Weber Shandwick
 February5 Video Presentation, The Ascent of Money, Part Two, discussion led by Prof. Paul H. Schultz, Finance Department
 March26 John Mackey, Chairman and CEO, Whole Foods Market Inc.
 April16 Catherine Mathis, Senior Vice President, Marketing and Communications, Standard & Poor’s
 TBD Two speakers to be announced 
Selected Fridays from 10:40 a.m. to 12:10 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business. Lectures are open to the public. 

“Ten Years Hence” is listed as BAUG-30210 and MBGR-60210, and is open to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s students. There are no prerequisites to enroll. You are expected to attend all lectures and be prepared to engage speakers. No unexcused absences. This is a “Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory” course. This course requires no textbook purchases, examinations or term papers. See your academic advisor or your department chair for additional detail. Registration is available online. 

page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, December 1, 2009 
FSU 
continued from page 24 
defender, which is what you want,” Waldrum said. “Henderson was following up the play and was right there to knock it in.” 
Just 51 seconds later, jun­ior forward Rose Augustin sent a corner kick across the middle that found senior for­ward Haley Ford’s head and then the back of the net. 
“As soon as 

we started tak-“[Weiss] probably had 
ing things over 

one of her best games 
a bit we got our two goals against Florida quick,” 
State.” 
Waldrum said. “It had to be 

Randy Waldrum 
really deflating for [Florida Irish coach 
State] to go into the half knowing they had played a pretty good half but were still down two goals.” 
Both teams took 14 shots, but Notre Dame was much more efficient with its shots on goal; the Irish took three shots on goal, and only one was saved, whereas the Seminoles put five shots on the net, all saved by junior goalkeeper Nikki Weiss in her seventh solo shutout of the season. 
“[Weiss] was fantastic,” Waldrum said. “As good as she has been for us through­out the playoffs and the reg­ular season, she probably had one of her best games against Florida State. She didn’t really have to stop many shots because they didn’t have any real clear cut shots on goal … but she was really good for us as she handled all those long throw-ins and crosses really well.” 

The berth in the College 
Cup is Notre Dame’s fourth in a row, and fifth in six seasons. Overall, the Irish have made it to the last weekend of college soc­cer 11 times. 
North Carolina awaits the Irish in 

College Station, Texas. The Tar Heels beat Wake Forest 5-2 on Nov. 27. Notre Dame and North Carolina met on Sept. 4 in the first game at newly-constructed Alumni Stadium. The Tar Heels won in a 6-0 rout. 
The Irish will look for their 

r e v e n g e  ag a i n s t  No r t h  
C a r o l i n a  i n  t h e  N C A A  
Semifinals Friday.  

Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Billikens 
continued from page 24 
coach Rick Majerus said accord­ing to the Web site. “He was posting up our guy and driving our guards.” 
Brey said he told Hansbrough to attempt to get to the basket — and to calm down. 
“I told him today just relax. Shooters in our program, I don’t ever talk to them when they have a tough night,” Brey said. “I thought he was able to drive it to get him started. He is a driver first and when he can drive, I think it gets him a better rhythm.” 
Harangody had 18 points and nine rebounds. Junior forward Tyrone Nash scored six points but pulled down 10 rebounds in the game. Abromaitis made all five of his free throws and scored 12 points. 
Notre Dame begins a seven-game home stand tonight when Idaho State visits the Purcell Pavilion. The Bengals (2-4) start­ed 0-3 but have won two of their last three games. They trailed the University of Missouri-Kansas City by nine in the second half Saturday but came back to win 68-65. They took their first lead with 30 seconds left and converted a one-and-one to seal the win. 
Senior guard Amorrow Morgan leads the team with 17.7 points per game and junior guard Broderick Gilchrest is behind him 

with 12.7 per game. The Bengals shoot 43.4 percent from field goal range but less than 30 per­cent of their 3-pointers hit home. The game begins at 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 



Tuesday, December 1, 2009 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 





JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Tuesday, December 1, 2009 page 24 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Team takes two of three over Thanksgiving holiday 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame went 2-1 over the Thanksgiving holiday, securing a win over Kennesaw State and beating Saint Louis but losing to Northwestern in the Chicago Invitational Challenge. 
The Irish (6-2) lost to the Wildcats on the first day of the Challenge but beat Saint Louis the next afternoon. 
In the 80-62 win over Kennesaw State on Nov. 24, forward Luke Harangody had 29 points and 15 rebounds — no surprise to Irish coach Mike Brey. 
“Sometimes even I go, ‘Yeah, 29 and 15. He did it again,’” Brey said after the game according to Notre Dame’s ath­letic Web site. 
Harangody grabbed his 1,000th career rebound in the second half of the game. Notre Dame out-rebounded the Owls 53-31 in the game. Junior forward Carleton Scott scored a career-high 11 points and junior forward Tim Abromaitis had 14. 
Notre Dame was ranked No. 23 but dropped out of the Top 25 over the weekend. 
Notre Dame shot just 32 per­cent from field goal range in its 72-58 loss to Northwestern on Thanksgiving in the first game of the challenge. Senior guard Ben Hansbrough was 1-for-10 from the floor and 0-for-7 from 3-point range. Harangody scored 21 points but shot 7-for­19 on the night. 
“It was just one of those nights where things didn’t go right for me,” Harangody told the athletic Web site. 
Northwestern led by 12 in the second half, thanks to a 12-0 scoring run, but the Irish fought back. They worked their way to within two points twice, but both times Wildcats fresh­man Alex Marcotulli hit a 3­pointer to pull away. 
The team shot much better the next day against the Billikens in a 64-52 win. Hansbrough shot 6-of-9 from field goal range and finished with 14 points. 
“The backbreaker for us was Hansbrough,” Saint Louis 
see BILLIKENS/page 22 


ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
And again 
Womentoplayinfourth straight NCAA semis 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
In front of a sold-out crowd, Notre Dame won its fourth-consecutive NCAA Quarterfinal Friday by beating top-seeded Florida State 2-0 in Tallahassee. 

“I really wasn’t expecting much of a crowd on a Friday night on Thanksgiving week­end, but credit to them the place was packed,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. “There was a parking garage behind the stadium and it was full for three levels with peo-PAT COVENEY/The Observer ple tailgating and standing Junior goalkeeper Nikki Weiss makes a save during Notre Dame’s 1-0 win over Oregon State in the third round of the NCAA Tournament. there to watch the game.” The No. 2-seeded Irish defeated No. 1-seed Florida State and will face North Carolina in the semifnal round. 


Notre Dame’s previous three quarterfinal appearances were at Alumni Field, so the team handled all of it very two goals in less than a seven minutes left in the first Iantorno sent in a really dan­road experience was a new well,” he said. “It was a great minute in the first half to pro-half and quickly put it into the gerous ball, and [senior for-one, but Waldrum said the environment, and it made it vide the difference in the corner of the goal before ward] Michele Weissenhofer team adapted well. much nicer when we scored to game. Sophomore forward Florida State goalkeeper Erin put a lot of pressure on the 
“This one was a little differ-quiet all of them.” Melissa Henderson corralled a McNulty could dive over. ent being on the road, but the The Irish (21-3-1) scored loose ball near the goal with “[Junior forward] Erica see FSU/page 22 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Irish win at Paradise Jam 
By JARED JEDICK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame notched two more victories against ranked teams this weekend and three victories overall as it won the Island Division of the Paradise Jam in St. Thomas, Virgin Islands. 
The No. 5 Irish (6-0) rolled passed No. 23 San Diego State, South Carolina and No. 20 Oklahoma at the tournament. 
“We are playing with great confidence right now,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “The whole team is playing well. It seems as though who­ever comes off the bench is ready to go, they are doing 
see BENCH/page 21 

ND VOLLEYBALL 
Losing streak unusual occurrence for squad 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
After rattling off 15 straight victories in the regular sea­son, the winning streak has become a defining theme for the Irish this year. But since falling to No. 15 Florida this weekend, the team’s second straight loss, the Irish find themselves in unfamiliar ter­ritory. 
“We just really didn’t play very well,” Irish coach Debbie Brown said. “I think the main thing was just the fundamen­tals of serving and passing. We didn’t serve very well at all, so we didn’t put pressure on them to take them out of their offense, and we didn’t receive serves well, so our passing was kind of erratic. It was the two basic fundamen­tals of volleyball that we did-n’t execute well.” 
Florida joins Tennessee and LSU as the third team from the Southeastern Conference to knock off the Irish (21-6, 14-0 Big East) in the regular season. The Gators (22-5, 16­
4) combined for a .365 attack­ing percentage en route to a decisive 3-1 (25-13, 27-29, 25-15, 25-9) victory over Notre Dame. 
Although the SEC has 
see SEC/page 21 




