
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 43: ISSUE 120 TUESDAY, APRIL 7, 2009 

Vagina Monologues' canceled Ibisyear 
For first time in eight years, Notre Dame students will not perform controversial play 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
For the first time in eight years, Notre Dame students will not perform "The Vagina Monologues" at an on-or off­campus location. 
Junior Miriam Olsen, a produc­er of last year's show, said the group of students in charge of organizing the production of "The Vagina Monologues" this year decided not to continue the show. 
"We were not forbidden by the University to do the Monologues and we didn't give up fighting," she said. 
Instead, Olsen said she, along with several other students, declined to produce the show because they believed the contro­versy on campus that follows the show is ultimately counterpro­ductive to the show's purpose. 
"What happened was that I, and some other people who have been involved in the past, feel like the "Monologues" are an amazing piece that talks about women's sexuality that can be very productive for Notre Dame students," she said. "But unfortu­nately, what happens when the "Monologues" are put on, is they turn into more of a scandal than an action piece." 
"The Vagina Monologues" were first performed at Notre Dame in February 2002 as part of a cam-
see PLAY/page 4 



Group starts petition in support of Obama 
Black Cultural Arts Council says expressions of outrage not representative of ND 
"We basically wanted to off­set the negative light," said Tipton. "The numbers reflect­ing the people who want him here are not standing up." 
"I think the opportunity is there for both viewpoints to speak, but I think most of the people are taking a lackadaisi­cal role because they know that the University isn't going to rescind the invitation," added Miller. 
To carry out an idea pro­posed by senior BCAC member Brittany Clark, Miller and Tipton plan to add more signa­
see OBAMA/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Life forun1 
•

examines Oban1a invitation 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
A Campus Ministry spon­sored forum on life issues and Catholic teachings examined the tension Notre Dame faces in its identity as a Catholic university in regard to the invitation of President Barack Obama to speak at this year's Commencement ceremony. 
Philosophy professor John O'Callahan and history pro­fessor Scott Appleby spoke to students yesterday on the pastoral issues of the Obama controversy. 
O'Callahan discussed cer­tain Catholic teachings that are universal to all humans, such as the good of assisting the poor, the evil of stealing, the good of feeding the hun­gry and the evil of lying. According to O'Callahan, these things are not a matter of Catholic faith. 
"These issues are a matter of being a good human being," not just a good Catholic, O'Callahan said. 
Of these teachings, the right to life is the most fundamen­tal, O'Callahan said. The actions we do to help others, such as feeding the sick and assisting the poor, are useless if these people's lives are not protected. 
Efforts to place innocent 
see LIFE/page 6 

Cavanaugh Hall earns top award for dorms 
ByJENN METZ 
News Writer 
The Hall President's Council honored Cavanaugh Hall with the Hall of the Year award last night at the Student Leadership Recognition Banquet; Lyons and Keough Halls took home Women's and Men's Hall of the Year, respectively. 
Junior Jess Mahon, Cavanaugh's co-president, said her residence hall's spirit and sense of community contributed to their win. 
Last year, the Chaos won hon­orable mention in the Women's Hall of the Year race, and the women won this year's Hall of the Fall. 
"This year was such a group effort," Mahon said. "We had amazing commissioners -every­one just worked really hard." 
She listed monthly dorm events, signaling Cavanaugh's dedication to "making each event the best it could be." 
The entire dorm's involvement and spirit made Mahon and sophomore Melissa Truitt's job as co-presidents, Mahon said. 
Cavanaugh's signature events, like their April Dance-a-Thou and Father-or Mother-Daughter Weekend, made their application stand out, she said. A new event added this fall, Cavanaugh-Zahm Family Week, which featured social, liturgical, academic and multicultural events with their brother dorm. 
see AWARD/page 6 

Ryan Hall preps for fall 
Rector, students excited about making dorm part ofNotre Dame 
By LIZ O'DONNELL 
News Writer 
This fall, 246 girls will call Ryan Hall home once construction on the new dorm is completed in time for its residents to move-in in mid August. 
"It's going to be so nice to live in a com­pletely new dorm with rooms and facili­ties that have not yet been used by oth­ers," said Courtney Sands, a Pangborn freshman who will move to Ryan in the fall. 
The 74,600 square-foot residence hall is being built in Notre Dame's traditional gothic style and was underwritten by the Ryan Family. 
Current Pasquerilla East (PE) Rector Breyan Tornifolio will serve as the rector for Ryan Hall. Tornifolio said she is very 
see RYAN/page 4 By ROBERT SINGER 



Assistant News Editor 
The outrage expressed on The Observer's Viewpoint page and across the Internet over the University's invitation of President Barack Obama to be Commencement speaker is not representative of the Notre Dame community, according to Matthew Tipton and Briana Miller, senior co-presidents of the Black Cultural Arts Council (BCAC), who organized a peti­tion drive Monday in LaFortune to support the deci­sion. 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, April 7, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Guilty 
Pleasures 
I think, in this day and age, everyone is pretty familiar with the concept of a guilty pleasure. BUT, in case you're not (parents sheltered you heavily, you live a monk's lifestyle devoid of popular 
culture ­ these  
things happen), a  Coleman Collins  
guilty pleasure is  
something that  
you enjoy, but for  Photographer  
whatever reason  
do not want any­ 

one knowing you enjoy. This something is most often a piece of popular cul­ture, such as a song or band or movie or book or Broadway show (or Broadway shows in general). 
It seems to me as if guilty pleasures, more often than not, tend to be the same things among certain groups of people. English majors and their ilk would call Twilight and Harry Potter their guilty pleasures; music snobs would give you big, probably female, pop acts like Taylor Swift, film snobs would spout out mainstream comedies like Zoolander and Anchorman, or else action flicks, like Die Hard and Die Hard: With a Vengeance, anyone who watches a lot of television will tell you every MTVNH1 dating show (Rock of Love, Rock of Love 2, Rock of Love Bus, Daisy of Love, Tough Love, I Love New York, I Love New York 2, ad infinitum), and so on. I think you get the picture. 
Here's my question-what makes these things different from the things that you just normally love? As a stu­dent of pop culture, I can see why Sufjan Stevens and Kelly Clarkson are different, but still love both, and for different reasons. Why is it that I'm told I should feel guilty for loving "Since U Been Gone," but not for lov­ing "Chicago"? 
I think the answer has something to do with the concept of 'legitimacy' or some notion of 'quality.' You're sup­posed to like the respectable, well made things, not ones that were made solely for mass appeal. But here's the thing -me liking Tomb Raider has nothing to do with it being a good movie (and everything to do with ani­mated statues, explosions, and the area between Angelina Jolie's neck and bellybutton), me liking it is not unfairly putting it on par with The Shawshank Redemption because I also like that movie, and it is not something I should feel guilty for. 
Here's the thing. Everyone has guilty pleasures. Anyone who tells you that they don't is too guilty about them, and is exactly the person I'm trying to reach. My plan is simple: stop feeling guilty about the things you like! You obviously like them for a reason, so who cares if it isn't because they meet some made-up quality standard. 
Embrace your guilty pleasures, and quit worrying that you'll be less cool or less respected because you think the fight scenes in Face/Off are awesome. Right now, I want you to turn to the person next to you, and say "I love [insert formerly guilty pleasure), and I'm not ashamed of it!" and really mean it. 
I mean really mean it. 
It's 2009. I think it's due time to stop being ashamed of the things we care about. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Coleman Collins at ccollin6@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: "Do YOU PLAN ON ATTENDING THE ROBOTIC FOOTBALL GAME IN STEPAN?" 








n[. ,,  "Can I even say  "Does a one­ "Why would I?  "The real  
fiNo,?,,  legged dog hop?  The Gold Team  question is if  
forfeited. "  you're going to  
attend 'Robo­ 
Tostal' at 9 a.m.  
in the Stepan  
parking lot. "  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

TOM LAfThe Observer 

The $26.3 million renovation of the south dome of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center continues. The entire project is scheduled for completion in January 2010. 
OFFBEAT IN BRIEF 

The Walsh Hall Tree Sit will take place Tuesday from 2 
p.m. to 6 p.m. on God Quad in front of Walsh Hall. The event will feature free food, music and fun. Donations will bene­fit the Arbor Day association. 
A lecture titled "Modeling Human Cancer in the Mouse" will take place Tuesday at 4 
p.m. in 101 Jordan Hall of Science. Dr. Mario Campecci, 2007 Nobel Laureate in Physiology and Medicine will speak about his innovative "knockout mice" technology. 
The Kroc Institute and the Notre Dame International Security Program will cospon­sor a lecture titled "Obama and Afghanistan: More Troops, but What Else?" Tuesday at 4:15 p.m. in C103 Hesburgh Center. Thomas A. Schweich, who is an Ambassador-in-Residence and Visiting Professor at Washington University in St. Louis will deliver the lecture. He formerly served the Bush administration as ambassador for counternarcotics and jus­tice reform in Afghanistan. 
Campus Ministry, International Student Services and Walsh Hall will host Holy Week Christian Taize Prayer Wednesday from 10:00 to 
10:30 p.m. in the Walsh Hall Chapel. The multilingual prayer service will be both communal and contemplative, with song, reading of scrip­ture, intercession and silence. The prayer service is open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH LOW 

Woman with beer can in hand starts brawl at wake 
MAGNOLIA, Ark. Sheriff's deputies said a Texas woman started a brawl at a wake in Arkansas when she arrived with a beer can in her hand. The woman, 52, faces a third­degree domestic battery charges, as does another woman, 46, over the March 29 fight. Deputies said the first woman arrived at the Christies Chapel Church with a beer can in hand and that she refused to leave. 
The first woman then allegedly grabbed a man by the face, leaving scratch marks on his lower right cheek and causing him to bleed. The man's mother, then allegedly slapped the woman and kicked another woman in the chest. 
A sheriff's report claimed the woman with the beer became "passively aggres­sive" with deputies and said that "no backwood country cop" was going to take her to jail. 
Man fined for for mailing animal feces on citation 
SIOUX FALLS, S.D. -A federal judge sentenced a Sioux Falls man to proba­tion, a fine and restitution for sending a letter contain­ing animal feces in the mail. 
Jeffrey Dezeeuw, 45, plead­ed guilty to a count of mail­ing injurious articles. 
Prosecutors said he smeared the excrement on a traffic citation, a note and cash that he sent to the Minnehaha County Clerk of Courts on July 21. 
Dezeeuw was sentenced to three years of probation, a $500 fine and ordered to pay restitution of $451.girl­friend Gina Pellicani plan to get married on April 24, 2010, the anniversary of the day they started dating four years ago. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 

Q
..... 
*9 .• *
c( 
e
(,) 
* *w** 
0 


HIGH 40 HIGH HIGH 54 HIGH 54
...I 

LOW 28 LOW LOW 31 LOW 34 

Atlanta 46 I 30 Boston 48 I 35 Chicago 44 I 32 Denver 66 I 38 Houston 72 I 49 Los Angeles 66 I 52 Minneapolis 48 I 28 New York 47 I 36 Philadelphia 49 I 33 Phoenix 92 I 60 Seattle 69 I 43 St. Louis 52 I 33 Tampa 68 I 45 Washington 49 I 32 

Tuesday, April 7, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
VIOLENCE PREVENTION INITIATIVE 
LUNCH HOUR 
VPI Lunch Hour seeks to connect Notre Dame students with local organizations that work to end violence and promote the healing of survivors. Come learn more about the missions of these organizations from their leaders and how you can help! 
Free Lunch 12:30pm-1:30pm 
April14  Ellen Kyes, Associate Director Prevention Programs and Take Ten Project Coordinator Robinson Community Learning Center  
April16  Linda Baechle, Executive Director YWCA of Saint Joseph County  
April22  Annie Envall, Assistant Director SOS of Madison Center The Rape Crisis Center of Saint Joseph County  

Gender Relations Center 311 LaFortune RSVP by April 9 at grc@nd.edu or 1-9340 
Junior's charity funds African i111prove111ents 
By AMANDA GRAY News Writer 
Eyes on Africa has been up to a lot in its short time, according to junior Jeff Lakusta, the University's campus coordinator for the foundation. 
Eyes on Africa is a government­recognized non-profit foundation committed to helping poverty­stricken areas of South Africa, according to the Foundation's Web site. 
"We started about one and a half years ago, and since our founding we've raised more than $80,000," Lakusta said. 
Now, more than 30 schools are a part of the "Campus Coordinator" system, Lakusta said. 
"Basically they serve as reps to the organization, raising funds, recruiting volunteers, and spread­ing awareness about our causes," Lakusta said. 
The Othandweni Orphanage, the initial focus of the Foundation, is still in need of help, according to the Foundation's Web site. The orphanage, which won awards for its innovation, still has unmet needs, which the Foundation attempts to offset with donations. 
The Foundation's most current project is building an eco-friendly housing development in Stanford Hills Community in Africa. The current buildings are in great dis­repair, Lakusta said. 
"We've banded together with 
several other nonprofits for the project," Lakusta said. "The BCAC (Black Cultural Arts Council) Fashion Show was actually our first fundraiser for the project." 
One hundred acres of newly rezoned land will be put aside for permanent buildings, said Lakusta. 
Eyes on Africa recently helped fund the Rupara Community Center along with the Peace Corps, Lakusta said. 
"The idea behind the Community Center is to provide a distraction to some of the negative life choices that can be detrimen­tal to one's health like drugs, alco­hol, and sexual activity," said Lakusta. 
After completion, the Center will be available for the communi­ty to learn about HIVIAIDS and other diseases, Lakusta said. 
"We also expect youth to partic­ipate in after-school activities to prevent them from visiting she­beens [local bars] and not joining other activities detrimental towards a fruitful future," Lakusta said. 
Donations can be made and merchandise can be purchased through the Foundation's Web site. 
On May 24, the Foundation will send a group to South Africa, and many are welcome, said Lakusta. Lakusta can be contacted on the Foundation's Web site. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 
Bareilles concert venue changed 
Student groups battle academic groups for rooms, auditoriums 
Peterson is already having

By SARAH MAYER 
trouble booking events for

News Writer 
next year. "I am trying to book events 

At the first Saint Mary's for next year and already College Student Government having issues," Peterson said. Association (SGA) meeting "It is hard when students try 
with its new  to have events  
board,  and there is no  
Student Activities  "The blood drive ran  space them."  to  have  
Board presi­ late and there was  Another prob­ 
dent Michele  blood in the room  lem for Peterson  
Peterson expressed concern over  where we had food, which made some  is that when the Office of Special Events cancelled  
booking rooms and  girls uncomfortable.,,  the event, they e-mailed  
auditoriums through the office of  Carissa Salvador representative  Director of Student Involvement  
Special  Student Diversity Board  Patrick Daniel  

Events. 
"Student events seems to put student groups second and academic groups first," Peterson said. "I booked O'Laughlin for SMC Tostal a while ago and they decided to override the confir­mation and not inform me until a month ago." 
Peterson stated that she booked O'Laughlin Auditorium for the musical performance of Sara Bareilles on April 16. The event was set up until Special Events took back their confirmation and gave to the space to the Saint Mary's theatre department. 
even though 
they had been dealing with her throughout the entire process. 
The concert will still be held on April 16, but it will now be at Angela Aquatic facility. 
Student Diversity Board Representative Carissa Salvador also had problems booking an event. 
"There was a blood drive in the Student Center Lounge that was ending at 4 p.m. and we [Student Diversity Board] booked it for an event starting at 7 p.m.," Salvador said. "The blood drive ran late and there was blood in the room where we had food, which made some girls uncomfort­able." 

Salvador stated that space on campus is reserved first for on-campus organizations, and outside organizations sec­ond. 
"You should get preference if you book the room first," Admissions Commissioner Jacquitta Martin, who works for Special Events, said. 
"It is not just Special Events," Martin said. "Sometimes it is building services and how fast there is a turn around." 
In other SGA news: 
+New SGA president Jenny Hoffman announced that she will continue to work on last year's board's efforts to install printers in residence halls and to extend Student Center hours by two hours each night. 
"We are here to strive to make students comfortable on their own campus," HotTman said. "They should know they have us to come to if they need anything as little as new vacuums in the dorms." 
+SGA will meet twice more before the end of the academ­ic year. 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerO1@saintmarys.edu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 7, 2009 
Play 
continued from page 1 
paign to raise awareness about violence against women, accord­ing to a Feb. 27, 2002 Observer report. 
After the first showing in See Also 2002, the 
Scene
"Monologues" became an for more on annual fixture 
"The Vagina
at Notre Dame 
Monologues"
until 2007, 
when student pages 12 and 13 organizers could not find an academic department at the 
University to sponsor the per­formance, The Observer report­ed. 
The first showing of the Monologues off-campus was then performed at South Bend's First Unitarian Church on Feb. 28, 2007. 
Last year, the Vagina Monologues returned to campus, sponsored by the sociology, anthropology and political sci­ence departments, and the pro­duction sparked debates about the tension between Notre Dame's Catholic identity and the academic freedom expected at a university. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins allowed the production to be shown on campus in 2008, as long as an academic panel discussion followed each per­formance -a decision that was criticized by Fort Wayne-South Bend Bishop John D'Arcy and several other Catholic leaders and organizations. 
Junior Kathleen Hession, who was slated to direct the show this year, said she is disappointed the "Monologues" will not occur this year. 
"The show itself is just a show," she said. "But when it comes down to it, it's the conver­sation and awareness it inspired." 
Junior Will Haley, who was stage manager for the "Monologues" for part of the production last year, said the controversy surrounding the show slowed down the process. 
Because of obstacles in secur­ing a venue on campus to hold the "Monologues," Haley said the show had to be performed later in the year than was originally planned. 
He said he believes the contro­versy that surrounds the "Monologues" every year entices students to attend and partici­pate in the show. Letting the con­troversy rest for a year could benefit the show. 
"If the word vagina wasn't in the title, I don't think anyone would take notice of it," he said. "It's the fact that it's not allowed to happen that pushes people to strive to put it on." 
Junior Angelica Hernandez, an actress in last year's show, said the controversy inspired curiosi­ty, which helped raise the show's attendance. 
"Our last two nights were sold out -technically oversold with people sitting in the aisles," Hernandez said. ''I'm pretty sure people were curious, and wanted to know what it was all about. I'm sure that helped our cause -whether the people liked it or not." 
As for the future of the "Monologues," Olsen said she hopes they will be produced again on campus. 
"I hope that they happen again and I hope that when they hap­pen again they happen under better circumstances," she said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mhuckley@nd.edu 
Ryan 
continued from page 1 
excited about the transition. 
"The challenge of starting a new hall and building a strong foundation for tradition appealed to me," Tornifolio said. "I have loved my time in PE and the women who live in PE, but I am also ready to wel­come a new community into the Notre Dame family." 
Ryan will feature a variety of rooms, ranging from traditional doubles and quads to super doubles and super quads. 
There will be a total of 81 doubles and six quads. Additionally, Ryan Hall will have four super quads as well as eight super doubles. 
Sands will live in a traditional double for the 2009-2010 school year. 
''I'm living in a double next year with one of my best friends here," she said. "My other good friends moving to Ryan are all on the same floor within close proximity to our room so we are going to have a blast." 
The super doubles are slightly larger than the average double because of their bay windows. 

According to the Office Residence Life and Housing Web site, a super quad has a traditional three-room set-up with bedrooms on each side and a common room in between. Super quads also fea­ture private bathrooms. 
Room picks for the new dorm were completed this past February after new residents were notified of their accept­ance into Ryan. 
Mason Bashaw, a freshman from Welsh Family will live in one of the super quads next year. 
"My room in particular is a quad with its own bathroom that overlooks the courtyard," she said. ''I'm so excited to be in such a beautiful dorm with all of my friends." 
The common room has a bay window and private bathroom. The bathroom contains a sink, shower and toilet. 
There will also be one triple in the dorm, as well as 17 single rooms. Six resident assistants will live in singles in the hall. 
In addition to dorm rooms, each section will contain two lounges. One of these lounges contains a sink and microwave for cooking purposes. 
A small vending area, a work­out room, and a laundry area will be located in the dorm's basement. 
On the first floor, there will be a main lounge similar to the 24­hour spaces located in each dorm, as well as a kitchen and food-serving area. There will also be sets of a stove, oven and dishwasher located on the sec­ond and third floors. 
Along with these amenities, Ryan will have the traditional amenities of the other dorms on West Quad, such as air condi­tioning, elevators and modular furniture. 
Mackey Mitchell Associates of St. Louis were the architects behind the new dorm, The con­struction manager for the proj­ect is the Skanska Corp. 
Since Ryan is new, the girls living in the dorm next year will be able to help choose the dorm's colors, mascot and sig­nature event. 
Bashaw said she is especially thrilled about helping out with this process. 
''I'm excited to be able to really influence the dorm and help to form all of the tradi­tions," she said. 

Like Bashaw, Tonrifolio also is looking forward to the new experience. 
"Bringing women in from dif­ferent communities and form­ing one new community is very exciting to me," Tornifolio said. ''I'm also excited about starting new traditions and figuring things out as we go" 
Despite being the first inhabi­tants of the dorm, neither Bashaw nor Tornifolio were worried about any challenges that may lie ahead. 
"I think there will be great things about opening a new hall and tough things as well," Tornifolio said. "I think it's one of those things that we will have to see as the year pro­gresses." 
Despite this, Tornifolio said she is eager to begin her tenure as the rector of Notre Dame's newest dorm. 
''I'm very excited to be the rector of Ryan Hall," she said. ''I'm sure that Ryan will be a great home for the women who live there and [I know] how lucky and blessed I feel to be part of it." 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 


BASILICA OF Tf~-JE SACJ:tEf) llEART 
''i( ........ j:; .............................................. tJto:"::; .... ·--~---);:: ........................................................................ T. · ............................. ·. ·.: x:o :oo..r·· 
HOLY WEEK
::.. . . ... .. .. . .. .. . . .i.. ... .. . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .::. :. :. . 
~

J::!iii"":"""" m 
PALM SUNDAY ()F --rHE L<)RD'S PASSlON. APRIL S 
5 :00 ptn (Saturday) Vigil Mass 
9:45 an1* Solemn Mass 
12:00 noon* Sunday Mass 
*Special Mass timefbr Palm Sunday oniJ' 
TUES.DAY. APRlL 7 
........,.,..,.._......_.._ ............'"""""'"'''""""""''· 
7:00 ptn Can1pus-wide Stations of the Cross (Procession departs from the Grotto) 
9:15 pn1 Opportunity for individual confession tDllows Stations in the Basilica 
l10LY Tl1URSDAY. APRIL 9 
9:00 an1 Morning Prayer 
5:00 ptn Evening Mass of the Lord"s Supper 
6:30 ptn* Adoration in the Lady Chapel 11:00 pn1 Tenebrae 
*Basilica <?lfhe Sacred Heart will remain openfi·om 6:30 p11·1 until I 2:30am 
GO(JD rRJDAY. APRIL 10 
9:00 atn Morning Prayer 
12:00 noon-3:00 pn1 Silent Hours of Prayer 
3:00 ptn Celebration of the Lord~s Passion 
7:15 pn1 Stations of the Cross 
H()LY SArURDAY. APRIL 11 9:00am Morning Prayer 
9:00 ptn The Paschal Vigil 
EAS'TER SUNDAY. /\PRIL 12 
8:00 an1* Easter Sunday Mass 10:00 an1 Solen1n Mass 
12:00 noon* Easter Sunday Mass 
7:15 pn1 Soletnn Easter Vespers 
*Special A4ass times fhr Easter Swui(~V only 
CONFESSJ()NS DU R{NG H()LY WEEK Monday 11 :00 am, 4:45 pm, 7:00 pm Tuesday II :00 am. 4:45 pm. 7:00 pm. 9:15 pm Wednesday 11:00 am, 4:45 pm. 7:00pm 
Holy Thursday 1 t :00 am to 12:00 noon, 7:00pm to 8:00pm
C-M 

(iood Friday I0:30 am to 2:30 pm, 6:30 pm to 8:30 pm
Campus Ministry 

lJoly Saturday 12:00 noon to I:00 pm. 3:00pm to 5:00pm 



ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, April 7, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Obama: U.S. not at war with Islam 
ANKAHA, Turkey -Declaring the U.S. "is not and never will be at war with Islam," President Barack Obama worked Monday to mend frayed ties with NATO ally Turkey and improve rela­tions with the larger Muslim world. 
Obama acknowledged still-raw tensions over the Iraq war but said Muslims worldwide have little in common with terrorists such as al-Qaida and have much to gain in opposing them. Reaching out, he also spoke of Muslim connec­tions in his own background. 
"We seek broader engagement based upon mutual interest and mutual respect," Obama said in a speech to Turkey's Parliament. 
It was his first visit to a predominantly Islamic nation as president, and he struck a balance between extending a hand to Muslims in general and discussing Turkey's central role in helping to bring stability to a post-war Iraq and the wider Middle East. 
Killing removes rival to Chechen leader 
MOSCOW -The assassin of a renegade Chechen warlord tossed a gold-plated pistol to the ground next to the body -a flamboy­ant coda to the death in Dubai that marked the removal of the last major rival of Chechnya's Kremlin-backed leader. 
Dubai's police chief has accused a Hussian parliamentarian -and confidant of Chechen President Hamzan Kadyrov -of masterminding the March 28 killing thou­sands of miles from Chechnya, outside a beachfront residential complex in a glitzy neighborhood of Dubai. Kadyrov on Monday defended Adam Delimkhanov, a man he called his "friend, brother and, moreover, my right hand," and said the police allega­tions against him were a "provocation" and "slander." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Parishes ask Vatican for mediation 
BOSTON -The leader of a Boston-based Homan Catholic advocacy group is in Rome to deliver a letter to the Vatican asking that bishops be instructed to enter promptly into mediation with 31 parishes that have closed or are slated to close. 
Council of Parishes co-chairman Peter Borre says the letter to be delivered Tuesday is "a last resort" aimed at getting the Vatican to prevent bishops in eight dioceses from "wrecking the Catholic church in America by shutting down viable parishes." 
The dioceses with parishioners participat­ing in the request are Allentown, Pa.; Boston; Buffalo, N.Y.; Cleveland; New Orleans; New York City; Scranton, Pa., and Springfield, Mass. 
Nebraska couple turn themselves in 
OMAHA -A couple who disappeared with their children, leading to a search of the South Dakota wilderness, turned themselves in to authorities near their Nebraska home on Monday, a sheriff said. 
Matthew and Howena Schade turned themselves in to the Knox County sheriff's officials, Sheriff Jim Janecek said in a news release. Matthew Schade was arrested on a warrant for a probation vio­lation in neighboring Antelope County, and his wife was being held by order of the Nebraska Department of Probation, he said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Agency streamlines welfare process 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana's human services agency and its vendors have streamlined the eligi­bility process for food stamps and other welfare benp,fit'> in parts of the state by trimming the size of a papnr application form and making changes in online opnrations. 
The changes, among several that were promised by the Family and Soda! Services Administration in November, went into effect last week. They were announced in an e-mail message sent to the Voluntary Community A'isistance Network, or V­CAN, a group of social service agencies that helps welfare clients apply for and receive benefits. 
ITALY 

Earthquake strikes medieval city 
Natural disaster kills over 150 people, injures 1,500 and leaves thousands homeless 
Associated Press 

L' AQUILA -Rescue workers using bare hands and buckets searched fran­tically for students believed buried in a wrecked dormitory after Italy's deadliest quake in nearly three decades struck this medieval city before dawn Monday, killing more than 150 peo­ple, injuring 1,500 and leaving tens of thousands homeless. 
The 6.3-magnitude earthquake buckled both ancient and modern build­ings in and around L'Aquila, snuggled in a val­ley surrounded by the snowcapped Apennines' tallest peaks. 
It also took a severe toll on the centuries-old castles and churches in the moun­tain stronghold dating from the Middle Ages, and the Culture Ministry drew up a list of landmarks that were damaged, including collapsed bell towers and cupolas. 
The quake, centered near L'Aquila about 70 miles northeast of Rome, struck at 3:22 a.m., fol­lowed by more than a dozen aftershocks. 
Firefighters with dogs and a crane worked fever­down with other students kets that they had thrown embraced one of his res­ishly to reach people but we had to sneak together before fleeing cuers and sobbed loudly as trapped in fallen buildings, through a hole in the stairs their homes. others placed a jacket including a dormitory of as the whole floor came Slabs of walls, twisted around his shoulders. the University of L'Aquila down," said Luigi Alfonsi, steel supports, furniture Although shaken and cov­where a half-dozen stu­22, his eyes filling with and wire fences were ered in dust, the man was dents were believed tears and his hands trem­strewn in the streets, and able to walk. trapped inside. bling. "I was in bed -it gray dust was everywhere. Some 10,000 to 15,000 
After nightfall Monday, was like it would never end A body lay on the sidewalk, buildings were either dam­rescuers found a scared­as I heard pieces of the covered by a white sheet. aged or destroyed, officials looking dog with a bleed­building collapse around Residents and rescue said. L'Aquila Mayor ing paw in the half-col­me." workers hauled debris Massimo Cialente said lapsed dorm. Relatives and Elsewhere in town, fire­from collapsed buildings about 100,000 people were friends of the missing fighters reported pulling a by hand or in a bucket homeless. It was not clear stood wrapped in blankets 21-year-old woman and a brigade. Firefighters pulled if his estimate included or huddled under umbrel­22-year-old man from a a woman covered in dust surrounding towns. las in the rain as rescuers pancaked five-story apart­from her four-story home. Premier Silvio Berlusconi found pieces of furniture, ment building where many Hescue crews demanded said in a TV interview that photographs, wallets and students had rented flats. quiet as they listened for more than 150 people diaries, but none of the Amid aftershocks, sur­signs of life from inside. were killed and more than missing. vivors hugged one another, RAI television showed 1,500 were injured. He had 
The body of a male stu­prayed quietly or tried to rescue workers gingerly already declared a state of dent was found during the call relatives. Hesidents pulling a man clad only in emergency, freeing federal daylight hours. covered in dust pushed his underwear from a funds for the disaster, and 
"We managed to come carts of clothes and blan-crumbled building. He canceled a trip to Hussia. 

Shooter sent letter to television station 
Associated Press Part of the letter reads: "I am skills. 
Jiverly Wong shooting the people." The letter reads, "I am sorry I 
BINGHAMTON, N.Y. -The man The letter was dated March 18, know a little English." who opened fire in an immigrant more than two weeks before the It indicates a delusional man center, killing 13 people before tak­shooting, which occurred in a neigh­obsessed with unidentified police he ing his own life, felt he was persecut­borhood of homes and small busi­says taunted him and tortured him, ed by police, couldn't accept his nesses. It included photos of Wong even going into his room, watching "poor life" and was intent on killing smiling with two guns, a gun permit him sleep and touching him while he himself and at least two other peo­and his driver's license. slept. The letter says police stole ple, according to a letter mailed to a The letter ends with him saying he money from his wallet and stopped television station the day of the mas­can't "accept my poor life," that he is their cars in front of him 32 times in sacre. taking on the job of a judge and will efforts to make him crash into them. 
The letter's authenticity could not "cut my poor life." He writes "at least "I never hit the car," the letter immediately be verified Monday. It two people with me go to return to states. was mailed to News 10 Now, in the dust of the earth." In a statement, the city of Syracuse, and postmarked Friday, Police speculated Wong, who was Binghamton, which is about 140 the day Wong went into the ethnically Chinese but was from miles northwest of New York City, American Civic Association commu­Vietnam, was angry over losing a job said it was reviewing the letter as nity center and started shooting. and frustrated about his poor English evidence in the investigation. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, April 7, 2009 
Oba01a 
continued from page 1 
tures in support of Obama's invitation to the 360 they col­lected Monday night. They will expand their drive to the dining halls and will unite with other like-minded organizations. In the last week of April, a coali­tion plans to submit the peti­tion to University President Fr. John Jenkins. 
The College Democrats, the NAACP, the Black Students Association, La Alianza, the First Class Steppers and the Hispanic alumni group MEChA have given their support to the petition drive, according to Miller. 
"It's overwhelming how much support we've gotten from organizations that don't have anything to do with politics," Tipton said. 
In the near future, the BCAC plans to set up a forum with group leaders who oppose Obama's invitation to deliver the Commencement speech to discuss the event in the larger context of Catholic teaching and national politil:s, according to Miller. But she and Tipton did not hesitate to share the views that motivated them to organize the petition drive. 
"Being a Catholic isn't based on one particular thing and I just think that more tolerance is needed in this community," said Tipton. 
"I want people to realize that this is the President of the United States that they're try­ing to refuse," added Miller. "American society is looking at us like we're an anomaly." 
Sophomore signee Brandon Boston emphasized the impor­tance of maintaining an exchange of ideas on campus. 
"I have a lot of friends who have spoken out against Obama coming," he said. Ilis support for the petition is "just to show that we can be adem­ocratic kind of school." 
Senior signee Kaitlin Ivester disputed the idea that support for Obama clashes with Catholic values. 
"He doesn't represent all of the Catholic values, but he rep­resents most of them. I want to show [Obama] that there are a lot of people want him to cre­ate a welcoming atmosphere." 
For Tipton and Miller, Obama's Commencement speech will be an experience of personal fulfillment as well as an opportunity to think about abstract notions of Catholic identity. 
"I think it's an honor," Miller said. "With me approaching the real world only in a couple of weeks, who's better to welcome me into it than the President of the United States? You've got the most powerful man coming to say 'congratulations on a job well done.' It's motivational, especially since he overcame so much adversity." 
"When I got word of it, I was almost in tears -it's my grad­uation," Tipton said. "It's the President of the United States and that is special in itself. For it to be the first black presi­dent, it adds another layer to it. He's a beacon of hope that we can come out of poverty and come out of these situations that we're in." 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 


Life 
continued from page 1 
lives into the hands of others turn their lives into a private matter instead of a public issue. Moreover, if their lives are no longnr a matter of public ehoice, thnn obliga­tions to help those people cannot be imposed, accord­ing to O'Callahan. 
"Private choices cannot impose public res ponsibili­ties," ()'Callahan said. "If the life of your unborn child is a matter of private choice, it is unreasonable to insist that I should care for it because you decided to let it live." 
O'Callahan also explained that since the right to life is the most fundamental human right, pushing it aside is hard to justify. 
"What wrongs does one weigh against the destruc­tion of human life?" O'Callahan asked. 
Appleby discussed the 
Award 
continued from page 1 
"We had tons of participa­tion from Cavanaugh and Zahm," Mahon said. "The Week was really well received." 
The Chaos' commitment to going green, with its many environmentally focused events, also added to its application, she said. 
A testament to the resi­dence hall's sense of commu­nity: Mahon said the girls had set up a texting-chain, excit­ed about the results being announced. By the time Mahon and Truitt returned to Cavanaugh, they were greet­ed with a crowd and a home­made poster. 
"It really represents what Cavanaugh is all about -a community of women who work so hard together really makes Cavanaugh a great community to live in," Mahon said. 
Truitt echoed her co-presi­dent. 
"It really was just a team effort. Cavanaugh is an amazing place to be," she said. 
The girls plan to continue their programming into the next academic year. 
Junior Alan Geygan, Keough Hall president, said he was most proud of his dorm's transformation this academic year. 
"Probably the biggest thing was this is the first time responsibilities that he per­sonally believes Notre Dame faces as a Catholic University. 
Ilc said that although many Catholics voted for Obama, few did so without examining both his and their own beliefs. 
"They chose the champion of the poor and working class," Appleby said. "And they tried to overlook the candidate who implied that an informed moral judgment of the most crucial life issue facing the world is 'above my pay grade.'" 
Appleby cited the recent letters to the editor of The Observer arguing against the invitation to Obama as examples of those who do not understand the full implications of the issue. 
"For Catholics like me who share an aversion to the president's moral judgment on abortion and stem cell research, these reactions are understandable." Appleby said. However, they are "wrong-headed on at least three grounds." 

First, Catholics should not denounce the rest of society but rather embrace it and attempt to continue work for redemption. 
Second, Catholics should also not "allow the great to become the enemy of the good," according to Appleby. 
Finally, Catholics should honor Obama for his willing­ness to engage his oppo­nents. Appleby said that both the Church and the nation need a "viable Catholic inter­locutor" for Obama's admin­istration. 
Additionally, as a Catholic institution, Notre Dame is obligated to respect the indi­vidual opinions of others while still working for posi­tive change in the world. Thus, the University is obli­gated to make an effort to engage Obama more than just inviting him to com­mencement, according to Appleby. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 
we've won," he said. "This Council meetings. will really get us out in the "We wanted to put Keough open. People sometimes for­on the map -not only on get about Keough on West eampus, but in the dorm. We Quad." built dorm pride and got peo­
Geygan said the Kangaroos ple excited," he said. "To see improved on their hall pro­people slapping hands and gramming, putting on their celebrating Keough at the signature Chariot Race that end of the year is huge ­
received  a  they're proud  
turnout of over  of  the  dorm  
300 people, with  and  not  just  
18 residence halls besides Keough repre­sented. The addition of a dorm lec­ture series, fea­ "It really was just a team effort. Cavanaugh is an amazing place to ,be.  their sections." Lyons hall president jun­ior Duda Cardoso was equally thrilled at the news of  
turing adminis­ the award.  
trators and key  Melissa Truitt  "We're really  
figures at Notre  Cavanaugh co-president  haPPY·"  she  

Dame, ranging from University President Fr. John Jenkins and University Presidents Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh and F~ Edward "Monk" Malloy to Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves and Notre Dame Athletic Director Jack Swarbrick. 
The dorm's representatives at the Banquet were as well received as Cavanaugh's when they returned to West Quad. 
"As soon as we got back, the guys were excited. We have a good community over here, we care about each other," he said. 
The award shows all the work Geygan and the men from Keough have put in this year, he said, citing an entire dorm effort, with over 30 participants in weekly Hall 
said. "I can't 
stop smiling." 

The entire residence hall worked hard all year, she said, citing the commissioners' work on pro­gramming. 
Lyons' new event this year -September's Cirque de Lac -drew many participants, and the expanded Mara Fox Run and alcohol awareness events added to their applica­tion, Cardoso said. 
"Every dorm thinks they're the best dorm ever, but Lyons is a really unique, tight com­munity. Everyone in the dorm knows each other, everyone helps each other," she said. "The dorm is really united, and l think that's the main thing that showed through in our application." 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Tuesday, April 7, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 

Jones 7,975.85 -41.74 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,142 109 2,569 1,992,268,171 

AMEX NASDAQ 
NYSE S&P 500 NIKKEI (Tokyo) FTSE 100 (London) 3,993.54 -36.13 


COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
BK OF AMERICA (SAC) -1.58 -0.12 7.48 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -0.78 -0.66 83.60 FINANCIAL BULL3X (FAS) -6.81 -0A9 6.71 FORD MOTOR CO (F) +15.00 +0.52 3.77 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +1.10 +0.032 2.939 13-WEEK BILL -7.50 ·0.015 0.185 30-YEAR BOND +0.99 +0.037 3.758 5-YEAR NOTE +0.74 +0.014 1.899 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.13 52.51 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -11.60 897.30 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) +1.03 88.83 
Exchange Rates YEN 100.5850 EURO 1.3350 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2451 BRITISH POUND 1.4684 
IN BRIEF 
Empire State Building to go green 
NEW YORK -The Empire State Building has loomed more than a quarter-mile high over the city for decades, and now it will stand for some­thing new as it gets a green makeover intended to serve as an example to the world. 
The $20 million project is expected to save the building's owners $4.4 million annually in ener­gy costs, and will reduce its carbon dioxide emissions by 105,000 metric tons during the next 15 years, equal to the annual emissions of 17,500 cars. 
Former President Bill Clinton and New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg both attended the announcement on the Empire State Building's 80th floor Monday and said they hope the envi­ronmental changes at the iconic skyscraper will serve as a model for buildings around the world. 
Clinton, whose foundation is helping with the environmental upgrades, said the only way to get property owners worldwide to make over their buildings is by setting an attention-getting example. 
NY attorney general files fraud charges 
NEW YORK-New York's attorney gener­al filed civil fraud charges Monday against a hedge fund manager who funneled $2.4 billion to Wall Street swindler Bernard Madoff without telling clients where their money was going. 
The complaint accuses J. Ezra Merkin, the former chairman of GMAC Financial Services, of telling a "panoply of lies" to give the impression that he had a sophisti­cated investment strategy, when in fact he was simply a middleman who handed most of his cash to Madoff. 
A majority of investors had no idea where their money really went until after Madoff's arrest in December, when Merkin sent a brief note informing them that their money was probably gone forever, the suit said. 
"Merkin duped individual investors, non­profits, and charities into believing he was responsibly managing their investments, when in actuality he was dumping them into history's largest Ponzi scheme," Attorney General Andrew Cuomo said in a statement. 
Gates proposes defense budgetcuts 
Overhaul plans include slashing of several giant weapons programs 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The 
nation should stop pour­
ing billions into futuristic, 
super-expensive F-22 jet 
fighters, pull the plug on 
new presidential helicop­
ters and put the money 
into systems U.S. soldiers 
can use against actual 
foes, Defense Secretary 
Robert Gates declared 
Monday. 

Major overhaul plans 
laid out by the Obama 
administration's Pentagon 
chief would slash several 
giant weapons programs 
-and thousands of civil­
ian jobs that go with 
them. With recession 
unemployment nsmg, 
Congress may balk at 
many of the cuts in Gates' 
proposed $534 billion 
budget for the coming 
year. 

Still, despite all the talk 
of cuts, the total figure 
would rise from $513 bil­
lion for 2009, and Gates 
spoke of using money 
more wisely, not asking 
for less. 

Gates, a holdover from 
the Bush administration, 
said he is gearing 
Pentagon buying plans to 
the smaller, lower-tech 
battlefields the military is 
facing now and expects in 
coming years. He also said 
he hopes lawmakers will 
resist temptations to save 
outdated system that keep hiding along the side bombs in Iraq or he wants time to figure 
defense plants humming Afghanistan-Pakistan bor­hunting insurgents who out a better solution. 
in their home districts. der. vanish into the Afghan A $160 billion Army sys­
The Pentagon, he said, "We must rebalance this mountains. tem of combat vehicles, 
wants to move away from department's programs in Gates says the Pentagon flying sensors and bomb­
both outdated weapons order to institutionalize won't continue the F-22 hunting robots would be 
systems conceived in the and finance our capabili­program beyond 187 reduced, too, as would 
Cold War and futuristic ties to fight the wars we planes already planned. plans to build a shield of 
programs aimed at super­are in today and the sce­Bethesda, Md.-based missile interceptors to 
sophisticated foes. narios we are most likely Lockheed, the nation's defend against attacks by 
Gates said he would to face in the years largest defense contractor, rogue countries. The Navy 
expand spending on ahead," he said. has said almost 95,000 would revamp plans to 
equipment that targets Major programs facing jobs could be at stake. buy new destroyers. 
insurgents, such as $2 bil­cuts include the F-22 Gates also said no to a A new communications 
lion more on surveillance Raptor, the military's most new fleet of Marine One satellite would be 
and reconnaissance expensive fighter plane at presidential helicopters -scrapped, and a program 
equipment. That would $140 million apiece. An with a price tag of $13 bil­for a new Air Force trans­
include funding for 50 action movie come to life, lion, more than double the port plane would be 
new Predator drones such sleek, fast and nearly original budget. He said ended. 
as those that have rained invisible, the Raptor is ill­new helicopters would be Congress reacted cau­
down missiles on militants suited to deterring road-needed at some point but tiously. 

Officials crackdownonhousing scams 
Associated Press "If you are struggling to make the radar." 
your mortgage payment, or if you The Federal Trade Commission 
WASHINGTON -Federal and are facing foreclosure, stay away has sent warning letters to 71 com­state officials are cracking down on from anyone who says that they panies it says were running suspi­mortgage modification scams, will save your home for money cious advertisements. The agency accusing "criminal actors" of prey­upfront," Illinois Attorney General also said it filed three new com­ing on desperate borrowers caught Lisa Madigan told reporters in plaints against Irvine, Calif.-based up in the nation's housing crisis. Washington. Federal Loan Modification Law 
Government officials said Monday Officials say such operations Center, Newport Beach, Calif.­that scammers are seeking to take almost always are fraudulent, and based Bailout.hud-gov. us, and advantage of borrowers in danger that help is available for free from Clearwater, Fla.-based Home of default by charging them upfront government-approved housing Assure LLC, and the operators of fees of $1,000 to $3,000 for help counselors. those companies. with loan modifications that rarely, "These are predatory schemes Bill Anz, founding partner of if ever, pay off. designed to rob Americans of their Federal Loan Modification Law 
The frauds often involve compa­savings and potentially. their Center, defended his operation, nies with official-sounding names homes," Treasury Secretary saying he will offer a refund to any­designed to make borrowers think Timothy Geithner said. "We will one who doesn't get a modification. they are using the Obama adminis­shut down fraudulent companies About 20 percent of the 5,000 cus­tration's efforts to help modify or more quickly than before. We will tomers have received a modifica­refinance 7 million to 9 million target companies that otherwise tion so far, he said, with more in mortgages. would have gone unnoticed under the works. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, April 7, 2009 
New team takes over Econ. Club 

ByCATERYAN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame's Economics Club was marginalized for the past few years due to an unstable leadership structure. The club's new leaders insist that their organization is once again rele­vant. 
The club is under the new leadership of co-presidents Josh Garrett and Shae McCarthy, who will be assisted by director of marketing and recruiting Adam Carlson and treasurer Frankie Pires. All of these offi­cers are juniors who said are excited and determined to reestablish this club and leave their legacy before graduating next year. 
They have also taken steps tu ensure that the club will contin­ue after they graduate. 
"We have written a constitu­tion to have people elected at the beginning of each school year," McCarthy said. 
"What is important now is to build interest so we can replace the current structure," Garrett said. 
Although a leadership struc­ture has been successfully implemented, the oflicers want to stress that there are limitless opportunities for underclass­men. 
"Due to the fallout of the last couple of years, we are working with a large budget," Carlson said. 
This large budget will allow underclassmen to create and foster their own ideas for the growing club. These under­classmen who take initiative will have free reign to gain leadership positions at any time. 
Current ideas for next year and beyond include: bringing in speakers, holding discussions, showing movies and playing a stock market game. 
Making connections with alumni to assist students in net­working and to help them learn how to implement economic principles into a variety of careers is also a goal. 
Students of all majors are encouraged to join because during these unstable economic times, economics is relevant "for anyone trying to get a job," Pires said. 
Right now the officers are meeting once a week to estab­lish their leadership team and to plan for next year. 
Economics Club will go far beyond a strictly academic club. It will also be a social opportu­nity for students who want to learn more about the economy and interact with students of all majors. 
An informational meeting for Economics Club will be held on Thursday, April 16 at 6 p.m. in 209 DeBartolo Hall. Food will be served and all are welcome, according to the officers. 
Contact Cate Ryan at cryanlO@nd.edu 

Fifth of Arrterican four-year-olds are obese 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -A striking new study says almost 1 in 5 American 4-year-olds is obese, and the rate is alarmingly high­er among American Indian chil­dren, with nearly a third of them obese. 
Researchers were surprised to see differences by race at so early an age. 
Overall, more than half a mil­lion 4-year-olds are obese, the study suggests. Obesity is more common in Hispanic and black youngsters, too, but the dispari­ty is most startling in American Indians, whose rate is almost double that of whites. 
The lead author said that rate is worrisome among children so young, even in a population at higher risk for obesity because of other health problems and (~eonomie disadvantages. 
"The magnitude of these dif­ferences was larger than we expected, and it is surprising to see differences by racial groups present so early in childhood," said Sarah Anderson, an Ohio State University public health researcher. She conducted the research with Temple University's Dr. Robert Whitaker. 
Dr. Glenn Flores, a pediatrics and public health professor at University of Texas Southwestern Medical School in Dallas, said the research is an important contribution to stud­ies documenting racial and eth­nic disparities in children's weight. 
"The cumulative evidence is alarming because within just a few decades, America will become a 'minority majority' nation," he said. Without inter­ventions, the next generation "will be at very high risk" for heart disease, high blood pres­sure, cancers, joint diseases and other problems connected with obesity, said Flores, who was not involved in the new research. 
The study is an analysis of nationally representative height and weight data on 8,550 preschoolers born in 2001. Children were measured in their homes and were part of a study conducted by the govern­ment's National Center for Education Statistics. The results appear in Monday's Archives of Pediatrics & Adolescent Medicine. 
Almost 13 percent of Asian children were obese, along with 16 percent of whites, almost 21 percent of blacks, 22 percent of Hispanics. and 31 percent of American Indians. 
Children were considered obese if their body-mass index, a height-weight ratio, was in the 95th percentile or higher based on government BMI growth charts. For 4-year-olds, that would be a BMI of about 18. 
For example. a girl who is 41f2 years old, 40 inches tall and 42 pounds would have a BMI of about 18. weighing 4 pounds more than the government's upper limit for that age, height and gender. 

ND Filn1aker screens Haiti docun1entary 
Special to The Observer 
"The Road to Fondwa," a documentary film that chronicles the stories of Haitian citizens and their engagement with the country's quest for devel­opment, will be screened April 16 at Notre Dame. 
The film, which was directed by Justin Brandon, a 2004 Notre Dame graduate and South Bend native, will be shown at 6 p.m. and 8:30 
p.m. in the Montgomery Theater of the LaFortune Student Center. The event is free and open to the public. 
The screening celebrates the culmination of a two­year journey undertaken by two 2005 Notre Dame graduates, Dan Scnorr and Brian McElroy, who set out to create a film that captures the strug­gles and joys of rural Haiti. Schnorr and McElroy were inspired to create the film while liv­ing as volunteers at the University of Fondwa in Haiti for a year following their graduation. Brandon became involved in the 
project as a cameraman and shot the film in Haiti for five weeks the follow­ing summer. 
Screenings at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College will kick off the film's national university and festival screening tour. 
"We are thrilled to be returning to South Bend to screen 'The Hoad to Fondwa, "' said Brandon. "This project would never have been possible with­out the incredible support of the entire South Bend community, and we are looking forward to launch­ing our university and film festival tour at the place where it all began." 
The presentation of "The Hoad to Fondwa" is spon­sored by Notre Dame's Haiti Working Group, Mendoza College of Business, College of Science and 17 other departments. 
For more information, to view the film trailer or to purchase a DVD, visit the official "Road to Fondwa" Web site at http://fond­wa.org. 


Now £easing Por 2009-2010 
.Jlpp{y r:roaay £imiteaSpace.J.f.vaifa6felI I 
D_fferino 71ie C!Jest <J?gnta{Cf@.tes in ll'own! $99 'For 1n :Mont/is rf<cnt 11-itli 12 :Montli. Lease! $300 D_ffJ·<~ :Mont/is <Rgnt 11-itli 9 :Month Lease! 'Free.Jt.pplication 'Fee 'ForStudents '{;f}it/i. J.CD.! Cfose to Campus! 
eastle1'oint
A t -# ~11011 Cl.evel.-d Bd. Sout:ll Bead, DJ 46637 
. par. 11Je/l,s aoae: (574) n:~-•uo F-.: (5'14J n2-•:u4 ...,...dclau.com 

~April?, 2006 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
AP begins ca111paign to prevent Internet copyright violations 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO The Associated Press and the newspaper industry plan an aggressive effort to track down copyright violators on the Internet and try to divert traf­fic from Web sites that don't properly license news content, the AP board announced Monday. 
The not-for-profit news cooperative also said it will cut fees by $3 5 million for U.S. newspapers in 2010 -on top of a $30 million reduction that took effect this year -and loosen its long-standing requirement for two years' notice to cancel AP service. 
The financial moves are part of an overhaul of the AP's poli­cies in the face of extraordi­nary financial hardship for newspapers. The changes were announced at the AP's annual meeting in San Diego, along with the copyright initia­tive launched by the AP's board, which is made up large­ly of newspaper executives. 
"We can no longer stand by and watch others walk off with our work under some very misguided, unfounded legal theories," said Dean Singleton, the AP's chairman and the chief executive of newspaper publisher MediaNews Group Inc. 
"We are mad as hell, and we are not going to take it any more," he added, prompting applause in the meeting. 
Specifics behind the initiative are still being worked out. One idea under development would be to create a system that can help track whether news con­tent is being legally distributed online. The AP also said it will work with newspapers and broadcasters to direct readers to "landing pages" that could offer news from the AP and its members, rather than unau­thorized sites. 
Sue Cross, an AP senior vice president, emphasized that the initiative could take many forms. "It's a significant move for the industry to work together," she said. 
Copyright is an especially thorny issue for the AP and newspapers, which have seen their material spread on the Internet far beyond their direct control in a cut-and­paste age. 
The AP has tangled with bloggers over the extent to which "fair use" principles should allow them to post AP text on their sites. The cooper­ative also has sued online news aggregators over copy­right and is embroiled in a closely watched lawsuit with artist Shepard Fairey, who made iconic Barack Obama campaign posters out of an image that originated with an AP photo. 
Wendy Seltzer, a fellow at Harvard's Berkman Center for Internet and Society, and Fred von Lohmann, a senior staff attorney who specializes in intellectual-property issues at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, both said they needed more details to deter­mine what effects the AP ini­tiative would have. 

The fee reductions are meant to help newspapers deal with another huge challenge ­their finances. 
The cuts in the cost of AP service are expected to aver­age just under 20 percent but will vary widely, depending on what content newspapers buy, the AP said. It unveiled a two­tier price structure -a "Member Choice Complete" package with full access to AP reporting and a "Member Choice Limited" option with minimal national and world news. 
The fee cuts this year and next will mean that the AP's revenue from member news­papers in 2010 is expected to be about $135 million -one­third less than what it was in 2008, the AP said. Next year, newspapers are expected to account for 20 percent of the AP's total revenue, Singleton said, down from about 25 per­cent now. 
The AP's revenue grew 5.3 percent last year to $747.7 million, marking its largest percentage increase since 2004, thanks partly to growth in new media, video and photo archive markets. Excluding the Beijing Summer Olympics and the U.S. presidential election, which enabled the AP to sell more content, the cooperative said revenue grew 3.2 percent. 
The Olympics and the presi­dential election also made the AP incur higher expenses, one reason that pretax profit fell 18 percent to $37.3 million. Net income, however, rose 4.5 percent to $25.1 million because of lower tax expenses. The AP remained debt-free, though its cash balance dropped 26 percent to $34.5 million at the end of last year. 
Despite healthy indicators, the AP said it is facing unusu­ally tough times. Tom Brettingen, the AP's senior vice president and chief rev­enue officer, said revenue in 2009 is expected to fall to around $700 million. 
"The new member pricing program, coupled with attri­tion in renewals, will result in a revenue decline not seen by the company since the Great Depression," the AP's annual report reads. "To counter this, we must reduce our expense base." 
No decisions have been reached on how to cut costs, Brettingen said, but he reaf­firmed the company's plans, announced in November, to trim its payroll costs by 10 percent this year. The AP, which has a global staff of 4,100 people, still hopes to achieve most of the cuts through attrition. 
About 180 newspapers-14 percent of the AP's U.S. news­paper membership -have threatened to leave the AP, including The Columbus (Ohio) Dispatch, the Star Tribune of Minneapolis and newspapers owned by Tribune Co. Reasons vary, but many complaints center on cost. 

Brettingen said the rate of cancellations waned in antici­pation of Monday's announce­ment. Members have generally welcomed broad outlines of the plan as it was explained to them over the last three months, he said. 
Starting Jan. 1, members can cancel their service with one year's notice. But those who agree to give two years' notice will pay 3 percent less for their AP services, Singleton said. 
In 2007, the AP's board approved an overhaul of the news cooperative's fee struc­ture. It called for a two-tier system that would have given newspapers a basic package for breaking news and the option of buying a premium service called AP Complete, with analyses, enterprise and other additional stories. 
The AP suspended the plan last October after some mem­bers complained it didn't go far enough at cutting their costs. 
Under the revised structure announced Monday, newspa­pers with Member Choice Complete -the full run of AP reporting -can cut costs by declining any of four enhanced packages, which are sports, financial, analyses and lifestyles, Brettingen said. Likewise, newspapers with Member Choice Limited can add any of those four packages for an extra fee. 


THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, April 7, 2009 
TODAY'S STAFF QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports John Tierney Alex Barker Liz O'Donnell Douglas Farmer 

Emma Driscoll Alex West Graphics Scene "It is a very sad thing that Madeline Nies Jess Shaffer nowadays there is so little useless 
information. " 
Viewpoint Lauren 

Oscar Wilde 
Brauweiler 

Irish dramatist, novelist and poet 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"One word f!ees us ofall the weight 
and pain oflife: That word is love." 
Sophocles Greek tragic dramatist 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Merz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
SPORTS EDITOR: Man Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) (i3J-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR·IN·CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 kking5<~nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoind@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
, H rll ,1; ,ailiarnO 1 @saimmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame duLac and Sainr Mary's College. Editorial content, including adverrisemenrs, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse adverrisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor> and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leners is encouraged. Leners to the Ediror must he signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chieffenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000} is publtihed Monday through Friday t'X<:ept during exam and Vdc:atton pcrivd\. A ~uh.scripfion w The Ohscrw:r is $110 for one academk ~; $65 for one semester. 
The Obsc:tver is published ar: POSTMASTER 024 Soorb Dining Hall Send addrtss correaions to: Notre D.um, IN <i6556-0779 TheO~nrer Periodical posrage paid ar Notre Dame P.O. Box779 and <~:dditional mailing offices. 024 South Dining HaU 
Noue Dame, IN 4655<Hl779 
The Obsenrer is a mc:mber ofthe As5oci.ated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 

Pro-choice 
One of our most celebrated liberties in America is the freedom of conscience, or the freedom to hold and aet upon consci­entious judgments. It was the motivating factor in the Bush administration's strengthening of what are common­ly known as "eon­science" laws that protect physicians and other health care providers from discrimina­tion if they refuse to participate in medical proce­dures that raise religious or other conscientious objections. 
What sort of dis­crimination? In the past, health care providers who refuse to, say, participate in abortion procedures; have faced harassment, intimidation, and retribution in the form of denials of pro­motions and educational opportunities, and even the loss of employment. 
Such laws have been in place since the 1970s, but the Department of I lealth and Human Services has done little to enforce them, and many providers remain unaware of their existence. Thanks to President Bush's efTorl<;, these laws are now provided with real executive power. President Obama, however, plans to chal­lenge the letter of the law by eliminating the very regulations that help enforce them. 
In an announcement that gained little coverage from our ever-vigilant news media, the Obama administration pro­posed its intentions to rescind the meas­ures for the purpose of eliminating the potential "ambiguity and confusion." Considering the fact that the Bush admin­istration's new regulation clarified the laws and aided their enforcement, it could 
· very well be that Obama's attempt to do away with the regulation is nothing but a thinly-veiled attempt to pander to the pro­choice movement. More disturbing, how­ever, is how Obama's position on the mat­ter raises questions about his party's com­mitment to religious liberty, especially 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
The TSA and civil liberties 
While I agree with Ben Linskey that the TSA has created nothing but "security theater" at our airports, his argument that privatization is the answer fails for two reasons, both of them rooted in constitutional law ('The tyranny of the TSA," April 6). The first is that, while the Fourth Amendment pro­hibits unreasonable searches and seizures, and imposes a warrant requirement, it is not violated by the TSA's practices, however invasive. Every right and liberty granted in the Bill of Rights can be surrendered voluntarily. You can give up your right to free speech when you sit quietly at a rally, or your right to the free exercise of religion by not going to Church. Likewise, if you willingly submit to a seareh, you waive your Fourth Amendment rights. That's what you're doing when you walk through security at an airport; it's avoluntary act. 
The second problem with Mr. Linsky's argument in favor of the privatization of airport security as a way to protect our personal liberties is that the Fourth Amendment only applies to governmental actors. While many people read the amend­ment to provide for an affirmative liberty, all it does is restrict 
unless you're a doctor 
when it conflicts with their agenda to pro­motn ambiguous "reproductive rights." 
But before we delve into the realm of polities, let us examine the reasoning behind opposition to the existenee of eon­science laws. 
Conscience law critics ollon point to the responsibility that health care providers have to their patients, which they believe overrides any moral or rnligious bnliels they might espouse. Whnn a patient is in nned of a medical proeedurn. they argue, it is the duty of the physician or hospital to provid1~ the procedure. Conseinnee laws unfairly disadvantage people who do not have easy access to a variety of modieal institutions or practitioners because they may be denied assistanen by providers who refuse to partake in procedures on religious or moral grounds. 
Yet despite thes1~ daims, lim:ing physi­cians and hospitals to partake in actions they find morally reprehensible is not the answer because responsibilities to patients simply do not trump constitution­ally-supported rights that hold a cher­ished place in the history of democratic thought. The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. in a 1975 ruling in the ease of Taylor v. St. Vincent's llospital, states, "If lal hospital's refusal to perform steriliza­tion lor, by implication, abortion! infringes upon any constitutionally cognizable right to privacy, such infringement is out­weighed by the need to protect the free­dom of religion of denominational hospi­tals 'with religious or moral scruples against sterilizations and abortions."' Thus no rationale, no matter how sound, can justify overriding a right that is pro­tected by the First Amendment's provision that forbids Congress from making laws that infringe upon the free practice of reli­gion. 
On certain issues, the Democratic Party appears to understand the sanctity of the freedom to express one's religious and moral beliefs, in particular those of minority religions. They have stood against measures they believe undermine what they believe should be a strict sepa­ration between church and state. Yet when it comes to religious beliefs that they disagree with personally, especially those of most Christian denominations, 
government action. See United States v. Jacobsen, 466 U.S. 109 (1984): "This Court has [ ... 1consistently construed this protection as proscribing only governmental action; it is whol­ly inapplicable to a search or seizure, even an unreasonable one, effected by a private individual not acting as an agent of the Government or with the participation or knowledge of any governmental official." Nothing whatsoever would prevent private sere.ening organizations from being even more inva­sive. 
Considering the still-present paranoia regarding air travel, it's likely that instead of creating a race to the bottom, toward less invasive, less secure practices, privatization would result in a race towards more screening, exactly what Mr. Linskey wants to avoid. 
Jacob Vos third year law off campus April6 

they have no qualms about creating gov­
ernment mandates that suppress the fn~e 
expression of these practices, such as 
bans on school prayer and the removal of 
monuments displaying the Ten 
Commandments in public places. If. for 
instance, physicians of the Muslim faith 
were bringing up objections to performing 
proeodures that contradicted their reli­
gious bnliefs. I can't envision the ACLU 
lighting against measures that would pre­
vent discrimination against these people. 
The Democrats' commitment to religious 
liberty is largely conditional on whose 
religious liberty is at stake. 
Furthermore, the added dimension of 
reproductive issues like abortion compli­
cates the matter. As his Senate record has 
shown, Obama is an ardent defender of 
abortion rights, going as far as sponsoring 
legislation that would allow for the killing 
of infanl'> who manage to survive and are 
born alive despite abortion attempts. 
When combined with his party's inherent 
tendeney to distrust Christian beliefs, it is 
obvious why he would want to rescind 
any measures that interfere with the 
alleged rights of patients to receive abor­
tions on demand. In claiming to be "pro­
choice" when it comes to having an abor­
tion, Democrats are surprisingly anti­
choice on the matter of doctors and hospi­. tals choosing whether or not to provide 
them. 

Unfortunately for Obama and the Democrats, repealing Bush's regulations will not eliminate the conscience laws that have remained on the books for over three decades. Yet it will be up to health care providers to defend themselves against discrimination based on their reli­gious and moral beliefs, a protection that . should be the responsibility of the hr!'rWi~ . of government that enforces the law. · · · 
If you would like to voice your objec­
tion to the President's efforts to rescind 
the Bush regulation. please visit 
www.ADoctorsRight.com before April 9. 
Christie Pesavento is in Washington, 
D.C. and can be reached at cpe­saven@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 
r-----­
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Tuesday, April 7, 2009 page 11 

Of the battle at Walsh's gate 
Sing, 0 Muse, of the rage ofSorin, ofthe otter-band, valorous, justice-loving, yet fated to die. Sing of the rage that cost the College so many good otters and sent so many vital, hearty souls down to the dreary House of Death. 
Tell, 0 Muse, ofthis Steve Lechner donn of many devices, that wandered many Guest ways after it had waged Columnist war upon the Amazon's nation. 
Nigh on seven days ago it were that they sprang to arms 'gainst the terror that invades our lands. Though some warned them of the dangers they tempted, yet laugh did they at such wisdom in counsel 
But what has conspired since they set out? ls blood yet spilt? Or does the otter-band still sit comfortably in its tower of jasper and adamant feasting upon clams and mead? Did their words last Monday, then filled with justified rage, merely hide shivering spines of yellow? 
Nea, I tell ye! Aloft I have spied them, not swimming in glee as they did of old in ages of peace, but with spear in paw and helm on head crying great cries of war! 
For swiftly did their might flash upon the enemy, even as the hammer of Thor sparkles in the twilight of yet greater storms, and as unforgiving as Odin's rune-spear will be their judgment once it finds accomplishment. I tell ye of an epic battle, the Battle at Walsh's Gate! 
Ere it were midnight of the 2nd of April in the year of our Lord MMIX, the troops assembled in the Otter College. Together they marched to feast upon red meat off the bone, as many a goodman and goodwoman wit­nessed at the great mead-hall of LaFortune. They sang proudly as they marched, know­ing well that some would not return. 
After feasting to hearts content, the war­riors strove in ordered file with hands raised in silent rage towards the fortress of the WI.L.D. which towered even as do the battle­ments of Helheim. Together they stood, paws at the ready, as the enemy stirred in its vile keep. 
One otter of princely stock, name of Beans the Menace, strode boldly into the den so as to trade words with the WI.L.D.'s leader and thus come to reasonable terms with little bloodshed. However, no such sanity enter­tains the cruel halls of the WI.L.D., rather they refused him as they would a spineless fop. 
Even as the bold emissary spoke words kindlier than such enemies deserve, those outside the fortress were overtaken by a dev­ilry new to the horizons of this land. Suddenly, from the tower were flung boul­ders of brimstone, fiery with dragon's flame! No mortal hands threw these stones of fury-rather demon hands, for not as rocks did they fall to the ground, but as rockets bursting in dragon's blood upon spear, helm, and shield. 
Many a good otter lay dead after the first volley, treacherous as adder's venom. Peace the otters still sought before blood, but blood was then forced upon them. But Odin strengthened the Sorin shields to withstand the dragon fire the WI.L.D. threw upon them, and many an otter-flung spear felled the enemy snakes who hoped to rid this land ofliberty. After hours of war-wrought battle, the otters had accomplished their mission ­they had laid their trap, surnamed the DDDWCS, which will come into effect at approximately 5 p.m. this Tuesday-and they returned then to their glorious College to burry their courageous dead. The num­bers of slain in the fray are still unknown, but the most learned of sources report VII (seven) otters to have joined the halls of Valhalla-Beans the Menace among them for the villains tore him limb from limb with­in their dark chambers-while as many as DIIIL (547) of the WI.L.D. perished in flame and curses. 
We must not mourn these fallen otters, for they died not in vain as beggars, but for lib­erty as warriors. Muses and men alike shall forever remember the otters' great deeds at the Battle at Walsh's Gate, even as is remem­bered the shining sun, hidden as it is behind South Bend's overcast skies. 
Thus it is written in the Book of the Otter, Volume CXX, Chapter IX. 
Steve Lechner is a sophomore majoring in philosophy. He can be contacted at slechner@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Spirit of exclusion? 
The effectiveness of the "Spirit of Inclusion" doc­trine was discussed on Monday. In the words of Fr. Hesburgh, "[a]ll you need [i]s a vision of where you want to go and the ability to inspire a lot of people to help you get there." By meeting with Fr. Jenkins, students from the Campaign for Human advanced their vision -equal treatment of GLBTQ persons within the Notre Dame community. 
The University maintains that its 1997 "Spirit of Inclusion" doctrine is sufficient to meet the needs of GLBTQ persons. Although in its introduction the doctrine mentions discriminatory bases other than sexual orientation, it then focuses specifically on GLBTQ persons and provides justifications for the University's refusal to include sexual orientation in its non-discrimination clause. The University states that it will not add sexual orientation to its legal non-discrimination clause, but instead calls the Notre Dame community to inclusiveness. Ironically, the "Spirit of Inclusion" doctrine claims to include GLBTQ persons; it excludes them. The doctrine's practical effect is the demarcation of Notre Dame community members into two discrete groups; it separates GLBTQ persons by classifying them as dis­tinct from non-GLBTQ persons. 
Despite its elegant phrasing, the doctrine does lit­tle to generate a feeling of inclusion for GLBTQ per­sons. Although creating the "Spirit of Inclusion" doctrine was an important step, more than a decade has passed without progress towards the addition of sexual orientation to the University's non-discrimi­nation clause. By perpetuating the notion that sexu­al orientation is not significant enough to be includ­ed in the clause, the administration has, perhaps unintentionally, conveyed to the Notre Dame com­munity that persons other than heterosexuals are not equally accepted. This stance has created a cul­ture in the Notre Dame community of exclusion at best and intolerance at worst. 
Notre Dame is a unique place; it is an institution whose members work together to maintain a gen­uine and caring community. It is unfortunate that the perpetuation of separate treatment towards GLBTQ persons threatens to dismantle Notre Dame's historical tradition of holding itself to a high stan­dard of civil rights and social justice. 
Jacqueline Cahill grad student Fischer Grad Housing April2 

Don't distort the debate 
Gary Caruso's recent editorial ("Countering the Cardinal Newman Society," April 3) adds nothing to the debate over honoring President Obama at commencement. Caruso miscon­strues both history and present contro­versy. For example, he defines indul­gences as "free passes to heaven" -a definition never sanctioned by the Catholic Church. He also refers to "our first martyrs" as "tolerant." It is histor­ically irresponsible to attribute modern or postmodern ideas of "inclusion and tolerance" to the early Christian mar­tyrs. The writings of one such martyr, Paul, will suffice to reveal the intoler­ant, exclusionary practices of apostolic Christians (1 Cor. 5:1-5; 1 Tim. 1:20; Gal 1:8-9). 
More importantly, the editorial is off point. Its argument seems to run thus: the Cardinal Newman Society (CNS) is causing unrest; many medieval and Renaissance popes lived scandalous lives; we do not elect officials "to stren­uously follow personal religious beliefs while in office." Implied conclusion: nobody should object to Notre Dame's plan to honor President Obama. First, Caruso ignores the bishops and student groups who oppose the plan and have no affiliation with the Cardinal Newman Society. He could argue that those bishops' and students' opposition does not matter, but he sidesteps the issue by treating the CNS as his only intellectual opponent. 
Second, nobody has proposed giving an honorary degree to any medieval pope. Furthermore, the Catholic Church has never claimed that the papal office implies sinlessness. The failure of some popes to live by Catholic moral teachings implies nothing about the validity of those teachings. 
Third, who has asked that President Obama "strenuously follow personal religious beliefs" or "follow a single religion's agenda?" Those who see President Obama as unsuitable for spe­cial honor by a Catholic institution argue not from his "personal religious beliefs" or from moral failings akin to those of bad popes, but from his con­crete public policies. He promotes -in the public square and with public funds -activities contrary to fundamental Catholic moral teachings. 
Whatever the soundness of Catholic moral teachings or of the plan to honor President Obama at commencement, let not the terms of the debate be skewed by misleading irrelevancies. 
C. John lane grad student 
offcampus April5 
Terry's 'solution' 
Mr. Randall Terry: if we are to use the term rape so liberally ("Notre Dame Response Holds Prayer Rally," April 6), then please do not "rape" our campus with your presence from this point forward. Your lack of willingness to dis­cuss the issue of abortion coupled with your statements that appeared in The Observer show that you are quite clearly an extremist and a radical. Being pro-life or pro-choice is a completely separate issue from refusing to have open dialogue about abortion and Obama's recognition on campus. In case you missed The Observer article in which the editorial staff disclosed the per­centages of students on each side of the issue, 97 percent of seniors support the selection of Obama as Commencement speaker. Because of this number, I would estimate that 0.5 percent or less of the senior class actually shares·the same radical view that you do. Practically none of our class views this event as "the rape of Catholic orthodoxy, sociology, and justice." And the chance of our Commencement "[affecting] the Catholic world for at least a generation" is non-existent. 
Your blatant disrespect for our senior class is aggravating and humiliating. I urge the members of Notre Dame Response to distance yourselves from this man. Prayer rallies and discussions are certainly welcome on this issue, but turning Commencement into a "slime pot" is not. You do not want to be seen as an embarrassment to the United States if indeed Mr. Terry creates a "cri­sis" situation. His threats are borderline grounds for arrest as President Obama's security will be watching for any odd activity. Remember, Notre Dame is a university and academic discussion is welcomed at all times. However, Mr. Terry is not promoting discussion but rather an extremist agen­da. Ruining graduation for 2,000 individuals is not an acceptable solution to the problem that Notre Dame Response seeks to address. Distance yourselves from Mr. Terry -you will emerge from the situation in much better shape than the alternative. You will gain much more respect and influence if you handle the situation differently than Mr. Terry advocates. Thank you. 
Todd Henkel semor offcampus April6 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, April 7, 2009 


A look back at Notre Datne and 'The Vagina Monologues' 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Scene Writer 
Notre Dame has a unique but rather difficult mission in com­parison to universities that are not religiously affiliated. How can Notre Dame remain dis­tinctively Catholic while main­taining its academic integrity? Such questions have been brought to light in the recent Obama controversy that has polarized the campus, leaving those who uphold the idea of academic freedom on one end and those who uphold Catholic teaching on the other. 
However, such controversy is far from new on this campus. A similar controversy has reg­ularly graced the inside pages of The Observer since 2002 ­the debate over the showing of "The Vagina Monologues." 
"The Vagina Monologues" were first performed at Notre Dame in 2002 as part of the V­Day campaign to end violence against women. Actors from the student body performed the "Monologues" on seven occasions from 2002-08. 
In April of 2006, after 10 weeks of intense discussion regarding the play, University President Fr. John Jenkins issued a "Closing Statement on Academic Freedom and Catholic Character," which ultimately allowed the play to continue on campus. However, its performance was restricted to a class­room setting. In 2007 the play was moved ofT-cam­pus, but returned to campus in 2008 spon­sored by the anthropolo­gy and sociology departments. 
The "Mono­logues" will not be performed this year at Notre Dame. 
"The Mono­logues" were written by Eve 
Sonw~~.l~ ~fl.$~r·i3 !itt:tiftrsg. _\~~ ~~!·Jm~~l«liPlk'd It~~ tlfmw.t'­%~¥W ~ ¥>"¥.1EtU~U W}k~ \II'~. foc tfuo: n:u:fl:'c~ l);ln.. 'lrlt:tlti~IA.\'W~. ~,u~~~~~ t..~ fitt.liU<~i:t<t,.~~md~Uk<dti~ll ltla-~A~~·r.:lj-·hri~t·JU~tf~"? f1Woo. !hi~ p~q'1(~ of'~!ibid~~'<~ tl;l ~~.a:"'~~of\jj-·!!l.~ln.>.it w~~lmdmin;:;~d.mmw. 
l""""'''""'""'!.t;.,."""'~
~~~~~~~-~fi.t~~u 
~=~~d;:~~~~::~···*
f~~':!Stnd$:'$i~.Wt.:'t;~l~~y f~ Fu.tfu:•r J~jljm.h~dd~'~u5· ~m#t~:t.lw.tJt;lif'h~gn.J'~.~t6< ~g.m, ~~at \\'hik. t!w~~~ mt~~ ~-d!ll, ha\'1ol: ~~.d'sr.-dth~ ~JJ~n:~ Mud thNm~ ~tr'ibl~ml~ l~'-mindl'tl;iJ~~,. ~ 
Ensler in 1996 and are com­posed of a variety of mono­logues that explore female sex­uality. They are based on interviews with over 200 dif­ferent women. Some are poignant, some are shocking, but all relate back, in one way or another, to the vagina as a crucial part of the female identity. 
Often, violations against women's sexuality are hushed and repressed, going unno­ticed. In fact, fewer than half of all rapes and sexual assaults in America are reported to police. 
According to Ensler, the empowerment of women is greatly connected to their vaginas. "The Vagina Monologues" is a celebration of the vagina, a word that ­by most standards-is consid­ered taboo in casual language today. The title is part of a shock factor that acts to break down the discomfort surround­ing the word, and diminish the numerous -and often offen­sive -slang terms used in place of it. 
Of course, much of the con­
troversy over the 
"Monologues" does 
not arise from the 
word "vagina" in 
the title nor 
Ensler's pursuit 
to end sexual vio­
lence against 
women. The 
"Monologues" 
nclude 
scenes 
with mas­
turbation, 
lesbian 
relation­
ships and 
extramar­
ital rela­

tionships that have caused opposition by Catholic groups across America. 
In 2003, 32 Catholic univer­sities performed "The Vagina Monologues," according to the Cardinal Newman Society, a group that ran a campaign to stop their performance on Catholic campuses. That number has dropped to just 15 in 2009, according to the Society. As a leading Catholic institution, Notre Dame is not immune to the pressure that these groups are putting on univer­sities around the country to stop the"Mono­
logues." 

The Catholic University of America, Marquette University, Providence College, Santa Clara University and others have all stopped showing "The Vagina Monologues" in recent years. 
Loyola University of Chicago, Georgetown University, Boston College, Fordham University and the College of the Holy Cross are some Catholic col­leges that continue to show the "Monologues." 
Perhaps the various opinions the "Monologues" that have appeared in the pages of the Viewpoint section show the controversy best: the title of a Letter to the Editor from March of last year read "University's mission is to edu­cate, not indoctrinate," while another read "University scan­dalized by 'Monologues."' 
While the "Monologues" will not be performed on or off campus this year, the debate over the University's mission rages on, as Notre Dame con­tinues to examine its Catholic identity in a secular world. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Tuesday, April 7, 2009 
page 13 





Distinct perspective makes and unflinching openness 
'Monologues' told with sensitivity 'Vagina Monologues' memorable but biased 
By ADRIANA PRATT Scene Editor By JESS SHAFFER 
Assistant Scene Editor 
On bookshelves, Eve Ensler's "Vagina Monologues" appear to be Do not read this article ifyou don't want to see the word "vagina," think about what a vagi­just another a simple little black book. Unsuspecting passers by na is, or hear examples of the very personal testimonies that form "The Vagina would never realize that Ensler's work is in fact an explosive cul­Monologues." tural force onto itself. Shoving taboos of secrecy, fear and shame However, if you're someone with a curious and open mind to all things controversial, out of the way, Eve Ensler faces the issue of female sexuality then read on because after all, according to Eve Ensler, "Women secretly love to talk head on. Using her work as mouthpiece for the stories of hun­about their vaginas." dreds of women's personal stories, Ensler describes a full spec­It is this desire to spill the beans that led to the formation of "The Vagina trum of her subjects' sexual encounters. Monologues," one of the most stirring compilations of human stories ever created. 
With fearless honesty, Ensor harnesses the emotive power of Clearly Ensler was right because it was with the help of over 200 women that she personal stories told in moments of vulnerability and openness. was able to create and garner support for a revolutionary narration on the inner and After interviewing over 200 women, Ensler creates a stage for outer workings of the vagina and the stories surrounding a women's most private the marginalized, the silent, the confused, the misguided and part. the repressed, shining a bright perceptive light on female sex­These stories have consequently sparked thousands of performances of Ensler's uality. While the experiences described are diverse, covering play worldwide, the creation of "V-Day" -a global movement determined to end vio­an almost incomprehensible variety, the common element of lence against women and girl'> (especially relevant now as Afghanistan recently femininity and the focus on the vagina creates a motif that legalized a man's right to rape his wife), and on top of it all, loads of con­
solidifies the work as focused, cohesive exploration. 
The work, with its calm persistent attention to details no matter how miniscule or uncomfortable, could have easily become a desensitized recounting of women's sexual highs and lows. But the mono­
logues maintain a highly per­

Four ofFour sonal tone. Though the work is 
Shamrocks a retelling of oral accounts told 
to Ensler, each tale reads with a remarkably personal tone gives a genuine and uncensored first person account, placed in Ensler's nonjudgmental, caring hands. 
It is the quality of monologue that is the under­lying strength of the work. Lending a voice to women and their vaginas, Ensler creates an intense, stirring experience that allows for a sen­sitive, open and almost tangible connection between the individual speaker and the audience. By forming such a rare sense of community, the atmosphere of Ensler's work reflects the very sense of inherent female solidarity that her work not only feeds off of but also contributes to. 
Ensler's compilation of stories speaks to the mar­ginalized, openly embracing victims of rape, those scorned by infidelity, minorities, the lower class and lesbians. Ensler, in this way, takes people generally ignored and draws attention to issues and perspectives that society has notoriously preferred to ignore. Still, through the distinctive individual voices represented in the Monologues, the author carefully avoid generaliz­ing all women or speaking for a stereotyped popula­tion. Instead, the individuality of each woman, each vagina, is clearly represented and given its place of respect independent of the other characters. 
Individual personality shines through in every mono­logue. In pieces like "My Angry Vagina," a wry sense of humor is employed to rant about what the narrator considers to be offenses to her vagina's liberty. Other monologues are far more complex and controversial. The controversial "The Little Coochie Snorcher That Could" describes the experiences of a sexually torment­ed youth. Eventually, the girl testifies to finding healing and redemption through her sexual relations with an older woman while she is still a young teen. Whether the audience should perceive this tale as an abomination, and harrowing tale to sexual and psychological damage that leads to misguided behavior, or a sweet tale of personal dis­covery and healing is largely ambiguous. The sense of per­sonal ownership of each tale, regardless of judgment or acceptance, contributes to an inspiring environment in which both the audience and the narrators can gently ; embrace their glories and sufferings in a feat of self­exploration and acceptance. 
The heart of The Vagina Monologues negates the socially taboo of discomfort when it comes to discussing things like tampons, rape, sex, lesbianism, and, yes, vaginas. On the whole, the monologues pursue a much more pro­found goal of acceptance, openness, and individuality for women. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffel @nd.edu 
troversy. 

To make public the sometimes beautiful and often painful tales of humanity's appreciation or their abhorrent disrespect for vaginas, Ensler interviewed hundreds of women and compiled their stories 
into a singular piece. Creating awareness about the beauty, unique­ness and necessity of respect for the female body is in and of itself a laud Two-and-a-halfof 
w~rthy ~cco.mplishmen~. However, cer-Four Shamrocks tam stones m "The Vagma Monologues" appear to promote the perversion (though she would deem it the exploration) of this beautiful life­bringing vessel and seemed to detract from Ensler's overall goal to appreciate and respect the female body. "The Vagina Monologues" is a quick and entertaining read, some­thing that can be finished in an hour or two. But before you begin make sure you are mentally prepared to surrender yourself to the testimonies put forth. The only way to truly recognize the impor­tance and heaviness of the matters discussed is to go in with an open mind and then logically deduce if the details of the numerous recollections coincide with the overall purpose of the play. The sim­plicity and straight-forwardness of the narration allows readers to capitalize on the moment and really experience the raw tales told in sometimes sparse, sometimes gruesome detail. Setting out to explore the different names we have used to label our sometimes furry and other times naked friend, Ensler begins her recol­lection of various women's tales in a humorous and light-hearted way, but the tone almost immediately changes with the first story. Writing about a common issue for most women, Ensler wastes no time diving into the topic of hair. Yes, that detail of the female anatomy that many like to forget, ignore, or wish away. Recounting tl1e heartbreaking story of a woman who tried to appease her husband by suiting his preferences only to continue to be cheated on in the end, Ensler frames the succes­sion of narratives that follow. Often in dry, emotionless, and simple tones she lays out the facts, allowing the reader to digest them in full. Stories of humiliation, overly-ambitious appreciation, and curious fascination fill the pages of "The Vagina Monologues." Still nothing leaves an impression like the tale from a Bosnian woman refugee who was finally saved from a rape camp. The utter sense of destruction to the woman's sense of femininity both physically and emotionally was captured in such perfectly clear metaphors that it is impossible not to want to cry. Ensler does an amazing job capturing the many experiences women have witl1 their personal sexuality. However an alternative perspective does not balance the glorification of masturbation and 
homosexuality the book provides. This piece does not include the story of someone who chose to wait to have sex until she was married, how a nun views her vagina and female sexuality (how interesting would that be to hear?), or a view of the vagina from a masculine point of view. If these perspectives were added to the mix Ensler selected, the piece would be more complete. 'The Vagina Monologues" is a complex and varied look at female sexuality. It serves as an inspiring call to action for both men and women, pushing them to acknowledge societal atroci­ties such as the raping of women and incest, and simultaneously pursues a respect for human dignity. With a few additions and a more diverse representation of the many ways men and women view their sexuality, 'The Vagina Monologues" could be taken to the next level, serving as a dialogue between all men and women of the world. 
The Vagina Monologues Eve Ensler 
Publisher: Villard Price: $10-15 
MADELINE NIES I Observer Graphic 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, April 7, 2009 
MLB 

Mets earn close win over Reds on Opening Day 
Wilson spurs Pirates to score four runs in the ninth to overcome Cardinals; Blalock homers in Indians rout ofRangers 
"That's what they expect "That first one, he blew by
Associated Press 

from us all year long," said me pretty easily," Wilson said. 
CINCINNATI -No threats, no Rodriguez, who got a three­"Then I kind of stayed back frets. That new Mets bullpen year, $37 million deal from and it felt pretty good. Just try sure looked good the first time New York. "This game, the to get it out there, put it in play, out. bullpen did a tremendous job." and then you have a chance." 
Francisco Rodriguez and his The Reds' run was scored by In a game played in 41­fellow relievers protected a Darnell McDonald, a 30-year­degree chill, Ryan Ludwick slim lead for Johan Santana, old outfielder with a total of 21 broke a 2-2 tie with a leadoff and New York held on Monday career games in the majors. He homer in the eighth off Tyler for a 2-1 victorv over the singled off Santana in the sixth Yates, and David Freese added Cincinnati Reds in their season and scored on Brandon a sacrifice fly off John Grabow opener. Phillips' sacrifice fly. (1-0) for a 4-2 lead. 
Daniel Murphy drove in both Murphy went him one better. Freddy Sanchez led off the Mets runs with a homer and a The 24-year-old outfielder hit ninth with a double off Motte, groundout. And on a raw, cold a solo homer in the fifth off who won a three-way battle for afternoon, New York's rebuilt Aaron Harang, who lost a the closer's job in spring train­bullpen was nearly perfect. career-high 17 games last sea­ing. Adam LaRoche singled in a 
"Phew, that was unbeliev­son and opened this season run with one out, pinch-hitter able!" Murphy said. "Lights with another one. Murphy, Eric Hinske doubled LaRoche out!" playing in his first big league to third and Brandon Moss was 
The Mets are known for their opener, also drove in another hit by a pitch before Wilson's meltdowns the last two sea­run with a groundout in the drive to left-center. sons, blowing division leads in sixth. Motte, a former catcher who September. They tried to fix It was 37 degrees with light moved to the mound in 2006, their biggest problem -the rain at first pitch, which was had a 1.46 ERA and five saves balky bullpen -by signing pushed back by 13 minutes in spring training after debut­Rodriguez and trading for J.J. because of conditions that felt ing last season with an 0.82 Putz at the winter meetings, even worse to players accus­ERA in 11 games with the bringing in two All-Star pitch­tomed to 80-degree days in Cardinals. ers with a history of success spring training. During one His fastball has been timed in closing games. cloudburst, first base umpire the high 90s but when Motte 
After Santana (1-0) gave up Angel Hernandez hiked up a got behind in the count, it was­only three hits in 5 2-3 innings, blue facemask, covering every­n't nearly as effective. He the bullpen allowed one walk thing except the tip of his red refused to blame the weather the rest of the way in a record­nose and his squinting eyes. or nerves from playing in front walk (five) nearly half his 25 Maybe the expectations setting performance. The three Reds first baseman Joey of a sellout crowd of 45,832. batters. While the strikeouts aren't so farfetched. hits were the fewest allowed by Votto, who grew up in Ontario, "It's just one of those things," were one shy of his career best, The Rangers can still hit. And a Mets pitching staff in any said it was too cold for a Motte said. "You go out there he matched his high for walks, if they keep pitching the way opener. Canadian to play ball. and have a bad outing, you can set in his final start last season. Kevin Millwood and the reliev­
Even the Reds were raving "I never headed outside when come back out there tomorrow He even walked Pirates starter ers did in a 9-1 opening victory about it. it was anything like this," Votto and be the hero. You've just got Paul Maholm on four pitches. over the Cleveland Indians on 
"They've got a totally differ­said. "You play hockey in this to put it all behind you." After Pittsburgh stranded five Monday, this could finally be ent bullpen," manager Dusty weather, not baseball." St. Louis didn't warm up any­runners in the first two their breakout season. Baker said. "They spent a lot of There was ice -the semi­one until after Wilson's hit. innings, St. Louis went ahead "There's that quiet confi­money on it. They've got two frozen stuff that fell from the Wilson had been 0-for-4 with in the third on run-scoring sin­dence about this team. Not closers. They shored up the sky intermittently and turned two strikeouts and a popup. He gles by Khalil Greene and many people share that with area they wanted to shore up. everything in the pitchers' batted .170 in spring training Ludwick following the first of us, but that's OK," Millwood You certainly want to get to favor. There was nice defense with a homer and three RBis in LaRoche's two errors at third. said. "We believe in each other. them before they go there." at work as well. 21 games. Wainwright walked his last That's how it felt before the 
No one enjoyed watching it Mets right fielder Ryan "He's got a new approach up two hitters, and Morgan hit a game, during the game and more than Santana, who hasn't Church made a sliding catch of there and I don't think he felt two-run single off Trever after the game." lost a game since June 28 but Ramon Hernandez's sinking that comfortable in spring Miller. Maholm, a career .139 Millwood allowed one run could have more wins along the liner in the second inning, bob­training," manager John hitter coming in, walked over seven innings in his fourth way. The left-bander saw the bling the ball off his leg before Russell said. "Hopefully, this against Josh Kinney in the consecutive opening-day start, bullpen blow five of his leads in getting it firmly in his glove. will help him to relax." sixth. and the Rangers scored seven the ninth inning last year. Church then threw to first to Matt Capps pitched the ninth "It's not what I wanted, that's runs in five innings off AL Cy 
This time, Sean Green, Putz double up Edwin Encarnacion. for the save, sealing the third for sure," Wainwright said. "I Young Award winner Cliff Lee. and Rodriguez squashed Reds right fielder Jay Bruce straight opening-day win for wanted to carry my team deep­Hank Blalock and Jarrod Cincinnati's lineup, allowing threw out David Wright at the the Pirates, who have finished er into the game, and I didn't." Saltalamacchia homered for only two balls out of the infield plate as he tried to score from last in the NL Central in three Maholm had a team-high the Rangers, whose 15 hits off in the final 3 1-3 innings. Putz second base on Carlos Beltran's of the last four seasons. Nyjer nine wins last year, the lowest four pitchers matched their walked a batter in the eighth, single in the fifth inning, get­Morgan had three hits and two total for a Pirates staff leader most in an opener. and Rodriguez -who had a ting him even though his throw RBis as the Pirates overcame since 1981, and moved one slot This time, the pitching was major league-record 62 saves slowed considerably on the wet three errors. ahead of '08 opening day just as good. for the Angels last season -infield grass. Albert Pujols was 3-for-4 starter Ian Snell and two slots "Certainly did what we want­was perfect in the ninth. with an intentional walk for the ahead of Zach Duke ('07) in the ed to do -pitched well, good 
"They deserve all the credit," Pirates 6, Cardinals 4 Cardinals. He is batting .419 rotation. defense and did what we do Santana said. "It's great for us, Jack Wilson waited until the hitter (13-for-31) with two best, swing the bats," manager and it was big for getting the Pittsburgh Pirates were down homers, four doubles and 10 Indians 9, Rangers 1 Ron Washington said. "It was a comfort level up." to their last strike before com­RBis in nine openers. Texas Rangers owner Tom very good beginning." 
After striking out Ramon ing through. Adam Wainwright made his Hicks celebrates opening day Texas led the majors with a Hernandez to finish it, Wilson's three-run double on first official opening day start, almost like Christmas, com­.283 batting average and 901 Rodriguez looked up at the sky an 0-2 fastball capped a four­a year after he pitched in an plete with a family dinner the runs scored last season, but and raised both arms in his run ninth inning off hard­opener that was wiped out by night before. This year's festivi­finished with a losing record ­familiar celebration. Then, he throwing Jason Motte, leading rain after three innings. He ties included some "pretty opti­its eighth in nine years ­made sure to keep the game Pittsburgh to an opening 6-4 allowed two runs and four hits mistic" talk that he joked may because of a majors-worst 5.37 ball as a memento of save No. 1 victory over the St. Louis in 5 1-3 innings, and he com­only have been partly caused ERA and the game's most over­with the Mets. Cardinals. bined to strike out (seven) or by the wine. worked bullpen. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
One or two roommates needed for brand new 3 BR 3 Bath Condo at Irish Crossings fully furnished. $500 per mo. incl. utilities -wireless, gas, water, electric and parking. Private BR!Bath, gym. Ten min walk to campus five min walk to stores. Non-smoker, no pets. anirnal­cop01 @gmail.com 
FoR RENT 
Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or www.kramerhous­es.com 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 

Why pay for 12 months? Now offer­ing 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 
2009/1 0 student rentals Angela St./St. Peters & S.B. Ave. $1300­$2000/mo. Contact Bruce Gordon 57 4-876-3537. 
PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: http:1/osa. nd.edu/health­safety/assault/ 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1­7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NDs Assistance for Pregnant Students//Office of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd.edu/health­safety/assistance-for-pregnant­students. 
ADOPTION -Loving Domer couple looking to adopt a baby (babies), please call Marie and James (301)977-5069 or (866)202-1424 PIN 5448. 
Happy Birthday Sylvana 
Cumpleanos felices Sylvana 
Speed Dial 63 


OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, April 7, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
... --··-··-···-::::::·_··-----==--·····.::::::_-...... ..::::::-· -...........--.--...-.......... ··---·-····--.::::-.::::-.::::-.::::-_··:::::····-----····· .. --.=·-······_······::::::::......··::::::::.:::::::..:::::::::::::
__::.. ·:::··:::::::::::::::::::-.::..:::::::::::-::::::·::--_ -.. --..-··-=== 
NCAA Men's Baseball Baseball America Poll · 
learn record 
1 Arizona State 23-5 2 LSU 23·8 3 Rice 21-7 4 North Carolina 24-7 5 UC Irvine 19·8 6 CS Fullerton 20-7 7 Baylor 20-8 8 Georgia 25-5 9 Texas 20-8 10 Miami (Fla.) 23-8 11 Oklahoma 25-7 12 Arkansas 22·6 13 Georgia Tech 19-6 14 Mississippi 22·8 15 East Carolina 25-5 16 Oregon State 18-6 17 Texas A&M 20-11 18 San Diego State 22-11 19 TCU 19·9 20 Oklahoma State 21-10 21 Cal Poly 21-7 22 Virginia 26-5 22 Hawaii 19-10 24 Costal Carolina 24-7 25 San Diego 22-11 
NCAA Men's Lacrosse Nike/lnside Lacrosse Poll 
team points record 
1 Virgina (15) 300 12-0 2 Princeton 273 8-1 3 Cornell 263 7-1 4 NOTRE DAME 262 9-0 
. . 5, Syracuse 247 7-2 
6 ·• UMBC 222 8-2 7 Hofstra 212 7-1 8 Duke 171 8-3 9 Johns Hopkins 161 4-4 1 0 North Carolina 157 8-4 11 Brown 155 9-1 12 Navy 149 8-3 13 Maryland 134 6-4 14 Massachusetts 109 6-3 15 Colgate 93 7-3 16 Loyola (Md.) 81 6-4 17 Harvard 56 5-3 18 Georgetown 39 5-5 19 Albany 37 6-3 20 Bucknell 16 6-5 
NCAA Men's Golf Golf World/Nike Golf Poll 
team points 
1 Georgia (21) 572 2 usc (2) 540 3 Oklahoma State 530 4 Clemson 455 5 Stanford 446 6 Illinois 435 7 Florida 418 8 Alabama 406 9 Arizona State 397 10 Indiana 346 11 Georgia Tech 287 12 Washington 282 13 Texas Tech 276 14 South Carolina 260 15 Texas 241 
around the dial 
NCAA Women's Basketball Championship 
Louisville vs. Connecticut 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 
NHL 
Dallas at Minnesota 8 p.m., Versus 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Former Xavier men's basektabll coach Sean Miller, above, speaks at a press conference in March. Miller was named the new men's basketball coach at Arizona on Monday after initially turning down the job. 
Miller accepts Arizona coaching job." 
Associated Press 

CINCINNATI -Coach Sean Miller is leaving Xavier and heading to Arizona. 
Miller met with his play­ers before making the announcement Monday and said at a news conference that this was one of his toughest decisions. 
"I did my best to follow my heart," he said. 
Miller said he would not 
have left except for the tra­
dition and possibility of 
winning a national champi­
onship at Arizona. 

Miller led the Musketeers 
to the Elite Eight last year 
and received a contract 
extension through the 
2017-18 season. Xavier reached the round of 16 again this season. Miller had a 120-47 record in five seasons at Xavier, guiding the team to the NCAA tour­nament four times. 
The 40-year-old coach wasn't Arizona's first choice to succeed Hall of F arne coach Lute Olson. Tim Floyd rejected an offer to stay at Southern California. 
Miller signed a 10-year extension with Xavier after the team went 30-7 and reached the rBgional finals in 2007-08. But the private Cincinnati school apparent­ly could not match the Arizona offer. Arizona reportedly was willing to spend at least $2 million per year. 
Sean Miller leaves the Musketeers program in good shape, having won 120 games and reaching the NCAA tournament in four of his five seasons as coach. 
Miller said he and Xavier athletic director Mike Bobinski were still talking about the Xavier job Monday morning in the coach's kitchen. Miller added that he did not decide for sure to take the Arizona job until early afternoon. 
"I respect his decision," Bobinski said. "That doesn't make me any less disap­pointed." 
Bobinski said coaches moving from job to job is simply a fact of life. 

"If you've got coaches that other people aren't interested in, you've got the wrong coaches," he said. "The reason our coaches are in demand is we're killin' it." 
Miller said he wanted to make sure he left Xavier in the right way. 
"I cannot say enough good things about this place. It defines who I am to a large degree," Miller said. 
lie said he was grateful to Xavier for his three years as an assistant and five years as head coach and felt he had made a contri­bution. 
IN BRIEF Garcia signs deal to_):!lay
with Raiders in 2U09 
OAKLAND -After a four-team, five-season odyssey since leaving the San Francisco 49ers, Jeff Garcia fmally found his way back home to the Bay Area -albeit on the other side from where he started. 
The four-time Pro Bowl quarter­back joined the Oakland Raiders on Monday, with the 39-year-old pass­er agreeing to a one-year deal to be JaMarcus Russell's backup. 
Raiders senior executive John Herrera told The Associated Press that Garcia will join the club's off­season workout program immedi­ately in the next stage of a remark­able NFL career that didn't begin until 1999 after a long detour to the Canadian Football League. 
Garcia spent the past two seasons with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, starting 24 games while leading them to a division title and a playoff berth in 2007, when he also earned his fourth Pro Bowl berth. 
Bush throws out first 
pitch at Rangers opener 
ARLINGTON-Former President George W. Bush wound up his right arm with two windmill whirls, then fired a high strike to help the Texas Rangers start the season Monday. 
In his first big appearance locally since moving to Dallas from the White House, Bush received a standing ova­tion and overwhelming cheers from a crowd of about 40,000 after the public address announcer said, "We welcome home the 43rd president." 
Bush, the team's managing general partner from 1989 until being elected governor of Texas in 1994, acknowl­edged the cheers as he made his way to the base of the mound. 
Hall of Farner Nolan Ryan, now the team's president, was a few steps behind to deliver the ball. Bush's throw easily made it over the plate and into the mitt of star outfielder Josh Hamilton. Afterward, the two shook hands and Hamilton pulled out a pen and the president signed the ball. 

Celtics t!_uard Rondo 
injures anKle in practice 
WALTHAM -Boston Celtics point guard Rajon Rondo left practice after turning his ankle, but coach Doc Rivers said it did not appear that the injury was serious. 
Rondo was seen limping off the floor Monday at the team's practice facility. 
"He just twisted his ankle, nothing bad, but instead of keeping him out on the floor, easier to take him off," Rivers said. Rondo has sprained his right ankle twice previously this sea­son but has only missed two games. 
Rivers said he did not know which ankle Rondo injured. Rondo has sprained his right ankle twice previ­ously this season but has only missed two games. 
Meanwhile, Rivers said Kevin Garnett was making improvement as he rehabs his sprained right knee. 
'Tm just really happy with what we see," Rivers said. "A week ago there was more concern." 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, April7, 2009 
NBA 
Jordan leads Hall class of 2009 into Springfield 

Associated Press 
DETROIT -Air Jordan has a new name: Hall of Farner. 
Michael Jordan was elected to the class of 2009 on Monday, set for induction in Septemeber with his Dream Team team­mates David Robinson and John Stockton. Utah Jazz coach Jerry Sloan and Rutgers women's coach C. Vivian Stringer are also part of a class announced in Detroit, site of the men's Final Four. 
Induction is Sept. 10-12 in Springfield, Mass., home of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame. 
"I don't like being up here for the Hall of Fame because at that time your basketball career is completely over," Jordan said. "I was hoping this day would be 20 more years, or actually go in when I'm dead and gone." 
Jordan's Hall of Fame selec­tion was a slam dunk after he retired as perhaps the greatest player in history. And he gave much of the credit Monday to his college coach. 
"There's no way you guys would have got a chance to see Michael Jordan play without Dean Smith," he said. 
His soaring dunks, Nike com­mercials and "Air Jordan" nick­name helped stamp him as one the most recognizable athletes around the world. He finished a 15-year career with the Chicago Bulls and Washington Wizards with 32,292 points ­the third-highest total in league history, behind Kareem Abdul­Jabbar and Karl Malone. His final career average of 30.12 goes down as the best, just ahead of Wilt Chamberlain's 30.07. 
"Simply the greatest to ever play the game of basketball. He is the one player that each young person in this league should emulate and aspire to become. His work ethic, drive, skill level and competitive spirit were unmatched," Jordan's for­mer Bulls teammate and now team GM, John Paxson said. 
Jordan was a five-time NBA MVP, won six championships with the Bulls and another in college with North Carolina. The Tar Heels play Michigan State in the national champi­onship game Monday night. 
Jordan will root on the Tar Heels, but had no plans to give them a pep talk. 
Tar Heels coach Roy Williams was an assistant with Carolina on that 1982 championship team and was at Monday's induction, where Ty Lawson won the Bob Cousy award as the nation's top point guard. 
Jordan retired twice during his career. He first came back to the Bulls in 1994 and won three more championships before retiring again in 1998. then had an ill-fated two-year stint with the Washington Wizards before calling it quits for good in 2003. He's now managing partner of the Charlotte Bobcats. 
On Monday, he joked that when he saw Stockton and Robinson he -was ready to put his shorts on again. 
"I always want to be able to have you thinking I can always go back and play the game of basketball and put your shorts on," Jordan said. "Hall of Fame to me is like, OK, it's over and done with." 
Jordan won two of his titles in the 1990s against Sloan, Stockton and the Jazz. Stockton spent his entire career with Utah and finished with 19,711 points, and holds NBA records 15,806 assists and 3,265 steals. He also holds NBA records for most assists in a season (1,164 in 1990-91) and highest assist average in a season (14.5 in 1989-90). 
"Growing up I never thought about the Hall of Fame," Stockton said. "All I wanted was a chance to go to college." 
Utah took Stockton in the first round of the 1984 draft, using the No. 16 pick on a relatively unknown player from Gonzaga who became one of the top point guards. 
"I haven't given this much thought over the course of a lifetime," he said. ''I'm not sure it quite strikes home until you're standing here." 
Robinson, who earned the nickname "The Admiral" from his college career at Navy, joined Stockton and Jordan as members of the NBA's 50th anniversary team. 
He had a stellar 14-year career with the San Antonio Spurs that included two NBA championships, an MVP season. a rookie of the year award, 10 All-Star selections, a scoring title and two Olympic gold medals. Unlike Jordan's inabili­ty to stay home after his final shot in Game 6 of the 1998 NBA Finals, Robinson was content to retire after winning a second title with the Spurs in 2003. 
"If I had to pick one night in my career, it would probably be walking off the court as a champion and knowing that was going to be my last memo­ry of basketball," Robinson said. 
Sloan, who did not attend the ceremony, is the longest tenured head coach in major league sports with a single franchise. Sloan is the only NBA coach to win more than 1,000 games with a single team and has the Jazz in seventh place in the Western Conference going into Monday night's games. 
''I've been very lucky to have such great players, especially John, who is very deserving of this honor," Sloan said. "I've also been fortunate to be with such a tremendous organiza­tion for the past 20-plus years and am extremely grateful to the (Larry II.) Miller family for all of their support." 
Sloan was missed on Monday by Stockton. 
"He's not only a coach and a mentor, but a friend," Stockton said. "l enjoy him very much. The honor to share it with him, terrific." 
Stringer has led three sepa­rate schools to the Final Four in her 38-year career and has an 825-280 mark spanning four decades. She trails only Pat Summitt and Jody Conradt on the career wins list, and guided Rutgers to its fifth straight regional semifinals trip this season. 
"My knees are weak, and to think I would be standing here with these great, great, men of basketball," Stringer said. "It's not ever about me. It's about the players who all make it happen." 
CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources} 
Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Eddie Velazquez at evelazgu@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) 
Contact: Fr. Joe Carey. CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) 
Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at mlaffert@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 

http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 

Tuesday, April 7, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 

Sabathia, Yankees shelled by Orioles 
D'Backs squeeze by Rockies in homerfest 
What is "Buzz" Marketing? 
Lessons on Word-of-Mouth Marketing by Emanuel Rosen Author of National Bestseller 
ftThe Anatomy of Buzz Revisited" 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE -CC Sabathia and the new-look New York Yankees absorbed an old-fash­ioned beating on opening day. 
Sabathia allowed six runs and failed to get through the fifth inning in his first start with New York, and the Yankees lost to the Baltimore Orioles 10-5 on Monday. 
After missing a postseason for the first time since 1993, New York spent $423.5 million on free agents Sabathia, A.J. Burnett and Mark Teixeira dur­ing the offseason. Sabathia got a $161 million, seven-year deal, but the left-hander hardly looked like an ace against the Orioles, who finished last in the AL East in 2008 -their 11th straight losing season. 
Sabathia (0-1) gave up eight hits in 4 1-3 innings, walked five, threw two wild pitches and did not record a strikeout for the first time since July 25, 2005, at Oakland. The six runs were the most he allowed in 32 starts since last April, when he pitched for Cleveland. 
Sabathia left with New York trailing 6-1. Missing injured Alex Rodriguez, the Yankees used home runs by Jorge Posada and Hideki Matsui to close to 6-5 in the seventh, but a two-run 



For Gay, lesbianf BisexualS lluestioning Students at Notre Dame Tuesday. April7 
7:00 p.m. -S:DO p.m. 
316 Coleman Morse 

The Core Council invites gay, lesbian. bisexualS questioning members of the Notre Dame family. along with their friends and aliys. to an informal gathering at ttm Co-Mo. 
homer by light-hitting Cesar Izturis sparked a four-run eighth that blunted the comeback. 
Adam Jones and Brian Roberts each had three of Baltimore's 14 hits. Aubrey Huff drove in three runs and Jeremy Guthrie (1-0) gave up three runs and seven hits in six innings. 
The game drew a sellout crowd of 48,607 -the largest on opening day in the 18-year history of Camden Yards. 
Vice President Joe Biden threw out the ceremonial first pitch, a high fastball that brought catcher Chad Moeller out of his crouch. Biden, who spent 36 years representing Delaware in the Senate, became the first sitting VP to throw out the first pitch at Camden Yards. 
Before the game, two Baltimore fans carried a sign that read, "We hate you TEX," which stemmed from Teixeira spurning an offseason contract offer from his hometown Orioles. Teixeira, jeered by Baltimore backers all day, went 0-for-4 
with  a  walk in his Yankees  
debut.  
New  York  was  without  

Rodriguez, who during spri.1g training admitted using steroids several years ago with Texas. He will miss the beginning of the season after undergoing hip sur­gery. The third baseman was gone but not forgotten, as evi­denced by this sign near the New York dugout: "Where's A­Roid?" 
Sabathia had a difficult first inning, giving up a leadoff single to Roberts and walking Jones before firing two wild pitches ­equaling the number he threw in 253 innings last year. But Sabathia did not allow a run, and worked a perfect second before running into trouble in the third. 
After New York took a 1-0 lead on a sacrifice fly by Johnny Damon in the top half, Baltimore went up 3-1. Izturis singled, Roberts walked and Jones fol­lowed with a triple to right before Nick Markakis hit a sacri­fice fly. 

Damon hit a two-out triple in the fifth and Teixeira walked before Matsui popped out. 
In the bottom half, a double by Roberts and infield hits by Jones and Markakis produced a run. Melvin Mora then got an infield hit and Huff hit an RBI grounder before Sabathia issued an inten­tional walk to Ty Wigginton to load the bases. Sabathia then walked Luke Scott to force in a run, ending his afternoon. 
Posada homered leading off the sixth, and later in the inning Xavier Nady doubled in a run. 
A two-run homer by Matsui in the seventh off Chris Ray made it 6-5. In the New York eighth, with runners at the corners and two outs, Jim Johnson retired Teixeira on a grounder. 
Izturis, signed as a free agent over the winter for his glove at shortstop, homered off Phil Coke in the eighth before Huff added a two-run double off Damaso Marte. Izturis hit one home run last year with St. Louis. 
Diamondbacks 9, Rockies 8 
Tony Clark and Arizona new­comer Felipe Lopez each home­red from both sides of the plate, and the Diamondbacks beat the Colorado Rockies 9-8 in a home run derby of an opener Monday. 
Eight home runs were hit in the game, including the decisive shot by Chad Tracy leading off the seventh inning against reliever Jason Grilli (0-1). 
Lopez and Clark became the first switch-hitting teammates to homer from both sides of the plate in a game since Jorge Posada and Bernie Williams did it for the New York Yankees on April 23, 2000. It had never been done on opening day. 
Lopez, signed as a free agent in the offseason, is the first Arizona player to homer twice in his first game with the team. He is the first to do it in the majors since Richie Sexson for Seattle on April 4, 2005. 
Troy Tulowitzki, Chris !annetta and Seth Smith hit solo homers for the Rockies. 
Tony Pena (1-0) worked 1 1-3 scoreless innings for the win and closer Chad Qualls got three outs for a save. 
Tracy was 3-for-4 with two RBis and two runs scored for Arizona. 
Colorado's Brad Hawpe was 3­for-4 with two doubles and three RBls. 
Hawpe lived up to his reputa­tion as one of the toughest hit­ters against Webb, going 2-for-2 with a three-run double against the Arizona ace. That improved his career average against the 2006 NL Cy Young Award win­ner to .36 7 with 16 RBis in 49 at-bats. Nine of his 18 hits have gone for extra bases. 
Colorado scored four times in the third to go up 4-2, but Arizona came back with fimr in the third on· Aaron Cook to take a 4-2 lead. Tracy singled in a run, Eric Byrnes drove in anoth­er with a sacrifice fly, then Clark hit a two-run shot to right to put the Diamondbacks ahead 6-4. 
Webb, a 22-game winner last season, couldn't hold the lead. Tulowitzki and !annetta hit con­secutive solo homers on three pitehes to tie it at 6. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April 7, 2009 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Huskies roll to ti tie game 
pionship and first since Louisville guard Deseree
Associated Press 

2004. UConn was suffering Byrd was quick to point out 
ST. LOUIS -Even though through its longest "drought" neither has Walz, who was his team has been mowing since first winning in 1995. an assistant on Maryland's down every team in its way, Expectations are so high 2006 title team. Geno Auriemma wants you to back home, that it was like Connecticut has run believe UConn could lose the the Huskie program had fall­through its opponents this national championship. en off a cliff, Auriemma said. season, winning by 31 points 
To a team it's beaten twice In some ways, the struggles a game. No one has come -by 28 and 39 points. only make this title game within single digits and the 
"It's way too sweeter, he said. Huskies are poised to much famil­"It's one of become the first team ever ­iarity for both "Different those validating men's or women's to finish teams," the things where no the season unbeaten with
environment. 

Hall of Fame matter how every win coming by double
Different day. 

coach said. "A many times figures. lot more than Different attitudes you've been in A victory would put this you'd like to among the players. , you always won­group in the same class as have this time der if there's a UConn 's other unbeaten of year." next time," teams in 1995 and 2002. 
Geno Auriemma 

Auriemma Auriemma said. Besides Connecticut, only insists he has Connecticut coach "Sometimes it Tennessee and Texas have reason to takes those cou­run through a season unde­worry about ple of years off feated. Tuesday's tile game against where it makes you go 'Wow, No matter who wins the Louisville. He's seen a big this is a big deal.' When you title game on Tuesday night, difference in the Cardinals start to think its not a big the Big East is guaranteed to from the team UConn dis­deal you need to get out of be the first conference ever mantled in the Big East it., to sweep the NCAA and championship a month ago. Auriemma has never lost a WNIT championships in the 
"What we did in the second championship game, but as same season. 
NBA 

Spurs' Ginobili out for season after tnissing 19 
wasn't expected to need sur­
Associated Press 
gery. But either way, Ginobili 

SAN ANTONIO -The San is out and the Spurs are hob­Antonio Spurs' Big Three is bling with less than two down to two. weeks before the playoffs 
Manu Ginobili will miss the begin. rest of the season and play­Tim Duncan is bothered by offs for the Spurs after tests sore knees and has been sit­Monday revealed that his ting out the second game in troubled right ankle has got­back-to-backs down the ten worse. stretch this season. Tony 
It was the news San Parker carried the Spurs An toni o dreaded after after Ginobili first went out Ginobili sat out the fourth in February and Duncan's quarter in Sunday's blowout knees began aching, and the loss at Cleveland, and leaves weight figures to fall on the the Spurs limping toward the 26-year-old's shoulders postseason in search of a again. fifth NBA title since 1999. Ginobili scored four points 
Ginobili missed 19 games before his ankle stiffened after the All-Star break to toward the end of Sunday's heal a stress reaction in his 101-81 loss to the Cavaliers. right distal fibula. He A CT scan and MHI on returned March 25, but tests Monday showed that he had showed the stubborn injury a stress fracture in the ankle is now a fracture. and an increased narrow 
The Spurs said Ginobili edema. 
game, I don't think it has any effect on today," he said. "Different environment. Different day. Different atti­tudes among the players." 
UConn (38-0) stands on the doorstep of the third unde­feated season in school histo­ry and just the fifth ever in women's basketball. 
Louisville (34-4), which is looking to become the fourth team to knock off three No. 1 seeds on its way to a title, will have to have a new game plan against Connecticut. Second-year coach Jeff Walz was hard-pressed to find a weakness with the Huskies last time out. 
"I think I saw their manag­er drop a bottle of water," he said laughing. "That's the scary thing about them. They've got three of the top 10 players in the country. Then you've got Tiffany Hayes who's shooting the ball extremely well. We're going to have to try and control the tempo of the game." 
Walz knows that his team can ill-afford a similar start to the semifinal game when they missed their first 13 shots before rallying to beat Oklahoma. 
"If we come out and play the first five minutes the same way tomorrow night, instead of losing 11-0, it's 25-0." 
The Cardinals feel no pres­sure, though, and Walz likens his undersized, over­achieving team to the lovable Bad News Bears. 
"We might not have been the most talented team on the floor the last few games. We've been the tougher team and the team with more heart," he said. "We have a group of players here that are buying into a system and buying into a role." 
Like the fictional Bears, the Cardinals relish the role of being the underdog. 
Louisville players want the media "to keep saying the other team's going to win," star Angel McCoughtry said. "I hope they wish Connecticut wins tomorrow. 
That's  what  we've  been  
thriving off of.  so  we  don't  
want that to change."  

While it's the Cardinals first appearance in the title game, the Huskies are vying for their sixth national cham-
Attention Seniors! 

Notre Dame's Office ofUndergraduate Admissions anticipates hiring Admissions Counselors this spring! 
As part ofthe Undeq,)!'aduate Admissions staff, the Admissions Counselor is expected to make an important contribution to the recruittnent and selection of the first-year class by managing relations with prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alutnni in an assigned geographic territory. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel and communication within the geographic territory, asscsstnent and evaluation of applications and conducting group/individual information sessions. Additional responsibilities will be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment and the l)irector of Admissions ()perations. 
An1ong our candidates, we tnay seek individuals who will assist with our diversity recruiunent efforts. 
Minimum Requirements: Candidates should possess a Bachelor's degree and strong familiarity \vith all aspects of academic and student life at Notre l)ame. Essential qualities include strong comn1unication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, diplomacy and the willingness to work long hours, including many evenings and Saturday mornings. 
Please 1\'ote: l11temie1JlS JJ-'ill 17£' Jthedttlul ajier /lpri/ I0. 
Pr~jiTred Jtart dale is]IID' l, 2009. 
Application Process: To apply~ please visit http://Nl).jobs and apply to job #09123. 
'fhc University of Notre Dame is cornmitrcd to diversity in its staff., factrlty, and student body. ;\s such, \VC strongly encourage applications from members of minority groups) wmnen. veterans, individuals with disabilities, and others who wil1 enhance our ccm11nunity. _\.\/E(>E. 
,-­
1 Tuesday, April 7, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS 
I 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL
I 
Memphis replaces Cali pari 
Assistant coach Pastner promoted to lead Tigers after search stalls 
Associated Press 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. -Memphis has hired Josh Pastner, an assis­tant under John Calipari, as the Tigers' new basketball coach, a school spokesman said Monday. 
The university scheduled a news conference for noon Central Tuesday to introduce the 31-year-old Pastner, said athlet­ics spokesman Bob Winn. 
Calipari left Memphis for Kentucky last week after nine seasons with the Tigers. 
Pastner, who is regarded to be a strong recruiter, worked one year under Calipari after six years as an assistant at Arizona, where he also played. 
During Pastner's time under former Arizona coach Lute Olson, the Wildcats averaged 23 wins per season, captured two Pac-10 regular season titles, advanced to two NCAA Tournament regional finals and made six-straight NCAA Tournament appearances. 
In his only season at Memphis, the Tigers finished 33-4 with a Conference USA title and an NCAA regional semifinals appearance. 
While in high school and col­lege, Pastner coached AAU squads, following in the foot­steps of his father, Hal Pastner, an acclaimed AAU coach in Houston, Texas. 
Memphis athletic director R.C. Johnson said last week that he planned to hire a new coach who would "wow" Tiger fans ­one with head coaching experi­ence. Names that surfaced dur­ing the search included Tennessee's Bruce Pearl, Baylor's Scott Drew and Florida State's Leonard Hamilton. 
Memphis struggled mightily to hang on to Calipari but sought to put the best twist on his departure -saying the success­ful program he built was attrac­tive enough to land one of the country's top coaches. Officials also boasted that university sup­porters would come up with plenty of money to pay a new coach. 

Calipari was paid $2.3 million a year at Memphis and now has an eight-year contract at Kentucky worth nearly $32 mil­lion. 
There was no immediate word on a Pastner's salary. 
Calls from The Associated Press to Johnson and Alan Graf, a top member of the university's search team and the chief finan­cial officer for FedEx Corp., were not returned Monday. 
University officials refused to name coaches contacted about the Memphis job, but Johnson had said when word got out that Calipari was leaving his phone had been ringing off the hook. However, published reports indi­cated the search was not going as smoothly as the Tigers' con­cerned fans might have hoped. 
page 19 
MLB 

Rays head to Fenvvay to begin title defense 
day workout on Sunday.
Associated Press 

"Pressure and expectations -I 
BOSTON -The Tampa Bay want us to embrace those Rays played their first 10 open­words. It's great that people ers with low expectations, and attach pressure and expecta­for good reason: They lost early tions to us." and often in their first decade The Rays and the Red Sox in the majors, never finishing had been scheduled to open the better than next-to-last or even 2009 season at Fenway on approaching a winning record. Monday afternoon, but rain 
When the Rays line up along pushed Game 1 back to the third-base line at Fenway Tuesday -originally an off day. Park for the traditional opening Josh Beckett is making his day introductions on Tuesday, fourth opening day start and though, they'll do so as the first for Boston; he's expected defending AL East champions to face James Shields, the same and not the laughingstocks who matchup from Game 6 of last finished an average of 34 year's AL championship series. games out of first place before "It's a good series to start the winning their first pennant in season with," Shields said. "We 2008. get a reminder of the ALCS, 
"It's that feeling of believing; which is nice." that you belong in the race; The Red Sox have reportedly that you're worthy of the asked Sen. Edward M. expectations," manager Joe Kennedy, who was diagnosed Maddon said in the visitor's with brain cancer last fall, to dugout during his team's off-throw out the first pitch. Red 

Ge-t si~ed "'D.p -to lYiajor i~ E~g1ish 
• Information and sign-up meeting • 
•
•

• Wednesday, April 8, 2009 
•
•

••• 5:00 p.m . 
•
•

• 119 O'Shaughnessy Hall
•
• 

English majors choose careers in any field that values the ability to read, write, and analyze with intelligence and subtlety. Some go on to graduate study in literature leading to careers in academia; others choose professions such as law, medicine, education, publishing, business, social work, professional writing, library science, journalism, and public relations. 
For more information, or additional times to declare the major, contact The Department of English 631-7226 356 O'Shaughnessy Hall english@nd.edu htt ://en lish.nd.edu/Under raduate/ 
Sox owner Tom Werner declined comment, referring questions to Kennedy. Messages left at the Massachusetts Democrat's Washington and Boston offices were not imme­diately returned on Sunday. 
It will be the just the second time since 1996 that the season opens at home for the Red Sox, who traveled to Tokyo last year and had a 3-4 record by the time they got to Fenway. But it was worth the wait: For the second time in four years, the team had a pregame ceremony to hand out its World Series rings and raise a championship banner over center field. 
There will be no such cere­mony Tuesday for the AL wild­card winners, who beat the Los Angeles Angels in the first round of the playoffs and then lost to the Rays in seven games. After earning its first AL pen­nant, Tampa Bay lost to the Philadelphia Phillies in five games . 
"Teams aren't taking us too lightly any more," Shields said . "There's a long of teams around the league that have a lot more respect for us. Teams aren't coming in thinking they're going to beat us every time. I think I saw that starting the second half of last season." 
Maddon said he's noticed big­ger crowds in spring training, and more of a fuss when the team plays on the road . Although the Rays always believed in themselves, he said, they have now earned the respect of their opponents. 
"No one is going to take the Tampa Rays for granted," said Red Sox outfielder Rocco Baldelli, who played the first five years of his career in Tampa Bay. "It's really a top­notch team. Everyone is pre­pared for them to be in it the entire season." 
Red Sox pitcher John Smoltz, who was on the Atlanta Braves in 1991, when they went to the World Series a year after finish­ing in last place with a 65-97 record, said Tampa Bay showed last year "it was the real deal." 
"It's rare that you have a club go from where they were to where they're an elite club," said Smoltz, who spent his first 20 years in Atlanta before com­ing to the AL as a free agent. "In this division and this league, that's going to be hard­er to do." 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April 7, 2009 
Hughes 
continued from page 24 
block Saturday gave him a bet­ter idea of where his unit, in particular, stood. 
"It's just consistency. If they go out there and they flash the 
ability to do some­thing one time, you have to ask yourself if it's skill or luck, and the more that they do it over and over, you've got to say it's an acquired skill." 
The first-year offensive line coach was hesi­
tant, however, to put too much stock in Saturday's results, as several key players, such as receivers Golden Tate and Michael Floyd, were not play­ing. 
"Just being at practice today and seeing what we have with 
Delay 
continued from page 24 
momentum toward an MIAA conference tournament berth. 
However, Sullivan felt that if the Belles see the Scots again, they would come out on top. 
"When we play good offen­sive teams, they capitalize on ciur mistakes," she said. "We will be ready for our next games and are hoping to see Alma again in the conference tournament." 
The Belles will now turn their attention to another non-conference opponent, Robert Morris, as they travel to Illinois for a doublehead­er. 
The Eagles (17-14) are also coming off a rained-out series. 
Belles' pitchers, freshmen Monica Palicki and Angela 
Illini 
continued from page 24 
the other coming in the semi­finals of the ITA national 
indoor championships earlier this season. 
Notre Dame has hit a bit of a rough stretch lately after starting out the season 17-2. The Irish have posted a 2-2 record in its last four outings, dating back to their 5-2 home loss against Baylor March 31. 
The key for the Irish has been getting off to a fast start in the doubles eompetition. This weekend, the team ran away with both of the match­es against the Blue Demons 
(Golden Tate] and [Michael Floyd] on the field," Verducci said. "We didn't have them on Saturday. Boy, they're both dif­ference-makers. So it was a more realistic look, but we cer­tainly didn't have all our weapons." 
Tate, an outfielder on the Irish baseball team, has missed 
"It was a more realistic look, but we certainly didn't have all our weapons. ,, 
Frank Verducci Irish Offensive Line coach 
several prac­tices this spring, and Weis said the biggest aspect the receiver will have to improve by fall is his stamina. 
"There were a couple of times today where we 
might have had the [first-team] going for 10 plays," Weis said. "It might have been after five or six plays he was looking for a relief pitcher." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
Gillis, hope to shake off their previous starts and return to their winning ways against the Eagles. Gillis, who was recently named MIAA Pitcher of the Week, was handed her first loss of the season in the second game of the Alma doubleheader. 
"Our pitchers have been doing a phenomenal job all season," said Sullivan. "Angela had a tough loss after pitching a really great game. Monica pitched well, just missed on a couple of pitches and Alma took advantage of those misses." 
After the doubleheader at Robert Morris, the Belles will return to league play with two home doubleheaders against Albion and Hope on April 11 and 15, respectively. 
The first pitch of the Robert Morris game is sched­uled for 3:30p.m. 
Contact Chris Michalski at cmichals2@nd.edu 
and the Golden Eagles where they swept the doubles point, but fell against the Wildcats when they failed to clinch it. 
In its four losses this sea­son, Notre Dame has been unable to win the doubles point three times. 
The Irish will finish up their regular season schedule with a home match against Texas A&M April 11 before suiting up for the Big East championship tournament April 16. 
Notre Dame's match with Illinois is scheduled to kick­off at 3:30 p.m. beginning with the doubles competition. 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
Tar Heels defeat Spartans for title 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -There was a team of destiny out there, all right. It's the North Carolina Tar Heels, and the final chap­ter of their story was about as heartwarming as a demolition derby. 
Tyler Hansbrough, Ty Lawson and North Carolina won a national championship a season or more in the mak­ing, stomping out Michigan State's inspirational run Monday night with an 89-72 blowout that wasn't even that close. 
Hansbrough scored 18 points, Wayne Ellington had 19 and Lawson led all scorers with 21 and also had a record eight steals-and now they and Danny Green can all head to the NBA feeling good about their decision to return to school to bring home Carolina's fifth championship, and the second for coach Hoy Williams. 
All those upperelassmen, save Hansbrough, eame back in part because their draft prospects didn't look so good. They also didn't want their college careers to end on last year's embarrassing loss to Kansas in tho Final Four. That was a dud of a game in which they trailed 40-12 in the first 
half and  Billy Packer  was  
telling CBS viewers it  was  
over.  

This time, North Carolina led 36-13 around the time "Dancing With The Stars" was starting on another network. At least nobody knew how that one was going to end. 
"We've been working so hard since last year when we fell short," said Ellington, named most outstanding play­er. "I wanted to redeem myself. We worked so hard." 
Michigan State (31-7) simply never got any momentum. From the start, it was clear there was no way Carolina was losing control of this one, no chance for the Spartans to serve up that definitive ray of sunshine and warm-and-fuzzy smile for a state that's been battered by the ailing econo­my. 
"The best team won, Michigan State coach Tom Izzo said. "That's an easy state­ment to make." 
The Tar Heels (34-4) were up 55-34 at halftime, breaking a 42-year-old title-game record for biggest lead at the break and setting the mark for most points at the half. 
"We handled injuries, han­dled some losses" this season, Williams said. "The young­sters standing behind me are great, great young men. I'm the luckiest coach in America, I can tell you that." 
This collection of NBA talent was too, too much from wire to wire, from the start of the tournament, to the very end. 
Carolina won every game by double digits, something that hasn't happened since Duke did it in 20CH. 
Lots of basketball fans saw this coming, including America's No. 1 lloopster-in­Chicf. 
Yes, President Barack Obama pieked the Tar Heels to take it all in his much-publi­cized bracket. 
Magic .Johnson, Michigan State's Spartan-in-Chief, joined Larry Bird at center court to present the game ball, a tribute to the 30-year anniversary of their historic matchup and Michigan State's first title. 
From there, it was pretty much all "Showtime," all the time -but not for Michigan State. Heck, Magic didn't even stick around for the end of the game. He was spotted walking up the tunnel with 3 1/2 min­utes left. 
Izzo tried to call a timeout to stop the onslaught with 6:45 left in the first half. I lis team came out and promptly turned it over -one of 14 in the first half, compared to only 12 bas­kets. 
Goran Suton led the Spartans with 17 points, and Kalin Lucas, the Big Ten play­er of the year, had 14 -most scored once the game was out of hand, which was very early in this one. Michigan State pulled within 13 a couple times late in the second half, and the crowd of 72,922 ­mostly pulling for the Spartans -tried to make some noise. 

But for most of the game, cavernous Ford Field had the atmosphere of a Lions game, save the few thousand Tar Heel fans whose Carolina Blue team put in a much better blue-collar effort than the team that was supposed to pride itself on that. 
As for that 98-63 beatdown Carolina put on Michigan State in this same building back on Dec. 3? No fluke. In fact, Detroit might want to give Ford Field a nice, long break. The Lions went 0-16 here last season, and there was no halt to the suffering on this night. 
It was, almost literally, over before it began. Ellington had a double-pump scoop layup and a 3-pointer and Hansbrough spotted up and sank a 14-foot jumper -all in the first 4:25 to put Carolina ahead 17-7. It never got clos­er. 
The Spartans, meanwhile, were having trouble simply getting the ball in after Tar Heel buckets, turning it over that way twice in the first 6 minutes, part of a depressing day that didn't do justice to the effort they put in to get here. 
During pregame introduc­tions, Williams walked over to shake hands with Izzo, who was distracted. drawing up a play on the greaseboard in the huddle. He jokingly showed the diagram to Williams, -'­and you know what: It proba­bly wouldn't have mattered. 
Izzo conceded in the lead-up to the game that if both teams played their best, Michigan State would lose. He'll never find out if he was right because, while North Carolina was more than ready, the Spartans never showed up. 
"You've got six NBA players that could be drafted in the first round or early second," Spartans guard Travis Walton said. "You're looking at a team that could probably beat the worst team in the NBA." 
8uaineao ~Major? 

Contact Alex Barker at abarker1 @nd.edu 
Store Your Stun

Over th~ z};ummerl 
Call or stop on by & reserve today• 
(5741 203-0572 
M82 Stick """'d,South !i<>nd 

Lt><:at...J ilt Oewliln<l Rd, & US 20 8\'f'il%, 7 mi•>utes fr<>m <•mpu• 
Jhe Oboerver io looking tor otudenlol pre/erably buoineoo major61 wlw are intereoted in workin@ /or tJ1e dldvertioing Department neif year. 
Jf intereMed, pleaoe email your reoume to it,ea@nd.edu or mrodrig9@nd.edu. 


Unterviewo will take place afrler &aoter Break. 
~ 
.. 

Tuesday, Apnl 7, 2009 
Hawks 
continued from page 24 
ease. "I have some relatives that are afflicted with that, Ara 
has  grandchildren  that  
were,"  Irish  coach  Dave  
Schrage said.  

The Silverhawks defeated the Irish in the Silver vs. Gold game last year, 5-3. 
Notre Dame (19-10, 5-4 Big East) just swept Villanova at home this weekend and will face Cincinnati for a three-game road set starting Thursday. The Irish got great outings from sophomores Cole 
Johnson and Brian Dupra and junior Eric Maust. Schrage said the pitchers played the game at a fast pace, which he liked. 
"That's kind of what we want our pitchers to do is dictate the tempo," he said. 
The pitchers responded well to a meeting held last week that Schrage said challenged them. 
"We felt like we've had tal­ent on the mound," Schrage 
said.  "We  made  some  
adjustments  on  some  
things."  
Notre  Dame  will  send  

sophomore Todd Miller to the mound to start, but the Irish will rotate pitchers and hitters often, Schrage said, 

The Observer+ SPORTS 
so everyone gets a chance to play. 
"Basically we need to get our work in tomorrow," Schrage said. "We need to keep going." 
The hitters will use wood­en bats instead of their usual aluminum because they are facing a profession­al team. 
The professional pitching, Schrage said, will help the players get a taste of the next level, but will be limit­ed at the same time. The innings will have a pitch count. 
"You're going to see some arm strength from profes­sional pitching," he said. "They have great skill level 
and a little bit more experi­ence than our guys." 
Schrage said the Irish line­up had started to settle in and was especially pleased the addition of sophomore David Casey in the cleanup spot. 
"We had a really nice boost from David Casey in the four-hole in the past two weeks," Schrage said. 
In his last four games, Casey has gone 8-for-15 (.533) with eight RBis. . 
First pitch is at 5:30 p.m. 
For  tickets,  call  the  
Silverhawks at 57 4-2 3 5­ 
9988.  

Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@od.edu 


NONE OF YOUR AREjwt 
At U.S. Cellular,@ we believe every number's important. 


That's why we have My 
So you can save, s~ore a 
if you get a·f:Je~·-p1f 
?~~ 
o>:.· 
getusc.com 

t 

'·' 


ac~s Backup for free. transfer your numbers 

~US. Cellular 
believe in something better~ 
page 21 

NHL 
Canadiens' 
hopes fall after loss 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL -Just like that, Ottawa's Dany Heatley turned the Montreal Canadiens' last three games of the regular season into crucial showdowns. 
Heatley scored two goals 38 seconds apart to put Ottawa ahead with 7:59 remaining in the third period and the already-eliminated Senators dealt a big blow to Montreal's playoff chances with a 3-2 win on Monday night. 
Heatley lifted Ottawa into a 2-2 tie at 11:23 and then net­ted his 37th of the season at 
12:01 when he beat Jaroslav Halak from the slot with a shot that silenced the sold­out Bell Centre crowd. 
"I wish that we had the third goal back, the shot under the arm -probably Halak does, too, but Heatley is a guy who scores 40 goals every year," Canadiens coach Bob Gainey said. "He gets them different ways and he got us tonight." 
Chris Campoli also scored for the Senators, who will miss the playoffs for the first time in 13 seasons. 
Alex Kovalev netted his 25th goal, and Mathieu Dandenault scored with 3.8 seconds remaining in the sec­ond period for the Canadiens, who are seventh in the Eastern Conference but only three points above the playoff cutoff with three games left. 
Montreal left for New York following the game for Tuesday night's matchup against the Rangers, who are tied with Florida in points right behind the Canadiens. 
"We had the game in our control and we let it slip away but there are three games left. This game is over and done with now," Canadiens defenseman Josh Gorges said. "We have a big game (Tuesday night) that we have to focus our attention 
on." 
Halak stopped 20 shots in his third straight start for Montreal, which lost top defensemen Andrei Markov and Mathieu Schneider to injuries in Saturday night's 6­2 in Toronto. 
"The players weren't avail­able tonight and won't be (Tuesday night), but I have no more information to give you about the injuries to Markov and Schneider," Gainey said. 
Heatley tied it when he got his stick down amid three Canadiens -Gorges, defense partner Mike Komisarek, and right wing Tom Kostopoulos -to redirect Mike Fisher's centering feed past Halak. 
"I thought we cycled and took advantage of their D pretty good," Fisher said. "We got a couple of quick goals and then we just hung on." 
Kovalev extended his point streak to seven games when he made it 1-1 at 12:46 of the second. He put a wrist shot from the right side past Alex Auld and into the top left cor­ner, giving him eight goals during his scoring spurt. 


page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April 7, 2009 
Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
after the game, having expect­ed the loss from the outset. 
"Remember that movie called 'Miracle'?" Rihanna junior Mike Perry said before the game. "Yeah, that's not going to happen tonight." 
That is not to say that Rihanna came into the matchup without a game plan. 
"The wind conditions really hurt us," Erickson sad. "Our game plan was to make 21 straight half-court shots, and with the weather like this, we just couldn't do it. Ir you can't make 21 half-court shots in a row. I don't know how you're going to beat the No. 1 ranked team." 
Writ of Man to Mandamus 21, Canniballers 12 
Despite what their name implies, Writ of Man to Mandamus used a dominating zone defense to overcome the Canniballers 21-12 in a game that was very much affected by the outdoor conditions. 
The heavy winds and the frigid temperature caused the game to favor the defensive side of the ball. and Man to Mandamus took full advantage, led by their top shot-blocker, law student A.J. Weissler. Along with his seven points. Weissler also added double-digit blocks to pace Man to Mandamus. 
"I had a really mean grand­mother, and on 
half," Graham said. "We played a little more clamp down defense. We made a couple changes on defense, where people were positioned. It helped us with rebounding and we stopped giving second­chance points." 
The Canniballers were led by graduate student Tim Kellher, who scored seven of his team's 12 points on the day. In the end, though, Man to Mandamus' defense was just too much for the Canniballers. 
After the game, Weissler made sure that he thanked everyone who contributed to the victory. 
"It was my teammates, God, and everybody out there sup­porting us back home [who helped with the victory!." 
Asian Allure 21, America's Best Basketball Team 18 
As the sun and temperatures dropped quickly, Asian Allure topped America's Best Basketball Team on the book­store courts. 
While most teams moved their games indoors due to the chilly weather, two squads were manly enough to brave the cold for the sake of the game. And, ironically, both were entirely female. 
"Our captain and mascot, Chrystal, really lJUlled us through," said Asian Allure for­ward, MBA student Nicole 'Sassy New Yorker' Davis. "That had to be the longest game ever and we really need­ed her. We are all fifth-year students, we 

side of the backboard, Greatest Hits knew a trip to the round of 64 was inevitable. 
Fearing the inside presence of senior Ryan Ayers, Matza Balls turned to three-pointers and even a half-court shot to put p-oints on the board. Neither strategy was very suc­cessful, as they managed only four points on the night. When asked what led to their team's defeat. freshman Will Perocchi simply said, "Ryan Ayers." 
Perocchi then contemplated for a little bit longer and came up with a more accurate response. "It was probably because they were exponential­ly better than us at every posi­tion," he said. 
Teammate Trent McMullen had a more positive outlook on the loss. "We definitely ran into a steamroller today. If the conditions were a little differ­ent we could have had a differ­ent outcome." 
Other players on the losing side cited the 12-degree weath­er and poor officiating as caus­es for the defeat. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu, Nathaniel Lee at nleeS@nd.edu, and Chris Michalski at cmichals2@nd.edu 
ued to stall offensively, and America's Best brought the game to within two. 20-1 S. Aftnr a rnferoe interv1mtion, play continued smoothly until Asian Allure sank the limtl bas­ket, and to everyone's relinf, 
endnd the game "I don't play rebounds when after nearly two basketball. I have they were play­hours of play. ing a man
never played before. I 

down." Crazy Doggz 21, think I have played Buttery did Buttery 16 knockout once manage to find 
In a cold, some more
maybe."

windy battle, the offense after Crazy Doggz pre­Pope-Davis went vailed over Chrystal Ohoh down, but in the Buttery. Asian Allure captain end, too many 
The No. 27 Crazy Doggz played like the favorites for much of the first half, but was set back by an ankle injury to captain David Pope-Davis. After a long timeout to tape up the wounded ankle, Pope-Davis returned to the court. but with much less effectiveness. 
With only four healthy play­ers. the Crazy Doggz employed a strategy where Pope-Davis would essentially cherry-pick on offense and leave his team­mates to defend four on live. 
Luckily, the wind acted as the fifth man, making outside shots efTeetive only when they lnd to an offensive board. 

"They tried to exploit the injury, but the rest of thn team came up big for me," said Pope-Davis, "The big guys real­ly came through with some big 
turnovers and 
too few close­range shots resulted in their elimination from the tourna­ment. The Crazy Doggz will move on to play April 14 in the round of 64. 
Chris Brown's Greatest Hits 21, Matza Balls 4 
Most of the players on Chris Brown's Greatest Hits only had one concern on their minds: getting out of the cold. 
After seeing the Matza Balls players take and miss a num­ber of running hook-shots and jump-shots that hit the back­
* 
t)1)JNANOVIC
~INSTITUTE 
fOil EUROPEAN STUDIES 
' 


THE CULTURE OF THE ENEMY: 
A Critique of Huntington from Freud and Nietzsche 
MARCCREPON 
Profossor. Ecole ttormak swplrir&trt {Paris) Rtstarcbtr. Cmm ttatiott41 Jr 14 mbtrcb< soottifiqur (CNRS) Pmfrssor (f"illotl is co-bostrJ by tbt Pb.D. iN Uttndllrt Progrum 
WEDNESDAY, APRILS. 2009 8:00P.M. ROOM C100 THE HESBURGH CENTER FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 
Thanksgiving, "I had a really mean shouldn't even 
the only way I be here."
grandmother, and on 
was allowed to In a marathon eat was if I had Thanksgiving, the 1 hour and 57 twelve blocks in only way I was minutes of play, the family bas­both teams
allowed to eat was if
ketball game," fought with fury, Weissler said. bitterness and
I had twelve blocks in 
"And she the family basketball intensity that brought it much rivaled the win­
game.
harder than they try winds in did." which they bat­
The game was A.J. Weissler tled. The game close throughout Man of Mandamus player was even for 
the first half, which ended with Man to Mandamus leading 11-8. They were clearly out-rebounding the Canniballers, but the wind caused them to miss many of their second-chance opportuni­ties. 
"Honestly, we haven't been much of a jump shooting team, but we actually shot more today, because they played a 2­3 zone," team captain Joe Graham said. "So we had to actually hit some shots, and then got a lot of second chance points on rebounds." 
Man to Mandamus came out hot in after the break. though, and went on a 9-2 run to start the second half. Law student Rich McAvoy led the charge for Man to Mandamus. scoring half of his team's points in the sec­ond half. When asked what changes his team made at half that were so effective, Graham said that the true shift came near the end of the first half. 
"We started wearing them down at the end of the 11rst half and continued it in the second most of the first 
half, as the 
teams traded baskets bringing the score to 10-10. 
Suddenly, the mentality of the contest shifted, and it would be another 20 minutes before Asian Allure scored again to bring an overdue halftime break. 
"I don't play basketball. I have never played before," said Asian Allure captain and MBA student Chrystal Ohoh. "I think I have played knock-out once maybe." 
In the second half, the action heated up again, with Asian Allure building a small lead as the match continued to grind on. 
Their offensive advantage brought them to a 20-16 lead, but America's Best Basketball Team refused to throw in the towel. They forced turnovers and jump balls. while both teams dealt and withstood a series of brutal fouls and injuries. 
The game continued to get rougher, as Asian Allure contin-


Bom on March 30, 1962. Marc <::repon is a phil0$0pher who v.-orks at the Cenuc National de la Reche.rche Scicntifiquc (France). As a specialist of the German and fl'C'tlch philosophies from me l8th-ct."tltury ro the-pau:nt time, MaK <:repon's are-.& ofimerest d\>als with the reLuionship ~'fl language and community, ~and philosophical disooursc, language and terror. In this contell.t, ht-also addre~'CS the chalk.'flges Europe is facing today. MaK Crepon's r«ent publicadons attr.lctc:d a high lcvtJ of anmtion, cspc:cially his refkaion on tht-"Clash of Ovilil.ations."' His growing infllldltt on the intdlectual scene hlcludn the U11hni State where he reaches at Northwestern Un.iYef"Sity. 

Tuesday, April 7, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
PATRICK GARTLAND 
-"'+'"+""ffl""' 24 Singer Michelle 
65 Creole cooking pod 
66"Good comeback!" 67 Draft org. 68 Call for 69 Slow movers 
Down Clear up, as a windshield 2 Massey of old 
films 3 Smart-mouthed 4 Stately dance in 
3141ime 5 It may be upped 6 Roll-call call 7 "Haystacks" 
artist Claude 8 More than enough 
9 Shows derision 10 Thanksgiving 
guests, oflen 11 #Over and out• 12 Affected by 13· 
Down 13 Bakery supply 18 Infamous Amln 22 Its competitors 
may be thrown 
orCass 25 Full of merriment 27 Slo·mo footage, perhaps 29 Oktoberfest "Oh!" 
3Q Doo·wop group ___ NaNa 
31 Macrame ties 33 Census datum 

WILLSHORTZ 

53 The •e· in 54­Across 55 Christina of "Monster"
Deighton 48 _ franca 
56 Menottl title role 37 "Didn't 1 tell 49 They may be 
57 Spanish babies 
you?" punched 
60Like most 38 Fraction of a 50 1936 Olympics bathroom graffiti: joule star Jesse Abbr. 
51 Bizarre 62 Took the cake 
40 Horses that produce milk 52 Work. as dough 63 "-been real!" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
For answers. call 1-900-285-5656. $1.49 a minute; or. with a credit card, HI00-814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7·ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles. or visit nytimes.comfmobilexword for more informalion. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puules, nytimes.comfcrosswords ($39.95 a year), Share tips: nytimes.comlwordplay. Crosswords lor young solvers: nytimes.comlleamingtxwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Candace Cameron, 33; Ari Meyers, 40; John Ratzenberger, 62; Merle Haggard, 72 
Happy Birthday: You have a lot going on and it will be easy to get off course. Pull in the reins and make sure everything you take on has a purpose. Uncertainty may arise but, if you hang on to your beliefs and follow through with your plans, you will come out on top. Your numbers are 6, 18, 20, 25, 34, 36,48 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Don't be too hard on others or you may have to do all the work on your own. Encouragement and optimism will carry you to the finish line. You will make the best impression by being cost· and time-efficient. 3 stars 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): You've got to be strong and determined if you want things to go your way. Do not put up with game-playing or maneuvering. This is no time to falter when so much is on the line. Turn changes into a positive. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Put your attributes to the test and don't give in to emotional issues. Expect someone who depends on you to give you grief. You can make some extra cash but don't pay for someone else's mistakes. An opportunity is coming down the pipe­line. 2 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Accepting change is necessary if you want to avoid getting stuck with someone else's responsibilities. Put a little extra effort in at home and you will feel better about your place and surroundings. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): There is more to what's going on around you than you realize. Remember things you endured as a child and you will know exactly what to do with the situation you face now. Sudden changes in contracts or financial affairs are likely. 3 stars 
../\ 

VIRGO (Aug. 23·Sept. 22): Put passion frrst and anger last. Do not get manipulated into something that won't work for you. If you don't like the information you are being given, research until you find a way to overcome whatever you are facing. 3 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Something is going on behind your back. Networking and openly discussing what you would like to see happen will hold a lot of clout and help you stay in whatever game you are playing. Don't allow anyone to push you around. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can change the canvas if you apply your creative talent and your know-how to get what you want. A problem at home may have you questioning your personal relationships. You will feel better once you address a misconception. 2 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Expect anyone you have been unfair with to retaliate. You may have to back down if you don't want to be embarrassed. Arguing will only add to your frustration. Expand your circle of friends. 2 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You've got more control than you think. You can stabi­lize your position by making a few changes to the way you do things. Don't give in to 
someone you love when he or she is asking for too much. 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Look back at your life and the people who have come and gone. If there is someone you wish to hook up with, do so. Making the effort will likely change the course of your life. Love is on the rise. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb.19-March 20): You'll be torn between what you can and cannot do. Some­one may challenge you and what you know. Back away from controversy until you have a better handle on the way you really feel. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: Yoti are open-minded, quick to react and eager to try new things. You are 
a helper and a good communicator and you stand up for your beliefs. 
Eugenia's Web sites: eugenia/ast.comfor confidential consultations. myspace.com!eugenialast for Eugenia's blog, astroadvice .com for fun 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
JUMBLE 
~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
COTTE ± 
SIBAN 
j
I [X () 
RYVETS 
(XJ
MEWJUMBlE NINTEMX) www.jumble.comlds
tHERTIE j

J 1 r rJ 

A:( I I IIJ'DA( I I I I I J 
Yesterday's  IJumbles:  LOUSE  RAINY  (Answers tomorrow) OPPOSE FORGET  
Answer:  On a golf course, many rich guys can be  - 
"POOR" PLAYERS  

JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Arglrlon and Jeff Knurek 

WHAT IT CAN Mf:AN WH!:N A HU5BANO BRINGS HOM!: FLOWERS FOR •No REASON'. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
CROSSWORD 
Across Loss of heart 

7 Mardi Gras wear 
11 Go for it 
14 "Seinfeld" woman 
15 Prefix with potent 
16 Go fast 
1 7 Prison for soda lerks? 19 Simile center 
20 When prompted 
21 Procter's mark 22Map0uest suggestions: Abbr. 23 'What's Going On" singer Marvin 24 Prison for bishops? 
26 La-la lead-in 
28 Patches, as a 
fairway 29 Sweep's heap 
32 Modem means of relaying jokes 36 Shut down 39 Prison for vintners? 
421slamic equivalent of kosher 
43 Bandleader Skinnay_ 44 Part of a journey 45 Lady of the Haus 471o-digit no. 49 Prison for corny humorists? 54 Ayatollah's land 58 Has 59 Melt ingredient 60 Cartoon art genre 61 A fire sign 62 Prison lor gardeners? 
64 Doc with a tongue depressor, maybe 


WWW. BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 
THE foRBIDDEN DouGHNUT 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS 
page 24 

FOOTBALL 
Offense, defense effective in intersquad scrimmage 
By SAM WERNER Associare Sporrs Editor 
Even though the season open­er against Nevada is still five months away, Notre Dame head coach Charlie Weis tried to make Saturday's scrimmage as close to a game situation as pos­sible. 
Weis said he allowed the offensive line to cut-block 
BASEBALL 
Irish face Silverhawks in annual Silver vs. Gold exhibition game 
By BILL BRINK Sports Wrirer 
I 
Time to ditch the aluminum bats and break out the wood. Notre Dame takes the fieldI today against the South Bend Silverhawks, the Single-A affiliate of the Arizona Diamondbacks, in the second '
I annual Silver vs. Gold exhibi­l tion game at Coveleski Field. 
Baseball takes a back seat,I however, to an importantl l'undraiser associated with the game's ticket sales. A portion of the proceeds will go towards the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation, which fights Niemann-Pick Type C dis-
see HAWKS/page 21 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
against the defense for the first time all spring. Previously, risk of injury had prevented him from doing so. 
"We had some causalities," Weis said. "But we really didn't have any casualties due to cut blocking." 
Weis said that Saturday's scrimmage gave him a better idea of where his team stood heading into the Blue-Gold spring game on April 18 and the end of spring practices. 

"I was a lot more pleased than I was the previous Saturday," Weis said. "Mainly because I thought it was very competi­tive." 
The defense took the advan­tage early in the session, Weis said, thanks to a couple of offensive holding penalties. After the firsUew plays, though, the offense began to run the ball effectively, culminating in a touchdown run by sophomore running back Robert Hughes. After that, the session was essentially even, until a long Jimmy Clausen touchdown pass to Duval Kamara ended the practice. 
Running backs coach Tony Alford has been getting on Hughes recently about his weight, which is currently listed at 237. Weis said that it isn't necessarily that Hughes is over-

Going Pro 

VANESSA GEMPISffhe Observer 

Notre Dame sophomore catcher Cameron McConnell swings and misses during a 5-2 
Irish win over Villanova Friday. 

Team to play last road match 
No. 3 Irish squad to take on No. 40 Illinois in Champaign 
By ALEX BARKER Associare Sporrs Editor 
No. 3 Notre Dame will play its final road match of the season when it travels to Champaign, Ill. to take on No. 40 Illinois today. 
The Irish (19-4, 3-0 Big East) are 2-1 on their current road trip behind wins over conference foes DePaul and Marquette with their lone loss coming against top­ranked Northwestern. The team knocked off DePaul 5-2 and swept Marquette 7-0 without senior captain Kelcy Tefft in the lineup. The 4-3 loss to Northwestern was their second of the season, 
see ILLINI/page 20 weight, but that he needs to find an identity as a running back. 


"He has two choices," Weis said. "Either lose weight or play big. He wants to be Armando as far as how he runs the ball, but if' he wants to be Jerome Bettis, he doesn't have to lose any weight." 
Offensive line coach Frank Verducci said the ability to cut-
see HUGHES/page 22 

SMC SOFTBALL 
Ballgan1es postponed due to rain 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sporrs Wrirer 
The Belles will be forced to wait another day before they can bounce back from their previous loss as their non­conference matchup against Bethel College was post­poned due to weather. 
The Bethel game is likely to be cancelled, as it "looks to be too difficult to resched­ule," said Belles coach Erin Sullivan. 
The Belles (18-4, 4-2 MIAA) are coming off a dis­appointing weekend, drop­ping both games of a double­header to divisional foe Alma College. The losses broke the seven-game win-· ning streak and slowed their 
see DELAY/page 20 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 

Main St. Pub triumphs in 15-minute contest 
Asian Allure wins two-hour battle over America's Best 
By ERIC PRISTER, 
NATHANIEL LEE and CHRIS 
MICHALSKI 
Spores Wrirers 
Main St. Pub showed why they deserved their No. 1 rank­ing as they ran their way to a 21-4 victory over We Get Beat Worse Than Rihanna in a game that lasted less than fifteen minutes to complete. 
Running up and down the court, Main St. Pub had no trouble scoring at will, putting the ball in the basket on almost every possession. They used the fast break to their advan­tage, using their superior speed on their way to victory. 

"They're pretty good," said Rihanna sophomore captain Grant Erickson. "They're fast, they know what they're doing. They're good." 
Main St. Pub is made up of the returning players from the top two teams in last year's tournament, including 2008 Mr. Bookstore Carl Anderson. 
When asked about the possi­bility of being forced to go against their game plan and slowing down to a half-court offense, Main St. Pub senior captain Alex Klupchak was not worried. 
"We should be able to move pretty well in the half-court offense too," Klupchak said. "We know it's going to be a real tough tournament this year. We're looking forward to it." 
We Get Beat Worse Than Rihanna was not disheartened 
see BOOKSTORE/page 22 




