
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Jenkins reflects, shares goals in faculty address 
University president calls last year challenging but rewarding, expresses desire for faculty diversity and stable scJwol finances 

By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 

University President Fr. John Jenkins said the 2008-2009 school year was his most chal­lenging and rewarding year as president of the University, and he named increasing faculty diversity and continuing to sta­bilize the school's finances as goals for this year in his annu­al address to the faculty Tuesday. 
"We faced a world financial crisis that continues to have an enormous impact on higher education in this country," Jenkins said in his speech to a full auditorium in the 
SMCdinner honors Moreau 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 
Since his beatification two years ago, Saint Mary's has honored Blessed Fr. Basil Anthony Moreau, founder of the Order of the Holy Cross, with a student and faculty­wide dinner each fall. 
This year's event was held Tuesday on the day of Moreau's beatification, Sept. 15. 
"The dinner is to honor Blessed Fr. Basil Anthony Moreau, founder of the sisters brothers and priests of Holy Cross. [The] dinner, which features a French menu, marks the second anniver­sary of Moreau's beatification, took place in Le Mans, France on Sept. 15, 2007," Barry Bowles, general manager of Sodexo Campus Dining Services said. 
According to Bowles the idea for such an event originated from the Vice President of Mission, Sr. Rose Anne Schultz, in 2007. 
"We decided to have two din­ners, one a semester, every aca­demic year to remember the founder of the sisters, brothers and priests of Holy Cross," Bowles said. 
The first dinner took place on Sept. 14, 2007, the eve of Moreau's beatification. Since that time the College has continued the tradition each fall. 
"This meal i'i near and dear to us in Dining Services and some­thing we really enjoy putting on," Bowles said. "It takes an awful lot of work, but it's worth it to cele­
see MOREAU/page 6 DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. "We also had a Commencement that may have been watched by more people than any Commencement in the history of American higher education." 

Jenkins thanked the students and faculty -both those that agreed and disagreed with his decision to honor President Barack Obama at the 2009 Commencement -for their "commendable behavior" in light of the controversy. 
"Both groups acted accord­ing to their convictions, engaged in serious discussion and did not let the frenzy out­side of campus undermine the respectful interchange," he 
said. 
Regarding the struggling economy of the past year, Jenkins said the University is in a better financial state than many other comparable schools around the country because of the University's "conservative financial policy." 
But the University has been affected by the ongoing eco­nomic crisis. 
Jenkins said rising student financial aid costs and a decrease in giving, among other factors, have put pres­sure on the University's finances. 
"The endowment ... was 
see JENKINS/page 6 
Church holds mass for off-campus students 
Little Flower Church adds an 8 p.m. Sunday celebration, offers alternative to dorm masses 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
When senior Molly Sullivan lived on campus, attending Sunday Mass was easy. 
But now that she lives in Legacy VIllage, a student hous­ing complex north of campus, Sullivan said dorm Masses are not as convenient to attend. 
"I think one of the things that's so great at Notre Dame is mass on campus is so conven­ient," she said. "A lot of stu­dents miss that convenience when they move off campus and maybe don't go as often." 
With a number of new stu­
dent housing complexes in the area northeast of campus ­including Irish Crossing and Irish Row -many students are looking for nearby churches at which to attend Sunday Mass. 
Fr. Neil Ryan, pastor of Little Flower Church on Ironwood Rd., is adding an extra Mass at 8 p.m. on Sunday to accommo­date the students living off campus. 
"We have these student resi­dences very close to the Parish and I though it would be good for them if there was a parish nearby within a comfortable walking distance," Ryan said. "And I figured that most stu­dents ar~ not going to be up for my 8 a.m. Mass on Sunday." 
The first Mass at 8 p.m. on Sunday will be offered Sept. 27, once the parish completes the logistical tasks involved in adding an extra Mass. 
Ryan said he got in touch with Sullivan to fmd out what time of day on Sunday students would most likely come to Mass. 
"I listened to students and let them suggest a convenient time for them to pray," Ryan said. "Many of them would like to get reintegrated into parish life. It's really a family praying togeth­er." 
As a varsity cross-country runner, Sullivan said she can­not attend Sunday morning Masses, so the nightly service offers a welcomed alternative. 
"I think this will give us back the convenience that dorm Masses offered," she said. "They are going out of their way to accommodate our schedules." 
Sullivan said she often misses the dorm Masses and will prob­ably still attend them from time to time. 
But she said she is excited at the opportunity to get involved in Little Flower Church. 
"I think Notre Dame dorm Masses are a great thing for 
see CHURCH/page 6 
Police discuss football games with community 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Police officers addressed community members about home football game Saturdays and gave them advice on traffic, parking and tailgating safety at this month's "Creating A Safe Community" meeting Tuesday in South Bend. 
"Eighty thousand people descend on campus in a community where we nor­mally have 11,000 students. So it's a big, big deal for us as a community," director of the Notre Dame Security Police {NDSP) Phil Johnson said. 
Johnson said the goal of the game day safety team is to "have a safe experience 
for our community mem­bers" and "to provide emer­gency routes" so that ambu­lances have access to the campus and surrounding neighborhoods. 
"I didn't say anything about fan convenience because that isn't our mis­sion," he said. "A byproduct of our good work is that we have a great experience for our fans too." 
A major side effect of game days on the communi­ty is the influx of people and changing traffic patterns to accommodate those attend­ing the game. Three and a half to four hours before the game begins and one to two hours after the game ends 
see FOOTBALLpage 4 

INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER COR page 3 • Campus and South Bend radio stations page 12 • Women's soccer injury page 24 • Viewpoint page 10 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, September 16, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Career Fair 

a Joke 
So the Career Fair is today. Great. I've received 12 e-mails and read 15 posters letting me know that my best opportunity to get an internship is a 4­hour event in the Joyce Center. Now all I have to do is update my resume, show up, and I'll be spend­ing the summer in a cubicle making little to no money for "work experi­ence." Sweet. 
If you've never been to the famous career fair before, allow me to show you the really fine print that the recruiters from the Big Four and every other company that shows up doesn't want you to read. 
The career fair is a joke. Everybody dresses up in monkey suits and classy outfits like they're getting ready for an interview with Steve Jobs himself. And if you don't dress up you look like you go to some junior college down the road. 
Next, the real premise of the career fair is to make students walk around the Joyce Center in a complete circuit with a stack of resumes in hand in the hopes that they talk to recruiters. 
The first lap is basically a warmup. It allows you to get a sense of the point­lessness of why you're there, how many people got duped into coming, and what you could be doing on a Wednesday afternoon if you weren't there. 
The second lap is different. Now you really have to stick your neck out there and fmd the recruiter who looks under­dressed compared to everybody else (my initial prediction is Under Armour). 
Here comes the best part of the entire career fair. After you've found that special someone, the career fair suggests that you will introduce your­self to the recruiter, hand him or her your interview, and receive a notifica­tion of an internship later in the month. 
But this is what really happens, the abridged version. You stand in line for about 10 minutes at a time for most stations, at least 15 for Under Armour (for some reason people think that because we go to NO Under Armour owes us internships or something). When it's your turn you walk up to the recruiter, you tell him your name, tell him your grade, and then shoot the breeze for about 2-3 minutes about why you always liked this company, or why you're so qualified. 
But the recruiter probably stopped listening after you told him you were a freshman, sophomore, or junior. The only thing they really care about is whether you've reached senior status or not. 
So if you're planning on going to the career fair today, just do me a favor. Instead of putting your name on the sticker, just put your grade and stick it to the top of your forehead. Trust me, it will save you 2-3 minutes of conversa­tion you won't remember the next day. Guaranteed. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd. edu 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publication and strives for rhe highest standards of journalism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please conracr us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD JUMP INTO A POOL OF SOMETHING, WHAT WOULD IT BE? 






Chris Damian  Anne Robles  Johanna Kirsch  Sarah Spieler  Jordan Matulis  
freshman  freshman  senior  sophomore  sophomore  
Dillon  Pasquerilla East  McGlinn  Pasquerilla West  Howard  
"Jello,  "Billions oftiny  "Lots and lots  "Is water not  "Silly string. It  
preferably blueberry. "  styrofoam balls."  ofchocolate firo-yo. ,  an acceptable answer?"  would be soft andfluffy."  

Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

TOM LA/The Observer The Notre Dame bagpipe band practices outside LaFortune Tuesday afternoon. The band performs at every home game. 
OFFBEAT 

and recklessly endanger­ing another person. 
Police said the suspect had driven from Lehigh County to Philadelphia to buy drugs before he flagged down a police car around 4:30 Saturday morning. Authorities said he explained that he could­n't find the car with the boy inside. 
Police found the car two hours later about a half-mile from where the suspect hailed officers. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Snuggle debuts at New York Fashion Week 
NEW YORK -All the big names came out for New York Fashion Week: Marc. Vera. Snuggie. Yes, Snuggie -the blan­ket with sleeves ­staged a runway show on Tuesday, complete with high-fashion models and a new "urban jungle" line of zebra and leopard prints. 
The silhouette, if you can call it that, remained the same -a cross between monk robes and "Alvin and the Chipmunks" sweaters. Accessories included 
remote controls. 

"You're here at -let's just say it -the future of fashion," said host Ross Matthews, better known as Ross the Intern from Jay Leno 's "Tonight" show. 
Man loses son while buying drugs 
PHILADELPHIA Philadelphia police said a man out buying drugs flagged down officers after he couldn't find the car he'd parked with his 6-year-old stepson inside. The man, 31, was charged with endanger­ing the welfare of a child 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a: 
LLI :I: 
~ 
LLI 
==..... 
ct 
(.) 0 

HIGH 60 HIGH 75 HIGH
...I LOW 57 LOW 51 LOW IN BRIEF 




"Latino Studies Past, Present and Future," which is the Institute of Latino Studies' 10-year anniver­sary symposium, will take place today from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the auditorium of McKenna Hall. 
The "Fritz Scholder Contemporary Artist Influences" exhibit will be held at 10 a.m. today. The display includes art from Native American artist Fritz Scholder. The exhibit will be shown in the Milly and Frits Kaeser Mestrovic Studio Gallery in the Suite Museum of Art. 
"In Praise of Donors Selections from Dr. and Mrs. R. Stephen Lehman Collection" will be shown in the Scholz Family Works on Paper Gallery in the Snite Museum of Art. The exhibit will open at 10 a.m. today. 
An exhibit entitled "Para Ia Gente: Art, Politics, and Cultural Identity of the Taller de Grafica Popular" will open at 10 a.m. today. The display will be located in the O'Shaughnessy Galleries in the Suite Museum ofArt. 
"Thin: Photographs by Lauren Greenfield" will be displayed at 10 
a.m. in the O'Shaughnessy Galleries in the Suite Museum of Art today. 
Mass will be held in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 11:30 a.m. and 5:15p.m. today. 
There will be a town hall meet­ing for Notre Dame staff today at 2 
p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. A reception will follow. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
GAMEDAY SUNDAY 


HIGH 71 LOW 55 
Atlanta 78 I 67 Boston 60 I 50 Chicago 73 I 55 Denver 70 I 52 Houston 87 I 70 Los Angeles 82 I 64 Minneapolis 78 I 57 New York 65 I 56 Philadelphia 68 I 57 Phoenix 100 I 78 Seattle 7 4 I 57 St. Louis 80 I 60 Tampa 87 I 75 Washington 75 I 64 
Wednesday, September 16, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Men1bers discuss how to increase involvement with DPAC 
"It's not that we don't want Thompson said.
By ANN-MARIE WOODS 
student groups on the calen­"We are trying to be very
News Writer 
dar, we just don't always have reactive in our marketing," the time," Thompson said. Thomson said. "We also want 
Anna Thompson, the execu­Student body president to get into podcasting like the tive director for the Marie P. Grant Schmidt suggested an University is trying to get DeBartolo Center for the "art dollars" program, with into." Performing Arts, spoke at the money on student identifica­Thompson said the Center is Council of Representatives's tion cards earmarked for pur-open to new ideas for collabo­(COR) meeting chasing tickets ration with the student body, Tuesday to at the Center. including post parties, a
'Two dorms that 

increase collab­There are so mixer-like event following oration between want to come to an many events Center performances. the student body that students "Two dorms that want to
event can partner

and the Center. would enjoy come to an event can partner
together and buy

COR members but they don't together and buy tickets, and asked Thompson tickets, and we'll know about we'll have a post party," how students have a post party" them, accord­Thompson explained. can get involved ing to Schmidt. Thompson also encourages and take advan­The "art dol­proposals from the student 
Anna Thompson 

tage of the lars" would be body and faculty to bring a resources at the executive director a way to particular artist or group into Center. DeBartolo Center for the encourage stu­the Center. 
A common dents to attend "If you have any groups you
Performing Arts

complaint performances want to see in the season, just Center arcade, which is for the year. Schmidt and among student and showings e-mail me," Thompson said. scheduled for the summer of director of external affairs groups is the lack of avail­at the Center. Thompson recommends stu­2010. Once a committee is Gus Gari worked on the pro­ability at the Center for stu­The Center is trying to dents and faculty go to the formed, planning will begin posal last year. They hope to dent performances. improve its main modes of Center's Web site for the com­assessing the necessary work with Notre Dame and Thompson explained the diffi­advertising, with surveys plete schedule for the year. changes to be made. local businesses to enact this culties she faces in schedul­given at the end of screenings program. ing and availability, as aca­and performances, e-mail, In other COR news: +Schmidt reintroduced the demic programs always take print media and advertise­+COR discussed the renova­use of Domer Dollars off cam­Contact Ann-Marie Woods at precedence. ments in Scholastic magazine, tion of the LaFortune Student pus as a potential initiative awoods4@nd.edu 


Men ofNotre Dame ...
Corby Night 
Is God calling you? 

Think you might have a vocation to serve as a priest or brother? Join the Holy Cross community at Notre Dame for an hour ofpraye1~ pizza, 
and informal discussion. 
Wednesday, Sept. 16, 8pm at Corby Hall 







vocation.nd.edu 
Questions? calll-6385 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 16, 2009 
ILS celebrates 10th anniversary 
By PUJA PARIKH 
News Writer 
The Institute for Latino Studies (ILS) celebrates the lOth anniversary of its cre­ation today by holding an aca­demic symposium entitled "Latino Studies: Past Present and Future" in the McKenna Hall auditorium. 
The event, which will run from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., will fea­ture several prominent speak­ers, including the keynote address by Fr. Virgilio Elizondo, professor of pastoral and Hispanic theology. The symposium is moderated by Fr. Daniel Groody, assistant professor of theology. 
Cliberto Cardenas, ILS director, Julian Samora, pro­fessor of Latino studies, Allert Brown-Gort, ILS associate director, Ramona Hernandez, Jose Limon, Maria Cristina Garcia, Alicia Gaspar De Alba, Silvio torres-Saillant, Arlene Davilla, and Roberto Goizueta will be featured as panelists. 
"One of the things we feel we have done here is create a new vision for Latino studies outside of the ethnic studies paradigm," Brown-Gort said. "Now, we have to ask our­selves some questions. Where are we going to from here as the demographics in the US change? What can we do for the University?" 
The 10th anniversary cele­bration began on Monday with the screening of the film "A Forgotten Injustice," a doc­umentary that tells the story of two million Mexican­Americans and United States citizens who were forced to leave the United States during the Great Depression due to their ethnicity. The film was chosen by a Notre Dame stu­dent leader from the Latino group on campus, Movimiento Estudiantial Chicano de Aztlan de Notre Dame. 
"Our goal is to serve the whole university," Brown-Gort said. "We can serve the whole university directly by some of the work we do. We also affect Notre Dame in obvious ways. One of the things we aim to do is be a place for community. We want to be a place where Latino people can be happy and feel comfort­able." 
Julian Samora, a professor of sociology, founded the ILS in 1999 in order to foster understanding of the U.S.­Latino experience. 
"The Institute supports interdisciplinary initiatives in Latino studies as a key com­ponent of the University's aca­demic mission," Zoe Samora, the ILS publications manager, said. "By advancing research, expanding knowledge and strengthening community, the Institute is true to the mission, tradition, and distinctively Catholic values of Notre Dame." 
"Students, alumni and facul­ty were really complaining that there was no representa­tion for a group that were becoming increasingly impor­tant to the Catholic Church," Brown-Gort said. "So the ILS was created as a result of the wishes of alumni and stu­dents. The University also understands that we can help the University with their mis­sion." 
Due to these initiatives, the ILS program has helped Notre Dame consistently rank amongst the top 25 Colleges for Latino. Currently, the pro­gram has 23 students enrolled, comprised of both Latino and non-Latino individ­uals. 
"What has me the most excited is that so many of our students are not Latino," Brown-Gort said. "So many faculty are not Latino, so many counselors are not Latino, but they are people that understand the basic proposition on why were are here. We are here to help the university become a leader and understand how a rapidly emerging population w_ill be integrated into American lives. Not only for the benefit of Latinos, but for all." 
Then anniversary celebra­tion continues Thursday with a literary presentation enti­tled "Sharing our Stories, Sharing our Poem," featuring award-winning poet Orlando Ricardo Menes and poet, nov­elist, and activist Alicia Gaspar de Alba at 9:30am in McKenna Hall. 
Contact Puja Parikh at pparikh@nd.edu 


and 2,000 cars," he said. "We're going to be able to do


Football 
that and still keep the integrity of the course."
continued from page 1 "I'd really recommend that 
as a parking area," he said. roads around campus Johnson also said Eddy's become one way. Street Commons will provide 
"Most of the roads around extra parking. the campus become one way "There's a brand new park­into the campus and you ing garage with have to have a special pass 1,250 parking used to." 
Notre Dame Police Officer Keri Kei Shibata spoke at the meeting about safety during game days and recommended that fans be aware that an increased number of people on campus paves the way for an increase in crime. 
"Keep your property 
secured in 
your vehicle or

"We've seen people
to get down some of these spaces. There's someplace roads," Johnson said. "We a covered break into cars for as else," she said, have this relatively sophisti­garage with a little as so cents in a and warned cated plan that directs cars lot of parking against leaving
cup holder, a pack of
to the lots that they're going available. We're out tailgating in. Police officers are at all excited that cigarettes. " supplies dur­the key intersections. Eddy Street will ing the game. "All of these things come be open post "We haven't
Pat Hechllnski 
together to provide a great, game and pro­had a lot of
corporal
safe experience to people vide us with incidents of 
South Bend Police
who live in South Bend and another exit theft but when 
who come to the game." from campus 
Although Johnson said following the some community members games to help get frustrated because the us expedite the process." one-way streets interrupt In response to a community their daily errands, the goal member's complaint that the is to have the traffic now be campus does not provide as efficient as possible. enough parking for those 
"If you don't want to go to coming in from the outside, 
the  game  and  Johnson  
you want to go  acknowl­ 
to  Martins,  "The increased  edged  the  
Krogers or Meijer, that you can still get  number ofpeople carr be a cover ofcriminal  problem, but a I s o explained  
your business done too," he said. J o h n s o n  activity ofall difference kinds because it's easy to blend in with the  why it exists. "Our cam­pus beckons  
warned  that  crowds."  back  to  a  
this weekend's  time  long  
game versus Michigan State will see the  Keri Kel Shibata Notre Dame Pollee  ago where we haven't put the car  

highest volume of automobiles because of the proximity of the two schools. 
There are also new parking opportunities for game days on and near campus this year, he said. 
"We're opening part of that golf course for parking. We think we can accommodate somewhere between 1,500 
at the center 
of the uni­verse. The implication of that is that we have to walk more," he said. "It is impor­tant to us that our neighbors and our friends feel welcome on campus. It is a difficult balance between running a major university ... and also be welcoming so people can drive the way that they're 
we do it's 
when things 
are left out." 
Corporal Pat Hechlinski from the South Bend Police also warned against leaving personal items in cars. 
"The easiest way to do that to prevent something from getting stolen from your car is to pretend you're the bad guy," Hechlinski said. He suggested walking around the car and seeing if any­thing of interest is visible. 
"We've seen people break into cars for as little as 50 cents in a cup holder, a pack of cigarettes," he said. 
Shibata advised being extra vigilant on such weekends, even when crime is normally low in the area. 
"When we have a home football game, it affects pret­ty much everyone in the city," Shibata said. "Just be aware that the increased number of people can be a cover of criminal activity of all different kinds because it's easy to blend in with the crowds." 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 


Fostering the Baptismal Priesthood in the"Year for Priests" 
Cardinal Roger Mahony 
Archdiocese (~f Los Angeles 
Friday, September 18 4:oopm Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
SPONSOIUIJ llY offirt' uf tlw Presidi'Jll I Dt'p~Hll11PI11 ol Tlwology l Campus Minis! ry I 0.'11ll'r for Social ComWIIS 
UNIV.ERSJTY OP 
NOTRE DAME 








ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, September 16, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVER:s WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Cuba OKs religious services in prisons 
HAVANA -Cuba will allow inmates to attend Roman Catholic Mass and Protestant services inside prisons, a top religious leader said Tuesday, in a significant easing of the communist government's policy toward organized religion. 
Authorities from the religious affairs wing of the Cuban Communist Party agreed to authorize organized worship behind bars after a meeting with prison officials and the Protestant Cuban Church Council last week, said Jose Aurelio Paz, a council spokesman who attended the gathering. 
Paz said Cuban prisoners could previously worship "on a personal level." When inmates sought guidance from a Catholic or Protestant leader, they were allowed to meet with one individually. 
Automakers energize electric cars 
FRANKFURT -The race is on among the world's auto companies to make electric cars go farther on a single charge, bring the price down to compete with gas-powered vehicles, and give drivers more places to recharge them than just the family garage. 
Electric is the big buzz at the 63rd Frankfurt Auto Show this week, and nearly every major automaker has at least one on display. Renault introduced no fewer than four electric models, while Tesla, the only company producing and selling purely elec­tric cars, handed over the keys to its 700th all-electric vehicle, a blue Roadster Sport, to a German buyer at the show. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Critics slam Leno, viewers tune in 
NEW YORK -The critics savaged Jay Leno's prime-time experiment. Viewers gave it the biggest audience for an entertainment show since the "American Idol" finale in May. 
What's next is anybody's guess. 
An estimated 18.4 million viewers sampled the first night of "The Jay Leno Show" Monday, Nielsen Media Research said. But the most hyped debut of the fall season had the added advantage of being piggybacked onto one of the country's biggest stories. Leno interviewed Kanye West about why he had interrupted Taylor Swift the night before on the MTV Video Music Awards. 
The challenge will be holding on to viewers. 

Ex-Blagojevich aide commits suicide 
CHICAGO -A former fundraiser for oust­ed Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich tried to com­mit suicide last Tuesday after pleading guilty to fraud charges, four days before he died of an apparent overdose, police said Tuesday. 
Christopher Kelly, 51, died Saturday morn­ing, hours after his girlfriend found him slumped over the steering wheel of his Cadillac Escalade in a lumberyard parking lot in Country Club Hills, a city just south of Chicago. 
Country Club Hills Police Chief Regina Evans said Kelly had set up a sleeping bag inside a rented trailer at the lumberyard and set out photos of his children before taking a suspected overdose. She said an unopened box of rat poison was found in the trailer, and someone later turned in empty contain­ers of Tylenol and aspirin that had been removed from the scene. 
LOCAL NEWS 

IU sets statewide enrollment mark 
BLOOMINGTON -Indiana University says it has set a statewide fall semester enrollment record with 5 percent more students than last year. 
University officials announced Monday that 107,160 students enrolled at its campuses across the state. A record 42,347 students are at the main campus in Bloomington, with records also set at campuses in Indianapolis, Richmond, South Bend and New Albany. 
Ivy Tech State College surged passed IU in statewide enrollment as it saw a 28 percent jump to 110,359 students. Purdue University reported a 3 percent statewide enrollment increase. 

Rep. Wilson faces admonishment 
House divided over South Carolina legislator's 'You lie' outburst 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Bitterly divided over an accusatory outburst -"You lie" ­lawmakers on Tuesday prepared to admonish one of their own for his jarring interruption of President Barack Obama. 
The proposed resolution of disapproval against Republican Rep. Joe Wilson of South Carolina added to the already-toxic atmosphere of partisanship in the House. Democrats said Wilson's behavior dur­ing Obama's speech to Congress last week was an egregious display of disre­spect that could not be ignored. Republicans accused the majority party of hypocrisy and wasting the taxpayers' time. 
"At issue," declared House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, "is whether we are able to proceed with a degree of civility and decorum that our rules and our democracy contemplate and require." 

Wilson, speaking after Democrat Hoyer, refused to back down. "I think it is clear to the American peo­ple that there are far more important issues facing this nation than what we're addressing right now." He said Obama had Wilson's "You lie" out­John Boehner of Ohio dis­Congressional Black "graciously accepted my burst came as Obama, dur­missed the resolution as a Caucus, Clyburn perceived apology and the issue is ing a joint session speech "witchhunt" and a distrac­it as a snub that Wilson over." on health care legislation, tion from the health care held a town hall meeting 
The Office of the House said that illegal immigrants debate. "My goodness, we on health care this sum­Historian said the resolu­would not be eligible for could be doing this every mer at a school in tion, if approved, would federal subsidies to pur­day of the week," he said. Clyburn's district -where mark the first time in the chase health insurance. House Speaker Nancy Clyburn's children attend­220-year history of the The shout drew gasps Pelosi initially said it was ed -without telling House that a member had from other members. and time to move on to health Clyburn. been admonished for Wilson, at the urging of care and other substantive There also have been speaking out while the Republican leaders, called issues. Republicans suggestions that recent president was giving an White House chief of staff agreed. But other harsh criticism of Obama address. A resolution of Rahm Emanuel to apolo­Democratic leaders, has been at least partly disapproval is less severe gize. But he has resisted including third-ranked motivated by race. Rep. than other disciplinary later suggestions that he James Clyburn of South Barbara Lee, D-Calif.. cur-action available to the go to the House floor to Carolina, pushed for a rent head of the House, including censure express further remorse. House vote. Congressional Black or expulsion. "I think that Mr. Wilson Clyburn, in an interview Caucus, said that "today is 
The resolution said could have resolved this las't week, said Wilson's about the civility and deco­Wilson's conduct was a himself" by speaking behavior was "indicative of rum of the House." But·she "breach of decorum and directly to his House col­the combativeness he dis­added that we "can't degraded the proceedings leagues, Hoyer, D-Md., plays all the time when it sweep race under the rug of the joint session, to the said. comes to politics." -racism is still a factor discredit of the House." House Republican leader A leading member of the and must be addressed." 
GAZA 

Investigation reveals evidence of vvar crimes 
Associated Press In a 575-page report, Goldstone and tice should be done." 
three other investigators also found evi­The report said that Israel's attacks 

UNITED NATIONS -A U.N. investi­dence "that Palestinian armed groups in the Zeitoun neighborhood of Gaza gation concluded Tuesday that both committed war crimes, as well as possi­City, including the shelling of a house sides in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict bly crimes against humanity." where soldiers had forced Palestinian in Gaza committed war crimes and pos­Goldstone said the probe, which civilians to assemble, amounted to war sible crimes against humanity, raising included interviews as well as a review crimes. the prospect that officials may seek of documents, photos and 30 videos, It found seven incidents in which prosecution in the International was completed Tuesday morning, just civilians were shot while leaving their Criminal Court. hours before the hastily called news homes trying to run for safety, waving 
The probe led by former South conference. white flags and sometimes even follow­African judge Richard Goldstone con­"There should be no impunity for ing Israeli instructions, as well as the cluded that "Israel committed actions international crimes that are commit­targeting of a mosque at prayer time, amounting to war crimes, possibly ted," said Goldstone, a veteran war killing 15 people, were also war crimes. crimes against humanity," during its crimes investigator who has served as A "direct and intentional attack" on Dec. 27-Jan. 18 military operations chief prosecutor for the U.N. criminal the AI Quds Hospital and an ambulance against Palestinian rocket squads in the tribunals for the former Yugoslavia and · depot "may constitute war crimes," the Gaza Strip. Rwanda. "It's very important that jus-report said. 


page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 16, 2009 
Church 
continued from page 1 
that age, but moving forward, I'm going to graduate this year so getting involved with a parish then is a great step," she said. "I plan on going to Mass and I would like to get involved in service. They have one of the top food pantries in the area." 
The Parish has already reached out to the students at Legacy VIllage, Sullivan said. 
"Fr. Ryan had contacted me, welcoming the students to the neighborhood," she said. "He invited all of Legacy VIllage over for a barbeque." 

Ryan said he wanted to give the students a feel for parish life. 
"Little Flower has always had a relationship with Notre Dame students, but now with so many living close by, the students should have Masses scheduled at times they feel comfortable coming to," he said. 
And Ryan said he hopes stu­dents will take advantage of being a member of the parish. 
"There are opportunities for students to participate in Parish activities and the liturgy and they will discover they have a lot to offer," he said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

Moreau 
continued from page 1 
brate the heritage of the College. [It] is not a normal day and we want to make it special." 
Dining Services had been plan­ning the event even before the academic year had begun, Bowles said. 
"We start planning the meal before the start of school. We expect 1150-1200 guests, about 300 more people than a normal night because in addition to stu­dents, we have invited faculty and staff," Bowles said. "The cooks have been preparing some aspects of the meal since Saturday." 
The dinner's French-inspired menu remains popular amongst diners each year. 
"The offerings have been the same for the last three dinners because it's a very popular menu that features food from the coun­try where Moreau is from and from which Holy Cross came," Bowles said. "It's a wonderful meal, but we do expect to make some changes for January's ban­quet." 
Another special dinner will be held in Moreau's honor this spring. 
"We celebrate Moreau and his significance to the College twice a year. In September, on or around the date of his beatification, and in January, on or around his Feast Day, which is Jan. 20," Bowles said. 

Next semester's dinner is scheduled for Jan. 20, 2010. January is also the College's Heritage month, another ample time to reflect on Moreau's lega­cy. 
These dinners are an impor­tant part of the longstanding her­itage of the College. 
"It's so important to Sodexo that we hold these dinners in honor of Moreau that I wrote it into our contract with the College," Bowles said. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Jenkins 
continued from page 1 
about $7 billion before it dropped substantially," he said. "It has now rebounded to about $5.5 billion, which is still the third highest close ever for a financial year." 
Jenkins said he has organ­ized an office to evaluate threats and plan for the future to keep Notre Dame financially stable. 
"We must continue to 
cannot count on additional resources to begin worthy new initiatives while continuing all previous efforts." 
In some cases, Jenkins said it will be necessary to reallocate funds to "take advantage of opportunities." 
"Those decisions will no doubt be difficult," he said. 
Increasing faculty diversity, another goal for the 2009­2010 school year, will be a pri­ority, Jenkins said. 
The percentage of faculty of color at Notre Dame has increased from 12 percent to 14 percent since 1999. The percentage of female faculty has grown about five percent since 1999. Jenkins said the University hopes to increase both numbers. 
"Working together, we can build a fully diverse communi­ty," he said. "We recognize that a more diverse faculty and stu­dent body is a richer communi­ty for learning, discussion and inquiry." 
Jenkins said members of the Office of the Provost have been appointed to work with deans and department chairs to increase hiring and retention of women and faculty of color. 
The Office is also launching a postdoctoral fellowship pro­gram for scholars from histori­cally underrepresented groups. 
Jenkins additionally noted retaining the University's sta­tus as a "premier research university" as a significant goal of the coming year. 
Jenkins said the University's research expenditures are climbing and approaching about $100 million per fiscal year from about 500 grants. 
"All this work is part of the University's essential mission of seeking a deeper under­standing of truth, and it is cherished for that reason," he said of the faculty's research. 

The University is also priori­tizing community relations, Jenkins said. 
"Notre Dame needs a thriv­ing local community to reach its highest potential," he said. "Our students, faculty and staff are a part of that community, and we will attract faculty and students to Notre Dame only if our community is thriving." 
Jenkins said Eddy Street Commons is a visible sign of the University's collaboration with the local community. 
Jenkins thanked the faculty 
for contributing to 
what he named as 

m a k e "We recognize that a the University's informed more diverse faculty three central 
planning part goals: "Superb
and student body is a
of the culture undergraduate of the richer community for education, preemi­University," learning, discussion nence in research he said. "With and ensuring our
and inquiry."
this financial Catholic mission environment informs all our in the near Fr. John Jenkins endeavors." 
future, we University president "I am proud of 
the way you have 

continued to make the education of undergradu­ates a cornerstone as we strive to be even stronger in research," he said. "Our com­mitment to our Catholic mis­sion creates its own set of challenges and tensions. Yet it is precisely because we hold these goals simultaneously that we have such a special mission and play such a distinctive role. 
"And our achievements are due to the efforts of you and many others." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

Pi(k up your • 

(xpr~ss Un1t Passport 
at any express unit location below! 

Hake apurchase at the express unit locations in your passport and receive astamp. Turn in your completed passport to any express unit before~all Break and you'll 


be enterrd in adrawing to win an iPhone,$100 in Rrx Points, and mon~. 
Also, find us on ~acebook! Justsearch for "ND~S upn~ss Unit Passport" to learn about Wffkly specialsand discounts at each express unit location. 
CROSSINGS 
IZ2 £1 Q 


NOTRE DAME FOOD SERVICES 



C~tt P9CMt 

a Ia Descartes 


11 

The CENTRAL EUROPEAN STUDIES PROGRAM in Innsbruck, Austria 
• 
Inunersion in Gern1an language and culture 

• 
Acaden1ic year and sen1ester options 

• 
An opportunity for exposure to Central European Issues 

• 
A great location fron1. which to access Eastern and Western Europe 




INFORMATION SESSION 
Thursday, September 17,2009 

5:30 PM 129 Hayes-Healy Center 
Application Deadline is November 15, 2009 www.nd.eduf-ois 

Tl-IE OBSERVER 







USINESS
Wednesday, September 16, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 
Jones 9,683.41 +56.61 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,664 92 1,092 2,763,222,208 

NASDAQ 2 102.64 +10.86 

NYSt:·····:fll.lllruiiiiiiiii/J~illfjf'lllil!llll'l~llllll!llllll(ll
S&P 500 1,052.63 +3.29 
NIKKEI (lof«f)J!~i!!llllliJ!Jilillllf~ll!·ll;!lllll!:il[li 
FTSE 100 (London) 5,042.13 +23.28 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP (C) -8.85 -0.40 4.12 GEN ELECTRIC CO (GE) +4.23 +0.65 16.00 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +0.42 +0.44 105.72 BK OF AMERICA CP (BAC) -0.20 -0.20 16.79 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE +1.35 +0.046 3.45 13-WEEK BILL -3.85 -0.005 0.125 30-YEAR BOND +1.12 +0.047 4.26 5-YEAR NOTE +1.79 +0.040 2.39 

Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +2.07 70.93 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +5.20 1006.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.80 87.80 

Exchange Rates 
YEN 90.9450 EURO 1.4665 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0726 BRITISH POUND 1.6488 
IN BRIEF Gov. signs clean power order 
RANCHO CORDOVA, Calif. -Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger signed an executive order Tuesday giving California the nation's most aggressive alternative energy standards, requiring utilities to get a third of their power from renewable sources by 2020. 
Schwarzenegger said the order signed at a field of solar panels will reduce California's dependence on fossil fuels and help clean its air while creating a reliable power supply for a state with 38 million people. 
It also will ensure that California remains a pioneer in clean energy by harnessing wind, solar, biomass and other renewable resources, he said. 
"This is really a great day today because we are creating major action to create more green jobs and more green energy," Schwarzenegger said while signing the order in the Sacramento suburb of Rancho Cordova. 
"Right now we are relying too heavily on dirty coal-fired power plants and this pollutes the air and it sickens our children," Schwarzenegger said. "We can do much better than that." 

Judge: SEC too soft on bank 
WASHINGTON -A judge's condemna­tion of the Securities and Exchange Commission in rejecting its $33 million settlement with Bank of America over bonuses at Merrill Lynch dealt a stinging rebuke to an agency seeking to mend its image after its failure to detect Bernard Madoff's fraud scheme. 
The SEC must weigh its options after the judge's finding that it was too gentle with one of the biggest U.S. banks. It must also struggle anew to gain credibility for its enforcement efforts. The ruling also marks a setback for the SEC's relatively new chairman, Mary Schapiro. 
The agency may be forced to mount a court fight against Bank of America over one of the touchiest issues of the financial crisis -executive pay. 
The case stemmed from revelations that Merrill, with the knowledge of Bank of America executives, paid employees $3.6 billion in bonuses just before the bank acquired Merrill on Jan. 1. 



Blockbuster to close 960 U.S. stores 
Movie rental company increases DVD kiosks to compete with Redbox and Netflix 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO Blockbuster Inc. may close as many as 960 stores by the end of next year, shed­ding more dead weight as the struggling video rental chain tries to reverse its losses and fend off rapidly growing rivals Netflix Inc. and Redbox. 
The cuts outlined in doc­uments filed Tuesday would leave Blockbuster with about 20 percent fewer U.S. stores. The pre­viously confidential docu­ments didn't identify the locations of the endan­gered stores. 
Blockbuster hasn't made any final decisions on the possible store closures, Chief Executive James Keyes said in an interview Tuesday. 
Keyes described the clo­sures as something that Blockbuster is considering as it sets up more DVD­rental kiosks in the stores of other merchants. It's a concept that has been pop­ularized by Coinstar Inc.'s Redbox. 
By the middle of next year, Blockbuster hopes to have 10,000 kiosks scat­tered around the country. It had just 500 kiosks at the end of August. 
"We could have fewer prompting management to If Blockbuster hits the unlike Blockbuster, is physical stores and still consider cutting much high end of the new target becoming more profitable. have more rental points deeper than it anticipated for store closures, it will The Los Gatos-based com­for our customers," Keyes to save money and keep its represent 22 percent of its pany earned $55 million said. lenders happy. About 18 4,356 stores in the United through the first half of 
Blockbuster's shift serves percent of Blockbuster's States. this year while Blockbuster as another reminder of stores aren't making Netflix's DVD-by-mail lost $15 million. video stores' waning money, according to the service, launched a decade Redbox also has been appeal as consumers buy documents filed with the ago, has hit Blockbuster hurting Blockbuster with and rent movies through Securities and Exchange particularly hard as more its red kiosks that rent the mail, on the Internet Commission. households have embraced DVDs for just a $1 per and through cable connec­Blockbuster is thinking the concept of picking out night. That low price has tions and standalone about closing between 810 their rental choices online proven particularly com­kiosks. and 960 of its U.S. stores before the DVDs are deliv­pelling during the reces­
The shift has threatened before 2011, up from the ered through the mail for a sion as more people to turn once-mighty 380 to 425 stores that nor­monthly subscription fee pinched pennies. Blockbuster into a mally would be closed dur­that usually runs from $9 In a Tuesday research dinosaur. The Dallas-based ing that time span, accord­to $17. In the last two note, Barclays Capital ana­company has been trying ing to Tuesday's filing. years, Netflix lured even lyst Douglas Anmuth said to evolve by embracing As of mid-August, more customers by build­Blockbuster's accelerated kiosks and expanding into Blockbuster had closed ing up its library of movies store closures should bol­rentals delivered through 276 stores so far this year. available for instant view­ster Netflix. Investors the mail and the Internet. Besides closing stores, ing over high-speed seemed to agree as Netflix 
But it hasn't been Blockbuster indicated that Internet connections. shares surged $1.69, or enough to justify keeping it will convert at least 250 Netflix now has 10.6 mil­3.9 percent, to close so many stores open, stores into smaller outlets. lion subscribers and, Tuesday at $44.97. 

Barclays accused of taking $8.2 billion 
Associated Press "Because of these undisclosed and "The number may be even larger" unauthorized features of the deal, than $8.2 billion, Lehman lawyers 
SAN FRANCISCO -Lehman Barclays received billions more than wrote in their brief, saying there Brothers has accused Barclays the value it paid," Lehman lawyers were other assets that Lehman has Capital of taking $8.2 billion more wrote in an argument to the court. yet to calculate. than it should have when it bought A Barclays spokesman, Michael The are also likely being explored key assets of the failed investment O'Looney, said Lehman is simply in an independent investigation by bank a year ago. making "an opportunistic claim." Anton Valukas, a lawyer at the 
Lehman made its claim in a court "Now that the economy has begun Jenner & Block law firm who was · filing Tuesday, the one-year anniver­to stabilize the Lehman Estate is try­appointed as the examiner in the sary of its chaotic bankruptcy filing. ing to re-trade the deal on the basis case. The court approved the sale of its of a meritless argument," O'Looney Valukas, a former federal prosecu­
U.S. banking business to Barclays said by e-mail. tor and a specialist in white-collar less than a week after it filed. Lehman said Barclays took the $5 crime, started his investigation in 
Now Lehman wants a judge to billion as well as another $2.3 billion January and has yet to file his report. force Barclays to give back some of in margin deposits on its Options He will determine, in part, whether the money it took as part of the deal, Clearing Corp. accounts, and about Lehman executives lied, committed including $5 billion it said was given $2.7 billion in other assests added fraud or mismanaged the company. as extra collateral. Lehman said the before the court's approval of the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.'s extra value was not disclosed to the sale. It said Barclays took on about bankruptcy case was filed in the court. $1.7 billion in liabilities. Southern District of New York. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, September 16, 2009 
VENEZUELA 

Chavez looks to acquire nuclear capabilities 
Leader looks to Russia for assistance, claims his intentions are peaceful; U.S. fearful of technology exchange with Iran 
Associated Press 
CARACAS -Hugo Chavez wants to join the nuclear energy club and is looking to Russia for help in getting started. 
The Venezuelan leader is already dismissing critics' concerns over his nuclear ambitions, offering assur­ances his aims are peaceful and that 

defends its nuclear program while the U.S. and other countries accuse Tehran of having a secret nuclear weapons program. 
"We're going to develop nuclear energy with peaceful aims as Brazil, Argentina have," Chavez said. 
U.S. State Department 
spokesman Ian Kelly on Monday expressed mis­givings about 
Venezuela will "We're going to Venezuela's simply be fol­nuclear am bi­
develop nuclear 

lowing in the t i o n s
energy with peaceful 
footsteps of Responding to a other South aims as Brazil, reporter's ques-American tion about
Argentina, have."

nations using whether the atomic energy. United States Yet his proj­Hugo Chavez would be wor­ect remains in Venezuelan president ried about 
its planning stages and still faces a host of practical hurdles, likely requiring billions of dollars, as well as technolo­gy and expertise that Venezuela lacks. 
Russia has offered to help bridge that gap, and Chavez has announced that the two countries have created an atomic energy commission. 
"I say it before the world: Venezuela is going to start the process of developing nuclear energy, but we're not going to make an atomic bomb, so don't be bothering us afterward ... (with) some­thing like what they have against Iran," Chavez said Sunday. 
The socialist president is closely allied with Iran and 

nuclear trans­
fers between 
Iran and Venezuela, Kelly said: "The short answer is, to that, yes, we do have concerns." 
Kelly noted that Venezuela is a signatory of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, which would restrict any nuclear program to nonmili­tary purposes. 
Some of Chavez's critics among American lawmakers are alarmed. U.S. Rep. Connie Mack urged the U.S. and its allies to "unite to prevent Chavez from gaining access to new nuclear tech­nology." Rep. Ileana Ros­Lehtinen, a fellow Florida Republican, said Hussia's plans to sell Venezuela more arms, along with plans for nuclear cooperation, "create 
Pollution cleanup at Great Lakes lagging 
Associated Press 
TRAVERSE CITY, Mich. Cleanup of the most polluted sites in the Great Lakes is moving so slowly it will take 77 more years to finish the job at the existing pace, according to a federal report. 
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency still does not know the full extent of the problem even though the highly contaminated spots were identified two decades ago, said the report by the agency's inspector general. 
"Without improved man­agement, coordination and accountability, EPA will not succeed in achieving the results intended" for the recovery program, said the report, issued Monday. 
Toxic sediment cleanup is among the goals of a $20 bil­lion Great Lakes restoration plan developed by govern­ment agencies and nonprofit groups in 2005. 
President Barack Obama has pledged $5 billion toward carrying out the plan and requested $47 5 million in his 2010 budget. Roughly one-fourth of that amount 
would  be  devoted  to  the  
cleanups.  
The  plan  estimates  the  

total cleanup price at $2.25 billion in federal money, with 

state and local governments kicking in an additional $1.2 billion. 
The inspector general's report analyzes the govern­ment's handling of Great Lakes "areas of concern" ­rivers, harbors and other locations where bottomlands are laced with toxic chemi­cals such as mercury, PCBs and heavy metal wastes. 
Forty-three of the areas were identified in the late 1980s, including 26 within 
U.S. 
territory; 12 entirely within Canada; and five that straddle the border. Only two Canadian sites and one in the 

U.S. 
-the Oswego River in New York -have been fixed and dropped from the list. 


The areas range from less than 1 square mile to hun­dreds of square miles. Because of their location near river mouths and har­bors that flow into the Great Lakes, they are considered a leading source of pollution systemwide. 
Between them, they have 68 sites believed to contain more than 76 million cubic yards of contaminated sedi­ments, according to state officials. But the report says accurate estimates have not been developed for more than 30 percent of the cleanup sites. 
an eerie sense that the histo­the purpose. ry of Iran's Russia-backed If an agreement is reached military and nuclear buildup for Hussia to help Venezuela is repeating itself almost create a nuclear research identically in Venezuela." center, Russian specialists 
Chavez said he discussed would likely participate the nuclear issue last week closely to ensure nuclear with Hussian President safety and security, he said. Dmitry Medvedev and Prime A Venezuelan delegation Minister Vladimir Putin dur­visited Moscow last month, ing a visit to and discussed Moscow. creating pro­
"Putin him­grams for self has said training it: 'We're Venezuelan
"The short answer is,

going to sup­specialists in p o r t to that, yes, we do nuclea~ safety Venezuela so and in the use
have concerns. " 

that it has of reactors, the nuclear ener­Russian gy,"' Chavez lan Kelly nuclear agency · said. spokesman said in a state­
Sergei U.S. State Department ment. It said 
Novikov, a spokesman for Hussian state nuclear a g e n c y Rosatom, said a framework agreement signed last year that pledges cooperation is 
"all  there  is  for  the  
moment."  
"There  are  no  concrete  

projects that have been worked out and agreed upon," Novikov told The Associated Press in Hussia on Tuesday. 
Any joint work on mining uranium or the radioactive metal thorium is likely "a long way" off at this point, Novikov said. He noted that Venezuela says it has deposits but needs to decide whether it wants Hussian help exploring them and, if so, create a joint venture for 
they also dis­
cussed training 
Venezuelans on 
designing and 
building "a cyclotron or research reac­tor with the aim of produc­ing radioisotopes for medical purposes." 
Venezuela already has a small, experimental reactor that was completed in 1960 at the Venezuelan Institute for Scientific Studies near Caracas. In the past decade, it has been used as a sterili­zation plant that treats pharmaceuticals, surgical supplies and other products using cobalt-60 radiation. 
"Its objective was lost due to technological obsoles­cence, but we're going to start, and we're working on that with Russia," Chavez said. 

It remains unclear what sort of nuclear technology, if any, Venezuela could seek from Iran. Chavez as early as 2005 expressed interest in developing nuclear energy and mentioned Venezuela could discuss it with Iran. 
He said while visiting Iran on Sept. 4 that "we're carry­ing out the visualization of the nuclear energy project, so that the Venezuelan peo­ple can also count on that marvelous resource for peaceful uses in the future." 
He said Venezuela and Iran agreed to work together on geological studies in the Venezuelan Andes and the foothills in his home state of Barinas, because "we already have satellite infor­mation that indicates there are good mineral resources, different minerals that are very important for the coun­try's development." He didn't elaborate, and didn't men­tion uranium. 
lt also remains unclear how much Chavez intends to spend on the nuclear proj­ect. His government has been coping with a sharp decline in revenue in the past year due to lower prices for Venezuelan oil, which funds nearly half the nation­al budget. 
Elsewhere in South America, Argentina already has two operating nuclear plants, as does Brazil. 
Brazil is also planning to invest $3.7 billion to build a third nuclear plant after receiving environmental approval earlier this year. 

Wednesday, September 16, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 

THE OBSERVER 
page 10 
IEWPOINT Wednesday September 16, 2009 THE OBSERVER 
On the road again 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notte Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz SPORTS EDITOR: Man Gamber ScENE EDITOR: Jess Shai:Ier 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Patrick Sa!a SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR·IN·CHIEF 
(574) 631--4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631--4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DesK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu "' 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631--4543 ob~erversports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631--454{) jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO1 @sainrmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 


OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent; d;Uiy newspaper published in print and online by the srudents ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accprarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion <:Jf the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer: 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Edimr musr be signed and must include contact infOrmation. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directd to Editor-in~Chiefjenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Th< O~r (USPS S99 240!R>Jispubliih<d ~J.;>Wotlgh frid>)"''"'~'' duti,g Win and :vacation pethxb..A:!!i!:~.Prion to 'The: ~cr-is:St1:-tl Wtn1t ap~i-c: year;. $65 fur oat $eOO.dtet, . 
The: Obsetvt~ #published a£ 024 South Dining.I:I.Il . . ..,,,, .Sc~MFadiir~ oorfettibru.UY..: Non, !).me, IN 4655b-Q719 ·?''?' 
Th< 00.,<= . .. 
P~postage~.atN~~c · i!:o.. &.n~ md..ldiOOnal maillngolfi¢. 024 SoUlh Oii,ing ~. .... . !;ot.,.O,,U{~oS6;<>719 , 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Katie Peralta Laura Myers John Tierney Jared Jedick 
Sarah Mervosh Chris Masoud Ann-Marie Graphics Woods Sofia Iturbe Viewpoint Scene Lianna Jordan Gamble Brauweiler 

Maybe I should just stay home. I haven't been able to figure out why, but every time I follow Notre Dame to a football road game, the Irish lose. After last week's gut-wrencher in the Big House, my record stands at Andy Ziccarelli 0-4. Yes, that means over the Moment of last 24 calendar Inertia months I have personally watched Notre Dame lose on five separate locations. One would have to question whether it is worth all of the missed classes, the traffic, the car trips through nowhere, the hostile opposing fans and, of course, losing. And after all of that, would I do it again? Absolutely, I would, and I wouldn't even hesitate. Allow me to explain why. 
We all love Notre Dame. After all, every one of us chose to be here, pre­sumably over other (good) options. However, it is pretty hard to deny that we seem to exist in our own little bubble here in South Bend, a safe distance away from other major uni­versities and big cities. Fortunately, however, football is something we share with a number of other schools that are within a reasonable distance, and it gives us a perfect excuse to visit these other schools. If you have ever wondered what life would be like if you went to Michigan, Purdue or Boston College, you can go and get a snapshot to see what other schools have to offer. At least for me, some­times I get so wrapped in my life around here, it is easy to forget that the experience we have here is only one out of a countless number of col­
lege experiences. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Weare NDband 
The Band of the Fighting Irish is a proud student organ­ization on Our Lady's campus. We can think of no better way to spend our time and energy than by representing Notre Dame on the field each week with the Victory March, Alma Mater and other galvanizing school songs. We appreciate all students that show their appreciation and love for us, a student organization that puts so much passion, enthusiasm and life into supporting our beloved Notre Dame. We love you guys and we love the foot­ball team. We will continue our post-game traditions on Saturday with a huge Irish vic­tory over Michigan State's Spartans. 
Catherine Carrell senwr Lewis Hall Sept. 15 
OBSERVER POLL 
If you road trip, you get to spend another weekend tailgating. I don't think I really need to explain this very much. 
I think it goes without saying that the vast majority of the college foot­ball world has a deep resentment for Notre Oame. Whether the true origin is our collective arrogance or every­one else's envy of what we have (or some combination of the two) it won't take you very long to find a football fan who has a strong, occasionally startling dislike for Notre Dame (even if they support a school we never play). It is easy to avoid this negativi­ty by staying on campus, where reas­surance comes in the form of 80,000 other like-minded fans. I, however, embrace the fact that the world seems to hate us and love to play the villain. Being in the minority creates an "us against the world" mentality, something that can be extremely fun, provided you don't take it too far (and that you have some pretty thick skin). Hugging complete strangers, doing push-ups, singing the fight song after Armando Allen's go-ahead two-point conversion on Saturday, while the rest of Michigan Stadium sat in stunned silence, was a unique feeling of euphoria that would be impossible to recreate at a home game. Obviously, it all came crashing down at the end. But the high points and low points of the game were ampli­fied, creating a unique roller coaster ride of emotions that left us all physi­cally and emotionally spent. 
More importantly, however, is the fact that by road-tripping, you get the opportunity to experience a college football atmosphere one more Saturday than if you had stayed and watched it on TV. For me, there is nowhere in the world I would rather be than on a college campus the day of a football game. Gamedays provide a combination of friendship, tradi­tion, rivalry, food and competition that I have yet to find in any other venue. 

Plus, we have to remember that we are in college and that, for as much as we want to be, we are not going to be students forever. In fact, some of us upperclassmen can already hear the clock ticking on our time left here and once that time runs out, it never comes back. College is the time to be slightly irresponsible, the time to spend money you might not have on tickets, the time to make some deci­sions that seemed like a good idea at the time and the time to travel all over the country to support your school. Because once we leave and are forced out into the proverbial "real world," the costs of following the team grow exponentially. That being the case, I would encourage all students to take advantage of the unique opportunity we have to follow the team while we still can and go on at least one road trip during your time here and make some new memo­ries. If you are with me, hit me up next weekend. You know where to find me: at the Purdue game. See you in West Lafayette. 
Andy Ziccarelli is a junior Civil Engineering major. He can be reached at aziccare@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those. of The Observer. 
Fear-m.ongering unvvelcom.e 
As a staunch liberal (and thus a minority on this campus), I often find The Observer's Viewpoint section highly amusing. But in the Viewpoint for Tuesday the 15th, Christie Pesavento crossed the line from amusing to downright vile and disturbing ("Politicizing 9/11 "). How dare the right accuse President Obama of politicizing Sept. 11? The entirety of the Bush administration was defined by the politicizing of one of the most tragic events in American history. Our military is currently bogged down in Afghanistan and Iraq because former President Bush and his cronies were able to cap­italize on the fear and confusion of the aftermath of the attacks on New York and Washington D.C. 
You demand we remain in mourning, Ms. Pesavento? No, you and the other neo-con­servatives care little for mourning. You demand we stay in fear. Fear of the outside world is what allowed President Bush to convince the American public that war in Iraq was a necessary course. Fear is what allowed the Bush administration to violate Constitutional and international law by spying on American citizens, profiling Arabs and torturing prisoners. Fear is the reason Bush, despite being incompetent and cor­rupt (which is now apparent to anybody with hindsight and a brain), was able to grab himself a second term in the White House. Now President Obama has forsaken the pol­itics of fear for the politics of hope and service, and the right wing comes up swinging. 
The Republicans' stance against community service is one I'll never comprehend. During the campaign, Republicans made a mockery of Obama's service as a communi­ty organizer and now that he has the presidency and is attempting to use it to make us all community organizers in our own way, the hypocritical right accuses him of politi­cal motives. I will never forget the 9/11 attacks. Nobody will. But when it comes to politicizing the tragedy, nobody could beat the Republicans, no matter how hard they might try. 
Tim Ryan sophomore Keenan Hall Sept. 15 

Are you going to the career fair? 
Yes 

"The trouble with the rat race
No 
is that even ifyou win, 
Who cares, I'm not going to get a job you're still a rat. " anyway 
Lily Tomlin 

What career fair? 
comedian 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
--------------, 
THE OBSERVER 









IEWPOINT
Wednesday, September 16, 2009 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Alm.a Mater not just a song 
Notre Dame Football is supposed to be a program set apart from all oth­ers. For this reason, I vehemently disagree with Corey McNeilly's dismissal of the alma mater and its importance to Notre Dame ("Post-game conduct no big deal," Sept. 15). Our team strives to be a part of the Notre Dame community. Nowhere else in major college football, it's often said, do the players live, eat, study and pray with the rest of the student body like they do at Notre Dame. 
Part of this show of community and solidarity happens at the end of every football game where all the students stay and the players join them in singing "Notre Dame Our Mother." The players and (most of the) students stayed after every game in 2007. They stayed after that awful Syracuse game last year. It's part of what makes Notre Dame special. 
Our Alma Mater isn't just a song, Corey McNeilly. It's not Chuck Berry's "My Ding-a-Ling." It's a tribute to the Blessed Mother, the glue that holds our community together. We play and sing it after every game, win or lose. There are perfectly reasonable explanations for why the team didn't or couldn't stay after Saturday's game. However, there is no reasonable expla­nation for calling "Notre Dame Our Mother" merely "a song." It is what we stand for -literally and figuratively-at Notre Dame and nothing less. 
Brian Wysocki 
senior 
Fisher Hall Sepr. 15 

On hypocrisy 

Dear Corey McNeilly, 
You are a hypocrite. You mock someone for sharing a feeling of victory or defeat with the team and in the same letter, claim to come to the team's defense. You do not have enough invested in Notre Dame to feel wins and losses, yet you feel like you have the authority to berate a faithful supporter for a humble request? Not only that, but you infer that the Alma Mater is "just a song"? You take for granted the privilege of attending the University of Notre Dame. Please transfer. You're taking up a spot that should be occu­pied by someone who realizes how special Notre Dame is. 
With all due respect, Steve Simeonidis 
To the team: 
Your fans know that you left it all out on the field last Saturday. Michael 
Floyd telling Coach Weis that he would be ready if the game went into OT despite the gash on his knee is but one example of that. Losing despite that effort and the fact that you seemed to be the better team is awful and you were rightly upset. However, if you are ever in a similar situation, I ask that you do not forget about your student body or the rest of the Notre Dame family. When you join them in singing the Alma Mater after a loss, it acts as an important reminder: We are still ND. God Bless. 
Steve Simeonidis alumnus class of 2009 Sept. 15 

Marching band a big deal 
After reading Corey McNeilly's Letter to the Editor regarding the band ("Post-game conduct no big deal," Sept. 15), I can only say that it is proba­bly safe to assume that the reason McNeilly dropped out of the Naval Academy was that he grew tired of wearing a funny costume and pretend­ing be a sailor. 
I should say that I mean no disrespect to servicemen and women serving at home and abroad. Anyone who knows me will understand that my state­ments above are meant to be sarcastic and point out how ridiculous McNeilly's comments were. 
The NCAA mandates that football players practice a maximum of 20 hours per week. Including the football game, this means that the team puts in roughly a required 23.5 hours per week. Including the football game, mem­bers of the marching band put in 17 hours per week. While this is fewer hours than the team commits to football each week, it is still a major time commitment from each member of the band. 
As a band member, I am wondering about the amount of time McNeilly puts into supporting the football team. Perhaps an extra one or two hours of tailgating before each game? Maybe he even stays for the Alma Mater after a blowout win. Hardly a meaningful show of support. McNeilly has no right to claim that all we do is "wear funny costumes and play an instru­ment." Marching band members deserve for the team to respect our thoughts and wishes, more so than any other students at this University, except for organizations like the cheerleaders who put in the same amount of effort to represent Notre Dame on the same level as the band. 
While you are all free to leave the game whenever you like no matter what the score, we will be there playing our hearts out until the game is over, win or lose, and we will always perform the Alma Mater for those fans who actually care enough to stay and show their respect for Notre Dame and the team. 
Peter Rowlands 
senior 
off campus Sept. 15 


9/11 not old nelVs 
I would like to echo the sentiments of Kaitlin Spillane ("Lack of remembrance shameful," Sept. 14). Like society, have we become complacent as a university, as the University of Notre Dame? Do we not remember the day that changed everything we had known-the day when we realized we aren't invincible? Comments I heard from friends and by-passers like "eight years already" and "Oh, that's right, it's 9/11" are unacceptable. I am extremely disappointed with the happenings (or lack thereoD last Friday. September 11, 2001 is not old news and it never should be. Shame on the school that is remembered and cherished by many for not remembering those unsung heroes that softened the blow America endured that fateful day. 
Kevin Kimberly 
JUlllOf 
O'Neill Hall Sept. 14 

Not a partisan issue 
While reading Christie Pesavento's column, "Politicizing 9/11" (Sept. 15), I was struck by the irony of her calling Barack Obama's Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act an attempt to politi­cize 9/11, when she is actually doing quite a bit of politicizing herself, turn­ing a way to remember 9/11 and encourage people to give back to this country a little bit into a left-wing indoctrination attempt. In regard to her assertion that the new act will not prevent any terrorist attacks, I think the same argument can be made about Patriot Day. I, too, have trouble imag­ining terrorists backing down from a planned attack just because Americans are being patriotic in September. 
Another issue I have is the idea that Obama is turning 9/11 into a day of service, when in reality it actually was a day of service. How many firefight­ers, police officers and citizens rushed to the aid of those in need on that day, sacrificing their own lives so that oth­ers would have a chance to live? Maybe I am just naive, but I think that dying to save someone else is a form of service. 
Another issue Pesavento brings up is the issue of 9/11 fading from people's minds. She mentions a man who lost his daughter that day and who, under­standably, will hold that day clearly in his mind forever. Most of the American public, however, will indeed think about it less as the years go by. Just consider the Titanic or Pearl Harbor. Those events were incredibly poignant when they happened, but because of reasons other than democratic presi­dents, the passage of time has swept them from the forefront of our con­sciousness. 
The column that Pesavento wrote is little more than a partisan attack against a president with whom she dis­agrees on every issue. Remembering the horrible tragedy and working to make America a better place with charity work that benefits others are nut mutually exclusive activities. Hopefully, Ms. Pesavento decides to participate in Patriot Day by serving those less fortunate, instead of pettily dividing the country with her partisan rhetoric. 
Eric Routen 
JUll!Of 
Keenan Hall Sepr. 15 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 




CENE

page 12 
Wednesday, September 16, 2009 
y JACK THORTON cene Writer 
This past weekend the city of Chicago hosted Irish band U2 as they opened the North American leg of the U2 360° degree tour. What a week end it was. 
Playing on one of the most ambi tious stages ever created for a ro tour, U2 proved that they are still biggest and best band in the world The spectacular stage consisted of circle within a circle (the two connected with bridges that move like the staircases in the "Harr Potter" movies), underneath a rna sive structure that can best b described as a giant spaceship four spindly legs and a giant screen for a belly. Designed to offe fans in every corner of the stadium good view, the stage was just a ambitious as the band it was mad for. Only U2 would think of such a and only U2 could pull off playing it. 
After opening band Snow Patro played for 45 minutes, U2 e the crowd for nearly two and a hours in one of the single grea musical events ever to grace the city. 
On opening night they played a list of new songs and old classic with a few delightful surprise thrown in. They opened with thre songs from their newest album, "N Line On The Horizon," including title track and the catchy rock "Get On Your Boots" before into older material with crow pleasers "Beautiful Day, "Elevation," the classic "I Stil Haven't Found What I'm Look For," and a wonderful acoustic r tion of the hit "Stuck In A Momen You Can't Get Out Of." 
The rest of the opening set con­tained some unexpected songs such as "The Unforgettable Fire," a techno rave version of "I Know I'll Go Crazy If I Don't Go Crazy Tonight" where all four band members, including drum­mer Larry Mullen Jr., strutted around the outer stage playing their instru­ments, as well as the popular "Vertigo" and "Sunday Bloody Sunday" before closing with the epic 

"Where The Street Have No Name." 
Their first encore consisted of the famous ballad "One," which was introduced by Archbishop Desmond 
Tutu, and the magnificent "Bad" from the "Unforgettable Fire" album. The second encore opened with "Ultraviolet (Ligl;tt My Way)" which was perhaps the most surprising and pleasing song of the entire show before closing with U2's greatest hit 
"With Or Without You" and the new "Moment Of Surrender." The second night was very similar to the first, but there were some differ­
ences including a completely new 
song, the slow and moving "Your Blue 
Room" which will appear on the next 
U2 album, and the emotional "Stay 
(Far Away, So Close)." These replaced 
"Stuck In A Moment You Can't Get Out 
Of," "Pride (In The Name Of Love)" and "Bad." Although it was disap­pointing to not hear these classics a second time, the new songs were just as good and showed the diver­sity that U2 is capable of. 
Each song featured an incredible display of lights and effects that, with any other band, would have taken center stage and distracted from the music. But not this band. Led by charismatic frontman Bono, the band and the music was the focal point of the evening. All the special effects in the world could not distract the audience from the incredible artistry and passion o each musician. The Edge, perhaps the greatest effects guitarist in the world, complimented Bono's vocals and lyrics with tact and force, while the drums of Mullen Jr. and the bass of Adam Clayton drove each song to unimagined heights of intensity, precision and power. 
Bono was Bono. He went from comedian to wounded lover to political activist, keeping the crowd enthralled with his antics. At times he merely stood at his mike-stand and crooned. At others he strutted and danced. At others he raced around the outer circle of the stage before collapsing dramatically to the ground. 
The two incredible shows proved that U2 is still as relevant as ever. Even after three decades of music they are arguably the best band in the world and are undoubtedly one of the greatest live acts ever. One can only look forward to the next 
opportunity to see the legendary band 
perform again. 
Contact Jack Thorton at jthomt8@nd.ed 

=-~~~~~~~------------------~--~--~~=-----~~.-~--~~--~77----------~~--~--~------~-.------~~------­
By ADRIANA PRATT sistant Scene Editor 
On Sept. 22, fall will officially be here. Will you be ready? 
Fall conjures up images of chic women in snuggly sweaters, sassy ankle boots and long stovepipe jeans. However, this year's fashion trends call for only a pinch of those standards and instead rely on a good dose of the dramatic. 
Prepare to see plenty of plaid (that trend is on its way out but college stu­dents haven't gotten the memo yet); metallic hues of blue, black and silver; an emphasis on feminine draping; structured shoulders emulat­ing the 80s and ornamen­tal earthy jewelry. So .WI whip out those credit cards and head to the University Park Mall M stores. Time is running ...., out to turn that t 1 wardrobe from drab to fab! 
Trend 1: Take it back to those Country Days 
This fall, fashion maga­zines might have men­tioned that the country look is in, but that doesn't mean you should bum back to the rural frock styles remi­niscent of a few years ago. Instead mix earthy tones and do as InStyle says by investing in a thin brown leather belt to cinch sweaters, vests, etc. to emphasis a feminine shape. Try a long off-white knit turtleneck com­plimented with a thin belt at the waist, skinny jeans and brown leather ankle boots for a day of class. Match this with long loose waves and statement earrings that peek out under your hair, and you'll look enviably put­together. 
Fall 2009 fash­ _  ) those Legs  
ion lines. Deep  Alicia  Keys  
blues, blacks  ..  brought  this  look  
~ndi  t  g;.,:::s'  I .. _. _.  ,. _ , cente~-:;age S~~r~~~  

Stores to visit: Forever 21 (check out from this ever-present trend for fear year's legwear. Spice their Heritage 1981 line for pieces of looking too masculine because plen-up a weekend outfit of that compliment this look) or Ann ty of cute form-fitting options exist. all black with a touch Taylor Loft for staple pieces. Contrast a feminine skirt with a tai-of color or lace and Trend 2: Sparkling like lored blazer and the balance will fall you'll be rocking a Metallic-a right in line. stage of your own. 
Both Balenciaga Store to Visit: See Charlotte Store to visit: Forever and Versace . Russe's twill military blazer 21 for awesome tights emphasized for $36.99 or Coach's ranging from $3.50­
~:t:l;e~~~J!{~ ~~·~lj...,"7/.·· love of I
.....\JIJJ·-··,..._ !~j!~~oj:~ke:::~ ~~~:Nr!~\he 

~h/~mii~~r~ -~:J·l·-X_\_l, ('.•_rf·~---··_f-. f~ r)·l ·. r::~1!~~~~2rt. 
0 V e r-r:.. -., ~ ) · f" ~ \have become diS­
to~es -.,. -_., t!tii..J __~ -........ .._. ._.Jtracted ,when 
(think"'·'· ' · · · · · ····· Kate 
t-·t···:~ 
Winslet's,. 2009 Yves I 
Saint Laurent f 
gown at the Oscars) ., "-·· 
are in this season. Feel free to 
combine this look with another of·. 
fall's trends, ladylike draping, for a 
double whammy in the fashion world. This look can easily go from day to night depending at what level you want to set the volume. Make sure not to overdo it because, like a Metallica song played at extremely loud deci­bels, too much may damage the sens­es. 
Store to Visit: See Charlotte Russe's belted cowl neck top in charcoal for $21.99 
Trend 3: Salute that Military Look 
March down South Quad in a tai­lored military cropped jacket and you'll have the ROTC boys loving a woman in uniform. Don't shy away 
· K any e s c are e r (R.I.P.) got 
r 
· smashed like Serena ; .._ Williams's racket, but hopefully they 
still managed to 
catch a glimpse of 
one of fall's most 
fabulous and 
embrace a b I e 
looks. It's taken 
a while to tran­
sition from no 
leggings to black 
leggings to 
something more 
exciting, but the 
wait is over. 
Summon the 
sparkles, dra­
matic patterns and 
eye-catching glory that consume this 
all that is fashionable, always remember the most important part of 
~~e o~~~~;:sth:r~it.s~f 

t~~r,x,.:h·~~ftr 
through, ditch 
them. If they're too tight, making the dreaded muffin top the most seen trend on cam­
pus, ditch them. Proportion is 
everything and a well put-together outfit that compliments your body shape will not only leave you feeling confident, but will also draw the eye to your best features. Be bold and beautiful this fall and strike that Blake Lively pose ( F a c e b o o k photo-stalking has proven that this is the new 
college girl pic­ture trend) with confi­dence. 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 
SOFIA ITURBE I Observer Graphic 





OUTH!:JEnD

n-cMm?us 
way; · • «>lu_o·.. 
ing theday, · 
night; while 
rary rock withsome 
some point~ WSND•AM . 
WVFI~AM ("Wiee of the 
station did nothave a 
barely be heard even by 
big chang~. ¢(!l1l(l1nl987 
LaFortune Student Genter an~tre1nQ1fat~ 
mitter to greatly reduce · 
station.remained in 
the twO' stations really 
entities. 
has its own· ESPN AM. 1620 features · ·such as Mike and M<>rn'ina ·.the Herd with Colin wwh1ard;. alldthe Van Pelt show. The 
up to typical ESPN bu1t d(>eS PltLV commercials often, "'··"····~·.. f'.,.,.;~ · appeal. 
SOFIA ITURBE I Observer Graphic 

=p=ag=e=1=4=======================================T.=ne==O=m=er=v=er==+==C=LA===S=S=IF==IE==D=S=======================~==ed=n=e=sd=a=~=S=e=pt=e=m=b=er=1=6=,=2=00==9 ~ 
MLB 

Braves extend streak to five after beating Mets 
Lee tosses six-hit shutout against Nationals; Oswalt roughed up by Reds in loss; Matsuzaka returns from injury and wins 
remaining.
\ssociated Press 
In his best outing in three 
ATLANTA -Adam LaRoche weeks, Lee (7-2) struck out nine homered twice and drove in and walked three to record his three runs, rookie Tommy second shutout and sixth com­Hanson pitched seven innings plete game this season. He was and the Atlanta Braves won 1-2 with a 9.60 ERA in his previ­their fifth straight, beating the ous three starts after giving up New York Mets 6-0 on Tuesday three earned runs in his first night. five with Philadelphia. 
The winning streak has likely The defending World Series come a little late for the Braves, champions acquired the reign­who began the day 7 1/2 games ing AL Cy Young award winner behind Philadelphia in the NL from Cleveland in late July to East and six games back in the strengthen the top of their rota­wild-card race. tion. Lee has been outstanding 
New York has lost seven of for the most part, posting a 2.67 eight. ERA in nine starts. Overall, he is 
LaRoche went 4 for 4, includ­14-11 with 3.00 ERA. ing solo homers in the second Nationals starter Garrett Mock and the sixth, giving him 25 this (3-8) allowed five runs and season -12 since he was seven hits in six innings. He set­acquired from the Boston Red tled down after the second Sox on July 31. He had an RBI inning, giving up one hit over double in the fourth, and a lead­the next four. off double in the eighth. Lee hardly broke a sweat 
LaRoche scored four runs and except in the fourth inning. He became the first Braves player walked the bases loaded after to have four extra-base hits in a going 39 innings without issuing game since doing it himself dur­one. But Lee struck out Josh ing his first stint with the team, Bard to escape the jam. on Aug. 30, 2006. He fanned the last two batters 
Hanson (10-3) had another in the ninth, firing a 92 mph strong outing, allowing three fastball past Bard on his 124th hits and striking out eight. pitch to end it. 

This was the second straight The Phillies scored one run off seventh and earn the win. since being called up on Aug 19. to Erick Aybar before Howie scoreless start for the 23-year­Mock in the first and four in the Nick Masset allowed a hit and Two pitches later, Janish dou­Kendrick hit a soft roller to third old Hanson, who has quickly second. Jimmy Rollins led off the struck out the side in the eighth, bled to deep right-center and to end the game. established himself as one of first with a double to right and and Francisco Cordero pitched later scored on Scott Rolen's An 18-game winner last year, baseball's top young pitchers. He Chase Utley singled him in after the ninth for his 36th save. sacrifice fly. Matsuzaka (2-5) did not allow a pitched eight innings at Houston Shane Victorino sacrificed. The Reds have won three of Matsui led off the third inning hit through four innings and got last week, but closer Rafael Raul Ibanez started the second four. with his sixth homer of the sea­a standing ovation when he was Soriano squandered it in a 2-1 with an opposite-field double to Houston starter Roy Oswalt, son and first in 139 at-bats since relieved after one batter in the loss. left and Jayson Werth followed roughed up for six runs and 10 Aug. 3 against San Francisco. seventh. In all, Matsuzaka gave 
Nate McLouth's two-run dou­with a single. After Pedro Feliz hits over two innings while deal­The Reds tied the game in the up three hits and three walks ble off Pat Misch (1-3) finished walked to load the bases, Ruiz ing with a bad back in his last sixth. Janish and Joey Votto led while striking out five for his off a three-run fourth that gave hit a bouncer down the left-field start on Sept. 10, pitched into off with doubles, though Janish first win since June 2. the Braves a 4-0 lead before a line. The ball rolled into the cor­the sixth. He allowed six hits could only get to third after Lackey gave up three runs ­sparse crowd at Turner Field. ner, allowing all three runners and four runs with no walks and waiting to see if left fielder two earned -on eight hits and 
Omar Infante had three hits to score. Rollins singled in Ruiz three strikeouts. Carlos Lee would make a sliding three walks, striking out six and for the Braves. to make it 5-0. Kip Wells rebounded from a catch of Votto's blooper -he leaving after J.D. Drew tripled 
The Mets managed only one Ruiz, the No. 8 hitter in 28-pitch first inning and lasted 6 didn't. Doug Brocail relieved and scored on Jason Bay's single hit off Hanson through the first Philadelphia's potent lineup, has 2-3, giving up five hits and four Oswalt. Phillips grounded to sec­to make it 3-0 in the eighth. six innings. They finally strung been hot lately. Since Aug. 15, runs with two walks and one ond to drive in Janish, and Rolen Ortiz hit Jose Arredondo's sec­together a couple of hits in the he's batting .371 (26 for 70) to strikeout. He retired 13 consecu­hit a fly ball to deep center field ond pitch to straightaway center seventh, but Anderson raise his average from .224 to tive batters before Jeff over the head of the drawn-in to surpass Frank Thomas atop Hernandez grounded out to end .258. Keppinger's one-out single in the Bourn for a ground-rule, tying the all-time DH home run list. the threat. seventh. double. The Angels won eight of their 
Hanson didn't allow a runner Reds 5, Astros 4 Wells got himself immediately previous 11 and entered the past second base. Mike Gonzalez Paul Janish drove in the go­into trouble by walking Bourn Red Sox 4, Angels 1 night with a six-game lead over and Eric Flaherty finished off ahead run in the seventh inning on four pitches to lead off the Daisuke Matsuzaka returned Texas in the AL West; Boston led the four-hitter, the Braves' ninth with his third double, leading game. Bourn, who entered lead­from a three-month stint on the the Rangers by 4 1/2 in the wild­shutout ofthe season. the Cincinnati Reds to a victory ing the National League with 55 disabled list and pitched six card race. If the standings hold, 
Misch went five innings, sur­over the Houston Astros on stolen bases, swiped second and shutout innings on Tuesday the Red Sox and Angels would rendering eight hits and four Tuesday night. scored on Kaz Matsui's lined sin­night to lead the Boston Red Sox meet in the first round of the runs. He walked one and didn't Houston reliever Sammy gle to center field. to a 4-1 victory over the Los playoffs for the third consecutive strike out anyone. Gervachio (1-1) opened the sev­Matsui stole second, moved to Angeles Angels, their likely first­season. 
enth by hitting Corky Miller. third on a groundout and scored round playoff opponent. That hasn't worked out too Phillies 5, Nationals 0 Pitcher Bronson Arroyo ran for on a single by Miguel Tejada, David Ortiz hit his record­well for the Angels, who have 
Cliff Lee threw a six-hitter, Miller and was sacrificed to sec­who stole second and scored on breaking 270th homer as a des­lost 12 of their last 13 playoff Carlos Ruiz hit a three-run dou­ond by pinch-hitter Drew Sutton. Geoff Blum's single, a sharp ignated hitter and also added an games against Boston dating to ble and the Philadelphia Phillies Drew Stubbs struck out, but grounder that just eluded the RBI single after Boston broke a 1986 and are 0-4 all-time in beat the Washington Nationals Janish lined up an opposite-field diving backhand stab of second scoreless tie in the sixth thanks postseason series against the on Tuesday night. double to right-center to help baseman Brandon Phillips. to a throwing error by John Red Sox. 
The NL East leaders have won send the Astros to their third Stubbs led off the bottom of Lackey (10-8). The Red Sox have Matsuzaka was the MVP of the six of eight and reduced their consecutive loss. the first by hitting the first pitch won six straight since returning World Baseball Classic for the magic number for clinching Daniel Ray Herrera (4-4) he'd ever seen from Oswalt into to Fenway Park after Labor Day. second time this spring, but he their third consecutive division struck out Michael Bourn, the the lower deck in left field for Jonathan Papelbon pitched the never found his form when the title to 12 with 19 games only batter he faced, to end the the rookie's sixth home run ninth and gave up an RBI double season started. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 


WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt.,no experience needed,cus­tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835. 
FoR RENT 
APARTMENT right off campus. 1­bdrm. $500/mo. all inclusive. 574-243-7777. 
You have seen the rest -now CHECK OUT THE BEST. Open Houses Sun. 9/20/09 4-7. andersonNDrentals.com Start at 203 E. Navarre 

FoR SALE 
12 x 65 mobile home, 3 bdrm, car­port, patio, all appliances, low utili­ties, new roof. $300/mo for lot rent. Extra storage. $6,500. Call 269­683-7506. 1 0 minutes from ND. 



TICKETS 
HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top $$. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FB Tix. Victory1ickets.net 574-232­0964. 
Need 2 MSU & USC tix & parking pass. 574-276-8507. 

LOST & FOUND 
LOST: Womans silver link Citizen eco-drive watch. Round face encircled by crystals. Lost out­side LaFortune Saturday, Sept. 5, following the band to the sta­dium. High sentimental value. $50 reward. Cheryl 574-272­9037. 

PERSONAL 
EARN $50 FOR 1 HR OF WRITING ACT, Inc. invites you to participate in an essay-writing study. Limited number of participants so register soon to secure a spot. www.act.org/essaystudy 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go ~ alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confiden­tial support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, vis~ ND s website at: httpJ/pregnancysup­port@nd.edu 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame s website: http:1/csap. nd.edu 
We were so young when I first saw you. 
No flick-flock. Va bene. 





OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE O:ssERVt:R:s WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, September 16, 2009 page 15 

NFL 
NCAA Men's Football APTop25 
team previous 

1 Florida 1 2 Texas 2 3 Southern California 3 4 Alabama 4 5 Mississippi 6 6 Penn Sl. 7 7 BYU 9 8 California 10 9 LSU 11 10 Boise St. 12 11 Ohio St. 8 12 Oklahoma 13 13 Virginia Tech 14 14 Georgia Tech 15 15 TCU 16 16 Oklahoma St. 5 17 Cincinnati 23 18 Utah 11 19 Nebraska 22 20 Miami (Fla.) 20 21 Houston NR 22 Kansas 24 23 Georgia 21 24 North Carolina 19 25 Michigan NR 
NCAA Women's Soccer NSCAA Division I Rankings 
team pr.~Jpiou~ 

1 North Carolina 2 Portland 3 Stanford 4 Florida State 5 NOTRE DAME 6 UCLA 7 Purdue 8 Wake Forest 17 9 Virginia 10 Boston College 11 Illinois 12 West Virginia 13 TexasA&M 10 14 Florida 6 15 Georgia 18 16 California RV 


=:.:::::::::::_:

17 Rutgers RV 18 South Carolina 19 Oklahoma Stale ,·Jb:·· ·::'j)f~::,}: 20 Colorado 15 21 San Diego 12 22 Kansas RV 23 Minnesota 19
..i&1I!~.: ..

24 Penn State 13 25 Indiana NR '·\;j}~,;t '·:t 
NCAA Women's Volleyball AVCA Division I Coaches Poll 
team ilit·••,poi~ts 
1 PennS!. 1489 2 Texas 11\U 3 Washington 1393 4 Hawaii },,12.Q .. 
5 Florida 
1224 6 Michigan 
1202 7 UCLA 1165 8 Nebraska 1089 9 Minnesota 995 10 Iowa St. 191 


around the dial 
MLB 
Los Angeles at Boston 7 p.m., ESPN 
WNBA Playoffs 
Atlanta at Detroit 8 p.m., ESPN2 


Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA Michael Vick can throw passes to his teammates instead of ball boys. 
The Philadelphia Eagles elevated Vick to the team's 53-man roster Tuesday, a move that allows the quarterback to practice with the team. 
Wide receiver Hank Baskett was released to make room for Vick, who is eligible to play Sept. 27 against the Kansas City Chiefs. Vick will begin practicing with the team Wednesday, though he cannot play in Sunday's home opener against the New Orleans Saints. Vick was suspended for the 
first two regular-season games as the final league penalty for his role in running a dogfighting ring. 
Kevin Kolb is expected to take the snaps with the starters Wednesday because Donovan McNabb has a cracked rib. Jeff Garcia was signed to back up Kolb in case McNabb can't play. 
Vick was brought in to give the Eagles another dimension on offense. He ran Philadelphia's version of the wildcat offense and took some snaps as a tra­ditional QB under center in two preseason games. 
The Eagles were heavily criticized by animal rights activists for signing Vick 
IN BRIEF 

Astros' Hampton to miss 
20I 0 season with surgery 
HOUSTON -Oft-injured Houston Astros pitcher Mike Hampton is already out for next year. 
Hampton has undergone surgery for a torn left rotator cuff and other damage in his shoulder that will sideline him for the 2010 season, the team said Tuesday. 
The 37-year-old lefty was 7-10 with a 5.30 ERA in 112 innings over 21 starts this season, his most in a year since making 29 starts in 2004 with Atlanta. 
Hampton is 148-115 lifetime with a 4.07 ERA in 2,264 career innings despite spending considerable time on the disabled list with groin, calf, back and forearm problems. 
Hampton left a game on Aug. 13 at Florida after five innings because of pain in his shoulder. He went on the disabled list the next day, and decid­ed about two weeks later to have the surgery. 
less than a month after he finished serving 18 months in federal prison. Dozens of protesters voiced their outrage out­side the team's practice facility the day after Vick was signed, and many fans threatened to give up their tickets. 
A month later, Vick's jersey is the fourth-high­est seller in the NFL behind Brett Favre, Jay Cutler and Troy Polamalu. The league rankings are based on the sales period from April 1 to Aug. 28, so Vick -and Favre, for that matter -had plenty of catching up to do since both joined their teams last month. 
Vick hasn't played in a 
Eagles' lineman Andrews 
done for the season 
PHILADELPHIA -Shawn Andrews won't play with his brother and col­lege roommate this year. 
The Philadelphia Eagles placed Andrews on injured reserve Tuesday, ending the two-time Pro Bowl line­man's season. Andrews missed the entire preseason and season opener with a back injury. He briefly returned to practice, but his surgically repaired back flared up again. 
"It's disappointing to lose any player for the entire season, but we have full confidence in the other lineman we have on this roster to help this team succeed," coach Andy Reid said. "We wish Shawn all the best as he recov­ers and rehabilitates from this injury." 
Quarterback Jeff Garcia took Andrews' spot on the roster. Garcia was signed to provide insurance because Donovan McNabb has a cracked rib and is uncertain to play this week. 
regular-season game since Dec. 31, 2006, when he was with the Atlanta Falcons. It's highly unlike­ly he would have started even if he were eligible to play this week. Eagles coach Andy Reid has maintained all along that Kolb is McNabb's backup. 
Baskett was one of seven receivers the Eagles carried on their 53-man roster through Week 1. He became expendable after Philadelphia selected Jeremy Maclin in the first round of April's draft and added Brandon Gibson in the sixth round. 
Baskett had 72 catches for 1,052 yards and six touchdowns in 48 games with the Eagles. 
~Fl.. )!robing ~~ngini's role 10 Favre IDJnry case 
CLEVELAND -Browns coach Eric Mangini can't seem to escape from New York. 
The NFL is investigating Mangini's role in the Jets' failure to list quarterback Brett Favre's arm problem on injury reports last season. Mangini coached the Jets during Favre's one season in New York before he was fired after the team collapsed down the stretch. 
Last week, Jets general manager Mike Tannenbaum admitted the club should have listed Favre, who had a torn biceps tendon, as "probable" on the injury report for the last four or five games. Favre said the Jets knew of the injury, which required offseason surgery. 
Spokesman Greg Aiello said Mangini's actions will be exam­ined as part of the league's inquiry. 

page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, September 16, 2009 
Sessions ready to 
fill Rubio's shoes 
NBA 
HORSE RACING 
Harrah's co111pletes race track sale 
representing Magna, said the no time for Penn's stalking
Associated Press 
Thistledown auction involved horse bid to be marketed in 
WILMINGTON, Del. -A more than 40 rounds of bid­an effort to increase interest Delaware bankruptcy judge ding after a lead, or stalking­in the auction and solicit on Tuesday approved the sale horse bid, by Penn National higher offers, or any evidence of two of Magna Gaming of $22.3 million in that Penn would not have par­Entertainment Corp.'s horse cash. ticipated in the bidding with­racing tracks -Thistledown "This track has taken on a out the breakup fee, which in Ohio and Hemington Park tremendous amount of inter­Harrah's would have had to in Oklahoma City -for a est because of the expected cover as the winning bidder. combined total of almost $170 commencement of gambling Walrath agreed, noting that million. permitted at seven race the stalking horse bid was 
Judge Mary Walrath tracks in Ohio," Hosen added. signed at the moment of auc­approved the results of a spir­Hosen told Walrath that he tion and was not used to mar­ited attction on Monday that would submit a sale order for ket the Thistledown assets, as ended with a winning bid of her signature later Tuesday, is normally case in a bank­$89.5 million for the the deadline for Ohio horse ruptcy sale. Thistledown track near track owners to make $13 "We can all try to guess Cleveland from Harrah's million payments toward their what would have happened Operating Co., a wholly $65 million slots licensing without it," said Walrath, owned subsidiary of Nevada­fees. whose approval of the based casino giant Harrah's "We are excited to be enter­Remington Park sale came Entertainment Inc. ing Ohio and look forward to without any discussion of the 
Harrah's offered $42 million developing a first-class facility bidding procedures. in cash at closing and contin­in Cleveland which will create "A five-minute auction?" gent payments of $47.5 mil­significant employment Walrath asked when handed a lion. opportunities in the region," transcript of the Hemington 
The contingent payments Harrah's said in a statement Park sale meeting. hinge upon successful resolu­issued after the hearing. "It was not frothy bidding, tion of various legal chal­In approving Harrah's bid as they say, your honor," lenges to Ohio's plan to install f o r R o s e n slot machines at the state's Thistledown, responded, seven horse tracks. Plaintiffs the judge noting that a have filed lawsuits seeking to said Penn backup bidder
"We are excited to be
have the issue put to voters in National, bid­had no interest a referendum, and challeng­ding through entering Ohio and look in participating ing whether slot machines are an entity in the final
forward to developing
permitted under Ohio's consti­c a I I e d auction.
a first-class facility in
tution and meet the state's Cleveland In addition to definition of a lottery. Gaming Cleveland." the sales of Also Tuesday, Walrath Ventures Thistledown approved the sale of LLC, was not and Remington
Official statement
Hemington Park for $80.25 entitled to Park, Walrath 
Harrah's Entertainment Inc. 
million to Global Gaming break up fees also has Solutions HP LLC, a subsidiary and expense approved the of the Chickasaw Nation that reimburse-$8 million sale plans to continue casino and ments that of about 490 racing operations at the could have totaled more than acres of undeveloped property track. $500,000. owned by Magna in Ocala, 
Ontario-based Magna Attorneys for Magna, its Fla., where the company had Entertainment, the largest creditors committee, and once hoped to build a race horse-track owner in the Penn National argued that track or a horse training facil­United States, filed for bank­Penn was entitled to the fees ity. ruptcy protection in March, for setting the stage for a suc­On Tuesday, Walrath agreed saying it was unable to obtain cessful auction. to schedule a hearing on bid new financing while support­"We were the starting gun procedures for the sale of ing its existing debt. for the race," an attorney for Lone Star Park, which 
Its holdings also include Penn argued. includes a stalking horse bid Gulfstream Park in Florida, But Craig Heimer, an attor­of $27 million submitted by Lone Star Park in Grand ney for Harrah's, said the Global Gaming, the purchaser Prairie, Texas, and stalking horse bid was not of Hemington Park. The pro­Baltimore's Pimlico racetrack presented to Harrah's or the posed sale procedures call for -host of the Preakness other bidder, a subsidiary of qualified bids to be submitted Stakes, the second leg of the Pinnacle Entertainment, until by Oct. 5, with an auction two Triple Crown. the scheduled auction time. days later and a court hearing 
Brian Hosen, an attorney Heimer argued that there was on Oct. 14. 
'U1HIC.·H·.· R..o·\A. n·· ,.,,..,ILL·· '·.r.o.u·· 
tt·t<•-IV' ~. l : ! , .-· '.M.. · ·' ft.' ~ · : -I,.. }~ 
TAKE? 

Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS -When Hicky Rubio told the Minnesota Timberwolves he was planning on staying in Spain for at least the next two years, word quick­ly spread to restricted free agent Ramon Sessions. 
His agent, James Wells, called Sessions and told his client they should consider con­tacting Minnesota to see if there was any interest in bring­ing the 23-year-old point guard in as a replace­ment. 
Sessions 
for me and I wound up losing a lot of sleep over this," Sessions said. 
In Minnesota, the 6-foot-3 Sessions will play the point guard position he's played his entire life, but also will move to shooting guard on occasion and pair with Flynn in a small, but dynamic, backcourt. 
"In the times that they do play together it's going to be pretty fun to watch because of their ability of both of them to create for other people, to get inside the lane, either to draw a foul or find a 

quickly agreed, teammate,"
"It was the best 

b u t Kahn said. Timberwolves situation for me, and Sessions got 
president of I'm happy to be here." plenty of time at basketball oper­shooting guard ations David last season after 
Ramon Sessions 

Kahn was even Olympian 
faster on the Timberwolves guard Michael Redd 
dial. 
"When found out he wasn't coming over, me and my agent talked about it, and not five hours later (the Timberwolves) were calling," Sessions said Tuesday. "It was the best situation for me and I'm happy to be here." 
Sessions signed a four-year, $16 million offer sheet with the Wolves. When the Milwaukee Bucks declined to match the offer Friday, Sessions packed his bags for Minnesota, where he will join rookie point guard Jonny Flynn in a young Timberwolves backcourt. 
"Clearly if Ricky would have come, there wouldn't have been an opportunity to add Ramon," Kahn said at Sessions' introductory press conference. "We would have been filled up in the backcourt and there wouldn't have been enough playing time for somebody of Ramon's caliber to join us. 
"When Hicky made his deci­sion that he wanted to spend another two years over there, within in the next 36 hours is when we did decide to move forward with Ramon." 
The Timberwolves selected the 18-year-old Rubio with the fifth overall pick in June, then commenced on a summer-long dance with him, his agents and the Spanish pro team that still had him under contract. 
Kahn made three trips to Spain in hopes of negotiating a deal to bring the precocious passer to the United States. He reached an agreement with DKV Joventut at the end of August. But Rubio backed out less than 48 hours later, telling Kahn he preferred to stay in Spain for at least the next two years to get more ready for the NBA and reduce the amount of a multimillion dollar buyout in his contract. 
Without Rubio, the went down with 
a knee injury. He 
topped 20 points 11 times in 79 games, including a 44-point, 12-assist game against Detroit on Feb. 7. 
"This past year was really my first year playing off the ball and I felt really comfortable with it," Sessions said. "With Michael Redd going down in Milwaukee, that gave me the opportunity to show that I can off the ball a little bit so I'm definitely looking forward to that challenge." 
Kahn has said time and again all summer long that the rebuilding Timberwolves are probably a year or two away from being competitive in the Western Conference playoff race. But he also said that adding Sessions, instead of Hubio, will help them more in the short term. 
"I think that Hamon is clearly more capable of helping us right now than Ricky would have been because of where he is in his development stage," Kahn said. "In a weird way, the team became more mature and improved with this move in particular." 

ROME point guard to take some of the burden off of Flynn, the sixth Timberwolves needed another 
Learn about the 
overall pick in the draft. Sessions, who averaged 12.4 
Italy Study Abroad Programs: 
points and 5. 7 assists for the Bucks last season, talked earli­er in the summer with the New York Knicks and the Los 
Sept r6, 5:3opm 129 Hayes-HealyAngeles Clippers. But he never received an offer from either team and was starting to get a little antsy with training camps opening in less than a month. 
BOLOGNA
"It was a long, crazy period 

Wednesday, September 16, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

r-----------­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 16, 2009 
WNBA 
Fever and Mercury charge into playoffs 
Associated Press 
The Indiana Fever got off to a dominant start and were all but assured of getting in the playoffs long ago. 
After stumbling down the stretch, the Eastern Conference champions know they need to regain their intensity when they open the postseason against fourth-place Washington on Thursday night. 
"It is quite difficult when you know you are in and you can relax a little bit," veteran guard Tully Bevilaqua said. "Now that we are coming into the playoffs, it is going to be a totally different mentality. ... We know that ifwe don't bring our ·~ game, then we might be exiting early and that is certainly not on the plan." 
Despite losing seven of their last 10 games, the Fever (22-12) still set a franchise record for victories with All-Stars Katie Douglas and Tamika Catchings leading the way. Indiana also got strong contribu­tions froni rookie Briann January and veterans Tammy Sutton­Brown and Ebony Hoffman. 
Catchings, who had 99 steals to finish one short of the WNBA record, isn't concerned by the team's finish. 
"It is a change of mentality," she said, "but I think the last 10 games we really tried to focus into changing into a playoff mentality and even though we have not won all of them, I think going in we are going to have to use the positive things that came out of it. Our bench played more minutes and getting them accustomed to play­ing, hopefully they will be ready for us." 
The Phoenix Mercury (23-11) won the West with the league's best record and open as the con­ference favorite to reach the WNBA finals as they seek their second title in three years. However, don't count out Lisa Leslie and the surging Los Angeles Sparks. 
For the second straight year, Los Angeles opened the season as the overwhelming favorites to win the championship, especially after bolstering the backcourt and adding veteran forward Tina Thompson. 
The Sparks (18-16) struggled in the early going while playing with­out Candace Parker, who missed the first nine games after giving birth to her daughter, and Leslie for 10 games due to an injury in her final season. But since Leslie returned on Aug. 4, the Sparks have looked like the championship contenders they were expected to be, winning 10 of 13 to close the season. 
"I think we're coming together a little bit more, hopefully at the right time and we can pull it together," said Leslie, who is head­ed for retirement. "I think our chances are as good as anyone else's. It'll be 0-0 and we're defi­nitely going to have to fight hard." 
Los Angeles finished third in the West and will host second-place Seattle (20-14) in their series opener Wednesday night. The Sparks won the teams' first-round matchup in three games a year ago, and they split their four regu­lar-season meetings this year. 
The Storm had three All-Stars this season in Lauren Jackson, Sue Bird and Swin Cash, but could be vulnerable without Jackson, who hasn't played since Aug. 27 due to a stress fracture in her back and could miss this series. Sue Bird missed the last three games due to a sore neck, but the Storm had already secured the No.2 seed. 
The Mercury's high-octane offense was again led by Diana Taurasi, who won her second straight scoring title, and Cappie Pondexter, who flnished third. DeWanna Bonner had a sensa­tional rookie season and Penny Taylor -a key cog in Phoenix's title run two years ago -returned for the final 14 games after miss­ing last season. 
The Mercury visit San Antonio (15-19) for the opener of their first-round series on Thursday. The Silver Stars, led by career­best scoring seasons from their star duo of Becky Hammon and Sylvia Young, were inconsistent this year after reaching the WNBA finals last season. 
"They're a veteran team ... the Western champs last year," Mercury coach Corey Gaines said. "You've got to go through them and take it away to get to the championship." 
The teams split four regular­season matchups, with the home squad winning each time. 
"It's one of the teams that has probably given us the most trouble in the regular season," Taurasi said. "In the games we did well, we obviously rebounded well and did a good job on their key play­ers, which isn't easy." 
The Mystics (16-18) return to the playoffs after a two-year absence in their first season under general manager Angela Taylor and coach Julie Plank. The addi­tions of Lindsey Harding, Chasity Melvin and Matee Ajavon bol­stered an offense led by All-Star guard Alana Beard. 
Beard missed four of the last six games due to an ankle injury, but is expected to be back for the playoffs. Even with Beard, the Mystics could struggle to score against a Fever team that set a WNBA record with 373 steals and gave up the third-fewest points in the league. 
"They're an excellent defensive team, they force a lot of turnovers," Plank said. "Tamika Catchings is a great player, one of the best in the league, and they have a great inside-outside game." 
The other East series that opens Wednesday features the defending champion Detroit Shock (18-16) against the second-year Atlanta Dream (18-16), who earned the conference's No. 2 seed a year after setting the league record with 30 losses. 
Atlanta, which won three of four from the Shock this year, was helped by a roster overhaul that included the return of seven-time All-Star Chamique Holdsclaw from a nearly two-year retirement and the addition of No. 1 overall draft pick Angel McCoughtry. However, Holdsclaw had arthro­scopic knee surgery on Aug. 27 and her status for the postseason is uncertain. 
Detroit, led by the veteran tan­dem of Deanna Nolan and Katie Smith, won nine of its last 11 to reach the playoffs for the seventh straight year. The Shock recov­ered from a bad start that includ­ed the resignation of coach Bill Laimbeer three games into the season. The final push came while Smith missed the last seven games due to lower back pain, and her status for this series is also uncer­tain. 
MLB 
Yanks and Sox to open next year 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK-The Yankees will open and close the 2010 season against the Hed Sox at Fenway Park, just the fifth time in 50 years the rivals both start and finish against each other. 
Most openers are set for April 5, Major League Baseball said Tuesday. In the past 50 years, the Yankees also opened and closed against Boston in 1960, 1970, 1992 and 2005, according to STATS LLC. The only times they both times in its last 10 games. 
"When they start selling tickets, people will start rushing to get that last series," Jeter said. 
Other AL openers April 5 are Cleveland at Chicago, Detroit at Kansas City, Minnesota at Los Angeles, Seattle at Oakland and Toronto at Texas. Baltimore starts at Tampa Bay the fol­lowing day. 
All NL teams are to open April 5: San Diego at Arizona, Chicago at Atlanta, St. Louis at Cincinnati, San Francisco at Houston, 
started finished  and in  "/ don't know why we  Colorado at Milwaukee,  
Boston 1938 1950. "I  were and don't  open up north, anyway. It makes more sense to open  Florida at New York, Los Angeles at Pittsburgh and  
know why we  on the West Coast or  Philadelphia at  
open north,  up any­ somewhere warm."  Washington. Outdoor  
way. It makes  baseball  offi­ 
more sense to  Derek Jeter  cially  returns  
open on the West Coast or  Yankees captain  to on  Minneapolis April 12  
somewhere  when the Twins  
w  a  r  m  ,  host Boston in  

Yankees captain Derek Jeter the first game that counts at said. Target Field. Minnesota is to 
It seems likely ESPN will host St. Louis in exhibitions shift the Yankees and Hed on April 2-3. Sox for the Sunday night Other AL home openers game on April 4 include Cleveland at Detroit 
"It'll be cold. We know and Toronto at Baltimore that for sure," Yankees (April 9); Texas at Cleveland, pitcher CC Sabathia said, Oakland at Seattle and laughing. "To get in there Chicago at Toronto (April right away and mix it up will 12); and Los Angeles at New definitely be good for base­York (April 13). ball. I'm sure it'll be like a In the NL, remaining home Sunday night baseball game openers have San Diego at or something like that, so Colorado, Los Angeles at that'll be cool." Florida and Atlanta at San 
New York plays Boston six Francisco (April 9); 
Milwaukee at Chicago, Washington at Philadelphia, Houston at St. Louis and Atlanta at San Diego (April 12); and Arizona at Los Angeles (April 13). 
The 14th season of inter­league play starts with series from May 21-23 and continues with interleague games from June 11-27. Among the pairings are the Mets at Baltimore in a rematch of the 1969 World Series (June 11-13), Atlanta at Minnesota in a rematch of the 1991 World Series {June 11-13), the Yankees at Arizona in a rematch of the 2001 World Series (June 21­23), Cincinnati at Oakland in a rematch of the 1972 and 1990 World Series (June 21­23), Boston at Colorado in a rematch of the 2007 World Series (June 22-24) and Philadelphia at Toronto in a rematch of the 1993 World Series (June 25-27). 
The Yankees and the Dodgers, who met in 10 World Series, play in Los Angeles from June 25-27. The Dodgers, led by former Yankees manager Joe Torre, are the only NL team that hasn't been to the Yankees in interleague play. 
"It's always good to see Mr. T. It will be kind of weird to face him in another uniform. I'm sure it will be awkward, though it will be stranger to see Donnie in another uniform," Jeter said, referring to coach Don Mattingly. "We've seen Mr. T in different uniforms, but I've never seen Donnie in anything but a Yankees uni­form." 

The Management Fellows Program at cancer Tr~trnent Cent.ers of America.. 1s an exceptional opportunity to imrT"~erse yourself in an aspects of hosp~tal admin~strahon at one of the n.atron·s fastest growmg network.s of cancer hospttals. 
Thi.s two.year program offers multiple rotatJona1 asstgnrnents that invofve you m key busi~s ~nttmtives, encourage travel to our hospirtallocatK>ns and provide exposure to upper-leve-l management You·u have the freedom to choose asstgnment:s that !"'eef. your own interests, as you learn from the bnghtest minds in our org<tnization and play an active part in developmg our future. 
We're looking for recent cofl;gge graduates with pToven leadership expenenrce. strong communkatron and anatytJCal skills. and a passion for our mission: a whole-person.. patie-nt-centered appt"Cl'a<h to can<:ef care. learn more about the program and apply by visitmg your S<:hool'~ 
car,ger webstte. 
We £M'€ an equal opportunity enoployer. 


Wednesday, September 16, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Chargers depleted after injuries in first game 
Associated Press  tackle Marcus McNeill to stay in the game after he rolled an  regular-season action at center. "I thought I played solid," he  after the game. Rivers led the winning drive, which was  or twice in my career I've gone with seven linemen because you  
SAN DIEGO -The San Diego  ankle. Under normal circum­ said in a text message.  capped by Darren Sproles' 5­ know it can't happen. Obviously  
Chargers go into their home  stances he would have come  "It is a concern, but the excit­ yard run with 18 seconds left.  we had needs defensively so we  
opener against Baltimore with  out, Turner said.  ing thing to me is, we've talked  "You're never going to have an  went with seven."  
concerns on the offensive line  Turner said that when McNeill  about this all along, that every  injury-free season, but you hope  Tomlinson, slowed last year  
after center Nick Hardwick and  was on the ground, tight end  guy needs to be  you don't get too  by toe and groin injuries, man­ 
rookie right guard Louis Vasquez were hurt in Monday night's win at Oakland. Hardwick sprained his left ankle and Vasquez sprained a knee in the 24-20 comeback win, the Chargers' 12th straight against their biggest rival.  Antonio Gates told him: "What are you doing, man? Get up, we've got enough of this. Someone's got to play now." Hardwick, a Pro Bowler in 2006, said in a text message that he felt "good," but declined to say if he'll be able to play  ready to play," Turner said. "I can't say enough about what Mooch did at cen­ter, you know, what Brandyn Dombrowski did at right guard, to  "We are fortunate to have depth. Some of it is very, very young depth and they are going to learn as they go through it. "  banged up in Week 1." The Chargers dressed only seven offensive linemen. Backup guard Tyronne Green was inactive.  aged only 55 yards on 13 car­ries. He sprained his ankle while losing a fumble in the first quarter. Sproles, the speedy little run­ning back-returner, had 246 all­purpose yards and also took some hard shots. If he were to take that much  
Running back LaDainian Tomlinson also sprained an ankle. Coach Norv Turner said  "It is a concern, but the exciting thing to me is , we've talked about this all along, that every guy needs  against the Ravens. Vasquez went out first, and fifth-year pro Scott "Mooch" Mruczkowski  go in and do the There are two things he did, Norv Turner offensive line­that's tough. Chargers coach men on the "We are fortu­practice squad. nate to have The Chargers depth. Some of it is very, very are expected to look outside the young depth and they are going organization. General manager  of a beating all year, "They'd probably have legal issues with me for whatever you call that," Turner joked. "We've got to get Darren some help," Turner said, saying there are options to give him a break  
Tuesday that Hardwick,  to be ready to play. "  replaced him. After Hardwick  to learn as they go through it." Hardwick was taken off the  A.J. Smith didn't return a call seeking comment.  on special teams if he's involved more on offense, and vice versa.  
Vasquez and Tomlinson aren't expected to prac­ Norv Turner Chargers coach  went out, Mruczkowski moved to center  field on a cart. "I had real concerns after the game on Nick. Those concerns  "We have not done anything yet," Turner yet. "Obviously the first and most pressing need is  "He wants to stay in there. I told him after the game, 'We can't do that to you.' He said, 'Hey  
tice Wednesday  and  Brandyn  aren't  as  great right now,"  to make sure that we will dress  coach, I was fine."  
as the Chargers  Dombrowski,  a  Turner said.  eight linemen next week and  Sproles carried nine times for  
begin preparing for the Ravens.  backup tackle playing in his first  "Hardwick, what he means to  that we're sound there. You  23 yards, caught five passes for  
The Chargers were down to  regular-season game, took over  this team, and for Vasquez to go  play the odds and very rarely do  43 yards, returned three punts  
five healthy offensive linemen  at right guard.  out in his first game, it's tough,"  you have two linemen get hurt  for 10 yards and five kickoffs for  
Monday night, which forced left  It was Mruczkowski's first  quarterback Philip Rivers said  in a game. I think maybe once  170 yards.  

Want to improve your Spanish or Portuguese? Come to an InfoJ•rrtation Meeting with program returnees to hear about... 
Spanish and Portuguese Language Study Abroad Programs 
Information Meeting 
Brazil Chile 


lVednesday,Sept.t6 s:ts pnt 155 DeBartolo Hall 
www.nd.edu/-ois Application Deadline is November 15, 2009 





page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 16, 2009 
Tacl 
continued from page 24 

"I think it is always a little nerve-wracking going into the first race because you are not exactly sure where you are at fitness-wise," Tacl said. "Overall though, I am trying to just stay relaxed and confident. I love cross country, and it is hard to believe it is my last sea­
Irish obtain the overall win. 
"Last season went pretty well," Tacl said. "I was a bit more inconsis­tent than I would have liked, but I ran well at the region­al meet when it was impera­tive that I ran well." 
Tacl did not race in the team's first event, the Crusader Open in Valparaiso, Ind., as Irish coach Tim Connelly reserved his best runners for the tougher competition they will see at the Catholic Invite. Her only preparation for Friday's race has been her training over the sum-
MIAA 

continued from page 24 
es. 
The recipe for success against Alma seemed to be the improvement on the mental game, something that was lacking in their two previous MIAA losses to Trine and Adrian. 
to introduce their young freshman ath­letes, in particular Autumn 
Nelson,  Christina  Barra,  
Emily  Caltrider  and  
Stephanie Bodien,  to  col­ 
lege-level volleyball.  

"We have shown that we are not going to give up on each other," Kuschel said. "They have continued to show a lot of mental tough­ness and the drive to win very close matches." 
On the other end of the 
mer. 
"Our coach gives us a sum­mer training schedule with a goal mileage and work­outs," Tacl said. "Unfortunately this summer, I had some injury problems. My running was a bit more inconsistent than usual, so I spent a lot of time cross­training." 
Because she is one of the team's top returning run­

son, so I want "Last year we made 
to just put it 
it to nationals and

all out there one last sea­that was exciting, but 
son and see we are really hoping 
what hap­
to get back there and

pens." 
At the 2008 do some damage Catholic this time." 
Invite, Tacl finished 11th 
Beth Tacl 

in 18:24 and helped the Irish senior 
qualifying. 
This year, the women's team has a good chance of receiving a bid in the NCAA's most competitive race and hope to place bet­ter there than they did last season. 
"Last year, we made it to nationals and that was exciting, but we are really hoping to get back there and do some damage this time," Tacl said. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
court, Hope's success this year comes as no surprise, as they ended the season in 2008 first in the MIAA standings with a conference record of 15-1. The Flying Dutch defeated the Belles in both meetings last year, winning in three sets each time. 
Hope will be led on offense 

"We were very "We were veryfocused on elim­
focused on

inating our 
errors and com­eliminating our municating with errors and one another out 
communicating with 

on the court," 
Belles coach one another out on Toni Kuschel the court. It is very 
said. "It is very 
important that we

important that 
we work hard to work hard to improve improve every every day. " day." The Belles 
Toni Kuschel 

have used the first few games Belles coach 
ners, the team's ultimate goal of returning to the N C A A Championships at the end of the season will be greatly aided by Tacl's potential to place well this season. The team finished 29th last year at the national championships after making their first appearance after three years of not 
by sophomore Jacie Fielder and junior Cassidy Bulthuis, who have 57 and 51 kills on the season, respectively. Both individ­ual totals are more than the total number of kills con­ceded by the entire team on the sea­son. 
On defense, the Flying Dutch will feature junior S a r a 
DeWeerdt and senior defen­sive specialist Kristen Johnson, who have already recorded 41 and 39 digs, respectively. 
Following the match against Hope, the Belles will have a break from play for six days before they come back home to play Olivet. 
Contact Chris Michalski at cmichal2@nd.edu 



Wednesday, September 16, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Foot 
continued from page 24 
said. "I was running back to the fields and it simply gave out." 
The players immediately feared the worst. Their fears were soon confirmed by x-rays at the 
hospital. "It was like a death absence, Notre "It was like in the family when Dame has opened 
a death in the season less
[Rosen] broke her 

the family impressively than when she foot." expected; cur­broke her rently the team's f 0 0 t • record stands at
Michele Weissenhofer 

Weissenhofer 3-3.
Irish captain 

said. "That "I can't even 
just shows how big of a part of the team she is." 
It turned out that Rosen had unknowingly been play­ing with a stress fracture in her foot, a symptom she has grown used to over the years of injuries. 
She first broke her right foot her senior year in high school. Doctors placed a screw in the foot, and preached caution in the future. Rosen then reinjured the foot in her freshman and sophomore years at Notre Dame. She played through most of the pain with the Irish, missing a total of only eight games. 
"I have constantly had issues with stress fractures, but since I had a screw in that foot, I have played through it being broken and with stress fractures because that screw holds it together," Rosen said. "My right foot has always been my biggest worry, and now my left foot is the one broken." 
A week after this August's injury, doctors operated on 
Rosen's foot. Rosen has been limited to crutches since then, not allowed to put any weight on the foot, and she will continue as such for another month. At that point, eight weeks removed from the surgery, she will slowly ease weight back onto the foot, in hopes of possibly tak­ing the field her 
senior year. 
In Rosen's 
begin to say how 
big of a loss [Rosen] is," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. "Her loss to us was a huge blow this year." 
The loss of Rosen has been 
compounded as Weissenhofer has battled hamstring issues all sea­son long. Weissenhofer was limited to seven minutes of playing time against Santa Clara in Notre Dame's 2-0 defeat Friday. 
"Losing those two has really hurt us because they give the team a lift spending the majority of this season. 

"I have accepted the fact that I have to take on a com­pletely different role with the team," Rosen said. "I try to be as positive as I can and provide the players with feedback as they come off the field. I try to be as helpful as possible, even though it is hard to sit and watch prac­tice and the games." 
Waldrum said he expects Weissenhofer to be off the bench and on the field again this season, but Rosen's fate is very much up in the air. Doctors hope she will be able to play at the time playoffs begin. If that is the case, Rosen will have to choose between playing in the most critical games of the season or applying for a medical redshirt and coming back next season. 
"Courtney and I have spo­ken about it briefly," 
"[Rosen and Weissenhofer] give the team a lift when they are on the field, and we are struggling with that right now." 
Randy Waldrum Irish coach 
Waldrum said. "The good thing about it is she does not have to make her decision today or next week. She has time to sort through that." 
Waldrum did not keep his preference quiet though. 
"Selfishly I would like to have her back next year for a full year, but at 
He did elaborate on how 
freshman linebacker Manti
Health 
Te'o was progressing. He said continued from page 24 Te'o doesn't yet have the 
mental grasp that senior line­ever. Fullback James Aldridge backer Toryan Smith does. is doubtful for Saturday's "Toryan knows the game, game, Weis said. really understands the 
"He's gonna run around game," Weis said. "That some today. We'll have to test means that Toryan can let the shoulder out," Weis said. loose and not be inhibited to 
Running back  go  run  
Armando Allen is fine, Weis said, suffering  "Obviously they had gotten the message  through some­body to finish the play  
nothing more than a "bruised ego." Wide receiver  across: quit feeling sorry for yourself and let's go to work."  because he knows he's in the right spot. "I think that  
Michael Floyd  Manti is just a  
had his knee stitched at the  Charlie Weis Irish coach  matter of time. The more con­ 

end of the Michigan game and is ready to go this week. Weis said he'll keep Floyd off the ground and try to keep the cut from opening up, but he joked that Floyd's back­ground ensures he'll be okay. 
"He's from Minnesota. We gave him a hockey analogy. If you get 15 stitches in a hock­ey game usually you're out about five minutes and then you're back in there," We is said. 
To improve the run defense, Weis said the offense and defense would practice full speed against each other Tuesday with an emphasis on the play of the defensive line. Weis wouldn't elaborate on what, if any, changes were made. 
fidence he has 
that he knows what to do all the time, then he'll be able to play a little bit less inhibited." 
Note: 
+Weis said the team had responded well to Saturday's 38-34 loss to Michigan. They came in Sunday ready to move on to Michigan State, he said, and players came in Monday, their day off, for film study. 
"I thought they did a very, very good job Sunday," Weis said. "Obviously they had got­ten the message across: quit feeling sorry for yourself and let's go to work." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


when they are on the field, and we are struggling with that right now," Waldrum said. 
As the team has struggled, Rosen has done her best to remain upbeat on the bench, the last spot she saw herself 

the same time if she decided to come back for the last month of the season, we would certainly welcome that," he said. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at 
dfarmer 1 @nd.edu 
800.424.8580 Iwww.peacecorps.gov Life is calling. How far will you go? 

Quality Off-Campus Houses Now leasing for 2010 -2011 
• 
Close to campus • Washers &dryers 

• 
Student neighborhoods • Dishwashers 

• 
Security systems • 2 -10 bedrooms 


• Lawn service 

We have over 100 properties-see them at www.kramerhouses.com 
For more information call 
(574} 234·2436 



page 22 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, September 16, 2009 


---------------------------, 
Wednesday, September 16, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLESCHAD & FREUDE 

MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WOAD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

THE MOBILE PARTY Dude. did you hear 
Well, there's no shortage of: 

WHEN HE SAW
NEW .Jurrdl! iPhone Ajlp 9'l to: hltpii!r,~ 



Farm Animals Yesterday's  IJumbles:  ABOVE  CHAIR  (Answers tomorrow) AFFIRM UNFOLD  
Answer:  What the executive and politician had in  
common  -RAN FOR OFFICE  
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

Gold 

and mail to: 
CROSSWORD 
Across 31 Character in 9­& 59-Across

Cause for an eyelilt 
36 Chills. so to 4 Playground speak shout 
37 Sorvino of

9 With 59-Across, novel of 1851 
"Mighty Aphrodite"

13 Benzoyl peroxide target 
40 Cordial offering? 

14 Bitter 1 5 Shield border 44 ·--is gained 
as much by 16Complain good works as17 Frigid temps 

by evil": 18 Head of the Machiavelli Egyptian god 
46 St. Stephen.

Thoth notably
19 Take the lead 21 Sig Ep and 47 Pronoun in the starts of many 
others letters
22 Fish tail? 23At sea 49 Netflix offering 24 Stable display 25 Stylize anew, as 
50 Simon Says a car seat players, say 27 Rushed (by) 
51 Displays

29Warhol associate_ 53 DesignateSedgwick "commercial" or 
30 Israel's Barak •single-family, • and Olmert e.g. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
54 Incline (and a hint to the location in this completed puzzle of the first line of 9-& 59-Across) 
55 Recipe direction 56 Hollywood's Kazan 57 lumberjack competition 58 Change of address. for 
short 59 See 9-Across 60 Does what a 
good dog does 61 Halftime features 
Down 1 Searched high and low 2 _ Geometry (college course) 3 Four-star leader: 
Abbr. 4 Grasp 5 They're served 
witn spoon· straws 6 9· &59-Across 7 Rear 8 QBs'coups 9 Shimmery fabrics 1 0 Jerry of "Law & Order" 
11 Carefree 
12 Assented 
13 Eponymous 
French pl1ysicist 20 1960 Olympics boxing gold medalist 21 High-school class, informally 24 Musical conclusion 
WILLSHORTZ 


26 "Fool (If You 35 What a swallow 44 Reading for Think It's Over)" may swallow home mechanics singer Chris 38Displays 45 Rambler maker, 
once: Abbr.

28 Onetime Asiatic 39 Supplements 48Baklava
nomads 40 Blown away 
ingredient30 New York's 41 "In kwhere 51 One whose 
River -lovels ioo" shirttail is always 
(start of "That's 
untucked,32 Hunts, with "on" Amore") 

maybe33 Numerical prefix 42 Peaceful 
52 Start of an
with oxide 

incantation 340ty. blue 54 Sign of success 
43 Word with hot or 
For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card. 1·800-814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download punles, or visit nytimes.comtmobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2.000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.comlwordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comllearninglxwords. 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CU.EBRHIES BORN ON TIUS DAl·: l'rim:e Hatt}, 25; D"w AnMhl<, _1(t Tl>illliiY Lee Jm~e>. 63; Oli~cr Stn!IC. M 
Happ~-Hh·thdoty: AHow your~ If th.<· tit:nc y·oU tl£X<1 til make (kd'in:at~. Dq"c~sJon cmt~d 
t.y 1•><>!' <'Ot>!'-''" <>>111d SllllQ y<>u it! the wmng dire<"li<>ll T.okill)! <"<lllll"l will "'! 111< st11~~ lor bttt!t<'r ;md better littk'S all<'ad. You <1Ul >el a new st.,ndanl !hat w1ll lead w greal<'f re spec! aoul a lite Umt Sltil> your mm "'''-'<is. Your muutx..-s are 7, 12, 12, :!9_ 31, 40,42 
,\RIE.'l <i\·lat'<'h ll·April 1.91: i\>tlllb;y he ;~1k to l.ak adv~III>J"' of an lti!C~C':Sillig ""'"' li<m !hill ari~<e~ kc'ii!l>C yvu :twin the righiplaw :t! Ilk' rigbr time. lkn~p PWJMre<llo O<'! tast willlltm yvu inw~ hem Follow ynurt>\\11 path***** 
TAt'Rt'S !April .W-May 201: You may l:u<:tw wlrnt y<Ju are tlOIIIJ! or w1tal'1''-':l(P""h~<l <•f y<111 htll '""*"'one el<e will l•w" a <titf~'fellli*"' arw1 ''"lid cau"' you jl.nd Be t><rfoclly I""!Cst ;,1)!,11lt what )'<~I ~'>'ill ;unl wmn dn. lk wdl !~"!"'1\'<1 ami pr<>lt•-•i'"""· ** 
GEMINI I May !l·June !Ol: By op<...,lillJ! up yow liom.c to friends an<llaun!y, ~'-'"will acate a >pedal rnp1mr1 with pt'<>pic wh" will nl'kr yoo wmothmg in relnm. Expe-ct Wille· "''"who i>j<al<~L' tornticirx Of try w P'" a halt w y-ourplaus. **** 
('ANCl'R (Jillte .tl-Jioly ;U.): Y<~t may t.., fom.'tl t<l jllVC into Mile allcl·dti<>tl> l!<'<llj! made. Before ynu ~1!1 upsctnl~>ul what'' ~<>iug ou , consider !I"' otdcoru" and yoo will re ;ui.re you C"l> b"ndil ill tl~e eud. C<mq)Wtnisc mtlrer limn <'<llllplammg. Greater scnmly is be:~li•tt your way. ** * 
u:o tJuly 2;\.Aug. !Z): You may li~c to caU !l~e '1:1<<11., but. hcf<li'C you <kt, n>:•l:<' sun:' thai your motiws are in Ilk' righli>li~<'e Emotional issues are likdy to dnud your vi"'"'· ·n,ink 
•houl wlial yoo are goill!lk> say an<lltnw yoo w:m! tlliiiRS to tum nut.*** 
VlR(;O 1,\ug. 2,\.JiepC.llJ: Dntl'l let snmwuc els<:'s m~e~·rtaiuty bog yoo down Y<Ml haw~~-· mow (OI'w;w:l if you wan! tn 1).¢1 !hilift' done in atimely fa~liimt. P.:onninp. au alii a~~t;c witlt WI.IW<>IW you kel is dOIIIJ! a good jt'l\> •·nuld ki!d to future pm.f'XIs. ** ** 
UKRA !Srpt.l.>·Od. llt: Drc~m~ can come t!llC tf }'(m pnl in time all(! effort. Dmn he afutid ttl pul yo11r id>l'aS nu tl1c ~thk, Atmrtn<orslup will pve your t>lru" a huosl. Mix a lit!k ftut itllo yoor dar,**** 
SCORl'IO tOrl. :tl-Nov. ll ): .Don't !td di~iUK'tal by §OIIIe<~IC Wlt<l i~ po!ISC,;§l\'C, jcaloll• or tryiltjl to make your life diffkull. Cmk'entrato oo tl~e here and now an<! what needs to be dot~e. Bcfnr" makin~ an ~•sumption, clw~k Ute L,.1s * * 
S,\{;J'ITARIFS (Nov. l2·Dtt. !11: You'll haw to act fast and effJ<:l~nHy to av<>i<l rnt1cal ~onuoc·nts. and al.tcration~ to yonrpiaus. lkinJ! '-'<Wered by s.mteolte .firumci.ally may h• "'''" l><lltt "ill C<l!Jle \\ilh aprire tajl.l.ow will he fla\\'kss tf you J>lay hy tlte mks 
***** 
CAI'RJ('OIL"i tU..:, !~Jan, 1!)1; D<>u't <Jll<:';fl•-~• wb•t you are <k>ing ,.·hen il's woreot~e else y<m should he whlchiut. -A ~>.klden fitUJldal ch.1ll!\e c:m go dllter w:1y.· d•poadiug on !low consciemimL~ )i<lU ;are liOOttl. your lll<lney a11d who has acccs.~ to it ** * 
,\QL\Rll 'S tJan.lO·I'('b, lllh: Y.:~r'lllxi drawn to S<)IU..'<lne •~msual. int"re~li~~~ an<! avmlahk. Op<~l np discm;~int.s alMII your taknl> a:; "'eli asyoor l""ler~t~<:<s. !\inner 1s likely to cma~e your way t""--m1se of tile infommtion you c4~are .. *** 
J'lsegs tt'll'b. W·M11nit lJIJ: Ovn'l <">Uitt •>n otllt'l'S <h>itt)! tlun1~> n... way Y"~' "'"*'' !ll<'lrt to be doole.. fit~e-hme e•·ery detail. relkctill!!· your al>ilily to do a ~ood job Don't mix busl lll.'Ss and pk;L'lii'c ,.. yml't! l"' takn ad\1llttage of ** * 
Birthday Baby: You arechamliu~ and kuow how to gel others to do !hit•~' tor ~-ou. y,_. are .adaptable aud creattve ,·utd do tlunf:~ in a h:tg: way. 
Eugenitl~~ tt~·b ,tift'..~: eugnti.uJaxl.f.'t.tJitj~n-,·r.mjidffltial <Y~fiSfJitalion.~. lt(\',sfi<'la.comkagettiflki.Wftor f.itMt.Wia'$ b/011, asm-xu/1-iu.f•omfwfun 


Jesus was born in South Bend? 
/ 

Virgins 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HIS POSTER. 
I DRYBOW I 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer. as
I [ J () 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print your answer here: rI I I I I J 
0 Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
0 Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address _____________________________________ City ________ State _______ Zip__________ 

~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
T"HE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, September 16, 2009 
page 24 
SMC SOCCER 
Squad looks to build on big victory over Manchester 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sporrs Writer 
After a brief stint at home that saw Saint Mary's claim its most convincing win of the season, the Belles are set to begin a three-game road trip beginning Wednesday with Illinois Wesleyan. 
This weekend, after drop­ping their first match of the 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Rosen forced to sit out most of senior season 
By DOUGLAS FARMER Sports Writer 
Courtney Rosen earned second team All-Big East honors last fall, but this year the senior captain has yet to set foot on the field during a game. 
Rosen was named a captain long before the season start­ed, along with fellow senior Michele Weissenhofer and sophomore Courtney Barg. Before Rosen could lead the Irish onto the field, she broke her left foot. her fourth broken foot in the past five years. 
"I had run over to get something from the locker room during practice," Rosen 
see FOOT/page 21 
Saint Mary's Invitational against No. 7 Otterbein, the Belles (2-3) put together their biggest offensive per­formance of the season in route to an impressive 5-2 victory over Manchester College. The victory could not have come at a better time for the struggling squad, which had been outscored 9-0 in its previous three matches. 
Seniors Micki Hedinger 
and Colleen Ferguson each scored goals within a 22 sec­ond period, which opened the flood gates for Saint Mary's. Redinger's goal gave her two on the season, tying her for the team lead with fellow senior Katy Durkin, who had a goal of her own in the match. 
Senior goalkeeper Patty Duffy had another strong game in net for the Belles, recording three saves in 75 
minutes  of  action.  Duffy  
already has  32 stops  on  the  
season.  

In its last three meetings with Illinois Wesleyan, Saint Mary's has registered two losses and a tie while being outscored 7-2. With nearly the entire squad returning from last season's narrow 2­1 loss, the Belles are eyeing this opportunity as their best yet to get over the hump. 
In its final two matches of 

Tough Breaks 

IAN GAVLICK/The Observer 

Senior captain Courtney Rosen goes for the ball during the 2008 College Cup. Rosen, who broke her left foot prior to the 2009 season, will be unable to play for most of the year. 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Hope to be challenge for Belles 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will get a chance to notch back-to­hack MIAA victories Wednesday, but it will be no easy task. 
The Belles (4-4. 1-2) will face undefeated Hope (6-0, 2-0) at 7 p.m. in DeVos Arena. 
The Flying Dutch are com­ing off a sweep of Olivet Saturday. The Belles are also coming off a sweep of their own, over Alma Saturday, and will now try to get a winning streak going amidst a string of five straight conference match-
see MIAA/page 20 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Tacl begins final season 
By MOLLY SAMMON Sports Writer 
As she prepares for the first race of her final sea­son, Beth Tacl knows that all good things must end -but is looking to delay that end for as long as pos­sible. 
The Irish senior will run for the first time in 2009 as Notre Dame hosts the National Catholic Invitational Friday. 
"It took a while to have the confidence that I could compete at this level," Tacl said. "As time has gone on, I feel a lot more confident going into races." 
Though it is Tacl's fourth year running cross country for the Irish, she still has the same pangs of nervous­ness associated with the beginning of a season. 
see TACL/page 20 


the three-game set, Saint Mary's will take on Wilmington and Hiram College over the weekend. Hiram dealt the Belles a 3-1 loss last season at the Case Western Invitational. 
The Belles will not return home until Sept. 25 when they will host the Saint Mary's Fall Classic. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 
SMC SoccER 
Weis addresses drought against Michigan State 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
The stigma of Michigan State cannot be ignored. The Spartans have won six straight games against Notre Dame in South Bend. 
"That's one stat that I'm cer­tainly well aware of," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. 
Weis said he will address the issue with the team as well. 
"The best point I ean make is if you think this team is going to come in here after losing this week thinking they have no chance to beat you, well, the last six times they've done it," Weis said. 
The Spartans fell in a close game to Central Michigan Saturday. 
A Spartan invasion certainly weighs on Weis' mind -he is 1-3 against Michigan State. But another invasion, of the H1N1 flu variety, also has Weis wor­ried. 
"Because it's running round all the high schools and col­leges around the country, that's always a concern of mine, kids coming down at the last minute and getting sick," Weis said. "Knock on wood we continue to be relatively healthy." 
There were no cases as of yet, he said, but if anyone shows symptoms the team will take precautions. 
"First thing we do is if a guy gets any symptoms of being sick at all we, A, get him tested but B, keep him away from everybody else," Weis said. ''I'm coneerned because at any university when you get thou­sands and thousands of stu­dents in close proximity." 
Not everyone is healthy, how-
see HEALTH/page 21 






