the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Students travel to Appalachia in record numbers 
One-credit course receives most applicants in history, 269 spend fall break in poor areas of Appalachian region 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
Editor’s note: The reporter attended a weeklong service trip in the Appalachia region of the United States to exam­ine the culture of the region as well as the issues that it faces. 
McDowell County, W. Va, was home to one of the high­est concentrations of million­aires in the United States during the peak of the coal mining industry at the turn of the 20th century. 
Today, it is the most impov­erished county in the state and the four main sources of income for its residents are black lung pensions, miners’ pensions, social security and disability, said Jenny Lee, a missionary with Community Crossing, a McDowell County missionary and home repair organization. 
Similar situations exist in counties across the Appalachian region of the United States, where the rise and fall of coal mining have contributed to many environ­mental and economic issues. 
Last week, 269 Notre Dame students spent a week at 21 different sites in McDowell County and other areas in Appalachia as participants in the Appalachia Seminar offered as a one-credit course through the Center for Social Concerns. 
This fall, the seminar received a record number of applicants and accommodat­ed the highest number of par­ticipants in its history, Professor Connie Mick, assis­tant director of the Center for Social Concerns said. 
Students began traveling to Appalachia in the 1980s in small volunteer groups, Mick said, but the program has grown more popular over the years. 
“It’s for students to serve and live in solidarity with people who are surrounded by chronic poverty and chal­lenges,” she said. “By doing that together as a group we get a fuller understanding, 
see SEMINAR/page 6 

Photo courtesy of Larua McCrystal Sophomores Analise Althoff and Margaret Millea saw a stud for a wall as a part of a renovation project in Kimba 


By LAUREN BALDWIN 
News Writer 
A visiting professor discussed horrifying accounts of the killing and plundering of Polish Jews during World War II. 
Jan Tomasz Gross, Norman B. Tomlinson ’16 and ’48 professor of War and Society and History at Princeton University, spoke Tuesday in a lecture titled “On Holocaust’s Periphery: Poles and their Jewish Neighbors.” 
While the Jews in Poland only represent a fraction of the total killed by the Nazis, the firsthand accounts about the fates they suf­fered are extremely important to historians but have been deem-


Visiting professor recounts horrors of Holocaust 
phasized, Gross said. 
The scale of the Holocaust events baffled people and the reports of mass murder were viewed with caution by journal­ists and government officials of neighboring countries, as the pre­dominant mood of countries dur­ing the occupation was anti-Semitic, Gross said. 
While these are victim accounts and only account for half of the story, Gross said personal accounts should not be discarded. 
“A sense of obligation grew among the Jewish record keep­ers,” Gross said. “Clearly their aim was just to produce an account of what happened, not to 
see HOLOCAUST/page 9 


Band films music video with OK Go 
By LIZ O’DONNELL 
News Writer 
Fall Break proved relaxing and uneventful for many stu­dents who stayed in South Bend for the week. For others, the vacation was not exactly boring. 
Approximately 115 members of The Band of the Fighting Irish were featured in the film­ing of OK Go’s video for their single “This Too Shall Pass” over fall break. 
The band, which is best rec­ognized for its song “Here it Goes Again,” also known as “the treadmill song,” selected the University for their video after members of OK Go saw their halftime performance of their song at last year’s football game against Southern California in Los Angeles. 
Assistant Band Director Emmett O’Leary said the band contacted him six or seven months ago and approached him with the idea. 
“The idea of the video was to take place in a Midwestern, bucolic setting,” he said. “The band also wanted to add a theme of college marching bands.” 
OK Go’s new album is slated to be released in mid-January and will feature the track recorded with the Notre Dame Marching Band. 
O’Leary said OK Go was on campus for the week working 
see OK GO/page 6 


Professors organize Finnish conference 
By MEGAN HEMLER 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students might be unfamiliar with Finland’s geography and its ties to their school, but its capital, Helsinki, served as the site for a major conference on nuclear disarmament last week, an event in which the University of Notre Dame played a significant role. 
Organized by the Joan B. Kroc Institute of International Peace Studies as well as the Finnish Institute of International Affairs, public policy and security experts gathered from Oct. 22 to 24 in order to discuss ideas to make the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty (NPT) more effective. 
According to the Kroc Center Web site, this treaty is one of the most basic and crucial agreements within international efforts to moni­tor, control and destroy nuclear weapons. The treaty is expected to receive its next five-year review by the United Nations in May of 2010. 
“All the nuclear states sent representatives [to the con­ference],” David Cortright, 
see HELSINKI/page 8 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Purcell Pavilion to open page 3  “Batman” movies creator comes to ND page 13  Women’s tennis doubles place second page 24  Viewpoint page 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Halloween blues 
Halloween never lives up to its expec­tations. Not to put a damper on the excitement, holiday spirit or costume planning, but in my experience, and that of a few of my friends, Halloween is never as good as we hope it to be. Sure it doesn’t help that we hate being scared, but nothing, from the trick-or-treating to the costume you have on, ever lives up to how we imag­ine. 

For one of my 
Meaghan Veselik 
friends, Halloween is her least favorite Sports holiday. Her family Production members even send Editor her Halloween pres­ents at school in hopes of easing the trauma of the holi­day. As she puts it, “Life is scary enough. I don’t need a holiday to remind me how scary it is.” Her roommate, however, loves the holiday, and has their door dec­orated from top to bottom with a life-size animated witch and pumpkins. 
My roommate hates Halloween for other reasons, one being that her expec­tations are built up every year only to come crashing down on her. She’s had some pretty tragic incidents occur to her over the years on the night of Halloween. Not only were there the middle school and high school years’ drama of having the coolest costume and being invited to the “right” post-trick-or-treating party, but also the drama occurring on the streets of town as you trick-or-treated and in what group you travel. In college, the drama only continues although we are supposedly more mature, respectable individuals than we were in our high school years. Now, it’s not the trick-or-treating group that matters — it’s the house party you end up at. The problem here is that once again, expec­tations are built up and the excitement enhanced by alcohol only to come crash­ing down on you when the party is so crowded that you can hardly move, and the cops end up shutting down the fun. 
In my personal experiences, Halloween sucks. Besides the trick-or­treating drama, the scary movies and haunted houses only freak me out to the point that I swear to never go to one again, but almost every year I get sucked in. I end up either watching one of those dreaded horror films with my friends or dragged along haunted paths as men in face masks come at my from all sides with a chainsaw or chasing after me as I run away screaming at the top of my lungs. Not that I scare easily or am afraid of having fun, I just prefer day­light, large groups and happy endings this time of year. Even if my Halloween doesn’t involve getting scared out of my mind, I don’t care for the holiday. Last year, I spent my Halloween in a crappy hotel on the wrong side of Naples that the SMC Rome Program so graciously housed us in for the week, and trust me, that area was scary enough on its own. 
So this year, I’m choosing to celebrate Halloween in a way I know I will enjoy and will hopefully have a happier ending than any horror movie or haunted house. Instead, I’ll be in San Antonio cheering on the Irish and it will probably be my best Halloween since the time I was a princess. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT ARE YOU GOING TO BE FOR  ALLOWEEN? 





Sarah Spieler  Chris Jennis  Colin Sullivan  Huong Ngo  Kallie Drexler  
sophomore  freshman  sophomore  senior  sophomore  
Stanford  Alumni  O’Neill  Ryan  Walsh  
“A Siamese  “An illegal  “The worst  “A leopard.”  “I’m going to be  
twin prison  immigrant.”  costume ever, a  a clarinet in  
escapee.”  woman.”  San Antonio.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

TOM LA/The Observer A student in a Green Man costume is spotted in the stands of the Notre Dame against Boston College football game. 


OFFBEAT 
One-legged man steals single shoe 
BRUSSELS — Police said a one-legged suspect was caught after only one shoe went missing in a store in Belgium. An amputee was an immediate suspect when a store attendant found one shoe missing from a shop in the western Belgian town of Maldegem. Police spokesman Rik Decraemer said Monday authorities were alerted and quickly found the man who fit the description by shopkeepers. The shoe was also recovered. The suspect, a Russian asy­lum seeker, faces possible charges and was handed over to judicial authorities. 
Man receives salary from company for which he never worked 
SOMERVILLE, N.J. — An Illinois man has admitted banking more than $470,000 in paychecks from a New Jersey compa­ny he never worked for. 
Thirty -five -year-old Anthony Armatys (AHR’­muh-tees) of Palatine, Ill., pleaded guilty Monday in New Jersey Superior Court to one count of theft as part of a plea bargain. 
Prosecutors say Armatys accepted a job with Basking Ridge, N.J.-based telecommunications com­pany Avaya Inc. in September 2002, then changed his mind. But the company’s computer sys­tem never removed his name from the payroll. 
Paychecks were deposit­ed into his bank account until February 2007, when Avaya auditors discovered the mistake. 
Prosecutors are recom­mending a six-year prison term and restitution. Sentencing is scheduled for Jan. 8. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight Thursday friday 



IN BRIEF 
Paul Muldoon, Pulitzer prize-winning Irish poet, will read his poetry at the McKenna Hall Auditorium tonight at 7 p.m. The event is free. 
Pianist Dalton Baldwin and music professor and vocalist Dr. Mark Beudert will per­form at the Leighton Concert Hall at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center tonight at 7:30. Tickets are $8 for faculty and staff and $3 for students. 
The Society for Women Engineers will sponsor the Trick-or-SWEet 5K Run/Walk tomorrow at 7 p.m. The race fee is $10 and benefits the Miss Wizard Day Charity. Prizes will be awarded to the winner and person wearing the best costume. 
Friday is the last day to drop a course. More informa­tion is available online at http://www.registrar.nd.edu/. 
The Notre Dame Men’s Hockey team will play Ohio State Friday at 7:35 p.m. at the Joyce Center Ice Rink. Ticket information is avail­able at 631-7356. 
The Notre Dame Men’s Soccer Team will play Connecticut Saturday at 2 
p.m. at Alumni Field. 
Saturday is Halloween. 
Daylight Savings Time ends Sunday at 2 a.m. Be sure to adjust your clocks. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
saturday sunday 

Atlanta 72 / 53 Boston 51 / 41 Chicago 58 / 50 Denver 33 / 25 Houston 81 / 73 Los Angeles 67 / 47 Minneapolis 53 / 49 New York 55 / 47 Philadelphia 58 / 49 Phoenix 61 / 47 Seattle 52 /45 St. Louis 64 / 50 Tampa 88 / 71 Washington 62 / 55 


$26.3millionbasketballarenatoopen 
Renovations included new entrance, blue seats and more student seating 


By MEGHAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
The deadline to purchase stu­dent ticket booklets for this sea­son men’s basketball in the new Purcell Pavilion is rapidly approaching, and the improved student section is anticipated to be filled of fans ready to support the Fighting Irish in the coming weeks. 
This season will be the team’s first in the new arena. The com­pletion of Purcell Pavilion, which includes the basketball court and seating area, is the result of the $26.3 million project for Joyce Center renovations, according to the University’s official athletic Web site. 
A new entrance to the Joyce Center welcomes fans and hints of further renovations within the building. The new amenities in the Joyce include a varsity shop for apparel and Notre Dame sou­venirs, new ticket offices and an exclusive stadium club and hos­pitality area. The old colored seats have been replaced with blue chair-back seating, and the various fan facilities such as rest­rooms have also received a makeover, according to the Web site. 
Despite the improved Joyce interior, the arena saw a decrease of about two thousand seats, according to the Web site. The May Commencement Ceremonies have already been relocated because of the Joyce’s limited seating. 
The number of student seats, mistic about her last year in the however, has grown despite the student section. decrease in overall seating, sen-“I bought tickets sophomore ior assistant athletic director and junior year too, and I was Josh Berlo said. not happy that the price has gone 
“The overall percentage of up,” she said. “But I am excited student seats out of the arena about the improvements to the 
actually  is  student sec- 
increased, and we  tion  and  
now have four lower arena sec­ “Improving the student  having more seats closer  
tions as opposed to two,” he said. “Improving the  section was a priority in the renovations.”  to the floor. S t u d e n t s should be up  
student  section  front in the  
was a priority in  Josh Berlo  action.”  
the renovations.”  senior assistant athletic  Many  of  

Berlo said despite the increased price, the Athletics Department has not seen a decrease in demand. 
The price of student tickets rose from $80 to $100 for this season, he said, yet approximate­ly 1,850 student booklets out of an available 2,500 have already been sold. He said the reason for the price increase is the number of games available to students rather than the recent JACC ren­ovations. 
“There are 18 games in the student booklets this year,” Berlo said. “That’s the most we have ever had.” 
Single tickets for elsewhere in the area rose from prices rang­ing between $13 and $33 last year to between $15 and $40 this year, Berlo said. 
Students are appreciative of the improvements in the arena. Senior Caitlin Flynn was opti­the fans who 
director 
are not dis­couraged by the price 
increase and who plan to be present in the student section are looking forward to the beginning of the season. 
“Even though my sister paid a lot less for her tickets a few years ago, I was willing to buy mine for more because I am excited for the season,” freshman Chris Paluf said. “The games are defi­nitely worth it.” 
The deadline for buying the student booklets is today, and Berlo encourages students who wish to be part of the Leprechaun Legion to make the purchase quickly. The men’s bas­ketball team opens its season in the Purcell Pavilion with an exhi­bition against Lewis University Sunday night. 
Contact Meghan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 


SMC lecture examines SaintAquinas’ influence 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
Though Saint Thomas Aquinas lived in the medieval era, his philosophies still may apply to questions in today’s society. 
Saint Mary’s College political sci­ence professor Sister Amy Cavender explained in a lecture Tuesday night that although con­temporary philosophers believe that Aquinas has no place in today’s pluralistic culture, he can, in fact, provide some insight as to how one should act in order live in harmony with others. 
“I want to lay out a charge that is fairly commonly thought, I think, against Aquinas,” Cavender said. “What I would like to do then, is to defend Aquinas against that charge and show where he might have something to offer us in terms of our own thinking about politics.” 
Contemporary philosopher John Rawls, Cavender said, argued that Aquinas has nothing to offer mod­ern society. 
“Our society is more plural than really it ever was,” Cavender said. “Can these people with all these different backgrounds work well together? How do we deal with the fact that citizens, because they’ve got vastly different conditions, are going to have a wide range of ideas about what the good life is? Not only do they have different ideas, but some of those ideas are incom­patible with each other.” 
According to Cavender, Rawls disagreed with the idea that there is only one correct conception of the good. 
“There’s one right understand­ing of the good, and it’s a good we should pursue. Rawls doesn’t think this is going to work very well,” Cavender said. “There are a lot of conflicting reasonable and conflict­ing doctrines … That is going to be the case, anytime you leave people with freedom to exercise their rea­son. [There is] no one vision of the good that is appropriate for the basis of a political regime.” 
Though Rawls disagrees with Aquinas’s philosophy, Cavender argued that though Aquinas believes in one good, he still is able to support pluralism. 
“That stems in part from the fact that Aquinas will say that we’ve got two ends, or purposes, as human beings. One’s a supernatu­ral one — the vision of God, happi­ness with God and eternal life,” Cavender said. 
The other purpose, she said, was happiness as a human being on this earth. 
“Those two are related but they are distinct. Aquinas will say that the natural realm has it’s own val­ues, has it’s own worth,” Cavender said. “Based on that he can affirm toleration and some respect for some of the principles that we would think important in the politi­cal society that is pluralistic.” 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Members discuss off-campus safety 
By ANN-MARIE WOODS 
News Writer 
Following student govern­ment’s meeting with the University Board of Trustees, the Council of Representatives (COR) is working on several off-campus initiatives to improve safety and living con­ditions for students. 
The Off Campus Student Incident Report will be avail­able as a way of compiling and organizing information from students concerning safety-related off-campus events. 
“We’re trying to get a way to systematize all the problems that are happening to students off campus,” Off Campus Council president Judy Conway said. “It’s a way to know what is happening off campus and how to address the issues.” 
In addition, the Community Campus Advisory Council will meet with South Bend Mayor Steve Luecke, the South Bend Common Council, other uni­versities and local residents to discuss the off-campus safety concerns of the student body and the University. 
“We’re letting them know what our concerns are and how we’re looking to move past it,” student body presi­dent Grant Schmidt said. 
One initiative between the University and South Bend police is the increase in patrolling in the Northeast neighborhoods of the commu­nity. 

“An additional car with two officers will be patrolling the Northeast neighborhood Friday and Saturday night late into the night, which is a great step in the right direction,” Schmidt said. 
For students interested in moving off campus, the Off Campus Housing Evaluation Site will be available in the coming months as a means for assessing housing locations. 
“Similar to ND Today, the site will provide input for stu­dents thinking about moving off campus,” Schmidt said. “A lot of people want us to get this out because people are signing leases for next year soon.” 
In other COR news: 
In an effort to maintain con­nections with alumni, student government hopes to create an Alumni Policy Connection to achieve greater collaboration with the Alumni Association concerning campus policies. 
“I want to figure out a way that we can be in constant col­laboration with alumni on issues of relevance,” Schmidt said. “This isn’t just appeas­ing alumni, this would help us. If we disagree on issues, that’s okay too.” 
Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods4@nd.edu 
ND scholars to discuss LatinosandCatholicism 
Special to The Observer 
“Latino” is not an ethnic label. According to census officials it designates “a per­son of Cuban, Mexican, Puerto Rican, South or Central American, or other Spanish culture or origin regardless of race.” 
But whatever their multiple ethnicities, Latino people have been present in America longer than any other people aside from Native Americans. They num­ber some 50 million in the United States today, and it is reliably estimated that their population will be doubled by the middle of this century. 
The facts that more than two-thirds of these people are Catholics and that they comprise some 35 percent of the Catholic Church in America make it all the more remarkable that their resur­gence in the life of that church should seem such a new thing. 
Three Notre Dame scholars who are studying and assist­ing that resurgence will be in San Antonio this weekend for a Saturday Scholars presen­tation titled “Latinos and the Remapping of American Catholicism.” The talk is part of the University’s home-away-from-home football game Saturday (Oct. 31) against Washington State. Sponsored by the College of Arts and Letters, Saturday Scholars lectures are inti­mate discussions with Notre Dame’s most engaging faculty speakers on some of the most pressing and fascinating issues of our times. 
Because of his research and teaching on the mutual effects of Latino culture and Catholic faith, Rev. Virgilio P. Elizondo, professor of pas­toral and Hispanic theology at Notre Dame, is regarded by many in the religious and academic world as “the father of U.S. Latino religious thought.” 
The sobriquet may owe as much to his ministry as to his scholarship. A native of San Antonio, Father Elizondo became well known as an advocate for underpaid and exploited Mexican-American laborers in his native arch­diocese during the early 1970s, and as an increasingly self-conscious Mexican-American community began to assert itself politically and culturally, he established the Mexican-American Cultural Center at Assumption Seminary. He also served for many years as pastor of San Fernando Cathedral, where the Sunday Spanish Mass at which he presided became famous internationally when it was televised and carried via satellite from the cathe­dral to more than 1 million households. 

World & Nation 
Wednesday, October 28, 2009 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.N. warns against use of drones 
UNITED NATIONS — A U.N. human rights investigator is warning the United States that its use of unmanned warplanes to carry out targeted executions may violate international law. 
Philip Alston says the U.S. will increasingly be perceived as carrying out indiscriminate killings in violation of international law unless the government explains the legal basis for tar­geting particular individuals and the measures it is taking to comply with international humanitarian law which prohibits arbitrary executions. 
His comments Tuesday came as the U.S. has increased the use of Predator drones in Afghanistan and Pakistan. 
Jury convicts man in scuba death 
TORTOLA, British Virgin Islands — A jury convicted a Rhode Island man of murder Tuesday in the drowning of his wife during a 1999 scuba-diving trip in the British Virgin Islands. 
A judge expects to sentence David Swain on Nov. 4. He faces life in prison and would be sent to a Tortola prison where he has been held for about two years. 
Swain did not react when the verdict was read. The parents of the victim, Shelley Tyre, gasped. 
After obtaining permission from the judge, her father, Richard Tyre, walked to the wit­ness box and clutched a microphone. “We’re old, we’re in our 80s, and when Shelley was killed, our life pretty much ended,” he said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Pysch patient stabs doctor 
BOSTON — A man stabbed a doctor while being treated at a psychiatric office at a Boston medical building Tuesday and was fatally shot by an off-duty security guard who saw the attack, police said. 
The attack took place in the afternoon at 50 Staniford St., a high-rise affiliated with Massachusetts General Hospital. 
The female doctor, whose name was not released, was in stable condition. Police said the suspect died of the gunshot wounds. He was identified as Jay Carciero, 37, of Reading. 
15-year-old gang raped after dance 
RICHMOND, Calif. — The gang rape and beat­ing of a 15-year-old girl on school grounds after her homecoming dance was horrific enough. But even more shocking, police say, was that up to 20 people watched and did nothing to stop it. 
The attack over the weekend rattled this crime-ridden city of 120,000 in the San Francisco Bay area, where one police official called it one of the most heinous crimes he has ever seen. Some students have already left the school district in response to the attack. 
“It’s not safe there at all,” said 16-year-old Jennie Steinberg, whose mother let her transfer out of the district Tuesday. “I’m not going back.” 
The victim, a sophomore, had left the dance and was drinking in a school courtyard with a group of students when she was attacked, police said. 
Two suspects were in custody Monday, but police said as many as five others ranging in age from 15 to mid-20s attacked the girl for more than two hours at a dimly lit area near benches Saturday night. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Man trapped in jail for 12 hours 
ELKHART, Ind. — A man doing cleaning work inside a northern Indiana jail says he was trapped inside a cell for 12 hours before anyone came looking for him. 
Forty-year-old Scott Roberts of Elkhart says he was at the Elkhart County Jail on Saturday doing community service work for a drunken driving charge and was assigned to clean an unoccupied group of cells. He became trapped when the mop bucket propping open one of the doors spilled and the door slammed shut. 
It wasn’t until after family members arrived at the jail looking for him that a guard found him about 10:30 p.m. 
AFGHANISTAN 
U.S. suffers deadliest month in war 
8 American soldiers killed in roadside bombs Tues., increasing death toll for troops 
Associated Press 
KABUL — Roadside bombs — the biggest killer of U.S. soldiers — claimed eight more American lives Tuesday, driving the U.S. death toll to a record level for the third time in four months as President Barack Obama nears a decision on a new strategy for the trou­bled war. 
The homemade bombs, also called improvised explosive devices or IEDs, are responsible for between 70 percent and 80 percent of the casualties among U.S. and coalition forces in Afghanistan and have become a weapon of “strategic influence,” said Lt. Gen. Thomas Metz in Washington. 
The attacks Tuesday fol­lowed one of the deadliest days for the U.S. military operation in Afghanistan — grim milestones likely to fuel the debate in the United States over whether the conflict is worth the sacri­fice. 
Obama has nearly finished gathering information on whether to send tens of thousands more American forces to quell the deepen­ing insurgency, White House press secretary Robert Gibbs said. A meeting Friday with the Joint Chiefs while patrolling in a military tion forces were killed and information. of Staff will be among the vehicle, Vician said. 285 were wounded by IEDs, The casualties bring to 55 last events in the decision-The number of effective according to the figures the total number of making process, Gibbs said. IED attacks in Afghanistan Several other Americans Americans killed in October 
Both attacks Tuesday took has grown from 19 in were wounded in the in Afghanistan. The next place in the southern September 2007 to 106 last Tuesday blasts. The military highest toll was in August, province of Kandahar, said month. said the deaths occurred when 51 U.S. soldiers died Capt. Adam Weece, a “It’s a weapon system that during “multiple, complex” and the troubled nation held spokesman for American the enemy has figured out bomb strikes, but gave no the first round of its presi­forces in the south. The has strategic impact,” said details. dential election amid a wave region bordering the Metz, who leads the U.S. “Complex” attacks usually of violence. Pakistan frontier has long military organization tasked refer to simultaneous By comparison, the dead-been an insurgent strong-with defeating improvised assaults from multiple sides liest month of the Iraq con-hold and was the birthplace explosive devices. “It really with various weapons — flict for U.S. forces was of the Taliban in the 1990s. hampers our ability to exe-including bombs, machine November 2004, when 137 
The Americans were cute a counterinsurgency guns and grenades or rock-Americans died during a patrolling in armored vehi-doctrine. And it’s a weapon ets. major assault to clear insur­cles when a bomb ripped system that has to be In Washington, a U.S. gents from the city of through one of them, killing fought, and I don’t think we defense official said at least Fallujah. seven service members and can back off or shy away one of the attacks was fol-The deaths came one day an Afghan civilian, U.S. from fighting it.” lowed by an intense firefight after 11 American soldiers forces spokesman Lt. Col. Nine coalition forces were with insurgents after an ini-were killed in separate heli-Todd Vician said. killed and 37 were wounded tial bomb went off. The offi-copter crashes, marking the 
The eighth American died by IEDs in Afghanistan in cial spoke on condition of biggest loss of American life in a separate bombing else-September 2007. In anonymity because he was-on a single day in four where in the south, also September 2009, 37 coali-n't authorized to release the years. 

Obama approves new ‘smart’ power grid 
transformers and grid sensors. photovoltaic electricity facility. 
Associated Press 
“There’s something big happening Obama said a modern grid could 
ARCADIA, Fla. — President Barack in America in terms of creating a give consumers better control over Obama made a pitch for renewable clean-energy economy,” Obama said, their electricity usage and costs, and energy Tuesday, announcing $3.4 bil-although he added there is much spur development of renewable ener­lion in government support for 100 more to be done. gy sources such as wind and solar. projects aimed at modernizing the He likened the effort to the ambi-The $3.4 billion in grants from the nation’s power grid. tious development of the national government’s January economic stim-
Touring a field of solar energy pan-highway system 50 years ago. He said ulus program will be matched by $4.7 els in west-central Florida, the presi-modernization would lead to a billion in private investments. The dent urged greater use of several “smarter, stronger and more secure smallest grant will be $400,000 and technologies to make America’s electric grid.” the largest $200 million. power transmission system more effi-Under muggy skies, Obama toured “We have a very antiquated (electric cient and better suited to the digital the DeSoto Next Generation Solar grid) system in our country,” Carol age. The projects include installing Energy Center, which is designed to Browner, assistant to the president “smart” electric meters in homes, generate enough energy for about for energy and climate change, told automating utility substations, and 3,000 residential customers of the reporters. “The current system is out-installing thousands of new digital utility FPL. It is the nation’s largest dated, it’s dilapidated.” 
Seminar 
continued from page 1 
even in just one week and one credit.” 
One group of 17 Notre Dame students worked with Community Crossing last week on several home repair projects, including the reno­vation of a building to create an art gallery as part of McDowell County resident Jean Battlo’s efforts to sup­port art and culture in the area. 
Battlo, a lifelong resident of McDowell County, is the author of plays and books about the county’s culture and history. She said she is known as the intellectual of the region, and despite the problems the area faces she has never wanted to live any­where else. 
“There are special people here,” she said. “We have that sense of community in 
our region of an extended family and what happens to one of us happens to all of us.” 
Battlo compared the Appalachian region’s compli­cated relationship with coal to that of California and the gold rush. 
When the coal mining industry moved into McDowell County, Battlo said every small town had its own schools, store and movie the­ater. Although the area was wealthy, Battlo said it could be compared to a feudal sys­tem because the coal compa­nies owned and controlled everything in the town. 
“Money was all at the top,” she said. “Many of [the coal miners] could not buy the coal they were mining. Their kids were cold.” 
After World War II, Battlo said mechanization and tech­nology caused a loss in jobs and residents began to move out of the Appalachian region as the coal resources dimin­ished. 
“It became a tragic area,” she said. “Coal was not the mainstay, it wasn’t king any­more.” 
Within an eight-month peri­od in 2001 and 2002, two major floods hit McDowell County, which added to the poverty and hardship in the region and caused more resi­dents to leave, she said. 
“I wouldn’t really guess at the statistics of how many people left,” she said. 
The story of McDowell County is representative of the entire Appalachia region, Lee said, which is why many 
organizations such as Community Crossing exist. 
“When you take [the wealthier people] all out, you’re left with kind of an unbalanced population,” Lee said. “[Community Crossing] came in to host work teams and address those problems.” 
In addition to Community Crossing and other home repair sites, Notre Dame stu­dent groups work with com­munity partners who are committed to issues including education, environmental concerns, healthcare, legal consultation and farming, Mick said. 
“It’s really not one seminar. It’s 21 seminars,” she said. “Every situation is really dif­ferent, so it’s great to see stu­dents in action. The opportu­nity is just so great to learn through experience.” 
Sophomore Conor Wolohan said the immersion experi­ence taught him a lot about the culture of the region. “We were doing work for [McDowell resident] Leon, for example,” he said. “We were fixing up his kitchen which was in really rough shape and we were doing something for him that he couldn’t have possibly done for himself. And he was really kind and greeted us and showed us about some of the history of the place as well as his own history.” 
Emily Meyer, a junior, said she was surprised to learn about the reality of the trans­formations that have occurred in McDowell County and how they have affected area residents. 
“I think it was a good opportunity to really step out­side your shell and see life from a different perspective,” she said. “Even if you’re only doing something small it still makes a worthwhile differ­ence in that person’s life.” 
Mick said students learn about the problems in Appalachia and help make a difference, but they also experience a different way of life. 
“This week forces them to slow down and take another look at life and what really matters in the end,” she said. “I think it helps instill a sense of values and priorities that they take with them through­out their lives.” 
Sophomore Ryan Traudt said the immersion experi­ence helped him realize there are areas of need in the United States beyond the urban poverty issues with which people tend to be most familiar. 
“You come here and you’re only working for four days,” he said. “I feel it’s more or less developing a knowledge for yourself that these people really do need your help. We need to continue to have peo­ple like this in mind when we’re looking at what we’re going to do as adults.” 
Mick said that a number of former Appalachia partici­pants have been inspired to continue their involvement in the region. 
Alex Choperena, who grad­uated in May, is one example, she said. He went to the Glenmary Farm site for the seminar last year, where he is now living and serving as a fulltime Americorps volun­teer. 
The Appalachia Seminar is organized by a student task force and is led by student site leaders. 
“I think our emphasis on student leadership develop­ment is really key,” Mick said. “We put a lot of trust in stu­dents and they have always risen to the challenge. So I think that’s somewhat unique.” 
Senior Kenzie Bowen, who served on the task force last spring and this fall, said she wanted to become more involved after she went to Appalachia during fall break of her sophomore year. 
“The Appalachian region is a beautiful region environ­mentally and the people are fantastic,” she said. “But it really does face a lot of prob­lems that other parts of the country don’t see. I think that the Appalachia seminar does a great job of exposing these issues to students. 
“I really think it’s an expe­rience everyone should do before they graduate from Notre Dame.” 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 


Recycle The Observer. 
The Observer 
Business
Wednesday, October 28, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

IN BRIEF 
Leaders want to delay jobless tax hikes 
INDIANAPOLIS — The state should delay unemployment tax increases on businesses from 2010 to 2011 to help companies retain workers and possibly wait long enough for a federal bailout, Republicans who control the Indiana Senate said Tuesday. 
Senate Republicans said Indiana’s economy hasn’t recovered as much as lawmakers had hoped, and that delaying the tax increases for one year would save jobs. It would also save businesses more than $250 million next year 
— money that will likely be added to the state’s growing tab owed to the federal gov­ernment to cover jobless claims. 
“Our jobs are simply not coming back in Indiana like we thought they would be by this time,” said Sen. Dennis Kruse, R-Auburn. “It’s not right for us to put this burden on the backs of the employers right now who may actually end up going out of business or going into bankruptcy or reducing their work force even further because of these increased premi­ums.” 
The unemployment tax hikes that lawmak­ers approved this year were designed to help Indiana dig out from the $1.3 billion debt it owes the federal government — a liability made worse by the recession but caused by a broken unemployment insurance fund that pays out hundreds of millions of dollars a year more in benefits than it collects in employer taxes. 
UPS, FedEx fight over labor bill 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. — FedEx Corp. offi­cials say a congressional bill that would make it easier for its employees to unionize would lead to a monopoly for rival UPS Inc. UPS however argues the bill would create an even playing field. 
The shipping giants squared off Tuesday at a meeting hosted by the Greater Albuquerque Chamber of Commerce. The showdown marked the first time the companies have met face-to-face to discuss their dispute over the Federal Aviation Administration Reauthorization Act of 2009. 
A provision in the bill would switch FedEx Express employees to the jurisdiction of the National Labor Relations Act from the National Railway Labor Act. 
FiskertouseGMplantforhybridcars 
Luxury automaker takes over factory for future production of next-generation vehicles 
Associated Press  
WILMINGTON, Del. —  
Luxury automaker Fisker  
Automotive is buying a  
shuttered General Motors  
assembly plant in Delaware  
to produce plug-in hybrid  
electric cars, officials said  
Tuesday.  
The California-based  
company has signed a let­ 
ter of intent with Motors  
Liquidation Co. (MLC), for­ 
merly known as General  
Motors Corp., to purchase  
the Wilmington plant for  
$18 million after a four- 
month evaluation period.  
Fisker, which recently  
won approval for $528.7  
million in government loans  
to develop plug-ins, expects  
to spend another $175 mil­ 
lion to refurbish the facility  
before production of next- 
generation hybrids begins  
in 2012.  
Fisker expects Project  
NINA will create or support  
2,000 factory jobs and  
more than 3,000 vendor  
and supplier jobs by 2014,  
with full production capaci­ 
ty of between 75,000 and  
100,000 vehicles per year.  
More than half the cars will  
be exported, the largest  
percentage of any domestic AP  
manufacturer. Vice President Joe Biden speaks about the announcement that Fisker Automotive will  
“This is a major step produce plug-in hybrid electric vehicles at the former GM Plant in Wilmington, Del.  
toward establishing  
America as a leader of  Delaware, and the industry,  replaced Biden in the U.S.  begins hiring. Fisker  
advanced vehicle technolo­ are going to get back up off  Senate.  spokesman Russell Datz  
gy,” said CEO Henrik  the mat.”  Fisker officials said the  said that decision likely will  
Fisker, who described the  The vehicles to be built in  Wilmington site was select- be made by union leaders.  
production of electric  Delaware under Fisker’s  ed for its size, production  “It’s being negotiated,”  
hybrids as part of “the most  Project NINA will cost  capacity, modern paint  said Sam Lathem, president  
dramatic change in the car  about $40,000 after federal  facilities, access to ports  of the Delaware AFL-CIO.  
industry ever.”  tax credits. They will be  and rail lines and skilled  “I’m sure they’re going to  
Vice President Joe Biden  able to run mainly on elec­ work force.  want a skilled work force,  
was among those on hand  tricity for short trips and a  Mike Hicks, 51, who  and part of that will be  
to announce the resurrec­ combination of electricity  worked for 32 years in the  workers who have been  
tion of the GM plant, which  and gasoline for longer  plant’s paint department,  there,” he added.  
produced the Saturn Sky  ones.  was heartened by the news  UAW President Ron  
and Pontiac Solstice road- The Wilmington assembly  that cars will be built there  Gettelfinger said persuad­ 
sters, as well as an Opel  plant, built in 1947,  once again.  ing Fisker to locate in  
version that was exported  churned out more than 8.5  “We have a good work  Delaware was “a true team  
to Europe, before closing  million cars. It employed  force here, and it’s always  effort.”  
this summer.  more than 5,000 workers  been a top quality plant in  “There was a lot of hard  
“I refuse to believe that  in the mid-1980s but ended  General Motors,” Hicks  work involved, and it’s  
we will not once again lead  production with a work  said. “I’m glad they’re giv­ going to pay off with manu­ 
the entire world in the  force of only about 450  ing us another chance to  facturing jobs that will be a  
manufacturing of automo­ hourly workers.  show what we can do.”  great asset in Wilmington  
biles,” Biden told a crowd  “This is a great day for  It was not immediately  and in communities around  
of more than 1,000, includ­ three reasons: job, jobs,  clear whether former GM  the country,” Gettelfinger  
ing scores of union work- jobs,” said U.S. Sen. Ted  workers would be given  said in a prepared state­ 
ers. “This factory in  Kaufman, D-Del., who  priority status when Fisker  ment.  

Congress strikes Great Lakes pollution deal 
Associated Press  resources spending bill. The compro­ while forcing 13 others to use fuel 70  
mise measure could be voted on in the  percent more expensive than the pres- 
TRAVERSE CITY, Mich. —  House as early as Wednesday.  ent blend. The added cost to Great Lakes  
Congressional negotiators reached a  The rules are designed to reduce  shippers — about $210 million — would  
deal Tuesday that would effectively  emissions of airborne contaminants  be passed to their customers, said Jim  
exempt 13 shipping companies that haul  blamed for smog, acid rain, respiratory  Weakley, president of the shipping asso­ 
iron ore, coal and other freight on the  ailments and possibly cancer. Large  ciation.  
Great Lakes from a proposed federal  ships are leading producers of nitrogen  “It would be catastrophic,” he said. “If  
rule meant to reduce air pollution.  and sulfur oxides and tiny contaminated  50 percent of our carrying capacity is  
The Lake Carriers’ Association, which  particles that foul the air near ports and  either taken out or at risk, we can’t do  
represents the 55 U.S.-flagged vessels  coastlines and hundreds of miles inland,  our job.”  
that operate on the lakes, had asked for  EPA says.  The rules would damage not only  
at least a partial exemption from rules  “This is one of the most significant  shippers, but Great Lakes industries that  
proposed by the Environmental  public health protection standards that  rely on them — including steel and auto  
Protection Agency that would require  the EPA has set in recent years,” said  manufacturers already battered by the  
large vessels operating within 200 miles  Frank O’Donnell, president of Clean Air  economic downturn and foreign compe­ 
of a U.S. coast to use cleaner — and  Watch, a Washington-based advocacy  tition, said Rep. Candice Miller, a  
costlier — fuel and improve engine tech- group. “We hope it won’t be torpedoed  Michigan Republican.  
nology.  by special interest politics.”  “I don’t think there’s such a critical air  
Negotiators in Washington approved  But the industry group said the regula­ problem in the Great Lakes region that  
the exemption as part of a natural  tions would ground 13 aging steamships  we should risk jobs,” she said.  

OK Go 
continued from page 1 
out the technicalities of the video, then finally shooting it. 
“Sunday night was working out some of the logistics, Monday was the recording, Tuesday was the rehearsal and Wednesday we shot the video,” he said. 
Drum Major Aaron Hernandez, one of the Band members who participated in the video, said it was a long process. 
“[We did] a lot of recording and rehearsal,” he said. “Since all their videos are also only done in one take, we did a lot of takes.” 
Hernandez said OK Go was enthusiastic about the inclu­sion of the Marching Band in the video. 
“You could tell that they really enjoyed our company and that they were very appreciative of our efforts in their video,” he said. 
In the video, which was shot at the lot next to the Fatima Retreat Center, across from the Holy Cross Village, members of the Notre Dame Band played their instru­ments along with members of OK Go. 
“The video gradually adds more and more Band mem­bers,” O’Leary said. “The Band actually played on it.” 
O’Leary also said members of OK Go played different instruments in the video as well. 
“One guy had a bass drum, on had a snare drum, one played an accordion and one played a glockenspiel,” he said. 
“This Too Shall Pass” is expected to be one of the first singles released off of OK Go’s new album and O’Leary said the video would be released to all the major music media stations like MTV and VH1. 
“[OK Go] is on Capital Record’s label, so they will release the track and publi­cize it as much as possible,” he said. 
Members of OK Go attended the Boston College game last weekend and were recog­nized as honorary members of the Band. 
Hernandez said OK Go’s manager told him it was the “most fun he has ever had at a sporting event.” 
O’Leary said OK Go bass player Tim Nordwind’s broth­er is a Notre Dame alum and he enjoyed being a part of his alma mater. 
Both Hernandez and O’Leary said working with the Band was a great experi­ence, and highly comple­mented the members of OK Go. 
“They are the nicest people you could imagine,” O’Leary said. “They were great to the students and we had a blast.” 
Hernandez also said partic­ipating in the video was a personally rewarding experi­ence. 
“This was one of the most creative projects I have ever been a part of,” he said. I think people will really enjoy the video when it comes out in January.” 
Contact Liz O’Donnell at eodonne1@nd.edu 
Helsinki 
continued from page1 
co-organizer of the confer­ence and director of Policy Studies at the Kroc Institute said. “Our conference [aimed] to try and feed ideas into the big conference at the UN … and I think we were very successful.” 
“We identified important issues that need to be addressed at the UN, from big ideas to more technical ones,” Cortright said. “For example, we established that there need to be more resources for the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) — the main body that’s responsible for inspecting nuclear facilities, does not have adequate research and design capabili­ties. We should not be short­changing on resources or technical staff here.” 
Cortright said there was serious discussion of “a new treaty to be negotiated between the U.S. and Russia … [because] together the US and Russia hold 80 percent 
of the world ’s nuclear weapons.” 
Robert Johansen, a profes­sor and fellow at the Kroc Institute, is optimistic about the United States’ role in the nuclear arms discussion. 
“The Obama administra ­tion ’s interest in nuclear weapons arms control offers the first opportunity to move in this direction in many years, “ Johansen said. 
“Speakers from every part 
of the world talked about how Obama’s leadership was making huge changes … and Secretary [of State Hillary] Clinton’s speeches came up often as well,” Cortright said. 
Finland, he said, was one of the first nations to sign the NPT and the current director of the Finnish Institute is the former head of the Kroc Institute at Notre Dame. 
“Fr. Hesburgh himself has been an important voice in the nuclear weapons debate,” Cortright said. “It’s in our DNA to be concerned about nuclear weapons issues.” 
Contact Megan Hemler at mhemler@nd.edu 



Holocaust 
continued from page 1 
embellish the story. The reality surrounding them was such an exaggeration of what people are used to in everyday life. 
“It is all hardly a fraction of the actual situation,” Gross said. “It cannot be communicated.” 
There exists a struggle to fend off the criticism associated with personal accounts, but there is almost no other empirical evi­dence available. 
“In order to make sense of our century’s dark times, we should read their testimonies one line at a time,” Gross said. 
The testimonies provide per­sonal accounts of upheaval, change and violence, which make them incredibly valuable and unique, Gross said. 
“In these phenomena this is the main way of getting into what happened at the time,” Gross said. 
Additionally, he discussed the study of court cases after the Holocaust in which the murders of Jews were prosecuted. Two hundred and fifty people were brought to justice through these cases. 
Jews did not present these cases, and there were no Jews left to testify. The materials from the cases, however, provide a dif­ferent type of evidence that have bearing on the same issues, Gross said. 
“Surviving Jews or families of Jews who had been killed would bring such cases to court, but nei­ther the judicial authorities nor local communities were really interested in digging into it deeply,” Gross said. “If you read cases, it is clear nobody wants to establish facts other than what necessarily has to be said.” 
Poland at the time was under a Communist regime, and the local Communists tried to distance themselves from the plight of the Jewish people. They didn’t want to stand up in defense of the Jews, Gross said. 
Worse than the lack of interest in the cases was the torture inflicted and the stealing of valu­ables and property of Jews by other Polish people and their neighboring countries. 
“The Poles, or Ukrainians or Lithuanians were worse than the Germans,” Gross said. 
Jews were under murderous assault by people they knew, and death at the hands of neighbors was extremely painful, Gross said. 
Gross described situations in which people grabbed what they could from people in the streets and searched walls and ceilings in hopes of finding hidden goods. 
In the post-Holocaust era, some peasants were pleased with the deaths of Jews because they had newfound opportunities in society and were not shy to take them, Gross said. 
The plundering of the Jews, however, continued post mortem. Peasants searched through mounds of human ashes for gold and valuables. 
“Stripping the Jews of goods was cast as a responsible and patriotic behavior,” Gross said. 
For the Jews who did return alive, life at home wasn’t much of an improvement and they were still treated extremely poorly. 
“The few Jews returning to their homes were made unwel­come,” Gross said. “The anti-Jewish prejudice was very strong.” 
Furthermore, those who had helped Jews during the Holocaust were also treated shamefully. Many of the people who helped Jews came from the lower rungs of society but were deeply reli­gious. 
“Those who helped the Jews had to hide this fact within their own communities,” Gross said. “Those who kept them were at a great risk and begged them not to reveal to anyone that they had found shelter. If the facts were revealed, people could be ostra­cized in their own communities and physical violence would be brought against them.” 
Gross ended his lecture asking what a Swiss Banker and a Jew from Poland have in common. The answer, he said, was a gold tooth that had been extracted from a Jewish grave. 
Contact Lauren Baldwin at lbaldwin@nd.edu 

PlantoattackDanishpaperdiscovered 

Associated Press 
CHICAGO — Two Chicago men who were schoolmates in Pakistan plotted terrorist attacks against a Danish newspaper that triggered widespread protests by printing cartoons depicting the Prophet Muhammad, federal prosecutors said Tuesday in announcing charges against the men. 
David Coleman Headley, 49, traveled to Denmark in January and July to conduct surveillance on possible targets, including the Copenhagen and Aarhus offices of the Jyllands-Posten newspa­per, prosecutors said in criminal complaints filed in U.S. District Court in Chicago. Tahawwur Hussain Rana, 48, helped arrange Headley’s travel, prose­cutors said. 
Danish authorities said there could be more arrests. 
According to U.S. prosecutors, Headley visited the newspaper’s Copenhagen offices in January and told employees he repre­sented Rana’s business, First World Immigration Services, and that the business was consider­ing opening offices in Denmark and might buy advertising. 
While in Denmark, Headley asked Rana to watch for a fol­low-up e-mail from an advertis­ing representative from the paper and to ask First World’s Toronto and New York offices to “remember” him in case the newspaper called, prosecutors said. They said Rana corre­sponded with a newspaper rep­resentative and posed as Headley. 
Prosecutors said Headley told FBI agents after his Oct. 3 arrest at Chicago’s O’Hare International Airport that the initial plan called for attacks on the newspa­per’s offices, but that he later proposed just killing the paper’s former cultural editor and the cartoonist behind the drawings, which triggered outrage throughout the Muslim world. He described his plans to con­tacts in Pakistan as “the Mickey Mouse project,” according to the FBI. 
The newspaper published twelve cartoons depicting the Prophet Muhammad in 2005. One cartoon showed Muhammad wearing a bomb-shaped turban. Any depiction of the prophet, even a favorable one, is forbid­den by Islamic law as likely to lead to idolatry. 
Headley, a U.S. citizen who changed his name from Daood Gilani in 2006, is charged with conspiracy to commit terrorist acts involving murder and maiming outside the United States. He could be sentenced to life in prison if convicted. He was arrested as he boarded a flight to Philadelphia, the first leg of a trip to Pakistan. 
Headley and Rana are each charged with conspiracy to pro­vide material support to a for­eign terrorism conspiracy, which carries a maximum sentence of 15 years in prison. Rana, who is a Canadian citizen, was arrested Oct. 18 in his home. 
Headley’s attorney, John Theis, said he would have no comment. Rana’s attorney, Patrick Blegen, said that his client “is a well respected businessman in the Chicagoland community.” 
“He adamantly denies the charges and eagerly awaits his opportunity to contest them in court and to clear his and his family’s name,” Blegen said. “We would ask that the community respect the fact that these are merely allegations and not proof.” 
Nobody answered a knock at the door at Rana’s home on Tuesday. A phone listing for Headley could not be found. 
Residents of Rana’s North Side neighborhood, which is home to a large South Asian community and where Rana reportedly ran a grocery store and an immigra­tion services office, reacted to news of his arrest with shock. 
“He’s a really nice guy,” said Jalal Tariq, a 23-year-old waiter who said Rana was helping him with an immigration case. 
Rana was scheduled to appear before U.S. Magistrate Judge Nan Nolan for a bond hearing at 
10:30 a.m. Wednesday. Headley’s bond hearing is set for Dec. 4 before U.S. Magistrate Judge Arlander Keys. Both men were in custody. 
Jakob Scharf, the head of the Danish Security and Intelligence Service, or PET, called the alleged plot “serious” but said investigators didn’t believe an attack was imminent. He said the alleged plotters considered various options, including using handguns and explosives, and that investigators seized footage of sites around Denmark ranging from the newspaper’s offices to Copenhagen’s main train station. 
“We cannot exclude that there could be more arrests” in Denmark or other countries, Scharf said at a Tuesday news conference. 
U.S. prosecutors said Headley was carrying a data stick in his luggage that contained surveil­lance video footage of sites in Denmark. They said Headley reported and attempted to report on his efforts to individuals with ties to terrorism overseas, including at least one with links to al-Qaida. 
Headley and Rana attended school together in Pakistan, the FBI said in court papers. Headley posted a message on an Internet discussion site in October 2008 saying he resented the Danish cartoons and adding: “I feel disposed toward violence for the offending parties.” 
According to prosecutors, Headley told FBI agents after his arrest that he received training from a terrorist organization, Lashkar-e-Taiba, starting in 2006. Headley told agents he had worked with Ilyas Kashmiri, a Pakistani based terrorist with al-Qaida links, and that Kashmiri helped plan an attack in Denmark, prosecutors said. 
He said he had surveilled the paper’s offices in Copenhagen and Aarhus “in preparation for an attack to be carried out by persons associated with Kashmiri and Individual A,” prosecutors said. They did not identify Individual A. 
Headley told agents he “pro­posed that the operation against the newspaper be reduced from attacking the entire building in Copenhagen to killing the paper’s cultural editor, Flemming Rose, and the car­toonist who drew the cartoon of the Prophet Muhammad with a bomb in his turban, Kurt Westergaard, whom Headley felt was directly responsible for the cartoons." 
Headley also told agents that he conducted surveillance of Danish troops posted near the newspaper, believing they might be a quick reaction force in the event of an attack. He also said he surveilled a Copenhagen syn­agogue in the mistaken belief of one of his contacts that Rose was Jewish." 
Westergaard, 78, said in a posting on the Jyllands-Posten Web site that he trusts the Danish security services to keep him safe, but that “it is scary to be threatened.” 
“I am an old man so I am not so afraid anymore,” he said. 
U.S. Attorney Patrick J. Fitzgerald said in a statement that “the public should be assured that there was no immi­nent danger in the Chicago area.” 
“However, law enforcement has a duty to be vigilant to guard against not just those who would carry out attacks here on our soil but those who plot on our soil to help carry out violent attacks overseas,” Fitzgerald said. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 
page 10 Wednesday, October 28, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
Long Live the Kebab! 
In a previous column, I reprehended the developers of the new Eddy St. Commons and the University for a cer­tain lack of creativity in recruiting busi­nesses to the development. In response, I received a number of e-mails that sym­pathized with me, but also noted that the unique flavor I desired would be unattainable, possi­bly undesirable, and certainly unprof­itable. A few other 

Jason Coleman
responses simply asked for sugges­tions or input in Man at Large regards to the remaining open space on Eddy St. 
Now, I will admit that when actually given the opportunity to make a sugges­tion of my own, I was stumped. What establishment could possibly compete with Chipotle, Five Guys 
and Hotbox Pizza for students’ dol­lars? A new eatery would have to be cheaper, tastier, and more convenient than these other stores to even survive. It was not until traveling some over break that the “ah-ha” moment came, that I finally cracked the Eddy St. Commons puzzle and realized what was missing: a döner kebab. 
For those of you who have never been privy to the glorious döner kebab, let me enlighten you. A döner kebab is a food of Turkish invention, similar to the Middle-eastern shawarma, and the Greek gyro. It is a pita, split in half, filled with lamb, chicken, beef or falafel (for vegetarians), which is shaved off a vertically roasted spit. Lettuce, tomatoes and onions, along with any regional items are piled on top of the meat, and sauce is added to make it even more delectable. 
Don’t let my own opinion towards the kebab’s flavor and appeal sway you into believing that this scheme might work. Let us instead look at its appeal in other places around the world. In the United Kingdom and Germany, the kebab is often seen as a late night snack, follow­ing a long night out drinking. In Tokyo, kebab vans have set up shop near Akihabara, the geek paradise, where video game nerds spend all of their money on arcades, unwilling to spare more than a few hundred Yen on food. And in Ireland, döner kebabs have become so popular with the party crowds that stores have begun to stay open late almost every night of the week. Even Ann Arbor, Michigan is home to the “Pita Kabob Grill,” a favorite late night take-out place for stu­dents. Time and time again, the kebab has proved a favorite among the poor, partying students of the world. 
In addition to students’ proven predis­position to the kebab, the situation around campus presents a number of distinct advantages that would ensure the survival of a new restaurant. First, the dearth of cheap, good, late-night restaurants near campus ensures little competition to a budding shop. Admittedly, Hotbox Pizza is good, but certainly not cheap for a lone student, and Nick’s Patio, while cheap, is not par­ticularly kind to the digestive system. A kebab is healthy, cheap (a döner kebab could profitably run for $4 or less), fill­ing, and quite good, drunk or sober. 
Second, the lack of ethnic cuisine available near campus creates a prime opening for a budding Middle-Eastern delicatessen. Years of witnessing stu­dents attempting to create pita sand­wiches and paninis on the unwieldy grills in both dining halls has only rein­forced my observation that students are hungry for real, ethnic flavor within walking distance of campus. A döner kebab would provide the perfect outlet for this need. 
Finally, the marketing for a shop is already built into the name. Imagine: “Domer Kebab.” Similar to Rocco’s, the new owners could entice popular ND fig­ures into the restaurant with delicious, Turkish cuisine, then ambush them for an autograph to put up in the store. In time, Domer Kebab would become another ND institution, right up there with Reckers, Golden Dragon, and North Dining Hall. 
Döner kebabs have proven profitable, evidenced by their prolific spread to many great cities, all over the world. Their appeal is demonstrated by the masses that enjoy kebabs everyday. If South Bend is to truly become a “21st century city,” it must have döner kebabs to compete with the Brussels, Londons and Tokyos of the world. If Notre Dame is to truly fulfill its mission to provide wide opportunities to its students, it must work to broaden the gastrological options afforded to students of other universities. ND students have too long gone without a kebab Why now, when the opportunity presents itself at Eddy St, must we once again forgo it? 
Jason Coleman is a senior accounting major. He can be contacted at coleman.70@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

News Sports 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Katie Peralta Douglas Farmer Sarah Mervosh Meaghan Veselik Ann-Marie Molly Sammon 
Woods Scene 
“If knowledge can create problems, 
Graphics Jordan Gamble “If you can’t do what you want, do 
it is not through ignorance that we
what you can.” 
Sofia Iturbe Viewpoint 
can solve them.” 
Scene Patricia 
Lois McMaster Bujold 
Isaac Asimov 
Jordan Gamble Fernandez U.S. author 
U.S. author 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 
Wednesday, October 28, 2009 page 11 
Hollow victory 
To say I was surprised when I first heard about President Obama winning the Nobel Peace Prize would be an understatement. As has been pointed out by numerous pundits, he has not mediated any con­flicts and his Jim Napier strong emphasis 
Guest
on dialogue has shown little or no Columnist results. Increasing the debt by several trillion dollars is about the only thing he has accomplished and he is not done spending yet. 
Initially, I thought to write an article opposing the Nobel Committee’s choice. Even if he did win the award for his “vision,” shouldn’t there be some tangible example of his vision actually making a difference? And being more popular than George W. Bush does not count. Being hated less than someone else is hardly equiva­lent to making a truly beneficial dif­ference in the world. 
As I readied myself to enter the fray and began to write, I realized I faced a major issue. I had nothing to write about. The most ludicrous aspect of Obama as Nobel Laureate for peace is not that he won it but that it has gar­nered as much attention as it has. 
Does it really matter that President Obama won the Nobel Peace Prize? All it really means is that a panel of Norwegian judges support many of his policies. Sure, the prize comes with roughly $1.4 million but that is a drop in the bucket when compared to America’s massive budget and even bigger debt. Though the judges hope this honorary award will make Obama’s policies more successful, such an outcome is about as unlikely as the Cleveland Browns’ reaching the Super Bowl this year. And let’s face it, does the Nobel Peace Prize really carry with it any prestige? Frankly, it has been awarded to undeserving individuals on more than one occa­sion. 
The first and most recent example of such an occurrence was when Al Gore won the prize. Apparently, making a movie full of factual errors and giving speeches about it qualifies for winning the Nobel Peace Prize. In any case, how speaking about global warming benefits “fraternity between nations” or “promotes peace” is beyond me. He neither discovered the phenomenon nor has made any real contributions to current scientific research. I, for one, remember learning about global warming in elementary school — long before I ever knew about Al Gore. 
Another example occurred in 1973 when the prize was jointly awarded to Henry Kissinger and Le Duc Tho for negotiating the 1973 peace accord between North Vietnam and the United States. To those of you who have forgotten their U.S. history, the war did not end until 1975. In fact, Le Duc Tho, the head of the North Vietnamese delegation, refused the award because, in his words, “The war has not yet ended.” The war only ended when North Vietnamese forces captured Saigon after two more years of fighting. So much for the award’s prestige and influence. 
Though there are numerous exam­ples of Nobel recipients who truly ben­efited humanity and prevented blood­shed, winning the prize is not what gave their actions weight. After all, no one has ever spoken less highly of Mahatma Gandhi because he never won the Nobel Peace Prize. Moreover, the winner is more often chosen to make a political statement than to actually recognize a leading humani­tarian. At the end of the day, the prize carries no moral, ethical or political weight. The award’s only weighty aspect is the prize money, and $1.4 million does not count for much. 
Just as this supposedly notable award has been over-hyped, so too has Mr. Obama. Thus far, he has little to show except a failed Olympic bid and a still weak economy. Of course, he has been president for less than a year and only time will tell if he deserves the affection he is so willing­ly given. In the mean time, it would benefit all parties to remember he is only a politician. 
Jim Napier is a senior. He can be contacted at jnapier @nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Disappointment 
Dear Notre Dame Fans, 
I am very disappointed in you. I am not talking about those who are alums or students of the University but those who call themselves fans and do not get into the game and really cheer the Irish on. During the SC and BC games too many “fans” were not getting into the game like a true fan should but rather chose to kill the atmosphere and not defend out home field advan­tage. 
Its a Notre Dame Football game and being loud, cheering and yes occa­sionally shouting obscenities (I am sorry I try not to but its football) will hap­pen. If you are not willing to attend a game with the same enthusiasm as I am then do not attend. Notre Dame Football is not an experience but rather a way of life. If you are looking for an experience then take junior to Disneyland or the Grand Canyon definitely no loud or obnoxious behavior will be heard there. 
Also if anyone, fan or especially stadium usher, can explain to me how chanting Backup College is considered swearing please do? 
Thank you for your time in reading my letter. 
Stephen Springfield 
alumn Class of ‘08 Oct. 24 
Not-so-secret society 
Dan Brown’s new book “The Lost Symbol” along with “The Da Vinci Code” put Freemasonry in the light of mysticism. While there are many truths about Masons in his books, there are also many inaccuracies. 
Not being a man, I cannot be a Mason; however, I am the Miss Minnesota Job’s Daughter, a title charging me as a public relations emissary for Job’s Daughters International, a Masonic youth organization. As such, I would like to fill you in on some of the “mysticism” surrounding Masons: It is not a reli­gion. To become a Mason one must have a belief in a god but which god that is (Yahweh, Allah, The Great Spaghetti God of the Sky) makes no difference. There are secret signs used as modes of recognition, but Masons have no secrets from the world (and with 20 minutes on Google you can find the secret handshakes, signs, and words). Despite the insistence of many con­spiracy theorists, Masons do not slaughter any type of animal on their altars, or anywhere else. Masons do not want to take over the world. 
Each state (or country) is a sovereign entity. The Grand Master (leader in a state) has a one-year term. To take over the world he would have one year to meet all the other Grand Masters, convince them to join him, and execute the plan … not very likely. Masons are involved in community service. 
The Masons of MN recently gave $65 million to the University of MN for the purpose of cancer research. They also build parks, give scholarships, and before the government created foster care they cared for the orphans. 
Thomas McCarthy, the Grand Master of MN, has his JD from Notre Dame and once said: “What other secret organization puts signs on their buildings and has listings in the Yellow Pages?” 
For more information please feel free to contact me at swarchol@nd.edu or visit www.mn-masons.org 
Shannon Warchol 
freshman Welsh Family Hall Oct. 27 
University of ugly girls? 
I really want to know who specifically is calling Notre Dame girls ugly. I am getting pretty sick of opening up The Observer week after week only to be inundated by comics making fun of our collective appearance. 
On top of these insightful and numerous comments in our paper, I am also privy to many male conversations courtesy of my boyfriend’s friends. They talk freely, in my presence, about how one stopped talking to a girl right around the time she got chunky, or even how I’m good looking for a Notre Dame girl but at a normal school I’d be nothing special. One of my favorite critiques is that Notre Dame girls are pale. We are in South Bend. There is no sunlight here. The guys are pale too. Going to tanning salons at the expense of our wallets, and more importantly our health, just isn’t, and shouldn’t have to be, a priority. However, the best I’ve ever heard is that we don’t know how to dress. This last one needs to be taken with a grain of salt, however, since its speaker is a film major. He might be more into women’s fashion than most other guys. 
My question to my fellow females on campus is, what about Notre Dame guys? Let’s all be honest here, the vast majority are nothing special in the looks department. They’re really not in any kind of position to be making fun of us. 
I assure you all, I’m no feminist; I’m just a girl who doesn’t want to be called fat and ugly every other day. This is my challenge to Notre Dame guys: stop focusing on real or imagined physical faults, and pay attention to the kind of things that make Notre Dame girls awesome! 
Besides, we’re not ugly, and you’re not God’s gift to women. 
Meghan Dougher 
sophomore Breen-Phillips Hall Oct. 27 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The Observer 
Scene
page 12 Wednesday, October 28, 2009 


Observer Graphic I SOFIA ITURBE 

The Observer 
Scene
Wednesday, October 28, 2009 page 13 

By BRANDY CERNE 
Scene Writer 
Michael Uslan, the originator of the “Batman” movie series, which started in 1989, and the executive producer of “The Dark Knight,” is speaking about his career and the power of following dreams tonight in the Hesburgh Center auditorium at 8 p.m. Uslan talked to The Observer about his work with comic book movies and his advice for today’s college students. 
What inspired you to pursue your dream of bringing Batman to the big screen? 
I think it’s all about having a passion in life and taking your passion and incorporating it into your work. My passion has always been about comics and movies and taking those two things and making it work. I take my favorite comic book superheroes and make those into movies. It’s a sweet job. 
You created the first comic book course at Indiana University in the 1970s. How do you feel comic books have influenced pop culture? 
In a huge way. When I was growing up, we were commonly referred to as comic book geeks. We showed up at comic book stores every Wednesday for new comics, and attended the very first comic book convention with only 200 people. When I was 16 or 17, and girls found out I was still reading comic books, I became “date challenged.” Years later, comic books are now the biggest basis for blockbuster movies, videogames and TV shows. They are influencing pop culture on a worldwide basis. To fellow comic book geeks, I say, “We win.” 
“The Dark Knight” was the fourth-highest grossing film worldwide. How do you feel about the success of these movies, and what do you think it means for movies today and what audiences want from a film? 
I first bought rights to “Batman” in 1979 and set out to make the first dark and serious comic book film and was turned down by every studio in Hollywood. They said I was crazy, and it was the worst idea they ever heard. Now, studios are looking for brand names that can be built into franchises. Comic books do that. They are great stories that are character driven by color­ful characters. What’s wonderful is that multi­ple generations have grown up with these char­acters. They appeal to parents and kids. For the older generation, they are nostalgic, and for young people, they are exciting and new. Comic books transcend cultures, geographic borders, demographics and have worldwide appeal. 
Where do you see the “Batman” series going in the future? Are you planning another movie? 
I’m actually not allowed to talk about that. But, there’s a brand new animated direct-to-DVD movie, “Superman/Batman: Public Enemies.” Batman is one of the great iconic characters. His origin story is so primal. Everyone can relate because he has no super­powers. His greatest power is humanity. He also has the greatest gallery of villains. 
You just wrote the storyline in the Archie Comics that Archie got engaged. What made you have one of the world’s oldest bachelors get hitched? 
Archie marries Veronica. This created a firestorm of international media attention. Sales compared to three years ago are up almost 2,000 percent. It’s a worldwide soap opera, and everyone seems to care. According to my mom, I learned to read from Archie comics, so the fact that I’m now writing this historic storyline is a real kick. 
Is there any advice you would like to pass on to college students today? 
I would say, first, figure out your passion in life and try to make it your work. Have high threshold for frustration. There were 10 years of studios passing on Batman. Next, take calcu­lated risks sometimes and roll the dice. Have a plan B and plan C. Life twists and turns all the time. This is actually what I’m going to be talk­ing about tonight. I’m going to tell the story about my journey as a kid in Indiana with no 
Contact Brandy Cernee at bcerne1@nd.edu 
By ERIC PRISTER, COLIN RICH and JESS SHAFFER 
Scene Writers 
The Original Pancake House, formerly known as Bibler’s Original Panckake House, is a South Bend sta­ple, and particularly a Notre Dame home football Saturday staple which serves solid breakfast dishes in a nondescript but enjoyable family atmosphere. 
With its close proximity to campus, The Original Pancake House is a great choice for students looking for a weekend breakfast spot outside the dining hall. Even on home football weekends, The Original Pancake House is busy, but can accommodate a large amount of customers, which makes it an excellent way to start out the game day. 
The most famous and popular dish served at the Original Pancake House is the apple pancake, and the popularity is well deserved. More like an elephant ear than a pancake, the apple pancake is served hot and covered with apples and cinnamon. It comes with either whipped cream or ice cream and is more than enough to satisfy even the largest appetites. The apple pancake is extraordinarily flavorful, and the ice cream does an excellent job of mixing hot and cold in this high-quality dish. But buyers beware: The apple pan­cake takes 25 minutes to prepare, so alert your server as soon as possible if you want it to arrive with the other food. 
Another enjoyable dish on the menu at The Original Pancake House is the crepes which can be served with a wide variety of fillings. The house specialty is the Danish kijafa cherry crepes, served with a hot cherry filling. The crepes themselves are flavorful, and the cherries (or any of the other fillings) make a great com­bination of sweet and savory tastes. For large appetites, the three filled crepes may not be enough, but a wide variety of side items are available to supple­ment it. 
For the less ambitious who pass on the more publi­cized apple pancake option, a safe and hearty fallback is the Original Pancake House’s bacon omelet. This delectable, three-egg treat comes with a generous por­tion of golden hash browns and your choice of butter­milk pancakes or jellied toast. The omelet likens itself more to a burrito than your standard egg envelope of meat and cheese. The House cooks fried bacon into the eggs before wrapping them up and filling the center, as if by magic, with warm, gooey cheddar. The final two-plate product is an irresistibly satisfying mixture of sodium and sweetness, and only meant for those with hungers ranging from moderate to extreme ravenous­ness. 
The House’s selection seems to have a pulse on what combinations get breakfast-eaters up and moving. The Original Pancake House pairs French toast and bacon, no side ordering necessary. The French toast is your standard fare, satisfying but not necessary spectacular or special. Plain and simple, the French toast comes in a large portion dusted with powdered sugar; this option is successfully unobtrusive and meets minimum expectations. While the French toast may be relatively unremarkable, the bacon definitely surpasses the sus­pect quality of typical diner food. Thick, crispy, salty and crunchy, this bacon is the thing that odes to break­fast meats are made of. True quality, nothing about the Pancake House’s bacon will remind you of the fatty, greasy thin “lesser bacon” that may or may not be spotted in the dining halls. 

The coffee of the Original Pancake House has all the smoothness to be the perfect start to your day but enough boldness to get the most anti-morning person awake and perky. This delicious coffee blend excels its many restaurant counterparts, and refills abound. 
A good start to your day or to your meal, sip on some Joe and gawk at the odd decor of baskets, plaid and “country home accessories” while you enjoy the com­fort of being in the hands of friendly, attentive servers. 
As a final capstone to an excellent meal, The Original Pancake House offers homemade orange juice, which, though served in very small amount, is delicious and refreshing. 
Good food, close proximity to campus and a relaxed atmosphere make The Original Pancake House an excellent choice for students who want to start their game day experience early, or are simply looking for an alternate weekend morning activity. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu, Colin Rich at crich@nd.edu and Jess Shaffer at jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 
MLB 
Sabathia ready to face Lee 
Their families are friendly, and pitching in a World Series togeth-
Associated Press 
they still text each other often. er. Now we’re in different club-
NEW YORK — The first time “I think we made each other houses,” Sabathia said. “We’re they met was seven years ago. better,” Lee said. “We helped close. You know, we always have Cliff Lee was a September call-up each other out as far as how we been. We came up together.” with a cocksure attitude, and his thought we should approach cer-And after that game, Lee had new teammate was immediately tain teams and just what’s the dinner at Sabathia’s house. impressed. best frame of mind to have on the “My wife cooked, and he came 
“He was the Cliff that he is now. mound and stuff.” over and hung out. That’s just He went out and pounded both Sabathia won the 2007 AL Cy how we are,” Sabathia said. “We sides of the plate, attacking, real Young Award with the Indians, never talk about baseball. aggressive in the strike zone,” CC then Lee took home the trophy Just two regular guys talking Sabathia said Tuesday. “He goes last year. They’ve both been dom-about whatever.” right after you.” inant through-New York’s home opener cer-
Lee lost his major out this post-tainly drew plenty of attention, league debut that “We helped each season, lead-but it won’t compare to day for Cleveland, ing their new Wednesday night. 
other out as far as 
despite pitching well teams onto “This matchup couldn’t have 
how we thought we
against Minnesota. b a s e b a l l ’ s been better,” said Phillies manag-The two pitchers should approach biggest stage. er Charlie Manuel, the skipper in soon struck up a certain teams and And they’ve Cleveland for Sabathia’s first 1 friendship, however, already faced 1/2 years in the majors from 
just what’s the best 
and it’s still going each other in a 2001-02. “This is a big, premier strong. frame of mind to have similar setting. game. I’m looking forward to it.” 
Now, the left-on the mound and Lee pitched Both clubs are thrilled to open handed aces are set the Indians to the Series with a well-rested No. 
stuff.” 
to square off in the a 10-2 victory 1 starter on the mound. World Series opener on April 16 in Sabathia, traded from Wednesday night. Cliff Lee the first game Cleveland to Milwaukee last sea-Both traded by the at the new son, signed a $161 million, seven-Indians within the Y a n k e e year contract with the Yankees as past two years, Lee will start for Stadium. Sabathia started for a free agent last winter. He’s been the Philadelphia Phillies against New York but did not get a deci-worth every penny. Sabathia and the New York sion. The 6-foot-7, 290-pound work-Yankees. “I guess it was a chaotic atmos-horse won 19 games during the 
“It’s going to be a lot of fun,” phere,” Lee said. regular season, then raised his Sabathia said. Even though the Yankees lost, game in the playoffs. He went 3-0 
Teammates only 16 months Sabathia has fond memories. with a 1.19 ERA and 20 strike-ago, Lee and Sabathia have more “That was pretty cool. It’s just outs in three starts, earning MVP in common than their Cleveland weird because a couple years ago honors in the AL championship history and potent left arms. we were talking about maybe series. 
NBA 
Barkley wants to be a GM 
He compared the Wolves' draft You can't not know us and you 
Associated Press 
strategy to when the Detroit can't not know how we think,” 
NEW YORK — Charles Lions kept spending high draft Smith said. “We're just in a Barkley thinks he can do better picks on wide receivers. unique situation where we're than some of the general man-The 46-year-old Barkley interviewed every night.” agers he criticizes on TV. planned to do TV for only a Barkley has seen some of his 
The Hall of Fame player and couple of years, but is now in contemporaries try and fail as TNT analyst said Monday he'd his 10th season with TNT. He's team executives. Isiah Thomas like his chance to run an NBA in no hurry to leave for a team was fired after a horrible team, though he's in no rush executive job that opened up, tenure running the New York because he'd want the right because some of them wouldn't Knicks, and even Michael job. give him an opportunity to be Jordan, Barkley's good friend, 
“I think that it'd be fun to try successful. is regularly criticized for his to build my own team,” Barkley “Every job ain't a good job,” inability to build a winner in said at a luncheon, joined by said Barkley, who said he Washington and Charlotte. studio partners Kenny Smith wouldn't take any position Nevertheless, Barkley said and Ernie Johnson. “We talk unless he was given complete he's not worried about becom­about it all the time. Sometimes control of basketball decisions, ing another guy getting blasted we say, 'What is that guy because some owners aren't on the air. doing? Why did he draft that interested in winning. “I want that challenge, and guy? Why did he make a trade Smith also is interested and honestly, this business, it ain't for that guy?' has interviewed for some posi-brain surgery,” he said. 
“Some of these guys have tions. He doesn't think he or “I tell guys, this is never per-done a bad job, plain and sim-Barkley are hurt by not having sonal. If you win, they're going ple.” previous experience working to write good things about you. 
Barkley was critical of the for a team. If you don't, they're going to Minnesota Timberwolves, who “Every day you can hear write bad things about you. under new team president what we say about your team, That's just how it is. It ain't David Kahn took point guards what your team is. You know right, it ain't wrong, and some with the Nos. 5-6 picks in the our philosophy. If you follow of my peers have not done a draft, then signed point guard basketball, it's not like you good job, and that's just the Ramon Sessions in free agency. don't know Charles and myself. truth.” 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
NCAAmotion denied in Florida State case 
“We thought it was an 
Associated Press 
important case to take in 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. — the first place and we’re The NCAA’s bid to delay a certainly happy with court order to release its every step of the way so records on academic far,” media attorney Carol cheating at Florida State Jean LoCicero said was rejected Tuesday by Tuesday. the Florida Supreme “We feel strongly that Court. our private information 
In a terse one-sentence should not be subject to 
order, the high court public records laws, ” denied the NCAA NCAA’s emer-spokes­gency motion. “We thought it was woman However, that S t a c e y
an important case to
decision does Osburn said 
take in the first place
not preclude Tuesday. them from and we're certainly “This ques ­considering tion still 
happy with every
the merits of remains
step of the way so
the case under later. far.” review by 
Att orneys the Florida for the NCAA Supreme
Carol Jean LoCicero
provided the Court and 
Media attorney 
records to a the NCAA Tallahassee will contin ­law firm to ue to seek prepare for release, all available remedies to although they aren ’t protect this important expected to vary much principle.” from documents already The records involve made public by Florida meetings between Florida State University. The State officials and the school released copies NCAA, which said 61 earlier this month from Seminole athletes, includ­“screen shots ” of docu -ing 25 football players, ments posted on a secure, cheated on an online test read -only Web site, but in a music history course not the originals. from the fall of 2006 
The Associated Press through summer 2007 or and other media sought received improper help immediate release after from staffers who provid­an appelate court on Oct. ed them with answers to 13 upheld an earlier rul-the exam and typed ing that the documents papers for them. are public records. A cir-In response to a ques ­cuit judge last week tion during an October 
ordered the NCAA to 2008 meeting with the release the documents by NCAA, former Florida 2 p.m. Wednesday unless State academic adviser it could win a stay. Brenda Monk said one 
The AP sued to get the athlete that she helped records on the had an IQ college athlet-of 60 and ics governing “We feel strongly that that at body’s plan to least one 
our private
strip coaches athlete
information should
and athletes couldn’t 
of wins in 10 not be subject to read. sports. Fl orid a
public records laws.” 
Longtime State, football coach which itself Bobby Stacey Osburn reported Bowden NCAA spokeswoman the viola ­stands to lose tions to the 14 victories NCAA, that would make it diffi-accepted self -imposed cult for him to overtake penalties including loss of Penn State’s Joe Paterno scholarships and player in their race to be major suspensions. college football ’s win -But the NCAA’s intent to ningest coach. Paterno take away wins and indi­now leads with 390 victo-vidual records, prompted ries to 385 for Bowden, Florida State University who hopes to hang on T.K. Wetherell to fight long enough to reach 400. that part of the penalty. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we
WANTED FOR RENT TICKETS FOR SALE PERSONAL can help. For more information, visit 
Notre Dame s website at: PART TIME WORK andersonND rentals.com. HOUSES HELP! Need Fb tix for family. Ford 79 T-Bird UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? http://csap.nd.edu ——————————————— ——————————————— 4 BDRM HOUSE ON 32 ACRES Will pay top $$. 45K Miles Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has What do tigers dream of when they $14.25 OF NATURE AND SERENITY. many resources in place to assist take their little tiger snooze? Do 574-251-1570. Orig Owner you. If yo or someone you love they dream of mauling zebras, or 
9 MILES NORTH OF NOTRE ——————————————— needs confidential support or assis-Halle Berry in her Catwoman suit? base-appt.,no experience needed, DAME. VICTORY TICKETS tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at Don’t you worry your pretty striped customer sales/service, $1,200 FOR WEEKEND. $8,000 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For head, we’re gonna get you back to 
Buy Sell Trade FB Tix. more information, visit ND s website Tyson and your cozy tiger bed. And CALL GEORGIA PEACH BED AND at: then we’re gonna find our best 574-273-3835 BREAKFAST @ 269-357-6979. Victorytickets.net 574-232-0964 574-299-0925 http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu friend Doug. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around theNat on 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Wednesday, October 28, 2009 
page 15 
NSCAA/adidas Women’s Soccer Top 25 
team previous 
1 Stanford 1 2 Portland 3 3 UCLA 4 4 Florida State 7 5 NOTRE DAME 6 6 North Carolina 2 7 Boston College 8 8 UCF 11 9 Rutgers 9 10 Florida 12 11 Wake Forest 5 12 Maryland 13 13 South Carolina 10 14 Santa Clara 16 15 Ohio State 19 16 LSU 17 17 Virginia Tech 15 18 Southern California 14 19 BYU 21 20 Texas A&M 20 21 Washington State 23 22 Purdue 18 23 Indiana 24 24 Charlotte 25 25 Penn State RV 
NSCAA/adidas Men’s Soccer Top 25 
team  previous  
1  Akron  1  
2  Wake Forest  3  
3  North Carolina  4  
4  UC Santa Barbara  6  
5  Louisville  8  
6  Maryland  5  
7  UCLA  2  
8  Connecticut  10  
9  South Florida  13  
10  Virginia  12  
11  Charlotte  9  
12  Northwestern  17  
13  North Carolina State  14  
14  Monmouth  7  
15  Harvard  11  
16  Duke  19  
17  Butler  23  
18  Tulsa  16  
19  UC Irvine  22  
20  Brown  18  
21  Stanford  21  
22  Iona  RV  
23  UNC Wilmington  RV  
24  Dartmouth  15  
25  Missouri State  RV  




around the dial 
MLB World Series 
Philadelphia at New York 
7:57 p.m., FOX 
NBA 
New Orleans vs. San Antonio 8 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 

Titansowner callsforquarterbackchange 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — Jeff Fisher has stayed away from a quarterback controversy all through the Tennessee Titans’ dreadful start. 
Now, team owner Bud Adams reportedly wants a change. 
Adams informed Fisher he wants Vince Young to start over Kerry Collins this weekend against Jacksonville, according to the Tennessean. The Nashville newspaper cited sources Tuesday that Adams apparently told Fisher his preference after the Titans lost to New England 59-0 on Oct. 18 and became more insistent during the bye week. 
A call to Adams’ Houston office was referred to the team’s media relations depart­ment in Nashville. A mes­sage was not immediately returned Tuesday. 
Fisher declined Monday to say who his starter will be Sunday for “competi­tive reasons.” He had stuck with Collins throughout the 0-6 start as the best chance to win. 
In an interview on WKRN-TV Monday night, Fisher said that the quar­terback decision would “be revealed over the next couple of days.” 
He denied any tension with Adams. 
IN BRIEF 
Gators expect quick return for four defensive players 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. — Top-ranked Florida could have four key defend­ers, including linebacker Brandon Spikes, back against Georgia. 
Spikes and defensive tackles Lawrence Marsh and Jaye Howard practiced Tuesday for the first time in more than a week, and coaches expect them to play Saturday against the Bulldogs. 
“If they continue to work like they did tonight, they will definitely play in the game on Saturday,” defensive line coach Dan McCarney said. 
Marsh has played just two games this season because of a high ankle sprain, and Howard missed the last two games because of a knee injury. 
Spikes, the team’s defensive cap­tain, injured his groin Oct. 10 at LSU and played only a series the follow­ing week against Arkansas. He sat out Saturday’s game at Mississippi State. 
“We talk. We’ve been communicating through the whole process, and we don’t have any issues,” he said. “Despite what you hear, despite what you read, the decisions we make are collective deci­sions.” 
The Titans practiced Tuesday and had their first team meetings since returning from their bye. 
Collins had not been told of any change when the Titans last spoke with reporters nearly a week ago. 
But the Titans are one of three remaining win­less teams in the league 
— St. Louis and Tampa Bay are both 0-7. Fisher wants to shake up things for a team that has lost eight straight games since last season, when Tennessee sprinted out to a 10-0 start en route to the NFL’s best mark at 13­3. 
The Titans are last in the NFL in time of posses­sion and haven’t scored a touchdown in eight quar­ters. 
“We’ve had a week to do some different things. And especially considering the circumstances we’re in right now with the record, there’s things that you need to do differently,” Fisher said Monday. “Let’s just say I’m not going to be as specific and (will be) open-ended from a com­petitive standpoint.” 
Pete Carroll hopes to work on USC’s defensive strategy 
LOS ANGELES — Southern California’s defense has been among the nation’s most dominant, except in the second half of its last two games — and for coach Pete Carroll, that’s not dominant enough. 
That formidable unit became ordinary after halftime against Notre Dame and Oregon State, leaving Carroll a bit con­cerned about his defense’s finishing skills heading into the No. 4 Trojans’ showdown with No. 10 Oregon on Halloween night. 
“We haven’t done very well,” Carroll said Tuesday. “We have been really sus­ceptible to them throwing out the football. Being out ahead didn’t help us any. We didn’t play well with the lead when the teams threw the football a bunch.” 
Indeed, Notre Dame quarterback Jimmy Clausen and Oregon State’s Sean Canfield excelled while attempting to lead come­backs against the Trojans (6-1, 3-1 Pac­10), whose quest for a seventh consecutive Pac-10 title would be all but ended by a loss to the Ducks (6-1, 4-0). 
Former Nationals manager, Acta moves to Cleveland 
CLEVELAND — Manny Acta’s record did-n’t overwhelm the Cleveland Indians. They looked much deeper than at his wins and losses — lots of losses. 
Acta, fired as the Washington Nationals manager in July after 2 1/2 seasons, was hired on Sunday by the Indians, who gave him a three-year contract with a club option for 2013. Additional terms of the deal were not disclosed. 
The club will introduce the 40-year-old Acta — the Indians’ 40th manager — at a news conference on Monday. He’s the first Cleveland manager hired from outside the organization since John McNamara in 1990. 
The Indians chose Acta over two other known finalists: Triple-A manager Torey Lovullo and former New York Mets manag­er Bobby Valentine, who may have eliminat­ed himself from consideration when he arrived at second interview earlier this week and admitted that he not done his home­work on Cleveland or the American League and wasn’t sure he wanted the job. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Man charged in murder of UConn cornerback 
Two others arrested in connection with the fight preceding the Oct. 18 stabbing of Huskie junior Jasper Howard 
Associated Press 
STORRS, Conn. — Police charged a 21-year-old man with murder Tuesday in the stabbing death of a University of Connecticut football player outside a school -sanctioned dance, where the suspect’s lawyer says he was just trying to break up a fight. 
John William Lomax III, 21, is scheduled to appear in court Wednesday on charges of murder and con­spiracy to commit assault in the Oct. 18 death of Jasper Howard, police said. His bond was set at $2 mil­lion. 
Police also arrested two other people in connection with the fight that led to Howard ’s death. Hakim Muhammad, 20, was charged with conspiracy to commit assault and Jamal Todd, 21, faces a felony charge of falsely reporting an incident and a misde ­meanor charge of reckless endangerment for pulling a fire alarm that emptied the dance early that Sunday morning. 
None of those arrested is a UConn student . Lomax and Muhammad live in Bloomfield, about 30 miles from campus. Todd lives in Hartford. 
Police have said that of my daughter.” Howard was stabbed once On his Facebook page, in the abdomen during an Lomax ’s friends include altercation that erupted Muhammad and 21-year-old after the dance was evacu-Johnny Hood of Hartford, ated. Several other football who was arrested shortly players were with him, but after the stabbing and faces none has charges of been charged breach of peace and coach and interfering Randy Edsall with police. He 
“I’m curious to fnd
said he has -was pointed out 
out what evidence
n’t heard to police by that any foot-they had to secure an Brian Parker, ball player another UConn 
arrest warrant for 
was involved football player 
murder.” 
in anything who suffered 
other than minor injuries “verbal Deron Freeman in the attack. jostling.” Police would 
Lomax’s attorney 
Lomax was-not discuss evi­n’t present dence or a when the motive during a argument news confer ­started and doesn ’t know ence Tuesday. More than 40 what it was about, but tried investigators conducted to break up the fight and more than 200 interviews didn’t stab anyone, said his and “have not stopped attorney, Deron Freeman. working, ” UConn police 
“He was just partying, ” chief Robert Hudd said. Freeman said. “Often peo-State police, who ple from out of town go to searched storm drains and the UConn campus to a local pond over the week-party.” end, said dog teams, a dive 
Lomax, a Bloomfield High team and forensics experts School graduate who works contributed to the investi­in information technology, gation. goes by the nickname Freeman said he was first “Pooda. ” He last logged told that Lomax would be into his MySpace page in charged in connection with March, when he listed his the fight, but not with mur­occupation as “taking care der. 
“I’m surprised,” Freeman said. “I’ m curious to find out what evidence they had to secure an arrest warrant for murder. From all the evidence I’ve heard, he was not involved in the stab ­bing.” 
UConn President Michael Hogan said in a message to students and staff: “Nothing can replace the void in our hearts left by his death . Yet, I know that many of you will feel reassured by today’s news.” 
Howard, a starting cor ­nerback said they were happy that an arrest was made, but that it was of little comfort. 
“It is a little closure, but the reality is my team ­mate’s still not here with us, ” said running back Jordan Todman. 
Several players said Tuesday they had never heard of Lomax, and don’t know how Lomax and Howard crossed paths. 
“I know that his mother is 
very excited that someone is being charged with this crime. That’s all I’ve 
w h o s e n a m e J a z z ,  n i c k ­w a s d i e d  “It is a little closure, but the reality is my  b e e n t h i n a b o u t ,  r e a l l y k i n g j u s t  
h o u r s  a f t e r  teammate’s still not  how his family  
h e l p i n g t e a m t o  h i s a  here with us.”  is doing,” said defensive tack- 
h o m e c o m i n g  l e  K e n d a l l  
game win  over  Jordan Todman  Reyes.  
Louisville. T h e e n t i r e  UConn running back  Greg Lloyd, a j u n i o r l i n e - 
U C o n n  t e a m  b a c k e r,  s a i d  
a t t e n d e d  h i s  t h e y  a r e  
f  u  n  e  r  a  l  r e l i e v e d  t h a t  
M o n d a y  i n  s o m e o n e  i s  

Miami, where Howard was being held accountable for eulogized by coach Randy Howard’s death. Edsall as “the ultimate son, “I wish only that it didn’t he was the ultimate broth-happen at all so at least I er. He was the ultimate can have my teammate teammate. He was the ulti-back,” he said. “It’s unreal mate friend. They didn ’t grief for the family, unreal come any better than Jazz.” grief for his friends — it’s 
UConn football players just a shame.” 

NFL 
Chiefs ban Johnson from team activities 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. — Kansas City Chiefs running back Larry Johnson issued his second apol­ogy in 12 months Tuesday and was told to stay away from the team while the NFL and the Chiefs complete their investiga­tion into his use of a gay slur. 
As Johnson was releasing his apology, a national gay rights advocacy organization called on the league and the team to take disciplinary action against the two-time Pro Bowler. 
The latest chapter in Johnson’s stormy career began Sunday night when he ques­tioned coach Todd Haley’s foot­ball credentials on his Twitter account. 
He used the slur during an exchange with one of his Twitter followers. A day later, he used it again as he brushed off reporters and told them he would not comment, according to the Kansas City Star, which recorded the comment. 
Haley refused to address the matter Tuesday, saying it was still being investigated. 
“I’m just not going to com­ment any further because there is some stuff going on,” Haley said. 
Johnson, who turns 30 next month, signed a five-year con­tract extension in 2007 that included $19 million guaran­teed and could be worth up to $45 million. The team could be checking to see whether Johnson violated contract provi­sions that would allow the Chiefs to cut him with reduced financial obligation. 
Last spring, an arbitrator ruled that the Chiefs could release the running back and not owe him $3.5 million in guaranteed money because he had violated contract conditions by pleading guilty to disturbing the peace in another incident. 
The issue became moot when the team elected not to cut him and until he began tweeting on Sunday night, the often-volatile Johnson had been on good behavior. 
The Chiefs said they have told Johnson he would not be allowed to practice with the team or participate in team activities until the matter was resolved, though he has not been suspended. NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said the league would have no comment pending the investigation. 
Johnson, who needs only 75 yards rushing to become the Chiefs’ all-time leader, apolo­gized to Haley, the team, fans and the league “for the words I used.” 
“I regret my actions. The words were used by me in frus­tration, and they were not appropriate,” he said through a spokesman. “I did not intend to offend anyone, but that is no excuse for what I said.” 
The apology sounded similar to one he made almost exactly a year ago after one woman accused him of throwing a drink on her and another said he had pushed her. The incidents hap­pened separately in Kansas City nightclubs and led to his being sentenced to two years’ proba­tion after pleading guilty to two counts of disturbing the peace. 

MLB 
Astros hire new manager 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON — Brad Mills is finally getting his chance to run a big-league team. 
The 52-year-old Mills was hired by Houston on Tuesday after six seasons as Terry Francona’s bench coach in Boston. He’ll manage in the majors for the first time, though he’s managed a total of 11 seasons in the minors, with affiliates for the Chicago Cubs (1987 -92), Colorado Rockies (1993-96) and Los Angeles Dodgers (2002). 
“One thing that I’m going to bring in is a freshness, being with a champion and bringing that freshness in,” Mills said. “It’s a fresh voice, it’s a new voice.” 
General manager Ed Wade said Mills agreed to a two-year contract, with a team option for the third. The Astros made an offer to for­mer Nationals manager Manny Acta over the week­
end,  but  A c ta  took  t he  
Cl ev el an d  Indi ans ’  j o b  
instead.  

Mills, interviewed by the team for the third time on Tuesday, set aside the notion that he was the Astros’ sec­ond choice. 
“I’m going to move on from that,” Mills said. “I have to do what I think is best, and this opportunity is very good opportunity. I’m not talking about just to be a manager. To be in this organization is very special.” 
Houston owner Drayton McLane spoke with Francona about Mills by phone on Sunday. Francona said Mills practically ran the Red Sox at times, allaying McLane’s con­cerns about his lack of major-league managing experience. 
“He said, ‘I have given Brad more responsibility than I have ever seen a bench coach have,”‘ McLane said. “He totally runs spring training and he handles most of the communication with the play­ers. Terry said he’s been the assistant manager and has gathered all the necessary experience.” 
The Astros fired Cecil Cooper on Sept 21. Third-base coach Dave Clark served as interim manager for the final 13 games and Houston finished 74-88. Clark was one of 10 candidates to interview for the full-time position, and he spoke for a second time with the team on Tuesday. 
Clark was guaranteed a position on next year’s staff if he was not hired as the full-time manager, and Wade said Clark will return as Houston’s third-base coach. 
Mills sold the Astros with his emphasis on communicat­ing with players, a problem in the clubhouse when Cooper was manager. 
“He talked a lot about respect, that you gain the respect of the players,” Wade said. “He’s not saying, ‘These are the new rules, there’s a new sheriff in town.’ His approach is, ‘We’re going to be consistent, they’re going to know what the plan is, they’re going to know what the expectations are. They’re going to know that we respect them, and treat them as indi­viduals for the collective good of the club.”‘ 
Mills served as the Philadelphia Phillies’ first-base coach from 1997-2000, when Francona was the man­ager. Wade was the Phillies’ GM from 1998-2005 — and he fired Francona, Mills and three other coaches. 
After leaving the Phillies, Mills served as an advance scout for the Cubs (2001) and was the bench coach in Montreal in 2003. The Red Sox hired him in January 2004. 
Wade made an impassioned plea for Mills to McLane and other team executives. 
“This is guy that fits for us, this is my choice,” Wade said. “When you take into consid­eration everything that you have to do, I think Millsey fits the bill perfectly.” 
Mills has plenty of work to do. The Astros have endured two losing seasons in the four years since reaching the World Series in 2005, and Mills is the fourth manager hired since the middle of the 2004 season. 
McLane is hoping Mills brings some stability. 
“That was one of the ingre­dients we saw,” McLane said. “He’s a young man, as far as a manager candidate is and he can relate to players. I think he’s going to have a long, successful tenure.” 
Houston was 49-46 on July 22, one game out of first place in the NL Central, then lost 42 of their last 67 games as the starting pitching dete­riorated. 
The offense was also sub-par, ranking 27th in runs scored (3.97 per game) and 25th in on-base percentage (.319). 
Mills said he’ll leave the off­season roster moves to Wade. His work will start at spring training, where he’ll stress preparation and cohesive­ness. 
“Everybody on the ballclub is important, and we’re going to communicate with all of them,” Mills said. “We’re going to start from day one working together and playing the game solidly and in a win­ning way. That’s what we’re going to do.” 
NFL 
Westbrook’s status uncertain 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — Brian Westbrook was knocked out with a concussion. He was on the ground, motionless, with only his brother and Eagles coach Andy Reid allowed near him. 
Westbrook walked off the field, but he would not return. 
He may not be back as the Eagles enter the grueling part of their schedule. 
The Eagles played only one team (New Orleans) with a winning record in the first six games and blew a major shot at sharing the NFC East lead with an embarrassing loss to struggling Oakland (2-5). Now the schedule gets tougher. 
Up next, Sunday’s game against the New York Giants only hours before the Phillies play the Yankees across the street in Game 4 of the World Series. Then another home game against Dallas. The outcomes could shake up the NFC playoff picture. 
“We obviously know in this division, it can be a half-game, a game away from you being in first or you being in second,” quarterback Donovan McNabb said. 
Having a healthy Westbrook would be a boost. He left with a concussion in the first quarter of Monday night’s 27-17 victory over the Washington Redskins. He will go through medical tests before his status for next week is determined. 
Reid said on Tuesday that Westbrook has not been ruled out for Sunday. An update texted to reporters said that Reid was “counting on that he’ll be there but we’ll see how tests go.” 
LeSean McCoy would carry the bulk of the rushing load if Westbrook misses signifi­cant time. 
“He went down so fast,” McCoy said. “I was preparing to go in there eventually, but not that early. It was a little different for me, to go out and get started earlier than usual, and to get the ball more than usual too.” 
Reid says he won’t risk Westbrook’s health at the expense of a game. Plus, the Eagles are used to playing without the injury -prone running back. 
Westbrook and the Eagles were off on Tuesday. He was scheduled to meet with the media at his usual time on Wednesday depending on his practice availability. Hard to imagine he’ll practice two days after he was knocked into a daze when his helmet collided with linebacker London Fletcher’s right knee. 
The Eagles have won this year without McNabb (ribs) and can do it without Westbrook. But they need something — more Michael Vick? Less wildcat? — to fix an offense that can strike with big plays, but is other­wise inconsistent. 
The final point total looks good, and sometimes that’s all that matters. But the Eagles can’t always count on DeSean Jackson(notes) scor­ing on 67-yard runs and a 57-yard reception to offset a meager 156 yards passing game out of McNabb. 
Jackson, named NFC offen­sive player of the week, was the second player in team history to have a rushing and receiving touchdown of 50­plus yards in the same game. 
“DeSean had some nice plays,” Reid said. “It was hit­and-miss on offense.” 
Jackson strained his right foot, but should be ready to play Sunday. 
NFL 
Ware signs six-year extension with Cowboys 
Three-time Pro-Bowl linebacker agrees to $78 million deal after months of talks; guaranteed $40 million 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas — Three-time Pro Bowl linebacker DeMarcus Ware finally has his big contract with the Dallas Cowboys. He just won’t be getting paid as much as some of the elite quarter­backs he will be trying to sack. 
After months of talks that intensified over the past two weeks, Ware agreed Monday to a $78 million, six-year deal through the 2015 season that guarantees him $40 million. 
“I feel like I work really hard and am really deserving of what they’ve given me,” Ware said. “All this is behind me now. It’s time to get to work. You know what it’s time to bring home. I’m not going to say what it is, we’re just going to show you, and I’m going to show you.” 
Cowboys owner Jerry Jones called Ware a “cornerstone player” for the Cowboys (4-2), who have gone 12 seasons with­out winning a playoff game and longer than that since winning three Super Bowl champi­onships in four seasons (1992­95). 
The 27-year-old Ware, who was in the final season of the contract he signed after being the 11th overall pick in the 2005 draft, has 57 1/2 sacks while starting all 70 of his regular-season games. 
“Going into this negotiation, how do you ask for too much money for DeMarcus Ware given what he’s accomplished,” said his agent, Pat Dye. “We were asking for a lot more money than we ended up settling on. ... Ultimately they convinced us they were not going to pay DeMarcus like an elite quarter­back and certainly we under­stood that.” 
There were initial talks about a deal after last season, but Dye said contracts signed in August by quarterbacks Eli Manning (six years, $97 million with $35 million guaranteed) and Philip Rivers (six years, $93 million with $38 million guaranteed) provided “some kind of ceiling” and narrowed the focus in nego­tiations. Talks picked up during the Cowboys’ bye week which preceded their 37-21 victory over Atlanta on Sunday. 
“We’re certainly not going to be a team that’s going to step up and pay a defensive player like a quarterback,” said Stephen Jones, the team’s vice president and owner’s son. “We’re not going to do that.” 
Still, Jones and Dye said the negotiations were never con­tentious. 
“It’s about getting what you deserve,” Ware said. “I feel like I’ve gotten what I deserve in my situation.” 
Jerry Jones said he shook hands with Ware before Sunday’s game, agreeing to the deal they finalized Monday. The two were seen talking and laughing as they walked togeth­er in the tunnel toward the lock­er room after the game. 
Ware has a unique blend of strength, agility and quickness, allowing him to make plays and be a dominating force all over the field. He has increased his sack total each season, from eight as a rookie to 11 1/2 to 14 and then an NFL-leading 20 last season. 
Ware has four sacks in the past two games despite playing with a stress fracture in his left foot after being shut out the first four games this season. 
“He probably can play with one leg, so it’s not something that has to do with his ability,” teammate Marcus Spears said Monday. “It’s just having that mentality of having to overcome that and playing well. It just adds to his legend.” 
Ware is the fourth player in Cowboys history with three con­secutive 10-sack seasons. The last Dallas player with more than Ware in a single season was Hall of Fame defensive tackle Randy White with 16 in 1978. 
There was also Ware’s NFL record-matching streak of 10 consecutive games with a sack (2007-08), the longest in the NFL in 15 years. 
Jerry Jones said Ware has accomplished far more than for­mer coach Bill Parcells, who used to compare Ware to Lawrence Taylor, expected when he was drafted. The owner said Ware has really exceeded everybody’s expecta­tions. 
“He’s a cornerstone player for this franchise and will be for a long time to come,” Jones said. “It is something special that he’s the type of person that if you’re to spend the time that we all spend and the energy that we spend with the Cowboys, this is who you want to hang out with and who you want to be around.” 


NCAA BASKETBALL 
Knight rejects IU’s offer to settle lawsuit 
Former coach says he will return a settelment check for $75,000 sent to him last week by Indiana officials 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. — Bob Knight has two more com­plaints with Indiana University. 
He didn’t like the school making a private matter pub­lic, and he didn ’t want Indiana alumni footing the bill to settle a lawsuit. 
On Tuesday, Knight released a statement saying he will return a $75,000 check sent last week by Indiana officials as a settle­ment offer. 
“Indiana University has refused for nine years to take care of their obligation in this matter,” Knight said in a statement released by ESPN, who he now works for. “I did not know until yesterday (Monday) that this check was sent to my attorney. Upon finding out about it, I imme­diately gave him instructions to send the check back.” 


The letter, sent from Russell Yates’ law firm in Denver, was dated Monday and requested routing codes and account numbers so the money could be wired back to the university’s account. 
Indiana University spokesman Larry MacIntyre confirmed the letter had been received but the money, which was obtained through private donations, had not yet been returned. 
Knight sued Indiana, claim­ing the school did not proper­ly defend him against a suit from Ron Felling, a former assistant coach. Knight set­tled that case in 2002 by pay­ing Felling $25,000 and admitting that in 1999 he shoved Felling in anger after 
overhearing him criticize Knight’s coaching and behav­ior. 
When asked what Knight’s decision meant for the law­suit, MacIntyre said: “I have no idea.” 
The timing of Knight’s deci­sion is awkward, though. 
On Wednesday, the NCAA is holding a public tribute for the late Myles Brand, the man who fired Knight in September 2000 when he was Indiana’s president. 
And next week, Knight and former player Steve Downing will be inducted into the school ’s hall of fame. Downing is expected to attend the ceremonies next weekend. It is unclear whether Knight will attend. 
Next week’s honor didn’t stop Knight from criticizing the university for its efforts to settle. 
“In all the years I coached at Indiana and elsewhere, I never accepted a thing from alumni and I don’t intend to start now,” he said. “This issue is with the university not with the alumni. 
“It would be amazing what this university’s legal office has spent over the past nine years avoiding this obligation as well as paying off all the broken athletic contracts they have made.” 
Indiana fired Knight in September 2000 after he won a school record 662 games, 11 Big Ten championships and three national champi­onships. The reason: Brand put Knight on a zero-toler­ance policy following a uni­versity investigation into a former player’s allegations that Knight had choked him during a practice. When freshman Kent Harvey accused Knight of grabbing him later that year, Brand fired Knight. 
NHL 
Coyotes being sold to NHL 
Daly said other potential Last month, Baum rejected 
Associated Press 
buyers have also expressed outright Balsillie’s offer to 
PHOENIX — Phoenix interest, but he didn’t identi-buy the team for $242 mil-Coyotes owner Jerry Moyes fy them. lion and move it to Canada. has agreed to sell the bank-The agreement between The judge also turned down rupt franchise to the NHL. the NHL and Moyes is the NHL offer but he left the 
The agreement, which still expected to be submitted to door open for the league to must be approved by Judge the court as early as purchase the franchise if it Redfield T. Baum, was Tuesday. amended its bid to treat announced in U.S. After an NHL attorney out-Moyes and Gretzky, the ex-Bankruptcy Court on Monday lined the agreement in court, coach, more favorably. after attorneys Baum said he Monday ’s agreement is met for more would wait to essentially the same as the than an hour see a copy NHL’s original bid. during a recess “The focus now has to before com -“Clearly, from an under ­in a status menting. “I’ll standing, it remains 
shift to getting the
hearing on the read it when I unchanged,” Daly said. 
club out of
case. get it, ” Baum What did change was 
Former coach bankruptcy and said. “I don ’t Moyes’ realization that the Wayne Gretzky, think I can say amount of money available to 
fnding a new
who has a anything more him was dwindling with each 
owner.” 
$22.5 million about that.” withdrawal to meet payroll c l a i m i n t h e The judge set and other expenses. case, has not Bill Daly a Friday morn-The next withdrawal, about agreed to the ing deadline $2.6 million, will come this 
NHL deputy
deal. for objections week. 
commissioner
Moyes’ attor-from other “That’s coming out of our ney says the creditors, and mouths,” Johnson said. “That decision to said he would certainly was pressure to make a deal came largely hear objections on Nov. 2. settle.” because the expenses of run-The case has generated Moyes says he loaned about ning the team in bankruptcy more than 1,000 pages in $100 million to the franchise, were being paid from the court filings and consider-but he stands to recover per­league’s $140-million offer. able rancor among the par-haps only a fraction of that Moyes was left with few ties. But attorneys were amount. options after his attempt to ready to make a deal when Moyes left the court with-sell the team to Canadian bil-Baum called a recess during out speaking to reporters. lionaire Jim Balsillie was the status Asked if rejected by the court. hearing on Moyes was 
NHL deputy commissioner Monday after -happy about Bill Daly says that once the noon. the deal, 
“Nobody’s happy 
deal closes, the league will Cl utchi ng J o h n s o n immediately look to sell the pens and legal about losing that replied, team, preferably to an owner pads, about a much money.” “Nobody ’s who will keep the club in dozen attor -happy about Arizona. neys huddled in losing that 
Carolyn Johnson
The league hopes to close the center of much money.” on the sale on Nov. 2. the courtroom, Jerry Moyes’ attorney Att orneys 
“Obviously, the pieces fell then broke into said the offer into place,” Daly said after smaller groups is worth about the hearing. “The focus now to confer. $128 million. has to shift to getting the When the The agree ­club out of bankruptcy and recess ended, NHL attorney ment would provide the finding a new owner. I’m Greg Milmoe kissed Carolyn nearly $80 million that is pleased with the outcome Johnson, Moyes’ attorney, on owed SOF Investment, the today.” both cheeks. largest secured creditor, and 
Daly confirmed that NHL Moyes took the team into the NHL would get the $37 officials, including commis-Chapter 11 on May 5 with a million it is owed for funding sioner Gary Bettman, met on plan to sell to Balsillie, con-the team since last fall. Monday with representatives tingent on moving the fran-Between $9 million and of Ice Edge, a group that has chise to Hamilton, Ontario, $11 million would be avail-said it plans to keep the which the NHL vehemently able to be divided between team in suburban Glendale. opposed. Moyes and Gretzky. 
NBA 
Celtics top Cavaliers in Shaq’s Ohio debut 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND — Shaquille O’Neal has learned the ropes in his 17 NBA seasons. There’s one lesson that has endured since he was a raw rookie. 
“You can’t win a championship in the first game,” he said. 
Boston’s Big Three — plus Rasheed — spoiled Cleveland’s overhyped season opener on Tuesday night with a 95-89 win over the new-look Cavaliers, who may have LeBron James and Shaq but appear to be a long way from true title con­tenders. 
Paul Pierce scored 23 points, Ray Allen 16 and Kevin Garnett 13 in his first regular-season game since last March as the Celtics, overlooked by some this preseason, ended an 11-game losing streak in Cleveland and snapped a 16-game skid by visit­ing teams in games between the Eastern powers who figure to meet again sometime in May or June. 
“It was a good Day One,” Pierce said. “Psychologically, you want to go into a team’s building and win, especially in a place where we haven’t won in a few years. It’s great to come here and get a win. We know when we come here next time that we can do it again.” 
Pierce made two crucial jumpers and two free throws in the final 1:03 to pace the Celtics, whose drive to a second straight title was derailed when Garnett injured his knee late last season. Rasheed Wallace, added as a free agent during the offseason, had 12 points. 
James scored 38 and O’Neal added 10 points — just two after halftime — and 10 rebounds for the Cavaliers, who won their first 23 home games last season but are already 0-1 on their floor. 
Cleveland’s offense never found a rhythm as the Cavs tried to figure out how to best use the 7-foot-1, 325-pound O’Neal. 
“We’d like to start off 1-0, but there are 100 games left,” said O’Neal, who was just 1 of 5 from the floor in the second half and missed his only two free throws. “We’ll be fine. I’ve been on teams that started 0-1, 0-5, 5-0, 10-0. Nothing matters unless you win the whole thing.” 
Because of the 14-time All-Star O’Neal’s addition, the Cavaliers have gotten the bulk of the preseason attention and are a trendy pick to win their first NBA title. 
The Celtics may have other plans. 
“We just carry on, handle our business and understand we have one goal in mind,” Pierce said. “We really don’t care what people say about us. We know what our goal is.” 
MLB 
Sluggers prepare for series 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Ryan Howard thought about the World Series and his eyes widened. 
“Between Yankee Stadium and Philly, it’s going to be, I would have to say, probably one of the rowdiest World Series — just between the fans,” he said. 
Sure will be if Howard and Alex Rodriguez start teeing off in their high-profile slugger show­down. 
For the first time in 20 years, the World Series will feature a pair of former major league home run champions when it opens, weather permitting, on Wednesday night. 
No player in the major leagues has been scrutinized more than A-Rod, a postseason star follow­ing a scandalous spring training that include a steroid admission and hip surgery. 
And Howard has carried the defending champion Philadelphia Phillies every bit as much as Rodriguez has propelled the Yankees to their first Series appearance since 2003 — and the first of his career. 
“Ryan, along with his power, he’s also become a great hitter,” Rodriguez said Tuesday. “And that’s bad news for the National League and bad news for us.” 
The 34-year-old Rodriguez already has succeeded Reggie Jackson as the favorite Yankees target of wannabe amateur psy­chologists, who try to analyze past playoff flops and his rela­tionships with Madonna last year and Kate Hudson this season. Now he wants to follow Mr. October as a champion. 
A three-time AL MVP, he entered the first round against Minnesota hitting .136 (8 for 59) in the postseason dating to 2004 and was hitless in 18 consecutive playoff at-bats with runners in scoring position. 
What a change. 
He led the Yankees with a .438 average, five homers and 12 RBIs in the victories over the Twins and Los Angeles Angels, hitting tying home runs in the seventh, ninth and 11th innings. 
“I think everyone is looking for a profound answer, and I don’t have one,” he said, sitting behind a table in Yankee Stadium’s Great Hall as baseball adopted an NFL-style approach to Series publicity for the first time. 
“I think at the end of the day, I’m content. I’m happy, both on and off the field,” Rodriguez said. “I think I’ve cut out a lot of the fat, or unnecessary distractions.” 
The 29-year-old Howard also needed a winding, if less notori­ous, path to postseason success. He had only one RBI in reach of his first two playoff series while hitting .217 (5 for 23), then bat­ted .300 with two RBIs against the Los Angeles Dodgers in last year’s NL championship series. He then hit three homers and drove in six runs in leading the Phillies over the Tampa Bay Rays for Philadelphia’s second-ever title. 
And this year, he’s batted .355 with 14 RBIs in the playoffs against the Rockies and Dodgers. 
“I think that our approaches this postseason, as opposed to be previous postseasons, are a lot better,” Howard said. “I think both of us are a lot more patient, both of us are a lot more relaxed, it looks like. You know, I’m going out there just having fun. It looks like that’s what he’s doing, as well.” 
Both teams worked out Tuesday in the mist of $1.5 bil­lion new Yankee Stadium, where two freshly painted logos were in foul territory in honor of the ball­park’s first World Series. Still standing across the street, cov­ered in black mesh as if a ghost, is its 86-year-old predecessor, awaiting demolition after hosting a record 100 Series games. 
CC Sabathia, 3-0 with a 1.19 ERA in his first postseason with the Yankees, starts for New York against former Cleveland team­mate Cliff Lee, 2-0 with an 0.74 ERA for the Phillies. It’s a rematch of the April 16 ballpark opener, won by the Indians 10-2. 
This will be only the second Series with two former season home runs leaders since 1975’s faceoff between Cincinnati’s Johnny Bench and Boston’s Carl Yastrzemski, according to STATS 
LLC. The other was in 1989’s Earthquake Series, when Oakland’s Bash Brothers of Jose Canseco and Mark McGwire swept San Francisco and Kevin Mitchell. 

Seniors 
continued from page 24 
“[This season has been] frustrating,” he said. “With so much returning experience from last season, I expected more out of our players in terms of quality play and con­sistency.” 
Whereas the problem early on was scoring goals, lately the Belles have struggled to keep their opponents off the scoreboard. 
“We have fallen behind early in matches and created too big of a deficit to come back from,” Crabbe said. “The team has played very hard and competed; however, constantly coming from behind is not easy. The on-field concerns have been mental lapses and moments of little to no con­centration for short periods of time.” 
Senior Katy Durkin leads the Belles with six goals this sea­son. Classmates Micki Hedinger and Colleen Ferguson have added three scores each for a Saint Mary’s team that has two goals in each of their last two match­es. 
Senior Patty Duffy has been solid in net for the Belles recording 86 saves in 15 starts this season. 
Today’s matchup with the Tigers is scheduled to kickoff at 4 p.m. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker@nd.edu 

Welsh 
continued from page 24 
things go their with other games, a final win could clinch a spot in the playoffs. They left little to chance against the Babes, scoring five touchdowns, including an interception freshman Kirsten Groody returned for a touchdown on the final play. 
“It was awesome,” Groody said. “Coming in as a fresh­man, I knew Welsh Family had a history in the playoffs, and this was the first year in a while that we weren’t sure if we would be in them. This was a fun way to end the regular season.” 
The last play was one of many big moves for the Whirlwinds, thanks to their freshman quarterback Vicky Moreno and a large number 
of talented receivers. Moreno proved to be quick on her feet time and time again, whether she was com­pleting a pass or running the ball herself. 
An early touchdown by sophomore Grace 
the first half, moved the ball down the field with a series of quick passes and scored when sophomore Charlotte Seasly caught a touchdown pass 
Johnson got  “We have more fun  w i t h  o n l y  t h r e e  
t h e t e a m g o i n g , a n d f r o m t h a t  that most other teams.”  seconds remaining. T h e Whi rlwin ds did not hesitate to  
p o i n t  f o r - build up  a  strong  
ward, there was no stop­ping them.  Stephanie Wuerdeman Babes captain  l e a d , s c o r i n g a touchdown early in the second half.  
W  e  l  s  h  T h e  d i f f i c u l t i e s  
F  a  m  i  l  y  s t o p p i n g  We l s h  

showed its ability to commu-Family’s offense sum up nicate and work well togeth-Breen-Phillip’s season. er when they gained posses-“We’ve had a rough year sion with only 1:25 left in as we’ve done some rebuild-


Brophy 
continued from page 24 
rounds and no second chances,” coach Susan Holt said. “We needed to come out and play well and we did.” 
Sophomore Becca Huffer and juniors So-Hyun Park and Katie Conway rounded out the scorecard for the Irish, all posting a plus-2 ing following the gradua­tions of our quarterback and some of our receivers,” sen­ior captain Stephanie Wuerdeman said. “We ’re proud to know that though our record isn’t the highest, we have more fun than most other teams.” 
For Welsh Family, they will have to wait for the results this weekend to see who will make the playoffs. Breen Philips will take on Howard Sunday at 3 p.m. at LaBar Field. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu and Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 
that were ranked higher in the Golfstat rankings heading into the Mercedes Benz Championship (No. 11 LSU, No. 9 Ohio State, No. 20 Tulane, No. 32 Furman). Sophomore Becca Huffer led the way, posting a 54-hole score of 223, which was tied for 15th overall. Huffer also had the top score for the Irish in the first and third rounds with a plus -2 and plus -3, 
respectively. 
mark. Three “We needed to come Brophy fol ­strokes ahead lowed Huffer’s 
out and play well and
of the Irish was effort with a
we did.” 
No. 10 224 overall. Tennessee, who The Alamo also won the Invitational 
Susan Holt 
Mercedes Benz ends the fall 
Irish coach
Championship over fall break. In that tourna­ment, the Irish ended in the middle of the pack with a ninth-place finish in a field of 18 teams. Despite being their second-worst fin­ish of the season, the Championship was not much of a disappointment. 
“We didn’t hurt ourselves any. Any team that beat us was ranked ahead of us,” Holt said. “We certainly would have liked to place higher, but as it turns out it, it ended up being a respectable fin­ish.” 
The Irish (No. 48) also placed ahead of four schools season for the 
Irish. After a 
slow start in 
the opening tournament, the Mary Fossum Invitational, the team has bounced back and is making strides toward a top -25 appearance in the spring. With a four-month break before the Central District Invitational on Feb. 22, the Irish will work in their indoor practice facility during the winter. According to Holt, the focus will be on improving the swings and especially the short games. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 

Doubles 
continued from page 24 
they play together the tougher they will be. I think they have a chance to be one of the top teams in the country this year.” 
After failing to clinch an automatic berth that comes with winning the champi­onship, the doubles pair will have to wait and see if they will receive an at-large bid into the National Indoor Tournament next month in New Haven, Conn. 
In singles competition, Frilling took the court for the Irish, reeling off two straight-set victories on her way to the championship final. In the final, she was defeated 6-1, 6-3 by top-ranked Maria Mosolova of Northwestern. 
Despite the setback, Louderback praised the tremendous strides Frilling has made since her freshman cam­paign a year ago. 
“Kristy is playing more of an all-around game and can still play with power,” he said. “She is developing more ways to adjust to different game styles.” 
Last week, Frilling was tapped to represent Team USA at the fourth annual Master’U BNP Paribas tournament in Poitiers, France. Former Irish standout and current Illinois women’s tennis coach Michelle Dasso will coach the three-woman squad during the week-long tournament. 
“It is a great honor for one of three women’s college players to represent the United States and Notre Dame,” Louderback said. “Her doubles ability along with being a very good singles player will be an asset for the US team.” 
Before heading to France, Frilling will lead the Irish into its opening match of the season at the Western Michigan Invitational Nov. 6 in Kalamazoo, Mich. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles battle Bethel on Senior Night 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI and 
BOBBY GRAHAM 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s seniors Lorna Slupczysnki, Liana Rohr and Kathleen Mills will conclude their home careers tonight as the Belles play Albion on Senior Night. 
Slupczynski has been quite the special player for the Belles over her four years. Her senior year has proven to be an display of leadership and talent. Despite the fact that the team has had its ups and downs, she has constant­ly lead the teams in kills and has also served as a coach on the court to the team’s numerous underclassmen. 
She will lead the Belles in their hope for revenge on Albion. The Britons beat Saint Mary’s 3-1 earlier in the season. 
The Belles need to top Albion, as well as win their next two games, in order to finish the conference season at .500. Currently they stand at 5-8 in the MIAA and 10-12 overall. 
The team is currently riding a three-game losing streak, and in order to overcome it, coach Toni Kuschel said they will need to continue working together. 
“[We need] to trust and believe in each other,” Kuschel said. 
Following the Albion match, the Belles will go on the road for their last two MIAA matches of the season. The first, on Friday, is against Kalamazoo College. The Belles downed the Hornets 3­1 on the shoulders of Slupczysnki’s 17 kills earlier this season at home. The MIAA concluder is against Calvin College, who swept the Belles on Oct. 6 on the Dig For the Cure Match. 
Senior Night festivities will begin at 7 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Complex. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu and Bobby Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 
Big Ten first team in 2008. Steinlage carries an .862 
Huskies 
save percentage this season, continued from page 24 surrendering only 0.56 goals against per game. Spartans (9-4-1). Michigan State is also 
“The most important thing looking to avenge a 3-0 loss for our team to do at this at Alumni Field last year, time is to take each game one of only a few stumbles one at a time,” Clark said. for a Spartan team that “[Michigan State] comes up went 13 -5-2 en route to first and that must be where earning a No. 4 seed in the our focus lies. After that we NCAA Tournament. Notre 
c a n  b e g i n  t o  D a m e  h o l d s  
t h i n k  a b o u t  t h e  e d g e  i n  
other games.” T h e I r i s h will take on a  “The most important thing for our team to  the series his­t o r y w i t h a 10-3-5 record  
S p  a  r  t  a  n  do at this time is to  a  g  a  i  n  s  t  
s q u a d has one o f i t s  t h a t each l a s t  take each game one game at a time.”  M i c h i g a n State, outscor­i n g t h e  
three match- S p a rt an s 32 - 
es, holding a 5-2-0 record  Bobby Clark Irish coach  1 3 i n process.  t h e  

in East Lansing this season. The high point of the Michigan State season to this point is certainly the Spartans’ thrilling 1-0 victory over Indiana, several days before the Hoosiers dismantled Notre Dame in a 3-0 loss at home. 
“This is a big inter-region­al game and [Michigan State] is a very solid team,” Clark said. “Any side that can go to Bloomington and beat Indiana deserves a lot of respect. They also looked very good on Sunday when I watched them beat Michigan.” 
The Irish will have to keep the pressure on Spartan junior goalkeeper Avery Steinlage, who led the NCAA in save percentage (.925) and was named to the All-For the 
Irish, the 
match is a chance to build their NCAA Tournament resume. Notre Dame has bounced in and out of the polls throughout the season, and a win against a solid non-confer­ence opponent would cer­tainly help the Irish chances at an NCAA Tournament bid. 
“[Michigan State] is a big game for us as we need all the wins we can get to make sure we get into the 48 teams that make the NCAAs,” Clark said. “We have not beaten them in our last two visits to East Lansing, so we will be ready to start setting the record straight in our favor.” 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THE MOBILE PARTY UNIT 
THE MOBILE PARTY 


 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 
Wednesday, October 28, 2009 page 24 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Two by Second 
ND runners-up twice at Midwest Regionals 
By ALEX BARKER 
Asisstant Sports Editor 
Sophomore Kristy Frilling and senior Kali Krisik repre­sented the Irish at the Midwest Regional championships this past weekend in Evanston, Ill. The duo claimed runner-up fin­ishes in both the doubles and singles competitions. 
The 15th-ranked doubles tandem coasted into the finals behind 8-2 and 8-0 victories before falling 8-6 in the cham­pionship match to DePaul Monday morning. The loss ends Notre Dame’s bid for a 
fifth  consecutive  Midwest  
Regional  Doubles  
Championship.  

“Kristy and Kali have had a very good fall,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. “The more 
IAN GAVLICK/The Observer 
Irish sophomore Kristy Frilling returns the ball during Notre Dame’s 4-1 victory over Michigan see DOUBLES/page 22 in the second round of last year’s NCAA tournament on May 9. 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF 
Irish finish fall strong in Texas 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame saved its best for last, finishing its fall schedule with a tie for second in its final tournament of the fall at the rain -shortened Alamo Invitational in San Antonio. 
Senior Annie Brophy earned co-medalist honors with an impressive two under par score. The first and sec­ond rounds of the Invitational were cancelled due to heavy rain Monday, so the entire tournament was compressed to one round on Tuesday. 
“I think [the one-round for­mat] puts more pressure on you because you know this is it because there are no other 
see BROPHY/page 21 
WOMEN’S INTERHALL 
Howard defeats Farley 18-6 in battle of unbeaten teams 
“Our receivers started with four consecutive wins, Caity Shepherd said. “Things well, especially on our 
By ANDREW OWENS and 
catching the ball after having but they were determined to will be better after a week of zones,” Shepherd said. “We 
MEGAN FINNERAN 
a lot of first half drops,” keep their undefeated season practice.” had some breakdowns there 
Sports Writers 
Bishop said. “They got their alive. They will try to make it The Finest allowed only six tonight. We’re going to work hands on the ball, and that six in a row Sunday when points in the first half and on getting an offensive 
In a potential playoff helped.” they play Lewis. entered halftime tied with the rhythm.” 
matchup of previously The passing game has pow-The loss marked the first of Ducks. 
unbeaten teams, Howard (5-ered the Howard offense all the season for Farley. Some of However, the offense could Welsh Family 34, 
0) used a strong aerial attack season. Bishop has consis-their miscues can be attrib-not consistently move the ball Breen-Phillips 0 and a suffocating defense to tently found targets in junior uted to the long layoff since in the second half and the win 18-6 over Farley (3-1-1). Kaitlin Robinson and fresh-their last game. defense allowed two scores. Welsh Family (3-3) did all it 
Junior quarterback Kayla man Laura Coletti. The trio The Finest had a bye week Farley will face winless could to continue its season Bishop picked apart the has led the way as the Ducks and then fall break before Breen-Phillips Sunday as they after a 34-0 rout of Breen-Farley defense and led the have averaged more than 20 facing Howard. attempt to start a new win-Phillips (0-5) Tuesday night. Ducks on three scoring points per game this season. “We haven’t been able to ning streak. Monday night the drives. Two second -half Howard was guaranteed to practice a lot lately, so I don’t “We ’re going to get our Whirlwinds determined that if touchdowns sealed the deal have a high seed in the play-think it went as well as it offense going and on defense for the Ducks. offs after starting the season should have,” senior captain we are going to work hard as see WELSH/page 21 
MEN’S SOCCER 
Division crown in reach this week 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will conclude a three-game road trip today when the Irish travel to East Lansing to take on Michigan State at Old College Field at 3 p.m. 
The non-conference match will be the last road game of the regular season for Notre Dame (9-6-1), who will finish their regular season slate this Friday with a match against Big East rival Connecticut. 
Although the Irish have a chance to win a division crown with a win over the Huskies, ninth -year Irish coach Bobby Clark is certain­ly not looking past the 
see HUSKIES/page 22 

SMC SOCCER 
Belles hope for best in last match 
By ALEX BARKER 
Asisstant Sports Editor 
The Belles will take the field with nothing but pride at stake when they travel to face Olivet in their final reg­ular match of the season today in Bourbonnais, Ill. 
Saint Mary’s (4-13-1, 1-6 MIAA) has dropped five straight conference matches, putting them in seventh place in the MIAA standings. Only the top six teams quali­fy for the post-season tour­nament. 
“This is the last college game for our nine seniors,” coach Ryan Crabbe said. “For the team, I am looking for them to come out and play organized and focused and end the season with a positive result. I believe it would be good for our pro­gram and seniors to end on a high note.” 
The conference season was unkind to the Belles who managed their lone victory at home against winless Trine. Although his team doubled their season win total of two from last season, Crabbe had higher expecta­tions for his veteran squad. 
see SENIORS/page 21 




