
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 43: ISSUE 128 THURSDAY, APRIL 23.2009 
Jenkins to meet Obama invite supporters 
Fifteen leaders from student groups to meet with University president and present letter, petition 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 
Fifteen students, repre­senting over twenty student groups, are scheduled to meet with University President Fr. John Jenkins at 
3:30 p.m. today to present a petition and letter in support of his invitation to President Barack Obama to speak at Commencement on May 17. 
A student involved in organizing the meeting, College Democrats President Henry Vasquez, said that the Progressive Leadership Council, which is composed 
STUDENT SENATE 

Schmidt presents agenda 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
Student body president Grant Schmidt discussed his agenda for the 2009-2010 term during his first State of the Student Union to the Student Senate Wednesday evening. 
Before laying out his agenda, Schmidt took time to address the controversy that has been fueled by President Obama's invitation to speak at Commencement. 
lie urged senators to listen to the discussion so they can assess the situation. 
"This issue is going to go way beyond May 17th," Schmidt said. "Therefore, as your student body president, I encourage you to recognize that to many, the pres­ent controversy deeply conflicts with what they've been taught and what they believe and what they know, but I also encourage you to rPcognize that for others many see the issue in a difl"erent light and are encouraged by the decision." 
Following in the footsteps of his predecessor, Bob Reish, Schmidt said he will continue to work to improve relations with the South Bend community. 
"I promise that we will do our part to continue in educating the student body of our rights but also of how to best establish a relationship with the city and how to ultimately understand the culture in which we live in," he 

see SENATE/page 4 of leaders of progressive campus clubs, got over twen­ty student clubs to sign the letter supporting the invita­tion. 
"It's mostly a symbolic ges­ture of support," Vasquez said. He and senior Michael Angulo gathered the support of the clubs -including the Progressive Student Alliance, College Democrats, Feminist Voice, the Notre Dame NAACP chapter, Students for Environmental Action and the Black Cultural Arts Council (BCAC). 
The letter states: "As Notre Dame students, we strive to be a concerned community that recognizes the complex­ity of the many issues that face our nation and our world. We respect diverse viewpoints on issues and we also believe in concerned and genuine dialogue." 
The letter also states that as "students concerned with the issues of social justice," the supporters look forward to hosting Obama and "con­tinuing our University's mis­sion to 'create a sense of human solidarity and con­cern for the common good that will bear fruit as learn­ing becomes service to jus­tice,"' citing the University mission statement. 
A petition -started by BCAC -gathered signatures from students, faculty and outside supporters over sev­eral weeks. 
Khai Thomas, incoming president of BCAC, said not only are there many student supporters, "there is avid support among people out­side the community for this petition." 
Thomas said his group decided to try to meet with Jenkins in order to present the petition personally. 
He said Jenkins' office was receptive to their request to 
see MEETING/page 8 

Gender Studies marks 20 years 
Department hosts reception;faculty members reflect on program's history 
By AMANDA GRAY News Writer 
Started in 1989 -17 years after women gained admittance to the University Notre Dame's Gender Studies program will celebrate its second decade this week­end with events beginning Thursday. 
"Gender Studies has made Notre Dame a wel­coming place for hundreds of students and faculty over the past 20 years," Director of Gender Studies Eileen Hunt Botting said. 
see GENDER/page 8 



Profs. talk Obama decision 
By ANN-MARIE WOODS News Writer 
Continuing the discussion over President Barack Obama's invitation to be Commencement speaker, the third installment of the Orestes Brownson Council lecture series addressed the role of Notre Dame students and American Catholics in the nation's political envi­ronment in LaFortune on Wednesday night. 
Professor of Law Rick Garnett said the Church and state are impossible to dis­entangle when it comes to our beliefs. 
"Religion will matter to us and will effect what we believe," Garnett said. "Religion and politics always 
see 0 BAMA/ page 9 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
D'Arcy disputes Jenkins' argument 
Interpretations of USCCB statement cause ofdisagreement 
By AARON STEINER News Writer 
Local Bishop John D'Arcy released a statement Wednesday critical of University President John Jenkins' argument that Notre Dame has not violated a state­ment made by U.S. bishops, saying the University has com­mitted a "terrible breach" by inviting pro-choice President Barack Obama to speak at Commencement. 
A line from "Catholics in Political Life," a statement released by the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB) in 2004, states: "Catholic institutions should not honor those who act -in defiance of our fundamental moral principles. They should not be given awards, honors or platforms which would sug­gest support for their actions." 
Some critics of the 
see D'ARCY/page 4 

·Pedestrian struck by carTuesday 
Observer Staff Report 
A car struck a pedestrian late Tuesday night on Notre Dame's campus, said Dave Chapman, assistant director of the Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP). 
Chapman said the accident took place on Stepan Road, "near where old Juniper Road used to intersect with Stepan Drive." 
The victim had been walking on campus, he said. 
An EMS unit was sent to the University at 10:18 p.m., according to a WSBT report. 
Chapman confirmed the victim was treated at a local hospital, but he said he could not commenl on the extent of the injuries. 
Because of privacy issues, Chapman said he cannot say whether the victim is a say of the University. 
INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER University hosts Earth Day rally page 3 • Irish tennis captain Kelcey Tefft feature page 24 • Viewpoint page 10 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, April 23, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Nuggets 

of vvisdont 
As I circled the Michigan Street Wendy's for the third time, I final­ly spotted the miniscule window in which I was supposed to pay for my order. The teller gave me a funny look, but 
made change for Michael Blasco 
my five-spot. She handed me a greasy bag and a Sports large drink. Production 
Large drink? I 
Editor 
didn't order a large drink. I ordered a small iced tea. 
Nevertheless, I pulled away from the teller window and turned 
south onto Michigan. I took a sip of my drink. Yech. Coke. I haven't had a Coke in years, much less 44 oz. worth. Poking through the bag, I took stock of my order. Fries? Nuggets? Then it dawned on me. While I was circling Wendy's, someone had obviously paid for and driven away with my order, and I was driving away with his. 
I couldn't be more delighted. 
Despite the disappointment of not getting my couple of burgers, I had the chance to probe the mind of a complete and utter stranger. Each bite, each plunge into the unknown would illuminate the soul of a man or woman I would never lay eyes on. 
I've always thought that some­one's choice of junk food said a lot about his personality-what he finds comfortable, whether he kept healthy, if he was safe and sensible or liked to probe the lim­its of gastronomic safety. People order junk food without thought of anything except taste and their own sense of contentment. They tend to order the exact same thing every time or at least return to comfortable ground if they don't. 
Some people keep it classic and come back time after time to burg­ers and fries. Some like to remind themselves of home with a heap­ing plate of eggs and hash browns. Junk food is, well, the real chicken soup for the soul. When you're hungover and your head is throb­bing, you head for a big plate of greasy what-have-you. When you're burned out after studying all night, you head to Taco Bell. 
So, I had in my hands a golden opportunity to sample the mind of someone else through his choice of junk food. Large drink, fries, nuggets, and a dollar-menu chick­en sandwich? Probably not a health nut. Considering it was just past 7 p.m., maybe he's a guy who just finished up a long day and wanted something hearty and heavy as he headed home. Maybe he was trying to fill up before a graveyard shift, or maybe it was a guy who pulled off the Toll Road for a meal. 
Next time you're sitting at Steak n Shake at 4 a.m., take a look at

l 
what people around you are eat­
ing. It says just as much about 
their personality as the fact that 

r they're eating at Steak n Shake at 
I 4 a.m. 
i 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: How WOULD YOU GRADE PRESIDENT 0BAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS IN OFFICE? 







Ashley Ahn  Kyle Cheng  Seth Sutton  Allie Hamman  Brian Powers  
senior McGlinn  sophomore O'Neill  junior O'Neill  freshman McGlinn  freshman Keough  
"B. But I'm a full supporter of his speaking at MY graduation."  "Not what I expected; he's focusing too much on foreign policy and not enough on the  "F. Where's my change?"  "He fulfilled at least one promise so far: he got a dog. "  "Better than Bush's first IOO.  
economy.  

Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

Bra deflects bullet, saves woman from serious injury 
DETROIT-A 57 -year-old Detroit woman avoided serious injury when the underwire on her bra deflected a bullet shot at her from next door, police said. 
The woman, who lives on the West side of Detroit, saw a group of men break­ing into a neighbour's house on Tuesday morning. When the men spotted her, one of them fired a shot at her, a police spokesman said. 
The bullet struck the underwire on the woman's bra and that saved her from a more serious injury, police said. 
"It did slow the bullet down," said Detroit police spokesman Phillip Cook. "She sustained injuries but they're not life threaten­ing." 
The woman, who was not identified, was treated at a nearby hospital. The sus­pects in the shooting drove away. 
Postal worker accused of stealing break up book 
PITTSBURGH A Pittsburgh postal worker faces up to 10 years in prison if she's convicted of stealing two items of dubi­ous value from the mail: $25, and a book on a woman's perspective of breaking up with men. 

Kathleen Evans, 49, has an unlisted number and court records don't list an attorney for her since she was indicted by a grand jury on Tuesday. 
Postal inspectors said Evans stole the money from a greeting card. The book she allegedly stole from a package is called "It's Called a Breakup Because It's Broken." The book offers advice to women who have just ended relationships. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 

Professor Christine Stansell, a leading historian of American Women will give a lecture titled "Matrophobia and the Women's Movement: General Tensions in Feminism, 1968-2008" today at 4 p.m. at the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. A Reception will precede the event at. 3 p.m. 
Harmonia. Notre Dame's only all female a cappella group will host their Spring Concert on today 7:30p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Tickets are $5 at the door. 
There will be a Tag-Team Poetry Reading Extravaganza today at 7:30 p.m. in the Hammes Bookstore. The public is invited to enjoy the diversity of poetry from six dilTerent mem­bers of the creative writing pro­gram's faculty, emeriti and MFA students. 
RecSports will be hosting "ND Bike Fest" on Friday from noon to 7:30 p.m. on South Quad. Anyone is welcome to come to register their bike, get a free tune up, learn safety skills, join a bike club and participate in a ride. Free food will also be available. 
The Department of Music will present "Spring Gala Concert: Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra and Notre Dame Glee Club" on Saturday at 8:00 p.m. at the Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The program will include George Gershwin's An American in Paris, music from operas by Mozart, Beethoven, Weber, and Wagner and selections from West Side Story. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 
a:: 
1.&.1 
::z::: 
!;;: 
1.&.1 
3: 





0,,,,,,,_. 
,,,,,,,
c( (,) 

...I 0 
HIGH 70 HIGH 61 
HIGH 80 HIGH 82 HIGH 78 HIGH 67 LOW 55 LOW 52 LOW 57 LOW 53 LOW 50 LOW 53 
Atlanta 67 141 Boston 58 I 48 Chicago 55 I 37 Denver 77 I 44 Houston 83 I 60 Los Angeles 69 I 58 Minneapolis 62 I 38 New York 57 I 48 Philadelphia 61 I 48 Phoenix 100 I 69 Seattle 57 I 46 St. Louis 72 I 45 Tampa 81 I 59 Washington 61 I 47 
Thursday, April 23, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
University celebrates Earth Daywith rally 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL News Writer 
More than 10 student groups and off-campus organ­izations converged for an Earth Day rally sponsored by Students for Environmental Action (SEA) at the Fieldhouse Mall Wednesday. 
"You hear so much about energy and the Earth, so this is a hopeful event where peo­ple who care about the Earth can come together," senior 
• SEA co-president Ann Kelley said. SEA set up a table at the rally offering buttons, mini frisbees, stickers and reusable bags to students. Another table displayed photography from SEA's wildlife photo con­test, which McCabe said rep­resented submissions from 20 Notre Dame students. As students walked by the rally, SEA co-president Collin McCabe said he was happy to see that many of them stopped to talk to the various groups present. "The goal of the Earth Day rally is partly a celebration of the Earth," he said. "It's more an awareness of environmen­talism on campus and how [students] can get involved on and off campus and how they can do their part." 
GreeNO, another student group, displayed information about recycling and gave out free bagels. Students repre­senting the Office of Sustainability sold Energy week t-shirts, and a hybrid motorcycle constructed by Notre Dame engineers was on display. 
Several organizations from the South Bend community were also present at the rally. 
Vendors Just Goods and Ten Thousand Villages sold envi­ronmentally and socially con­scious clothing and other goods. 
Kelley said these organiza­tions provide an opportunity for students to learn and get involved. 
"We're engaging groups within the community but also on-campus groups," she said. "Students can pick up a pam­phlet and know that these action groups are here if they want to get involved." 
McCabe said the Earth Day rally has expanded from last year to include more groups. 
"We have some different things," he said. "I feel like we've grown a little." 
SEA also offered informa­tion about compost to show students that it is even possi­ble to create a small compost box in a dorm room, McCabe said. 
Representatives from the local branch of the Audubon Society, the Alaska Wildlife Coalition and the Hoosier Environmental Council offered pamphlets and information about their organizations. 
A vendor from the South Bend Farmer's Market also offered free samples of cook­ies to students. 
As part of Earth Week, SEA is also sponsoring a film festi­val Thursday night and partic­ipating in a bike festival on South Quad Friday. 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lrnccryst@nd.edu 

Ambassador discusses U.S. relations 
By ROBERT SINGER 
News Writer 

With new administrations installed on each side of the Pacific, Australia and the United States will continue to cooperate on key econom­ic issues while ramping up mutual efforts to combat cli­mate change, said Dennis Richardson, Australian ambassador to the United States, Wednesday in the Mendoza College of Business. 
Richardson began his lec­ture on "U.S.-Australia Relations and Highlights of the Country's Green Initiatives" by describing how the transitions of politi­cal power in the two coun­tries have influenced policy on climate change. 
"Our election in 2007 was the first election we'd had in Australia -in fact, the first one in the world -where climate change was a central part of the policy debate," he said. "Over the last several years we've had a series of rolling droughts. People nor­mally think of droughts as affecting farmers. It's one thing when farmers are com­plaining about the lack of waters. It's another thing when city folk can't wash their cars." 
The sting of Australia's droughts served as a wake­up call to begin more aggressive action to slow down climate change, Richardson said. 
"The drought was seen by 
Australia  as  Hurricane  
Katrina  was  seen  by  
Americans  - as  sympto­ 

matic of something that was much greater," he said. 
Since President Barack Obama began his term in January, Richardson said he has noticed an increased effort on the part of the United States government to cooperate with Australia to lower carbon emissions. 
"I went to see Lisa Jackson, who's the head of the EPA, and I mentioned to Lisa, 'I've been in my job almost 30 years, and this is the first time I've been inside the EPA,"' Richardson 
said. "It's only been since the 20th of January that's there's been a government in Washington and a govern­ment in Australia that have a com­mon philo­sophical start­ing point on these issues." 
Part of this shared focus, Richardson said, is the belief that cli­mate change efforts cannot be postponed, 

"Essentially our government is taking the same line as Obama -you can't allow the financial crisis to get in the way of solving a fundamental prob­lem. So we must start making the economy less carbon based., 
Dennis Richardson Australian Ambassador 
even as much of the world's economy slips further into a downturn. 
"With the economic down­turn, there's a big public debate," he said. "Essentially our government is taking the same line as Obama -you can't allow the financial cri­sis to get in the way of solv­ing a fundamental problem. So we must start making the economy less carbon based." 
Australia's economy hasn't suffered for the same rea­sons as the United States, but its export industries have nonetheless been hit by decreased foreign demand and the country will soon be in a recession, Richardson said. 
"Our banks are in pretty good shape. Our finance sys­tem is in pretty good shape," he said. "Less than 1 percent of our housing loans were subprime, compared to 15 percent of yours. Our banks are reasonably well capital­ized. But because we are an 
open economy, we trade 20 to 25 percent of our GOP. So we are very much affected by the world crisis." 
Richardson also described his country's interests from the perspective of the global economy, focusing on the fact that Japan or China are regularly Australia's largest trading partners, while the United States is its 

eighth-largest source of for­eign investment. 
"There is an issue is strat­egy in the transpacific rela­tions between the United States, China, Japan and India," he said. "Those rela­tionships are fundamentally important to Australia, because the nature of those relations determine the political-strategic environ­ment in which we live." 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 

Cheese & Cracker Reception 3:00-4:15 PM, LaFortune Student Center 
Meet Merlin 


Crossingham 
Key animator on ~~Chicken Run': "Morph': and ~~wallace &Gromit: Curse of the Were-Rabbit" from Aardman Animations! 
Thursday, April 23, 2009 
FILM -Aardman Animations: A Brief History Sponsored by the Nanovic Institute Film Series 
6:30 &9:30 PM, Browning Cinema, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
featuring the latest Wallace and Gromit film 
and Death 
Tickets: $6, $5 faculty/staff, $4 senior citizens, and $3 all students. Call574-631-2800 or visit performingarts.nd.edu 
"JP* ~~~~~~r~ 
. 10ie. 'WM..Wt..-\N HUVtH 
STUDENT SENATE 

BookISBNdatabase maybe established 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 

Student senate discussed the Online Syllabus and ISBN data­bases at their meeting on Wednesday evening. 
Student body vice president Cynthia Weber said that while it will take a long time to establish, both processes are on their way. 
"Both of these initiatives hinge on professors," she said. "They will require lots of administra­tive work." 
The ISBN database was one of the top four initiatives in the Schmidt-Weber campaign plat­form. 
"The ISBN database is an idea to provide convenient, afford­able options," said Weber. 
Keough Senator Marc Anthony Rosa, suggested looking to see if there was some sort of faculty list serve that could be used. 
"We could send them an e­mail first explaining our initia­tive, then send another out with a link for where to post the numbers," he said. 
Knott senator Andrew Bell emphasized the importance of the ISBN database project. He said that it would help the stu­dent body a great deal. 
"This should be a priority," he said. "I think that this will great­ly benefit us a lot and we should get student pressure on teach­ers." 
Weber said there is no way of getting the ISBN numbers through the Notre Dame Hammes Bookstore because it would be unprofitable for them to release the data. 
The bookstore is owned by the university, but is leased out to the Follett Corporation. According to Pollet's website, the corporation is the countries larges operator of college book­stores. 
Notre Dame and Follet have a financial relationship estab­lished where both the university and the company receive a por­tion of the revenue generated from the sale of books. 
For this reason, Weber said, it would also be unprofitable for the university to release the ISBN numbers. 
CEA Ryan Brellenthan said he hopes to have the Online Syllabus Database and possibly the ISBN numbers incorporated into the class search tool. 
Weber said the next step in the process is to continue work­ing over the summer on the ISBN and Online Syllabus data­bases. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 23, 2009 

A NOTRE DAME WITNESS TO LIFE: 




WILLIAM MCGURN 
-Notre Dame Class of 1980 -Former chief speech writer for George W. Bush ~~~@ -Columnist for The Wallstreet Journal 
Exploring the ways in which the University of Notre Dame is of special significance for the pro-life cause globally. 
D'Arcy 
continued from page 1 
University's decision have ref­erenced the document in public statements. 
But Jenkins wrote in a letter to University Trustees earlier this month that administrators have "tried to follow both the letter and the spirit" of the document's recommendations. 
The letter, which has been circulated on the internet, was "private correspondence" between Jenkins and the Trustees, University spokesman Dennis Brown said. Brown confirmed the content of the letter as coming from Jenkins' office. 
The letter from Jenkins states: "Because the title of the document is 'Catholics in Political Life,' we understood this to refer to honoring Catholics whose actions are not in accord with our moral prin­ciples. This interpretation was supported by canon lawyers we consulted, who advised us that, by definition, only Catholics who implicitly recognize the authority of Church teaching can act in 'defiance' of it." 

Jenkins also wrote that he consulted with other university presidents, whose bishops have come to the same interpreta­tion. 
D'Arcy's statement Wednesday was a summary of points he included in an April 15 letter to Jenkins, he wrote. 
D'Arcy said in the statement that the meaning of the sen­tence in the document is clear, and the University's interpreta­tion was wrong. 
He also said Jenkins should have consulted with him if there were questions about the document's interpretation. 
"The failure to consult the local bishop who, whatever his unworthiness, is the teacher and lawgiver in the diocese, is a serious mistake," D' Arcy wrote. 
Sr. Mary Ann Walsh, a spokeswoman for the USCCB, told The Observer Wednesday that the interpretation of the line in question is "up to the local bishop," stating that interpretation of any USCCB statement falls to diocesan bishops. 
Walsh said the statement was written in 2004 by the Task Force on Catholic Bishops and Catholic Politicians. She said the Task Force was dissolved after the statement was released, having been approved for publication by the full body of bishops at a June 2004 meeting. 
"The [task force] was formed in 2004 and it was prompted by the heated public controver­sy over Democratic presidential hopeful John Kerry's church standing in light of his consis­tent support for permissive abortion laws,'' Walsh said. 
"The discussion centered on whether Catholic politicians who take such a stand should take communion," she said. 
The document states, in rela­tion to the controversy that prompted its creation, that decisions to deny a Catholic 
politician communion based on political actions "rest with the individual bishop in accord with the established canonical and pastoral principles." 
The statement also says the bishops will "counsel Catholic public officials that their acting consistently to support abor­tion on demand risks making them cooperators in evil in a public manner." 
Brown said that Jenkins has been in correspondence with D'Arcy about matters related to the Obama invitation, but said they are "private commu­nications." 
"As we always have, we will continually to speak privately with Bishop D' Arcy on this matter,'' Brown said. 
D'Arcy announced in a March 29 statement he would not attend the May 17 Commencement ceremony, writing, "Notre Dame must ask itself, if by this decision it has chosen prestige over truth." 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
said. 
In addition to ensuring the safety and promoting the well­being of Notre Dame students off campus, Schmidt also addressed the University's obligation to the city, saying they must work to ful­fill Notre Dame's role in the com­munity. 
Schmidt addressed several other initiatives that student gov­ernment will work toward during the term. 

On campus, he said the Gender Issues Committee will continue to reevaluate the University's sexual assault policy. 
"The efforts up to his point have been tremendous and we will continue to insure the safety of students on and off campus,'' Schmidt said of the committee. 
Another area of concern Schmidt spoke about was enhancing campus diversity. 
"Comfort is a good thing, but we also need to challenge. our­selves to learn more than we already have," he said. "We will work hard to facilitate opportuni­ties for these questions to be asked and answered." 
After touching on other aspects of his campaign platform, such as the Online Syllabus Database, the ISBN Database and the Global Water Initiative, Schmidt turned to words of encouragement. 
"Tons of good ideas. It's so easy to sit here and talk about them," he said. "Do something about it." 
Turning again to the Obama controversy, Schmidt told mem­bers of Senate to use the heated debate to get the student body excited about other issues. 
"Prove that this isn't an apa­thetic campus," he said. "We are the University of Notre Dame and you better believe that we care about the issues of the past, the issues of the present, and the issues that will affect us in the future." 
In closing, Schmidt encouraged the Senate members to take advantage of their leadership opportunity. 
"Know that you have the opportunity each day until April 1st and beyond to make a tangi­ble impact on this campus," he said. "Make this place your home." 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at edonneO 1 @nd.edu 
THURSDAY APRIL 23RD AT 7:30PM DEBARTOLO 155 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture. For more information, visit http://ethicscenter.nd.edu 

Thursday, April 23, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
South African first lady undecided 
KWANXAMALALA, South Africa -There's little question who will lead South Africa after Wednesday's national election. The real mys­tery lies in who will be the country's first lady. 
As Jacob Zuma, the man preordained to be the country's next president, voted in his rural Zulu homeland Wednesday, one of his two cur­rent wives stood to the side watching patiently as he was mobbed by cheering crowds and reporters. 
But Nompumelelo Ntuli, 34, Zuma's newest and youngest wife, was soon attracting her own crowd of admirers. Women whispered, "Isn't she beautiful!" as Ntuli decked out in an apricot and blue tie-dye outfit beamed happily. 
"Jesus is Lord!" is all she would say in response to questions. 
Pirates sent to Kenyan jail, await bial 
MOMBASA, Kenya -Masked French com­mandos marched a band of barefoot, glum­looking pirate suspects down the gangplank of a naval frigate Wednesday in Mombasa before turning the 11 Somali men over to Kenyan authorities. 
French officials say the suspects will be tried for their alleged April 14 attack on the Liberian cargo ship Safmarine Asia. 
The pirates, who did not smile or speak to reporters as they left the French warship Nivose, appeared to range from in age from 20 to 40. Few wore shoes. They were not hand­cuffed or shackled and were rushed from the ship into a waiting Kenyan police van. 
French officials also handed over the pirates' equipment: two skiffs, three grappling hooks, four rusty assault rifles, two bags of bullets and a ladder. 
The three French commandos wore black balaclavas to conceal their identities. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Man receives death penalty for slaying 
PICKENS, S.C. -A Tennessee man who raped and strangled a South Carolina college student with her own bikini top was sentenced to die Wednesday, hours after he asked a judge to put him to death. 
Jerry Buck Inman, 38, showed no reaction when Circuit Court Judge Edward Miller said he should die for killing Tiffany Marie Souers. Inman then apologized to the slain woman's family, though no relatives were in the court­room. 
'There is no excuse for any of the things I've done. There's nothing I can say that will ease any of the pain I've caused them. I'm just sorry for taking their daughter and their sister away from them," he said. 


Note found for Ala. killing sprees 
DOTHAN, Ala. -The man who killed 10 peo­ple during last month's shooting spree in south Alabama left a letter for relatives, writing that he wanted people to pay for making his mother and him suffer, according to a report published Wednesday. 
In the letter obtained by The Dothan Eagle newspaper, Michael McLendon wrote that he shot his mother to death while she slept, then set fire to the rural home they shared. After leaving the burning house March 10, McLendon went on a 24-mile shooting spree with four guns and more than 200 rounds of ammunition. He killed nine more people, including four other relatives, before committing suicide. 
LOCAL NEWS 

O'Connor believes in merit selection 
SOUTH BEND, Ind.-Retired U.S. Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O'Connor believes merit selection is the best way to choose judges and keep them independent, saying it is hard for judges to remain impartial know­ing their decisions will influence how long they keep their jobs. 
She told a crowd of about 500 people attending a St. Joseph County Bar Association luncheon Wednesday that the money being spent by people running for the judiciary in states that don't have merit selection is caus­ing people to trust judges less. 



Craigslist murder suspect found 
Alleged killer possessed items from victims in his house, collected 'souvenirs' 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -A Boston University medical student accused of robbing women who advertised erotic servic­es on Craigslist, killing one of them, had items belonging to both victims in his apart­ment, a law enforcement official said Wednesday. 
Philip Markoff is charged with killing a masseuse at the Boston Marriott Copley Place hotel, in the historic Back Bay district, on April 
14. He also is charged in the robbery of a woman at another Boston hotel four days earlier. 
A law enforcement official who spoke on the condition of anonymity said police found items belonging to both women in Markoff's apartment in Quincy, south of Boston. The official wasn't authorized to speak about evidence in the investigation. 
The official would not con­firm a report by ABC News that the items seized by police included the victims' underwear. ABC News said two unidentified law enforcement sources said Markoff appeared to be col­lecting underwear as "sou­venirs" from the victims. 
ABC News did not say how Markoff took the underwear, and he has not been accused robbing and tying up anoth­the buffets. But none of the view with Boston television of sexually assaulting either er woman, and police have employees coming and going station WCVB. woman. Prosecutors have said there could be more at a parking garage recalled Prosecutors have not said he went through the victims. seeing Markoff at the casino. released her name. purse of the first woman he's Defense attorney John Casino managers referred The 29-year-old Las Vegas accused of robbing. Salsberg has said Markoff questions to a Foxwoods woman, who also advertised 
Investigators are looking isn't guilty of the charges spokeswoman, who declined as a masseuse on Craigslist, into gambling as the possible and "has his family's sup­to comment, citing the said she was attacked April motivation. The law enforce­port." Markoff's fiancee, "integrity of the investiga­10 at the Westin Copley ment official said Markoff Megan McAllister, insists tion." hotel. was a "frequent visitor" to police have the wrong man. Suffolk District Attorney She said she had identified Foxwoods casino in Foxwoods Resort Casino, Daniel Conley said that he Markoff from the surveil­Connecticut. in Mashantucket, Conn., has believes Markoff's original lance photos police distrib­
Markoff, 23, is accused in confirmed it is cooperating motive was robbery but that uted. She said he was wear­the death of Julissa Brisman, with authorities investigat­he ended up killing Brisman, ing the same clothing and of New York City, a ing Markoff's gambling 26, when she fought back. she recognized his face. masseuse who was found habits. The first woman Markoff The woman said she was dead in the doorway of her Markoff was arrested on is accused of robbing said able to slip out of the plastic hotel room after being Monday on Interstate 95 in she believes she's alive ties she was bound with bashed in the head and shot Massachusetts as he and his because she didn't resist. about a minute after three times. A wake for fiancee drove to Foxwoods. "I just complied with Markoff left and escape. She Brisman was held Business at Foxwoods was everything he wanted me to said she was robbed of $800 Wednesday in Manhattan, brisk Wednesday as gam­do and I didn't resist him in in cash, a debit card and where her parents live. blers played slot machines any way, and I think that's $250 in American Express 
Markoff also is accused of and table games and packed why," she said in an inter-gift cards. 

PAKISTAN 


Taliban strengthens grip on northwest 
Associated Press displaced up to a third of the one-time ful of officials are back in Swat. 
tourist haven's 1.5 million residents. The agreement covers Swat and 
ISLAMABAD -Taliban militants Critics, including in Washington, have other districts in the Malakand Division, have extended their grip in northwest­warned that the valley could become an an area of about 10,000 square miles ern Pakistan, pushing out from a valley officially sanctioned base for allies of al­near the Afghan border and the tribal where the government has agreed to Qaida -and that it may be just the areas where al-Qaida and the Taliban impose Islamic law and patrolling vil­first domino in nuclear-armed Pakistan have strongholds. lages as close as 60 miles from the cap­to fall to the Taliban. The provincial government agreed to ital. "The activities in the Swat do concern impose Islamic law in Malakand, and 
Police and officials appear to have us. We're keeping an eye on it, and are the Taliban agreed to a cease-fire that fled as armed militants also broadcast working daily with the Pakistan mili­has largely held. radio sermons and spread fear in tary," Maj. Gen. Michael S. Tucker told In recent days, the Swat militants Buner district, just 60 miles from Pentagon reporters in a 35-minute have set their sights on Buner, a district Islamabad, officials and witnesses said videoconference call from Afghanistan. just south of the valley, sparking at Wednesday. Supporters of the deal say it will least one major clash with residents. 
Pakistan's president signed off on the allow the government to gradually The moves indicate the militants want peace pact last week in hopes of calm­reassert control by taking away the mil­to expand their presence beyond Swat ing Swat, where some two years of itants' rallying cry for Islamic law. to other parte; of Malakand at the very clashes between the Taliban and secu­Many residents are grateful that a sem­least, under the guise of enforcing rity forces have killed hundreds and blance of peace has returned. A hand-Islamic law. 
page 6 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 23, 2009 

.. ··N· ..
···._·.. .··.·.~~.. -.n·-.·-·.,···.-.. 
. ~ 
. . .



A ..
·~ '' .·, ­
.. . . ·.. ... ··. 
-N ()rf·~·R·· E1 D A· ME.. '\ F.,(). ()'l'i o·.. A a·· 1 
4,_ ' . . . . .L .. ' . . ' . -. • J J 

THE SHIRT 2009: GOLDEN IS THY FAME 
CELEBRATING TWENTY YEARS FIGHTING TO DEFEND OUR HONOR 
In honor ofthe 1wenlieth Anniversary of The Shirt Project, There needs to be an answer to the call of/lise and Strike, 
The Shirt 2009 is gold. Thmughout the design, both the type attd the back of The Shirt 2009 it the amwer lfJ that call. 
and images have been graphically distre1sed, symbolizing The design references a famous third-quarter goal-line 1tand 
the old but enduring legacy ofNotre Dame football created again1t Penn State in the Snow Bowl of 1992, serving as a 
by Notre Damt~'s loyal sons and daughters. tribute to the countless football players who have defended 
the honor ofNotre Dame in yean pmt. 
THE CALL TO RISE AND STIUKE 
Taken from the song, ,.Hike, Notre Oame," Rise and Strike The mes.mge of The Shirt 2009, then, is simple. We -the fans, 
is a call to action. It commands the Notre Dame community student.¥, athletes, and alumni ofNotre Dame -need to rise to rise and strike our opponents, and it demands that we and strike. In Notre [)ame Stadium, on the battleground of fight with force andferocity. These three simple words urge champions, we must strike fear into the hearts ofour oppo­both fans and players to wake up the echoes and shake down nents and drive them from the field. We must show the world the thunder. There is no room for weakne.Ys or doubt in the that we are Notre Dame, that this place is sacred, and that 
Notre Dame community-only maximum effort is acceptable. we will not back down. We never have. We never will. 


THE OBSERVER 

USINESS

Thursday, April 23, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 7,886.57 +82.99 
Up: 2,005  Same: 105  Down: 1,699  Composite Volume: 314,240,417  
AMEX ::P''''T' NASDAQ NYSE S&P 500  ill!:l!!r/;!:!~~~~  ~,()46.12 +2.27 •s~2.9ot61/. ~4.8~98 843.55 -6.53  

NIKKEI (Tokyo) 8,710.56 -16.20 FTSE 100 (London) 4,030.66 +43.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
Bl< OF AMERICA (BAC) -5.71 -0.50 8.26 CITIGROUP INC (C) +0.31 +0.01 3.25 FINANCIAL BULL 3X {FAS) ·9.01 -0.70 7.11 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -0.61 -0.52 84.54 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +2.14 +0.062 2.960 13-WEEK BILL ·3.57 ..0.005 0.135 30-YEAR BOND +2.35 +0.088 3.830 5-YEAR NOTE +2.85 +0.053 1.910 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.30 48.85 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +9.80 892.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.88 82.60 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 97.8350 EURO 1.2994 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2409 BRITISH POUND 1.4462 
IN BRIEF 
Obama calls for "new energy" 
NEWTON, Iowa-President Barack Obama, standing Wednesday in the shell of a once-giant Maytag appliance factory that now houses a wind energy company, declared that a "new era of energy exploration in America" would be a crucial to leading the nation out of an economic crisis. 
With pieces of wind turbine towers as a back­drop, Obama touted the small manufacturing firm as a success and as a step toward reducing the United States' reliance on polluting fuels. But as the president on Earth Day set a goal for wind to generate as much as 20 percent of the 
U.S. electricity demand by 2030, legislation to make that a reality faced a challenge back in Washington in the Democratic-led Congress. 
"The nation that leads the world in creating new energy sources will be the nation that leads the 21st century global economy," Obama said in a state that launched him on the road to the White House with a surprise upset over one­time rival Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
Worry over banks stops market rally NEW YORK -Nagging worries about banks upended a stock market rally Wednesday. 
Volatile financial stocks steered the overall market for the third straight day after Morgan Stanley and credit card issuer Capital One Financial Corp. posted lackluster quarterly report<;. Investors have been worried about ris­ing levels of souring debt on bank balance sheets. 
A late-session drop in banks left Wall Street's major benchmarks mixed. The Dow Jones indus­trial average fell 83 points, while the technology­heavy Nasdaq composite index ended modestly higher ahead of a quarterly report from eBay Inc. 
Banks had tumbled on Monday after Bank of America warned of further loan losses, only to jump back on Tuesday after Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner told Congress that most banks were well-capitalized. 
The jumpy trading in financial shares came just as major companies report first-quarter earnings. Results from AT&T, Boeing and McDonald's contained glimmers of hope about consumer spending and the economy in general. 
GM to close most U.S. plants briefly 
Slump in sales and large inventories could cause a nine-week halt in production 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -General Motors Corp. is planning to temporarily close most of its 
U.S. factories for up to nine weeks this summer because of slumping sales and grow­ing inventories of unsold vehicles, two people briefed on the plan said Wednesday. 
The exact dates of the clo­sures are not known, but both people said they will occur around the normal two-week shutdown in July to change from one model year to the next. Neither person wanted to be identi­fied because workers have not been told of the shut­downs. 
GM spokesman Chris Lee would not comment other than to say the company notifies employees before making any production cuts public. 
One of the people briefed on the plan said a few plants that make more popular models could remain open for part of the shutdown period, but at reduced assembly line speeds. 
Thousands of workers could be laid off but would still get most of their pay because their United Auto Workers union contract requires the company to make up much of the differ­ence between state unem­ployment benefits and their wages. 
GM is living on $13.4 bil­ply of cars and trucks at the their inventories building," on a further decline." lion in government loans end of March, according to he said. "It's sort of an omi­Libby, however, said GM and faces a June 1 deadline Ward's AutolnfoBank. That's nous comment on what they should be applauded for not to cut its debt, reduce labor down from 162 days worth see for the industry." building too many vehicles costs and take other restruc­in January. The company could be and then having to spend turing steps. If it doesn't But as of March 31, the seeing sales decline because big on rebates and other meet the deadline, the com­automaker had a more than of talk about a potential incentives to move them, pany's CEO has said it will six-month supply of several bankruptcy, libby added. something the Detroit Three enter Chapter 11 bankrupt­models including the Pontiac GM CEO Fritz Henderson have been guilty of in the cy protection. GS compact and Chevrolet has said the company would past. 
UAW officials at several Silverado hybrid pickup prefer to restructure outside Some GM dealers said a factories said they have truck. The lengthy shutdown of court, but it is preparing shutdown of up to nine meetings scheduled likely means that GM does­for a prearranged bankrupt­weeks is jarring, but not Thursday and Friday with n't see its sales rebounding cy as well as one in which unexpected given the sales plant managers and GM anytime soon, said Tom good assets would be sepa­slump. human resource officials to Libby, an independent rated from underperforming "Nine weeks seems like an discuss production changes. Detroit-area auto industry ones. awful long time, but the way 
The automaker's sales analyst. "Just using the word business is, not an awful lot were down 49 percent in the "They must be forecasting bankruptcy, their (market) of cars are being sold any­first quarter compared with a sales level that is low share is down a lot just way," said George Tasker, the same period last year, enough between now and because of this talk," Libby fleet manager at Martin and GM had a 123-day sup-the summer that they see said. "They may be counting Chevrolet in Torrance, Calif. 

Freddie Mac CFO found dead in Va. 
the strain of the new job. Some neigh­whether to disclose potential losses on
Associated Press bors said they suggested to mortgage securities tied to the Obama VIENNA, VA. -The chief financial Kellermann should quit to avoid the administration's housing plan, said a officer of Freddie Mac, one of the stress, but Kellermann responded that person familiar with the deliberations mortgage giants at the heart of the he wanted to help the company who was not authorized to discuss the nation's financial meltdown, was through its problems. The neighbors matter publicly. found dead in his basement early did not want to be quoted by name Freddie Mac, which owns or guar­Wednesday morning in what police because they didn't want to upset the antees about 13 million mortgages, said was an apparent suicide. family. has been criticized for financing risky David Kellermann, 41, apparently Kellermann oversaw a staff of about loans that fueled the real estate bub­hanged himself in his suburban 500 at Freddie Mac's McLean, Va., ble and are now defaulting at a record Washington home, said a law enforce­headquarters and was working on the pace. The company lost more than ment official familiar with the investi­company's first-quarter financial $50 billion last year, and the Treasury gation. He asked not to be identified report, due by the end of May. Federal Department has pumped in $45 bil­because the investigation was ongo­regulators closely oversee the compa­lion to keep the company afloat. Last ing. ny's books and sign off on major deci­month, David Moffett, the govern­Kellermann was promoted last sions. ment-appointed chief executive, September when the government That relationship has been tense resigned in frustration over strict seized the mortgage company and and stressful, with Kellermann work­oversight. ousted its top two executives. ing long hours, a colleague said. Kellermann worked for Freddie Mac Neighbors said Kellermann had lost a Freddie Mac executives recently bat­more than 16 years, starting out as a noticeable amount of weight under tled with federal regulators over financial analyst and auditor. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 23, 2009 
Gender 
continued from page 1 
"It has created a safe and inspirational space for dia­logue and discussion of issues pertaining to gender, sexuality and race on this campus." 
A reception will be held Thursday from 3 p.m. to 4 p.m., followed by a lecture by University of Chicago's Christine Stansell on "Matrophobia and the Women's Movement," accord­ing to the Web site. Friday there will be a panel discus­sion from 10 a.m. to noon on "The History and Future of Gender Studies at Notre Dame and beyond." 
To commemorate the 20­year milestone, several of the department's members reflected on the program's history of helping faculty and students in exploring gender and its related topics, like sexuality, social status and ethnicity. 
"When taught 'Introduction to Gender Studies' in the fall, I was struck by the strength of the students' conviction that gen­der is an issue that directly impacts their life here at Notre Dame," academic advi­sor Abigail Palko said. 
Palko said students in the program often express philo­sophical differences, but that they recognize the impor­tance of gender in society. 
"While they didn't all agree on the specific direction it should take, all of my stu­dents seemed to agree on a need for a kind of feminism that would improve gender­related issues for both women and men," she said. 
History professor Gail Bederman said Notre Dame's Catholic affiliation promotes discussion on gender issues, 

Meeting 
continued from page 1 
meet. 
"This is something they wanted to happen, because this doesn't happen very often," Thomas said. He noted that students oftc n request to meet with Jenkins to discuss their concerns ­including those about sus­tainability and labor unions on campus -but students rarely ask to meet to show their support. 
Vasquez said "We consider he too asked to 
ourselves a 
meet with 
concerned
Jenkins to pres­ent the letter community. We they had writ­
understand the 
ten, and 
complexities ofall the 
Jenkins' office suggested he issues going on in our and Thomas' country.,, groups combine their meetings. 
Michael Angulo 
Vasquez said his group senior 
thought it would be good to have a letter "to express some of the ideas that we have ... and to show a contrast to ND Response." 
NO Response is a coalition of 11 student groups that opposes the invitation to Obama. Jenkins recently rescinded a prior invitation to meet with NO Response after its leaders made several spe­cific requests in a reply to his invitation. 
because of the Church's some times-controversial stances. 
"Catholic colleges and uni­versities tend to have more Gender Studies majors than non-Catholic schools, because issues of gender and sexuality are unusually con­troversial at these schools," Bederman said. "Gender pro­grams give Catholic students excellent academic perspec­tives on how to combine their Catholic and secular beliefs." 
Botting connected the University's overall mission with the department's aca­demic goals. 
"Gender Studies is impor­tant for Notre Dame because of the University's Catholic identity and mission," she said. "As a University naHled for Our Lady, we should be concerned with the study of the place of women in socie­ty, and learning how to ele­vate women's status and rights." 
One major change over the last 20 years is the addition of men's rights into Gender Studies, philosophy professor Janet Kourany said. 
When Gender Studies was first popularized, depart­ments examined women's roles in society, since the majority of college curricu­lums focused almost exclu­sively on the role of men, she said. 
"But now that the universi­ty curriculum has become more inclusive of women we have moved beyond the old goal [of women's studies) and our courses and activities in Gender Studies are reflecting the fact that men have their gender issues too, that inter­connect in very interesting and sometimes unanticipated ways with women's issues," Kourany said. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 
Vasquez said it was impor­tant to show that the majority of students support the deci­sion. 
"We know that there's much more support than opposition out there," he said. 
Angulo said Jenkins "might feel isolated. like he made the wrong decision," based on the opposition. He hopes to convey that many students support the decision. 
"There are a lot of !stu­dents] who are more moder­ate, who say, 'I'm pro-life, ... 
but you're not going to get anywhere if you just reject people out of hand," he said. 
Angulo said, however, he is open to dia­logue and even supports those dissenting the University's actions. 
"We're going to be open to dialogue, you can dissent," Angulo said. 
Angulo said the discussions going on around campus are a sign of the concerned nature of Notre Dame stu­dents. 
"We consider ourselves a concerned community," he said. "We understand the complexities of all the issues going on our country." 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 



Please recycle The Observer. 
Thursday, April 23, 2009 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
CONTROVERSIAL TOPICS IN ETHICS: 
LIVING TOGETHER BEFORE MARRIAGE 
CONDOM AND BIRTH CONTROL DISTRIBUTION IN POORER COUNTRIES BABIES RAISED WITHOUT THE CONSTANT PRESENCE OF 
THEIR MOTHERS WHAT ARE THE SCIENTIFIC FACTS BEHIND THESE ISSUES? WANT TO FIND OUT? THE 5th ANNUAL MIDWEST REGIONAL BIOETHICS 
CONFERENCE 
MAY 2, 2009 
University of Notre Dame, Raclin Carmichael Hall, 1234 Notre Dame Avenue, Notre Dame, IN Renowned speakers: Eugene Diamond, M.D., Brian Clowes, Ph.D., 
A. Patrick Schneider, M.D., and Christopher Mcintire, D.O. 
Registration (lunch included): $20 for Students/Clergy, $50 General Public, $75 Physicians: 4 CME credits available 
Online Registration and info at '-'!Y~.w..-illinoiscrT)_f.l.org/sjbc.l!tml 
For more information or mail-in registration, contact: Thomas Zabiega at tzabiega@hotmail.com or tel. (630) 768-4590 
Oba01a 
continued from page 1 
will be connected." 
Garnett explained that people mistakenly take the separation of church and state to mean a total divide of religion and poli­tics. Garnett instead argued that both religious and political voices should have a platform for discussion. 
"If you care about a market­place of ideas, you're only going to get that if you have authen­tic, distinct voices," Garnett said. "Notre Dame has to have the freedom as well as the will­ingness to be different. Wherever you are on this invi­tation, you have to commit to the idea that Notre Dame mat­ters." 
The current controversy, Garnett argued, has shown "there is a remarkable consen­sus that Notre Dame matters." 
"It matters whether you sup­port the invitation or not. To matter, Notre Dame has to stand for something," he said. 
Professor Dan Philpott, asso­ciate professor of political sci­ence, also spoke about on the sanctity of life. 
Acknowledging the present tension at Notre Dame, Philpott said the debate is an important opportunity to advocate for basic human rights central to the Church's position on life. 

"The unborn is the class of human beings whose rights are more violated than any other in society," Philpott said. 
Using the concept of reconcili­ation as an overall theme in his argument, Philpott argued that the pro-life movement should be understood in the context of other social movements, such as the Civil Rights movement and women's liberation. 
"Abortion violates a human right that cannot be overridden by other considerations," Philpott said. "Governments who pass laws [allowing abor­tion) fail in one of the most fun­damental aspects of justice." 
Arguing that abortion repre­sents a loss of human life, Philpott and Garnett empha­sized the personhood of the unborn child as well as the "culture of healing" needed in a society where abortion occurs. 
Both Garnett and Philpott agreed that Notre Dame is a place where this debate should take place. 
"Notre Dame, like all of us, is flawed," Garnett said. "Notre Dame is distinctively Catholic, but we can't take anything for granted. It can't be something that becomes a brand. [The Catholic nature) has to pervade the whole enterprise." 
Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods4@nd.edu 




Mystery college donor strikes again 

Associated Press 
The mystery college donor has struck again -this time at Binghamton University in New York, whose financial aid office phone started ringing off the hook as word of an anonymous $6 million contribution spread across campus. 
Binghamton is the latest of at least a dozen universities to receive donations totaling more than $60 million in recent weeks. The gifts have arrived with the same, highly unusual stipulation: not only must the donor must remain anonymous, but not even the college can know who it is or try to find out. 
The recipient colleges seem to have almost nothing in com­mon except this: so far, all are led by women. 
Binghamton announced the gift Monday, though it said the check came to its foundation office several weeks ago. 
"They said, 'we think you bet­ter come and look at this. We can't tell if we're counting the zeros right," said president Lois DeFleur. The university was instructed to use $4 million on financial aid and $2 million for areas of general need. It will decide how much to spend immediately and how much to put into endowed funds in the coming weeks. 
Gifts arriving in a similar, secretive fashion -ranging from $1 million to $8 million ­have materialized at a diverse list of colleges ranging from smaller liberal arts schools like the University of North Carolina at Asheville to mid-sized insti­tutions like Montclair State in New Jersey to giant universities like Purdue in Indiana. 
All have been public institu­tions except Kalamazoo College in Michigan, which received $1 million with a note similar to the others: "It is hoped that this gift will make a substantial dif­ference to your students during these challenging times enabling a more confident, sharper focus on their studies with improved career and life prospects." 

It's unclear whether the donations are coming from a single individual, but seem clearly related. On Internet dis­cussion boards, speculation on the source has ranged from a humble philanthropist so self­less as to not even claim a tax deduction, to disgraced finan­cier Bernie Madoff or a soon­to-be-divorced businessman trying to unload hidden assets. 
At least one school checked with the IRS and Department of Homeland Security to make sure it was OK to accept. 
Binghamton's experience was similar to the others: a bank executive telephoned and said to expect a cashier's check with a letter explaining how it should be spent. 
DeFleur said the gift was especially appreciated consid­ering how many students are struggling to pay bills with one or both parents out of work. More than half of Binghamton's students get some form of financial aid, and calls quickly started pouring in from stu­dents. 
In-state tuition, fees, and room and board total $17,380 a year, according to the admis­sions page of the university's Web site. Binghamton enrolls 11,515 undergraduates. 
"They wanted to sign up," DeFleur said. "We said, 'we'll have the guidelines out of soon.' That's just an indicator that there is really need. So many students, they want to go to school and they want to go now more than ever, and these are some of the most difficult times." 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, April 23, 2009 
THE OBSERVER Why I love Notre Dame 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Merz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHoTO·EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

AoVERI1SING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
fAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmerz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinU@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs@nd,edu 
SceNE DeSK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO I @saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OssERVERONLIN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right w refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor musr be signed and must include contact information. 
~tions regarding Observerpolicies should bt directui ta Edif()r-in-Chiefjenn Mttz. 
PosT OFFICE INFORMATION 

The~ (USPS 599 2-4000) ;. publim<d Morul.y duough Friday =qx during exam and vaa1ion periods._ ASHbsaiprion to lbc Obser.<er is $.120 For one academic: yeat"~ $65 fur one semesctt. 
The Observer is published :rn POSTMASTER G24 Soudt Oining H111ll Sc:ttd~rd:S:COI'n;:Ctio.llst0: Nom, D.mc, IN 46~56-<>77, Th<Obwvc, Pertodtcal pO!Qge paid :at Nolf"e Dame P.o.Brncm and additional mailing offic.c::s. 024 Souol> Dimng Hall 
Notn: Oamc.lN 46'S6-0779 
~~U; a mcJA~~ ~.Awtxi;uc:d P~Afl ~produc;:rioo righrs nr =m:<\. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Robert Singer Michael Blasco Irena Zajickova Matt Cramber Amanda Gray Chris Masoud Graphics Scene Andrea Archer Alexandra Viewpoint Kilpatrick Patricia Fernandez 
Josie Jeffries is the reason I love Notrn Dame. 
For three years, I've worked in the Office of Undergraduate Admissions, and Josie's sat beside me. Josie's worked in the office for a long time. Back in the day, Josie ran the show but today, she does more administrative work -mailings, clerical work, whatever needs to be done to ensure the office runs as smoothly as she's used to seeing it. 
That's not why I love Josie, though. I love Josie because whenever I walk into work, she smiles, stands up from her chair, and hugs me. It's the sort of hug where she lingers for a few seconds and squeezes you a little tighter at the end, to let you know that she really means it. She always, always beams, as if your arrival made her day. She doesn't need to say it-you know that she loves to be part of the office. She loves what she's doing. And everyone who works in that office is happier because of it. 
Barring a sudden, depressing turn in my life prospects, this is my last column in The Observer. Forgive my sentimentality. 
This isn't a perfect place. Far from it. We're stricter on our women than our men. We go out of our way to reserve the ability to discriminate against someone who has had gay sex. We lose football games to Syracuse. 
But I chose Notre Dame four years ago because, unlike other places I visited, just about everybody on this campus loves being here. You can feel it from the moment you step on campus. 

The academics are a given. Even the emphasis on social justice is a given. It's the people that make this place what it is, and the people who have taught me the most enduring lessons of Notre Dame. 
People here love to bn a part of this place, and love what they're doing for it. 
I've seen it in profi~ssors like Jim McKenna, whose Last Lecture inspired this column and who teaches with such passion that eaeh year, he gets hundreds of 22­year-old boys interested in the merits or breastfeeding and mother-infant co-sleep­ing. It's Bill Krier, whose English class inevitably turned into a series of llie les­sons, a<> if he couldn't sleep at night with­out challenging us to think about how we ought to live our lives. It's Susan Ohmer, Valerie Sayers, John McGreevy, Collin Meissner, Fr. Paul Kollman, Bob Schmuhl, Jack Colwell, Tom Kellenberg, Paul Weithman, Jon Coleman and countless oth­ers who I haven't had the privilege of tak­ing. 
Of course, what unites them is their pas­sion for their subject. But it's also a pa<>sion for the process of teaching. They love to share engage students. They love to teach. And because of that, they teach well. My education is better because they do what they love and everybody knows it. 
It's staff like Charlotte, who swipes eards in North Dining Hall and takes the extra time to read the name on my ID and tell me to "Have a great dinner, Andrew." It's my usher in Notre Dame Stadium, Captain George, who couldn't help but cheer with a bunch of not-quite-sober Domers dancing a jig in the pouring rain during the Michigan game. And it's that guy in CoMo -whose name I don't even know, but who has made, scooped and served me perfect­ly salted popcorn in CoMo for four years while I'm busy wrestling with a column. I can't imagine Notre Dame without them. 

This is what I love about Notre Dame, and have since the first day I stepped on campus. Every step of the way, we are sur­rounded by people who want to be a part of Notre Dame. They want to be part of our mission. They want to be part of something bigger than themselves that serves the greater good. And the way they do that­from Professor McKenna to Josie Jeffires -is by being pa<>sionate about their work and, in doing so, cheering up those around them. They do what they love -teaeh, work, and serve -to the end of being deeply ingrained in a community. 
That's what I want to do. That's what I want to be like. I don't know where I'll find that, or even if I'll find that. But thanks to these people -the people who defme Notre Dame-I know what I'm looking for: Something that I can't help but enjoy, and something that I can't help but love. 
Mawkish and trite? Yes. 
But true, too. 
Andrew Nesi is a senior American Studies major from Fairfield. Conn. Sophomore year, his lung collapsed, possi­bly as the result ofa bad case ofmono and an ill-timed breakup. He doesn't have a job yet for next year, so ifanybody has any suggestions, please contact him. He can be reached at anesi@nd.edu or followed on Twitter @andrewnesi. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 
Do you like "The Shirt" this year? 
Yes 
No 
Undecided 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"It's hard to take over the world 
when you sleep 20 hours a day.. " 
Darby Conley 
U.S. cartoonist 



THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
page 11 

You'll be glad you did 
Editor's note: This Faithpointjirst appeared in the March 16, 2005 edition of The Observer. 
I had one of those "don't put off till tomor­
row ... " moments last  
week. My father  Katie Barret  
called last Thursday  
and told me that my grandmother (his  Faithpoint  
mother) would prob­ 
ably not live much  

longer. "She won't recognize you or even know you're there," he told me, "but ifyou want to come for yourself, you should." 
I went the next day, on Friday, and she died on Saturday, at 92. My dad was right; she didn't recognize me, and I doubt she knew I was there, even though she did blink a little at one point when I prayed a Hail Mary right in her ear. I did go for myself. and it's a day I won't forget, in part because I sat with my grandmother on the day before she died, but mostly because I got to sit there with my dad. 
My grandmother, I should note, was a complex and difficult woman. We never seemed to please her quite enough, though I think that may have been the only way she knew how to love us-believing us to have the potential for just a bit more than what we were showing her. As it turned out, her own life never seemed to please her quite well enough either, even ifto others it would appear she and my grandfather had achieved every material success. After my grandfather's death, she became more and more adept at re-inventing her own life story, adding more imagined money, travel and prestige every time she told a new audience her constantly improving autobi­ography. 
My mom and dad had cared for her for the last 15 years, since my grandfather's death, guiding her from a relatively inde­pendent life through the gradual loss of her abilities and her freedom into the world of the nursing home. She did not make these changes gracefully or willingly, and my dad, an only child, bore the brunt of her ongoing anger, frustration and loneliness. 
Over the course of about three quiet hours, I sat with my dad last Friday in her room. Ifit's true that we learn how to take care of our own ailing parents by watching the way they took care of theirs, then I have learned how to be a hero from my dad. He made the three-hour round trip to see her, first once a week, and in more recent years and months two or three times a week or more, even though he knew that he might be greeted by a torrent of complaints, frosty silence or a list of imagined affronts. As she grew more frail, she finally seemed to rec­ognize a love and need for my father and mother that she hadn't been able to admit before. My dad, too, found healing and rec­onciliation in his ongoing pilgrimages, and especially, I think, in his prayer and belief that God's grace worked through what must have seemed at times too heavy a burden. 
My grandmother grew up during a time in our Church when faith was driven in part by fear-fear of somehow not fulfilling the obligations a demanding and punitive God seemed to have imposed. She carried that understanding of her faith into adulthood. My dad and I wondered together as we sat, whether she was somehow afraid to die. Did she worry that she hadn't quite gotten it right somehow? That God waited for her with a list of the shortcomings she had accumulated and hadn't yet "erased" with her multitudes of daily Masses and rosaries? 
God graced my dad with the gift offor­giveness in his journey through my grand­mother's last 15 years, transforming his pain into compassion for her and into hope and prayers for her healing and peace. Sometimes -maybe even most times­we can't forgive on our own, but only with God's generous help. We find that help in the Sacrament of Reconciliation and in our own pilgrimages with those whom God has given us to love. 

*** 

Though it's now been almost exactly four years since my grandmother died, the les­sons she taught me about forgiveness remain with me. Especially as the end of the school year approaches, and for some, the end of four or more years at Notre Dame, this might be the perfect time to ask for-or extend -forgiveness towards someone. Ask God for the grace to leave this place with as many wounds on their way to healing, as many bridges built and reinforced, as many friendships shored up, and as many words of thanks spoken as you possibly can. You will forever be grateful. 
This week's Faithpoint is written by Kate Barrett. Kate Barrett is the director ofthe Emmaus program in Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Spooning for solutions 
Dear Notre Dame, from this event will go towards 
I am writing in to inform you about research for cures of childhood dis­an awesome event this Thursday on eases through Alpine Children's South Quad. Last year, you may have Charity. It is a great organization and read about some brave and noble a great way to spend an afternoon. scholars setting the Guinness World So I encourage you to please come Record for the World's Largest Spoon out to South Quad at 3:30 on Train with 126 people. This was a Thursday and spoon with hundreds great deal of fun, largely because of other spooning enthusiasts. spooning is one of the best things in Remember its all for the children. the world. This year, we are going to In spooning, attempt to shatter the old record in an amazing display of greatness on Joel Sharbrough Thursday, April 23rd. This year; senior however, we are going to be a little off-campus bit more ambitious. All proceeds Aprill9 
Where does Notre Dame stand? 
In response to the recent Observer arti­washers, one of whom is a father of four cle "Students ask to cut ties from HEI" who had worked at the hotel for 18 years. (May 15), we would like to clarifY a few Like Hermen, both dishwashers have par­details about our position. We, as students ticipated in public union actions at the in the Coalition for Economic Justice, sup­hotel. port a card check neutrality agreement for Our Board of Trustees's Social HEI workers because that is what the Responsibility Investment Policy states that workers want. the University will only invest in companies 
A recent study by MIT Sloan School of that uphold: "the basic moral values of Management professor Thomas A Kochan fairness, respect for human life, defense of looked at over 22,000 union organizing human rights and social justice." Is it fair drives from 1999 to 2005. The report to allow a company to dictate how workers found that partly because of employer are allowed form and join unions? In sign­intimidation in the workplace those who ing the Social Responsibility Investment garnered enough support for a union elec­Policy the Board committed itself to tion, only one in five attempts actually saw "excluding from the portfolios securities of a union contract from their employer. firms whose policies are inimical to the val­
Workers at HEI are not ignorant to these ues the University espouses." HEI is such a facts. Workers have demanded a card firm. check neutrality agreement so that they We are asking and will continue to ask may make the decision whether or not to that Notre Dame lives up to it's Social form a union in an environment free from Responsibility Investment Policy and fear and intimidation. divests from HEI. 
The director of the Notre Dame Investment Office, Scott Malpass, has Michael Angulo defended REI's anti-card check stance senior even as he sat across from HEI employee off-cunpus and union committee leader, Hermen Holly Bird Romero, who had been laid off from the sophomore HEI Sheraton Crystal City supposedly for Walsh Hall financial reasons when the week before Roman Sanchez the hotel was at 95 percent occupancy for freshman more than six days out of seven. That same ZhamHall week, the company also laid off two dish-April21 

Core values remain strong 
Yesterday, Notre Dame alum Ken Koehler I feel bad that Mr. Koehler disagrees with posed the question in his Viewpoint letter, President Obama speaking at graduation are the core values gone at Notre Dame? I, this year, on top of Notre Dame students despite having read Mr. Koehler's letter, "tearing up" Mr. Koehler's luxury condo would like to answer emphatically, no. I can­community. not understand how anyone with a familiari­To Mr. Koehler and the many other alumni ty with our school's current student body who have written to declare they no longer could argue that President Obama speaking wish to be members of the Notre Dame com­at our graduation stands as further proof munity due to the "totally stupid" decision to that the core values have left Notre Dame. have the President of the United States speak 
Each semester and during the summers, at this year's graduation, I am extremely thousands of students participate in various sorry. The core values of the University community service clubs and activities. remain as strong as ever, as shown every Every Sunday, students pack masses in all 28 day by the current student body. I can't residence halls, celebrating the Holy imagine what would make you want to cut Eucharist with one another and strengthen­ties with our great University, of which I, like ing the bonds of fellowship. In the class­countless others, remain extremely proud. rooms, Notre Dame students and professors continue to exceed expectations, building Patrick Mulligan upon our reputation of a world-class junior University where young men and women Morrissey Hall grow academically and spiritually. April22 

The real issue 
In regards to commencement, it strikes around 90 percent. How can we serve those me that some people may be missing the who are poor, or suffering, ifwe don't first point. establish their basic right to life? President 
The issue at hand here isn't about race 0 Obama also supports the conscience clause, acknowledge and appreciate the signifi­which would force Catholic medical cance that this country has finally elected a providers to provide abortions or lose feder­President who is African-American). It's not al funding. That doesn't seem to be in keep­about political party 0 am not registered ing with Catholic teaching, does it? with either Democrats or Republicans, but President Obama has good qualities, and usually opt for whatever candidate I think I acknowledge that some of his policies are will be best for the job). The issue is not in line with Catholic Social thought, but about refusing to engage the outside world some of his policies go against our most or refusing to dialogue. It's also not about basic beliefs as Catholics. They fail to defend being extremist (I think that showing pic­the lives of the weakest of the weak. These tures of aborted infants is disrespectful to babies grow up to be the very ones we serve the lives of those little ones). (like my dear friends with disabilities). Why 
The issue here is that regardless of his is it that we find it so easy to dismiss those race or political party, the policies that little ones as a single issue? This is not just a President Obama has supported are not in single issue ... it is the issue. This is not keeping with some of our most fundamental about being open to listening to different beliefs on life as Catholics. This is not just a ideas, but being willing to defend those who "single issue" but the most basic of issues! are the weakest members of society. For example, I have done a lot of volunteer work with people in the community with Michele Sagala developmental disabilities (such as down senior syndrome, cerebral palsy, etc.) The rate for Lewis Hall abortion of a child with down syndrome is April22 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE

page 12 Thursday, April 23, 2009 
Scene Writer 
In January, I learned from my Notre Dame planner that Americans eat approximately 100 acres of pizza each day, or 350 slices per second. Frankly, I wasn't surprised. What food could be so pervasive in our culture as pizza? The Americanized version of the Italian original is an iconic staple in the modern diet, regardless of budget. 
Pizza is about as personal as a food can get. Most people know exactly how they like it and defend their pref­erences strongly. As with any debate at Notre Dame, the stances are further entrenched when hometown issues are introduced. Most Chicago and New York natives are set in their ways, but these pizza praetorians fight a battle to win over the rest of the students with wavering tastes. To weigh in, I visited five of the South Bend area's most popular pizza places to evaluate only their pizza. 
The Outliers -Saylor's (233-5935), The Vine (234-9463) 
A good starting point for pizza is an all-you-can-eat lunch, such as the buf­fet offered by Saylor's Pizza weekdays from 11 to 1:30. At only $6.50, this is one of the better buffet deals in town. Located about 10 minutes south of campus on Michigan, Saylor's tries most to imitate Pizza Hut. 
On a rainy Tuesday, my company was chiefly locals (possibly employees) watching Maury's "Revenge of the Geek." The lack of customers was the reason for the lack of variety; the only two pizzas (half onion & half mush­room, and mushroom & pepperoni) stayed out, unchanged and, aside from my contributions, uneaten. 
In their emulation of Pizza Hut, other dishes are offered in the buffet, like unattractive macaroni and cheese, pretty good breadsticks, herb­y mashed potatoes, and slightly vine­gary rib tips stewed in barbecue sauce. 
The pizza itself is a consistent, zesty, local-type offering. The crust is one of Saylor's strengths, although not for the health-minded. Its bready, buttery crust is only a fleeting reprieve from the lightly greasy pizza. Despite the forgetful fare, Saylor's deserves men­tioning because of the considerable deal. 
On the other end of the spectrum lies gourmet pizza like Uptown Kitchen's pricier 12-inch pizzas, or the five that The Vine has to offer: La 
arne, Pesto, Quattro Fromaggio and Tuscan Vineyard. 
The Tre Carne ($7) offers a fairly traditional take on meat-lover's pizza, with pepperoni, bacon and sausage. The mozzarella cheese is runny and good initially, but after the first slice, there is too much of it to allow the fla­vorful taste of the meats to pervade. The bland sauce is evocative of tomato paste, but the doughy and somewhat thick crust adds to the taste. The best sensation of the small pizza is the combination of the hearty pepperoni and sausage. 
The Tuscan Vineyard ($7) brings several ingredients together for an interesting new kind of pizza. Large Roma tomatoes, crispy bacon, spinach and basil chicken are set on a creamy alfredo sauce, all covered with a moz­zarella, provolone, and asiago blend. The asiago adds a welcome bit of bite to the pizza, but altogether, the pizza surprisingly lacks the zest expected from such a diverse combination. 
The Family Inn -Barnaby's (256­0928) 
This down-home style restaurant has the feel of a big pub, with old­fashioned signs adorning the walls around the dimly lit bar and pick-up window. Trophies of local teams sur­round the ample seating area, and TVs play sports and family program­ming. The unique ordering method is easy to figure out, and perhaps even enjoyable for the customer. Barnaby's also offers appetizers, sandwiches and sides, and the square-cut pizzas range from $8 to $11 for an individual (10 inches, 12 pieces) or $16 to $22 for a large (14 inches, 16 pieces). 
The pizza is very greasy, but it's the best kind of greasy. The cheese is fresh and browned in large spots. It is fairly unique in the area, with crust that is crispy, not bready, and thin, but not too thin. The sausage is rich and spicy. Collectively, the pizza pro­vides great bites, with memorable blends of full-bodied cheese, warm sauce, robust sausage and almost flaky crust. Barnaby's pizza can induce rabid thirst due to the acidic sauce, which is barely used, thankful­ly. 
The Spin-off -Bruno's (Prairie 288­3320, Roseland 273-3890) 
In 1975, an employee of Rocco's started his own pizza place on Prairie Avenue. Today, Bruno's has eight loca­tions and, most notably, delivers to Notre Dame from its Roseland branch. The original location is mostly staffed 
by family members, which is definiteiy11h.4 a good sign in a pizzeria. ·~ ·· 
Each of the ingredients is remark­ably good and fresh, but it seems as if the whole is not greater than the sum of' its parts. The zesty sauce adds a· delicious flavor to complement the slightly doughy taste. The homemad sausage is touted, and justly so, though the Roseland delivery' sausage has a significantly highe level of taste. Nevertheless, when eaten as leftovers, the sauce and sausage still add a flavorful supple­ment to the pizza. 

The Original -Rocco's (233-2464) 
The last stop on my tour was the first off-campus place that I (and many others) went to as a freshman. I have no hesitation saying that Rocco is a Notre Dame institution that ever student should patronize at least before junior year. For $20, a meal two at Hocco's is an essential experi­enee. 
In 1951, Roeco started the restau­rant to bring the "first original pi in town" to South Bend Avenue and St. Louis Boulevard. Rocco's Restaur offers superb Italian dishes, but a proprietors Warren and Linda will say, its strongest feature is the dough. The family secret was kept even from Bruno, who received slightly differen dough from Rocco when he was unprepared for his opening night. 
Rocco's serves some of the thinnest pizza in town, which isn't too think too doughy. It is cooked excellent with a firm bottom crust, crisp an floury texture and smaller brown spots on the cheese. Interestingly, the homemade sausage tastes more Polish than Italian, which would be strange if it didn't go so well with the rest the pizza. 
In fact, what makes Rocco's so extraordinary is how expertly each layer transitions into the next. All ingredients convene for an exceptional pizza, especially in the case of the Veggie Combo, with tomatoes, garlic and fresh basil. On a plainer pizza, the tough bottom crust progresses into softer dough, topped with smooth red sauee, fresh and thick-tasting pepper­oni, and then consistent cheese. 
The Winner? Me. 
After a four-day binge of my favorite food, it's still diff1cult to say which is the best, or even my favorite. As the old joke goes, pizza is a lot like sex. When it's good, it's really good. When it's bad, it's still pretty good. 
Contact J.J. Rees at jrees@nd.edu 
ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 

------~-----------------------------­

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, April23, 2009 
page 13 

Aardman Animations; A Brief History; 6:30 and 9:30 p.m.;Browning Cinema 
Did you grow up loving classics like "Wallace and Gromit" or "Chicken Run?" Meet the one of the genius directors and animators behind it all, Merlin Crossingham, Thursday evening as he presents a brief history of the Academy Award-winning com-. pany he works under, Aardman Animations. The British animation studio was founded in 1976, brought to life by their first clay character, "Morph," and has since gone on to add feature films and computer ani­mations to their repertoire. Take advantage of this one-time opportunity to journey behind the scenes of the·· Aardman Animations studio and learn the inner workings ofclay animation. 
/'Luna Ne~ra D"'!nce Theater;" 7 ;;:p.m.; Dec1o Mamstage Theatre 
1 
Spirit, passion, power and a lit­tle bit of Latino magic is dancing its way onto the Decio Mainstage 
Theatre this weekend in a per­formance known for its freeness of expression and revitalization 
•of the Latino culture. i The Luna Negra Dance Theater, one of the most promi­
nent forces of contemporary dance in Chicago, was estab­lished 10 years ago and has since gone on to perform for thousands of audience members worldwide. Don't miss the jchance to watch as ballet merges lwith Latin and Afro-Caribbean 
dance forms in a unique act · stealing the stage Friday night. 
The Comedy Relief Packagewith Sommore; Morris'' Performing Arts Center; 8 p.m. 
What do Sommore (a.k.a. the 
"Queen of Comedy"), Mike 
Brooks from BET's Comic View 
and Huggy Low Down The 
Celebrity Snitch have in com­
mon? 
They will all be spitting jokes and cracking up audiences Saturday night at the Morris Performing Arts Center at 8 
p.m. Known for her witty and sarcastic way of telling it like it is, she'll burn through ;laughs and will prove that, as 
''dear old Oprah says, she's "a force to be reckoned with in the new millennium." 

·Notre Dame University Band and Brass Ensemble, Spring 2009; Leighton Concert Hall; 3 p.m. 
Twenty brass instrument players and members of the Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross stu­dents, staff, faculty and alumni will meet on stage in Leighton .:concert Hall to deliver an unfor­gettable concert Sunday afternoon. What could be a more perfect way 'to bring an end to your fun and exciting weekend and refocus for the upcoming finals than listening to a classical performance includ­ing music by Verdi, Ralph Vaughan Williams, Richard Strauss and von 
·w Suppe? Relax for an hour and 15· < minutes before you have to jump ··back to reality and start hitting the books. 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 
ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 

~T' S.A··•.··. PLEAS U R E.·• .. HAN G I N ~ ... IT H . T H. E S E · •·.····· ··· ~
.. U T W 
r 1X ~ }~ " AS S AS S I N S1 
. 

By STEPHANIE DePREZ 
Scene Writer 
"Everyone deserves the right to be ... happy!" These are the words you will be humming when you exit Washington Hall this weekend after seeing the outrageous, enthralling, heartwarming tale that is "Assassins." 
Led by the eternal gentleman John Wilkes Booth, the motley crew of every American who attempted to assassinate the President lays out their tales of justice, passion, and love. 
The musical is extremely inven­tive, beginning with Booth (who whirls onto the stage and uses his tactful charm and undying sinceri­ty to spin the show's web) and dip­ping into the personal story of each assassin (or almost-assassin). The show moves in a take-no-pris­oners fashion, plopping the audi­ence into the middle of situations, with the only indication being the poster of the "current" president hung for all to see. (More of a fig­ure for shooting practice, one sup­poses.) The characters often run into each other, blurring time and 
... 
relationships in order to show the shared goals and setbacks each assassin faces. The way they inter­act is very amusing, and at times, becomes outright hilarious. 
The show plays into whatever knowledge you might have retained from your high school 
U.S. History class. There are witty kernels of information that the well-versed American Studies major will get, but the overall presentation is easy enough to fol­low. If you've ever enjoyed an American history class, there is no excuse for missing this delightful romp through the underbelly of our society. 
The cast is ready and rearing through the entire show. Each number, sincere and straight­faced, has elements that make it enjoyable. It's easy to see the characters enjoying themselves ­John Wilkes Booth is having a blast -and it's nearly impossible not to enjoy yourself, too. "Let them cry 'dirty traitor,' they will understand it later!" sings Booth, completely convicted in his deci­sion to shoot the "tyrant" Abraham Lincoln. 
It is the authenticity with which these characters approach their situations that makes this show so watchable. Every assassin is ready and willing to explain their deci­sion, which they believe makes perfect sense. There is a beautiful duet between two characters who literally take a "shot at love." John Hinckley, who attempted to assas­sinate Ronald Regan in order to win the heart of Jodi Foster, and Lynette Fromme, who attempted to assassinate Gerald Ford to bring fame to her lover Charles Manson, bear their souls and can't help but garner sympathy, warped though it may be. 
Musicals often deal with a big "what if," and the "what if" here is, what if all the assassins from American history met, influenced each other, and shared stories and ideas? It's a morbid, twisted con­versation, but you won't help chuckling as you watch them carry on. 
The individual plots of each assassination are sprinkled with facts and creative suppositions. What if John Wilkes Booth had begged Lee Harvey Oswald to 
. I-. . • • • I . . • I 

assassinate John F. Kennedy? What if he knew that Kennedy's assassination would bring interest (and glory) to every other assassi­nation or attempted assassination before or since? 
The show itself is well put together and finely executed. One innovation is putting the pit band on stage. 
"It's a smaller band, and it's more exposed," musical director Mark Wurzelbacher said. "We get to interact more than a typical musical. We're somewhat of a character." 
The music itself is also a chal­lenge. 
"It's definitely different from anything we've done before," Wurzelbacher said. "All the stories are different but interwoven. It's neat to get a different perspective on history." 
"Assassins" plays Friday and Saturday at 7:30 in Washington Hall. Tickets are $6 for students and $8 for adults. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, April 23, 2009 
HORSE RACING 

Horse deaths linked to drug 
Associated Press 

WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. ­Twenty-one prized polo horses that mysteriously died before one of the sport's top champi­onships were given a supple­ment that likely caused their deaths, the leader of the Venezuelan-owned team told an Argentine newspaper. 
Juan Martin Nero, of Lechuza Polo, told the newspaper La Nacion for Wednesday's edi­tions that the horses were given a supplement known as Biodyl, which contains a combi­nation of vitamin B12, a form of selenium called sodium selenite and other minerals. 
It is made in France by Duluth, Ga.-based animal phar­maceutical firm Merial Ltd. and can be given to horses to help with exhaustion. It is not approved for use in the United States, but is widely used else­where. 
It remained unclear whether the Lechuza team used the brand name drug or a copy of it made by a compounding phar­macy in the U.S., which the Food and Drug Administration said could be illegal. Compound pharmacies can, among other things, add flavor, make sub­stances into a powder or liquid or remove a certain compound that may have an adverse reac­tion in different animal species. They cannot legally recreate a drug that is not approved in the U.S. 
Florida authorities have started an investigation to determine if the deaths were intentional or accidental, but so far nothing criminal has sur­faced. Toxicology tests are pending, and officials said they would add Biodyl to the list after hearing the reports from Nero. 
"For us, the suspicions are 
that there was something wrong in the laboratory. They are common vitamins, that are not given to improve perform­ance, but so they recover from exhaustion," Nero told the newspaper in Spanish. "We don't have doubts of the origin of the problem. There were five horses that were not given the vitamin and they are the only ones that are fine." 
The horses began collapsing Sunday as they were unloaded from trailers at the International Polo Club Palm Beach. Some died at the scene, others hours later. The team was seen as top contenders for the U.S. Open tournament. 
"What was given to them is the same as always, vitamins," Nero said. "Once a week. It was just the time to give them the dose the day of the match." 
The Associated Press has been unable to reach Nero or the team's owner, prominent Venezuelan banker Victor Vargas, who has not spoken publicly since the deaths. 
Merial spokesman Steve Dickinson said the company is confident its product is safe. 
"We've had reports of phar­macies compounding a copycat Biodyl in the past, which is of course illegal," Dickinson said. 
He said the company has recorded adverse reactions in just about one in more than two million doses over "many years." He couldn't immediate­ly say whether any led to death. 
Dickinson said the product has been around for more than 50 years. 
Necropsies of the 21 horses found internal bleeding but offered no definitive clues to the cause of death, said Sarah Carey, spokeswoman for the University of Florida's College of Veterinary Medicine, which did some of the tests. 
A veterinarian who works with polo horses said giving the animals vitamin supplements is common practice. 
"In the world of polo, it is customary to medicate horses to assist them in recovery from their extremely strenuous work," Rob Boswell said. "It is not customary to give them substances prior to playing to enhance their abilities. That's dangerous." 
Boswell said it's also common practice to use compounding pharmacies in the animal industry, but only reputable ones. 
"They don't have to follow the same quality control practices that an FDA approved drug would have to," he said. 
High doses of selenium, for instance, could be fatal. 
"The big question," he said, "is are we talking about the manufactured product or is it a compounded product? That's huge." 
Experts said if the supple­ment was made in the U.S. at a compounding pharmacy, there could have been an error in the lab. 
FDA spokeswoman Siobhan DeLancey said compounding pharmacies are legal, but they are not allowed by law to recreate existing drugs or sup­plements under patent or to recreate any drugs not approved for use in the U.S., such as Biodyl. 
The FDA refused to approve Biodyl for use in the U.S. in October 2008, saying it appeared "to be a new animal drug which is unsafe." 
A pharmacy could face crimi­nal charges if it made the sup­plement, DeLancey said. 
The law does not, however, prohibit veterinarians from purchasing and administering each supplement separately. 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Purdue point guard sentenced after bust 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -Purdue point guard Lewis Jackson must complete community service and spend a year under court supervision after plead­ing guilty Monday to charges of illegal alcohol consumption and possession of drug para­phernalia. 
While Jackson will avoid jail time if he stays out of trouble, Purdue coach Matt Painter has not yet announced any team discipline against him. Jackson's bright future could be in doubt after a freshman season that saw him start 30 games and average 5.9 points and a team-leading 3.3 assists as the Boilermakers reached the NCAA regional semifmals. 
Jackson made the plea dur­ing a court hearing in Piatt County, Ill. Jackson, 19, was arrested after he was stopped about 2:30 a.m. April 12 for speeding on Interstate 72 near his hometown of Decatur, Ill. Jackson's defense attorney, Daniel Kennedy, said his client was pulled over for driving 81 mph in a 65 mph zone. 
Assistant state's attorney Jerry Johnson said charges of illegal alcohol possession and possession of less than 2. 5 grams of marijuana were dropped in the plea agree­ment. 
Johnson said Jackson faced no jail time because it was his first criminal offense and that the conviction would be removed from his record if he completes the requirements of his sentence. Kennedy said no judgment will be entered unless Jackson makes another mistake, and he doesn't expect that to happen. 
"He was one of the most respectful clients I've ever had," Kennedy said. "He's deeply remorseful for the impact this has had on his fam­ily." 
During his court supervision, Jackson cannot enter any establishment that primarily serves alcohol, and he is sub­ject to random urinalysis. He also must complete 50 hours.of community service and a drug evaluation. 
One reason for the guilty plea, Kennedy said, was that the case could be decided in one day, which would prevent Jackson from having to make multiple trips back to Piatt County during the school year. 
A Purdue spokesman did not immediately return a call seek­ing reaction to Jackson's guilty plea. The school last week released a statement saying Painter was aware of Jackson's arrest and that he would wait for an outcome to the court case before commenting. 
Painter has been tough on players who have gotten in trouble in the past. 
He suspended Tarrance Crump in 2005 for an entire season after his sport-utility vehicle hit a student on cam­pus. 
That same season, Painter kicked guard Korey Spates out of the program for conduct detrimental to the team. Spates was averaging 10.1 points and 
2. 5 rebounds a game for a team that had already lost four projected starters to injuries or suspensions that season. 
In October 2007, Painter threw starting forward Gordon Watt off the team for good after he was arrested on suspi­cion of drunken driving. 
INDvCAR SERIES 

Forty entrants selected to compete in Indianapolis 500 
compete for the 33 starting along with Stanton Barrett, Mike IndyCar standings by 15 points with veteran Scott Sharp. 
Associated Press 

spots. Twenty-two cars among 12 Conway and Robert Doornbos. over Power after two of 17 races. Also entered for the first time 
INDIANAPOLIS-Defending entries have no drivers listed yet. With Castroneves' acquittal on The series heads to Kansas City, in seven years is veteran Paul champion Scott Dixon and for­The early entries also include tax charges, he'll be one of three Kan., this week, the last stop Tracy, the runner-up to mer winners Helio Castroneves, Danica Patrick, one of the four drivers for Team Penske, along before Indianapolis. Castroneves in 2002. He's driving Dan Wheldon and Dario Andretti Green Racing drivers, with Ryan Briscoe and Will Franchitti, the 2007 Indy win­a KV Racing Technology entry Franchitti are among the 28 and Sarah Fisher, who runs her Power. ner, missed the race last year co-owned by former driver drivers on the initial entry list for own team. Venezuelan Milka Also entered is John Andretti, while he was competing in Jimmy Vasser. the Indianapolis 500. Duno, who drove the past two driving the first cars entered at NASCAR, and he and Dixon are Andretti Green also entered 
The Indianapolis Motor years, is not on the list. Indy by seven-time NASCAR teammates with Ganassi Racing cars for Tony Kanaan, Hideki Speedway announced 40 entries There are four rookies, headed champion Richard Petty. this season. Wheldon, who drove Mutoh and Marco Andretti, the for the May 24 race on Monday, by last year's Firestone Indy Franchitti won Sunday's race for Ganassi last year, is now with son of co-owner Michael with a total of 77 cars eligible to Lights champion Raphael Matos, at Long Beach and leads the Panther Racing and will team Andretti. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR RENT 
Affordable Graduate and Faculty Off-Campus Housing. Call for Availability (574)243-2818 or (574)276-6118. 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer­ing 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 

Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or www.kramerhous­es.com 
Rental House 1 mile from NO, on TRANSPO route. New kitchen, bath, windows & carpet. 2 bed­rooms, 2 living rooms & dining room. APPLIANCES INCLUDED. Call Linda 574-288-0168 2009/1 0 student rentals Angela St./St. Peters & S.B. Ave. $1300­$2000/mo. Contact Bruce Gordon 574-876-3537. 
3 bdrm house for 07/01/09 on Corby, $1600/mo. Owners are NO alums. Pis call/text 619-804-3359. 
Off-Campus housing at Dublin Village, Irish Crossings. Now up to $100 off per room per month with an application by May 15. Call CES Property Management at 574-968­
011~ . 
HISTORIC HOME-CHAPIN PK. 2800 s/1 +base., LR. wlfp. 4 bdrms,study +finished 3rd fl. Full appliances+ W&D,3 porches. 413 W. Navarre. $1350 + util574-261­3184 or email escargot55@hot­mail.com or www.xog.com/proper­ty/413WNavarre.html 
Professors home near NO available summer session. 574-233-8855 or 57 4-387-4205. 


PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NOs Assistance for Pregnant Students//Office of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd.edulhealth-safety/assis­tance-for -pregnant -students. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: http://osa.nd.edu/health­safety/assaultl 
ADOPTION -Loving Domer couple looking to adopt a baby (babies), please call Marie and James (301)977-5069 or (866)202-1424 PIN 5448. 
Congrats to the Zahm Ping-Pong Team -2009 Recsports champs! You guys did great and I couldnt be more proud of you. Capt. Baz 



Thursday, April 23, 2009 CoMPILED FROMTHE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NCAA Softball ESPN.com/USA Softball Poll 
team  points  record  
1  Florida (20)  500  46-3  
2  UCLA  476  32-8  
3  Washington  452  34-7  
4  Stanford  409  37-6  
5  Alabama  407  38-8  
6  Michigan  397  32-9  
7  Northwestern  367  27-9  
8  Arizona State  365  36-9  
9  Arizona  351  36-9  
10  Missouri  333  40-5  
11  Georgia  306  30-8  
12  Ohio State  269  35-6  
13  North Carolina  246  42-7  
14  Oklahoma  237  34-13  
15  Tennessee  229  35-11-1  
16  California  194  29-15  
17  Massachusetts  179  27-6  
18  louisville  146  40-5  
19  DePaul  126  31-9  
20  Georgia Tech  115  35-11  
20  LSU  109  27-13-1  
22  Cal Poly  88  31-9  
23  Texas  52  34-14  
24  Florida State  43  35-13  
25  Iowa  32  35-11  

NCAA Women's Lacrosse IWLCA Division I Rankings 
team points record 
1 Northwestern (20) 400 15-0 2 Maryland 376 16-0 3 Penn 361 13-0 4 North Carolina 335 13-3 5 Duke 319 11~4 6 Princeton 287 11-2 7 Georgetown 271 11-4 8 Syracuse 257 12-3 9 Virginia 251 18-6 10 Vanderbilt 219 9-4 11 NOTRE DAME 211 12-4 12 Boston U. 171 11-3 13 Ohio State 130 11-4 13 Stanford 127 18-4 15 Penn State 108 7-7 16 Dartmouth 103 7-5 17 Loyola (Md.) 71 18-5 18 Old Dominion 50 11-3 19 New Hampshire 46 18-6 20 Cornell 42 8-5 
NCAA Men's Volleyball Division 
1-11 Top 1$ 

1 
2 3 
4 
5 6 
1 
8 t 
10 
Gflt#~~ 
13 ':'i< 14 
15 


around the dial 
NBA Playoffs 

Boston at Chicago (Series tied 1-1) 8 p.m., TNT 
NHL Playoffs 

San Jose at Anaheim (ANA leads 2-1) 
10:30 p.m., Versus 

NBA 

AP Chicago Bulls head coach Vlmy del Negro, left, and general manager John Paxson, right, join point guard Derrick Rose at the NBA Rookie of the Year presentation Wednesday. Rose joins Michael Jordan and Bton Brand as the third Bulls recipient. 
Rose named NBA's top rookie 
Associated Press 
NORTHBROOK, Ill. ­Derrick Rose, who led his hometown Chicago Bulls to the playoffs and restored hope to a franchise in disar­ray, was the runaway pick as the NBA's rookie of the year. 
Rose became the third Bulls player to win the award Wednesday, joining Michael Jordan and Elton Brand (who shared the award with Steve Francis). He received 111 first-place votes and 574 points from a national panel of sports writers and broadcasters; runner-up O.J. Mayo of the Memphis Grizzlies received five first-place votes and 
IN BRIEF Astros' Valverde to miss 
time with leg injury 
HOUSTON -Houston closer Jose Valverde will likely miss a couple of days recovering after being hit on the leg by a grounder. 
Valverde was hit near his ankle and strained his right calf trying to field the grounder by Orlando Hudson that hit him. Still, he remained in the game to get the last two outs and his first save in Houston's 8-5 win over the Dodgers on Tuesday night. 
Manager Cecil Cooper, catcher Ivan Rodriguez and members of Houston's training staff tried to get him to leave the game after the injury, but the fiery closer, who led the National League with 44 saves in 2008, flatly refused. 
He struck out James Loney and Russell Martin to end the game despite hobbling through those batters favoring his injured leg. 
127 points. 
"When I first came into the season, my biggest thing was to get this award," Rose said. "I was telling you all that I didn't care, but I did. You really do want this award. There was a lot of talent out there that I had to go against." 
Rose's selection was hardly a surprise, after the No. 1 overall draft pick led all rookies with 6.3 assists per game and was second in scoring average at 16.8, and established himself as the franchise's first true cornerstone since Jordan. 
"I think there are very few people in the NBA who could do what he did this year," teammate Joakim 
Goodell looking for 
remorse from exiled Vick 
LEXINGTON, Va. -NFL com­missioner Roger Goodell says Michael Vick has paid a signifi­cant price for doing an "egre­gious thing" and will have to show genuine remorse and that the experience has changed him in order to get a chance at resuming his career in the league. 
Goodell appeared Tuesday night at Washington & Lee University, engaging in a panel discussion about leadership in sports and taking questions from the audi­ence. 
Afterward, Goodell said he has not kept up with Vick's legal issues since suspending him from the league after his conviction in a federal dogfighting case. Vick is serving a 23-month prison term and has a team of lawyers trying to settle his finances in bankrupt­cy court. 
Noah said. "You tell me another No. 1 pick who got to the playoffs in their hometown, especially in a big city with so many dis­tractions and so many things going on. I mean, he's all about one thing and that's winning basketball games, and that's what I respect about him." 
The only other players who received first-place votes were Brook Lopez of the New Jersey Nets and Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder. Eric Gordon of the Los Angeles Clippers rounded out the top five. 
A point guard from Chicago's South Side, Rose used his strength, quick-

Teams showing_ interest 
in disgruntleo Boldin 
TEMPE, Ariz. -The Arizona Cardinals have received inquiries from "quite a few teams" about disgruntled wide receiver Anquan Boldin, and more conversations are anticipated as draft day approaches. 
But general manager Rod Graves and coach Ken Whisenhunt repeatedly empha­sized at the team's pre-draft news conference Tuesday that they would be happy to keep Boldin and eventually try to sign him to a new contract. 
Bobby Carpenter says every­body in Dallas is aware of the expectations and gives us some insight into the life of Tony Romo. 
"Quite a few teams have called but we have no offers from those teams," Graves said. "Anything can evolve from this point through draft day so that's where it is right now." 
ness and uncanny maturity to help turn around a team that went 33-49 last season. 
Rose's approach, as much as his talent, also impressed veteran guard Lindsey Hunter. 
"Not many guys can transfer it from here to there that fast," Hunter said, pointing from his head to the court. "But he's able to do that. I think that's what's so unique about him." 
Rose was the Eastern Conference rookie of the month in November and December and again in March, helping the Bulls go 41-41 and reach the post­season for the fourth time in five years. 
page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 23, 2009 

BUT WAIT! THERE'S MORE AT LEGENDS THIS WEEKEND! THUR: ACOUSTICAFE I SUPER BOWL OF POP CULTURE FRI: SLIGHTLY STOOPID I SALSA NIGHTCLUB SAT: BATTLE OF THE BANDS I HIP HOP NIGHTCLUB GUESTS MUST BE ON THE LIST -LEGENDS.ND.EDU AS ALWAYS, NO COVER. NO SMC HCC ID REQUIRED. 

Thursday, April 23, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
Yankees struggle to sell costly seats 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -At the new Yankee Stadium, the best seats in the house have turned out to be the emptiest. 
The most expensive spots in America's costliest ballpark have become an embarrassment packing a financial sting to the proud New York Yankees, as the Legends Suite section in the infield has been filled only once in the six games since the $1.5 billion stadium opened last week. 
On most days, the seats that cost $500-$2,500 as part of sea­son tickets and go up to $2,625 for individual games haven't been close to full. And as TV cameras pick up the patchy attendance with every pitch, it serves as a little tweak to the nation's richest baseball fran­chise. 
"We're done talking about seats," Yankees president Randy Levine said Wednesday. "We're not talking about seats." 
But fans sure notice. 
"It's been pretty phenomenal," said Aaron Feldstein, a native Californian who lived in Brooklyn for a couple of years and now resides in Baltimore. He was part of the far-from-sell­out crowd at the Yankees' 9-7 victory in 14 innings Wednesday over the Oakland Athletics on a showery, cold afternoon. The Legend Suite section was about 80 percent empty, and the upper decks -which have been most­ly full -were a quarter empty. 
"I remember watching and you couldn't fmd an empty seat at Yankee Stadium. And now right behind home plate there's 15 to 20," said the 29-year-old Feldstein, who scored a free ticket from a friend behind home plate -an area that costs $325 as part of season tickets. 
Another snapshot of the prob­lem: 
A count by The Associated Press totaled 1,895 seats in the Legends Suite, of which 146 were in the front row from dugout to dugout, costing $2,500 as season tickets and $2,625 individually. 
-On Tuesday night, only 64 of the 146 seats at the top price level were occupied in the bot­tom of the second inning. The outermost Legends Suite sec­tions, which each contain 90 seats, were entirely empty until two fans fmally emerged to sit in them during the late innings. 
-On Wednesday, in the third inning, just 37 of the highest­priced, front-row seats were occupied, although it was impossible to know if some fans had taken shelter in stadium restaurants. 
Yet another sign of how the best seats have been overpriced is their resale level. 
Legends Suite seats in section 27B, row 2, down the left-field line that originally sold for $500 were available for $225 early Wednesday on the online ticket broker StubHub.com. Tickets in section 2 3, row 7, behind the visitors' dugout could be had for $263, down from their $850 original price. 
"Yeah, we understand it's not full. We actually understand why it's not," left fielder Johnny Damon said. "It's tough for, you know, business owners to justify those seats. It's either have those seats or lay off people from work, and I think that dur­ing this tough time, people are going to want to put it back into 
JAM & JAY GOLDBERG EVENTS PRESENT 
\~ 

~~~ 
MAY 22-24, 2009 • THREE SISTER'S PARK • CHILLICOTHE, ll 
their companies and put it back into people instead of spending that type of money for seats." 
A stadium built in boom times -with top-end seats that give fans access to private clubs and an upscale duplex buffet from white-toqued chefs at carving stations -the Yankees' front office doesn't seem to have counted on the recession damp­ening enthusiasm for the storied franchise. 
The team refuses to talk about the financial impact of the empty seats, but if every spot in the Legends Suite were sold, the club would gross $1.63 million per game, according to AP's cal­culation. 
"I think if anybody in any business had known where this economy was going to go, they would have done things differ­ently," Yankees managing gen­eral partner Hal Steinbrenner said before the team's first workout at the ballpark on April 2. 
"Look, there's no doubt small amounts of our tickets might be overpriced. You know, we're continuing to look into that. But the bottom line is, the vast majority of them, it seems like they're right on because we've sold 35,000 full season equiva­lents, and a lot of the tickets have, you know, sold quite well." 
MSNBC broadcaster Keith Olbermann, who owns $850-a­game Legends Suite season tick­ets in the seventh row between the dugouts, noted that the downturn has put the Yankees in a tricky position. 
"I don't think this was foresee­able when they priced it. I don't think that it was foreseeable when we bought it," he said. "The question becomes what happens as the economy rebounds. To what degree does the economy have to rebound before that type of spending resumes?" 
NBA 







Tinsley in limbo as Pacers ponder 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Jamaal Tinsley remains on Indiana's roster, but the Pacers still have no desire to let the troubled point guard play for them again. 
Tinsley has been with the team since the 2001-02 season, but he has been hampered by injuries and off-court legal problems in recent years. The Pacers told him not to show up to training camp this season, and they did not allow him to play in an effort to improve their tarnished reputation. 
That stance has not changed, despite the Pacers' inability to complete a trade and get some value for a player who is owed $14.7 million the next two years, and the impending free agency of two other point guards. The NBA players' union filed a grievance for Tinsley in February, but team president Larry Bird and the franchise remain steadfast in their refusal to play Tinsley in the future. 
"Later on this summer, we'll probably go into arbitration," Bird said this week. "Whether we win or lose, it's going to be the same as it is now -we're going forward without Jamaal. Hopefully, we can trade him before it comes up, but we'll see what happens." 
The Associated Press left a phone message seeking com­ment with Tinsley's agent, Raymond Brothers. 
The Pacers traded for Jarrett Jack and T.J. Ford last summer mer to make him a restricted free agent. Jack averaged a career-high 13.1 points per game this season. 

"He made a lot of turnovers at the beginning of the year," Bird said. "A lot of them cost us some games. But at the end, really, after All-Star break going forward, he was one of our best clutch players." 
Jack has made it clear he wants to return, saying he feels indebted to the Pacers for giv­ing him a chance to play. Bird said he believes the team has the money to keep Jack, but he's not sure what the market will dictate. 
"I have a feeling I know what Jarrett's going to be asking for, but I don't know what's going to happen out there," he said. 
Ford averaged 14.9 points and 5.3 assists and gained a reputation for hitting important shots. He is under contract for next season, with a player option for 2010-11. 
Bird was pleased with both Jack and Ford. 
"I think they did very well this year if you combine it," Bird said. "I thought T.J. started off strong, then went through a period where Jarrett was play­ing better. 
"I think both of them guys can get the job done, and they're two different type of players." 
Another point guard, Travis Diener, has a player option for next season. He averaged 3.7 points and 2.2 rebounds in 55 games this season. He has said he will sit down with his agent 
to replace Tinsley and found to decide what is best. them to be· capable replace­"I just told him at the end of ments. Bird said the Pacers the season that it's a decision want to keep Jack next season, that he's got to make," Bird and the team plans to extend a said. "I hope he's back here qualifYing offer to him this sum-next year. If not, best ofluck." 
The UPS Store 
"May Move Out" '09 
NOTRE DAME $1.00 off Shipping PER BOX MONDAY-THURSDAY AND SATURDAY FREE PICK UP Pickup ls free, but no10am-5pm discounts will be FRIDAY accepted with pickup. PERMANENT LOCATION
8am-5pm 

Martin's Plaza-S.R 23 Hours: M-F 9am-7pm,
FLANNER CIRCLE: WELSH FAMILY HALL Monday, May 4 -Saturday, May 9 Sat: 9am -6pm Thursday, May 14 -Saturday, May 16 574.277.6245 Monday, May 18 8-5pm 
LYONS BASKETBALL COURTS Wednesday, May 6-Saturday, May 9 


Kellar Williams • Les Claypool ~ Girl Talk • Gomez Medeski Scofield Martin & Wood • Buckethead • Lotus Dark Star Orchestra • Los Lobos • Bassnactar • EOTO Cornmeal • The Wood Brothers • Junior Brown 
A$$<1rrlbly (If !:lui>! • Tit~~t 1 G~y • f\1\ur" Red<: • F"mily Gn:»:w" C"'Mplmy • U·M"I! Hill C"'untry Revu" • Easy Star AJI-Star" • sackyatd Tiro> Fke • Me:><>n11!1c" • Panjllll Toubab Kmwe • Panjea ·56 Kl:>f"' Road •lml<:k • Yamo ·The Statl<>n •Tho> !ltidg" • S<ler"t ChlO!!k 3 • n,.. Maepod% • Public Pr<lpMty •Cr....,n1l<k)' illY<lgW1l<S • Stoot M~>e~>~l\t • W<!temtroot • arairn:.flild • Chil:ag<:> Fl:!rml!>f • TM Str<~tch •<>!<>11> ""S Alabasl<~>r Brown • Charley Orlando S..ml • Thl" M<>sl S"' Th" Ibm! • Jl>lk Willi" \Jnd.,rpaid Packy • Oaplm" Will!." & C.:.. • H<mh!WII<> P"''''""'s • Shad)%1cl" Allman; Ham~ • Th" C<>n:l.,roy • Ou!:>iro~ H#ll • !lillr T!>« Sq"irr<S! • il$ll"~ K<~!lt>r N"tk>T\ • Th<> C<>Oi> Mw~"Jmu~kJ" • F!w In AH""" • Krl~ l$tFr a..mi • Sllppy """'" • Thm""" T""" • Sf'"""'"''i 


3 DAYS... 5 STAGES... OVER 50 BANOS ... CAMPING, BEER & FRIENDS! 

312 
~ 
T!C><J:TS ON l\JOW (800) 5M·ETIX OR 01'-.Jt.Jf\E .hT 
SUMMERCAMPFESTIVALCOM 
~-­
page 18 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April23, 2009 


============================================================================= 
VIOLENCE PREVENTION INITIATIVE NOW IS THE TIME FESTIVAL ON THE QUAD Bec<!use there i!> a time for everything ­<! time for music, a time for dancing, and most of all, a time to gather and celetnate our commitment to overcome sexual violence  

 .I  




A KEYNOTE BY DONALD MCPHERSON 
For Hlore than 20 ye<HS, Donald tvkPherson has t)sect the power ancJ appe<~l ot sports to 
created innovative programs, supportecJ common1tV servioi) providers and has facilitated educational seminars and lectures throughout Nonh 1\rner~~a, He is a national 
leader and advocate tor the prevention of sexual and domestic vidence, 



FESTIVAL ON THE QUAD 
Because there is a time for everything -a time for music, a time for dancing, and most of all, a time to gather and celebrate our commitment to overcome sexual violence 
Friday April 24, 2009 3:00-S:OOpm SOUth Quad 
Rain Location: Mendoza college of Business Atrium and Jordan Auditorium 
Dreamworlds 3: a film exploring how music videos and 3:00-4:00 the media influence our conceptions of desire, sex, and power 
Campus Cornhole Fundralser: $5 minimum donation for teams of two people3:00-6:00 All proceeds will go to SOS of Madison Center, the Rape Crisis Center of St. Joseph County 
Donald McPherson, College Football Hall of Farner, Activist, Educator and Feminist 6:00-7:30 Keynote Talk; You Throw Like a Girl 
7:30-8:00 Notre Dame Student Speak OtJt 
FREE FOOD $5 T-SHIRTS 
Visa and Mastercard accepted as paymont 
311 LaFurtune• 574.631.9340• gn~.nd.etln• gtc@nd.edu 

.-------­
Thursday, April23, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
SWIMMING 
Phelps to unveil new free technique 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Michael Phelps is following up his record per­formance at the Beijing Olympics by changing some of the swim­ming technique that carried him to eight gold medals. 
Hasn't he ever heard of "If it ain't broke, don't fix it"? But Phelps isn't chasing the same old goals. As he shifts to focusing on shorter races, he hopes the new freestyle technique will increase his sprinting speed. 
"You'll all have to see. I'm not saying anything until we unveil it," Phelps said with a grin when asked how he's tweaked the stroke. "It's a significant change. You'll be able to tell exactly what I did as soon as I take my first stroke." 
Phelps will reveal the new technique when he returns to competition May 14-17 at the Charlotte UltraSwim in North Carolina, his first meet since Beijing. He plans to swim four events, including the 100-and 200-meter free and the 100 but­terfly. 
''I'm going to try it this year. If it works, it works," Phelps said. "If it doesn't, I'll go back to the old stroke." 
Phelps was in Manhattan on Wednesday for a ribbon-cutting ceremony at the new store of longtime sponsor Omega. The watchmaker stuck by Phelps after a British tabloid published a photo of Phelps inhaling from a marijuana pipe. Kellogg dropped Phelps as an endorser, and USA Swimming suspended him for three months. 
"This is something in his pri­vate life," said Omega president Stephen Urquhart. "Michael reacted very well. He went out, he apologized. This has no bear­ing at all on what he's done, his sporting activity, what he's done with the media. He's always been fantastic with us." 
Judging by the throng of tourists holding their cameras above their heads to try to nab a shot of Phelps during the ribbon­cutting ceremony, he's still a big draw. Inside the store, Phelps signed a photo of the underwater view of his razor-thin victory margin in the 100 butterfly at the Olympics, where Omega is the official timekeeper. 
Sporting a goatee, Phelps said he's lost the pounds he gained during his post-Beijing time off. He's altered his weight training as part of his goal to get stronger and faster for the shorter events. 
About seven weeks back into serious training, he joked, "l feel like I can swim." 
"When I got back in," he said, "I didn't feel like I could move." 
MLB 
Minor leagues inherit Dodgertown 
Associated Press 
VERO BEACH, Fla. -The path­ways made of crushed seashells. The dugouts with no roofs. The cozy seating at Holman Stadium. 
All of Dodgertown's one-of-a­kind hallmarks again will have visitors. 
The governing body for Minor League Baseball agreed to a five­year contract Wednesday to take over operations of the storied Dodgertown complex in Vero Beach, Fla., bringing tournaments and fantasy camps back to one of baseball's most hallowed grounds. 
For Ralph Branca and Brooklyn's Boys of Summer, it just won't ever be the same. 
"I doubt I'll ever be back," Branca said Wednesday. "The Dodgers meant something spe­cial. To see it without them there would be a shame. But I'm glad there will at least be baseball there again. It's the finest training facility in the world." 
The deal with Indian River County and Vero Beach will bring high school and college tourna­ments and camps for players and umpires to the facility, but there still will be no major league team for spring training. 
This past spring was the first time in 61 years that the Dodgers did not occupy the facility. They left for an $80 million complex in Glendale, Ariz., that they share with the Chicago White Sox. Vero Beach had been the spring train­ing home of the Brooklyn and Los Angeles Dodgers since 1949. 
But things have changed. 
Jackie Robinson Avenue was removed. So was Don Drysdale Drive and Vm Scully Way, packed up and shipped West along with hundreds of other treasures that made Dodgertown unique. 
Branca was there from the start, when the players used to stay in old military barracks. 
"It was so fan-friendly," the for­mer star pitcher said. "You could walk and talk with players. Just getting up-close with fans was one of my favorite things. I have so many memories, probably more there than anywhere I've been." 
County and city officials will lease the complex for $1 per year, with Minor League Baseball to be solely responsible for maintaining the grounds, according to the agreement. The tenant will collect revenue from local tourist taxes. 

The lease will begin by at least May 1 and leaves open the possi­bility of a major league team to return. 
"We expect a long relationship that will create opportunities for fans to see high caliber baseball in the historic Dodgertown venue," Vero Beach city manager James Gabbard said in a state­ment. 
Officials had hoped to lure a major league team for spring training permanently. 
They negotiated for months with the Baltimore Orioles, who have struggled to get a new stadi­um deal as their lease in Fort Lauderdale is about to expire. But negotiations broke down last year, ending when the county rescind­ed its offer to the Orioles. 
At that point, Minor League Baseball president Pat O'Conner said he became involved in the process. 
"The county asked me, with my connections around baseball, to help them brainstorm ways to secure a tenant for the facility," O'Conner said at the announce­ment in Vero Beach on Wednesday. 


THE 

BSERVER 

Join the can1pus organization that brings the News tv1adeline Buckley (mbuckley(iJ>nd.edu) Ashley Charnley (acharn01@saintmarys.edu)
news to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's .; . . campuses every day. 
Sports 1\tiatt Gan1ber (mgamber@nd.edu) We're looking for new staff in all departments. 
Scene Jess Shaffer (jshaffel@nd.edu) 
Join The Observer staff. Contact us today. Photo Ian Gavlick (igavlick@nd.edu) 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April 23, 2009 
Tefft 
continued from page 24 
finding an experienced veter­an to lead a team into battle, and few teams can claim a more talented leader than Tefft. 
The Enid, Okla., native boasts a 105-35 career record in singles and a 147-25 career record in doubles. She was named to the 2008 ITA All-American doubles team alongside long-time juniors and collegiate partner Brook Buck, who graduated last year. Tefft was also named to the Big East All-Tournament team in each of her first three years in both the singles and doubles competitions. 
Of all the things she has accomplished in her illustri­ous career with the Irish, Tefft singled out last year's doubles national champi­onship as the one she won't ever forget. 
"Winning National Indoors last year with [Buck]." she said of her best memory with the Irish. "We had won five national tournaments in jun­iors and had been playing together for over 10 years. We came a long way togeth­er." 
When asked about the secret to her success, Louderback was quick to point to her team-first men­tality. 
"Kelcy has been a great example of how you can improve by working hard," he said. "She still puts the team first and is a great example of what a team leader should be and how to handle that lead­ership. She also expects to win every match she plays, which rubs off on the rest of the team." 

As much fun and success as she enjoyed during her four years, Tefft said the one thing she will miss most will be her teammates and her coach. 
"I will miss the girls the most. We spend so much time together and we are all very good friends. It will be hard not seeing them every day," she said. "I also owe a lot of my success to [Louderback]. He has been a great coach and has really helped me improve my game throughout my four years." 
But she isn't hanging up her racket just yet. 
Believe it or not, there is one more achievement that has escaped Tefft and her teammates in three previous attempts -a team national championship. 
''I'm really excited for our team this year at NCAAs. We are ranked fourth and we have a good chance of win­ning the whole thing," she said. "This year, I think we have the most talented team that I have played on in my entire career." 
With or without a team title, Tefft couldn't be more appre­ciative of her overall experi­ence at Notre Dame. 
"I have had an incredible four years at Notre Dame," she said. "There is something special about wearing an Irish jersey because of the tradition of the school. I have also been very blessed with amazing teammates who have made my experience everything I could have hoped for." 
Tefft will take the court for the final tournament of her career when the Irish suit up for the first-round of the NCAA Championships on May 9 in College Station, Texas. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 


ing Sherry and Pollock and putting the Irish on the
Michigan 
scoreboard. continued from page 24 Just two pitches later, 
junior Casey Martin was hit in the final inning allowed in the stomach to load up the Wolverines (22-7) run­the bases once again. ner to score from second, Junior David Mills then got giving Michigan a 3-2 victo­in on the action drawing a ry. walk to force in the tying 
Senior Sam Elam took the run. loss in his first start since Unlike in previous games last season, allowing just where they have struggled two earned runs and strik­to produce runs with run­ing out nine in six strong ners in scoring position, the innings. Irish got another one when 
Although Notre Dame was sophomore Mick Doyle hit a handed a deep fly ball disappoint­that allowed
"[Elam] pitched well 
ing result, Ashdown to Irish coach enough to get the vic­tag and D a v e score.
tory and you hate to
Schrage "That was
waste great pitching 
acknowl­the third time edged that it like that." we had the wasn't for bases loaded the lack of with no outs
Dave Schrage 
pitching. and Barnes,
Irish coach 
"IE I am J who has been 
really hit his spots today. He had great command the whole time," he said. "He pitched well enough to get the victory and you hate to waste great pitching like that." 
The Irish offense did not come alive until the sixth inning, scoring two runs to tie the game before giving up the game winner in the seventh. 
Junior A. J. Pollock's dou­ble down the left field line and senior Evan Sharpley's single in the sixth inning accounted for the only Irish runs in the contest. 
The second game began much like the first as Michigan jumped out to an early lead in the second inning behind a solo home­run off freshman starter Ryan Richter. 
Looking to keep Notre Dame's offense at bay as they had done all afternoon, Michigan took the field in the fifth inning up 3-0 and just nine outs away from the sweep. The Irish had other plans, however. 
After back-to-back walks to sophomore Greg Sherry and Pollock, junior Brayden Ashdown reached on an error by the Wolverines third baseman to load the bases with nobody out. Senior Jeremy Barnes stepped up and pounded a single to center field, scor-


THE ROYAL NATIONAL THEATRE VERSION Music by LEONARD BERNSTEIN Book Adapted from Voltaire by HUGH WHEELER In a New Version by JOHN CAIRO Lyrics by RICHARD WILBUR Additional lyrics by STEPHEN SONDHEIM, JOHN LATOUCHE, LILLIAN HELLMAN, 
DOROTHY PARKER and LEONARD BERNSTEIN 
Directed by MARK ABRAM-COPENHAVER Music directed by NANCY MENK Choreography by LAURIE LOWRY Costumes designed by MELISSA B BIALKO Lighting and set designed by MICHAELA DUFFY 
CANDIDE (NATIONAL THEATRE VERSION) is presented through special arrangement with Music Theatre International (MTI). All authorized performance materials are also supplied by MTI. 421 West 54th Street, New York, NY 1 0019 Phone: 212-574-4684 Fax: 212-397-4684 www.MTIShows.com 
a big leader for us, really came through. Once he got the hit, it really relaxed us. Mills and Doyle each had great at bats after that and came through to help us get the victory," Schrage said. 
That was all the produc­tion the team would need as sophomore Todd Miller came in and shutdown the Wolverines offense, picking up the two-inning save in the process. 
Sophomore Cameron McConnell made a big play in the seventh inning, throwing out a Wolverine runner attempting to advance to second base, his second of the game. 
"That was a huge play for us," Schrage said. "He has done that all year. He's been able to throw guys out. Your defense starts behind the plate and when you can shut down the run­ning game, that's big for us." 
Richter allowed three earned runs in five innings of work to get the win, improving to 4-1 on the season. 
Notre Dame will travel to Louisville, Ky., to face the Cardinals in a three-game Big East series schedule to begin Friday at 6:30 p.m. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 
Unbeaten 
continued from page 24 
the Irish actually fell one spot in the coaches' poll. 
To contrast, Virginia had only one game this weekend, and needed an 8-1 fourth quarter to beat Dartmouth, a team the Irish dismantled 19-7 earlier in the year. The Cavaliers were rewarded by regaining the No. 1 ranking they lost a week earlier. 
Detractors point to Notre Dame's strength of schedule, which admittedly, is below that of the ACC teams. They say Notre Dame wouldn't be able to hold its own against a quali­ty opponent. Never mind the fact that the Irish beat North Carolina earlier this season, holding a potent Tar Heels offense to just seven goals. 
Examples like North Carolina and Dartmouth show that the Irish are at the very least comparable to the other top-5 teams. And if all other things are equal -or even dose-shouldn't the unde­feated team get the benefit of the doubt? 
No, there's something more at work here. Notre Dame isn't one of the bluebloods of col­lege and pollsters are holding it against them. Just because they aren't Syracuse, Johns Hopkins or Duke, the Irish will always get slighted. 
If you ask Irish coach Kevin Corrigan, or any players for that matter, they'll say it does­n't matter. They'll talk about how they're just focusing on Saturday's game against Ohio State, as they should. 
But when it's time for NCAA seeding, it sure would be nice to have that No. 1 spot. Even if the Irish win out in impressive fashion, and take the Great Western Lacrosse League (GWLL) tournament, it's unlikely they'd be able to jump the teams ahead of them before the tournament starts in mid-May. 
Fortunately, the problem should be corrected next sea­son, when the Big East will begin sponsoring men's lacrosse. 
Instead of playing in the GWLL, which currently has zero ranked teams other than Notre Dame, the Irish will be playing in the same conference as No. 2 Syracuse, No. 18 Georgetown and Villanova, which is receiving votes in both polls. 
For now, though, the Irish will have to take what they can get. Even if all they're getting is the shaft. 
The views expressed in this commentary are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd. edu 
S~OrageBetween Notre oame & 
·~ . Aifl}art at the carn~r of 
Mayflower &Ed1son 
space Ca/1574.247.7805 
Lighted &Paved Free Lock with Every Unit 
5x10...$169 +DEP 1Ox1 0...$269 +DEP 

Thursday, April 23, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
Colts like their options in Saturday's draft 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Colts president Bill Polian is a draft master. 
He took Peyton Manning over Ryan Leaf and Edgerrin James over Ricky Williams in his first two seasons with the Colts, providing the foundation for a perennial playoff team. He filled in other holes by choosing players such as Reggie Wayne, Dwight Freeney and Dallas Clark out­side the top 10. Heck, he even traded out of the first round in 2004 to nab Bob Sanders. 
Yet this weekend could be Polian's biggest challenge. 
With the Colts undergoing major changes and no certain­ty about where the NFL's salary cap is headed, Polian knows he cannot afford a cost­ly mistake -anytime, but especially this year. 
"If you miss on some high draft choices and you miss on the players of your own that you decide to pay once they're here, then you can't succeed," Polian said in February. 
Fortunately for the Colts, Polian 's success rate is better than most. 
He's discovered gems, like Pro Bowl defensive end Robert Mathis, in the middle rounds. He drafts a year or two into the future, taking players such as receiver Anthony Gonzalez or Clark to fill projected holes left by free agency. He's even found undrafted contributors, such as three-time Pro Bowl center Jeff Saturday and defensive captain Gary Brackett. 
But for Polian, this will be a new experience. 
Coach Tony Dungy retired in January, turning the reins over to his hand-picked suc­cessor Jim Caldwell. The Colts have new defensive and spe­cial teams coordinators, which could force Polian to make a few changes when assessing talent. And the franchise's career rece1vmg leader, Marvin Harrison, was released two months ago. 
Plus, there were some glar­ing holes last season. 
Indy's run defense ranked among the league's worst after starting defensive tackle Ed Johnson was released in September. Brackett, a line­backer, missed the final month of the season after cracking a bone in his lower left leg, and Freddy Keiaho, another start­ing linebacker, has not been re-signed. 
That means Polian has plen­ty of options this weekend. The Colts' first-round pick is No. 27 overall. 
Bison 
continued from page 24 
of the inning but couldn't score. 
"Bargar does an amazing job, and she always comes with her 'A' game," Miller said. "She had an awesome game today." 
Sophomore Jody Valdivia ran into trouble in the first inning but got a bases-loaded strikeout to get out of the jam. From there, Valdivia cruised to a shutout and improved her ERA to 2.49. 
"Jody did a great job too," Miller said. "In the second game we had more hitting to back Jody up, and that was the difference between the two games for us." 
On offense, Irish sophomore shortstop Katie Fleury hit a double that brought in two runs, giving the Irish the first lead of the game. The Irish scored again as freshman Alexa Maldonado was brought home by senior sec­ond baseman Linda Kohan. 
In the bottom of the sixth, the Irish had their offensive highlight of the night when Kohan hit a two-run homer, moving the lead to 5-0. 
"In the first game we strug­gled offensively, that change­up threw us off," Miller said. "In the second game we picked it up." 
Notre Dame will host con­ference rival Syracuse for a doubleheader Sunday at Melissa Cook Stadium. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
Kosinski said. "I also wanted to be more aggressive on court. I also want to do my best to help the team reach our goal of winning confer­ence." 
Sophomore Betsy Reed fell to Danielle Werley 6-1, 6-1 at No. 4 singles after teaming up with Peluso at No. 2 dou­bles to lose 8-0, against Garcia and Spagnuolo. 
Peluso also lost at No. 5 singles 6-4, 6-1 to Mia Savagian, while sophomore Jessica Camp also fell to 

Himes at No. 6 singles. 
The Belles will travel to Adrian Saturday and will look to get back on track in their last two regular season matches before heading to Kalamazoo next weekend for the conference tournament. 
"Adrian is not one of the top teams in the conference," Campbell said. "Coming off a couple of tough losses like the one today and the Kalamazoo match, we hope it will give us a chance to breathe and work on a few things before heading to Kalamazoo." 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


page 22 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 23, 2009 
l
I 
l!ndergraduatg Male AJhlgte ofthg year; 
1. Carl Andersen 

o Senior Carl Andersen, one of the top basketball players on campus, Jed Morrissey Manor to their second straight lnterhall Basketball title and undefeated season with 17 points in the championship game. Carl's athleticism and ability to shoot it from anywhere make him a tough opponent and an impressive player to watch. ln addition to playing basketball, broomball and volleyball, Carl also plays lnterhall and CoRee football where he is one ofthe league leading wide receivers for both his lnterhall and CoRee football teams. 
2. Alex Klupcbak 

o Alex K!upchak, a senior from O'Neill Hall, can be found most afternoons playing several hours of pick·up basketball at Rolfs. Alex has aconfidence and intensity that can be matched by few other players and his quickness and ability to both drive the lane and shoot it from deep make him a constant threat As captain and leading scorer of his CoRee and lnterhall basketball teams, he led them both to appearances in the championship games, putting up 23 points in the lnterhall Final. When not on the hardwood, Alex plays wide receiver on O'Neill's Interhall Football team and referees countless basketball and football games. 
3. Casey McGusbin 

o Casey "Pistol" McGushin is the captain and leading scorer for Sorin's !nterhall Basketball team where his driving ability and accuracy from deep behind the arc make him the Otter's number one threat. In addition, Pistol plays quarterback on the Otters'lnterha!l Football team and is the captain ofthe little Giants flag football team who had an undefeated regular season, beating opponents by an average of 52 points. 
l!pdewradwttc Female Athlete gf the Year; 
1. Kathleen Stanley 

a. Kathleen Stanley helped McGlinn Ha.ll capture the lnterhall Women's Basketball & Flag Football championships. McGlinn upset the top seeded Purple Weasels of PW in a 41·33 victory to 
win the lnterhall Women's Basketball title. In addition, Stanley plays in multiple soccer leagues,lnterhall Lacrosse, and was a member of DVD Late Night who made an appearance in the CoRee basketball final. 
2. MaryForr 

a. Mary Forr was a major component of Pasquerilla West's Flag Football team as their top wide receiver. She also led the Purple Weasels to the number one seed in the Women's lnterhall 
Basketball tournament where they fell to McGlinn in the championship game. In addition, Mary was a key contributor on several CoRee teams including Flag Football, Basketball, and Broomball. 
3. Jenni Gargula 

a. jenni Gargula plays quarterback for Welsh Family's lnterhall Flag Football team that lost the championship game in the final minutes. Over the past three years, she has a perft'ft record 
in the regular season as the Whirlwind's quarterback. jenni also brings an unmatched intensity to the point guard position on the Whirlwinds'lnterhall Basketball team. Gradyate Male Athlete of the Year 
1. Matt Hamel 

a After losing on penalty kicks in the GFS Soccer championship game, Matt Hamel helped the Insurance Waivers capture the CoRee Basketball title en route to an undefeated season. Hamel brings an unmatched intensity and determination to all sports as the leading scorer of the GFS basketball team, Flannel. and a strong defender on his CoRee Soccer team. In addition to playing basketball, soccer, broomball and volleyball, liamel is one of the top oft1cials for both soccer and basketball. 
2. Braden Turner 

a. Braden Turner represents MSA in a variety of sports including basketball, flag football, and volleyball. He was captain of the MSA Oag football team and a member of the MSA soccer team that lost in the finals on penalty kicks. 
3. David Standa 

a. As captain of his self·titled team, Dave Standa led his team to the GFS baseball title with a victory over CEGEOS. Dave played GFS basketball on Team Flannel who made it to the semifinals before losing to the eventual champions. He is also a key contributor to his league leading Floor Hockey team, Threat Level Midnight, who has bet~ten their opponents by an 
average of 10 goals. Gradyate Fgma!e Mhlgte ofthg Year; 
1. Susan Pinnick 

a. Susan Pinnick represented the MSA program well, playing as many sports as she could. She was a member of MSA soccer team that lost the championship game on penalty kicks and a key component of her undefeated CoRee soccer team. In addition, Susan played basketball. flag football, and volleyball. 
2. Chrissy Vaughn 

a. Chrissy Vaughn was the captain ofthe Mighty Mendoza GFS soccer team that won their league. She always brought enthusiasm and leadership to her team as a key contributor to their successful season. 
3. Brittany Baron a Brittany Baron is the leader of MSA athletics as the captain of both their soccer and basketball teams. She was amember of the CoRee championship basketball team. Insurance Waivers. 
and the GFS soccer runner-up as well as flag football and volleyball. Team of the year; 
1. lnterhall Men's Basketball Champions: Morrissey Manor Basketball 
a. By averaging 65 points agame, Morrissey Manor completed an undefeated season and claimed the number one seed in the Men's lnterhall Basketball Championship. Led by senior Captain Carl Andersen's 17 points, they were able to defend their lnterhall b<lsketball title with a69-62 victory over O'NeHI Hall. 
2. CoRee Flag Football Champions: Weapons of Mass Destruction 
a. Weapons of Mass Destruction struggled in the regular season, but a 2-2 record was just enough to get them into the playoffs where their season took off. They upset both the number one and number t\vo seeds en route to the CoRee Flag Football Championship. 
3. CoRee Basketball Champions: lnsurance Waivers 
a. joe Marnell, Matt Hamel, &loe DeMott led the Insurance Waivers to an undefeated season. Averaging 71 points agame to their opponents' 38, they captured the CoRee Basketball 
Championship over DVD Late Night with a 71-30 victory. Game of the year; 
1. Men's lnterball Hockey Championship: Siegfried vs. Stanford 
a. The #4 seed Siegfried met the# 1 seeded Stanford Griffins in the lnterhall Men's Hockey championship after both teams had to go into OTto win their semifinal games. The Siegfried Ramblers pulled off the 3·1 upset over the heavily favored Stanford Griffins to take home the championship trophy. 
2. Men's lnterball Football Championship: Siegfried vs. Keenan 
a. The top-seeded Siegfried Ramblers defeated the seventh-seeded Knights of Keenan Hall14·13 to capture the Men's lnterhall Football Championship trophy and complete an undefeated 
season. Despite the inspired play of the Knight's wide receiver, james Zenker, Siegfried was able to seal the victory when they stopped Keenan's attempt at atwo-point conversion with just over tw-o minutes to play. 
3. GFS Soccer Championship: Team MSA vs. Pick Up United 
a. Forty minutes wasn't enough to settle the GFS Soccer Championship as the game went into overtime tied 2-2. Top seeded Pick Up United pulled out the victory over third seeded Team 
MSA in Penalty Kicks 5-3. fans pfthg Year; 
1. Zahm Hockey 

a Defending lnterhall Hockey Champion, Zahm House, could alw·ays be found with a large contingent of fims including fans in costumes ofall sorts. Even as the team started to struggle, their fan base stayed strong during the early morning hours at the )ACC Ice Rink. 
Z. Welsh Flag Football 

a. Welsh Fam was never short of fans, especially for Flag Football. Even Father Greg never missed agame. It's hard not to play well when you have the fan support that the Whirlwinds do, cheering them on to an undefeated regular season and an appearance in the lnterhall Championship game. 
3. Purple Rain 

a. GFS Flag Football team, Purple Rain, always had a ton of support from their fans. even bringing a mascot. The fans for Purple Rain stayed strong even as the weather turned cold and rainy for the playoffs where the team lost in a hard fought semifinal game to Palin's Spawn. 
Voting is open until midnight, Sunday, April 26th Checkout http:/jweb.recsports.nd.edujrecspyjindex.php 
Thursday, April 23, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
Across 33 Position on the Enterprise: Abbr. 

Two drinks, for some 34 Reception vessel
6 Reserved to a greater degree 35 Cause 
11 1099-_ (tax 37 Actress Milano form sent by a and namesakes bank) 41 Charles I, II, Ill 
14 Japanese 
,, or X mushroom 42 Had something 15 Holmes of 43 The Bobcats of "Batman Begins" the Mid­American
16 Conjunction that Conference
usually has a partner 44 First-place finishers in
17 Eco-friendly in Bangor?
Las Vegas? 48 Planted
19 Rapping "Dr." 
49 Feature of an20 Tai chi instructor essential oil 

21 Kind of account 50 "Oh yes, I love not used much that dress," 
anymore 
maybe23 Food glaze 
53 Team in College 25 Down Under Station, Tex. springers 
58_Thorpe, 

26 Omaha's 2000 and 2004 waterfront during Olympic downpours? swimming 
32 Tax-free 
sensation transaction, 59 Jogging atop usually Great Falls? 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

61 Neatnik's opposite 62 Environs for Galatea, in myth 63 Banks in Chicago 
64 Places with defibrillators, for short 
65 Move along a buffet line, perhaps 
66 They're found on staffs 
Down 1 Stamina 2 Preceder of a 
case name 
3 Plumbing fixture manufacturer 4 General store on 
"The Waltons" 5 Musician's 
weakness 6 Biathlon need 7 Milliners' 
securers 8 Home of Odysseus 
9 _, zwei, drei 10 Guns 11 Like fireworks, 
infrequently 12 "We can't squeeze any 
more in" 13 Some migrations 18 Woody vine with 
violet blossoms 22 Charles of 
"Death Wish" 24 Yearn (for) 26 Foreign policy 
advisory grp. 27_-necked 28 Shadow, so to 
speak 29 Having an effect 30 Ottoman sultan 
known as ''the Maonificent" 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Laura Sternberg  
31 Taste 36 Gift-wrapping aid 37 Part of Lawrence Welk's intra 38 "_ Hates Me," 2002 hit by Puddle of Mudd 39 Melody 40 Pad name 42 Kind of gland 44 High-luster fabric  45 "Dallas" kinfolk 46 Sprinkled 47 Unpleasant reminder? 48 Credit card action 51 Asteroid on which a NASA probe landed in 2001  52 Baines Johnson (presidential daughter) 54 "Friday the 13th" staple 55 Places to sleep 56 Issue 57 Some Fr. honorees 60 Suffix with glass  

For answers, call 1-900-285·5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Frances Capra, 26; Daniel Johns, 30; Eric Mabius, 38; Jack Nicholson, 72 
Happy Birthday: You don't have to back down or take no for an answer this year. You can write your own ticket by being responsible. Stand up and be counted and push to achieve your goals. An unusual turn of events will evolve and you'll be the one in charge. Your numbers are 2, 7, 13, 26, 36, 44,47 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Communication is a must if you want to stay in control. Someone may try to upset your position or influence the outcome of something you are working toward. Someone will use underhanded tactics to try to beat you. *** 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Go right to the top if you want to get something resolved. You will fall privy to secret information that will give you the edge. Use your charm, coupled with your knowledge and experience and you'll come across as confident and ca­pable.**** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Stick to whatever will benefit you professionally, personally and financially. You will face jealous and possessive acts ifyou lead someone on or you make a promise and don't keep it. ** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You should receive an honor or raise or something that will improve your status. Someone may not like all the attention you are getting. Honesty will help you resolve any incident that crops up. ***** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't get derailed by criticism you don't deserve. Greater in­volvement in challenging activities will raise your confidence and prove what you are ca­pable of. Put your cash in a safe place and don't lend or borrow. ***** • 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You are ready to revamp your old ways, habits and lifestyle. Change bring more excitement to your life. There is money to be made if you pick up in­formation or take courses that will broaden your skills. *** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Say what you mean and mean what you say. You'll be under the spotlight and your conduct will make a difference to the outcome of anything you are currently working towards personally and professionally. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can present and promote effectively. Love will come easy and someone you care for will be accommodating in every way imaginable. Show ev­eryone what you have to offer. Your longtime goals are now within reach. *** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't stretch the truth if you don't want to be embar­rassed. Your reputation may be compromised if you haven't been completely honest about what you are offering others. ***** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will win if you challenge someone. Taking an un­usual path will help you learn something about who you are and what you are capable of doing. You can learn from past experiences, as well. **** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Not everyone will think the same way you do. Expect op­position and prepare to compromise if you want to resolve issues and get things done. It's never too late to start something new or to go back and get something or someone you left behind.*** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't make a noise unless you are prepared to back up your accusations with lots of proof. Someone will push back if you decide you want to take over or have things your way. Personal relationships will be emotional, passionate and full of excitement. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are far-reaching, intelligent and original. You are passionate, caring and can be explosive. You can effectively combine your communication skills with your 
charm. 

WWW. 8LACKDOGCOMIC.COM 
fORBIDDEN DOUGHNUT 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


JUMBLE 
JJ!?JMIDJ1[!
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LEVOG 
j
I I [ [) 
'S'2009 Tribuna Media Services. Inc. 
AU Rights Reserved. 
REVUC j 

I rr I I 


Ans: rI I I JTHE " [ I I I I ]" 
(Answers tomorrow: Yesterday's IJumbles: BALMY TWILL CRAVAT PHYSIC Answer: What the director said when the mummy scene was shot -IT'S A "WRAP" 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurel 

THE CONDUCTOr< NE=GOTIAn:D A 1-UCI<ATIVE= CONTI<ACT BECAUSE HE --­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 

Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 

-----------~-~--------------------------------------------------, 
THE ()BSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, April 23, 2009 
page 24 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
One last shot 
Senior Tefft captains fourth-ranked squad into Championships 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
Good leadership skills, a strong work ethic and a slew of natural talent are all quali­ties any coach would love to find somewhere on his team. 
Irish coach Jay Louderback didn't have to look past senior captain Kelcy Tefft before finding all three. 
"If I had to describe Kelcy in one word, it would be com­mitted," Louderback said. "She has been our hardest worker and always puts extra time into being prepared to play. She has played with injuries but has done it for our team to succeed." 
A major key to success is 
see TEFFT/page 20 


NO SOFTBALL 
Teatn rebounds for home doubleheader split 
By MOLLY SAMMON Sports Writer  (25-16) win in the opener ended a 10-game win streak for Notre Dame (32-14, 14-3  inning, thanks to excellent pitching from both the Irish and the Bison.  The Bison didn't get to Irish senior pitcher Brittney Bargar until the bottom of  
Big East), who responded  "They  come  to  play, and  the seventh inning. North  
Notre Dame  saw a  pair of  with  a  5-0 victory in  the  they were not a team to take  Dakota State scored twice on  
impressive streaks fall by the  nightcap. Game 1  was  the  lightly," freshman left fielder  Bargar  - who  holds  a  
wayside  in  Game  1  of  first nonconference home  Dani Miller said.  sparkling 1.69 earned  run  
Wednesday's doubleheader  contest the Irish had lost  Notre Dame struck quickly  average for the season  -by  
against North Dakota State,  since 2007,  a  stretch  cover­ in  the  opener,  as  junior  taking advantage of an  Irish  
but the Irish  came back to  ing 15 games.  Heather  Johnson's  first­ error.  Notre Dame had two  
defeat the Bison in Game 2  The first game was truly  a  inning sacrifice fly scored·  runners reach in the bottom  
and salvage a split.  battle of the pitchers. Each  senior Beth Northway, who  
The 2-1 North Dakota State  team only scored during one  reached on a lead-off double.  see BISON/page 21  

BASEBALL 
Irish take Game 2 from UM 
Wolverines use seventh inning error to win twin billing's opener 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
After an untimely error cost them the first game of the evening, the Irish were able to ride strong pitching and a giant fifth inning to a split of their shortened doubleheader with Michigan on Wednesday night at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Each contest only went seven innings as the first game had to be rescheduled because of a rainout Tuesday in Ann Arbor, Mich. 
The Notre Dame (23-15, 8-7 Big East) comeback attempt in Game 1 was thwarted when a throwing error by junior sec­ond baseman Ryne Intlekofer 
see MICHIGAN/page 21 


MEN'S LACROSSE 
COMMENTARY 
Unbeaten NDshould be No.1 
They are the only undefeated team in Division I, using a smothering defense to outscore opponents by an average of more than five goals per game. In fact, this past week­end, the Irish gave up just four com­bined goals in two games on back-to­hack days. 
Sounds like the resume of the con­sensus No. 1 team, right? 
Well, not exactly. The Irish are currently ranked No. 3 in the Inside Lacrosse poll, one of two major polls in college lacrosse. In the other, the coaches' poll, Notre Dame is an even more puzzling No. 4, tied with two-loss Princeton. 
Just what exactly do the Irish have to do to get the recognition they deserve? 
Take this past weekend for example. In a sport where one game a week is the norm, Notre Dame played on both Saturday and Sunday -in two different states, no less. In both gaines, the Irish gave up only two goals, something the teams ahead of them have combined to do only once. Despite the fantastic weekend, 

Sam Werner 
Associate Sports Editor 
see UNBEATEN/page 20 
SMC TENNIS 

Gebert notches only win in Belles 8-1 loss 
By KATE GRABAREK Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will need to win its last two matches to secure 
a .500 conference record after falling at Hope, 8­1, Wednesday. 
"Hope is really tough and lwasl ready for us," Belles ':oach Dale Campbell said. "We fought really hard and tried our best and were really close in three or four matches." 
The Belles (7-9, 2-4 MIAA) stuck with their lineup changes from the Trine match at both singles and doubles, moving sophomore Franca Peluso up from No. 3 doubles to No. 2 and inserting her into the No. 5 singles slot. Sophomore Mary Therese Lee filled in at No. 3 doubles against the Flying Dutch (14-5, 6-0). 

Junior captain Camille Gebert was able to continue her undefeated singles play in the conference defeating Katherine Garcia 6-3, 6-4. 
"She hung in well for the long points," Campbell said. "She ran down a lot of balls and outlasted her opponent. Her fitness certainly gives her a lot of confidence." 
Sophomore Jillian Hurley fell to Samantha Stille 6-1, 6-1 at No. 1 singles, and teamed up with Gebert to fall 8-5 at No. 1 doubles. 
Kosinski fell in her No. 3 sin­gles match 6-3, 6-4 against Nicole Spagnuolo, and also teamed up with Lee at No. 3 doubles in an 8-0 loss to Lucy Himes and Beth Olson. 
"One of my main goals for the season was to have a stronger mental game," 
see BELLES/page 21 








