Photo and Graphic Illustration by Ian Gavlick and Andrea Archer 
COMMENTARY 

Irish need win to regain stability 
There may not be a more important game in years in impacting the stability of the Notre Dame football pro­gram. 
What was once a promising season with realistic BCS goals was turned upside down last week with a crushing loss to Navy. And while the Irish have lost three games by a total of 13 points this year, many have already written it off as a failure. 
It’s been an odd season to be sure — nine games in it’s still very hard to tell if this team is good, bad, lucky or somewhere in between. Statistically Notre Dame is 13 points from being unde­feated, and also 17 points from being 2-7. 
But Saturday, Notre Dame has a chance to reverse a majority of the negativity built up by the loss to the Midshipmen. While losing to an unranked Navy team while ranked for the first time since FDR was president will sting for a long time, it could be just a bump in the road if the Irish can beat Pittsburgh and finish 9-3. 
It was my freshman year when Charlie Weis and Notre Dame firmly stated that 9-3 wasn’t good enough. Three unexpected years later, 9-3 suddenly is good enough. Not anywhere near good enough to accomplish the goals the history Notre Dame football should demand, but enough to keep his job another year and get one more shot at proving the program is on the road to recovery. 
And it wouldn’t shock me for the Irish to take out Pittsburgh Saturday. It also wouldn’t shock me in the least if this team collapsed, as it did at the end of last year. 
This Notre Dame team, however, has become experts at changing direction and momentum. The early year was filled with fourth-quar­ter comebacks; lately, they’ve come up short. The defense originally couldn’t stop the run, then the pass, and now maybe it’s just up to whatev­er the opposition is most comfortable with. 
Could they just reverse these trends again? I could easily see it happening, and I don’t see a team this talented limping to the finish line again. 


Despite this, the margin for error after last week has been effectively reduced to zero. The vultures that cir­cled Charlie Weis throughout 2007 and reappeared after the Syracuse game last year are back, and grow in num­ber with every loss. 
Negative speculation sur­rounding Notre Dame’s future in the media only puts more pressure on the team, Weis and for Jack Swarbrick to make a decision. And the media loves nothing more than to cover struggles at Notre Dame. The two ESPN reporters at Tuesday’s press conference were no accident, and they’ll be back after another loss. 
This game can go a long way towards reversing all that though. Not a complete 180, but at a lot can change with a win at Heinz Field. 
The game would demon­strate that Weis and the Irish are still fighting upward and improving despite last week’s evidence to the contrary. It would go against many of the damning tendencies that have plagued the team and coach over the last five years. 
For example, 1-13 against ranked teams. Or 8-19 against teams that finish the season with winning records. Beating the Panthers won’t make those statistics any more acceptable to those who are calling for Weis’ head, but it could go a long way towards beating Connecticut and Stanford. Which would be enough, giv­ing the Irish the 9-3 record most reasonable fans expect­ed this season. 
Weis deflected questions about the big picture and his future by maintaining he’s focused only on Pittsburgh. While I think this is not humanly possible, Pittsburgh is his tipping point. With a team that has thrived on the momentum of close wins, I don’t think Notre Dame will lose again if they come away with the upset Saturday. 
With a loss, the window on the Weis era becomes inches away from closing, if not closed. 9-3 may have changed from 2006 to 2009 to become good enough; 8-4 or 7-5 certainly have not. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Flowers enjoys visit to Notre Dame 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
Despite the fact that Ricky Dobbs and Vince Murray, Navy’s proverbial big guns, blew holes in Notre Dame’s armor and plunged it into the depths, the Irish pulled off one vic­tory last weekend. 
Marquis Flowers, a run­ning back and safety from Goodyear, Ariz., came away from his official visit very impressed with the Irish program. 
“I think that they did a really good job with him,” said Mike Frank, a Notre Dame recruiting analyst who runs the ESPN-affiliat­ed Web site irishsportsdai­ly.com “Obviously the game didn’t turn out like they’d hoped but Marquis really enjoyed his time at Notre Dame. I think it really opened his eyes.” 
Flowers, at 6-foot-2 and 195 pounds, has rushed for 1,024 yards and 13 touch­downs on only 103 carries at Millenium High School in Goodyear. He also has 49 tackles, two interceptions and a blocked field goal on defense. 
Flowers is also consider­ing USC, UCLA, Arizona and Arizona State. 
Frank said Notre Dame did three things successful­ly to impress Flowers: make him feel wanted, show he could fit in and make him feel comfortable. Still, Frank said, Flowers will take official visits to other schools before deciding. 
His father accompanied him on the visit. 
“His dad is very pro Notre Dame and I think he likes a lot of what he saw as well with Marquis,” Frank said. “… I think [the Irish] are definitely the team to beat right now.” 
Shocking considering the manner in which Notre Dame lost, 23-21, to Navy kinds of bad thing happen,” Frank said. “You fumble, you trade turnovers, false starts. It seems almost like an unrealistic.” 
The fact that half the alumni already have visions of Urban Meyer, Jon Gruden or Brian Kelly dancing in their heads hin­ders the process. The rumors circulating around Irish coach Charlie Weis’ job status may have already 
Saturday, its second loss at home to the Midshipmen in three years. But freshman linebacker Manti Te’o, who visited for last year’s loss to Syracuse on Senior Day, chose the Irish, so lur­hurt the pro­gram’s recruiting,

“Obviously the game 
Frank said. 

didn’t turn out like “If there weren’t all
they’d hoped, but 
these uncer-

Marquis [Flowers] 
tainties I think 

really enjoyed his Notre Dame would have a
time at Notre Dame.” 
lot of commits right now, big Mike Frank time players,” 
Irish recruiting analyst he said. 
ing a recruit in after a loss remains doable. 
“I think the most impor­tant thing is they let the recruit know that this is the future, and ‘look at the tal­ent they brought in the last two classes and look at what we have,’” Frank said. “’Obviously we’re having a much better season. We just need a couple players to get us over the edge.’” 
The problem with a loss like this one, Frank said, is there is no way to explain what happened — it is what it is. 
“It’s just a game where all Yet all is not 
lost. 
“Really the best thing that Charlie Weis can do is beat Pitt at this point,” Frank said. “That will give a lot of people with a lot of uneasy feelings some reassurance that last week was a blip in the radar.” 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com. 
E-mail Mike at mike­frank18@sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you. 

Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 






Last defense 
Safety Kyle McCarthy becomes unquestioned leader of defense in fifth and final year 
it isn’t close. Junior line-quarterbacks and also posted

By MATT GAMBER 
backer Brian Smith places gaudy statistics at defensive
Sports Editor 
second in both categories back while gaining state and with 28 and 51, respectively. national recognition for their 
On a Notre Dame defense, And as the captain and individual efforts. and particularly in a second-unquestioned leader of the After earning all-confer­ary, that has shuffled on an Notre Dame defense, it’s ences honors as a junior wide almost weekly basis in 2009, McCarthy who is often receiver, Kyle became the one piece of the puzzle has responsible for making defen-team’s starting quarterback remained intact. sive calls and arranging his as a senior in 2004. McCarthy 
And does it come as a sur-teammates in accordance passed for 557 yards and five prise to anyone that that with offensive formations and touchdowns and rushed for piece is free safety Kyle audibles. 1,273 yards and 14 touch-McCarthy? “He makes a lot of calls. downs on just 135 carries to 
“It’s been very important [to He’s really football smart,” earn all-state recognition. As have him back there],” Irish senior defensive back Darrin a defensive back, he recorded defensive backs coach Corwin Walls said. “That’s one thing 70 tackles and made five Brown said. “I think what that we need out there. He interceptions, returning two he’s done more than anything directs people, tells them for scores — including a else is be able to keep the where to go and how to line record-setting 93-yard pick-guys fairly settled, no matter up. When you have a guy like six in the state title game to who has been in there with that who you can trust, that’s earn the game’s MVP award. him.” always good.” McCarthy also displayed his 
Ironically — or appropriate-McCarthy’s persistence in supreme athletic ability on ly — enough, the same could having to wait until 2008 to the baseball diamond, where be said about McCarthy’s role earn a full-time starting spot he set a school-record with in his off-campus home last make him a good example for 20 stolen bases as a senior year, when he lived with younger players to follow as and also posted seven wins three of his teammates, well, Walls said. and a sub-4.00 earned run including current fifth-year “I think the whole process average. tackle Paul Duncan. In an for him, coming here behind As for younger brother Oct. 19, 2008, Irish Insider [former Irish standout and Dan? He was the Gatorade cover story, McCarthy called current Baltimore Ravens Player of the Year as a senior himself “the dad” of the safety Tom Zbikowski] and in 2007, and a finalist for the house, where it was his job to then finally having the chance prestigious Mr. Football keep his teammates in line. to play and making the best award in Ohio, earning sec­
It’s not a perfect analogy — of it — that’s the kind of guy ond-team All America honors no analogy is — but you want leading your team,” from USA Today, according to McCarthy’s role on the Walls said. und.com. He rushed for over defense has been comparable 3,000 yards and 36 touch-this season. Family affair downs in two seasons at 
“He understands the bigger Like any of his fellow fifth-quarterback while posting picture better, and he’s taken year seniors, McCarthy has 249 tackles and 16 sacks in on more of a leadership role,” been around long enough to his final two years on Brown said. “He’s the older see just about everything, defense. guy back there, and he from back-to-back BCS berths “It’s been great playing with understands where he’s at.” to the worst two-year run in him. He’s a real good player,” 
school history. Kyle said of his brother. “The definitely been a lot more Irish season reaches a cross-Old Reliable McCarthy has even been guys on the team all think laid-back. It’s been great.” roads at Pittsburgh Saturday. 
Whenever the Irish have long around long enough to he’s their little brother, too.” 
And with big-picture ques­struggled and have been in play two seasons with his But Dan isn’t the only Growing as a leader tions abounding about theneed of a big play, it seems younger brother, Dan, who as brother Kyle sees on a daily Following in the footsteps of state of the Notre Dame pro-like McCarthy’s been there, a sophomore has climbed the basis at Notre Dame. After NFL-caliber safeties like gram five years into thewith game-clinching intercep-depth chart to become his the craziness of his house last Zbikowski and David Bruton, Charlie Weis era, one might tions in wins against older brother’s backup. year, Kyle opted for a more a Denver Broncos draft pick think McCarthy and his fellowMichigan State and Boston Looking at their resumes quiet alternative this year, he last season, McCarthy has captains would have a toughCollege contributing to his coming out of Cardinal said. 
improved not only as a player, time keeping their teamtotal of five picks for the year. Mooney H.S. in Youngstown, “I’m living with my older but as the leader of the focused on a talented 
Often the last line of Ohio, it’d be hard to tell the brother, who’s also a grad defense — a particularly Panthers team. 
defense, McCarthy leads the McCarthy brothers apart. student,” Kyle said, referring important trait because of his That’s not the case,Irish in solo (44) and total Both were two-way stand-to his brother Brian, 2006 role as a veteran and his posi-McCarthy said.
(72) tackles this season, and outs that won state titles as Notre Dame graduate. “It’s tion in the defensive back-“It has zero effect on how field. we go about doing things,” 
“Kyle’s grown to be a great McCarthy said. “That’s all player and a great leader, and going outside the locker room. our players notice that,” Walls Inside the locker room, there’s said. “He’s taken control in no questions or anything like the weight room, in the locker that. We just go out and pre­room, and when you have a pare everyday with trust in guy like that you can depend the guys in this locker room on, it really helps the team.” and trust in the coaching 
Walls said McCarthy is more staff, and we’re excited to of a “lead-by-example” type play Pitt on Saturday.” but knows the right time to Weis declared after the Navy step up and address the team. loss that the theme this week 
“He doesn’t always speak would be “accountability,” and much, but when he does McCarthy said Tuesday that speak, people listen to him,” early in the week — beginning Walls said. “They do what he Monday, when the players tells them to do. He leads by have the day off but it was example and everyone follows reported a larger number behind him.” than usual came in to work 
Brown said the type of per-out and watch extra film — son McCarthy is makes him a the returns were positive. good leader. “As far as preparation and 
“Kyle is a classy dude, and I prepping for the game, our think the best thing about guys need to be accountable Kyle is he’s not selfish,” for the job at hand,” McCarthy Brown said. “He’s trying to said. “The coaches are going help out others. I believe to put us in the position to when you put others first, make plays, but it’s up to the when it’s not always about players to go out and execute you, everybody else appreci-and make plays. Last week we ates that … That’s why he’s struggled a little bit, so we played the way he’s played just need to maybe prepare a this year.” little harder, pay attention to 
detail, and hopefully get it Bouncing back corrected this Saturday.” 
After last week’s 23-21 loss to Navy, the second straight at Contact Matt Gamber at home to the Midshipmen, the mgamber@nd.edu 





Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 



HEAD T



5th season at 
Irish Offense vs. Panthers Defense 
Notre Dame 

career record: 
35-24 


on the road: 
12-9 
Charlie Weis against Pittsburgh: head coach 3-1 

ASSING
IRISH P
Jon Tenuta Corwin Brown Def. Coordinator Co-Def. Coord. Assistant HC Associate HC 






Remember that last touchdown drive against Navy? That showed heart, intensity and execu­tion. That showed who Notre Dame can be if it so chooses. It’s just gotta so choose, and it did-n’t, for the most part, against Navy. Losing twice in three years at home to Navy and hear­ing rumors your coach is done ought to do it. The Irish can’t cover Jonathan Baldwin and they can’t stop Dion Lewis. But they can win Bill Brink this game. Mr. Clausen and Mr. Tate have some experience with close victories, and Mr. Floyd Managing should pick up the idea quite nicely. I’m usually the pessimist of the group, and it’s tough to 
Editor 
ignore the logical and statistical reasons why the Irish will lose, but to lapse into coachspeak, this game is about “want to,” and right now Notre Dame wants to. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 37, Pittsburgh 34 (OT) 

Jimmy Clausen said before the season that Charlie Weis wouldn’t get fired because of him. And while you certainly can’t fault Clausen for his play this season, he may have to save Weis’ job with a win at Heinz Field. The Panthers are extremely talented on both sides of the ball, and can pick whether they want to run with Dion Lewis or pass with Bill Stull against the struggling 
Michael Bryan Irish defense. Offensively, the Irish must run the ball to have a chance to win. Armando Allen's return could be big both in the run
Associate 
and passing game. These are two very tal-
Sports Editor 
ented teams, but Pittsburgh’s stronger defense gives them the advantage to make a 
stop in overtime and get the win. FINAL SCORE: Pittsburgh 33, Notre Dame 30 (OT) 



Pittsburgh 
Panthers



O HEAD 
Record: 8-1, 5-0 Big East 

AP: #8 Coaches: #9 BCS: #12 



5th season at Pittsburgh 


Panthers Offense vs. Irish Defense 

career record: 
33-24 


at home: 
22-10 
Dave Wannstedt against ND: head coach 1-1 

Frank Cignetti, Jr. Phil Bennett Off. Coordinator Def. Coordinator 


I can see two very different things happen­ing in this game. I can imagine the Irish com­ing out with that deer in the headlights look we saw last season at USC after a dishearten­ing loss to Syracuse that raised the same questions about the program’s future that are circulating now. We all know how that turned out. But I can also picture the Irish coming out angry, motivated and prepared to play 
Matt Gamber their best game against arguably the best team on their schedule. As a lifelong sports fan, I’ve seen these kind of stories end both
Sports Editor ways. But as a Notre Dame fan, in recent years it seems like Door No. 1 has been the one most likely to be opened. I’ve been wrong 
plenty of times about this team. I hope it happens again. 
FINAL SCORE: Pittsburgh 31, Notre Dame 20 


It would make absolutely no sense for Notre Dame to win this game. Of course, over the past three seasons, Notre Dame football has­n’t exactly made a ton of sense. Expect the Irish to come out with an “us against the world” mentality, fighting for their season, as well as their head coach’s job. Even though last week’s loss to Navy was bad, this is still the same team that took USC down to the 
Sam Werner wire. Pittsburgh is good, for sure, but their biggest win so far this season was over an inconsistent South Florida team. Michael
Associate 

Floyd should be closer to 100 percent after an
Sports Editor 

extra week of practice and recovery, and Charlie Weis will finally get his first win over a 
top ten team. Unfortunately for Weis, it may be too little, too late. FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, Pittsburgh 27 






Do you have a favorite singer or band? 
I would have to say probably Springsteen. 
Q: What’s your prediction for the Ohio State High School playoffs and your alma mater, St. Ignatius? I have to say [we will win], but it will be a good game. We are playing well. 


What is your favorite place on campus? 
Probably Alumni Hall or the Grotto. 


Do you have any favorite movies? Disney Channel original movies. 
Any favorite songs? “Party in the USA” by Miley Cyrus. 



Kanye West or Taylor Swift? Taylor Swift. 
Do you have any pet peeves? Guys who wear K
Swiss shoes. 




Pittsburgh game a homecoming for Walls 
By SAM WERNER 
Associate Sports Editor 
Saturday night’s game against No. 8 Pittsburgh is undoubtedly a big game for every member of the Irish squad, but for senior corner­back Darrin Walls, the game will mean just a little bit more. 
Walls, a Pittsburgh native, will be playing in his home­town for the first time in his collegiate career. Inundated with ticket requests through­out the week, Walls said he was trying to figure out exactly how many friends and family members would be in attendance Saturday. 
“I’m not sure as of now,” Walls said. “I’m estimating around 25.” 
For a good number of those friends, it will be the first time they see Walls play. 
“It’s real exciting going home and playing in front of some of my family and friends that haven’t seen me play before,” Walls said. 
Senior defensive back Raeshon McNeil said that Walls had been talking all week about the chance to play in his hometown. 
“His mom’s going to be in the stands, and she hasn’t been out here to see him play. So that will be a big opportu-nity for him.” 

Walls has played in all nine games for the Irish so far this season, and recorded 17 tackles as well as an inter­ception. 
Irish coach Charlie Weis said that, as good as Walls has been this season, he expects even more Saturday night. 
“I think that this is going to be an exciting game for 
“I kept in touch with him all the time, kept him up to date on the funny stuff going on in the meeting rooms,” McNeil said. “We’re always clowning in the meeting room, so he definitely missed some classic moments, but he was always talking about how he couldn’t wait to get back.” 
Even though it may have taken Walls some time to get 
back in the 
swing of 
Darrin,” Weis “It’s real exciting going Divison I col-said. “And I lege football,
home and playing in
think more McNeil said he than any game front of family and thought the than he’s friends that haven’t year off ulti­played this mately helped
seen me play before.” 
year, I think his friend. that this is “Him miss-going to be one Darrin Walls ing a year of those ones kind of
Irish cornerback 
where I feel pretty confi­dent that whatever his best is, we’re going to get it.” 
In addition to being in familiar territory, Walls said that he is friendly with sever­al players on the Pittsburgh roster. He named senior tight end Dorin Dickerson, sopho­more wide receiver Aaron Smith and junior offensive lineman Jason Pinkston as Panther players that he knew. 
“We hung out a lot and did camps and stuff,” Walls said. 
Walls also said that this is his first time playing in Heinz Field since a high school playoff game his senior year. 
What makes this week’s trip even sweeter for Walls is the fact that he missed all of last season for personal reasons. Even though he wasn’t on the team, McNeil said that he kept Walls abreast of every­thing going on inside the Irish football program. 
brought things 
into perspec­tive for him,” McNeil said. 
As exciting as the trip, home may be, Weis said that Walls is still aware of how important this game was for the team. 
“I think that Darrin’s going to be very excited to play in this game,” Weis said. “And I think that that’s a good thing because he’s going to get challenged in this game as well.” 
Walls, too said that he was mostly focused on getting a big win this weekend. 
“I mean, the coaches, they expect everyone to play well this weekend,” Walls said. “We expect to play well. It’s just another motivational fac­tor that we’re playing against the No. 8 team in the coun­try.” 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 



Freshman Lewis breaks into starting role for Panthers 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
He’s a little guy, but he runs scary big. 
Even scarier, he’s a fresh­man. 
The 5-foot-8 Dion Lewis has shown no mercy to opposing defenses this season. The No. 8 Panthers’ (8-1) leading rusher has 1139 yards, seventh in Division I FBS, and 12 touch­downs so far this season. 
“Our offensive line does a great job, those guys work hard all the time,” Lewis said after Pittsburgh’s 37-10 win over Syracuse on Nov. 7. “They deserve all the credit. They just keep pounding and blocking guys, clearing the way. I’m just staying patient, letting the game come to me.” 
His body of work rests on 203 rushing attempts, good for 
5.6 yards per carry. In compar­ison, former Pittsburgh run­ning back LeSean McCoy, whom the Philadelphia Eagles drafted in the second round of the 2009 NFL Draft, averaged 
4.9 yards per carry last season, when he rushed for 1403 yards. 
Lewis rushed 18 times for 110 yards and a touchdown against the Orange. His worst rushing game of the season came against Navy, when he carried the ball 23 times for 71 yards and a touchdown. In Pittsburgh’s only loss, a 38-31 defeat from N.C. State on Sept. 
26, he still managed 98 yards and two scores. 
“We’ve faced a lot of good backs,” Syracuse coach Doug Marrone said after Saturday’s game. “I think from an overall scheme, [Lewis] is one of the best backs we’ve faced all sea­son.” 
How’s this for proof of how consistently spectacular Lewis has been this season: All Pittsburgh coach Dave Wannstedt said of Lewis’ per­formance after the Syracuse game was, “Dion Lewis did a great job. He had his runs.” 
Ho-hum. 
Lewis represents the latest in the tough running backs Notre Dame has faced this season. Nevada running back Vai Taua has rushed for 880 yards this year, Purdue’s Ralph Bolden has 855 and Boston College’s Montel Harris has 930. Washington’s Chris Polk, USC’s Joe McKnight and Navy’s Vince Murray have all had productive seasons as well. 
The best may remain, howev­er; after Lewis, Connecticut’s Jordan Todman has rushed for 826 yards and 12 touchdowns and Stanford’s Toby Gerhart is second in the FBS with 1,217 yards and 14 touchdowns. 
Bad news for a Notre Dame defense that allows 148.8 yards per game and just gave up 348 to Navy. 
Lewis, especially, presents a challenge because of his versa­tility. 
“He’s got quickness. He can make you miss,” Irish coach Charlie Weis said in his press conference Tuesday. “He has good balance. He catches the ball out of the back field. He’s been very impressive.” 
Despite Lewis’ youth, he’s made an impression on his teammates as well as his oppo­nents. 
“Dion, just look at him, he’s one of the leading rushers in the country,” Panthers senior tight end Dorin Dickerson said after the Syracuse game. “I like to pat him on his back whenev­er he gets those runs because he really deserves it. He runs hard.” 
Lewis called the last four games of the season “crucial.” That’s especially true because the Panthers are fighting for a BCS birth with No. 5 Cincinnati, which leads the Big East at 5-0 (9-0 overall). At the same time, Saturday’s game brings a new level of impor­tance, especially since the last time Charlie Weis brought Notre Dame to Pittsburgh the Irish dismantled the Panthers 42-21 on Sept. 3, 2005 and especially since the two teams played each other so close in last year’s game, a 36-33 over­time Pittsburgh win in Notre Dame Stadium. 
“Everybody is excited about Notre Dame,” Lewis said. “Everybody’s going to be ready and fired up for this game.” 

Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 






