
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 44: ISSUE 13 THURSDAY. SEPTEMBER 10.2009 

Sexual education examined on campus 
Gender Relations Center's mission to teach sexual education from a Catholic perspective 
By JOSEPH MCMAHON Associate News Editor 

Notre Dame's mission as a Catholic university has often helped define the administra­tion's policies, and sexual education is no exception. 
"Every office in the division of Student Affairs is charged with teaching our students about the integration of social, intellectual and spiri­tual selves," head of the Gender Relations Center Heather Rakoczy Russell said. "Our charge has to be consis­tent with Church teaching." 
Although sexual education 
is available to students from several sources on campus, the Gender Relations Center (GRC) is responsible for the only mandatory sessions stu­dents must attend -two classes in the contemporary topics section of physical edu­cation. In addition, the GRC will sometimes offer a forum on sex education, as they did yesterday in the first of their eight-part FIRE (Finding Identity Relationships and Equality) series. 
"I think it's more than just important to have an under­standing of our bodies What 
see SEX EO/page 4 
Forum held in new Geddes Hall to debate tradition, the Church and sexuality 
By MEGAN HEMLER 
News Writer 
If students left Geddes Hall last night feeling tension between their sex education experiences and the Catholic Church's teaching on the subject, th{m the goal of the Gender Relations Center (GRC) was met, GRC Director Heather Rakoczy Russell said. 
"Our sexuality is part of what animates us," Beth Barsotti, a third-year Master of Divinity Student, said. "There needs to be a dia­logue between tradition, the Church and our own feelings and desires." 
A GRC Forum on the topic of sex education and sexual health convened last night in the new Center for Social Concerns building. 
The speakers also included Kathryn Cohoon, M.D., a staff physician for University Health Services, and Joseph 
P. Harmon, M.D., who is board certified in Obstetrics Gynecology. 
In response to a student question regarding Notre Dame and its policies regarding contraception, 
see FORUM/page 6 

Tonighfs pep rallyto admit onlystudents 
Players Sergio Brown, Brian Smith and Michael Floyd to speak along with Coach Charlie Weis 

Students cheer at the October 31, 2008 pep rally that pre­ceded the football game against Pittsburgh. 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 

When planning tonight's pep rally, student body president Grant Schmidt said student government's mantra was "back to the basics." 
About 2,500 people will be packed into Stepan Center for only 30 minutes of cheering on the band and the football team. 
And the catch? 

Breaking the usual pep rally tradition, only students will be admitted. 
"It will literally just be stu­dents," Schmidt said. "This is 

Reporter lectures on Iraq conflict 
War confuses the much ofthe American public, Thomas E. Ricks says 
By LAUREN JACOBI 
News Writer 

The war in Iraq confuses most of the American public, a former military correspon­dent said in a lecture Wednesday. 
Thomas E. Ricks, former correspondent for the Washington Post and current Contributing Editor for Foreign Policy Magazine, shared his knowledge and views on the war in Iraq dur­ing a lecture entitled "Three Things Americans Don't Understand About the War in Iraq Hight Now" Wednesday 
"There are thousands of 
see IRAQ/page 6 

one of the things people have been constantly asking me about." 
Students will have to show a Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross ID to .enter Stepan Center. 
Kevin Doyle, student govern­ment's representative to the Athletic Department, said they have eliminated all filler mate­rial that usually takes up time in pep rallies. 
"There will be no sitting around, waiting and watching videos," he said. "There won't be any commercialization, no 
see RALLY/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM WelshFam hosts block party on 8Du1hQuad 
By MEGAN DOYLE News Writer 

Welsh Family Hall hosted an evening of food and fun with their Block Party on Wednesday night for students looking to escape studying and benefit a charitable cause. 
"The pie eating contest was my favorite part. Everyone was yelling football cheers and chanting 'Suck it, pie!'" Lyons Hall freshman Megan Malley said. 
Giant inflatable games attracted students from afar, and the sounds of "Living on a Prayer," "Sweet Caroline" and "Dancing in the Street" blasted across South Quad. The event featured games, contests and delicious food donated from local vendors. 
"I need a goldfish!" sopho­more John Aversa said. 
He was one of many stu­dents excited about the gold­fish game, a basic hand-eye coordination challenge in exchange for a dorm room pet. 
"He will be named Dominic," said freshman Sam Lee of his fish. "I just hope that he lives through fresh­man year." 
Event coordinator Nicole O'Connor described the Block Party as incredibly success-
see PARTY/page 6 
STUDENT SENATE 



Worldwide water initiative discussed 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 

Student government's Global Water Initiative pre­sented to Student Senate at its meeting Wednesday, and senators discussed how to advertise and encourage students to get excited about the project. 
"It's pretty basic," student body vice president Cynthia Weber, who proposed the idea for the project, said. "People don't have water. We're Notre Dame and peo­ple don't have water." 
Global Water Initiative hopes to partner with Water Project, a non-profit that will donate 100 percent of the money students raise to build wells in Africa, social concerns cpair Rachel Roseberry said. 
Global Water Initiative will be a year-long, campus-wide fundraiser to raise money for the nearly one billion people in the world who are without access to portable water, Roseberry said. 
One well costs around $5,000 to build, Global 
see SENATE/page 4 
INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER SMC remembers 9/11 page 3 • Women's golf team travels to Ireland page 24 • Dining Hall dish page 13 • Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, September 10, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 
What a picture says 
You may have noticed a new fea­ture of our inside columns this year-that is, if you're an upper­classman and still read The Observer. Not that there's anything wrong with that. 
The new fea­ture I'm referring to is the lovely picture now situ­ated on the right side of this col­umn, letting you know exactly what your columnist looks like. 
As you can imagine, I fought adamantly against this change. Oh, self-deprecating humor. 
Seriously though, I did not want this to happen. The reason I love journalism is its anonymity. I sub­scribe to the theory that what is being said is always more impor­tant than who is saying it. 
I also get a real kick out of sit­ting in the dining hall next to someone who is reading my story out loud with no idea that I am there. 
I made a mistake when I went to get my picture taken, too. Instead of dressing up all pretty like the other girls did, with my hair down and makeup perfect, I dressed the way I do every day. 
My only caveat was that I could­n't have a double chin in the pic­ture. It took two takes, and then I was done. Usually, it takes longer than that, because I have never mastered the art of smiling and tilting my head. 
Because of the way I dressed for my photo shoot, the picture in this column is incredibly accurate, making the chance of people rec­ognizing me that much larger. 
On any given day, I can almost guarantee you that I am wearing my hair in a messy bun with a thin headband. If it's cold, I'm wearing a hoodie. I'm always wearing a smile. 
Once, I went to Burger King for a cheeseburger (don't judge me, I'm anemic), and the kid at the regis­ter looked at my ID and said, "Laura Myers? You write sports for The Observer!" 
I was creeped out by that. 
So even though this picture obvi­ously makes me famous, if you see me walking and recognize me, please do what we all do in that situation. Walk by awkwardly and avoid eye contact. 
Be excited by the celebrity sight­ing, but keep it inside. 
Remember that despite what certain staff members of The Observer suggest, this picture is in no way a personal ad. Any and all inquiries will be ignored. 
Fortunately this picture won't be a problem in any of my classes, because there are no freshmen in any of them. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd. edu 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD BREAK ANY WORLD RECORD, WHAT WOULD IT BE? 






Angela Salvo David Riehm James Simonse Josh Diaz Hannah Greggs 
senior junior sophomore senior freshman Pangborn Stanford O'Neill Siegfried Ryan 
"Richest woman "Richest man in "sk: So Fast!" "Loudest decibel "Oreo on the planet." the universe. ever sung!" stacking!"
H ,,
a. 

Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

have dubbed him Bullet. Waifs spokeswoman Ashlee Parker said Bullet was found several weeks ago in Caldwell County, shot once in the head, once in each front shoul­der and once in the neck. 
The Kansas City Star reported that the Cameron-based rescue group Safe Haven took in the dog, paid for his treat­ments and nursed him mostly back to health. Parker said Bullet still has some pain in one of his shoulders and one leg. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Police: Ohio robbery sus­pect asked victim for date 
COLUMBUS -Ohio police said a suspect in a robbery was arrested when he returned to the home about two hours later to ask the victim out on a date. Police say 20­year-old Stephfon Bennett of Columbus was among three men who robbed a couple late Sunday. 
Columbus police Sgt. Sean Laird said the woman recognized Bennett as one of the robbers when he returned to ask her out. She had a relative call 
911. 

Police said Bennett was arrested in front of the home. He was arraigned Tuesday on a charge of aggravated robbery and was being held in the Franklin County jail on $100,000 bail. 
A public defender had not yet been assigned to Bennett's case. 
Yellow Labrador mix sur­vives being shot 4 times 
KANSAS CITY-A two­year-old yellow Labrador mix is recovering at a Kansas City shelter after being shot four times. And workers at Wayside Waifs 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

....I 
c( (,) 
0 
...I 


78 58 

64 59 


78 
57 


IN BRIEF 

A students-only football pep rally will be held today in the Stepan Center. All Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students are invited to attend. Doors open at 7:15 p.m., and Coach Weis and a group of players will be present and arriving with the band at 8:30p.m. 
Multicultural Student Programs and Services will be hosting a welcome back picnic today at 4:00 p.m. on North Quad. Free hamburgers and hot dogs will be provided in addition to prizes and perform­ances by The First Class Steppers, Voices of Faith Gospel Choir and The Irish Dance Team. 
The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will show "Chimes at Midnight," one of the few films over which Orson Welles wielded complete creative con­trol, at 7:00 p.m. today in the Browning Cinema. 
"King Lear" will be per­formed by the Actors From the London Stage (AFTLS) at Washington Hall at 7:30 p.m. today and Friday. Tickets are $20 regular price, $18 for fac­ulty, staff and seniors and $12 for students. 
The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will show "Pray the Devil Back to Hell," a film about a group of women who demanded peace for civil war­torn Liberia, on Saturday at 
6:30 p.m. in the Browning Cinema. Tickets are free, but must be reserved in advance. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews. nd@gmail. com. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 80 HIGH 70 LOW 57 LOW 55 
Thursday, September 10, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Real Life Project holds first dinner 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 
The Real Life Project. a pro­gram designed to help Saint Mary's students discern voca­tions. sponsored its first faculty­student dinner Wednesday in a series that will give students the opportunity to discuss spirituality and career paths with their pro­fessors. 
Though this is only the pro­gram's second year, Dr. Kathleen Dolphin, director of the Center for Spirituality and professor at the College, said The Realllie Project is starting to realize its potential as a resource for students. 
"We subsidized it as a pilot project last year. The results were so overwhelmingly positive that we decided our finger was on the pulse of something here," Dolphin said. "It really prompted us to keep going with it." 
Religious Studies Associate Professor Anita Houck and Kim Abeel, a Saint Mary's alumna from the class of 2008, originally created the program, Dolphin said. 
For each of the semester's four sessions, students and faculty converse about how to think for the future over a dinner hosted in Welsh Parlor in Haggar Hall. 
"Small groups of students and faculty share our experience in making major life decisions. And we do this over dinner," Dolphin said. "Faculty have goals and dreams as well, and to have con­versations with students with what that looks like in our lives is really well received." 
Dolphin said students think of the program as a chance to have an important conversation with their professors that they may not 
have opportunities for during class. 
"The students feel like this is really an adult conversation they're having with professors. It's a good opportunity for a quali­ty conversation," Dolphin said. "Students tell me that these evening sessions are unique and that faculty and students have these adult conversations about personal matters in ways that may not be possible in the class­room." 
According to Dolphin, before each meeting students and facul­ty are responsible for doing some "homework." These background exercises help participants to pre­pare for a more meaningful con­versation. 
"All of us enter into a discern­ment process. We all come pre­pared. We've all do our home­work. Homework includes such things as journal keeping, quiet reflection, prayer and participat­ing in a personality inventory," Dolphin said. "They come pre­pared, and they come for a mean­ingful discussion over dinner." 
The project coincides with the Cross Currents Program at the College, which also attempts to help students determine their passions and life goals. 
"The Realllie participants help sophomores address their ques­tions of 'what are my passions?'" said Dolphin. "We are going to focus mostly on sophomores because of the Cross Currents Program." 
Dolphin said after this semester, 40 students and 11 faculty mem­bers from seven different aca­demic departments will have par­ticipated in the program. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO1@saintmarys.edu 

Alu111 discusses econo111ic crisis 

By LILY HOUGH News Writer 

There is no shortage of players who are to blame for the current economic crisis, Notre Dame alum John Russell said in his lecture, "The Ethical Implications of the Recent Financial Crisis," on Wednesday. 
Russell was joined by the Department of Finance's Executive in Residence Jerry Langley and Director of the Center for Religious Values and Ethics in Business Rev. Oliver Williams to reflect on the recent financial melt­overreliance on the govern­down, the poor decisions that ment. caused it and the implica­"America is all about accu­tions of those decisions for mulation," Russell said. business ethics, as part of "Keeping up with the Jones's, the Berges Lecture Series. that is the game that most 
"The genesis of ethical people play here. People are errors that buying too much helped and saving noth­cause the 'The genesis of ing, and these crisis is are the seeds to
ethical errors that 
rooted in an economic cri­
helped cause the
two age-old sis." themes: crisis is rooted in two Deceitful mort­
greed and age-old themes: greed gage brokers, the 
pride," Federal Reserve
and pride.,,
Russell said. Bank, Wall "These two Street, rating sins are at John Russell agencies, local the center of and global
Notre Dame alum 
every busi­ness ethics situation." 

The "pursuit of power and prestige," Russell said, creat­ed a market that was under­cut by excessive risk taking, unsustainable expansion for credit, poor judgment, lack of oversight and lack of a moral compass. 
Among the parties involved, Russell blamed homeowners for their short­sighted behavior, which lead to irresponsible spending and investors and the 
government were among the other parties that Russell blamed. 
"All of these groups bear responsibility," Russell said. "Unfortunately, the problems that were occurring in each group spread to the entire economy and now, we are all paying the price." 
According to Russell, the key question that remains in this financial crisis, which he sees as a moral dilemma at the core is: Will the human condition be able to change? 
"The question is how did so many good people contribute to such serious harm?" Williams said. "As an ethi­cist, this problem has deeply concerned all of us." 
Williams argued that poor business decisions were not reflections of poor integrity, but rather self-deception. 
"The role of ethics is to give us a sense of who we are, the sort of people we should try to become, the sort of communities we should try to build," Williams said. "This is what was lost in the financial crisis. Self­deception really took over." 
It is possible for very intel­ligent and rational people to have their vision clouded, Langley said. "Having a solid foundation in ethics prevents this." 
In terms of reforming the market, the speakers con­fronted whether or not we can overcome our personal desires for greed and pride. 
"We met the enemy. Williams said. "It's us." 
Contact Lily Hough at lhough1 @nd.edu 

Dirty Book Sale SMC students to 



commemorate 9/11

Wednesday, September 9 
New York," she said. "I remem­By ALISON MEAGHER ber seeing the kids that had par­
News Writer 


& Thursday, September 10, 2009 
ents working there running out­side to the nearest phone." Since the terrorist attacks of That day, Gallagher-Duggan

9:30 AM -3:30 PM 
September 11, 2001, when 2,819 was worried for her mother, who 
lives were lost, Saint Mary's worked in The World Trade 
Campus Ministry has held a Center on Tuesdays selling bags. 

HESBURGH liBRARY CONCOURSE 
prayer service each year to But it happened that on remember the victims of the September 11 her mom arrived attacks and to pray for peace in late to work because she was jet­the Middle East and around the lagged from traveling back from world. London the previous day, she

Clean up on our scandalously low priced, 
"The prayer service consists of said. 
intercessions for the people who "When I think about 9/11, I get 
have died, and prayers for hope, goose bumps. I think of the fami­

dirty, dusty, and otherwise abused, 
peace and reconciliation," assis­lies in my town that lost brothers tant director of campus ministry doing college internships, and

but totally readable books! 
Regina Wilson said. fathers who worked hard every The prayer service will be held day," she said. "I think about how Friday in the Stapleton Lounge sick the people who did this are." 
located on the first floor of Le Sophomore Remi White is Mans Hall at 12:15 p.m. The cer­unable to attend Friday's prayer emony is expected to last a half service, because she has class at 

HARDCOVERS $4.00 • PAPERBACKS $3.. 00 
Also 
hour. that time, but she said she wishes "I share the sadness of what she could attend. happened on the day," Wilson "[September 11] was a devas­


300/o OFF All NEW & RECENT TITLES 
said. "I want to continue to join tating moment in our country's together in prayer for peace. We history," White said. "But it reit­are all one humanity." erated the unity we have in our
and 




600/o 
Freshman Caroline Gallagher­country." Duggan, who plans on attending White said she wishes the

SELECT OVERSTOCK OFF! 
the service, remembers sitting in school offered more services so her sixth-grade music class when that she and other students could the first planes crashed. Her attend. hometown, New Canine, Conn., is "It's always a chilling day," a popular New York City com­Gallagher-Duggan said. muter town, she said. 
"A lot of people in my town had Contact Alison Meagher at family members who worked in ameaghO1@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 10, 2009 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
Water Initiative Director Justin Pham said. 
Roseberry said raising money to give people access to clean, portable water will help with a number of global issues. 
"One in four deaths of children under five are related to water issues and sanitation issues," she said. "Eighty percent of illnesses in developing countries are related to water and sanita­tion issues." 
The Global Water 

QUENTIN STENGERfThe Observer 
Initiative, which was part of 

Student body president Grant Schmidt and vice president Cynthia 
Weber' and student body 

Weber discuss the Global Water Initiative at Wednesday's meeting. 
president Grant Schmidt's campaign, will help student government make a differ­petitive nature of the stu­ence beyond Notre Dame. dent body to raise money. 
"Notre Dame student body "This is a huge idea and is one of the most powerful, there is no reason why all of 
energetic stu­dent bodies, if not the most powerful and energetic stu­dent body in the entire country," Weber said. 
" W h a t fundraising events do you think will be effective?" she said. "How do you think we 
Notre Dame should not be a part of it," he

'1t's pretty basic. 
said. "Notre

People don't have 
Dame students 

water. We're Notre are very com­petitive by
Dame and people 
nature. Maybe

don't have water" 
we could form some sort of Cynthia Weber competition between
Student body vice 
dorms."

president 
Other sena­tors agreed, suggesting 


SexEd 
continued from page 1 
What we are really promoting is to have the right knowledge because it will help us inform our decisions," GRC under­graduate student assistant Patrick Tighe said. 
According to Rakoczy Hussell, The Church's teach­ings, which state that pre­marital sex and contraception are immoral, are part of the GHC's program. 
"We are part of the student life of the University, so the programs we design are always consistent with Catholic Church teaching," she said. "We would not pro­mote anything that is incon­sistent with Church teach­ing." 
However, the pursuit of knowledge is different, and Rakoczy Russell said she is not opposed to educating stu­dents. 
"For instance, if a student wanted to know how does birth control work, one of the doctors might address that question because it is in terms of gaining knowledge about a subject matter," she said. 
However, Rakoczy Russell said if a student said he or she was planning on engaging is premarital sexual relations, the Church's moral teachings would direct her actions. 
"The onus would be on us to ask, 'Why have you come to that moral decision and are you aware what the Church would have to say about that?"' she said. "Part of hav­ing an informed conscience is having an awareness of what the Catholic Church teaches and what our Catholic mis­sion would call us to do." 
Hakoczy Russell said she does not feel limited by Church teachings, but rather, they guide her in how to best inform students about sexual issues. 
"I suppose some people would say that it would be limiting. I actually find it incredibly helpful to know what my parameters are," she said. "I suppose some people would say that it would be limiting. I actually find it incredibly helpful to know what my parameters are." 
While Rakoczy Russell is quick to point out that the GRC does not provide com­prehensive sex education, and that there are other sources on campus, including professors and some student organizations, that can answer questions she cannot, she said the GRC is responsi­ble for designing the curricu­lum for the sex education portion of Contemporary Topics -a curriculum which does adhere to Catholic teachings. 
"To be real honest, I would­n't say that [our programs] are a comprehensive curricu­lum on sex education," she said. 
However, Rakoczy Russell said in surveys she received about the classes, the student response was overwhelmingly positive when asked about the Catholic portion of the class. 
Rakoczy Russell also made a distinction between what a faculty member could tell a student and what someone at a student life office, such as the GRC, could. 
"When it's in the mouth of a faculty person, it is contribut­ing to your well-rounded edu­cation," she said. "When it comes from someone in a stu­dent life office, then some people are concerned that we are promoting behavior that 

campus to remind students of the initiative. 
University affairs chair Jeff Lakusta suggested something similar to the abortion crosses on South Quad to catch students' attention. 
"We could do some sort of awareness like that. You could put wells on South Quad," he said. "What if you could flip your pennies into the well? And then you could collect your money." 
Susan Esquivel from Pangborn Hall liked the idea of installing wishing wells on campus, and suggested putting them in locations where students would have change readily available. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at 
smervosh@nd.edu 

is contradictory to Church teaching." 
Rakoczy Russell also said dorm staff, including resident assistants and rectors, are more responsible for one-on­one sexual education and are in a better position to help students. 
"I would say those are the frontline people charged with having these kinds of conver­sations because they share life with you," she said. "What our office is doing is a supplement to that." 
Rakoczy Hussell mentioned peer education as a viable alternative. She said the Identity Project of Notre Dame (idND), a division of the Edith Stein Project, is one student group that also helps educate students about the topic. 
According to the idND Web site, "Informed by Catholic tradition, the Identity Project believes there are certain fundamental truths about the human person. We look to empower persons to live holistic lives consistent with these truths." 
The group is especially renowned for the Edith Stein Project, "an annual confer­ence that addresses various issues of gender, sexuality, and human dignity by explor­ing what it means to be authentic women and men." 
According to the Web site, speakers and panelists include professors from Notre Dame's philosophy and theol­ogy departments, several guest lecturers and even some student speakers. One of the student panelists is sophomore Melissa Buddie, whose letter to the editor last year about the hook-up cul­ture at Notre Dame set off a debate around campus. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

Rally 
continued from page 1 
catering to the alumni." 
The rally will be about the students, the band and the football players, he said. 
"I think students are going to like the pep rally back to the basics," Doyle said. "The football players will be right by the crowd and it will just be ple which I guarantee we will get," he said. "People might be frustrated, but we'll have to turn people away." 

Players Sergio Brown, Michael Floyd, Brian Smith and Coach Charlie Weis will speak at the pep rally. Dan Collins, this year's leprechaun will run the show. 
"Last year, there was some frustration with pep rallies. Obviously we would be lying if we said there weren't com­plaints," Schmidt said. "We're 
a bunch of peo­ple inside sweating and screaming." 
"/ think students are 
Schmidt said going to like the pep although 
rally back to the
Game-Day 
basics."
Operations chose the venue, student 
Kevin Doyle 
government 
Student government 
pushed for 
representative to the
Stepan. "We wanted 
athletic department it to be tight and we wanted 

trying to make this a true pep rally where people get real­ly pumped." 
As of now, tonight's pep rally is the only rally planned for an away game, but Schmidt said he wouldn't rule out doing another one. 
"On one 
THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF ;:::::. AMERICAN CATHOLICISM 
present.'!< 






-=='un 
1 

The Burden of".Biuck Religion 
(Ox.tbrd, 2008) 
By Curtis J. Evans l.>ivinity School at the University of'Chicago 
S.:uurdc~)'. SC?prentber I 2. 2009 SJ:OO ,.,.,,& -n~~<~l1 Mck~G-.I'UU'l .11e.~ll c~~~l¥t;•.l'",/i'lr Con.linLtil1~ L:!.'Liuce.l,it:UI 

$5 FOOTLONGS AVAILABLE OFF CAMPUS! 

•sR 23@ Ironwood •sR 933 Notth •oowntown •speedway 
SR 2 3@ Edison

eat tresh 
•1n dian Ridge Pia za 


can make students care about this?" 
Marc Anthony Rosa, repre­sentative for Keough Hall, suggested utilizing the com-
penny wars or a well-build­ing competition to rally stu­dents to the project. Senators also suggested cre­ating something visible on 
some resemblance to pep ral­lies of the past," he said. "We're trying to bring back an older venue, something some­what historic." 
Since Stepan cannot fit the entire student body, Schmidt said students should line up early. The doors will open at 
7:15 p.m. and the band will 
show up at 8:15. "We can only fit 2,500 peo­hand, this is a pep rally, but it's also a send-off for the foot­ball team," he said. "This will be such a cool way for these guys to go to Ann Arbor on Friday. We want to make sure when the team is leaving, they know students are behind them." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 




ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, September 10, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVER:s WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Boat capsizes, killing eight 
FREETOWN, Sierra Leone -Police in Sierra Leone say a boat carrying 150 people has capsized on a river near the coast of the West African nation, killing at least eight people. 
Deputy Police Inspector General Marie Lengor says 36 people have been rescued so far. 
Lengor said Wednesday the boat was on the Rokel river traveling from the village of Shenge to Tombo, near Freetown, when the accident occurred. He said police and mili­tary forces were conducting a rescue mission for the remaining passengers. 
Fanatic hijacks Mexican plane 
MEXICO CITY -A Bolivian religious fanat­ic briefly hijacked a jetliner from the beach resort of Cancun as it landed in Mexico City on Wednesday, police said. All passengers and the crew were released unharmed. 
The Bible-carrying hijacker used a juice can he said was a bomb to hold the 103 pas­sengers and crew on the tarmac for more than an hour. Masked police stormed the air­craft with their guns drawn and escorted several handcuffed men away without firing a shot. Police later said there was only one hijacker. 
Jose Flores, 44, told investigators he hijacked Aeromexico Flight 576 after a divine revelation, according to Public Safety Secretary Genaro Garcia Luna. Flores said Wednesday's date -9-9-09 -is the satanic number 666 turned upside down. 
NATIONAL NEWS 


9-9-09 sees increase in weddings 
LAS VEGAS -Two years after Las Vegas chapels hit the wedding date jackpot with lucky sevens, it's all eyes on the nines for 9­9-09. 
Wedding officials in Sin City and elsewhere staged a marathon set of nuptials and vow renewals on Wednesday during what was anticipated to be of the busiest days of the year -the quirky date of Sept. 9, 2009, or 9-9-09. 
The New York City Clerk's office said 200 couples had wed by midday at its refur­bished marriage bureau -about four times the Wednesday average. Nine couples in Hollywood spent 99 cents each to get mar­ried at a 99 Cents Only store on Sunset Boulevard. 
State investigates hepatitis outbreak 
TRENTON, N.J. -Several thousand patients of a New Jersey doctor should get tested for blood-borne diseases because of an outbreak linked to his office that has led to more than two dozen being diagnosed with hepatitis B, state health officials said. 
In March, the state said five of Dr. Parvez Dara's patients were found to have hepatitis B and that nearly 2,800 patients should get tested for it. There are now 29 positive cases, plus 68 others who tested positive for antibodies cannot be definitely linked to the outbreak, according to the state Health Department. 
Health Department spokeswoman Donna Leusner said the investigation is ongoing, but a report was prepared at the request of the Board of Medical Examiners, which suspend­ed Dara's license in April. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Indiana expects jobless fund troubles 
INDIANAPOLIS-Indiana will take longer to resolve money troubles with the state's bankrupt unemployment insurance fund than expected when a law aimed at fixing the system was enacted in April, officials said Wednesday. 
Lawmakers enacted a hike in unemploy­ment taxes on employers, which is set to take effect next year, and made operational changes in the system that are designed to help make the fund solvent. It has borrowed $1.1 billion so far from the federal govern­ment to stay afloat, a figure expected to climb to $1.7 billion by year's end. 

Melting ice alters species' habitat 
Climate Change causes walruses to congregate on Alaska's northwest coast 
Associated Press 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska ­Thousands of walruses are congregating on Alaska's northwest coast, a sign that their Arctic sea ice environ­ment has been altered by climate change. 
Chad Jay, a U.S. Geological Survey walrus researcher, said Wednesday that about 3,500 walruses were near Icy Cape on the Chukchi Sea, some 140 miles southwest of Barrow. 
Animals the agency tagged with satellite trans­mitters also were detected on shore at Cape Lisburne about 150 miles farther down the coast. 
Walruses for years came ashore intermittently dur­ing their fall southward migration but not so early and not in such numbers. 
"This is actually all new," Jay said. "They did this in 2007, and it's a result of the sea ice retreating off the continental shelf." 
Federal managers and researchers say walruses hauling out on shore could lead to deadly stampedes and too much pressure on prey within swimming range. Projections of con­tinued sea ice loss means the phenomenon likely is not going away. 

"It's more of the same," An estimated 6,000 or higher predation pressure stampedes, said walrus Jay said. "What we've been more walruses congregated on those nearshore areas researcher Joel Garlich­seeing over the past few on Alaska's shore in the fall when they're using those Miller. So can polar bears years with reduced sea ice of 2007, taking scientists by land haulouts than when or human hunters. There is conditions, we might be surprise. they're using sea ice," Jay no legal mechanism to keep seeing this more and more Herds were in the tens of said. hunters away, he said, but often, and it's probably not thousands at some loca­The Center for Biological people have been letting good for the walruses," he tions on the Russian side of Diversity has petitioned to the animals rest. said. the Chukchi Sea, with an list the Pacific walrus as an USGS researchers plan to 
Unlike many seals, wal­estimated 40,000 animals endangered or threatened head to the Chukchi coast ruses cannot swim indefi­at Point Shmidt. Russian because of habitat loss due next week to place satellite nitely and must rest period­biologists reported 3,000 to to warming. The U.S. Fish tags on up to 30 animals so ically between feeding for­4,000 walruses out of popu­and Wildlife Service on their foraging habits can be ays. They rely on sea ice as lation of perhaps 200,000 Tuesday agreed to begin a studied, Jay said. a platform for foraging for died, mostly young animals detailed status review. A Their reappearance put clams in the shallow waters crushed in stampedes. 60-day public comment the research plans into of the outer continental Alaska herds did not period will precede an motion. shelf. They can dive up to experience that sort of agency listing decision by "We're trying to get more 630 feet for clams and mortality but scientists October 2010. A final deci­information on how the other sea floor creatures acknowledge a concern sion would be made by the walruses are responding to but mostly feed in waters of when the marine mammals Interior secretary by the loss of sea ice over the less than 330 feet, Jay said. are concentrated on a October 2011. continental shelf, where do Beyond the continental rocky shore rather than The agency is working they go when they do come shelf, water can reach hundreds of miles of sea ice with the Federal Aviation to shore like this, how far depths of 10,000 feet or edge. Administration to warn offshore are they foraging," more. "They may have a much away pilots, who can cause he said. 

UNITED NATIONS 

U.S. signs anti-piracyagreementfor Somalia 
Associated Press "We realize that the fight against world's biggest ship registries. Those 
piracy in the Horn of Africa region nations signed the declaration previ­
UNITED NATIONS -The United cannot be solved entirely at sea," ously. States and four other nations signed DiCarlo said. Other needed measures, In Washington, Andrew Shapiro, the onto an international plan to fight she said, involve nations adopting assistant secretary of state for politi­piracy off the coast of Somalia, com­legal mechanisms to prosecute sus­cal-military affairs, told the ComDef mitting Wednesday to playing a lead­pected pirates and Somalia improving 2009 defense policy conference on ership role in protecting one of the its capacity to police its own territory. Wednesday that the document repre­world's busiest shipping routes. Though it is a nonbinding political sents what Secretary of State Hillary 
The so-called "New York document, proponents say it will com­Rodham Clinton has called "a 21st Declaration" signed by U.S. Deputy mit ship registry nations to adopt century solution to the 17th century Ambassador Rosemary DiCarlo and "best management practices" for ship problem" of piracy. her counterparts from Britain, security such as increased lookouts, By signing, the United States says Cyprus, Japan and Singapore ~ an raised ladders and emergency fire the Coast Guard and U.S. shipping attempt to pool resources and agree pumps readied to repel boarders. companies will continue adopting on the best ways of deterring the It was first proposed in May by measures to protect against piracy Somali pirates who prey on vessels Panama, the Bahamas, Liberia and that comply with the International passing between Europe and Asia. the Marshall Islands, four of the Ship and Port Facility Security Code. 
~----------------------------------------------------------­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 10, 2009 

Iraq 
continued from page 1 
things Americans don't know when it comes to the War in Iraq, but there are three things that are the most cru­cial," Ricks said. 
Ricks' first point was that Americans do not realize just how difficult the surge was in 2007. 
"It was a horrific nightmare. The first half of 2007 was the toughest fighting Americans have .swer seen," Ricks said. 
Ricks reiterated this point as he revealed the number of troops killed in each month from February to May 2007 ­a total that reached almost 400. 
Ricks said the surge ulti­mately failed. The war has not improved, and in fact, one of George W. Bush's original premises for the war -to improve the security in Iraq by installing a stable democ­racy -is nowhere close to being accomplished, Ricks said. 
"All we've done is postpone an inevitable civil war," Ricks said. "With every passing day, a civil war is becoming more and more likely." 
The war is far from over, Ricks said. The situation in Iraq is a long-term problem that will require troops to remain in Iraq for many years. 
For those who might claim otherwise, Ricks argued that there are three problems which make it impossible to end the war in the short term. 
The first problem is the three upcoming elections in Iraq, Ricks said. Unlike the United States where elections occur peacefully, elections in Iraq bring violent disputes. 
According to Ricks, the sec­ond and third problems com­prise a Catch-22: The small number of troops withdrawn prevents Iraq from securing independent stability, but at the same time, the fewer troops present the more likely that Iraq will descend into civil war. 
"Obama's war in Iraq will be longer than Bush's," Ricks said. 
Ricks explained the paradox of pulling troops out of Iraq: "Staying in Iraq is immoral, but leaving is even more immoral." 
Contact Lauren Jacobi at ljacobi@nd.edu 


Foru01 
continued from page 1 
Cohoon said, "We do pre­scribe birth control for non­contraceptive purposes." 
When remembering his own experiences as a Notre Dame student, Harmon said, "I don't think there were any resources at all [on campus! to talk about [sexuality] ... we've come a long way, but we still have a long way to go." 
The forum provides students and the beliefs of the Catholic Church in the areas of sex education and sexual practices. Students also heard the pan­elists' views on media and its influence on young adults and the choice to become sexually active. 
This year's forum was the result of student requests for more campus-wide and co-ed discussion on sexual health. 
"In the last three years we've had a lot more ques­tions that have to do with moral decision­making," said 

began with "In the lasi three Russell, "For an icebreak­that reason,
years we've had a lot 
er, asking Beth is here." 
more qustions that 
students to The forum share what have to do wih moral was the first in they had a year-long
decision-making."
learned from series of lec­their own tures and dis­sexual edu-Heather Rakoczy Russell cussions on a cation, their GRC Director broad range of 
various sexu­al health information sources and what their education had neglect­ed. 
The range of questions included alternatives to absti­nence-only programs, the various resources that University Health Services 
topics the GRC 
covers, such as body image, domestic vio­lence and dating. The forums are held on Wednesdays and feature a variety of guest speakers. 

Contact Megan Hemler at mhemler 1 @nd.edu 

Swine flu hits Washington State University 
Associated Press 
SPOKANE -Washington State University is in the midst of a swine flu outbreak since classes started last month, with 2,500 people contacting student health to report flu-like symptoms and officials handing out flu kits around campus. 
The number of cases of suspect­ed swine flu dropped dramatically as students left campus over the Labor Day weekend, but school officials were closely watching the numbers Tuesday to see if this would rise as students returned. 
Attendance at Saturday's foot­ball game against Stanford was down, likely because of publicity about the flu, and the school took precautions that included placing hand sanitizer at concession stands. Coach Paul Wulff said 16 players have come down with cases of flu at different times, and top receiver Daniel Blackledge missed practice Tuesday because of the flu. 
Officials have distributed about 200 free flu kits, including a ther­mometer, painkillers, throat lozenges, sport drinks, hand sani­tizer and tissues. Some students wore surgical masks around cam­pus, but most were taking it in stride. 
"The students are taking it like any other type of flu," said 21­year-old Molly Aigner, whose boyfriend came down with the flu. "It's not like we're growing tails or anything." 
There have been no deaths or even hospitalizations from the cases at WSU, a school with an enrollment of about 18,000 in Pullman. About a dozen patients with nausea and vomiting have required hydration, the school said. 
Officials at Washington State, and at other colleges around the nation, have been anticipating large numbers of flu cases this fall because swine flu targets young people and thrives in the tight liv­ing quarters common on college campuses, said Paula Adams, community coordinator for WSU Health and Wellness Services. 
Washington State started class­es on Aug. 24, much earlier than most schools, and thus its out­break has been getting more attention, Adams said. Other col­leges across the country are see­ing spikes in the number of sus­pected cases of swine flu as dorms fill up and classes begin. 
Federal health officials say they have been girding for a spike in cases as schools and colleges came back into session in August and September. "Some colleges have already seen upticks but the majority of colleges haven't," Dr. Anne Schuchat of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said at a briefing Tuesday. 
Based on federal guidelines, WSU is assuming everyone who calls with flu-like symptoms has swine flu, as there would be only a handful of normal flu cases this time of year, Adams said. "To see hundreds if not thousands of peo­ple is unusual," she said. 

Anyone who calls Health and Wellness to report flu-like symp­toms is counted as a swine flu case. People who call are advised to stay home, treat symptoms and drink fluids. 
Dr. Dennis Garcia, senior associ­ate director of Health and Wellness Services, said federal estimates would indicate that some 5,000 WSU students might eventually come down with the bug. 
The number of flu contacts dropped sharply on Saturday, Sunday and Monday, as thou­sands of students headed home for the holiday. A total of 64 peo­ple contacted WSU Health and Wellness Services those three days, compared with 146 who contacted the office on Friday alone. 

Party 
continued from page 1 
ful. 
"We had a really great turnout from students as well as faculty and their families, and the community atmos­phere was awesome," she said. 
O'Connor also emphasized her gratitude to the Welsh Family volunteers. 
"Over 75 girls contributed to this event in some way," she said. "So many people got involved with everything from selling shirts in LaFortune to advertising in the dining halls to working shifts at the actual event." 
Wednesday night's fun will contribute to a greater cause as the proceeds from the Block Party go to the Touching Tiny Lives Foundation, an organization that seeks to help children impacted by HIV/AIDS in Africa. O'Connor estimated a donation of over $1,000 from the Block Party resulting from the dorm's fundraising efforts, which include a raf­fle for an iPod Shuffle, T­shirt sales and carnival games. 
"The Touching Tiny Lives Foundation is the signature charity for our dorm, and this event really helps us support their work," Welsh Family president junior Vickey McBride said. 
"The cotton candy was def­initely the main attraction for me," Junior Greg Torrisi said. "I was psyched about 
it... 
The cake walk, a new fea­ture of this year's event, pro­vided a musical chairs show­case for a baked goods shop opening in Welsh Family on 
Monday, Sept. 14. The shop will provide treats on Monday through Wednesday as well as Sundays. 
"I am incredibly happy with all of the great work from Welsh Fam girls and the stu­dent turnout at this year's Block Party," O'Connor said. "I am so grateful. The event definitely brought good times to all, both creating fun activities for students and benefiting a worthy cause." 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11 @nd.edu 


Thursday, September 10, 2009 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks Dow 
Jones 9,547.22 +49.88 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 

2,659 118 1,051 1,634,798,441 

NASDAQ NYSE S&P 500 ~r9}~:-~Z +7.98 
NIKKEI--(1'oky(1Ji•·• ·t ~QUIII~Ii! !!~111.1 
FTSE 100 (London) 5,004.30 +56.96 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP (C) ·0.43 -0.02 4.66 BK OF AMERICA CP {BAC) +0.12 +0.02 17.04 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +0.77 +0.79 103.73 GEN ELECTRIC CO (GE) +2.55 +0.37 14.87 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.29 +0.010 3.480 13-WEEK BILL +8.00 +0.010 0.135 30-YEAR BOND +0.56 +0.024 4.340 5-YEAR NOTE +0.13 +0.003 2.380 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.21 71.31 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -2.70 997.10 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +2.00 86.43 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 92.1750 EURO 1.4559 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0785 BRITISH POUND 1.6544 
IN BRIEF Coinstar sells video game business 
BELLEVUE, Wash. -Coinstar Inc., the owner of the DVD vendor Redbox, said on Wednesday that it has closed the sale of its business of coin-operated gumball machines, children's rides, and video games. 
Coinstar sold the business to National Entertainment Network Inc., a business creat­ed last month in Louisville, Colo., for the pur­pose of buying Coinstar's entertainment divi­sion. Coinstar said it received "nominal con­sideration" for the business and expects to record a pretax loss of $52 million to $57 mil­lion. It also expects a one-time tax benefit of $82 million to $87 million. 
The company said it expects a net gain of $25 million to $35 million in its third quarter. 
The company said the sale leaves it focused on self-service retail businesses, including its Redbox kiosks and coin exchange machines. 
Coinstar also said it has begun a public offering of $175 million in convertible senior notes due in 2014. The notes are convertible into cash up to the principal amount, and into Coinstar shares if the notes are worth more than the principal. The underwriters will have an option to buy another $25 million worth of notes. 
Coinstar said it would use the money to repay its term loan under a secured credit facility. 
GM to begin new ad campaign 
DETROIT -A person briefed on General Motors Co.'s new advertising campaign says it will begin this weekend with television spots featuring Chairman Edward Whitacre Jr. urg­ing people to try the automaker's new vehi­cles. 
The person says Whitacre will point to vehi­cles such as the Chevrolet Malibu sedan, Chevrolet Equinox crossover and the Cadillac CTS sedan as signs of the company's resur­gence. The person did not want to be identi­fied because the plans have not been made public. 
The spots will be followed by advertising that will focus on GM's four remaining brands, Chevrolet, Buick, GMC and Cadillac. 
Whitacre is a former CEO of telecommunica­tions giant AT&T who has been pushing for change at GM. 





THE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

Palm to release cheaper cell phone 
Company stays on top of competition with announcement of the Palm Pixi 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO Palm Inc., which revital­ized its product line with the Pre smart phone launch in June, is hoping to keep momentum going with the release of a lighter, cheaper handset called the Pixi. 
The company said Wednesday that the Pixi will be available during the holiday season through Sprint Nextel Corp., cur­rently the Pre's exclusive wireless carrier. 
Sunnyvale, Calif.-based Palm would not divulge the Pixi's price tag, but con­firmed it will be less than that of its big brother. Sprint shaved $50 off the Pre's price to $150 on Wednesday, including two rebates and a two-year service contract. 
"The combination of announcing a new device and changing the price on the Pre show we're aggres­sively pursuing new cus­tomers to get them access­in,g the WebOS experi­ence," Katie Mitic, Palm's senior vice president of product marketing, said in an interview Tuesday. WebOS is the operating system powering the Pre and the Pixi. 

Contrary to a promotion chases in the second quar­shiny Pixi will come with a The Pixi will sport a 2­briefly advertised on its ter, up 47 percent.from the touch-screen, full QWERTY megapixel camera, instead Web site Tuesday, Sprint is same period last year. keyboard and Palm's latest of its sibling's 3-megapixel not offering customers a Palm hasn't disclosed the operating system, WebOS. version, and two small $100 credit to switch to the number of Pre smart It will also have 8 giga­speakers rather than the Pre from another carrier. phones sold. But its stock bytes of built-in memory. Pre's single large one. Sprint spokeswoman has more than quadrupled But while the Pre's key­Building on an already Michelle Leff blamed the since the company board slides out from the available WebOS feature, Web site glitch on the car­unveiled the device Jan. 8 bottom of the device, the the Pixi will be able to rier's computer system. at the Consumer Pixi's slightly smaller gather users' contacts from The company will honor Electronics Show. screen and keyboard both Yahoo and business-net­the deal for new customers The Pixi also offers fit on the face of the candy working site Linkedin. The who bought the Pre that Sprint -which has been bar-style handset. Pixi will include standard day, though. bleeding subscribers to The new smart phone is smart phone features like 
The Pixi's release will other carriers -another longer and slimmer than Global Positioning System, mark Palm's second opportunity to attract new the Pre, and, at nearly 3.5 video and music players attempt in less than a year customers and get current ounces, lighter. It trades and a Web browser, but it to use new software and ones to "trade up" from the Pre's center button for won't have Wi-Fi. streamlined designs to lure regular cell phones. a tiny touch-sensitive bar A dedicated Facebook consumers in the still small Despite the Pre's availabili­that sits between the application will be released but fast-growing smart ty, Overland Park, Kan.­screen and keyboard. As with the Pixi, Palm said. It phone· market. According based Sprint reported a net on the Pre, the real estate is not yet clear if it will to market research firm quarterly loss of 257,000 between the screen and come loaded on the phone NPD Group, smart phones subscribers in the second keyboard also will be or will be available made up 28 percent of quarter. touch-sensitive for navigat­through Palm's online consumer cell phone pur-Like the Pre, the black, ing the device. application store. 

Oregonian publisher Stickel to retire 
Associated Press but will not be a candidate to suc­named president of the company and 
ceed his father. in 197 5 publisher. 
PORTLAND, Ore. -Fred Stickel, The newspaper is owned by the Stickel was known for civic activi­publisher of The Oregonian, said Newhouse family's Advance ties and cited his work with the Wednesday he will retire after guid­Publications. It has won five Pulitzer Citizens Crime Commission. He was a ing Oregon's largest paper for more Prizes during Stickel's tenure and founder and chairman in 1987. than three decades that included has suffered in recent years with the Tim Gleason, dean of the University toasts to five Pulitzer Prizes as well rest of the newspaper industry in the of Oregon's School of Journalism, as sharp staff cuts in the newspaper face of declining advertising revenue. said there can't be many American industry's current slump. In the past two years, it has publishers with so long a tenure, and 
"I am 87 years old," Stickel said. "I slashed staff by a third through early he said Stickel was a force for news­love this newspaper and the essential retirement offers, buyouts and layoffs room innovation. role it plays in Oregon and this com­of part-time employees. In August, it "The Oregonian is and remains munity. But it is time for me to retire announced it is ending a policy that today one of the best regional news­and make way for new leadership." protected full-time employees from papers in the United States, and he's 
He announced his retirement, layoffs for economic or technological the publisher who built that," effective Sept. 18, in a meeting with reasons, and Editor Sandy Rowe said Gleason said. department heads and a statement. another buyout is in the works. Stickel recruited Rowe, the paper's 
The Oregonian reported that Stickel came to Oregon from New editor since 1993. She said he prom­Stickel's son Patrick, president of the Jersey in 1967 to be general manag­ised her support and independence paper, will serve as interim publisher er of the paper. In 1972 he was in building a stronger newsroom. 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 1 0, 2009 
Families abandon waterfront homes 
Associated Press 
LAKE WENATCHEE, Wash. ­Tucked in on the shores of Lake Wenatchee·is a row of rustic cab­ins that were built long before this spectacular mountain lake became a recreation gold coast. 
Most homeowners would wel­come a spike in land value. But for the six families who own these cabins, an inverse real­estate calculus is in effect. Instead of profiting, they say they may soon have to abandon the cabins, leaving behind genera­tions of memories. 
The cabins are privately owned but are on land leased from the U.S. Forest Service. The agency recently sent notice that a long-delayed increase in annu­al lease fees is due, spiking fees up more than 1,000 percent, from $1,400 to more than $17,000. 
Those bills have made the Lake Wenatchee cabins central to questions about the future of the Forest Service's 94-year-old policy of enticing middle-class families to the woods by offering cut-rate deals on land for cabins. With fees steeply up nationwide, to as high as $76,000 a year, cabin owners wonder how many of the 14,500 cabins across the United States will still be occu­pied in a few years. 
Not all would mourn the loss. Some environmental groups question such use of public forest land, and fiscal conservatives have viewed past lease fees as sweetheart deals benefiting just a few. 
The Minard family has been among those few since 1920, when Everett "Laury" Minard's grandfather built a cabin on North Shore. Minard, 84 years old and still a Metro bus driver, spent each summer of his child­hood there, learning to drive at age 13 on the lakeshore roads. But he says he'll not pay when the fee jumps to $13,000 in January. 
''I'm resigned to the fact that we won't have the cabin any­more," said Minard, of Seattle. "Losing it will be a little like dying -sad but painless. There's nothing you can do." 
The Minard family built their cabin just five years after the Forest Service in 1915 welcomed private cabins on its land as a way to lure families out to forests with few roads and primitive conditions. Today, there are about 2,800 cabins scattered around Washington and Oregon national forests, including 643 in the Okanogan-Wenatchee forest. 
The Forest Service leases land under the cabins for a yearly fee of 5 percent of fair market value, on renewable, transferable 20­year contracts. The agency keeps tight control, restricting every­thing from paint color (Forest Service brown, green or gray) to size (1,200 square feet) to satel­lite dishes. Owners must let the public camp around their cabins, even on the leased land. 
Interpretation of "fair market value" has varied. Criticism of sweetheart deals led to more rig­orous appraisals in the 1990s and a nearly 10-year moratori­um on fee increases while the Forest Service installed a new law, the Cabin User Fee Fairness Act. The moratorium expired in January. 
Recent reappraisals required by the law have only inflamed the situation as sales from the real-estate bubble are included. Fees are doubling in many areas, including Oregon's Lake of the Woods, while fees for some cab­ins near Crystal Mountain remain below $1,500. 
Jim Sauser, a Forest Service official who oversees the cabin program in the Northwest, said the appraisals are time consum­ing and result in fees that are either too high or too low. 
"It's an old real-estate principle -location, location, location," he said. "Ultimately some can't afford it. Everyone wants to go back in time when things were kinder and gentler and cheaper. I'd like to go back and buy a $3,900 brand-new car again." 
Few areas in the country have spiked as much as the North Shore cabins. The leases have historically been $1,400 a year or less. But a 1999 appraisal boosted fees to $17,000 by including waterfront sold during the dot-com bubble to King County's high-tech wealth. (Much of the lake is privately owned.) 

Health workers need vaccine 
Associated Press 
ALBANY -Tens of thousands 
of health care workers who typ­
ically avoid flu shots are under 
more pressure than ever to get 
vaccinated as hospitals and 
clinics prepare for a spike in 
swine flu cases this fall and 
winter. 
Roughly half of health work­
ers skip the immunizations, 
raising two concerns: If doctors 
and nurses get siek, who will 
treat what could be millions of 
Americans reeling from season­
al or swine flu? And could 
infected health workers make 
things worse by spreading flu to 
patients? 
New York, the first state to be hard-hit by swine flu, is requir­ing all health workers to get ·immunized against both types of flu. Other states are weighing 
whether to follow suit. 
But shots for all health work­
ers may not be an easy sell. 
Fewer than half of them got 
flu vaccinations last year, 
according to a Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention 
survey of about 1,000 workers. 
That includes physicians in clin­
ics, lab technicians, respiratory 
therapists and home health 
aides. Hates are highest among 
doctors and nurses in hospitals 
-70 to 80 percent, but the 
overall rate shows many still 
shun the shots. 
Why? The reasons vary from 
safety concerns to skepticism 
over vaccine effectiveness. 
Sandra Morales, a labor and 
delivery nurse in New York City, 
had her last flu shot 16 years 
ago. She says she got the flu 
anyway. 
She objects to New York's new 
law, saying it infringes on free­
choice rights. "It's crossing the 
line, and I'm opposed to that." 
Hospital workers "are at risk 
for being exposed to many, 
many diseases," she said. 
"Imagine if we had to take a 
vaccine for everything that 
comes in the door." 
Morales worries she might 
lose her job if she refuses -it 
will be up to individual clinics 
and health centers to decide 
how to enforce the law. She has 
until Nov. 30 to get her shots. 
Both the seasonal flu vaccine 
(available this month) and 
swine flu vaccine (expected in 
October) are required for work­
ers in hospitals, treatment cen-


Learn about the Italy Study Abroad Programs: Sept 10, 5:3opm 129 Hayes-Healy 
Sept 16, 5:3opm 129 Hayes--Healy 

ters and in home care. 
That may mean three sepa­rate shots, if the swine flu vac­cine requires two doses to be effective. Testing in the U.S. is still under way to determine the dose. 
The uncertainty about the new swine flu vaccine has added to the challenge. 
"If health care workers have concerns about the safety and efficacy of a vaccine that has been around for decades, I'm sure they're going to have those same concerns about a vaccine that we've never used before," said Dr. Gregory Poland, a Mayo Clinic vaccine specialist. 
He says health workers are ethically obligated to get vacci­nated for both kinds of flu. He supports requiring them. New York, which had the first big surge of swine flu cases in the spring, is the only state doing that, although some states are considering the issue. 
The theory that health care workers could spread the infec­tion is supported by only isolat­ed evidence, but the fear per­sists. 
Some large hospitals have adopted rules requiring employees to get flu shots. Loyola University Medical Center near Chicago and Charleston Area Medical Center in West Virginia recently joined a handful of hospitals that have made seasonal flu shots manda­tory for all workers. Some also plan to include swine flu. Several infectious disease groups support required flu vaecination for health workers. 
Federal health ofneials say health care workers are among the priority groups for flu shots, but the government is not ordering anyone to get shots. 
In New York, Health Commissioner Dr. Richard Daines notes that health employees are already required to get other vaceinations, including rubella and measles shots. 
Under the new flu shot law, workers can opt out only for certain health reasons, includ­ing an allergy to flu shots. 
Bill Van Slyke of the llealthcare Association of New York state, which represents hospitals, said hospitals have concerns about what action they can legally take if staffers refuse vaccinations. 
"We don't expect that to hap­pen to any signifieant degree ­we think most recognize the value of doing this, but there are one or two challenging sce­narios out there," he said. 
Or. Brian Currie, an infectious disease specialist at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, supports the law but said including swine flu vaccinations could be a headache. 
"It means twice as much time, tracking people to make sure they get a timely second vacci­nation" if required. "It's a lot more work," Currie said. "We'll do our best." 
Though infectious disease specialists say they have seen no serious complications during the swine flu vaccine testing that began last month, some critics say it is being fast­tracked without adequate safety tests. Some also fear a repeat of a rare paralysis called Guillain­Barre syndrome that occurred during a 1976 swine flu vacci­nation effort, though there is no evidence the vaccine caused that condition. 
Or. William Schaffner has had two swine flu shots during test­ing at Vanderbilt University, with no ill effects. The current flu virus is molecularly different from the one circulating in 1976, so Schaffner, who has consulted for the swine flu vac­cine makers, said similar prob­lems are unlikely. 
Deborah Burger, a president of the California Nurses Association/National Nurses Organizing Committee, said safety concerns persist. That union, with 86,000 members in 50 states, is weighing whether to support required flu shots for nurses. 
She said the union believes patients should be protected but also wants to protect nurses from any potential vaccine­related problems, saying, "It's a diflieult tightrope to walk right now." 
More than 550 U.S. deaths have been attributed to the new H1 N1 swine flu. So far it does not appear to be more deadly than regular seasonal flu. Projections for the upcoming season vary. A worst-case sce­nario from a seientific panel advising the White House said up to half the population might get sick and up to 90,000 might die. 
u 

..W'HICH ROAD \\'ILL YOU TAKE? 
BOLOGNA 
Thursday, September 10, 2009 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Forestry board to increase logging 
Associated Press 
SILVERTON -The Oregon 
Board of Forestry voted 
Wednesday to increase logging on 
the Tillamook and Clatsop state 
forests. 
The unanimous vote 
Wednesday in Silverton, Ore., 
came over the objections of con­
servation groups, who argued 
that reducing the area devoted to 
restoring old growth characteris­
tics in young forests will harm 
salmon restoration efforts and 
tourism. 
"They are moving much more 
towards an industrial timber management approach for these publicly owned forests which pro­vide clean water, tens of millions · of dollars in recreation income for rural north coast counties, hunt­ing and fishing opportunities and carbon sequestration," said Ivan 
Maluski of the Sierra Club. 
John Blackwell, chairman of 
the board, said the new plan will 
replace one approved in 2001 
that never delivered on promises 
of timber production, fish and 
wildlife habitat or recreational 
opportunities. 
"It's really about balancing our 
expectations from the forest for 
its environmental contribution, 
economic contribution and the 
needs of a growing public to use 
the forests," Blackwell said. "The 
biological work that has been 
done suggests that both social 
and economic values can be 
increased without degradation of 
wildlife habitat." 
Hoping to reverse the declines 
of salmon and the northern spot­
ted owl while still providing for a 
struggling timber industry, the old 
plan set a minimum of 40 percent 
to 60 percent of the forest devot­
ed to developing old growth char­
acteristics in second growth 
forests. 
After the old plan failed to 
deliver on expectations, the new 
plan will cut that minimum to 30 
percent to 50 percent, with pro­
jections it will increase log pro­
duction by 5 percent over current 
targets. 
With log prices at rock-bottom 
levels since housing starts dwin­
dled in the recession, the change 
was not driven by short-term 
hopes of increased revenues or timber production, Blackwell said. 
"This board is engaged in a process of managing change over time in a way that satisfies our long promises to counties while working out the needs of the envi­ronment and the public recre­ational interest," Blackwell said. "We know that social pressures over the next 50 to 100 years will reduce that level of harvest." 
The Tillamook and Clatsop state forests cover 500,000 acres in the northwestern corner of Oregon. They burned and were heavily logged in the 1930s, then taken over by the counties for taxes. The counties turned the land over to the state with a promise that two-thirds of the logging revenues would go back to local counties and schools. 
The public pitched in on replanting efforts, and over the years the area has become a focus of salmon restoration efforts, as well as a recreational outlet for urban Portland. 
The vote initiates development of a new management plan for state forests in the northwest cor­ner of the state, including the Tillamook, Clatsop and Santiam, plus scattered parcels through the Coast Range and in Polk, Benton, Lincoln and Lane counties. 
The Department of Forestry is to develop a new management plan in time for a board vote this spring, said spokesman Jeff Foreman. 
On-the-ground changes are not likely until 2012, by which time they hope rock-bottom log prices linked to the recession will have improved, he added. 
Typical revenues of $50 million a year from state forests have dropped in half, and many timber sales go begging due to the low demand for lumber linked to the recession, he added. 
The board initially voted 4-3 in favor of the action, then after lunchtime discussions adopted it unanimously. Blackwell said there had been confusion over just what they were voting on, but that everyone agreed they wanted to get going on developing the new plan, with the understanding it could be revised along the way. 


Dems discuss health care 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -The governor should be allowed to name an interim replacement to the late Edward Kennedy's vacant Senate seat because it would help ensure health care overhaul legislation gets passed, Democrats told a packed Statehouse public hearing Wednesday. 
Before he died last month at age 77 of brain cancer, Kennedy had asked lawmak­ers to allow Gov. Deval Patrick, a Democrat, to name a temporary senator to fill the seat until voters can choose a permanent replace­ment during a special elec­tion, set for Jan. 19. 
Senate Democrats, includ­ing U.S. Sen. John Kerry, sup­port the change, in part to improve the chances of pass­ing President Barack Obama's health care overhaul plan. 
Kerry, testifying before state lawmakers and hun­dreds of supporters and crit­ics, invoked the memory of Kennedy, who had said that expanding health care to all Americans was his life's work in the Senate. 
Naming an interim replace­ment to Kennedy's seat would give Democrats a critical 60 votes in the Senate. Patrick, who would name the interim senator, is a strong supporter ofObama. 
"We are closer than ever to providing health care cover­age to every man, woman and child in America," Kerry told lawmakers. "None of these big challenges will be decided by huge margins.... These are times again when every vote will count." 

Kerry, Patrick and other supporters of the change also say that naming an interim senator will let the state maintain two voices in the Senate and aid in constituent services. 
In written testimony, Patrick, who is recuperating from hip replacement sur­gery, said he supports both the special election and the interim appointment. He said if he is allowed to make the appointment, he would extract from that individual "a personal commitment to me not to be a candidate in the upcoming special elec­tion." 
Patrick pointed to the antic­ipated Senate debate on Obama's health care initia­tive, "framed in large meas­ure around the bipartisan model we developed here in Massachusetts," as a key rea­son to appoint an interim suc­cessor to Kennedy's seat. 
He also urged Massachusetts lawmakers not to get stuck in past debates on how to fill Senate vacan­cies and consider what's best for the state now. 
"As elected officials, our joh, especially in times like these, is to look past partisan or parochial interests to the best interests of the Commonwealth," he said. 
Republicans, vastly out­numbered in heavily Democratic Massachusetts, called the proposal a power grab. 
They point out that just five years ago, when Kerry was the Democratic nominee for president, the Democrat-con­trolled state House and Senate changed the law to block then-Gov. Mitt Romney from naming a fellow Republican to fill Kerry's seat if he became president. 
Previously, the governor had been allowed to appoint a replacement until the next general election. 
"It's a bad idea, it's clearly something that's meant for political gain by one party. You live by the sword, you die by the sword," said state Sen. Scott Brown, R-Wrentham, who is considering running for the seat. "You can't tell me that someone who's in that position temporarily isn't going to be actively cam­paigning for some person." 
The GOP sent out e-mails urging "all Republican activists, concerned citizens and defenders of democracy" to attend the hearing and voice their opposition. Republicans also started an online petition and listed on the party's Web site the names and telephone num­bers of mostly conservative radio talk show hosts in the Boston area, urging support­ers to call. 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, September 10, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 

Sign of the times 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz SPORTS EDITOR: Mart Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaf."fer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EOITOR·IN·CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574} 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574} 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asreiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
' ·" SAINT MARY's DESK 
acharnO I @sainrmatys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
OTHE . BSERVERONLINE www. ndsmcobserver.t:om 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor; Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerters is encouraged. Lerrers to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chiefjenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Ohservtr (USPS 599 2--4000) is !=1Ublbhed Monday through Friday exO!pt duting tum and vacat!o.n peritlds. A subscription to The Observer is $l:ZO for-ant academic yeu;.$65 fOt one semes'W'. 
The-Ob5c:rver is published·:tfl POStMASTER 024 South !lining Ball Send address. rorn:::ctions to: Nom !:lam<. IN 46)$6-077\l The Observer Periodtcal postage paid at Nom: D;unc P.O. 13ox?J9 and addimmal mailing oH'ta:s. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Oanu:, IN 46556-0779 

The Observer is a member of the .&soci:tred Pr¢SS.-All reprod.m;rion ~u; <1Ft' ==!. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Robert Singer Laura Myers Irena Zajickova Jared Jedick Megan Loney Chris Michalski Graphics Scene Andrea Archer Alexandra Viewpoint Kilpatrick Stephanie Vossler 
In my last column in this esteemed newspaper, I wrote about using my priv­ileged position as a junior in order to "hook-up" or "score" with insecure freshman girls. The column, written with tongue firmly planted in cheek, immediately ignit­Brooks Smith ed a blaze of con­troversy. My e-mail Mightyinbox was 
Morphin Power
absolutely flooded 
Columnist
with furious letters 
assaulting me for my lack of respect for basic social decency. The fire burned so hot that several North Quad dorms needed to be evacuated in its aftermath. 
The offending column is, needless to say, no longer available on The Observer Web site, as it was far too provocative to be exposed to the eyes of our easily offended alumni. So for this, my second column, I decided to tone it down and write about something less controversial: politics. 
The jumping-off point for this column actually originated in a 'quiek bit' I read in some newspaper or other last week. Rex Rammell, a hunting enthusiast campaigning to be governor of Idaho, made a quip about issuing hunting tags for, you guessed it, Barack Obama. When he came under fire for his remarks, he said, in effect, "Hey, I was just joking. Everyone knows hunting tags issued in Idaho aren't valid in Washington, D.C.!" 
Ba-dam-pssh. 
As someone who leans to the left side of the fence, I had the opportunity to take offense at this tasteless (though admittedly clever) joke from Mr. Potato Head. But rather than have such a self-serious and predictable response, I chose to be relieved that we finally have a president somebody thinks is worth assassinating. 

Seriously, when was the last time that happened? (And I see you history buffs in the corner chanting Reagan's name. Shut up. That doesn't count and you know it.) 
Even before he was elected, there were not one, but two plots to assassi­nate Obama during the campaign: one taking root in Denver, and one in Tennessee. That's pretty incredible. By comparison, there were zero assassina­tion plots in all of the 20 years before that. 
If you graph that data and make a chart of assassination attempts vs. time, a small but discernible spike occurs around the time Obama comes on the national scene. Coincidence? I think not. 
These statistics are particularly shocking when you consider the contro­versy surrounding the presidency directly before Ooama's. George W. Bush was at various times accused of lying to the American people (WMDs), authorizing torture, expanding the power of the executive branch to uncon­scionable levels (PATRIOT Act), running the economy into the ground and lying to the American people. Most of these accusations had at least some basis in fact, and Dubya himself certainly did lit­tle to prove them wrong. 
Yet not one of the angry left-wing loonies ever volunteered to take his life into their own hands -by, say, killing him with a gun they got in a state with loose gun control laws. Why? They were probably too depressed to do much other than chuckle halfheartedly at Jon Stewart while slumped in front of the TV. It was that kind of era. 
Perhaps there are other causes as well. Various people have called Obama's adjectives like "socialist," "socialist," 'communist," "socialist" and "socialist." Some have even gone so far as to label him a "socialist." He's come under fire for pulling out of Iraq too quickly, for not pulling out of Iraq quickly enough, for taking an approach to the financial crisis that was too limit­ed and restrained, for taking an approach to the financial crisis that was too radical and risky and for an offense known as BPWB -Being President While Black. (Sample zingers: "It's called the White House for a reason!" You can safely deploy that one at any ND party.) 
Me, I'm hesitant to tag Obama as a "socialist." To me, it just smacks too much of Joe McCarthy, circa 1954. But it's good to know there are other, braver souls out there who aren't afraid to call a spade a spade, so to speak. 
So are there a number of attempts on Obama's life because conservatives are nutjobs? Or, conversely, were there no attempts on Bush's life because liberals are pansies? Sadly, the answers to such questions are far beyond the purview of a humble Viewpoint column. But the real take-away message is that Obama's presidency is an exciting time for every­one, from progressives to homicidal maniacs. 
God bless America. 
Brooks Smith is a junior Math and English major at Notre Dame. He can be contacted at bsmith26@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 
What did you think of the Dillon Pep Rally? 
Ukedit Didn't like it Didn't go 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Sports do not build character. 
They reveal it." 
Heywood Broun 
U.S. journalist 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, September 10, 2009 page 11 
The secret of our Lady of Sorrovvs 
On Tuesday, September 15, the University of Notre Dame and the Congregation of Holy Cross will celebrate the Feast of Our Lady of Sorrows, patroness of the Congregation of Holy Cross. A campus-wide Mass will be 
Fr. Lou DelFra

celebrated in the Basilica at 5:15 on September 15. Faith Point 
Perhaps on first sight, the Marian title "Our Lady of Sorrows" appears anachronistic, medieval, a Church left­over from a different age -something dragged out of an ecclesiastical attic that also housed leather straps for self-flagel­lation and stories of saints who starved themselves for days on end. Mary, Notre Dame, as Our Lady of Sorrows. Doesn't sound too hopeful heading into the Michigan game (though, objectively speaking, Mary's title does not seem to preclude her inflicting sorrow on our neighbors to the north ...) The question remains: in an enlightened society, and in this Land of Opportunity, who celebrates sorrow? 
I am not sure that many people cele­brate sorrow. It doesn't sound psychologi­cally healthy. On the other hand, the lines at psychologists' offices aren't getting any shorter these days either. In fact, the little psychology that I think I know suggests that the suppression and denial of the inevitable sorrows of our life is a common cause of depression, compulsions, addic­tive avoidance behaviors, and feelings of listlessness and low motivation. So, per­haps, Our Lady of Sorrows has something useful, helpful, and sound to teach us? 
I suspect that several images of Our Lady of Sorrows will appear next week in honor of her feast day. If you have a chance, stop and look closely at her. You will see something counterintuitive. Not that Mary is not sad in the icon-she is. Her eyes are slightly downcast and her lips slightly downturned. But, contrary to my own intuitions about sorrow, her pres­ence as a whole person in the icon does not present a defeated image. She is not in the least hunched over; rather, she rises upright, in a strong and serene pos­ture. Her hands are open, in a gesture of inviting the full experience of her reality. It is the counter-image to the typical human gesture of crossing our arms in self-protectiveness when we are scared, uncertain, or hurt. Mary's posture in this icon "speaks" not that she is not sorrow­ful, but -rather instructively, I think ­that she is not afraid of sorrow. 
A slightly downcast face, yet a strong and serene posture and open hands. TS Eliot once wrote of Mary: 
Lady of silences 
Calm and distressed 
Torn and most whole 
Exhausted and life-giving 

Worried reposeful... 
How could Mary not be Our Lady of Sorrows? From the scandal of her bus­handless pregnancy to a several days' flight into Egyptian exile on the eve of her delivery. From Simeon's prophecy, soon after Jesus is born, that "a sword will pierce your heart," to the most unimagin­able fulfillment of that prophecy ­watching her son nailed, crucified, dead. 
This truly exquisite sorrow, however, is not Mary's only reality. We must hold her experience of sorrow side-by-side with her profoundly joyful experiences: her visitation by an angel asking her to accept a primary role in the deliverance of her people; her fear transformed into joy when she visits Elizabeth to tell her the news, and speaks words of the deepest elation: "My soul magnifies the Lord!" Simeon, in addition to predicting the piercing of her heart, also prophecies that her son, her love, is the Messiah for which all Israel had been waiting. Before anyone else, .she understands the pro­found joy that her son promises for the entire human race, and so with an awe­some self-assurance, at Cana she directs her son to begin his ministry of trans­forming sorrow into true happiness by turning water into wine at a wedding. And, after the soul-ripping sorrow of the Crucifixion, what words could capture Mary's emotions when her once-dead son visited her, raised from the dead? 
Mary is not afraid of sorrow because she has directly experienced, in the most intense way, that the love of God -while it does not prevent sorrow, even tragic sorrow -is in the end more powerful than all that causes sorrow. Which means that all sorrow can ultimately be faced, indeed stared down. 
Mary knows and accepts the deepest human reality. That some sorrow in our lives is real and inescapable. So she does not run from it. But she also knows in her depths the love and never-abandoning care of God for her. This knowledge gives her an ultimately triumphal courage in the face of her sorrows. Our Lady of Sorrows understands the great secret ­sorrow, faced and overcome by God's love, brings us a powerful serenity, and enlarges our own hearts to love more fully and compassionately when we encounter others' sorrow and suffering. 
As TS Eliot's poem-prayer concludes: 
The single Rose 
Is now the Garden 
Where all love ends. 
Our Lady of Sorrows, pray for us. 
This week's Faith Point was written by Fr. Lou DelFra, Director ofCampus Bible Studies and ACE Chaplain. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Educational art 

I have never written in to Viewpoint before, but felt that Morgan C. Caudle's letter to the edi­tor ("Exhibit Indeed" Sept. 8) could not go unaddressed. Perhaps my biggest issue with Caudle's argu­ment is her statement that "death and destruction are not art." I could not disagree more. The purpose of art, while heavily debated, is defi­nitely not merely to aesthetically please the viewer. Glenn Close wrote that "All great art comes from a sense of outrage," and indeed pas­sion stemming from a disturbance to one's reality is many times the root of great art. 
In Lauren Greenfield's case, her photographs and documentary were spurred on by her exposure to the horrific nature and prevalence of eating disorders in our modern soci­ety. Greenfield began her artistic project not to entertain, but to change the fact that eight million Americans are suffering from eating disorders, and the numbers are steadily rising. Moreover, Caudle claims that Lauren Greenfield's doc­umentary, "Thin," which traces the journeys of four women in a resi­dential treatment facility for eating disorders, associates "a deadly men­tal illness with mere entertainment." 
I watched this documentary last year on campus with five friends and remember looking down the row and seeing tears in nearly every 
Anything but entertaining 
eye. As someone who visited the "Thin" exhibit at the Snite museum last week, I can assure you that no one would look at the photographs displayed in that room for "~nter­tainment" either. I left the exhibit with tears in my eyes and physically could not look at some of the pic­tures because of the realities to which I knew they were attached. We do not attend these movies because they are aesthetically pleas­ing, but because they show us some truth in a world that is too many times censored. This exhibit is reali­ty and to live with a knowledge of these atrocities is not only impor­tant, but essential to alleviating such conditions in the future. 
It is not, as Caudle wrote, danger­ous to "the mental and physical health of the students of the University of Notre Dame" for the Snite Museum to host such an exhib­it, but the exact opposite. Without such art, we remain oblivious to the dangers of eating disorders and the existence of them in the first place. Such thinking as Caudle's is the rea­son our Notre Dame community remains ignorant to the roots of such a widespread issue on our very own campus. 
Molly Kring 
senior 
off campus Sepr. 8 

Dear Ms. Caudle, ("Exhibit Indeed" Sept. 8) 
Did you even go see the "Thin" exhibit at the Snite? I'm going to guess no, because if you did, I don't think you would have said that the museum is "equating a deadly mental illness with mere entertainment." I visited the exhibit last Saturday, and I am hard­pressed to think of a less "entertaining" experience. It was, however, a thought­provoking, sobering, and reflective experience. 
In your letter you accuse the artist and the Snite of "fuel[ing] the obsession ... with dieting, exercise, and body image." On the contrary, I wouldsay that the frank and horrifying portrayal of real women struggling from eating disorders encourages the viewer to take a step back and really consider how they view their own bodies and how much our own culture skews our per­ceptions of beauty and self-worth. Leaving the exhibit, I was at a loss for words, but powerfully and deeply touched. Far from trivializing these important issues as mere "entertain­ment," "Thin" brings the reality of eat­ing disorders face-to-face with the viewer, to the point where it's almost unbearable. 
Through "Thin", these forgotten women were able to speak directly to the viewer about their lives, their hopes, and their struggles. There was nothing entertaining, objectifying, or exhibitionist about "Thin." I think your ire might be more properly directed at shows like "America's Next Top Model," where size 10 is "plus-size" and girls who probably wear a size 5 (max!) are told they are need to lose weight. 
P.S. Since when is art equated with entertainment? When Picasso painted Guernica was he trivializing the Spanish Civil War and the innocents who died, or was he trying to show the world the horrors of war? At its best, art holds a mirror up to life. Sometimes, life isn't pretty. Exhibits like "Thin" show us what we are unwilling to see about our society and ourselves; forcing contemplation of these issues in our own lives. 
Molly Pieper sophomore Pasquerilla Wesr Hall Sepr. 8 

Laughing at the vvrong side 

I know it's cute to make fun of Republican voters (Editorial Cartoon Sept. 9) for being uneducated. But the cartoon rang with hypocrisy when I realized the cartoon would be more telling without the G.O.P. pin in the final scene. The Democrats are the ones who are in hot water now. They are expected to lose upwards of 10 seats in the 2010 elections and are clearly trying to pass all their "wonderful" legislation quickly, while they still have a majority. 
During the 2008 election it was clear that Obama was the media's candidate. Polls done by Zogby show that Obama voters know so much more about the negative aspects about Palin and her family than the Obama campaign. Fifty-seven percent didn't know which party controlled congress (the Democrats). And it should be even more troubling to read that Obama voters could not iden­tify important and well known facts about the Obama and his policies (e.g. Eiden's plagiarism). Obama often likes to bend the truth, especially in his pres­entation of tonsil-extracting, greedy doctors. 
Waking up to the truth through educa­tion and a balanced media would really mean trouble for the Democratic Party. 
Nate Balmert freshman Dillon Hall Sepr. 9 


THE 0HSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Thursday, September 10, 2009 
from survivors and fami­Bleu Cooking School for Powell finds herself in a ly delivered line, making By MARY CLAIRE O'DONNELL lies of victims of the professional chefs. tiny kitchen with three the character come alive Scene Writer September 11 Nothing can · recipes to complete in the minds of the audi­
t e r r o r i s t every two days, while ence. Adams's perform­
Movie Recipe: attacks on Child and her ance also deserves praise, 
3 cups Julie Powell the World friends face unre­but unfortunately, Streep 
1.5 cups Julia Child T r a d e ceptive publishers overshadows her. It also 4 tablespoons hilarity Center. As and trans­does not help that Adams's 3 teaspoons obstacles to Julie noun-European moves. character is the less success ders, feel-The two women appealing of the two. 3 teaspoons drama/angst ing lost, employ different Furthermore, it is a pity 1 teaspoon success her one attitudes in over­that the plot only allowed Production time: a few solace coming their own for the inclusion of one months is cook-stumbling blocks. scene from Julia Child's Best served: over a two-ing and With her boister-amusing and informing 
hour period food. And . ous, upbeat per­television cooking shows. 
It's often hard to find a so, she sonality, Child's Overall, the movie ends 
good summer movie sort-decides to cook her·· method is more happily for both charac­
ing through such bombs as way through Julia endearing. ters as each find their 
"Fast and Furious" and Child's revolutionary Hegrettably, place in their respective 
"GI Joe: Rise of Cobra." cookbook, "Mastering though, Powell's worlds, resulting in an 
However, the culinary the Art of French self-absorption, a enjoyable two hours. One 
comedy "Julie & Julia" is a Cooking," all while blog-hoi her common side effect of suggestion, though, for the 
refreshing exception. Is it ging about it. though, not even blogging, receives more interested viewer: do not 
not fitting that food, a The intermittent scenes an ornery dean creen time. watch this on an empty 
source of comfort for of Julia Child's life portray as she cooks he Meryl Streep shines in stomach. While in the the­
many people, should bring her early years in Paris way to the top his movie. She nails ater, you will invariably be 
such delight in the form of and her struggles to fit in. of her cIa s s. he extremely distinc­overcome with incredible 
a movie? Large and outspoken, she Eventually, she ive voice of Child, hunger pangs, but these 
"Julie and Julia" inter-is at odds with the typical meets Simone Beck causing no doubt as will be easier to bear on a twines the lives of Julie Parisian women. She ends (Linda Emond) an -. to why she has full stomach or with the Powell (Amy Adams). an up in the all male Cordon Louisette Bertholl been nominat­promise of food following almost-30-year-old He I e ed for 15 the movie. living in Queens, Julia&Julia arey) Oscars. An Recipe Review: and Julia Chil h appropriate Overemphasis on Julie 
(Meryl Streep), a 40-Directed by: Nora Ephron 0 m e n manner-leaves a sour taste in the something living in Starring: Meryl Streep,AmyAdams, Stanley th whom mouth Paris, as both try to Tucci, Chris Messina, Unda Emond, Jane L.:ynch, he will Bitter taste easily over­
find meaning in rite her orne with extra their changing lives. Mary Lynn Rajskub, Vanessa Fer1~o. Casy ookbook, at doses of Julia The two women, Wilson party, an Refreshing mix of worlds apart, each hey embark on drama and humor 
find t h e m s e l v e s f------=-----=:-------==--------::--::--1. h e i r j o urn e y Perfect for an evening in 
stuck while those om there. with friends 
around them sue-The journeys accom­Best served with food. 
ceed and advance in of Julie an panies 
their careers. Julia, howeve every Contact Mary Claire O'Donnell 
Julie, a cubicle are not withou per­at 
worker, fields calls o b s t a c I e s . fe ct-modonne5@nd.edu 
gan pitched the movie as "The creator of 'Office Space' heads back to work." 
anything resem­, bling a punch line or gag. 
The closest attemp at humo is an acci the job 

worker havin testicle 
Mr. Judg seems to be the only one who finds thi funny. Th rest of u have grow tired of thi s i n c 
nclude sexu­al frustration with his wife, culminating in the 
hiring of a male prostitute. Viewers will find this bizarre at best and pathet­ic at worst. 
The only dim light at he end of an otherwise ark tunnel comes from en Affleck. Mr. eck plays a burnout artender/drug dealer, ut by this point in the ovie, viewers are already realizing 
this looks less and less like an office satire. 
All in all, "Extract's" astily thrown­ogether plot ines along ith its fla­rant waste of u p e r b omedic tai­nt make it a ovie to be voided at 
I I 

Contact Conor Rogers at crogers 1 @nd.edu 
ously helmed "Beavis and By CONOR ROGERS B u tthe ad," "Office Space" Scene Writer 
The fall is usually an off­season for comedies. Viewers have already seen the smash hits of the sum­mer, and know that they will have something to look forward to for Christmas b r e a k "Extract," the 
Extract

newest comedy out in theaters, is just living 
Directed by: Nora Ephron 

proof that 
Starring: Meryl Streep, Amy Adams, Stanley

autumn means 
Tucci, Chris Messina, Unda Emond, Jane Lynch,

comedy is on hiatus. 
Mary Lynn Rajskub, Vanessa Fer1ito, Casy Wilson 

The movie's advertising campaign was nothing short of strong. The director was Mike Judge, who has previ-
As if the big name director wasn't enough, the movie mar­keted itself as a cast of all stars. Actors who were no strangers to comedy included Jason Bateman ("Arrested Development," "Juno"), Kristen 
Wiig of "SNL" fame, Mila Kunis ("Forgetting Sarah Marshall"), J .K. Simmons ("Burn After Heading," "I Love You, Man") and per­haps most surprisingly o all Ben Affleck. 
The premise of the movi is that Joel (Bateman' character) manages a extract plant and mus deal with problems occur­ring both on the job and in his home. But instead of the crazy antics that the trailers promise, the movie falls short at delivering 
ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 

~~---~-­

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Thursday, September 10, 2009 

Actors from the London smge Presents ·. "King Lear" at DPAC 7:30 p.m. and Scnual An at Legends 1D p.m. One of Shakespeare's best known tragedies, this production of "King Lear" is presented by the Actors from the London .Stage, a world-renowned troupe which has worked in tandem with Shakespeare at Notre Dame for several years now. "King Lear," showing at DPAC Thursday and Friday at 7:30 p.m., includes the usual level of intrigue, deception, love and death that can ·be found in most Shakespearean tragedies. Some may remember Samurai Jim as one of the opening acts for Matisyahu at the Bl Block Party. Self defined as an alternative­.rock progressive group, Samurai Jim will be back on campus Thursday and sure to enter­tain with guitar-driven melodies and a gener­al rock feel. Go out and support a home­grown talent from right here in South Bend. 
·<<.,_:W.·:~·: .. ·:~t  .  ·..-·.,;.;...~_,,.,...  
Carbon Leaf  at  Legends 10  
p.m.  

The Richmond-based group, featuring members Terry Clark, Carter Gravatt, Jason Neal, Jon Markel and Barry Privett, returns to Legends this weekend for their second show. Just hav­ing released their seventh album, "Nothing Rhymes with Woman," Carbon Leaf is known for a folk-pop-rock sound. Somewhat similar to Dave Matthews Band and other groups from the mid-90's generation, Carbon Leaf promises to be a great show. It is anticipated that this will be a popular show, so be sure to get there early. And don't miss the Black light Nightclub following the concert. 
page 13 

"oimle\tyarlegends iOii:m: _.. ,R~bert clark at~DPAc· 
After being named Funniest College land 5 p.m. Comedian his sophomore year at·~·· j The widely known organist Emerson, Dan Levy has done well ;;!''i,iand former director of the pro­making a name for himself in the ':\%]gram of organ instruction at comedy industry. For the past severaL•. ']Arizona State University will be 
years, he has been seen at the0 Montreal Just for Laughs Comedy] ·.·Festival and has made appearances' on "Chelsea Lately," "The Late Late Show" and "MTV Spring Break." Additionally, Levy has appeared on his own Comedy Central special, "Comedy Central Presents: Dan Levy." Still in.. 
iperforming his organ recital ~series on campus Sunday. Clark !has performed as a recitalist in 1wNorth America and Europe and ;g:jdirected a symposium, "The· '\ Historical Organ in America" at )Arizona State University in; j1992, drawing in 350 organ-' 
touch with his college roots, Levy now\ Hsts, organ builders and teach­spends most of his time performing on·· !ers from North America, Asia; college campuses across the country.. ,;~and Europe. Clark's recital He will be performing at Legends at r;Jseries will take place af 10 p.m. Saturday night. Following his ···:!Debartolo Performing Arts' performance, the infamous Hip Hop·~:-Center's Reyes Organ and 
night returns to Legends at midnight. .: jChoral Hall at 2:30 and 5 p.m. 
Contact Genna McCabe at gmccahe@nd.edu 
ANOREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 


By ELIZABETH CHATEN 
Scene Writer 
As autumn approaches, tem­peratures and hemlines drop. Starbuck's pumpkin spice latte returns, wafting its savory autumnal scents through the halls of LaFortune. For me, autumn always meant a ceramic casserole dish full of my mom's rich, creamy home-style cook­ing. Fall's festive foods warm the spirit and cheer the soul. Perhaps this down-on-the-farm dinner menu can serve as one small, savory reminder of your home away from the dome. 
Main Course: Deep-Dish 
Chicken'n'Noodles 
Inspired by my summer as a waitress at Bob Evans, this dish always pleased customers. I know its creamy, succulent broth will entice you too! First, grab a plate bowl. Take a bis­cuit. Break it in half and place in the plate bowl. Scoop mashed potatoes on top of the biscuit. From the soup station, ladle Chicken-in-the-Pot soup on top. Enjoy! 
Side Dish: Glazed Carrots 
Dulcet and decadent, this side dish always sat beside a turkey or ham at our family's table. First, place steamed carrots in a bowl. Add a spoonful of brown sugar, a dab of melted honey butter (found by the rolls in South Dining Hall), and a dash of cinnamon sugar (found by the bagels). If no steamed carrots are available, steam your own by adding a small amount of water, covering the bowl and microwaving. 

Beverage: Spiced Apple Tea 
First, steep hot tea in a tall glass, filling only half way. Next, add apple juice till full. Sprinkle in Cinnamon sugar and microwave till hot. Be careful not to burn your tongue on this ambrosial autumn classic! 
Dessert: Apple Pie a la Mode 
First, scoop vanilla ice cream or frozen yogurt into a bowl. From the waffle bar, spoon warm spiced apples on top. Although this recipe relies on the waffie bar's fruit-of-the-day, warm cherries work just fine for a variation of this homey dessert classic. Sprinkle Cinnamon Toast Crunch on top for a whim­sical crust. Finally, for added flair and flavor, drizzle caramel (found in the ice cream section) and cinnamon sugar on top. Close your eyes, take a bite, and remember the warm feeling of grandma's homemade pie. 
Contact Elizabeth Chaten at echatenl@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, September 10, 2009 
MLB 

Rangers complete sweep of Tribe in shutout 
Pujols' two home runs lead Cardinals past Brewers; Gonzalez's three RBis pace Padre~s victory over Giants 
Texas battered Cleveland
Associated Press 
pitching during Tuesday's 
CLEVELAND Scott doubleheader and then again Feldman started the season on Wednesday. Indians in the bullpen. He'll end it as starters Carlos Carrasco, a Cy Young award candidate. Aaron Laffey and Carmona 
Feldman (16-4) pitched combined to give up 16 seven shutout innings, earned runs in just nine Esteban German went 5 for 5 innings. The Rangers scored and Marlon Byrd hit a three­31 runs on 48 hits, including run homer as the Texas seven homers, in the three Rangers beat the Cleveland games. Indians 10-0 on Wednesday, "We certainly have been completing a three-game looking for this to happen sweep within 24 hours. with our offense," 
Feldman tied New York's CC Washington said. ''I'm glad Sabathia and Detroit's Justin they're feeling good about Verlander for the AL lead in themselves because it's been victories despite not entering awhile since we really put Texas' rotation until April 25. some runs up. Hopefully this Verlander was scheduled to offense is finally putting it pitch Wednesday night at together." Kansas City. Texas knocked out Tribe 
Feldman allowed five hits starter Fausto Carmona (3­and struck out five to win his 10) with a five-run first eighth consecutive road start, inning, then added five more a new club record. His 12 in the ninth. Three of the road victories this year are game's first four batters also a new team mark and scored on Byrd's three-run tops in the AL. homer, his second in as many 

"I think it's a pretty hum­nights. bling game, so you can't get Byrd, who had been 0 for too high or low," Feldman 12 lifetime off Carmona, went said. "I just try to focus on 9 for 14 in the series with my next start and stay pre­two homers and seven RBis. pared." Ivan Rodriguez also hit a enth innings to complete a to put runners on the cor­Gonzalez connected for a 
Feldman has been one of two-run homer in the first three-game sweep of the ners. two-run shot in the third. the biggest surprises in the inning and finished with Brewers. In the fifth, Wainwright Oscar Salazar also homered AL after entering this season three RBis. But St. Louis got a scare doubled and scored on a for the Padres, who have won with a 7-13 career mark and Carmona lasted just two­when Matt Holliday tumbled triple by Rasmus before 10 of their last 13 series. a 4.97 ERA. He has allowed thirds of an inning, the short­running out a grounder in the Pujols' two-run homer made Andres Torres hit a two-run one earned run in his last est start of his career. He has third and left with a bruised it 4-0. Pujols sprinted around homer for the Giants. The NL four starts, going 4-0 with a battled with his mechanics left knee. the bases, hardly stopping to wild-card contenders have 
0.34 ERA. this year, being demoted to The Cardinals have won 25 greet teammates at the plate, lost three of their last four. 
"I know he's getting credit rookie ball in June. of their last 31 overall, and and ran into the dugout to Barry Zito (9-12) gave up in Texas, I don't know if he's "Today was a step back" for are well on their way to a celebrate there. three runs on six hits over getting it other places," Carmona, Indians manager fourth NL Central title in six He'd have more to cheer five innings. He lost his Rangers manager Ron Eric Wedge said. "That goes years behind Pujols, Holliday, about in the seventh with a fourth straight decision to the Washington said. "As long as without saying. Today was Wainwright (18-7) and Chris solo shot to left-center field Padres. he keeps winning ball games, not a good day." Carpenter. that gave St. Louis a 5-0 lead LeBlanc allowed two runs I couldn't care less if he gets Carmona left without All the enthusiasm could be and increased his RBI total to on four hits. He retired 11 (attention) nationally. It'd be speaking to reporters. tempered if Holliday misses 124, one behind Milwaukee's straight before walking the nice for Feldman, but it's all German more than doubled any time. Prince Fielder for most in the first two batters of the about us right now." his batting average to .320 St. Louis is 32-11 since majors this season. eighth. 
The victory assures Texas with his perfect day at the acquiring Holliday on July 24 Milwaukee squandered its Luke Gregerson, who will keep pace with Boston in plate. The five hits are a new from Oakland and he's hitting only chance against earned his first major league the AL wild card standings. career high after he entered .360 with 12 homers and 42 Wainwright in the bottom of win Tuesday night, came on The Rangers entered the day with three hits for the season. RBis for the Cardinals. He the fifth. With runners on the to get pinch hitter Kevin two games behind the Red It marked the first time stumbled in the third inning corners and two outs, Frandsen to pop up a bunt Sox, who host Baltimore Texas swept a series in after passing first base on a Wainwright struck out pinch attempt, struck out pinch hit­Wednesday night. Cleveland since 1992. Texas routine grounder and stayed hitter Casey McGehee, who ter Eugenio Velez and retired 
The Rangers, who started improved to 8-1 against the in the game in left field for broke his bat over his knee in Freddy Sanchez on a popup. the day 41J2 games behind the Indians this year. two innings before being frustration. Heath Bell pitched the ninth division-leading Angels, pulled as precaution. Felipe Lopez homered in for his 37th save in 40 return home Friday to open a Cardinals 5, Brewers 1 Wainwright couldn't match the eighth off Trever Miller, chances, matching St. Louis nine-game homestand against Albert Pujols hit two home Carpenter's one-hit shutout but the Brewers scored just closer Ryan Franklin for the AL West opponents. Texas is runs for a majors-leading 47 in Monday's opener, but the 10 runs total in this 1-5 NL lead. 24-13 within the division this and Adam Wainwright picked right-hander was sharp after homestand. The Padres took a 1-0 lead year. up his 18th win with seven allowing six runs in his previ­in the first when Everth 
"It's a big one," Washington scoreless innings in the St. ous appearance to snap a Padres 4, Giants 2 Cabrera beat out an infield said. "It's going to be a tough Louis Cardinals' victory over streak of 13 straight with two Adrian Gonzalez hit his single, stole second, went to nine days. It's going to be the Milwaukee Brewers on runs or less. career-high 37th homer and third on a passed ball and huge." Wednesday. St. Louis made sure drove in three runs, helping scored on a single by 
The Rangers can only hope Wainwright struck out six Wainwright had the lead from the San Diego Padres beat the Gonzalez. to hit the ball as well as they and scattered five hits to the start after Holliday's sac­San Francisco Giants Torres' third home run in did against the Indians. become the first pitcher this rifice fly in the first when Wednesday. the third brought the Giants 
Even without sluggers Josh season to 18 wins and Pujols Brewers starter Jeff Suppan Wade LeBlanc (2-1) pitched within 3-2 but they never Hamilton and Michael Young, powered the offense with his (6-9) walked Colby Rasmus a career-best seven innings to seriously threatened again who are out with injuries, homers in the fifth and sev-and allowed a single to Pujols win his second straight start. until the eighth. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR RENT 
NO vs MSU Weekend, Sept. 18,19,20. Rooms in Sacred Heart Parish Hall on campus. $400/per person two nights includes game ticket, bed, parking, K of C Smoker, Lunch at Morris Inn tent, etc. All profits go to South Jersey Notre Dame Club Scholarship Fund. Email: Bi11Burns.68@Aiumni.nd.ed or call Bill Burns 609-368-1962. 
APARTMENT right off campus. 1­bdrm. $500/mo. all inclusive. 574­243-7777. 
You have seen the rest -now CHECK OUT THE BEST. Open Houses Sun. 9/20/09 4-7. andersonNDrentals.com Start at 203 E. Navarre 
TICKETS 
HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top $$. 57 4-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FBTix.Victorytickets.net 574-232-0964. 
Need 2 MSU & USC tix & parking pass. 574-276-8507. 
Desperately need season tix/MSU, BC. Call574-654-01681ocal call.­
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt.,no experience needed,cus­tomer sales/service, 57 4-273-3835. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential sup­port or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more infor­mation, visit NO s website at: http://pregnancysup­port@nd.edu 
EARN $50 FOR 1 HR OF WRIT­ING ACT, Inc. invites you to participate in an essay-writing study. Limited number of participants so regis­ter soon to secure a spot. www.act.org/essaystudy 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assault­ed, we can help. For more infor­mation, visit Notre Dame s website: http://csap.nd.edu 
Somebody please write in some­thing inflammatory for the Viewpoint so we can finally have some controversy to read about. 
I got guitars, basses, amplifiers and drums, 
Accordians and mandolins and things that sometimes hum, 
Cymbals and harmonicas, capos by the score, And lots of things in boxes laying all around the floor. 



OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, September 10, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVER:S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NSCAA/adidas Division l Men's Soccer Top 25 
team  record  points  
1  Akron  2-0-0  506  
2  Wake Forest  2-0-1  498  
3  North Carolina  2-0-1  480  
4  St. John's (N.Y.}  1-0-1  470  
5  Creighton  1~0-1  382  
6  uc Santa Barbara  3-0·0  381  
7  Maryland  1-1-0  376  
8  South Florida  2-0-0  329  
9  UC Irvine  2-0-0  309  
10  NOTRE DAME  1-1-1  303  
11  California  1+0  291  
12  Indiana  0·1-1  285  
13  Dartmouth  2·0-0  241  
14  Boston U.  1-0-1  237  
15  UCLA  1·1-0  222  
16  Virginia  2-0-0  220  
17  Louisville  2·0-0  178  
18  North Carolina St.  3-0-0  140  
19  Duke  3·0-0  115  
20  Michigan Sl.  1·0-1  114  
21  Tulsa  1-1·1  108  
22  Northwestern  0·0-1  89  
23  San Francisco  2·0·0  83  
24  Monmouth  3-0-0  65  
25  Connecticut  1-1-0  61  

NSCAA/adidas Division I 
Women's Soccer Top 25 
team record points 

1 North Carolina 5·0·0 825 2 Portland 5-0-0 781 3 Stanford 5·0·0 756 4 Florida State 5·0·0 726 5 NOTRE DAME 3·1·0 663 6 UCLA 3-H 646 7 Purdue 4·0·0 558 8 Wake Forest 6·0·0 521 9 Virginia 3·1·1 515 10 Boston College 4·0·0 465 11 Illinois 3-1-1 442 12 West VIrginia 2·1·2 414 13 TexasA&M 3-2·0 365 14 Florida 3·2·0 340 15 Georgia 4-0-1 294 16 California 3-1-0 293 17 Rutgers 4·0·1 270 18 South Carolina 4·0·0 211 19 Oklahoma State 3-1-0 186 20 Colorado 3·2-0 183 
Bison/AVCA Division I Women's Volleyball Top 15 
team previous 

1 Penn State 1 2 Texas 2 3 Washington 3 4 Florida 5 5 Nebraska 6 6 Hawaii 4 7 Michigan 1 8 UCLA 9 9 Minnesota 13 10 Stanford 11 11 Iowa State 12 12 Oregon 14 13 California 
10 14 Illinois 8 15 Southern California 16 
around the dial 
NFL Tennessee at Pittsburgh 8:30 p.m., NBC 
NCAA FooTBALL Clemson at Georgia Tech 7:30 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 

Chargers linebacker Shawne Merriman, left, runs a drill with teammates during a practice in San Monday. Merriman was arrested on suspicion of choking girlfriend and reality TV star Tila Tequila. 
District Attorney to review Merrintan's case 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -The District Attorney's Office on Wednesday began review­ing accusations of domestic violence that reality TV star Tila Tequila brought against star linebacker Shawne Merriman of the San Diego Chargers. 
The DA will review reports from the San Diego County Sheriff's Department and decide if the player known as "Lights Out" will be charged. 
Merriman was arrested early Sunday after Tequila accused him of choking and throwing her to the ground while she was try­ing to leave his home in 
IN BRIEF 
Peljury charges filed ~ainst 
two Broncos players 
DENVER -Perjury charges have been filed against two men who police say were in an SUV when it was used in the drive-by shooting death of Denver Broncos cornerback Darrent Williams. 
An indictment made public this week alleges Mario Anderson, 22, and Kataina "Markie" Jackson-Keeling, 21, lied to a grand jury. Each faces charges of perjury and attempting to influence a public servant. 
Neither has been charged with shoot­ing Williams, who was killed on New Year's Day 2007. 
Twenty-six-year-old Willie Clark has been charged with first-degree murder and other crimes in Williams' death. Investigators are still pursuing a sus­pected second shooter. 
The indictment was unsealed on Friday, but prosecutors waited until this week to release the public document because Jackson-Keeling had not yet been arrested. 
suburban Poway. Tequila signed a citizen's arrest warrant accusing Merriman of battery and false imprisonment. Both are felonies. 
Spokesman Paul Levikow said the DA's office can charge Merriman, reject the accusations or refer them to the San Diego City Attorney's Office for consid­eration as misdemeanors. 
Tequila, whose real name is Tila Nguyen, is best known for "A Shot at Love with Tila Tequila," which ran for two seasons on MTV. The bisexual dating show featured men and women vying for Tequila's affections. She has also modeled for Playboy and other men's magazines. 

Ripken '8' monument stolen, 
recovered by police 
BALTIMORE -As if things weren't bad enough for the Baltimore Orioles, who just clinched their 12th consecu­tive losing season: On Wednesday, a temporary fence and police tape sur­rounded the spot that had been occu­pied by a monument to one of the team's all-time greats, Cal Ripken. 
The large aluminum No. 8 outside the Camden Yards ballpark was stolen Tuesday night by four young men who were arrested about two hours later, Baltimore police said. The monument was recovered. 
Surveillance cameras captured video of the men removing the 4-foot monu­ment and placing it in the bed of a pick­up truck, police spokesman Anthony Guglielmi said. 
Police put out an all-points bulletin, and the men were arrested in east Baltimore after officers responding to a disorderly conduct report spotted the object in the truck bed, Guglielmi said. 
Merriman and his attor­ney, Todd Macaluso, have said they expect him to be vindicated. Merriman issued a statement Sunday denying wrongdoing and saying he was trying to keep Tequila from leaving his home because she appeared to be intoxicated. 
"I in no way caused any harm to Ms. Nguyen, how­ever, paramedics were called and she was exam­ined but no injuries were reported," Merriman's statement read. 
On Tuesday night, Tequila's attorney called Merriman's explanation "spin" and predicted it would be discredited. 
"It is never justifiable to brutally assault, choke, 

Plans for new NBA arena in 
Brooklyn announced 
NEW YORK -With just months to go until a critical financing deadline, the developer trying to move the New Jersey Nets to Brooklyn unveiled a revamped design for the team's new arena Wednesday. 
The latest plans for the Barclays Center call for a domed, irregularly shaped arena with glass walls wrapped in two bands of brownish weathered steel. 
In drawings and models, the woven steel bands give the building the appearance of being covered in wicker. 
People arriving for basketball games or concerts will enter the building beneath a huge overhang that cantilevers over a public plaza. Some glimpses of the interi­or stadium bowl and the score­board will be visible from the street. 
strike and imprison a woman," attorney Alan S. Gutman wrote. "Once the truth is fully revealed, Mr. Merriman's fantastic story of how he was trying to keep Ms. Tequila safe will be completely discredited." 
Gutman didn't return calls seeking comment Wednesday. Merriman and Macaluso said they had no further comment. 
When Merriman bailed out of jail on Sunday, a court appearance was scheduled for next Tuesday. If no charges are filed, that appearance will be removed from the court calendar, Levikow said. If the DA's office hasn't decid­ed by then, the appearance will be rescheduled. 
page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 10, 2009 
' ' -. 
' 
AVE CRUX SPESUNICA 


You are Invite I 
Please join the members ofthe Congregation ofHoly Cross for these five special Masses during the current academic year. 

Each liturgy will be at 5:1.5 p.m. in the Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart. 

HOLY CROSS CEIAEBRATIONS FOR 2009-2010 
September 15, 2009 -Feast ofOur I.ady ofSorrows 
PatJviJess ofHo~v Cross Pnests, Brothers a11d Sisters 
October 13, 2009 -Feast ofSt. Edward the Confessor 
FoWJder~ Day JJoJJoring Father EdJvard ~~ Sorin, C.S. C. 
Janua.cy 20,2010-Feast ofBlessed Basile-Antoine-Moreau, C.S.C. 
FoLJnder ofthe CoiJgTegatioJJ ofHoly CJVss 
March 19, 2010-Feast ofSt.Joseph 
PatroJJal Feast ofthe Brod1ers ofHoi}~ Cross 

AprillO, 2010-Holy Cross Ordinations to the priesthood 

C-M 



Thursday, September 10, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Sanchez calls first game a 'must win' 
Associated Press 
FLORHAM PARK, N.J. -Mark Sanchez is approaching his regu­lar-season debut for the New York Jets with a slight sense of desper­ation. 
"This is a must win for us," the rookie quarterback said after practice Wednesday. "That's the way we feel, and it's going to be like that every week." 
What's a little more pressure added to an already hyped-up season opener for the new face of the franchise, right? 
"This first game," Sanchez said, "we just want to get things started off right." 
The Jets take on the Texans at Houston on Sunday, and Sanchez realizes he's in for a rude wel­come to the NFL. 
"I know Houston feels the same way," Sanchez said. "They are tough to play at home, they're rowdy, they're tough, they're loud and we need to prepare for that. It's going to be a fun atmosphere and I'm excited to be a part of it." 
Sanchez will have several family members in the stands at Reliant Stadium to witness him become the first rookie quarterback in Jets history to start a season. 
"Prior to the game, hopefully it won't be too emotional because I'll just be excited and hopefully that'll be done by warmups," Sanchez said. "After that, it'll be snapping into game mode and getting my focus down and really honing into my keys." 
The Texans' defense has also seen what made Sanchez so cov­eted in the draft. 
"When you watch him on film, he's made some good plays mov­ing around the pocket," line­backer DeMeco Ryans said. "He's a good player. We want to put the ball in his hands and make him beat us." 
Coach Rex Ryan selected Sanchez as his starting quarter­back two weeks ago, raving about his solid mental makeup -some­thing the rookie has maintained even as he prepares for his first NFL start. 
"You guys know, you guys have seen him," Ryan said. "l-Ie's the same guy, and that's a good thing. Be yourself, be consistent. He's going to do just fine." 
Sanchez's teammates also believe that about their young oflimsive leader. 
"Once he was named starter, he turned it up a notch," running back Leon Washington said. "You could even see it today in practice, the leadership skills he has been developing this entire preseason. I know in the back of my mind that he's a rookie and he's going to make mistakes, but this guy car­ries himself like a veteran already. I look forward to him to go out there and be special for us." 
Wide receiver Jerricho Cotchery, expected to be one of Sanchez's primary targets, saw a lot of the quarterback on television in col­lege at Southern California. 
"He was very relaxed in every game I saw him play," Cotchery said. "He was just having fun out there and just making a lot of plays. He's a very talented guy, a true leader and a guy who's going to make plays, so just do your thing out there. It's no different from college." 
Sanchez played well in the pre­sea..<;on, starting three games and working out any potential rookie jitters. 
"I think the preseason helps with a Jot of that," he said. "I know as soon as that game starts, I'll be more excited than nervous, I think. Excited to be out there, playing again and starting the season up. It's important to me. I want it to go right and I want to win. We'll see what happens." 
Sanchez hasn't lacked confi­dence since being drafted by the Jets fifth overall in April following a trade with Cleveland. Like his brash head coach, Sanchez has been unafraid to say what's on his mind and point out what he's doing well -along with what he needs to improve. 
"I think I learned a lot of that from growing up and having to go up against my brothers in every­thing," said Sanchez, the youngest of three boys. "I never wanted to show my brothers that I was hurt or I was tired or they were just kicking my butt in basketball, foot­ball or baseball, or anything." 
One of the biggest areas Sanchez thinks he has improved is his ability to eliminate dwelling on negative plays. 
"When I miss a play I know I had, I'm the first one yelling at myself and I have an ugly face on and I'm disappointed. But at the same point, this team doesn't need that. There's no time to go back to another play because you've got another third down coming up. 
"If you miss a play on second down, forget it because if you're not ready on third down, you're going to miss that one and then we're punting." 
As he reflected on hi<; rise from college star to NFL starter, Sanchez credited Ryan for helping him make what so far has been a smooth transition. 
"When it's football and it's seri­ous, there's no doubt what he wants and what he expects from you," Sanchez said. "He expects your best every time. As soon as that play is over or as soon as practice is over, he's back to Rex, who's a good, ol' guy. 
"He drives a pickup truck. He's awesome. He's everything you'd want in a coach." 
u.s. OPEN 

Oudin' s run ends in quarterfinals 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Melanie Oudin's magical U.S. Open is over. 
Even the comeback kid couldn't overturn this deficit. 
Showing signs of shakiness in her first Grand Slam quar­terfinal, the 17 -year-old Oudin got off to a slow start against No. 9-seeded Caroline Wozniacki of Denmark and never really recovered, losing 6-2, 6-2 Wednesday night. 
"This has been a great expe­rience for me. I had a great run here," the 70th-ranked Oudin told the crowd of 23,881 during an on-court interview right after the match, an honor usually reserved for the winner. "I hope to come back next year and do even better." 
It'll be hard to top her 2009 
U.S. Open. 
She upset four more estab­lished players -including three-time major champion Maria Sharapova and Beijing Olympic gold medalist Elena Dementieva -to become the youngest quarterfinalist at Flushing Meadows since Serena Williams in 1999. 
Making the story even bet­ter: Oudin's last three victories each came after dropping the first set. But Wednesday's start was quite inauspicious: She lost 14 of the first 18 points under the bright lights in the big eity. 
With "BELIEVE" stamped in all capital letters on the heels of her pink-and-yellow sneak­ers --and, up in the player guest box, her twin sister and coach wearing black T-shirts bearing that word, too -the 5-foot-6 Oudin certainly never gave up. 
Her groundstrokes let her down, though. 
Oudin made 43 unforced errors, 23 more than Wozniacki. A relative veteran by comparison, the 19-year­old Wozniacki leads the women's tour in match victo­ries this season. 
''I'm sorry that I won against Melanie today," Wozniacki told the partisan fans, some of whom cheered when she dou­ble-faulted. "I know that many 


· PurJ:n~mtRnr;t::~0 bv . 
~ ~;,;*i "~ ~(S :.. :kx;l§ ~.&l$M.k§... J ..,. 
First Class Steppt!rs Voice of Faith Gospel Choir The Irish Dance Team of Notre Dame/ St. Mary's 
-•

· Filipino-American Student Organization !:oro Primavera de Nuestra Senora And others... 
Whert September 10, 2DUS 4pm-Spm Where: field House Mall* 
BPnught mt'TIU ny MSPS,. The A:iitni:ss1rm tlfHcc, rn1d !h[l Student _Aftairs i]ff'l~lll 

t'h&! !•ut!n; ldutiHU h!lr&!H!! 
of you wanted Melanie to win." 
Now the Dane will play her first Grand Slam semifinal against another 19-year-old, Yanina Wickmayer of Belgium. The 50th-ranked Wickmayer -never before past the sec­ond round at a major tourna­ment beat Kateryna Bondarenko of Ukraine 7-5, 6­4. 
The other women's semifinal Friday features two far more familiar names: defending champion Serena Williams against 2005 champion Kim Clijsters. 
Never intimidated by the hostile crowd, Wozniacki was backed by her own cheering section of about 15 strong. Their applause and yells of encouragement were quite audible in a mostly empty Arthur Ashe Stadium as Oudin's error count mounted in the early going. It took less than 10 minutes for Wozniacki to seize a 3-0 lead, cleverly constructing points. 
After many of her mistakes, Oudin would walk to the edge of the court, her back to the net, and fiddle with her strings. When she did find suc­cess with her deep ground­strokes, many of which landed right near the baseline, Oudin would turn toward Mom with a raised fist and a yell of "Come on!" 
This was, don't forget, Wozniacki's first major quar­terfinal, too, yet she only real­ly showed some nerves after already leading 5-l. She missed a backhand, then a forehand, and later double­faulted to get broken for the only time. Still, Wozniacki righted herself right away, breaking back to take the set when Oudin missed a back­hand. 
To no one's surprise, Oudin made bids to make things interesting in the second set. 
At 1-1, Oudin held two break points -and pushed a fore­hand return of a 71 mph sec­ond serve wide, then sailed a forehand long. Then, at 2-all, Oudin again earned two break points -and sent a backhand wide on the first, then a fore­hand long on the second. 
And that, essentially, was that. Wozniacki won that game and each of the next four. 
In men's action Wednesday, No. 4-seeded Novak Djokovic reached the U.S. Open semifi­nals for the third consecutive year, beating No. 10 Fernando Verdasco of Spain 7-6 (2), 1-6, 7-5, 6-2. 
Djokovic, the 2008 Australian Open champion, lost to Roger Federer in the 2007 final and the 2008 semi­finals at Flushing Meadows. 
He could meet Federer again this year: After the Oudin­Wozniacki match, Federer faced No. 12 Robin Soderling in the quarterfinals, with the winner facing Djokovic. 
While so much of the focus around these parts has been on Oudin, Wickmayer's story is quite intriguing and inspiring. 
When she was 9, her mother died of cancer, and little Yanina set out to find a fresh start, researching tennis acad­emies on the Internet before settling on one in Florida. 
Talk about precocious, ambi­tious and adventurous: Yanina had only recently started play­ing tennis. Neither she nor her father spoke English. 
But this is what had to be done. 
Her father closed his pool construction company in Belgium, and relatives sup­ported the pair financially while they lived in Florida for 2lfz years. 
"He just gave everything up for me," Yanina said. "He just left. He listened to a girl that was 9 years old and left his life, left his dreams. I'm always going to respect him for that." 
Marc Wickmayer was in the Arthur Ashe Stadium stands Wednesday, watching his daughter play the biggest match of her career -and win it. 
"I have no words for what he's done," Yanina said. "There is no way of thanking him in any way for what he did, but I hope with my semis here this week, I can show him that I really thank him for everything." 



page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 10, 2009 
NHL 

Bankrupt Coyotes' fate to be decided on Friday 
' ..
' 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX -Fittingly, the fight for what's left of the Phoenix Coyotes has been narrowed to Canadian billionaire James Balsillie against the National Hockey League. 
They have, after all, been the chief antagonists in this twisted tale played out with a large cast of high-priced lawyers in U.S. Bankruptey Court over the past four months. 
Balsillie 's eompany, PSE, and the NHL are the lone bidders on record for an auction before Judge Redfield T. Baum on Thursday and Friday. 
The chief issue facing the judge, who has studiously avoid­ed any precedent-setting deci­sions thus far, is whether he should overrule the NHL's over­whelming rejection of Balsillie as an owner and allow the Canadian to move the team to Hamilton, Ontario. 
A third potential bidder, Ice Edge Holdings, formally pulled out of contention on Wednesday but hinted it may try to buy the team later. 
The proposed agenda for the two-day auction includes, on Thursday, cross-examination and redirect questioning of various experts who filed declarations supporting one side or the other. 
Things get more interesting on Friday when Balsillie and NIIL commissioner Gary Bettman are to be subject to questioning under oath by the attorneys. 
Then, presumably, Baum will award the team to somebody. Almost certainly, that won't be the end of it. If Balsillie gets the 

team, the NHL has vowed an immediate appeal and will seek a stay of' the sale. Balsillie says he probably would appeal if loses. 
The Canadian, who lists his personal wealth at $3 billion, upped his bid on Tuesday to $242.5 million when he of'fered the city of' Glendale $50 million to end its objeetions to the sale. Sinee the season opener is three weeks away, Balsillie said he might need to play a few games in Glendale before he can eom­pletc the cross-continent move to 
BETTER BOWLING NAME: 
aA you want. l 
D
i •CUAA aAlong Incoming Cal 6. 
w rl htU rree · 
OnlY u.s. Cellula at any ume. 
P. fffllll anyone · iftte 
TextA and LX v·-. n tne ph.one tA ~~·-• So nearly nalfi the tnn.e o 
getusc.com 

-<-~U.S. Ce~ul~~ better·
r· 

believe lll some 

Hamilton. 
The Nl IL says such a move at this late date is out of the ques­tion. 
The league, citing concerns that there may be no other bid­der in the competition, made its own ofl'er of $140 million at the last minute. The league says it would resell the team outsidP. the bankruptcy proeeedings and give any net profit to the ereditors. The NHL still says its first prefer­enee is to lind a buyer to keep the team in Glendale, but if that doesn't happen, the league will seek to relocatP. the franehise. 
Ice Edge issued a statement on Wednesday that it was with­drawing because of the inability to reach a new lease agreement with the city of Glendale. 
That is the same reason given by a group headed by Chicago sports mogul Jerry Reinsdorf when it pulled out last week. 
Ice Edge, made up of a group of Canadian and American investors, had said it would spend up to $150 million to buy the team and keep it in Glendale. The group, whose supporters included Wayne Gretzky, wanted to play five games in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. 
"We continue to strongly believe in the potential of' the Phoenix Coyotes for the long term in Glendale," Ice Edge said. "and therefore we will be exam­ining our options after the con­clusion of the bankruptcy auction process." 
Bettman said in a declaration Tuesday that Ice Edge was pulling out of the competition. But Anthony LeBlanc, the Ice Edge CEO, told The Associated Press on Wednesday that his company and the city had addi­tional talks Tuesday night and Wednesday morning to try to reach a deal. 
"We just came to a collective decision that it just wasn't going to be possible to get this done in time for the bankruptcy auetion," LeBlanc said. 
The court proceedings will be conducted with the status of Gretzky under a cloud of uncer­tainty. The NHL's offer would reject the contract of Gretzky to coach the team at a salary of $8.5 million in the coming sea­son. 
Meanwhile, the Coyotes are set to open training camp on Saturday with the ftrst preseason game next Tuesday. 
The number of documents filed in the case has approached 1,000 with several of the sticky issues yet to be resolved. 
At the top of that list is whether the judge should over­rule the 26-0 vote by the NHL's board of governors rejecting Balsillie as an owner, saying he is untrustworthy. 
Balsillie also wants the judge to set a reasonable relocation fee since the league says it need not act on moving the team because the issue is moot now that the Canadian has been turned down as an owner. 
Still, the NHL offered two stud­ies that put a proposed reloca­tion fee at between $101 million and $195 million. A study for Balsillie by an economics profes­sor puts the amount at $11.2 million to $12.9 million. 
"I respect the NHL and honor its rules and processes." Balsillie said in a declaration filed on Tuesday. "I have no interest in undermining the league's rules or proeesses and have never had an intention to do so. I only ask that the NIIL's constitution and by-laws be fairly applied to me. 
Thursday, September 10, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Roethlisberger rejects settlement 
was playing in a celebrity

Associated Press 
tournament. 

CARSON CITY -The attor­The AP, as a matter of poli­ney for Pittsburgh Steelers cy, does not identify people quarterback Ben who say they have been sexu­Roethlisberger on Wednesday ally assaulted. rejected a settlement offer by In other documents filed a Nevada woman who claims late Tuesday, Dunlap said the the Super Bowl champion woman was stationed as a sexually assaulted her at a concierge on the 17th floor Lake Tahoe hotel-casino. on July 11, 2008, when 
The rejection was in Roethlisberger returned to response to a letter, filed last his room with a young week as part of a motion woman. About 20 minutes from Cal Dunlap, the later, he walked that woman woman's Reno attorney, that to the elevator, then stopped said she would be willing to by the concierge desk and settle the civil matter against chatted with staff, including Roethlisberger his accuser. if he admits to A few min­raping her, utes later, the apologizes and documents g i v e s s a i d , $100,000 to "'t is in fact their Roethlisberger the Committee reportedly
slanderous allegations 

to Aid Abused called the
and total trashing of

Women, a woman and non-profit every aspect ofher life, asked her if agency in she could fix
relevant or not, that 

Reno that his television.
adds to her distress." 

helps victims The woman of domestic said the televi­violence. Cal Dunlap sion was work­In a written ing properly
Plaintiff's attorney

statement, Roethlisberger attorney David Cornwell called the woman's offer "bizarre" and an "insult to women who have legitimately suffered from sexual misconduct." 
Last month, they demanded she drop the lawsuit and write a letter of apology to the NFL star. In return, Roethlisberger would release both the woman and Dunlap from any legal liability stem­ming from the "conspiracy to extort and defame" him. 
Those demands have been rejected by the woman, Dunlap said in his letter. It added that her settlement offer was made to negate claims by the quarterback's attorneys that she filed her suit to get money from him. 
Dunlap said the woman is a sexual assault victim who "was violated in every sense of the term." 
Dunlap refused further comment when contacted Wednesday. 
Cornwell countered that the woman was given the option for a "graceful exit." 
"We will continue to press our defenses and claims and pursue our application for sanctions," he said. 
In other developments, the case in Washoe District Court has been reassigned to anoth­er judge, the third since the case was filed. District Judge Brent Adams will consider pending motions on whether the case should be moved to Douglas County. Depending on that ruling, he also would decide various other motions, including whether the case should proceed or be dis­missed, attorneys said. 
No hearings have been scheduled. 
The woman, a VIP casino hostess, filed the civil suit against Roethlisberger in July, claiming the Super Bowl-winning quarterback raped her in 2008 in a hotel penthouse across the street from a golf course where he 
and that 
Roethlisberger 
then blocked 
her from leav­
ing and assaulted her. 
In the same filing, Dunlap also said the woman told her roommate and others of the encounter soon after the alleged attack and in the months that followed. 
She did not report the inci­dent to police, something advocates for rape victims say is not unusual. 
Roethlisberger has denied the allegations. 
Dunlap late Tuesday also countered suggestions by Roethlisberger's lawyers that the woman is mentally ill. 
"It is in fact their slander­ous allegations and total trashing of every aspect of her life, relevant or not, that adds to her distress," he wrote. "But, despite this hor­rible barrage of unwarranted defamation, this woman has held her head high, has gone into the den of the defendants and has continued to do her job without fail under the most egregious circumstances possible. 
"This is something that a mentally ill person would cer­tainly not be able to carry off." 
The civil suit also names eight Harrah's officials as defendants, alleging they orchestrated a cover-up of the incident. The suit says she suffered depression, was hospitalized and forced to take leave from her job in the year after the incident. 
In previous court docu­ments, the attorney for hotel security chief Guy Hyder and other Harrah's defendants said the woman kept him "informed with running e­mail commentary about her plan to have sex with Roethlisberger." 
"Hyder did not report it to management, since having consensual sex with a hotel patron, while on the job, would get her fired," the motion said. 


UNIVERSITY OF DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS IN 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
Fall2010, SPRING 2011, AY 2010-11 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Monday, September 14, 2009 6:00p.m. 155 DeBartolo 
Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15,2009 FOR FALL, SPRING, AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2010-201 J 
Applications Available Soon at www.nd.edu/-ois 

Thursday, September 3, 2009 
11:00 p.m. 
or Thursday, September 10, 2009 11:00 p.m. 
(both seMimr.t are the same) 

330 Coleman-Morse Center 
';-Testimonials by Protestant and Evangelical upperclassmen 
.-,. Q & A about faith life at Notre Dame 
-,. Ministry Opportunities open to Christians ofall traditions 
-,. Fellowship with students who~ like you, are seeking to live out their 
faith at Notre Dame ~ Find out about rides to off-campus churches J; Come for Iron Sharpens Iron (lSI) Inter-denominational Ministry 
beforehand at 10:00 p.m. in 329 Coleman-Morse Center! 
PLUS: Sign up for two "Catholicism 101n info sessions (with no strings attached): 
Mass Confusion: How w Make It Through a Catholic Mass ifYou're Nor Catholic 
Inside the l'JJig House": 
A Theological Tour of the Basilica for Protestant Student~
C-M 

Campus Ministry Hosted by Campus Ministry ·s Protesltlnt Student Resources 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 10, 2009 
Depth 
continued from page 24 
is the players who don't care about the depth charts because they figure they're going to come in here and play well enough they're going to move by people, and that · was his attitude. Jonas didn't care who was here." 
And now Gray will have the opportunity to shine in front of a hometown crowd. The Detroit-area native carried nine times for 50 yards in the opener, showing a burst Irish fans didn't see quite as often during Gray's freshman cam­paign in limited action. 
With Hughes -who seems built more like a fullback than 
Aldridge -thrown into the 
NFL 
mix now, the backfield rota­tion will offer combinations of power and speed that Notre Dame has lacked in recent 

Quinn leading Browns QB race 
years. As for Weis' concerns about Hughes filling in at the full­

Still no official word from Mangini about Saturday's starter 
back position? 
When asked at his press conference Tuesday whether Hughes had any experience as a fullback, Weis effectively brushed off the question. 
"Uh huh," Weis said. And that was the end of it. 
Moral of the story? Notre Dame's backfield, even with position movement and injuries, should be pretty darn good. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 



ACTORS FROM THE LONDON STAGE 
KING LEAR 
ONLY THREE PERFORMANCES! 
Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday (September 9-11, 2009) 7:30p.m. at Washington Hall 
TICKETS AVAILABLE NOW 
574-631-2800 
performingarts.nd.edu 


Quinn confirmed that he last season, are hoping to and Anderson met with remain united as long as Mangini, but said they possible. weren't told who would take "We've got to stay togeth­the season's first snaps from er," running back Jamal center. Lewis said. "We can't really 
"He talked to us about it, worry about that or concen­but he hasn't told us any­trate on that. We have to thing about a concentrate final decision for on what we us," Quinn said. have to do
"After this next two
Those seem to and our job be carefully cho­minutes are over I'm and what sen words since we're trying
not going to be 
Mangini said he to accom­
talking to you guys. " 
told his quarter­plish no backs which one matter would open up Derek Anderson who's in against Brett there."
Browns quarterback 
Associated Press 
BEREA, Ohio -Derek Anderson stood in the mid­dle of the media huddle in Cleveland's locker room and then stepped aside for Brady Quinn. 
Perhaps for good. 
The mystery surrounding Browns coach Eric Mangini's choice as his starting quarterback became somewhat clearer on Wednesday when Quinn and Anderson were forced to answer questions about their recently completed competition -a battle that carried through training camp and the exhibition season. 
Anderson was asked if it would be difficult to keep the starting QB a secret until Sunday's kickoff of the season opener against the Minnesota Vikings. 
"No," Anderson said, "because after this next two minutes are over I'm not going to be talking to you guys. It's pretty easy. Obviously, the rest of us have to go about our regular preparations and continue to do what we always do and just not talk to our fam­ilies." 
By "the rest of us Anderson seemed to mean the Browns backups, a group it looks as if he belongs to once again. 
Mangini met with his quarterbacks on Tuesday night, told them who would start and explained the rea­sons for his decision. He said both handled the situa­tion with class. 
"They both took it exactly the way I expected them to take it-as pros, as good teammates," Mangini said. "It was really not surpris­ing." 
Quinn has been favored all along to win the starting job, and although it now appears to be his, the for­mer first-round pick is play­ing along with Mangini's wishes to guard his secret and keep the Vikings guess­ing. 

Favre and the Vikings. 
Mangini said he did feel the need to .make an announcement to Cleveland's other players. 
"I think they'll be able to figure it out," he said. It seems everyone is figur­ing it out. 
By the time the Browns finished practice, word was beginning to leak that Quinn, who made three starts last season, was the winner. 
The Cleveland Plain Dealer, citing an anonymous league source, reported Quinn will start the opener. 
Even Buffalo Bills wide receiver Terrell Owens(notes) offered Quinn congratulations on his Twitter page, posting: Congrats 2 Brady Quinn 4 starting job w/Cieveland Browns!! 
Vikings cornerback Antoine Winfield(notes) shrugged off Mangini's cloak and dagger routine. 
"It doesn't make a differ­ence to me," he said. ''I'm going to go home and watch film on Quinn and Anderson. It might just take me an extra half-hour at home to watch what they like to do, but nah, it does­n't bother me. I don't really pay attention to it." 
In the past, quarterback controversies have divided teams -even good ones. The Browns, who collapsed under huge expectations 
During the 
30 minutes 

of practice open to the media, there was no way to tell if Quinn or Anderson had taken over Cleveland's offense. 
After stretching, Quinn worked with the running backs and Anderson threw to the wide receivers. Reporters were asked to leave before the team began 11-on-11 drills. 
Mangini doesn't feel that asking his players to keep the Vikings -and everyone else -guessing the identity of Cleveland's starter puts them in a difficult situation. 
"I don't think anybody is in an awkward spot of try­ing to maintain a competi­tive advantage," Mangini said. "We all do that, and that's all of our goals, trying to do everything we need to do to win the game on Sunday." 
The competition between Anderson, a Pro Bowler in 2007, and Quinn went down to the wire. They finished with similar statistics, but Quinn may have gotten the nod after completing 11 of 15 passes and throwing a touchdown in the third exhi­bition game against Tennessee. 
Mangini kept both players out of last week's preseason finale in Chicago. 
The Browns are the only team in the league that has­n't announced its Week One starting quarterback. 
--~----------~~--­

Thursday, September 10, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

Belles 
continued from page 24 
leading scores in both con­ference and national compe­tition, last spring as well as so far this fall. 
In her first competition with the Belles at the Southwestern Invitational in Georgetown, Texas, Boyce came out strong with an 86 to tie for 11th place with two other golfers. In the second day of competition, she led the Belles to second in the competition, shooting the lowest round of the day for all golfers in the event with a 77. She finished sec­ond overall with a combined score of 163. 
Boyce's domination on the course only continued as she 
finished in a tie for second with an 80 at the MIAA's first qualifier for the NCAA tournament. Along with teammate Emily Gore, Boyce helped to lead Saint Mary's to come out on top over then-No.ll Olivet. 
Boyce continued her strong season throughout the spring, placing in the top five for the Belles and in the top ten of every competi­tion. In the second round of the NCAA qualifier, she shared medalist honors with a score of 80 for the day, and led the Belles to another first place finish. In the third round, Boyce shot an 85, tying her for ninth for the day behind three of her Saint Mary's teammates, and winning the Belles the spot at the NCAA Division III Championships. 
In the first of the four days of NCAA competition in Port Saint Lucie, Fla., Saint Mary's was tied for fifth place of the 21 teams after entering the competition at No. 17. Boyce personally shot a 79, tying her for 19th at the start. The second day of competition saw the Belles move into a tie for 12th, and Boyce sharing the 39th place spot with team­mate Natalie Matuszak after she shot an 86. In the third day, Boyce moved into a tie for 40th as she shot an 83 and Saint Mary's moved into lOth. She shot an 87 on the last day of competition to help the Belles hold onto lOth overall, and give her a 335 for the four rounds and her first national competi­tion. 
Boyce's domination on the 

green carried over from the spring to this fall's competi­tion. In Saint Mary's first day of MIAA competition this season, Boyce shot a 79, putting her in seventh place after the first day of compe­tition in the Trine University Fall Invitational. In the sec­ond day, Boyce shot an 81 for the round, bringing her to a 160 for the weekend and overall ninth place, sec­ond for the Belles behind freshman Martyna Mierzwa. 
Boyce and the Belles will play in the O'Brien Division III Championship at the Warren Golf Course at Notre Dame this Sunday and Monday, where she'll look once again to show her strength on the course. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at 
mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

LaFo ne Ballroom Friday Sept 11 11AM .. 3PM 


Students can bring up to 4valid, current, ND Student IDs to enter the lottery (one lottery ticket per ID). Awinning number makes you eligible to purchase up to two tickets for the game ($70 each). 
Check out sub.nd.edu for the wlnnln numbers, which will be posted by non on Saturday, September 12. 
• Contest open to all ND, SMC, & HCC Students 
Winner receives: $250 Visa Gift Card sponsored byClover Village/Clover Ridge One student hockey season ticket 
Deadline for Entries: September 21, 2009 
For complete rules visit: . http://www.und.com/promotions/nd-promotlons.html 
Winner selected by Head Coach Jeff Jackson & Clover Village/Clover Ridge Staff 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 10, 2009 
most spectacularly beautiful golf courses in the world. The
Ireland 

·Notre Dame golfers dueled an continued from page 24 assembled group of college­
aged male and female mem­en route, the team settled into bers of Tralee. their lodging in the town of "The views were truly Shannon. After enjoying a incredible," sophomore Katie breakfast that included some Allare said. "Across the water, unique local cuisine, some we could see blankets of sightseeing and a team­clouds hugging the mountain­improvised rendition of "The side, and, although everything Sound of Music" in the green looked incredibly tranquil, it hills, the golfers got down to was maybe the windiest day business. I've ever spent on the golf 
The squad tackled course. I could see my ball Waterville in their first round wobbling back and forth as I of golf in Ireland. Since open­prepared to putt, and there ing in 1973, many elite pro­were times when my caddy fessionals have found their had me aiming thirty yards 
way  to  the  left  of  the  
Waterville  green."  
course, includ­ On their third  
ing Ernie Els, Jim Furyk, Mark O'Meara and Tiger  "This trip exceeded my expectations in every way. ,,  day of play, the Irish traveled to the Killarney Golf & Fishing  
Woods,  all  of  Club.  Nestled  
whom prepared there for the  Susan Holt Irish coach  amidst the splendor of the  

1998 British Open, which O'Meara even­tually captured. 
"The course itself is inde­scribable. This links-style course was right along the water with breathtaking views on every hole," senior Annie Brophy said. "One of my favorite holes, number 12, was deemed the 'Mass Hole' because in the 18th century when Catholics were being persecuted, the Irish would gather in a small vale to hold Mass in secret. It's incredible to be visiting Ireland as an Irish Catholic attending an Irish Catholic school. The his­tory is unbelievable and it is truly is a blessing to be here." 
On the next day, the team took on the Old Course of Tralee in the only competitive round of the trip. The Tralee Golf Club in southwestern Ireland is known as one of the 
Lakes of 
Killarney in the 
shadow of the 
majestic Macgillycuddy's Reeks moun­tain range, the Killeen Course is also rated amongst the world's top courses. 
It is a fishing club as well as a golf course, and members are able to go out and fish on the lake. Members are allowed to catch one fish per day, and are then invite to cook and eat it with other members on an island in the lake's center. 
The following day, the Irish took to the famed Old Head Golf Links, which is consid­ered one of the most remark­able developments in the his­tory of golf. Situated on cliffs overlooking the Atlantic, with views unrivaled in terms of drama and beauty, the course rises hundreds of feet above the coast and is surrounded by the ocean on all sides. Eight of the holes play imme­diately upon the cliff tops, providing a thrilling test of skill and focus. 
"The views at Old Head were an experience of a life­time," junior So-Hyun Park said. "The entire course is basically surrounded by the ocean and every tee box left us in awe." 
The Irish rounded out the trip at the Old Course at the Ballybunion Golf Club. The course has been rated one of the top 10 golf courses in the world and is a true seaside links, meaning it is virtually treeless with a distinct lack of man-made influences. 
"Ballybunion is an amazing golf course. It was challenging and fun to play ... of course it would have been more fun if I had been able to hit it a little straighter," senior Julie Kim said. "The wind started to pick up like crazy and the greens and holes all of a sud­den became narrow and more difficult to play." 
For Holt, the trip was every­thing she had hoped for, and more. 
"This trip exceeded my expectations in every way," she said. "From the driver/ tour guide that was with our group every mile, to the spec­tacular golf, breathtaking countryside and exceptional dining, this has been a trip of a lifetime for all of us that shared the experience." 
The squad took a little time to enjoy the Irish culture and sights before trekking back to the States. Not only did the experience improve their team bonds, but the excellent golf should have them looking sharp when they head to East Lansing this weekend to open the competitive season. 
Contact Nathaniel Lee at nlee5@nd.edu 




Dan Tepfer South Bend Solo Piano Concert Symphony Concert at Palais Royale "Triumphant Beginnings" 
Of course, Dike said he hopes his future lies in soc­
Dike 

cer. continued from page 24 "It is a long way from now, 
but my goal is to play soccer Dike made a statement when after [this season] if I can," he returned to the team in he said. "Whether that be 2008, leading the team and here or overseas, it doesn't the Big East in goals (12) matter. I know that I want to and in total points (29). He play soccer. It's always been was named first-team all-Big my goal, even when I was in East as well as first team all­high school. I think this is Great Lakes Region. one of the best schools that 
"I  think  can help all the  
it's actually  players do that.  
better because he's  "Hopefully the big  We have one of the best coach­ 
had  that  man ends up with a  ing staffs."  
extra year of maturity," Clark said. "He's com- few goals and once the regular season ends, we'll see where  But in the immediate future, Dike is focused on the  
ing with  back that  that's taken us.,  ambitions of the whole team.  
extra and  year that  Bobby Clark  "This season is one of our best  
always helps  Irish coach  opportunities,"  

a player." 
In his first game of 2009, a 5-0 Notre Dame win over Michigan, Dike had his first hat trick, scoring three consecutive goals in the second half. 
"He's got confidence as a person, and as a player," Clark said. "I think when he came in he was just a big strong athlete and now he's a student of the game. Before, he used his natural abilities by chance. I think now he's really starting to develop a very good game." 
Dike is a good student off the field as well -he fin­ished his degree in Information Technology last spring and is now a graduate student taking classes in entrepreneurship. 
Singles 
continued from page 24 
spot, along with Watt. 
Watt and Havens were named as two of the top 100 players in the Intercollegiate Tennis Assoeiation's preseason poll. Watt is No. 90 and llavens is No. 98. 
Notre Dame's greatest asset, however, may be the one sit­ting on the sideline. Irish coaeh Bobby Bayliss. a two­time national coaeh of the year, brings a wealth of knowledge and a set of intan­gibles that every team needs to be successful at the colle­giate level. 
"As far as stroke instruction goes, you really can't beat him anywhere," Davis said. "From that aspect, just getting the most out of players' talent, that's his specialty. lie also . he said. "I think 
we've got a real­ly strong team, and we can make a run for the champi­onship-that's the goal." 
Though Clark was more conservative in his predic­tions, he agreed that Dike will play a big part for the Irish in 2009. 
"We're not thinking about how far we go yet," he said. "We're just at the stage of getting set, just taking one day at a time. Hopefully the big man ends up with a few goals and once the regular season ends, we'll see where that's taken us." 
Contact Lanra Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
develops a tight bond with the players, which goes a long way." 
Yet in spite of the positive signs leading into this season's action, the Irish realize that they still have to prove their worth before they can silence the critics. 
"We had a pretty disap­pointing end of the year last year and we lost Brett Helgeson, who was pretty much an automatic point most of the time," Havens said. "I think a lot of people are going to doubt how we are going to do this year. I think we have a lot to prove." 
Havens and the Irish will face their first test of the sea­son on Sept. 18 at the Olympia Fields CC Invitational, a three­day event that will feature 11 Irish players. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 


Thursday, September 10, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
Across 29 Use the answer to any of this
Commercial puzzle's starred name that clues in ordinaryliterally means conversation?
"to the skies· 
31 ·And so forth 5 Shouts while 
35 Lady of the 

shaking Haus 
pompoms 
36 "Ways things are 9 Break said 40AII_
13 "_18" (Leon Uris novel) 41 ·sign to look elsewhere
14 "Law & Order: 42 Check outS.V.U." actor 
43 Comedian 15 Insurance figure 
Margaret 16 Opposite of 46 Some fund· hinder raisers 47 One side in 
17 'Privilege 
Mideast talks 19 ·No matter 
50 Peak for Zeus, 21 Milch: German 
in Homer ::_:Italian 54 *Stumbled upon 57 •As it's widely 
22 Common seal 
believed 25 Virgil described 
60 Morales of 

its "roar oi "NYPD Blue• 
frightful ruin~ 
61 Stocking caps, 28 New Deal org. e.g. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

62 Rock's Motley 
63 24·Down replacement 64Ammonium particles, e.g. 65 Gets ready. with 
66 Rick with the 1976 #1 hit "Disco Duck" 
Down 
Modern letters 2 Scales seen at 
night 3 Ready 4 Age range for 
most first-year college students 5 TV host Kelly 6 One-hit wonder? 7 Range rovers 8 Hot 9 Much, slangily 10 News inits. 11 John 12 Cause of some skin bums 15 Conspirator against Caesar 18 Backpack fill 20Really irk 23"Vive_!" 
24 Coin with a laurel branch on the back 
26 Modem: Ger. 27 Son of Prince Valiant 30 Kennedy's secretary of state 31 Individual and team event at the Olympics 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puule by Dan Naddor 
32 Imaging lab 44 Unlikely Oscar 53 Informal bye output nominees 
55 Object under a 
33 Actor Feldman magnifying
45 Without a break 34 Here, to Javier glass, maybe 
48 Sales slips: 35 Tournament Abbr. 56 Some whiskeys 
favorite 49 New York 
57 Make tracks? 
37 Suffix with sex 
hockey player 
58 Formula_
38Had 51 Put out (Italian auto39 Juan's words of racing)
affection 52 "The Wreck of 43 Informal byes the Mary .. 59 A.T.M. need 
For answers, call 1·900·285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1·800·814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available lor the bast of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888·7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, m visit nytimes.comtmobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.comtcrosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.comlwordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com!learning/)(INords. 

HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TUIS OAY: Micbelk Wi!limm. 29: Heury ·n,omas. 38; AdJtm Sandkr. 4.': Huf'.h Gmnt, 49 
llni•PY llirtJ,day: If yo•• at<: uuwill:int to "~'lk<· a kw "'*:"""ms or "'""rifi~es. y(~l w•ll lose om. ·nus •• a time to expenen~e. t.,;periment ~11d e~i;;< y<~•r will to make lhirJ¥> h.1ppe11. regardl~s of the obstacles you lace. Your wlll and det<'nnmation Will bnnl( you su<Xess ~~~~~ fl\."edom 111 thdut.ure. Your number'> an.• 9, II. 16. IS,24..l6 . .l9 
ARI.Wi !March 21-April 19): hn:mce' will be an i'>11< tlmlmnst be dealt with qmddy ;WI dllck11fiy Wht~hcr it'~ )'<ltlr '""'"'' t<l buy a hi!(!• ticket il<'lll or lo 1•1y off <lchts t!~'lt are causing you stress, a good place l<l ~tart 1s wi1l1 a stru:tbud.!!et *** 
TAURUS tApril2ll·:\lay 20): l.lon'llel %)llleO!IC who ti<xSJl'l h..1ve your best interest' at heart inl1uenre you. A pr..>blem with a friend, lover or child iu your life will escalate if }'Oit make dw WI'Oill;l choices. Focus"'' l;lCIIinflahead. *** 
GEMU..'T (May 21-J\me 20): Take a \Wil~and .eealtlftltle. If you milk<' premalltre ch.~nges, you will have regrets. Pm your time ~ntl effort illfo y<~•rpersonal ami family life. !'lease Ill~ 011es you love. *** 
CANCER t;lune lt-July 22): Take a look ~rotm<l ym• and decide whnt you cmo do to 
make your hotll<! lile better. A space for cntt.'l'lailring Of mcctin~ "~rb colleagues will hell' 
hroaden some of your ,,trrenl relaliomJiips. **** 
t.J<:O (July 23-Aug.:U~: Srrif<., l"ck ii son>e<lt>e;. pllll.IUI;ll"'~s;;ure on you to do things 
~''II don't kd gotl<l al~JUi doi11g. Y<ltl have to li"e widoin your 1r.:an~ it y<JI! \\·ant'" !Cd comfortable aooul your fnlnre. Au emotional issue is likely lo <limopt ymor work S1ar crum.** 
VlRGO I Aug. 2.\-!Wpt. 22): Keep ymor ey.::s and ears open aud ym1 will di!«.'Over unpor­
tantmfonnation to belp yon make a dedsion ahout your work situation. A long-distan.:e 
fl<ll'tl.oet>lnp (atl hring Y<'ll 1!-reakr rtt<)![niti<JI~ Get tlue !act• Y<>lt ,..._..,<l ***** 
UllRA tSt!pt. 2.\.0d.:U): C"'t wbato~<>:d.< to be tnk.:n care of md of tl>e way aud you will avoid being cn!lctze.:l. Budget wisely. Romant·c can be yours if Y'lll )!et iu\'olwd with a ~rt>up ihal hlierests :l'OU. *** 
SCORPIO IOd.lJ·l'lov.lt): Y<lursuspid<liiS 11a11u-.: w.ll k'ld u> (jll<:Sitmlollf th¢ IW<lpl<: 
you haw 1<> <leal with about man•.,-• that <'<ltl(.'t'lll Y<~lr t:H.-n;on~ll!k, hwm: and family. 
TI.erc iJ; 110 pniut iu IIID\'in~ forwanl with auyouc you don' fed compktdy comfo11able 
with.*** 

SAGfiTARJl!S iNov. 22-0..C. 21): Ifyou doo'r mean iulou't say it. You1l be requested !o li>ll<)W thl<>ll![b •u4. if you <l<lll't <kliwr, y<lltr ret»ll:tti<>n wdl he d:tma~d. Altcr:rtion~ at h<»tuewill be euMi<l¥~tlty l<IUjth t<l<kal \\•ith it yoto don't a.·t calmly m!d quickly.*** 
f'APRICORN (J:k-e.ll·,Jan. 19): Ym1 will gel your way if you put a lillle !'''''"""'on a 
~ituatk~t iJI,·olving a contract .J>aymeuls or changes to your home or property You mustn't 
let Stllllt"'lle you love ~et away witb something or disrupt y<l<ll' p!alli. ***** 
AQUARIVS tJ~>Il. 20-F.,h. J8J: Yot!1l haw Itt do \'lliiT txCSl ;uoo:ltrY Wlllf b;mlc.t. S<lll"'· <111<: will \'llmplalll if Y<>tl ""' t<JIJ C>ll<:JC.inllillllr yon <locide IIU1 t<J mm.iram tl>e lyp¢ of ~Oil. ucclion you haw shal\.'<l in. the past. l'mlect your ~>OS~%mus an<l yotll' cash ** 
PISCES !Feb. 19·1\Iarcb 20!: U>O!, man old pat111erslup ftt•n a new augle_ \\>1-.at might 
not haw worked in the pa>tllla)' W'<ld: now with a couple of altemti<llts. Disctl" the (>OAAi 
hilili<" and ymt sh<11tld he able to re,miCIUt<: :111 old pmjcet ro it W<lfks f<v ""Cf)'OIIC. 
**** 

8h'thda~' Baby: You !:~.we strength ami roumg~ an<l wtll m.'lkc a dtfkretwe to a cause you 
beh<<Ve in. Ym1 are !ill(,rest<Xl inleanling and applying what you know. 
f)<gl'llin'' IVl'b .<i/e_<: •·ugMin/asuom for mnfolmtiill rmuultariom, 
my<J'(Ir't'.t»mil'II,Sl'l!itllli.Vftw Dl!lt'llltt'! hl<>g, tr.slrYm<l••IN'""" fm}llll 
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK

SCHAD & FREUDE 

T.I.N.D. 
A Song to the Tune of an Pirate Jig 
We •tudy and we work then we go to the Feve where the two hot chicks drink for free we'll qo to mass then back to class. 
Notre Pame Irish we! 
With a A· A Lay 
and a euu euuia 
we pray, beg and we plee, to God to forgive, the things we did. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
We're all Pro-LifE' and are gunna have a wife In thE' next tw<:> Yfl'af§ <:>r three. aut were think were the best. up to you to test the Pope and his army 
and if you san to our bubble you best hear this decree "Do wiult Jesus would, cuz Obama'$ no good!. 
Notre Dilme Irish Wet 
DAN POHLMAN 
with a Hail Mary, and a do dl du·i Ia( Vote for the Grand ·Old· Partyyyy We'll cheer full of prid..,, Fighting Irish you and I 
Notre Dame Irish We! 


Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip_______ 
JUMBLE 
~~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form lour ordinary words. 
CANET 
j
I (I I I 

( J I I 
ISWUNIE t 
I ( J J 

A: HErr r JA ~~rx rrxx J" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's  j Jumbles:  RHYME  CAMEO  CANYON  FORCED  
Answer:  What she hoped lo develop with the  
trainer  -A ROMANCE  

JEFF KNUREK MIKEARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

WHY THE BANKEr< DIDN'T HAVE MANY FRIENDS 
Now arran~ the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, September 10, 2009 
page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Hughes to take over for injured Aldridge at fullback 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Editor 

A shoulder injury that will hold senior fullback James Aldridge out of Saturday's game is just another shuffle of the deck that is the Irish back­field. 
Junior Robert Hughes, who entered fall camp as the back­up tailback behind Armando Allen but was then passed by sophomore Jonas Gray, will start at fullback against Michigan. That seemingly makes freshman Theo Riddick the No. 3 halfback behind Allen and Gray. 
Got it? Good. 
Despite all the depth chart movement, the Irish backfield still appears to be a position of strength on an offense full of weapons. Part of that is Allen's constant presence at the top of the list, though the depth behind him -while ever-changing -is another major advantage Irish coach Charlie Weis has noted. 
Even during the Brady Quinn era, the Irish run attack was fairly one-dimensional, with only Darius Walker a major threat. 
"Now we got extra guys," Weis said, comparing this tal­ented backfield to the shallow pool of backs he inherited in his first year. "When you see the next guy come in, Armando goes out and Jonas goes in, you don't see a big drop-off in performance, and that's the difference. 

"If you have one guy and you keep on feeding him, you bet­ter get production out of him, or else you're going to have a long, hard day." 
There isn't much doubt that if Notre Dame were to have a clear-cut feature back with no timeshare, Allen would be that 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
In the Homeland 
Summer trip to Ireland inspires golfers for 2009 
By NATHANIEL LEE 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame will kick off its season this weekend at the Mary Fossum Invitational with a little extra Irish spirit. That's because the team took a preseason trip to the Emerald Isle to play five of the country's historic golf courses. 
"When I arrived here three years ago as the head coach, taking the team to Ireland was something I discussed during my interview and real­ly wanted to make happen," Irish coach Susan Holt said. 
After a long day of travel, in which sophomore standout Becca Huffer was nearly lost 
see IRELAND/page 22 guy. But the talent behind him gives Notre Dame the luxury to split carries -something it seemed Gray was aware of when he decided to join the Irish. 


"One thing about recruiting, sometimes in recruiting play­ers look at depth charts," Weis said. "And when they look at depth charts and see how quick can I play but then there 
see DEPTH/page 20 
SMC GoLF 
Latecoliler has impact on Belles 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports Writer 
If you looked at the Belles' statistics from last fall in comparison with the stats from this season, you'd notice not only new fresh­men on the roster, but a new upperclassman as well. 

Junior Mary Kate Boyce started on the team in the second semester of her sophomore year, and has since been showing not only the Belles, but also the MIAA the talent they had been missing out on. Since joining the Saint Mary's team, Boyce has been tear­ing up the course with her 
see BELLES/page 21 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Dike back for fifth year 
By LAURA MYERS Sports Writer 
Bright Dike just couldn't get enough of Notre Dame soccer. And the Irish will take all they can get of him as well. 
"Hopefully we'll get a lot out of him this year," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "He improves every season he's been here and hopefully he continues to do that." 
Dike (pronounced DEE-KAY) was unable to play in 2007, his junior year, for personal reasons. Because of that absence, he remained eligible and was able to come back as a fifth-year senior for this season. 
"I was always going to come back." Dike said. "That feel­ing of not getting a champi­onship yet, you've got to come back. I enjoy being a part of this team." 
see DIKE/page 22 


MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish look to Havens, Watt to replace seniors 
By CHRIS MASOUD Sports Writer 
The Irish are hoping for sig­nificant contributions from a talented cast of incoming fresh­men, but the returning players kno.w they can count on the tried-and-tested nucleus of upperclassmen to lead the way to the NCAA Championships. 
This year's squad features 11 returning juniors and seniors, an element that last year's team missed sorely down the stretch. 
"We have a new group of leaders, but it'll be more of them this year which will be nice because we've had a young squad the last two years," jun­ior captain Tyler Davis said. "This is a year we think we can do some things." 
Because of the departure of ITA All-American Sheeva Parbhu and Big East all-tourna­ment player Brett Helgeson, the Irish have significant holes to fill before the start of the sea­son. The No. 1 singles spot, held by Helgeson for the past two seasons, will likely be a ques­tion mark until the start of tournament play. 
But the Irish are confident that the team's leadership and experience will have a positive impact leading into postseason play. 
"Casey Watt was pretty much unbeatable last year, he's pretty much a leader just by how he plays on the court," junior Stephen Havens said. 
Watt, a sophomore, posted a 28-5 overall record last season as a freshman, going 8-2 in No. 3 singles play. Havens, who contributed 10 wins in No. 2 singles, is the leading candidate to take over the No. 1 singles 
see SINGLES/page 22 






