
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 43: ISSUE 81 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009 . 
ND Olympics results released 
Keough, Welsh Family team wins by 1,000 points, while event raises over $4,500 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Keough Hall and Welsh Family Hall defended their title as champions of RecSports' Late Night Olympics on Saturday, an event which raised just over $4,500 for St. Joseph's County Special Olympics, according to John Beven, Facilities and Student Development Intern for RecSports. 
Beven said that the $4,599.62 raised does not include the donations made at the door and T-shirt sales, so the amount raised will likely increase once that money is added. 
Beven said that the highlight of the night was when "the 
Special Olympians trounced the Athletic Department and Rectors in the basketball game." 
"Fr. Pete McCormick; [rector] of Keough Hall, was the one bright spot of Notre Dame's bas­ketball team, but turnovers, poor teamwork, and tempers did their team in," Beven said. 

McCormick said that his favorite part of the night was "playing against the Olympians and seeing ... the excitement· and energy they had during the game." 
"You could just<Jell that they were so excited to be there playing the game and the stu­dent body was so supportive of 
see OLYMIPICS/page 4 




Groups react to abortion-funds ban-reversal 
Right to Life Club, Feminist Club presidents disagree on Obama's decision to lift ban 
U.S. would begin funding abor­tions. · 
"When I first heard that Obama overturned the policy, I thought it meant we would start giving money to fund abortions. Really, though, it's more that ... organizations that receive government funding 'are no longer banned from promoting and providing abor­tions," she said. "There's no movement of money. just a ban lifted." · 
With this act, Obama is fail­ing to live up to his campaign promises, Daly said. 
see BAN /page 3 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Professor defends pope on disputed bishop issue 
By ROBERT SINGER News Writer 
Pope Benedict XVI's recent de.ci­sion to lift an excommunication order on four radical bishops, one of whom denied the Holocaust, has focused worldwide criticism on the Vatican. 
But Lawrence Cunningham, profes­sor of Theology, 
supported ·the pope's decision, helping to clarify the reasons for the action amid criti­cism from Jewish groups and liberal Catholics. 
"The pope's 


desire to reconcile C I h these people was unn ng am good but it was handled very badly from a public relations stand point," he said~ According to Cunningham, the four men reinstated by the pope were part of a rogue sect -the Society of St. Pius X -that had been operating without the .church's permission. Radically traditional in their views, members of this group reject reli­gious liberty and have supported authoritarian political rulers in the past, such as General Franco in Spain and Augusto Pinochet in Chile, he said. "The Vatican is in a tough situa­tion," Cunningham said. "They want these people back under the authori­ty of the church. becayse they don't 
see POPE/page 3 


SMC Human Rights­panel discusses peace 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 
Three panelists told first hand sto­ries of armed conflict in the Philippines. helping Chilean psychi­atric patients, and working with refugees in Pennsylvania during a discussion on human rights Tuesday evening at Saint Mary's. 
The College's Justice Education Department hosted the panel, titled "Speak Truth to Power: Voices for Peace and Human Rights." 
The panelists. who spoke about their experiences with human rights, included Mayla Leguro, a Nobel Peace Prize nominee, Andrew Masak, a senior at Notre Dame who has experience with refugee rights and immigration issues, and Laura Snider, a Notre Dame graduate stu­dent who worked in Sri Lanka as well as Chile. 
Leguro spoke of her experiences in the Philippines. She comes from the island of Mindanao, and discussed the problems related to human rights found there. including conflict between various groups. 
"In the island of Mindanao we have four key armed groups that are wag­ing their own wars. The other armed groups are actually engaged in a war of power, " Leguro said. 
According to Leguro, there has been "armed conflict" in the Philippines since the 1970s. "The sit­uation in Mindanao is not ... unique in terms of armed conflict. 91 per-
see PEACE/ page 3 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
COR discusses new Web site focused on of~-campus life 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
The Council of Representatives (COR) dis­cussed the new off-campus Web site in their meeting on Tuesday evening. 
After a recommendation made by the Campus Life Council (CLC) last year, a spe-. cific committee was assigned the task of creating a Web site focused on off-campus life. 
Members of the committee who had worked on the devel­opment of the Web site were on hand to present their plans 
see CORpage 4 By TESS CIVANTOS 



News Writer 
In one of his first ar.ts as president, Barack Obama signed an executive order on Jan. 23 that put a stop to the so-called Mexico City policy. 
The overturned policy pro­hibited U.S. government fund­ing from going to clinics or groups that provide abortion­related services or that lobby for abortion in other countries. 
Mary Daly, president of Notre Dame's Right to Life Club, said, she originally thought the poli­cy's end would mean that the 
Wednesday, February 4, 2009
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Mt. Rushmore 
As is their nature, ESPN recently asked another meaningless and com­pletely subjective question of its audi­ence: Who belongs on the Mt. Hushmure of Sports? And, as is my nature, I had to come up with my own idea of who belongs on the Mt. Rushmore of Sports, and discuss (or argue) with anyone who is willing (or even unwilling) to listen. By no means do I consider my opinion to be infalli­
ble, but I do think  
that my knowledgeof sports is suffi- Eric Prister  
cient to at least  
allow myself an opinion. I have  Sports Writer  
talked to multiple  
people about my  

own opinion and have heard the opin-· ions of many others. I have heard responses that vary from Jackie Robinson to Arnaz Battle to Barry Bonds. Robinson, because of the impact he had on baseball, and on sports itself. Battle, because he is my cousin's favorite player, and what bet­ter criteria for one's mvn personal Mt. Rushmore of Sports than the athletes you like best? And Bonds, because if one goes purely by stats alone, then no one has dominated the game as our favorite steroid-ridden home run king. 
For me, though, one deserves to be on the Mt. Hushmore of Sports ifhe (or she) transcends his sport. He must have not only been an athlete, if not the greatest of all time, but must also have meant more to the image of his sport than any other. Therefore, I have cho­sen four athletes who I think are most deserving of the honor: Michael Jordan, Tiger Woods, Muhammad Ali and Babe Ruth. 
In my opinion, Jordan is the most deserving of the honor. Not only is the unquestioned greatest basketball play­er of all time, but he also did more for the sport than it ever could have done for him. One only needs to look at the state of the NBA post-Jordan to see what I mean. Jordan is the greatest basketball player of all time, and may even be the greatest athlete of all time. He clearly deserves a spot on _this great sports monument. 
The next most obvious for me is Woods. I have heard people argue that even though he is the most dominant golfer ever, it is still just golf. One friend said that Mt. Rushmore is for presi­dents, and Woods is simply the greatest ever Secretary of the Interior. He is great for his game, but his game just doesn't have the prestige of the other, more mainstream sports. I however, think that golf is commonly considered a mainstream sport, and that Woods is so dominant that he deserves his face immortalized. 
For me, then, Ali and Ruth go in the same category. Both dominated their sport in their own time, and became the image for it as well. Although nei­ther has statistics that prove their greatness, at least not when compared to others, they truly transcended their respective sport. Thus, they deserve a spot on Mt. Rushmore. 
These four athletes would be my choices for the Mt. Rushmore of Sports. Feel free to disagree, however. 
Remember, it's just a meaningless and subjective argument. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe ObserrJer. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd. edu. 

CORRECTIONS 
The Obsetver regards itselfas a professional publication and suives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recogni7.e rhar we will make mis­takes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please comacr us at 631-454 1so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE'DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE PICKUP LINE? 







Bobby Graham  Chris Adcock  Kerry Casey  Maggie Slavin  Griffin Ashkin  Don Whitley  
Freshman  Junior  Freshman  Freshman  Junior  Junior  
Stanford  Stanford  Howard  McCandless  Stanford  Stanford  
"Are you a  "Fmfrom  "Check your tag  "Hi, you'[[ do. ,  "Parietals end  "Ifyou were a  
ninja? Because  Texas. ,,  ... just what I  in ten minutes. ,,  yogurt, would  

your body is thought. Made kickin '!" in heaven. , 
Officials catch traveler with pigeons in pants 
SYDNEY -An Australian traveler was caught with two live pigeons stuffed in his pants following a trip to the Middle East, customs officials 
. said Tuesday. The 23-year-old man was searched after authorities discovered two eggs in a vitamin container in his luggage, said Richard Janeczko, national investiga­tions manager for the Customs Service 
They found the pigeons wrapped in padded envelopes and held to each of the man's legs with a pair of tights, according to a statement released by the agency. 

Officials also seized seeds in his money belt and an unde­clared eggplant. 
Man celebrates birthday with 24-hour treadmill run 
BROOKLYN CENTER, Minn. -A Twin Cities man was looking for a chal­lenge, so he decided to cel­ebrate his 30th birthday by running on a tr~admill for 24 hours straight. B.J. Van Beusekom covered about 80 miles before he stopped running at noon Tuesday. He promptly went to the nearest chair and rested his obviously stiff legs. 
The 6-foot, 175-pound Van Beusekom took breaks 
only to use the restroom and change clothes. 
He accomplished his feat at Athletic Performance Inc., a training center in Brooklyn Center. To keep him motivated, API provid­ed a dance with a disc jockey, a slumber p~rty and a big screen television. 
For the rest of his birth­day, Van Beusekom says he just wants a nap and a massage. 
Van Beusekom 's effort also raised just over $3,000 for the American Lung Association. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
I 
• 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0:: 
LLI 
l: 
=c 
LLI 
3: 
.... 
c:t 
(.) 


...I 0 HIGH 19 HIGH 13 HIGH 30 HIGH 41 LOW 0 LOW 0 LOW 19 LOW 33 

ALLISON AMBROSE!fhe Observer 

A student uses one of the many recycling bins on campus to dispose of her waste. A new recycling program, Miraculous Metals, focuses on recycling aluminum cans and proceeds go to the poor. 

OFFBEAT 
you be fruit at the bottom or stirred?'' 


IN BRIEF 
At 5:30 p.m. today in the Hammes Student Lounge of the Coleman-Morse Center, pan­elists from Wabruda, Shades of Ebony, Sister of Nefertiti and the University Counseling Center will discuss the impact of the inau­guration of the nation's first black president. 
Keenan Hall's annual comedy show "The Keenan Revue" will take place Thursday. Friday and Saturday at 7p.m. in the o•taughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College. 
The Baseball Eighth Annual Opening Night Dinner will be at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Mike Sciascia of the IA Angels and Notre Dame alum Jeff Samardzija will speak. Notre Dame team members, who will be seated at tables with the rest of the attendees, will be available for autographs prior to the din­ner, from 6 -6:45 p.m. For din­ner ticket information, please contact the Notre Dame athletics ticket office at (574) 631-7356 
L.A. Theatre Works presents "The Great Tennessee Monkey Trial" Saturday at 7 p.m. in the Decio Mainstage Theatre of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The play is based on orig­inal transcripts of the famous 1925 Tennessee v. John Scopes "Monkey Trial," which chal­lenged the newly passed Tennessee legislature's "Butler Act" banning the teaching of evo­lution in the state's public schools. Purchase tickets online, visit or call the Ticket Office at 574-631-2800. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 
0.
,,,,,,,
,,,,,,,
,,,,,,, 

Atlanta 36 I 18 Boston 29 I 11 Chicago 18 I 7 Denver 63 I 39 Houston 62 I 38 Los Angeles 76 I 50 Minneapolis 17 I 9 New York 30 /13 Philadelphia 30 I 15 Phoenix 83 I 52 Seattle 57 I 42 St. Louis 28 I 13 Tampa 56/ 31 Washington 31 I 19 

Wednesday, February 4, 2009 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Panel to discuss electric power 
Special to The Observer 
A panel of energy industry experts will discuss the future of electric power and energy Feb. 25 {Wednesday) from 3 to 5 p.m. in the Center for Continuing Education at the University of Notre Dame. 
The discussion, which will be led by moderator Joan F. Brennecke, Keating-Crawford Professor of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering and director of the Notre Dame Energy Center, is free and open to the public. 
The forum is part of the University's yearlong emphasis on global energy, which was introduced during the 2008 Notre Dame Forum on Sustainable Energy. 
Sponsored by the Energy Center and the College of Engineering and coordinated by Frank P. Incropera, the Clifford and Evelyn Brosey Professor of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering and Engineering Dean Emeritus, the panel features four experts in the field: 
+ Anthony Earley Jr., chair­man and chief executive offi­cer of DTE Energy, which includes Detroit Edison, an electric utility serving more than 2.2 million customers, and Michigan Consolidated Gas, a gas utility serving 1.3 
Pope 
continued from page 1 
want this schismatic group spreading." 
Since excommunication does not deny clergy the capacity to perform sacra­ments -it only withholds the church's consent -the Vatican was concerned these four bishops would contin­ue to ordain other bishops outside of the 
million customers; he earned three degrees -a bachelor's in physics, a master's in engi­neering, and law -from Notre Dame; serves on the University's advisory council for the College of Engineering; and received an honorary degree from Notre Dame in 2006; 
+ 
Patrick Eilers, managing director of Madison Dearborn Partners, responsible for the firm's energy and power prac­tice, focused on the acquisition and management of compa­nies in this sector; he earned a bachelor's degree from Notre Dame; serves on the advisory council for the College of Engineering; was a member of the 1988 Irish national cham­pionship football team; 

+ 
William Hederman, spe­cial advisor to the U.S. Congress and previously exec­utive director of Morgan, 


Lewis &  Bockius; founding  
director  of  the  Office  of  
Market  Oversight  and  

Investigations at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; and vice presi­dent of strategic initiatives at Columbia Energy Group; and 
+ Michael O'Sullivan, senior vice president of development at FPL Energy, a world leader in the production of clean energy, including wind and solar power. 
Cunni'ngham explained the pope's role in decision-mak­ing. 
"(Pope Renedict XVII is one of the greatest theologians ever to become pope, but he is very traditional. 
"It's not of the job to be lib­eral," he said. "It's the job of the pope to keep unity." 
Concerns have also been raised that the pope's deci­sion will drive people away from the church, especially moderates and those close to the Jewish communi­ty. However, Cunningham dis­

Catholic 7Pope Benedict XVI] is agrees. Church's "Something
one ofthe greatest 

u n i t y . like this is so
theologians ever to

Restoring arcane and so them to the become pope, but he is local, and this church would very traditonal. , group is relative­
prevent ly• small, that it's schisms from not going to have 
Lawrence Cunningham 

developing much of an influ­along tradi­theology professor ence," he said. 
tionalist lines, according to Cunningham. 
"The pope's motivation was to get these people back under papal authority, so they're not con­secrating more bishops out­side the authority of the church," he said. 
Some critics have highlight­ed the decision as an exam­ple of the pope's conservative leanings, arguing that he would not be so willing to reconcile with fringe reli­gious groups on the left. But Cunningham denied that point and also noted that the pope's next encyclical will be about social justice. 
"The difference is that these liberal groups don't have bishops who are ordain­ing other bishops," he said. "In some ways, he does reach out to liberals." 
Cunningham 
said that the 
Vatican had been 
planning to take action to prevent schisms for some time. 
"I guess he wanted to get this done and maybe hadn't fully realized how much of a clamor it was going to cause," he said. "He'll proba­bly make some kind of amends about it." 
According to Cunningham, the pope_ must be careful about the image of the Catholic Church he projects to the rest of the world. 
"He has to think not only think of his position in the church," Cunningham said. "He has to think of himself as a symbol to the larger world." 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 
Ban 
continued from page 1 
"Whenever the topic of abor­tion came up on the campaign trail, Obama said he would enact policies to reduce the number of abortions," Daly said. 
"In his first week, though, he has already allowed feder­al money to fund abortions [in other countries]. There's no way that overturning this ban fulfills that assertion," she said. 
Mandy Lewis, co-president of Feminist Voice, said her group has no policy on abor­tion, but offered her own opinion. 
"Feminist Voice does not take an official stance on abortion, but personally, I 
COR 
continued from page 1 
and answer questions that the council had about the new Web site. 
The Web site is designed to allow students to find useful information about places and events off campus in one loca­tion, rather than having to visit several Web sites. 
CLC and the Office of Student Affairs are sponsor­ing the Web site that is tenta­tively set to launch in early March. 
The project was developed in part from the Good Neighbor Guide, the current booklet given to students that reside off campus. Instead of 
reprinting copies of the guidt~ from year to year, the Web site would Gnntain virtually all the information listed in the guide. 
Along with this information, the Web site will also incorpo­rate various other aspects of off-campus life. 
Information from the pres­entation given last Wednesday by attorney C.L. Lindsay about students' rights off campus will also be included. 
Members of COR suggested that an additional tab called "Entertainment" that lists bars, pubs, clubs and other 
Peace 
continued from page 1 
cent of the 81 provinces in the 
Philippines have been affected 
by armed conflict," Leguro 
said. 
Leguro continues to work 
with the community in 
Mindanao to help them create 
a world of peace. 
"Everyone has a value and a 
contribution to the peace 
process," she said. "Even 
those who have guns." 
"Envision the possibilities for 
peace. This is the kind of chal­
lengp. that we always issued 
the youth. You have the space 
to envision change," Leguro 
said to those in attendance. 
Like Leguro, Masak, a Peace Studies major at Notre Dame, also works for peace. After graduation, Masak plans to work in Peru and start a nutri­tion campaign. 
''I'm also going to be build­ing a Women's Association building. There's already an ·association that's actively involved. There are about 40 young women, in the village of 

nightlife venues in the 
Michiana area be added to 
the site. 
Members also proposed a tab with links to shopping around the Michiana area. The shopping would include directions to Wal-Mart, Target and other places relevant to students. 
In addition, information regarding safety off campus will also be available. This will include a link to a crime prevention officer from the South Bend Police Department. 
Students will be able to e­mail the officer and ask to place their name on a listserv that will alert subscribers if a crime happens in their area. 
A listing of local cab num­bers was also recommended. 
Although the Web site was designed with the purpose of helping students off campus, members of COR felt that it would also benefit students who reside on campus as well. 
"I think that the Web site would be useful for people before they move off campus. Also, there are many people on campus who go off campus who could also use the site," junior class president Kim Kyrouac said. 
Since the Web site is also in part a conjunction with the Office of Residence Life and 
1000 and the valleys of 9000, who are involved in making political decisions," he said. 
"We are going to hope to build a structure that they can actually meet in, that they can have an office in," Masak said. 
Masak became involved in Peace Studies after working with Catholic Charities. He participated in a summer pro­gram where he worked with refugee placement in Allentown, Pa. 
"(When] I gGt there, and I was told I was going to be working with refugees and the immigrant population," he said. 
Masak is the president of an undergraduate peace confer­ence at Notre Dame that will be held April 3 and 4. 
Snider is currently studying at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at Notre Dame. 
At age 10, her mother brought her to Guatemala and El Salvador for three months. Snider said that after noticing how small the children there were, she asked her mother why she was so much bigger than those children. When her 
"Economically speaking, this is a huge problem because right now we don't have any money to spend anywhere," Daly said. 
President Reagan first enacted the Mexico City poli­cy, so named because it was unveiled at a United Nations conference in the Mexican capital city, in 1984. 
The policy has historically been instated by Republican presidents and rescinded by Democrat presidents. President George H. W. Bush kept it in place. President Bill Clinton rescinded the rule in 1993, and President George 
W. Bush reinstated it in 2001. 
Critics refer to the policy as the "global gag rule" because they consider its restrictions a violation of free speech. 
Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 
don't think it's fair to cut off aid because of the abortion issue," she said. 
Lewis supports Obama's decision to lift the ban. 
"I think abortions should be reduced. I don't see a problem with Obama's decision," she said. 
Lewis also wrote in an e­mail: "Research suggests that actively addressing social problems ... is more likely to result in fewer abortions than just banning funding to groups that, among other services, provide access to abortions. Obama seems to understand that concept, and we support our president as he tries to tackle the serious social problems that face him." 
While Obama's act may be an effort to solve social issues, his decision hurts the American economy, Daly said. 
Housing, it will include a list 
of rules that apply to off-cam­
pus students as well as 
important rules from du Lac. 
One recommendation by COR members that will not be included in the Web was a classifieds section. The com­mittee who put the Web site together felt that certain pri­vacy issues could arise if stu­dents were placing ads for potential roommates. 
While the ND Media Group was behind the initial con­struction of the Web site, Student Government mem­bers will be responsible for its upkeep. 
In other COR news: 
+ 
COR voted unanimously to approve the seven individu­als elected to the Election Committee of Judicial Council. The Election Committee deals with election violations such as campaign­ing before turning in petitions or tearing down of campaign signs. 

+ 
Grant Schmidt, student body vice president, announced that the off-cam­pus discount booklets are now on sale both in the LaFortune Box Office and online. These booklets will be good through December 2009. 


Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 
mother explained that the ranchers were exporting all the meat, Snider made the decision to stop eating meat. 
"If they can't eat meat than I won't either. And I haven't touched red meat since," Snider said. 
Snider began her career by working in Sri Lanka with women whose children were taken by the government. 
"This was my first experi­ence with trauma. All of them had known for 20 plus years that their children probably weren't coming back to them. These women had never been able to get any sense of clo­sure," Snider said. 
After working there for some time, Snider moved to Chile where she worked with psy­chiatric patients who were used as human test subjects. Later she found herself work­ing with children in New Mexico. 
Snider said she is now trying to set up a volunteer program that works with human rights locally. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO1@saintmarys.edu 
Wednesday, February 4, 2009

page 4 The Observer + NEWS 
Olympics 
continued from page 1 
great moment to see." 
Another memorable moment of the night was when "former Irish basket­ball standout Harold Swanagan was thrown out of the game after doing his best 
Bob Knight ..The Notre Dame On top of that, 
Egyptian mediators. 

impression the team that 
At the same time, foreign
students came 

ministers of pro-U.S. Arab
when he threw won Penny
together for a great 
Wars received 

nations, including Saudi Arabia, 
a chair onto the 
court after a cause and really an additional 
met in the United Arab 
Emirates in a show of unity in
call did not go showed their 150 bonus 
support for Egypt's efforts to
his way," Beven points, Beven
support . ., 
said. 

forge a long-term truce and
said. 
against Iran, Hamas' most
"It was cer­"The penny 
important ally.

tainly in jest John Beven, war is a big 
and the crowd part of scoring. 
Egypt is trying to mediate a
Facilities and Student 
Every year 

durable cease-fire in place of
got a big kick Developmental Intern for 
the temporary and increasingly
out of it," said we've really 
McCormick. RecSports come through 
wobbly truce that ended the 
K e o u g h ­Welsh Family had a total of 2,445.62 points, leading the next best team, Duncan­O'Neill-McGlinn, by over one thousand points. The Keenan­Alumni-Lewis team came in third place, Beven said. 
Senior Rusty Podbelski, who organized Keough's Late Night Olympics team, said that a high demand ior spots on the teams and high partic­ipation in Penny Wars were two key reasons for success. 
"We've kind of had a history of doing well in this event. It's something that people around the dorm really look forward to," Podbeski said. 
with a mind 
boggling num­ber of coins and I think this year that happened again," Podbeski said, who said that for a week prior to Late Night Olympics jars were put out­side of Resident Assistants' doors for people to donate money. 
"Overall, it was a great night. The Notre Dame stu­dents came together for a great cause and really showed their support for the St. Joseph County Special Olympics," Beven said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at 
smervosh@nd.edu 

Gaza war last month. It has set a Thursday deadline for the Islamic militant rulers of Gaza to accept a deal. 
But the complicated details of an accord appeared unresolved with border security arrange­ments a key obstacle. 
"There is an agreement in principle about a calm for one year," said Ahmed Abdel-Hadi, a Lebanon-based Hamas offi­cial. "But the movement could show flexibility regarding the time ... if there are guarantees and commitments to lift the sanctions and open the bor­ders," he told Gaza's Al Quds Radio, signaling the possibility of extending the truce beyond one year. 
Fawzi Barhoum, a Hamas 
spokesman in Gaza, said the 
Palestinian group is open to 
extending the cease-fire for 18
Mother of octuplets 
months. 

Abdel-Hadi said Hamas rejects a gradual opening of the border crossings or linking a
not receiving donations 
truce deal to a release of Israeli 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Where is the unlimited supply of diapers, formula and baby wipes? The free van? The brand-new house? 
Women who give birth to six, seven or eight babies are often showered with dazzling gifts from big corporations, local businesses and strangers. But that is not happening with the Southern California mother who delivered octuplets last week. 
The news that she is a single mother with six other children -and that all 14 were con­ceived by having embryos implanted-seems to have turned off many people, and companies are not exactly rush­ing to get publicity by piling on the freebies. 
Nadya Suleman, 33, has been lambasted by talk-show hosts, fertility experts, even her own mother, who has her hands full taking care of Suleman's other children. ages 2 to 7. 
A veteran Hollywood publicist said Suleman's handlers have their work cut out for them in trying to win public sympathy for her. 
"I think it's a calamity," said publicist David Brokaw, who has handled crises for celebri­ties. "I don't see, the way this is shaped, how you can say much about it in terms of something favorable." 
Makers of diapers, formula and other products would prob­ably want to steer clear of her, Brokaw said. He suggested she lie low for now and concentrate on crafting an image as a responsible parent. 
Gerber spokesman David Mortazavi said that if the baby­food maker was planning to do 
"There's always a lot of demand to even get on the 

Hamas ready for truce with Israel
rosters for each sport. I think 
that really helps out because then you are able to make rosters full of people who arc talented at their sport instead of trying to fill it up with just a warm body." 
Of the dollar amount raised 
in pennies, 25 percent was added to the overall points. 
Associated Press 

CAIRO -Barnas officials said Tuesday they are ready to com­mit to a cease-fire with Israel for at least a year in exchange for a full opening of Gaza's bor­ders, as the group began a new round of truce talks with 
soldier Sgt. Gilad Schalit, held probably would have done it already, and that the octuplets' 
something for the family, it 
birth was not on Gerber's radar. He would not elaborate. 
Procter & Gamble spokes­woman Tricia Higgins said that the maker of Pampers does not actively seek out parents to sponsor, but that the octuplets' mother can ask for what is typi­cally provided in multiple births: a jumbo pack of diapers for each child, baby wipes, and coupons for discounts. That is unlikely to last ·suleman a week. 
Conservative radio talk show host Bill Handel in Los Angeles," who has branded the births "freakish," said on the air 
Tuesday that people are ready to boycott any corporations that help the octuplets or their mother. 
Suleman's spokesman Mike Furtney said that he has received some "fairly negative" comments from the public but that offers to help with the babies have come in from nurs­es. and some baby stores have stepped forward to volunteer their support. 
:1 don't remember the brand name, but one major disposable diaper company snnt some dia­pers," ho said. Furtney said he was confident that once Suleman tells her story, many of her critics will "readjust their thinking a little." 
Furtney said Suleman has had offers for TV and other media deals. but he added it was too early to discuss how much money she might receive. 
For a single mother, the cost of raising 14 children through age 17 ranges from $1.3 million to $2.7 million through age 17, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. 

by Hamas-allied militants in Gaza since June 2006. 
"We are going to deal with all the issues as one package, because we are going to avoid the trap of gradual implementa­tion," he said. 
Hamas demands that any truce include the opening of borders into Gaza, which Israel and Egypt have largely kept sealed since the group seized control of the territory from the rival Fatah faction in 2007. 
Hamas also wants a role in administering the border cross­ings in recognition of its power in Gaza. 
Israel says it won't ease the 20-month blockade of the densely populated and impover­ished coastal strip without international guarantees that Hamas will be prevented from smuggling more weapons into Gaza. It does not want any deal to give Hamas a role in control­ling Gaza border crossings. 
Hamas remains committed to Israel's destruction and refused to renounce violence. Both the 
U.S. and Israel consider it a ter­rorist group. 
Egypt is also pressing Hamas to start reconciliation talks with U.S.-backed Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas to form a unity government that can negotiate peace with Israel. Abbas, a moderate, runs a rival Palestinian government in the West Bank that has been con­ducting peace talks with Israel for more than a year. 
But past attempts to broker a power-sharing deal among the rival Palestinians factions have failed. Prospects remain dim, with Barnas increasingly entrenched since its takeover of Gaza. 
So Egypt has focused on what may be a more limited goal ­installing forces loyal to Abbas at the border crossings. Egypt's proposals would include some form of symbolic llamas pres­ence at the crossings along with European monitors. 
Barhoum said the key to any truce is that Egypt open its crossing with Gaza, but added that the details of running the crossing into Gaza are open to discussion. 
In the Gulf emirate of Abu Dhabi, foreign ministers from Egypt, Saudi Arabia and other Mideast nations gathered Tuesday for a hastily convened meeting that represented a more assertive effort by pro­
U.S. Arab governments to push llamas toward an Egyptian­mediated truce -and away from Iran. 
It made starkly clear the split in the Arab world between U.S. allies and the pro-Iranian camp, particularly Syria, which backs Barnas and the Lebanese mili­tant group Hezbollah. Syria was not invited to the meeting-nor was Qatar, which has taken an increasingly pro-Hamas turn since Israel's Gaza offensive. 
"We have to ensure with our unity that unwelcome, non­Arab parties do not interfere in our affairs in an unneeded man­ner," the United Arab Emirates' foreign minister, Sheik Abdullah bin Zayed AI Nahyan, said in a clear reference to Persian Iran. 
Egypt, Saudi Arabia and allied Arab nations accuse Iran of using its alliance with Hamas to increase its influence in the region and gain a foothold on Israel's doorstep. Iran gives mil­lions of dollars to Hamas and is believed to supply the militants with weapons -though Tehran denies this. 
Jordan, Tunisia, Morocco. Bahrain, Yemen and Abbas' Palestinian Authority also attended the meeting. 



v._our l.Ate~Nng ~at tne Eeet c:omor of the Nortf'\ Edd-1 SVoot c.onettuc.tton ane oo Angefe Stvd. 
em•U: eddyOfoundrytlvlng.com 

Wednesday, February 4, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Supplies tight for US troops abroad 
KABUL -U.S. troops in Afghanistan saw their supply lines squeezed from the north and east Tuesday after militants blew up a bridge in Pakistan and Kyrgyzstan's govern­ment said it would end American use of a key air base following Hussia's announce­ment of new aid. 
Securing efficient and safe supply routes into Afghanistan has become a top priority for U.S. oflicials as the Pentagon prepares to send in up to 30,000 more American soldiers this year. Some 75 percent of U.S. supplies travel through Pakistan, where militants have stepped up attacks on truck convoys destined for U.S. bases. 
Attackers on Tuesday blew up a bridge in northwestern Pakistan in a fresh salvo in an escalating campaign seeking to cripple Washington's war effort in Afghanistan. 
Rebels release prisoner to family 
VILLAVICENCIO, Colombia-An ex-gover­nor freed Tuesday by leftist rebels stepped from a helicopter into the embrace of the wife and son he hadn't seen for 71fz years­then said President Alvaro Uribe and the guerrillas are equally to blame for Colombia's still-festering conflict. 
Alan Jara, 51, looked fit but thin, wearing a gray canvas hat and carrying a rucksack across which a battered and blackened pot was strapped. 
The rebels handed Jara over to the International Red Cross in eastern jungles around midday. The Red Cross then flew him to the regional capital of Villavicencio, his hometown in the eastern lowlands. 
"I've rested for 71fz years," Jara told reporters at the airport. "Now it's time to get to work." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Blagojevich says he's m&mderstood 
NEW YORK -Former Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich (bluh -GOY' -uh-vich) tells David Letterman he keeps thinking he'll wake up and people will realize "this is just one big misunderstanding." 
The ousted governor showed up Tuesday for a taping of CBS' "Late Show with David Letterman." He laughed with the audience when Letterman mentioned watching him on several television talk shows. 
Letterman joked that the more Blagojevich talked and repeated his claims of innocence, the more the host said to himself, "Oh, this guy is guilty." 
Disease kills bats in northeast 
ROSENDALE, N.Y. -A mysterious and deadly bat disorder discovered just two win­ters ago in a few New York caves has now spread to at least six northeastern states, and scientists are scrambling to find solu­tions before it spreads across the country. 
White-nose syndrome poses no health threat to people, but some scientists say that if bat populations diminish too much, the insects and crop pests they eat could flourish. Researchers recently identified the fungus that creates the syndrome's distinc­tive white smudges on the noses and wings of hibernating bats, but they don't yet know how to stop the disorder from killing off caves full of the ecologically important ani­mals. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Ind. man did not kill girlfriend 
RICHMOND, Ind. -Prosecutors dropped a murder charge Tuesday against a man aceused of killing his 19-year-old girlfriend after a forensic pathologist reversed himself and said he didn't know how the woman died. 
Wayne County Prosecutor Mike Shipman said he was left with no case against James Mcfarland. 25, after Dr. Joseph Czaja signed an affidavit saying he couldn't r.onclusively state the cause of Erin Stanley's Sept. 1. 2007, death. The case drew national attPntion six days after Stanley's death when her younger sist(~r died mysteriously in thP same home. 
'Mother' of bomb network arrested 
Iraqi woman confesses to recruiting troubled women to be suicide bombers 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -A woman accused of helping recruit dozens of female suicide bombers looked into the camera and described the process: trolling society for likely candidates and then patiently converting the women from troubled souls into deadly attack­ers. 
The accounts, in a video released Tuesday by Iraq police, offer a rare glimpse into the networks used to find and train the women bombers who have become one of the insurgents' most effective weapons as they struggle under increasing crackdowns. 
In a separate prison interview with The Associated Press, with interrogators nearby, the woman said she was part of a plot in which young women were raped and then sent to her for matronly advice. She said she would try to persuade the victims to become sui­cide bombers as their only escape from the shame and to reclaim their honor. 
The AP was allowed access on eondition the 

information would not be released until the formal announcement of the But the suspect, 50-year recently, a woman detonat­top leaders of Ansar al­arrest. old Samira Ahmed Jassim ed an explosive under her Sunnah in Diyala, the last 
The U.S. and Iraqi mili­-who said her code name robes that killed at least foothold of major Sunni taries have made past was "The Mother of 36 people during a Shiite insurgent strength near claims without providing Believers" -has given religious gathering last Baghdad. The group is one much evidence about unusual firsthand descrip­month. of the factions with sus­efforts by insurgents to tions of the possible work­The attacks reflected a pected ties to al-Qaida in recruit vulnerable women ings behind last year's shift in insurgent tactics: Iraq. as well as children as spike in attacks by women trying to exploit cultural Al-Moussawi said Jassim attackers. Those included bombers. standards that restrict "confessed to recruiting 28 statements by the Iraqis The Iraqi military male security forces from female suicide bombers that two women who blew spokesman, Maj. Gen. searching women and use who carried out terrorist 
themselves up last year in Qassim al-Moussawi, said the traditional flowing operations in different Baghdad had Down's the suspect had recruited robes of women to hide areas." He gave no other Syndrome, accounts that more than 80 women will­bomb-rigged belts or vests. details on the locations or were not supported by ing to carry out attacks In response, Iraqi securi­dates of the attacks. 
subsequent investigations. and admitted mastermind­ty forces have tried to In the video played for 
It also was not possible ing 28 bombings in differ­recruit more women. In reporters, Jassim independently to verify the ent areas. last week's provincial elec­described how she was claim that insurgents sent Female suicide bombers tions, women teachers and approached by insurgents out people to rape women attempted or successfully CIVIC workers helped to urge women to carry who could then be recruit­carried out 32 attacks last search voters. out suicide attacks. She ed as bombers in the year, compared with eight Al-Moussawi, the mili­said her first assignment volatile Diyala province in 2007, according to U.S. tary spokesman, alleged was Urn Hoda, a nickname 
· northeast of Baghdad. military figures. Most Jassim was in contact with meaning mother of Hoda. 

IRAN 

Iran launches first satellite of its own 
report on state radio. State television in power, the launch provided a sym­
Associated Press 

showed footage of what it said was bol of national pride to hold up even 
TEHRAN, Iran -Iran sent its first the nighttime liftoff of the rocket car­as falling oil prices batter the econo­domestically made satellite into orbit, rying the satellite at an unidentified my and the hard-line leader's popu­the president announced Tuesday, a location in Iran. larity. key step for an ambitious space pro­A U.S. counterproliferation official As it seeks to expand its influence gram that worries the U.S. and other confirmed the launch and suggested in the Middle East, Iran touts such world powers because the same the technology WC'S not sophisticated. technological successes as signs it rocket technology used to launch Speaking on condition of anonymity can advance despite U.S. and U.N. satellites can also deliver warheads. to discuss intelligence gathering, the sanctions over its nuclear program. 
For nearly a decade, Iran has official said it appeared it "isn't too The launch touched off concern in sought to develop a national space far removed from Sputnik," the first the United States, Europe and Israel program, creating unease a.mong Soviet orbiter launched in 1957. about possible links between its international leaders already con­The TV report praised the launch satellite programs and its work with cerned about its nuclear and ballistic as part of festivities marking the 30th missiles and nuclear technology. missile programs. anniversary of the 1979 Islamic revo­White House spokesman Hobert 
The teleeommunications satellite­lution that toppled the U.S.-backed Gibbs condemm~d the launch, saying: called Omid, or hope, in Farsi-was Shah and brought hard-line clerks to "This action does not convince us launched late Monday after President power. that Iran is acting responsibly to Mahmoud Ahmadintljad gave the In a year in which Ahmadiiwjad advance stability or security in the order to proceed. according to a facPs a tough election battle to stay region." 
page 6 The Observer+ NEWS Wednesday, February 4, 2009 
Minn. ballots disputed again 
Associated Press 
ST. PAUL, Minn. -The judges in Minnesota's Senate election trial threw Republican Norm Coleman a lifeline on Tuesday, opening the door to adding nearly 5,000 rejected absentee ballots to a race that Democrat AI Franken leads by just 225 votes. 
It wasn't a total victory for Coleman, who had wanted the judges to look at about 11 ,000 such ballots. He also has to prove the absentees were unfairly rejected, and it's likely that Franken would gain votes from the pile too. 
But his attorneys had said the absentees were the centerpiece of his court challenge, and they cheered the ruling. 
"This is a victory for thou­sands of Minnesotans whose rejected absentee baJlots will now be properly reviewed in this election," Coleman attorney Ben Ginsberg said in a pre­pared statement. 
While the judges limited Coleman's field of potential new votes, they allowed many more ballots than Franken had want­ed. His attorneys had argued Coleman should be limited to about 650 -the specific figure given in his initial Jan. 6 law­suit. 
The judges, however, ruled ballots we thought should be that the Jan. 6 filing laid out examined because they are additional categories of ballots valid.'' He said they never that should be examined. expected the rest to be brought 
The judges said they would into the count, but "we were look at two categories of reject­willing to bring them here so ed absentees: those where it everyone could see that." appeared the voter had met the Franken has his own pile of legal requirements, and those 771 rejected absentees he where voters might have run wants considered, but his afoul of the law through no lawyers aren't expected to fault of their own. make his argument on those 
The judges agreed to consider until after Coleman rests his 4,797 rejected absentee ba!Jots case. because that was the number Meanwhile, Franken attorney Coleman said in a Jan. 23 filing Marc Elias said, "We're pre­met one of those two conditions. pared to go forward with the 
In a separate order later universe they've defined." Elias Tuesday, the judges made clear said he believed the judges that Coleman would have to would find that most of the prove at trial that each ques­4, 797 had been properly reject­tioned ballot was wrongly ed. rejected in order for it to be It's not clear how the absen­counted. tees will be examined. Ginsberg 
Coleman's attorneys said said Coleman's lawyers are pre­they're ready to offer individual pared to ofl'er evidence on each evidence that all or most of one if necessary. those ballots were wrongly Ginsberg said the rejf1cted rejected -strengthening the absentees now subject to possibility that the trial could review weren't cherry-picked last several months. from areas that favored 
Ginsberg said the 4,797 bal­Coleman. Elias said he was lots was always "the universe of skeptical of that claim: "Let's 

just put it this way -it was a list compiled by the Coleman campaign," he said. 
Meanwhile, in testimony at the trial Tuesday, Coleman's attorneys sought to show that different Minnesota counties applied different standards to rejecting absentees -the heart of their case in seeking a uni­
form standard on absentees. 
Kfwin Cnrhid, who supervises elections in Washington County, said his county decided on absentees with the best infor­
mation available at the time. 
But Coleman's attorney, Joe Friedberg, highlighted an area where Corbid's decisions appeared to differ slightly from his counterpart in a neighbor­ing county. 
Corbid testified he didn't make a special effort to accept previously rejected absentee ballots if he had reason to believe they were rejected because of mistakes by election judges. A day earlier, Ramsey County Eleetiuns Manager Joe Mansky testified he made a par­ticular effort to remedy such mistakes. 

Merkel: Pope must clarify bishop stance 
Associated Press 

BERLIN German Chancellor Angela Merkel called on Pope Benedict XVI to make a "very clear" rejec­tion of Holocaust denials after the Vatican's rehabilitation of a former bishop who ques­tioned whether 6 million Jews were gassed by the Nazis. 
Merkel's rare and public demand came amid increas­ing outrage among Germany's Roman Catholic leaders over the German-born pope's deci­sion. 
Merkel said she "does not believe" there has been ade­quate clarification of the Vatican's position on the Holocaust amid the contro­versy over the lifting of the excommunication of British­born Richard Williamson. 
Benedict last week expressed "full and indis­putable solidarity" with Jews and warned against any denial of the horror of the Holocaust, but several leading German bishops have decried the decision and called for the rehabilitation to be revoked. 
The issue is particularly sensitive in Germany, where denial of the Holocaust is a crime and Roman Catholic leaders have worked hard to restore relations with the Jewish community. 
"I do not believe that suffi­cient clarification has been made," Merkel said. 
The Vatican moved quickly to counter Merkel's sugges­tion. · 
"The pope's thinking on the subject of the Holocaust has 
been expressed very clearly," said Vatican spokesman Hev. Federico Lombardi. 
He cited the pope's visit to a synagogue during his first visit to Germany as pope in 2005, a visit to Auschwitz in 2006 and his remarks during last week's general audience. 
"I hope that the memory of the Shoah leads humanity to reflect on the unpredictable power of evil when it con­quers the heart of men," Lombardi quoted the pope as saying. "May the Shoah be a warning for all against obliv­ion, against denial or reduc­tionism." 
Lombardi said that during the audience "the pope him­self clearly explained the pur­pose of lifting the excommu­nication, which has nothing to do with any legitimization of positions denying the Holocaust, which were clearly condemned" by Benedict. · 
Williamson was consecrated by the late ultraconservative Archbishop Marcel Lefebvre without papal consent, lead­ing to his excommunication. The Holy See has said that removing the excommunica­tion did not imply the Vatican shared his views. 
Merkel's stand was out of the ordinary, said Elan Steinberg, vice president of the New York-based American Gathering of Holocaust Survivors and their Descendants. 
"When the German Chancellor admonishes a German-born Pope it is an extraordinary message," Steinberg said in an e-mail to The Associated Press. 

Protestor hurls shoe at Chinese PM 
Associated Press 
CAMBRIDGE, England -A protester hurled abuse and then a shoe at China's premier Monday while he delivered a speech on the global economy at Cambridge University. 
The protester leapt up from his seat near the back of a crowded auditorium, blew a whistle and yelled that Premier 
Wen Jiabao  was a  "dictator"  
before  throwing  the  shoe  
toward the stage.  

"How can this university prostitute itself with this dicta­tor here, how can you listen...to him unchallenged," the man shouted. 
Like the now-famous incident when an Iraqi reporter threw his shoes at former President George W. Bush in December, the gray athletic shoe missed its intended target. 
China's media were silent on the Wen protest Tuesday, evnn 
though news organizations were quick to report the inci­dent involving Bush. 
Unlike Bush, Wen, who was standing on a stage behind a podium, did not need to duck. He merely paused for a few seconds before he continued with his speech. One of his aides quietly stepped on to the stage, picked up the shoe and took it away. 
Security staff escorted the protester out of the auditori­um. He was arrested and taken to a police station for question­ing on suspicion of committing a public order offense, said police spokeswoman Shelly Spratt. 
"The university is a place for discussion, debate and consid­ered argument, not for shoe throwing," said Tim II olt, a university spokesman. 
The shoe-throwing incident came at the end of a three-day visit to Britain dogged by 
demonstrations over human rights and Chinese policy in Tibet. Security was tight at the university and police kept a group of about 20 demonstra­tors away from the Chinese leader when he arrived for his speech. 
Shoe throwing has become a globally recognized form of protest since the case involving Bush. Iraqi reporter Muntadhar al-Zeidi was sched­uled to face trial in December on a charge of assaulting a for­eign leader, but the court date was postponed after his attor­ney filed a motion to reduce the charges. He remains in custody in Baghdad. 
In China, state-run newspa­pers and Web sites carried sto­ries Tuesday on Wen's speech but had no reference to the shoe-throwing. Content men­tioning it on Internet forums also appears to have been deleted. 


Thanks to a generou~ gift from the Albert Ravarino family. the Italian Studies Program is pleased Lo announce the year :wo<> annual competition lor travel in support of summer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3.000. and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a formal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work will normally be in Italian; will involve the study of Italian language. literature. and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University of Notre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include. but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua. UCLA in Pisa. Miami Univcr~ity in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encoumged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages, 343 o·shaughnessy Hall. 
StudenL' arc invited to submit a letter whi<;h should include: 
I)  an explanation ofhow the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their  
degree program at Notre Dame;  
2)  a  personal statement indicating their background. interests. and long-renn goals;  
3)  a description ofthe research project or the program they intend to follow;  
4)  a budget indicating the costs involved:  
5)  two letters ofrecommendation  
6)  a ln!nscript showing all gmdcs and courses completed  
7)  a list ofother sources offunding (being sought or confirmed) tor the same project  
(i.e. Otlice of International Studies. Nanovic Institute. etc.)  
AJlpliclltion Oeacllinc:  Friday, March 6, 2009  
Albert R:warino ltulian Stndi~ Tran~l Scholarship  
Program in Italian Studies  
343 O'Shaughnessy Hall  
Cnhersity or Notre Dame  


Wednesday, February 4, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
,  Stocks  
Dow Jones  8,078.36  +141.53  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
2,296  127  1,428  1,706,709,996  



COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
BK OF AMERICA (SAC) -11.67 -0.70 5.30 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) +1.40 +1.16 83.74 
FINANCIAL SEL (XLF) -1.84 -0.17 9.07 
CITIGROUP INC (C) -5.21 -0.19 3.46 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +4.52 +0.123 2.842 
13-WEEK BILL +26.53 +0.065 0.310 
30-YEAR BOND +4.41 +0.153 3.623 
5-YEAR NOTE +6.52 +0.114 1.862 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.70 40.78 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -14.70 892.50 
PORK BELLJES (cents/lb.) -0.35 82.00 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 89.4200 
EURO 1.3035 
CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2339 
BRITISH POUND 1.4454 
IN BRIEF 
US auto sales plunge to 26-year low 
DETROIT -Consumers frightened by the prospect of losing their jobs stayed away from auto showrooms again in January and sent 
U.S. car and truck sales falling 37 percent, a familiar refrain for the struggling industry but an unwelcome start to a critical year for U.S. carmakers. 
Devastated by an economy in which few peo­ple have the spare cash to buy a car or can obtain the financing to do it, Chrysler's domes­tic sales for January were less than half what they were a year earlier. 
Sales fell 49 percent at General Motors and 40 percent at Ford. Toyota and Nissan 's sales each fell at least 30 percent. 
"How many ways can you say disaster'?" asked Aaron Bragman, an auto industry ana­lyst with the consulting firm IHS Global Insight in Troy, Mich. "That's across the board. It's not , unique to one company." 
Wells Fargo cancels Vegas junket 
WASHINGTON -Wells Fargo & Co. abruptly eanceled Tuesday a pricey Las Vegas casino junket for employees after a torrent of criticism that it was misusing $25 billion in taxpayer bailout money. 
The company initially defended the trip after The Associated Press reported it had booked 12 nights beginning Friday at the Wynn Las Vegas and the Encore Las Vegas. But within hours, investigators and lawmak­ers on Capitol Hill had scorned the bank, and the company canceled. 
The conference is a Wells Fargo tradition. Previous all-expense-paid trips have includ­ed helicopter rides, wine tasting, horseback riding in Puerto Rico and a private Jimmy Buffett concert in the Bahamas for more than 1,000 of the company's top employees and guests. 
"In light of thr current environment. we have now deeided to caneel this event as well," the company said Tuesday night in a news release that also said the it had never plannf'd to use taxpayf'r bailout money for tlw trip. 
Corporate rPtn'ats haw attracted eriticism since the bank bailout last fall. 
Tax break approved for new car buyers 
Senate sets aside bipartisan issues to give tax deduction for sales of new autos 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Senate voted Tuesday to give a tax break to new car buyers, setting aside bipartisan concerns over the size of an eeonomic stimulus bill with a price tag edging above $900 bil­lion. 
The 71-26 vote came as President Barack Obama said he lies awake nights worrying about the econo­my and signaled he'll try to knock out "buy Ameriean" provisions in the legislation to avoid a possible trade war. 
Sen. Barbara Mikulski led the successful effort to allow many car buyers to claim an income tax deduction for sales taxes paid on new autos and interest payments on car loans. 
She said the plan would aid the beleaguered auto­mobile industry as well as create jobs at a time the economy is losing them at a rapid rate. "I believe we can help by getting the consumer into the show­room," she said. 
The provision was attached to the economic stimulus bill at the heart of 
Obama's e(~onomic rHcov­ery plan and is subject to change or even elimination as the measure makes its way toward final passage. 
Democratic leaders have pledged to have the bill ready for his signature by mid-month, and in a round of network television inter­views, the president underscored the urgency. He told CNN that even three months ago, most economists would not have predicted the economy was "in as bad of a situa­
tion as  we  are  in right  
"  
now.  
He  also  spoke  out  

against efforts to require the use of domestie steel in construction projects envi­sioned in the bill, telling Fox News, "we can't send a protectionist message." 
The stimulus bill 


remains a work in progress, following last week's party-line vote in the House and an Oval Office meeting on Monday in which Obama and Democratic leaders dis­cussed ways to reach across party lines. 
In a series of skirmishes during the day, the Senate turned back a proposal to add $25 billion for public works projects and voted to remove a tax break for movie producers. Both moves were engineered by Republicans who are criti­cal of the bill's size and voice skepticism of its abil­ity to create jobs. 
But several hours later, 
without explanation, GOP conservatives abruptly dropped their opposition to a $6.5 billion increase in research funding for the politically popular National Institutes of Health. 
Even so, Democratic leaders conceded they may soon be obliged to cut bil­lions of dollars from the measure. "It goes without saying if it's going to pass in the Senate, it has to be bipartisan," said Sen. Dick Durbin of Illinois, the sec­ond-ranking Democratic leader, adding that rank­and-file lawmakers in both parties want the bill's cost reduced. 
One Democrat, Sen. Ben 
i I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
"l 
I I I 
Nelson of Nebraska, said he hoped for reductions "in the tens of billions of dollars." 
The developments unfolded as more compa­nies announced job layoffs -including 5,800 ·at PNC Financial Services Group. In another sign of econom­ic weakness, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation predicted the cost of bank failures will exceed its estimate from last fall and urged law­makers to more than triple the agency's line of credit with the Treasury Department to $100 billion from the current $30 bil­lion. 

Government works on payrestrictions 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Obama administration plans to mandate new executive pay limits on Wednesday for government-assisted financial institutions in a new get-tough approach to bankers and Wall Street. 
"If the taxpayers are helping you. then you've got certain responsibili­ties to not be living high on the hog," President Barack Obama said in an interview Tuesday with "NBC Nightly 
..
News. . 
The president and members of Congress are weighing various pro­posals to restrict chief executives' compensation as one of the condi­tions of receiving help undPr the $700 billion linaneial bailout fund. 
Obama did not reveal details of the administration's compm1sation caps. 

But administration ofticials have said that the new restrictions would apply only to those struggling large firms that receive "exceptional assistance," such as the American International Group Inc., Citigroup Inc., and Detroit automakers. They would not apply to healthy banks that receive govern­ment infusions of capital. 
And Obama's chief economic advis­er, Larry Summers, has proposed that firms that want to pay executives above a certain threshold would have to compensate them with stock that could not be sold or liquidated until they pay back the government funds. 
Top oflicials at companiPs that have receivP.d money from the govern­nwnt's Tmubled Asset Helief Program already face some compensation lim­its. But eleetl'd oflidals want to place more caps. a sPntinwnt minforced in recent days by nwelations that \Vall Street firms paid more than $18 bil­lion in bonuses in the midst of the economic downturn in 2008. 
"I do know this: We can't just say, 'Jllease, pIease,"' sa1. d Sen. Cl, mre. McCaskill, D-Mo., who has proposed that no employee of an institution that receives money under the $700 billion federal bailout can receive more than $400,000 in total compen­sation until it pays the money back. 
The figure is equivalent to the salary of the president of the United States. 
On Tuesday, Sen. Byron Dorgan, D­N .D., introduced amendments to the Senate's economie stimulus legisla­tion that would n~quire firms that receive bailout funds to disclosP tlw bonuses they paid during the tirm~ they n~ceived governnwnt funds. 
page 8 



Wednesday, February 4, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 

Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYsTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoinr@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574} 631-4543 spom.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.I@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact infOrmation. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiifChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
ln. Observer (USPS 599 2-4UOO) ;, published Monday through Friday ex<cpt during exam and VilQtion periods. A subscription to The O~m:r i5 Sl UO for one acadt.:mic 

year; $')5 tOr oM semes{tr.  
ln. Ob.erver is puhlished •"  POSTMASTER  
014 Sourh Oining H~~:ll  St:nd :~ddf'Ct..\ corrections to;  
Nouc Oollne,IN 46556-0779  ln. Oh..:m:r  
Periodical postage paid at Notn: Oamc  P.O. Box779  
and additional mailing offica-..  024 South Dining Hall  
Norr< Dame. IN 46556-0779  

T1te Oh!it."t'Ver is a nK:mber 1)f the A.'\MK:iaied Press. All reproduaion riglus ~rc tt"Served. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Sports  
Aaron Steiner  Sam Werner  
Sarah Mervosh  Greg Arbogast  
Tess Civantos  Cris Masoud  
Graphics  Scene  
Blair Chemidlin  Michelle Fordice  
Viewpoint  
Stephanie Vossler  

Tales from an 8th grade nothing 
Carl Sagan may have thought the cos­. mos worth analyzing, but I take a differ­
ent approach. Instead of looking out and 
up, let's look in and down. What can we 
learn about our world from the life of 
thirteen year 
olds? My con­
tention: Absolutely 
Everything. From 
my experiences as 
a summer camp 
counselor, I have 
seen that eighth 
graders truly are 
the unacknowl­
edged legislators 
of the world. They, 
in their interac­
tions, provide us 
with a microcosm 
of our day-to-day 
lives. And so I give you: Microcosmos ­
How 8th Graders Can Teach Us How Not 
To Live. 
Let's first look at Blaire and Jenna. 
Blaire is your average, run-of-the-mill 
cowboy who lives and works on his fami­
ly farm. Jenna is a big-city cosmopolitan 
(Arlington, VA-the biggest of the big 
cities). And the two fall in love. Now first 
of all, you know this isn't going to work 
out for these star-crossed lovers. They'll 
only be together for two weeks at camp 
and they come from families ideological­
ly at odds with each other. The farmer 
and the cowman should be friends, but 
the cowboy-farmer and the debutante­
Heaven forbid! As futile as their relation­
ship appeared, though, Blaire and Jenna 
were making it work. 
Making it work, that is, until Blaire 
decided it was over. lie pulled Jenna's 
best friend aside and told her to tell 
Jenna he never wanted to see Jenna 
again. This was on the last day of camp. 
Jenna's friend faithfully reported the 
news and Jenna cried from lunchtime 
until her parents came to pick her up at 
5 p.m. Blaire and Jenna-separated 
forever. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


So what can we learn from this first case? Men don't know how to handle relationships. Blaire didn't commit this folly because he's innocent, naive, or 13. He acted this way because this is the easiest way for a guy to get out of some­thing; he shirked responsibility to remove himself from culpability and feel­ing bad. I sec my guy. friends do similar things all the time. Like when my friend, who for the sake of argument we'll call Friendy-Pants, decided that he wanted to break up with a girl but couldn't do so face to face so he just stopped talking to her. 
Blaire and Friendy-Pants share the trait that all men share. We have an inability to confront the necessary. This may seem counter-intuitive to the macho-mystique that has built up around such figures as John Wayne and Clint Eastwood. But every time one of these actors actually did something active and direct it was probably only to cleverly avoid doing something else that would have bothered him emotionally. Remember, John Wayne built him an air­port and put his name on it only so he could fly away from his feelings. 
Now let's shift our evolving drama and look at Sammy and Jimbo. Sammy is a great kid with a lot of friends: one of the most well liked kids at camp (by coun­selor and camper alike). Jimbo is a qui­eter kid, but deliberately so, because he early on decides that he is better than everyone else. Sammy has a girlfriend; Jimbo does not. Sammy is the life of the party; everyone thinks Jimbo is a jerk. Then one night Jimbo decides to steal Sammy's letters from his girlfriend. 
Jimbo thinks that this will be the perfect way to get back at Sammy for all the popularity Sammy "stole" from him. Sammy, trying to get his private corre­spondence back, swats at Jimbo but inadvertently hits him in the throat. Jimbo starts hyperventilating and threat­ens to sue Sammy. 
The lesson here: we live in an extreme­ly litigious society. Anytime anything happens that could even be remotely considered assault, we go running for a personal injury attorney and sue, sue, sue! Then there are the counter-suits, and the counter-counter-suits, and so on. We just love making other people pay for our discomfort. Jimbo would not accept it was his own fault Sammy hit him; he should not have been stealing Sammy's letters. Instead Jimbo responded in the way any of us would have in a similar situation: "You attacked me. I'm not hurt. But I can get money from you if I claim that I was or still am." Just like the woman and the hot coffee that she was not expecting to burn her, Jimbo's rela­tionship with Sammy shows us how far we will go in our society to make other people feel bad for our personal misfor­tunes. 
In these two brief examples (in which I have explicitly changed names but not even slightly changed the details), I have shown you the extent to which eighth graders do in fact represent real people. Yet we look back on our eighth-grade selves and think, ~·wow, I was really lame back in eighth grade. I'm so much more mature now than I was then. I'm glad I never have to be in middle school again." 
But think about it. Really think about it. How much have you actually matured in the past six, seven, eight years? After living with thirteen year olds for three summers straight, I have re-evaluated my own early teenage years. And I real­ize I'm the exact same person doing the exact same types of things. Why don't you take the time to reflect on the same question... 
Yeah. That's what I thought. 
Andrew Miller is a senior English major. He can be contacted at amille 15@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Jsn 'tit interesting that the same 
people who laug_h at science fiction 
listen to weather forecasts and 
economists?" 
Kelvin Throop Ill author 


Submit a Letter to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"A bookstore is one ofthe only 
pieces of evidence we have that 
peop?e are still thinking". 
Jerry Seinfeld comedian 
p

Wednesday, February 4, 2009 page 9 



LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Let's be a hockey school. 

Over the past three and a half years, up our program so we could grow and something remarkable has happened to eventually be better than them. This isn't our hockey team. In the 2004-05 season, to say our fans are lacking; I think we're the year before Jeff Jackson took over as doing about the best we can with the sub­head coach, our team won a grand total par. facility we currently have. By no of 5 games. Two years later, I sat in Joe means am I advocating us using the Louis Arena and watched as we beat Michigan students' constant profanity. Michigan to win our first ever CCHA tour­Nor am I saying we should throw· things nament championship. Last year, after on the ice when our team can't tie a struggling during the second half of the game up in the final minute. We have season, our team shocked the college more class than that... What I am saying is hockey world by not only making it to the that when our team does get its much Frozen Four but by kl)ocking off No.1 deserved new arena in the JACC, it Michigan in the semi-finals, only to fall to should become one of the most feared Boston College in the championship places to play in college hockey, like Yost. game. Thanks to coach Jeff Jackson and The seats should be packed tightly the dedication and determination of our around the ice with more capacity than players, our team has gone from perenni­the current arrangement. It should get al bottom-dweller in the CCHA to national loud, very loud. Our band should pick a powerhouse in under 4 years. distinctive song to play at every game's 
Despite this success, our work is not yet second intermission, much like the 1812 done. I was lucky enough to be able to Overture at football games, but the song attend Saturday night's game up in Ann should be unique for hockey games and Arbor. Michigan's Yost Arena is notorious should get the fans pumped up. That way, for being one of the toughest places to we will always be ready to cheer our play in college hockey. After 2 periods of team back to victory when we are down showing why we are the top team in the 3-0 in the 3rd period. Underclassmen, if country by blanking Michigan 3-0 you like hockey, take a trip up to Yost (including our spectacular 3rd goal which next year and see what I mean. Michigan left 7,000 fans speechless), Yost began to students are dedicated to their hockey live up to its reputation. About 5 minutes team; they pay more than $200 for sea­into the third period·, Michigan scored a son tickets. I hope Notre Dame students powerplay goal, and the ice suddenly tilt­don't ever have to pay that much to see ed in Michigan's favor. About midway the hockey team play, but I hope we can through the period, Michigan scored one day become just as much of a "hock­another powerplay goal, sending the ey school" as Michigan. I think we're place into a frenzy. As I quietly sat in already more than halfway there; this stealth mode in the rowdy student sec­year I don't hope that we make it to the tion, I began to realize that we Notre Frozen Four, I expect us to. Dame Hockey fans could learn a thing or David Schall!;:r 
two from the Michigan fans. Don't call me sentor a traitor, but instead think of this like our Alumni Hall football program: Michigan helped us set Feb. 2 
To Notre Dame· women 
. 

Please refrain from wearing tights when I see one, guy or girl. If, however, with thongs without a shirt of appropri­you do not posses~ the above criteria, ate length. then do not display to the entire school 
I repeat, please refrain. your Richter-scale-worthy butt cheeks, 
I cannot speak for the rest of the stu­followed by the wave of aftershocks dent body, but I personally do not wish once you've stopped walking. to see jiggling, flailing, unsupported butt Wear a shirt, tunic or dress that com­cheeks in my face as I try to climb the pletely covers your tush. Oh, and wear stairs of DeBartolo. I get it, you don't supportive underwear!!! This will heJp want to hide behind bulky jeans or to give you that perfectly bootylicious . sweats in the dead of winter; you want bum without looking like a certain to show off your body. But please, a dromedary's digit. Ladies, give those perma-wedgie is not a good look, espe­boys a good reason to look at your cially when your tights are just a little behind. too tight and I see a massive camel toe Thank you for your consideration. peeking through. Maybe if I were a guy, I would enjoy these scenes. But if I Lourdes Meraz were, I don't think I would. If you have a . ' semor firm, tight rear, by all means, go ahead McGlinn Hall and flaunt it. I appreciate a good a** Feb.3 
Can't get a scooter? 
Friday night, my roommate, Tom, gauze and that he's walking on crutches underwent surgery to repair a torn ACL. is apparently not enough justification to Shortly after I picked hiril up that night, I obtain a scooter. The authorization can visited a nearby CVS/Pharmacy to fill his only come from Tom's doctor or a Health Percocet prescription. I walked in with Services doctor, and neither is available his out-of-state driver's license, insur­on the weekend. Thus, Tom has spent ance card and prescription. Without ask­the entire weekend and all of today rely­ing to see my ID or even to call Tom and ing either on his crutches or on rides confirm that, you know, he was okay from NDSP to get around, waiting until with this random guy obtaining his medi­he get can the necessary documentation cine, the pharmacy quickly and politely signed and delivered in order to receive gave me the 80 tablets of (someone a scooter. While the free rides offer is else's) narcotics and sent me on my way. refreshingly helpful (and we thank the 
In contrast to the simplicity of this kind NDSP receptionist who alerted us to transaction, our efforts to obtain a scoot­that offer), it's clearly more trouble than er for Tom have been fruitless and frus­him simply having a scooter of his own, • trating. Health services advised us to call and it, of course, means that there's one NDSP, who told us to call health services. less NDSP officer available. Awesome. Upon calling health services a So, the inescapable conclusion: It's eas­second time, we were informed that a ier to obtain someone else's Schedule II doctor needs to authorize Tom's need for Controlled Substance than a scooter a scooter before NDSP will provide it. No from Notre Dame. We can all sleep problem, surely the stack of discharge peacefully knowing that the University is papers signed by Tom's doctor, papers doing its part to curb the rampant abuse which detail the nature of his surgery of prescription scooters plaguing our · and which note that he requires crutches campus. and will be unable to walk for weeks, Jim Masters should suffice, right? junior 
Unfortunately, no. Likewise, the fact Fisher Hall that Tom's entire left leg is wrapped in Feb. 2 
Pay employees more! 
During the economic boom years from Report. In 2008, the University saw an 2004-2007, Notre Dame's endowment increase in unrestricted net assets from received an average annual return on operations of over $51 million. This was 
investment of 20 percent, ahead of many on top of over $58 million for the previous of its peers. Even in 2008, an economical­year. The key word is "unrestricted"; it ly tumultuous year, the University realized means that these funds can be used for a 5.8percent return. And yet, during these anything. The University merely chooses financially bountiful times, the workers at to put them back into the endowment. this University heard a common refrain: A little back-of-the-envelope math "We can't afford to pay you more." reveals that last year's surplus could give Workers heard this at town hall meetings, each of the University's 2300 (estimated) where a couple of graphs showing avail­non-exempt employees and increase in able revenues and costs seemed to show salary of $22,000, which would double that the University was paying as much as the salary of many workers here. Even it could, if not more. These were the rea­using 20 percent of the surplus would sons for wages commonly below the result in a $2/hour increase in wages, Indiana Federal Benefits Line, which moving many employees above the food­defmes food stamp eligibility, and certain­stamps line and closer to a living wage. ly short of a living wage. Obviously, money is tightening up around 
One might wonder, "How could this the University. No one expects the be?'' The common explanation given by University to realize a return on its invest­the University was that most of the funds ments in this fiscal year. IIowever, as the in the endowment were untouchable for economy begins to wage purposes; they were earmarked recover, let's remember to prioritize donations from alumni that could only go where our largesse goes, and direct it to toward certain parts of the budget. This those in the Notre Dame family that need, lack of fungibility supposedly hamstrung and deserve it, the most. .. the University, and so, they did the best Nick Kraffi: they could. If this seems hard to believe, it seruor is because it is simply not true. Look no Stanford Hall further than the University's Annual Feb. 2 
Choose your battles wisely 
This viewpoint is in response to the letter written by Ms. Hass, Ms. Quiros and Mr. Angulo entitled "Why is Notre Dame Involved in the Arms Trade?" (Monday, Feb. 2). In simple terms, the mission of the United States military is to be ready to respond in full force to any conflict in the world as quickly as possible, which usually means putting bombs on target within a day of the order given by the civilian leadership of this coun­try. 
Many different companies, such as Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman and Boeing, who all recruit at Notre Dame, are just as vital to that operation as Raytheon. If you have an issue with Raytheon's bombs and missiles, then you should also have an issue with all of those companies, as their weapons systems allow for the delivery of those bombs and missiles. However, I rarely see anyone writing in about the atrocities of the F -22 Raptor or the B-2 Spirit, planes whose combined capability allows this nation's military to drop a Raytheon-made bomb anywhere in the world virtually undeiected. 
The vendetta that students at this University have 
against Raytheon is illogical. Raytheon is not even the 
largest defense contractor that this nation uses, and it 
receives many military contracts for products that are 
defensive in nature, such as radar systems, air traffic 
control systems, satellite systems, the list goes on. 'Raytheon is not evil. They build systems that the 

Soldiers, Marines, Sailors and Airmen on the frontlines 
need to accomplish their mission. 

\Vhether or not you agree with the foreign policy of 
our nation, it is largely the U.S. military's warfighting 
capability that allows that foreign policy to exist. If the 
problem you have is with the methods by which our 
military wages war, your concerns should not be direct­
ed at the University allowing companies to recruit its 
students, but at the U.S. government. The University 
cannot tell the D.O.D. whether or not they can buy 
weapons from Raytheon. 

If the D.O.D. feels that it needs certain weapons to 
accomplish the objectives outlined by the foreign policy 
of this nation, a foreign policy put in place by the law­
fully elected civilian officials of this country, then it is 
going to acquire those weapons from Raytheon. If Raytheon were to stop producing its weapons for the 

U.S. military and its allies because they could no longer recruit any engineers, two things would happen: Raytheon ·would go out of business, costing many peo­ple their jobs, and the weapons it made would then simply be made by another defense contractor. 
Raytheon, just like every defense contractor, needs intelligent and moral people with a good education to work for them. Notre Dame offers some of the best, brightest and morally sound students that this nation has to offer, which is why so many defense contractors recruit here. Raytheon is no different than other defense contractors, and therefore has the same right to recruit engineers and students from this University as any other corporation. At the very least, don't start a movement that could cost some of your classmates future job opportunities with a very reputable compa­ny. 
David Schaller semor Alumni Hall feb. 2 
THE OBSERVER 
E

page 10 


Wednesday, February 4, 2009 
. I
fl... :·i
·: I 
MIDSEASON: WHAT'S Nl 
"DOLLHOUSE" FRIDAYS-9 P.M.-
"TRUST ME" MONDAY~ 
Horrible's Sing Along Blog. ") needs, b1 By STEPHANIE DePREZ · "Dollhouse" was set to air in the begin­Krajicek­Assistant Scene Editor Her char
ning of January, but Fox's issues with On Friday the 13th, one of TV's best the look of the show's first episode about he1 writers will return. Joss Whedon, cre­caused a series of rewrites and pushed neuroses 
plenty of comedic experience, the
ator of "Buffy the Vampire Slayer," the premier back to mid-February. grating ~ 
advertising office setting that sent more mo
· Angel" and "Firefly" returns with his But lt has been time well spent in :;#~-·.t·_". 
.

~:~~ "Mad Men" rising and offers the them out.
next show, "Dollhouse." several ways. The sets themselves are 
f ,-•• ·~·. 

·_ hance to comment on our own times, IntriguiStarring Eliza Dushku ("Buffy"), the far larger than is usually seen on TV. 
and the promise of quick and witty the show
show centers on a group of "Actives," The Asian-inspired Dollhouse decor is dialogue. But it isn't there yet.

people who have voluntarily donated supposed to be a calming environment ment. Op·
"Trust Me" is a look into the lives 1979 Chc:· five years of their life to the Dollhouse, for the Dolls, with an exercise room 
_of professionals in the advertising
ifJ'f' ka super-secret community full of people and a working fountain in the center of cial, "Tr 
-business working at the Rothman excellent
~·committed to fulfilling your wildest the building, causing the show to have ! dreams. The catch? They don"t know an air of spectacle. The time has also Greene & Mohr Advertising Agency. ad, as St 
:Starring Eric McCormack of "Will and screen. 
E 
!:they're doing it. Clients request a fanta-allowed for anticipation to build. 

·Grace" as Mason and Thomas
-tsy, ranging from love to adventure, and Whedonophiles are a small but mighty "Trust 
'Cavanaugh of "Ed" as Connor, the legs in th,
Pth.e Actives (.or Dolls) ~re imprinted Internet force who have relentlessly 

how focuses on these tw.o friends
"With memones that will help them promoted the show as far as the between ,
I'carry out (and help clients participate MySpace can see. d their lives as ad-men. Their long the chan 
: ime dynamic is upset by Mason's dimensioJ 
w 
lin) their mission. When the mission is A lot is riding on thin show. Joss' last r:complete, the Dolls memories are show, "Firefly," also had the Friday : romotion in the first episode, mak­sure, and 
ng him Connor's boss. The two little flat
night kiss-of-death slot on Fox, and it 
__ tiwiped clean. 

iends are a classic set-up of con­
~~; . The story was born out of a lunch was cancelled after 13 episodes. Even more mo: 
asts, with Mason being the more definiteI~
"between Dushku and Whedon. He was though the DVD sales convinced 

ettled and methodical half of the pulling. tl
'looking for a new project, and she was Universal to pick it up for a movie 

air, and Connor acting more child­direction
looking for more acting challenges. The (2005's "Serenity"), many are wonder­

Jike but providing the creativity and
·idea is that within the world of the ing if the TV genius has still got staying character 
energy. Unlike most pairs of this sort, (Sa.rah ClDollhouse Dushku's character, Echo, power. If this summer's "Dr. Horrible" 
-here are few physical differences
will play many different roles. is any indication, fans are ripe and interest. 
' " . etween the characters, which is g~mnd to
1-.-"'"·V.'-«1'~...... The show has been in production for ready for another venture into the 
~freshing. Sarah Krajicek-Hunter but all th
l ~ • ­

a while now, thrown off a bit in the World ofWhedon. 

helps fill out the cast as Monica Me" coulceginning by the writers' strike. (Time 
· otter. The character is meant to
hich was well used by Whedon to cre­Contact Stephanie DePrez at 

nbalance the duo and provide the
the Internet phenomenon "Dr. sdeprez@nd.edu 

isty female character 

''24" MONDAYS 9 PJ[.'.fm 
Top CTU agent Jack Bauer is back another day of top secret govern­
ent operations. Fox's massive hit cries "24," starring . Kiefer utherland as Bauer, recently for its seventh season. "24" has had a tumultuous history kidnapping, murder, counterterror­
and presidential assassinations in years on Fox. At the conclusion of 5, Jack had been captured and soned by the Chinese for actions had taken in the previous season. ay 6 led to Jack being released from hat imprisonment twenty months ·ater, during an eleven-week period of rrorist bombings in the United ,.~L<-I.u~:~. But rather than facing free­, Jack found himself being traded the Chinese to Abu Fayed (Adoni aropis), the head of an Islamic ter­orist group formorly headed by lamri Al-Assad (Alexander Siddig). '-~~...,..m,,\~~ad is known by Jack to be innocent f past accused crimes, and now rks for the U.S. government by nging such organizations to peace . After some complications with is father, Phillip Bauer (James omwell), and his brother Graem Paul McCrane) -which result in 
raem's death by Phillip's hand ­_ack succeeds in thwarting Fayed's · plot by killing him. 
Jack's personal life also took a hit Day six when Audrey Raines (Kim aver), Jack's love interest in past 
seasons, was also kidnapped by the Chinese. After Jack saves her life, he discovers that she has lost her memo­ry and doesn't remember her former lover. It seems that sometimes e·ven Jack Bauer can't catch a break. 
After "24: Redemption," a special television event that aired between Days 6 and 7, Day 7 began on Jan. 11 of this year. The premiere was actual­ly delayed by a year due to the strike by the Writers' Guild in 2008. Day 7 has seen Jack officially on trial for tor­ture, having turned himself in to the 
U.S. Marines at the end of "Redemption" after being subpoe­naed. The day has begun at 8 a.m. with a kind of reboot for the series. While "Redemption" saw Jack repen­tant and ·pensive, helping orphans in Africa and living away from direct involvement with CTU, Day 7 brings this enigmatic action figure back to the real world. 
Whether or not-Jack will have to atone for his political actions in a post-Bush diplomatic world remains to be seen. As the season began its Day 7. FBI agent Renee Walker (Annie Wersching) was pulling Jack out of his hearing to work against the African terrorist groups that originally sur­faced in "Redemption." With a renewed focus and a few new charac­ters, including new president i-\llison Taylor (Cherry Jones), Day 7 may prove to be the most intriguing yet. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 

The doctors of Sacred Heart d with their eighth and pos­ly final season of "Scrubs" on 6, but this time around J.D. .,~.~~·· Braffi and gang have left the ck and found a new home on BC. The NBC finale left viewers atisfied as it took place outside the hospital in the form a fairy Dr. Cox told his son. It would been a devastating end to an ated yet much loved. hilari­us show. The end of the seventh ason also left viewers wondering would take over for the Chief. he new season premiered with ey Cox joining a lengthy list f great guest stars as the new hief of Medicine. Cox played a 
rgeous, but unethical doctor that utts heads with Dr. Cox. 
But after her exit, sarcastic Dr. ,_,...___,v_,. (John C. McGinley) is offered e position of Chief of Medicine surprisingly goes to retired Dr. ob Kelso (Ken Jenkins) for advice. 
n ..__,""' 
is hanging around the hospi­
enjoying his life-long supply of muffins while messing with his er co-workers. 
Old storylines have resurfaced, as 
e tumultuous love saga of J.D. Elliot (Sarah Chalke) started a round in the fourth episode of 
season. And of course the cou­le 's best friends Turk (Donald aison) and Carla (Judy Reyes) are happy to see otll_er favorite quirky; hospital employees such as the sex­obsessed Dr. Todd (Robert Maschio) and horribly depressed lawyer Ted (Sam Lloyd). 
back as the .hilarious married cou­ 
ple. Our favorite sanitation man,  
the  Janitor  (Neil Flynn).  also  
returns to torture J.D. every chance  _  
he gets. Audiences will a•lso be  ·  

Fans were overjoyed last season ­when ABC picked up the show to save it from certain demise. Talk_ has swirled that this will be the final season, but "Scrubs" creator Bill Lawrence has suggested a pos­sible ninth season without himself' and star Zach Braff. Lawrence has­promised that no m~tter what hap­pens everyone will he given a prop­er farewell, including the big reveal . of the Janitor's real name. While new interns have been introduced this season, fans can expect the typical quirkiness and fun of the old "Scrubs." At least for now, .J.D. will continue to have his outra­geous daydreams and voice-overs, • which have helped to navigate the: important lessons about life and love that the characters have learned over the years. 
"Scrubs" has always had trouble with ratings so be sure to catch this great comedy and yo.ur favorite eccentric doctors on Tuesdays at 9 
p.m. on ABC. 
Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cferrarI @nd.edu 

.L. 

THE OBSERVER 
E

Wednesday, February 4, 2009 


page 11 
NEW AND WHAT'S BACK­
tNDAYS 10 P.M. "LIE TO HE-" WEDNESDAYS. 9 -P.M. :l!ml 
needs, but the writers need to give Krajicek-Hunter more to work with.·. Her character's constant complaints about her Jack of an office and other neuroses make the character a bit gr'ating and she needs to be given more moments to shine and balance them out. 
Intriguingly, like .most things on TV, the show itself is a kind of advertise­ment. Opening with a recreation of a 1979 Chane] No. 5 Chanel commer­cial, "Trust Me" then becomes an excellent example of the placement ad, as Starbucks and Apple fill the screen. 
"Trust Me" doesn't quite find its legs in the first episodes. The balance between comedy and drama was off. the characters were a little too one dimensional even for the first expo­sure, and all that witty banter fell a little flat. The second episode had more momentum than the first, and definitely had more laughs, wisely pulling. the. show in a more comedic·_ direction. It also introduced more characters, such as Mason's wife Erin (Sa.rah Clarke), that should help add interest. The show has a lot of 
g~n1nd to cover before it nears great, _ but all that potential remains. "Trust , Me" could be worth holding onto. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 
CAITLIN FERRARO 

New on FOX this year is the hour ong drama series "Lie to Me" which llows the story of Dr. Cal Lightman Tim Roth) a deception· expert who, ou guessed it, can tell when people lying. He helps uncover the truth r anyone who needs it, including the BI,-local police, lawyers, corpora-
ions, and individuals. The show is nspired by a real-life behavioral sci­stand premiered on January 21st. 
The real expert is Dr. Paul Ekman, who can read clues fixed on the human , body, and voice to expose the dif­rence between truth and lies during ·a criminal investigation. Previews of ·"Lie to Me" demonstrate Dr. Lightman the same· techniques as he ana­yzes a criminal's face, body, voice and eech. He reads his subject's feelings help solve cases. While on the job he ight face skepticism from law nforcement officials, but he is usually orrect. However, outside of the office, ightman's ability can be a curse ecause he is constantly aware of ether or not his friends and family telling the truth. He even cannot elp but notice tpe involuntary body 
anguage of strangers on the street. Dr. Lightman, together with his team, 
forms the Lightman Group and they act as human polygraph machines. Lightman and his partner Dr. Gilli Foster (Kelli Williams), a gifted psy­chologist; run the Group. Together they have impeccable insight of human behavior. Roth, a Qu~ntin Tarantino favorite, and Williams of "The Practice" fame make a dynamic duo. 
Rounding out the team is Eli Loker (Brendan Hin.es) as the lead researcher. Loker is uncomfortable with the excessive amount of lying he witnesses on the job and decides to try "radical honesty." Of course, being brutally honest causes trouble. Then there is the "natural," Ria Torres (Monica Raymund) the newest member. of the Group who has an innate ability to read people. 
The ratings for the series premiere were quite respectable, as it held its own against ABC's established show "Lost" and 13 episodes of the drama have been picked up. Of course, "Lie to Me" did have a good chance at early success since it premiered in the: extremely coveted post-"American· Idol" spot. 
Discover the truth with the cast of. "Lie to Me" Wednesdays at 9 p.m. on FOX. 
• ----------------­Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cferrar1 @nd.edu 
' 
·. --~·­
--~~. 
~ .~ J'< ~ ~?~f,

ll"BURN NOTICE" THURSDAYS 10 P.M. 
:l cou-. 
MICHELLE FORDICE 

man, 
Scene Editor 

also' hance: ~a::::---With a smart script:, plenty o~ a~ti.on, so be tand great characters, Burn Notice IS a 
,-_ jgreat show to take a break with. Fast1uirky 
·eator · a pos-_ imself_ ~e has t hap-· 
prop-· reveal While duced ~t the )f the V, J.D. 
.F iand fun, it makes few demands and plenty of entertainment. 
The show is all about what a spy does being been burned -instantly cut because he's been marked as unreli­and left in a city with no assets, free he tries to leave. Of course, for r spy Michael Weston (Jeffery onovan}, being burned is just the negmtm'Jng, as he tries to discover who the notice. Eventually, he is contact­by Carla (fricia Helfer), representing e organization that burned him. hrough her threats to his family and ite, and her better knowledge of the sit­
...........vJ... 
she manipulates Michael into 
,.....V'uu• 
jobs for them. In the meantime, fusing to take money from Carla, ll"..''-'uav• works as a freelance investiga­and all around problem fixing man· people who have no one el<>e to turn 
providing the epio.;odic element of the 
Tune into the USA Network f(>r more a second and you'll be bombard('d their "Characters Welcome" cam­. Alongside the Emmy darling k" and other personality driven like "Psych," "Bu.."''1 Notice" holds own in this quest for excellent char­Michael's sardonic humor, ability build an X-ray machine in the back of car with a broken TV. and inability to with his mother, Madeline (Sharon 
Glass) make him more than interesting to follow. Michael's on-again-off-again girlfriend, Fiona (Gabrielle Anwar), steal'> every scene she's in. A former IHA agent, who first met Michael on a mis­sion in Ireland, Fiona adds emotion­and firepower -to Michael's manipula­tions of the bad guys. Sam (Bruce Campbell), Michael's friend and former . Navy Seal, is happily in the midst of his retirement, enjoying all the booze and babes Miami can provide, when Michael gets dumped in Miami. For a time, he feeds selected information to the FBI about Michael, but eventually as they lose interest he transitions to full time go-to guy for the former spy. "Burn Notice" also does a great job of making a character out of its setting. By inuners­ing itself in the fashion, scenef1, and soundtrack nf Miami, the show gives a voice to the city Michael is stranded in. 
"Burn Notice" loses nothing over the mid-season break. Two episodes in, the series has not lost any momentum. The show ended last fhll \\-ith Michael being thrown 'out of his second floor apart­ment by an explosive riggPd to his front door. He is soon picked up by Carla and told to search for the person who tried to kill him, as several of their operatives suffered the same fate. likely to be the focus of the rest of the season, Michael . accepts this task with more · than usual, curious to discover the iden­tity of Carla's enemy. The show-promises to match its first season. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 

''HEROES'' MONDAYS 9 P.M. U~!iL>·.--:, 
"Heroes" returned to Fox Monday might to an audience who wasn't re they wanted to continue watch­g the show. Previously in season ree, just about every character nderwent major changes and acted pletely contrary to their previ­sly established traits. The show rapidly losing popularity, as the 'ters turned everything we had ce known and loved about the how upside down. Tuning back in 
the series for the continuation of e season was a risky task, but one at ended up being worth it. The first half of season three left 
udiences with mixed emotions. arently, the villain since season , Sylar, had been killed off, but at hat cost? Peter Petrelli and Biro akamura lost their powers and em to be out of luck in terms of getting them back, and some of the ther characters appeared to have mpletely lost their minds. Heck, first half of the season even had me people liking Sylar for a while! seemed that season three could go 
here but downhill from there, ·~·L··· ... the entire show with it. Then, writers Jesse Alexander and eph Loeb were fired. May the "Heroes" fans rejoice, the w is returning to how it was in _,,..,..,.,on one! What made the show so popular in ts first season was its focus on the 
;~' :, • c·\,·.' : 

characters. The story line was sim­
ple, but the characters were rich 
and complex. One of the crucia 
aspects that made the show so fasci­
nating was watching the diverse:· __ 
characters interact with each other. p
As writers, Alexander and Loeb 
were more focused on action and 
twists in the stur~ While the twists 
are shocking, and were often used 
in the first season to shock the view­
ers, it seemed like every episode in 
the second season and first half o 
the third season contained one 
these twists, taking the show from 
intriguing to absurd. .. 
The second half of season three is · already showing much more prom­ise. One of my favorite scenes harked back to season one, when~ 
Peter and Mohinder first met in a taxi cab. The two jokingly review that dialogue, commenting on how _ . things have changed This scene is also refreshing because Mohinder is no longer going crazy, though he does have powers. The basis of this season is Nathan Petrelli's plan to round up all the people with super, powers and 'detain' them -hence • the name of Volume Four of the series is "Fugitives." 
The newest episode ended with a plane crash. Let's hope that instead of taking a nosedive, the show con­tinues to get better from here on out. 
Contact Kaitlyn Conway at kconway2@nd.edu 
Wednesday, February 4, 2009 
page 12 , The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 
T-wolves top Pacers to snap three-game skid 
James scores 33 to become fastest player to 12,000 career points and help Cavs maintain perfect record at home 

Miller made two free throws with throws, and converted a three­

Assodated Press 
31 seconds left to make it 112-point play in the opening three 

INDlANAPOLIS -Randy Foye 106. minutes to give the Pacers· a 94­scored 19 points, and the Granger made a 3-pointer with 85 lead. Minnesota Timberwolves 27 seconds left to make it 112-It took Minnesota one minute to snapped a three game skid with a 109. tie the score. Brian Cardinal was 116-111 victory over the Indiana Ford intercepted Minnesota's fouled on a clear path. He made Pacers on Tuesday night. inbounds pass and was fouled by the two free throws, then made a 
Sebastian Telfair and Ryan Miller. Ford made the first of two 3-pointer when the Timberwolves Gomes each scored 16 points, free throws with 21 seconds left. kept posses"sion. Love's bank shot Kevin Love had 15 points and 11 Jefferson rebounded the missed tied the game at 94, and the rebounds and Al Jeft'erson had 12 second free throw, but Foye game stayed close the remainder points and 15 rebounds for the turned the ball over and the ofthe way. Timberwolves. Timberwolves fouled ford again. 
Danny Granger scored 28 ford again made the first free Cavaliers 101 Raptors 83 point<>, Mike Dunleavy scored 20 throw and missed the second to That's 23 and climbing. and Troy Murphy added 17 make it 112-111, Minnesota. LeBron James scored 33 and points and 12 rebounds for the Minnesota's Telfair made two eclipsed 12,000 points for his Pacers, who have lost back-to­free throws with 13.4 seconds career, and the Cleveland hack home games. left. Cavaliers remained flawless on 
Seven players scored in double Granger missed a 3-pointer their floor by winning their 23rd figures for the Timberwolves, from the left wing that could have straight home game, over the who won despite Jefferson's tied the score with seven seconds Toronto Raptors on Tuesday below-average offensive game. left. Minnesota rebounded, and night. Jefferson entered the game aver­·Indiana couldn't get to any of the James became the fastest play­aging 23 points per contest. Timberwolves to foul them. er in NBA history to reach the 
Minnesota shot 49 percent and Indiana led 72-71 in the third 12 ,000-point plateau. At 24 the Pacers 48 percent. The quarter before going on an 8-0 years, 35 days, he did it quicker Timberwolves committed 21 run that included a 3-pointer by than Los Angeles superstar Kobe turnovers, but made up for it by Jarrett Jack and a three-point Bryant, who was 25 years, 220 outrebounding the Pacers 54-44. play by Granger to make it 80-71 days, when he did it. 
Minnesota led 110-106 in the with just over three minutes left Daniel Gibson scored 18 and final minute, but Indiana had a in the period. Minnesota trimmed Mo Williams 16 as the Cavaliers chance to draw closer. Marquis its deficit to 82-78 by the end of broke the club record for consec­Daniels missed twice in close, the quarter. utive home wins set during the then T.J. Ford missed a 3-pointer Granger took charge early in 1988-89 season. Cleveland, before the Timberwolves the final quarter. He started it which built a 23-point lead in the rebounded. Minnesota's Mike with a 3-pointer, hit two free frrst quarter, also became the frrst 7 5 and the Raptors were unable and Williams had six assists in 
team since the 1949-50 to get any closer. the period. Rochester Royals to \\in their frrst · James, the Eastern Williams, snubbed as an All­23 home games by at least four Conference's player of the month Star reserve by coaches, may get point.;;. in January, scored 16 in the frrst another shot at going to Phoenix 
Chris Bosh scored 29 and quarter and had 25 in-the first for the league's showcase of Jermaine O'Neal 20 to pace half on an array of shots. Nearly stars. With Orlando's Jameer Toronto. everything dropped for Nelson likely to miss several Trailing by 19 at halftime and Cleveland's All-Star, who will now weeks -at least-with a shoul­showing little fight, the Raptors head to Madison Square Garden der injury, Williams could be regrouped and outscored the on Wednesday and possibly take selected by commissioner David Cavaliers 26-15 in the third quar­aim at Bryant's scoring record in Stern. ter to close to 7 4-66 enlering the the "world's most famous arena." "You don't wish injury on any­fourth. Bryant scored 61 on Monday body, it is unfortunate Jameer got Cleveland shot just 4-of-18 night against the J(nicks, and hurt," said Cavs coach Mike from the field in the third, and New York coach Mike D'Antoni is Brown, who will coach the East. too often settled for outside well aware that James could "But if they have to select some­jumpers instead of attacking the rewrite the record book quickly. body, you hope it's Mo. We basket. "We set the bar up high for believe our team should still be But that changed midway him. He'd have to play really represented." through the fourth when James, well," D'Antoni said. The Cavaliers were at less than who did not make a field goal in It's rare that he doesn't. James full speed because of the flu. the second half, decided it was scored 50 at the Garden last sea~ Starting swingman Sasha time to put Toronto away. son, leaving the court to chant.;; of Pavlovic, reserve center Lorenzen First, he was fouled on a drive "M-V-P!" just as Bryant did. Wright and longtime play-by-play and made both free throws. On James outscored the Raptors announcer Joe Tait were all sick the Raptors' next trip, James 16-15 in the first quarter as the and missed the game. challenged a soaring Bosh on a Cavaliers, moving the ball around Wally Szczerbiak made his frrst dunk attempt and got just enough the perimeter, had one of their start this season in place of of the ball to alter its course. best offensive periods this season. Pavlovic, who moved into the James was again fouled while They made 7-of-10 3-pointers, starting lineup on Jan. 16 after powering inside and made his committed just one turnover and guard Delonte West broke his AP free throws -he finished 13-of-blasted to a 3 7-15 lead after 12 wrist. Szczerbiak made two 3­13 at the line-to make it 87-75. minutes. pointers in the frrst few minutes Gibson's 3-pointer made it 90-James made his first six shots and fmished with 15 points. 

Tbe Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024'South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The 
charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
New pop Christian music by Will of Titus available at www.willoftitus.com or itunes 
FoR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer­ing 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 
4-bdrm. 2ba just off campus. Starts 6/09. $850/mo. 574-250-7653. 
Unfurnished 4-bdrm, 3ba,fpl,sky­lights,2-car garage, FR. deluxe appl, avail. August. 
Call 574-232-4527 or 269-683­5038. 
Townhomes at Dublin Village, Irish Crossing, Wexford Place, Ivy Quad. 3 and 4 Bdr. Only a few left for 09/10. CES Property Management. 574-968-0112 CESPM.info 
613 Lafayette Blvd., 6-bdrm & 2­bdrm houses. $350/person. Call 574-876-6333. 
Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or www.kramerhous­es.com 
NOW LEASING. LAFAYETTE TOWNHOUSES. $350/PERSON. 3,4 & 5-BDRM UNITS. 2.5 BATHS. FREE INTERNET. NEWLY REMODELED. 
CALL 574-234-2436 OR WWW.KRAMERHOUSES.COM 
Student rentals 2009/2010. St. Peter/SB Ave. Homes. $1300­$2000/month. 5-7 bdrms, 1st or 2nd floor. 
Contact Bruce Gordon 
57 4-876-3537. 
HOUSES FOR RENT 2009-tO. 2-4 BEDROOMS, CLOSE TO CAM­PUS, STAINLESS STEEL APPLI­ANCES. CALL BILL: 574-532-1896. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, p[ease call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NOs Assistance for Pregnant Studentsf/Office of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd.edufhealth-safety /assis­lance-tor-pregnant-students. If yob or someone you care about has een sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: http:ffosa.nd.edufhealth­safety/assault/ 
You've got me saying TE'O. I'm tired of seeing guys go to SC, Won't you come play here at NO 
A woman, while touring a small South American country was shown a bullfight. 
The guide told her, "This is our number one sport." 

The horrified woman said, "Isn't that revolting?" 
... 

"No," the guide replied, "revolting is our number two sport." 
So we need to get normal size cups right? You mean 'B" cups? (pause. confusion and recognition) I feel like less of a man nght now 
Bob was in trouble. He forgot his wedding anniversary. His wife was really pissed. She told him "Tomorrow morning. I expect to find a gift in the driveway that goes from 0 to 200 in 6 seconds AND IT BETTER BE THERE!!" 
The next morning he got up early and left for work. When his wife woke up, she looked out the window and sure enough there was a box gift-wrapped in the middle of the driveway. 
Confused. the wife put on her robe and ran out to the driveway, brought the box back in the house. 
She opened it and found a brand new bathroom scale. 


Wednesday, February 4, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
NCAA Women's Basketball AP Top 25 
team record points 
1 Connecticut (45) 21-0 1125 2 Oklahoma 18-2 1079 3 California 18-2 979 4 Duke 11-2 917 5 Louisville 20-2 873 6 Auburn 21·1 872 7 Stanford 17-4 852 8 Baylor 11·3 792 9 North Carolina 19·3 792 10 TexasA&M 17-3 790 11 Florida 20-2 660 12 Tennessee 16·4 594 13 Maryland 16·4 584 14 Ohio State 18-3 514 15 Florida State 18-4 498 16 Texas 15-5 444 17 Virginia 18-4 435 18 Kansas State 18-2 334 19 Vanderbilt 11·5 26G 20 Iowa Stale 16·4 247 21 NOTRE DAME 16-4 241 22 Pittsburgh 16-4 215 23 Xavier 19·4 135 24 DePaul 17-5 99 25 South Dakota State 20-2 94 
Preseason Baseball USA Today/ESPN Top 25 
team points 
1 LSU 738 2 North Carolina 737 3 Rice 673 4 Georgia · 600 5 TexasA&M 590 6 Stanford 576 7 Arizona State 533 
8 Cal State FuiJerton 507 9 Florida State 500 10 Texas 500 11 Mississippi 431 12 Georgia Tech 327 13 Oklahoma State 321 14 Miami 320 15 San Diego 304 16 Louisville 292 17 Baylor 269 18 UC Irvine 262 19 FresnoState 247 20 Missouri 224 21 Pepperdine 156 22 UCLA 140 23 Florida 112 24 Coastal Carolina 102 25 Clemson 80 
Preseason Women's 
Lacrosse Rankings 
team 
points 
1 Northwestern 399 2 Syracuse 365 3 Duke 362 4 Virginia 313 5 Penn 302 6 Maryland 285 7 Princeton 280 8 Georgetown 236 9 North Carolina 230 10 Boston U. 214 11 NOTRE DAME 195 12 Vanderbilt 146 13 Dartmouth 135 14 New Hampshire 89 15 Johns Hopkins 86 16 Cornell 75 
around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
No. 6 Wake Forest at Miami 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 
No. 3 Duke at No. 10 Clemson 9 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH -More. 
than 300,()(){) black-and-gold 
rn•decked Pittsburgh Steelers 
fans -about the population 
of the city itself-packed the 
streets of "Sixburgh" on 
Tuesday for a parade cele­
brating the storied franchi<>e's 
unprecedented sixth Super 
Bowl title. 
From infants to senior citi­zens, fans braved freezing temperatures and crowds so deep that for some even see­ing the parade wa'> impossi­ble. 
Not that it mattered. Many just wanted to be part of the festive atmosphere and have the chance to revel in the team's 27-23 victory over the Arizona Cardinals in Sunday's Super Bowl. Rousing chants of "Here we go Stef3lers!" pulsed through the crowd as they waited for the team to make its way along the route. 

"We're going to tell the school we had fever -Steeler fever," 12-year-old Rachel Russell said, excusing her absence from school before leading a Steelers chant. 
Renaming the city Sixburgh for the day, Pittsburgh Mayor Luke Havenstahl made his way through the parade alongside quarterback Ben Roethlisberger, both filming the crowd that painted a gray sky ·yellow with twirling lerrible Towel<>. 
IN BRIEF Ramirez rejects latest offer 
from persistent Dodgers 
LOS ANGELES -The Dodgers are still trying to bring back Manny Ramirez. Only the enigmatic slug­ger doesn't like their latest deaL 
He rejected their third offer -for one year -that would have made him baseball's second-highest paid player behind Alex Hodriguez. 
That leaves Ramirez unsigned three months after deciding to test his value in the recession-plagued free agent market, with the Dodgers the only team to have con­firmed making any offers. 
"We have interest in signing Manny," general manager Ned CoJietti told The Associated Press in an e-mail Tuesday. "We don't have a deadline but these situations can 
change in  an  instant and either  
side  can  change  them  in  an  
instant."  

The Dodgers open spring training for the first time in Arizona on feb. 14. 

Fans filled parking garages, skyscraper windows, bal­conies and even climbed trees to get the best view of the team they love and possi­bly find shelter from the spo­radic flurries and tempera­tures that hovered in the mid­20s. 
"It's never too cold to watch the Steelers," said Annette Mowery, 4 7, who drove from the Pittsburgh suburb of Mars with her children, Lexie, 12 and Lucas, 10. 
"We didn't have a good day, we had a great day. It's hi'>to­ry," Lucas said, a Super Bowl XI JII hat perched atop a blue ski mask, a matching T-shirt squeezed over hL'> jacket. 
Even police got into the spirit, waving Terrible Towel'> 
Moorad reaches deal to 
b~y struggling Padres 
SAN DIEGO-In a move that could prop up the team's sagging on-field fortunes, former agent Jeff Moorad reached an agreement Tuesday for his group to buy the San Diego Padres from majority owner John Moores. 
Moorad, who resigned last month as chief executive officer of the Arizona Diamondbacks, and his group will acquire 100 percent ownership during a period of up to five years, subject to approval by baseball own­ers. 
Mom·ad heads what he has called a "small but significant" group of investors that has had an exclusive right to negotiate with Moores since early January. Moorad hasn't identi­fied any of his partners. 
"The deal with Jeff has been signed," Moores said in an e-mail to The Associated Press. "I will remain involw~d with the dub for-the next few years -but r absolutely dread think­ing about the last day. Life goes on." 
from atop horses as they led the parade. Coach Mike Tomlin followed behind in the back of a red convertible, while players holding video cameras cheered and waved from the back of pickup trucks. 
Tomlin couldn't stop smil­ing as he was greeted on stage at the end ofthe parade route with thunderous applause. 
"What do you say to this?" Tomlin asked the massive crowd. "Steeler Nation, you leave us all speechless, man, we just appreciate the love. I low about the Steelers? I low about the greatest fans in the world? How about number six? Thank you, we love you guys." 

Hornets' Paul day-to-day
with mild groin strain 
WESTWEGO, La. -Chris Paul laughed and joked with teammates after Hornets practice on Tuesday, the grim silence that followed the All-Star point guard's injury and his team's ensuing collapse a night earlier fading into memory. 
New Orleans learned while blowing a big lead to Portland on Monday night that adjusting to life without Paul may be even harder than imag­ined. 
The good news for the Hornets is they may not have to endure without him for much more than a few games. An MRI indicated that Paul had only a mild strain of his right groin and he is listed as day-to-day. 
"I feel good," Paul said. "Maybe I can play (Wednesday), maybe Friday, so I'm going to just go with it and see how it fef~ls. ... Any time something's torn or something like that. it can be a long time, but this right here. I felt like that was good news." 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 4, 2009 
MLB 
Torre assures new book doesn't bash Yanks 
Returning to Big Applefor book signing, jor1ner Yankees manager claims "The Yankee Years" is as honest as he can be 
est as I can be." because the Yankee fans, recalled. "I mean, it was in years to read it," he joked.
Associated Press 
Torre gets to have it both there are no fans like the front of him. You never did Speaking at Ed Randall's NEW YORK -A veteran of ways. He wrote a controver­Yankee fans. They are unbe­any of that stuff behind his Bat for the Cure prostate baseball's biggest stage, Joe sial book, helping the pub­lievable," Torre said. "Yeah, back." cancer charity event in Torre had his lines well lisher recoup the advance, they're passionate in Los Trouble is, sensitivity to Pie as antville, Cashman rehearsed. then said he didn't say any­Angeles, and they grew over jokes increases with each wouldn't discuss the book No, he didn't write anything thing he hadn't previously the course of the year. But additional dollar in salary in and said he hadn't spoken controversial. said. the experience I had at the Pinstriped Paradiso, with Torre since a telephone No, he didn't trash the "There's no Y a n k e e where outsized paychecks call on Jan. 25, when news of 
clubhouse code. question bitter Stadium with trigger outsized egos, out­its contents began to get out. No, no regrets. things happen, ..There·s no question the fans, sized expectations and out­"Let's change the subject On a snowy day in but when I left they'll never sized ticket prices at an out­about Torre," Cashman said.
bitter things happen, 

Manhattan, Torre was back it was more a be able to sized new ballpark. For veteran Yankees, Torre in town Tuesday for his first sense of relief," but when I left it was duplicate When questions were cut remains revered. signing session for "The Torre said. that." off, Torre made a point of "He's been a father figure
more a sense of 

Yankee Years," co-written by He did two Torre made clarifying his relationship to me. I don't think he can do
relief,.

Sports Illustrated's Tom sessions with light of the fact with GM Brian Cashman. any wrong," Posada said. Verducci. fans stood in line reporters before that some in "Brian was supportive of "There's nothing that has on Fifth Avenue, and the the signing: Joe Torre the Yankees me," he said. "We disagreed been on the book that hasn't queue snaked around the print and radio clubhouse have on a number of instances, a been written or talked about
Dodgers manager 

corner halfway to Madison first, then tele­referred to number of things, but, you earlier or before." Avenue as people waited to vision. He did Alex Rodriguez know, Brian, we got along.... At the Thurman Munson meet the man who still refers an interview with NPR and as "A-Fraud." Last few years I thought it awards dinner in New York, to the Yankees as "we." another with Bob Costas that Torre said Larry Bowa, one changed somewhat, but I -Johnny Damon said Torre 
"I don't think I violated will air Thursday on the MLB of his coaches, used to invoke overall I thought Brian and I remained atop the Yankees' anything. At least, that was Network. ESPN is scheduled A-Fraud when hitting got along." heap for him. my intention," said Torre, for Wednesday. grounders after the third Everywhere, the talk was "I have no reason to not whose job as former Yankees His quotes were smoothly baseman had a bad night in Torre. At the Yankees minor trust him," said Damon, manager overshadows his similar. His most striking line the field. league complex in Tampa, bashed by the authors for occupation as the current Los came when referring to fans "He says, 'Corne on, let's Fla., catcher Jorge Posada being out of shape two years Angeles Dodgers manager. at Dodger Stadium. see who we see today? Is it said he planned to buy the ago. "Until .Joe does some­"I'd like to believe that's "Never once did I say, going to be A-Rod or A­book. thing crazy to me, he's fine in what I'm about, to be as hon-'You're the best in the world,' Fraud? Let's go,"' Torre "It will take me about three my book." 
MLB 
Selig to take wait and see approach on MLB salary cap 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE -Baseball commissioner Bud Selig says the game's economic struc­ture has come a long way and still could use some tinker­ing. 
And while the man who bought the Milwaukee Brewers from Selig's family, Mark Attanasio, has suggest­ed a salary cap might be the solution, Selig isn't ready to take a stand on an issue that could revive dormant ten­sions between owners and players. 
The current collective bar­gaining agreement doesn't expire until 2011, and Selig suggested securing long-term labor peace with continued economic reforms could be his final major achievement as commissioner. 
"The last year of my com­missionership will be devoted to that," Selig said Tuesday during a seminar with stu­dents at Marquette University's law school. "So there's no sensf~ in me sitting here today and engaging them on (a salary cap). We'll just watch how the system develops and what we need to do." 
Whatever economic tweaks to the game might be forth­coming, Selig said they will be made with one goal in mind. He calls it hope; others might call it parity. 
"Our job is to give hope and faith in as many franchises as possible on April 1st." Selig said. "That's the intent." 
Toward that end, Selig praised measures baseball has taken to help teams in smaller media markets com­pete with big-market teams, such as revenue sharing and a luxury tax on tPams with lofty payrolls. 
Selig used Tuesday's hour­
long session with students to 
make the case that baseball 
is stronger than ever despite 
increased competition from 
an ever-expanding universe 
of entertainment options. 
Selig said baseball is "more 
popular than it's ever been" 
in the U.S. and has signifi­
cant growth potential over­
seas, adding he would like to 
see games played in Europe. 
Selig also went out of his 
way to praise franchise own­
ers for showing restraint on 
ticket prices. By his own 
count, Selig said eight clubs 
have cut ticket prices, 15 or 
16 have kept them the same 
and others have raised prices 
"very judiciously." 
But when asked afterward 
about his personal economic 
well-being, Selig was less 
forthcoming. 
Selig brushed off a question 
about this week's revelation 
that he made nearly $17.5 
million in 2007, according to 
Major League Baseball's lat­
est tax return. 
Is that commensurate with 
the success the game is expe­
riencing? 
"I let others make that 
decision," Selig said. ''I'm not 
going to comment on that." 
Selig also sidestepped 
reports that financially trou­
bled Citigroup was rethinking 
its sponsorship of the New 
York Mets' new stadium. 
"Believe me, that's a very 
complicated issue," Selig 
said. 
Nor was Selig ready to offer an opinion on a salary cap, an idea recently put forth by Attanasio after the New York _Yankees snapp(~d up Brewers ace CC Sabathia as part of a three-player, $423.5 million 
frPe-agent spending spree. 
''I'vt~ talked to Mark about that, and I've talked to other 
owners," Selig said. "But I'm just not going to comment on that. ... The cap has been talked about a lot. All caps are different. Some of them have worked, some haven't." 
Teams already have been more cautious with their money this offseason because of concerns about the slump­ing economy, and almost half the players who filed for free agency remain unsigned. Manny Ramirez, Ben Sheets and Adam Dunn are among the players still on the mar­ket, and the players' union is keeping a close eye out for evidence of collusion. 
"We are, as always, looking at the market," union head Donald Fehr said in an e­mail. "When conclusions are drawn, it won't be a secret." 
Selig pointed to the success of the Brewers, who made the playoffs for the first time since 1982 last season, and other small-market clubs as evidence that revenue shar­ing and the luxury tax already arc helping to level the playing field. 
"There's more competitive balance than ever in the his­tory of baseball," Selig said. "The reason you're seeing small-market teams do better is because the economic sys­tem allows them to be bet­ter." 
Selig said the outlook for small-market teams is far dif­ferent today than it was in the 1990s, when his family 
still  was  running  the  
Brewers.  
"We  didn't really  have  

much of a chance," Selig said. "We couldn't say that, but it was true. Today, they do. And can it be made bet­ter'! We'll se~. I meant what I said today. I'm just going to watch it. We've got three more years." 



Wednesday, February 4, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
SERlE A 
AC Milan hopes to keep English superstar 
Associated Press 
MILAN -David Beckham has the support of AC Milan's coach and management if he wants to get out of his Los Angeles Galaxy contract to stay in Italy. 
Beckham is halfway through a three-month loan with Milan that will end on March 8, and he's told the Italian media he's enjoyed his return to Europe more than he expected. While he respects the five-year con­tract he signed with Los Angeles in 2007, Beckham said playing for Milan was "something spe­cial." 
The Galaxy has reiterated that it wants Beckham, who has two goals in five games, back when the loan ends. 
But Milan coach Carlo Ancelotti, who has been surpris­ingly in1pressed by Beckham, would like the England mid­fielder to remain at San Siro. 
"Nobody can tell what will happen after March 9," Ancelotti told Sky TV Italia. "He wants to stay here, he has not hidden that fact, but it is a problem between him and LA Galaxy. As a club, we cannot get into this matter. 
"Beckham has given a new push to the team in terms of quality and enthusiasm," Ancelotti added. "He has given the team something extra and certainly if he stayed it would make it easier to win the scud­etto (the top Italian league title)." 
Beckham has had such an impact that he was included in Milan's 25-man roster for UEFA Cup games against Werder Bremen on Feb. 18 and 26. 
"l am realistic about his future," Ancelotti said. "I knew that he will be with us until March 9, that is for certain, so we will have to make the most of him during his time here. 
"He has given the team all his quality, by his work rate, his tal­ent, his assists and the goals he has scored. He has made an unexpected contribution." 
Vice president Adriano Galliani said the financial bene­fits of Beckham's presence have also boosted the club. 
"I think he does (want to stay), but I can only speak of what the club wants to do and Milan will do everything possi­ble to have Beckham after March," Galliani told La Gazzetta dello Sport. 
"It is evident that our will is there to keep him until the end of the season or even on a per­manent transfer. There is hope, but contracts have to be hon­ored. If the Galaxy want to start negotiations we will be happy to try, but they are right, the agreements are clear -on March 9 Beckham must return to America." 
In January, he played in a lucrative friendly with Hannover, and was expected to play some part in a friendly against Rangers in Glasgow on Wednesday. 
"(Beckham's marketing appeal) exists and we under­stand it following the many requests we have received to play friendly games, but it is not only his presence which attracts other clubs," Galliani said. "We have a group ofstars." 


NBA 
After Kobe's royal performance, Knicks brace for Kffig James 
Associated Press 
GREENBURGH, N.Y. -The scoring record at Madison Square Garden lasted more than 24 years, even with­standing a famous challenge from Michael Jordan. 
Now LeBron James can seize it from Kobe Bryant after just two days. 
Of course, he'll need to score 62 points to do it. 
"We set the bar up high for him. He'd have to play really well," New York coach Mike D'Antoni said Tuesday. 
Still dazed from Bryant's 61-point performance, the Knicks brace for a visit Wednesday from James, who loves playing in the Big Apple just as much and authored 
his own 50-point masterpiece King's record of 60 points at here last season. the present Madison Square The NBA's two best players, Garden, set on Christmas 
appearing two nights apart 1984. Jordan had the top on basketball's performance biggest stage. by a visiting Even James, player, scoring perhaps the ..We set the bar up 55 points in MVP front-run­
high for him. He'd 1995 shortly 
ner at midsea­after ending
have to play really 
son, will have a his first retire­tough time well.·· ment. matching James also is Bryant's act. on the list of
Mike D' Antoni 
"Last night 50-point scor­
Knicks coach 
Kobe made a lot ers at the of tough shots," Garden, finish­Knicks center ing with 50 in David Lee said. "I'm sure Cleveland's 119-105 victory LeBron will probably do the over New York on March 5, same thing and we're going 2008. Like Bryant, he was to need to play our best ball." treated to raucous ovations Bryant shattered Bernard and "MVP!" chants during 

that game -along with a fan everything that ever went on coming on the court to meet at Madison Square Garden. him when James exited for Being a basketball junkie like good in the final minute. myself, how could you not 
And just like  love it being in  
Bryant, always  he talks  ..Every time I come  this building?" New Yorkers  
about his pas­sion for "the world's most  here, it's like a warm feeling just because  still cling to hope that James will  
famous arena."  you know the  someday make  
"Every time I come here, it's  history.,,  it his perma­nent home.  
like  a  warm  He  could be  
feeling  just  LeBron James  the  marquee  
because  you  Cavaliers forward  free agent in  a  

know the histo­ry," James said in November, before his first visit this season. 
"It's not just basketball, everything that ever went on. Concerts, boxing, I mean 

%~ F-r in
.,, .!;· 
'~~ -:;: 
DARWIN AT NoTRE DAME 


Join us to celebrate Charles Darwin's 200th birthday-and to kick off Darwin at Notre Dame, a series of events commemorating the I50th anniversary of On the Origin of Species. 
Opening Reception Thursday February 5@ 5:30p.m. upper lobby of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 

~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME darwin.nd.edu 
stellar class in 

2010, and the Knicks have positioned them­selves for a run at him by clearing salary cap space for that summer. The Knicks still hope to get far enough under the cap to offer maximum deals to two superstars, hop­ing they can convince a Chris Bosh or Dwyane Wade to join James in New York. 
"That's a long ways off, so that's not our focus," D'Antoni said. "Our focus is to win that game." 
James had only 26 points in his November visit, but he sat out the fourth quarter of Cleveland's 119-101 romp. He's less likely than Bryant to have huge scoring nights because he tries to do so many other things -he had 10 assists and eight rebounds in his 50-point game here ­but his size and strength could make him a more diffi­cult matchup for the Knicks. 
"LeBron can do the same things and he does it with a 
6-9,  260-pound  body,"  
D'Antoni said. "He  not only  
can  get 61, he  can  hurt you  

doing it, and that's not good." 
n·Antoni has said that if a player wants to be MVP, it helps to play well in New York. Bryant. last season's winner. did his part with the greatest scoring performance Madison Square Garden had seen. 
Now it's James' turn. 

f 
t •
•
• page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 4, 2009 •
•
•i 

• t 
NCAA BASKETBALL


' 
'f ) ' 
!' ~ ' 
Marquette stays undefeated in Big East play
' 
' ; 
't l Associated Press 
. 
ROSEMONl~ Ill. -Jerel McNeal 
' I
' . I scored 26 points and No. 8 .f \ ' Marquette beat DePaul 76-61 on 
' ' 
Tuesday night for its 12th straight 
: ~ 
l! 
victory, matching its longest win­t l ning streak in seven years. The Golden Eagles (20-2, 9-0), the Big East's only undefeated t . team, had trouble putting away
~ ( 
~ \ DePaul but did enough to send the 
' I
' ~ Blue Demons (8-15, 0-10) to their 
I ~ 
' ' 1Oth straight loss and keep them
' ~ 
' \ 
I I 
winless in the conference. ' 
Will Walker hit five 3s and had a 
' 
' ' career-high 30 points for the Blue 
> ' Demons, who played without 
: ~ leading scorer Dar Tucker, who 

. I' twisted an ankle in the morning shootarow1d. Wesley Matthews added· 20 points for Marquette, while Dominic James had 15. 
. ' )' McNeal was 8-of-16 from the field, including 5-of-8 on 3s, to go with six assists, five steals and four blocks. DePaul trailed by 18 points in the first half and was able to cut the margin to five at halftime. The Golden Eagles went back ahead by 11 early in the second half. The Blue Demons were within 62-54 after two basket'i by Mac Koshwal, but a 3-pointer by McNeal made it 65-54 with just over 5 minutes remaining and Marquette remained in control fi·om there. The Blue Demons were coming off a 19-point loss at Rutgers in a matchup of teams that had not won in the conference. The game 

before that they lost by 22 points to then-No. 2 Connecticut. 
A nine-point winner over DePaul at home last month, Marquette took a 30-12 lead mid­way through the first half behind a scorching start by McNeal. Third in the Big East in scoring with a 
19.7 average, McNeal had three 3-pointers during that stretch and scored 11 point-,. 
Walker, who hit four 3-pointers against Rutgers, had two during an 8-0 run that cut the lead to 33­
26. And his 3-pointcr and break­away layup after a turnover by Marquette pulled DePaul within 37-33 with just under 3 minutes left in the half. 
North Carolina 108, Maryland 91 
Wayne Ellington started knock­ing down 3-pointers, and the rest of his teammates soon followed: Danny Green, Ty Lawson -even star big man Tyler Hansbrough. 
It all added up to North Carolina's best game from long range in quite a while. 
Ellington scon~d a season-high 34 points and hit seven of his team's season-high 16 3s in the third-ranked Tar Heels' sixth straight victory, a rout of Maryland on Tuesday night. 
Hansbrough had 24 points ­including a late 3 over defender Dave Neal -and Lawson added 21 and four 3s for North Carolina (20-2, 6-2 Atlantic Coast Conference). 
"We just came out and were hit­ting shots -not just myself, but Danny was hitting shots, Tywan was hitting shots from the perirne­t1~r." Ellington said. "We just kept it rolling." 
The ACC's hottest team used some early long-di-,tance touch to clinch their fifth straight 20-win season under Hall of Fame coach Roy Williams. 
Green finished with 16 points for North Carolina, which hit 11 of it'i first 14 attempts from behind the arc to match the school's record in a half, and finished one 3-pointer shy of the record for a game set against Florida State in 1995. 
"I've said a lot of times this year that we can really shoot the ball," Williams said. "We shot the Dickens out of it tonight." 
They shot 51.4 percent, reached the 1 00-point mark for the sixth time and snapped a two-game los­ing streak in the series with their first win against Maryland since 2006. 
Freshman Sean Mosley scored a 


season-high 19 points, CliffTucker Marquette's Jerel McNeal, left, celebrates with Jimmy Butler added 18 and Greivis Vasquez after they defeated DePaul 76-61 Tuesday. scored 13 for the Terrapins (14-8, 3-5), who hoped to draw some confidence from their return to the arena where last year they became the first team to beat the then-No. 1 Tar Heels. 
They only briefly led this time and were handed their sixth loss in nine games since Jan. 3, falling to 0-4 on the road with a second straight blowout loss on Tobacco Road. Two weeks ago, they were routed by 41 point" at Duke after allowing the Blue Devil'i to make 48 percent of their 3s. 

,, 
•·. 

Do you consider the ~..ord "motivated" an tlnderstatement? \\7e tllr:>ugbt so. 
It's time for ycur hard work to pay ott within an organiz<.~tion that was one<:.' again named em: of' BusinessWe,..;-k's SO 
Best Pia(t::s 'fo Latmch A Career. We offE:r a collabcrat;ve, ir:dusive cuitum. With customizabk~ careers, profe!\-sicmal 
df:vdoprnent, and benefit;;. And a commitment to community, th<:: (~nvironrnent, and rnakin9 t;me for famiiy. 
i:r:~~ ~/-;~: ~-~ r -r·t~tt~ rf:·-.. Hf}l:.~~i ·-f::~~-S:Vj ~ ~ y<::>\J t<:~k==~ tt·; 

{ 
Deloitte.
~ 
I 
I 
I ( 
( 
R'D~ For an ek'ctronic information packet, text "NOTREDAME" to 78573. :111'1111 Visit us on the web at deloitte.com/us/no"""dam"'.
E3 "'"'"" 

~ 
) 


D~k.,!t::.~ ~e:"en, tc.> orHJ ":.):-r;'l~!€ of Dtklttt~ rv:...t<~h~~ Toh!:~~t;..:.:. ·l Svvts.s VEr~:n, ~r~d :ti. i~€t"v'l:.>:k of t"fH::;'!":b~~ f:r r::~, ~d; of \~Jhkh ::.. ;~_ :e~.aliy $.1:;:-p.;;~-;~t~
s 
~r·d irH~H~~~~~dE:n; H::ti·ty. Plu..:.s.~: s<::H '.:"..;\."'iv...:.d<:.-t;.,fttH ~~~mfatJ(;.U't f(>£ a ~~Ht~~lh:d ~~~t~:.:ript:o:-: of th~~ :ug-~1 -stn=,·~~=r-.? of DE:ioltt•..: :":.>~:d'!t~ T{)htt:.ut~u ard :t..:.
i 
rr.~=11b~: t:rm;). ;:·!~as~ :.t?~ ,_... ~\":i'."-.de!cttt~-~Vf'rl!\;:;.!ab~,.vt tO:' a r:-:~'=-~-~dc::<.'i d~~r:ption ,.,t t=--:-e l€::'la: :..rn.J•.'tu:e ;.-;of J~loit.t~ L:...P a:=":d =ts ~ub:~idutrk:--s
I 

Wednesday, February 4, 2009 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
OLYMPICS 
Phelps could face drug charges 
was investi­gating. 
"Our  nar­ 
cotics  divi­ 
sion  is  

reviewing the informa­tion that we have, and they're investigating w h a t charges, if any, will be filed," said 
Carolina's football game with 
"Our narcotics division Arkansas. 
He met with
is reviewing the 
players and
information that we visitc d with have, and they·re Gamecocks 
coach Steve
investigating what 
Spurrier,
charges, ifany, will be who gavefiled.,, Phelps one of the ball coach's
Lt. Chris Cowan 
trademark 

L t .  chris  Richland County spokesman  visors.  
Cowan,  a  Phelps  
spokesman  also  spoke  
for agency.  at  a  univer­ 

The photo first shown in sity class on sports' role in British tabloid News of the society. World on Sunday was Where exactly the party snapped during a occurred isn't clear. The November party while university said its police Phelps was visiting the uni­have no evidence it was on versity, according to the campus, and city police paper. said they won't pursue 
criminal charges unless 
more information comes 
forward. 
The Richland County sheriff can pursue charges as long as the party was in the county, the spokesman said. 
"The bottom line is, if he broke the law, and he did it in Richland County, he's going to be charged," Cowan said. "And there's no difference between Michael Phelps and several other people that we arrest for the same type of a charge everyday." 
Under South Carolina law, possession of one ounce or less of marijuana is a misdemeanor that car­ries a fine up to $200 and 30 days in jail for the first offense. Possession of paraphernalia is a $500 fine. 
The Richland County sheriff has long sought to fight drug crimes. He rose from patrol officer to cap­tain of the narcotics divi­sion in the early 1990s, after the television series "Miami Vice" made its splash. 
Lott played the part well. He wore stylish suits and had long hair then. He drove a Porsche seized from a drug dealer and even worked undercover with federal agents in Florida. 
* 

NANOVIC 
INSTITUTE 
FOR EUROPEAN STUDIES 

NO WOMEN'S DIVING 
Divers doing their part to help squad
Associated Press 
COLUMBIA, S.C. Olympic superstar Michael Phelps could face criminal charges as part of the fall­out from a photo that sur­faced showing the swim­mer smoking from a mari­juana pipe at a University of South Carolina house party. 
A spokesman for Richland County Sheriff Leon Lott, who is known for his tough stance on drugs, said Tuesday the department 
Phelps, 23, and his team have not disputed the photo's accuracy. Phelps has issued a public apolo­gy, acknowledging "regret­table" behavior and "bad judgment" after the photo appeared. 
One of Phelps' agents, Drew Johnson, said Tuesday authorities had not contacted the swimmer. "So we really can't specu­late," he said. 
Last fall, Phelps was introduced to large applause at South 

By NATHANIEL LEE Sports Writer 
While most people may focus on the "swimming" aspect of the Notre Dame swimming and diving squad, the Irish divers have also been doing their part in helping the team towards a 13th consecu­tive Big East title. 
Former Chinese national coach Caiming Xie, currently in his 31st season with the Irish, has led his divers to both All-Americans awards and Big East Championships. Caiming has also earned some accolades himself, being named Big East Diving Coach ofthe Year five times. 
"In Big East competition, the only events are the 3-meter and 1-meter springboard dives" Caiming said. "But our women's divers have been doing very well, winning many dual meets with some big competition like Northwestern and Michigan State." 
This year is no exception, with two outstanding divers leading the way for Notre Dame in the pool and on the springboards. Sophomore Heidi Grossman and junior Natalie Stitt have been leading the Irish all season. 
"Natalie and Heidi both have potential to win the Big East, and both qualify for NCAA diving Championships," Caiming said. "I believe they will do very well at the conference championships this year." 
At the recent Shamrock 
Invitational, the Irish divers navi­
gated through a strong field of 
competitors from West Virginia, 
Denver and Michigan State to help 
the team improve to 6-2 on the 
season. 
In the 1-meter dive, Grossman took first with a score of 280.70, followed closely by Stitt, who earned a mark of 273.20 to take second place. The results were similar in the 3-meter, where Stitt placed first with an impressive 307.OS, and Grossman snagged second with 291.10. 
These are just 1\\'o more excel­lent performances added to a multitude of wins and top-three performances that the duo has racked up throughout the regular season, including wins over Toledo, then-No. 21 Northwestern, Pittsburgh, and Louisville. 
In a sport with only 19 total events, the ability to dominate two of those is essential in the tight Big East. Ac;; the IrLc;;h prepare for the post-season, Still, Grossman and the rest of Notre Dame's Women Divers will be an essential part of the Championship seeking team. 
Caiming, along with first year swimming head coach Brian Barnes, are certainly sharpening up in these final weeks to prepare for a dominating performance as the postseason starts in two weeks. 
Contact Nathaniel Lee at nleeS@nd.edu 
NFL 
Raiders plan to keep Cable as HC 
Associated Press 
OAKlAND, Calif. -The Oakland Raiders retained head coach Tom Cable on Tuesday, officially remov­ing the interim designation from his title more than five weeks after their season ended. 
Cable went 4-8 after replacing Lane Kiffin with the Raiders.{S-11}, who have lost at leac;;t 11 games in six consecutive years. Cable, Kiffm's former offensive line coach, rallied Oakland to back-to-back victoriAs to And last season. 
Raiders owner AI Davis inter­viewed a handful of candidates for the job, but never seemed seriously inclined to replace Cable, valuing his organizational loyalty and lead­ership. Davis spoke to New York Giants offensive coordinator Kevin Gilbride and Green Bay assistant head coach Winston Moss before sticking with Cable, the former Idaho head coach who joined the Raiders in 2007. 
Cable's hiring, to be announced at a news conference on Wednesday, will bring some stabili­ty to a coaching staff that's already undergoing wholesale changes even with Cable staying in charge. Cable, who represented Oakland at the Senior Bowl in Alabama last month, has argued that keeping him would bring stability to a club already on its fifth head coach since 2003. 
But several key assistant coaches who finished the season under Cable's leadership already have left the Raiders for new jobs, including defensive coordinator Rob Ryan {Cleveland), offensive coordinator Greg Knapp (Seattle), special teams coordinator Brian Schneider (Southern California), running backs coach Tom Rathman (San Francisco) and linebackers coach Don Martindale (Denver). 
While waiting to announce Cable's hiring, Davis filled several positions on the Raiders' new staff, hiring a few new assistants and retaining several others. Oakland notably picked veteran offensive coach Paul Hackett to be JaMarcus Hussell's quarterbacks coach. 
With a head coach finally in place, the Raiders can get to work hiring coordinators. They're also deep in preparations for ·the draft., in which they have the seventh overall pick. 
Cable went 11-35 in four seasons in charge at Idaho from 2000-03 in his only previous experience as a head coach before Dm,is promoted him to replace Kiffin, who was fired Sept. 30 after a series of embarrassing public disagree­ments with Davis. Cable spent 2006 as Atlanta's ofl'ensive line coach following two years as UCLA's offensive coordinator. 

SEPARATION OF CHURCH &STATE WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4TH C~103 HESBURGH CENTER 
4:00 P.M. 
NANOVIC.ND.EDU 

~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------...................................
r-----­
df x 
r. ~ 
I l 
I page 18 The Observer + SPORTS
: ~ 
I \ 
Wednesday, February 4, 2009 

H 
' A 


by nine at halftime Bruszewski helped the Irish mount two
Pitt 
continued from page 20 
Bruszewski was 7 -of-13 with 14 points and six boards and Solomon went 6-of-11 with 14 points and four rebounds off the bench. 
"They kept us in the game at times," McGraw said of her forwards. "They did what they could do and the guards just shot poorly as a group. All of them. They all had a bad shooting day. I thought we could have gotten better shots, but we didn't." 
After Notre Dame fell behind comebacks midway through the second half, bringing the team to within one and three points, respectively, before Ze1lous and Stewart regained control and brought the score back up again. 
McGraw said that defense once again was the biggest problem her team must cor­rect in order to end this skid for good. 
"It's all about defense," she said. "It's pride in our defense, it's heart. It's all defense. If we want to win, we've got to play defense." 
Although the defense has 
Dunnichay are the only upperclassmen. Along with
Divers 
Lex, fellow sophomores continued from page 20 Wesley Villafor and Nathan Geary and freshman Sean son. Rademaker make up the con­
"I developed some per.sona] tingent of underclassmen. goals and team goals at the "It really hasn't been a beginning of challenge to the season, lead these and as a team, ../ developed some guys," Bulfin we have said. "They
personal goals and 
achieved most are all hard
team goals at the
of our goals," workers and Bulfin said. beginning ofthe come into "Going into season, and, as a practice with 
the Big East a good atti­
team, we have
championship, tude everyday. 
we will have achieved most ofour It's been easy an opportunity goals.,, being captain to check some this year." more off the The talent 
Michael Bulfin

list. I think the on the team team looks Notre Dame captain fosters compe­great right tition amongst now and will them, as the definitely exceed people's divers are constantly shuf­expectations. I personally fling their order according to would love to end my career the finish in meets. Bulfin ·at the NCAA Championships believes that this competition in College Station, Texas." has helped the team succeed. 
One of the most impressive "I think that one of the aspects of the Irish's domi­main reasons for the success nant stretch is the relative of the team this year has youth of the team. Of the been the level of competition Irish's six divers, B ulfin and in practice," Bulfin said. "The been a point of emphasis all season, the Irish have strug­gled under their own basket of late, allowing 78 to Rutgers, 67 to St. John's and 75 to Marquette before giving up 82 points to Pittsburgh Tuesday night. 
McGraw said she does not know how she plans to fix the defense before Notre Dame's next game, Sunday at home against DePaul. 
"We're gonna watch film tomorrow [Wednesday] and decide that tomorrow," she said. 
ContactJay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
guys on our team are very talented and when some of your biggest competition is right in front of you everyday, it really keeps you motivated to get better each practice. We are each others' biggest fans and also our biggest competitors -it is a great dynamic." 
As the season approaches its end, the Irish diving squad does not plan to cool off. 
"We have two or three meets left this season," Bulfin said. "First we will head to the Big East Championships -we really want to take five of the top eight spots at this meet. It is a pretty high bar to meet, but I believe we can get it done." 
After the Irish compete at the Big East championships, they will compete in the NCAA Zone meet, which Bulfin thinks will serve as great experience for the younger divers. Finally, the team is looking to send one or two divers to the NCAA Championships at the end of March. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 

Bearcats 
continued from page 20 
something that hasn't, or won't happen with this year's squad, according to senior Zach Hillesland. 
"I think it's a good point of comparison to see the psyche of this team compared to the psyche of that team because that team was falling apart a bit at certain places," Hillesland said. "I think, look­ing at our guys, everyone seems like they're still on board and everyone's ready to go. So, this group is ready, they're mentally tough and we're going to go out and keep fighting." 
And why is this team able to avoid this internal disruption that happens when teams fall short of expectations? 
"I think as a group we're closer and have a better line of communication between everyone on the team between the players and the coaches," Hillesland said. "Everyone's on the same page. We know what has hap­pened, we're going to be hon­est and up-front with it. 
"We know what we need to do and there really isn't any bickering or behind-the-back finger-pointing." 
Part of that honesty is rec­ognizing that Notre Dame 
isn't going anywhere unless its post defense and rebound­ing improve. Against Pittsburgh Saturday, the Panthers made fools out of the Irish on the glass, outre­bounding Notre Dame 49-30, with 22 of those coming as offensive boards. DeJuan Blair had 22 by himself. So far in Big East play, Notre Dame ranks 14th in rebound­ing defense. This has been a point of emphasis as Notre Dame prepares for Cincinnati. 
"They pose some problems with an athletic front line that we've had problems with keeping people off the back­board," Brey said. 
Cincinnati is led by guard Deonta Vaughn, who averages 
15.3 points per game. But if the Irish can contain Vaughn, it won't mean much if they can't rebound. If they can, Notre Dame may finally turn the page on a brutal first half Big East play. 
"I think we're ready to do it," McAlarney said. "No one likes to lose, and five in a row puts you at the point of God­knows-what. I think we're ready to do it. I think prac­tices have gone very well, very good lately, and it's just a matter of us translating that over to the game." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 






Wednesday, February 4, 2009 
The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
H6R6YA I ONI.Y GU ff ONM-w-,..5! 
I 
68 Like the Beatles' Sadie 69 U.K. military medals 
Down Give in the arm 2 "I love you," in Spanish 3 Support with stone, as an embankment 4 "It's the end of 
5 Monastic jurisdiction 
6 "Bus 9 to Paradise" author Buscaglia 
7 Games 8 Common lunch hr. 9 Women's hybrid clothing 
10 Steal, slangily · 
11 Greet the day 
12 A little advance work 13 Native of NE 
Siberia 
18 "Finally!" 
19 Call after a toss 24 When a football may be hiked 25 No longer bright, 
as colors 
28 "_ but true" 
29 Use diligently 
30 "A cockroach'" 
31 Alfredo sauce ingredient 33 "Sands of Jima" 34 Confess 36 Dead man's hand card 

WILLSHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kathleen Kinmont. +t; Morgan Fairchild, 59; Blythe Danner. 66: Fran Tarl:enton. 69  
Happy Birthday: You'll be inclined to o\·erlook the obvious this year, partly due to emotional t·oncems you may not·wantto face. You are at a crossroad and choices and decisions mu..,t be made with great thought and honesty so you can move confidently into th<= future. Your numbers are 9. l~, 18, 22. 29. 34,46  - 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't count on anyone but yourself to do the work you \~ant done. Be on your toes and ready to counteract an)1hing that may incriminate you. Arguing wi.Jl hea waste of time. Success \\'ill be sweet revenge. 3 stars  
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Ifyou let anyone meddle in your affairs. it will take a long time to sort out the mess created. Don't second-guess your intentions. You must be on top of matters and in control in order to make the most of your day. 3 stars  
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't hesitate when you have something important to say concerning an emotional matter. Walling will confuse others and deter them from get­ting involved in your plans. If you are gung ho. ynu will attract followers. 5 ~tars  
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You have a good handle on your situation. Now, if you can express )'OUT feelings, you can come out on top. When you back away and sulk, you lose ground. Listen to the options that others present. 4 stars  
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Dnn't give in to emotional blackmail. Refuse to let anyone take advantage of your generosity and good nature. There are other opportunities. so don't let anyone make you feel you are in a do-or-die situation. 2 stars  - 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Put your best fo..1t forward and you'll have everyone eating out of your hand. You can persuade even the toughest opponent that von have something worth investing in or getting involved in. Make your move with confidence. 5 stars  
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Go after your goals. Getting involved in groups that can in­troduce you to people of influence will help you map out your course of action and bring about success. Romantic opportunities are present. 5 stars  
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Think for yourself. You have to read between the lines if you want to know where you stand. Changes to your environment will leave you won­dering where you will end up. Don't leave yourself open for criticism. 3 stars  
SAGn'TARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): You are likely to get involved in an emotional situation that will make you squirm if you haven't been honest. If you fall short, some­one will be happy to point it out. Stay where you can get the most done in the least amount of time. 3 stars  
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You have everything going for you but, if you let someone you are emotionally involved with cloud your vision, you will miss out on a prosperous opportunity. Changes to your home or your personal situation will ease stress. 5 stars  
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Too much, too fast will lead to emotional upset and poor choices. Someone will try to talk his or her way into your life but past records should help you make your final decision. It's time for you to move on to new people, places and pastimes. 2 stars  
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Mingle with people who are doers. A partnership looks promising but. before you decide to get involwd financially, make sure that the deal is fair to both parties. Get what you want in w-riting. 4 stars  ...  
Birthday Baby: You are creati\·e, innovative and imaginative. You will stand ~one, if you must, to be tme to your beliefs. You an: kind and compassionate.  
Et~gl'ltia's Web sites: eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations, nr'!;space.comfeugeninlasffor Euge11ia's blog, astroad1'ice.comfor ftm  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

WWW.BLACKDOG.COM 


-
-Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name Address ________________________________________ -. City __________ State ____ Zip__________ 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
, 

DAVID CAVADINI 
I 


HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

~1JJOOID11JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
KNETO 
1 

rJ [] 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
l;~r~~·l 

[] 

•

EKELCHE I HEMMING Or<ESSt::S
IJ I [) 
AL-l-DAY L-EFT THE
www.jumble.com 
SEAMSTRESS--­
t:DEFANE I 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as

IJ I I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
.... 

Answer: ITJ[I I J " [ I I I ]" 
(Answers tomorrow) FAIRY JAILED BECKON

Saturday's I Jumbles: AFOOT Answer: What Dad considered the icy drink on a hot 
day-A COOL "AID" 
CROSSWORD 
Across 1 Gillette razor 5 Meal-in-a-can 
brand 9 Alarming 
141n view 
15 Noggin 
16 Divided Asian 
land 17 Feel like quarreling about something 20 Gangster's code ·of silence 21 On with 
(even with) 22_'wester 23 No halfway effort 26 Rand who wrote 
"Atlas Shrugged" 27 Sch. where Shaquille O'Neal played basketball 28 Writer's guidelines 32 Spanish uncles 
35 Mexican restaurant offering 
39 "Heads up!," e.g. 40 Letters after two slashes 41 Grounds for a good night's 
sleep? 42 Dick Van 43 Addlebrain 44 Skilled 45" see it ... " 47 Enterprise inits. 49 Basis of a false 
arrest, perhaps 58 Suffix with hotel 59 Richard and 
Jane in court 60 Gain back 61 Going past the 
fourth quarter, say 64 Altimeter user 65 Again 66 Hamburg's river 67 Informal reply to "Who's there?" 


Puzzle by Tim Wescott 
37 Gown's partner 38 "How Has the Banshee Cried" (Thomas Moore poem) 41 One of a 
seasonal octet 43 Use as a bed 46 "Obey your 
thirst" sloganeer, once 
48 Off the wall 49 Hedren of Hitchcock's 'The Birds" · 50 Activated again, as a burner 51 Range extending south from the Kara Sea 52 "At the Milliner's" painter 

53 Auto route from Me. to Fla. 54 Did one's part? 55 Agitates 56 Okra stew 57 They're guarded at the Olympics 62_ Kippur 63 Annoy 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit ny1imes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

1 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source ·or information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary't; Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

HMMM 
/ 




Wednesday, February 4, 2009 page 20 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
H~ops squad looks to get back on track vs. Cincinnati 
By CHRIS HINE Spons Writer 
Ever sine e Notre Dame's loss to Louisville on Jan.· 12, the Irish have been trying to turn the page, and start a :new chapter, a new winning streak. Too bad the pages have been glued together. 
Five straight games against ranked opponents, four against teams now in the top­tO, offered no respite, no easy wins, and in fact: no 
wins at all. 
"You know, I think after each loss, we've been trying to turn the page and get onto something different," Irish guard Kyle McAlarney said. "But I think nowt you've just got to forget about all that and you've got to just go out and play." 
Notre Dame's matchup Wednesday at Cincinnati rep­resents Notre Dame's best chance at a win since the Irish downed Seton Hall on Jan. 10, a win Irish coach 


NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Senior guard nets 29 for Panthers, ensures Irish skid continues 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Wrirer 
Pitt guard Shavonte Zellous made sure that Notre Dame would not get out of its current funk, scoring 29 points in 31 minutes to lead the Panthers in their 82-70 win over the Irish. 
The loss was Notre Dame's fourth in its last six games. 
"Muffet on the losing streak," Irish coach Mufl'et McGraw said in a phone interview with The Observer Tuesday night. 
Zellous, the Big East leader in scoring, was one of four Panthers in double figures Tuesday night. Guards Xenia Stewart and Taneisha Harrison each put up 17 points and for­ward Shayla Scott added 11 for Pittsburgh in the win. 
"I thought Pitt came out ready to play. It was an important game and they came out like they wanted to win," McGraw 
Over--Zellous 
said. "They played harder than we did. Everybody for them stepped up and had a great game. They did what they need­ed to do; they rebounded, they scored." 
Similar to Notre Dame's most recent loss -a 78-68 home defeat at the hands of Rutgers -its opponents got an early lead with the 3-point shot. Zellous and Stewart each nailed a trey in the first 40 seconds of the game. 
Pitt stayed hot from beyond the arc all game, finishing 7 -of­12 from 3-point land. Zellous was 4-of-5 and Stewart was 2­of-3. 
On the other end of the court, Notre Dame's shooting struggles continued to show up in a big way, especially in the back-court. Guards Melissa Lechlitner and Lindsay Schrader combined to shoot only 6-of-26 during the game for 17 total points. 
The one bright side for the Irish. McGraw said, was the play of forwards Becca Bruszewski and Erica Solomon. 
see PITT/page 18 


MEN'S DIVING 
Led by Bulfin, Irish divers make their mark 
By MlKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 
Although the Notre Dame men's swimming and diving team has experienced its ups and downs throughout its 6-6 season, the Irish have seen remarkable consistency from its divers. ~ 
In four meets since the start of 2009, the Irish have yet to drop either the 1-meter or 3­
.-meter diving events. Furthermore. the Irish have swept at least the top three spots in six of their past eight diving events, including two sweeps of the top-five and top-four spots. 
Leading the way for the Irish is senior captain Michael Bulfin, who has placed first in five of his six events in 2009. He also ranks third and sec­ond in the Big East in the 1­meter and 3-meter events, respectively. Sophomore Eric Lex trails Bulfin with two first place finishes while junior Caleb Dunnichay has one win in the new year. With numer­ous strong showings at this point in the season, the Irish believe that they are on their way to accomplishing the goals that they set for the sea-
see DIVERS/page 18 Mike Brey said seemed like it was "last season." But Brey said just because Cincinnati may not have the number next to its name doesn't mean you can automatically put one in the win column for Notre Dame. 
"You can't fall into the trap where just because Cincinnati's not in the top-10, you're not ready to compete," Brey said before practice Monday. 
The Bearcats posted a 65­5 7 win over Georgetown last 

week, but Villanova blew them out Sunday, 71-50. For the Irish to beat the Bearcats, they' 11 need to play well in every facet of the game for 40 m i n u t e s·, s o m e t h i n g t h e y haven't done in their current slump. 
"We've done stuff in spurts and then just kind of, orie important play, important rebound we just haven't been able to get, which was evident in the· Marquette and UConn game," McAlarney said. 
A loss to Cincinnati would 
not mean the end of Notre· Dame's season, but it would make the road the NCAA Tournament a lot tougher. Brey and Notre Dame's sen­
. iors were in a similar situa­tion three years ago, when Notre Dame couldn't buy a win, and suffered heartbreak­ing loss after heartbreaking loss, failing to make the NCAA Tournament. Each defeat wore on the team's chemistry and psyche, 
see BEARCATS/page 18 
SMC BASKETBALL 

SMC seeks conference win 
Belles will try to rebound after blo'lvout loss to rival Hope 
By BOBBY GRAHAM Sports Writer 
Coming into last Saturday's matchup again.•,;t lloptl, the Bfllles had generated a considerable amount of momentum. 
After winning the first three 
· games of a grueling four-game road trip, including a tough over­time victory against Calvin, Saint Mary's was tied with the Hope's nationally ranked Dutch for the best record in MIAA conference play and a shut to go head-to-head for the regular season crown. However, despite the Belles' hot streak, they fell behind early in their matchup Saturday afternoon and could never regain their grip, falling to the Flying Dutch 84-59, Saint Mary's most lopsided loss of the sea.<><)ll. 

With their own fate no longer in their hand<>. Saint Mary's (11-8, 9­2 MIM) looks to help them<>elves out a'> much as they can as they face conference opponent Olivet Wednesday at 7:30p.m. 
The Belles' .first home game in nearly two weeks should offer the squad a nice change of pace as the countdown to the MIAA confer­ence tournament draws closer. Including Wednesday's matchup against Olivet, Saint Mary's has already played their next five opponent., at lea<>t once this sea­son. With a combined record of 4­1 against those teams, winning out is a possibility. Throw in a Hope loss, and the race for the mgular season conference championship would heat up once again. 
In order to make sure they don't lose their second straight, howev­er, the Belles will need to rejuve­nate their game on the boards. In la"t Saturday's loss to Hoptl, Saint Mary's was outrebounclfd 57 to 45, allowing the Flying Dutch 30 second chance points. Another strong outing from freshman Jessica Centa. who broke through with 12 points la<>t Saturday, would al.,._l help the Belles' cause. 
Contact Bobby Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 




