the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Innovation Park a collaborative place for research 
New facility combines research, office and classroom space with entrepreneurship and networking opportunities 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
Innovation Park has been pro­moted as a facility that will bring University research into the mar­ketplace as a profitable business venture. 
But what does this mean for Notre Dame students and faculty? 
For professor and director of the Freimann Life Science Center Mark Suckow, Innovation Park is a possible place to launch a business to market his development of can­cer vaccines. 
Although Suckow has not com­mitted to using Innovation Park, he is looking into the facility as a start­ing point to commercialize his vac­cines. The Park, funded by multiple sources, including federal, state and local governments, the University and private donors, offers labs, offices and high tech­nology conference rooms to its ten­ants. 
Suckow is working on developing tissue vaccines for cancer, more specifically, an adjuvant, which he said is something that helps a vac­cine work more effectively. 
“We can reduce the incident of prostate cancer by 90 percent in rodents. We have also shown that we can reduce the growth of ovari­an cancer by 70 percent,” he said of the vaccine’s progress. “Both of these technologies hold significant commercial potential.” 
Along with a business partner, Suckow is continuing to develop the vaccine adjuvant while looking 


CSC adds Bangladesh summerserviceprogram 
for a place to house a business to market the research. 
“The road to market in a lot of these things is a long road, but you have to start somewhere,” he said. 
Gregory Crawford, dean of the College of Science, said one of the biggest advantages Innovation Park offers to professors and peo­ple in business is the opportunity to network. 
“It’s a physical place, a tangible asset that brings people together that otherwise wouldn’t meet,” Crawford said. “You can bump elbows with investors and state officials. These types of connections were accidental before but now these collisions will be intentional.” 
Suckow said this opportunity to 
see PARK/page 4 



Benches to be placed at Main Circle 

By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
Students waiting for rides at Notre Dame’s Main Circle will soon have a place to sit, as two new benches will be installed in the next few weeks. 
University Architect Doug Marsh said the benches will be installed in the northwest and northeast corners of the circle, weather permitting, within a few weeks. 
Student body president Grant Schmidt said he initiated the project because he thought stu­dents would benefit from seat­ing in the area. 
Schmidt said Main Circle, a popular meeting place on cam­pus, does not currently offer seating. The nearest benches to main circle are set back against the Law School building and Alumni Hall. 
“I think a lot of people always complained about there not being a spot to sit down at Main Circle,” he said. “People continually say they want a spot to sit, a place to relax, a convenient spot to wait.” 
Schmidt wrote an e-mail to Marsh during the summer, inquiring about the possibility of benches at Main Circle. 
At the time, Marsh told Schmidt he would look into the project. Schmidt said he recent­ly heard from Marsh that the project would be completed. 
The funding for the benches came from a specifically desig­nated bench fund, Marsh said. 
“[The two benches] will match the other memorial benches located in nearby areas such as the South Quad and the Law School,” he said. 
Even though this project seems minor, Schmidt said, it is still important because stu­dents frequently comment about the lack of available seat­ing and it was an issue that stu­dent government was able to address. 
“It’s pretty small but it’s something tangible,” he said. “Sometimes the work that you do people can’t actually see it taking shape.” 
Schmidt said student govern­ment usually works on larger projects, but is also able to address smaller issues on cam­pus that can improve student life. 
“I just knew that I personally was always frustrated with not having a place to sit,” he said. “It was just one of those things that needed to be there.” 

Contact Laura McCrystal at lmmcryst@nd.edu 




By KATIE PERALTA 
Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame’s relationship with the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh has gained new momentum in the past year — from last week’s premiere of the film “Strong Bodies Fight: Rough Cut” to its new International Summer Service Learning Program (ISSLP) in the developing country. 
The new ISSLP, offered through the Center of Social Concerns (CSC), sent four stu­dents to Bangladesh for the first time just this past summer, despite the fact that it shares a long history with the Holy Cross Missions in the country, Rachel Tomas Morgan, director of International Service Learning and Justice Education at the CSC said. 
“For as long as Bengal Bouts has been supporting the Holy Cross missions of Bangladesh, it is amazing to consider that not one boxer had ever gone over,” she said. 
Mark Weber, a 2009 graduate, former boxing club president and captain and producer of the film, approached Morgan in the summer of 2008 to discuss the creation of a possible link between the CSC’s ISSLP and the Bengal Bouts, Morgan said. 
“Mark asked us to be a part of ‘taking Bengal Bouts to the next phase’ and to provide the pro­grammatic infrastructure that could allow it to succeed,” she said. “He felt the ISSLP was a good fit — our Center’s commit­ment to the work of Holy Cross and the academic service learn­ing.” 
With an initial “pilot” trip to Bangladesh in May with four fellow boxers, Morgan said, Weber committed to the 
see ISSLP/page 4 


Interest in job shadowing doubles 

By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame Job Shadow Program, offered through the Career Center, nearly doubled the number of applicants it received since last year, according to career counselor Bridget Kibbe. 
The Job Shadow Program allows students to observe a Notre Dame alum in a career field that interests them for one day during Winter Break, Kibbe said. The program, she said, was initiated last year. 
“It gives [students] a little bit of a preview of what can be 
see SHADOW/page 4 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Student Senate page 3  Interview with Boondock Saints creator page 10  Baraka Bouts preview page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Thursday, November 12, 2009 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Patriotic support 
I love America. 

I think it’s the greatest country in the world, and I would never want to live any­where else. As a result, I have the utmost respect for our troops and those who plan to eventually serve in the military. 
I feel like I have to say this as a dis­claimer because if your reaction to my next statement is anywhere near as hostile as the one I Mike Gotimer got from those seat­ed around me at the Sports game on Saturday, Production you’re probably 

Editor 
going to be appalled 
by it. 

We’re too nice to Navy’s football team. 
I understand why we respect Navy, and I have no problem with it. Obviously, almost all of their players who took the field on Saturday will be fighting for our country after graduation rather than play­ing in the NFL or applying for jobs, and we should respect that. 
Historically, Notre Dame also owes a debt of gratitude to the Naval Academy for helping us stay in business during World War II when the Navy used Notre Dame as a training center and paid enough rent to help keep the school afloat during the war. 
We honor them for this by playing them every year in football. 
Clearly, our two institutions share a spe­cial relationship, and Navy is probably the only team on our schedule that we can consider more of a friend than a foe. 
What’s lost in all of this is that despite the tremendous amount of respect that exists between the two teams, the Midshipmen run out of the tunnel at Notre Dame Stadium with one thing in mind. 
They want to beat us just as badly as USC or Michigan. In fact, with the excep­tion of those Jesuits from Boston, they may want to beat us more than any other team since they only have two wins in their last 45 tries against us. 
This isn’t to say that our Fighting Irish would rather let Navy win than beat them. It simply means that there is something special about our football team and our school that makes any team that comes to South Bend hungry for a victory in historic Notre Dame Stadium. 
It means that as a fan base, we need to be just as loud in the game against Navy as we are against any of our other rivals. 
Now this doesn’t mean that we should tell Navy to “suck it” or that we need to boo them. It also doesn’t mean that we don’t have to honor guests like wounded soldiers or veterans that the university may have invited to attend the game. 
Rather, we should cheer on our team with as much passion as we always do against our historically powerful oppo­nents to try to give the Irish what many refer to as one of the best home field advantages in college football. And at the end of the game, once the Irish have a vic­tory safely in hand, we should walk to midfield, congratulate our opponents on a good game, and, in the case of Navy, con­tinue the long tradition of singing each school’s alma mater with each other. 
It’s a formula that’s worked in the past that should undoubtedly work in the pres­ent. It’s a formula that makes us Notre Dame. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD TEXT JIMMY CLAUSEN, WHAT WOULD YOU SAY? 








Billy Cowhey  Marc Jiorle  Rosabelle Conover  Patrick Guibert  Anna Gorman  Alexa Doyle  
sophomore  junior  junior  freshman  freshman  junior  
Keough  Siegfried  Badin  Dillon  Walsh Family  Walsh  
“Ignore the  “Please stay.”  “Run that  “Those  “You’re good at  “LOL :-).”  
haters and just  touchdown play  two-a-days  football.”  
keep doing  again.”  really paid off,  
what you’re  Jimbo.”  

doing.” 


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer Members of the Notre Dame Chorale practice in preparation for their concert this Friday at the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 


OFFBEAT 

Nude Australians bathe selves at car wash 
BRISBANE, Australia — It was just a routine car wash. Except there was no car — and no clothing. Four Australian men who allegedly undressed and soaped up at a car wash have been charged with exposure and public nui­sance. Police said the men paid for a wash before stripping nude and clean­ing themselves in the soapy water while their female companions took photos. 
Police arrived mid-cycle after being called Sunday by Smart Wash operators in the town of Biloela in Queensland state. The four men are due to appear in court next month. 
Police and the car wash operator warned the public against mimicking the men, with police saying Tuesday the high-pressure washer could be danger­ous, especially if it goes in the eyes. 
N.C. school puts the kibosh on cash-for-grades 
GOLDSBORO, N.C. — Administrators have nixed a North Carolina middle school’s cash-for-grades fundraiser. The News & Observer of Raleigh report­ed Wednesday that Wayne County school administra­tors have halted the plan at Rosewood Middle School in Goldsboro. 
The school was offering 20 test points to students in exchange for a $20 donation. Rosewood princi­pal Susie Shepherd had said that she approved the idea after a parent adviso­ry council presented it as a way to raise money. Shepherd rejected the sug­gestion that extra points on two tests could make a dif­ference in a final grade. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight FRIDAY GAMEDAY 



IN BRIEF 

“Dia de los Muertos (Day of the Dead) Ofrenda Installation” will be held at 10 
a.m. today in the Scholz Family Works on Paper Gallery in the Snite Museum of Art. 
Notre Dame Women’s Boxing Club will hold its first Baraka Bouts fights today at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse at 6 p.m. Tickets are $6 at the door. 
The Nanovic Institute for International Studies will spon­sor the film “To Be or Not to Be” today at 7 p.m. at the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets can be pur­chased online at performin­garts.nd.edu. 
The Department of Film, Television and Theater will sponsor the production of “The Sugar Wife” tonight, Friday night and Saturday night at 7:30, as well as 2:30 p.m. on Sunday at the Decio Mainstage Theater at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $10 for students and $12 for faculty and staff. 
The Notre Dame Women’s Volleyball team will play Georgetown on Friday at 7 
p.m. at the Purcell Pavillion of Joyce Center 
The film “Rape of Europa” will play Friday at 9:30 p.m. at the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets can be pur­chased online at performingarts.nd.edu. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


Atlanta 63 / 43 Boston 54 / 39 Chicago 56 / 41 Denver 68 / 42 Houston 75 / 53 Los Angeles 66 / 51 Minneapolis 56 / 45 New York 53 / 46 Philadelphia 54 / 51 Phoenix 81 / 59 Seattle 47 / 41 St. Louis 60 / 40 Tampa 69 / 55 Washington 48 / 47 
Thursday, November 12, 2009 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



ND professor examines Kristallnacht tragedy 
By MEGHAN PRICE 
News Writer 
Dr. Ernesto Verdeja, assis­tant professor of Political Science and Peace Studies at Notre Dame, visited Saint Mary’s College last night to give a lecture in commemora­tion of Kristallnacht, an event which marked the beginning of the systematic persecution 
of the Jewish people in Germany and other parts of Europe. This week marks the 71st anniversary of Kristallnacht, a German word that translates to “the night of the broken glass.” 
In his presentation, entitled “Ordinary Roots: The Nazi Holocaust and the causes of Mass Extermination,” Verdeja addressed Kristallnacht, the Holocaust as a whole and the steps that led to it. 
Verdeja discussed the slip­pery slope that lead to geno­cide of so many people. 
“The ends are 

“Genocide is rarely, if
irrational but then taken to the means or ever, the frst goal. concentration causes that Rather, it is the camps. lead to it are Verdeja said 
product of
understandable after this point and open for radicalization.” German power analysis,” began to Verdeja said. expand and as 
Dr. Ernesto Verdija 
He said the the Reich 
assistant professor
Holocaust increased so 
Political Science and 
resulted from too did the per-what he called Peace Studies secution of 
by those who believed there was some scientific and bio­logical difference between Jews and other people. 
“Their goal was national reformation and a racially pure society,” Verdeja said. “You can see how terrifying this type of prejudicial ideolo­gy can be.” 
The changes in state, after World War II, were the next step. Germany was forced to make payments of land and recourses after the war. The country was humiliated and was left in political instabili­ty. This, Verdeja said, lead to the empowerment of an extreme party with a radical ideology. 
“Genocide is rarely, if ever, the first goal,” he said. “Rather, it is the product of radicalization.” 
On Nov. 9 and 10, 1938 the last and biggest state organ­ized riots occurred. During Kristallnacht, 100 Jews died and 25,000 oth­ers were harassed and 
“cascading rad­icalization, ” which started out as ordinary prejudice but later snow ­balled into mass extermina­tion. 
Verdeja explained the histo­ry of anti -Semitism in the world and particularly in Germany as the first step in this chain of causes. 
Jews, Verdeja said, were prejudiced against for many different reasons. They were targeted by Christians for their faith and labeled as “chartist killers.” They were hated by nationalists who thought they did not identify themselves with Germany and were not “good Germans.” They were also discriminated Christian denominations. 
J e w s ,  a l o n g  
w i t h  o t h e r  
minorities such  as  gypsies,  
h o m o s e x u a l s  a n d  s m a l l e r  

“There will always be prej­udice,” Verdeja said. “The only way to stop this kind of thing is to re-humanize and empathize with the objects of prejudice and to remember. We do this through educa­tion.” 
Verdeja has recently pub­lished a book on related top­ics called “Unchopping a Tree: Reconciliation in the Aftermath of Political Violence.” 
Contact Megan Price at mprice01@saintmarys.edu 





SMC club honors veterans 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
In recognition of Veterans Day yesterday, the Saint Mary’s Social Work Club put up an informational booth to raise awareness about the men and women who currently serve and have previously served our country. 
Members of the club, donning yellow ribbons to show support of veterans, distributed both information about the history of the holiday as well as yellow ribbons to faculty and staff, encouraging them to show their appreciation as well. 
“Veterans Day is a day that we celebrate to remember those heroines and heroes that have served our country and gave us the freedoms we often take for granted,” Mallory Price, Social Work Club president said. “The Social Work Club wants to raise awareness about the need for more support for veterans and to remember the women and men that have risked their lives for our country.” 
The club also aimed to raise awareness about the issues vet­erans face after finishing their tours abroad. 
“Many don’t realize that one in four homeless individuals is a veteran, that veterans have high suicide rates or that the loved ones of veterans sacrifice and suffer a great deal as well,” Price said. 
The booth also provided infor­mation about how students as well as social workers can become involved in helping vet­erans, through activities like writing letters to volunteering at veterans’ hospitals. 
“We also wanted to be proac­tive and show students that if they are interested in helping veterans, then there are many ways they can,” Price said. “We also wanted to highlight that social work is a great career path that they can take to help veterans and their families, and that social workers are in great demand in the VA [Veterans’ Affairs] Hospitals.” 
The display was set up from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. in the Student Center Atrium at the College. Price said the club hopes the display will give students per­spective and appreciation for all they have. 
“I think it is important that students are mindful that we have had the luxury of being born into a country where we have freedom and rights. There are millions of women and men who have put their lives on the line to secure those freedoms for us, and often when they return from war, they are for­gotten about,” she said. “Likewise, there are many stu­dents who have a loved one who currently serve or have served in the military in the past and it is to bring our community together and find solidarity.” 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 



STUDENT SENATE 

Student-rector relations discussed 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
At its weekly meeting Wednesday night, Student Senate discussed how to fos­ter the relationships between students and their dormitory rectors and rectresses. 
“Rectors are incredibly important people in the lives of our student body,” student body vice president Cynthia Weber said. “They are in a lot 
of ways extension of the administration and they are huge parts of the communi­ty.” 
Student body president Grant Schmidt said most stu­dents who come to Notre Dame had an adult mentor in high school, whether it was a parent, teacher or coach. 
“At Notre Dame, that per­son is ideally the rector,” he said. “The rector takes on this motherly or fatherly fig­ure, which is extremely important.” 
Pasquerilla East senator Taylor Gagan suggested that rectors meet with each stu­dent in his or her dorm at the beginning of the year to set the tone for better relation­ships. 
“We’re one of the dorms that has a new rectress this year. She did something real­ly cool with the freshman. She brought them in one by one and talked to them,” Gagan said. “I don’t think that’s just important fresh­man year. I think that’s important all four years.” 
“We always have this view that the rector is the bad guy,” she continued. “[If you get to know the rector,] then you won’t necessarily have that view and they won’t feel that negative energy towards them.” 
Brad McDonald, an O’Neill Hall resident, said it would be unreasonable to expect the rectors to seek out every stu­dent in the dorm. 
“It’s a two-way street,” he said. “If you want that good relationship, I think we have to focus on the students.” 
Gagan said a rector might need to seek out students if some are shy and unwilling to take the initiative to get to know the rector. 
“It’s important to see that it’s a two-way street, but there are people that aren’t outgoing like we are,” she said. 
Lewis Hall senator Cristi Yanker suggested that rectors create a time set aside to meet with students so that those who wished to get to know their rector could have a less formal opportunity to do so. 
“It would be great if the rectors had something like office hours, as sort of an open time to come in because they are interesting people,” she said. 
Maria Lynch of Breen-Phillips Hall said some rec­tors might not be fit for the role of an adult mentor and students may have to look elsewhere. 
“I don’t think that a lot of rectors are cut out for that job,” she said. 
“I think that maybe it would be better to focus on encour­aging a program that helps us find advisors on campus that aren’t necessarily our rec­tors,” Lynch said. “I think there is a lack of students who have really good connec­tion with one faculty mem­ber.” 
Duncan Hall senator C.J. Kelly agreed. 
“Some of their personalities aren’t even conducive to a fatherly or motherly figure. Even if we wanted them to be that, they might not be able to do it,” he said. 
Gagan said rectors could also get more involved in dorm events in order to foster relationships with students in a more relaxed atmosphere. 
“Just simple things like ice cream after dorm mass,” she said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 12, 2009 
Park 
continued from page 1 
collaborate with people in busi­ness, science and government is a big draw to using Innovation Park. 
“There will be opportunities to interact with other entrepreneurs 
— people experienced in bringing ideas to market,” Suckow said. “The overall layout was skillfully planned to really sort of enhance interaction.” 
Crawford said the University hopes to get students involved in the projects at Innovation Park. 
“It will be a terrific experience for students to see how companies start and how an idea in a profes­sors head can transform into a business,” he said. 
Innovation Park also offers sev­eral internship opportunities for students, Crawford said. 
Some students are currently tak­ing classes at Innovation Park as well. The University’s Engineering, Science 

See Also 

and Technology Park] is a pipeline. It Entrepreneurship Photo gallery at takes some time for Excellence Master’s other people to take 
ndsmcobserver.com 
Program (ESTEEM) was one of the Park’s first tenants, Robert Alworth, director of the program, said. 
Alworth said the Master’s Program, which combines busi­ness and science to help students commercialize new technology, is now headquartered at Innovation Park. 
“We are renting access to what’s called the Greenhouse, which is a big common area on first floor of Innovation Park,” he said. “Other tenants will be in the Greenhouse doing research or working on busi­ness plans. Students will be inter­acting with them on casual basis. 
“The theory is that the tenants will also get the opportunity to interact with other tenants and other students there working on similar problems. You interact with other people there and interact with Innovation Park staff for guid­ance and help making connec­tions.” 
The ESTEEM program also rents office space and classroom space in the Park, Alworth said. 
“There have been a few chal­lenges with waiting for the building to be finished, but it’s a beautiful facility,” he said. 
Crawford said Innovation Park is part of an effort to increase the University’s research potential. 
“As a research institution, we want to increase our research visi­
bility on the outside,” 
he said. “[Innovation 
research and trans­
late it into societal, health or environmental good. If something looks attractive and fits well with the Notre Dame mission, we can then take it to next level and market it.” 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 




Shadow 
continued from page 1 
expected in a career in that particular industry,” Kibbe said. “I think part of it is the opportunity to really find out from that alum what they like, what they don’t like, what they recommend, how to break into this industry.” 
The program relies on a database of over 1,200 alumni in different careers nationwide who volunteered to participate in the program when they were contacted by that Career Center with the help of the Alumni Office, Kibbe said. 
T h i r t y -t w o  “It gives [students] a  ness, psychology,  
students par­ticipated in the program last year, she said.  little bit of a preview of what can be expected in a career  e d u c a t i o n , healthcare, engi­neering and non­profit work,  
“Everything we received back was very  in that particular industry.”  Kibbe said. The Career Center sends  
positive,” she  p a r t i c i p a t i n g  
said. “It  was  Bridget Kibbe  alumni a list of  
also a tool for  counselor  possible activi­ 
them to net­work, to build  Career Center  ties for job shad­ow students,  
their network- including infor­ 

ing system in the Notre Dame mational interviews, small family that’s already in place.” projects, involvement in meet-
Kibbe said the number of ings, and interaction with applicants increased to 62 stu-other colleagues, Kibbe said. dents this year. “Each experience is very dif-
Monday marked the applica-ferent, and they’ve all been tion deadline to participate in very positive,” she said. the program this Winter Break. For younger students, Kibbe To apply, students were asked to submit a résumé and fill out an application form about the industry in which they would like to shadow, Kibbe said. 
“We really do have students from all over the country par­ticipating,” she said. “At this point I am contacting the alums and making the match­es.” 
Kibbe said the students will learn of their job shadow matches the first week of December, at which time they will contact the alumni and schedule the day for their job shadow. 
This year’s applicants expressed interest in a variety 
of career fields, 
including busi­said the program is useful because they can even receive advice about which academic majors or specific skills might help them obtain a job in a particular industry. 
“We’re just very excited and we really encourage students to take advantage of this opportunity,” she said. 
The Career Center hopes the program will continue to grow as more students become aware of the benefits of the Job Shadow Program, Kibbe said. It allows students to experi­ence a career field and have time with an alum in a particu­lar field who can give them advice. 
Kibbe said the Career Center plans to e-mail alumni this summer to increase the data­base of alumni who are willing to host students for job shad­owing. 
This spring, Kibbe said, the Career Center also plans to begin a new program called the Notre Dame Industry Externship Program, which would allow students to shad­ow alumni in certain industries for longer periods of time. 
“We’re in the process of developing it right now,” she said. “We hope to each semes­ter have a type of program using the job shadow contacts that we’ve collected and expanding on that.” 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 


ISSLP 
continued from page 1 
groundwork if the CSC would add Bangladesh to the listing of country placements for the pro­gram. 
“It was a mission, Mark reminded me, for which Bengal Bouts boxers had fought for over 78 years but about a land that they had never stepped foot on or about a people they had never met,” she said. “I was very much inspired by his vision and energized by his commit­ment.” 
In their two-week trip to Bangladesh, along with researching and filming footage for the documentary, Weber and his the other boxers pledged to “pursue the topic of summer service-learning interns with the Holy Cross community in Bangladesh, assess their interest and more importantly, their capacity for receiving eight week long interns to work with 
their  schools, parishes  and  
development  efforts  in  
Bangladesh,” Morgan said.  

The group’s reports came back optimistic, and plans were 

soon underway  “I think [the  able to teach bas- 
to send four stu­dents the next summer. The local  volunteers] made their presence felt. They were social,  ketball and box­ing to some of the guys.” Pennino, a jun- 
Bengali priests were eager to receive the first wave of student volunteers to not  young, energetic and ready to help in the best way they could. The children cannot  ior, was placed in Pirgacha and said he was wary of the trip initially. “I had both hes- 
only to assist their country but  forget these people.”  itations doubts  and about  
also learn about it as well.  Fr. Leonard Rozario  being group  the first to go to  
“There is no limit of learning  Holy Cross priest  Bangladesh,” he said. “However,  
and I think stu­ the uncertainties  

dents should cross the borders made the trip adventurous and of every sort,” Bengali Holy being the first group gave us the Cross priest Fr. Leonard Rozario freedom to set the tone for said. “That is why I always future ISSLP participants.” hoped that [Notre Dame] stu-Maier said the program dents would come to Bangladesh helped him connect the Bengal and learn about a different lan-Bouts with the Missions for guage and people, how to live in which they fought. the village with other culture “Going over there helped me and cultural values — even food and gestures that would give then another worldview.” 
The new ISSLP group, which included boxers Robert Powers, John Maier, Sean Pennino and James Woods, spent eight weeks paired up to work in two cities, Jalchatra and Pirgacha, both parish communities that Holy Cross has located among the Monde tribal communities, located five hours outside the capital city of Dhaka, Morgan said. 
The students spent their sum­mers teaching English, assisting Holy Cross Bengali priests in parish outreach efforts and learning about the work of the Holy Cross Missions. 
“I think they made their pres­ence felt,” Rozario said. “They were social, young, energetic and ready to help in the best way they could. The children cannot forget these people.” 
Maier, a senior who spent his summer in Jalchatra, said he particularly enjoyed the interac­tion with the children them­selves. 
“My favorite part was just going over to the [Holy Cross Bengali] seminary and playing football and cricket with the boys,” Maier said. “We also were 

understand that the program actually means more than just beating people up,” he said. 
Maier also said he developed an understanding of the plight of the impoverished Bengali people whom he encountered. 
“The biggest thing I got out of it was a perspective and a view on these people’s vulnerability,” he said. “All of their land was always looked at as not theirs. They cannot take back their land if it’s taken from them and hey don’t have the money to get higher education.” 
Maier said the Missions hope to help the country become essentially self-sustainable. 
“We are trying to help a peo­ple that don’t have the access to any kind of help,” he said. “At some point hopefully they wont need us. Hopefully eventually they will be able to help them­selves.” 
The CSC hopes to continue and build the program in the coming years. 
“We were excited to begin a partnership that we hope will continue into the future,” Morgan said. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 


World & Nation 
Thursday, November 12, 2009 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

City fires 25 percent of traffic cops 
MONTERREY — Mexico’s third-largest city has fired almost a quarter of its traffic police for failing tests designed to detect corruption and ineptitude. 
And half of Monterrey’s traffic cops were ordered to undergo more training after per­forming poorly on the tests. Only a bit more than a quarter were found to be completely fit for the job. 
The purge of traffic cops in the northern Mexican city is the latest step taken to clean up its police force. More than 100 Monterrey police officers have been detained this year on suspicion of links to organized crime. 
Kidnapped Irish priest is released 
DUBLIN — A 79-year-old Irish Catholic priest abducted in the Philippines a month ago has been freed unharmed and neither country paid any of the kidnappers’ $2 mil­lion ransom demand, Irish and Filipino authorities announced late Wednesday. 
Foreign Minister Micheal Martin said the Rev. Michael Sinnott “displayed great for­bearance ... in spite of his age and difficult health.” 
“He is clearly a man of great resilience, strength and courage and we wish him well as he seeks to recover from such a trying ordeal,” said Irish President Mary McAleese, who called Sinnott’s freedom the answer to the shared prayers of millions in both countries. 
And Prime Minister Brian Cowen said the government would help the priest enjoy “a speedy reunion with his family and friends.” 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Swine Flu deaths reach 4,000 
ATLANTA — Federal health officials now say that 4,000 or more Americans likely have died from swine flu — about four times the estimate they’ve been using. 
The new, higher figure was first reported by The New York Times. It includes deaths caused by complications related to swine flu, including pneumonia and bacterial infec­tions. Until now, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention had conservatively put the U.S. swine flu death count at more than 1,000. Officials said this week they’re working on an even more accurate calcula­tion. 
The CDC says “many millions” of Americans have caught the pandemic flu virus since it first appeared in April. 
NYC to buy Coney Island acres 
NEW YORK — New York City has cut a deal to buy almost 7 acres of Coney Island. 
The deal was announced Wednesday and opens the door for Mayor Michael Bloomberg’s plan to revive a part of the Brooklyn waterfront that held the famous Astroland rides. 
Bloomberg wants to turn the area into a year-round destination with high-rise hotels, restaurants, stores, movie theaters and the city’s first new roller coaster since the Cyclone was built in 1927. 
City officials say the price is more than $95 million and goes to the Manhattan develop­ment company Thor Equities. 
The deal comes after months of tough nego­tiations that left the plan up in the air, even after the City Council approved it in July. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Principal arrested for shoplifting 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. — An elementary school principal has been suspended with pay in an alleged shoplifting case. 
Vanderburgh County Sheriff’s Deputy Rob Clark cited and released Patricia Edwards following the Tuesday incident at a Kohl’s department store. According to a report filed by Clark, Edwards was stopped after a sur­veillance camera showed her allegedly con­cealing more than $500 worth of merchan­dise in her cart. 
Sheriff’s Lt. Jim Martin says deputies have the discretion in shoplifting cases to cite and release or to arrest the suspect. 
Veterans honored at Arlington 
Obama leads national observance of Veterans Day with visit to military cemetary 
Associated Press 

ARLINGTON, Va. — On a cold, rain-soaked Veterans Day, President Barack Obama walked slowly through the white, stone markers at the section of Arlington National Cemetery reserved for troops killed in Iraq and Afghanistan, the two wars he oversees as commander in chief. 
Obama led the nation Wednesday in observing Veterans Day with a tradi­tional wreath-laying cere­mony at the Tomb of the Unknowns at Arlington before an unannounced visit to the section reserved for those who fought in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
“We gather here mindful that the generation serving today already deserves a place alongside previous generations for the courage they have shown and the sacrifices that they have made,” Obama said in a brief speech following the wreath-laying. Obama pledged he would do right by all veterans and fami­lies, saying: “America will not let you down.” 
The president spoke one day after honoring the vic­tims of a shooting rampage at Fort Hood, Texas. He said he was struck by the determination of the sol­diers there, a quality that unites generations of American servicemen. 
“To all of them — to our veterans, to the fallen and to their families — there is no tribute, no commemora­tion, no praise that can truly match the magnitude of your service and your sacrifice,” he said. 
The nation observed Veterans Day from remem­brances at the nation’s cap­ital to a New York City parade to ceremonies in towns and cities across the nation and overseas. 
At Camp Eggers in Kabul, soldiers observed a moment of silence for the more than 800 U.S. service members have died in Afghanistan, Pakistan and Uzbekistan since the 2001 invasion to oust the Taliban regime. 

The Navajo Code Talkers were special guests at the New York parade’s opening ceremony, where a wreath was laid at the World War I Eternal Light Monument in Madison Square Park. As young Marines during World War II, the Code Talkers used secret Navajo language-encrypted mili­tary terms that the Japanese were never able to crack. 
As the Code Talkers were introduced, the crowd — which included World War II veteran and actor Tony Curtis — let out a loud cheer. 
Boston College dedicated a 70-foot-long granite wall bearing the names of 209 alumni who lost their lives while serving in a war zone. Bells tolled in three sets of 11 from the college’s historic Gasson Tower, sym­bolizing the exact time that an armistice was declared in World War I. Harvard unveiled a plaque on cam­pus to honor the universi­ty’s alumni who have received the Medal of Honor. The university has 16 winners. 
Hundreds of Minnesota military veterans and fami­ly members filled a commu­nity center gymnasium in the suburbs of St. Paul to hear words of thanks from state political leaders. The ceremony drew veterans ranging from young enlist­ed soldiers to retired gener­als. 
“The title of veteran deserves great respect in America,” Minnesota Gov. 
Tim Pawlenty said. “Veteran stands for a life dedication to our nation’s greatest cause — the cause of freedom.” 
Among the dead in the Fort Hood shooting ram­page was Pfc. Kham Xiong of St. Paul. He was men­tioned in several speeches Wednesday and singled out for recognition during the invocation. 
An American Red Cross event in Washington kicked off the start of a program called Holiday Mail for Heroes, which lets the pub­lic send holiday greeting cards that aren’t addressed to a particular service member. Under a Defense Department policy, ordi­nary mail addressed to “any soldier” has to be returned to the sender. 
ITALY 

UNICEF: Hunger affects 200 mil. children 
Associated Press 

ROME — Nearly 200 million chil­dren in poor countries have stunted growth because of insufficient nutri­tion, according to a new report pub­lished by UNICEF Wednesday before a three-day international summit on the problem of world hunger. 
The head of a U.N. food agency called on the world to join him in a day of fast­ing ahead of the summit to highlight the plight of 1 billion hungry people. 
Jacques Diouf, director-general of the Food and Agriculture Organization, said he hoped the fast would encour­age action by world leaders who will take part in the meeting at his agency’s headquarters starting Monday. 
The U.N. Children’s Fund published a report saying that nearly 200 mil­lion children under five in poor coun­tries were stunted by a lack of nutri­ents in their food. 
More than 90 percent of those chil­dren live in Africa and Asia, and more than a third of all deaths in that age group are linked to undernutrition, according to UNICEF. 
While progress has been made in Asia 
— rates of stunted growth dropped from 44 percent in 1990 to 30 percent last year — there has been little success in Africa. There, the rate of stunted growth was about 38 percent in 1990. Last year, the rate was about 34 percent. 
South Asia is a particular hotspot for the problem, with just Afghanistan, Nepal, India, Bangladesh and Pakistan accounting for 83 million hungry chil­dren under five. 
“Unless attention is paid to address­ing the causes of child and maternal undernutrition today, the costs will be considerably higher tomorrow,” said UNICEF executive director Ann M. Veneman in a statement. 
Diouf said he would begin a 24-hour fast on Saturday morning. The agency also launched an online petition against world hunger through a Web page fea­turing a video with Diouf counting from one to six to remind visitors that every six seconds a child dies from hunger. 

page 6 The Observer  NEWS Thursday, November 12, 2009 
Theology on Fire examines sexuality 
By BRITTANY VANSNEPSON 
News Writer 
In an effort to spark campus-wide discussions on controversial topics in the Catholic Church, Saint Mary’s sponsored a new Theology on Fire lecture called “Too Hot to Handle: Relationships, Sex and Sexuality” Wednesday night at the College Student Center. 
The lecture was delivered by guest speaker, Heather Rakoczy Russell, director of the Gender Relations Center at the University of Notre Dame. 
Rakoczy Russell emphasized what students see as their sexual culture and how eight areas in particular shape those views. 
people assume they are only attracted to those of the opposite sex. 
“These beliefs dictate the way we are supposed to celebrate sex or sexuality,” Rakoczy Russell said. “People have the idea that they can do this for four years and turn it off out of college. But what hap­pens in college isn’t like what hap­pens in Vegas.” 
The negative side effects of the described areas are guilt and shame, as people internalize stereotypes and assume they are living up to the social norm. Rakoczy Russell said. 
“I think that people who are fol­lowing these stereotypes are what we see most of the time,” Theresa Zimmerman, a senior, said. “So 

“Imposter syn-we interpret it to 
“What happens in
drome,” wherein be the norm, even people question college isn’t like what though we don’t 
whether or not happens in Vegas.” want to be associ­they are good ated with it.” enough, was one Rakoczy Russell 
Heather Rakoczy Russell 
of the common explained the problems Rakoczy director Church’s views on Russell described. Gender Relations Center sex and sexuality 

She also exam­ined competition and perfection­ism, wherein people must be all things to all people. 
She continued by addressing technology, where personal con­tact between two parties is not essential. Pornography, she said, objectifies human beings and hyper-masculinity is a situation in which men feel the need to be a certain way. 
Binge drinking, she continued, leads to the hook up culture so prevalent on college campuses. The last problem she identified was hetero-normality, wherein as well as the fact 
that people must 
exercise their freewill and develop their con­scious to be effectively open-mind­ed. 
“There’s a need for us to chal­lenge ourselves by being open-minded in order to grow,” Zimmerman said. 
“People often think sexuality is all about sex, but sexuality is how we connect and relate to people, the world and God,” Rakoczy Russell said in closing. 
Contact Brittany Vansnepson at bvansn01@saintmarys.edu 


Celebritydogtrainer killed,bodymissing 
Associated Press 
ANACORTES, Wash. — Mark Stover was the Pacific Northwest’s dog-trainer-to­the-stars. He taught obedience to the pets of Pearl Jam and Nirvana, Starbucks chairman Howard Schultz and Seattle Mariners outfielder Ichiro Suzuki. He also trained his own dog, Dingo — for protec­tion. 
But when Stover’s killer came last month, there was nothing Dingo could do. 
She was shot in the face, and when deputies arrived, the only signs of her master were smears of blood in a downstairs bedroom and hall­way. 
Investigators have yet to find Stover’s body, but prosecutors have charged his ex-wife’s boyfriend with murder in a case that may have stemmed from their divorce two years ago. 
Stover’s friends said they knew little about the breakup but believed he had moved on and was engaged to another woman when he disappeared. 
“We never talked about that 
— just about the dogs,” said Anacortes police animal con­trol officer Marie Padovan. “Dogs that were uncontrol­lable would go to Mark and they could be controlled. It’s a big loss for all of us dog peo­ple.” 
Stover, 57, and ex-wife Linda Opdycke, 45, opened Island Dog Adventures in the early 1990s on an island her wealthy family owned 55 miles north of Seattle. Opdycke’s father was one of the founders of Washington’s biggest win­ery, Chateau Ste. Michelle. 
The kennel offered mas­sages, pedicures, a raw-meat diet and weight-loss pro­grams. The dogs roamed the island freely. Clients included Pearl Jam’s Eddie Vedder; for­mer Nirvana bassist Krist Novoselic; Soundgarden’s Chris Cornell; moviemaker Cameron Crowe and his wife, singer Nancy Wilson of the ‘70s group Heart; and Costco Corp. CEO Jim Sinegal. Suzuki brought his Shiba Inu there. 
“People should have it so good,” Cornell told Spin maga­zine upon a 1996 visit to the island, where he boarded two German shepherds. 
Novoselic said Stover worked wonders with his two big mutts. Once, the bassist left the dogs untied outside a convenience store. They didn’t so much as lift their heads when police officers arrived to confront a group of loitering youngsters. 
Formerfightingdogsfindnewhomes 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS — Dozens of American pit bull terriers net­ted in the largest dogfighting raid in U.S. history are finding homes despite some who pre­dicted aggression or trauma would make them unsuitable as pets. 
More than 120 of the animals have been placed in foster homes or are headed there this week through the efforts of pit bull rescue groups throughout the U.S. An additional 117, like the scarred but smiling Tulip, await their turn. 
“They are not a vicious ani­mal. They are the victims of abuse,” said Debbie Hill, vice president of operations for the Humane Society of Missouri. “That face and their eyes tell the story. They only want to be in someone’s home, on a couch, or sleeping at someone’s feet, maybe chew up a rug or two for entertainment. They’re learning for the first time how to be a dog. 
In the days leading up to the July 8 raid, the Humane Society secured a cav­ernous indus­balls stuffed with peanut butter. Some finicky eaters were treat­ed to home-cooked chicken breasts to supplement meals of dog food. 
The Humane Society offered 
The Associated Press first access to the site Tuesday. During 
trial house Louis  ware-in St. that it  “They are not a vicious animal. They  the tour, puppies born since the raid took turns  
t r a n s f o r m e d  are victims of abuse.”  playing  tug  of  
into an emer­ war with a chew  
gency shelter for the hun­dreds of dogs seized in  Debbie Hill president Missouri Humane Society  toy in a play room. Humane Society staff members pulled  
Missouri  and  a  catering cart  
Illinois. About  down a long row  

100 dogs seized in other states of dog cages, calling animals by were taken by rescue groups name as they slid them bowls of elsewhere. food. 
Once at the Missouri shelter, Some, like Pacific, were shy, dogs were tested by a national quivering in fear of new visi­team of certified animal behav-tors. Others were extroverts, iorists, taken on walks and springing on hind legs to say allowed to chew on bowling hello. 
The foster homes will accli­mate the dogs to the noises and rules of a household, and teach them basic manners. 
Animal behaviorist Pamela Reid, who was part of the team that evaluated the dogs, said a surprising two-thirds tested well for nonaggression and adoptability. She’s fostering one puppy, although one of her favorite dogs had to be eutha­nized because he showed aggression toward men. 
Hill said 160 dogs were put down because of injuries, ill­ness or behavior. None of the puppies showed aggression, Reid said. 
Tim Rickey, who heads the Humane Society’s anticruelty task force, said the raids proved the underground dog­fighting industry is pervasive. 
“We scratched the surface,” Rickey said. “We could have done several of these (raids) in Missouri alone.” 
The Observer 

Business
Thursday, November 12, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Value of gold continues to surge 
NEW YORK — The price of gold surged to a fresh high Wednesday as the dollar fell to a 15-month low. 
Gold futures for December delivery jumped to as high as $1,119.10 an ounce on the New York Mercantile Exchange in morning trading, then slipped back to settle at $1,114.60, up $12.10 from Tuesday’s close. 
Commodities including gold have been rising as the dollar has dropped. Gold’s latest advance came as the dollar fell after Federal Reserve officials reiterated that the central bank will keep interest rates low for an extended period to support the economic recovery. 
Low rates tend to weaken currencies includ­ing the dollar, encouraging investors to put their money in higher-yielding assets like gold. Investors also use gold as a hedge, not only against the falling dollar but also against infla­tion, which economists don’t see as a threat right now. 
The market, however, feels otherwise. 
“There is this idea that inflation is inevitable,” said Richard Sparks, senior equi­ties analyst at Schaeffer’s Investment Research. 
Cable network cuts 25 percent of jobs 
TEMECULA, Calif. — Outdoor Channel Holdings Inc. said Wednesday that it’s laying off a quarter of employees at recently acquired Winnercomm Inc. because the eco­nomic downturn has hurt business. 
The owner of the Outdoor Channel cable network bought sports programming producer Winnercomm in January. Outdoor Channel did not disclose how many workers will be laid off and calls to the company were not immediate­ly returned. 
Winnercomm owns the patented Skycam and Cablecam systems, which use aerial cam­eras to capture overhead video of football games and other major events. Winnercomm, based in Tulsa, Okla., supplies more than 1,000 hours of programming a year to 14 national television networks, including ESPN. 
Shares of Outdoor Channel, based in Temecula, Calif., rose 7 cents to close at $6.50 on Wednesday. 
Hewlett-Packard to buy 3Com 
Company looks to expand business outside of personal computers with purchase 
Associated Press 

SAN JOSE, Calif. — Hewlett-Packard Co. said Wednesday it is buying the 3Com Corp. networking company for $2.7 billion, the latest move by the world’s No. 1 personal computer maker to expand into more profitable areas than PCs. 
HP also raised its 2010 guidance and reported preliminary quarterly earnings that topped Wall Street’s forecasts. The company didn’t provide specific reasons for its bet­ter outlook, other than a statement from CEO Mark Hurd that “significant growth in China” and “solid execution” helped HP in the quarter. 
HP’s stock slipped 35 cents to $49.65 while 3Com’s shares leaped $1.96, or 34 percent, to $7.65 in extended trading after the announcements. 
3Com is a former Silicon Valley high-flyer whose fortunes faded after the dot-com meltdown a decade ago. Its proposed sale to a private equity firm and a Chinese partner fell apart last year over national security concerns. 
HP’s acquisition of 3Com is at once a shot at net­working leader Cisco It’s a dynamic playing out HP expanded its own The company, based in Systems Inc. and a across the technology services business with the Palo Alto, Calif., said it will reminder of how a flurry of world, particularly with $13.9 billion buyout of give 3Com stockholders recent maneuvers by database leader Oracle Electronic Data Systems $7.90 per share. Both HP’s technology heavyweights Corp.’s proposed $7.4 bil-Corp., making its technolo-and 3Com’s boards have is straining old relation-lion acquisition of Sun gy services group its approved the deal, which ships. Microsystems Inc., the biggest revenue and profit HP expects will close in the 
HP has been trying to world’s No. 4 server maker generator. first half of 2010. muscle into Cisco’s turf behind IBM Corp., HP and Dell Inc. recently bought 3Com is based in with its ProCurve line of Dell Inc. That deal has Perot Systems Corp. for Marlborough, Mass. In the networking gear. While been approved in the U.S. $3.9 billion, and Xerox most recent quarter, it had growing, it is a small part but is being held up over Corp. bought Affiliated $290.5 million in revenue. of HP’s business, account-antitrust concerns in Computer Services Inc. for HP’s preliminary report ing for less than 1 percent Europe. about $6.4 billion. for the three months that of HP’s $83.6 billion in rev-Hardware companies are HP said the 3Com prod-ended in October showed enue in the nine months buying their way in to ucts will be folded into the company earned 99 ended July 31. more profitable markets as HP’s own networking cents per share, compared 
HP and Cisco have been their margins shrink with equipment business. HP with 84 cents in the year-longtime partners, but the trends like cheaper PCs said the deal will add new ago period. two companies lately have called “netbooks” and a products to its line and After adjusting for been squaring off in areas shift toward cheaper help expand its presence in restructuring and other in which they’ve never servers catching on. China. one-time items, HP earned competed before. As HP Companies especially HP also said customers $1.14 per share. Revenue pushes into networking, want a piece of technology want more than one ven-fell 8 percent from the Cisco is pushing into com-services, a market where dor in a sector dominated same period a year ago to puter servers. IBM is strong. by Cisco. $30.8 billion. 


Wal-mart to remain open on Black Friday 
Associated Press customers can gather in different $400,000 victims’ compensation 
areas of the store, waiting for the fund, and give $1.5 million to social 

LITTLE ROCK, Ark. — Wal-Mart deals to begin, Tovar said. services programs and nonprofit Stores said Wednesday it will keep its “If you’ve got a 200,000-square-groups. The agreement included no stores open 24 hours and take new foot store, people will be dispersed admission of guilt by Wal-Mart. crowd-control measures Thanksgiving throughout the store instead of lined As part of the settlement, Wal-Mart weekend after a temporary employee was up outside the store,” Tovar said. consulted with safety experts who’ve trampled to death in a Black Friday rush Federal safety regulators cited worked with the Super Bowl, last year. Wal-Mart for inadequate crowd man-Olympics, major concerts and nation-
The world’s largest retailer says agement after the Nov. 28, 2008, al political conventions to come up day-after-Thanksgiving sales will death of a temporary employee at a with safety plans for each of its begin at 5 a.m. Nov. 27, but most U.S. Long Island, N.Y., store. A crowd of stores. Crowd-management staff stores will be open 24 hours to pre-shoppers broke down the store’s should make sure people are orderly vent a mad dash. The announcement doors, trapping employee Jdimytai as they enter the store, while maps doesn’t affect most of Wal-Mart’s Damour, who died of asphyxiation. may be provided with locations of Supercenters, which are already Wal-Mart was required to create Black Friday deals, according to the open 24 hours. Spokesman David improved crowd management plans for safety recommendations. Tovar said the change affects about all its 92 New York stores as part of a The plan calls for the hottest items — 800 stores that aren’t currently open deal with prosecutors that avoided crim-marked-down TVs and laptop comput­round-the-clock. inal charges in the trampling death. ers, for example — to be placed far apart 
Instead lining up outside Wal-mart, It also was required to set up a to prevent big crowds from gathering. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Thursday, November 12, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
Abortion column 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 

Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 

In my tradition of callous sensationalist grandstanding in the Viewpoint, I’ve made a minor name for myself. But grad­ually I've started to run short of things to make fun of. This is bad because the predatory masses, always hungry for 
Brooks Smith
the next big thing, won’t let me have a 
Mighty
slow day. They’re 

Morphin Power 
out for blood. They 
Columnist

want me to pick an issue and absolutely carpet-bomb the living daylights out of my opponents with rhetoric that will make Joe McCarthy sound like William Blake, and they don’t think it’s too much to ask that I do so every two weeks, like clock­work. 
Now I try to remind my readers that I am an artistic genius, and my genius isn’t like public transportation, to be the slave of an ironclad schedule. No, my genius is more like public transportation — erratic, but heralded with great joy whenever it finally arrives. 
But the vampires that call themselves my readers have no compunction about sucking me dry at the very moment when my tired shtick is running out of steam. So, desperate to reanimate the dead horse I’ve flogged so successfully with some artificial new life, I’ve decided to write a column which will be my most controversial yet. There’s only one subject here at Notre Dame that can have that effect. You guessed it: Abortion. 
The convenient thing about abortion, from a polemical point of view, is that it poses a moral question which nobody has any trouble answering. Everybody sees the answer, it’s perfectly obvious, and there can be no room for discussion. Of course, everybody sees different perfectly obvious answers. But I don’t think that’s a good reason for suggesting, as some weak-willed moderates do, that the abor­tion issue is a “nuanced” one or that it “deserves rational, and not emotional, discussion” which “transcends the usual clichés.” In my opinion, it’s much better to contribute my own screed to the already lengthy list. 
Indeed, the abortion debate lends itself peculiarly well to the kind of moral grand­standing I am just itching to perform in this column. A black-and-white issue, its essentials can be captured in the shortest of sound bites and thought-terminating clichés. It is clear that there is only one right answer, and the people who don’t see it are stupid and morally bankrupt. Part of the reason I was so eager to write this column was because I really wouldn’t have to write it, just cut and paste talking points from all the people who have already discussed it. 
Man, I can’t wait to write this editorial. The people on the other side are going to have a lot of egg on their face once I’m done. People are going to pat me so hard on the back for how witty and hilarious I was in my column, and we’ll laugh together about how stupid my opponents are. “And just think, they’re as convinced they’re right as we are!” What morons. 
Now to decide for myself who’s right. To abort or not to abort, that is the question. It’s all about killing babies, obviously. Or, wait, maybe it’s all about women’s rights. Drat! I know there’s only one right answer at all times, because everyone seems so certain that it’s universally right or uni­versally wrong. But somehow I just can’t seem to see which universally right answer I should assert. 
On the other hand, though, I can’t rush some wishy-washy, namby-pamby, moral­ly relativist crap onto the pages of the Viewpoint. How boring that would be! “Reasoned arguments” and “thoughtful debate” are for politically correct pansies who are too afraid to take a stand. Plus that’s a total snoozefest! 
Besides, it takes a really long time to think about an issue and write something reasonable about it. It’s better if I just slam some Monsters and type like a mani­ac till it’s finished. Even if it’s completely unfair and illogical, you can count on it being entertaining as h-e-double-hockey­sticks! 
Let’s see which morons I should make fun of. Should I taunt Rush Limbaugh’s dittoheads? Or should I stand in the way of the bloody-handed liberals with Bill O’Reilly’s famous slogan, “We’ll do it live?” Decisions, decisions. 
In the end, though, I can’t see that it matters which side actually wins. I’ll get the same amount of the attention I so des­perately crave whether I uphold the sta­tus quo here at Notre Dame or attempt to “buck the trend.” And like all good pun­dits, that's all I really care about. (Whoops! I forgot to write a column.) 
Brooks Smith is a junior math and English major at Notre Dame. He can be contacted at bsmith26@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Katie Peralta Matt Gamber Irena Zajickova Michael Blasco Megan Loney Matt Robison 
Graphics Scene 
Lauren Baldwin Jordan Gamble 
Viewpoint 
Stephanie Vossler 

A Notre Dame short story 
Part 7 by Mary Laird 
Frederick looked inquisitively at the man as together, they stood at the base of the mountain. Frederick’s fingers still bled from his desperate attempts to get through that wretched brick wall, and he grimaced as he wiped them on his tat­tered shirt. He winced once more as he ripped at his checkered sleeve for cloth with which to wrap his torn hands, and inexplicably, the man beside him chuck­led. 
“You know, Frederick, you really should have just used the door! Would’ve saved us all a great deal of time, and we would not have had any of this falling through the wall nonsense. That’s the trouble with your kind … always overcomplicating things …” 
The man trailed off as he watched his own hand, previously motionless, give a small twitch. Beyond the mountain, he knew, was the place for which he searched. Rumors had reached his ears of a secret tunnel system, large enough only for several people to pass through, that would allow him to circumvent the biting winter weather and travel from beneath LaFortune all the way to the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. He would not lose another limb to frostbite, of this he was certain. 
The only obstacle between him and this ultimate power was the stone. He did not know if Frederick knew of the power it 
OBSERVER POLL 
When should Charlie Weis be fired? 
Never Should have been fired yesterday After our next loss After the season 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
could bestow, or even of its existence, but it did not matter. Frederick would lead him, or he would return to the council and face death. 
Part 8 by Rosemary Kelly 
Frederick gasped aloud and then stifled his reaction quickly. He could see the mountain clearly, but it was imperative this councilman remain unaware, that he did not discover his secret. For, Frederick had seen the Other World. He had spoken to an Undesirable, and was now con­vinced that his entire Mieux Training had been based in untruths. The council had hidden this from all of them, and it was still hiding things … 
The man suddenly spoke. “Why don’t we stop for the night, lad? Right, then I’ll gather some kindle and you get the water.” He left the clearing quickly, his jacket flapping behind him. 
After a minute Frederick tore his gaze from the heavenly peak and wandered from the clearing, following the sounds of water nearby. A river suddenly opened itself up before him and he sat on the bank, tossing stones into the water while he mused. He didn't noticed anything strange until a small clattering sound drew his attention downward, and he saw the very stone that he had thrown moments before suddenly sitting again at his feet. Confused, he held it in his palm. It was indeed the same stone. Hurriedly, he rose, just as a second stone was deposited gently near him. Another fol­lowed, then another. He looked out over the water and was shocked to see the stones he had tossed reappearing on the water and being borne back towards him. What was happening? The river looked normal; did he dare touch it? He crept forward, intrigued, fearful, and met the water with the edge of his bare toe. Nothing, and yet ... without warning he was totally consumed by a fierce joy, a raging passion for life. He desired to plunge directly into the river, to express his rapture, to expend himself completely without cause. Frederick raised his arms, poised to vault from the bank, but sud­denly out of the brush behind burst the councilman with a contingent of soldiers. “Seize the boy!” the man yelled. “He has Disobeyed!” Frederick dived. 

Want to write the next paragraph to the story? Submit your paragraph to NDLFshortstory@gmail.com before 4 
p.m. Limit of 200 words. Title it Part Eight. This story will continue until Nov. 
16. If your paragraph is selected, it will be published in Viewpoint and you will get to read it at the NDLF panel discus­sion Nov. 19. The visiting authors will write the ending paragraphs. Take advantage of the opportunity to write a story along with three New York Times bestselling authors! 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Reality is nothing buta collective hunch” 
Jane Wagner
U.S. writer 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Thursday, November 12, 2009 page 9 
Borderline faith: Mass on the Rio Grande 
On Monday, Nov. 2, the Feast of All Souls, I had the great privilege of concelebrating Mass at the border between Ciudad Juarez in Mexico and Anapra in New Mexico. It was the most moving and powerful Mass of my life. Each year Mass is celebrated 
Fr. Joe Corpora 
at the border, offered for all those who have died try-Faith Point ing to cross the bor­der. I began crying before the Mass started and cried off and on during the entire Mass. 
The Mass is celebrated with half the altar on the United States side of the bor­der and the other half on the Mexico side. There is an 18-foot high fence that runs along the border, along the Rio Grande River. 
As I got close to where the Mass was to be celebrated, I began to see Border Patrol trucks and officers everywhere, stationed every 20 feet or so. All along the fence there were white crosses with the names of people who have died trying to cross the border. 
On both sides of the border were gath­ered hundreds of people. I could not help but notice immediately an order of Dominican nuns standing close to one another on both sides of the border, dressed in the same habit. On the Mexican side stood Archbishop Renato, the Archbishop of Ciudad Juarez, and about 20 priests. On the U.S. side stood Bishop Ricardo Ramirez, the Bishop of Las Cruces, New Mexico and Bishop Armando Ochoa, the Bishop of El Paso, Texas, along with about 15 priests. 
I could not stop staring at the fence with the altar on either side. Here we gathered as one Body of Christ divided in two. While the Eucharist speaks of our oneness in Christ, of the One Bread and the One Cup … the fence speaks of the opposite — divi­sion and separation and exclusion. 
The entrance procession began with people on both sides of the fence carrying symbols from crossing the border. First the Crucifix, then the image of Our Lady of Guadalupe, then the flags of both countries and finally items that people carry when they try to cross — water, food, shoes and a backpack. I don’t know why, but when I saw the backpack and the shoes I could not stop crying. 
The Mass was bilingual with beautiful music. Someone read the first reading in Spanish from the Mexico side of the bor­der. Then someone read the second read­ing in English from the U.S. side. I kept being struck by the absurdity of the fence at this liturgy. One Body of Christ divided into two. 
The Eucharistic Prayer was so powerful. The Bishops from both sides shared this prayer. Another powerful sight — bishops, the successors of the first community of 12 Apostles — on both sides of the border. 
At the Kiss of Peace, I wept as people on both sides of the fence put their fingers through the fence’s holes to touch the fin­gers of their sisters and brothers on the other side. I put my fingers through and touched the fingers of someone on the Mexico side. I cannot describe what I expe­rienced at that moment, perhaps the deep­est longing I have ever known for justice, for peace, for unity, for acceptance. 
I wanted to offer the Peace of Christ to some of the Border Patrol officers. But I was hesitant, not knowing how it would be received. Now I wish so much that I had done it. 
Of course, the communion rite was also so powerful — the One Bread and the One Cup shared by fellow Catholics on both sides of a fence. After communion there was silence to honor and pray for all who have died trying to cross the border, about 5,000 in the past 15 years. The Mass ended with the usual blessing and the great song “Resucitó” by Kiko Arguello. 
All during the Mass my mind was flood­ed with the faces of undocumented people that I have worked with during the nine­teen years that I served as pastor — faces from St. John Vianney in Arizona and faces from Holy Redeemer in Oregon. I prayed for these people. 
There is still so much more in my mind and heart that I cannot put into words. This was the most powerful Mass that I have ever attended in all my life. The pic­ture of one altar divided by a fence with people on both sides will be forever engraved on my mind and in my heart. 
May God enlighten and inspire our elect­ed leaders to work for true and real and honest immigration reform. 
This week’s Faith Point was written by Fr. Joe Corpora. Fr. Joe works for ACE in the Institute for Educational Initiatives. He resides in Cavanaugh Hall. He can be reached at jcorpora@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Yes, true support 
I am the co-president of Saint Mary’s Right to Life and am working on the campaign to support pregnant women on campus. I worked 45 hours every week this summer in the Bronx for a crisis pregnancy organization called Expectant Mother Care. I have worked with the victims of rape, incest and domestic violence and remember their names and stories. I have personally moved 15­year-old girls out of their houses into maternity homes because their parents refused to support them unless they got an abortion. I have talked with women who have no idea how they will sup­port another mouth to feed or provide shelter for a new life. Our crisis pregnancy centers do pro­vide food, diapers and clothing. Our organization has helped thousands of women over the years find housing in supportive maternity homes, med­ical care, and other resources necessary to con­tinue a pregnancy, and then to support them­selves and their children. And yes, I have worked with women who are haunted by their experience of an abortion. I have witnessed their suffering and, most of all, their need for support. I care deeply for all of the women I worked with this summer and did everything in my power to sup­port them. 
However, I am not alone. The country is filled with other pro-lifers who have dedicated them­selves to the task of providing true support to pregnant women. The pro-life movement supports many programs just like the one I worked for in New York City all over the country. In our local area we have the Women’s Care Center which helps provide for the physical and emotional needs of pregnant women. Saint Mary’s students have dedicated long hours and money to the Mothers’ Day Drive which Saint Mary’s Right to Life Club runs in March. This Drive helps provide for the material needs of women in crisis preg­nancy. However, we do recognize this is not enough, which is why we are seeking to expand support for pregnant women on campus. 
The fact that you have written this Viewpoint (“True support?” Nov. 10) illustrates the fact that we must increase our support and promote awareness of the situation of women in crisis pregnancies. You are right, Jacquitta, women are forced into abortions because they feel they have no support. Let us change this together. 
Grace Lape 
senior off campus Nov. 10 

Real experience providing support 
I am writing in response to Ms. Jacquitta Martin’s letter (“True Support?” Nov. 10) regarding the pro-life movement’s support of women. 
A woman should never be in the position where another forces her to have an abortion. This is intrinsic to the Right to Life values. In cases of rape and molestation, allowing a woman to have an abortion does not change the fact that she was abused. Instead, it provides a way out for perpetra­tors of such immoral actions, a cover up for their mistakes. In the end, the victim bears both the suf­fering caused by rape or molestation, and that from the abortion that she most likely did not choose. A woman should also never be in a place where she feels that she has to abort her child because “she would be bringing a child into an unhealthy and possibly unsafe environment.” For women in this situation, adoption is a viable choice. 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary’s College Right to Life student club has an entire committee devoted to helping women. The Motherhood Resource Committee organizes events ranging from babysit­ting for graduate students to fundraisers for a local maternity home. Off campus, the Women’s Care Center in South Bend provides valuable resources to women facing crisis pregnancies. These include information about adoption for those who would not be able to take care of children themselves, counseling for mothers and expectant mothers, and help for both the mother and child with healthcare and physical needs. 
Soon, Right to Life will be holding its annual Project Mom, one of the club’s biggest events that reaches out to expectant mothers in the community. At the Project Mom baby shower at the Women’s Care Center last spring, 16 mothers received bas­kets containing diapers, soap, clothing, blankets and a gift for the mother herself. Meeting with these women, some of whom were very young teenagers, was one of the most meaningful experi­ences I have had during my time as a Notre Dame student. Seeing the women who benefit from this project is incredibly rewarding, as is seeing pro-life values in action. I encourage Ms. Martin, and all others who want to support women who choose life, to help out with Project Mom in some way, by donating supplies or money, or just attending the baby shower and meeting the women our work supports. 
Christina Kuklinski 
sophomore Pasquerilla West Hall Nov. 11 
Christian and pro-choice 
Jacquitta, (“True Support?” Nov. 10), your comments are very true and very well thought out. Not everyone at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame is against abortion. Further, to imply such defiles Catholic Social Teaching that as human beings we are all different and posses qualities that make us unique. While I am pro-life, I am also pro-choice. The realities of this world render it impossible for abortion to be a black and white issue. There is a lot of gray area. The decision of a woman to have an abortion is not one that a woman comes to light­ly. A lot of very serious thought goes into it. It is not as simple as some would like it to be. Babies go through around 18 diapers a day. That costs money. Women have to take pregnancy leave and a lot of employers will sim­ply fire them. What if the woman has other children for whom she must provide? Is she to let them go hungry because she was fired from her job? Not everyone in this world is as fortunate as I am to have a family who would financially and emotionally [support me] should I find myself pregnant. Not everyone has health insurance, a stable job, money. Pope John Paul II once said “It is use­less to talk about the right to life unless you are willing to ensure that those who come into this world are given the means by which to live a dignified life.” As Christians, we must remember these words before we pass judgment on a woman forced to make the most painful decision of her life. 
Laurel Javors 
junior McCandless Hall Nov. 11 
A fierce loyalty 
To the freshman commenting on loyalty, we all learn soon enough that you don’t have to cry foul whenever someone suggests something contrary to your blind fan philosophy. Don’t be so naïve to think that your loyalty supersedes all else. Navy students also honor a fierce loyalty, and I assure you theirs is a lot more meaningful than yours. The product of your loyalty is sometimes another tally in the win column; the product of their loyalty is sometimes a folded flag. I doubt you would choose to burden yourself with the demands of their commitment. So respect it, and respect them. And I know the “kill” and “suck it” cheers are utterly demor­alizing and singlehandedly erase all doubt of an Irish victory, but no volume of fan noise and student chants could have saved us on Saturday. 
Michael Rohman 
senior off campus Nov. 10 
The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Thursday, November 12, 2009 

By MATT BROWN and ERIC PRISTER 
Scene Writers 

The Irish Catholic, vigilante killers of “The Boondock Saints” are back — and they paid a visit to Catholic Disneyland, too. The film’s creator and one of its stars visited Notre Dame’s campus Tuesday evening for several events to promote the release of the new movie. 
A lucky 200 students got to see “The Boondock Saints II: All Saints Day,” the sequel to the 1999 cult classic. Tickets for the free Tuesday night showing at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center’s Browning Cinema were snapped up instantly, but an overflow of campus enthusiasm and online support convinced distributor Sony Pictures to open the movie the South Bend-Mishawaka area this weekend. 
The Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies and Student Union Board organized two informal discussion sections with the series creator Troy Murphy and one of the film’s actors, Sean Patrick Flanery. Following a packed question-and-answer session in Jordan Hall of Science, Scene writers Matt Brown and Eric Prister got the chance to inter­view Duffy, who wrote and directed both “Boondock” installments. 
Matt Brown: At what point when you were shooting “Boondock Saints” did you just realize that this was badass? 
Troy Duffy: Frame one. If you don’t think you’re cool, nobody’s going to think you’re cool. We walked into that just going, “We’re the baddest moth­erf—s on the cell block.” We knew when we hit something. You never really know something like that until you hit the editing process, when you start to put it together with music and see what you really have there. That was the process when I realized how well some of these scenes flow together and give me that emotion that I was looking to give an audi­ence. That’s when we were like, “Wow, we’ve really got something here.” 
MB: When you have all that raw footage and you’re looking at it all, are you basically just scanning through it until something clicks? 
TD: With us, as an independent film, these guys got most of the shit in one to three takes. When you have this much time and this much money, there’s no time for you to go “Ah, let’s use take 57.” It never happened with us. So in terms of editing together all the footage, it was one of those things where we only had a few takes for each scene to sort through. I almost wish we had a little bit more, but as it turned out, my guys came to play. 
Eric Prister: You were talking about how serious the content of the movie was. But there’s also some humor. How much of a goal did you make that? 
TD: Huge. I believe in balance in a film. Have you ever been watching a zombie movie, and they kill zombies so much that you get so numb to it that you don’t even care any­more? The next cool way to kill a zombie 
— who gives a s—? If you watch “Boondock” really carefully, like a mathematician, every time you see something brutal, it’s fol­
lowed by something funny. 
MB: In horror movies, it’s the music 
that gets me on edge. TD: And it’s become a tactic now. Have you ever been watching one of 
those, and it goes “eeeeee….” and then nothing happens? 
MB: And everyone always talks about the music in “Boondock,” and it’s absolutely fantastic. How did you approach the scenes? Did you have something in mind? Or were you just trying to think of what emotion you were trying to get out of the audi­
ence? 

TD: Sometimes you have something in mind. Sometimes you’re just trying to expand the emotion of what you have laid down visually. It’s almost like, have you ever heard that old adage “you write one, you direct a second, you edit a third?” I’d say you music a fourth. You musically edit a fourth. It’s the last spice you put on something. 
MB: Did you have a rule of thumb for that? 
TD: Not all the time. Sometimes I had things in mind. Sometimes I had no idea what we were going to do. It was the process of searching out and find­ing something that gave me that emotion. Like, for instance, that Ty Stone guy [a singer-songwriter who’s first big break was the “Boondock Saints II” soundtrack], the first cue we play by him in “Boondock II” is sort of a montage sequence with the brothers cutting their hair and getting to look like they did in the first one, because they’ve grown long hair and beards. So it’s almost like a “Rocky” montage, and I needed something that was heavy, and hard-hitting, and rocking, but it had to say something different. It couldn’t be “Eye of the Tiger,” right? There had to be the right tune. So I 
find this 
kid in a bar, 
and he has 
this song called 
“Bloodline,” and it talks 
about relationships between father and son. The 
chorus is “I come from one mother f—ing bad 
line of blood.” And to this, “Boondock” fans 
have a connection. Everybody always asks 
me, “Why did the boys follow in their 
father’s footsteps when they didn’t even 
know who he was? How come they 
were killers, too? Is that 
some kind of bloodline 
thing? Is this a MacManus 
gene?” 
EP: There are 
particular things 
in “Boondock I,” 
especially how you 
shot the investiga­
tion footage and the 
murder footage togeth­er. Did you use that again and where did that idea come from? 
TD: Yes. I wrote the script that way, because it’s a way to deliver information to the audience just when you need it. You watch a cop on a crime scene mis-assess a clue, saying, “This has to be what hap­pened.” And then you see the brothers do it and it was just a f—ing accident and it couldn’t have been predicted, which makes it funny. If you had done it linearly, it would have blown that. So these types of things are always just devices to make films more effective, as far as I’m concerned. And the non-lin­ear way in which we flash back and forth between the crime scene and the gig actually being done by the boys, which was one of those things that helped keep it interesting, helped deliver information to the audience when and how we wanted to for emphasis or emotion or humor. It was just a device. 
MB: Going into the second one, you said you can’t just do the first one again. What were some ways you tried to differentiate or change it a little to give it that difference? 
TD: Female lead. Period piece flashbacks to 1950s New York to explain Il Duce’s history as a killer. Technically what you want to do is throw a huge curveball story that they could never see coming. But you have to give them everything they love from the first movie. A sequel is a chance to have your cake and eat it too, but you have to take big risks. Those are all ways in which we threw curveballs at the audience. 
Contact Matt Brown at mbrown14@nd.edu and Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
LAUREN BALDWIN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Thursday, November 12, 2009 page 11 

By ERIC PRISTER 
Scene Writer 

The next installment of the cult classic series, “The Boondock Saints 
II: All Saints Day,” succeeded in the most crucial aspect of creating a sequel to a beloved movie — com­pletely changing the plot, but retain­ing all of the aspects of the first movie that made it so beloved in the first place. 
Director and writer Troy Duffy brought back actors Sean Patrick Flanery and Norman Reedus in as the two Boston vigilante killers affection­ately called “the Saints.” The sequel follows the twin MacManus brothers on their trip back to Boston after many years of living with their father in Ireland. That quiet life is interrupt­ed after they learn of the murder of a Boston priest, committed in their own style. 
The “gratuitous violence” (as phrased by Reedus’ character, Murphy) that was ever-present in the original returns, highlighted in the impressive murder scenes which are characteristically shot in slow motion with a rotating camera angle around the boys. This is coupled with another favorite method used by the director 
— 
showing the murder simultaneous­ly with the investigation of the crime 

— 
to give “Boondock II” a very similar feel to the original. 


Introduced into the story are Romeo, an excitable and over-eager Mexican who joins the crew, replacing their previous accomplice Rocco, who was killed at the end of the original film. FBI Special Agent Eunice Bloom, played by Julie Benz of Showtime’s “Dexter,” follows in the footsteps of her flamboyant predecessor, Agent Smecker, played by Willem Dafoe in the original. 
Romeo provides a much -needed comic relief in a movie that can cause numbness with over-the-top violence, and Eunice’s dominant and intelligent style of investigation is quite differ­ent, but just as entertaining, as Dafoe’s was in the first film. 
Also providing comic relief was the return of three Boston police officers. Their role, more serious in the first movie, becomes humorous and light­hearted, which again is necessary in a movie with such serious and violent content. 
As with the original, “The Boondock Saints II” has an excellent opening that draws in the viewers, but becomes some­what jumbled in the middle. Duffy tries to combine many storylines, and the scenes seem to jump around without any coherent focus. They are eventually brought together in the end, however, and the movie wraps up in an excit­ing and satisfying way. The “Boondock” movies are by no means meant to be works of theatrical genius, and a sec­
ond viewing of the movie would surely clear up the seemingly jumpy style. 
The music throughout the movie was once again well done, truly cap­turing the excitement and mood of the movie. Duffy chose only artists who were unsigned in order to create a soundtrack that was uniquely “Boondock.” He once again succeeded with his choices, particularly the music during one of the opening scenes as the boys prepare to leave for Boston. The music is high-tempo and energetic, and truly sets the mood for the movie as a whole. 
For those who enjoyed the first film, “The Boondock Saints II: All Saints Day” should be exactly what they expected. It retains the most impor­tant aspects of the original without reproducing the same movie, and has a refreshingly new plot line. It could be considered somewhat more sub­stantial than the first, but likely will not change the minds of those who did not enjoy the original. Overall, it succeeds as a sequel, a difficult achievement for which “The Boondock Saints ” fans should be thankful. 

Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 


If you had to choose three words to describe “The Boondock Saints,” it would probably be some combination of Irish, Catholic and awesome. Now if you were to go up to any Notre Dame student and asked them to pick Matt Brown three words to describe this great 
Scene Writer 
institution, I chal­lenge you to find someone who would disagree with those three same words. Look at that Golden Dome and tell me you don’t get a little swagger. However, unarguable popularity of “The Boondock Saints” on campus cannot be attributed to Irish pride alone. The film is a non-may be the funniest character in the movie: From killing cats to telling jokes, he lightens the mood of the film and provides relief before, or while, death is delivered to those who deserve it. 

The amazing performances given by Flanery, Reedus and Willem Dafoe as Detective Greenly are made even more impressive by the flawless interaction of the peripheral characters. The three Boston police detectives play their roles perfectly and you could almost feel bad for the detective if you weren’t laughing so hard. 
Any movie with great characters can be ruined by sloppy editing and unin­spired directing but with “The stop thrill ride, filled with unexpected laughs and unforgettable lines. 

As any self-righteous moviegoer will tell you, a movie is nothing without characters you completely believe in. As soon as you see Connor and Murphy MacManus (Sean Patrick Flanery and Norman Reedus) walk up the church aisle like the religious men they are, then get into a brawl at a meat packing plant later that day, you want to be best friends and drinking buddies with these guys. I have never been more jealous of anyone than David Della “Funny Man’’ Rocco (played by the actor of the same name) when he walks into McGinty’s Pub and is greeted like a brother. Rocco also Boondock Saints,’’ director Troy Duffy left nothing to be desired. I cannot say enough about his method of show­ing the staging of the firefight, then cutting to the aftermath and police reaction. This allows the audience to listen to the police theories of serial crushers with complete faith in their ability before being shown exactly what happened, lending humor and clarity to the progressing movie. 
The music is plain epic throughout the course of the film. It is one of the greatest crimes of the 2000s that the soundtrack could not be made avail­able, but good news, with the release of “The Boondock Saints II: All Saints Day,’’ a combined soundtrack from both movies is being released. 
If you haven’t seen this movie, do it. If you like this movie, watch it again, and again it only gets better. If you don’t like this movie, I don’t know how to relate to you. 
To close I leave you with the prayer that echoes through my head every-time I watch and sends shivers down my spine: 
And shepherds we shall be, 
For Thee, my Lord, for Thee. 
Power hath descended forth from Thy hand, 
That our feet may swiftly carry out Thy command. 
So we shall flow a river forth to Thee 
And teeming with souls shall it ever be. 
In nomine Patris et Filii et Spiritu Sancti 
Matt Brown can be contacted at mbrown14@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LAUREN BALDWIN | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, November 12, 2009 
NFL 

Freeney chasing NFL consecutive sack record 
Associated Press 
INDI­ANAPOLIS — Colts defensive end Dwight Freeney still gets a thrill out of the chase. 
Whether he’s trying to split multiple blockers or has a chance to exploit those rare one-on-one matchups with his spin moves, Freeney’s goal never changes and his motor never stops. 
His job: Put opposing quar­terbacks on their backs, some­thing he does with more effi­ciency than just about anyone in the NFL. 
“You want to get that sack because that’s our bonus,” Freeney said with a smile Wednesday. “I guess in a per­fect world, starting the game, it would go first play, sack, second play, sack, third play, sack, and then you could go to the locker room.” 
If only it were that easy for opponents to get Freeney out of their backfields. 
His 9 1/2 sacks rank third in the league this season and on Sunday night, against bitter rival New England (6 -2), Freeney has a chance to run down NFL history. If he can take three-time Super Bowl winner Tom Brady to the ground, Freeney will tie the record for most consecutive games with a sack (10). Denver’s Simon Fletcher and Dallas’ DeMarcus Ware are the only other players to do it. 
Clearly, it’s a concern for Brady. 
“He’s the best pass-rusher in the league and he’s been that way since he came into the league,” Brady said. “Any time you’re playing them (the Colts) you don’t have as much time to throw so you’ve got to make those decisions quick­er.” 
Indy fans are not surprised. 
They’ve watched Freeney fine -tune a rare blend of speed and power to confound opponents, and just when linemen think they’ve figured out the dizzying spins, the 6­foot-1, 268-pound end throws them off with a powerful bull rush. 
Most analysts thought Freeney was too small to hold up in the NFL when the Colts took him with the 11th pick in the 2002 draft out of Syracuse. 
Indy (8-0) knew better and Freeney has been proving the doubters wrong ever since. 
Freeney has recorded more sacks (80) over the past eight seasons than anyone except Miami’s Jason Taylor and forced more fumbles (36) than anyone in the NFL. The Colts expected nothing less. 
“In that system, Dwight is the key,” former coach Tony Dungy said. “You have to have pressure and force people to block you. That’s why Bill (Polian) took Dwight with the first pick after I got there. We thought Dwight was the best player to do that, and it turned out to be a great mar­riage between a great player and a great system.” 
And Freeney, now 29, isn’t slowing down. 
He is on pace to break the franchise’s single-season record for sacks (16), which he set in 2004, and could fin­ish with a career-high in tack­les. He needs one more sack to match last season’s total (10 1/2), and Freeney has fit into Indy’s revamped defense perfectly, even when he’s asked to drop into coverage. 
Freeney missed the last seven games in 2007 after having surgery on his left foot, an injury that still bothered him early last season. This year, he has played through a strained right quadriceps that was supposed to keep him out four weeks and cartilage that broke loose in his right knee a couple weeks ago. 
But he hasn’t missed a game. 
“Dwight is a great football player, who prides himself on coming in and getting better,” said linebacker Gary Brackett, the defensive captain. “Last year, he was coming off of an injury. This year, I think, has been one of his better years.” 
Numbers are not the meas­uring stick Freeney prefers. 
He steers the discussion away from Indy’s unbeaten season or the fact Indy needs one more win to match New England’s 18-game winning streak, second -longest in league history. The Patriots also hold the NFL record of 21 straight from 2006-08. 
He doesn’t want to talk about the sacks record, either. 
Instead the Hartford, Conn., native would rather focus on doing his job even better. 
“I’ve never been a big records guy. You know, I like to think if he had held onto the ball just one more second, I might have three more sacks,” Freeney said, refer­ring to no quarterback in par­ticular. “It has been fun. There is a new energy around here because we have a new coach and new things. But you measure the year at the end.” 
MLB 

Ken Griffey Jr. agrees to one-year deal with Mariners 
Associated Press  He is likely to again be a part-time designated hitter in  Mariners, Griffey hit .214 last season with 19 homers as a  l ik eness and the words “World’s Greatest Teammate”  to get to and win the World Series. To that end, I look for- 
SEATTLE  — Junior’s back in  his 22nd major league season  part-time DH. He was  limited  for one midseason flight out of  ward to contributing in any  
Seattle, one more time.  since he broke in as a grinning  by  a  swollen left knee that  Seattle.  role that Don  sees  fit  on  the  
Ken  Gri f fey  Jr.  and  the  Mariners teenager.  required a second operation in  “His influence, the presence  field, and any manner I possi- 
Mariners agreed Wednesday  “The fact that Junior is end- as  m any  of fsea so ns  l ast  he has  — there are players on  bly can off the field.”  
to another one-year contract  ing up his career in Seattle is  month.  this ball club who  are  very  Seattle is convinced he is  
that wi ll keep the popul ar  very special,” Goldberg said.  Griffey is No. 5 on the career  excited to know they are going  healthy enough to contribute  
player in town  “He is willing to  home  run  list with 630. He  to be teammates again with  again next year  — though he  
for what could  perf o r m  a n y  said in October he would like  Ken Griffey Jr.,” Zduriencik  won’t undergo  a  physical to  
be his final sea­son. Gri ffe y, who turns 40 on Nov.  “ His influence, the presence he has — there are players on  role.” Griffey figures to again be the leader of a ris­ to return if the Mariners want­ed him, then never filed for free agency. He again consid­ered staying home in Orlando,  said. The Mariners even carried Griffey off the field on their shoulders immediately follow- formally close his new deal for a while, t o gi ve t im e for theknee to recover from sur­gery.  
21, was guaran­ this ball club who are  i n g  t ea m  that  Fla., to be with his wife and  ing October’s season finale. He  “We feel re al good a bout  
teed $2 million when he signed to return t o Seattle for the 20 09 sea s o n a nd had the chance to earn more in bonus- very excited to know they are going to be teammates again with Ken Griffey Jr.” Jack Zduriencik  l ast sea son beca me the 13th club since 1901 to f ini s h with a winning record the year after losing 100 games.  three, school-aged children. After spending his first 11 s ea s o n s wit h S eatt le a n d becoming a star, he played nine more with Cincinnati and the Chicago White Sox. Griffey returned to the Mariners this year and almost single-hand­ was in tears, saying it was information we’ve gotten from unlike any other D r. (Tim o thy ) day in his life. K r e m c h e c k , ” “It ’s a whole “It’s a whole lot of Z durencik o f lot of love, a lot the Cincinnati-love, a lot ofof friendship. I based surgeon don’t k now to friendship. I don’t who removed a de s crib e it,” know to describe it. bone spur i n  
es. Mariners GM “He’s open to “T he fra me-a n y t h i n g , ” w o rk of this Mariners gener­year’s contract is similar to al manager Jack Zduriencik last year’s,” Griffey’s agent, said in a telephone interview  edly transformed what had been a fractured, bickering clubhouse with his leadership, energy and constant pranks. “He went beyond anything  Griffey said Oct. 4. “ It’s b ee n u n b e l i e v a b l e . They helped me m o r e than I  It’s been unbelievable. They helped me more than I helped them.”  Gri ffe y’s k n ee on Oct. 26. “We be li eve that Ken’s pres-e n c e with the  
Brian Goldberg, said by tele­phone. It is believed Griffey will get  from baseball’s GM meetings in Chicago. “What he said was, ‘I’d like to be a part of this.  that I would have expected,” Zduriencik said. Griffey turne d f o r merly  helped them.” “I’d l ik e to thank the  Ken Griffey Jr. Mariners DH  S e a t t l e M a r i n e r s o r g a n i z a t i o n  
a  slightly higher base salary,  Hey, I’m the part of a 25-man  reclusive star Ichiro Suzuki  Mariners organ- was such a pos­ 
with fewer incentives based  club. Let the pieces fall where  into  a  smiling, joking team­ ization for invit­ itive asset last  
upon plate appearances and  they may  ...  let the manager  mate. He had neck ties made  ing me back to play in 2010,”  season with his leadership on  
Mariners home attendance. He  make the decisions.’ It’s a real  for road trips bearing manag- Griffey said in  a  statement.  and off the field,” Zduriencik  
earned $1.15 million of a pos­ bonus to have him back.”  er Don Wakamatsu’s likeness.  “While 2009 was an awesome  said. “His passion for baseball,  
sible $3 million in bonuses  A 10-time All-Star and the  He  al s o  ha d  t h e  M ari n ers  experience for me, my ulti­ life and the Seattle Mariners  
from this year’s contract.  1 997  AL  MVP  fo r  the  wearing ties bearing his  own  mate goal is for the Mariners  goes unsaid.”  

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
4 BDRM HOUSE ON 32 ACRES OF  ———————————————  If you or someone  
FOR RENT  NATURE AND SERENITY. 9 MILES NORTH OF NOTRE DAME. $1,200  ——————————————— ———————————————WANTED  TICKETS  PERSONAL  you care about has been sexually assaulted,  
FOR WEEKEND. CALL GEORGIA  ———————————————  we can help.  
3 bdrm home on 1 acre wooded lot.  PEACH BED AND BREAKFAST  Need tutor for HS Calculus II stu- VICTORY TICKETS  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  For more information,  
Close to ND (1 block).  @269-357-6979.  dent in area. Will pay hourly. Email  Buy Sell  Do not go it alone.  visit Notre Dame's website:  
$1250/mo.  ———————————————­ jteghel@gmail.com  Trade  Notre Dame has many resources in  http://csap.nd.edu  
574-276-2333.  2 bdrm, 1.5 bath home, detached  ———————————————­ FB Tix.  place to assist you. If you or someone  ———————————————­ 
———————————————  garage, finished basement, hardwood  PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­ Victorytickets.net  you love needs confidential support or  Considering Adoption?  
andersonNDrentals.com. HOUSES  floors, new appliances. 1334 Corby St.,  appt., no experience needed, cus­ 574-232-0964.  assistance,  ND Alums Hoping to Adopt.  
———————————————  $650/mo. Avail. now or for 10-11 school  tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835.  ———————————————­ please call  If you are an expectant mother  
Furnished family  year. 574-309-6961.  ———————————————­ HELP!  Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-17819 or  searching for a family,  
home walk to ND.  ———————————————  Part time help needed at UP Mall. Must  Need FB tix for family.  Ann Firth at 1-2685.  please see our  
4bdrm/2ba. $2K/mo.  5 bdrm, 2bath home. 705ND Ave.  be good with kids and have clean driv- Will pay top  For more information, visit ND's web- website at  
Spring semester.  $2150/mo. Avail. June 2010. 574-276­ ing record! Email resume and days  $$.  site at:  http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro­ 
574-968-7394.  2333.  available to: northcoastrr.com  574-251-1570  http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  file.net.  
———————————————  ———————————————­ ———————————————­ ———————————————­ ———————————————­ ———————————————­ 

Around theNat on 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Thursday, November 12, 2009 
page 13 

NCAA Men’s Soccer NSCAA Division I Rankings 
team previous 
1 Akron 1 2 North Carolina 2 3 Wake Forest 4 4 UC Santa Barbara 3 5 Maryland 6 6 Virginia 7 7 Louisville 5 8 Monmouth 9 9 Connecticut 8 10 UCLA 10 11 Harvard 12 12 Tulsa 14 13 South Florida 13 14 San Diego 16 15 Duke 11 16 Northwestern 17 17 Stanford 19 18 Charlotte 15 19 Missouri State 22 20 North Carolina State 18 21 Dayton 23 22 UNC Wilmington 21 23 Butler 24 24 St. Johns (N.Y.) RV 25 Ohio State RV 
Division I Men’s Basketball Preseason Coaches’ Poll 
team  points  
1  Kansas  770  
2  Michigan State  732  
3  Texas  676  
4  North Carolina  653  
5  Kentucky  635  
6  Villanova  620  
7  Purdue  586  
8  Duke  528  
9  West Virginia  501  
10  Butler  408  
11  Tennessee  406  
12  California  370  
13  Washington  364  
14  Connecticut  361  
15  Michigan  279  
16  Oklahoma  244  
17  Ohio State  241  
18  Minnesota  151  
19  Mississippi State  149  
20  Georgia Tech  136  
21  Georgetown  134  
22  Dayton  130  
23  Louisville  123  
24  Clemson  114  
25  Syracuse  111  



around the dial 
NBA 
Cavaliers at Heat 8 p.m., TNT 

NCAA Football 
Texas Southern at Grambling State 9 p.m., ESPNU 
ATP TENNIS 

Federer falls in second round of Masters 
Associated Press 

PARIS — Top-ranked Roger Federer lost to Julien Benneteau of France 3-6, 7-6 (4), 6-4 in the second round of the Paris Masters on Wednesday, continuing his miserable run at the indoor event. 
The 15-time Grand Slam champion has never been further than the quarterfi­nals in seven appear­ances. 
“He played incredible at the end. Julien went out and got the victory,” said Federer, who refused to give excuses. “I definitely had chances. I missed them. I feel fine physically, and mentally I was fresh to do really well here.” 
Federer’s exit capped a dramatic day at the Bercy arena, where Rafael Nadal saved five match points to beat Spanish compatriot Nicolas Almagro, and for­mer three-time champion Marat Safin bid farewell to the tennis circuit. 
Federer took the first set when Benneteau’s back­hand return hit the net, but the Frenchman found his range in the second set and dominated the tiebreaker, tying the match with a low return that landed just inside the baseline. 
“I didn’t have my rhythm from the baseline. Every time I had a chance he was winning the point,” Federer said. 
Boosted by the first set he’d taken off Federer in three matches, Benneteau forced mistakes on Federer’s backhand as the Swiss star rushed his shots. Benneteau broke early and then held to lead 3-1. 
Federer missed his chance in the fifth game when Benneteau saved two break points, and then held for 4-2. 
Benneteau smacked a two-handed crosscourt winner past a startled Federer to set up two match points, acing the first one and falling to the floor in tears. Federer contested the call but was already at the net and ready to shake hands when the call was upheld. 
“It’s magic. It’s fabulous. Everything you can imag­ine. The memories will stay with me forever,” Benneteau said. “Hearing the crowd when they are all behind you, the noise is enormous. I didn’t believe it was possible to experi­ence something like this.” 
The early loss, however, does give Federer more time to prepare for the ATP World Tour Finals in London this month. 
“I hope I can at least make a good run there, because I really feel like I have some good tennis left in me,” Federer said. “Not going to let my head hang after this tournament.” 
IN BRIEF 

Zambrano’s mother res­cued after kidnapping 
CARACAS, Venezuela — The mother of former major league pitcher Victor Zambrano was rescued after a three-day kidnapping ordeal, Venezuelan authorities said on Wednesday. 
The 56-year-old Elizabeth Mendez Zambrano was rescued late Tuesday during a “commando-style operation” in the central state of Aragua, Federal Police Chief Wilmer Flores Trosel said. 
Zambrano said having his mother alongside him again was a “great joy.” 
“I never thought we could be togeth­er again so soon,” he said. 
Trosel said Mendez Zambrano was held in a makeshift dwelling near a highway, where she was only once offered food. 
Three men have been detained, including two brothers and one man wanted for homicide, Trosel said. He said a fourth suspect has been identi­fied, a 24-year-old man wanted nation­ally for homicide and robbery. 
Brady Quinn named starter for Monday 
BEREA, Ohio — Brady Quinn is getting his second chance at start­ing. 
Quinn, benched just 10 quarters into the season for Derek Anderson, will start Monday night’s game against the Baltimore Ravens. He was pulled at halftime of the Browns’ 34-3 loss to Baltimore on Sept. 27, and will make his return against one of the NFL’s toughest defenses. 
“I’m excited to play,” Quinn said. “I’m excited to be a part of Monday night. Every team in the NFL is tough, them especially. We’ve got our hands full right now.” 
Browns coach Eric Mangini has decided to go back to Quinn after Anderson went 1-4 as a starter and posted the NFL’s lowest quarterback rating (36.2). Mangini said he would like to stick with Quinn for the remainder of the season. 
Cavs’ Shaquille O’Neal and wife split up 
LOS ANGELES — Shaquille O’Neal’s wife is splitting up with the Cleveland Cavaliers center. 
Va’Shaundya O’Neal filed for legal separation with intent to divorce Monday in Los Angeles. She cited irreconcilable differ­ences. 
She is seeking spousal and child support and full legal custody of the couple’s four children. No mon­etary amounts were listed in the court filing. 
“Obviously, this is a difficult time for our family, and we request that the media respect our privacy,” Shaquille O’Neal said in a state­ment released by the team Tuesday night. “I will continue to focus on being there for our children and I am confident that Shaunie will do the same.” 
The O’Neals were married six years, 11 months. 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, November 12, 2009 
NFL 

Old friends meet as Broncos and ‘Skins clash 
Associated Press 
ASHBURN, Va. — Having reached his sixth season in the Mile High City, Champ Bailey has now played for the Denver Broncos longer than he did for the Washington Redskins. 
But he’s still very much missed. 
“I’m not going to lie,” the eight-time Pro Bowl corner­back said in a conference call with Washington reporters. “Everywhere I go outside of Denver, the only thing I get: ‘I wish you were still with the Redskins.’ That’s all I get. Even in this city, there’s Redskins fans everywhere. 
“I know the fan base is big­ger, stadium’s bigger, a lot more tradition, but I still love being a Bronco.” 
It was in 2004 that Bailey left the wackiness of Washington for the relative stability of Denver, and he’ll return for the first time when the Broncos visit the Redskins on Sunday. 
“It was crazy when I left” he said when talking about the Redskins, and the craziness that continues to this day makes it easy to contrast his new franchise with his old one. 
“You kind of know what to expect every day,” Bailey said. “That’s a good thing. When I left there, it was a swinging door. When I got here, it was­n’t like that.” 
Bailey was traded in a rare superstar-for-superstar swap that’s a source of debate to this day. With negotiations going nowhere for a new con­tract, owner Dan Snyder sent the best cornerback in the game and a second-round draft pick to the Broncos for running back Clinton Portis. Portis has since piled up the yards and is within striking distance of the Redskins all-time rushing record, but was he worth both a shutdown cornerback and a high draft pick? 
Bailey laughed when asked which team got the better of the trade, then gave a diplo­matic answer. 
“Honestly,” he said, “I think they got what they wanted, and the Broncos got what they wanted. We’re both still play­ing at a high level.” 
Interestingly, Bailey and Portis haven’t met on the field since the trade. Bailey missed the team’s meeting in Denver in 2005 with a hamstring injury, and Portis probably won’t play Sunday after suf­fering a concussion in last week’s loss to Atlanta. 
“It’s funny how things hap­pen,” Bailey said. “At least he got to play at his old place, and I get to play at mine.” 
Bailey will also get a chance to see longtime close friend Fred Smoot. It seems ages ago that Bailey and Smoot were supposed to be the tandem that would rule the Redskins secondary for a decade. 
Bailey was a first-round pick in 1999, and Smoot came along as a second-rounder in 2001. The Redskins ranked sixth in passing defense in 2001 and fifth in 2002. 
“You can start building something special right there,” Bailey said, “because good cornerbacks are hard to find and they had two good ones. I didn’t understand why we couldn’t keep us together.” 
Smoot left after the 2004 season but returned after two seasons with Minnesota. He’s now a bit player in the Redskins defense, getting a handful of plays a game. He was once one of the team’s most media-friendly players, but he rarely grants inter­views these days and agreed to talk this week only because the subject was his old Broncos buddy. 
“I do miss playing with him,” Smoot said. “Those were some of my golden years of playing. At the time, I don’t think a lot of people realized, me and him had one of the best young tandems out there. I think if it wasn’t for Troy Vincent and Bobby Taylor, both of us could have got a little Pro Bowl action then, but we weren’t winning at the time and the Eagles were dominating.” 
But when it came time for Bailey to get a new contract, the usually free -spending Snyder decided this was one time he wasn’t going to foot the bill. Bailey worked out a seven-year, $63 million deal with the Broncos, and the trade was on. 
“I was all for going back there, but it didn’t work out that way,” Bailey said. “Financially it did me good because I got what I wanted as far as my contract. I came to a good franchise. That worked out great. I was going to a place that was real stable for a number of years.” 
While the stability has been nice, the trade hasn’t brought Bailey much postseason suc­cess. The Redskins and Broncos have each won only one playoff game since the trade. This year, however, Denver is off to a 6-2 start under new coach Josh McDaniels, giving Bailey a chance to rub it in with Smoot, whose Redskins are 2-6 and have lost four straight. 
“We’re going to talk about what team’s up and what team’s down,” Smoot said. “Right now, he’s at me.” 
MLB 

Rawlings announces Gold Gloves 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — That travel team back in Virginia a decade ago must have played great defense on the left side of the infield. 
Ryan Zimmerman succeeded boyhood friend David Wright as the National League’s Gold Glove third baseman on Wednesday. In high school, when Zimmerman was a shortstop, the two played together on a youth team. 
“Hopefully if we’re lucky enough to continue doing what we’re doing, this will be a yearly thing,” Zimmerman said. “It’s fun for us.” 
A college teammate from the University of Virginia, Arizona’s Mark Reynolds, is competing with Zimmerman for a Silver Slugger award, to be announced Thursday. 
“We all push each other to work harder,” said Zimmerman, who had 33 homers and 106 RBIs. 
Zimmerman led major league third basemen with 325 assists and became only the second Washington player to win the award, joining catcher Earl Battey of the original Senators in 1960. He also became the second infielder to win a Gold Glove from a team with the worst fielding percentage in the majors, follow­ing Texas shortstop Michael Young last year. 
The Nationals led the major leagues with 143 errors. 
“Our team as a whole needs to realize that if we want to win we’ve got to play defense,” Zimmerman said. “We need to take more responsibility on the defensive side of the ball and realize that if we want to start winning that, you know, that’s just as much a part of winning as hitting and scoring runs.” 
Philadelphia shortstop Jimmy Rollins earned his third consecu­tive Gold Glove and Phillies cen­ter fielder Shane Victorino won for the second straight time. 
“Defense is a very important part of my game, and it truly is an honor to be recognized as one of the best defensive players in the league,” Rollins said in a statement. 
Of course, the Gold Gloves were far more rewarding last year, when the Phillies won the World Series for the first time since 1980. Philadelphia failed in its attempt to repeat, losing to the New York Yankees in six games last week. 
“I take a lot of pride in fielding my position,” Victorino, nick­named the Flyin’ Hawaiian for his speed, said in a statement. 
Rollins became the Phillies fifth three-time winner, joining Mike Schmidt (10), Garry Maddox (eight), Manny Trillo and Scott Rolen (three each). 
St. Louis catcher Yadier Molina and San Diego first baseman Adrian Gonzalez also were sec­ond-time winners announced Wednesday. 
“I don’t think I made as many plays as I made the year before. That’s because teams were more reluctant to bunt my way,” Gonzalez said. “You need a cou­ple of years of doing things over and over before coaches say there’s a guy I could vote for.” 
Adam Wainwright became the first Cardinals pitcher to win since Joaquin Andujar in 1984 and succeeded Greg Maddux, who won his record 18th Gold Glove last year. Wainwright also is a favorite for the NL Cy Young Award after going 19-8 with a 
2.63 ERA. 
“I would have thought if there was one award that I would never win, or never have a chance to win, that would be a Gold Glove Award,” Wainwright said. “There’s probably a ton of guys that are better fielders than me.” 
Dodgers second baseman Orlando Hudson overcame a bro­ken left wrist sustained in August 2008 and won for the fourth time, taking over from Cincinnati’s Brandon Phillips even though Hudson lost playing time by September to teammate Ronnie Belliard. Hudson didn’t make a single postseason start for Los Angeles, then became a free agent. 
“I had a good season,” he said. “I would be interested in coming back.” 
Houston outfielder Michael Bourn and Dodgers outfielder Matt Kemp also were first-time winners — and gave the NL three center fielders in the Gold Glove outfield. 
Kemp had 14 assists, up from two in 2007. 
“Now you’re supposed to win a Gold Glove every year,” he said. 
Bourn concentrated on fielding during winter ball. 
“When I went to the Dominican, I didn’t just try to work on my offense. I tried to work on my defense as well,” he said. “It helps me a little bit more over there because the ground’s a little bit rough and you have harder bounces and so you’ve got to get used to playing those tough bounces. When it comes to a reg­ular field it made it seem a little easier for me.” 
Wright and his New York Mets teammate, center fielder Carlos Beltran, were dropped from the Gold Glove team. Beltran was sidelined for much of the season. Outfielder Nate McLouth, traded from Pittsburgh to Atlanta in June, also missed out. 
Gonzalez, Molina, Rollins and Wainwright each earned $50,000 bonuses, and the price of Gonzalez’s 2011 club option increased by $100,000 to $5.7 million. Bourn and Victorino each earned $25,000 bonuses. Hudson and Kemp didn’t have bonus pro­visions in their contracts. 
Rawlings began presenting Gold Gloves in 1957. Managers and coaches voted on players in their own leagues before the reg­ular season ended but couldn’t select members of their own teams. 


Thursday, November 12, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
INTERNATIONAL SOCCER 

German goalkeeper suffered from depression 
Widow of Robert Enke says that her husband, killed by a train, left a suicide note, feared public knowledge of illness 
Associated Press 
HANNOVER, Germany — The German goalkeeper who was struck and killed by a train left a suicide note, police said, and Robert Enke’s widow says he had been suf­fering from depression. 
Speaking at a news confer­ence called by his club, Teresa Enke said her 32-year­
old husband was afraid home. Police said Wednesday they had found a suicide note, with no indications the death was anything but a suicide. 
Valentin Markser, a doctor who treated Enke, said the goalkeeper first sought treat­ment in 2003, when he lost his starting place at Barcelona and developed anx­ieties and fear of failure. 
Enke again sought treat­
ment in early 
October, after 

their adopted d a u g h t e r w o u l d b e  “We need time to come to terms with  d e v e l o p i n g a mysterious ill­ness. Doctors  
t a k e n a w a y from the fami­ly if his illness  everything and not superficially.”  t o o k s e v e r a l w e e k s t o determine that  
became public  h e  h a d  b e e n  
k n o w l e d g e . T h e c o u p l e ’s b i o l o g i c a l daughter died  Theo Zwanziger president German Soccer Federation  suffering from a b a c t e r i a l i n t e s t i n a l infection.  
t h r e e  y e a r s  In  a  suicide  
a g o  f r o m  a  n o t e ,  E n k e  

heart problem she had from apologized to his family and birth when she was 2. the staff treating him for 
“I tried to be there for him,” deliberately misleading them Teresa Enke said, choking into believing he was better, back tears. “When he was “which was necessary in acutely depressive, it was a order to carry out the suicide difficult time. We thought plans,” Markser said. we’d manage everything. We “Despite daily treatment, thought with love, we could we did not succeed in pre­do it. But you can’t.” venting his suicide,” the doc-
Mrs. Enke said her husband tor said. had been afraid that he would Enke had declined to stay at lose “his sport, our private a clinic, Markser said. life,” if his illness had become Enke, who had a good known. In May, the couple chance of being Germany’s adopted a girl who is now top goalkeeper at next year’s eight months old. World Cup in South Africa, is 
Enke died Tuesday evening the second Germany player when he threw himself before known to have suffered from a train near his Hannover depression. Talented Bayern Munich midfielder Sebastian Deisler quit football in January 2007 after several bouts of depression and five knee operations. 

“I can assure you — we owe Robert Enke that — German football will use all its capa­bilities to find an answer to the question of how a young athlete celebrated by so many as an idol could land in such a situation,” German football federation president Theo Zwanziger said at a news conference in Bonn. 
The federation canceled a friendly with Chile slated for Saturday in Cologne. 


“We need time to come to terms with everything and not superficially,” Zwanziger said. 
Germany coach Joachim Loew said the team could not simply go back to business as usual. 
“We lost a friend, we deeply mourn Robert Enke,” Loew said. “I feel completely empty. He was a great guy. He had incredible respect for others. We will miss him, as a top-class sportsman and an extraordinary man.” 
Enke’s death shocked his Germany teammates. 
“I’m stunned. I don’t know what to say,” captain Michael Ballack told the Bild daily. 
National team manager Oliver Bierhoff said the feder­ation’s own psychiatrist had never suspected Enke had depression. 
Hundreds of Hannover fans paid tribute to Enke at the stadium Wednesday. Hannover set up a condolence book outside the AWD Arena, and some supporters lit can­dles and left scarves and shirts in tribute to the goal­keeper. 
A service was held later in the evening, attended by Zwanziger, Loew and Ballack among others, followed by a silent march to the stadium. 
Chancellor Angela Merkel sent a “very personal” note to Enke’s widow to convey her “consternation and compas­sion,” government spokesman Christoph Steegmans said. 
Thomas Bach, president of the German Olympic commit­tee, called Enke’s death “real­ly tragic.” 
“When you see how many blows of destiny he had to overcome in the past years, how he always carried on and stood up, that shows his human qualities. That’s why it’s that much more tragic that he saw no way out any longer,” Bach said. 
Enke had not been selected for Saturday ’s match and Wednesday’s game against Ivory Coast in Gelsenkirchen because he had only recently returned from the intestinal infection and had played only two Bundesliga games since then. 
The illness had kept him sidelined for nine weeks and forced him to miss four Germany games. 
German Football League president Reinhard Rauball, whose organization runs the Bundesliga, said there would be minute’s silence before the next round in the top two divisions on Nov. 21-22 and that all players would wear black armbands. 
Enke made his national team debut in a 1-0 loss to Denmark in March 2007. His last game was a 2-0 win over Azerbaijan on Aug. 12. He also played 196 Bundesliga games. 
After Jens Lehmann retired following last year’s European Championship, Enke was pro­moted to No. 1 for Germany but was slowed by a broken hand. 
Enke first sought help when he was blamed for Barcelona’s loss to a second-division team in his debut and was dropped from the first team by then coach Louis van Gaal, now in charge at Bayern Munich. 
Enke, who was born in the former East German city of Jena and started his career there, also played for Borussia Moenchengladbach, Benfica, Tenerife and Fenerbahce, which he left after one game because of a hostile reaction by fans over a poor performance. He joined Hannover in 2004. 


page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, November 12, 2009 
NHL 

GMs considering headshot rule 
notable checks this season — 
Associated Press 
Mike Richards on David Booth 

TORONTO — The NHL is get-and Willie Mitchell on Jonathan ting closer to making a recom-Toews, to name two. Neither of mendation about how to those hits resulted in a suspen­
reduce hits to the head. 
The league’s 30 GMs and their assistants wrapped up meetings with a discussion of the issue Wednesday and decided to for­mulate a small committee to take a closer look at it before they get togeth­er again in March. 
At that time, the group could make a recom­mendation to the competition 

“A player should have an ability to anticipate a hit, prepare for a hit or avoid a hit. If he doesn’t have those, then I think the onus has to shift to the hitter. He’s got to deliver a safe hit.” 
Brian Burke Maple Leafs GM 
sion because there’s nothing currently in the rulebook to pre­vent them. 
The main thing the gener­al managers want to see eliminated is bodychecks to unsuspecting players. 
“A player should have an ability to antici­pate a hit, pre­pare for a hit or avoid a hit,” Toronto GM Brian Burke said. “If he 
committee 
about a possible rule change. The GMs have discussed head-shots in the past, but there was a change in the tone of conver­sation this time. 
“It was quite a bit different, some of the guys who have taken a strong position that it may take hitting out of the game have adjusted their views a little bit,” Carolina GM Jim Rutherford said. “If we contin­ue down what was talked about today then we will see a change. 
“It will be on the agenda of the next meeting and I think if we got the direction that it appeared we were going, you will see a change for next year.” 
The issue has been pushed to the forefront because of a few 
doesn’t have those, then I think 
the onus has to shift to the hit­ter. He’s got to deliver a safe hit.” 
Burke is one of the former hard­liners who has softened a little on the issue. A big concern for the group has traditionally been that a rule banning head-shots might inadvertently 
“The Booth hit in particular, I personally feel that if that was my son I wouldn’t want for that to be the way he was hit,” Pittsburgh GM Ray Shero said. “What Mike Richards did was within the rules we have cur­rently. That’s not the issue. The issue is making the game as safe as can be. I don’t think we’re looking for a big rule change, but maybe we can tweak something.” 
One thing that stands out for NHL disciplinarian Colin Campbell is just how much the sport has changed and evolved. He sat down and watched a game from the 1970s recently and noticed how much less physical play there was. 
“The hitting today is so much more evident,” Campbell said. 
Player safety was a key theme from Wednesday’s meet­ing as the GMs also looked at some new equipment. 
Mark Messier made a presen­

“The issue is making the game as safe as can be. I don’t think we’re looking for a big rule change, but maybe we can tweak something.” 
Ray Shero Penguins GM 
tation on behalf of manufacturer Cascade Sports, which has designed a hel­met aimed at limiting concus­sions. Messier made a few sales as Burke indicated he wanted to get some for the Toronto Marlies AHL team. 
Some of his colleagues were 
NFL 
Gonzalez poses nude for PETA 
Associated Press 
FLOWERY BRANCH, Ga. — Here’s a change in Atlanta: A Falcons player showing some love for animals. 
Providing quite a contrast to Michael Vick’s gruesome dogfighting operation, tight end Tony Gonzalez and his wife, October, posed in the nude for an anti-fur adver­tisement from People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. 
The newly released ad, which was photographed 
over the summer in Los Angeles, shows the couple sitting together on green turf for the group’s “We’d Rather Go Naked Than Wear Fur” campaign. They’re fol­lowing celebrities who have posed in the buff, including Dennis Rodman, Pamela Anderson and Dominique Swain, while others such as Paul McCartney and Charlize Theron have worn clothes in the campaign. 
“It looks good,” Gonzalez said Wednesday, glancing at the photo on a reporter’s cell phone while standing at his locker. “It’s something me and my wife talked about. It’s something we feel very strongly about. That’s a great cause, especially when you educate yourself and find out what is happening out there in the world.” 
The long -running PETA campaign has relied on star power in an attempt to per­suade people not to wear furs or other clothing made from animal skins. The group claims that animals are often beaten, strangled, stomped, electrocuted and even skinned alive. 
Gonzalez said he was appalled when he saw pic­tures and videos provided by the group. 
“I’ve never done some ­thing like this before. I’m usually not a political per­son,” said the 10-time Pro Bowler, who holds the NFL record for most receptions by a tight end. “The pictures I saw were pretty gruesome, pretty cruel. If done the right way, maybe. But done the way I saw it, it’s defi­nitely inhumane.” 
Some of Gonzalez’s team­mates had not seen the new ad until it was shown to them by reporters. But it’s likely to be all over the lock­er room before the week is out. 
“Oh yeah,” receiver Roddy White said, breaking into a big smile, “we’re going to give him a hard time about that.” 
Bring it on, said the 33­year-old Gonzalez, who’s in his first season with the Falcons after spending a dozen years with the Kansas City Chiefs. 
“If you do something like this,” he said, “you better be prepared for the guys in the locker room. They’re going to let you know what they think about it.” 
Chris Houston studied the picture closely before offer­ing up a tongue-in-cheek critique. 
“He’s got his Chad (Ochocinco), T.O. thing going on,” the cornerback said. Then, he acknowl ­edged, “I’m looking more at her, though.” 
Gonzalez was still playing for the Chiefs when Vick’s dogfighting crimes came to light before the 2007 sea­son, but players such as White remember all the tur­moil it caused. When the team reported for its first day of training camp that year, there were animal rights protesters at the front gate and a small plane cir­cling overhead, pulling a banner that said: “New team name? Dog Killers?” 
Vick never played another game for the Falcons. 

lead to the elimination of all bodychecks. 
The high-profile hits have clearly made an impact on the group, which wants to bring safety to the sport. 
impressed by it as well. 
“I like the look of it and think it’s an advancement in technol­ogy that any player should be open to,” Vancouver GM Mike Gillis said. 


Thursday, November 12, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
Recruits 
continued from page 20 
son of former NBA basketball player Harvey Grant, and the nephew of Chicago Bulls star Horace Grant. He was named the MVP of the Nike Super Showcase championship game while playing with his AAU team, Nike Team Takeover. 
“I think one of the things we’ve tried to do here is catch those guys who are arcing up at the right time,” Brey said. “Grant was (one of) those guys. I don’t know if we’ve ever taken a commitment from a younger senior. He was 16 years old when he committed to us. Since then, he’s turned 
17. Obviously the bloodlines 
Siegfried 
continued from page 20 
in the country. 
The Ramblers claimed the championship last season with a 14-13 win over Keenan, due in large part to the athleticism and leadership of Cure. 
“It was a great experience that millions of people have probably dreamt of doing that we were able to actually expe­rience,” Cure said. 
Cure and then-senior start­ing quarterback Max Young led the way offensively last season, using both experience and talent to defeat the Knights in the championship game. This season, the Ramblers have not missed a beat with junior Matt Meinert at quarterback. 
It has not been an easy ride this season for the Ramblers as they have attempted to repeat as champions. They entered the postseason as the are good with (Harvey Grant) and I think there’s some growth still coming, but there’s an ath­letic, slashing, scoring guard who handles the ball really well.” 

With the loss of Jackson and Peoples, along with senior transfer Ben Hansbrough, the Irish will have room at the guard position where all three freshmen can enter and com­pete for playing time next sea­son. 
“Obviously, (Atkins) has a leg up in that he is a true point guard,” Brey said. “But those other two young men, part of my recruiting theme with them was that ‘I need you to be ready,’ because we lose some really experienced guards with (Jackson and Peoples), and I think they really can be ready. 
No. 7 seed and as underdogs to first-round opponent Sorin. The Ramblers defeated the Otters 10-6 to advance to Sunday’s semifinals. 
“Beating Sorin was a great accomplishment for our team,” Cure said. “They were a great team and had a great defense, and we were happy to come away with a win.” 
The Ramblers will face off with Knott Sunday. The two teams tied earlier this season. The Juggerknotts enter the game with a suffocating defense and a prolific offense, led by quarterback Aidan Fitzgerald and wide receiver Jeff Skorup. The duo connect­ed for two touchdowns in Sunday’s 21-0 win over Carroll. 
Despite being only one win away from their second con­secutive appearance in the Stadium, the Ramblers are not taking anything for granted. 
“This team is not looking ahead to the Stadium,” Cure said. “Knott is looking scary They come from cities where the lights have been bright and they’ve played big high school games, and competitive AAU games, so I feel like they’re going to be ready as freshmen.” 
With one scholarship remain­ing, the Irish will continue to keep a lookout for someone to fill that spot, both in recruiting and also on the transfer wire. 
“We’re always looking,” Brey said. “Late signees have been good to us, so you’re always looking to see what emerges. You can get late arcing guys this way too, so those are two examples of it. But we’ll keep our mind open, but also obvi­ously the transfer wire, where we’ll see what’s going on.” 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
good. Their quarterback is a true athlete that nobody has been able to stop yet this sea­son. We were lucky to get a tie in the first game. I just hope our luck hasn’t run out.” 
One might think that Siegfried has some added pressure this postseason because of last year’s success. Cure, however, said the Ramblers are not too stressed over it. 
“I don’t think the team has felt too much pressure,” Cure said. “Every year is a different team with a different identity.” 
The Ramblers have a golden opportunity to finish off one of the best two-season stretches in league history with back-to­back championships. For Cure, it marks the opportunity of a lifetime to play at Notre Dame Stadium for the second straight year and cap off his illustrious career with another championship. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 

ND VOLLEYBALL 
Squad earns first ranking since ‘06 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame had a lot to brag about in 2006. 
That year, the Irish upset two higher-seeded schools in the Big East tournament to reach the finals. They reached the NCAA tournament for the 15th straight year, falling in the first round to No. 10 Wisconsin. They were ranked as high as No. 21 in the American Volleyball Coaches Association poll. 
Since then, Notre Dame has not made the national tournament nor has it been ranked. 
That is, until Monday. The Irish (16-3, 12-0 Big East) cracked the AVCA poll at No. 24 this week after its 11th and 12th straight Big East victories. 
“There’s still a lot to be done,” Irish coach Debbie Brown said “The most important part of the season is still in front of us. If we continue to play the way we have we’re definitely on the right track.” 
The Irish came into the season with the goal of bringing Notre Dame volleyball back among the elite, and the captains said they are on their way to their target. 
“Being ranked proves that,” senior captain and outside hitter Christian Kaelin said, “but even just the whole season, being unde­feated in the Big East, that was a big goal. We have two more games in the conference and we plan to go 2-0 this weekend.” 
Notre Dame had been hanging around the top 25 for weeks, get­ting votes but landing just outside the rankings. However, their spot­less conference record has contin­ued to get harder to ignore. 
“Honestly I think we deserved to be ranked a lot earlier than what we were,” Brown said. “It’s nice for the program but the rankings don’t really matter for anything other than bragging rights. I guess I’m happy for the team because we’ve played really well and I think they deserve it.” 
With two games left on the schedule before the league tour­nament, Notre Dame has already clinched at least a share of the conference regular-season title — just one win this weekend will give the team sole ownership. They are also a virtual lock to make the NCAA tournament. 
“Going the regular season being Big East champs, if something were to happen in the tournament it wouldn’t matter [for the NCAAs],” senior captain and set­ter Jamel Nicholas said. “But we’re going to win it anyway so that won’t be an issue.” 
Brown said the team can now look for a high seed in the nation­al tournament. 
“I feel better about our RPI at 14, which shows that we’ve not only played really well but we’ve played good competition,” she said. “I’m really excited about that because it maybe gives us the chance to host the first and sec­ond rounds of the NCAAs.” 
But there’s a lot to go before then, including two more Big East games, the Big East tournament and a non-conference match against No. 10 Florida. 
“It’s good to have that experi­ence and we’re really looking for­ward to that,” Brown said. Everything is set up perfectly for where we want to be right now and it’s just about finishing it.” 
In the next month, the Irish will have the chance to make 2009 a season to brag about. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
Kenney 
continued from page 20 
alongside her in races has gotten me through the race’s challenging points. Watching her succeed encourages me to succeed.” 
Bauters acknowledged Kenney’s raw talent and cited the fresh­man’s fanatical drive as her key to success. 
“Julia is a talented runner, and, in my opinion, hasn’t begun to reach her potential yet,” Bauters said. “I think she will continue to grow and improve in the next four years. It will definitely be excit­ing.” 
Kenney opened her collegiate career with three consecutive sec-ond-place team finishes in the five-kilometer matches of the schedule. After a midseason break, Kenney led the Belles in each of the team’s six-kilometer races. 
Kenney expressed gratitude for Bauters’ coaching, which the freshman feels was an important factor in her success in the long distance races. 
“My success at the 6k’s would not have come without Jackie Bauters’ guidance,” Kenney said. “She really studied mine and my teammates’ races and guided us to improve each week and ulti­mately peak at the opportune time.” 
Looking back over her breakout season, Kenney calls her team­mates the most important part of her year. 
“I am so privileged to represent the Belles,” Kenney said. “I have enjoyed every moment of it — 6 
a.m. practices, mile repeats, races, bus rides with the team, team dinners. I would say that having the opportunity to compete each weekend alongside my team­mates has been [the highlight of my season].” 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, November 12, 2009 
Bouts 
continued from page 20 
than one or two fights ended before the final third round bell each year,” she said. “Every once in a while we get it wrong and someone’s overmatched, but almost all of our fights go the full three rounds.” 
The process took longer than normal this year, Burke said, because of the unusually large number of women competing. 
“We have an extreme record year this year,” she said. “Having this many girls who came out originally and then stick it out is awesome. It’s a major, major step for the pro­gram.” 
Just over 60 women fought at the 2008 Fight Night, Burke said. Her freshman year, there were only 40 fighters in the program. 
For the first time, the club will have two rings running at Fight Night in order to accom­modate all of the boxers. Burke said that if the program contin­ues to grow, it will probably become a two-night event and may even take on a tournament aspect. 
“They’re realistically going to have to move to two nights,” she said. “And if you’re going two nights anyway, you might as well figure out the logistics of having semifinals and finals. Definitely, in the near future that will happen because of the numbers that we have.” 
The cause 
The increase in participants has caused a large upswing in proceeds for the Bouts. This money benefits Holy Cross Missions in East Africa, an area that includes Uganda and Tanzania. The 2008 Bouts raised $15,000 for the cause. 
“In my time here we’ve dou­bled not only the number of girls we have fighting, but along with that between my freshman and junior year we’ve tripled the amount of money we donated,” Burke said. 
Two Holy Cross priests who had done mission work in East Africa came to practice two weeks ago to discuss the area and its needs, Burke said. The priests explained why the money is needed and how it is used. 
Senior boxer Angela Rossi, who is in her second year with the Boxing Club, said the priests’ visit helped the boxers understand the program’s mis­sion. 
“That was really nice because it kind of brought it all home,” Rossi said. “Last year I knew the money went to the Holy Cross Missions in East Africa, but I didn’t know what they did with it. I didn’t know what the situation in East Africa looked like. We listened to them tell us about the educational opportu­nities they were bringing to East Africa, and how our money was helping with that. 
“To hear the money we’ve raised throughout the semester, what it’s going to do, the differ­ence it’s going to make, was really nice.” 
The preparation 
Practices for aspiring boxers began in the second week of September with novice train­ing, Burke said. Returning box­ers began a short time after that. 
In order to participate on Fight Night, the women are required to attend at least four of the six two-hour practices held each week. The practices run from 4:30-6:30 every week­day. There is an additional one on Sunday for those who have late classes or labs. 
The first hour of each prac­tice is a straight workout — running and calisthenics. The second hour is devoted to box­ing drills and partner exercises. 
“I started training over the summer,” Rossi said. “I did push-ups and crunches and all of that so I wouldn’t be super sore when we finally got back together as a group and did our workouts together.” 
Sophomore Michelle Hopke joined Bengal Bouts this year on what she called “a whim,” and soon found out how diffi­cult the practices are. 
“For the first two weeks I was so sore. I was like dying,” she said. “But I could definitely stick around and keep doing it. It was one of those things that I knew if I got through the first two weeks I would want to con­tinue.” 
Burke came in with a small advantage her freshman year 
— her father and brother had participated in Bengal Bouts and she had grown up around the sport. She had never actu­ally boxed but did know how to throw a punch, she said. 
Most students who join Baraka Bouts have never had experience with boxing before and start from scratch. 
Rossi said it was much better to come in already knowing the basics from her first year. 
“It was nice to know how to throw a jab, and know what blocking was,” she said. “There were so many novices this year and it was awesome that so many girls came out. It was a lot different this year being on the other side of things and helping girls learn how to box.” 
Fight Night 
The two months of non-stop preparation lead to a 10­minute boxing match in which the women get a chance to showcase their newfound skills for a large crowd. 
“Fight Night last year was exhilarating,” Rossi said. “I’m just looking forward to being in the ring with the lights shining down on you and the crowds cheering in the background. It’s very surreal.” 
Rossi said confidence is a big factor in boxing for her and the other women. 
“It takes a lot to get in that ring and take punches, and stand there with someone hit­ting you in the face and trying to fight back,” she said. 
Hopke said she is looking for­ward to her first Fight Night, as are the large number of novices. 
“I’m excited to see all the hard work that I put in, and have my friends come and see me,” she said. “Hopefully I’ll do my best and show that I’ve been working on this for the past two months.” 
The winners of each match do not get a material reward, Burke said. However, every boxer walks away with some­thing. 
“Pride,” she said. “You have to remember that everyone’s winning. You made it through a hard season with hard training. Five days a week is a lot of work. To get in a ring in front of all your friends, all your family is something to be proud of. We kind of stress that aspect. Everybody has accom­plished something.” 
The fights begin tonight at 6 
p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Admission is $5, which will go toward the Holy Cross Missions in East Africa. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
The Irish now see them­selves with a chance to make the NCAAs after a win over No. 5 UConn on Oct. 31 and Sunday’s tie with the No. 8 Bulls. 
“If we would have lost [Sunday], we were sure we pretty much 
Shootout 
continued from page 20 
ior captain and midfielder Dave Donohue said. “To get into the Big East semifinals it was huge. To get into the 
NCAAs it was huge.” wouldn’t have 
“Our senior class is
A loss in the shootout off the field, gotten in the would have ended Notre answer ques-large. We’ve done a tournament, ” Dame’s Big East tournament tions for the pretty good job of Thomas said. run and probably would guys, help pre-“We went into 
leading this year, 
have excluded them from the pare.” it like it was national tournament. R e l l a s ’ everyone in their our national 
Senior captain and mid-injury gave own way.” championship fielder Michael Thomas senior defend-game.” made the first of Notre er John Notre Dame 
Cory Rellas 
Dame’s five kicks in the Schaefer a will face shootout. chance to fill Irish senior captain another top-10 captain but unable to take the field after suffering a season-ending knee injury 20 minutes into the team’s first game. 
“It’s very different being a leader on the field,” Rellas said. “Once that was taken away I’ve tried to be a leader team Friday in 
No. 7 Louisville. A win could help the Irish build their NCAA résumé, and a Big East championship — something the seniors have yet to win in their college careers — would give the team an auto­matic bid. 
“I’d like to think we’ll defi­nitely be in the NCAA tour­nament but the only thing we can do is keep winning,” senior captain and midfield­er Justin Morrow said. “The only thing we can do now is win. 
“It’s the end of the season, every game could potentially be my last. You have to take that in mind and play like it.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
“I told [Irish coach Bobby Clark] before the game that we were to go into a shootout that I wanted to go first,” he said. “I knew that it could be my last game as a Notre Dame player. I just cleared everything away and put the ball in the back of the net.” 
Thomas’ display of leader­ship is not rare on a team with so many veterans, the captains said. 
“Our senior class is large,” senior captain and defender Cory Rellas said. “We’ve done a pretty good job of leading this year, everyone in their own way. We’re set­ting a good example for the younger guys so they can become leaders down the road.” 
Rellas was in the unusual position this year of being a in, and Schaefer has made the most of it. He has started every game since 

t h e n  a n d  e v e n  n o t c h e d  a  
goal.  
The seniors have made  a  

big impact on offense this year as well. Senior forward Bright Dike leads the team with 10 goals and 23 points. Thomas is behind him with six goals and 18 total points. 
Both goalkeepers for the Irish are seniors as well. Philip Tuttle and Andrew Quinn have traded goalkeep­ing duties this season, start­ing 10 and nine games, respectively. Tuttle played in goal Sunday. 
“Every senior plays his 
own role,” Thomas said. “Everybody in the senior class really wants it for this team.” 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  23  
24  25  26  
27  28  29  
30  31  32  
33  34  35  36  
37  38  39  
40  41  42  43  44  45  
46  47  48  
49  50  51  
52  53  54  55  
56  57  58  
59  60  61  

Thursday, November 12, 2009 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 
Across 32 Not just turn 
1 ___ salad (dish down with ground 33 Repeatedly …beef) and a hint to the 
5 Where answers to this Panasonic is puzzle's starred headquartered clues 
10 Nav. ___ 
37 Kind of wave14 “Get ___,” 1967 
38 One of the hit for the 
Esquires Canterbury 15 Florida tourist pilgrimsdestination 39 Golden Globe­16 Hershey's candy winning English 17 Like many old actor McShane gym socks 40 M.D.'s who 18 *Baseball feat deliver 20 ___ friends 41 Palm product 22 Pay dirt 42 X, e.g. 23 Clear, in a way 
46 Last word in 
24 *Physics period shampoo26 Garth Brooks, by instructions birth 
48 *Brave front 27 Winter Olympics 49 Dentist's races admonition28 Marijuana's
active 50 Do a substance: Abbr. background
check on29 Directional 
ending 51 “What he said” 30 Old greeting 52 *Asthmatic's 31 Farm sound concern 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


55 Town at one end 
of the Windsor 
Bridge
56 Something a person may take
a spin in?
57 Blinded painfully
58 Filmmaker 
Riefenstahl 
59 To be, to 33­Down 
60 Targets of some sprays
61 Harriet Beecher Stowe novel 
Down 
1 They're read atservices 2 Uncouth sort 3 Basilica feature 4 Hazard around an aerosol can 
5 Work started byLondon's Philological Soc. 
6 Many MelBrooks films 
7 “Dedicated to finding ___”(diabetesfoundation motto)
8 Japanese port 9 The Falcons, on scoreboards 10 Cosmetician 
Adrien 
11 Olympics venue 
12 Individually, in a 
way
13 Leading lady
19 N.E.A. part:Abbr. 
21 Part of a hazmat suit 
25 Follow-up to a parent'scommand,maybe
26 Metal that's an effective radiation shield 
WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

Puzzle by Scott Atkinson  
28 It may bepinched31 Range part:Abbr. 32 Treacherous expanse33 Caligula'spredecessor as emperor34 Not gradually35 Suffix with gleeor sorrow  36 Like circus elephants 37 Potassium ___(preservative) 41 Home of highways H-1,H-2 and H-3 42 Flap one's gums 43 Vermin hunter 44 When Romeo meets Juliet  45 Russian playwrightAndreyev 47 -like 48 Insurance giant 50 ___ the Dragon,ruler of old Wallachia 53 “Yo te ___” 54 Stat for an R.B.  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 



JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Thursday, November 12, 2009 page 20 
BARAKA BOUTS 

On a mission 
Women’s boxing club fghts for East Africa 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Don’t expect a lot of knockout blows when 90 female boxers take the ring tonight for the Baraka Bouts Fight Night. Instead, look for even matches and exciting finishes. 
“Every fight is a close fight,” said senior Kristin Burke, pres­ident of the Women’s Boxing Club. “Every fight can go either way, which makes every fight more exciting. Each fight is really close and you never know going into a fight who’s going to win it.” 
The captains set up each fight individually, taking into consideration the fighters’ height, weight and experience level before creating match ups, Burke said. 
Observer File Photo
“I don’t think we’ve had more 

Two Notre Dame students duke it out during last year’s Baraka Bouts, the University’s annual see BOUTS/page 18 women’s boxing event. The 2009 event will feature 45 fghts Thursday night. 

MEN’S SOCCER 
ND seniors reflect on shootout 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
When South Florida’s Sebastian Thuriere stepped to the penalty kick line for the Bulls’ fifth attempt in Sunday’s shootout, eight Irish seniors stood on the sideline and one stood in the goal. The game had ended in a 2-2 tie and Notre Dame was up 5-4 in the shootout, which would decide who moved on to the Big East semifinals. 
All nine seniors watched as Thuriere ’s shot bounced harmlessly off the top cross­bar, and immediately after­wards all nine celebrated the extension of their college careers. 
“It meant everything,” sen-
see SHOOTOUT/page 18 


MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame signs trio of guards to 2010 recruiting class 
Notre Dame’s veteran at the about him and I also feel good, losing in (Jonathan Peoples) “He’s got great size, and he 
By ERIC PRISTER 

one-position. It was not only his because (Atkins) got the ball and (Jackson), but the commu-can handle the ball,” Brey said. 
Sports Writer 

skill, but his communication rolling with this class. He got us nicator was what really sold it “He has a feel for the game, he 
ability that Irish coach Mike started last spring and really to me. He’s long, he has great shoots it. He’s the whole pack-
Announcing three signees for Brey says makes him most con-gave us some direction by hav-length, and he still might be age as far as a guy that can the 2010 class, Notre Dame fident that Atkins can move into ing our point guard in the growing a little bit. But (he has) really play any position on the focused on filling a hole that the point guard role immediate-spring and having it done a feel for the game, great speed, perimeter. What really will emerge after this season at ly. before we go into the summer.” comes from a winning pro-impressed me when I saw the guard position, receiving “I was really impressed by his Atkins averaged over 23 gram.” (Dragovich) was that he was National Letters of Intent from skill level, but more than that, points and six assists during his Dragicevich is a 6-foot-6 handling the ball against speed guards Eric Atkins, Alex his ability to communicate,” junior year at Mount St. Joseph guard from Glenbrook North and pressure, along with mak-Dragicevich and Jerian Grant to Brey said. “Certainly we are High School, and played on an High School in suburban ing shots and passing it, but he fill three out the four scholar-losing one of the best communi-AAU team that won the Adidas Chicago, where he averaged could put it on the floor and get ships available after the 2009-cators we’ve ever had in Take 5 championship and the over 20 points per game as a places.” 10 season. Jackson and that really sold me, Teak Breakdown Tournament. junior. Brey compared him with A 6-foot-5 guard from 
Atkins, a true point guard that I thought he’d be a great fit “He has a point guard mental-big wing players Notre Dame Washington, D.C., Grant is the from Baltimore, will attempt to and that we’d have a great shot ity, and that’s a need that we has had in the past, including fill the spot of Tory Jackson, at getting him. I’m excited truly need, given what we’re Matt Carroll and David Graves. see RECRUITS/page 18 

MEN’S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Quest for repeat continues 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
When one thinks of football at Notre Dame Stadium, the image of gold helmets glim­mering in the crisp sun on a fall afternoon likely comes to mind. But for the second straight season, it could be the white helmets of Siegfried shining in the sun at the Stadium. 
For senior captain Dex Cure, an opportunity lies ahead to go down in Notre Dame lore if the Ramblers can win their final two games, the second of which would be on a field with a more storied history and tra­dition than arguably any other 
see SIEGFRIED/page 17 


TOM LA/The Observer Siegfried senior fullback Dex Cure carries during a Ramblers interhall football game earlier this season. 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Freshman emerges as future of program 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
While the Belles have long looked to senior captain Megan McClowry to lead them, Julia Kenney may be the future of the program. 
The breakout freshman has finished at least second for the Belles in every meet this season, while placing first in each six-kilometer meet, quickly making a name for herself as one of the MIAA’s top youngsters. 
Even more remarkable, the Livonia, Mich., native did not begin running cross country until 2007. 
“My high school coach, Rick Brauer, sparked my interest,” Kenney said. “Almost immedi­ately, I fell in love with competi­tive running and decided to dis­continue soccer and basketball, devoting myself to year-round training.” 
Although Brauer left Ladywood H.S. after Kenney’s junior season, he continued to mentor Kenney until she gradu­ated. When Kenney came to Saint Mary’s, it was the tandem of McClowry and Belles coach Jackie Bauters that stepped in to motivate the freshman. 
“Megan McClowry continuous­ly pushes me and encourages me,” Kenney said. “Running 
see KENNEY/page 17 






