
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Schmidt, Weber elected Pres., V.P. 
With 51.9 percent of vote, ticket narrowly defeats Burdick-Sanchez in run-off election 

By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer. 
Junior Grant Schmidt and sophomore Cynthia Weber won the election for student body president and vice pres­ident with 51.9 percent of the vote in one of the closest elec­tions in recent years, accord­ing to Judicial Council presi­dent George Chamberlain. 
Schmidt and Weber defeat­ed juniors Laura Burdick and Derek Sanchez, who received 
48.1 percent of the vote. 
Slightly less than half the undergraduate student body, or 3,942 students, voted 
Springbreak on despite 
•


recession 
By AMANDA GRAY News Writer 
This spring break, the economy has had an effect on travel and prices, according to Anthony Travel's Leisure Manager Kayleen Carr. But it's an effect that benefits the traveler. 
"Prices are cheaper," Carr said. "Similar packages are cheaper this year than last year." 
There isn't a noticeable change in the amount of people vacationing, Carr said. 
Vacation destination trends are slightly different. Cruises and cruise packages were the popular item last year, Carr said, while this year land packages, including airfare, hotel rooms, and in some cases, food and drinks, are the most popular choice. 
"Compared to last year, students are getting a better deal because the pack­ages are all-inclusive," Carr said. 
The average cost of these all-inclu­sive packages is $850, she said. Prices for flights are also down because of lower fuel costs, Carr said. 
"People are paying $500 for hotel and airfare this year, what last year would have gotten them just airfare," she said. 
Carr said companies are also adver­tising plenty of last-minute deals to bring in more customers. 
All of these cheap prices have been good for Anthony Travel. "We've had more spring break busi­ness than last year," Carr said. 
This year's most popular Spring Break destination for students is Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, Carr said. Other popular destinations are Riviera Maya, which is south of Canclin, and Punta Cana, in the Dominican Republic. 
see BREAK/page 6 

Thursday, Chamberlain said. 
The Schmidt-Weber ticket 
received 1,886 votes while 
the Burdick-Sanchez ticket 
grabbed 1,746 votes. 
Chamberlain said the 310 
votes to abstain were exclud­
ed from the denominator 
used to derive the percent­
ages, but if the abstaining 
votes had been included, nei­
ther candidate would have 
received the necessary 50 
percent to win the election. 
"This is the closest run-off .election I have seen in my time here," Chamberlain said. Schmidt said he is happy with the high voter turnout 
see ELECTION/page 4 


Veterans honored at halfti111e 
Basketball fans give 'Wounded Warriors' standing ovation 
By FRAN TOLAN News Writer 
At halftime of the Notre Dame men's basketball game against Louisville Thursday, the team honored four United States soldiers that were injured in combat in Afghanistan. 
The four "Wounded Warriors" -Lance Corporal Anthony Villarreal, Staff Sergeant Leroy Petry, Staff Sergeant Dillon Behr and Staff Sergeant Freddie De Los Santos -were greeted at midcourt by a standing ova-
see HALFTIME/page 4 

PAT COVENEY !The Observer Members of the "Wounded Warriors" were honored at halftime of the men's basketball game Thursday. 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Donations down;ND fares better 
than peers 
By AARON STEINER Assistant News Editor 
While donations to the University "certainly have been . affected by the economic down­turn," the University has fared better than most of its peers, Notre Dame's Vice President for University Helations Lou Nanni said Thursday. 
Nanni said his office has seen a measurable impact on fundraising given the current economic situation, which he called "unprecedented in most of our lifetimes." 
In the most recent seven­month period, the University raised slightly over,$157 million in cash, pledges and deferred gifts, down almost 90 million from the previous year, which Nanni said was a record year for donations. 
"The situation has affected philanthropic giving across the board, and Notre Dame's not immune to that," Nanni said. 
He emphasized that Notre Dame has fared better than its peers. 
"Helative to other schools, we've been doing reasonably well," he said. "We have a very loyal following in alumni, par­ents and friends.... We're really, really privileged in terms of the adhesion and loyalty [of donors)." 
Nanni called Notre Dame a 
see DONATION/page 6 


Irish Gardens peddling flowers 
Student-run business promotes wares in anticipation of Valentine's Day celebrations 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
With Valentine's Day on Saturday, student-run business Irish Gardens is using the occasion to advertise its name on cam­pus as well as accommo­date the hundreds of stu­dents who have placed orders for bouquets. 
"We are hoping to pro­mote our name around campus," student manager Mary Kathleen Julien said. "We want the campus com­munity to be aware that we are around campus." 
Irish Gardens is a stu­dent-run business on cam­pus. Julien and three other student managers, Mary McDougall, Sara Snider and Michelle Maloney, oversee the business. 
They are currently in the middle of their Valentine's Day campaign, which Maloney said is one of their busiest times of the year. 
"It is definitely busy around Valentine's Day every year, it is absolutely packed," she said. "This is our first themed campaign, and we are hoping to pro­mote the store as much as possible." 
To promote the event, 
see FLOWERS/page 6 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, February 1_3, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Valentine's 
Day don'ts 
With Valentine's Day fast approach­ing, many Notre Dame students may need help figuring out what to buy for that special someone. 
Unfortunately, I can't help you. 
This was made .. 

abundantly clear to Irena ZaJICkova me when an anonymous male 
News Wtre 
friend asked me 
Editor
what he should 
give his girlfriend, 
and then shot all of 
my suggestions down. Apparently, I'm 
too stupid to know what girls want for Valentine's Day. Even though I am, in fact, a girl who wants stuff for Valentine's Day. · 
However, I'm pretty sure that I'm qualified to tell you what NOT to buy. I've been subjected to many awful gifts. 
Below, I've compiled a handy list of presents that you should avoid at all costs. 
For him: 
uA decorative box. Boys don't store 
their belongings in decorative boxes. 
Unless the box is decorated with beef jerky or pictures of attractive sports­caster Erin Andrews, skip this one. uSweaters for his dog. The only way your boyfriend will appreciate this is if he aspires to be an eighty-year-old woman. uAny kind of ceramic figurine. What's he supposed to do with it? Collect and trade them amongst his friends? uA stuffed animal that's dressed exactly like you. I don't understarid why anyone would buy this for someone they love. Why don't you just wallpaper your boyfriend's room with giant pictures of your face? 
For her: uAn exercise video or a bathroom scale. Even ifyour girlfriend has-put on weight, I don't think Valentine's Day is the best time to remind her of it. uLow-fat chocolate. Same reason. uAnything targeted toward elementary­school children. I once jokingly said I wanted a "Barbie: Fairytopia" DVD dur­ing a trip to the mall. I got it two weeks later for my birthday. Last time I checked, I'm not five. uJewelry followed by the phrase "Ifyou don't like it, my mom said she wanted it." Unfortunately, this is yet another true story from my life. uAny kind of weird food. For example, cooking a romantic dinner complete with salad made with lettuce and mush­rooms from your pet iguana's food dish. This happened to a friend of mine, and is the opposite of a fun evening. 
For anyone: uA his-and-hers gravestone. Yes, such an item actually exists. This doesn't say, "I love you." It says, "One day I may kill you in your sleep." 
Hopefully my suggestions were help­ful and all of you were able to steer clear of getting your sweetie anything 
as stupid as the gifts I listed above. If you'd like to thank me, I'll be spending Valentine's Day in my room, watching 
"Barbie: Fairytopia" and eating some low-fat chocolate. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU DOING FOR VALENTINE'S DAY? 




Billy Cowhey  Sarah Gatens  Mike Sheehy  
freshman  freshman  freshman  
Keough  Welsh Family  Keough  
"When is that  "You mean  "Finding true  
again?"  Singles  love at U ofM. ''  
Awareness  
Day.?"  


PAT COVENEYffhe Observer Fans smile for the camera as they cheer at the Notre Dame men's basket­ball game Thursday. The team beat Louisville 90-57, ending a seven game losing streak. 
OFFBEAT 

Woman loses record-break­Ing fingernails In crash 
SALT LAKE CITY-A Utah woman listed in the Guinness Book of World Records for her long fingernails has lost them in a car crash. Lee Redmond of Salt Lake City sustained serious but non­life-threatening injuries in the accident Tuesday. 
Redmond's nails, which hadn't been cut since 1979, were broken in the crash. According to the Guinness Web site, her nails measured a total of more than 28 feet long in 2008, with the longest nail on her right thumb at 2 feet, 11 inches. 
Salt Lake County Sheriff's 
TODAY 



Lt. Don Hutson says Redmond was ejected from an SUV in the crash and taken to the hospital in seri­ous condition. 
Redmond has been fea­tured on TV in episodes of "Guinness Book of World Records" and "Ripley's Believe It or Not." 
Woman charged for sell­Ing neighbors' dogs 
COLUMBIA, Pa. -A 27­year-old central Pennsylvania woman is in the doghouse after alleged­ly selling her neighbors' 
. West Highland terriers on Craigslist for $150. Brandi Anderson of 
Columbia says she found the tagless purebred dogs last week and didn't know the owner. She maintains that she kept the two dogs for a few days, then sold them so they'd have a good home. 
Police charged her with theft of lost property. They say she didn't take reason­able measures to find the owner. 
The owner told the Lancaster Intelligencer Journal that she and her family live on the same block as Anderson. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
Q.
*&.* ..
* .·..;n;-... * 

Michael D'Netto 
freshman Keough 
"Finding true love back at 
,
home. 
IN BRIEF 

Ten Years Hence Lecture Series will present a lecture en titied, "Sustain a hili ty: Past, Present and Future from a Corporate View." Friday in the Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business. The lec­ture will take place between 
10:40 a.m. to 12:10 p.m. 

The annual Edith Stein Project will take place throughout the day today. The conference will address women's issues which will include speakers, a Mass, meals. Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students are invited free of charge, but must register at https://mar­ketplace.nd.edu/cce/index.c fm. 
The Pasquerilla East Musical Company (PEMCo.) will show the musical "The Producers" tonight and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are available at the LaFortune box office, $6 for students and $8 general admission. 
The Student Union Board (SUB) will show "Twilight" in 101 DeBartolo Hall tonight and Saturday at 
8:00 p.m. and 10:30 p.m.. Tickets are $3. 
The Browning Cinema will present the film "Welcome to Sarajevo" Saturday at 
9:30 p.m. The event is free but ticketed. Tickets can be obtained by calling 574-631­2800. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

0.
*&• * 
* *""8* * 

HIGH 41 LOW 27 
..... 
<C 
(,) 
0 

HIGH 36 HIGH HIGH 35
.... 

LOW 25 LOW LOW 20 
HIGH 34 LOW 23 
Atlanta 65 I 43 Boston 39 I 28 Chicago 37 I 31 Denver 43 I 19 Houston 69 I 53 Los Angeles 60 I 48 Minneapolis 32 I 26 New York 37 I 32 Philadelphia 49 I 44 Phoenix 64 I 43 Seattle 45 I 34 St. Louis 55 I 37 Tampa 77 I 63 Washington 42 I 38 



26 22 

Friday, February 13, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Sophomores to host 
parents over -weekend 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
Sophomore Parents' Weekend, a time for parents to participate in activities with their daughters, kicks off at Saint Mary's College today. 
Sophomore Rachel Flaherty said she is looking forward to spending time with her family. 
"I am very excited for Sophomore Parent's Weekend because it allows my parents to come to Saint Mary's College and see the places that I spend my time at away from home," Flaherty said. 
For Katie Brown, the weekend will be an opportunity for her to see her parents outside of breaks. 
"My mom hasn't been on cam­pus since move in at the begin­ning of the year, so I am excited for her to see everything again," Brown said. 
The weekend contains many different events planned to help students bond with their parents while at school. On Friday, there will be a silent auction. Parents and students are invited to take part in bingo, a special Mass and a dinner on Saturday. 
Meg Griffin, the president of the class of 2011, oversaw the plan­ning of this event. 
"Sophomore Parents' weekend is the first in a series of weekends designed to allow girls to show off their campus and college experi­ence to their parents," Griffin said. "This is a great opportunity for parents to see where their daughters live and work, and who they interact with on a daily basis." 
About 350 students and par­ents will be attending the week­end. 
"The purpose of this weekend is to create a bonding experience with parents and daughters and celebrate their daughter's educa­tion," Griffin said. 
"I wanted my parents to come to this weekend so that they could spend time with me at my home away from home, and also so we could have fun doing things we wouldn't normally get to do," Flaherty said. · 
Contact Alida Smith at 
asmithO 1 @saintmacys.edu 



Campus celebrates Darwin 
Scientist's 200th birthday observed with party, poetry slam event 
By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 

Charles Darwin has been dead for 127 years, but over 80 Notre Dame students and faculty members celebrated his 200th birthday with a party and poetry slam event Thursday night. 
Professor Hope Hollocher of the biology department organized the event, which was sponsored by both the biology department and Notre Dame's Environmental Research Center. 
"The biology department hadn't organized anything fun for the 'Darwin at Notre Dame' series, and his birth­day was still open, so we planned this," Hollocher said. 
The audience drank tea and munched on scones while 23 students and Hollocher's seven-year-old daughter per­formed the poems they had written. 
Hollocher helped judge the poetry competition, along with English professor John 
Wilkinson, biology graduate student Matthew Barnes and Cici Holley, a senior biology student. 
The event brought students and faculty from different disciplines together. 
"This event is a confluence of science and the arts, a chance to see how those two things meshed," Hollocher said. "There's this idea of dif­ferent departments getting together. It's really cross-dis­ciplinary." 
The judges graded the poems on form, performance, content and humor. Audience <;heers determined the win­ner of an audience apprecia­tion category. 
The overall winners were Kyle Rocca and Angela Salvo, whose poem honored all the scientists before Darwin whose efforts helped his dis­coveries. Mentioning Mendel's peas, Leeuwenhoek's microscope, and many others, their poem concluded, "The past we must remember, but the future lies with you." 
The poems included limer­icks, haikus and sonnets, and addres-sed topics ranging from the Great Tennessee Monkey trial to Darwin's famous trip on the H.M.S. Beagle. 
Grace Ho wrote a letter to Darwin from the perspective of the pigeons he raised for research. Her poem, "Dear Darwin, Love Pigeon," won the form category. 
Gabriel Pham wrote a tongue-in-cheek limerick about how evolution and nat­ural selection make it difficult for guys who lack financial stability to mate. 
"A disclaimer, this poem is a little risque," Pham said before reading. 
Biology student Cat Stecyk and English major Michelle Romeu teamed up to write "One Fish, Two Fish, Red Fish, Evolution Fish." 
"This was a cool idea," Romeu said. "It's a fun way to enjoy poetry and science." 
Contact Tess Civantos at tdvanto@nd.edu ' 

Edith Stein Project to discuss love, relationships, dignity 
Fourth annual conference aims to empower men, women to 'evaluate honestly their own lives and relationships' 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
The fourth annual Edith Stein Project will focus on issues relating to love through a variety of events, including 25 speakers and two panel discussions. 
"Our purpose is to engage men and women in discussion on their inherent worth and dignity in a manner that is relevant to every­day life, with an emphasis on the dignity of women," said senior Caitilin Podla~ki. the chair of the conference. 
Podlaski said she hopes that between 300 and 400 participants will attend the conference on Friday and Saturday. 
The conference presents views of human dignity based on optimism and the teachings of the Catholic Church, she said. 
"We hope that this conference compels and empowers men and women to evaluate honestly their own lives and relationships," she said. 
Podlaski has attended each of the four Edith Stein Projects, which is 

ACE UNDERGRADUATE INTERNSHIPS 
Get your application at http://ace.intern.googlepages.corn/horne 

hosted by the Identity Project of Notre Dame (idND). idND became an official club after the first Edith Stein Project in 2006, she said. 
"It all began with a group of friends with a passion for the beau­ty and inherent worth of every per­son," she said. 
Although online registration closed Wednesday, Podlaski said people. could still attend as many of the events as they like. Most events will be held in McKenna Hall. 
Two of the 25 speakers are Film, Television and Theatre professors Susan Ohmer and Don Crafton, who will give a presentation on "Love in Film and Television" Friday evening. 
The project's Web site lists the schedule of events, including speakers on issues such as homo­sexuality, contraception, family life and healthy relationships. 
The two panels during the con­ference will feature student speak­ers, who Podlaski said offer unique perspectives on the issues. 
According to the conference Web site, Friday afternoon's panel will examine the hook-up culture and how it is related to the difference between internal and external beauty. 
Podlaski said Saturday after­noon's panel concerns violence against women . 
."We have several students on the panel, and some of them share very personal stories," she said. "It is eye-opening and yet also very inspiring." 
The conference concludes Saturday evening with a formal banquet. 
Podlaski hopes that students will experience new points of view by attending the conference. 
"People may or may not agree with all of the positions presented, but this is an academic confer­ence," she said. "Therefore, diverse opinions are not only encouraged but absolutely necessary for fruitful dialogue and for the conference to fulfill its mission." 
Co~tact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 13, 2009 
Election 
continued from page 1 

and the close election because close elections create high expectations for the win­ner. 
"I want this position to be earned," he said. 

Weber said the close elec­tion puts more pressure on the duo to perform well in office. 
"So many people voted, and Derek and Laura had so many supporters," she said. "They are going to hold us to a high standard." 
Weber said she is confident the Weber-Schmidt adminis­tration will represent the Burdick-Sanchez supporters. 
Schmidt said the high voter turnout is an indication of the strength of both tickets. 
"These four clearly repre­sent the student body," he said. 

Schmidt said he believes his experience as student body vice president along with Weber's current job as sopho­more class president were crucial in earning the win. 
Weber said she believes their grassroot campaign also impacted the outcome of the election. 
"We took time to meet with individual students -and we listened to what they want," she said. 
As student bgdy vice presi­dent, Schmidt said he is in the position to implement his platform ideas right away. 

"Since I'm in office this year, a lot of our work will start now," he said. "There are also things Bob and I want to get done before his term ends." 
The taxi reform plan, which will offer students coupons to cover cab fares, and the effort to create cheaper options when buying textbooks are the top platform ideas on the list, Schmidt said. 

"If we are going to accom­plish those we will have to start now," he said. 
The promise of expanding 'Grab n Go' food options is also a plan that will be imple­mented quickly, he said. 
Schmidt said he and Weber want to continue to address the frequent question from students about what student government actually does. 
"Cynthia and I want to make student government more visible," he said. 
Despite their defeat, Burdick and Sanchez said they believe in their campaign platform and will not aban­don it. 
"We will work on om:. plat­form ideas without the title," Burdick said. 
She said her and Sanchez discussed the implementation of their ideas with the neces­sary departm~nts during campaigning, and they will continue to do so next year. 
Although she lost, Burdiek said she is happy with the large number of students who made the effort to vote. 
"I think it's saying some­thing about the candidates that this many people voted," she said. "Obviously both tickets had a lot of support. It wasn't a blowout." 
Burdick emphasized that her ticket only lost by 140 votes. 
"That's awfully close," she said. 
Schmidt and Weber both said they are excited and ready to lead the student body starting April 1. 
"Right now, we are pumped," Schmidt said. "We will continue to evaluate ways to better Notre Dame." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
"I think they were gonna beat us up if we hadn't won," he said with a laugh. 
Unbeknownst to Jackson, Petry said he was expecting nothing less than a win. 
"The team hasn't been doing very well. We got to meet with.. the coaches earlier and we told them, 'Hey, we're letting you guys know we came here to see you guys win,'" he said. 
Captain Joe Kosek, a Notre Dame assistant professor and former Notre Dame ROTC cadet, said Brey was instru­mental in organizing the half­time ceremony. 
"It's amazing for me to see that key players at the University like Mike Brey are takifig such steps to recog­nize the soldiers abroad," Kosek said. "We just want to try to make it as amazing as we can for the Wounded Warriors." 
Kosek said the men's bas­ketball program contacted the Notre Dame Army ROTC to help plan the event. 
"As far as the Wounded Warriors go, we didn't really have any role except helping contact them," he said. "They've done a great job of bringing them in. We've just acted as a consultant for their trip here, and figuring out things they might want to do when they're here." 
All four soldiers sat court­side for the Irish win. With just over six minutes remain­ing in the first half of the game, the public address announcer asked all veterans and those currently serving in the military to stand and be recognized. 
"It's awesome. To have Notre Dame fans cheer for you is unreal, really," Villarreal said. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

Halfti01e 
continued from page 1 

tion from the sellout crowd during intermission of the 
true heroes here." 

The halftime ceremony con­sisted of a video tribute and an acknowledgment at mid­court of the four soldiers, each of whom was presented with a Notre Dame auto-
home team's win. 
"It was a lot to take in, emo­tionally. I held it in but it is a weird experi­ence," Lance Corporal Villarreal said immediately after the trib­ute. "You just think you went over there and 

"It was a lot to take in, emotionally. I held it in but it is a weird 
experience. 
Lance Corporal Anthony Villarreal U.S. Army 
graphed bas­ketball. After the soldiers received their balls, the crowd broke out in chants of "U-S-A." 
Petry, whose son Landon accompanied him to mid­court, said the crowd's reac­tion was emo­
did your job and you have all tional for him. these people appreciate you "Having !Landon) here after in that way. It kind of makes I've been wounded is great," you grateful for what you've Petry said. "I want to thank 
done."  everybody for  
The halftime  their support."  
presentation was part of  "I think it's great that  Brey, mean­while, said he  
"Camo Night" at the Joyce Center, an event Notre Dame  as a University, we've done this camo night and honored [the  and his team might have owed extra thanks to the  
coach  Mike  troops].,,  troops. Notre  
Brey began last  Dame  was  on  
year. Every fan in attendance received a cam­ Mike Brey men's basketball coach  a seven-game losing streak before blow­ 

ouflage T-shirt upon entering the game. 

In May 2007, Brey traveled to Kuwait as part of 
... Operation Hardwood," a four-day basketball tourna­ment in which he coached a team of service members. After returning to the United States, Brey said the trip was one of the top five experi­ences of his life. 
"I think it's great that as a University, we've done this camo night and honored [the troops]," Brey said after Thursday's game. "This year, though, we actually had some 
ing out 
Louisville 90­
57. 

"Those guys brought me some good karma, I guess," Brey said. "I spent some time in our reception area with them at 2:00." 
Notre Dame point guard Tory Jackson agreed, saying: "The way they fight for us ­it was one of those things ­we kind of returned the favor for them, fought for them a little." 
Besides, the 5-foot-11 Jackson joked that he would be afraid of the consequences if the team were to lose. 

NG Ais atruly unique dining and drinking experience featuring acreative blend of culinary delights with adelicate touch ot Asian flavors in an exciting yet intimate setting. Also come and enjoy our stylish and contemporary fusion martini bar. 


ORLD & NATION 
Friday, February 13, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVE~s WIRE sERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Islamic group agrees to truce 
CAIRO -The deputy leader of Hamas said Thursday night that the Islamic militant group agreed to an 18-month truce with Israel for the Gaza Strip, the ofl'icial Egyptian news agency reported. 
Moussa Anu Marzouk told MENA that Egypt's government, which has been mediat­ing between llamas and Israel, would announce the truce in two days after consult­ing with other Palestinian factions. 
In Jerusalem, Prime Minister Ehud Olmert's ollice said the Israeli government had no com­ment on the report. 
Earlier in the day, Egyptian and-Hamas ofli­eials reported progress in truce talks, which included llamas' strongman from Gaza. Mahmoud Zahar, and Egypt's top mediator, intelligence chief Omar Suleiman. 
Pakistan admits t<llink with attacks 
ISLAMABAD -Pakistan acknowledged the Mumbai attacks were partly plotted on its soil and announced criminal proceedings against eight suspects. including three alleged ringlead­ers, in a sign it is heeding U.S. and Indian demands to punish those responsible for the deaths of 164 people. 
India called Thursday's announcement a "positive development" and the news was wel­comed by Washington, which had feared ten­sions the attacks triggered between the nuclear-armed neighbors would distract Pakistan from its struggle against the Taliban and al-Qaida. 
"I want to assure the international communi­ty, I want to assure all those who have been vic­tims of terrorism. that we mean business," Interior Ministry chief Rehman Malik said at a news conference, while holding up a copy of the findings that were later handed over to India. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Inspection costs five their lives 
DALLAS -Fire oflicials failed to identify serious safety concerns, including a lack of smoke detectors and proper exits, when they inspected an east Texas homeless shelter where five men later died in a fire, according to records obtained by The Associated Press. 
"Looks OK" was the only thing written on one report prepared after an April 2005 inspection, one of the documents provided by the city of Paris in response to the AP's request under the Texas Public Information Act. 
None of the five inspections conducted in the 10 years before the Jan. 5 fire was by a state­certified fire inspector, and all failed to notice that the facility lacked the basic safety require­ments for overnight occupancy. Dozens of men lived amid containers of used clothing and other highly flammable material. 
Peanut plant orders recall 
AUSTIN, Texas-Texas has ordered a recall of all products ever shipped from a now-closed Peanut Corp. of America plant in Plainview amid a natio'nwide salm!ltiella outbreak. 
The order came Thursday evening from the Department of State Health ServiCes. The agency says "dead rodents, rodent excrement and bird feathers" were discovered Wednesday in a crawl space above a produc­tion area. 
A state inspection also found that the unit's air handling system was pulling debris from the infested crawl space into production areas. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Man guilty of murder after 24 years 
CHOWN POINT, Ind. -A man extradited from California to Indiana pleaded guilty but mentally ill Thursday to raping and murdering a Gary woman 24 years ago. 
Mark Erler, 48, did not have a plea agreement with prosecutors. He pleaded guilty but mentally ill to charges of murder and murder in the perpetration of rape in the death of 22-year-old Linda Bennitt. Her body was found May 5, 1984, at Riley School in Gary. Her throat was slashed, she had been stabbed twice in the chest and raped. 
Judge pleads not guilty to bribery 
DeLaughter charged with five federal counts including conspiracy and mail fraud 
Associated Press 

JACKSON., Miss. -A judge known for success­fully prosecuting a white supremacist decades after a civil rights-era killing pleaded not guilty Thursday to five federal charges in an unrelated judicial bribery scheme that has snared some or the state's wealthiest attorneys. 
Mississippi Circuit Judge Bobby DeLaughter was influenced with a promise that former U.S. Sen. Trent Lott would help him get appointed to the feder­al bench, according to an eight-page indictment unsealed Thursday. Lott has not been accused of wrongdoing. 
DeLaughter, a judge in Hinds County, which includes Jackson, is charg!3d with conspiracy, mail fraud and obstruc­tion. His arraignment in 
U.S. District Court in Oxford came just two days after Lott's brother-in-law, noted anti-tobacco attor­ney Richard "Dickie" Scruggs, pleaded guilty to mail fraud charges. 
DeLaughter's attorney did not immediately respond to a message from The Associated Press. a hard look at the communicated with the ed $1 million to Peters to 
DeLaughter presided DeLaughter case. A plea Scruggs legal team help persuade DeLaughter over a bitter dispute deal in which Scruggs through Ed Peters, afford­to rule in Scruggs' favor. among Scruggs and other admitted trying to influ­ing them a unique and The government has lawyers over millions of ence DeLaughter added valuable opportunity to seized $425·,000 from dollars in fees from two years to. Scruggs' sen­foresee and attempt to Peters, which is all they asbestos litigation. tence Tuesday. influence his rulings," the say is left after taxes and 
Scruggs, a chief archi­Prosecutors say Scruggs indictment says. stock market losses. Peters tect of the multibillion-dol­and his associates exploit­Others allegedly involved has not been charged and lar tobacco settlements of ·ed DeLaughter's weak­in the scheme are former has not returned calls-for the 1990s, has admitted nesses: his relationship Mississippi Auditor Steve comment. he was involved in a with his mentor, former -Patterson and two dis­DeLaughter was once an scheme to entice Hinds County District barred attorneys, Joey assistant district attorney DeLaughter to rule in his Attorney Ed Peters, and Langston and Timothy under Peters. They made favor by promising he'd be his desire to be a federal Balducci. headlines in 1994 by suc­appointed to the federal judge. Langston also has plead­cessfully prosecuting bench. Lott talked to Scruggs and the others ed guilty to trying to influ­Byron de la Beckwith for DeLaughter but ult~mately hired Peters, DeLaughter's ence DeLaughter on the 1963 assassination of recommended someone old boss and close friend, Scruggs' behalf. Balducci Mississippi civil rights else for the job. to influence him behind and Patterson pleaded leader Medgar Evers. The 
Scruggs was already the scenes, according to guilty to conspiring to case was portrayed in the serving five years fot con­the indictment. bribe a different judge and 1996 movie "Ghosts of spiring to bribe a north From August 2005 to have been cooperating in Mississippi" and Mississippi judge when August 2006, DeLaughter th.e investigation. DeLaughter wrote a book investigators began taking "secretly and corruptly Langston said he direct-about the trial. 

CONGO 

Rebels send victims as a warning 
Associated Press -in danger and without protection." Benoit, a spokeswoman for Medecins 
So Akoyo called a town meeting and Sans Frontieres. 
BANGADl, Congo -Rebels from the told everyone to bring whatever The ragtag groups are filling a secu­Lord's Resistance Army sent torture weapons they had: pre-World War II rity vacuum as Congo tries to recover victims -including a man whose back rifles, homemade shotguns, lances, from back-to-hack civil wars that dev­was sliced with a machete -to warn swords, machetes, hunting knives, astated the Central African nation over the people of this Congolese town they bows with sheaths of poisoned arrows. nearly a decade. would be next. The women came armed with Aid workers and human rights 
The town's three policemen fled and kitchen knives and log-sized wooden activists are watching the phenome­there was no response from the mili­pestles used to pound yams into llour. non with trepidation. In a part of tary and U.N. peacekeepers to the Since then, the residents of Bangadi Congo with dozens of militias and increasingly panicked pleas for help. have successfully driven off two rebels, they fear these self-defense That's when residents realized they attacks by the Ugandan rebels, who groups could transform into a menac­were on their own. · have killed at least 900 people in this ing force. 
"We were sending warnings and remote northeastern corner of Congo Congo's army, cobbled together from begging for help practically every day over the past seven weeks. various rebel groups and the defeated for two weeks. And nothing hap­News of Bangadi's success -and troops of ousted dictator Mobutu Sese pened," said community leader the lack of military protection -have Seko, has never been cohesive and has Nicolas Akoyo Efudha. "We finally spurred hundreds of villages to form suffered repeated defeats at the hands understood that we were abandoned self-defense groups, according to Avril of the rebels. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 13, 2009 
Flowers 

continued from page 1 
the managers have put posters up around campus and have placed paper tents on the tables in both dining halls on campus. They also used the electronic signs in LaFortune. 
Irish Gardens has set up a table on the main floor of LaFortune where students can place orders. If the students have specific questions, they are redirected downstairs to the actual store. 
"The surge in business that we see during Valentine's Day is a great opportunity for us to let everyone on campus know that we are around throughout the school year, not just for the holidays," Julien said. 
There are a variety of options offered by the store, including special bouquets that were created by the student managers. 
Julien's bouquet is called the "MK Bouquet." It contains stock flowers, which are differ­ent types of wildflowers, snap­dragons, roses, alstroemeria and gerbera. 
"I wanted to create a bou­quet that was both beautiful and reasonable," Julien said. 
"This combination of flowers makes that possible." 
Maloney also created a bou­quet for Valentine's Day called the "Mystical Mythical Michelle." This bouquet is sim­ple, but elegant containing three stock flowers and three roses. 
Maloney and Julien agreed that their most popular flower has been the red rose. They said that they have also been selling large numbers of daisies. 
Irish Gardens also has a number of add-ins to accom­pany the bouquets. 
"We have both latex and Mylar balloons, stuffed ani­mals, and lollipops," Julien said. "This year we have also added an assortment of candy bars that buyers can choose from." 
The student managers said they have seen a steady flow of traffic all week, but expect the biggest rush to come on Saturday. 
"We will probably be up all night Friday making pre­orders so that on Saturday we can solely focus on completing the orders that come in that day," Maloney said. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 
to when this economy is going to come back," he said, which
Donation 
has afl"ected giving. The University is currently in 
continued from page 1 

the middle of the fourth year of "preferred charity" for most its largest capital campaign in donors. its history, the 
But he was cautious about Spirit of Notre predicting whether the situa-Dame cam­
announced, cam­
"This is a time when 
tion would improve or not. paign. The paigns this sum­"We're fairly early into this campaign Notre Dame really mer," he said, downturn," he said. "No one began in July focuses on cultivating adding that it knows how much worse will it of 2004 with would be a "very
relationships among 
get and how much longer will it the goal of difficult" time to 
go." raising $1.5 prospective donors." bold such a cam­
A new survey by the Council billion. paign.for Advancement and Support T h e Lou Nanni During the of Education forocasted a 1.7 • University has Vice President for recession, Nanni 
percent decrease in fundraising this year, making it the second worst in the past 21 years. 
Nanni said it's too early to make comparisons to down­turns like those experienced in the 1980s or after Sept. 11, but "all indications" lead him to Qelieve that the current reces­s!on will be far worse than either of those. 
Nanni said he sees a "combi­nation" of a decline in donors and amounts of individual donations. 
Some donors havr~ lost "any­where between 30 to 50 per­cent of their net worth," Nanni said. 
"And what is. perhaps most difiicult ... is the uncertainty as ly all funds have been raised with enough time for the University to meet and exceed the goal, Nanni said. 
"We have been very blessed, timing wise," he said. "A number of universities 
raised $1.46 University Relations said that 
billion to date, which is about 97 per­cent of the goal, with over two years remaining. 
Of the $1.46 billion raised, about 70 percent has already been received in cash, he said. 
"That's a very high pledge payment rate for any campaign nationally," Nanni said, ."so that leaves us less vulnerable than other schools." 
Nanni said the timing of the campaign has been particularly advantageous. 
"As you recall the economy dipped in 2002, 2003, so our starting point was particularly gratuitous," he said. Now, near-
fundraising efforts "focus on the basic funda­
mentals "This is a time when Notre Dame really focuses on culti­vating relationships among prospective donors," he said. 
The University can empha­size the impact that donations have, he said. 
"There's a lot of ways to give to NotJOC Dame where at the same time people can feel they're impacting ... greater society and it's needs," he said. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 

Break 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame senior Katie Begerow will be one Df the many students traveling this Spring Break. 
"We're going to Utah, and staying with my boyfriend's family," Begerow said. 
Price affected their Spring Break destination choice. 
"It was between a cruise over spring break or a trip to Europe this summer, and we wanted to go to Europe more," she said. 
Lower fuel prices also affect­ing her normal routine of buy­ing tickets in advance, Begerow said. Her normal routine of buying plane tickets months in advance was changed to just a few weeks. 
Another benefit to her trip is staying with a family, Begerow said. This removes the added costs of a hotel. 
"I onLy had to pay for the plane ticket, which is nice," she said. 
Begerow doesn't see that big of a difference in Spring Break travel due to the economy. 
"Friends who normally go places are going places, and friends who normally go home are going home," she said. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 


Kareem elected to Nat'l Academy of Engineering 
Election to society sign_ifies high honor for Kareem, director of ND NatHaz Modeling Lab 
Special to The Observer 
Ahsan Kareem, Hobert Moran Professor of Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences at Notre Dame, has been elected a member of the National Academy of Engineering (NAE). 
Election to NAE is among the highest professional distinctions accorded to an engineer. Academy membership honors those who have made outstand­ing contributions to engineering research, practice or education, including significant contribu­tions to engineering literature, the pioneering of new and developing fields of technology, making major advancements in traditional fields of engineering, or developing and implementing innovative approaches to engi­neering education. · 
Kareem, who also is director 
of Notre Dame's NatHaz 
Modeling Laboratory, was eited 
for contributions to "analyses 
and designs to account for wind 
effects on tall buildings, long­
span bridges, and other struc­
tures." 

Kareem specializes in proba­bilistic structural dynamics, fluid-structure interactions, structural safety, and the miti­gation of natural hazards. To better understand and predict the impact of natural hazards ·on the constructed environ­ment, he uses computer models 
and laboratory and full-scale 
experiments to study the 
dynamic effects of environmen­
tal loads under winds, waves 
and earthquakes on structures 
and to develop mitigative 
strategies to enhance the per­
formance and safety of struc­
tures. 

Kareem is the lead U.S. col­laborator for a project titled "New Frontiers of Education and Hesearch in Wind Engineering" at Tokyo Polytechnic University's Global Center for Excellence. The cen­ter, founded by the Japanese Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, was established to build a sus­tainable urban environment that is resilient to extreme wind events and is in harmony with regional and local environ­ments. 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1990, Kareem has served in the administration, management and organization of numerous professional soci­eties including the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE), as well as committees of the National Hesearch Council, NAE and the American Association for Wind Engineering. He also has served as a senior consultant to several major oil, insurance and con­sulting engineering companies and the United Nations. 
The research findings of Kareem and his students and postdoctoral fellows are having a major influence in the area of structural engineering, includ­ing monitoring of hurricane winds and their load effects; development of innovative structural systems for offshore drilling and production; moni­toring dynamics of costal con­struction, deepwater offshore structures, tall buildings, bridges and industrial struc­tures; risk modeling; and devel­opment of cyber-based collabo­rations for research and educa­tion in wind effects. 

THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Friday, February 13, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 7,932.76 -6.77
Jones 
Up: 1,680  Same: 145  Down: 2,001  Composite Volume: 2,527,007,205  
AMEX NASDAQ NYSE S&P 500  ··  i;lJJ.5!6~1%!11!111!~4W 1,541.71 +11.21 5,256.45;;w.i11llll17. 835.19 +1.45  

NIKKEI (Tokyo) ~;753~5·3 IIJji? FTSE 100 (London) 4,202.24 -32.02 
COMPANY 0/oCHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) +0.07 +0.06 83.66 BK OF At-1ERICA (BAC) -3.29 -0.20 5.87 FINANOAL SEL SPDR (XLF) -4.27 -0.12 9.20 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +L23 +0.37 30.57 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -1.27 -0.035 2.730 13-WEEK BILL -5.00 -O.DlS 0.285 30-YEAR BOND +!129 +0.010 3.460 5-YEAR NOTE ·2.72 -0.048 1.720 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE {$/bbl.) -1.96 33.98 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +4.70 949.20 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) +1.13 82.10 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 90.660 
EURO 1.2868 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2432 BRITISH POUND 1.4270 
IN BRIEF 
Retail sales rise by one percent 
NEW YORK -Americans bought a sweater or two, ate out a little more, pur­chased some gadgets and turned to the Internet in search of bargains in January. These small indulgences nevertheless pro­vided some relief to suffering stores, boost­ing retail sales by 1 percent. 
The unexpected increase from December, reported by the Commerce Department on Thursday, reversed a six-month decline and marked the biggest increase in 14 months. 
But it's far too early to break out the champagne. With nearly 5 million Americans still drawing unemployment benefits late last month and the specter of more layoffs to come, economists believe the reversal is unlikely to last. In a sign of how fearful businesses are, they slashed inventories in December by the biggest amount in seven years -potentially trig­gering furthe cutbacks in production and more layoffs. 
Obama pitches plan to Caterpillar 
EAST PEORIA, IlL -President Barack Obama on Thursday pitched his economic plan at a Caterpillar Inc. plant reeling from layoffs, his message blunted when the company's chairman warned that it may be up to a year before the multibillion-dollar program has a positive impact the economy. , 
The $790 billion stimulus plan is nearing votes in the House and Senate. If all stays on the course, the package of spending programs and tax relief will soon become law with Obama's signature. 
"It is time for Congress to act, and I hope they act in a bipartisan fashion," Obama said of the legislation, which drew little Republican sup­port in the Senate and none in the House.-"But no matter how they act, when they do, when they finally pass our plan, I believe it will be a major step forward on our path to economic recovery." 
Caterpillar has announced more than 22,000 layoll's because of sliding demand. Obama said the company would n~hire some of the workers when the eeonomic bill becomes law and pn'l­dicted other companies will have similar stories. 
Congress works overtime on stimulus 
Controversy over school-modernization money forces delay in final votes 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON­Reluctant to call it quits, key lawmakers bargained into overtime Thursday on the $790 billion economic stimulus legislation before reaching. final agreement more than 24 hours after first announcing a deaL 
Lingering controversy over school-modernization money and a scaled-back tax break for businesses forced a delay in final votes on the legislation. 
But by nightfall. with Democratic leaders eager for final passage by the weekend, all issues were. reported settled. House leaders announced a vote for Friday, with the Senate to follow later in the day or over the weekend. 
Republicans, lined up to vote against the bill, piled on the scorn. "This is not the smart approach," said Sen. Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader. "The taxpayers of today and tomorrow will be left to clean up the mess." 
President Barack Obama delivered what has become a daily call for congressional action, this time from the industrial heartland. With approval of the bill, he said in Peoria, Ill., companies "may be able to start growing again. Rather bills that passed the House the-provision, its govern­Negotiators sweetened than cutting jobs, they or Senate -or that dif­ment-financed turnaround another tax break at the may be able to create fered markedly from earli­plan could force the com­last minute, dottbling to them again." er versions, or that pany to pay higher taxes. $1.6 billion a provision 
He spoke at Caterpillar appeared to brush up The legislation does not that would benefit busi­Inc., the heavy machinery against claims of the bill's mention GM specifically, nesses that buy their own giant that has announced supporters that no pet but the company has been debt at a discount. It was 22,000 layoffs. The presi­projects known as "ear­lobbying hard for the pro­a major priority of busi­dent has said in recent marks" were included. vision for months, with ness groups such as the days the company has One last-minute addition help from Michigan's rep­U.S. Chamber of promised to rescind some was a $3.2 billion tax resentatives in Congress. Commerce, which argued of them once the stimulus break for General Motors "We wanted to make sure it would help firms and passes, but Chief Corp. that would allow the that the restructuring banks clear debt from Executive Jim Owens said ailing auto giant to use wasn't counteracted," said their balance sheets and there probably would be current losses to claim Rep. Sander M. Levin, D­begin to hire workers and more layoffs before that refunds for taxes paid Mich., a supporter of the lend money to customers. can occur. when times were good. provision. The business group 
At the Capitol and in an GM got a $13.4 billion fed­It was not immediately announced its support of atmosphere of uncertain­eral bailout late last year clear why the provision the bill, despite the heavy ty, provisions were coming -and is expected to had not been included in opposition from its cus­to light that had not been receive more in 2009 -the bill that cleared the tomary Republican allies included in the original ·and argued that without House several weeks ago. in Congress. 

Third Cabinet nominee withdraws 
ent account from Gregg. just three weeks into Obama's presi­
Associated Press "It comes as something of a sur­dency and on the heels of several WASHINGTON -Saying "I made a prise, because the truth, you know, other Cabinet troubles. The new mistake," Republican Sen. Judd Mr. Gregg approached us with inter­president is in the midst of expend­Gregg of New Hampshire abruptly est and seemed enthusiastic," ing political capital in Washington ­withdrew as commerce secretary Obama said in an interview with the and around the country -for his nominee on Thursday and left the Springfield (Ill.) Journal-Register. economic package and is seeking to fledgling White House suddenly cop­Later, he told reporters traveling move forward with an ambitious ing with Barack Obama's third with him on Air Force One that he agenda in the midst of an economic Cabinet withdrawal. was glad Gregg "searched his heart" recession while the country contin­Gregg cited "irresolvable conflicts" and changed course now before the ues to face threats abroad. with Obama's policies, specifically Senate confirmed him to the Cabinet Now Obama also finds himself mentioning the $790 billion econom­post. He also said Gregg's withdraw­needing to fill two vacancies -at ic stimulus bill and 2010 census in a al won't deter him from working Commerce and at the Health and statement released without warning with Republicans and trying to Human Services Department. by his Senate office. change the partisan ways of Former Senate Democratic leader Later, at a news conference in the Washington. Tom Daschle withdrew his nomina­Capitol, he sounded more contrite. "Clearly he was just having second tion for that post amid a tax contro­"The president asked me to do it," thoughts about leaving the Senate, a versy. Treasury Secretary Tim he said of the job offer. "I said, 'Yes.' place where he's thrived," Obama Geithner was confirmed despite rev­That was my mistake." added. elations that he had not paid some of Obama offered a somewhat differ-The unexpected withdrawal came his taxes on time. 

-------------------~ ----~--------­
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Friday, February 13, 2009 
.............................................·..
. . . . . . . . .. . .... . . . . . . . . . 
~ 
•

• Eat well. Be happy. 
• •  eg;oy.  a..  IH(U.L.fA-t..>a..ffriJtf!r-arra-y czf jrt:.$AJ AifjA fu...a..ltfy. jootL:.  Or;Ja..;tif!.)  •  
•  
•  FEATURING  HOURS  
•  BreJkfast served a!! day House -made soups, salads. and sandwiches Gourmet pizzas Great wine selection!  Sunday Tuesday; 1d.m · 2p.m. Wednesday-Saturday; 7a.m.-9p.m 574.968.3030  ..• •  ~nda~ )anuaey 15, 1009 •1:30 pm Tnt ~tatt Tneatrt  
•  Dinner speoals Vvednesday-Saturday Ask about our catering!  Reservations acceptedfor any meal.  Ka~mazoo, Mknigan Tkktts Ollllk NOW ttlllt Stttt 11!ffiltBaOfflu.  
• ••  located inTos<ana Park Shopping Centre • 303 Florence Ave., Granger, IN 46530 E·mail: info@uptownkitchen.net • Web: www.UptownKitthen.Mt  oil TkktttliOittllot«!o!u. <Migt by pboM 169Jl1HOOO OIO!IIkltMlkkttmGI!tttOtft.  


Studies ex-amine ADHD, memory 
Special to The Observer 
It happens to us all -you walk to the refrigerator, open the door, then stand there, unable to remember why you went to the kitchen in the first place. 
You may call it a brain cramp, but in psychological terms, it's a "failure of active maintenance," and it could be a key to decoding Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, or ADI-ID, according to Brad Gibson, a Notre Dame asso­ciate professor of psychology whose research looks at the link between memory and the disorder in adolescents. 
In recent years Gibson and colleagues have focused their studies on what's called "working memory" _ the kind that allows us to remember things like phone numbers or a story someone has told us -and found a direct correlation between ADHD and a weakness in that function. The researchers started working on therapies to enhance working memory. 
"That's the part of memory that people thought was unique in ADHD," Gibson explains. "The teacher tells kids to do something and they can't maintain the instructions that they're given and then they end up not being able to execute the instructions and they get distracted. A lot of the externalized behavior, the distraction, was thought to arise from a problem with working memory." 
But now the team is start­ing to rec'onsider that theory and instead look at the "retrieval component" of memory -that "Why did I go to the refrigerator?" or "What was I going to say?" function that is familiar to so many of us. 
"Retrieval component has been relatively ignored in the working memory litera­ture," Gibson says. "It's only recently that it's becoming clear that this is something that isn't included in the working memory capacity 
measure  that  we  talk  
about."  
Working  with  middle  

school students from the nearby Penn-Harris-Madison school district, the researchers have been able to demonstrably strengthen active maintenance in study participants by administer­ing an intervention that con­sists of a series of memory games played on a comput­er. 
"We have this working memory intervention that ·is doing something," Gibson explains. "They have better scores after it than before it, but we haven't really under­stood why it was working and we thought it was improving active ~ainte­nance." 
With a new focus on the retrieval component, Gibson and his colleagues are start­ing to consider some new theories. 
"What we're finding is that kids with ADHD tend to retrieve more irrelevant information; so they're com­ir;J.g up with things, but they're not really relevant, they're not the items from the list," he says. "Right now the challenge is to come up with measures that can accurately assess their weaknesses." 
A new study is starting this semester, and Gibson hopes that this fresh approach will open some promising doors. 
"This is an advance in the way that we're thinking and it has implications for treat­ment because it still could be that the intervention that we're using actually improves the retrieval com­ponent, which would be directly addressing the weakness," he says. "It allows us to potentially fine­tune the intervention by having a better idea of what the problem is in the first place." 
Oban1a pays tribute to Lincoln 
Associated Press 

SPRINGFIELD, Ill. Summoning the pride of a nation, President Barack Obama paid fond tribute Thursday to Abraham Lincoln by challenging peo­ple to embrace his vision or a collective union and reject a "knee-jerk disdain for govP.rnment." 
"He recognized that while each or us must do our part, work as hard as we can and be as responsibln as we can -in the end, there are certain things we cannot do on our own," Obama said of Lincoln at a celebration of the revered president's 200th birthday. 
"There are certain things we can only do together," Obama said. "There are certain things only a union can do." 
Here in the place that Lincoln called home, and from where Obama launched his presidential bid, the new president's speech capped his third event honoring Lincoln's bicentennial. 
It was a whirlwind day for . 
Prof looks at global trade of species 
Special to The Observer 

David Lodge, professor of biological sciences and director of the Center for Aquatic Conservation at Notre Dame, is the lead organizer for a symposium on global trade and aquatic invasive species that will take place today during the 2009 American Association for Advancement of Science (AAAS) annual meeting in Chicago. 
Titled "Global Trade and the 'Homogecene:' Lessons from the Great Lakes for the World," the session will present recent advances in researeh on ship-borne aquatic invasive species in the Great Lakes and global­ly. 
"Biological invasions are obliterating the vp,ry geo-
Obama. lie squeezed in economic comments in East Peoria, Ill., and coped with the abrupt withdrawal of another commerce secrl:l­tary nominee. 
The stories of Obama and Lincoln have become entwined by history, geog­raphy and symbolism. Their paths are viewed as not just their own, but the country's as well -a lineage from the man who freed the slaves to the first black president in U.S. history. 
Obama said Lincoln understood that self­reliance was at the core of American life. But Obama said individual liberty is "served, not negated, by a recognition of the common good." 
The pendulum, Obama said, has swung too far toward a philosophy that says government is the problem -a notion that it should be dismantled, with tax breaks for the wealthy that might eventually help out everyone. 
"Such knee-jerk disdain for government -this con­stant rejection of any com-
graphic patters of organ­isms that fueled Darwin's and Wallace's discovery of evolution," Lodge said. "Some biologists already refer to this epoch as the 'homogecene.' Increased trade is bringing distant ecosystems into c ontact in new ways. Organisms are transported to unfamiliar settings that are conducive to invasion. These inva­sions cause biotic homoge­nization ·and economic damages that are costly and often impossible to reverse. " 
Speakers at the sympo­sium will reveal major new rp,sults from biology, eco­nomics and policy. They will discuss novel network models to inform manage­ment strategies, the first estimate of aggregate 
mon endeavor -cannot rebuild our levees or our roads or our bridges," Obama said. His list of col­lective examples went on: better schools, modern health care, an economy built on clean energy. 
"Only a nation can do these things," Obama said. "Only by coming together, all of us, and expressing that sense of shared sacri­fice and responsibility ... can we do the wor-k that must be done in this coun­try. That is the very defini­tion of being American." 
Earlier Thursday, back in Washington. Obama cele­brated Lincoln's resolve at a ceremony in the stately Rotunda of the U.S. Capitol. And he spent Wednesday evening at a performance at the newly renovated Ford's Theatre, where Lincoln was assassinated in 1865. 
Like Lincoln, Obama is a skinny lawyer who rose from obscurity and served briefly in the Illinois legis­lature before leaping to national office at a time of burgeoning crisis. 
financial costs caused by ship-borne invasions in the Great Lakes, and an analy­sis of alternative policies to better balance competing uses of the Great Lakes. 
Symposium sessions include "Shrinking Degrees of Separation Among World's Ports," by John Drake, Odum School of Ecology, University of Georgia (and a graduate of Notre Dame's biological sci­ences doctoral program); "Invasion-induced Losses of Ecosystem Goods and Services in the Great Lakes," by Lodge; and "Impact of Ship-borne Invasions in thP. Great Lakes Regional Economy," by David Finnoff, DepartmP.nt of Economics and Finance, University of Wyoming. 

Friday, February 13, 2009 The Observer + NEWS Page 9 
KYRGYZSTAN VATICAN CITY 
Base not shut down despite gov. threat 
Associated Press 
MANAS AIR BASE-Aircraft took off throughout the day and workers built a new fire station at this vital military base Thursday despite Kyrgyzstan's plans to shut down a facility seen as essen­tial to the war in Afghanistan. 
The Manas air base works around the clock as the main air transportation hub for coalition efforts in Afghanistan, acting as a transit point for hundreds of troops and 500 tons of cargo moving in and out of the region each month. It is also a key link for medical evacuations from Afghanistan, which has seen rising violence and allied casu­alties. 
Within a few minutes Thursday morning, a KC-135 Stratotanker departed for Afghanistan, while a huge C-17 Globemaster cargo aircraft landed. 
Kyrgyz President Kurmanbek Bakiyev shocked Washington last week by announcing the closure of the Manas air base. Losing access to the facility poses a serious challenge to President Barack Obama's plan to send up to 30,000 more U.S. forces to fight surging Taliban and al-Qaida violence in Afghanistan. 
About 75 percent of U.S. sup­plies to Afghanistan travel through Pakistan but increas­ing militant attacks on depots and truck convoys there have raised doubts about the securi­ty of supply routes. 
But a final decision on the base has since been put off until March, leaving open the possibility that the Americans could still negotiate a deal to retain their only base in Central Asia. 
At the base, however, ser­vicemen were too busy to worry about the future of Manas, a spokesman said. 
"The mission here keeps peo­ple pretty busy," said Maj. Damien Pickart, a native of Blairstown, Iowa. "If we had a lot of time on our hands for something other than work, we might be thinking about [the future of the base] a little more." 
Most of the aircraft at Manas are KC-135s, which refuel smaller planes on extended reconnaissance and attack missions. Last year, the Stratotankers flew more than 3,200 sorties out of Manas and refueled around 11,400 air­craft. 
About 1,000 U.S. troops ­and dozens each of French and Spanish -work at the base to move thousands of troops a year through the facility for the Afghan campaign. 
Pope Benedict to visit Israel 
Associated Press 

VATICAN CITY -Pope Benedict XVI told American Jewish leaders Thursday that he plans to visit Israel in May, coupling the long-awaited announcement with his strongest condemnation of Holocaust denial. 
The 81-year-old pope assured the group that the Catholic Church was "pro­foundly and irrevocably com­mitted to reject all anti­Semitism," helping to ease Jewish furor that followed the pope's reinstatement of an ultraconservative bishop who questioned the extent of the Holocaust. 
"Such warmth, with an out­stretched hand," said New York Rabbi Arthur Schneier, a Holocaust survivor, after the audience in the frescoed Consistory Hall. "The visit is on, no hesitation, reserva­tions." 
There has been only one other official visit by a pope to the Jewish state. Both sides said it will take place in May. 
The trip, talked about since the start of the German pope's papacy in :!005, has been up in the air for some time due to problems raised by both sides. The latest jolt came when Benedict last month lifted the excommuni­cations of four ultraconserva­tive bishops -one of whom denied that Jews were gassed by the Nazis during World War II. 
Wmds cause destruction across countty 
At least five people were killed, hundreds of thousands lost power 
Associated Press 
Wild winds with gusts top­ping 65 mph blew from the Great Lakes to the East Coast on Thursday, knocking out power to hundreds of thousands of customers, dis­rupting travel and killing at least five people. 
The high winds, attributed to a strong low pressure sys­tem, started Wednesday night and moved east overnight, kicking up gravel and sand from construction sites and hurling garbage cans onto busy New York City streets on Thursday. 
"I got more sand in my eyes than a beach, and I almost got blown over back­wards," said electrician Michael Lazzaro, who ducked into a bar on his way home from work in New York. 
Utilities such as Jersey Central Power & Light in New Jersey reported downed power lines from wind­snapped trees. About 250,000 customers remained with_out power Thursday in Pennsylvania, and 140,000 more in Ohio. There were also about 109,000 outages in West Virginia, 14,900 in Michigan· and nearly 14,000 in New Jersey. 
"This is one of the largest power outages we've seen in many years," said Jimmy 
Gianato,  West  Virginia's  
director  of  Homeland  
Security  and  Emergency  

Management. At one point, 
220,000 customers were without power. At least six state parks also had no elec­tricity. 
Utilities in Ohio and West Virginia said electricity wouldn't be restored to some residents until the weekend or later. 
In New Jersey, a 61-year­old motorist was killed early Thursday in Union County when a tree snapped, crash­ing through her car's wind­shield and impaling the 
·woman. A woman in Newark died of massive head injuries after a tree branch fell and struck her Thursday after­noon. 
Wind also was believed to be a factor in the Thursday death of a 59-year-old New York City construction work­er who was killed when a wall collapsed, officials said. 
A woman in West Virginia and a truck driver in Ohio also were killed in weather­related deaths Wednesday night, when gusts topping 70 mph in Indiana and Ohio were reported as the system moved through. 
Gusts as high as 65 mph were report@d Thursday, dis­rupting the morning rail commute in the New York City area. Four people were hurt, apparently by flying glass, when the wind blew a crossing gate into a Long Island Rail Road train. 
Average flight delays were two hours Thursday at LaGuardia Airport and near­ly four hours at Newark Liberty International Airport in New Jersey. 
In Philadelphia, winds ripped off part of a portable classroom's roof on Thursday, forcing 40 kinder­garten students inside to evacuate, said James Cantwell, Smedley Elementary School's princi­pal. No injuries were report­ed. 
The National Weather Service confirmed Thursday that a small tornado had touched down in Indiana, damaging the roofs of a barn and a home near the town of Medford. No injuries were reported. 
In Kentucky, devastated by a crippling ice storm two week ago, utilities worked Thursday to restore power to about 55,000 customers, down from at least 150,000 outages a day earlier. A 35­year-old utility worker from Minnesota fell 30 feet to his death Thursday while help­ing repair crews restore power in Kentucky. 
Some 25 to 30 Kentucky National Guard members were assigned to help clean up debris, a Guard spokesman said. Most of the new outages were in the southeastern part of the state, while the ice storm mostly affected western Kentucky. 
Power outages were also reported in Tennessee, Indiana, New York, North Carolina, Virginia, Delaware and Maryland. 
Protests by Jews, the pope's own bishops in Germany and German Chancellor Angela Merkel led the Vatican to demand the bishop recant, easing tensions and leading to Thursday's meeting with more than 60 representatives of American Jewish organiza­tions. 
Addressing the group in English as they sat in chairs before him, Benedict called the slaughter of 6 million Jews a crime against God. 
The Vatican said Benedict did not know about the views of Bishop Richard Williamson when he agreed to lift the excommunication, but he clearly referred to him Thursday. 
"The hatred and contempt for men, women and children that was manifested in the Shoah was a crime against God and against humanity," Benedict told the visiting leaders, using the Hebrew term for the Holocaust. "This should be clear to everyone, especially to those standing in the tradition of the Holy Scriptures." 
Jewish leaders applauded his comments. most saying the crisis with the church over Williamson's comments was over. 
"We came here with heavy hearts because of recent events, but we came away pleased and honored by the words of His Holiness," Malcolm Hoenlein, vice presi­dent of the Conference of 
Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations, told reporters. 
Abraham Foxman, a Holocaust survivor and the national director of the Anti­Defamation League, said the Vatican should excommuni­cate Williamson again because of his remarks. 
"Every moment that he stays in the church gives him credibility," he tolp reporters after the meeting. 
"Today's statement was important but it did not bring closure," he said. "You cannot condemn Holocaust denial and anti-Semitism and rein­state someone who to this day 
continues  to  be  an  anti­ 
Semite  and  deny  the  
Holocaust."  
In  an  interview  with  

Swedish state TV broadcast Jan. 21, Williamson said only about 200,000 to 300,000 Jews were killed, none of them gassed. 
Williamson has apologized for causing distress to the pope, but has not recanted. He said he would correct him­self if he is satisfied by the evidence, but insisted in an interview with the German magazine Der Spiegel that examining it "will take time." 
Benedict's trip had been planned before the Williamson affair surfaced. 
Pope John Paul II made the first official visit in 2000, moving many when he prayed at the Western Wall, Judaism's holiest site. 
Marriage counters experience protests 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO -Same­sex couples seeking to wed showed up at marriage license counters nationwide Thursday to highlight a right they don't have in 48 states, part of an annual protest that took on renewed urgency given recent election setbacks. 
In San Francisco, where same-sex marriage was legal for nearly five months last year before California voters approved a ban, many couples who came to City Hall had already tied the knot but want­ed to express their gratitude and to show they're still part of the fight. 
"All of our marriages are under the cloud of Proposition 8," said Stuart Gaffney, 45, referring to California's ballot initiative banning gay mar­riage. "Equality is an unfin­ished business in California." 
In Las Vegas, couples gath­ered outside the downtown marriage bureau with signs that read "Don't hate my love" and "No laws on love." In New York, activists wore signs that said "Just Not Married." They were turned away empty­handed in both places when they asked for marriage licens­es. 
"We could get married in Massachusetts or Connecticut, but we'll wait a little and see what happens in New York," Matt Flanders, 37, of Brooklyn, said after he and his partner, Will Jennings, 29, participated in the protest in Manhattan. "It's a matter of principle. This is our home, and we should be able to get married where we live, where our friends are." 
The protests around Valentine's Day, part of the 12th annual Freedom to Marry Day, were considered especial­ly important this year because they come after the November passage of Proposition 8. The measure has prompted protests, lawsuits and ques­tions about the direction of the gay rights movement. 
"A lot of people feel a sense of determination and regret over having been too compla­cent or quiet before, so there is a commitment to, 'Never again, we have to take action,"' said Evan Wolfson, a civil rights lawyer who conceived Freedom to Marry Day. "In that sense, California was a terrific energizer and wake-up call." 
Cun:ently, gay marriage is legal only in Massachusetts and Connecticut, while 30 states have gay marriage bans in their constitutions. Gay rights activists are pressing lawmakers in New Jersey, New York and Vermont to take up bills that would legalize same­sex marriage in those states. 
Jennifer Pizer, director of the marriage project at gay rights legal group Lambda Legal, said the disappointing outcome of the California election has cre­ated momentum in other parts of the country. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, February 13, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
Nllws EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Bill Brink 
Dan Murphy 
ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROllER: Stacey Gill 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarty 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
. (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631·4541 obsme@nd.edu 
AssiSTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1 @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the ~ight to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presenr the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

1bc Ohsrrvcr {USPS 599 2-4000} is publimcd Monday dm,mgh Friday excqx during c:um .;~nd vacuion pcriudi. A subscription ro The Observer is $100 for one academic year: $55 for one semester. 
The Olmrve:r i.s publi$hed at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall $(nd addn:ss corrections to: Nom: Dame, IN 46556-on9 The Observer Periodicil postage paid ou Notre Damt P.O.Boxm .md additional mailing offices.. 024 Sooth'Dining Hall 
None Dame. IN 46556..0779 
The Observer is a member or the Associated Pn::ss. All tcproducrion righ£s ate 
~rved. 
Student government wish list 
Saint Mary's student body president and vice president elec­approve the budget. Without an approved budget, funds were tions are taking place at the College on Monday. For the sec­frozen and clubs and organizations received their allotments ond year in a row, the race is uncontested as one of the two late, forcing them to find outside funding if any of their activi­announced tickets, juniors Mallory Price and Katie Lewis, ties occurred before they received it. Student government dropped out of the race early Thursday morning. needs to find a way to shorten the time it takes to resolve 
Barring a majority of Saint Mary's students voting for the issues such as this, so as to not punish students by withhold­abstain ticket, junior Jenny Hoffman and sophomore Meg ing or forcing groups to cancel activities. Griffin will become the next president and vice president, u Representing the students -While student body president respectively. We hope and are confident that the women will and vice president are lofty titles, the key words of both of not allow their uncontested ticket to result in complarcncy, them is "student body." The students fullilling these jobs are but will instead continue working hard to iiddress the follow­voted into office by the students and should be serving those ing important issues in their upcoming term: students. Opening lines of communication between what 
u Transparency -One of the biggest problems Saint Mary's women at the College want to see and what Student students have had with student government in the past few Government does will help BOG better sBrve the student body. years is that the students don't know what is They should pay attention to what students are going on. This became an issue when eight stu­saying to them and they should speak for the stu­dents took a large stipend from student funds dent body. When students on campus were con-
OBSERVER
two years ago. The stipend, essentially, is pay­cerned about slow campus security response ment for serving in student government. This involving a trespasser near one of the residence year's Board of Governance (BOG) Executive halls, BOG missed a perfect opportunity to act on
Editorial Board tried to do the same. This caused an behalf of the students. When something happens uproar when students heard what BOG was try-on campus that people are concerned about, BOG ing to do. One of the reasons the stipend issue received sueh a should be the first to step up and offer ways to resolve the passionate response from the students is that they felt BOG issue by facilitating discussions between administrators and was underhanded and deceptive in trying to pass the stipend. students. With a bit of prodding, this year's BOG has done a better job u Respect-Hespect is crucial to accomplishing anything as letting students know what they are doing, especially with a student government, whether it be on the part of the stu­funds, a practice which next year's leaders should continue. dents or those serving the students. Many members of this But they could take it one step further by keeping lines of year's BOG have side conversations or roll their eyes while communication open between students and BOG. other commissioners or students raise concerns. The level of 
u Resolving issues in a timely-fashion -It took BOG four respect at these meetings, and in any interactions with stu­weeks to approve the Student Government Association budget dents, needs to be increased. this school year because of opposition to the Executive Board Although these suggestions may seem simple, their imple­stipend. Many students felt strongly about the issue, which mentation by HolTman and Grillin will be critical in improving stalled the budget as the Executive Board balked at removing relationships between the Saint Mary's student body, and the the stipend and those opposed to the stipend refused to representatives they elect. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The evils of the adn1in 
It is unfortunate that Mr. Griffith's recent than favorable manner by authority fig­letter ("Tradition never graduates," Feb. 9) ures. Grown men have been kicked to the concerning the disappearance of some of ground by horses, mothers reprimanded the most beloved traditions at Notre Dame for wondering where they should park to is no hyperbole, but the daunting reality drop of their child's luggage and I have that can, and should, be traced back to the been personally appalled by the growing current administration. lack of guidance for undergraduates. Not 
The "iron fist" has done more than cancel only do we face a spring without the oppor­events enjoyed by Alumni, visitors and stu­tunity to meet every resident in Fisher, but dents alike, thus putting a damper on one with no real hope for improvement by weekends. No, if this were all that the abo­next year. lition of the Frosh-0 shoe date did, then I I humbly ask of all Domers and friends of should probably reevaluate where I am the University -past, present and future focusing my attention. These unfounded -to voice your trepidations about the measures however, have actually threat­changes that may not be so helpful after all. ened the educational development of Notre To Resllfe: I thank you for your concern, Dame students. The banning of social, the­but I'm keeping my fingers crossed that I atrical, sporting and other events reduces will be able to practice how to make a students' opportunities for networking and favorable first impression through events enhancing interpersonal skills. that bring the traditions of all dorms 
I recently spoke with a trusted professor together. Here's to the resurrection of the about this issue, who, to my surprise, fondly remembered AnTostal festival, the shared this concern with the students in his Dillon Pep Rally, the Alumni Wake, the Seminar. He referenced a recent study that Fisher Zoo and all the other runs, songs concluded that the number of Notre Dame and dances that built the Notre Dame tradi­students who have preformed well in inter­tion. views has decreased significantly since the My only wish is that I will depart having late 1990s. Clearly, we aren't getting participated in these events, leaving me enough practice in the art of persuasion. with precious memories and not wondering Consequently, fine skills for which students' what it would have been like to know what tirelessly strive to achieve are going unno­the phrase "tradition never graduates" ticed in the real world. The unwanted actually means. result: the all important news rankings suf­fer. Nicola Menchetti 
Furthermore, many alumni have been sophomore personally offended upon visiting Notre Cavanaugh Hall Dame, fmding themselves treated in a less Feb. II 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports QUOTE OF THE DAY Kaitlynn Riely Dan Murphy Madeline Buckley Michael Bryan 
Alicia Smith Michael Blasco Viewpoint Scene "Talk sense to a fool and he -calls you Kara King Stephanie DePrez foolish." 
Graphics 

Euripedes
Andrea Archer 
Greek dramatist 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Friday, February 13, 2009 page 11 
True love at Club Fever 
If love. actually is all around, then why do my fri.ends scofl' at my notion that true love can be found at Club Fever? If people can find love in the marching band, with the roommate of a high school best friend. in ROTC, when a roommate is asleep in the same room, in biology class, at a dorm party and at a Frosh-0 event, then why not at Club Fever? 
When I tell my 

Bob Kessler
kids the story about how I met their mother, I would love House ofStix to tell them about Club Fever. I'd describe the wide open dance floor with cages towering in the middle, and one dollar Natural Lights flowing through our veins. I might describe the stripper poles upstairs that people refuse to touch or the sawdust covered shuffleboard tables in the base­ment where I rarely win victory. 
In the grand scheme of stories about people meeting the great loves of their life, this would be somewhere between the lame "she was the receptionist at the office where I worked" and the awesome "well I was a monk, and then got thrown out of the monastery, and then she was picking up crates of wine from the monks, and I got a ride with her, but then l crashed my boat on a crazy island and was lost for three years until my crazy time travelling powers let me talk to her on Christmas Eve." There's some­thing about Club Fever, something that I will never let go to, that makes the per­fect balance between cute and crazy. 
Then why do people keep telling me that it's impossible? I'm not walking around the bar whispering "You com­plete me" to girls while I am dancing with them, or interrupting a dance floor makeout session to say, "I wish I knew how to quit you." I should be able to go up to the bar and say, ''I'll have what she's having," and find the love of my life over a conveniently overpriced mixed drink. Right? 
Wrong. 

All I want is to be able to tell my wife, "we'll always have Fever," but whenever I go there, girls move away from me faster than the Xlerator dries your hands in the bathrooms of LaFortune. It doesn't matter if I say anything to them, because they somehow think that I want to love them like Chris Brown loved Rihanna. I'll be a nice Notre Dame guy, and do all the awesome things that Notre Dame couples do. We can spoon on a couch in the middle room of a quad, make collages of each other for Valentine's Day, go to see movies such as "He's Just Not That Into You," walk 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Five-dollar footlongs 
As a frequent customer of the Subway student purchases Subway once a week restaurant located in the LaFortune (I usually miss at least one dining hall Student Center, I have been extensively meal per week) he or she will save over snubbed by the lack of the now infamous $50, or 16 percent of his or her total Flex "five-dollar footlongs" deal along with points. Wouldn't this come in handy as the rest of you, the student body. the points dwindle around finals? 
Widely publicized by firemen, con­Hard money aside, it is also unaccept­struction workers and various other able for a Subway to exploit college-aged hardworking blue-collar Americans in students simply because they know the Subway's long-running TV ad series, the students will never stop buying their deal has been so popular as to prompt a product. Subway offers no such deal and permammt installation in the Subway simply wishes to capitalize off of a raven­arsenal. ously hungry student body which is given . 
However, our Subway in LaFortune nothing greater than Burger King and finds it unnecessary to offer such a deal, Sbarro. If hardworking firemen and con­and rightfully so. The LaFun Subway has struction workers deserve footlongs for been ranked as high as third nationally five dollars, why do young and financial­in sales and consistently tops the region­ly struggling college students not deserve al charts. While the managers have the same? Because our Flex points are every right to run a highly profitable pre-paid and we would spend them all business, and I congratulate them on anyway? doing so, I am opposed to the exploit<l'­Join us in this fight. If you are not tion of students and therefore propose a working with us, you are working student body boycott of the LaFortune against us. For the complete unabridged Subway. manifesto and more visit the Facebook 
After contacting Subway on the matter, group Fighting for Footlongs. a representative informed me it would be a bad business decision if he were to John Traub implement the deal. Further questioning Colin McNamara was fruitless. However, this is not about James Hinckley business. Rather, it is about the students. Andrew Baeckstrom 
A boycott may seem arbitrary given the Dom Golab price of textbooks in the current day, but sophomores consider asavings of roughly two dollars Stanford Hall on every Subway footlong purchase: if a Feb. 12 
Where are the gyros? 
Dear Food Services: 
Just a quick question-what happened to all the gyros? They were my favorite item served in the dining hall and I'm sure they're favorites of many other students. I ask because last semester, they were listed one day on the menu, but did not actually show up in the lines. Ever since, they have not appeared in the cafeterias to delight many hungry students. Is the situation something like the sliced apples? Is there a shortage? Have they been taken hostage by the flying spaghetti monster who is envi­ous of their juicy texture and cool tzatziki sauce taste? 
Please, Food Services, let my gyros go! 
Daniel Quinlan 
sophomore 
St. Edward's Hall 
Feb. 10 

around the lakes (does anybody actually do this?), hold hands and nibble each 
other under the eternal sunshine of home football games, go on dates to Papa Vino's and become friends with each other's friends (by this, I mean that she will become friends with my friends 
and then cease to have friends of her 'own; it's not like I want it that way, Ijust know how Notre Dame relationships work). 
Tonight, however. I go to Club Fever in earnest knowing that of all t)Je nights of the year, tonight l have my best chance to fmd true love. I'm nothing special; just a common man with common thoughts, and I'm leading a common life, but since it is Desperation Friday (the night before Valentine's Day) I must be able to find true love on the dance floor. There will be people everywhere looking for love like I look for similes and pop culture references to include in Observer columns. Yet my friends that are girls still think I am at the octuplet mother level of craziness for thinking that I can find true love at Club Fever. But what do Kate, Caitlin, Katie C., Katie B., Mary Kate, Mary, Marilyn and Maribeth know about finding true love at Club Fever? Most of them are far more likely to be seen at Finny's, The Backer or even the Potawatomi Zoo this weekend. 
Why then, am I always sleepless in South Bend thinking about my lack ofa Notre Dame relationship? It can't be because I am looking in the wrong places or basing everything I know about relationships on episodes of "The O.C." Is it because I look really young? No, that didn't hurt William Miller in "Almost Famous." I think the reason I can't lind true love at Club Fever has to be because of single-sex dorms and the horrific gender relations at Notre Dame. I mean, every problem at Notre Dame · can be blamed on one of five things: 1) Football Losses, 2) Sweatpants, 3) Cold Weather, 4) Bill Kirk, and 5) Single-Sex Dorms. I can't exactly blame Mr. Kirk on my lack of a girlfriend now. 
On the bright side, I have some awe­some bromances that would make Brody Jenner envious, a support group of girls with similar sounding names, and a bunch of couples I can look to for inspi­ration. I just hope that one day I can turn to them all and say, "Sorry, guys; I gotta see about a girl." · 
Until then, I'll just dance ... and start apologizing to all the couples I poked fun at above. 
Bob Kessler is a senior majoring in political science and economics. You can contact him at rkessler@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Women in the priesthood 
Acknowledging the gifts of women is that women were the first to encounter not the same as respecting women. You the risen Jesus, and were then instruct­can call us "God's masterpiece," gra­ed to tell the men of the Resurrection; ciously allow us to be theologians, and women were then the first Christian wax poetic about our ability to conceive preachers of the Resurrection. In keep­and give birth, yet until women are ing with this tradition, women should allowed to stand on altars as priests, it lead Easter services while men hide will remain doubtful as to whether the behind locked doors. Church really respects women. 
Additionally, ifwe're going to remain truly committed to the gender roles indi­Sarah Testa cated in the Bible, then some adjust­senior ments will need to be made in the cele­Opus Hall bration of Easter. All four Gospels state Feb. II 
Side-walks not enough 
In response to Steve DeLaurentis' campus so that no Domer will ever show Letter to the Editor regarding the unfor­up to a place on campus with a thin tunate mud problem on campus ("Please layer of mud around the base of their save me from the mud," Feb. 11), I wish shoes. to voice my complete agreement. Steve 4. Students should be given jetpacks so proposed one solution: "Architects in the they can take the most direct, mud-free past (smarter than those employed by route to class. That's right, I propose that Notre Dame) have built buildings with no jetpacks no longer be available only to pre-planned walkways connecting them student athletes anymore. -then after a year of observing the pat­5. All grass on campus should be terns worn into the grass, they subse­uprooted and replaced with astroturf ... quently paved those slowly-trodden or carpet. pathways." 6. All classes should be held in dorms 
Unfortunately, this method creates an or off-campus residences so students entire year of muddy walks about cam­don't have to-walk at all. pus without the alternative option of 7. Janitors should use hand held blow­clean concrete pathways. Instead, I have driers to dry up every collection of mois­some more suggestions as to how Notre ture that settles on the lawns of Notre Dame could fulfill their responsibility to Dame's campus. keep students' shoes clean when they 8. Notre Dame should build a giant voluntarily walk through mud. roof over campus so no precipitation or 
1. 
Students should have the option to sunlight can contribute to mud formation send their class schedules to Ziolkowski on our pristine University ever again. Construction in order for them to cus­Although these solutions may be a bit tomize the sidewalks on campus to bet­costly, I can't think of a more important ter accommodate every students' walk­issue Notre Dame could focus their ing needs. efforts toward then ensuring all students 

2. 
Students should be provided a per­the right to walk through mud without sonal assistant that will physically carry arriving to class with muddy shoes. them to all their classes, and ifneed be, lay down face first in the mud so we can Zeb Hunter walk over them. seruor 

3. 
Complementary shoe shines should offcampus be available at 2,500 locations around Feb. II 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 Friday, February 13, 2009 



Assistant Scene Editor 
Valentine's Day in all it.'i pink and red glory is supposed to embody romance. But cheesy love ballads can be treacherous icebergs for your love boat. So this Valentine's Day, opt for something a little more chic, cultured and unique. This playlist takes a little bit of old and a little bit of new, taking romance to a new level of sophistication. 
Someone To Watch Over Me-Amy Wmehouse . Despite her questionable style choices, Wmehouse has an undeniable music talent, with a modem edge and jazzy, evocative style. Her cover of this classic longing-for-love song is sensitive and moving. 
Try A little Tenderness-Otis Redding 
For 80s lovers, this song should sumn'l.on images of Ducky dancing his heart out for Molly Ringwald. For those less Brat-Pack informed, this Otis Redding's instructional manual, which could be also called "Love for Dummies." Good for pre-date guidance and for reminding your sig­nificant other that you know how to treat them right. Cheek to Cheek-Eva Cassidy Eva Cassidy embodies all the class and nostalgia ofjazz. With elegance, she covers this sweet vintage classic. Write You A Song-Plain White Ts 
Everyone knows "Hey There Delilah." But "Write You A Song" will melt the hearts of every girl who doesn't have the good fortune of being named Delilah (which is most of us). With lines like, "I don't know how to fight, but I'll draw blood tonight if somebody tries hurting you," the romantic appeal of this ditty is obvious. Your Song-Elton John 
Touching without being corny, this song expresses passionate emotion with perceptive simplicity. Though many will remember it from the glitz and glamour of "Moulin Rouge,'1 this love song, in its original form, is unique because of its effortless ease. How Sweet It Is (To Be Loved By You)-Marvin Gaye 
With a voice like velvet, this melody is sweetly seductive, without being as explicit as other Gaye hits (i.e. "Let's Get It On"). J'Ai Deux Amours-Madeleine Peyroux 
This Canadian artist will make you feel like you're in the city of love. You don't have to understand French to appreciate the sheer romance of this tune. And who doesn't love Canada? This love song proves that it is a small world after all, giving Valentine's Day an international flair. As T'une Goes By-Rosemary Clooney Her music is just as attractive as her son. George. Enough said, Such Great Heights-Iron & Wine 
This cover of the Postal Service's techno-pop serenade slows things down with an acoustic instrumental. Lyrics like ''I'm thinking it's a sign that the freckles in our eyes are mirror images and when we kiss they're perfectly aligned" could make the saddest single drop his/her seventh chocolate bar with a breathless sigh. IfI Fellin Love With You-Evan Rachel Wood Some readers might be aghast that Wood's cover was chosen over the original Beatie's hit. Musical elitism put aside, botl1 versions bring a lot to the table, Wood's version simply has deliberate, slow paced vocals that are undeniably romantic, drawing attention to the vulnerable lyrics. Bella Luna-Jason Mraz 
Substitute this smooth, seductive song for the cheesy hit.'i about "when the moon hits your eye." That's How Strong My Love Is-Otis Redding 
Redding made this list twice for a reason. This song embodies every­thing a girl wants to hear. So listen and learn from lyrics like, "I'll be the weeping willow drowning in my tears, you can go swimming when you're here. I'll be the rainbow when the sun is gone, wrap you in my colors and keep you warm." This song is so effective on the female heart that you will begin to doubt the misnomer that women are com­plicated. 
Contact l@nd.edu. 

Assistant Scene Editor 

What is my fiance going to be doing for Valentine's Day? •,. •·· ·· Going to an auto show. So since that isn't my cup of tea and I .. •··.· · now have plenty of free time on my hands this weekend, I thought I would put it to use on an extra special Valentine's Day edition of the Dining Hall Dish. 
Now, a trip to the dining hall will never be the most roman­tic option. Above all, the best advice that can be given is to not even go there, but if you are stuck, short on funds, or just want ideas for the rest of the year, here are a couple ways to spruce up a less than perfect situation. 
As always, many things come down to location, location, location. Now, you've already committed yourself to either North or South, so you're already hurting, but at least head to some of the more secluded areas so that you can be with your special someone. Try the smaller tables in South or the room behind the pasta bar in North. 
Put some effort into your presentation. Mail your significant other an invitation several days before your dinner (if it's already too late for that, slide one under his or her door). · Surprise your date with flowers on the table (can't afford even a carnation? Google yourself some origami flower instructions and steal some paper from the printers). Pull out his or her chair. Get creative. 
Finally, make your date dessert! If you're really proactive, you can try serving them an entire meal (search the archives of www.ndsmcobserver.com for past Dining Hall Dish recipes), but that could take a lot of running around, plus they would have to sit alone for awhile. But you can pull off dessert pretty · quickly and they'll feel a bit more pampered. Below is a selec­tion of some of our best dessert recipes. And don't forget pres­entation. For example, let's say you are just going to serve your date a piece of chocolate cake. Take one of the larger plates, use chocolate sauce to create a design across the plate (you'll probably want to use a utensil other than the ladle for this), sprinkle on some powdered sugar, plate your cake, and then add a scoop of ice cream. 
Desaert Recipes 

Brownie Sundaes This is nothing more than a twist on the above. A warm . brownie melting your cold ice cream? What could be better? l.Pick up your favorite type of brownie, whether nut filled · 
or M&M topped. 2.Heat the brownie in the microwave. 3.Top with your favorite ice cream-traditional vanilla and 
mint are good options. 

4.Top witil whipped cream, hot fudge, nuts (if you like them) and of course a cherry! Ice Cream Cookie 
Surprise your date by taking the cookie to new heights. Again, make sure you know what his or her favorite cookie is. 
3. Select two of you favorite cookies from tile dessert bar. 
4.Fill a bowl witil a good scoop of your favorite ice cream. Toss in some of your favorite mix-ins. Some good combina-·' tions: vanilla ice cream and caramel inside oatmeal-raison cookies, chocolate-chip cookies with mint chocolate .chip ice , cream and hot fudge, and peanut butter cookies witil choco-.. · 
. late ice cream for tilat Reece's effect. 5.Heat up tile cookies in tile microwave. 
6. Pill the two cookies with your ice cream mixture and take a messy bite! (Or ifyou're ofthe more delicate variety, go after it with a fork). 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Friday, February 13, 2009 
.. 
Scene Wri(er 
Romantic comedies, the prime genre of Valentine's _Yalentine's Day is upon us, and with it dutifully comesDay. Some will be forced to watch them, trapped in their Smgles Awareness Day, a day dedicated to the broken­cuteness, their witty banter and picturesque love sto­up, lon~ly o~ decid~dly single. ~ut this is no day forries. The rest will be sitting alone, eating ice c~:eam, be~oanmg smgulanty, because beneath the fa~ade ofhuddled iu Snuggies, crying themselves to sleep. Instead sohtude comes a never-ending stream of music to per­why not watch films that are relatively unwatchable in fect the mood. For every love song there are about 15 ro~anti? s~ttings? It could do wonders for helping to anti-love songs. And on Valentine's Day, we singles cele­avmd thmkmg about the crippled self-worth that goes brate them all. 
hand in hand with this holiday. 
Her~ are a few songs to make you get up and sing, eel-
Passion of the Christ ebratmg the freedom of being out of a relationship. With Lent quickly approaching, what better film to Whether you instigated the breal\ up or were left enjoy on Valentine's Day than Mel Gibson's vision of speechless when it happened, there are millions of tunes Jesus' last hours? With the dialogue solely in subtitles ready to pick up where your significant other left off. At and. nume~ous scen~s filled with brutal beatings, it will the top of this list is, of course, "Since U Been Gone" by . be 1mposs1ble to thmk of romantic abandonment while Kelly Clarkson. Nothing really beats opening your win­
reliving Good Friday, one of the more incorrect names dows and blasting it, singing along at the top of your 
given.to religious holidays. .,·.. lungs. Male or female, this song is the ultimate cathar-
Reqmem for a Dream 2sis. "Thanks to you, now I get what I want!" In the vein 
A brilliant film on the topic of drug abuse and the conse-:) of post-break up pop-stars, who can resist Pink's hit "So 
quences it brings. With a climax that is guaranteed to > What"? "So what! I'm still a rock star! I got my rock 
leave yo~ shocked and ever-so-slightly disturbed, feeling.> moves and I don't need you!" 
lonely will be out of the question, as will doing anything '; . Three J?ays ~rae~ re~lly captured the. feeling of a fail-
else. :,; mg relatiOnship with I Hate Everythmg About You." 
Terminator 2: Judgment Day ~;:; Linki~ Park has the market cornered on angsty anti-
One of the more memorable action films from the 80's ··.:relatiOnship riffs with songs like "In the End" and 
T~rminator 2 tells ~he to~ching love story of a boy and '"Nu~b." The que.en-bee of ~~gry chick rock, Alanis 
his robot. Fantastic actiOn sequences, Arnold at his ~ornsette, established the btting break up song with 
prime, and an evil, shape shifting, liquid metal adver-'You Oughta Know." ''I'm here to remind you of the 
sary sent from the future to destroy John Connor. A ~ess you. left when you went away." Rounding this sec­
J?hn Con~o~ who wi~l be played ~y th~ recently criti-~.IOn out IS the staple from. Des~iny's Child, "Survivor." 
c1zed Chnst1an Bale m the upcommg lerminator film. Now I got you out of my hfe, I m so much better. You 
Also very important to note, no girlfriend would ever thought,that I'd be weaker without you, but I'm 
watch this film. stronger. 
Silence of the Lambs . Then .of course come the songs about thriving in the 
There is a subtle tension between Clarice and the insane smgle hght. The most recent hit here would have to be 
Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lecter, but nothing to "Single Ladie~ (Put a Ring on It)" by Beyonce. Good 
emulate. The sexy dance of Ted Levine's serial-killer Charlotte provides an anti-love song at the ready with "I 
Buffalo Bill may spark a pang of longing, a real treat for Don'~ "':~nna Be in Love." Another rock-out song is "It's 
the ladies. My Ltfe by the Charlie-approved Bon Jovi. You can kick 
An Inconvenient Truth it old style with Fleetwood Mac's "Go Your Own Way." 
What better thing to enjoy during the day of St. Th~ true oldies-but-goodies include "I Will Survive" by 
Valentine, the patron of love and relationships, than a Glona Gaynor a.nd "Respect" by Aretha Franklin. 
filmed lect~re on the topic of climate change. AI Gore's .... Honor11;?le ~.entwn must also g?, to C?er's "Strong 
strong bantone warns of the impending doom that will · ~nou~h and Song For the Lonely. Nothmg quite beats 
be caused by humanities lack of respect for mother :: Jumpmg around and singing along to "Owner of a Lonely 
earth. It's an educational experience that helped to Heart" by Yes. "Owner of a lonely heart, much better 
solidify the "green" movement's place in the mainstream than an owner of a broken heart." No matter who you 
and won Gore a Nobel prize due to his super-serious are or where you are, these songs contain the essence of 
approach. what it means to be single and proud of it. 
Pan's Labyrinth Perhaps the worst of possible date ·. Valentine's Day doesn't have to be a day for looking 
movies, based on. the experiences d'f a certain Scene .. ' around at all the love in the world you don't have, but a 
writer, shoul~ be watched, but not around anyone in } day .to remember the inner stre~gth that comes from 
whom ~here hes r.oma~tic interest. A visually stunning :,: forgmg Y?Ur ~wn P.ath, and lookmg ~t the world fear­
story of post-Spamsh Civil War Spain, shows the experi-· les~ly. Bemg smgle IS as old as humamty, and as long as 
ences of a young girl and her family. Strange mythologi-·• .. we ve been .around people have been singing about it. 
cal creatures, and unnecessarily graphic torture and •· But there s really only one song that captures the true 
beatings will allow the viewer to realize there's worse .. meaning of Valentine's Day: "Song for the Dumped" by 
things than loneliness. , Ben Folds. 
'·.· 

-::C-:-o_n_ta_ct_S_zymo_n_Rzyne_r_a_t_s_rzyn--e-r@_n_d-.e-d-u-.------. 
· Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, February 13, 2009 
NHL 

Heatley leads Senators to third straight win 
Red Wings defeat Wild despite depleted lineup; Lightning hold on to early lead for win over Maple Leafs at h01ne 
Elliott made 13 saves in the 8:40 of the second. He def1ect­
Associated Press 

second period, stopping Mike ed Brenden Bell's shot with his 
PHILADELPHIA -Suddenly Knoble's def1ection and Claude skate while standing to the left the Ottawa Senators are start­Giroux's breakaway and mak­of the net. ing to feel good about them­ing a brilliant glove save on Foligno scored with 14 sec­selves. Joffrey Lupul. onds loft in the period, taking a 
Dany Heatley scored two "Our goaltender was the best pass from Ryan Shannon and 
·unl.lsual goals, Jason Spezza player on the ice tonight," said ripping a backhander past had a goal and an assist, and Ottawa coach Cory Clouston, 3-Niittymaki. Brian Elliott made 34 saves to 1-1 since replacing the fired "It was kind of a weird night help the Senators win their Craig Hartsburg. for us," Lupul said. It seemed season-high third straight "We've played very well on like we had a lot of chances. game, 5-2 over the defense the last three or four They got that goal right at the Philadelphia Flyers on games. The offense has strug­end of the second period. It Thursday night. gled but tonight the goals came was a killer for us." 
"We've beaten two pretty naturally." Philadelphia cut it to 3-1 
_ good teams the last couple of It was Elliott's third straight when Powe put in a rebound at days," Heatley said. "We are impressive performance. He 8:00 of the third period. feeling good about ourselves." beat Buffalo 3-2 and 3-1 in his Heatley scored his second 
Nick Foligno and Antoine previous two starts, stopping goal at 10:15 when his shot hit Vermette also scored for the the Sabres on 11 of 12 power the crossbar and bounced Senators, who still trail Florida plays Wednesday night in straight down into the goal. by 14 points for the eighth and Buffalo. The Flyers failed on "I heard it but I didn't see it," final Eastern Conference play­three power plays. he explained. off spot. Ottawa has 29 games "Their goalie was great and I Richards made it 4-2 with a remaining, one more than the didn't have my best night," wrist shot 39 seconds later, Panthers. Flyers goalie Antero Niittymaki and Vermette scored unassist­
Are the Senators daring to said. "I think that was the dif­ed at 15:20 after stealing the think about the playoffs? ference." puck from Jeff Carter. 
"It's definitely not out of the Heatley was credited with It was the first time since question," said captain Daniel Ottawa's first goal after his November 8 that the Flyers Alfredsson, who picked up an shot hit the right post, then dropped back-to-hack home Antti Miettinen had two assists. remammg in the first period. assist and leads the Senators bounced off Niittymaki and games in regulation. Josh Harding made 39 saves. He scored on a one-time shot with 49 points. "It's possible. Flyers winger Scott Hartnell Philadelphia lost to Boston, 3-Wild coach Jacques Lemaire from the right circle for his We won the first two games of into the net with 1:38 left in 1, on Feb. 4. agreed with Samuelsson. eighth goal. The Wild had a this road trip. Who knows? We the first period. It was "They have about nine play­two-man advantage and the just can't look too far ahead." Heatley's team-leading 23rd Red Wings 4, Wild 2 ers who can do things con­goal came 1:14 after Hossa 
Darroll Powe and Mike goal. The Detroit Red Wings were stantly," Lemaire said. and Datsyuk were both called Richards scored for Spezza made it 2-0 with his without two of their top six for­Hudler gave Detroit a 2-1 for hooking with the Red Philadelphia. 21st goal on a power play at wards and a top-four defense­lead with 9:38 left in the sec­Wings' already short-handed. 
man, and Pavel Datsyuk and ond period, beating Harding Henrik Zetterberg were score­with a one-time shot from the Lightning 6, Maple Leafs 4 less. bottom of the right circle for Steven Stamkos and Vincent 
No problem. his 18th goal after a give and Lecavalier scored third-period 
Jiri Hudler and Kris Draper go with Hossa. Draper then goals, and the Tampa Bay scored in a 50-second span in scored on a slap shot from the Lightning held off the Toronto the second period, and Chris top of the left circle with 8:48 Maple Leafs on Thursday Osgood made 21 saves in left --also off a pass from night. Stanley Cup champion Detroit's Bossa. Ryan Malone scored twice a victory over the Minnesota "It's always a little tough 54-second span in the first Wild on Thursday night. playing against those guys," period, and Mark Recchi and 
Mikael Samuelsson and Ville Harding said. "They have a lot Martin St. Louis also scored in Leino also scored, and Marian of skill." the period to help Tampa Bay Bossa had two assists to help Leino made it 4-1 with 2:45 take a 4-1 lead. the Hed Wings win their sixth left in the second when he Lee Stempniak scored twice straight. The team was without scored on a wraparound. for Toronto, and Niklas Tomas Holmstrom (hernia sur­"In the second we took over Hagman and Nikolai Kulemin gery), Johan Franzen (hand) and we played creative," Hossa added goals. and Brad Stuart (back). said. "We got the three-goal Stamkos, the No. 1 overall 
"We've got other guys who lead. In the third period, we pick in the draft last summer, are pretty good too," just controlled the game." scored on a power play to give Samuelsson said. Koivu picked up a short­Tampa Bay a 5-3 lead at 6:01 
Osgood has struggled this handed goal with 9:35 left, cut­of the third. He has seven season despite his 18-4-6 ting in off the right wing and goals. record. But he made big saves stuffing a shot past Osgood. It Lecavalier added his team­when he needed to. was Koivu 's 16th goal. · high 25th goal with 6:32 left. 
"It's more mental than any­Samuelsson opened the scor­The Lightning scored four thing else," Osgood said. "''m ing 9:26 into the game when times in a 4:13 span of the going out there now without he put in a puck from the first. the weight of the world on my crease after Brett Lebda's shot After Malone got things start­shoulders. As an athlete you trickled through Harding's ed with his 1.7th and 18th have high expectations for pads. It was Samuelsson's 15th goals, Recchi and St. Louis yourself." goal. added power-play goals. St. 
Brent Burns and Mikko Koivu Burns' power-play goal tied it Louis scored his 20th goal and scored for Minnesota, and for Minnesota with 4:29 had three assists. 


The Observer accepts classitleds every business day from 8 a.m. w 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classitleds is 3 p.m. AI classitleds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right w edit all classitleds for cement without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR RENT 
Affordable Graduate and Faculty Off-Campus Housing. Call for Availability (574)243·2818 or (574)276-6118. 
andersonNDrentals.com 
FREE COMCAST! 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer­ing 1 0-month leases. 
Bluegoldrentals.com 

4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Starts 6/09. $850/mo. 574-250-7653. 
613 Lafayette Blvd., 6-bdrm & 2· bdrm houses. $350/person. Call 574-876-6333. 
Houses for the 09·1 0 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 574-234·2436 or www. kramerhouses.com 
Now leasing. Lafayette Townhouses. $350/Person. 3,4 & 5-BDRM UNITS. 
2.5 BATHS. FREE INTERNET. NEWLY REMODELED. Call574-234­2436 or www.kramerhouses.com 
Student rentals 2009/201 0. St. Peter/SBAve. Homes. $1300­$2000/month. 5-7 bdrms, 1st or 2nd floor. Contact Bruce Gordon 574·876-3537. 
1-3BR Contemporary Urban APTS across from Notre Dame Stadium. 
The Foundry features private baths for every bedroom, washer/dryer, fit· ness center, theater room, tanning salon, game room. Preleasing for August 
Call574-232·1400 or lease online www.foundryliving.com 
Houses for rent 2009-10. 2-4 bed­rooms, close to campus,stainless steel appliances. Call Bill: 574-532· 1896. 
PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: http://osa.nd.edu/health­safety/assault/' 
If I was on death row and given one last meal I would ask for a fortune cookie. "Come on 'long prosperous life!'" 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. II you or some­one you love needs confidential sup­port or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819-or Ann Firth at 1­2685. For more information, visrt NOs Assistance for Pregnant Students/ !Office of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd.edulhealth· safety/assistance·for·pregnant-stu­dents. 
My beh holds up my pants and my pants have belt loops that hold up the belt What the hell's really goin on down there? Who is the real hero? 
If you drink O'Douls, you don~ drink. But if you drink 20 O'Douls in a halt hour, then you're a non-alcoholic. Non-alcoholism is a problem too. And there are symptoms, like when you fall down, does it always hurt? 
I had this parrot The parrot talked, but rt did not say "I'm hungry'' Sort died. 
I don~ have a microwave oven but I do have a clock that occasionally cooks stuff. 
My friend asked me if I wanted a frozen banana, I said "no, but I want a regular banana later, so ... yeah". 

OUND THE NATION 
Friday, February 13, 2009 CoMPilED FROM THE OssERVER:s WI.RE SERVICES page 15 
MLB 

NCAA Men's Baseball USA Today Preseason Poll 
team  points  
1  LSU (14)  738  
2  North Carolina (12)  737  
3  Rice (1)  673  
4  Georgia  600  
5  Texas A&M (2)  590  
6  Stanford (1)  576  
7  Arizona State  533  
8  CS Fullerton  507  
9  Florida State  500  
9  Texas  500  
11  Ole Miss  431  
12  Georgia Tech  327  
13  Oklahoma State  321  
14  Miami (FL)  320  
15  San Diego  304  
16  Lousville  292  
17  Baylor  269  
18  UC Irvine  262  
19  Fresno State (1)  247  
20  Missouri  224  
21  Pepperdine  156  
22  UCLA  140  
23  Florida  112  
24  Costal Carolina  102  
25  Clemson  80  

NCAA Men's Hockey USCHO.com/CBS Poll 
team  points  record  
1  Boston Univ. (49)  999  21-5·1  
2  NOTRE DAME (1)  912  2H•3  
3  Northeastern  897  19-6,2  
4  Michigan  847  21-9-0  
5  Vermont  791  16·6·4  
6  Cornell  688  15-4·4  
7  Miami (Fl)  668  16-8-4  
8  Denver  650  17•9·3  
9  Princeton  622  17•6"0  
10  Yale  507  17-5·1  
11  North Dakota  405  16-11·3  
12  New Hampshire  402  13-9·4  
13  Wisconsin_  389  16·11·3  
14  Minnesota  360  12-9-5  
15  Boston College  346  12~9-4  
16  Ohio State  335  18-9·3  
17  Minnesota-Duluth  235  15-9-6  
18  Colorado College  211  14"9·7  
19  Dartmouth  89  12·8·3  
20  Air Force  47  19·7·2  
21  St. Cloud State  34  15-13-2  
22  Minnesota State  19  13·13·3  
23  St. lawrence  17  14·11-3  
24  Alaska  8  12·10-6  
24  Niagara  8  14-10·2  

NCAA Swimming CSCAA Rankings
.. 

Men Women 
1 NOTRE DAME Penn State 2 Penn State NOTRE DAME 3 Ohio Stale Ohio Slate 4 Columbia Columbia-Barnard 5 Princeton Harvard 6 Pennsylvania Northwestern 7 Harvard Princeton 8 Stanford Temple 9 St. Johns Pennsylvania 10 Duke Duke 

around the dial 
College Basketball 
No. 13 Villanova at West Virginia 
9:00 p.m., ESPN 
. 
NHL 

Chicago at St. Louis 
7:30 p.m., CSN 


Associated Press 

TAMPA, Fla. -Unable to punish Alex Rodriguez for flunking a drug test that was supposed to be anonymous, Bud Selig could only chastise him. 
"What Alex did was wrong and he will have to live with the damage he has done to his name and reputation," the commissioner said Thursday, three days after the Yankees star admitted using banned substances from 2001-2003 while playing for the Texas Rangers. 
''While Alex deserves credit for publicly confronting the issue, there is no valid excuse for using such substances, and those who use them have shamed the game," Selig said. 
Rodriguez's admission fol­lowed a Sports Illustrated report that he was on a list of 104 players who tested posi­tive for steroids in 2003, when testing was intended only to determine the extent of steroid u.c;;e in baseball. 
The results were seized by the government in 2004 and remain under seal. 
Because it was an anony­mous test and because Rodriguez's confession involved years before the drug agreement took effect, there is little Selig can do in terms ofpunishment. 
Players and owners didn't agree to.ajoint drug program until AugUst 2002, and testing with punishment didn't start 
IN BRIEF A!!ent Rosenhaus shopping
WR Burress to NFL teams 
NEWARK, N.J. -Plaxico Burress 
seemingly wants to leave the New 
York Giants. 

Drew Rosenhaus, the agent for 
the troubled receiver, sent an e-mail 
to the NFL's teams earlier this week 
ietting them know that Burress was 
one of his three clients who wants 
to be traded, an NFL executive told 
The Associated Press on Thursday. 
The person requested anonymity 
because the e-mail was supposed to 
remain private. 
The Star-Ledger of Newark was 
the first to have the story, reporting 
in its Wednesday editions that 
Rosenhaus' initial e-mail to the 
teams said that Burress CDuld be 
acquired through a trade. 
However, the NFL executive who 
asked not to be identified because . he had to deal with Rosenhaus, said the initial e-mail said that the agent had three "players desiring a 
trade." 
until2004. 

"It is important to remem­ber that these recent revela­tions relate to pre-program activity," Selig said. "Under our current drug program, if you are caught using steroids and/or amphetamines, you will be punished. Since 2005, every player who has tested positive for steroids has been suspended for as much as 50 games." 
Yankees manager Joe Girardi, speaking after his first staff meeting of spring training, said he wasn't sure whether he wanted Rodriguez to address the team. Position players are due to repbrt Tuesday and start workouts the following day. 
"If it's in his heart, yes, I would, but if it's not, that's OK, too," he said. 
Girardi said Rodriguez, baseball's highest-paid player, "has a chance to have a major platform" in speaking out against drugs. Rep. Elijah Cummings, a Maryland Democrat, wrote a letter to Rodriguez inviting him to dis­cuss steroids at an anti-drug event. Cummings said Baltimore's Brian Roberts spoke to the group last year. 
Rodriguez's admission has overshadowed all the other big evenlc;; of the offseason: the signings of CC Sabathia, 
A.J. Burnett and Mark Teixeira at a cost of $423.5 million, and former manager Joe Torre's new book. 

Lea!fue slaps Brown with 
$25K fine for outburst 
CLEVELAND, Ohio -Mike Brown went to the All-Star game with less spending money. 
Oeveland's coach was fined $25,000 by the NBA on Thursday for publicly crit­icizing referee Joey Crawford following the Cavaliers' last-second loss at Indiana earlier this week. 
Although league disciplinarian Stu Jackson said in a release that Brown had been fined for comments made about "th!i officials," Brown's postgame tirade was directed at Crawford, who whistled LeBron James for a foul on Pacers for­ward Danny Granger in the final second. Crawford felt James made contact with Granger, who sank one free throw to give Indiana a 96-95 win. 
Brown claimed Crawford made a pre­deterrrtined -or makeup -call against James, who had been involved in a simi­lar play moments earlier when Granger was whistled for a foul while trying to defend an a.Uey-oop pass intended for James. 
Titans' Haynesworth t:tiven 
probation for speeoing 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Titans All Pro defensive tackle Albert Haynesworth is being blamed for causing an accident that left a Tennessee man needing hip replacement and has a district attor­ney reviewing the Dec. 13 incident for a possible probation violation. 
Haynesworth is due to become a free agent Feb. 27 and is seeking to become the NFCs highest-paid defen­sive player. 
In December, he agreed to 30 days' probation to divert a ticket for driving 103 mph in a 70-mph zone in March only four days before being cited for careless driving on Interstate 65 south of Nashville. He allegedly was speeding in his 2008 black Ferrari and trying to pass Corey Edmonson of Nashville, who lost control and crashed into the concrete median. 
Haynesworth was cited for careless driving and having an expired registra­tion in the incident, charges dismissed in Brentwood City Court on Thursday. 
• 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 13, 2009 
NASCAR 

Four drivers earn spots at Daytona qualifier 
Associated Press 

DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. Jeff Gordon and Kyle Busch both celebrated in Victory Lane, far away from the r£al winners of the Daytona 500 qualifying races. 
Jeremy Mayfield choked back emotion. AJ Allmendinger hid his tears behind sunglasses. Scott Riggs felt as if he'd just won NASCAR's biggest race. 
None of them are a threat to win the Daytona 500, but at least they'll be in the show. 
Allmendinger, Mayfield, Riggs and Regan Smith earned spots in the season­opening race in Thursday's Gatorade Duels. 
"It feels absolutely awe­some. It's like we just won the race," said Riggs, who fin­ished eighth in the first quali­fier. 
None orthe four drivers had rides a month ago, piecing together any opportunity they could to get them to Daytona International Speedway. Allmendinger was let go from Red Bull Racing late last year, and is clinging to an eight­race deal with Richard Petty Motorsports. Riggs became unemployed when Tony Stewart took control of his race team and revamped the driver lineup. 
Smith was a casualty of the merger between Dale Earnhardt Inc. and Chip Ganassi Racing, while Mayfield has been out of full­time work since Ray Evernham fired him midway through the 2006 season. 
Allmendinger, who failed to make the 500 in his first two NASCAR seasons with Red Bull, will l'inally be able to rest after a stressful buildup to the qualifying races. 
"I've been so nervous over the last couple days 'cause I've been in this position the last two years," Allmendinger said. "But I really felt like this year I deserved to be in the race, that this team deserved to be in the race." 

Mayfield has felt the same way, watching from the side­lines as NASCAR roared on without him. 
With no ride lined up, Mayl'ield at the last minute threw his own team together for one last try. He's got a mismatched group of volun­teers, and after loaned-out jackman Kyle Roland was injured while pitting Kirk Shelmerdine's car during the first qualifying race, Mayfield borrowed an emergency replacement from Michael Waltrip's crew. 
"Man, 23 days ago we didn't even have a race team," Mayfield said after finishing ninth in the second qualifier. "It's a very unbelievable feel­ing. To know where we were at then, how much hard work has been done in such a short amount of time is just unbe­lievable. To come here and do this, it's like winning 10 races." 
The 39-year-old journeyman is throwing everything into this effort. After racing just 25 times over the past two years, and failing to draw much interest when rides became available, starting his own team became the last option in continuing his career. 
"If I ever want to retire as a driver, I want to retire on my own, not be pushed to the wayside," Mayfield said. "That's what kept me motivat­ed to do this." 
Riggs could relate after a fruitless offseason job search had him still scouring for work last month. 
He was finally swayed by Tommy Baldwin, who was crew chief and competition director at Bill Davis Racing before the sponsor-strapped team folded in late December. Baldwin was putting together a startup race team, and lured Riggs to the driver seat. 
"It came down to a point that I had to make a decision -am I going to sit at home and stay on the phone and call people and hope that something opens up to give me an opportunity to get in the car?" Riggs said. "Or am I going to go down to Daytona and start the season off with somebody like Tommy? 
"What really made the deci­sion for me was when I talked to Tommy and just heard the passion in his voice. Man, I am just elated." 
So was Gordon, who ended the longest winless drought of his career by winning the first duel. 
The four-time Cup champi­on, coming off his first winless season since his 1993 rookie year, climbed from his car in Victory Lane and immediately reached for his young daugh­ter. Ella was just an infant during his last victory cele­bration, in October 2007. 
''I've been fortunate enough to visit Victory Lane quite a few times, but not many times as a father," Gordon said. "There's nothing more special than that." 
The non-points Gatorade Due1 doesn't officially count for anything in Gordon's victo­ry total, but gave him a sec­ond-row starting spot in Sunday's race. 

page 17 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 13, 2009 

NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish look to win golden racket 
Women will compete in ITA Championship 
By DOUG FARMER Sports Writer 
This weekend Notre Dame will join 15 other teams in Madison at the ITA Indoor National Championships, all with hopes of winning the golden racket. The No. 14 Irish encounter the No. 5 Stanford Cardinal to start things off today. 
The Irish have been in Madison since Wednesday so they could practice on the championship courts before the matches begin. While admittedly anxious upon arrival to the team hotel. a chance to hit around on the courts should calm the team's nerves greatly, and with no time to spare. 
Stanford and a bit of tennis 
history await the Irish on 
Friday. Stanford has won 15 
national championships since 
1982, including three straight 
from 2004 to 2006. 
"Stanford has been down a 
little bit for the last few years," 
senior Kelcy Tefft said. "But 
they are always really, really 
good." 
Stanford will be the first top­10 team that Notre Dame faces this season, and thus, the team knows the match will be quite a change from the season so far -a season marked by dominance and rising in the rankings. 
"It's going to be a really long 
match, really draining, but 
hopefully, we will take two or 
three of those first three dou­
Can't decide what to do this summer? Can't decide on just one study abroad location? 
STUDY ABROAD THIS SU~~ER THROUGH NOTRE DAME! 
Notre Dame will otTer faculty-led programs in: 
Cape Town, South Africa 
Dublin, Ireland Paris, Franee Toledo, Spain Vienna, Austria 
bles matches," Tefft said. "I think that would really help us out." 
Worry not, this Irish team will not serve softly just because they are facing a for­midable foe. 
"I think we are a lot better than our No. 14 ranking," Tefft said. "So coming into this weekend I think our whole team wants to prove that." 
And if the Irish do prove it on Friday, they will face the win­ner of the No. 11 North Carolina, No. 4 Baylor match. But this is the type of road every one of the 16 teams in Madison must take to play on Monday, the fourth and final day of the tournament. A good chunk of the Notre Dame team already knows this. 
"Our sophomore year we got to the finals, so all of the jun-
SUMMER PROGRAMS INFORMATION SESSION TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 5PM 217 DEBARTOLO 
iors and seniors know what it is like to be there," Tefft point­ed out. "That experience will help us a lot." 
That experience, along with the No. 1 doubles pairing of Tefft and freshman Kristy Frilling,-lead the Irish to Madison with high expecta­tions and hopes. 
"While younger, I think this is the most talented team I have played on so far," Tefft said. "We are very hopeful and optimistic. We just have to go out there and prove it." 
On Friday, Notre Dame begins what could be a four­day trek to a national champi­onship. 
"We could definitely do it," Tefft said. 
Contact Doug Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
www.nd.edu/"'ois APPLICATION DEADLINE: 3/1/09 
-
SMC BASKETBALL 
Improved Belles face young Britons 
By ALEX WEST Sports Wri rer 
On January 14 Saint Mary's (14-8) lost its first conference game of the year to Albion (11-10) 77-72. On Saturday, the Belles will look for revenge. 
"They did a great job of get­ting to· the free throw line against us last time," Belles coach Jennifer Henley said. "We just didn't play well defensively for 40 minutes." 
The Belles are riding the momentum of a three-game winning streak, and have won six of their last seven games since playing Albion. 
Senior Erin Newsom and freshmen f>"atsy Mahoney lead the charge Wednesday night with 22 points each in a 77-71 win over Adrian. Newsom also pulled down 11 rebounds to have her sixth double-double of the season. 
"Patsy and Erin both did a good job for us on the offen­sive end." Henley said. "[Newsom and Mahoney] both attacked the basket and hit the open shots." 
Albion on the other hand is trying to bounce back after a 
NFL 
Colts offseason plans 
affected by econotny 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-Colts presi­dent Bill Polian is working on his usual offseason to-do list. 
He's negotiating with agents to keep players, preparing for the draft and dealing with NFL salary cap rules. But things are much tougher this year. 
Polian said Thursday the econ­omy and the NFL's revised cap rules have put the Colts in a financial pinch that is forcing the team to look at options, including a possible change of site for training camp. 
"Like everyone else in the country, expenses are an issue for us," Polian said. "So we're looking at everything we do, be it travel costs or training camp or whatever. One glaring area is training camp, so we have to make a decision about where to go, and we have not made it." 
The Colts have held camp in Terre Haute since 1999, but their contract with host Rose-Hulman has expired and they're now considering a return to Anderson, which was their pre­season home from 1984-98 and is closer to Indianapolis. 
Former coach Tony Dungy often said he enjoyed the time in Terre Haute, but new roach Jim Caldwell has not stated a prefer­ence. Polian said no dedsion has been made. 
Training camp isn't the only money issue for Indianapolis. 
The Colts recently announced they were cutting 25 jobs in the front office, and now they're try­ing to re-sign three prominent free agents -Pro Bowl center tough, two-week stretch. The Britons lost four in a row before a victory over winless Kalamazoo Wednesday night. Since their last meeting with the Belles, the Britons are just 3-4. 
Regardless of Albion's recent play, Henley is sure her team won't be overlooking the Britons. 
"Albion is a good young team that has a lot of options on offense," she said. "We need to focus more on transition defense and contest their out­side game." 
The Belles have already clinched the No. 2 seed in the MIAA tournament as well as achieving other school mile­stones. With three games left in the regular season, the Belles have already set the school record for conference victories with 12 and have tied the school record for total wins in a season (14). 
Saint Mary's will try to con­tinue to add to these totals Saturday. The tip-off is slated for 3:00 in Kresge Gymnasium at Albion College. 
Contact Alex West at · awest@hcc-nd.edu 
Jeff Saturday, cornerback Kelvin Hayden and running back Dominic Hhodes. 
Polian would like to re-sign all three, but he considers Hayden. who won the starting job two years ago, the top priority. 
Polian would not say how much Hayden wants, but he said negotiations with agent Fletcher Smith are not going well. That could force Polian to use the franchise tag, something he will consider. .. 
Smith did not answer his cell phone and it was not accepting messages on Thursday. 
To clear some room under the 
.j
cap, Polian has already agreed to convert Dallas Clark's roster bonus into a signing bonus, spreading the money out over more years. And he may do the same with Bob Sanders. Still, Hayden's deal may determine how much money is left to keep other players and could force the team to cut other veterans. 
The cuts come with a hefty price, too. 
Because this is the last year of the salary cap, there are new rules. 
If players with expensive bonus clauses are cut this year, teams will have to take the full value of the remaining bonus money. In the past, that money has been prorated over the life of a contract. So if a player received a $10 million bonus on a five-year deal, teams were charged $2 million per year. Now, if that player is cut with two years left on the contract, that team would take a $4 mil­lion cap hit in 2009. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 13, 2009 
fENCING 

Four underclassn1en go to Junior Olyn1pics 

By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sporrs Writer 

Four fencers from Notre Dame will compete individually at the Junior Olympic Championships this weekend in Albuquerque, N .M. The event marks the second chance for fencers to pick up a US Fencing qualification in 2009, after January's North American Cup. 
Irish fencers chalked up five top-S finishes at the NAC in January, including three first place finishes. A win in the NAC gave those fencers an "A" ranking from the US Fencing Association. Fencers are ranked nationally anywhere from A through D and a solid performance this weekend will help fencers move up the lad­der. 
After graduating one of the strongest senior classes in the nation last year, the results earlier this season was encour­aging for Irish coach Janusz Bednarski. 
"We never had such a good result like this year," Bednarski said. "We won a lot of medals; that's a positive of this competition. I believe that it was one of the best starts in national tryouts for [Notre Dame]." 
A squad of freshman and sophomore epees will fence in individual competition in Albuquerque. Sophomore Jacob Osborne, freshman Kristoff Pinkowski, freshman Stephanie Myers, and fresh­man Nick Crebs will all try for a solid qualification for the 2009 season. 
"I feel very positive for them all," assistant coach Marek Stepien said. "I know they will continue to remind the country why Notre Dame's fencing pro­gram is truly world class. They have been training extremely hard and I'm certain that at the [NCAA National Championships] and on into next season you will see results that will be even stronger than [this weekend]." 
The men's epee bouts begin Friday evening, while the women's epees will square off on Saturday. 
The Junior Olympic Championships are the last competition Irish fencers will face before the Midwest Fencing Competition Championships at the end of the month at the Joyce Center. The No. 1 men's squad finished the season with a perfect 33-0 record, while the No. 2 women ended up 32-2. The team is in prime position for a run at a third national championship since 2003. · 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish open with Duquesne 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame looks to start its season off with a win Saturday as the team travels to Pittsburgh to take on the Duquesne Dukes. The Irish have had no problem with The Dukes in the past, win­ning both of their two previ­ous meetings 16-4. 
Notre Dame starts the year ranked No. 11 in both the WLCA coaches' preseason poll and the Inside Lacrosse poll. They finished last season at 12-7 (4-1) Big East, falling in the first round of the NCAA tournament to four-time defending champions Northwestern. Notre Dame has advanced to the NCAA tournament four times in the last seven years. 
Leading the Irish this sea­son are Irish coach Tracy Coyne, entering her 13th sea­son with the Irish. and the team's new captains, seniors Shannon Burke and Jillian Byers. . 
"They have the respect of 
their peers and the full confi­dence of the coaching staff to lead the team this season," Coyne said in a press release earlier this week. 
Burke has started at mid­field/defense her last two sea­sons, contributing both offen­sively and defensively for the Irish in her third season. She had career highs in goals (8), assists (3), and points (11). On defense she led the team in turnovers (32) and was sec­ond on the team for ground balls (33) and draw controls (52). 
Burke was also chosen as a selection on the second team IWLCA all-West/Midwest regional team, and a Big East defensive player of the week, finishing fourth in the confer­ence with 1.56 caused turnovers per game last sea­son. Burke was also recently chosen as a selection on the preseason all-Big East team. 
Byers has been a key force in the Notre Dame attack in each of her first three sea­sons. She wrapped up her junior season with a team­high 67 goals and 81 points, and a school record-setting 52 draw controls. 
"Jill and Shannon possess many of the attributes that good leaders must have -a positive attitude, a great work ethic and outstanding com­munication skills," Coyne said. 
Byers is first a·ll-time in goals (179), third in points 
(225) and seventh in assists 
(46) at Notre Dame, as well as the only Notre Dame player to score more than 50 goals in three seasons and 66 or more points in three consecutive seasons. She has been a selection on the ali-IWLCA second team and a unanimous selection on the first team all­Big East each of her past three seasons. Along with Burke and fellow teammate Shaylyn Blaney, Byers was selected to the all-Big East preseason team this season. 
The team will have its first chance to live up to the· pre­season hype on Saturday in Pittsburgh. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
NHL 

Vokoun, Panthers rout Hurricanes 
Associated Press 

RALEIGH, N.C. -Tomas 
Vokoun didn't really need his quick-strike Florida teammates /to score so many goals. As impenetrable as he was in net, 
one was plenty. 

Vokoun made 42 saves for his 
fourth shutout of the season, 
Anthony Stewart and Gregory 
Campbell scored 12 seconds 
apart in the second period and 
the Panthers routed the 
Carolina Hurricanes 5-0 on 
Thursday night. 

Nathan Horton had a goal 
and an assist, and Michael 
Frolik and Richard Zednik each 
scored. The Panthers scored all 
five goals in the first 33 1/2 .minutes and never eased up while claiming a rare wfn in Raleigh. 
"I much prefer these than the 
dramatic ones," Florida coach 
Peter DeBoer said. "I thought 
our goaltender was our best 
player tonight." 

Vokoun finished with the 29th 
shutout of his decade-long 
career and the first since Dee. 
23 against Nashville. He 
became the first goalie to shut 
out Carolina this season. 

The Panthers improved to 6-2 
since the All-Star break while picking up a critical two points in the Eastern Conference standings. They lead Carolina by three points in the race for the eighth playoff spot in the East. 
Cam Ward stopped juSt· nine of the 13 shots he faced before he was pulled midway through the second for Michael Leighton, who made nine saves and allowed Florida's fifth goal. 
Neither goalie had any answers for a Florida offense that entered averaging 3.63 goals in the new year and was coming off a S-4 overtime victo­ry over Toronto in which it erased a three-goal deficit by scoring four times in the third period and the extra session. 
"We were dead in the water if we (had) lost that game," Vokoun said. "There would be a different feeling in the dressing room. But that's all 'ifs."' 
That quick-strike offense helped the Panthers put this one away with a second-period flurry led by role players Stewart and Campbell. 
Stewart had a step on defenseman Niclas Wallin as he chased down a loose puck along the boards, and as Ward tried to poke it away from him, he slipped a backhander past the goalie to make it 3-0 with 
10:42 left. 



Friday, February 13, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Purdue's Hummel needs time to heal 
Hummel averages 10.4 points
Associated Press 
and 6.9 rebounds in conference 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. -play, but Painter said those Purdue coach Matt Painter numbers don't fully explain his doesn't want sophomore for­value. ward Robbie Hummel bouncing "Rob does something for us in and out of the lineup any­offensively and defensively that more. balances our team," Painter 
So the Big Ten's preseason said. "He's a facilitator. He player of the year, who has moves the basketball, he makes missed the past three games the extra pass, he gets the ball with a hairline fracture in his inside .... Some of the basic lower back and has played hurt things that don't show up in a for much of the season, won't box score is what we miss." return until he has healed Hummel said he first injured enough to play consistently. the L5 vertebrae in his back 
"Everybody is itching to want against Oklahoma on Nov. 28, him to get back," Painter said then aggravated it in a loss to after Wednesday's 61-47 win Duke on Dec. 2. He played over Penn State. "I think the against Illinois on Dec. 30, then key for him is to get back, then sat out the next game, a loss at stay." Penn State. He returned to play 
.The Boilermakers (18-6, 7 -4) the next six games before miss­play at Iowa on Saturday, then ing the past three games, at home against No. 9 Michigan against Ohio State, Illinois and State on Tuesday. Painter said Penn State. Hummel could play in both Hummel hasn't been through games, or neither. a full practice since the Dec. 20 
"I don't think they really want game against Davidson, but to put a timeframe on it Painter said he is making because it really depends on progress. He participated in how I feel," Hummel told The warmups before the Penn State Associated Press this week. game and was involved in some 
Hummel has been a differ­non-contact drills on Thursday. ence-maker in conference "We need to think about games. When he plays, Purdue what's best for him, not what's is 6-1, averages 68 points per best for us in terms of a Big Ten game and allows 60. When he race," Painter said. "I think he's sits, Purdue is 1-3 and scores going to have a long career in 60 points per game while sur­basketball and we have to keep rendering 63. that in mind." 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish take on tough Spartan team 
doubles point," Bayliss said. game plan."
By KATE GRABAREK 

"They are very strong at one Parbhu played relentless 
Sport Writer 

and two doubles, and we will tennis, and stayed mentally 
need to win the matches that tough in every point. He 
Notre Dame will try to we have a slight advantage played quality points, and bounce back from its first loss in." made Inglott really grind the of the dual match season to The Spartans are led by points out according to No. 1 Virginia last Sunday. senior No. 1 singles player Sacchire. The Irish play host to the Nick Rinks. In the fall season Another bright spot for the Spartans of Michigan State on Rinks teamed up with junior Irish early this season has Saturday. Alex Forger to defeat Stephen been the play of freshman 
The Spartans are off to one Havens and Tyler Davis at the Stephen Havens. Havens of their best starts in recent Tom Fallon Invitational. earned the other point for the history, heading into the con­"Rinks is q.ble to beat just Irish on Sunday winning his test against the Irish with a about anybody in the coun­match in three sets. record of 5-1 with their only try," Bayliss said. "We nor­"Havens made a lot of extra loss coming in mally rely balls," Sacchire said. "Both a hard fought very heavily players were fairly close in battle with on our top two ability level, and that was Vanderbilt. singles spots, apparent in the last two sets." 
"They came "Havens made a lot but we can't Sacchire also commented very close to count on those that Havens was conservative
of extra balls. Both 
beating tomorrow. wheri he was on defense, but
players were fairly 
Vanderbilt Rinks split dictated and finished points 
this past close in ability level, sets with well. weekend," and that was apparent Stephen Bass The Spartans and Irish Irish coach two years ago, know each other well.
in the last two sets. " 
Bobby Bayliss but Bass won Spartans coach Gene Orlando, said. "They 10-8 in the has been coaching at served for the Ryan Sacchire third set." Michigan State for 1 7 years, match at 5-4 Much like and Bayliss at Notre Dame for 
Irish assistant coach 
but couldn't the Spartans 19. Bayliss and the Irish have hang on to the lineup is dom­won 18 in a row over the lead. We have inated by a Spartans. The head-to-head beat them senior, the meetings between the two soundly in the past, but we're ·Irish's own Sheeva Parbhu programs date back to 1926. young and they returned just put his name in an elite After the Irish face the about everybody." group, easily handling Spartans Saturday. the Irish 
With only three freshmen Dominic Inglott of Virginia on will head to Evanston, Ill. to on the roster, the Spartans do Sunday. face Northwestern on Feb. 19 boast more experience than "Sheeva [Parbhu] was a lot with the first serve set for 4 the Irish. Bayliss thinks that quicker than Inglott," assis­p.m. for both matches. it will be a good test for his tant coach Ryan Sacchire young team. . said. "If Inglott doesn't over­Contact Kate Grabarek at 
"We will need to win the power you, he's out of his kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

GETTING THE MOST OUT OF SEX 
Only for dreamers? 

F<>r M~th~" B<>gg$, il wa> "'dn~ hb gr.mdpa<...:nts hohlinlt hands, iingers intcrluckcd t11a~ hdpcd him bdieve <k~p and-lilcl,mg lm·e w;~:> p<lssibk. ~runny.'' he th(>Ughl. "all thcs.: y<ar>. •Utd lh~y·rc 'till holding hanJs.~ In the introdut1iun w hh bonk Project Eved&$/lilg, he continue>: 
In tflat momenl. the couple betore me !Ntame mare tflan jast ntv grandparrnts. I saw lflem as partners who ft3d journeyed mrougfl a /1/elime ot c!W!efi(JIJ and struggle. Now a/ tile end ()f t/leir ;£mmey u~~.Hiw~·. thl.'')' u-''re-.>ttill cr-a:y <Jfxmt ~':tKh otht''· { .. J !low simple they made it seem! Bill to me it 
represented wnat I wamed fiiOSI in me world. More tl13n an)1!ling. I wanted to !i11d tile love tftey were iivt!lg. My graMparonts !lad been ttwried si,rty· t11ree Y/Jilft. but 11 t~~s 1101 co!lVetJ/iO!I N !li!bit Ilia! kepttflem mgeftler. Jacx-and Dorot!ly Manm were twa people ~·elv mucli in love. 
\llll! nf lh lUI\ 0 rr<~lah]! haJ <imib.r t>.pcrkn~~$, Wc\c <>h><rl<."d "lht'f trlllpk< h~])pinc.,, JnJ thdr 1<)\·in~ ~~'nHnhmcm t~) <:+1~h othe-r, anJ ~l:~'\·c rcalit"t'd nl~f 1~\Hl t.kSif(' f~)( S\"'fn~'<ln'-' \.\·hfttn \\\.' <:~tn hn-~ t,h,_"'('pl} ~md \\·ho \\'HI return that kw.,· tu u~ 
Hut }bJ\\ d11 \h. gctlht.."i't:~l t:·rt1hr1WHUd~ h."!Jay. it '>t!:t~rn.~ c.xamplc:>i-Hf tindh'g. ::m-(1 J~$~h.:lint4 ontu-l~>\>C: arc IC\\ :md t:'!r hct\,:ccn. DiHm..'c r~· ali ltJi-1 t::tJftll1l(~n. a.tH.l mcan"hik ('ur p.:t'Th pn:parc f••r maril<tl un­Ct'~mmilm~m \\ith premm1t~1l mt~~~lmnt!trn'l.~fit. lh\!" l'"'~il!ilhy of hdng !Mh in lo\~ unrl li•illlt\!1 w nne rwr·~on f()r ..t li1i.-1.in'H:: j.;;_ di~mi.os~~d a.>:o a dl\•am. 
Hut )~ it ned) a d~am? Js a sttthl-c and happ~ ma.rr~age nl'-'reb an td~--at of the-p·al)f' Or. are th~l~ H"1:4.m.." t·oupks lih• Juek "'"' Oomthy \hmin, ·~ho'" timc-"e<!llwr<'<l 
!ov~ h~1s onl) incn:-;~s'-··d in ~tn.:n~1h, h<·tn.H}. and dt:\(lh(m (,~cr the ye;;~·.l Many ~lf ~~$ "-~·mld dat~ h~ anir-m. lht!: l.llt\!'r. Wc-\c-witn\!'sw~f the marriug.t>s t1t.n huve v.-wi'-''.L anU \\.·{/\"\' 'h}hC:""(t a dhtin-\!1 pattern am(!!l\' thom. Ifappinc:,' and 1\lllillment in romami,· 
rdati<m>hips 1$ po~,i~k. 

nut the key is preparing for 
faithfulness in marriage by 
practicing faithfulness while 
dating. ll~ this, "" do not mean ~xual laithlillncs• to om: perS<.m aft~r another. ln:st~ad. \\'C mt;:an ('m<:ticing fi<Jdfty lO ]t>U.f O'f'OUS< <:\·en !>cti.>rc knowing wlwlh<d p.>Nm is. 
This is the essence of chastity 
Chastity: F 0 R, not against, sex 
ConlmQ-lo S\tmc '-'~mmnn JS:sumptions. t:-h~hihty and ahstinence hd'i:sr(: nuntag.c doe~ nn·l Jli.>t:c:tsh.;:ttC b~ing imltj,>naHy rcligiPu,. >c~u.ally IT!)IT.,S\.~1. alhid <•I the oprrfsh~..~ ~x. or afra.!J .})f ~<.e'\ h1 g~m'!f',:"!l, R\lthcr. t,:h~blit~ b no th~ t}thcr ~ide of th<! St)\.->etrum it df~.,. IW~t re-tk't a li;ar o-r dcmgr.;.-ui()fl or -sex. hut nuh.:r 
chastity honors sex and allows it to flourish to its full capacity. 
Sex and the "bonding" hormone 
Durlng. w~ iand. rt.'{.'t:nt s~udics :>i-hP\\, ah!o during, pr-.Jh~ug-~:.>d crnhra.cet-> ~)f ~-~~u-dtHin~f..l the '~hfllnding'+ hf!t1flP!ie O\yWcin i"'-n:k~1~d ill men ~~nd even 1nnr.c in 
lhis me<m' lhat there is no such 
thing as .. casual" St.'.X. No matter IM\ mud1 r•~··pk may d~sir~ to cm•ily uew.:h !f~<m;;.dlcs or l<•rg'1 al'<.l~i{ th'l-· ~~x:unl ifi~.inW-i;)' the_:.. :;han::d \>..:id1 ~mo·llwr f>CJ~)n, lh") .are l'h} s(pk~kaH~ ~jflf."k•,t fo that pr:r<..(\tt lhl~ i~ \\h)· su tnHll}" p~~jpfc. young \tt•.\men cstx-·~.:i:.tll), f<'CI ab;m,lon.-d. 1bCU. ~nd cmpi) wh~~llhe~ ~ct !he '"~ with<>~! the pl."f><>nill eommitmcnt. In (>ur bi<>lil~. human ~\uahty h ntH <.!c:~d~cd f(~r M.·dal ~xual rdatim<>hip,. Rather, OU f Sexuality iS 
meant for intimacy with one 
person. 

Freeing the' heart -·-to love__and be loved comple~ely___,_ 
Con.:>id~tr the nature o-f sex. In scxuu! l:ntcn.;ours.c a man 1tn~i ~l '"'"'oman U\:tuail} do f)t'lt:(J.TI\e ne=l:C. 'lhcrc i.s ,. lll!J!l!al giving ;mu receiving ll<iw;:cn th~ mv <>f them. tr~l~liilning ~ rca! exchang~ of perst>th, a real communiOfl•>fpef'>(»>~. 11M.'fclhrc. every sexual act speaks the language of total self-gift across every dimension of OUr being rh<" rhysioal, _,Mtion31, 
p,,yd!ologic~l. spilir""l. and I<UIJK>ml. 
·1 t> rnak~ our acl:-. of love Hmitc\.1 nr ~,.:~)nd1tiomd in {lB~ tlf tM<)~ W(~;-·s i~ to fi.tH tf' n:~p~ct ~lurseh·c:s +lnJ ~)~;r pilrHk<. l<> be happy ""cl 1\tliHle..!, we ewmot have the ~ex {the pb~·;,:kal ~x~mm!amem) witho-ut the ~...1mrmnncnt <lfi the mher 1.-wls "' wdl. Rnthcr, ..ur hch'" i<>r in a rnmnnh~ n.•lah{)n~hip sn.._,uh.t h<: in hu.mHmy "ith fh~ 
•u..:t1.ud nawr'"~ ~md m~turil) nf ~..~ur fdtn~hthtp \\ith the other per::.nn. lkcau:\e ~e.\ hi. Jrt ~~d~angc ~1nd \:'{Jnununi.rul nf n·hok: ;x...,·t<{~ltS, lht> ~>f~!y co!lWz..l in 't"hkh it ~,~ honits:l in -..vh.a~ lt \.'ommuni~.:ah.:~ is oac wht"t'C the m~n and \\nll'tan h21\.. C co.mm~iltt"<1 thl·~·m:;;ch··e~ l<) c~:u;:h Mher ''ii:1r lli.>ttcr or \H)tSt:.'• P:lf<Hin\.k~~tH), this. amuniuth..'nt, t~lr fh-m c(mslmining thi." SfM')U~~~ fn•.·~.~ ... them UJ' hl k).\.\!' and g.iH~ thcm~d\'t."'t hJ C>.a:('h othL.9f ,,.i~htJu~ r~·~trV\..~ ·or tCar oJ twin~ u~ed 
Authentic intimacy and enduring love 
Therel<m\ in (lfder tn ~.x,x:riencc sexual intill\utv that ~~ hone,!, !(wing, and lhltilli1;g, it is best l;, pmdk.: scxtwl !idclity tn ~·our spouse now. not Iuter. Only in this ~~>a)" will w~ alluw :;c,\ l(J be ull that it is nwau! to be. 
This ad is sponsored by: 
The Anscombe Sodetv. Princeton Universitv The Anscombe Sm:icty, University of Notre·Dmrte Greatness.. Yale University Theiuvc and Fiddhy Network TrueLove Rcv()lution, Harvard University 
SEX MYTHS 

1) SUXtiftl tension IJullds up aver tlme. 
False: lt only seems like this bccau.'ll1 we urc constuntly stimula!in~ ourselv1.-s. wiltc'lller se.xuaUy nr through our other s~'flS¢!>. 0 ur li<:Xultlhy hus fl(l need to be constantly cxpre~scd, and our bodies handh: chastity and llh~tiltcntc pcn~-ctly ti~. 
2) You need to masturbate ,1/ld experiment 
sexiJtJ!Iy in ordsr to !Je comfortable wilfl yt)/J(Wrf,V and StJXIJtlfiiY, 
false; By understanding our biok,gieal, ~ydtnlogical. and emotional design, we at~ imderstand that we actually low ,,ur h(l\lki~ and rc~pectour sexuality more b)" not ~~mMurbating, experimenting. etc. FurthenT!m'C, in marriage, \iiscowring how to best plea~-.: your spouse is not a 
. burden, but rather part of th.-h.:aut} uf marria._~e . 
. J1 Fait/11$ the (){1/y real rua$0n tot t'flJSfifY False: The argunwn1 in support of ~hastity ;md ahs!lnencc is a'ailab!e 1<.> romm<Jn reason. In tact. c\cn many of lliC tdigious ltrgumcrl!~ lhr dut!itil~ are pt<rfectly reasonable. 
41 l't111 'rt~ }11,,r nyhu~ "' prittJ.<'h to nw and force yoiJr morals on my !Hestyle 
false: w~ \Hlnt si!Mml h<lppinl!s.s and ll!IH!Imcnt just like everyone ehe, \\e un' 001 judging anyonv. We simply >trivc to help lHhcrs uixlemand why we hclit•vv .;hastity In lw the he'l pulf1 m tlmt goa!. and "I! irwitc them !I) trv it out fbr themselves. • 
February 14, 2009 
inlh(ii lovcandlidclity.org 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 13, 2009 
'To say we needed
What a feeling, to finally get when Notre Louisville with one, this is what we were look­Dame was in that I think would be 11 points and ing for." its losing 10 rebounds,
the understatement 
Irish coach Mike Brey added: streak, while Samardo
ofthe year. " 
"To say we needed that I think Harangody was Samuols added would be the understatement the one con-10. of the year." stant. What Mike Brey "A few years 
But Thursday night's win was missing ago we had to
Irish coach 
Snapped 
continued from page 24 
could seemingly do no right. 

The smiling Irish lingered for a while after the game and cel­ebrated with their fans, as they welcomed back the prodi­gal feeling of winning. 
"This is what we play bas­ketball for," senior Kyle McAlarney said. "This feeling right now, we appreciate it so much right now. I think we found our rhythm a little bit. 
Bouts 
continued from page 24 
teaching them the iliscipline, courage and mental and phys­ical toughness to compete. More importantly, the men's boxing club forms a genuine brotherhood among fellow athletes. 
"There's a nice sense of community here, especially when we start sparring," an unnamed sophomore boxer said. "You get into the ring and beat the hell out of each other and then you come out and shake hands and go work out. It's a lot of fun." 
Veterans teach rookies, freshman give advice to sen­iors as each member of the men's boxing club strives to make others better each clay. 
But Bengal Bouts is much more than just a community of boxers giving up their time for an annual competition. 
Espousing the Notre Dame utes to find its offensive rhythm in the first half, and led 8-4 before a head up play by Jackson sparked the Irish. After Louisville forward Terrence Williams grabbed a rebound oil' a McAlarney miss, Jackson came from behind to steal it. He waited as McAlarney made his way back down the floor before dishing it to him for McAlarney's first three. Tho score was 11-4 with 

15:04 to play in the first half and the rout was on. 
Earl Clark led 
Rink 
continued from page 24 
release said. 

The new arena will be built south of the Joyce Center, just north of Edison Road and just west of where the new track and field facilities are being constructed, the release said. 
The facility will include two ice sheets, one of which will be Olympic-sized. 
be able to play in it, but we take a lot of pride in that the last three or four years really probably pushed it over the edge to finalize it. To be able to maybe look back 15 years clown the road and know that it was my class, my team that helped bring this arena here will be a great source of pride." Much of the talk at Thursday's practice was about the rink announcement. but the No. 2 Irish (21­5-3, 15_-4-3-3 CCI-lA) have a 
2-3 zone tonight," Brey said. "You're locking up on guys, putting your chest on people, battling in the paint like we did. You're not sitting in a zone." 
Notre Dame held Louisville to just 19 first-half points and didn't let up in the second half. Offensively, Notre Dame was clicking inside and out. Harangody earned points seemingly at will and featured a number of running hook shots in the lane. 
But even 
was more than luc.k. Luke was the sharp­Harangody had 32 points and shooting of 17 rebounds and Notre Dame Ayers and sen-played the type of basketball ior guard Kyle McAlarney. its fans have waited to see for Against Louisville, McAlarnoy the past seven games -effec­scored 21, while Ayers had 19, tive offense combined with and the two combined to shoot shut-down defense and a com­10-for-16 from 3-point range. mitment to rebounding. McAlarney and Ayers lit up tlw 
"The last couple of practices Cardinals during a 15-4 sec­were intense, everybody was ond-h.alf run where Notre· on everybody. No let up," said Dame's lead ballooned to 30 Irish guard Tory Jackson, who for the first time. finished with 14 points, five Ayers hit a three to start the rebounds, five assists and five run. followed by a Harangody steals. fadeaway. McAlarney then 
The win was the largest came down on a fast break margin of victory for a Mike and had the option to give it to Brey-coached team in Big East Harangody, who was open play. During their losing with his arms flailing, calling streak, the Irish could never for the ball underneath, but put togethyr 40 minutes of passed it up in favor of a three. consistent play. That wasn't The three swished. · 
the  case  Ayers canned  
Thursday.  another three  
The Irish out­ on  Notre  
rebounded  Dame's  nex..t  
Louisville 48­28, while the 57 points Notre Dame allowed were the fewest  "I thought our defense was the best it was all year. "  possession. Then, euphoria set in at the Joyce Center w h e n  
its  allowed  McAlarney hit a  
since beating Savannah State 81-49 on Dec.  Mike Brey Irish coach  three from the corner, got fouled, and was  
22.  almost tackled  
"I thought our  by  an  overly  
post  defense  exuberant  
was the best it  Jackson.  

was all year," Brey said. "A lot of emotions, a lot of 
The strong effort, Brey said, emotions," Jackson said of the came from the intensity the near-takedown. "For him to team developed during prac­get in a rhythm like· that, he tice when Brey told them they hasn't been going like that in a would be playing man-to-man few games, for him to feel it defense no matter what. and to get that 4-point play, l 
"When you've gone through forgot he was my teammate what we've gone through ... if for a second. It was like were you're going to make your playing football, it was amaz­stand and dig your heels in the ing." ground, you're not doing it in a Notre Dame took a few min-
call to service, Bengal Bouts is difficult to raise money this the largest single contributor year. Tickets are still available to the Holy Cross Missions in and can be purchased through Bangladesh. Since 1931, the any boxer or on fight night. Holy Cross Brothers have As Valentine's Day established approaches, the several ele-restless boxers mentary and have anything secondary but kisses and schools in the hugs on their region, while "It's time for the · minds. 
providing "It's time for
training to pay off"
extensive out­the training to reach pro­pay of!'," fresh­grams to the Adam Zaabel man fighter poor. freshman fighter Adam Zaabel 
"Our money is dedicated to funding educa­tion in villages i n Bangladesh," Weber said. "We are really trying to form rela­tionships with the people over there and learn from them rather than just sending money." 
Although 4,000 tickets have already been sold; Weber added that the current state of the economy has made it more win eight out of 
10 of our games 
and our guys dug in like Notre Dame dug in," Louisville coach Hick Pitino said. "They didn't feel sorry for themselvBs. I think Notre Dame could do the same thing. These guys are terrific young men· and I hope they rally the same way we did two years ago." 
Notes: 

uDespite pledging after Saturday's 89-63 loss to UCLA that all starting spots would be up for grabs, Brey had his starting five already figured out, the five that started the majority of games this season, Ayers, McAlarney, llarangody, Jackson and llilleslancl. 
"I was just kidding you guys in Los Angeles," Brey said to the media. "We needed to get back to our starters ... That's a no-brainer, we had to go back to our nucleus. You're. coming back home. That nucleus of guys have won a lot of games for us and played well together and that nucleus gets us into that offensive rhythm that we need to compete in this league." 
uSophomore Tyrone Nash played 14 minutes Thursday, scored zero points but grabbed six rebounds. Brey said he liked what he saw from Nash, and that his play may be a product of getting kicked out of practice on Sunday. Nash may have been the unfortunate one to incur the wrath of Brey on Sunday, but it may have helped on Thursday. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

said. "You spend so long training for something, and it's almost surreal when 
you step into the ring. You really put a lot into it when you've got this tradition behind you." 
The preliminaries begin this Sunday at 5 p.m. in the .Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

Plans also call "To be able to maybe tough series 
for offices, lock­look back I 5 years with a Northern er rooms and Michigan team
down the road and
training facilities that hasn't lost 
for the hockey know that it was my since Jan. 9. 
team. Additional class, my team that The Wildcats locker rcfoms (11-13-4, 8-10­
helped bring this 
will also be 4-3) are 6-0-1 
arena here will 
available l'or stu­over ·that span dents and mem­be a greaet source and have moved bers of the com­into eighth in
ofpride."
munity to usc. the conference 
The new arena standings. will not be ready Jordan Pearce "They had a in time !'or most Irish senior tough first half 
current mem­bers of tho Irish squad, but the upperclassmen's impact on making a new rink a reality is one that isn't being overlooked. 
"Those kids were instrumen­tal in creating an identity for hockey on this campus," Jackson said. 
Senior goaltender Jordan Pearce added, "Yeah, it kind of stinks that we're not going to but have really 
come on as of 
late. This is a team that was picked by most to finish in the top-four of the conference," Jackson said. "It's going to be a tough weekend for us, and we have to be pre­pared to play well at both ends of the ice." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 


OPEN HOUSE 2009-10 SCHOOLYEAR 
at the Early Childhood Development Center at Notre Dame Come See Our Program and Meet Our Early Childhood 
Early Childhood Teachers 
Development Center, Inc.
ECDC-ND Open Ho~ Dates: 
ut Notrt~ D:11111::~

Sundar. L 109 ... 1:30-:HlO 
Sundav, :t 1'09 ... 1:30-_Hl{l Friday: ..:V 1J'09 ... 9::~0 * 11 :00 Kindergarten Information Meeting: Thurstby. L2209 .. '!:00 · -;:1:; 


For informat1on please call: -.___ ~ 
57 4-6 31-3 344 
or onhne at. www.nd.edui-'i!cdcnd 

Friday, February 13, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Bruna 
continued from page 24 
on Sunday. 
Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said she hopes to come away with some wins in order to build momentum for the rest of the season. 
"We want to become a bet­ter team each game we play," she said. 
Senior pitcher Brittney Bargar will lead the Irish rotation at the Bash. In 2008, Bargar won 30 games and earned all-conference and all­region honors. 
Bargar is one of 14 mono­gram winners returning for Notre Dame, who lost only two seniors from last year's squad. 
"The approach of our veter­ans is solid," Gumpf said. "They are businesslike and understand what they need to do to win." 
Gumpf said that although there are many returning players, the lineup will not look the same. 
"We look much different," she said. "There are major changes if you look at our line-up at the end of the year last year." 
These changes include the additions of junior infielder Heather Johnson and sopho­more utility player Sadie Pitzenberger, both of whom were injured last season, as well as junior catcher Alexia Clay, who transferred from Tennessee and was forced to sit out last season. 
The Irish have also added four freshmen to the mix. 
They will get a trial by fire this weekend. After Alabama things don't slow down. East Carolina hosted an invitation­al last weekend, winning three of four games. Sophomore pitcher Toni Paisley had two wins and a save for the Pirates, earning the honor of Conference USA Pitcher of the week. 
The Badgers have not been as successful so far. They fell in all four of their contests at the Cathedral City Kickoff in Palm Springs, Calif., last weekend. 
The Barna Bash begins a series of warm-weather invi­tationals for the Irish, who will not play in South Bend until a two-game series against Toledo on March 18. 
"We do enjoy the weather, but the reality of the early season tournaments is to win ball games and become the best team we can be," Gumpf said. 
The Irish kick off the season today at 5 p.m. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

Irish senior Linda Kohan will need to have her bat ready to go against No. 1 Alabama this afternoon in the season opener. 
Loyola 
continued from page 24 

season, is led by the all-confer­ence senior McDermott. He started all 17 games last season and helped Notre Dame hold opponents to 7.04 goals per game. 
On offense, the Irish will look Junior Grant Krebs netted 26 goals, second on the team, and senior Duncan Swezey tallied 22. 
Joining McDermott as cap­tains for 2009 are seniors Peter Christman, Scott Rodgers and Davey Malera. 
Rodgers will be looking to fill the shoes of graduated All­American goalkeeper Joey Kemp. The Wantagh, N.Y. 
to another all-conference selec­tion, senior attack Ryan Hoff. The captain will be looking for his third straight 40­goal season after leading Notre Dame with 41 last year. 
"I think our team's strength 

7 think our team's strength is that we don't have a huge weakness." 
Ryan Hoff Irish senior 
native has played in seven career games and carries a 
5.73 goals­against average. 
"I feel like this is going to be a great opponent for our first game," Rodgers said. "Loyola is a disciplined, 

.is that· we don't have a huge weakness," Hoff said. "We are pretty solid throughout the ranks. Our offense brings a whole lot back from last year, and our midfield is very talent­ed and hard-working." 
The Irish offense returns three of the top four scorers from last year's team, which was also ranked No. 5 national­ly with 12.09 goals per game. 
fundamentally sound squad, but then again so are we. It's going to be a battle but we are pre­pared." 
The Irish will face off against the Greyhounds Saturday at 1 
p.m. The home opener for Notre Dame is Feb. 28 against Dartmouth. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
o···i 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 13, 2009 


Friday, February 13, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
Across 32 See 65-Down 

Rivera of the 33 "Come here original often?." e.g. "Chicago" 35 Chewy candy 
6 "Dragnet" force. 38 River to lhe in brief Rhone 
10 Org. for which a 41 What to do after D.V.M, might completing this work puzzle. with four 
14 Southwestern straight lines sheepherders 44 Children's author 15 Mythical king of Blyton and the Huns 
others 16 Press 
45 Chief 17 Unending pain Whitehorse, e.g. 18 Ayatollah's land 46 Subject of illicit 
trade

19 N.Y. neighbor 47 Japanese leader
20 With 59-Across, of the 1960s 
hint to this puzzle's secret 49 "The Gtft of the Magi" gift 
23 Grp. that conducts many 51 Ample shoe tests 
width 

24 Honeymoon 52 Promoted suite feature 
56 Gwen of the 27 Souvenir from a original bad trip? "Chicago" 29 Le Figaro article 58 Berlin cry 30Epigram 59 See 20-Across 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
ABBAIDR I VE,LOAN C 0 E N E A T E N 0 P I E 
~_;.4DINTHECLOUDS 
ERN.R I SER.ASSET 
.TIAR-OINE 
RIT OIF D A RIK NIE S S 
AlBIE E., Ale--N 
AT 
R E 0 S F 0 U R H AIN T I N 0. T 0 IW N E B R U I N 
A NID SIO-A II­OLID TKIO 
C A R G 0. S U I T E ·4~~ HEALIH I NSUiANCE E R I E A D D 0 N S T A G 
W 0 N G L E 0 N E H E R S 61 "Yikes!" 
63 Like some hands 
64 _Gay (W.W. 
II plane) 
68 Some votes 
69 Cain of ~Lois & 
Clark" 70 China company 71 Secy. 72 Dry 
73Ji~andy 
Down 1 Half a dance 2 Keep all to 
oneself 3 New issue on 
Wall St. . 4 Color faintly 5 Sanctuary 
6 Dragon's (eariyvldoo game) 
7 Central courts 8 Alternative if things go wrong 9 Breadfor burritos? 1 0 Order to attack, with •on• 11 Made a killing. say 12 Individually owned apartment 13 Former U.N. chief Kofl 21 Multiple-choice 
choices 
22 Kind of approval 
24 Actor Tom of "Amadeus" 25 Bialy flavorer 26 Some court 
attire 28 Violinist Schneider. informally 
WILLSHORTZ 

Punk! by Patrick Blindallel' 

31 Curtain puller of 43 Pope after John 57 Freshen film X 
60 Be inclined 
48 _ Foods, Inc. 62 Post W.W. II34 Wrap up by 

36 so degs., maybe so Instruments for 
pres. 37 Former Swedish 
drawing angles 65 With 32-Across, P.M. Palme 52 Animals a ball game 
39Beau 53 Spanish skating figures 66 Response to a
40 City north of joke in an I.M.

Cologne 54 Cain vis-a-vis 42 Any acetate, Abel 67 Rocker_ chemically 55_lama Rose 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800·814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytlmes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzz!eforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/leamlng/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEIIRI'flf'}; I~ORN ON HilS IU\": Kdly Rowland. ZS: Mike Shin<>da. 3::!; lenni· fer Aohlvn, 40: Sheryl Crow, 47 
Uappy RlrlbMy Th<-rc is "'' mudl hidd~n that must he hrnuj;ht <>Ut mt<> the open bc-f(w<~ y()tf can mtn>C ot~. '\1Ju bo.lV¢ tl1t~ po\\:t.-:.r. the dt~dieation and th..· ht.~~ll't .and 1.0ul to give your a!L Y(>unmmbtr~ ;uv 1!. l'l. "J.ZI> • .'5. 38.41 
AlUES (Mard• 21-Aprill'h: An innovaliw approac·h to life and friendship$ will spice thing• up. &t the pace and your"'"" rule• ~nd pm \•ill lind the happmc"-< y<>u arc :.cm-ching fm. St~11d up f<lr what y<~u W>Ull and •l"'~k >·nut n•ind. ** • 
1\\t'RVS (April 20-MaJ 20l: It may S<'em as if ev"r~·<lnc is \W•rking again~t you hul. as long a"$ you k~.ep moving for\\'~ndl yuu \\··m ~K'\:"omplh.h what }'l)U Ot"e.d to do. Avoid meddling und meddler$ ;md {<Wtything else will fall itllo place, * **** 
f>EMINI (May -!1-june lilt; Nothinjl islikdy to g<l according to plan hut yoo wi.ll act fa.~t and efficiently. Emotions will get yoo into trouble, so av<>id letting l"'<lflle set you off. Ad <)II fact<.ll<>l ~~n;onal f~dinf?'. ** 
CANCr:R (June li·Jul~· 221: Tb~ lllhlc~ are mming and it's time for you l<l nutk~ """"' adjustmenlli 10 your living WT~~ngemenls. Once you f.>el comfortable with the \\'llY things operate. you will ea>;e ~tmr stress and eliminate the• !X'"-~ibiht~· of letting things spin out ofcontroL**** 
l.F:O !july l.l-Aug. 221: Takt· it'"")·. rd;l!< and stay c-alm. A~tgre£>h·<" heha,·ior will lead I(• troubl~ 01' cause S<lllle<lnt to play with yoor em<>tions. Ownloing it in ~ny mann"r will wme ha.:k w haunt you. *** 
HRflO (Aug. Z.l·Sept. Zl): li1lk tn l""'l'le wh<.> can help and encourage you. A link eJttra wnrk \\'ill pay off but don't jcopardi~e y<~ur health hy <lWrdoing it, A change of plans will re•ult in a bet!cr comwcti<ln with S<Jillconc in whom you are interested. * • * 
UBRA f&pt.l.l-Oct. 22): N<.>! evel)thing i~ ~~~it appe;m;, Someone is worl:.injl ~gainst you, so take ""'!nr prct;mtinn~.l.n~itwcre gcsiUres of friendHness or someone offcring you too !,!ood a deabhoold he handled with care.*** 
SCORPIO IOct. Z.'-Nnv. 21): Stt>p $Iandin!! •till waiting for someone el:;e to pkk up the stuck <Jr ~h<lw you the w~y. Yt>U ha'c '"he in th<' kad if you W<UIIIH he ~toC<'ebful, Your willhtgn.ess to take a <'han,·e or to try rome thing new or different will >el )'llU apart, 
**** 

SAfHTIARtrs tNov.ll-~.llJ: Weigh Uw pr<l< and colt> hefvn' you make a life· ah<'ring <k<:ision. Cbaru·.,, are go<><l that the d)'narnks of whotl<"'<:t is g<>ing on around you <m: ~banging '""rapidly to m•lk<" a go<>d a£'e"mcnl. You arc bett,;,r oll doing as di­rected and playin; it safe. ** 
C\I'RICORN tl>rt.U-jau. 111): Keep y<Jur wits t•bo.>ul you. With w much to jU!!!!lc, y.:>u mu>t k''~'l' a ckat llc;,d ao1<1 he o·eady to !otk<: "'·ti<m imlllediottdy, Sta>· in the 11"'1' at all lime>. Orealer jft<lfih ami a<han,·emc!ll "'lll be your>. ** *** 
AQ!!AIUUS \Jan. 20-f'eb. 18); Don't gi.-e in to what oth""" "·ant if it isn't what you want, Be hon<:.>t ab<>ut your intenti<>n~. Donllet Nnfusion cause ynu I<> stand still when the ;msweris w simply follow rvurhcart. *** 
I'ISCJ::S ff'eb. 19-March lOr Avoid pulling too many den1and• on othen;. You will !~"' 
the mn•tlor your 11R'ney if you do the W<lrk yourself with<>Ut hems del"'n<knt on aU)'OfH.~ .. Y<_nt ~~au sort th.rou:gb any prvbl~.tU"-you hav< b)" t<.tking a M.'!"riou!!. h:x>k at how lh<'Y <tarred. ** * 
llirthday llaby: You '""' pnwerful. dodicatod and a relorn:~<.'t. You an; seriou$, compa.,. 
<ionate. and relen!k>~ in your &earch (orjtNti<:c anJ beneficial ch:mgc. You are a great friend. compani<>n and leader. 
EugtHtitf!O U~b $it~·J: eugtttialrHt..t•mu for (Y.tr~fidt•tttia! ron.o,ulttrtious-, t11V<J)ffct'.('(Hflit•Uf1etti<Jimtfor Elt.~mia\ IJiog, mlrmlffvi<'l'.cmnforfim 
www.BLACK00G.COM 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

THE DOME PIECE 
JUMBLE 

Jl1m00ru1~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
AUFAN 

( J I 

©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
r~f~S~i 

I I 
tREYMOBj

J r [)
1 www.jumble.com
tTINTEN 

J rJ (J 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

~ 
~ TI-E 5!-0PPa< WAS~OF ~SSING PrONY MONEY, 1-E HAD A-
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 


Answer: rI I I I I I JrI I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: GOING DOUSE ABSURD BISHOP Answer: What the successful rancher had ­A BIG "SPREAD" 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on ·people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address ______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, February 13, 2009 
page 24 
HocKEY 

Program takeS major step with new free-standing rink 
Team excited as they prepare for No. Mich. 
By MATT GAMBER Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame will begin con­struction next spring on a new, free-standing, on-campus ice arena that will likely be ready for the start of the 2011 to 2012 season, athletic director Jack Swarbrick announced Thursday in an official release. 
"We're thrilled about the plans for a new ice arena on our campus, particularly based on the superb job Jeff Jackson and our hockey team have done to position our program as one of the best in the nation," Swarbrick said in the release. 
No college program has won more games than Notre Dame since the start of the 2006-07 season, and finally Irish coach Jeff Jackson will receive his reward. 
"It's something I've been searching for since the time I got here," Jackson said. "Hockey has arrived at Notre Dame, and this is kind of like the final piece of the puzzle for us." 
Plans for the new arena have yet to be finalized, but the rink is expected to seat 5,000 ­nearly double the current Joyce Center rink's capacity of 2,713. 
"I give Jack Swarbrick a lot of credit for having the vision to see that it was something that was probably necessary," Jackson said. "I wish he w.ould've been here three years ago to push this idea because we might be so much further ahead. His vision is realistic ­I think we can draw 5,000 fans a game." 
Though a facility upgrade had long been discussed, it 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Streak snapped 
Irish end losing streak in impressive fashion 
By CHRIS HINE Editor-in-Chief 

In the second half, Irish for­ward Luke Harangody went to pass. the ball inside to forward Ryan Ayers, but the pass was too much for Ayers to han­dle. 
No matter. The ball bounced off Ayers, off the backboard and into the basket. 
"It was a good pass," Harangody said. 
It was that kind of game for Notre Dame (13-10, 3-7 Big East) in its much-needed. cathartic 90-57 win over No. 517 Louisville (18-5, 9-2 Big East). It was a night where Notre Dame could do no wrong after suffering through a seven­game losing streak where they 
see SNAPPED/page 20 


ND SOFTBALL 

Top teams avvait ND 
•

In opener 
By LAURA MYERS Sports Writer 

The Irish certainly aren't easing in to the 2009 season. 
Notre Dame will travel to Tuscaloosa, Ala. today to take part in the Barna Bash. In their first game, the Irish will face No. 1 Alabama. 
The Tide (4-0) participated in the South Alabama Invitational Feb. 6-8. They swept their opponents on the bat of freshman Cassandra Heilly-Boccia. who hit .667 with six HBis in her first four games in a college uniform. 
The Irish will play Alabama again on Saturday, as well as East Carolina (3-1). They fin­ish up against Wisconsin (0-4) 
see BAMA/page 21 
MEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish and Greyhounds open season in Atlanta 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 

The No. 7 Irish will travel to Atlanta to open their season against No. 17 Loyola (Md.). 
The Irish return five starters from a strong 14-3 campaign in 2008. The 14 wins tied a pro­gram record, and Notre Dame advanced to the quarterfmals of the NCAA Tournament. 
Senior captain Regis McDermott said the Irish have very high expectations for the season. 
"Part of the culture and tradi­tion we have been building is to expect a lot of ourselves every year, and this~ year is no differ­ent," McDermott said. "Our goal is to be playing Memorial Day weekend in Foxboro [in the NCAA Final Four]." 
The Irish ended the regular season tied for first in the Great Western Lacrosse League (GWLL) with Denver and Ohio State, with each team sharing an identical 5-1 record. Notre Dame then defeated Quinnipiac and Ohio State in the inaugural GWLL tournament to win the conference championship. 
The Irish will face a strong test at a neutral site against the Greyhounds, who have made the NCAA Tournament the past two seasons. Loyola finished 2008 with a 7-7 record after losing in the first round to top­seeded Duke. 
The Greyhounds will be with­out top attack Shane Koppens, who was granted an extra year of eligibility by the NCAA but must sit out the first two games as a result of the decision. Koppens led Loyola last season with 44 points, tallying 19 goals and 25 assists. 
The Irish defense, which ranked No. 5 nationally last 
see LOYOLA/page 21 appeared the most likely sce­nario would be renovations to the hockey team's current home in the Joyce Center. Instead, Jackson, Swarbrick and the University's Board of Trustees, among others, decid­ed to start with a completely new building. Removing the Joyce Center ice sheet will free up training space for other ath­letic and University events, the 

see RINK/page 20 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Fights start Sunday night 
84 bouts slated for preliminary round 
By CHRIS MASOUD SportS Writer 

Knute Rockne's legacy at 
Notre Dame lives on as the 
79th annual Bengal Bouts 
Tournament kicks off this 
weekend. Sunday night will 
feature 84 bouts in two 
rings. 

"There is something spe­
cial about the Bengal Bouts 
that only the guys who do it 
can truly appreciate," sen­
ior president Mark Weber 
said. "The Bengal Bouts is 
a unique blend of sweat, 
sacrifice, and solidarity. 
It's a rite of passage." 

A tradition first organ­
ized in 1920 by Coach 
Rockne, Bengal Bouts 
offers students a rare 
opportunity to box, while 
see BOUTS/page 20 








