
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Mendoza launches new Web site, slogan 
Business college works to improve identity with new marketing position and effort 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
The Mendoza College of Business' simultaneous launch of a new trademarked slogan, "Ask More of Business," and redesigned Web site this summer marked a commitment to unity within the college. 
Both the new slogan and Web site were created to high­light the philosophies shared by Mendoza's undergraduate and various graduate pro­grams, Bill Gangluff, director of marketing and Web strate­gies for Mendoza, said. 
"This is a big moment for us as a business school," he said. "This is the first time we've all come under the same posi­tioning umbrella." 

"Ask More of Business" emphasizes the college's focus on ethics in the business field, Gangluff said. 
The three tenets of the new slogan are individual integrity, effective organizations and greater good. Gangluff said they represent the skills and principles that Mendoza teaches its students and asks of its graduates. 
Mendoza created separate task forces for positioning and Web site design eighteen 
see MENDOZA/page 4 


Sierra Club leaders discuss energy legislation 
Francis says we have 'a moral obligation' to act, addresses climate change and clean energy 
Week at Notre Dame. 
Francis is co-chairperson for the Hoosier chapter of the Sierra Club and is also the appointed chairperson of the green energy committee for the South Bend Green Ribbon Committee. Quinn is the con­servation program coordina­tor for the Hoosier chapter of the Sierra Club. 
Both speakers addressed the importance of the American Clean Energy and Security Act, which the House of Representatives passed in June and is currently under 
see ENERGY/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Program works to COlllbat diseases 
By MOLLY MADDEN 

News Writer 
You might think 50 cents won't buy you much today, but on the contrary, 50 cents is enough save a life, in some cases, and a new program at Notre Dame is trying to make this statement a reality. 
The Neglected Tropical Diseases initiative is a new program brought to the University by the Sabin Vaccine Institute in Washington D.C. Sabin is a non-profit organiza­tion that is ww-king to cure the 
1.4 billion people worldwide who are afflicted with the seven diseases known as the Neglected Tropical Diseases, or NTDs. 
These are infections that include hookworm, other intes­tinal worm infections, schisto­somiasis, lymphatic filariasis, and onchocerciasis, as well as the bacterial infection, tra­choma, which can cause blind­ness. 
The one-time vaccine for these seven diseases can be covered for a mere 50 cents. 
"This new initiative by the Sabin Vaccine Institute is essentially trying to address and eradicate these seven dis­eases that affect millions of people each year," freshmen 
see DISEASE/page 4 


Fire near golf course 

Observer Staff Report 
A small fire broke out in a maintenance building at the 9­hole golf course at Holy Cross Drive and Dorr Road about 8:45 
p.m. Monday, according to University spokesman Dennis Brown. 
Brown said the fire was extin­guished around 9:20 p.m. by Notre Dame, South Bend and Clay frre department personnel. 
The University will launch a full investigation to determine the cause of the fire and the extent of the damage, Brown said. 
HerStory series promotes female role models 
Lectures hope to strengthen women's voice at the University, faculty discuss their journeys to ND 
By CARLY LANDON 
News Writer 
With hopes of providing a stronger female voice on the Notre Dame campus, First Year of Studies Academic Advisor Dr. Elizabeth Ramquist launched a lunch-time talk series titled "Telling HerStory: Highlighting Women as Role Models in the life of the Mind, Body, and Soul," which began Sept. 8. 
The events occur monthly in the Coleman Morse Center, gen­erally on the first Tuesday of the month. The series will showcase female role models who have suc­cessful careers, are good mothers or are women in the religious ministry. 
The women featured are females in the Notre Dame com­munity who have been nominated by their peers as positive role models for young women. The series will also offer the opportu­nity for female colleagues to become acquainted in an infor­mal setting and hear one anoth­er's journeys and how it is they all arrived to be part of the Notre Dame community. 
"Great things can happen when generations connect and learn from each other," Ramquist said, "I think in many parts of society that's lost. Through this program I would like to regain that." 
Last week, the first session drew a crowd of around 50 peo­ple, of them about half under­graduates and half faculty mem­hers. Lynn Hubert, Notre Dame's Director of Regional Development for the Midwest, was the guest lecturer. 
"Our turnout was moderate, but less than I expected," Ramquist said, "However, we have had such a positive feed­back, especially from faculty, that I think we can expect better turnout next time." 
Ramquist built her idea for this talk series off another previous series similar to it under the same name organized by professor Dawn Overstreet during a year­long fellowship here at Notre Dame. Overstreet's program received wide praise from the Notre Dame community though it failed to be continued after her departure from Notre Dame. 
Ramquist would also like to stress her goal of promoting less generation segregation. She said she hopes the series will show women of all ages that they share common experiences, and despite age barriers, they can learn from each other in a sort of mentor relationship. 
"As an undergraduate, I bene­fited from being mentored by women ahead of me," Ramquist said. "I think for me that is the foundation of this series because it is important for younger women to learn from older women." 
The next HerStory event will be held on Oct. 13 from noon until1 
p.m. in the Coleman Morse Center featuring Dr. Nyree MacDonald as the guest speaker. 
INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER Weight Watchers comes to SMC page 3 • Kanye goes crazy page 13 • Men's golf places sixth at tourney page 24 • Viewpoint page 10 

By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
Legislation for clean energy and climate change in the United States is crucial at both national and local levels, especially given the upcoming international climate confer­ence in Copenhangen in Dec., Sierra Club leaders Steve Francis and Bowden Quinn said in a lecture Monday night. 
"We have a moral obligation ... a responsibility to act," Francis said in the lecture, which was part of Energy 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, September 15, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 


London flat feasts 
Sometimes I miss Notre Dame. A lot. So much my heart wants to break into little bits and crawl across the ocean and into McGlinn hall so it can huddle in the corner of the quad that I will live in come Stephanie DePrez 
January. But these moments 

Scene 
pass, and I am 

Writer 
once again sit­ting on the steps of Trafalgar Square, eating lunch with any number of the multitude of ND kids studying abroad in London this semester. 
Spurred by these bouts of home­sickness, my flatmates and I have devised a way of channeling our comfort-yearnings into a fool-proof plan of daily satisfaction. We have Flat Dinners. 
Now, this is not simply meeting up at the end of the night to eat. Instead of a rushed dinner at the dining hall between meetings and rehearsals, ours are a full food pro­duction. 
Each day one of the five of us is in charge of the evening meal. This means she must choose a recipe, shop for ingredients, arrive at the flat in late afternoon and cook a meal in its entirety. We are all even­tually drawn into the kitchen by the smell of pasta/chili/beer brats/BBQ chicken and bacon wraps. Eagerly we hang around, awaiting the meal, and preparation usually ends up being divvied up among the group. Someone grates .~heese, stirs the rice, or sets the table. When the food is ready, we all clamor to sit down at the table ("Someone put on music!") and devour whatever waits. 
We pass around dishes and clink glasses. We compliment the cooks (ourselves) and muse at how won­derfully we are managing our inter­national eats. Someone mentions eating the left over's for lunch tomorrow and someone else says, with a full mouth of food, "Good one." Soon the food is gone, but the meal is far from over. 
"Who wants tea?" This English staple has become our evening delight, and everyone pitches in to clear the table and ready the cups or get out the sugar. The next hour will be spent making fun of London, ourselves, and anyone who happens to have joined us (for there are always dinner guests). 
Eventually the evening winds down. Homework must be done, weekend flights must be booked, and my blog must be updated. Someone offers to do the dishes, and we each slip away into our own worlds. Until, of course, the next morning, when we wake up and ask, "Who's cooking tonight?" 
So even though I may be sur­rounded by fashion, frantic walking and impeccable accents, I find a way to get "home" every night. The dishes are impressive, and I'm pret­ty sure it's because the main ingre­dient really is love. Some people think the National Gallery is art. Well, they've clearly never eaten with us. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD HAVE ANY SUPERPOWER, WHAT WOULD IT BE? 






Kaitlin Wegrzyn  Matt Zak  Katie Meaney  Megan Kozak  Priscilla Nyankson  
freshman  junior  sophomore  freshman  freshman  
Welsh Family  Morrissey  Pangborn  Welsh Family  Ryan  
'Teleporting, so  "Flying because  7 would like to  'Time travel so  "Super  
I could go to the  you don't have  be extremely  that I could  intelligence, so I  
dining hall  to pay for fuel.  flexible so I can  sleep in and  don't need to  
whenever I  You could fly  bend through  still never miss  study and I can  
want."  around the  little corners. "  , a class.  party all night  
world, fuel  and still get  
free."  straight A's."  

Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

Police in eastern Pennsylvania said a man charged with drunken driving faces more charges after allegedly trying to steal a tow truck a few hours later to retrieve his impounded vehicle. 
Lower Saucon Township police allege that 29-year-old Timothy Peare, of Whitehouse Station, N.J., was spotted at 7:40 p.m. Sunday inside a tow truck at Saucon Collision, which was closed. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Boy fakes kidnapping to avoid bringing home grades 
HUNTSVILLE, Ala. ­An 11-year-old boy gets high marks in storytelling after staging a hoax to cover up his bad grades. Police said the boy faked his kidnapping Friday to avoid bringing home a bad report card, saying that a man with a pistol snatched him after he left Ed White Middle School. The boy said the man forced him into a "beat­up car" and threatened to kill him. 
The student said he escaped by jumping out of the car but wasn't able to grab his bookbag, which contained the report card. 
He ran to his grandpar­ents' house and later confessed to lying. His grandfather called police to apologize. 
Sgt. Mark Roberts said police were suspicious that the boy was able to "escape" with his band instrument, but not his bookbag. 
Roberts said the boy faces no charges at this time. 
Drunk driver attempts to steal tow truck to save car 
BETHLEHEM, Pa. ­

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
0::: 
IJ.I 
:::c 
=c 
IJ.I 
3: 
.... 
<C 
(,) 





81 57 
0 

HIGH HIGH 72 HIGH 73 HIGH
...I 

LOW LOW 64 LOW 50 LOW 
72 
56 
IN BRIEF 

"Graffiti Art Project," an exhi­bition featuring children's art from a summer program, will be held in the Crossroads Gallery today at 9 a.m. 
The "Fritz Scholder Contemporary Artist Influences" exhibit will be held at 10 a.m. today. The display includes art from Native American artist Fritz Scholder. The exhibit will be shown in the Milly and Frits Kaeser Mestrovic Studio Gallery in the Suite Museum of Art. 
"In Praise of Donors Selections from Dr. and Mrs. R. Stephen Lehman Collection" will be shown in the Scholz Family Works on Paper Gallery in the Suite Museum ofArt. The exhib­it will open at 10 a.m. today. 
An exhibit entitled "Para Ia Gente: Art, Politics, and Cultural Identity of the Taller de Gratica Popular" will open at 10 a.m. today. The display will be located in the O'Shaughnessy Galleries in the Suite Museum ofArt. 
"Thin: Photographs by Lauren Greenfield" will be displayed at 10 a.m. in the O'Shaughnessy Galleries in the Suite Museum of Art today. 
Mass will be held in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 
11:30 a.m. and 5:15p.m. today. 
University President Fr. Jenkins will give his Annual Address to the Faculty today at 4 p.m. at the Decio Mainstage Theatre in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
FRIDAY GAME DAY 


HIGH 71 LOW 50 
Atlanta 80 168 Boston 75 I 55 Chicago 81 I 61 Denver 77 I 56 Houston 88 170 Los Angeles 78 I 61 Minneapolis 83 160 New York 81 I 62 Philadelphia 82 I 63 Phoenix 101 I 78 Seattle 79 I 59 St. Louis 78 I 63 Tampa 90 I 76 Washington 88 I 67 
Tuesday, September 15, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

CLC picks initiatives for new school year 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
The Campus Life Council 

(CLC) decided on its first three initiatives for the school year at their meeting Monday after­noon. 
Student Legal Services, Evaluation of Student Disciplinary Records and on­and off-campus advertising were the three tasks members voted to focus on to begin the year. 
The 22 members of the Council will be divided into three groups to address the issues, with each group focus­ing on achieving a concrete result, student body president Grant Schmidt said. 
The evaluation of student dis­ciplinary records garnered the most attention from Council members. CLC members voiced concern over two distinct areas. 
The first issue concerned what should be done about stu­dents whose disciplinary records -kept by the Office of Residence Life -contained information about incidents during their freshman year. Council members wanted to determine if it would be possi­ble to have freshman-year inci­dents re-evaluated and possibly stripped from the record. 
"You have to write about it on medical school, graduate school, and law school applica­tions," Judy Conway, off-cam­pus council representative, said. "Even if the incident occurred September of a per­son's freshman year. 
Another question the task force will evaluate is the neces­sity to separate sexual assault cases from those dealing with other violations such as park­ing and alcohol incidents. 
The second task force, Student Legal Services, already has a defined initiative that will be carried over from last year. 
The primary job of the group will be to establish a database of local attorneys and law offices that can assist students facing legal trouble. 
"We are working towards a feasible goal," John DeLacio, who worked on the task force last year, said. 
The third task force will look at on-and off-campus advertis­ing. 
Schmidt said the committee should look to develop ways to help bring the massive amounts of advertising together to some sort of central medium. 
Student body vice president Cynthia Weber agreed with Schmidt, citing the need for groups to be creative in their efforts to spread their message. 
"You have to be crafty if you want to get your word out about events," she said. 
While the council spoke only briefly on the topic, the consen­sus was that there is some need to better organize the large vol­ume of posters, e-mails and advertisements that circulate through campus each day. 
A fourth area of discussion, resources to off-campus stu­dents, was also touched on at the meeting. 
After considering adding a fourth task force, CLC members decided to hold off on the topic until later on in the school year. 
Gus Gari, who recently devel­oped the off-campus Web site, said members shouldn't forget about the omnipresent issues of campus-community issues. 
"There is always something going on between campus and off campus," he said. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonne1@nd.edu 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 

Plans Inade to meet Wabash, Navy men 
By NIKKI TAYLOR News Writer 
Saint Mary's Student Government Association (SGA) discussed planning events for the College community to meet new faces -including events with the men of Wabash College and the Naval Academy -at their meet­ing Monday night. 
An SGA sponsored bus trip to Wabash College on Sept. 26 is in the works, student body president Jenny Hoffman said. Saint Mary's students would be offered a chance to go to the men's college in Crawfordsville, Ind. 
The day would start with com­munity service with Wabash stu­dents. Saint Mary's students would then have the chance to attend the Wabash homecoming football game and post-game cookout, Hoffman said. 
That evening there is a Ben Folds concert open to students, and the only cost to students would be the $20 admission to the concert, Hoffman said. 
The event would run similarly to the Chicago bus trips SGA fre­quently sponsors. 
"I think this is one of the more fun events that SGA is doing this year," Hoffman said. 
Still in the planning stages is an SGA sponsored semi-formal dance with the Midshipmen of the Naval Academy. The Junior Class board had previously sponsored a dance with the Midshipmen until around 2003. SGA was approached by the Naval Academy to rekindle this tradition, student body vice presi­dent Megan Griffin said. 
The dance would take place after the Notre Dame football game against the Naval Academy Nov. 7. Venue and ticket prices were among the issues the board was still deliberated. 
"We're bringing back a long­standing Saint Mary's tradition," junior class president and co­coordinator of the event Meghan Helmle said. "It's going to be a lot of fun to say the least." 
Contact Nikki Taylor at ntayoloO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Weight loss program starts 
By MEGAN LONEY and ALICIA SMITH News Writers 

An informational meeting for Saint Mary's Weight Watchers Program was held yesterday in the Warner Conference Room in the Student Center for stu­dents interested in a healthy way to maintain their weight. 
The program is available to students, faculty and staff at the College. 
To be able to secure a Saint Mary's chapter of Weight Watchers, 15 individuals must submit payment for the 12­week series or 20 individuals for the 17-week series of the program. 
Lori Hembree, a representa­tive from Weight Watchers, informed those involved what the program was all about. She explained that she had lost 55 pounds with the help of the program. 
"I learned that I needed the accountability of the weekly weigh-in and the support of other members in the group," Hembree said. 
The program is sponsored by the Health Center at the College. Cathe DeCleene, director of women's health, is in charge of the program. 
During the informational meeting, registrations and money were collected. Participants also received lit­erature about the program. 
Six interested students attended the meeting. 
The cost for the 12-week series is $144 and the 17­week series costs $175, or about $10 for each session. 
A concrete schedule for the series will be devised and will take holidays and academic breaks into account. 
"We are trying to bring Weight Watchers to you here," Hembree said. "The benefit is that you can do it during your lunch hour. Everything you see in a Weight Watchers meeting room, we bring it to you." 
According to DeCleene, the program was incredibly suc­cessful last year with two outs and advice. 

Unlike other weight loss pro­grams, Weight Watchers does not require specific meal choices. According to the pro­gram's Web site, Weight Watchers is "an integrated approach emphasizing good eating choices, healthy habits, a supportive environment and exercise." 
In addition to the weekly 
groups at Saint Mary's losing a significant amount of weight and a few participants earning lifetime member status. 
One previous participant who attended Monday's meet­ing stated she started the pro­gram June 16 and has lost 20 pounds, even without a struc­tured exercise plan. 
Each series 

"We are tring to bring Weight Watchers to you here. The benefit is that you can do it during your lunch hour. Everything you see in a Weight Watchers meeting room, we bring it to you.'' 
Lori Hembree representative Weight Watchers 
meetings, the Momentum Program assists individuals in learning how to handle hunger, eat healthy foods, take advantage of the points system and "Stop Dieting and Start Living" -the motto of Weight Watchers. 
"[It's] a plan that does not leave you feeling hungry, a plan that does not make you feel deprived, and a 
includes weekly meetings for support and e-tools that par­ticipating individuals will be able to access online to help reach their personal goals. 
During the weekly meetings, there is a confidential weigh­in for each participant at 
12:15 p.m. Participants can be as active at the meetings as they choose; they are not required to share personal experiences. 
The online tools that are available include the points tracker to help monitor daily consumption of food, the weight tracker -which uses graphs and data to monitor weight loss -recipes, work-plan that fits into your life, not the other way around," Hembree explained. "That's what the Momentum plan is all about." 

The program began in the 2008-09 academic school year after 2009 graduate Kelly Gasior, who previously attend­ed Weight Watchers in her hometown of Pittsburgh, con­tacted DeCleene. 
For more information about the program, contact DeCleene at decleene@saintmarys.edu 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyO 1 @saintmarys.edu and Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Undergraduate Student Workshop 
SESSION II 

Research Project Development 
Wednesday, September 16 -3:30-4:30 pm Room 118, DeBartolo Hall • Refreshments Served 


Open to allllaionl 
TO REGISTER: E-MAIL DR. CECILIA LUCERO clucero@nd.edu or urnd(a)ld.edu 
Find out how you can apply for funding to conduct research and travel during semester breaks and the summer. Student grant winners from '08-'09 will share their experiences and answer your questions. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 15, 2009 





NBC releases new Irish iPhone app 
By CASEY KENNY 
News Writer 
Irish home football games have gone mobile this season with NBC Sports' recent release of the Notre Dame Central App, which offers live coverage of all Notre Dame home football games via 3G or WiFi to users of the iPhone and iPod Touch at a cost of $6.99. 
The application -known as an app within the iTunes sys­tem -offers students and Irish fans nationwide mobile access to all things Irish on game day. 
"Fans of Notre Dame foot­ball now have an app that will let them follow college foot­ball's most storied program while they're on the go," Perkins Miller, senior vice president of Digital Media, NBC Sports said in a recent news release. "We're thrilled to extend the viewing experi­ence to this fiercely loyal fan base and bring live games and other rich, interactive video options to iPhone and iPod Touch." 
In addition to live NBC Sports coverage of all eight Notre Dame home games, the new application gives users access to on-demand video highlights including inter­views, press conferences and full-game recaps from the NBC Sports Archives. The app also offers live scoring, stats, and news alerts, as well as pre­game Alerts that play the Notre Dame Fight Song. 
Dewitt Latimer, deputy Chief Information Officer at the Office of Information Technologies, said there is an expectation of high demand for the app. 
Making or rece1vmg cell phone calls on game day is usually more difficult due to the increased concentration and volume of cell phone users in and around the stadium. 
When asked whether users of the app might experience problems, Latimer said there is "some concern, but the providers are working to increase capacity and cover­age in and around the stadium area, so we're hopeful that the situation will improve." 
Notre Dame iPhone and iPod Touch users said they are excited about the new app ­even if they haven't yet tried it out. 
"It sounds like a great idea," junior Danny Osburn said. "Now I can check stats and hear the stirring words of the commentators while I am at the game." 
iPhone owner junior Brian Dondanville plans to test the new app out this weekend when the Irish face Michigan State. 
"With this new app, I can tailgate even farther into the game," Dondanville said. "Actually, I might not even make it into the stadium." 
Junior varsity leprechaun David Zimmer, a junior, said the app will make seeing replays easier. 
"I used to bring a TV with me to the game to see replays and now, I can just watch them on my iPhone," he said. 
According to the news release, the Notre Dame Central App is available from the Apple App Store on iPhone and iPod Touch at a cost of $6.99. 
Contact Casey Kenny at ckenny@nd.edu 
Disease 
continued from page 1 
Thomas Emery said, a member of the NTD initiative. "It's an effort to do something simple because its only 50 cents a person." 
Sabin contacted Notre Dame's Fr. Thomas Streit, a professor of biology, in August about starting a program at Notre Dame that would be the first university-based organi­zation in the country to address this problem. 
"Sabin asked Fr. Streit because he spends half of every year in Haiti which is a place where many of these dis­eases are prevalent," freshmen initiative member Mike McCurrie said. 
Currently, the steering com­mittee of the initiative is made up of five freshmen, of which Emery and McCurrie are mem­bers. Having freshmen leader­ship was something Sabin asked for. 
"They wanted freshmen because this way we'll have four years to help the initiative grow," Emery said. 
Although the initiative, which currently has some 25 mem­bers from all classes at Notre Dame, is new, its goals are far­reaching. 
"Originally, Sabin wanted to have all the diseases eradicat­ed by 2020," freshman com­mittee member Eileen Lynch said. "However, President Obama recently said that he would like to see all these peo­ple vaccinated by 2016." 
This goal may seem lofty, but the steering committee mem­bers said they are confident they can achieve it. 
"1.4 billion people is a really big number, but if you get enough people involved it real­ly can happen," McCurrie said. 
Lynch agreed that the goal is not as hard as it looks on paper. 
"It's scary but at the same time you only need 50 cents," she said. "It is a completely doable thing to eradicate all these diseases; there are so many people who can easily spare 50 cents or even $50. We just need to get the awareness out there." 
In order to raise awareness, the initiative members have some events planned in the coming months to try and get the whole Notre Dame commu­nity involved. 
"No event or fundraiser is too small for us right now," freshman committee member Lesley Sullivan said. "We have some ideas right now for cam­pus-wide T-shirts and are planning local and hall events. We have no boundaries; we can reach out to the Notre Dame community and beyond." 
Reaching beyond the Notre Dame community is exactly what the Sabin Institute wants the group to do. The institute wants the NTD initiative to become a household name within the next few years. 
"Sabin has set the bar high," McCurrie said. "They basically want us to be as big as the Nothing But Nets organization. It's a pretty big goal but hope­fully we can be something that will eventually make a differ­ence." 
The institute has also requested the group on Notre Dame's campus be a template other universities can follow to set up their own NTD initiative. 
"We want to create an infra­structure ... that colleges across the country can emu­late," Emery said. "We want this group to be done in a way that other campuses can do it as well." 
While the students are excit­ed about the future of the ini­tiative, they are also thankful that Sabin chose Notre Dame to pilot the project. 
"Notre Dame is a great place, quite possibly the best place, to start something like this," Sullivan said. "A huge part of Notre Dame's mission is serving God and humanity, which is why I think Notre Dame was chosen for this huge undertaking. This initiative is really going to take off and we couldn't be more excited about it." 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 

Mendoza 
continued from page 1 
months ago, Gangluff said. 
"It was actually developed prior to the meltdown in the financial arena," he said. 
The "Ask More of Business" slogan has already been fea­tured in a view book for prospective MBA students, which Gangluff said was released this summer. It was the first official appearance of the new position. 
"It's probably been most adopted inside the MBA pro­gram, but we'll be adopting it in other programs as well," Gangluff said. 
He also said the slogan served as the central theme for a recent business advisory council event, and it will serve the same purpose for an upcoming alumni board event. 
When Mendoza sent the new position to current stu-Harvard Business School's Web site, Gangluff said. The firm provided design, organi­zation and strategy for the site. 
The new Web site features podcasts, videos, commentary and a large events calendar. There are also sections devot­ed to explanations of and sto­ries about "Ask More of Business" and faculty research and accomplish­ments. 
The site launched Aug. 1, but the academic center and alumni areas are not yet com­plete. Gangluff said these areas should be complete by the spring of 2010. 
"We know from a recruit­ment standpoint there is no one piece more key than the quality of your Web pres­ence," he said. "We're excited to see the effects on our admissions goals for each of the programs." 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@ud.edu 


Energy 
continued from page 1 
review in Senate committees. The legislation would allow for cap and trade emissions. This model sets a limit on the total number of green house gas emissions and allows emitters to trade their values. 
"For political reasons, the [Sierra] Club felt that the cap and trade way was the way to go," Quinn said. "It's still a worthwhile step to take." 
The proposed legislation is strong in the area of energy efficiency requirements, which is a largely overlooked part of the bill, Quinn said. 
When President Barack Obama meets with world lead­ers at the climate conference in Copenhagen in December, it is important that he has legis­lation to bring to the negotia­tions, Quinn said. This confer­ence is crucial because the previous Kyoto Protocol, which was not ratified by the United States, is set to expire in 2012. 
At the Indiana state level, Quinn said the Sierra Club is disappointed in recent envi­ronmental legislation. 
Quinn did cite recent accom­plishments in the state legisla­ture including providing a fund for schools to convert to geothermal heating and cool­ing systems as well as looking to adopt updated codes for energy consumption by build­ings. 
Francis, who was appointed by South Bend Mayor Steve Luecke to the South Bend Green Ribbon Commission, spoke about action in South Bend. 
Luecke is one of 1,000 may­ors nationwide to sign the Mayors' Climate Protection Agreement, which looks to reduce emissions and increase awareness on a local and per­sonal level, Francis said. 
"I think as individuals it's 

difficult for us to figure out how we can meet that shared responsibility to do some­thing," he said. 
Through the Green Hibbon Commission, South Bend is creating a baseline measure­ment of the city's emissions. From that measurement, and with the help of $1 million, the city will seek to reduce emis­sions and develop new solu­tions and ideas. The commis­sion has eight committees, including land use, transporta­tion, green energy and recy­cling, Francis said. 
"I think climate change is a non-partisan issue. It's a human issue and we've got to bridge that divide," he said. "Without leadership of the industrial democracies, I think we need to understand the rest of the world will not fol­low and is not responsible for the most part." 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 
dents, alumni and prospective students, Gangluff said the feedback was positive. 
"I think the message 'Ask More of Business' is resonat­ing with the different audi­ences we sent it out to," he said. 
"Ask More of Business" is trademarked because, during the process of creating a position, other business schools began to use some of the positions that Mendoza considered, Gangluff said. 
"It was a way for us to show we have creative ownership for that," Gangluff said. 
The new Web site is replac­ing an older version, which he said did not express conti­nuity between its different sections. 
"The amount of content is much deeper," he said of the new Web site. "We tell our story in a much more com­pelling way." 
Mendoza hired the consult­ing firm Corey McPherson Nash, which also worked on 



Maginn recipient of 
award for research 
Special to The Observer 
Edward J. Maginn, professor of chemical and biomolecular engineering at the University of Notre Dame, is the recipient of the inaugural American Institute of Chemical Engineers CoMSEF (Computational Molecular Science and Engineering Forum) award for outstanding research. 
Maginn was cited for his "development of algorithms to use molecular simulation to study fundamental thermody­namics and transport behavior and his specific contributions to the understanding of nanoporous materials and ionic liquids." 
Nominees for the CoMSEF 

Early Career Award, which is being presented for the first time this year, may hold posi­tions in academia, industry or a national laboratory and must be in the early stages of their professional careers, which is defined as being within 15 years of completion of the high­est degree. 
Maginn's research focuses on computational statistical ther­modynamics, in which atom­istic-level computational meth­ods are developed and utilized to obtain a fundamental under­standing of the link between the physical properties of materials and their chemical constitution. Much of his work is devoted to environmental and energy­related applications. 




ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, September 15, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BsERVEKS WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Education chief defends book ban 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico -Puerto Rico's top education official on Monday defended his decision to ban five books from the cur­riculum at public high schools across the 
U.S. territory because of "coarse" language. 
The move drew criticism over the weekend from university professors on the Caribbean island. 
Education Secretary Carlos Chardon told reporters he decided not to include the five Spanish-language books in the 11th grade curriculum this year because their use of slang made them inappropriate for school­children, not because they did not have liter­ary val.ue. 
The banned books previously were read as part of the 11th grade curriculum, but proof­readers this year alerted education officials about "coarse" slang, including references to genitalia in "Mejor te lo cuento: antologia personal," by Juan Antonio Ramos. 
Police officers collaborate with gangs 
MEXICO CITY -Thirty-one police officers have been arrested in a central Mexican state on suspicion of collaborating with a gang of drug cartel hit men. 
The Public Safety Department says the offi­cers were arrested as part of a months-long investigation into alleged ties between police and the Zetas in Hidalgo, a state north of Mexico City. 
Ninety-two police were arrested there in June, and the latest 31 were detained Monday. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
ACORN staff taped with pimp poser 
NEW YORK -Two employees of the advo­cacy group ACORN are shown on a hidden­camera video released Monday, apparently advising a couple posing as a prostitute and her pimp to lie about her profession and launder her earnings. 
The video was the latest in a series that has already led to the firing of four ACORN employees in Baltimore and Washington, 
D.C. It was created by James O'Keefe and Hannah Giles and posted on BigGovernment.com, where O'Keefe identi­fies himself as an activist filmmaker. 
ACORN spokesman Scott Levenson blasted the video shot at the organization's Brooklyn office, saying the group believes the voices of the couple were dubbed over to alter the conversation and make the interaction appear more objectionable than it may have been. 
The two employees featured in the video have been suspended while ACORN works to reconstruct the exchange that was caught on film, Levenson said. 
Boy shoots dad for punishing him 
BELEN, N.M.-A 10-year-old New Mexico boy is facing a murder charge in the shooting death of his father. 
Police alleged that the boy used his own rifle to shoot his father and then called authorities. Arriving at the family's home Thursday evening, police found 42-year-old Byron Hilburn with a head wound. He was pronounced dead at an Albuquerque hospital. 
The youth reportedly told officers that he thought his father was disciplining him too harshly and too often, according to KOAT-TV. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Man sentenced for shooting step-dad 
CROWN POINT, Ind. -An ex-Crown Point, Ind., man has been sentenced to 23 years in prison for shooting his step­father as part of a murder plot authori­ties say was conceived by his mother. 
Twenty-two-year-old Daniel L. Hicks of Phoenix was sentenced Monday in a Lake County court for conspiracy to murder. Hicks was 15 when he shot John Parker Jr. in the head during a staged robbery outside his Merrillville business in 2003. 
Hicks' mother was sentenced last month. 
NORWAY 

Nordic coalition wins re-election 
Left-leaning government is thefirst to suroive an election in 16 years, keeps slim majority 
Associated Press 
OSLO -Norway's left­leaning government appeared to have narrowly won re-election Monday after using oil money to shield the Nordic welfare state from the global reces­sion, near-complete results showed. 
If the results are con­firmed, it would be the first time a government in Norway has survived an election in 16 years. 
An official projection with 99 percent of votes counted showed Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg's Labor-led coalition winning 86 seats to keep a slim majority in the 169-seat Parliament. Final results were expected Tuesday. 
"All the votes have not been counted and it is close, but the way in seems now, it looks like we can continue" in power, Stoltenberg, 50, said in a televised debate. 
The results indicated Norway would continue to buck a trend that has seen center-right blocs take power in its Nordic neigh­bors Sweden, Denmark and Finland. 

Leaders of the fragmented opposition all but conceded defeat. "Everything suggests that ... Jens Stoltenberg and Labor have won the elec­presents a challenge for sit­said Labor's policies were Stoltenberg's hopes of re­tion," said Siv Jensen, who ting governments, who must the best for Norway. election. Two center-right heads the right-wing pop­balance the risk of overheat­"Because they are the safest. parties -the Christian ulist Progress Party. ing the domestic economy It's Barack Obama politics, Democrats and the Liberals 
Poor results by two small with Norwegians' high it's exactly the same," he -had ruled out forming a center-right parties canceled demands on the cradle-to­said. coalition with the Progress out gains by the grave welfare system. Stoltenberg's camp also Party, mainly because they Conservatives and the The last prime minister to played on the U.S. presi­disliked its immigration poli­Progress Party. win re-election in Norway dent's "Yes we can" cam­cies. 
Norway has escaped the was Labor's Gro Harlem paign slogan, with buttons Jensen's party wants financial crisis largely Brundtland in 1993. and posters saying "Jens we stronger demands on immi­unscathed, partly by tapping After casting her vote out­can" in Norwegian. grants to integrate into into its oil-and gas-fueled side Oslo, Jensen blamed Labor remained Norway's Norwegian society and has sovereign wealth fund -Stoltenberg's government for biggest party, winning 64 proposed building currently valued at more bad roads, crowded asylum seats with 35 percent of the Norwegian asylum centers in than 2.4 trillion kroner centers and long waiting lists vote, the results showed. Its Africa. ($400 billion). for non-emergency treat­junior partners, the Socialist Immigration has skyrock­Unemployment stands at 3 ment at public hospitals. Left and the Center Party, eted by a factor of five since percent -among the lowest "He has not been able to each won 11 seats. the early 1970s -more in Europe. solve the welfare issues he The Progress Party led the than 10 percent of Norway's 
Oil and gas pumped from promised to solve four years opp<>sition parties with 23 population is of foreign ori­North Sea platforms have ago," the 40-year-old candi­percent of votes and 40 seats gin. In recent years the made the fjord-fringed coun­date told The Associated -its best election result biggest groups of asylum try of 4.8 million people one Press. ever. seekers have come from of the world's richest Oeystein Nordjordet, a Divisions within the oppo-Afghanistan, Iraq, Somalia nations. But that wealth also construction worker in Oslo, sition had raised and Eritrea. 


Judge orders King children to collaborate 
Associated Press ing siblings as the sole shareholders and role as president and chief executive offi­
directors of their father's estate. It is set cer of his father's estate. 

ATLANTA -A judge has ordered the up as a corporation, but there has not But relations between the siblings surviving children of civil rights leader been an annual shareholders' meeting could be thawing. Martin Luther King III the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. and his since 2004. recently visited his brother in California wife, Coretta Scott King, to hold a share­Dexter King has also sued his sister, after Dexter King shattered his right holders' meeting to discuss their father's who administers their mother's estate. femur in a car accident in July, and estate. He has asked a judge to force his sister to observers say the siblings have been in 
The Rev. Bernice King and Martin turn over Coretta Scott King's personal talks to resolve their legal disputes. Luther King III sued their brother, Dexter papers, including love letters central to a Dozens of supporters and observers King, last year to force him to open the now-defunct $1.4 million book deal. packed the Monday hearing, including books of their father's estate. The lawsuit The siblings' relationship has deterio­Ambassador Andrew Young and the Rev. claimed Dexter King, the estate's admin­rated in the tense climate created by Joseph Lowery, both of whom worked istrator, has refused to provide docu­their legal battle. with Martin Luther King Jr. during the ments concerning the estate's operations. At least part of the legal battle could be civil rights movement and remain close 
Coretta Scott King died in 2006 and headed to a jury trial next month. At to the King family. Lowery said the sib­Yolanda King, the Kings' eldest child, issue would be whether Dexter King lings have been in mediation trying to died in 2007 -leaving the three remain-acted fmancially inappropriately in his work things out. 
page 6 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 15, 2009 
*****FALL 


CAREER 
2oo9EXPO 

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16 5:00-9:00PM JOYCE CENTER 

FOR ONE DAY ONLY, MEET WITH THESE EXCITING COMPANIES: 
1st Source Bank DeVry University ITT Communication SMART Business Advisory AAR Corp DISH Network, LLC Systems and Consulting, LLC Abbott Donald C. Cook Nuclear Johnson & Johnson Smith & Nephew, Inc. Abercrombie & Fitch Plant-AEP Kiewit Western Spot Trading, L.L.C. Accenture E & J Gallo Winery KPMG LLP SPX Corporation Acquity Group Echo: Faith Formation Land O'Lakes, Inc. Stryker Corporation AeroVironment Inc. Leadership Program Liberty Mutual Target Headquarters Air Force Flight Test Center Eli Lilly and Company Lincoln International Teach For America AIT Laboratories eLoyalty Lockheed Martin Technology Services ALDI Epic Systems Corporation MAC Cosmetics Group Alliance for Catholic Ernst & Young Massman Construction Co. The Boeing Company 
Education {ACE) ESTEEM Program McGiadrey & Pullen The Boston Consulting Allstate Insurance ExactTarget Mercer Group Company ExxonMobil Michelin North America The J.M. Smucker American Structurepoint, F.H. Paschen, S.N. Nielsen Microsoft Corporation Company 
Inc. Federal Bureau of MillerCoors The Kroger Company Amway Investigation Morningstar, Inc. The MATCH Corps Aon Corporation Federal Deposit Insurance Nationwide The Nielsen Company Apartments.com Corporation (FDIC) Navistar The Walsh Group ARCO/Murroy Notional Fidelity Investments NAVSEA Warfare Center-Thermo Fisher Scientific 
Construction Company Fifth Third Bank Crane Division Thomson Reuters AT&T Mobility Follett Higher Education Nestle USA Travelers Bain & Company Group News America Marketing True Partners Consulting Baker Tilly Virchow Krause Ford Motor Company Northrop Grumman Turner Construction 
LLP Fox-Pitt Kelton Cochran Corporation UHY Advisors, Inc. Baxter Healthcare Coronia Waller Peace Corps of the United ULINE Corporation Frito-Lay, Inc. States Under Armour Bechtel Marine Propulsion FTI Consulting Phonevalley-Publicis US Department of State 
Corporation Gallina LLP Groupe US Marine Corps Officer BKD, LLP General Electric Pierce Associates, Inc. Programs Bloomberg LP General Mills, Inc Piper Jaffray & Co. Valdes Engineering Boland Governor Bob Orr Indiana PNC Financial Services Company Booz Allen Hamilton Entrepreneurial Group Vanguard BP Fellowship Program PricewaterhouseCoopers Vedder Price P.C. Cancer Treatment Centers Grant Thornton LLP Procter & Gamble Verizon Communications 
of America Grosvenor Capital Proliance Energy, LLC Verizon Wireless Central Intelligence Management Protiviti Walgreens 
Agency H&R Block Radio Flyer Westinghouse Electric Clarity Consulting HealthScape Advisors Raytheon Company Company Clark Construction Group Hewitt Associates Robert Bosch LLC Whirlpool Corporation Cowhey Gudmundson Hewlett Packard Robert W. Baird & Co. Wolverine Trading, LLC 
Leder. Ltd. Hillstone Restaurant Group Rolls-Royce Corporation www.RentlikeA CRA International Hilti North America Rothstein Kass Champion.com Credit Suisse Honda Manufacturing of RW Armstrong Crowe Horwath LLP Indiana Schlumberger Technology revised 9/9/2009 Cummins Inc. HSBC Corp Deloitte US Firms Humana Inc. Sears Holdings Delphi Huron Consulting Group Corporation Department of Homeland Indiana MENTOR Sentry Insurance 
Security (APCP) Intel Corporation Skanska USA 
EVERY COLLEGE I EVERY MAJOR I INTERNSHIPS I FULL~TIME POSITIONS 
111:£~~~~.~!~~ ~>-­

careercenter.nd.edu I (574) 631-5200 I ndcps@nd.edu 
standout. 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Tuesday, September 15, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks Dow 
Jones 9,626.80 +2 1.39 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,447 123 1,250 1,263,697,601 

AMEX NASDAQ 
2/091.78 + 10.88 NYSE ""' o:s79..•99Ii!!!ll6i,Jill S&P 500 1,049.34 +6.61 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 101202.06 FTSE 100 (London) 5,018.85 +738 


COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP (C) -1.95 ·0.09 4.52 BK OF AMERICA CP (BAC) +10.08 +0.38 4.15 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +7.23 +0.12 1.78 GEN ELECTRIC CO (GE) +0.12 +0.02 16.99 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +1.88 +0.063 3.41 13-WEEK BILL -3.70 -0.010 0.13 30-YEAR BOND +0.96 +0.040 4.22 5-YEAR NOTE +2.71 +0.060 2.35 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.43 68.86 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -5.30 1001.10 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.30 87.00 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 90.8750 EURO 1.4627 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0828 BRITISH POUND 1.6579 
IN BRIEF Texas ice rink to become youth gym 
DALLAS -A money-losing ice skating venue run by the Dallas Stars is likely to end up in the hands of a youth sports venture bearing the name of Hall of Fame basketball coach Bob Knight after the hockey team failed in its bid to reduce the rent. 
The National Hockey League team owned by the financially strapped Tom Hicks failed had hoped to cut the rent at the StarCenter facility in Duncanville, one of several in suburban Dallas intended to ramp up support for the franchise. 
Stars president Jeff Cogen said the team made another proposal to Duncanville officials Monday but declined to offer specifics. City Manager Kent Cagle said the City Council would proceed with a vote Tuesday to termi­nate the team's lease. 
If the lease is voided, Duncanville could pur­sue a plan to convert the building into Bob Knight's Fieldhouse, a combination basketball­and-volleyball facility geared toward youth. 
Bank exec. parties at reclaimed house 
MALIBU, Calif.-Wells Fargo & Co. has fired an executive who reportedly partied and stayed at a bank-owned $12 million beach house in the exclusive Malibu Colony, the bank said Monday. 
Bank spokeswoman Jennifer Langan con­firmed that Cheronda Guyton, a senior vice president, was the only employee involved in the alleged violation of company policy. 
"We deeply regret the activities that have taken place as they do not reflect the conduct we expect of our team members," the bank said in a statement. 
No phone listings could be located for Guyton. 
The previous homeowners, Lawrence and Linda Elins, turned over the 3,800-square-foot house to Wells Fargo in May. Their real estate agent said they were financially devastated by BPrnard Madoff's fraud scheme and had to sign the property over to Wells Fargo to help pay a larger debt. 
The home was not foreclosed and the bank agreed not to immediately sell it, Langan said. 
Neighbors told the Los Angeles Times they saw Guyton's family at the house and that it was used for at least one party where guests were ferried from a yacht. 
Eli Lilly to eliminate 5,500 jobs 
Drugmaking company seeks to cut costs and speed marketing of new drugs 
Associated Press 
Seeking to cut costs and bring new drugs to market more quickly as its best-sell­ers go off-patent, drugmaker Eli Lilly & Co. said Monday it will eliminate 5,500 jobs over two years and reorganize into five business units. 
The Indianapolis company said it will reduce its work force by nearly 14 percent, to 35,000 from the current 40,500, by the end of 2011. The new total excludes hir­ings in high-growth emerging markets and Japan. 
Lilly hopes to cut annual costs by $1 billion per year over the same time, and will organize itself into the follow­ing units: cancer, diabetes, established markets, emerg­ing markets, and Elanco, its animal health business. 
The company said its drug development and marketing will be more closely linked after the reorganization. Eli Lilly is currently organized around "functions," with sep­arate U.S. and global market­ing operations for each drug. 

The company faces a dearth of recently approved drugs, having received approval for only one new drug since 2005. That was the blood thinner Effient, which reached the market in August after an 18-month FDA review. lose when Zyprexa, development include potential The company said it hopes 
Meanwhile, key Lilly prod­Cymbalta, Humalog and treatments for cancer, multi­to make some of the reduc­ucts like the anti-psychotic Gemzar faced generic compe­ple sclerosis, diabetes, and tions through retirements and drug Zyprexa will lose patent tition. The products were Alzheimer's disease. Other attrition, but couldn't specu­protection starting in 2011, Lilly's four best-sellers in treatments in the pipeline late on how many of the cuts with three other drugs -2008, with combined revenue includes drugs for depression, will be made that way. It sug­antidepressant Cymbalta, of$10.85 billion-more than alcohol addiction and osteo­gested most of the reductions Humalog insulin and cancer half the company's total. porosis. will be in the U.S., including drug Gemzar -losing pro­The move will leave the Testing and discovery for Indiana, where Lilly employs tection in 2013. CEO John developer of Prozac without a successful drugs can cost up about 13,600 people. Lechleiter believes the com­separate division devoted to to $1.2 billion and take up to The reorganization builds pany's best path to profit mental health, as the neuro­15 years, Lilly says on its Web on the lmClone purchase as growth involves focusing on science business will be part site. former ImClone CEO John its early and mid stage drug of the established markets Sekston said there is more Johnson will lead the new candidates. unit, the largest of the five room for growth in the dia­oncology business. Enrique 
Lilly is not planning an businesses. Spokeswoman betes market, as incidents of Coterno, currently the head of acquisition on the scale of Angela Sekston said mental the disease, which is associat­U.S. operations, will lead the Pfizer's $68 billion purchase health is still a priority for the ed with other health prob­diabetes business. Bryce of Wyeth, or Merck's $41 bil­company. lems, are exploding. The Carmine, who is in charge of lion deal for Schering-Plough. "We're not walking away company launched the dia­global marketing and sales, But the company bought can­from our presence in that betes drug Byetta in 2005, will lead the established mar­cer drug maker ImClone field," she said. "We're going but sales dropped by almost a kets unit, and intercontinental Systems for $6 billion last to maintain a strong research third last year due to safety region head Jacques Tapiero year to acquire the cancer presence, absolutely, in neu­concerns. Lilly is working on will be in charge of emerging drug Erbitux and help bal­roscience." a once-a-week version of the markets. Those appointments ance the revenue it would Lilly's drugs in late-stage drug. are effective Nov. 1. 

Senate health care negotiators 'close' to deal 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Senate health care negotiators said Monday they've narrowed their differences on a host of difficult issues with just a day or so left to seal an elusive bipartisan deal that could change the course of the contentious debate over President Barack Obama's ambitious plans to overhaul health care. 
After months of closed-door negoti­ations, Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus said, "We're getting very close." But it remained unclear if the Democrat could strike a bargain that would mark a turning point for Obama's top domestic priority. 
The negotiators pared the cost of their 10-year coverage plan to under $880 billion, and also reported progress on several issues, including health insurance for the poor, restrictions on federal funding for abortions, a verification system to prevent illegal immigrants from get­ting benefits, and ways to encourage alternatives to malpractice lawsuits. Unlike other developed countries, the United States does not have universal health care. 

With or without Republican sup­port, Baucus said he'll have a formal proposal on Wednesday to meet a deadline for moving ahead. 
At the same time, he said the bipartisan talks could continue even as his Finance panel begins its for­mal bill-drafting session next week. The negotiators will meet again Tuesday. 
"It's not just tomorrow or the next day," said Baucus. "We're going to keep working." 
His small group of three Democrats and three Republicans has been doggedly laboring in hopes of finding a bipartisan path toward guarantee­ing coverage for all and trying to control the rise in health care spend­ing. 
The three Republicans -Mike Enzi, Chuck Grassley and Olympia Snowe-are under intense pressure from leaders of their own party, some of whom have publicly dis­missed Baucus' framework as a Democrat's plan. Baucus may not be able to get any of them to agree. But all three have invested much time and energy in the talks, and Baucus seems to have a chance of persuad­ing at least Snowe. 

page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September 15, 2009 

Bail set at $30 M in 
kidnapping case 
Man charged with abducting 11-year-old girl and holding her captive for 18 years 
Associated Press 
PLACERVILLE, Calif. -A judge on Monday set bail at $30 million for a Northern California man accused of kid­napping a girl and holding her captive for 18 years. 
In setting the high amount, El Dorado County Superior Court Judge Douglas Phimister cited the serious nature of the charges, injuries to the girl and the fact that Phillip Garrido was on parole at the time of the alleged abduction. 
Garrido, 58, and his wife, Nancy Garrido, 54, have plead­ed not guilty to 29 charges of kidnapping, rape and false imprisonment charges and have been held without bail in an El Dorado County jail. 
The couple are accused of kidnapping 11-year-old Jaycee Dugard from her home near South Lake Tahoe in 1991 then holding her captive in a back­yard jumble of tents and sheds for nearly two decades. Authorities say Phillip Garrido fathered two daughters with Dugard. 
Nancy Garrido continues to be held without bail, something her attorney did not object to during Monday's hearing. Phillip Garrido is unlikely to be released because of his parole violations, even if he could raise the money. 
He appeared in court with a bandage on his nose and a newly grown gray beard. He and his wife both appeared solemn during the 10-minute hearing, during which the judge granted a request by Phillip Garrido's attorney, Susan Gellman, for a psychiatric eval­uation of her client. 
Nancy Garrido's attorney, Gilbert Maines, reserved the 
Judge rules autistic teen incompetent to face trial 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -A judge ruled Monday that an autistic teenager is not competent to stand trial in the fatal beating of his doting mother and should remain in the treatment facility where he has been living for several months. 
Portage County Common Pleas Judge John Enlow said Sky Walker, 18, is guilty of mur­dering his mother in January but should be institutionalized for his protection. All charges against him were dismissed. 
At a hearing last week, prose­cutors and defense attorneys said they agreed with a mental health evaluation that conclud­ed Walker is unable to help in his defense. His attorneys had argued that Walker, who was kept in a restraint chair and wore a mask to keep him from spitting at deputies, cannot carry on a conversation. 
right to request one. 
Gellman told the judge sever­al law enforcement agencies have sought to interview her client about other cases they are pursuing. 
"He does not consent to be questioned for any purposes," Gellman said. 
The judge said Gellman would be notified of any interview efforts. 
Outside court, District Attorney Vern Pierson told a throng of media from around the world that investigators were continuing to pursue other leads in the case. 
"As of today, there are no additional charges ... That's not to say there won't be," he said. 
He said Dugard and her chil­dren were doing exceptionally well under the circumstances after being reunited with Dugard's mother shortly after the Garridos were arrested Aug. 27. 
"Basic human decency man­dates honoring the family's request for privacy," he said. 
He declined to comment on rumors that Dugard, now 29, has agreed to appear on The Oprah Winfrey Show and praised the state parole agent who brought the Garridos into custody. 
The agent, whom Pierson identified as Eddie Santos, questioned Phillip Garrido after being notified by University of California, Berkeley police employees that the convicted sex offender had arrived on campus with two children while attempting to distribute reli­gious pamphlets. 
"This parole agent successful­ly broke through the elaborate, well-planned cover story that was 18 years in the making," Pierson said. "We all owe him a debt of gratitude." 
To be deemed competent, a defendant would have to understand the charges against him and be able to help in his own defense. 
His mother, 60-year-old Gertrude Steuernagel, was found beaten in her home in January and died a week later. A professor at Kent State University, she once wrote pub­licly about coping with her son's aggressive behavior. 
The judge's ruling is the best possible outcome for Walker, who is unable to grasp the con­cept of death, said Steuernagel's brother, Bill, who lives in Carolina Shores, N.C. 
"What Sky did was horrific," he said. "Yet I firmly believe he does not know what hap­pened." 
Bill Steuernagel said his sis­ter's relationship with Walker was akin to spousal abuse, though he had never witnessed his nephew behave violently. 

Join us for a welcon1e reception beginning at 5:30pm in the Hesburgh Center Great Hall. 
OKELLOGG INSTITUTE 
fostering the BaptismalPriesthood in the"Year for Priests" 

Cardinal Roger Mahony 
Archdiocese (~f Los Angeles 
Friday, September 18 4:oo pm Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
SPONSORHJ BY 

Olhn• ot tlw Presidt'lll I Dt>partnwnt of Theology I Cnmpus Ministry I Ct'nlcr lor Soda I Com:l'rn<.; 
UNIVI!Il.SITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 



Please recycltt Th~ Observer. 


Tuesday, September 15, 2009 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Speedboat crashes into rocks 
Associated Press 
BIGFORK, Mont. -The first people on the scene after a boat slammed into the rocks at Wayfarers State Park on Flathead Lake last month smelled gasoline, heard a woman screaming and spotted a man face down in the water. 
Laura Godowski and her boyfriend, Ryder Juntunen, both of Helena, and her par­ents, Ken and Kay Godowski of Fort Collins, Colo., were walking back from a bath­room with flashlights when they heard a crashing, crunching noise about 10:20 
p.m. on Aug. 27 
"Somebody just ran their boat into the rocks!" Juntunen yelled. The four raced to the site and found U.S. Rep. Denny Rehberg, state Sen. Greg Barkus and three other people injured. 
"Ryder jumped in the boat to shut if off, because he was afraid it might ignite the fuel we could smell," Kay Godowski told the Missoulian for a story published Sunday. Then he called 911. 
Laura Godowski went to the aid of the first victim she could see, Kristin Smith, deputy chief of staff to Rehberg. 
"Kristin was sitting on the rocks screaming" and bleed­ing from injuries to her head, Kay Godowski said. "Laura took her shirt off, pressed it to Kristin's head and told her to hold it tight." 
Laura's father than gave her his shirt. 
Juntunen spotted Kathy Barkus, wife of the state sena­tor, on the floor of the boat. He and Kay Godowski helped her out of the boat and Godowski wrapped her in a sleeping bag. 
In the meantime, Laura Godowski swung her light toward the lake and spotted two people in the water -one was face down. 
Laura climbed into the lake and pulled Dustin Frost's head and shoulders above water. Frost, director of Rehberg's Montana offices, wheezed and took a big breath of air. 
Ken Godowski and another camper helped Laura get Frost out of the lake. 
"Dustin's eyes were open when Laura rolled him over," Kay Godowski said. "She told him help was coming. She told him to hold her hand, and he did, very tightly." 
Then Laura noticed Frost was bleeding form his left ear. His grip on her hand loos­ened. 
"Then he shut his eyes," Kay Godowski told the Missoulian, "and Laura thought, 'Oh no."' 
Rehberg said he crawled out of the boat and dragged him­self onto the shore. His ribs were cracked, his eye socket fractured and his left leg bone "sheared" just above his foot. Rehberg said the only thing holding the foot on was his cowboy boot. 
Greg Barkus was also in the water, clinging to a rock. 
"He was speaking," Kay said. "We asked him if he was OK and he said, 'No, no,' but he was responding." 
Ken Godowski helped Barkus keep from slipping into the water, occasionally hoisting him up by his belt. 
Kay Godowski estimated it took a minute and a half for the campers to run down the path to the shoreline after they heard the crash, 
''I'd say it's highly probable" that Frost wouldn't have sur­vived face-down in the water much longer, she said. 
Emergency responders arrived and Frost was taken to a hospital by helicopter. 
He remained in a coma for 10 days. He regained con­sciousness over Labor Day weekend has since been moved to a rehabilitation clin­ic in Missoula. 
Rod Frost said his son is walking, talking and joking, has complete thoughts and can read but has some memo­ry problems and some nerve damage on the left side of his face. 
Smith suffered a broken nose, ribs, foot and wrist. The extent of Kathy Barkus' injuries have not been released. Rehberg, Smith and Kathy Barkus were released from the hospital on Aug. 31 and Rehberg has since returned to Washington, D.C. 
Greg Barkus underwent sur­gery in Seattle for a broken pelvis and is expected to be in a wheelchair for about two months. 
Flathead County officials have said they believe Barkus was drinking before the crash, but they have not released his blood-alcohol level or filed any charges. Barkus' attorney, Todd Glazier, has not returned phone calls seeking comment. 
County Attorney Ed Corrigan told KCFW-TV on Monday he could no longer discuss the investigation. 
The District Court adminis­trator said all information in the case had been sealed by order of Judge Katherine Curtis pending a decision on the possible filing of charges. 



ARE YOIJ THE ONE? At Ford Motor Company, we are dedicated to designing, manufacturing and sel!lng high-quality vehicles. We know 
that our employees are the driving force behind our success. That is why it is so important to us that our programs, policies and employment practices recognize the diverse needs of all of our employees. 
We welcome you to find out what it means to be THE ONE and discover an automaker that thinks about more than just cars. View a complete listing of available opportunities and apply online at wwwJord.com 
By choice, we are an Equal Opportunity Employer committed to a culturally diverse workforce. 
www.ford.com Ford Motor Company 

Yale student found slain in lab building 
Associated Press 
NEW HAVEN, Conn.-Clues increasingly pointed to an inside job Monday in the slay­ing of a Yale graduate student whose body was found stuffed inside a wall five days after she vanished from a heavily secured lab building accessible only to university employees. 
Police on Monday sought to calm fears on the Ivy League campus, saying the death of 24-year-old Annie Le was a targeted act but would not say why anyone would want to kill the young woman just days before she was to be married. 
"We're not believing it's a random act," said officer Joe Avery, a police spokesman. No one else is in danger, he said, though he would not provide details other than to say that police believe no other stu­dents were involved. He also denied broadcast reports that police had a suspect in custody. 
Yale officials said the build­ing where Le worked would reopen under increased securi­ty. Still, some students worried about their safety. 
''I'm not walking at nights by myself anymore," said student Natoya Peart, 21, of Jamaica. "It could happen to anyone, anytime, anywhere." 
Michael Vishnevetsky, 21, of New York, said he did not feel safe when he made a late trip to his lab Sunday in a different building. "It felt very different than how I usually felt," he said. 
Twenty-year-old Muneeb Sultan said he's shocked that a killing could take place in a secure Yale building. 
"It's a frightening idea that there's a murderer walking around on campus," said Sultan, a chemistry student. 
Police found Le's body about 5 p.m. Sunday, the day she was to marry Columbia University graduate student Jonathan Widawsky, lovingly referred to on her Facebook page as "my best friend." The couple met as undergraduates at the University of Rochester and were eagerly awaiting their planned wedding on Long Island. 
Police have said Widawsky is not a suspect and helped detectives in their investiga­tion. 
The building where the body was found is part of the univer­sity medical school complex about a mile from Yale's main campus. It is accessible to Yale personnel with identification cards. Some 75 video surveil­lance cameras monitor all doorways. 
The body was found in the basement in the wall chase ­a deep recess where utilities and cables run between floors. The basement houses rodents, mostly mice, used for scientific testing by multiple Yale researchers, said Robert Alpern, dean of the Yale University School of Medicine. 
Le was part of a research team headed by her faculty adviser, Anton Bennett. According to its Web site, the Bennett Laboratory was involved in enzyme research that could have implications in cancer, diabetes and muscular dystrophy. Bennett declined to comment Monday on the lab or Le's involvement with it. 
Le 's office was on the third floor of the five-story building, where authorities found her wallet, keys, money and purse. 
Campus officials have said that the security network recorded Le entering the build­ing by swiping her ID card about 10 a.m. Tuesday. She was never seen leaving. 
Yale closed the building Monday so police could com­plete their inve stigation, according to a message sent to Yale students and staff. Scientists are being allowed in only to conduct essential research projects, and only under the supervision of a police officer. 
Police activity continued at the crime scene early Monday evening, as uniformed officers with police dogs and workers wearing white suits to protect them from hazardous materi­als went in and out of the building. 
When the building reopens, there will be extra security both inside and outside, said Yale Secretary and Vice President Linda Lorimer. 
Police are analyzing what they call "a large amount" of physical evidence. 
A friend said Monday that Le never showed signs of worry about her own personal safety at work, though she did express concerns about crime in New Haven in an article she wrote in February for the med­ical school's magazine. 
"If she was concerned about (it) she would have said some­thing to someone, and they would have known," Jennifer Simpson told CBS' "The Early Show." "And Jon (her fiance) would have known, her family would have known, friends would have known." 
Simpson said Le, a pharma-· cology student from Placerville, Calif., was friendly to everyone. 
"She was a people person," Simpson said. "She loved peo­ple. She loved life. We just can't imagine anybody wanting to harm Annie." 
In the Sierra foothills com­munity east of Sacramento where Le went to high school, she was seen as a high achiev­er who knew early on that she wanted a career in medicine. 
In a Union Mine High School yearbook from 2003, Le said her long-term goal was to become a laboratory patholo­gist and said it would require about 12 years of higher edu­cation. 
"I just hope that all that hard work is going to pay off and I'm really going to enjoy my job," she said. 
No one answered the door Monday at the Widawskys' gray, ranch-style home in Huntington, N.Y. 
"He is a very nice young man," next-door neighbor George Mayer said of Jonathan Widawsky, a 24-year-old seek­ing his doctorate in physics. "His family, they're all just wonderful people -very, very nice people." 
The university held a candle­light vigil Monday evening. 
The death is the first killing at Yale since the unsolved December 1998 death of Yale student Suzanne Jovin. The popular 21-year-old senior was stabbed 17 times in New Raven's East Rock neighbor­hood, about 2 miles from cam­pus. 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, September 15, 2009 
THE OBSERVER Politicizing 9/11 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR•IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber ScENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVERI1SING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary jesse CoNTROLLER: Patrick Sala SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
fDITOR·IN·CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmerz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574} 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asreiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 News DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoim,l@tld.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574} 631-4543 observersporrs@gmail.com SCENE DESK (574) 631c4540 jshaffel@nd.edu SAINT MARY's DESK acharnO1@sainrmarys.edu PHOTO DESK 
(574} 631;8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Drune du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe admin.isrration of either insrirurion. The Observer reserves the right co refuse advertisements based on conrent. 
The news is reporred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and deparrmem editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerrers is encouraged. Lerrers til the Editor musr be signed and must include contact infOrmation. 
~m regarding Observerpolicies should be directed t11 Editor~in..chiefjenn ftktz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Obs<Mt (liSPS >'19 240Qil) i;. publi<h;d Mond,ly """"r,h Friday""'''' during ~mand ...aation ~/!.$U:~!pdt;tn.~,~~ktl20 for-~ acad~it. yeu; $65 fot one ~meru:i, 
Thr::Obscrver.i&pub~U~hcd.·ac 
024·$outb.Oit)ingJ1al~ Sellil..addr~ oom:diom m:. Noii< n...c. !l,l4l);;.;.om Th~O~c.vcr Periodical -pomge·paid .at Notre: ~!l' ~o.Bo<n~ mdaQd.ll~nalmatling~. OU&ru!h Di•lngllill 
N"'"' o..;,.,,lN 46556-071!) 

TheOI== iiamom"" ofd,o~..,j -M"'P'"""""'".M< 
=m:&. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Ashley Charnley Alex Barker Alicia Smith Michael Blasco Tess Civantos Molly Sammon Graphics Scene Blair Chemidlin Joey Kuhn 
Viewpoint Lauren Brauweiler 
In December of 2001, with the nation still reeling from the most horrific attack on American soil, President George W Bush approved Public Law 107-89 to officially declare September 11 "Patriot Day." 
Eight years later, in April of 2009, President Barack Obama decided to put his own mark on the memory of 9/11 by signing the Edward 
M. Kennedy Serve America Act into law. Section 1802 of the law declares September 11 a "National Day of Service and Remembrance" in order to encourage Americans to engage in full-or part-time service activities. 
In a letter commemorating the eighth anniversary of the attacks, Obama writes, 
"We are building a new foundation for growth and prosperity, but we cannot succeed without your help. We can rebuild our schools, but we need men­tors and tutors to guide our students. We can modernize our health system, but we need volunteers to care for the sick and assist others in leading healthier lives. We can invest in clean energy, but we need people to maintain energy efficien­cy in their homes and help create a green economy." 
Now, I'm all in favor of volunteering and charity. Private individuals taking it upon themselves to help their neighbors a tradition frrmly rooted in the American psyche and should be continued. 
But Obama's attempt to transform the memory of 9/11 into a politically-correct, feel-good call for service robs the anniversary of its solemnity and diverts the focus from the real reason why we cannot forget what happened that day: to make sure it never happens again. Improving education, modernizing healthcare, and investing in clean energy are all noble policy goals to be sure. Call me cynical, but I have trouble envision­ing a group of terrorists, bent on slaugh­tering thousands of innocent Americans, saying to one another, "You know, they did manage to create a 'green economy.' Maybe those Americans aren't so bad after all." 


If the Left thought Bush was politiciz­ing a tragedy, Democrats have clearly beaten him at his own game. Regardless of how one views the War on Terror, no reasonable person can deny that Bush believed his national security agenda was designed at least in part to prevent another 9/11. Twisting what should be a day of remembrance and reflection into one that furthers Obama's domestic agenda, which bears no relation to national security, is a patently political act. 
An anonymous source cited by Matthew Vadum of The American Spectator insists a more sinister motive is at play. Recalling a teleconference sponsored by the White House to lay out the plans for the first Day of Service, the source claims, "[The administration] think[s] it needs to be taken back from the right. They're taking that day and they're breaking it because it gives Republicans an advantage." 
Adding to this concern is the fact that a broad coalition of far-left organizations participated in the president's call. Vadum counts over 60 of these radical groups, including AFL-CIO, Friends of the Earth, Urban League, Rainbow PUSH Coalition and ACORN. 
Whatever the underlying reason, attempting to dilute the memory of 9/11 for political purposes by emphasizing service over remembrance is uncon­scionable. Just ask those who lost a loved one that day. 
Deborah Burlingame, whose brother piloted the plane that crashed into the Pentagon, remarks, "When I first heard about it, I was concerned. I fear, I greatly fear, at some point we'll transition to turning it into Earth Day where we go and plant trees and the remembrance part will become smaller and smaller and smaller.'' 
She adds, "There is nothing wrong in doing good deeds in honor of those who died doing good service on September 
11. It's good to teach future generations about how we responded to the worst attack on the American homeland in the history of this country. However, it dis­turbs me that the word 'remembrance' is getting lopped off in many of these news stories." 
Gordon Haberman, who lost his daughter at the World Trade Center on September 11, had a similar reaction. "9111 will always be a day of remem· brance for me but 20 to 30 years from now that won't be the case for the American public." 
David Paine is a cofounder of the Web site MyGoodDeed.org, which balances the memory of those who were lost with that of those who courageously served our nation that day and in the aftermath of the attacks. "We don't want to trans­form 9/11 from a day of remembrance to a day of service," he states. "It has to be forever linked and reflected on what happened on that day. The consensus within the 9/11 community is that we wanted it to be non-profit, voluntary, pri­vately funded, not government organ­ized, and have Americans do simple good deeds in addition to the memorial service." 
To participate in the first Day of Service, the president and the First Lady joined Habitat for Humanity in adding a fresh coat of white paint to a new living room in a home in Northeast DC-a fit· ting metaphor for the administration's attempts to whitewash a national tragedy. 
Christie Pesavento is a senior who is majoring in political science and sociology. She can be reached at cpesaven@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 
Are you going to the career fair? 
Yes No Who cares, I'm not going to get a job anyway What career fair? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"He who asks is a fool for five minutes, but he who does not ask remains a fool forever. " 
Chinese proverb 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 15, 2009 
page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Bleak future for ND econ 

The students of Notre Dame will suffer an incredible loss if the administration goes forward with their plan to close the Department of Economics and Policy Studies. We currently have something our peer universities lack: an economics program that is concerned with social justice, human dignity, and theoretical openness. It is a focus that sets us apart from the narrow mainstream and reflects the wider commitments of this university -best exemplified by Fr. Theodore Hesburgh -to academic freedom and the Catholic Social Tradition. 
I am a proud graduate of Notre Dame, lucky to have received an economics education at Notre Dame. In courses with faculty from the Policy Studies department, I was able to read the "classics" -Adam Smith, Karl Marx, and others -alongside more recent economists that borrow from literature, philos­ophy, psychology and other disciplines. This approach, though eclectic, never strayed far from an emphasis on real-world relevance and socioeconomic jus­tice. At Notre Dame, I was encouraged to study the economy in broad terms, with a critical curiosity and exposure to novel perspectives. It was an education in line with the university's goal of fostering a vibrant and committed intellectu­al community. 
In his inaugural address, Fr. Jenkins asked: "If we are afraid to be different from the world, how can we make a difference in the world?" This question strikes at the heart of the situation of economics at Notre Dame. For decades the University has been the proud home of a different type of economics, with faculty who have made a difference in the world, both through their research and teaching. I hope that the administration pauses to reconsider their move to close the Policy Studies department, for if their goal is, in fact, the "best eco­nomics conversation," than disbanding a department that embodies this goal would be antithetical to the mission, purpose, and character of the University of Notre Dame. 
Sean Mallin alumnus class of 2009 Sept. 13 

Colutnn of lies 
Brooks Smith, you lie. That's what I have to say to you and your horren­dous article from last Thursday ("Sign of the Times," Sept. 10). Like the courageous Congressman Joe Wilson, I felt compelled to bring some truth to Mr. Smith's web of lies. 
Mr. Smith begins his "column" by using the age-old battle tactic of the left: using the liberal media to manipulate their opponents' words to discredit legitimate challenges to their progressive agenda. To this end, Mr. Smith twists the words of Rex Rammel, a candidate for governor of Idaho and a staunch defender of the People's Second Amendment Rights, to make him sound like a gun-toting murder rather than the patriot he really is. 
Clearly, metaphors are a little above Mr. Smith's level as he can't grasp Mr. Rammel's metaphor about his passionate desire to fight Obama Tyranny in Idaho and "hunt down and destroy" the socialistic agendas of his Administration. Mr. Smith then goes on to trivialize the assassination attempt on Ronald Reagan by "stating it doesn't count." I'm sorry Mr. Smith, when was the last time you took a bullet in the chest and then proceeded to destroy the communist threat of the Soviet Union? Continuing this trend, he even goes so far as to suggest George W. Bush should have had an assassina­tion attempt for, in Mr. Smith's words, "lying to the American people." I don't know about you, but I would never wish harm on someone who defended America at all costs as Bush did. 
Like so many of his liberal comrades, Mr. Smith uses John Stewart-esque cynicism and sarcasm to vilify Republicans to mask the clear failures of the Obama Administration. I can't imagine the empty, hollow life that Mr. Smith must live due to all the hate and cynicism that he carries with him on a day to day basis. It is my sincere hope that someday Mr. Smith realizes the error of his ways and embracing American values rather than accepting socialistic "change." Until he sees this truth, I pray for Mr. Smith. 
Sean Brosnan 
senior 
off campus Sept. 14 
An econotnics sell-out 

"Anyone who becomes involved with Notre Dame is changing the course of lives and nations and institutions by shaping young people who are not only intelligent, but also thoughtful, compassionate, and understanding."-Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, University President, 1952-1987. 
The Economics Department at Notre Dame has historically been known as a place where students could integrate issues of social justice, equality, and religion into their study of economics, in line with the Catholic identity of the University. The program offered elective courses in political economy and the history of economic thought, both of which put economics into a wider social context and are only offered at a handful of programs across the nation. After the split in 2003, the department of Economics and Policy Studies maintained this commitment to pluralism and social justice, while the newly formed department of Economics and Econometrics focused solely on the mainstream neoclassical theory and mathematical approaches to economics. 
If the department of Economics and Policy Studies is disbanded, as Dean McGreevy stated in the article by John Tierney, and those economists are not allowed to join the Department of Economics, the University is saying that they do not consider pluralism a legitimate voice in economics. Their pursuit for high rankings takes precedence over everything, even if it means sacrific­ing Notre Dame's commitment to social justice. I deeply value my education in economics at Notre Dame, one that included critical thinking in the tradi­tion of the liberal arts alongside mathematical rigor. My concern is that future students of economics will not find any room for compassion or under­standing in their economics curriculum. Undermining pluralism in economics is for Notre Dame to betray its most precious beliefs. 
Matthew Panhans 
senwr 
Duncan Hall Sept. 14 


Post-ga111e conduct no big deal 
Dear Kale Frank, 

You are a member of the band and a supporter of the football team. How this leads you to believe that you "win and lose, live and die" with the team every Saturday is beyond me. You dress up in a funny costume and play an instrument. Nothing more, nothing less. Please do not feel like you have the authority to berate the football team because they decided to leave the game early. They, not you, suffered a crushing defeat. Quite understandably, they were not in the mood to stand on the field and sing a song. Big deal. They already devote more than enough time to representing this school, so please refrain from your trivial demands on their time. 
Very Respectfully, Corey McNeilly 
seniOr 
off campus Sept. 14 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, September 15, 2009 

By JOEY KUHN 
Assissranr Scene Editor 
Last Wednesday evening, the classic rock band ZZ Top performed to a sold-out crowd at the Morris Performing Arts Center in downtown South Bend. 
The Sulentic Brothers Band, a South Bend-based group that plays Southern­influenced rock, opened the show. Unfortunately, I was not there to catch this sample of local flavor. I showed up between sets, just in time to witness the massive lines of baby boomers waiting for beer or loitering under the marquis for a smoke. 
My companion and I were probably the youngest people in the entire audience; most appeared to be over 40. Although a fair share of them looked pretty buttoned­down and conservative, the audience con­tained a preponderance of bandanas, black T-shirts and tattoos. This came as no surprise given the bad boy biker in1age of ZZ Top, billed on their Web site as "That Little Ol' Band from Texas." 
Anyway, we took our seats in the beautiful and ornate theater, which clashed ironically with the center­piece of the stage. This was a mon­strous druni set with leering skulls embossed on the heads of the twin bass drunls. Soon enough, the lights went down and three leather-clad and grizzled men walked onto the stage. The audience's response was deafening despite (or maybe because oO the fact that this band has been around for 40 years. 
Frank Beard, the only band mem­ber without a long and bushy gray beard, sat down behind the demonic druni set. Dusty Hill, the bassist, and Billy Gibbons, the guitarist and lead singer, took their positions at twin microphones fashioned like truck exhaust pipes. Then they started playing. 
The distorted guitar rifis hit me like a smack in the face while the bass throbbed throughout my whole body. It was almost like feeling the deep vibration through the gas pedal of the CadZZilla, one of ZZ Top's signature classic cars. 
ZZ Top plays hard rock that is heavily influenced by such blues greats as B.B. King and Muddy Waters. (In fact, Gibbons himself says that the name "ZZ Top" is a play on "B.B. King"). With backup from Hill, Gibbons grufily sang through lyrics to songs with titles such as "Cheap Sunglasses," "Legs" and "Jesus Just Left Chicago." These songs were shot through with impressive guitar solos by Gibbons. Gibbons played with Jimi Hendrix in the years before his death, and Hendrix even cited Gibbons as one of his own favorite 
COLEMAN COLLINS!fhe Observer 

guitarists. In a nod to the late Woodstock veteran, ZZ Top played a cover of "Foxey Lady" in which one could clearly hear the similarities between the two gui­tari<>ts' styles. 
Gibbons may have stolen the show, but the band's chem­istry as a group truly set their performance apart. It was obvi­ous that they had been playing together for decades and knew each others' most subtle differences inside and out. Gibbons and Hill often played riffs together in side-by­side power stances, and at one point they held a back-and-forth solo "conversation" 
between the guitar and bass. The two 

in metronomic unison, one of ZZ Top's famous moves. 
My only complaint with the concert was that it started to tire me out with its repetitiveness. The songs 
were aiJ the same style of music, medium-to fast-tempo blues rock 'n' roll. I started to won­der how a trio of such great musieians did not get bored of endlessly repeating the blues pattern of the first, fourth and fifth chords. My problem was 
with the laek of diversity in the band's musical repertoire rather than with the performance it<>elf. 
It's hard to lind something nega­tive to say about ZZ Top's stage pres­ence and musical chops, both of which were highly polished and professional. If anything, the band was too highly polished. At times their playing seemed almost auto­matic, like they had done this a million 


By GENNA McCABE 
Scene Writer 
A majority of the Western world usually makes the mistake of ignor­ing the foreign film industry, to its own detriment. With certain excep­tions (read: "Crouehing Tiger, Hidden Dragon"), audiences tend to avoid a movie that involves reading subtitles (gasp) or being exposed to a world to far outside their own. Yet the foreign film experienee is often especially rewarding. 
Last year the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center brought "Waltz with Bashir" to eampus and received an exeellent reeeption. This Sunday, DPAC eontinues to bring noteworthy foreign films to campus with a showing of "Departures," win­ner of the 2009 Aeademy Award for best foreign film. "Departures" has 
rr1I& 


already made quite a stir on the movie seene, shoeking many by upsetting "Waltz with Bashir" for the Oscar. 
"Departures" is set in Japan. It centers on a professional cellist, Daigo, whose orehestra loses fund­ing. Foreed to abandon his eello and his city in order to find employment, Daigo moves with his wife back to his hometown. They move into Daigo's childhood home, where he is foreed to make peaee with memories of his dead mother and his absent father. 
Daigo takes a job with the title "Departures," believing it to be a position at a travel ageney, but he soon diseovers the job is aetually the Japanese equivalent of an embalmer. Daigo's wife and friends do not approve of the morbid job, but Daigo begins to find a certain sense of enjoyment and fulfillment in his new position. He takes pride in his role 
times before (which they have). 
Nevertheless, they were still having fun, 
joking around with 
each other and with 
the crowd. Before 
"Waiting for the 
Bus," Gibbons 
lamented 
that he 
needed his 
"blues 
hat," at 
which a 
o f 
women 
promptly 
came out 
from back­
stage and 
placed a fedora on his 
head. At another point, 
Gibbons signaled offstage 
during a song, and a boy 

ran out and lit the eigar in his 
mouth while he was playing. At the end of the eoncert, Hill and Gibbons brought out furry white guitars. These touches of humor signaled that ZZ Top is a band that doesn't take itself too seriously. 
All things considered, ZZ Top did a good job meeting expectations. They played all their hits, they dressed to impress and they came through with their trademark gim­micks. For a band just starting out, their classie rock glinuner and sheen would have looked ridieulous, but ZZ Top has reached the level where they ean do whatever they want to do. After aiJ, they're already in the Rock and Roll I-IaiJ of Fame. Now they're just riding the GravyZZilla-er, train. 
Contact Joey Kuhn at jkuhnl@nd.edu 
t 


helping the dead find peace in their next lives and helping families through their difficult times. 
Taekling a topic that Western movies often shy away from, "Departures" takes a deep look at the relationship between life and death, between the living and the dead. It sheds new light on the funeral industry, showing that one can find fulfillment through the strangest of jobs. With its multilay­ered story line and intriguing char­acters, "Departures" is sure to be touehing on multiple levels. 
"Departures" is showing at 3 p.m. on Sunday, Sept. 20 in the Browning Cinema. Tickets are $5 to $6 for fac­ulty and staff, $4 for seniors and $3 for students. The film will be shown in the Browning Cinema. 
Contact Genna McCabe at gmccabe@nd.edu 
~---------~-~ ---~---­
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, September 15, 2009 
page 13 
In August 2005, West was on the By the time 2009 showed up, Scene Writer verge of becoming a household name. West had given up all concern He had just released his sophomore with others' opinions. This 
Last night, the Twittering hordes album "Late Registration" and was resulted in an amazing album, showed the true power of their social quickly gaining commercial and criti­"808s and Heartbreak," but networking site of choice. Rage flowed cal momentum. Then, at a fundraiser also in some of the strangest from the keyboards and cell phones of for Hurricane Katrina relief, he public displays and state-the 12-to 17-year-old demographic. uttered these words: ments since 
What could evoke such a flurry of "George Bush doesn't Elvis got fat.
By the time 2009

keystrokes? Only something truly care about black peo­W e s t awful: Kanye West. ple." The statement showed up, West declared his 
Swooping down onto the stage at was inflammatory, but position Sunday's MTV Video Music Awards it also rang true with had given up all writing: "I am with a shiny popped collar and shades many people. It arose not a fan of
concern with others' 

to protect his true identity, West acted from the pain, frustra­books. I would the role of the villain. Like a prophet tion, and sorrow felt opinions. never want a of his .own point of view, he by a particular com­book's autograph. announced to a perplexed audience munity. It was crass, I am a proud non­that Beyonce had made one of the but it was also heartfelt. At this point, reader of books." This happened greatest music videos of all time and Kanye was still a legitimate social shortly after writing one of his deserved to win the award for best critic, not yet the raging boor that he own, a 52-page, wisdom-spewing female video. Not satisfied with forc­is now. work containing such gems as "I ing everyone to listen With his reputation hate the word hate," and "Get to his opinion, West not yet firmly use [sic1to being used!"
At this point, Kanye 

laid the crazy on thick entrenched in pop cul­His interviews provided even by making this impor­ture, West wisely took more smatterings of brilliance,
was still a legitimate

tant declaration dur­an extended break from firmly centered on his inflated ing Taylor Swift's social critic, not yet crazy public state­ego. From a hotel room in Paris, acceptance speech. ments. Nevertheless, he made his most audacious
the raging boor that 

Cue a booing off sporadic tantrums at pronouncement ever, stating, "I stage and a standing award shows turned up was forced to change my name to
he is now.

ovation for Swift. from time to time. West Martin Louis the King, Jr. Address 
We'll never be quite stormed the stage at the me as such." This was clearly a sure what Kanye's motivation was. It European Music Awards after losing natural combination of the names could have been a blatant strategy to to Justice. Several priceless quotes of Martin Luther King, Jr., and Louis point garner publicity, a strange attempt at were cropped from this appearance, Vuitton, the designer who had just of no return for a celebrity. He is honoring the late, great ODB or possi­including, "This video cost a million launched a line of Kanye West going to be famous no matter what he bly a commitment to what he saw as dollars. I had Pam Anderson and I footwear. This was followed soon after does, and he takes advantage of that the truth. was jumping across canyons," and, "If by his claim to be the voice of our to do whatever he wants. The results 
Impressively, this barely cracks the I don't win, the award show loses." generation. Self-confidence is defi­are consistently entertaining; at least top live for Kanye's craziest moments. Again, it was a passionate, heartfelt nitely not a problem for this man. we can be thankful for that. Let's take a look at a few of the times and impulsive response to a current West's act at the VMAs was class­he has come dangerously close to situation, but this time it was much less, but not very surprising. He has Contact Nick Anderson at breaking the crazy-ometer. more selfish. realized that he has now reached the nandersS@nd.edu 

By GENNA McCABE, ERIC PRISTER and JESS SHAFFER 
Eve's Coffee Shoppe is by no means a fine-dining, high-class establishment, but that certainly does not take away from the highly enjoyable and incredibly satisfying food experience that it provides. 
The restaurant's title is somewhat of a misnomer, for Eve's is essentially an old..fashioned diner. It has no tables or booths but only a counter with stools, and the food is cooked with butter, butter and more butter. 
A far cry from the dining hall's breakfast offerings, Eve's presents a very simple, straightforward assort­ment of breakfast food. Although eggs are the core of most of the dishes, Eve's also has several delectable options for those who love their morning carbohy­drates. Biscuits are a weekly special, but jumbo pan­cakes and delectable French toast are available daily. 
The pancakes can be ordered a Ia carte for only a few dollars. In one order, three large pancakes come overflowing on a plate, fully equipped with Eve's pre­determined ratio of butter and syrup. These hot cakes are delicious, medium in thickness, with a nearly perfect pancake texture. Though not the thickest ones ever made, they are shockingly filling. You can come with an appetite and leave filled by just one order of pancakes, possibly with leftovers to take home. Breakfast lovers doubtlessly will be satisfied by this classic. 
The French toast is one of the more unique dishes on the diner's menu. In addition to the butter and egg mixture normally used when making French toast, Eve's cooks also swath some pancake batter on both sides of each piece. This gives a somewhat sweet fla­vor to the old-fashioned dish, all for a similarly low price. 
There is nothing powdered about Eve's eggs. A giant crate of eggs sits next to the wide grill where the cook prepares your eggs however you like them right in front of you, with plenty of butter to add fla­vor. Enjoy the taste of real eggs made just for you ­nothing about this egg experience will remind you of the cafeteria. 
Although Eve's serves breakfast all day long, their lunch and dinner menu is quite good as well. The hamburger was pretty decent. Though it could not claim to be the best burger in the world, it was cer­tainly a solid choice. Like most hamburgers ordered in a really good diner, it came with a toa.'>ted, flaky bun, your choice of toppings and French fries, all for a very low price. 

With its plain stone exterior, Eve's Coffee Shoppe isn't much to look at, but regulars fill the lot of this local favorite. The restaurant makes a singular impression, with only 20 stools wrapping around a single countertop, one waitress to take orders and get drinks and one cook grilling up simple soul food on one large, butter-soaked grill. Grab a menu off the counter and enjoy a true diner experience. The staff is not necessarily friendly (which only adds to the experience), but they know how to cook food quickly and deliciously. 
When eating at Eve's, take a lesson in not judging a book by its cover, however much that cover is deco­rated with plaid and chipped paint. 
Eve's Coffee Shoppe is located at 501 Lincoln Way West, Mishawaka, and can be reached by phone at 57 4-255-5862. 
Contact Genna McCabe at gmccabe@nd.edu, Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu and Jess Shaffer at jshaffel@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 15, 2009 
NFL 
QB Garcia returns to Philly 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA Jeff Garcia, the NFL's version of Rocky Balboa, is back with the Philadelphia Eagles. 
The team has agreed to terms on a one-year deal with Garcia, a 10-year veteran who played for Philadelphia in 2006 and went 6-2 in eight starts ­including the playoffs -while McNabb was injured. 
The Eagles needed a backup quarterback in case McNabb, who suffered a broken rib in Philadelphia's 38-10 win over Carolina in the season opener, is not able to play this week against the New Orleans Saints. 
Third-year pro Kevin Kolb filled in for McNabb and will start if McNabb is out, coach Andy Reid said. 
"Whether it's a week or two weeks or the entire season, I'm excited about the opportunity," Garcia said in a conference call. "As far as a team I can go to and blend right in, this is the team for me to do that." 
Garcia, who was signed by Oakland in the offseason to push JaMarcus Russell and serve as a mentor to the for­mer No. 1 overall draft pick, was released by the Raiders on Sept. 5 after playing little in the preseason. He said he could've stayed with Oakland, but didn't think it was the right fit. But he also wasn't ready to call it a career. 
"I didn't want it to be over," Garcia said. "I feel there's a lot of quality football left in me." 
A four-time Pro Bowl selec­tion, Garcia played well in his previous stint with the Eagles three seasons ago, throwing 11 touchdown passes against two interceptions in eight starts. In the process, he also became very popular with fans. 
"I know the circumstances are different," Garcia said. ''I'm OK with whatever helps the team." 
Philadelphia's other quarter­back, Michael Vick, is not eligi­ble this week because he was suspended for the first two reg­ular-season games as the last part of the NFL's penalty for his role in a dogfighting ring. 
"We're lucky Jeff was avail­able," Reid said on his weekly radio show. "He's someone who knows this offense and has been very successful in this offense. He can be a positive influence on Kevin Kolb." 
The 39-year-old Garcia began his career with San Francisco in 1999. He replaced Hall of Fame QB Steve Young, put up big passing numbers with Terrell Owens as his main tar­get and led the 49ers to two playoff appearances in his first three seasons as a full-time starter. 
Garcia's career took a down­ward turn after he left the rebuilding 49ers in 2004. He spent forgettable seasons with Cleveland and Detroit before rejuvenating his career in Philadelphia in '06. 
Garcia stepped in when McNabb tore his ACL, led the Eagles to a 5-1 record, an NFC East title and a playoff win over the New York Giants. His final game with Philadelphia was a loss at New Orleans in the divisional playoffs. 
In his brief time with the Eagles, Garcia completely won over the tough Philly fans with his fiery personality and win­at-all-costs attitude. 
A company made up T-shirts featuring Garcia with his fists up in a boxer's stance above the caption: "A Fighter Fights." 
The Eagles didn't re-sign Garcia after that season and he went to Tampa Bay. Garcia led the Buccaneers to the NFC South title in 2007 and earned a trip to Hawaii. 
Garcia has thrown for 25,537 yards, 161 touchdowns and 83 interceptions in 124 career games. He's completed 61.6 percent of his passes and has a QB rating of 87.5. Garcia is 58­58 as a starter. 
McNabb, Vick and Garcia have been to a combined 12 Pro Bowls. 
MLB 

Ichiro garners praise from Japanese greats 
Associated Press 

TOKYO -The high praise for Ichiro Suzuki came from none other than Japanese home run king Sadaharu Oh. 
"Sometimes we forget how difficult it is to accomplish these things amid a baseball schedule which is much tougher in the U.S. than in Japan," Oh said. "It's hard to find the words to describe what he has accomplished." 
Oh was among the baseball luminaries, players and fans to hail Suzuki on Monday after the Seattle Mariners outfielder became the first player in major league histo­ry with at least 200 hits in nine straight seasons. 
Suzuki set the record with an infield single in the sec­ond inning of Sunday's sec­ond game against the Texas Rangers. In his second at­bat, he beat out a roller to shortstop Elvis Andrus to break a tie with Willie Keeler, who had at least 200 hits for eight consecutive seasons (1894-1901). 
The mass circulation newspaper Yomiuri Shimbun printed a special edition with the headline "Ichiro breaks major league 
record." 

It was just six months ago that the 35-year-old Suzuki delivered the winning hit to help Japan defend its title at the World Baseball Classic with a 5-3 win over South Korea. His record-breaking hit against the Rangers added to his status as Japan's greatest athlete. 
"Ichiro gives everyone in Japan something to feel proud about," office worker Masahiro Koga said. "He is the ultimate professional." 
Former Yomiuri Giants great Shigeo Nagashima said Suzuki's accomplishments will resonate with young­sters. 
"I hope he keeps aiming to break more records to inspire young players in Japan," he said. 
Suzuki left Japan in 2001 after winning seven straight batting titles for the Orix BlueWave between 1994 and 2000. In April, he collected his 3,086th career hit to break Isao Harimoto's hits record for Japanese players. 
He missed eight games in August because of a calf injury and sat out eight games to begin this season following a bleeding ulcer. 
NFL 

Steelers' playmaker Polamalu avoids knee surgery 
knee, this is the best-case sce­No matter how long Crumpler fell on him after tion in less than a half against
Associated Press 

nario," Polamalu said as the Polamalu is sidelined, his Aaron Smith blocked a Rob Tennessee. 
PITTSBURGH -This might Steelers returned to practice absence will be a setback for Bironas field-goal attempt in "I think we'll continue to do be the first time Troy on Monday. "There's no ques­what was the NFL's best the second quarter. Asked if it what we've been doing," Polamalu is happy to hear tion that I'm very blessed that defense the last two seasons. was normal to be on special Woodley said. "We don't want that an injury will keep him this scenario has come about Polamalu's ability to adjust teams, Polamalu said, "Our to change up everything out from three to six weeks. rather than any worse sce­positions from play to play, his defense is always (out on a because then we're not that 
Polamalu realizes his injury nario." speed and his ability to be a field goal attempt), our whole same physical defense that could be much worse. Maybe For now, Polamalu will rest, pass rusher and pass defend­defense." we've always been. Troy's def­even Brian Urlacher-like and hope there are no compli­er makes him one of the NFL's Polamalu will be replaced initely a good player, and worse. cations in his recovery -just most versatile players. by Tyrone Carter, who is in his we've lost a good player for a 
The two-time All-Pro safety as there weren't when he "We're going to miss him. ninth season and sixth with few weeks, but the guy behind doesn't need surgery to repair needed only three weeks to There's only one Troy, not just Pittsburgh, partly because he him is going to step up and do the tear in his left medical return from a sprained left on this team but in the whole can fill in at both safety posi­an excellent job as well." collateral ligament that knee in 2007. NFL," Steelers safety Ryan tions. Carter made five starts Even if Polamalu sits out occurred during a scramble Still, Polamalu's injury Clark said. "There's plays he in 2007 when Polamalu last only three games, he'll miss for the ball on a blocked-field means the Steelers (1-0) and can make that nobody else hurt his knee. playing against the Bears (0­goal attempt Thursday Bears (0-1) will be without can make. I would be foolish Outside linebacker LaMarr 1), the 2008 AFC West cham­against Tennessee. Coach two of the NFL's best defen­to say to you guys (reporters) Woodley will be surprised if pion Chargers, plus AFC Mike Tomlin's preliminary sive players Sunday in it won't be different without defensive coordinator Dick Central rival Cincinnati (0-1). estimate of how long Chicago. Urlacher dislocated him, and you guys would be LeBeau makes numerous "Troy's the best safety in Polamalu will be out also has­his right wrist Sunday night just as foolish to print it." changes to adjust to being football and, when you lose a n't changed. against Green Bay and is out Polamalu was injured when without Polamalu, who had guy like that, it's hard," Clark 
"Regarding an injury to the for the season. Titans tight end Alge six tackles and an intercep-said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

• 
LOST & FOUND 
LOST: Womans silver link Citizen eco-drive watch. Round face encir­cled by crystals. Lost outside LaFortune Saturday, Sept. 5, follow­ing the band to the stadium. High sentimental value. $50 reward. Cheryl 574-272-9037. 
FoR RENT 
APARTMENT right off campus. 1­bdrm. $500/mo. all inclusive. 574­243-7777. 
You have seen the rest -now CHECK OUT THE BEST. Open Houses Sun. 9/20/09 4-7. andersonNDrentals.com Start at 203 E. Navarre 
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt.,no experience needed,cus­tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835 12 x 65 mobile home. 3 bdrm, car­port, patio, all appliances, low utili­ties, new roof. $300/mo for lot rent. Extra storage. $6,500. Call269­683-7506. 
TICKETS 
HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top $$. 57 4-25 H 570. 
Need 2 MSU & USC tix & parking pass. 574-276-8507. 

VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232­0964. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND s website 
at: 

http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame s website: http://csap.nd.edu 
EARN $50 FOR 1 HR OF WRITING ACT, Inc. invites you to participate in an essay-writing study. Limited number of participants so register soon to secure a spot. www.act.org/essaystudy 
Mama, take this badge off of me I cant use it anymore. It's gettin' dark, too dark for me to see I feel like I'm knockin' on heaven's door. 
Beyond the worlds, vague ghosts of monstrous things; half-seen columns of unsanctified temples that rest on nameless rocks beneath space and reach up to dizzy vacua above the spheres of light and darkness. And through this revolting graveyard of the universe, the muffled, maddening beating of drums, and thin, monotonous whine of blasphemous flutes from incon­ceivable, unlighted chambers beyond Time; the detestable pounding and piping whereunto dance slowly, awkwardly, and absurdly the gigantic, tenebrous ultimate gods -the blind, voice­less, mindless gargoyles whose soul is Nyarlathotep. 


OUND THE NATION 
CoMPilED FROM THE OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES
Tuesday, September 15, 2008 
page 15 
NCAA Women.·· NCSAA/Adidas Top~·;iiJ ''·\·r···• ,,,,,,, 
team 

1 North Carolina 2 Portland 3 Stanford 4 Florida State 5 NOTRE DAME ti UCLA 7 Purdue 8 Wake Forest g Virginia 1o Boston Colh!!Je 11 Illinois 12 West Virginia 13 TexasA&M 14 Florida 15 Georgia 16 Calilornia 17 Rutgers 18 South Carolina 19 Oklah&ma State 20 ColoradG 21 San Diego 22 Kansas 23 Minnesota 24 Penn Stale 25 Indiana 
NCAA Men's NSCAA/AOU:JaSilt 

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 UC JI'Vine k¥·•·· 10 NOTREDAME 11 California 12 Indiana 13 Dartmouth 14 Boston UniV&rsity 15 UCLA 16 Virginia 17 l&uisviiJe 18 North Carolina Stllte 19 Duke 20 Michigan State 21 Tulsa 22 Northwestern 23 San Francisco 24 Monmouth 25 Connecticut 
NCAA Men's Golf 
AP 

Chicago Bears' linebacker Brian Urlacher exits the field with Green Bay Packers' linebacker Brady Poppinga after the Packers defeated the Bears Sunday. Urlacher will miss the rest of the season due to a dislocated wrist. 
Urlacher injures wrist in season opener 
Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. ­Finally healthy after two years, Bears linebacker Brian Urlacher launched his regular season by mak­ing a run at Aaron Rodgers, lowering his shoulder and plowing over the Packers quarterback in the first quarter. 
His lOth season was off to a good start. And then, it was over. 
Chicago's star linebacker went on injured reserve after having surgery Monday to repair a dislo­cated right wrist and will not be back this season, a major blow for a team with high expectations. 
There was no immediate word from Urlacher other than a text message to the Chicago Tribune that said simply: "season is over." But coach Lovie Smith said Urlacher clearly was disap­pointed. 
"He had put himself in position to have an out­standing year," Smith said. "He was playing well in the game before he went down with the injury. Even after the injury to his hand, the competitor in him wanted to continue to play. It's a tough break. There's no way around it, but he's been injured before and he's come back before." 
With Urlacher out, Hunter Hillenmeyer is expected to start at middle linebacker this week when the Bears host defending champion Pittsburgh. Chicago also signed line­backer Tim Shaw, who got cut by Jacksonville this month, to a one-year deal on Monday. 

The injury to Urlacher occurred in the first quarter of Sunday night's 21-15 loss at Green Bay, though it was not clear when. Urlacher briefly shook his wrist after tackling Packers running back Ryan Grant late in the period, though Smith said he wasn't sure when it hap­pened. 
Urlacher played in the second quarter, but left on the Packers' first drive of the second half. 
"Talk about a guy that's a great leader," said Hillenmeyer, who replaced Urlacher on Sunday. "First, he plays an entire half of football with a dislocated wrist. I don't think there's many people who can do something like that." 
The arrival of Pro Bowl quarterback Jay Cutler sent expectations in Chicago soaring in the offseason, though he threw four inter­ceptions and looked aver­age at best in the loss. 
Now the Bears are with­out the longtime face of the franchise and a stalwart defender in a division with top-tier running backs in Grant and Vikings star Adrian Peterson along with elite quarterbacks such as Rodgers and Minnesota's Brett Favre. 

1 2 3 4 5 
e··.. 
7 8 9 
10 
around the dial 
MLB 


Milwaukee Brewers at Chicago Cubs 
2:20 p.m., CSN 

Chicago White Sox at Seattle Mariners 
10:10 p.m., WGN 
IN BRIEF 
Seattle Storm signs head 
coach Agler for two seasons 
SEATTLE -Just before the start of the WNBA playoffs, the Seattle Storm have signed coach Brian Agler to a two-year contract exten­sion. 
Agler's deal covers the 2010 and 2011 seasons with an option for 2012. 
Agler is the third coach in Seattle's history, following Lin Dunn and Anne Donovan. He's directed Seattle to a second consecutive playoff appearance, thanks largely to All-Stars Sue Bird and Lauren Jackson. 
Seattle won a franchise record 22 games in Agler's first season, then won 20 games this season. They open the playoffs on Wednesday night in Los Angeles. 
Before coming to Seattle, Agler was an assistant in San Antonio and Phoenix, and a head coach with the Minnesota Lynx. 

Colts investigate Gonzalez's 
knee injury, need receiver 
INDIANAPOLIS The Indianapolis Colts expected Anthony Gonzalez to replace Marvin Harrison this season. Now they could be looking for a replace­ment to The Replacement. 
One day after losing Gonzalez in a 14-12 victory over Jacksonville, Colts coach Jim Caldwell declined to elaborate on the severity of Gonzalez's right knee injury or say how much time the third-year receiver may miss -even though the Colts are clearly discussing their options if Gonzalez is out for a prolonged time. 
"We'll have to do something (at receiver) if he's out," Caldwell said. "You know I try to stay away from hypotheses and we do have a num­ber of tight ends who can flex out and play that position. Dallas (Clark) does it, Jacob Tamme does it, so we do have that." 
Yankee Stadium home run 
record broken by Guerrero 
NEW YORK -The Yankee Stadium record for home runs in a season has been broken with eight games to spare. 
Los Angeles Angels slugger Vladimir Guerrero hit the 216th home run in 73 games at the new $1.5 billion ballpark, one more than the high set at the previ­ous stadium in 2004. 
Guerrero's second-inning drive off Joba Chamberlain on Monday night was quickly followed by Nick Swisher's third-inning shot against Angels starter Jered Weaver. Both landed in the sec­ond deck. 
The only years 200 homers were hit at the old Yankee Stadium were 2004, 2000 (209) and 2005 (206), according to STATS LLC. 
Yankee Stadium topped the majors in homers entering the night ­Rangers Ballpark was second at 197. The major league record appears safe: 303 homers were hit at Denver's Coors Field in 1999. 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, September 15, 2009 
U.S. OPEN 

Williams apologizes to line judge after outburst 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Her doubles championship brought some clo­sure Monday to what has been an awkward, tumultuous U.S. Open for Serena Williams. 
Time to celebrate. Time to move on. Maybe even time to make amends with the line judge she unloaded on during that ugly finish to her semifinal loss two nights ago. 
"I would like to give her a big ol' hug," Williams said. 
Williams and sister Venus teamed up for a 6-2, 6-2 victory over defending champions Cara Black and Liezel Huber to win their lOth Grand Slam doubles title, and first at Flushing Meadows since 1999. Not sur­prisingly, the sisters answered very few questions about dou­bles when it was over. 
During a post-match interview on the court, ESPN2's Patrick McEnroe prodded Serena about her profane outburst at the end of her loss to Kim Clijsters and its aftermath. Williams had issued an apology shortly before the doubles match, saying she is "a woman of great pride, faith and integrity, and I admit when I'm wrong." 
It was a more contrite state­ment than the one she released the day before -when she was socked with a $10,000 fine for acting in a "threatening man­ner," according to tournament director Jim Curley. But when McEnroe tried to ask her "what clicked in your head" that led to the new statement, the crowd started booing. 
"I think what the crowd is say­ing is, 'Patrick, let's move on,'" Venus Williams said. 
Venus also played the role of protective big sister during the news conference, where ques­tions included what Serena did, how she felt, who she owed apologies to and what she would do next. 
"You know, everyone is human," Venus said. 
Serena said she didn't agree with the call from Saturday night but bore no ill will toward the line judge, who did not work the tournament either Sunday or Monday. 
"I don't think my foot touched the line in that call," Williams said. "Looking back on it, I think the lady did the best that she could. She was just doing her job. I guess at the time, she probably saw it as what it was. You know, she was just doing her best." 
The one thing Serena didn't fess to is what, exactly, she said to the line judge who called the foot fault that sparked the rant, which led to her being docked a point on match point. 
"I was in the heat of the moment," she said. "You can see it was a lot of action. I don't remember several points in the match today, let alone anything I might have said a couple days ago." 
For a refresher, she could sim­ply go to YouTube, where videos of the expletive-laden onslaught were still high on the most­viewed list, with one of the replays generating 1.2 million hits and counting. 
Officials from the Grand Slam tournaments are also interested in the replays. They were comb­ing through audio from on-court mics and different TV feeds as part of an investigation to find out exactly what she said, and whether there should be more than the penalty she has already received. 
Williams' apology might have been viewed as an attempt to seek some sort of clemency from tennis officials, who could take back the $350,000 check she earned for reaching the semifi­nals, or suspend her. 
But Williams didn't view her latest statement as a more con­trite version of what she sent originally -only a chance to put it up on her Web site for wider readership, and a chance to apologize to Clijsters, the U.S. Open champion, who was clearly bewildered by the bizarre end­ing. 
"I definitely think an apology was warranted," Williams said. "You know, I just felt like the other one was an apology, as well. This one I wanted to make sure that I also congratulated Kim on her job that she did, and also to just everyone else." 


LONDONPROG APPLICATION MEETING FOR FALL 2010 & SPRING 2011 Tuesday, September 15, 2009 101 DeBartolo 6:30PM SOPHOMORES FROM ALL COLLEGES ARE WELCOME!  

Tuesday, September 15, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Three NFL players to donate brains to research 
Associated Press 
BOSTON-Three NFL play­ers announced Monday they will donate their brains and spinal cord tissue to a Boston University medical school program that studies sports brain injuries. 
Even though dozens of for­mer NFL players have agreed to donate their brains after death, Baltimore Ravens cen­ter Matt Birk, Seattle Seahawks linebacker Lofa Tatupu and Arizona Cardinals receiver Sean Morey are the first active players to do so. 
The goal of the university's Center for the Study of Traumatic Encephalopathy, a collaborative venture between BU Medical School and Sports Legacy Institute, is to better understand the long-term effects of repeated concussions. 
"When you are active, your contract, what you get paid, is based on the perception of your health, and no player wants to be perceived as being prone to concussions," said Chris Nowinski, the cen­ter's co-director. "That's why I am so impressed with these guys. I hope they are the first of many." 
More than 150 former ath­letes, including 40 retired NFL players, already are in the program's brain donation registry. 
"One of the most profound actions I can take personally is to donate my brain to help ensure the safety and welfare of active, retired and future athletes for decades to come," said Morey, who along with Tatupu has been listed on NFL injury reports in past seasons with injuries described as concussions. 
Doctors see sports-related brain trauma as a growing health crisis due to the dis­covery of the neurodegenera­tive disease chronic traumat­ic encephalopathy in a num­ber of athletes who have recently died. The condition is caused by repetitive trau­ma to the brain. 
"This is a bigger threat than we are acknowledging," said Nowinski, who suffered concussions as a college foot­ball player and professional wrestler. 
Sufferers may experience memory loss, emotional instability, erratic behavior, depression and impulse con­trol problems, progressing eventually to full-blown dementia. 
As part of the program, the players will be interviewed annually for the rest of their lives so researchers can examine the relationship between clinical symptoms and pathology. 
Birk, Tatupu and Morey have all played in the Pro 
Bowl, making their pledge all the more significant, Nowinski said. He hopes their participation sparks locker room conversations with their teammates about the dangers of head injuries, he said. 
Morey said players need to understand the "serious implications" of playing through concussions or not reporting them because of the cumulative effect of such injuries. 
He said his interest in the issue was sparked in part by an article on former New England Patriots linebacker Ted Johnson, who received numerous head injuries dur­ing his 10-year career. 
"I played with Ted. He was one of the best guys in the locker room," Morey said. "He took me under his wing and made me feel part of the team when I was just a prac­tice squad player. I think that was sort of the impetus for me to kind of make sure that I did my due diligence, understanding the effects of concussions and report back to the players union." 
Tatupu got involved through former Seahawks teammate Isaiah Kacyvenski, Nowinski's roommate at Harvard. 
"They approached me about the idea. Just thought it was a chance to give back to the game and the players playing it down the road," Tatupu said inside the Seahawks' locker room in Renton, Wash., on Monday. "Game's been good to me, and I'd like to help people out if I can." 

The three-time Pro Bowl middle linebacker said he didn't know someone could donate a brain. He said he's already answered some sim­ple questions from the center. 
The annual interviews will consist of one phone call a year from the center for an evaluation of one to two hours. 
Tatupu returned to the NFC championship game in 2006 after a head-on collision with Carolina running back Nick Goings that left both motion­less on the field momentarily. Goings did not return because of a concussion, and Tatupu was left with what he then called "cobwebs." 
He sustained a concussion in Week 7 of last season after a collision with Ike Hilliard, of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. 
Tatupu refused to answer when asked how many con­cussions he's had. 


Men ofNotre Dame ...
Corby Night 

Is God calling you? 


Think you might have a vocation to serve as a priest or brother? Join the Holy Cross community at Notre Dame for an hour ofprayer, pizza, 
and informal discussion. 
Wednesday, Sept. 16, 8pm at Corby Hall 
vocation.nd.edu 
Questions? calll-6385 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, September 15, 2009 
U.S. OPEN 

Del Potro stuns Federer in five sets to win Open 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Normally so cool, so consistent, so in control of his emotions and his matches, Roger Federer let the U.S. Open champi­onship slip from his grasp. Two points from victory against inexpe­rienced, unheralded Juan Martin del Potro of Argentina, two points from a sixth consecutive title at Flushing Meadows and a record­extending 16th Grand Slam over­all, Federer, quite simply, fell apart Monday. 
He railed at the chair umpire. His legs grew weary. His double­faults mounted. He could not fig­ure out a way to stop the 6-foot-6 del Potro from pounding forehand after forehand past him. In a result as surprising for who lost as how it happened, the sixth-seeded del Potro came back to win his first Grand Slam title by upsetting the No. 1-seeded Federer 3-6, 7-6 (5), 4-6, 7-6 (4), 6-2. 
"Can't have them all," Federer said. 
He had won 40 consecutive matches at Flushing Meadows. He had won 33 of his previous 34 Grand Slam matches. And he has made the final at 17 ofthe past 18 Grand Slam tournaments, 21 overall. 
Del Potro? This was the 20­year-old's first Grand Slam final, and he was 0-6 against Federer until now. But after handing Rafael Nadal the most lopsided loss of his Grand Slam career in the semifinals Sunday, del Potro came back the next day and rat­tled Federer. 
Until Monday, Federer was 2-5 in Grand Slam finals against his nemesis, Nadal, and 13-0 against everyone else. Somehow, del Potro never seemed intimidated by the setting or the man many consider the greatest tennis player in histo­ry. 
The usually unflappable Federer argued with chair umpire Jake Garner during a changeover, using a profanity and saying, "Don't tell me to be quiet, OK? When I want to talk, I talk." 
Del Potro, meanwhile, managed to have the time of his young life, high-fiving front-row fans after winning one point, and reveling in the soccer-style serenades of "Ole!" ringing through the stadi­um. 
The 4-hour, 6-minute match wa<> the first U.S. Open final to go five sets since 1999, and there were no early signs to indicate it would be this competitive -much less end with del Potro down on his back, chest heaving, tears welling, a Grand Slam trophy soon to be in his arms. He is the first man from Argentina to win the 
U.S. Open since Guillermo Vilas in 1977. 
VIlas was in the stands Monday, sitting one row behind Jack Nicklaus. 
One simple indication of the dif­ference in age and status of the two finalists: The 28-year-old Federer's guest box was full, with pals such as rock-star couple Gwen Stefani and Gavin Rossdale and Vogue editor Anna Wintour seated alongside Federer's par­ents, wife and agent. Only three of the 15 available seat<> were occu­pied in del Potro's box. 


Federer took a 3-0 lead in 15 minutes, winning one point by racing about 5 feet wide of the doubles alley for a defensive back­hand, then sprinting the other way for a eross-court forehand passing winner that he celebrated by yelling and shaking his fists. 

He even took time to watch a replay on a stadium video screen. Not quite the "Did he really just do that?!" sort of trick shot Federer pulled against Novak Djokovic in the semifinals -a back-to-the­net, between-the-legs, cross-court passing winner to get to match point -but pretty spectacular, nonetheless. 
But del Potro eventually got going, swinging more freely and taking full advantage of Federer's serving woes: 11 double-faults and a first-serve percentage of only 50. 
Used to traveling without a full­time coach, Federer generally is quite adept at making mid-match adjustments and dealing with opponents' switches in strategy. But it was del Potro who realized he needed to put full belief in the strength of his 100 mph forehands and not worry about too much else. 

Want to improve your Spanish or Portuguese? Come to an Information Meeting with program returnees to hear about... 
Spanish and Portuguese Language Study Abroad Programs 
Information Meeting 
Brazil Chile 

lVednesday,Sept.t6 s:ts pnt 155 DeBartolo Hall 



www.nd.edu/-ois Application Deadline is November 15, 2009 

Tuesday, September 15, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB 
Teixeira leads Yankees to close win over Angels 
-. 

St. Louis' bullpen preserves come-from-behind win over Florida; Cards' Holliday reaches 100 RBI mark for season 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Mark Teixeira hit a two-run triple on a play that caused Angels center fielder Torii Hunter to lose a shoe, then doubled to start the go-ahead rally in the eighth inning that led the New York Yankees over Los Angeles 5-3 Monday night in a possible playoff preview. 
New York broke a three-all tie when pinch-runner Brett Gardner took third as part of a double steal and came home as catcher Mike Napoli bounced the throw past third baseman Chone Figgins for an error. Robinson Cano added a run-scoring single,-and Mariano Rivera finished to reach 40 saves for the first time in four years and the seventh time in his career. 
The Angels' Vladimir Guerrero and New York's Nick Swisher homered in the makeup of a May 3 rainout to raise the total at new Yankee Stadium to 21 '7 -two more than were ever hit in a season at the original ballpark across the street. 
New York opened a 7 1/2­game lead over second-place Boston in the AL East with 17 to play. The Yankees also took a six-game lead over the Angels for best record in the AL and home-field advantage throughout the postseason. 
With the score tied in the eighth, Teixeira doubled off Jered Weaver (15-6) with one out and Alex Rodriguez walked. Darren Oliver relieved, Gardner ran for 
Teixeira, and the Yankees went ahead when the runners stole on a 1-1 pitch to Hideki Matsui. 
Weaver gave up five runs, eight hits and four walks 7 1/3 innings, while Joba Chamberlain allowed one run and four hits in four innings and was pulled after 67 pitch­es. After limiting his pitch count to as few as 35 in recent starts, the Yankees are allowing him to gradually build back up. 
Guerrero put the Angels on top when he homered in the second. Swisher connected in the third -with both drives landing in the second deck. 
Figgins' RBI grounder gave the Angels a 2-1 lead in the fifth, which turned strange in the bottom half. 

New York had runners at second and third with one out following Swisher's double, Melky Cabrera's walk and Derek Jeter's sacrifice. Johnny Damon then hit a bouncer to third that could have driven in the tying run. Cabrera, who was on second, jumped to avoid the ball but ran into Figgins and was called out for interference. 
Teixeira, who left the Angels last winter to sign with the Yankees as a free agent, followed with a drive off the center-field wall -he pointed at catcher Jeff Mathis as he ran to first, claiming interfer­ence. Hunter appeared to have trouble picking up the ball, one of his spikes came off as he hit against the wall and he chased the ball wear-
The Fall Career Fair is quickly approaching! Come get some last minute tips about talking to employers and securing a job or internship position. 
How to Land Your Dream Job or Internship 

Presentation by Kindra Wray, Recruiting, Training, and Development Manager at General Mills 
TONIGHT TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15th, 2009 7:30 -8:30 PM MONTGOMERY AUDITORIUM, LAFORTUNE (across from Starbucks) 

*FREE SUBWAY COOKIES and GENERAL MILLS PRODUCTS* 
Sponsored by the Black Cultural Arts Council and Management Club 


Richard B. Pierce II, 
Department Chair, Africana Studies: John Cardinal O'Hara, CSC, Associate Professor of Histo-ry 
UNIVERSITY ' OF NOTRE DAME 
COU.Ii.Gii OF Ali.TS ANO l.ETTiili.S 

ing one shoe. Teixeira wound up with his first triple since Aug. 11, 2007. 
With two on and one out in the seventh, Phil Coke relieved and threw a called third strike past Figgins, who muttered at plate umpire Derry! Cousins. Coke then retired Maicer Izturis on a grounder to shortstop, with Jeter grabbing the ball near second and spinning to make the throw. 
Kendry Morales hit into a tying double-play grounder in the eighth after Los Angeles loaded the bases with no outs against winner Phil Hughes (7-3). 
Cardinals 11, Marlins 6 
Matt Holliday drove in three runs to top 100 RBis for the third time in his career and the St. Louis Cardinals' bullpen rescued struggling Todd Wellemeyer in an 11-6 victory over the Florida Marlins on Monday night. 
Albert Pujols had two hits plus the go-ahead sacrifice fly in a three-run fourth inning and Skip Schumaker had three hits, a walk and scored three times. The Cardinals bounced back from a three­game sweep by the Braves and reduced their magic num­ber for clinching the NL Central to 10. 
Holliday and Ryan Ludwick had two-run singles off Ricky Nolasco (11-9) in a four-run first that matched St. Louis' season best for that inning. Holliday added an RBI double off the base of the wall in left in a four-run eighth capped by Colby Rasmus' three-run homer off Matt Lindstrom after the bullpen nursed a one-run lead for four innings. 
Holliday has 102 RBis on the year and is batting .371 with a team-leading 48 RBis in 4 7 games since being acquired from Oakland on July 24, launching the Cardinals on a 33-14 tear. He is 7 for 11 with two homers and five RBis against Nolasco, who gave up seven runs and 10 hits in five innings to end a three-game winning streak over five starts. 
Wellemeyer had worked only three innings since Aug. 4 heading into a fill-in start for John Smoltz (shoulder tendinitis), and rust was evi­dent. The Marlins climbed back with single runs in the second and third and four in the fourth, tying it on Chris Coghlan's two-run triple and taking a 6-4 lead on Nick Johnson's eighth homer and first since Aug. 7. 
The Cardinals answered with three straight one-out hits in the bottom of the fourth, singles by pinch-hitter Khalil Greene and Schumaker ahead of Julio Lugo's two-run triple. Pujols followed with a sacrifice fly for the lead. 
Blake Hawksworth (4-0) allowed one hit in 1 1-3 innings and was the first of five relievers who limited the Marlins to two hits over the final five innings. 
The ninth spot in the St. Louis lineup had three sin­gles, one each by Wellemeyer, Greene and pinch-hitter Brendan Ryan. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 15, 2009 
NFL 

Brady leads Pats' miraculous comeback over Bills 
Associated Press 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. ­Back on center stage, Tom Brady acted like, well, the NFL's biggest star. 
It seemed to take forever, though. 
A year after being sidelined with torn knee ligaments, Brady resembled a rusty game manager more than the invin­cible record-setting quarter­back who guided the Patriots to a perfect 2007 regular sea­son. Yet, he threw two touch­down passes in the final 2:06 as New England beat the Buffalo Bills 25-24 on Monday night. 
When the spotlight hit, Brady lived up to the advance billing. 
"We have a real competitive locker room, a real competi­tive team," Brady said. "When you're in a situation like we were, it's when you really 
NFL 
Simpson being sued 
• 
onceagam 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS -A memorabilia dealer who blames his heart attacks on the stress of being robbed at gunpoint by O.J. Simpson is suing the former foot­ball star and five other men who were in the room during the heist, seeking unspecified civil dam­ages. 
A lawyer for Bruce Fromong said Monday he intends to show a Nevada jury that his 55-year-old client's four heart attacks were caused by the emotional stress of the September 2007 robbery in a Las Vegas casino hotel room and its aftermath. 
"We think we can prove the causal connection," said Fromong's attorney, Elliot Blut. 
Fromong, of North Las Vegas, said he is still seeing doctors for physical maladies he blames on the encounter. He said he and his wife, Lynette Fromong, have suf­fered financially, mentally and physically. 
"This has affected our entire life," Fromong said. Simpson's lawyer, Yale Galanter, called the lawsuit frivolous. 
''I'm going to fight this guy tooth and nail," Galanter said from Miami, Fla. "Initially, Fromong said his heart attacks were caused by the news media. Now he's switching his story and say­ing O.J. caused it." 
Clark County District Court Judge Jessie Walsh did not imme­diately set a hearing on the law­suit filed Friday in Las Vegas. 
It names Simpson and convict­ed co-defendant Clarence "C.J." Stewart as defendants, along with four former co-defendants who were initially charged with Simpson and Stewart but took plea deals and testified for the prosecution. Walter Alexander, Charles Cashmore, Charles Ehrlich and Michael McClinton each pleaded guilty to lesser felonies and received probation. 
have to step it up. It takes every guy on the field to step it up. Hopefully, we will con­tinue to do that." 
But Brady needed help in the form of Leodis McKelvin's fumble on a kickoff return after the Patriots pulled within five points. 
Placekicker Stephen Gostkowski, of all people, recovered at the Buffalo 31. Brady needed three plays before hitting Benjamin Watson over the middle for the decisive 16-yard touchdown with 50 seconds to go. 
Just 1:16 earlier, he found Watson on a similar play for an 18-yard score. It was vin­tage Brady, who threw for a record 50 TDs two years ago in leading New England to a perfect record. 
"Two-minute drives always are fun for a quarterback," Brady said. "Spread it out, the pass rush gets a little tired, 
you get a feel for the coverage, you just have to be patient. 
''I'm glad it's over, glad we are moving on, got a win, and we 'lllearn from it." 
That unbeaten season was spoiled in Brady's last full game that counted, the February 2008 Super Bowl loss to the New York Giants. He was hurt in last season's opener. 
Now he's back, although for much of the game he and the Patriots played conservatively, even passively. Indeed, Buffalo seemed ready to break an 11­game losing streak against New England and win for the first time in Gillette Stadium. 
Then came the late fire­works, demonstrating that Tom Terrific hasn't Jost his touch. 
"That's not how we drew it up, but I'll take it," Brady said. "We did a Jot of things poorly but we got the win." 


Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center and 
.. 

The University of Notre Dame Alumni Association 
Present: 
THE 17™ ANNUAL EMIL T. HOFMAN LECTURE 
Cancer Research at Notre Dame: 
A Partnership beht•een Notre Dame and Indiana University School (ifMedidne 
Rudolph M. N avari, MD, PhD, "66 Professor ofMedicine, Assistant Dean and Director Indiana University School of Medicine, South Bend Director, \Valther Cancer Research Center, University of Notre Dame 
September 19, 2009 Begins at 11:00 am 
Raclin Auditorium Indiana University School ofMedicine, South Bend South Corner of Notre Dame Ave. and Angela Blvd. NO Parking in the M.edical School Parking Lot (Before the Notre Dame-Michigan State game) 
Buffalo did a lot of things well, but got a shocking loss. 
Coming off a 1-4 preseason in which the offense flopped, the Bills made plenty of big plays. 
Trent Edwards outper­formed Brady for much of the game and threw for two scores. A 10-yard screen pass TD to Fred· Jackson put Buffalo ahead 24-13 with 5:32 to go -even though its new spotlight-grabber, Terrell Owens, barely caused a ripple. Owens had two catches for 46 yards. 
When the offense wasn't doing the damage, defensive end Aaron Schobel was ram­bling 26 yards with an inter­ception for a first-half TO. 
Still, these are the Patriots, who have not lost a regular­season game with Brady at quarterback since Dec. 10, 2006. And they still have all those threats in the passing 
game, from Randy Moss (12 catches, 141 yards) to Wes Welker (12, 93) to tight end Watson (6, 77, two TDs). 
Although Brady had those impressive stats, he never looked deep and struggled to convert key plays until the final moments. Perhaps that big hit he took on his shoulder from Albert Haynesworth 2 1/2 weeks ago limited Brady. And maybe his team was uncomfortable in the throw­back red uniforms or being introduced as the Boston Patriots for the first of the NFL's tribute games to the old AFL. Something wasn't right in Foxborough -until the end. 
"It has nothing to do with his layoff,"· Moss said. "I think it's just first-game jitters. I'm not making an excuse, we just had to settle down and get to play­ing f.~otball the way we know how. 


Tuesday, September 15, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
of-60 for 651 yards, seven touchdowns and -knock on wood -no interceptions. Just for comparison's sake, Reisman Trophy favorite Colt McCoy is 51-of-76 for 654 yards, five touchdowns and two intercep­tions. Now, no one's saying Clausen should start doing the trophy pose after touchdowns any time soon, but a win on 
Saturday would have put him 
squarely in the discussion. 
IfClausen keeps it up, though, 
he could easily find himself rub­
bing elbows with McCoy and 
Tim Tebow in New York this 
December. The only possible 
knock on Clausen's eventual 
Reisman candidacy will likely be 
the win-loss record, but even 
that should be good enough to 
warrant an invitation. 
And, of course, ifClausen 
keeps showing the leadership 
and moxie he demonstrated on 
Saturday, that win-loss record 
could be better than people 
anticipate. 
The views expressed in this 
column are those ofthe author 
and not necessarily those ofThe 
Observer. 
Contact Sam Werner at 
swemer@nd. edu 
O'Brien 
continued from page 24 
teams is something we should all be really proud of," Hamma said. "I think it shows the country that we have the skills necessary to be a top team in Division III. This gives our team a lot of confidence necessary to continue these kinds of results, and shows all of us that we can play and win against some of the best teams." 
Saint Mary's will start their conference competition this Thursday at Albion for the first of four regular season MIAA match­es this fall. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at 
mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Kuschel 
continued from page 24 
Barra, Emily Caltrider and Stephanie Boldien. 
"Stephanie [Boldien] is adding a lot to our team both offensively and defensively," Kuschel said. "She does not look like a fresh­man out there on the court." 
In addition to Boldien, Kuschel is constantly raising her expecta­tions for these young players as they progress through the season. 
"We are lucky to have a lot of great athletes on our roster," she said. "Now we just need to capi­talize on them." 
Helping to guide the freshmen is a strong senior class headlined by outside hitter Lorna Slupczynski. Slupczynski has started the season off by produc­ing some big numbers, including a career-high 27 kills against Trine last Tuesday. She was also named to the All-Capital Tournament team two weeks ago. 
Kuschel realizes how important it is to get the ball to their star player. 
"We have to get her the ball when the game is on the line," she said. 
The season has had a couple dips early on this season, but as far as the team is concerned, they are primed to reach an all-time high. 
Contact Bobby Graham at 
rgraham@nd.edu 
_j 
for 27th at 223, two-over par, and Scodro ended the invitation­

Sand01an 
al tied for 38th, five-over par at the Irish on two touchdown drives and gave the Irish a 34-31

Clausen 

continued from page 24 
birdies in the final day despite some putting woes toward the end. 
"[Sandman] missed three or four reasonably short putts that normally he would make," Kubinski said. "I think it was a little bit of rust. Maybe he was trying to make something hap­pen and putting more pressure on himself than he normally would." 
Senior Carl Santos-Ocampo fmished the fmal round with the team's lowest score, a one-under par tally of 71, and tied for 17th overall. He earned his fifth career round under par by knocking in five birdies and four bogeys. Santos-Ocampo had not played a full round under par since his sophomore year. 
"Carl played great," Kubinski said. "He had a tough bogey on the last hole, or he could have been two under." 
Junior Jeff Chen and sopho­more Max Scodro also con­tributed to Notre Dame's final round score, with rounds of 7 4 and 75, respectively. Chen tied 226. 
"We did some good things, but we did some things we certainly could have done a little better," Kubinski said of the team's two­day performance. 
Kubinski said he was pleased with fmishing sixth in the invita­tional. By fmishing ahead of six teams, and behind only five, the Irish began the season with a 6­5 record. 
"[The 6-5 start] is important for NCAAs because you need to have a winning record to be considered, so for our first tour­nament we are off to a decent start," Kubinski said. "We did not play our best, but, for the first tournament, we did not hurt ourselves." 
The Irish play next at the Mason Rudolph Championship at Vanderbilt on Friday, Sept. 26. 
"I think these guys can have a great season," Kubinski said. 'This was a starting point. Now that the season has started we can build on it." 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1 @nd.edu 
continued from page 24 
against Hawaii and Nevada, even though throwing more touchdown passes than incom­pletions in two straight games is pretty impressive. 
No one ever doubted Clausen's physical abilities, though. It was the intangibles that people ques­tioned. Would he be able to fol­low in the footsteps ofthe much­loved Brady Quinn? 
Saturday, in front of a national television audience and 110,00 maize-clad fans in attendance, Clausen, for the first time in his Notre Dame career, showed the leadership any good team needs from its quarterback. 
Facing a 31-20 deficit early in the fourth quarter, Clausen had his work cut out for him. Last year, there's a good chance the offense would have folded up shop, gone three-and-out and Michigan would have punched in another touchdown or two for the big win. Against North Carolina, Pittsburgh and Syracuse the Irish failed to respond to opponent scores. 
This year, though, Clausen led lead. Clausen almost cemented the victory on the next drive on a fade to Golden Tate that proba­bly should have drawn pass interference, or on an out route when freshman Shaq Evans just couldn't get his head around in time. 

As for Michigan's last drive, well, it's not like Clausen could come off the bench and stop Tate Forcier. 
Clausen's newfound leadership continued even after the game was over, 
"I just told the team that this feeling right here is not going to happen again," he said after the game. "We've just got to work that much harder in practice and get ready for next Saturday." 
Irish coach Charlie Weis said he liked the way Clausen, and the team, responded to the loss. 
"I was very pleased at the way they handled it internally," Weis said. "There was obviously a lot of good things that were trying to be relayed to the players from other players. No finger point­ing. I think that boded well for us righting the ship in a hurry." 
On the season, Clausen is 40­
ROME 

Learn about the Italy Study Abroad Programs: 
Sept r6, 5:3opm 129 Hayes... Healy 

«....WHICH. R,OAD W'ILL YO'U 
TAKE? 
BOLOGNA 

The CENTRAL EUROPEAN STUDIES PROGRAM in Innsbruck, Austria 
• 
Immersion in German language and culture 

• 
Acadetnic year and setnester options 


• 
An opportunity for exposure to Central European Issues 

• 
A great location from which to access Eastern and Western Europe 


INFORMATION SESSION 
Thursday, September 17, 2009 
5:30 PM 129 Hayes-Healy Center 
Application Deadline is November 15, 2009 www.nd.eduj-ois 
.....---------------------­
page 22 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 15, 2009 
AVE CRUX SPESUNICA 



You are Invite~l 
Please join the members of the Congregation ofHoly Cross for a special Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart today, September 15, at 5:15p.m. to celebrate the Feast of Our Lady of Sorrows, patroness of Holy Cross priests, brothers and sisters. 

O'I'HER HOLY CROSS CEI~EBRATIONS 
October 13, 2009 -Feast ofSt. Edward the Confessor 
Foun(/er's Day lJcJIJorJiJg Fatl1er EclJ¥aid F. Sor1i1, C.S. C 
January 20, 2010-Feast ofBlessed Basile-Antoine-Moreau, C.S.C. 
, _ FlJUIJder lJfd1e ClJJJgz-egatilJil lJfHlJ/y CrlJss 
March 19,2010-FeastofSt.Joseph 
P;ltrOIJal Feastofd1e BrlJther.5 lJf'"HlJ/y Cross 
April10, 2010-Holy Cross Ordinations to the priesthood 

C-M 
Campus Ministry 


Tuesday, September 15, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
Across 35 Bottom-of·letter Baking soda 
abbr. me as. 38 Patient care grp. 4 Brother of 39 Angry cry to a 
Nintendo's Mario vampire 9 Good thing 41 Zippo 14 Oklahoma Indian 42 Strong suit 15 Beaming 
44 Supermodel Evangelista16 Prefix with -path 46 Prepares part of17 Islamabad's breakfast. sayland: Abbr. 

49Tee off18 Nursery 53 long-earedpurchase hound 191n unison 

' 
54 Rising star 20 Pre-costume ball 55 Rgure in:redactivity 57 Cole Porter 23 Salt Lake City 

musical that's a team play within a 24 Ellipsoidal 
play 25 Uses rubber on 
60 Break·in 27"_1ifel" deterrent 28 like Buddy 62 Pick up bit by bit 
Holly's glasses 63 Tonic go-with 32 like Stephen 64 $2 on th~ gray King novels mare, e.g. 34 Burning 65 Bandleader's passions command 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~~::-r.=-'1 ~.:.:,+.,;,+:;; 
-=-~~~..;o-t 
66 Upper-left key 67 Winter accident cause 68 Starts <\tum on ·"Wheel of Fortune· 69 library admonition 
Down 
Head honcho 2 "... _a fever" 3 Jab with a finger 4 Memory glitch 5 Wrinkly citrus 6 ~'Axis of evil" 
land 
7 Pungent, like· : some Asian cuisine 
8 One after another 9 Simile words 10 "Well, sorr-r-r-yl" 11 Tartan wearer 12 1' kle!ne Nachlmusik" 13 Tot's "piggies" 
21 Metro map 
points: Abbr. 
22 Scorecard figure 
26 Evaluated, with 
"1.1p" 
28 Western omelet need 29 Conquistador's prize 30 ''Y" -sporting collegian 
31 Upgrade from a dial-up connection 
3;J Knight's realm? 35 Letter before gee 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puule by on-Hill  
36 Hide-hair lirik  47 Set a price at  54 Number after a  
37Game to31 39 Like, slangily  48 Paddock sounds 50 Cameta card  period 55 Crow cousins 56 Flier to Ben_.  
40 Gerund end  contents  Gurian  
43 Source of an oil used in  51 Fixation 52 Word that can  58 Alien-seeking program: Ab r.  
aromatherapy 44 Blurt out, say  precede the starts of 20-. 28· , 46· and 57·  59 Common street name 61. Villain player in  
45 Bad way to run  Across  "Rocky Ill"  

For answers, call 1·900-285·5656, $1.49 a minute; or. with a credit care!. 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last SO years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to doWl'lload puzzles. or visit nytimes.com/mobllexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles. nytimes.comtcrosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.coml!earninglxwords. 

HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: AJ. Trauth, 23; Adam Lamberg, 25; Callum Keith Rennie, 49; Sam Neill, 62 
Happy Birthday: Use your experience and your work ethic to show others how efficient you are. Emotional matters can be brought out in the open and dealt with in a practical 
manner. You have a lot going for you and shouldn't feel someone else can do a better job. Your numbers are 3, II, 18, 24,35,39,46 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Don't shy away from new possibilities, especially if it entails meeting people who have sintilar interests or work in the same industry as you. Show what you have to offer and you will accomplish a lot. ***** 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Problems will develop at home or in your personal life if you are unreasonable. Take the bad with the good and work out a way to get through whatever challenges you face without letting jealousy or your emotions interfere. ** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'll have your hands full but that's when you do your best work. A couple of fast maneuvers on your part and you will have control and be headed in a dire~ lion t11at. satisfies your own specifl.\ needs. **** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): There is no point sulking or keeping things to yourself. Ad­dress matters honestly. You'll be su>prised how quickly you can implement your plans once you've shared your_though';' and ~eelings. *** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may feel like sharing your ideas but, for now, do things in secret so no one will stand in your way. The less attention you draw to what you are doing, the less chance there will be for someone to stop you. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'll have to be careful how you deal with the people who can influence what you are trying to accomplish in your personal and your professional life. The more agreeable you are, the easier it will be to put some of your ideas to the test. 
**** 

LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): It will benefit you more if you focus your attention on yourself rather than trying to do things you don't want to do for others. Weigh the cost and stress in­volved and it won't be hard to make up your ntind. ** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Getting involved in something that motivates you will help put new life into something you've been working toward. Go to the source if it will help to bring you greater inspiration or clarity on how you can do something without additional costZ****** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): It's not worth getting all worked up over nothing. If someone asks for something, take care of it and get on with your day. In the end, you'll be the one with the knowledge and experience to move forward.*** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can make friends by doing something nice that will ease stress and worry. Your ability to juggle things around will help those who cannot. Money is in the stars and a settlement or investment that has been pending will make a comeback. *** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb.18): Don't worry about your financial situation-do something about it. You can come up with a lucrative idea or service that will help you pay your bills. Changes to something you already do will help you broaden your scope of clients. *** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A networking group of high profile people in an industry you are fantiliar with will lead to an opportunity. A change is heading your way and a partner­ship is possible but it will require a lot of hard work, dedication and compromise. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, caring and are always looking for solutions. You are practical, serious-ntinded and a humanitarian. You are a leader. 
WILL GUAPPONE & BRl KRAFCIK

SCHAD & FREUDE 
. ' ; . 
" 
DAN POHLMAN 

T.I.N.D. 
Coach Weis,! wa.s wondering ifyou could hold onto twothings 

Wt'll, of course I can. 
for me for asecond. 

You sure you don't want \ me to carry that third ont? ~ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notte Dame ·and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
~ Enclos~d is $120 for one acaqemic year 
1 
t ~­

D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name Address _____________________________________ 
City---'--------State ____ Zip______ 
JUMBLE 
~J! 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letterto each square, to form four ordinary words. 
SOAVE j
(] [ (] 
©2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
A» Rights Reserved 
· 
I 1

~..---~.~"-U~~....LI'---1-.-.J 
A: r x r Jr.I xJrrI I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) CREEK HOARD FUMBLE ALPACA
Yesterday's IJumbles: Answer:. When the chet tried a new dish, the diners said it was -HALF BAKED 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
~ 

WHAT THE EXECUTIVE . AND POLITICIAN HAD . IN COMMON. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 


THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, September 15, 2009 
page 24 
MEN'S GOLF 

Enter Sandman 
Irish claim sixth at Gopher Invitational 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
Josh Sandman just answered any and all questions about his return to the links after a year­long absence. The senior tied for seventh Monday at the Gopher Invitational as the Irish placed sixth with a team fmal round of 293, five strokes over par. 
Sandman finished the third round with a one-over par score of 73, leaving him with an even par tally of 216 overall. His total is the lowest score a Notre Dame golfer has recorded in its four trips to the Gopher Invitational. 
"His string of top ten fmishes is now at six straight tourna­ments dating back to when he last played in the spring of '08," Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. 
Sandman recorded three 
see SANDMAN/page 21 


FOOTBALL COMMENTARY 
Clausen's progress proiniSing 
While Irish fans stew after Saturday's 38-34 loss to Michigan -and there are plenty of rea­sons to be upset-there is one slight silver lining that should at 
the very least linger in the back of their minds. 
Jimmy Clausen is fmally becoming the quarter­back every­
one thought (hoped?) he'd be when he 
pulled up to the College Football Hall of Fame in a stretch Hummer almost three and a half years ago. 
No, I'm not talking about the absolutely absurd stats he put up 

see CLAUSEN/page 21 
ND CLUB SPORTS 

Men's water polo gets three wins at tourney 
way to a 15-2 victory. Freshman many of the team's numerous Senior Alex Wheeler had a hat test in conference play to be
Special to the Observer 

Chris Jennis scored four goals in man-up opportunities in the first trick while Jennis and sopho­held at home at the Rolfs Men's Water Polo the first quarter to give Notre quarter. Trailing 8-4 after the mores Rob Ray and Drew Aquatic Center Sept. 26. 
The Irish traveled to Dame all the offense it would end of the third quarter, the Wroblewski each added two Cincinnati, Ohio, to participate need. Sophomore captain Dan Irish mounted a comeback near goals of their own in a contest Water Skiing in the first annual Nutty Geisman also contributed three the end of the game, but were that saw each Irish player find Gaines, Mich., was the site of Invitational this past weekend. goals. unable to overtake the Squirrels. the back of the net. the Great Lakes Conference The squad put in a strong show­In its second match, Notre In the third match, the Irish In its final match, Notre Dame water skiing competition this ing over the weekend, going 3-1 Dame dropped a hard fought rolled to a 26-10 vietory over cruised to a 14-6 win over weekend. Twenty club members to finish third in the tourna­contest, 10-8, to the tournament Bowling Green. Fast play yielded Cross-town. The Irish overpow­represented Notre Dame and the ment. hosts, the Ohio Squirrels. The a score of 8-6 after the first ered their opponents early, team took sixth place in a field 
In their first match against Irish had trouble putting in shots quarter, but Notre Dame settled going up 6-1 in the first quarter, of nine teams, the best finish Tennessee, the Irish jumped out around Ohio's former All­in on defense and continued to eventually claiming the victory. ever in the club's two-year histo­to claim an early lead on their American goalie, particularly on score at will the rest of the way. Notre Dame will face its next ry. 
SMC GOLF 
Team takes third place at Warren 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's claimed a sur­prising third place finish this weekend at the O'Brien National Invitational, hosted by the Belles at Notre Dame's Warren Golf Course. The No. 13 Belles fin­ished the two-day competition with a total of 629 while fresh­man Martyna Minerza took the individual championship with a 147. 
'The real difTerenc«t between today and yesterday's perform­ance was the deep concentra­tion from the first shot through the end," Belles captain Perri Hamma said. "We all knew what we needed to do in order to per­form well and we played with that in the back of our minds." 
Defending national champion Methodist University led the field going into day two, and came out on top with a team score of 618. No. 5 Wisconsin­Eau Claire was six strokes behind going into Monday's round, but came out only two strokes behind for a second­place finish. 
No. 3 Gustavus Adolphus College took fourth at 646 while No. 9 DePauw University moved up one to finish fifth with 653 and No. 8 Illinois Wesleyan was four strokes behind, moving up two spots to come out in sixth. No. 7 Allegheny fell back to sev­enth at 661 while No. 4 Southwestern fmished in eighth with 667. No. 6 Otterbein stayed in ninth with a team score of 686. 
Minerzwa shot a 76 on day one, and came back with a 71 on day two to take the title. She was followed by Wisconsin-Eau Claire's Catherine Wagner's score of 150, and Methodist's Susan Martin's 151. 
Saint Mary's junior Mary Kate Boyce moved up from 12th to take a share of ninth after shooting 79 both days for a 158. Sophomore Natalie Matuszak stayed consistent, shooting an 80 both days, but also moved up two places to take a share of 14th with a 160. Junior Rosie O'Connor trailed Matuszak by four strokes for a share of 22nd, and Hamma rounded out the Belles scoring by taking off a stroke from day one for an 87, finishing with a 175. 
"Taking third against these 
see O'BRIEN/page 21 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles reinain upbeat despite sluggish start 
By BOBBY GRAHAM Sports Writer 

Mer a disheartening 1-2 record to start ofT the season, one might say that the tires of the Saint Mary's volleyball team are, rela­tively speaking, deflated. 
But if you ask Bnlles coach Toni Kuschel, she will tell you that there is a difl"erent feeling about this year's squad. 
"The sky is the limit for this Saint Mary's team," she said. 
It's easy to look at the poor record and scoff, but the Belles bring a mix of experience and tal­ent to the roster this fall, which has Kuschel and her players pushing to be at the top of the standings in the MIAA this year. 
While Coach Kuschel has her own expectations for this year's team, she realizes that the fate of thP team ultimately lies in the hands of her players. 
"A coach can have a clear pic­ture of what they want for their team," she said. "But the 12 of them are the ones that have to believe and make it happen out on the court." 
An exciting aspect of this team is that they were able to bring in a talented group of freshmen that are contributing right away,. par­ticularly Autumn Nelson, Christina 
see KUSCHEL/page 21 





