
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
~college Gameday' draws fans, students to JACC 
Approximately 4,500 people fill Joyce Center to cheer on Irish against Connecticut; ESPN hosts pre-game show on campus 
By SAM WERNER 
News Writer 
Eight hours before tip-off of Saturday night's basketball game against Connecticut, an estimated 4,500 people filled the Joyce Center to witness ESPN's morning pre­game show "College Gameday." 
School officials estimated 3, 700 students, many of whom had camped out the night before in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse, attended the event. 
"It was a real exciting experience that showcased the school well," junior Dallas Frey said. "The 

ESPN announcers Rece Davis, Hubert Davis, Digger Phelps and Bobby Knight discus college basketball news in the Joyce Center. see GAMEDAYipage 3 


rompete inMidwesttourney 

By BECKY HOGAN 
News Writer 
Eleven seminarians from Old College and Moreau Seminary took a trip this weekend to Mundelein Seminary, north of Chicago, to compete in the eigth annu­al basketball tournament between nine Midwest semi­naries called the "Mundelein Seminary Shootout." 
The team won three out of four games, and ended up winning the consolation bracket of the tournament. 
Sophomore and seminarian candidate Mike Palmer said the weekend is not just about basketball, but is also a chance to get to know other 
seminarians. 

"All the seminaries we play against are from the Midwest region ... and it's really great to have meals and socials together with other seminari­ans," Palmer said. "It's g,reat to have brotherhood with other [seminarians] and just fun to play some basketball. We are there to compete but to have fun as well." 
The 11 seminarians along with their supporters left for the tournament Friday and competed Friday and Saturday. 
Palmer said the team usu­ally includes seminarians both from Old College and Moreau Seminary, but this 
see SEMINARY/page 4 


Oub attracts tnetnbers, 
frntersentrepreneurship 
Society has grown from five to 150 students from all majors, backgrounds 
By ALYSSA MORONES 
News Writer 
When Notre Dame junior political science major Jaime Urquijo, attended his first EntreprPneurship Society meet­ing as a freshman, the club was comprised of barely more than five students. Just two years later, club meetings have an average attendance of over 150 students and the club continues to work to bring in more stu­dents of all majors. 
Notre Dame's Entrepreneurship Society was founded by Notre Dame senior and club co-president Mark Bennett during his sophomore year. 
His first step was to write a 32-page mission statement. "It was a little raw," Be1mett said, "and not all ofit worked." 
In spite of the club's initial rough start, Bennett continued to recruit talented and passion­ate students to help realize his dreams for the club's future. 
"Entrepreneurial leadership is a noble pursuit," Bennett said. "It can change lives and 
see CLUB/page 6 By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 

Although the art galler1es in the Moreau Art Center and the Student Center at Saint Mary's usually feature art by profes­sional, contemporary artists or students throughout .the course of the academic year, faculty members get the chance to show their talent once every four years. 
The faculty art exhibit will be exhibited in the Sister Rosaire and Little Theatre Galleries until Feb. 27. 
This exhibition features work from six members of the art department: Julie Tourtillotte, Bill Sandusky, Kelly Harrington, Sandra Ginter, Sheilah Wilson, and Marcia Rickard. 
Rickard is not a professional artist. Her art is based on the experience she gained while on a trip to Sri Lanka with other faculty members during a cease­fire in 2004. 
"We visited women's groups, orphanages, schools, etc. in both rebel and government territory," Rickard said. 'There is heavy in fighting in Sri Lanka now and news reports are sketchy, but clearly there are many killed and many refugees -probably some women that we met. My piece in the show is for them." 
Unlike Rickard, Harrington has been an artist for as long as 
see ARTIpage 4 
College to perform Monologues 


SMC shows fifth annual production 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
For the fifth year in a row, Saint Mary's College will present "SMC Monologues," a production based off Eve Ensler's "Vagina Monologues," but containing stories written by Saint Mary's students. 
Ensler's production brings women's sexuality to the forefront, and the "SMC Monologues" intend to do the same. 
"Students have wanted to facilitate discussion about topics relevant to women's sexuality because of the many students' commitment to the goal of raising aware­ness about issues related to sexual assault," said Catherine Pittman, Saint Mary's psychology professor and advisor to the SMC Monologues. 
Each story is submitted anonymously, and could be about anything from sexuali­ty to what it means to be a Saint Mary's woman. 
"At Saint Mary's College, we encourage women to speak up, to write, to be bold and adventurous and that's what the "SMC Monologues" is all about," Pittman said. 
The "SMC Monologues" allow Saint Mary's women to 
see COLLEGE/page 3 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, January 26, 2009 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Yo-YoMaand 

the Fun List 
I checked Yo-Yo Ma off my list a week ago, but now I've got to put him back on. 
One of the many perks of witnessing the swearing-in of the 44th president last Tuesday was getting to see the world­renown cellist play live in a quartet. 
The sounds of Ma's cello, of Itzhak Perlman's violin, 

Kaitlynn Riely 
Gabriela Montero's piano and Anthony 

Associate News 
McGill's clarinet float­

Editor
ed from the U. S. Capitol building to my spot standing across the Reflecting Pool last Tuesday. The John Williams piece, "Air and Simple Gifts," was the most beautiful com­position I had ever heard live. 
Or so I thought. 

Two days after I returned from Washington, the New York Times published a story revealing that the elegant notes I had heard were not traveling from the strings of Yo-Yo Ma's cello to my ears. 
Due to forecasts of cold weather on the day of the inauguration, the quartet had made a recording of their performance two days earlier at the Marine Barracks in Washington. They decided to use the record­ing on the day of the ceremony because the musicians feared intonation problems and cracked instruments or strings. 
The quartet played along with the record­ing, but only those near them could hear the live music. 
I heard only the recording. So Yo-Yo Ma goes back on my list, the inventory of fun things I want to do before I die. 
Checking off Yo-Yo Ma would have been huge. He's performing at a concert hall near my hometown in March, but tickets are already sold out. So he'll probably be on the list for a while: 
u See Yo-Yo Ma perform. Live. 
u Scuba dive 
u Run a marathon. 

u Complete a crossword puzzle. Without using the Internet. 
u Do a triathlon. 
u Write a book. 

u Beat the Graduate School team at Late Night Olympics water polo. u Swim with dolphins. u Call into Delilah's radio show with a true story of love and loss and a song request. 
u Be an extra in a movie. 
u Hike the Great Wall of China. 
u Live in a foreign country. 
u Plant/maintain a garden. 
u Sew something that I could plausibly wear. u Go to an inaugural ball. A real one. u Surf. u Have a cocktail with Maureen Dowd. u Go to Australia's Outback u Celebrate New Year's in Times Square u See the pyramids in Egypt. u Win trivia night at Legends. u Visit the Oval Office. u Meet the Dancing Matt guy from the YouTube videos. 
u Win an organized ping pong competi­tion. u Bike to work. u Beat my brother at chess. u Tan. u Be someone's Missed Connection on 
Craigslist. u Finish a work night at The Observer before midnight. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a reponing error, the arricled tided "220 NO stu­dents attend protest" in the Jan. 23 edition ofThe Observer said the final prayer was offered by Washington Archbishop Donald Wuerl. The prayer was actually oHered by Washington Auxiliary Bishop Barry C. Knestout. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE X-GAMES EVENT, AND wHY? 






Eric Owens  Jimmy Champlin  Ryan Belock  Kim Weisenberger  Jonathan Perez  
sophomore Dillon  senior Sorin  sophomore Alumni  freshman Howard  freshman Fisher  
"/ like skiing because the wipeouts are sweet."  "Tobagganing, because it's the every man sport."  "Half-pipe skiing because ofthe aerial acrobatics. "  "Snowboarding, because the tricks are cool. "  "/like the nordic skiing. "  


Boy, 14, impersonates policeman on patrol 
CHICAGO -A 14­year-old aspiring police officer donned a uni­form, walked into a Chicago police station and managed to get an assignment -patroling in a squad car for five hours before he was detected, police said Sunday. 
The boy did not have a gun, never issued any tickets and didn't drive the squad car, Deputy Superintendent Daniel Dugan said. 
Assistant Superintendent James 
TODAY 
a:: 
LIJ 
::c 
!;: 
LIJ 
3: 
...1 
~ 
<( 
(.) 0 
HIGH 20
...I LOW 11 

Jackson said the ruse was discovered only after the boy's patrol with an actual offic;er ended Saturday. Officers noticed his uniform lacked a star that is part of the regulation uni­form. 
Police said they were investigating how the deception went unde­tected for so long in what they described as a serious security breach. 
Woman arrested for overdue book 
INDEPENDENCE, Iowa -An Iowa woman has been arrested because she failed to return a library book. 
Thirty-nine-year-old Shelly Koontz was arrested Thursday night on a fifth -degree theft charge. She is accused of keeping "The Freedom Writers Diary," which she checked out from the public library in nearby Jesup in April. 
Police say the book ­which is about a high school teacher's effort to inspire students to write -is valued at $13.95. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
0. 
e.
***" 
* * * * 
*"· * 

HIGH 11 HIGH 19 HIGH 22 LOW 8 LOW 10 LOW 14 
IN BRIEF 

The Most Re-verend Archbishop Angelo Amato will give a lecture titled "Cathoiocism and Secularism in Contemporary Europe"today at 7:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
The Winter Career and Internship Fair will be held Wednesday from 4 -8 p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. The event is free and open to students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross. 
Student government and the Off Campus Council are hosting ... an information session Wednesday on alcohol, partying and the law l"rom 8-9:15 p.m. in room 101 of DeBartolo Hall. The event is free. 
The Pi Tau Sigma Mechanical Engineering Honorary Fraternity is sponsoring a blood drive Thursday from 10 a.m. to 
4:30 p.m. in room 217 of Cushing Hall. 
The film "Baghdad High" will be screened Friday at 9:30 p.m. in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. This is a free but tick­eted event. Call the Ticket Office at 574-631-2800 to reserve tickets. 
RecSports and the Department of Athletics will host Late Night Olympics XXIII Saturday from 6 p.m. to 2 a.m. Sunday. Events will be held in the Joyce Center (through Gate 3) and Rolfs Aquatic Center. Money raised will go to St. Joe County Special Olympics. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 


~ 
HIGH 31 LOW 19 LOW 13 

Atlanta 55 I 45 Boston 24 I 9 Chicago 17 I 9 Denver 18 I 3 Houston 68 I 63 Los Angeles 61 I 42 Minneapolis 9 I -8 New York 31 I 20 Philadelphia 33 I 22 Phoenix 65 I 44 Seattle 39 I 32 St. Louis 24 I 17 Tampa 75 I 57 Washington 37 I 25 
---------------------------------., 
Monday, January 26, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Ganteday 
continued from page 1 
turnout by the student body was definitely the most surprising part for me." ­
Students began filing into the Joyce arena from the Fieldhouse at 9 a.m., and the general public was admitted at 10 a.m. Numerous ESPN personalities commented on the size and enthusiasm of the Notre Dame student body. Students also said they could feel the excitement in the air. 
"We have great school spirit, probably the best in the country, but maybe some people on the basketball side didn't know that," Frey sitid. "And I think that myself and a lot of Notre Dame students took pride in the fact that we looked good and we had so many people out there for the Saturday-morning show." 
Junior Doug Hummon said Saturday's festivities made the day feel more like a home foot­ball game than basketball game. 
"It was electric, really," he said. "The atmosphere was great. I've never seen that kind of support outside offootball." 
When the show started at 11 a.m., hosts Rece Davis, Bob Knight, Jay Bilas, Hubert Davis and former Irish basketball coach Digger Phelps discussed college basketball news from around the country and previewed Saturday's slate of games. The crowd cheered for Phelps and booed the Duke graduate Bilas who earlier in the week said the Joyce was not an intimidating venue to play in as an opposing team. Phelps also played the part of cheerleader, revving up the crowd starting several cheers. 

"It was fun having Digger [Phelps] pumping everyone up," Hummon said. 
The student body also respond­ed to the analysts' on-air com­ments. When one of them sug­gested that North Carolina for­ward Tyler Hansbrough might be the toughest player in college basketball, the crowed responded with boos and a chant of "Harangody," in support of Notre Dame center Luke Harangody. 
Fans were also allowed to make signs to hold up behind the hosts during the show. Some signs were pro-Irish, such as _one that said "McAlarney's Shooting School Open for Business," but many were anti-Connecticut. _one such sign said, "Thabeet = Gody's Pre-dinner Snack," in reference to Connecticut center Hasheem Thabeet, who months ago said that Harangody was "not that tough." 
Frey said his favorite sign was one that said "Fighting for 46," which referred to the Irish home winning streak that ended at 45 on Saturday night. 
"Even though it ended at 45, I think our team was fighting for 46, and the fans were certainly fighting for 46," Frey said. 
Towards the end of the show, a Notre Dame student was given the chance to win $17,500 from State Farm on a half-court shot. Unfortunately, the shot fell short of the hoop. 
Students said that Gameday's presence on campus only ampli­fied the excitement for what was already a big-time match-up. 
"It increased the atmosphere by getting people exciting earlier in the day and really building it up and hyping it up as much as possible," Frey said. "Even 20 to 25 minutes before tip-off when we were chanting 'Let's go, Irish', it seemed like we were at a fever pitch and ready to go." 
Even though the Irish lost, 69­61, in Saturday night's game, stu­dents said they would still look back on the Gameday experience with fond memories. 
"I mean it does matter that we lost," sophomore Kelly Pierson said. "But I'll still remember it as a good experience." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
to the campus community," 
Pittman said. 
One goal of the mono­


College 
continued from page 1 logues is to provide a chance for women to share private issues, and discover 
share their experiences. that many others have Students are shared some able not only of these expe­to write a "For the last four riences. story to be "Sometimes it
years, women on our 
presented in is difficult for
campus have created 
the perform­women to 
ance, but are and performed our share their also able to own monologues. It is a concerns, and portray the as a result,
powerful approach to
characters in women often 
the mono­addressing the topic of believe they logues. women's are alone in Pittman said. their ques­
sexuality."
"In the tions or con­S M C cerns," 
Monologues,' Catherine Pittman Pittman said. we ask SMC psychology professor " W h e n women who women take are members the risk to of the Saint Mary's College share their experiences, community to share their they are often surprised at own expe-the number 
riences," of people she said. "We want the issues who have 
"For the discussed in the SMC had similar 
last four experiences
Monologues to be 
ye.ars, or who want 
women on current, compelling and to provide 
our cam­of concern to the support and pus have concern."
campus community." 
created Women and per­interested in formed our Catherine Pittman performing own mono­SMC psychology professor the SMC 
logues. It is Monologues 
a powerful • approach to addressing the topic of women's sexuality." 
New monologues are sub­mitted each year for the performance. 
"We want the issues dis­cussed in the SMC Monologues to be current, compelling and of concern 
can contact Becki Faunce at rfauncO1@saintmarys.edu. The performance will be held in February, ~tlthough no specific date had been set yet. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithOl@saintmarys.edu 


Do you consider the word "motivated" an understatement? We th<)ught S<)* 
It's time for your hard work to pay off within an organization that was once again named one of BusinessWeek's SO Best P!aces To Launch A Career. We offer a collaborative, inclusive culture. With customizable careers, professional development, and benefits. And a commitrnent to community, the environment. and making time for family. It's your fuhln:>:. Hovy far wH! you lake it? 
~ Foran electronic information packet, text "NOTREDAME" to 78573. ~ Visit us on the web at deloitte.com/us/notredame. 
Delcitte LLP ar:d its subsidiaries ar~ a11 equal opportunity ef!plcyer. 
Abc:Jt DeJoitte 

Deloitte r~fer~ to OnE! or mme-oi DHioittl? Tou<he T1)hrna:-su, a Swiss Ve~ein. and its nf!twork. of member finn~ ead~ cf whkh is~ le-gally SE!paratP. and independent entity. Please see \'\l'v..w.de:o:tte.comiabout for a detallP.d destription ct the legal stru-cturP. ci Delc·itte Tc~1che Tohmatsu a11d its 
Deloitte.
member firms. Please ~e w..v·w.delo!tte.ccm!t:s/about fer a detaiied description of the iegai strw:ture of Deloitte !..lP and its subs:d:aries. 
Copt•nght e 2008 Deloitte Development LlC. All nghts reserved 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, January 26, 2009 

Se01inary 
continued from page 1 
year there were 10 players from Old College and only one from Moreau Seminary. 
" ... this year we had lost many of our older players to ordination or ministry, so every player except one on this year's team was from Old College," he said. 
The team's only loss was its second game against St. Meinrad Seminary from St. Meinrad, Ind., which bumped the Moreau Seminary team to the consolation bracket. 
Palmer said that having a young team this year made it more difficult to compete against other teams in the tournament. 
"This year we knew it was going to be hard because our team was pretty much all undergrads, and a lot of the teams had graduate seminar­

ians," Palmer said. 
The Moreau Seminary Team defeated the Immaculate Heart of Mary Seminary from Peoria. Ill. in its final round, winning the consolation braeket. 
Last year, the Moreau Seminary team placed second 

bring a few more seminarians on the team. Our overall goal is to play better, but still have fun," he said. The Moreau Seminary team has competed in the tourna­ment since it 
•began eight years ago, and won the tour­nament in 2002, 2003 and 2004. 
Palmer said the seminari­ans practiced in preparation for the tournament in the months leading up to the com petition. 
"Usually we start practicing a couple months in advance ... we practice at Moreau Seminary gym," he said. 
Palmer said the team's starting lineup included jun­ior Kevin Wack, senior Thomas Haan, junior Tim Mouton, sophomore Bob Dunsmuir and graduate sem­inarian Nick Senz. 
Moreau seminarian Mike Seidl coached this year's team. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 
Art 

continued from page 1 
she can remember. Her series of acrylie paintings is titled "Motherhood: A Heality Cheek." Her paintings, a result of a Saint Mary's Faculty Researeh Gr·ant Harrington received in 2007, represent the 
fears and vul­nerabilities that mothers experience. 
"My main message, I suppose, is that it is okay for mothers to feel and express emo­tions other than content­edness and joy in raising children," Harrington said. "It is my hope that my work express­es experiences fibers, drawing, video and silkscreen. has had her art exhibited on campus. This year, Tourtillottc is exhibiting prints that combine silksereen with digital inkjets that were inspired by Wallace Stevens' poem, "13 Ways of Looking at a Blackbird." 

Sandusky and Wilson are the other two members of the fac­ulty exhibited in the gallery. 
"It is my hope that my work expresses experiences that are universal even ifnot spoken of, and therefore, acceptable in the everyday physical and emotional life ofa mom. 
Kelly Harrington SMC art professor 
Sandusky's art is in two .disci­plines, both painting and printmaking. Wilson's part of the exhibit dis­plays her pho­tography. 
Another facul­ty art exhibition is opening tomorrow in Hammes Gallery titled "My Tomorrowland is an Empty Space," that fea­tures artwork created by Krista Hoefle. 
ings, and 
"Next year we definitely hope to improve our standings, and bring afew more seminarians on our team." 
Mike Palmer sophomore 
in the Seminary Shootout The host of the tournament, overall, Palmer said. the Mundelein Seminary "Next year we definitely Lakers, won this year's 
hope to improve our stand-shootout overall. 
that are universal even if not spoken of, and therefore, acceptable in the everyday physical and mnotionallife of a mom." 
Ginter is another member of the faculty whose art is fea­tured in the exhibition. 
"My work deals with the ideas of youth, growth and the bonds that surface from both," Ginter said. Symbolic color and form suggosts play, but also seriousness, hinting at inno­cence, but also a sterile oddi­ty." 
This is not the first time Julie Tourtillolle, who teaches There are three disciplines dis­played in this exhibit: Sculpture-Installation, Video, and Electronic Media. 
"During my research leave, I investigated electronic meth­ods of making sound, light, video, and programmatically­based objects," Hoefle said, "so a predominate number of pieces in my exhibition feature some technological component. 
The two galleries are free and open to the public until February 27. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyO 1 @saintmarys.edu 






St.Thotnas Aquinas 
Faith, Inquiry &Community 
• 
President and Professor of Philosophy, University of Notre· Dame 

• 
Author of 


!(now ledge and Faith in Thomas Aquinas 
-t%1­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
saintmarys.edu 
Saint Mary's College • Notre Dan1e, Indiana College Student Center Lounge Wednesday, January 28 at 7:00P.M. 
Free and open to the public 






ORLD & NATION 
Monday, January 26, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE O:ssERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Drugs found in Indian stream 
PATANCHERU -When researchers ana­lyzed vials of treated wastewater taken from a plant where about 90 Indian drug factories dump their residues, they were shocked. Enough of a single, powerful antibiotic was being spewed into one stream each day to treat every person in a city of 90,000. 
And it wasn't just ciprofloxacin being detected. The supposedly cleaned water was a floating medicine cabinet -a soup of 21 different active pharmaceutical ingredients, used in generics for treatment of hyperten­sion. heart disease, chronic liver ailments, depression, gonorrhea, ulcers and other ail­ments. Half of the drugs measured at the highest levels of pharmaceuticals ever detected in the environment, researchers say. 
Ten killed in Turkish avalanche 
ANKARA -An avalanche slammed into a group of Turkish hikers on a trip to a remote mountain plateau on Sunday, dragging them more than 1,640 feet (500 meters) into a valley and fatal­ly burying 10. 
The members of a skiing and mountaineering club were taking part in an annual winter sports celebration on 7,200-foot (2,200-meter) Mount Zigana. Seventeen were hiking single-file when the avalanche swept into them. 
"We looked up and there was nowhere to run. The snow took us and dragged us along," 61-year­old Kasim Keles told reporters from his hospital bed. 
"The snow dragged me down into a valley before it stopped," Keles said. "My right hand was stuck beneath me, with my left hand I cleared my face; I began to breathe and called for help."Hamas seized control of Gaza from Fatah by force in 2007 and Fatah set up a rival Palestinian gov-
NATIONAL NEWS 

Pennsylvania fires destroy 15 homes 
COATESVILLE -The latest in a string of suspicious fires in this Philadelphia suburb tore through a block of row houses, damag­ing 15 homes, leaving several dozen people homeless and prompting city officials to declare a state of emergency. 
At least 30 arsons have been reported since the beginning of 2008, about half of them in the last three weeks. Police said the blazes may be part of a gang initiation, but there was no clear information who was committing the crimes or why. 
The latest fire was reported late Saturday at the rear of one house and quickly spread to adjacent homes in the Chester County community. 
"This is an arson, no question about it," City Manager Harry Walker said Sunday. 

Portland Mayor refuses to resign 
PORTLAND-The mayor of Portland, Ore., told city commissioners Sunday he will not resign despite calls for him to do so after he admitted he lied and asked a teenager to lie about their sexual relationship. 
Mayor Sam Adams publicly apologized this past week for lying early in his campaign about the relationship with an 18-year-old man in 2005. 
City Comissioner Randy Leonard told The Associated Press that Adams left him a phone message Sunday morning saying he had decided to remain in office. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Man run over by his own truck 
GREENTOWN -Indiana State Police say a rural Greentown man died after he was run over by his own unoccupied truck. 
Police say 78-year-old Bradley L. Tate had parked his pickup truck in his driveway about 50 miles north of Indianapolis and crossed the road to get his mail Saturday afternoon. 
The unoccupied truck then rolled back­ward across the road toward Tate. Police say he tried to stop the truck, but it rolled over him and dragged him about 15 feet before coming to rest in a field. 
Blagojevich will not participate in trial 

Illinois governor is aware of impending conviction but refuses to resign 
Associated Press 

SPRINGFIELD -If there's such a thing as a "normal" impeachment trial, the one that starts Monday in Illinois doesn't qualifY. 
The defendant, Gov. Rod Blagojevich, won't partici­pate. He'll be talking to Whoopi Goldberg and Larry King instead of facing the state Senate. And while the Democrat acknowledges his conviction is certain, he refuses to resign. 
Blagojevich (pronounced blah:GOY'-uh-vich) com­plains that the trial rules are unfair, but he and his lawyers didn't try to influence the rules as they were written or afterward. 
After weeks of near-silence, Blagojevich has begun an energetic public relations campaign, comparing himself to the hero of a Frank Capra movie and a cowboy being lynched for a crime he didn't commit. 
He told NBC's "Today" that when he was arrested on fed­eral corruption charges, he took solace from thinking of other jailed leaders -Nelson Mandela, Martin Luther King and Mahatma Gandhi. 
He also said his 5-year-old daughter, Annie, has asked whether he'll still be gover­nor on her birthday in April. 
"IfI were a betting man, I'd say I probably won't be," Blagojevich said, according to a transcript released Sunday. ring to "View" co-host. "This man mystifies me," state," Pagani said. "Whether "I think the fix is in and ... Legal experts see little ben­said Ann Lousin, a professor you like it or not, when a gov­they've decided essentially to efit to Blagojevich from boy­at Chicago's John Marshall ernor is in this kind of situa­do a hanging without even a cotting the trial while refus­Law School. tion, everything grinds to a fair trial." ing to resign. The decision The governor's decision to halt. There's only one issue 
The full "Today" interview means he'll still be leaving cling to office also surprises the capitol building can deal will air Monday, the same office soon, but only after Dean Pagani, former chief of with, and that's impeach­day the impeachment trial proceedings guaranteed to staff to Connecticut Gov. John ment." starts and Blagojevich is put him in a bad light. Rowland, who resigned in Resignation might even scheduled to appear on Senators, and thus the pub­2004 rather than be help Blagojevich with jurors "Good Morning, America," lic, will hear details of the impeached. in any future criminal trial, "The View" and "Larry King criminal charges against The stain of being convict­said one expert. Live." Blagojevich. They're likely to ed and removed from office "If I were his lawyer, I 
Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., hear recordings that alleged­would be far greater for would say, 'Why don't you said Sunday that Blagojevich ly reveal the governor talking Blagojevich than the stain of make yourself a little less should be defending himself about signing legislation in resigning, Pagani said. A res­offensive to people? Why not at the trial because the extra exchange for campaign con­ignation would allow make yourself a little more media attention won't tributions. And in addition to Blagojevich to claim he sympathetic?"' said Leonard impress the state senators simply removing Blagojevich, stepped aside for the good of Cavise, a law professor at who will be judging him. the Senate could vote to bar the state, not because he was DePaul University. 
"Barbara Walters is not on him from ever again holding judged unfit to hold office. Yet Blagojevich says that's his jury," Durbin said, refer-public office in Illinois. "It's unfortunate for the not an option. 

ISRAEL 

Gaza campaignseenas temporary sua:ess 
past eight years. Thousands have or a year, it's good. If it brings us 10 Associated Press exploded in this town of 20,000, trau­years, it's great. But we never forget matizing residents and damaging many that Gaza will always be our neighbor, 
SDEROT -Sderot's open-air market houses and businesses. Six people have and as long as Hamas is in control is bustling for the first time in a month, been killed and a few dozen wounded. there, we will be in danger," said David thanks to newfound quiet following The satisfaction here with the Israeli Buskila, the town's mayor. Israel's punishing offensive in the Gaza military's performance is coupled with Hagit Didi, a mother of three, left Strip. the despair of continuing to live in the Sderot six months ago because of the 
Many residents of this rocket-scarred shadow of violence. People see the rocket fire, relocating to the nearby town say they see the operation against recent offensive as a corrective after town of Netivot -only to find herself Hamas as a long-overdue military suc­the inconclusive, frustrating war in danger there when the range of cess -but also believe the good times against Hezbollah guerrillas in 2006, Hamas rockets increased. will be short-lived. and a stirring example of national "There won't be quiet here for long. 
"There is no victory here, only quiet," unity. How can you defeat people like this?" said Eli Asayag, 55. But they also see it as a successful she said. Her 8-year-old son has grown 
Sderot is less than a mile from Gaza, round in a match many expect will up with the rockets and has never slept a frequent target for the homemade continue indefinitely. anywhere but with her in her bed, Didi rockets from militants there over the "If this brings us a half-year of quiet said. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Monday, January 26, 2009 

continued from page 1 
c:mnge the world." 
lie does not like to refer to it as a business club. Instead, the club aims to instill in its member an e !1trepreneurial mentality. 
"We try to encourage non-busi­ness majors to join," Urquijo said. "We're looking for a diverse group of students with very different ideas and backgrounds. Anybody c rn be an entrepreneur." 
The club's leaders are looking to surpass Stanford and Oxford's Entrepreneurial Societies, both of '"'hich have more than 3,000 members. 
"We can learn from Oxford and Stanford, even just their recruiting structure," said sophomore Dominic Fanelli, who is in charge of recruitment for the club. 
Fanelli and other club members continue to recruit new members with their "road show," where they present the Entrepreneurship Society to various Notre Dame lec­1ure classes. 
The club currently undertakes tetween 40 and 50 projects and events per year. These inelude social entrepreneurial projects, such as their consulting and serv­iee projects, where club members give their opinions and advice to lJcal entrepreneurs. This gives students the opportunity to get basic hands on experience. 
The society is hoping to launch a national magazine called "Type­
F" 
"This would be used as a tool for ~ tudents to write and share their perspective and would be a valu­able tool for employers who want 1o know about our generation," Bennett said. 
Club members are given a chance to participate in Case Bowl, where groups research and give a presentation on a certain compa­

• ny. Freshman Kevin Ortenzio was 
one ofthis year's participants. "There are talented students here who compPte better than I do," Ortenzio said. "It's that eom­petitive atmosphere that drove me to become a part of this dub." 

Along with various projects, the club's leaders arranged CEO din­ners and keynote speakers to present the society with a short presentation and allow for ques­tions. One of these speakers was Tom Suddes, a Notre Dame alum­nus who has founded 19 compa­nies and raL'ied over a billion dol­lars for non-profit organizations. 
"We hope that these presenta­tions are inspiring," Bennett said. "They show the students that the people who accomplish remark­able things are normal people who lived a very similar lifestyle to them in college." 
The club's leaders hope to give students experiences they would­n't usually have -to give them the chance to meet people and make contacts and, by allowing students of varying majors to work together, to expose them to new perspectives. 
"Really our biggest locus is edu­cation," Urquijo said. "Giving stu­dent<; the opportunity to work in groups and ~ith South Bend entrepreneurs. 
Co-presidents Bennett and Urquijo knew their efforts had paid off when Notre Dame's Entrepreneurship Society was offered membership to the Entreprelliance, the premier inter­collegiate entrepreneurship net­work whose other members include Brown, Columbia, and Harvard. 
"That's whm1 we knew we'd arrived," Bennett said. "It was the elite asking us to join them." 
Bennett and Urquijo hope that through the Entreproneurship Society, they can convey their sense of idealist entrepreneurship. 
"We're working very hard to instill the same vision in others," Urquijo said, "to pass it along to the next group of leaders." 
Contact Alyssa Morones at amorones@nd.edu 
Lawmakers: casinoscanhelp budgets 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -A tell-tale sign America's chips are down: States are increasingly turning to gambling to plug budget holes. 
Proposals to allow or expand slots or casinos are percolating in at least 14 states, tempting legislators and governors at a time when many must deeide between cutting services and raising taxes. 
Gambling has hard-core detractors in every state, but when the budget-balancing alternatives lawmakers must consider include reducing edu­cation funding or lifting sales taxes, resistance is easier to overcome, political analysts said. 
"Who wouldn't be interested if you're a politician who needs to fund programs'?" said Bo Bernhard, director of research at the International Gaming Institute at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas-a govern­ment-funded program. 
While gambling has not been immune from the recession, it has held up relatively well compared with states' other revenue streams, such as income and sales taxes. This helps explain why past industry growth spurts have been pre­ceded by eeonomie downturns, experts said. 
For example, Hhode Island opmwd the country's tirst raco­tra(~k casino in 1992, and four states soon followed. More recently, states faced with sag­ging rovenues during the 2001 recession joined multistate lot­teries such as Powerball and gave more )noway to NativP American tribes seeking to expand their easinos. 
Analysts say the latest round of gambling initiatives are noteworthy in volume and ambition -a sign that the industry aims to capitalize on states' badly bruised economies. 
"From the gambling indus­try's point of view, this is their big chance," said Earl Grinols, an economies professor at Baylor University who special­izes in gambling. 
Ohio's casino advocates, including lobbyists working for Penn National Gambling Inc., are pushing a variety of large­scale development projects. In Georgia, a developer working with Dover Downs Inc., wants to transform a blighted section of downtown Atlanta with a 29­story hotel that would attract tourists with more than 5,500 video lottery terminals. 
The developer pitching the $450 million Atlanta project, Dan O'Leary, estimates $300 million a year in revenues would be funneled to the state, helping to pay for a popular lottory-funded seholarship that provides in-state college tuition for students with "B" averages. 
Even Hawaii, which along with Utah is onn of two states without a lottery or other form of legalized gambling, may con­sider a change. Aides to Gov. Linda Lingle, long an opponent of gambling, say she is open to discussing it as a way to dose the state's growing budget gap. 
Gambling propotwnts are quick to tout its bells and whis­tles: a $54 billion annual indus­try that employs more than 350,000 people, with most state gambling revenues com­ing from lotteries, racetracks and betting devices such as slot and video poker machines. Twelve states reap tax money from full-fledged casinos, and 23 others have casinos on Native American reservations, which generally do not pay taxes to states. 
But while advocates argue that casinos will help attract jobs and revitalize downtrod­den areas, religious groups and other critics fear gambling has a disproportionately negative impact on lower-income peo­ple, and does not provide long­term economic growth. 
They point to research that shows casinos attract crime, foster gambling addiction prob­lems and divert money from other businesses. 
"We've got gambling in 48 states, and you'd think if it worked, you wouldn't have budget problems or education problems," said Tom Gray, a field director for StopPredatoryGambling.org. 
Many of the gambling pro­posals seek to expand footholds in states that already allow lim­ited gambling. 
Kentucky's House speaker had proposed allowing video gambling terminals at the state's racetracks, and legisla­tors in New Hampshire, New York and Texas are seeing pro­posals this year to allow similar gambling terminals at their tracks. Casino advocates plan to push for casino-style gam­bling in hurricane-ravaged Galveston, Texas, as well. 
Lawmakers in other states are talking about reversing hard-fought crusades to tighten restrictions on gambling. 
Nine years after South Carolina lawmakers outlawed video poker, state Sen. Robert Ford is fighting to make it legal again. Since July, lawmakers have cut roughly $1 billion from the state's budget to address revenue shortfalls. 


THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Monday, January 26, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 8,077.56 -45.24 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,671 95 1,421 1,533,779,905 
AMEX NASDAQ 1 1477}9 ... ·•-41.58 

NYSE 5119S;.ll)$;;; -i~9~:;3.l;. 
S&P 500 831.95 -12.74 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 7,690;~;1 +2$.1\91 FTSE 100 (London) 4,052.47 -7.65 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) -+0.44 +0.36 83.11 GEN ELECTRIC CO (GE) -10.76 -1.45 12.03 BK OF AMERICA (BAC) +9.28 +0.53 6.24 CITIGROUP INC (C) +11.58 +0.36 3.47 

Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE + 1.08 +0.0280 2.6220 13-WEEK BILL -10.00 -0.010 0.09 30-YEAR BOND +2.52 +0.0820 3.3320 5-YEAR NOTE +0.99 +0.0160 1.6320 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +2.80 46.47 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +37.00 895.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.25 80.75 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 88.7800 EURO 1.2982 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2383 BRITISH POUND 1.3781 
IN BRIEF 

Governors seek con~ons from unions 
COLUMBUS -Governors across the nation are seeking significant concessions from pub­lic employee unions in hopes of h_elping to bal­ance their teetering budgets during the eco­nomic downturn. 
From Maryland to California, Ohio to Hawaii, governors have asked or ordered state workers to accept furloughs, salary reduc­tions, truncated workweeks or benefit cuts. They say the concessions are a better alterna­tive to further job losses in the face of record­breaking unemployment. 
Unions argue their members shouldn't be singled out and are even more vital in hard times -securing neighborhoods and prisons, educating children and providing social servic­es to growing numbers of citizens. 
In hard-hit Ohio, Democratic Gov. Ted Strickland has been a friend of the unions. But as the state's budget woes have intensified, he is asking unionized state employees to consid­er a 5 percent pay cut, a 35-hour workweek and the elimination of paid personal days and holidays, to save the state hundreds of millions of dollars. 

Hudson River plane hit a soft body 
WASHINGTON -A visual inspection of the battered, dented left engine of the US Airways jetliner that ditched in the Hudson River found no evidence of organic matter, but there are signs the plane hit a soft body, federal investiga­tors say. 
This engine and the right engine, which remained attached to the Airbus A-320 after the Jan. 15 ditching, will be shipped to their manu­facturer, CFM International, in Cincinnati for thorough examination by safety board investiga­tors. Both engines will be completely torn down to examine damage, and advanced equipment will be used to search for organic material not apparent during visual inspection. 
The pilot reported the plane hit a flock of birds shortly after takeoff from LaGuardia Airport which shut down both his jets. 
National Transportation Safety Board investi­gators said Saturday they visually examined the left engine after it was finally pulled 65 feet from the river bottom but saw no evidence of organic material. 

Lobbyists skirt Obama's earmark ban 
Interest groups finding ways to avoid ban, continue giving money to projects 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON­President Barack Obama's ban on earmarks in the $825 billion economic stim­ulus bill doesn't mean inter­est groups, lobbyists and lawmakers won't be able to funnel money to pet proj­ects. 
They're just working around it -and perhaps inadvertently making the process more secretive. 
The projects run the gamut: a Metrolink station that needs building in Placentia, Calif.; .a stretch of beach in Sandy Hook, N.J., that could really use some more sand; a water park in Miami. 
There are tltousands of projects like those that once would have been gotten money upfront but now are lef't to scramble for dollars at the back end of the process as "ready to go" jobs eligible for the stimulus plan. 
The result, as The Associated Press learned in interviews with more than a dozen lawmakers, lobbyists and state and local officials, is a shadowy lobbying effort that may make it difficult to discern how hundreds of billions in federal money will be parceled out. 
'"No earmarks' isn't a game-ender," said Peter Buffa, former mayor of Costa Mesa, Calif. "It just means there's a different cials, governors and state earned the congressional the earmarks system way of going about making and local agencies that will spending committees a new acknowledge that specifYing sure the funding is there." choose the projects. nickname: "The Favor projects upfront offers some 
It won't be in legislative "Somebody's going to ear­Factory." measure of transparency. language that overtly sets mark it somewhere," said Obama, who campaigned "We hate earmarks, but at aside money for them. Howard Marlowe, a consult­promising a more transpar­least it's a way of tracking That's the infamous practice ant for a coalition working ent and accountable gov­where influence is had," known as earmarking, to preserve beaches. ernment, is advocating a said Keith Ashdown of the which Obama and Lobbyists are hard at system that will eventually watchdog group Taxpayers Democratic congressional work figuring out ways to let the public track exactly for Common Sense. "There leaders have agreed to nix grab a share of the money. where stimulus money goes is a challenge now that proj­for the massive stimulus fortheir clients, but the new through an Internet-pow­ects will be added behind package, expected to come rules mean they're doing so ered search engine. In addi­closed doors without a up for a House vote this indirectly -and sometimes tion, Democratic lawmakers paper trail." week. in ways that are impossible have devised an elaborate Indeed, some lawmakers 
Instead, the money will be to track. oversight system, including hearing from local groups doled out according to Congressional earmarks a new board to review how say they're doing their own arcane formulas spelled out have had a bad name since the money is spent. lobbying of governors and in the bill and in some cases the 2004 scandal that sent But none of that will hap­state and local officials who based on the decisions of superlobbyist Jack pen until after the bill could have say-so over the Obama administration offi-Abramoff to prison and becomes law. Even critics of funds. 


Gambling used to stimulate economy 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA -A tell-tale sign America's chips are down: States are increasingly turning to gam­bling to plug budget holes. 
Proposals to allow or expand slots or casinos are percolating in at least 14 states, tempting legisla­tors and governors at a time when many must decide between cutting services and raising taxes. 
Gambling has hard-core detrac­tors in every state, but when the budget-balancing alternatives law­makers must consider include reducing education funding or lift­ing sales taxes, resistance is easier to overcome, political analysts said. 
"Who wouldn't be interested if you're a politician who needs to fund programs?" said Bo 
Bernhard, director of research at the International Gaming Institute at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas-a government-funded pro­gram. 
While gambling has not been immune from the recession, it has held up relatively well compared with states' oth~r revenue streams, such as income and sales taxes. This helps explain why past indus­try growth spurts have been pre­ceded by economic downturns, experts said. 
For example, Rhode Island opened the country's first race­track casino in 1992, and four states soon followed. More recent­ly, states faced with sagging rev­enues during the 2001 recession joined multistate lotteries such as Powerball and gave more leeway to Native American tribes seeking to expand their casinos. 
Analysts say the latest round of 
gambling initiatives are noteworthy · in volume and ambition -a sign that the industry aims to capitalize on states' badly bruised economies. 
"From the gambling industry's 
point of view, this is their big 
chance," said Earl Grinols, an eco­
nomics professor at Baylor 
University who specializes in gam­
bling. 
Ohio's casino advocates, includ­
ing lobbyists working for Penn 
National Gambling Inc., are push­
ing a variety of large-scale devel­
opment projects. In Georgia, a 
developer working with Dover 
Downs Inc., wants to transform a 
blighted section of· downtown 
Atlanta with a 29-story hotel that 
would attract tourists with more 
than 5,500 video lottery terminals. 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, January 26, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
Does post-partisanShip mean 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, lN 46SS6 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 


the end of liberal arts? 
Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER Jay Firzparrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harrer 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL fNFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631.4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631.4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudenrs ofthe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe adminisrration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. Tb:e free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be·signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in Chief Chris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 l-4000) is publi$hcd Monday through Friday ~CX'pt dwing exam.and vacuion txriods. A subscription w Th~ O~rvcr .i$-$100 for Oil( acadcmk year; $55 for one seme~re:r. 
The Observer is ·published at: POSTMASTER 

014 Somll Dining Hall Send address corrections to~ 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0n9 TheOhserver 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 179 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notte Dame, IN ~'556-0779 
The Ob.~rver is a memhe:r ofthe AMuciated Press. AU reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Change, having come to Washington, now seems poised to redr~w the aca­demic landscape as well, and humani­ties scholars are worrying once again about the future of their discipline. Last Monday, Stanley Fish of the New York Times argued that higher education, driven by popular and administrative demand, is shifting irrevocably toward giving students useful, work-appli­cable skills and away from the "determined inutili­ty" of the humani­ties. The very next day, newly-minted President Barack Obama promised to "transform our schools and colleges and universities to meet the demands of a new age." And since then, gradu­ate students and untenured faculty in the humanities began a new bout of soul-searching, wondering whether the life of the mind that they had signed up to live would be around by the time they reached their own professional maturity.. 
Publishing and rebutting pre­mortems of humanistic scholarship has almost become its own academic field. Critics on all sides suggest that schol­ars in the humanities are incapable of communicating the relevance of their work to anyone outside of their field, · that the American public is as too anti­intellectual to understand the humani­ties' value or that the liberal arts are simply incapable of being defined in terms of public significance. Whether or not Fish and company have overes­timated the decline of the humanities (probably) and whether or not the lib­eral arts will ever return to their pre­modern prominence (probably not), what is clear is that they are in dire need of a better PR campaign. 

In his inaugural address, President Obama talked about the nation's need not just for a new physical infrastruc­ture, but also a new digital one. Maybe the humanities need a similar electron­ic shot in the arm. No matter how irrelevant to most people's lives the most esoteric branches of physics, astronomy, math and so on are, their practitioners can still generate a lot more excitement-measured in terms of media attention, research dollars and general academic influence ­than all but the most famous philoso­phers or literary critics. Despite their shared potential for "inutility," howev­er, the humanities have not been any­where near as innovative as the hard sciences in the past few decades, espe­cially when it comes to integrating technology and computers with their research. ' 
Take the field of history, for example. Outside of their own field, historians feel the most comfortable borrowing from, and claiming to understand, other liberal arts -most notably liter­ary theory and postmodernism in the 1960s and beyond. Beyond that, histo­rians will occasionally double-dip in social science fields such as archaeolo­gy, anthropology, or medicine, with varying degrees of success and sensi­tivity depending on the particular area of study. By and large, however, histo­rians and scientists refuse to learn the particulars of each others' fields and are content to claim mutual unintelligi­bility. When it comes to technology, their record is even worse. As early as the 1950s, several prominent histori­ans predicted that future generations of historians would need to know pro­gramming in addition to the traditional tools of historical inquiry. Since then, while scientists have developed ·or adapted programs and programming languages from MATLAB to the uncountable thousands of proprietary ones for their own projects, historians have not shown very many signs of technological life. At most they simply use, or lend their expertise to, projects developed by libraries, companies and foundations, such as JSTOR, EndNote or Google Books. 
In short. historians opted for the path of least resistance, taking the lin­guistic but not the scientific (or compu­tational) turn, and by doing so have decided that they would simply benefit from, but not help advance, the Information Age. Instead of trying to use and develop technology on their own, they wait for others to develop technology and point out its usefulness to the academy. Instead of expanding the horizons of their field outside of the humanities, they hold the discipli­nary line. And so they continue to practice their craft in the same way that they have since the nineteenth century, even though the public no longer holds nineteenth century aca­demic interests or nineteenth century expectations for its intellectual com­munity. The price they are paying is apathy among the public, the academy at large and you, their students (and except for majors, how many among you would say that you would priori­tize your humanities requirements above all your other classes?). 
It may very well be the case that the humanities are in danger of total obscurity, and certainly purely human­istic studies are not ever going to be as privileged as they once were. But the problem is not that scholars of liberal arts are any less relevant than some scientific fields; it is simply that they alone in the academy have refused to reinvent their disciplines and restate their appeal for the 21st century in any significant way. Until they do so, the humanities may as well accept their reputation as an academic dinosaur. 
Darryl Campbell is a second-year Ph.D. sJ,udent in History. He can be contacted at dcampbe6@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Kaitlynn Riely Dan Murphy Becky Hogan Laura Myers Who do you think will win Irena Zajickova Chris Masoud the Super Bowl? 
"The past empowers the present, 
Graphics Scene 
and the sweeping footsteps 

Andrea Archer Analise Lipari 
Arizona Cardinals leading to this present mark 
Viewpoint the pathways to the future." 
Pittsburgh Steelers 
Lianna 
Mary Catherine Bateson
Brauweiler 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at 
cultural anthropologist

www.ndsmcobserver.com 

THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Monday, January 26, 2009 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dangers of denying fair trial 
With regard to Nathan Furtado's Jan. 23 letter titled "Objectivity, please," I agree with his main point that "objectivity is a cornerstone of journalistic integrity" and that The Observer should strive for it. However, I cannot agree with another, more subtle point made in his letter, in which he worries about "the dangers of providing unrepentant terrorists with civilian tri­als." 
1cannot imagine that he has been reading objective journalism if he actually believes a statement like that. Under the Constitution. all citizens are granted the right of habeas corpus, which means the right to a fair trial. This was said by Thomas Jefferson to be "[one of the] essential principles of our government." And yet, since the beginning of the "War on Terror," we have denied this right to assumed enemy combatants. There is no proof needed to .i_mprison these individuals and they do not have the right to an attorney or trial. 
Mr. Furtado-, if you are so sure that everyone in Guantanamo Bay is guilty of terrorism, why are you unwilling to grant them a trial to which we as citizens have the right? Surely the courts will prove them guilty as well. The truth is that while a number of the prisoners in Gitmo are terrorists, others are not. Many are only guilty of being Arab and in the wrong place at the wrong time. I think it would be disingenuous for us to call America "the land of the free" if we were to continue to leave the freedom of these individuals up to the discretion of an anonymous few. 
"The dangers" that Furtado associates with extending our rights to those we hold captive in • Cuba pale in comparison to the dang~rs that will arise if we do not, such as the risk of dishon­oring the document that gives our country integrity and moral grounding. In his inaugural address, President Obama stated that "we reject as false the choice between our safety and our ideals," which he corroborated by signing the order to close Guantanamo Bay. I hope that Mr. Furtado may also see that those two objectives do not have to be mutually exclusive. 
Lucy Geglio 
sophomore 
Farley Hall 
Jan.'23 

Our big-eyed, bushy-tailed 
The winter months are well upon the students of Notre Dame. Snow falls incessantly, faces . disappear under mounds of scarves and campus squirrels run rampant. Some of my peers have suggested that the squirrels are simply poor, lost students; mutated victims of punish­ment via mysterious experiments in the depths of the radiation building. Some more astute sci­ence majors, however, can see the root of the problem: a classic case of an ecosystem imbal­ance. Overrun with noisy, hormonal class-goers, the squirrels have turned to violent revolt in an attempt to reclaim their ground. Joggers are attacked, muffins are stolen and nuts are thrown in the path of innocent wanderers in these daily acts of aggression. Some more desper­ate members of the squirrel cause have resorted to suicide missions, hurling themselves beneath the wheels of unsuspecting bicyclists. These acts of aggression are alarming and can­not stand. As a strictly entrepreneurial strategy, I know that souvenir squirrels would sell faster than monogrammed Snuggies. I fear, however, that such an exploitation of a group of creatures would only further disrupt their communities and increase their anger. 
The best and only solution to our problem is to work with nature, not against it. Students: Take action now to amend the DuLac dorm room pet clause to include not only "non-~arnivo­rous fish," but "locally displaced squirrel refugees" as well. Squirrels need homes, too. 
Kirsten Adam freshman Welsh Family Hall Jan. 22 


Uphold Constitution 
Here at Notre Dame, it is currently rather unfashionable to express an opinion on subjects other than football, hot girls or pop cultural phenomena such as "J*zz in my Pants." Being at heart a timid young man, overly susceptible to peer pressure, I am naturally inclined to censor myself on a great number ofjust such socially unacceptable subjects. Further. my reputation as an easygoing man-about-town with a weakness for the fairer sex is at stake. Why compromise my carefully constructed persona by revealing myself to have thoughts and interests deeper than getting drunk and hooking up with girls on the weekends? 
Unfortunately, a letter one Nathan Furtado wrote to The Observer has so offended the part of my brain that is responsible for thinking that I cannot help revealing myself to have political opinions. I know that expressing such opinions is about as attractive to girls as a piece of spinach lodged between the front teeth. Therefore, I must respectfully request that any hot girls, or girls in which I have a prurient interest, stop reading this letter. Immediately. 
Mr. Furtado, the indirect denial of the existence of innocents at Guantanamo by speaking of the "unrepentant terrorists" lodged there represents more spin than the most biased liberal media outlet could possibly offer. Unless you've been living under a rock, you can­not be unaware that: a) Guantanamo has innocents, and b) we've been torturing them. And unlike controversies over whether the tax rate on the top tax bracket should be 35 percent or 39.6 percent, the question of whether or not torturing a few innocent people is okay is not open to debate. By the way, the reason people call Barack · Obama a socialist? He favors 39.6 percent. And what exactly are "the dangers of providing unrepentant terrorists with civilian tri­als"? Even the Nazis got habeas corpus. No matter which way you slice it, holding terrorists publicly accountable for their crimes is a hell of a lot better than torturing them. 
I find it hard to believe that we find ourselves in such a state of emergency that we can cavalierly dispense with the basic civil rights in the Constitution; I haven't exactly seen any bombs dropping over the Sears Tower or the Dome. And before you tell me that it was the Bush administration's hard-line stance on torture that has prevented further terrorist attacks, I fail to see why people who are not afraid of death would be deterred by the threat of a little waterboarding, a few electrified nipple clamps, or (gasp!) watching books get flushed down toilets. 
The real partisans here, Mr. Furtado, are not the law professors who applauded the closing of what represents at the very least the worst publicity the US has received since Vietnam. They are people like you who, through spin and distortion, handwave away or out­right deny cold, sober facts like the existence of tortured innocents in Guantanamo, global warming and evolution. Married to their the­ories of the way the world should work, they fail to take into account the way the world does work; and the sorry state of our economy and reputation at home and abroad is what we have to show for it. 
That's the end of my rant. I implore. my harder-partying peers, who find themselves unencumbered with the baggage of an intellectual life when chatting up the carefully bronzed women of this campus, not to judge me too harshly; and I sincerely hope that the girls can overlook my transgression of propriety and continue to see me as an easygoing, devil-may-care sex object. 
Brooks Smith sophomore Stanford Hall Jan. 24 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

~--------·----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-~ ..~.------------­

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 10 
Monday, January 26, 2009 
·~.··· 

",;''tlrt'¥1·· 

SZThfON RVZNER 
Sceile Writer 
The nominations for this year's Academy Awards emerged last week and it seem<> that the criticism sUITounding the selections is significant­ly more present than in recent years past. Best Picture nominations went to many deserving films, aJbeit films that everyone expected to gar­ner .nominations. Films such as "Milk" or "Frost/Nixon" could be nominated for Osca.rs sim­ply because of their trailers, historical dran1as, great performances, and successful directors. What the academy needs is to reinvigorate the film fan, to reform the interest in movies that seems to be on a decline. 
In spite of its flaws, "Benjamin Button" was put together extremely well. The artistic aspect of the film was excellent, and the technology used to make Brad Pitt age in reverse was stunning. "Benjamin Button" was also the most nominated film, and it gained nominations in evecy major category. Instead of stroking the collective ego of the academy community they should reward the films that teach, the actors that emote, directors who look outside of the standard awards scope and produce a film that is unique, memorable, and challenges the audience. "Slumdog Millionaire" and "Milk" are the only films that were nominated this year that brought something different R!ld new to the table. The remaining nominees are a film about the holocaust, 'The Reader," a love story drama, "Benjamin Button," and a historical drama, "Frost/Nixon." No doubt all films of quality, but not films of substance, or ot'lasting significance. 
The films that left out of any contention were "The Dark Knight," "The Wrestler," and "Gran Torino." Take "The Dark Knight," a film iliat was taken very seriously publicly, was hailed by crit­ics, and, above all, surpassed every expectation and elevated the superhero genre. Still, there were no nominations for the dire<tor, Christopher Nolan, who masterfully crafted iliis epic contribu­tion, no doubt a film tllat will be talked about for years to come. Despite memorable performances, the only significant nomination for the film was a supporting actor nod to Heath Ledger. Heath Ledger was a good tllird of ilie film. if not half, and yet he is only given a supporting actor nomi­nation. 
"The Wrestler" was snubbed too. The director, 
,Darren Aronofsky ("Requiem for a Dream," "The Fm.mtain,") took a chance easting Miekey Rourke. It wasn't going to be the box office smash it could ' have been if Nicholas Cage had remained in the role, but it was meant to be a comeback film for the motivated and talented Mickey Rourke. It was a labor oflovc and tllis is obvious, but appllf­ently not obvious to the academy, which only nominated Hourke for best actor but left the film and director out of eontention. The academy also managed to over look the films musical merits, whieh are found in the original song by Bruce Springsteen written for the film. · 
"Gran Torino," Clint Eastwood's latest attempt was also obviously a labor of love for the actor/directo1·. Despite a weak supporting cast, Eastwood was able to carry ilie ii.Im, and he was both entertaining 1md crafted an emotional tale of . gang violence and family. He did not receive any nominations for his memorable performanc~ despitd the popularity among fans and critics 
alike. 

As there are many snubs, there are also charming revelations and perhaps even hope for the Academy within some of their other nomina­tions. Robert Downey Jr., controversially played an· actor who changed the color of his skin to· effectively portray a black Vietnam War officer. . It's both entertaining and enlightening that Downey garnered a nomination for this very silly role. Though the nomination is nothing more ilian a novelty, it shows that perhaps the acade­my isn't simply a collection of out of touch retirees. 
The academy needs to branch m~t. It needs to reward those who innovate, those who craft with love, and iliose for who are simply joyful in fulfill­ing their film industry dreams. The purpose of a film should not be to collect various awards. A film should be madfl to entertain. to be enjoyed, to teach and to provide the artists of tllis world with a way to share their talent. The Academy Awards should reward those who achieve these goals, who go abo-.e and beyond great filmmak­ing. It should reward iliose who truly Jove their work. It should recognize iliose who realize iliat creating reels of cinematic brilliance is the only reward necessary. 
Contact Szymon Ryzner at sryzner@nd.edu. 
r 
THE OBSERVER
I 
I 
I 



I CENE
Monday, January 26, 2009 page 11 
but has the disadvantage of being forgotten in the rush. 
By MICHELLE FORDICE 
As David Frost, he has to contain Frost's natural extrava­Assistant Scene Editor 
gance in a way that is both true and relatable to the audience, and does so successfully. "Frost/Nixon" is also"FrosVNixon" deserves its Oscar nomination for Best a quiet commentary on. how we view history, especially Picture. The Academy Awards have for the most part for those of us who weren't alive in the 1970s to see thebecome associated with rewarding 'serious' films, but initial interviews. It is a ftlm based off of a play based on"FrosVNixon" delivers on all levels, producing not only . a set of interviews between two people doing their bestan introspective into a particular moment in time, but 
to spin the results in their favor. Peter Morgan, who 

·; President Nixon (Frank Langella). Frost is a mostly disre­
. also some wonderful performances; entertaining charac­
. wrote the original play and adapted it for mm. has made
ters, and an understated commentary on how we view 
a career out of capturing the spirit of historical events,
history. "FrosVNixon'' tells the story of the 1977 inter­
even if they are not wholly accurate. Writing the scripts
views between David rrost (Michael Sheen) and 
for films su~h as "The Queen," "The Last King of 
Scotland," "The Other Boleyn Girl," and "The Deal," he 
. ~"""""'-""' · spected British talk show host who tempts Nixon into his 
has learned to packaged and dramatize real life events. 
. first post-Watergate interview with a $600,000 appear-
Throughout the film, the characters talk about how the
;;.,,ilfj.i¥•J.• ance fee. He pays this out of his own pocket; since the audience will perceive the interviews and how important networks didn't trust him to -take on Nixon, famous for is that the people involved not only understand the histo­his stonewalling and political savvy, without supervision. 
ry o( what actually happened, but how to use television . ; Frost and his team of researchers seek to draw the apol­and the power of the perfect close-up. It's a. statement of.,;'f ogy out of Nixon that never came after his resignation as how history is captured and produced for us to consume,x·~ • president. Nixon is hoping to recover and reestablish 
at many levels. · 
. ,_. himself on the political scene. The film focuses in on these two men, capturing their strengths and their inse­curities. Nixon is painted as a man who is intelligent and genuinely concerned, but arrogant and incapable at FrosVNixon 
interacting socially with people. Frost, on the other hand, is a !>'Ocial butterfly and ladies man who can't quite leap 
Directed by: Ron Howard
the hurdle and become respected. In a way, this inter­view is the last chance for both men. The actors excelled 
Starring : Frank Langella, Michael 
in their roles, ·which they first developed for the stage play, also titled "FrosVNixon." Frank Langella, now nom­
Sheen, Kevin Bacon, Sam Rockwell, 
inated for Best Actor, is amazing as Nixon, capturing not 
Matthew Madadyen, Oliver Platt
only the man's physical characteristics but his personali­
• ty. Langella has the challenging task of portraying this smart, confident man at the lowest moment in his life, adrift and unsure of what to do with himself. 
Depending on taste, American audiences will recognize Michael Sheen from either "The Queen" or the Underworld series. Michael Sheen is both blessed and cursed to frequently be placed next to dynamite actors, like Langella and Helen Mirren. He excels in his roles, Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu. 
LJ-71i~.J?!!~.~JIM'-_s; ~~it ~ar~ 
~ · themselves, although the BBQ sauce brought redemptive flavor to the;, ~!eL~~,r~ES dish. The nachos with guacamole and salsa were fine but forgettable ­only for those in a nachos mood. The kitchen stepped itself up a bit for 
• , . ·· Three years ago, a good friend of mine was given a gift certificate for the entrees: a pulled pork sandwich with Cajun BBQ and the Ryne J \Between the Buns, just east of campus on 23. Besides "I can't believe Sandburger (ha, ha). The sandwich delivered, with big pieces of tender · you've never been there," I hadn't heard much of the sports bar closest pork and a soft hoa~e bun. My b~ggest pet peeve about Cajun flavoringtc 
dtto campus. We watched away games from our futons, our parents IS when cooks add JUSt pepper (give the culture some credit!), but this. took us to Rocco's and Parisi's, and three years went by without Location: was avoided in a runny but otherwise well-done BBQ sauce. using the gift certificate. In Spring 2008, my friend left Notre S th The burger, with sauteed onions, mushrooms, Monterey Jack .1803
' ~'·Dame with a diploma and the still-unused gift certificate. But last OU and cheddar cheeses, was big enough and good enough to . week, I finally paid Between the Buns an overdue visit, and I found Bend Ave. count as a solid sports bar burger. It won't win any awards, out exactly why a gift certificate is great for a student looking for a Prices: but it won't disappoint many customers. The fries weren't straightforward sports bar. M d l quite hot enough, but still managed to please. 
My (new} friend and I were quickly seated at the worst seat in ° erate Y I admit that although I have decent experience with coclklrtg whole place -.a badly lit corner booth. Our complaints were Cheap and dining, I am definitely a novice critic. I was reminded 
""'"e•na1c.-av quelled with the discovery of our booth's flat-screen 10 words or this by last week's blunder-ordering dessert. I figured if I ,.·TV, solving the problem of watching Tigers-Royals games once and less: was going to be writing a review, I should sample all courses, _ for all. Really, the only game on TV was a rerun of the last night's and the chocolate cake seemed simple enough. l could tell that 
Blues-Blackhawks game. Technically, we could have watched Step Sports bar, our waitress was joking when she said it would go well with 
, by Step reruns, but I was already under fire from our waitress for solid beer, but I had no idea how serious her sarcasm was. I knew I ,asking way too many questions for a non-critic, sports bar-goer. standard would either be pleasantly surprised, or reinforce an already !Our seating area was not too crowded, besides the walls of pen-evident rule. There was nothing wrong with the dish, but suf­fnants, jerseys and memorabilia, with enough pictures to keep any fare, fice it to say that I ate dessert at a sports bar so you don't 
-sport." die-hards interested and satisfied. excellent to. Our waitress easily convinced us to take advantage of the night's specials . Despite its few shortcomings. the restaurant's best feature isw drink special: $3 Miller, Coors and Killian's on Thursday nights. I that it supplies the regular bar food that it promises. The manyr .;should mention that the deal is misleading; $3 got us each an enor-Overall: 2.5/4 daily food and drink specials will please everyone at least some! 
. lmous 32-ounce mug of beer, volumetrically giving even the 'Backer of the time. It would be reasonable for two people to eat a full j ~;.;1a run for it.<; monP.y. In fact, a lot of things at Between the Buns reminded dinner with drinks for $30, as long as they find an agreeable special. J Yjme of the Linebacker: a smattering of townie clientele, excellent daily Odds are that anyone going to Between the Buns knows and will geL fl• specials, easygoing, local employees, and even an 80's rock soundtrack to what they want out of the sports bar, and the various specials and enter­.. boot. tainment arc an added bonus to the consistent fare. 
We started with nachos and the 'most popular appetizer, chicken strip-with "Original" Barbecue sauce. These starters were nothing spe­and I was more impressed by the nachos' chicken than the strips ContactJ.J. Rees at jrees@nd.edu. 

.·,...,.. 
_ 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, January 26, 2009 
NBA 

~Celtics rout struggling Mavericks to extend -win streak 
Los Angeles back to full strength with return ofFarmar, get easy victory over Western Conference foe San Antonio 
and 14 assists for the Celtics,
Associated Press 

who shot 65 percent in the first 
BOSTON -Paul Pierce, half; their 74 first-half points ·eached over and gave Kevin were a season high for them Garnett a hearty slap on the and the most allowed in any Jack as they laughed off the half for Dallas. The Mavericks :mggestion that now, with virtu­were wrapping up a four-game, lily everything going right, seven-day road trip with a mati­would be a good time to buy a nee against the defending lottery ticket. champs, and they looked like it. 
"I've got a lottery ticket "I don't know if that's the already," Pierce said after toughest scenario you could watching Garnett score 23 have, but it's close," Hivers said. points and help shut down Dirk "And we were just making Nowitzki to lead Boston to its everything." eighth straight win, 124-100 But coach Rick Carlisle said over the Dallas Mavericks. he thought his players were "That's my man. I knew him ready. when he had a jean jacket." "I thought they were really 
Reserve Eddie House also looking forward to the game," scored 23 -including seven 3-he said. "Boston was great, and pointers -and Ray Allen we needed to be better. We scored 20 of his 23 points in the haven't come across a team first half as the Celtics opened a that plays this effective defen­27-point lead and coasted to sively." their sixth straight double-digit Boston led by 15 after one victory. quarter by 12 with 9:10 left in 
Since a 2-7 slump that was the second before scoring 15 the worst of the new Big Three straight points -and 21 of 26 era, the defending NBA champi­-to take a 64-33 lead. ons have won eight in a row by Dallas cut the deficit back to an average of 16.2 points -27 points and Nowitzki was almost two points a game better going up for a layup when than their margin of victory in House stripped him of the ball the franchise-record 19-game under the basket and started a winning streak earlier this sea­fast break that ended with Allen son. feeding Garnett for a crowd­
"I just think we're playing pleasing alley-oop. together," Celtics coach Doc The Celtics hit 100 points with Rivers said. "In the 19-game 50 seconds left in the third a mismatch. high and Andrew Bynum had list, but he wasn't sure he'd winning streak, we were win­quarter. Garnett and Paul The win was the fourth 15 points and 11 rebounds for play the third-year pro. ning games but in my opinion Pierce, who scored eight points, straight and 14th in 17 games the Lakers. Gasol was the only "I ·was in his ear the whole we weren't playing Celtics bas­came out with 3:17 left in the for the Lakers (35-8), whose Los Angeles starter to play in time on the bench," Farmar ketball the way we established third quarter, and all of the .814 winning percentage is the the final period. said with a smile. "He would last year." Boston starters sat out the best in the NBA although the "A lot. Big," coach Phil have had to deal with that the 
Jason Terry scored 27 for the fourth quarter. defending champion Boston Jackson replied when asked whole game." Mavericks, who have won just The fourth quarter got chippy Celtics (37 -9) lead them by a how important Parmar's return Farmar entered the game late three of their last nine games. with one double-technical on. half-game in the overall stand­was to the Lakers. "It helps us a in the first quarter and played Nowitzki had 18, but the Dallas Leon Powe and James ings by virtue of their 124-100 lot. Jordan obviously has attrib­almost seven minutes in his first 7-footer shot 4-for-17 from the Singleton, and another that was victory over Dallas earlier utes-the speed and the quick­action since Dec. 19. He field and had the ignominy of called on the Mavericks bench. Sunday. · ness. Those are things that we returned late in the third period having his shot blocked by the Although TV cameras focused Backup point guard Jordan missed, that tempo change in and played another 101/2 min­6-foot-1 House in the second on owner Mark Cuban, who was Farmar returned after missing our game." utes. quarter. complaining, the technical was 18 games because of an injured Farmar wasn't expected to Tony Parker had 19 points 
House made seven of his first apparently against assistant left knee, and scored 14 points. play until Tuesday night against and six assists and Tim Duncan nine tries from 3-point range coach Mario Elie. I,uke Walton played in his third Charlotte or during the Lakers' added 15 points and eight and finished 7 -for-11, prompt­game after missing nine with an upcoming five-game road trip rebounds for the Spurs (29-14), ing his teammates to campaign Lakers 99, Spurs 85 injured foot, and Lamar Odom that begins Friday night in who lost for just the fourth time for him to be invited to the 3-After a month of playing (knee) and Sasha Vujacic (back Minnesota. in 18 games. Neither played in point shooting contest at the short-handed, the Los Angeles spasms) were also sidelined for "I've been feeling better for the fourth quarter. All-Star game. Lakers are back to full strength. brief periods. about a week now," he said. "I "We didn't play very smart in 
"I think he needs to go," If Sunday is an accurate indica­"We missed him a lot. He still had to go through a process the first half. gave them 15 min­Pierce said, though Allen was 4-tion, that means trouble for makes our second unit go, he's to make sure I was OK. No pain, utes of bonus and ended up for-5 from 3-point range and is every other NBA team. the motor," Bryant said of no swelling -it felt normal. I being down six," Spurs coach second in the league with 112 Kobe Bryant scored 22 points Farmar, who shot 5-of-7 includ­have been watching these guys Gregg Popovich said. "That was 3-pointers made. "He (House) is before sitting out the fourth ing 2-of-3 from 3-point range. play and I expect to be playing the tale of the first half: just too one of the quickest triggers in quarter, Pau Gasol added 16 "Now that he's back, everybody like this all the time. That's how many mental mistakes, foul­the league, as well as one of the points, five rebounds and four falls into their natural positions I am; I work hard and I'm dis­wise. In the second half, we most accurate. It would be nice assists, and the Lakers beat the and we are back clicking on all appointed when it doesn't hap­spotted them two quick 3s with to have a representative of the San Antonio Spurs in a matchup cylinders." pen." bad rotations and never caught team, if Ray doesn't do it." of the Western Conference's Reserve Trevor Ariza scored Jackson said before the game up after that. The game was 
Rajon Rondo had 13 points best teams that turned out to be 17 points to match his season that Farmar was on the active over at that point." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
613Lafayette Blvd., 6-bdrm & 2-Hold it now and watch the hoodwink How can I help it if I think you're bdrm houses. $350/person. Call As I make you stop, think funny when you're mad WANTED FoR RENT 574-876-6333. PERSONAL You'll think youre looking at aqua­
---------------man Trying hard not to smile though I VOLUNTEERS WANTED The Early Houses for the 09-10 school year. It's been one week since you I summon fish to the dish, although feel bad Childhood Development Center andersonNDrentals.com FREE looked at me I like the chalet swiss (ECDC), located at Notre Dame, is COMCAST! 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. I like the sushi cause its never I'm the kind of guy who laughs at a looking for volunteers. If you would ---------------Cocked your head to the side and touched a frying pan funeral enjoy spending 2 hours per week Why pay for 12 months? Now offer-Leasing fast said lm angry. Hot like wasabi when I bust rhymes reading to preschool children, build-ing 1 0-month leases. Big like leann rimes Cant understand what I mean? ing with blocks and playing gQ.mes, Bluegoldrentals.com Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or Five days since you laughed at me Because lm all about value please attend one of the Volunteer ---------------www.kramerhouses.com Bert kaempferts got the mad hits Well, you soon will Sign-Up Sessions on either 4-bdrm. 2ba just off campus. Starts ---------------Saying get that together come back You try to match wits Thursday, 1/29 or Friday 1/30 from 6/09. $850/mo. 574-250-7653. NOW LEASING. and see me. You try to hold me but 1 bust I have a tendency to wear my mind 3:00-5:00. Volunteering at ECDC is ---------------through on my sleeve a wonderful opportunity to support Unfurnished 4-bdrm, 3ba,fpl,sky-LAFAYETIE TOWNHOUSES. Three days since the living room Gonna make a break and take a the development of delightful chil-lights,2-car garage, FR, deluxe $350/PERSON. fake I have a history of taking off my dren and is an excellent addition to appl, avail. August Call 574-232-I realized it's all my fault, but could-ld like a stinkin achin shake shirt your resume. ECDC-ND is located 4527 or 269-683-5038. 3,4 & 5-BDRM UNITS. 2.5 BATHS. nt tell you I like vanilla, its the finest of the !Ia­on the ND campus on Bulla Road, ---------------vors Its been one week since you looked across from 0 Hara Grace Town homes at Dublin Village, Irish FREE INTERNET. Yesterday you'd forgiven me Gotta see the show, cause then at me Residences at the corner of Leahy Crossing, Wexford Place, Ivy Quad. youll know and Bulla. For more information 3 and 4 Bdr. Only a few left for NEWLY REMODELED. CALL 574-But it'll still be two days till I say I'm The· vertigo is gonna grow Threw your arms in the air and said please call 631-3344 or 09/10. CES Property Management 234-2436 OR WWW.KRAMER-sorry Cause it's so dangerous, you'll you're crazy www.nd.edu/--ecdcnd 574-968-0112 CESPM.info HOUSES.COM have to sign. a waiver 

OUND THE NATION
.... Monday, January 26, 2009 CoMPILED FROM. THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
MLB 

Division I Women's Basketball AP Top 25 
team  points  record  
1  Connecticut  1125  11-0  
2  North Carolina  1080  1H  
3  Oklahoma  1013  14-2  
4  Duke  958  15·1  
5  Baylor  948  15-1  
6  Auburn  895  18-0  
1  Louisville  867  18·1  
8  California  780  14-2  
9  TexasA&M  745  14-2  
10  Tennessee  686  14·3  
11  Stanford  673  13·4  
12  Maryland  622  15·3  
13  NOTRE DAME  601  15·2  
14  Texas  553  14·3  
15  Florida  445  17-2  
16  Virginia  442  14·3  
17  Vanderbilt  407  14·4  
18  Kansas State  366  15-1  
19  Ohio State  361  14·3  
20  Maris!  205  17-1  
21  Rutgers  182  10·5  
22  Florida State  143  16·4  
23  New Mexico  106  14-2  
23  Oklahoma State  101  12~4  
25  Pittsburgh  75  12·4  

Division I Men's Indoor Track and Field Preseason Rankings 
team points 
1 Oregon 132 2 Arizona Slate 130 3 Arkansas 129 4 Florida 126 5 Florida Stale 104 6 · TexasA&M 102 · ·7 Texas 82 8 LSU 79 9. louisville 73 10 BYU 71 11 Kentucky 69 12 Texas Tech 67 13 UN! 65 14 Baylor 59 15 Nebraska 56 . 16 South Carolina 55 17 Michigan 54 18 Kansas Slate 52 19 Arizona 51 20 Georgia 49 21 GeorgetowtJ 48 22 Boise State 47 23 Missouri 42 24 UCLA 41 25 Stanford 40 
Women's USFCA College Fencing Coaches' Poll 
team 
1 Penn State 
2 NOTRE DAME 
3 Ohio Slate 4 Columbia-Barnard 5 Harvard 6 Northwestern 7 Princeton 8 Temple 9 Penn 10 Duke 

points 
10 
9. 
8 7 
6 
5 4 3 2 1 



around the dial 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Louisville at Connecticut 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 
NCAA Men's Basketball 
Oklahoma at Oklahoma State 
9:00 p.m., ESPN 

Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Joe Torre takes some harsh swings at Alex Rodriguez, Brian Cashman and the New York Yankees in a book due out early next month, according to New York newspaper reports. 
"The Yankee Years" reveals that Rodriguez was called "A-Fraud" by his teammates and the star slugger developed an obsession with short­stop Derek Jeter, the New York Post and the Daily News reported Sunday. 
Torre, who managed 
the Yankees from J996­2007 before taking over the Los Angeles Dodgers last season, also says he was betrayed by Cashman, New York's longtime general man­ager, the Daily News reported on its Web site. 
Torre had a hot-and­cold rt:llationship with Yankees ownership, including George Steinbrenner, but Cashman was thought to be a consistent ally. The GM did not immediately return a phone message from The Associated Press. 
The book, co-authored by Sports Illustrated's Tom Verducci, is due out Feb. 3 and is being pub­lished by Doubleday. It is not a first-person· account but instead a third-person narrative by Verducci based on dozens of interviews with Yankees players and employees, ESPN .com reported, cit­ing an unidentified source. 
In the book, Torre also says Steinbrenner learned the manager had prostate cancer (during spring training 1999) before Torre even had a chance to inform him. 
Torre guided the Yankees to the postsea­son in all 12 years as manager and won four World Series titles from 1996-2000. But he was offered a one-year con­tract with a pay cut after the 2007 season, following New York's third straight first­round playoff exit. 
Torre turned down the proposal, saying he felt insulted by the offer of bonuses based on post­season performance. He soon agreed to a three­year contract with the Dodgers and led them to the NL championship series last year before they were eliminated by the Philadelphia Phillies, who went on to win the World Series. 

IN BRIEF Seton Hall stuns No. 
12 Georgetown 65-60 
NEWARK, N.J.-Seton Hall celebrat­ed its first Big East victory of the season on the same day it honored its team that almost won it all 20 years ago. 
"We talked for a couple of days with the kids about carving a piece of the pie for themselves," Pirates coach Bobby Gonzalez said of the hoopla surround­ing the return of the 1988-89 team that lost to Michigan in overtime in the national championship game. "We felt we could get one." 
They did by gutting out a 65-60 victo­ry over No. 12 Georgetown on Sunday to snap a six-game losing streak. 
"We scratched and clawed and fought and made it a blood-and-guts possession game. We were desperate for it and pulled it out," Gonzale:z; said. 'The '89 team brought some magic to the building and gave us a great atmos­phere." 
The reunion certainly didn't bring any long-range shooting success to either team. 
Federer throu2h to 
Aussie quarterfinals 
MELBOURNE, Australia-Two sets down. A 6-foot-5 Tomas Berdych rip­ping forehand winners and powerful serves down at him, keeping him on the defensive. 
Roger Federer's campaign to equal Pete Sampras' record 14 Grand Slam singles titles was in serious jeopardy in the fourth round Sunday at the Australian Open. 
On the court where women's No. 1 Jelena Jankovic was knocked out in the day's opening match and No. 3 Dinara Safina had to save match points before advancing, Federer also appeared in trouble. 
Not in his mind. 
"I wasn't thinking of losing, that's for sure," Federer said after reaching the quarterfinals with a 4-6, 6-7 (4), 6-4, 6-4, 6-2 win. "The finish line was still very far for Tomas. I knew that. 
"He pushed me to the limit. You've got to hang in there, there's no other solution." 
Mathew wins Brazil Cup 
tournament by 5 strokes 
RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil-Catriona Matthew, the 39-year-old Scot five months pregnant with her second child, won the inaugural HSBC LPGA Brazil Cup by five shots over Kristy McPherson of the United States on Sunday. 
Matthew had a 3-under 69 on the second day of the 36-hole exhibition tournament to finish at 6-under 138 at the ltanhanga Golf Club. McPherson was 1-under after shooting a 72. 
"When you play well you don't feel tired," Matthew said. "Maybe tomor­row I will feel it a bit." 
She started her final round with a birdie at the first hole and a bogey on the second, but built her lead with birdies on Nos. 5, 6 and 14. 
McPherson had four birdies and four bogeys in her round, with two of the bogeys coming on par-5s. 
Angela Park finished third in front of her home fans after a 7 5 left her nine shots back. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, January 26, 2009 
'NOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish complete sweep at· 
~3halllrock Invitational 
Squad defeats three teams on senzor day 
• By NATHANIEL LEE Sports Writer 
In commanding fashion Notre Dame took full advan­l.age of swimming at home to !; weep Michigan State , Denver and West Virginia this weekend at the fourth annual :;hamrock Invitational. Wins •)f 259.5-106.5, 233-131 and ~65.5-97.5, respectively ·aised the No. 24 Irish to an werall record of 6-2 for the :lual meet season. 
"We had three good schools coming into the Rolfs Aquatic center this weekend," Irish coach Brian Barnes said. "In the end. we ' were tough, and that was Farrell also held off a tough field in the 200 free and won with atouch at 1:51.39. 
National swimmer of the week, Samantha Maxwell conlinued her. individual suc­cess at the Invite. In the 100 breast, a speedy finish gave Maxwell the win over Denver's Emily Kuhr in 
1:03.13. She also opened up a quick lead in the 200 breast and continued to pull away for one more win. 
Sophomore Heidi Grossman and junior Natalie Stitt took the top two spots in the one­meter dive with scores of 280.70 and 273.20. 
"We are getting into the time of the sea­son when details become more 
the  differ­ "In the end we were  and  more impor­ 
ence." Notre Dame started strong  tough, and that was the difference. "  tant with the championship run. It is impor­ 
with  an  tant to  focus in  
impressive  Brian Barnes  the  individuals  
win  in  the  Irish coach  as  parts of the  

200 medley Helay, win­ning in 
1:43.91 Junior Maggie Behrens Jed the crew along with sophomores Samantha Maxwell, Kellyn Kuhlke and Amywren Miller. 
"The relays performed very well this weekend, especially the medleys," Barnes said. "It is a good indicator that we are having multiple outstand­ing individual performances." 
Building on the team's ear­lier success, sophomore Katie Casey edged out Michigan State's Becca Ebner in the 100 fly for a win in 56.19. The standout sophomore and defending Big East champion in the 200 fly won that event as well in commanding fash­ion, holding off the field after a fast start for a time of 2:03.00. 
In the 800 free relay, Sophomore Lauren Sylvester swam the Irish to an early lead. Junior Zeina Shanata and freshman Amy Prestinario held the lead for junior Megan Farrell to close out the victory in 7:30.04. 
whole," Barnes 
said. "Hight now 
coaching each girl individually will lead to the most successful postsea­son possible." 
The team's four seniors, Lucy Hirt, Claire Hutchinson, Christina Riggins and Casey Wagner, were honored by their teammates with the dominating wins in their last ever home meet. 
"It was important for the team to help our seniors out 
ND .TRACK & FIELD 




Men, women win at home 
By DOUGLAS FARMER Sports Writer 

In their first scored meet of the year, both Notre Dame track teams scored 181 points, and both took first place. The other schools men's and women's teams also posted identical marks as Michigan State took second, 
Wisconsin  third  and  
Marquette  placed  fourth.  
Friday's  Notre  Dame  

Invitational saw many Irish athletes qualify for the Big ~st Championships in less than a month. 
In the men's 800-meter race, five Irish qualified for the Big East Championships, led by junior Jack Howard, who finished third in the race with a time of 1:50.84, and junior Jim Notwell, finishing fourth in 1:51.99. 
Five more Notre Dame ath­letes qualified for the confer­ence Championships in the men's weight throw. Sophomore Greg Davis took fourth, and freshmen Mitchell Gormley's throw earned him fifth, with distances of 16.93 meters and 16.78 meters, respectively. 
The Irish men qualified four individuals in the 1600-meter run as senior Dan Clark fin­ished second with a time of 
4:07.63. Freshmen Jordan Carlson crossed the line right behind him in third with a time of 4:08.63. 
The Irish men middle dis­tance runners performed just as well, qualifying four run­ners. Freshmen Jordan Rincon won the 400-meter dash with a time of 47.65 and Alex Korenstra finished sixth in 49.69. Senior Bill Buzaid and junior Balazs Molnar took third and fourth in the 500­meters, in times of 1:03.45 and 1:04.58, respectively. 
The all around success for the Irish men's team promises a bright future. 
"The meet showed we really arn a complete team this year," Buzaid said. ''I'm not saying there aren't outstand­ing individual performances on the team this year. There are great athletes. We have a real balanced team and it will be exciting to go to the Big East Championships and see what we can do as a team." 
The Irish women were led by a brilliant performance by junior Joanna Schultz. Schultz took third in the 60­meters, first in the 200­meters, and first in the 400­meters, qualifying in both the 200-meters and the 400­meters. 
Senior Mary Saxer contin­ued her strong season as she followed her qualifying pole vaults of last week with a strong performance in the long jump. Her second place jump of 5.57 meters earned her a slot at the Big East Championships as well. 
The Irish teams look to con­tinue with sueh building sue­cess next week at the Indiana Helays. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer 1 @nd.edu 
NFL 

Bro-wns hire Kokinis as ne-w GM 
Associated Press  
CLEVELAND  - Baltimore  
pro  personnel  director  
George  Kokinis  has  been  

hired as Cleveland's general manager, reuniting him with new Browns eoach and close friend Eric Mangini. 
Kokinis, who began his NFL career as an intern in 
t h e B r o w n s ' o p e rati o n s department i·n 1 9 91 , was hand-picked by Mangini, who recommended him dur­ing his first interview with Browns owner Randy Lerner on Dee. 30. Mangini took over as Cleveland's coach on Jan. 7, just one week after he was !'ired following three -seasons with the New York 
Jets. 

Determined to match a coach and GM who ean work well together after the Homeo Crennel-Phil Savage relationship failed, Lerner is teaming up a pair of friends who shared an apartment when they first broke into the league and have remained tight. 
with these wins," Barnes said. "For the seniors it was emotional having their last home meet, but they didn't let it affect the way they treated the competition." 
The Irish are now focused on their final dual meet at Michigan on Feb. 7. The meet will be the final tune-up for Notre Dame's swimmers and divers before· the difficult task of winning their 13th consecutive Big East Championship in Indianapolis Feb. 18-21. 
B u d s t r 0 n g e 
Contact Nathaniel Lee at nleeS@nd.edu 
w a n t t 0 b e t t e r u n 
H 0 w a b 0 u t y 0 u r s 
A r e y 0 u n t e r e s t e y 0 u r s e I f u n a b I e t I 0 0 k n g f 0 r s 0 m e 
! f s 0 y 0 u r e n 0 t p r 0 j e c t n t h e F a m c 0 u p I e s w t h t e e n s t 0 c a I I 
D r J :U a s c h 0 r J a c k e B a u t e r s a 
e m a t f c p t 


r 


page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, January 26, 2009 
IVIEN'S TENNIS 

Irish win one, lose one in Virginia 
By KATE GRABAREK 
~ports Writer 

The No. 30 Irish earned a ~· -0 victory over the Tribe of William and Mary on ~;aturday, and then dropped a 7-0 decision against No. 5 Virginia on Sunday. 
After dropping their season opener last Sunday to Pepperdine, the Irish were able to bounce back on Saturday and earn their first ''ictory of the season. 
"I think our guys are han­dling the loss to Pepperdine as well as can be expected," Jrish coach Bobby Bayliss Baid. "We could not have played any harder and we ~~ertainly left everything out 'm the court. Certainly we ..vere in a position to win it in 1 couple of matches, but that lS the nature of competitive ;;ports." 
A year ago, the Irish dropped their match to William and Mary. Bayliss noted that this was not one of the team's best matches. 
However, a year later the team looked dominant earn­ing singles wins from, senior Brett Helgeson, sophomores Stephen Havens and Dan Stahl and freshmen Casey Watt, Sam Keeton and Niall Fitzgerald. 
"Each of our guys had some shortcomings which are correctable," Bayliss said. "For example, both 
Casey [Watt] and Stephen hold on falling by a final of [Havens] needed to be more 8-7 (9-7). aggressive and get to the net "Michael Shabaz hits as more often, so we need to clean a ball as you see any­provide them patterns to where," Bayliss said. facilitate this for them." "Sanam Singh is also a great 
For the second straight ball striker. Throw in Huston 
match,  Keeton  Barrick's  
started at No. 5 singles, while Fitzgerald made  "We could not have played any harder  serve-and­volley game and you  
his dual-match season debut for the Irish winning in a tiebreaker  and we certainly left everything out.on the court."  have a very strong returning nucleus with  
third set.  which  to  
The Irish swept the doubles  Bobby Bayliss Irish coach  contend." At No.  1  

point, when No. 37 Helgeson, and Tyler Davis, defeated the No. 52 team in the nation. Havens and Watt teamed up at No. 2 doubles for their vic­tory, and Fitzgerald and sophomore Matt Johnson earned the doubles sweep at three doubles. 
In Sunday's match that began with doubles, Johnson and Fitzgerald dropped their No. 3 doubles match to Lee Singer and Drew Courtney by a score of 8-2. 
Virginia was able to claim the doubles point with a vic­tory by its No. 3 ranked dou­bles team of Sanam Singh and Huston Barrick over Helgeson and Davis by a score of 8-4. 
Havens and Watt took an early 3-2 lead over No. 27 Dominic Inglot and Michael Shabaz, but were not able to 
singles 

Helgeson matched up against Inglot who is ranked No. 43. After falling behind early, Helgeson was never able to recover falling 4-6, 7-5, 10­7. 
No. 24 Singh was able to defeat Havens at No. 2 sin­gles 6-1, 6-0, while No. 112 Stahl fell to No. 11 Shabaz by a score of 6-1, 6-2. 
Watt was faced with No. 68 Barrick at No. 4 singles los­ing 6-4, 6-2. No. 109 Singer defeated Fitzgerald and No. 5 singles, while sophomore David Anderson dropped his match at No. 6 singles by the same score. 
The Irish will next play host to No. 11 Florida State on Wednesday. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @stmarys.edu 
fENCING 

Squads post two wins each in NY 
By CHRIS MASOUD Sports Writer 

Making good on his promise earlier in the week that the team would be ready for its intercollegiate opener, head coach Janusz Bednarski and the Irish fencing team emerged victorious at the St. John's University Duals and the New York University Invitational. 
The men and women fencers combined to post a 4-0 record as they opened their seasons at the SJU Duals in Jamaica, New York. The No.1 Irish men rolled past No. 4 Columbia 17-10, fol­lowed by a deeisive victory over No. 9 St. John's 18-9. 
The Irish were equally suc­cessful on the women's side as the No. 2 women cruised by No. 4 Columbia-Barnard 18-9, before defeating St. John's by a margin of 18-9. 
Led by freshman foiler Enzo Castellani, who amassed five victories in his Irish debut, the men's win over St. John's was the 1,200th in program history. Senior Bill Thanhouser and sophomore Avery Zuck each went 2-0 in the sabre division as they piloted the Irish to a 6-3 mark in the weapon. 
Highly touted freshman Courtney Hurley kicked ol'f her Notre Dame career with six wins on the day in the epee. Older sister Kelley Hurley and Ewa Nelip each posted 3-0 marks, while Hayley Reese led the women in the foil. 
The fencers carried momen­tum from Saturday's impressive performance into the NYU Invitational. 
The women's team finished Sunday with a record of 3-2 and an overall record of 5-2 against an impressive field. 
The lady fighters were anchored by sophomore Eileen Hassett and senior Adrienne Nott, posting 10 sabre wins and eight foil wins respectively. 
Competing against the best squads in the country, the men's team lived up to its pre­season ranking by finishing 5-0 on the day for a perfect 7-0 start to the season. 
Crossing sabers against NYU (21-6), No.3 Ohio State (15-12), Stevens Tech (22-5), Columbia (15-12), and Yale (23-4), the young core once again carried the men to victory. 
Continuing his hot streak, Zuck led the way for the men with a 9-1 mark on the day in the men's sabre. Sophomores Jacob Osborne and Andrew Seroff each had seven wins in the epee weapon. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 



2008-2009 TERRENCE R. KEELEY VISITING VATICAN LECTURE SPONSORED BY THE NANOVIC INSTITUTE FOR EUROPEAN STUDIES 
Catholicism and Secularism in Contemporary Europe 
ARCHBISHOP ANGELO AMATO, S.D.B. 
PREFECT OF THE CONGREGATION FOR THE CAUSES OF SAINTS 
MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2009 
7:30PM, HESBURGH CENTER AUDITORIUM 
l**:lUNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME http:I I nanovic. nd. edu 


Monday, January 26, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 

Sha01rock 
continued from page 20 
for that. But it only got that far, because everybody stepped up big time, which made this a giant step for our team." 
Coach Welsh  was  pleased  
with the team's  
strong  effort,  
which he viewed  "  

man Clayton

... We couldn't 
as excellent Myers by eight­
preparation for imagine a better tenths of a sec­the Big East preparation Jot ond in a race Conference where the top
a conference
Championships two finishers 
in February. championship. " came in nearly "In terms of 20 seconds preparation, we ahead of the rest
Tim Welsh 
told the team of the field.
Irish coach 
that we couldn't imagine a better preparation for a conference championship than to have a three-session meet over every event in the conference cham­pionship come down to the last event. So we think win, win, win all the way along." 
Notre Dame recorded three additional first place finishes 

Trine 
continued from page 20 
Olivet on Saturday to improve to 5-4. 
With 7:47 left in the first half senior Katie Rashid hit a tie­breaking layup to put the Belles on top for good. Going into the 
locker room at the half the Belles main­tained a 36-31 lead. 
The Thunder fought throughout the second half but were never ablo to pull within a basket of the Belles. 
Junior Anna Kammrath proved to be a big force down the stretch 
scoring 1 0 of her 13 points in the second half to put Trine away. 
Freshman Patsy Mahoney also pulled her weight chipping in with 12 points. 
Seniors Erin Newsom and Nicole Beier led all scorers with fifteen points each. 
"I think we see all the confer­ence teams as big rivals," Newsom said. "Some schools 
LEPRECHAUN LEGION 
"Some teams are seen as tougher to beat like Hope and Calvin, but we go into every game with the attitude that we need to play our best in order to win, regardless ofthe we're up against." 
Muffet McGraw Irish coach 
on Saturday prior to its thrilling win in the grand finale. Wood fought off Denver senior Daniel Vollmer in the final lap of the 100 backstroke to seal the win with a time of 50.94. 
Sophomore Andrew Deters also found himself in a close race in the 1650 freestyle, defeating Denver fresh­
rently ranked eighth in the Div. III standings with a record of 12­1, their only loss coming to the Belles back on Jan. 3. 
The Belles put their two-game winnings streak against Calvin on the line Wednesday night, fol­lowed by a showdown with Hope on Saturday. 
Contact Katelyn Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Sophomore 

Michael Sullivan had Notre Dame's fourth win of the day, finishing over two sec­onds ahead of the field in the 200 backstroke, while Wood and sophomore Christopher Wills finished third and fourth, respectively. 
In Friday night's opening ses­sion, the Irish recorded three 
are seen as tougher teams to beat like Hope and Calvin, but we go into every game with the attitude that w~ need to play our best in order to win, regardless of the team we're put up against." 
Saint Mary's opened its confer­ence schedule with a win over Trine in December and since then have only lost to Albion in 
MIAAplay. 
While the Belles can't get their revenge against Albion 
u n t i I 
Valentine's Day, they will begin looking ahnad to this week's games, that includes Calvin, and their aHh rivals in the conference Hope College. 
Hopf1 is cur­

wins in six events.. In the first event of the night, the Irish team of Lyttle, Hoffman, senior Danny Lutkus, and junior David Anderson took first place hon­ors in the 200 freestyle relay. Lyttle finished first once again in the 50 freestyle with a time of 20.86 while freshman Kevin Rahill finished second with a season best time of 21.06. 
Notre Dame continued its string of impressive diving per­formances, as senior Michael Bulfin, sophomore Eric Lex, and junior Caleb· Dunnichay finished in . the top three spots. Bulfin broke his own school record on the one-meter board in his final dive at home. 
Notre Dame returns to action with a friendly swim against S11int Mary's and Olivet on February 7 at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at 


four Wildcats to hit four 3­point shots in t 1e game. Senior for­ward Lisa Karcic and junior guard Maria Getty each had eight points. 
Junior ~;uard Ashley Barlow ~cored 11 Getty sank two 
foul shots to 
extend the

"That's disapp.ointing 
lead to seven that we missed eight and seal the game.
free throws, especially 
"I always

when it's such a small 
feel like we 

margin ofvictory." got a great shot and we missed it,"
Muffet McGraw 
McGraw said 

Irish coach 
of the offen­
sive rebound. 
"You have no 

points and senior guard control over whether the ball lindsay Schrader had nine, but goes in or not. The control is the Irish offense largely fell flat the hard work you do to get it. Saturday. The team shot 32.7 What deflated us was they went percent from field goal range down to the other end and got (and 25 percent in the first half) a layup." and made only 63.6 percent of Both Lechlitner and sopho­its free throws. more forward Becca 
"Free throws are mostly con­Bruszewski got in foul trouble eentration and focus," McGraw in the second half. Lechlitner 
1;aid. "That's  was called for  
disappointing  her  fourth  
:hat  we  foul with 6:49  
missed eight free throws, especially  "! always feel like we got a great shot and we  left in the game, and Bruszewski  
when it's such  missed it. "  played  with  
a small mar­ four  fouls  
gin of victo­ry."  Muffet McGraw Irish coach  since the 9:22 mark.  

"Defensively they're tricky because the  "I thought we got some clean, really good  good jump­shot looks," Brey said. "It  
big guy back  jump-shot looks."  was  hard  to  
there kind of  get anything in  
changes things," Brey  Mike Brey  the paint against them.  
said, referring  Irish coach  That's no dif- 

Villanova, in contrast, made 9-of-11 foul shots. 
Schrader shot 3-of-11 from the field and no Irish player made more than three field goals. Freshman forward Erica Solomon did grab a career-high 10 rebounds in addition to her five points. 
This game marked Notre Dame's lowest point total of the season. Its previous low was 62, in wins over LSU and Purdue. 
Notre Dame put together a 9­0 run to pull within a point of the Wildcats, who never trailed, and made the score 38-37 Villanova with 8:54 remaining in the game. Villanova senior guard Siobhan O'Connor's six 
.x.-ra. 

Notre Dame trailed by two halfway through the first half, but two 3-pointers and a jumper extended Villanova's lead to 21-11 with 
7:38 left in the half. Notre Dame started scoring again in the final five minutes of the half, when junior center Erica Williamson sank two layup and Barlow hit two free throws. 
Karcic and Kurz, however, wouldn't let the Irish close the gap, and a string of fouls against Notre Dame in the final minutes squashed any hopes of a run. Notre Dame trailed 30­20 at the break. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
~~~-rr:;n~r<J Announcing the Year 2009 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarinogt ltalian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino tiunily, the Italian Studies Program is pleao;ed to announce the year 2009 annual competition for travel in support ofsummer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3.000, and will not nonnally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who ~re planning to pursue research or a fonnal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work will nom>ally be in Italian; will involve the study of Italian language, literature. and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University ofNotre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua. UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbina, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students arc invited to submit a letter which should include: 
I )  an explanation of how the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their  
degree program at Notre Dame;  
2)  a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals;  
3)  a description ofthe research project or the program they intend to follow;  
4)  a budget indicating the cosIS involved;  
5)  two letters ofrecommendation  
6)  a transcript showing all grades and courses completed  
7)  a list of other sources of funding (being·sought or confirmed) for the same project  
(i.e. Otlice oflntemational Studies, Nanovic Institute, etc.)  

Application Deadline: Friday, March 6, 2009 Albert Ravarioo Italian Studies Travel Scholarship Program in Italian Studies 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall University of Notre Dame 
The Observer + SPORTS 
the game close. The Irish did an admirable job of containing a


Snapped 

bigger, quicker Connecticut continued from page 20 
team for most of the game. 

The Huskies shot just 40 per­going to salvage a victory like it cent from the floor. did when Luke Harangody stole "Forty percent field goal per­
-that gave us Monday, January 26, 2009 
win streak. All the ingredients 
• were on the table -good defensive play, a rabid crowd ­but one was missing: the dagger three-pointer. In the past, such runs included a basket like this from guard Kyle· McAlarney or forward Ryan Ayers, baskets points in two minutes helped the Wildcats extend their lead to eight, but the Irish started another. run, capped by a Lechlitner 3-pointer, to make the score 49-48 with 2:56 remaining . 
. But Notre Dame didn't score again. Kurz made a layup and two free throws, the Irish couldn't convert an offensive rebound into points and Lechlitner turned the ball over down five with 28 seconds left. 
the ball in the waning moments of regulation in an overtime win over Providence. After Walker's basket there was just a chilling silence, a silence almost as cold as Notre Dame was from the field. 
The Irish shot just 25-for-76 
(32.9 percent) for the night. Take away Harangody's 10-for­23, 24-point performance and Tyrone Nash's four field goals when the game was practically over, and Notre Dame shot just 11-for-49 (22.4 percent). 
Irish coach Mike Brey said Connecticut's tall, physical pres­ence in the form of 7-foot-3 Hasheem Thabeet and Jeff Adrien, who finished with 12 points and 19 rebounds, forced Notre Dame to rely on its shoot­ing, which wasn't there Saturday. And when a team shoots like the Irish did Saturday, they stand little chance of beating the Huskies. 
centage defense a chance," Brey said. "We were hanging around the whole time, that gave us a chance. Jamming up the lane, help­ing our big guys coming down, giving up jump shots." 
But Notre 

"I had some great looks that I think ifI had knocked them down would've definitely changed the climate of the game." 
Kyle McAiarney Irish senior 
that would pu~ Notre Dame ahead, keep the fans on their feet and cause opposing coached to call a timeout. On Saturday, the opportunities were there, the shots just didn't fall. 
"I had some great looks 
that I think if I had knocked them down would've definitely changed the climate of the game," McAlarney said. 
McAlarney finished the game 3-for-15 from the field, Ayers was 1-for-10. Forward Zach Hillesland finished 1-for-5 for two points. 
Notre Dame has no time for sulking, as it tips off against Marquette tonight at 7 p.m. The Golden Eagles are undefeated in Big East play and have basi­cally the same team that defeat­ed Notre Dame in two of three matchups last season. 
Jerome Dyson led all Connecticut scorers with 15 points. Thabeet finished with nine points, 11 rebounds and five blocked shots. 
Note: 

+ Brey said in his post-game press conference that he'd like to use both Nash, who finished with eight points in two min­utes, and Carleton Scott a little more against Marquette. He also said a starting lineup change is not out of the ques­tion for tonight's game. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

The Winter Career a_nd Internship Fair is quickly approaching! Come get some last minute tips about securing an internship position, and advice to make the experience meaningful. 
How to Land and Maximize Your Internship Experience 
Presentation by Kindra Wray, Recruiting, Training, and Development Manager at General Mills 
MONDAY, JANUARY 26t\ 2009 6:30 -7:30 PM MONTGOMERY AUDITORIUM, LAFORTUNE (across from Starbucks) 
*FREE SUBWAY* 
Sponsored by the Management Club 
....---------------------------------­
page 18 
r~ova 
continued from page 20 
4· 2 in the Big East, and has lost two of its last three games. Villanova improved to 11-8 and 3-2 in conference play and beat it> first ranked team of the sea­son. 
Wildcats senior forward Laura Kurz led the Wildcats "ith 16 points and was one of to Thabeet. "You're mov­ing a little bit differently with him in there." 
Harangody was Notre Dame's one constant on the offensive end. In addition to his 24 points, Harangody had 15 rebounds, battling against Thabeet in the low post. Harangody found ways to score against Thabeet, whether by reverse layup, hook shots or stepping outside to hit two 3s. 
Notre Dame's defense kept 
Dame's offense, or lack thereof, proved to be the difference, especially during a second half stretch where the Irish failed to score a field goal for 6:34. A Luke Zeller jumper snapped the drought with 2:20 left in the game, but by then Notre Dame was too far behind to mount a significant comeback. 
"I thought 
we got some 
clean, really 
ferent than 
anybody in this 
league playing them, when you have to live outside that paint, you really do have to shoot it well. When we've beaten them with that size, we shot the hell out of the ball, but tonight we needed some more." 
A number of times in the sec­ond half, Notre Dame was on the verge of putting together a large run to take the lead, as it had so many times during the 
Monday, January 26, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 
66 Humorist Bombeck 
67 Extremities 
68 Giggly laugh 
69 Channel for football and basketball games 
70 Out with the fleet 
Down Root used for poi2 Carrier to Tel Aviv 
3 Crowded, frenzied gatherings 
4 Middle school stage, commonly 5 Grenade filler 6 Balloon filler 7 Large feather 8 House mate? 9 However, briefly 10 Numbers yet to be crunched 11 Vex 12 Computer attachment 13 Peter the pepper picker 18 "What's for me?" 22 Meas. of engine speed 25 Queenly role for Liz 
26 Large brown 
algae 27 Bits of fluff 28 Restaurant posting 30 One enrolled in obedience school 32 Washington and McKinley: Abbr. 34 Receptacles for tobacco chewers 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Lynn Lempel 

35 A large part of a 43 Household 52 Skirt with a flare waitress's downsizing 
53 "But of course!" 
income event 

54 Signs of decay 36 "Right on!" 45 Chamomile 
58 Knotty swelling 38 Israeli dance 
product 59 Designer47 Rocket trajectory 

39 Grp. in which Schiaparelli many of the 48 Little foot 61 Visit leaders wear warmer 
63 Unit of electricity robes 50 Boring routines 
64 Vice president 40 Othello's undoer 51 Done for Quayle 
For answers, call1-900-285-5656. $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1·800·814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past .. puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Alicia Kevs. 28: China Kanlner, 38; Richard Grieve, 39: Dinah Manoti, 51 • 
Happ~· Birthday: You can make a profit if you take advantage of some of the deals-that unfold because of the economic strife. Your ingenuity and farsightedness will position you well in the future. Originality \\·ill set you apart. Now is not the time to snooze when there is so much potentialfor gains. Your numbers are 8, 11. 13, 23. 26. 34,41 
ARIES (March 21-April19): If things aren't going your way. remove yourself from whatever situation you are in before you are trapped into doing something you don't want to do. Follow your own path and don't sell yourself short.** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): There will be just as many people on your side as opposed today. You will have to choose your friends and allies based on what you know for sure. not what you assume. Don't wait for help. Hesitation will he your downfall.***** 
GEMINI (May 21-june 20): Don't let your heart rule your head. Use your intuitive guidance to lead you to the people who can benefit you the most. Anyone who is nega­tive will slo\\' you down. *** 
CANCER (june 21-July 22): Focus on relationships and what they mean to you. It's time to put an end to anyone or anything holding you back. Once you do, consider a .way to size down or cut your costs to ease stress. *** 
LEO (july 23-Aug. 22): Dream a little about your past and you will be inclined to touch base with someone who enriched your life years ago. A short trip down memory lane will lead to an excursion that will help you shape the years ahead of you. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Plan out a healthier lifestyle that will help make you hap­pier and more efficient and will improve your relationships with others. It's doing some­thing about your shortcomings that will count.*** 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0et. 22): Ifyou have been wasting time talking and not doing, step up the pace and fmd a way to motivate and inspire yourself to get busy before someone · complains about your idleness. Contribute to whatever group, family or organization you belong to if you want to have a voice.***** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 2J-Nov. 21): You need to plan something special for yourself and someone you love. For too long, you have neglected your responsibilities and, if you don't act now, it may be too late. It only takes a little effort to please someone who loves you.**** 
SAGITTARIIJS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You have skills that you probably haven't put to good use for some time. Recall the things you enjoyed doing way back when and turn your talents into something that can be of service to others now. Use your imagination. innovation and inspiration. *** 
C APRif'ORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Money and opportunities are heading your way from an unusual source. Be open to unique and unfamiliar ideas. An investment can bring big dividends and security in the future. A contract with someone special will put your mind at ease.*** 
AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): You'll attract attention with your ideas and your liu­
manitarian outlook. Combine your strengths and you \Vill come up with a unique service 
that "~ll help others anJ will make life better for you and your loved ones.*** 
PISCES (Feb.19-March 20): You may find your loyalty split between t~roups ·· those you want to help and who l'an help you and those who aspire to do something liD­
usual and creative t>ut not necessarily sound or profitable. Think carefully about your 
......
fn.ture. Focus on what brings the highest returns.**** 
Birthday Baby: You are giving. loyal and a good friend. You are a humanitarian and are 
dedicated, devoted and determined to reach your goals. 
Eugenia 1S ~iieb sites: eugmrialast.comfor confideutial consultatiotiS, 
mv,pnce.comlmgellialastfor Euge11ia's blog,nstroad~ice.com.for fim 
Across Sidewalk Santa worker, e.g. 5 Bugler's bedtime 
tune 9 Vagrant 14 Felipe or Moises 
of baseball 15 Sahara irrigator 16 Site of the Ho 
Chi Minh 
Mausoleum 
17 First in a John Updike novel series 
19 Confess (to) 
20 Twin Mary-Kate 
or Ashley 21 Deface 23 Info on a pill 
bottle 24 Batsman at a 
wicket, say 28 Spunk 29 Give forth 30 Turn down 31 Tree popular in 
street names 33 Gross 
37 'The loneliest number," in a Three Dog Night song 
38 "Get going!," and a hint for the starts of 17 ·, 24· , 51· and 62· Across 
41 Little Jack Horner's dessert 42 Zest 44 Hydrotherapy 
provider 45 Places for holsters 
46 Bedouin, e.g. 49 Long-necked waders 51 Holder of an unfair trial 55 "Oh, woe!" 56 Fish-sticks fish 57 Hearty steak 60 Breads with pockets 62 Umbrellalike fungus 
65 Theodore Roosevelt, to Eleanor 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
0 M A R E P P S A F R A M E G 0 MOIRIRIA H F R I G 1 D 
•
~~N~~~:~~ 
Z 1 E S Tz • T H E 1 F R U G 
'I 

0 V E N IP R 0 0 F • DIE A N E M I T A. 0 P A L S • L I D I{ S C H WIA. AS l~~~AN 0 R
Mil K I N SIM E N • X B 0 X 
A N T 1 Q U E M R T M 0 G A D I S H U S 0 'IR 
o R A L E s o EINI o L o G y J A R F U L p U R p 0 S E S 
0 N B A S E S E A T B E L T 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA
BLACK DoG 


OUR CUlrUR£. 
P/SCI./SS£17. 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your horne. 

-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
JUMBLE· 





JJ113MlY1l! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LYJOL 

I [ J (] 
@2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 




r~i~f·i I I
tRUMMRU I

J [] I I 
www.iumble.com
tRIBDHY I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

WHAT JUNIOR US~ WHEN HE HELPE:D MOM WITH THE: DISHE:S. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers Monday) EMERY SUBTLY SEAMAN 

THE DOME PIECE 
Yesterday's IJumbles: Answer: 

FLOUT 
What the horse breeder considered her husband -A "STABLE" MATE 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
•
IN A R£lAT'£P POll, 25% OF MAl£ R£S/P£tvrS 8ROK£ rH£/R NEW YEARS I?£SOWT"/ONS AS rH£ rOP/CS W£R£ 8£/NG 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City ______________ State _______ Zip__________ 
-

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Mc,nday, January 26, 2009 
page 20 
-============================================================================ 
1'10 WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish start season right with big win over the Buckeyes 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

No ntore streaking 
Brey loses first game at home since 2006 at the hands of UConn 
B:r CHRIS HINE Eciror-in-Cheif 

With 3:15 remaining in the game, Connecticut's Kemba Walker drained a 3-pointer to give Connec:;ticut a 12-point lead. A sudden hush came over tu e crowd at the Joyce Center a~; the basket all but confirmed the sobering fact that Notre Dame's 45-game home winning 
sueak  was  about  to  end  
S1turday.  
A  few  minutes  later,  

Connecticut left Notre Dame with a 69-61 win. 
There was no late run as here wiS'to save last year's game against Pittsburgh, and u o quick-thinking play was 
see SNAPPED/page 18
. 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 

A good start to a season does not insure a good finish, but it docs bode well. In their season opener on Sunday, No. 17 Notre Dame defeated No. 32 Ohio State 6-1 at Ohio State. 
The Irish wanted to open the season with a victory to build some momentum and to over-
IAN GAVLICK!fhe Observer Connecticut junor Jerome Dyson skies over Irish guard Tory Jackson for two of his 15 points in the Huskies' 69-61 win over Notre Dame Saturday night in the Joyce Center. 
come any initial mental blocks. 
The match opened with dou­bles play. The nation's number one-ranked doubles pair, Notre Dame's own senior Kelcy Tefft and freshmen Kristy Frilling, won 8-3. The pair has only been playing together since this fall, yet obviously show great promise. 
"The two of us gelled really well from the beginning," Tefft said. ''I'm excited beea use I· think we will only improve as the semester continues." 
The Irish split the two remaining doubles matches with the Buckeyes. Junior Colleen Riellcy and freshmen Shannon Matthews earned an 8-2 victory, while Juniors Cosmina Ciobanu and Kali Krisik suffered an 8-6 defeat. 
As for the singles, the Irish performed very well across the board. Matthews won easily, 6­3, 6-2. Krisik did so as well with scores of 6-2, 7-5. Sophomore Kristin Hafael won handily in the four-spot, 6-1, 6-3. 
Tefft prevailed 6-1, 6-3, and finally Frilling fought to a 7-5, 3-6, 1-0 (10-6) triumph. 
The sole Buckeyes point came as Hielley was defeated by Ohio State's Angela DiPastina 6-2, 6-3. 
"J was really excited for 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles vvin 
•

again over Thunder 
By KATELYN GRABAREK Sports Writer 

For the second time in a little more than a month the Belles defeated the Thunder of Trine University Saturday. The 69-58 win moved Saint Mary's to 8-1 at the top of the MIAA Conference. 
The win keeps Saint Mary's tied for first place in the confer­ence with Hope also having one loss. 
"In this league you can't over­look anyone," Belles coach Jen Henley said. "Records and standings never truly indicate the strength of a team." 
The loss dropped Trine to 4-5 in conference play, which puts them in sixth place in the con­ference after Adrian defeated 
see TRINE/page 1 7 
Kristin Rafael," Tefft said. "She won fairly easily at four, so I was really excited about that. If we get her winning consistently it will really help our team as a whole." 
The 1-0 Irish now have a week off before they travel to take on Pepperdine on Saturday. 
Contact Doug Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Villanova pulls off upset 
3-point shooting leads underdog Wildcats past favored ND team 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Editor 
Villanova's three 3-pointers in the flrst four minutes established a trend: the Wildcats ·would shoot threes until they were stopped. 

They kept making them, and their long-range shooting upset No. 13 Notre Dame, 55-48, Saturday at The Pavilion in Villanova, Pa. Villanova shot 37 percent from 3-point range and finished with 10 threes in the game. 
"That's their game," Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw said. "I actually thought we did a decent job holding them to 55 points." . 
Notre Dame dropped to 15-3, 
see NOVA/page 18 


MEN'S SWIMMING 

ND doubfes vvin total in final meet at home 
Seniors lead the way as team sweeps at the Shamrock Invitational 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's swim­ming and diving team doubled its win total for the season with a sweep in the Shamrock Invitational at the Holfs Aquatic Center this weekend. 
The Irish improved to 6-6 on the season with wins over Denver, Miehigan State and West Virginia. 
The wins wore a big lift for the Notre Dame squad, which had yet to earn a win in 2009 entering the weekend. 
"The meet tonight was extremely good for the team," Irish coach Tim Welsh said after the final session on Saturday night. 
Although the Irish defeated both the Spartans and Mountaineers by more than 90 points, the Irish needed four victories in their last two ses­sions to seal a 10 point win over Denver. The clincher came when the Notre Dame relay team of senior Jeff Wood, jun­iors John Lyttle and Andrew Hoffman, and sophomore Joshua Nosal finished first in the 400 freestyle relay, out­touching Denver by just over half a second. 
"What we've been looking for all season is a meet where we could take a giant step and these three sessions have helped us do that. We talked during today's break about how the meet would come down to the last relay, so we prepared 
see SHAMROCK/page 17 
-





