
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Romero Days to celebrate archbishop 
Journalist Eugene Palumbo to deliver annual lecture, student panelists will present 
By NORA KENNEY 
News Writer 
"Romero Days 2009: In the Footsteps of the Bishop of the World" -an annual event that celebrates the life of Oscar Romero -will kick off on Monday with several panel dis­cussions and lectures. 
The event, a joint effort of the Latin American North America Church Concerns (LANACC), the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, the Latin American Studies Program, the Center for Social Concerns and the Shaheen Fund, will examine Romero's influence on history and Catholic culture in Latin America and his relevance to Notre Dame stu­dents. 
LANACC Director Fr. Robert Pelton said he has been extremely dedicated to the organization of Romero Days since he first start­ed the project in 1987. 
He said his passion for Romero's cause stems from his work to further human rights. 
"[Romero] was clear in his com­mitment to people and human rights. So clear was he, in fact, that he was willing to die for his cause," Pelton said. 
March 24 marks the 29th anniversary of Romero's death. He was an archbishop in El Salvador who was assassinated while saying Mass. As an outspo­ken and influential public figure 
see ROMERO/page 4 
"Romero Days 2009: In the Footsteps of the Bis~ ofthe World" scht,>dule 
.\lan1J 21 
.. I Shall Aiis¢in thc:Jialva~ People" .hnt<km:f'•>l....t --~" at'7:t!O p..•a "' tl><· H.,.bt~~ ·fi*'·.'lutff""b<""'t ~­


_,:\ ttl.astti·in tW.t:~'Oft'(;'(:tJ.t'i4':'ii of~'Vic·t-""-Lo:t:r~i ~-\n:~.uc.~J.wJ1 he.~· h.-ttl"'! l;tX'l•.ri> aldv• Churm<>t the t-"""f.;, ~~ s..;,.,. ~-'·C~. 
--"Apa-recida and the Latin American Church~fl ~oad Map f*.l lntetqt~ural Dialogue~ -­h J•><¥, ,.l,.li~--,_\·r,•,.,."'-"' "f~····' ._ ,..,~~ !"'-""'-"' >f 12::1o ;-'-'·, ::,, ~'r:-~/f~:~h~<>i (;f:u~~· 
22nd annual Rm:net0: Lectu¢~ "'No-wia~·1 
JrV>!~fi~~:~ C.-1~:tt~ f:;.:t~\t1;1~)'-~~~ ~~~ :.~~ --~~::rf·:~_!.':,. t'::t. t¥~11t.i:'r.·~...~F.'f. 
Andrea Archer I THE OBSERVER 


ND, USC a cappella groups to perform 

Members of Notre Dame's a cappella group, Halftime, practice for their concert, which will take place Saturday in the Hesburgh Ubrary. 
ByJENNMETZ 
News Writer 
Rivalries with USC only go as far as the sports field; this weekend, the Trojans' famed a cappella group, the SoCal VoCals, will make the trip to South Bend to. perform with the Notre Dame group Halftime. 
"They are the cream of the crop when it comes to a cap­pella groups," Brian Kastenholz, the music direc­tor for Halftime, said. 
On t)leir spring break tour of colleges and universities, the SoCal VoCals asked 

Senior nabs Churchill scholarship 
Andrew Manion wins grant to pursue graduate work at Cambridge 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
Senior Andrew Manion is the first Not~ Dame student to receive a Winston Churchill scholarship. which sponsors graduate work at the University of Cambridge in England next fall. 
The one-year award is worth approximately $50,000 and is given to students planning to pursue graduate studies in sci­ence, engineering or mathemat­ics. 
Manion is one of 14 students nationwide to win the award. 
A math, music theory and his­tory major from Coon Rapids, Minn., Manion said he plans to use his year in Cambridge to participate in the math courses and earn a certificate of advanced study in mathematics. 
Manion said he learned of the Churchill scholarship through Notre Dame's Fellowship Office and then completed the applica­tion, which consis-ted of apply­ing to the University of Cambridge independently of the scholarship. Ile said he then applied for the Churchill schol­arship after acceptance into Cambridge. 
Manion said he plan,s to return to the United States after his year abroad. 
"I want to come back to the 
U.S. for a Ph.D. program," Manion said. 
He said he is undecided about where he would like to pursue his doctorate. 

Manion was excited when he found out he won the scholar­ship and is looking forward to beginning his studies at Cambridge. , "I think it's a great opportuni­ty," Manion said. "I've heard really good things about the program and I'm excited to be at Cambridge." 
Besides the educational opportunity, Manion said he was drawn to the program because he was unable to par­ticipate in a study abroad pro­gram while attending Notre Dame. 
"It's a chance to live in anoth­er country since I didn't get to study abroad," he said. "Because of scheduling, it 
see CHURCHILL/page 6 
Halftime to perfQrm in a joint concert. 
This marks the first time Halftime will perform with an a cappella group from outside of Notre Dame. 
The relationship between the two groups has been any­thing but tense like that seen on the football field when the two schools interact. 
"It's nothing like the football team, that's for sure," Kastenholz, a junior, said. "They've been really welcom­ing, and we have as well." 
Performing with other groups is beneficial to the 
see HALFTIME/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

University takes part in research initiative 
By LIZ O'DONNELL 
News Writer 

Notre Dame was rec·ently accepted as a partner in the Indiana Clinical and Translational Sciences Institute (ICTSI), a medical research initiative that aims to transform medical discov­eries into practical applica­tions like improved patient care and business opportuni­ties. 
The University joined the program to partner with other major research univer­sities in Indiana to work on cutting-edge research said Melanie E. DeFord, director of operations for Centers, Institutes and Special Research Projects at Notre Dame. 
"This collaboration pro­vides us a vehicle with which to pair our basic researchers with translational and clini­cal researchers," DeFord said. 
The National Institutes of Health (NIH) awarded a five­year Clinical and Translational Science Award to the Indiana University School of Medicine in May of last year to fund the activities of ICTSI at both Indiana University and Purdue University. Notre Dame has been an active member since 
see RESEARCH/page 4 




Club plans events for disability month 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 

As March is Disabilities Awareness . Month, Perspectives, a Notre Dame campus club that encourages disability awareness, will be hosting several discussions about disabilities on campus. 
"For Disabilities Awareness Month, Perspectives will host a panel discussion about learn­ing and physical disabilities at St. -Augustine Parish on Sunday," Mel Tardy, faculty advisor for Perspectives, said. 
"[On] Notre Dame's campus, Perspectives will also host a student panel discussion on 
learning disabilities this com­ing Monday." 
Tardy said Perspectives began in ~005 when a group of students met after a panel dis­cussion during Disabilities Awareness Month. 
"First, they quickly realized that they shared a lot in com­mon and appreciated having each other with which to share common concerns," she said. 
"Second, while over 200 stu­dents use the resources of the Office for Students with Disabilities, there were no nat­ural opportunities for them to actually meet others with dis­abilities to fellowship or to 
see DISABILITY/page 6 
page 2 INSIDE COLUMN 
Great 

Expecdateons 
From random hook ups to routine hook ups, students complain that the dating scene doesn't meet their expecta­tions. As it goes, because of University policy and loads of homework, there is little interest in serious Robert Singer commit­ments -Assistant News Editor few are able or willing to put forth any effort beyond weekend text messages and Keystone­inspired rendezvous to Sbarro's. 
From year to year, the Notre Dame community experiences frustration when the football talent doesn't measure up to schools with lower academic standards, more temperate climates and fewer stat­ues of religious zealots. 
On the surface, these two phenomena of disappointment are connected, as they appear to be caused by the same out­look: high expectations that demand improvement without acknowledgement of inflexible circumstances. 
It's tough to admit that Notre Dame's uncompromisable academic mission may preclude any serious run at a national championship. But what could be keeping serious relationships from developing is a condition more flexible than rules on parietals or same-sex dorms. 
In the case of the dating scene, greatly inflated expectations -in addition to the oft-blamed causes of heavy workloads, the need for instant gratificatioq, the jock culture, etc. -are a source of the prob­lem. That is, all too often, if someone· doesn't look like he or she could be on the cover of GQ magazine and talk like Pierce Brosnan or possess the sparkling personality of Tina Fey, he or she is writ­ten off as a dating prospect. 
A casual stroll through La Fortune at a busy hour shows this attitude to be self­defeating. It should be examined closely -perhaps in a mirror. 
Maybe the availability of chapels on campus fosters the belief that prayer can summon the divine intervention needed to bridge the gap between what we think we deserve and what we can reasonably expect. _ 
Or maybe the expectations about dat­ing partners which range from high to naive are a result of attending a school with a price tag roughly equivalent to the lifetime earnings of the average Ukrainian. If you're paying top dollar to put the top med schools and law schools within reach, why shouldn't the most attractive people also be available? 
Regardless of the reason, you probably know several people who have remained dateless in the prime of their lives because they refuse to give the time of day to anyone who exhibits what they view as a minor flaw. 
Luckily, since people are not tools for career advancement, the basis for choos­ing date prospects is much more subjec­tive and a lot less rigid than the criteria for ranking graduate schools. 
In fact, if you want to receive more than text messages and pizza-shaped grease with cheese on the weekends, it could be as easy, or as difficult, as an attitude adjustment. 
The fix is the same one the admissions office won't consider for the football pro­gram. Lower -or alter -your stan­dards. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to a reporting error in the Mar. 3 edition of The Observer, the new student center was called the Stayer Center. The new Executive MBA building will be called Stayer and as ofyet there are no names or funds for the new student center. The Observer regrets this error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, March 20, 2009 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO DO YOU PREDICT WILL WIN MARCH MADNESS? 







Drew Davis  Jean Namkung  Lauren Kalinoski  Meghan Pearl  Pat Duret  Sean Mitchell  
freshman Sarin  juni:or Farley  freshman Breen-Philips  junior Pangborn  junior Pangborn  sophomore Sarin  
"Memphis,  "Megahn Pearl!,  "Definitely Akron, the z· ,,,zps.  "BANG BALLAZ, get some!"  'The Half-Ton Hotties will dominate. ,,  "/ can tell you who's not going ,,to win ...  

Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

Man loses toot while fighting over etiquette 
ROCKLIN, Calif. Police said a dispute over bowling etiquette led one man to assault another with a 16-pound ball, knocking out one of the man's teeth. They said a 24-year-old man hit a man in the face with the bowling ball during a melee involving six bowlers at the Rocklin AMF Lanes. Two groups got into a fist fight about 
12:40 a.m. Thursday after two bowlers approached the lane at the same time. They couldn't agree which should go first. 
Man blames weight as reason for being fired 
PONTIAC, Mich. -A 61-year-old man has sued his former employer, claiming he was fired from a $75,0oo:a-year salesman's job because of his waistline. But the employer says Patrick J. Ronayne was let go because of his perform­ance, not his weight. The Detroit News reported Thursday that Ronayne's lawsuit seeks more than $25,000 from Winston Golf and Winston Manufacturing. It claims weight and age discrimi­nation. 
Jurrors discuss urine dis­crimination 
NORFOLK, Va. -Jurors in Norfolk are deliberating the discrimination case of a female dock worker who was punished by her union for urinating on the job when a male co-worker who also relieved himself wasn't. The U.S. District Court jury began delibera­tions Wednesday in the case of Sonyo Tillett-Bond, who was told to go home after the Oct. 5, 2006, inci­dent at the Portsmouth port. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 

..... 
<
(.) 





0 
HIGH 47 HIGH HIGH HIGH 55
... 
LOW 29 LOW LOW LOW 37 
36 
29 
55 35 
IN BRIEF 

Gaelic Storm will be per­forming a concert at 2 p.m. on Saturday in the DeBartalo Performing Arts Center. Purchase tickets online, visit or call the ticket office at 574­631-2800. 
"The USA and the EU: Two Modern Forms of Empire?" will be held at 2:30 p.m., today in C-1 03 Hesburg Center for International Studies. Speakers will include Vittorio Hosie, Paul G. Kimball and Kroc Institute faculty fellow. 
"Nanotechnology-The Legal and Ethical Issues" symposium will take place at 3:00 p.m. today in Room 100-104 McKenna Hall.The event will feature Dave Brenner, OWolfgang Porod, Gregory Crawford, Davis Baird, Ralph Hall, and Baker & Daniels. For ticketing information call the ticket office at 57 4-631-2800. 
"Picturing History: Documenting Pre-Photographic History for Television" will be held in Browning Cinema, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 
4:30 p.m. Catherine Allan will be speaking. For ticketing information call the ticket office at 57 4-631-2800. 
Mass will be held at 5:15 
p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Chip Kid will be give a lec­ture in the Annenberg Auditorium, Suite Museum of Art. The lecture will be held at 7:30p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
) 

MONDAY TUESDAY 
HIGH 50 HIGH 

59 
LOW 41 LOW 

45 
Atlanta 65 I 39 Boston 41 I 25 Chicago 57 I 42 Denver 71 I 46 Houston 79 I 57 Los Angeles 70 I 52 Minneapolis 50 I 35 New York 47 I 30 Philadelphia 49 I 30 Phoenix 90 I 63 Seattle 50 I 38 St. Louis 44 I 25 Tampa 83 I 60 Washington 48 I 3? 
Friday, March 20, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Nominees under review 
Committees currently considering nominations for Joyce Award 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
Selection committees are currently reviewing the 255 nominations made for the Joyce Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching and the Dockweiler Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Advising, according to Notre Dame Associate Provost Dennis Jacobs. 
The Provost's Office will announce the recipients of the awards in April. Winners of each award will receive a $1,500 cash prize and will be honored for "extraordinary contribu­tions to undergraduate edu­cation at Notre Dame," Jacobs said. 
Of the 161 nominations received for the Joyce Award, Jacobs said 152 of them came from students. He said that students made 83 of the 94 nominations for the Dockweiler Award. 
Jacobs said he especially enjoyed reading the student nominations for the awards. 
"I am grateful to the stu­dents who submitted nomi­nations for this year's awards," Jacobs said. "It is inspiring to read about how 
students' lives were touched by faculty mem­bers who are deeply com­mitted to offering an out­standing undergraduate education." 
Both .students and faculty were invited to propose nominations for the Joyce Award, and students, facul­ty and staff made nomina­tions for the Dockweiler Award, Jacobs said. 
Jacobs sent s-everal e­mails to students in the weeks before Spring Break requesting nominations for the awards. 
The online nomination form asked students to sub­mit an essay describing why the nominee deserves the award, including specif­ic examples of the nomi­nee's impact on the stu­dent's undergraduate expe­rience. 
The Joyce Award honors faculty from seven different subject areas: business, engineering, fine arts and architecture, humanities, language and literature, science and social science, Jacobs said. 
He said the recipients of the award are faculty mem­bers who "create environ­ments that stimulate signif-­icant student learning, ele­vate students to a new level of intellectual engagement and foster students' ability to express themselves effec­tively within the discipline." 
Jacobs said the Dockweiler Award, created through a gift from the Julia Stearns Dockweiler Charitable Foundation, honors three faculty or staff members who advise undergraduate students. 
"The Dockweiler Award aims to demonstrate in a tangible way that mentor­ing, academic advising and career counseling activities are important and valued roles for faculty and staff at Notre Dame," he said. 
The Deans of the relevant colleges appointed faculty selection committees for each of the seven subject areas of the Joyce Award. The committees will review the nominations and make recommendations to the Provost's Office, Jacobs said. 
The Office of the Provost appointed faculty and staff to a selection committee for the Dockweiler Award. This committee will recommend the top candidates to the Provost's Office, Jacobs said. 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 
Institute launches new Facebook page 
By CASEY KENNEY 
News Writer 

The Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at Notre Dame recently launched a Facebook page as a way to connect with prospective students and share information about academ­ic programs, people and news, according to Joan Fallon, director of communications at the Kroc-Institute. 
"Peace Studies is not a standard major and the Institute's programs are really unique, so we are always looking for creative ways to reach out to students and expand interest," Fallon said. 
She said the use of Facebook by col­lege and university administrators to raise interest in programs seems to be a growing trend around the country. 
"We are not the only one using Facebook at Notre Dame," Fallon said. "Notre Dam{l Magazine uses Facebook, and I am told other pro­grams use it, as well. It seems to be a national trend as other universities and programs are all now utilizing this important tool." 
Fallon said the Kroc Institute attracts students from around the world, and Facebook is an ideal tool to reach out to international students. 
"Typically, around three-quarters of the students in our Master's Degree program are from abroad, and the program has included students from 90 countries," Fallon said. "With this high level of interest coming from abroad, and since students are increasingly learning about programs online, Facebook provides a very effective way to network and spread information to a diverse range of peo­ple. Facebook has a growing interna­tional presence, so this is a way to reach students right where they are." 
The Kroc Institute's page features photos of the program's interns at field sites around the world. It also provides information for events, fre­quent updates to news about the pro­gram and links to pages on Kroc's Web site at http://kroc.nd.edu. 
Fallon said Kroc staff will monitor the page and respond to comments and questions on the Facebook wall. 
"After only two weeks since its launch, the page has already gained over 100 fans. This really attests to the effectiveness of using such a Web site," she said. 
According to a recent news release, the Kroc Institute created the page after staff members consulted with undergraduate Peace Studies stu­dents to reflect matters of importance to them, such as learning about their professors. The page includes links to faculty profiles and a community of faculty and alumni. 
Current Notre Dame undergradu­ates will also be able to use the Facebook page as they assess their choice of Peace Studies as a major or minor. 
Contact Casey Kenney at ckenney@nd.edu 


Sponsored by Intern 
..----------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 20, 2009 
DeFord said another goal of the initiative is to allow
Research 

researchers to communicate and eventually collaborate on
continued from page 1 





Live...
specific projects. 
November 2008. 
"The NIH strategic plans increasingly encourage col­laborations of basic researchers, translational researchers and cli"nicians and also values team science and multi-investigator awards," DeFord said. 
The ICTSI is one of only 38 academic health centers in the country funded by this award. 
"We are very happy to be a part of this consortium and to be a part of the NIH Roadmap for Medical Research," DeFord said. "It should be a win-win situation for all of us." 
The ICTSI provides the framework for basic scien­tists, translational scientists and clinicians to do research together. 
"The idea is to move ideas from the bench to the bedside more smoothly and quickly," DeFord said. "The Institute also includes commercial partners, and this will enable projects and devices to get to market more efficiently," DeFord said. 
By joining this initiative, Notre Dame hopes to better address biomedical issues. 
"It will enable all of us to obtain different perspectives and appr-oach serious research questions from vari­ous angles," DeFord said. 
The membership enables researchers from the University in areas such as the College of Engineering's biomechanics and biomateri­als groups, the Eck Institute for Global Health, the Keck Center for Transgene Research and the new Mike and Josie Harper Cancer Research Institute the ability to move their work into a clinical setting. 
"A majority of the clinical research in the state takes place in Indianapolis," DeFord said. "However, there is clinical research going on here in South Bend." 
"A goal of the Institute is to bring together our basic researchers with clinical fac­ulty," DeFord said. "It can also pair clinical faculty in our community with basic researchers here or at one of the other institutions." 
The collaborations will allow members of the Notre Dame research community to expand their work. 
"These collaborations may lead to increased opportuni­ties to obtain research fund­ing and realization of their research as a potential patient therapy or device," DeFord said. "We also now have access to all the research cores and resources." 
The membership in the ICTSI will not hinder Notre Dame researchers from part­nering with institutions that are not members. 
"Our membership in the ICTSI is not exclusive and is certainly not intended to replace any othe-r collabora­tions," DeFord said. 
The ICTSI Web site provides extensive information on funding opportunities, clini­cal trial opportunities and research core resource offer­ings. 
University faculty are encouraged to go to the site to explore opportunities. They have the ability to cus­tomize the site using their University net ID and pass­word. 
Initially, graduate students that have a faculty mentor that conducts research and that has the capability to become or partner with translational and/or clinical research will have the oppor­tunity to participate in the initiative. 
DeFord said, however, that they are in the process of creating .opportunities for undergraduate students as well. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 

Study... Do it all at Turtle Creek

Dream... 
Apartments!
Tbwn Homes Studio, one & two Bdr homes 

Come see whvTurtle Creek 
j
Furnished homes available 

\Valking distance to ND campus is the best place to call home! Heated pool/hot tub 24hr laundrv center 
.' 
Sand vollevball 
./ 
Pet friendlv 
.; 
Covered parking And much more! Schedule Vatlf 
,; 
personal tour today! 
171 0 E Turtle Creek Dr 


South Bend, IN 574-272-8124 W\V"\v.Hveturtk~creek.com  TurtleCreek  
Text "Ii.trtle' to 47464  APARTMENTS  
•  
Please join us for:  

The Third Biennial Blessed Pope John XXIII Lecture Series In Theology and Culture 
CHINUA ACHEBE 
"The Igbo and their perception ofGod, Human Beings, and Creation" 
Monday, March 23, 2009, 7:30p.m.: "God" Wednesday, March 25, 2009, 7:30p.m.: "Human Beings" Thursday, March 26, 2009, 7:30p.m.: "Creation" 
All lectures will be in Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College ofBusiness 

<> <> 
Sponsored by the Department ofTheology Made possible by a grant frotn the Dilenschneider Family 
Ro01ero 
continued from page 1 
during a controversial time in El Salvador, he was vocal about human rights despite death threats. 
As Pelton has extensively stud­ied the role of the Catholic Church in Latin America, he said he is traveling to Chile next week to give a series of lectures on the subject. He has also written sev­eral books about liberation theol­ogy and Romero. 
"[Romero] provides a type of leadership that we do need in both the society and the church," he said. 
Pelton said this makes the bish­op very relevant to Notre Dame students. 
Romero Days begins on Monday evening with a student panel enti­tled "I shall arise in the Salvadoran people: An Interview Project on Romero's Continuing Presence." _ 
Cinnamon Sarver, a graduate student in theology, will be fea­tured in the panel, as well as Victor Maqque, a graduate stu­dent studying Latin American History. Sophomore Jenna Knapp, an anthropology and peace stud­ies major and junior Michael Angulo, a history and peace stud­ies major, will be respondents. Pupusas, an El Salvadoran tor­tilla, will be served at a reception following the panel. 
On Tuesday, Fr. Stephen Judd will celebrate Mass in honor of women in service in Latin America at the Church of Loretto at Saint Mary's College. 
Judd will also present a lecture Tuesday entitled "Aparecida and the Latin American Church's Road Map to Intercultural Dialogue." 
Romero Days will conclude Tuesday evening with speaker Eugene Palumbo's presentation on Romero c.alled "Now I Understand." Palumbo is a jour­nalist based in El Salvador. 
Contact Nora Kenney at hkenney@nd.edu 







ORLD & NATION 
Friday, March 20, 2009 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Counbies reject Madagascar leader 
MBABANE, Swaziland -Southern Mrican nations declared Thursday they will not rec­ognize Madagascar's new leader, an army­backed politician who ousted an elected president, and the United States said it would reconsider aid to the island nation. 
The stance came as Madagascar's neigh­bors held a mini-summit Thursday on the sit­uation in the Indian Ocean nation and after Zambia declared that the power change in Madagascar threatens democracy in Africa. , Representatives of the Southern African Development Community also urged the African Union and the international commu­nity not to recognize Andry Rajoelina as president of Madagascar and called for a return to "democratic and constitutional rule in the shortest time possible." 
Mexican drug cartel leader arrested 
MEXICO CITY -Mexico's military has captured the security and operations chief of the nation's most powerful drug cartel, offi­cials said Thursday, delivering another pun­ishing blow only weeks after U.S. officials rounded up hundreds of cartel members north of the border. 
Vicente Zambada allegedly became a top Sinaloa cartel leader last year, with control over logistics and authority to order assassi­nations of government authorities and rivals. lie was arrested before dawn Wednesday at a home in an elite Mexico City neighborhood, said Gen. Luis Arturo Oliver, the Defense Department's deputy chief of operations. 
Zambada's father, lsmael "El Mayo" Zambada. also is considered a top leader of the Sinaloa cartel and is among Mexico's most-wanted suspects. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Gibno prisoners declared innocent 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico -Many detainees locked up at Guantanamo were innocent men swept up by U.S. forces unable to distin­guish enemies from noncombatants, a for­mer Bush administration official said Thursday. 
"There are still innocent people there," Lawrence B. Wilkerson, a Republican who was chief of staff to then-Secretary of State Colin Powell, told The Associated Press. "Some have been there six or seven years." 
Wilkerson, who first made the assertions in an Internet posting on Tuesday, told the AP he learned from briefmgs and by communi­cating with military commanders that the 
U.S. soon realized many Guantanamo detainees were innocent but nevertheless held them in hopes they could provide infor­mation for a "mosaic" of intelligence. 
Foreigners acquire Md. licenses 
ANNAPOLIS, Md. -In an online Spanish language chat room, people from all over the East Coast seek tips on how to get dri­ver's licenses in Maryland even though they don't live there. 
Businesses run classified ads in Spanish­language publications in Washington, D.C., Virginia and Maryland urging "undocu­mented Hispanic friends" to take advantage of the opportunity to get Maryland lD with­out having to prove they're in .the country legally. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Woman sells valueless stock 
INDIANAPOLIS -A Hamilton County woman was charged Thursday with one count of securities fraud and 10 counts of theft for allegedly defrauding investors in a coal gasification project of more than $2.5 million over two years. 
Marion County Prosecutor Carl Brizzi said Dorothy Geisler-Tragardh sold Class A stock in Praxis Resources Partners at $56 a share but represented them as Class B shares and failed to tell investors that as Class A shares, they had little or no value. 
CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVEJts WIRE SERVICES page 5 


House passes bill taxing AIG bonuses 
Lawmakers approve legislation that will restrict company's employee benefits 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Denouncing a "squandering of the people's money," law­makers voted decisively Thursday to impbse a 90 per­cent tax on millions of dollars in employee bonuses paid by troubled insurance giant AIG and other bailed-out compa­nies. 
The House vote was 328­
93. Similar legislation has been introduced in the Senate and President Barack Obama quickly signaled general sup­port for the concept. 
"I look forward to receiving a fmal product that will serve as a strong signal to the exec­utives who run these firms that such compensation will not be tolerated," the presi­dent said in a statement. 
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif, told col­leagues, "We want our money back now for the taxpayers. It isn't that complicated." 
The outcome may not have been complicated. But the lopsided vote failed to reflect the contentious political battle that preceded it. 
Republicans took Democrats to task for rushing to tax AIG bonuses worth an estimated $165 million after the majority party stripped from last month's economic stimulus bill a provision that could have banned such pay­outs. 
"This political circus that's going on here today with this bill is not getting to the bot­tom of the questions of who knew what and when did they know it," said House Republican Leader John Boehner of Ohio. 
He voted "no," but 85 fel­low Republicans joined 243 Democrats in voting "yes." It 
was  opposed  by  six  
Democrats  and  87  
Republicans.  

The bill would impose a 90 percent tax on bonuses given to employees with family incomes above $250,000 at American International Group and other companies that have received at least $5 billion in government bailout money. It would apply to any such bonuses issued since Dec. 31. 

The House vote, after just 40 minutes of debate, showed how quickly Congress can act when the political will is there. 
It was only this past week­end that the bailed-out insur­ance giant paid bonuses total­ing $165 million to employ­ees, including traders in the Financial Products unit that nearly brought about AIG's collapse. 
AIG has received $182.5 billion in federal bailout money and)s now 80 percent government owned. 
Disclosure of the bonuses. touched off a national firestorm that both the Obama administration and Congre.ss have scurried to contain. 
In a statement issued by the White House late 
Thursday, Obama said the House vote "rightly reflects the outrage that so many feel over the lavish bonuses that AIG provided its employees at the expense of the taxpayers who have kept this failed company afloat." 
"In the end, this is a symp­tom of a larger problem -a bubble-and-bust economy that valued reckless specula­tion over responsibility and hard work," he said. "That is what we must ultimately repair to build a lasting and widespread prosperity." . 
Topic No. 1 raised by Republicans during the House debate was the last­minute altering of a provision in Obama's $787 billion stim­ulus law to cap executive compensation for firms receiving government bailouts. 
The measure might have forestalled payment of the AIG bonuses. 

But Senate Banking Committee Chairman Chris Dodd, a Connecticut Democrat and the author of the provision, says the admin­istration insisted that he mod­ify his proposal so that it would only apply to payments agreed to in the future. 
That, critics claim, cleared the way for the AIG payouts. 
"The idea came from the administration," Dodd said Thursday 
Dodd said he was not aware of any AIG bonuses at the time the change was 
1 
~

made. 
' 

Treasury Secretary ' 
' 

Timothy Geithner confirmed • such conversations with Dodd. He said the administra­tion was worried about possi­ble legal challenges to the provision. 
IRAQ 

Iraqis currently held by U.S. to go free 
Associated Press 
CAMP BUCCA -Thousands of Iraqis held without charge by the United States on suspicion of links to insurgents or militants are being freed by this summer because there is little or no evidence against them. 
Their release comes as the U.S. pre­pares to turn over its detention system to the fledgling Iraqi government by early 2010. In the six years since the war began, the military ultimately detained some 100,000 suspects, many of whom were picked up in U.S.-led raids during a raging, bloody insurgency that has since died down. 
The effort to do justice for those wrongly held to begin with, some for years, also runs the risk of releasing extremists who could be a threat to fragile Iraqi security. 
As part of an agreement between the two countries that took effect Jan. 1, Iraqi authorities have begun reviewing the cases of the detainees to decide whether to free them or press charges~ About 13,300 remain behind barbed wire in U.S. custody in Iraq. , 
But Iraqi judges have issued detention orders to prosecute only 129 of the 2,120 cases they have fmished review­ing so far this year -or about 6 per­cent, according to U.S. military data. As of Thursday, 1,991 detainees had been freed since Jan. 1. 
An Associated Press reporter embed­ded for two days at Camp Bucca, the largest U.S. detention facility in Iraq, and talked with military officials about preparations to shut it down. 
"God willing, God willing," said Layla Rasheed after learnirig that her son, a former government worker from Baghdad, was likely to be released. "He doesn't have anything to do with terror­ists. I don't know why he was picked up." 
r----------------------~---------------------------~ 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 20, 2009 



SMC choir finshes spring break tour 
By M.B. GIZINSKI 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Women's Choir will wrap up their spring break tour with a Homecoming Concert today. 
Over spring break, 31 mem­bers of the Women's Choir toured the Great Lakes region, including Detroit and Toronto. They visited churches and schools to promote the Saint Mary's music program. 
"In the daytime, we went to high schools with strong women choral programs," Choral conductor and Professor of Music Nancy Menk said. ''In the evenings; we went to churches with great acoustics that highlighted the choir's voices." 
Menk said female Catholic high schools are the main feed­er for the program. 
This trip was freshman Elizabeth Carian's first choral tour. She said the tour was a beneficial experience for everyone involved. 
"[The tour] gets the school's name out there as well as giv­ing us a chance to learn," Carian said. "We learn from the choirs we sing with and the schools we perform for learn from us." · 
Menk said she hopes stu­dents enjoyed the trip as well as learned from it. 
"I pick the end city first and go from there. I always try to pick fun cities because it is [the choir member's] spring break. I also try to choose places with 

Churchill 
continued from page 1 
would have been difficult for me to study abroad and still com­plete my major requirements on time." 
While overseas, Manion said he plans to use his free time to active alumni clubs," she said. 

Menk said this combination of work and fun helped to sync the choir. The choir bec.omes better musically when they form stronget bonds socially. 
"The tour bonds them social­ly ·and musically. It makes us better, more cohesive. We achieve one sound," Menk said. 
The concert today is the final one of the choir's tour and the seniors' last. 
"I have been in Women's Choir for all four years of col-· lege," senior Lindsey Appelquist said. "At other schools you must be a music major to be in the top choir, and I really enjoyed the acceptance of this music department with being a sci­ence major." 
During the homecoming con­cert, Menk said the choir will focus on religious songs from different eras. Each member has a song that she prefers. 
"My favorite song is 'Ubi Caritas' by Eleanor Daley because it-is a beautiful piece that begins with a chant, brings in a three-part harmony in the middle and then ulti­mately ends with a chant again," Appelquist said. "It is a good example of the develop­ment of music throughout his­tory while holding on to tradi­tional text." 
The concert will begin tonight at 7:30 p.m. at the Church of Loretto. 
Contact M. B. Gizinski at mgizinO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
"/think it's a great

experience the gram. The left-diverse travel opportunity. I've over stipend opportunities money is
heard really good 

to get acclimated to life in Europe and do some traveling before his classes begin and he is burdened by a heavy workload. 
The Churchill scholarship includes fully paid tuition to the University of Cambridge as well as a stipend. 
The stipend ean be used to pay for housing, which is also organ­
ized through the 
Churchill pro­
that he behind. 
Manion's to use for food, travel expenses and any other costs he may incur while in England. 
Despite his excitement, Manion said that there are aspects of life in the United States 

will be sad to leave 
'Til miss Notre Dame football games," he said. "And I'll defi­nitely miss my family." 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 

Halfti01e 
continued from page 1 
members of Halftime, he said. 
"It's really good thing to have for kind of a growing group like ours," he said of Halftime, which is in its fifth year. "The experience of being with another group, especially another group that's so presti­gious as they are is great." 
The SoCal VoCals boasts a win at the International Championship of Collegiate A Cappella annual competition, where they took home top honors. 
Halftime performs pop-rock arrangements -"modern, popular stuff," Kastenholz, who arranges the songs for the group, said. 
"We like to bounce ideas off the group. It's a good process," he said of the group's song selections. 
"Ultimately we decide what would be the most fun to arrange and the most fun for the group to perform." Kastenholz said. 
Singing a cappella comes with some challenges. 
"It's our goal to emulate what you hear on the radio," Kastenholz said. "You try to embody the instruments you're singing." 
A cappella is an Italian phrase that, in music terms, means without musical 
accompaniment. 
"It's definitely a challenge there -trying to embody what the song is with the instruments and then trying to take over the instruments with our voices," Kastenholz said. 
The 13-member group boasts a wide range of sounds; one member is able to imitate a "guitar-synth voice," he said. 
Learning to sing a cappella is a transition from other musical forms, but "the people in the group are all very musi­cally inclined to begin with. It's not really a challenge to learn the music, just to perfect it," Kastenholz said. 
Perfecting the a cappella sound comes from "observa­tion -viewing other a cappel­la groups. listening to them," he said. 
The concert this weekend with the USC group is "not just about us -it's about the SoCal VoCals-there's no bet­ter group than the SoCal VoCals-we're really honored that they want to do a concert with us," Kastenholz said. "If you've ever been interested in a cappella, this is the group to see." 
Something to look forward to for fans of Miley Cyrus: Kastenholz said the group's fi~e-or six-song set will wrap with her hit single "See You Again." 
"It's our fun song right now," he said. Halftime has made a name 
for itself since it first came to campus; last fall over 50 peo­ple came out to audition for three open spots, Kastenholz said. 
"I really feel like this concert is just going to put us over the edge and get more recogni­tion," he said. 
They've still been trying to find their role among other campus groups, however, like The Undertones. 
"The Undertones are con­nected ... they're more estab­lished, they've been around longer, they have more tradi­tion than we do," he said. 
Another way the co-ed Halftime differs from the all­male Undertones: "Every girl is obsessed with them," Kastenholz said. 
The concert with the SoCal VoCals, which will take place Saturday at 4 p.m. in the Carey Auditorium in the Hesburgh Library, is just one event Halftime has on its schedule this weekend; the group will also perform in an exhibition with other Notre Dame a cappella groups, including The Undertones on Sunday. 
Tickets for the SoCal VoCals and Halftime are $3 for stu­dents and $5 for non-students and are available at the LaFortune Box Office or at the door. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
Monday and always welcomes new members, Wilczek said. 
"This club is open to all. If you have a disability, want to provide support for someone who does have a disability, want to learn more about dif­ferent forms of disabilities or just want to have a fun time hanging out with cool people, then this is the elub for you," she said. 
Swinton agreed. 
"I would encourage students without disabilities to take part," he said. "Part of the college experience is to broaden one's horizons, and I eannot think of a better way to do that than to take part in Perspectives." 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
that a year in England will pro­vide. 
"I want to go all over Europe," he said. 
Manion said his music back­ground will play a part in his trav­el plans. 
"Being a music major, I want to see the music stuff." he said. "Go see Salzburg and Vienna, where all the com­posers were." 
The program begins on Oct. 1, 2009. Manion said he plans to leave for Cambridge several weeks ahead of time to be. able 
things about the program and I'm excited to be at Ca'mbridge." 
Andrew Manion Churchill Scholarship recipient 


Disability 
continued from page 1 
share insights and eoncerns," Tardy said. "Finally, from their discussions, they real­ized that more campus awareness of disability issues was necessary." 
The students deeided to take aetion, she said. 
"They hoped that forming a student club would help address these issues and improve Notre Dame and adjacent campuses for cur­rent and future studnnts with disabilities," Tardy said. 
This is the second year Perspectives has been an offi­cial club at the University. 
Sophomore Kalen Wilczek, president of Perspectives, said the club's intent "is to provide awareness and discussion to different forms of disabilities on the Notre Dame campus. 
"We want to open up lines of discussion on disabilities. We want to provide an outlet to broaden people's perspee­tives on disabilities," she said. 
Club member Matt Swinton, a freshman, agreed. 
"Perspeetives' goal is to pro­mote awareness and under­standing of disabilities, both physical and learning, in the Notre Dame community," he said. "We want the eommuni­ty to understand that every­one has something to offer here at Notre Dame, no mat­ter what that person's situa­tion is." 
The club meets every 

apartments available for 2009·2010 ::walking distance to campus:· 2-bP..droom. 2·bath with 990± SF :: free mtemet :: washer, dryer and dishwasher :: central air conditioning :large balcony :: cathedral ceiHngs 
Call Cnristina at ~1~~~~l·1~J~ to scneaule an a~~ointment or email us at mana~er@ndstaaiumcluo.com 


Friday, March 20, 2009 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 

Jones 7,400.80 -X5.78 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,911 95 1,807 1,719,273,003 

AMEX NASDAQ 1,483.48 -7.74 NYSE 4i~~~;z2 · ~±~~~(}Si S&P 500 784.04 -HUl NIKKEI (Tokyo) 7,945~96 •At!fL21 FTSE 100 (London) 3,816.93 +11.94 


COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP INC (C) ·15.58 ·0.48 2.60 BK Of AMERICA (BAC) ·9.65 -0.74 6.93 AMERICAN INTL GP (AIG) +17.39 +0.24 1.62 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) ·1.24 ·0.99 78.94 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +2.53 +0.064 2.60 13-WEEK BILL -7.32 -0.020 0.19 30-YEAR BOND +1.12 +0.040 3.61 5-YEAR NOTE +7.99 +().121 L64 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE {$/bbl.) +3.47 51.61 GOLD {$/Troy oz.) +69.70 958.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.53 91.75 
Exchange Rates 
YEN 94.6200 EURO 1.3661 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2411 BRITISH POUND 1.4498 

IN BRIEF 
Auto parts suppliers receive aid 
WASHINGTON -The Treasury Department will pump up to $5 billion in financing into troubled auto parts suppliers to prevent an auto industry collapse that could undermine the government's work to restructure General Motors and Chrysler. 
The funds, announced Thursday, will be made available from the government's Troubled Assets Relief Program, or TARP, in a financial entity similar to a revolving credit. Large suppliers would be eligible for financing auto parts they have shipped to the Detroit carmakers but have not yet received payment. 
U.S. automakers -General Motors Corp., Chrysler LLC and Ford Motor Co. -will have the option of using the program and designate the companies that need financing, giving them a large role in determining which parts suppli­ers will survive. 
Bailed out firms owe $220 min. in taxes 
WASHINGTON -At least 13 companies receiving billions of dollars in bailout money owe a total of more than $220 million in unpaid federal taxes, a key lawmaker said Thursday. 
Rep. John Lewis, D-Ga., chairman of a House subcommittee overseeing the federal bailout, said two companies owe more than $100 million apiece. 
"This is shameful. It is a disgrace," said Lewis. "We are going to get to the bottom of what is going on here." 
The House Ways and Means subcommittee on oversight discovered the unpaid taxes in a review of tax records from 23 companies receiving the most money, Lewis said as he opened a hearing on the issue. 
The committee said it could not legally release the names of the companies owing taxes. It said one recipient of bailout money had almost $113 million in unpaid federal income taxes from 2005 and 2006. A second recipient owed almost $102 million dating to before 2004. Another was behind $1.1 mil­lion in federal income taxes and $223,000 in federal employment taxes."If we looked at all 470 recipients, how much would they owe?" Lewis asked. 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS 
page 7 

Jobless claims fall further to 646,000 
Demand for unemployment insurance drops, but requests still at record highs 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -New jobless claims fell more than expected last week, but con­tinuing claims set a new record for the eighth straight week and few econ­omists expect the labor mar­ket to improve anytime soon. 
The Labor Department said Thursday that initial requests for unemployment insurance dropped to a sea­sonally adjusted 646,000 from the previous week's revised figure of 658,000. That was better than ana­lysts' expectations. 
But continuing claims jumped 185,000 to a season­ally adjusted 5.47 million, another record-high and more than the roughly 5.33 million that economists expected. 
Other economic news was 
slightly more upbeat. A pri­
vate sector group's index of 
leading economic indicators 
dropped less than expected 
in February, although 
growth is not expected 
before next year. On the 
housing front, rates on 30­
year mortgages dipped 
below 5 percent, and may 
fall further after the Federal 
Reserve launched a new 
effort to prop up that flailing 
market. 

But on Wall Street, where the market has advanced six of the past seven sessions, stocks fell Thursday as ket. the recession began in controlled mortgage finance investors scrutinized the lat­"There is no sign of even a December 2007. company Freddie Mac said est Fed actions. The Dow temporary easing in the Meanwhile, the New York­Thursday that average rates Jones industrial average lost downward pressure on based Conference Board's on 30-year fixed-rate mort­nearly 86 points to close at employment," Ian monthly forecast of econom­gages dropped to 4.98 per­7,400.80, and broader indi­Shepherdson, chief U.S. ic activity fell 0.4 percent cent this week, down from cators also dropped. economist at High last month, slightly better 5.03 percent last week. It 
The four-week average of Frequency Economics, than the 0.6 percent decline was the lowest since the jobless claims rose to wrote in a client note. economists expected. The week of Jan. 15, when it was 654,750, the highest since Initial claims have topped index is designed to forecast at 4.96 percent, the record October 1982, when the 600,000 for seven straight economic activity in the next low for Freddie Mac's survey economy was emerging weeks, a level that many three to six months, based that dates to 1971. from a steep recession, economists say is consistent on 10 components that The rate quotes included though the labor force has with another huge drop in include stock prices, money in Freddie Mac's survey grown by about half since net payrolls when the Labor supply, jobless claims and were taken before the Fed then. Department issues its building permits. said Wednesday it will pump 
Economists said the signs monthly employment report Despite beating expecta­$1.2 trillion into the econo­of life that have cropped up next month. tions, the index's broad my in an effort to lower in other areas of the econo­Net job losses could top decline of the past 19 rates on mortgages and my in the past week, such as 700,000 in March, months persisted and is other and loosen credit. That upticks in retail sales and Shepherdson said, which unlikely to end until next could drive mortgage rates housing starts, aren't yet would bring total losses to year, economists said. down even further, perhaps apparent in the labor mar-above 5 million jobs since Elsewhere, government-past record lows. 


Stock rally fades, Fed's plan evaluated 
Associated Press gram, such as a potentially weaker fell 85. 78, or 1.2 percent, to 7 ,400.80. 
dollar that can lead to higher prices The broader Standard & Poor's 500 
NEW YORK -Investors had a for commodities such as oil and index fell 10.31, or 1.3 percent, to change of heart about the Federal grains. And, eventually, staples like 784.04, while Nasdaq composite Reserve's plans to buy Treasury gas and food. index fell 7.74, or 0.5 percent, to bonds and doused Wall Street's two­"After the initial euphoria sur­1,483.48. week-old rally. rounding the surprise announcement Declining issues narrowly outnum­
Banking and other fmancial shares yesterday, there's a little more analy­bered advancers on the New York pulled the market lower Thursday as sis of this going on and it's leading to Stock Exchange, where consolidated investors worried the the Fed's plan some questions," said Todd Salamone, volume came to 8.8 billion shares would hurt the dollar and revive infla­senior vice president of research at compared with 9 billion shares tion. But energy stocks rose, getting a Schaeffer's Investment Research. Wednesday. lift from soaring crude oil prices. Skepticism about how long it would Wall Street's move lower ended, at 
The retreat came a day after stocks take for the effects of the Fed's pro­least for now, a buying spree that has surged in reaction to the Fed's gram to take hold also weighed down driven stocks sharply higher since last aggressive plans to pump more than shares, particularly those of banks. week. Even with Thursday's slide, the $1 trillion into the fmancial system by Investors have been hungry for any Dow is still up 13 percent and the buying Treasury bonds and stepping signs that confidence may finally S&P 500 index is up 15.9 percent over up its purchases of other debt securi­return to battered U.S. banks, and the the past eight days. The gains are ties. The aim is to lower borrowing market has had a generally dim view impressive considering that only a rates and stimulate lending. of the government's efforts to date to few weeks ago the market was trad­
But investors began to digest the get lending moving again. ing at levels not seen in more than a possible downsides of the Fed's pro-The Dow Jones industrial average decade. 

page 10 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Friday, March 20, 2009 

Accident burns boy scout 
Associated Press 
TOMS HIVER, N.J. -It was a hot July night when Eagle Scout Brian Lenz decided to show a group of younger boys at his camp a trick called the "circle of fire," in which he would squirt rubbing alcohol in a pattern on a table and set it af1ame. 
It would look cool. And it would quickly burn out. 
When Lenz tried to reignite what he thought was a dying name, fire leapt from the table along the stream of liquid, back into the squeeze bottle he was holding. He instinctively shook his hand, flinging the burning bottle away and spraying flaming alcohol onto the other Scouts. 
In an instant, Sean Whitley, a 17-year-old near­ing his own Eagle Scout rank, was horribly burned on his legs and abdomen. He died four days later at a Philadelphia hospital. Two other Scouts, including Whitley's twin brother and a 14-year-old Scout, were also burned but soon recovered. 
Now Lenz has struck a deal that allows him to avoid jail time in a case that has shone an uncomfortable light on the Scouts' safety and supervision policies. 
"Even one incident like this is one too many," said Craig Shelley, Scout execu­tive for the Jersey Shore Council. "We have redoubled our efforts to ensure the safety of every child in our care. Fire safety is some­thing we are having increased discussions about." 
Three indicted after investigation 
Associated Press 
FRANKFORT. Ky. -A judge, school superintendent and county clerk in south­eastern Kentucky have bPen indicted on charges they extorted money from political candidates so they could bribe voters in a scheme to rig several elections, authori­ties said Thursday. 
The U.S. Attorney's office said charges include racket­eering, bribery, extortion and voter fraud against Clay County Circuit Court Judge Russell Cletus Maricle, school superintendent Douglas C. Adams, Clay County Clerk Freddy Thompson and oth­ers. 
The investigation began after voting irre g ul ari ties were reported during the 2006 elections. A statement from the federal prosecutor's office claims the officials tried to rig federal, state and local elections in 2002, 2004 and 2006 in Clay County, about 170 miles southeast of Louisville. 
Prosecutors claim a group led by Maricle and Adams, who were essentially "politi­cal bosses," recruited a slate of candidates to run for cer­tain offices and then tried to 
Boy Scout policies prohibit the use or possession of flammable liquids as fire starters, and Shelley said two adults are supposed to be present "in all situa­tions." Lenz was 18 at the time and still is. 
The accident at the Joseph 
A. Citta Reservation in Waretown, N.J., on July 6, 2008, came about two years after the organization reached an out-of-court set­tlement with the family of a New Jersey Scout who was killed by lightning at a Pennsylvania camp. 
Whitley's family sued Lenz, of Waretown, and the Boy Scouts about a month ago, seeking unspecified damages and alleging that negligence led to Whitley's wrongful death. 
"The loss of Sean has been a tragedy for all involved," the victim's family said in a statement provided to The Associated Press on Wednesday by its lawyer. They did not attend Lenz's court appearance and would not speak to reporters. 
"We hope this incident helps focus attention to the need for increased fire safe­ty training and supervision of minor counselors," they said. "The love Sean had for the camp and his friends on staff demands that every effort be taken to ensure their absolute safety." 
Lenz, tall and pale with close-cropped brown hair, did not spnak in court other than to answer, "Yes, sir" to a series of technical ques­tions the judge asked. Outside the courtroom, Lenz and his parents, other rela­tives and his lawyer all 
rig elections in their favor. They also tried to recruit members of thn local elec­tions board so they might avoid an investigation. 
It was unclear how much money was involved in the alleged scheme, and exactly how long it may have been going on. 
Thompson, the county clerk, allegedly provided money for election officers to buy votes. Thompson also told election officers how to change votes at the machinPs, according to the indictment. 
Some voters were bribed at the voting booths. Some offi­cials told voters to use booths incorrectly, so that they could go back and change the tallies, the indict­ment says. 
William and Debra Morris are also charged as associ­ates who helped dish out money to buy votes. 
Secretary of State Trey Grayson, who is ehairman of the Kentucky Board of Elections, said the allega­tions would be a "great injus­tice" to Clay County voters if true. 
"We hope that the judicial system will work expeditious­ly on this matter," Grayson declined to comment. 
The teen was admitted into a pretrial intervnntion program that will enabln him to avoid jail tim1~ or even a criminal record. 
The Whitleys' lawyer, .Joel Hosen. would not say how the family feels about Lenz being admitted to the intnr­vention program. But a prosecutor said the family was consulted before the deeision was made to offer it to Lenz. 
Pretrial intervention is designed for nonviolent, first-time offenders. It lets thnm avoid criminal prose­cution in return for staying out of troubln for a year, performing community sorv­
ice,  and  paying  !"inns  or  
restitution.  
Whitley,  who  livnd  in  

Evesham in Burlington County, was attp,nding the first day of the weeklong camp in Lenz's hometown. Whitley and his brother Kenneth were staff membors at the camp, which they had both attended for years. 
A Web site by Whitley's family and friends deseribod him as "a quiet, intnllignnt kid with a dry sense of humor. lie and his twin brother K~m were insepara­ble and did nnarly every­thing together. 
"Not overly athletic or aeadem ically d rivon, Scouting gave him the opportunity to shine and to display the maturity and responsibln nature that seemed unusual for his age," they wrote on the site. "llis enthusiasm for Scouting and for the friends he made through it were extraordinary." 
said, "so that the dark eloud of suspicion hanging over these elections will not affect future nleetions." 
Kyle Edelen, a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney's offiee in Lexington, said the offi­cials arc expPeted to make their initial appearances in court on Friday in London, Ky. 
A message left at a numbp,r listed for William Morris was not returned, and thorn was no listing for Debra Morris. Stivers and Adams did not have listed phone numbers. A number for Jones rang unan­swered. 
A call made to Mariele's o!Tice led to a recording on another judgr~·s phorw line and was not immediately returned. A number listnd for Maricle was disconnected. 
Leigh Anne Hiatt. spokns­woman for the Adrninistrativn Office of thn Courts, said in an e-mail that Maricle was a senior judgn, but did not know his immedi­ate status. 
Thompson's number was unlistnd. Beverly Gray, the deputy elerk in Thompson's office, declined to comment. An e-mail message to Thompson seeking comment was not returned. 


Man convicted of 23 counts, faces 400 years 
Associated Press 
HICIIMOND. Va. -A Miami businessman accused of bilking nearly 600 people across the country out of $126 million and using the money on a personal jet, a yacht and other luxuries was convicted Thursday on 23 counts, including fraud and money laundnring. 
Af"tp,r a thren-wep,k trial, a federal jury delibPrated over two days before finding Edward II ugh Okun guilty of all charges. Four counts previously had been withdrawn or dismissed. 
Okun stood, his head solemn­ly bowed, as the verdict was read. lie faees up to 400 years in prison when he is sentenced Aug. 4. 
Hob Wagner, the federal pub­lie dnfender, told reporters he will appeal. 
Okun, 5H, owned two Hiehmond companies that held money from clients seeking to defer capital gains taxes on property sales. 
Thn schnmn eventually col­lapsnd, leaving many of his clients unable to reclaim their money. 
Several victims who attended the trial embraced one another and prosecutors as Okun was led away by federal marshals. Bonnie Schloss of Silver Spring, Mel., who said she lost $335,000 from the sale of a house she had purchased with an inheri­tance, choked back tears. 
"It doesn't bring baek the money, but it does make you feel like somebody paid atten­tion and cared about us," said Schloss, 59. 
Barry and Sandy Cogan of Short Hills, N.J., said they lost about $500,000 from thr sale of a small strip mall that had been in Sandy Cogan's family since the late 1920s. 
"I think it was just and it was fair, and I think he will never ever again be able to destroy peoples' lives," said Barry Cogan, 67. "This page in our lives has been turned." 
Okun, who lived in a water­front mansion, operated com­panies known as "qualified intermediaries," which held propnrty sellers' proceeds in escrow. Tho Internal Revenue Service allows sellPrs to dnfer capital gains tax if they deposit the proceeds with a qualified intermediary until they can buy a rPplacemPnt property. 


~~z:z--~)' 
TICKETS 0,.., .SALE ,..,OIA/.f 
Ttckets ava.ltable at the Morrie EIO)( Office aou at Suporsow'lu& catalog Contot-In Goshen. 57•h23&-9190 or 000·537-6415 • oonne at www.Morri&Cenu.r.<:>,.g 
te::! <iCl 

Fridc:~y Murch • :Z009-7:30 prn Morris Perf'orrning Arts c;;:entor South Dcrnd# lndiqna Tickets on sol• n.,....., Gt Moll'rb Do.>< Ofl\c<l'. 
nf1G'~~3"'o~".,.~;;:.':."'"· d'':::.'lf..~.!fl.:.f!":!-':.':...9 
W.lcomwd ..,., Qcsrht"• L...,p Ratomot.tve & Dronctt:•a Hurl..-y Dvvt<h·on~Wobv4h 
Friday, March 20, 2009 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page II 




Dann fined for illegal funds 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -A divided Ohio Elections Commission found Thursday that former Attorney General Marc Dann twice violat­ed state elections law by using campaign funds to pay for an expensive in-home security sys­tem and a cell phone often used for personal calls. 
The panel fined both Dann and his campaign committee $1,000 each in the security system mat­ter, and issued him a public rep­rimand over the handling of his cell phone expenses. The cam­paign's then-deputy treasurer, Mary Beth Snyder, received a $250 fine for signing off on the security system expenses. 
Commission members stopped short of referring any of the mat­ters for criminal prosecution, however. 
The former consumer bulldog sat pensively throughout the hours of legal wrangling, only occasionally becoming agitated over having to funnel answers to commissioners' questions through his lawyer rather than answering them himself. 
The commission ended the day with only one of, two cases resolved against Dann. He still faces a future hearing over a wide-ranging set of allegations brought by the state watchdog, Inspector General Tom Charles, after a four-month investigation. 
Dann's lawyer, Donald McTigue, fought unsucc;essfully Thursday to have the second case dismissed on grounds that Charles was acting outside his jurisdiction. 
After the proceedings, Dann said he was disappointed that violations were found, but grati­fied no criminal charges were sought. He said he will decide whether to appeal. 
"I made a choice over whether to use taxpayer dollars -what would have been hundreds of thousands of dollars over the course of time I was serving as attorney general -to protect myself and my family, or to use campaign funds," he said. "I think I made the right decision at the time." 
Elections commissioner Yvette McGee Brown said during the hearing that evidence didn't bear out that Dann made the decision to be magnanimous. She noted that documents submitted in the case indicated Dann did not decide to use campaign funds until he learned the executive budget could not cover the expense, and because having police officers around was inter­fering with his family's privacy. 
Assistant Attorney General Melinda Osgood, representing the state, said an in-home securi­ty system is not a normal way to handle such threats. She said Ohio has a history of providing la}V enforcement protection to officeholders who face danger, and that Dann had been provid­ed with such protection. 
Dann, who turned 47 last week, resigned in May amid a sexual harassment scandal in·-his ollice and after admitting to an extramarital affair with an employee. 
The Youngstown Democrat was part of a near-sweep of statewide offices by Ohio Democrats in 2006 after a scan­dal over state investment<; sullied the reputation of the Ohio Republican Party. 
Despite the public furor sur­rounding the Dann scandal, Osgood said, the issue was very simple. 
"Campaign money simply can't be converted for personal use," she said. 
The security system and cell phone complaints were brought by Secretary of State Jennifer Brunner, a fellow Democrat, after an audit of Dann's cam­paign finance reports through 2007. Osgood said Brunner is auditing his 2008 reports. 
Charles' complaint accuses Dann of misusing campaign funds to give gifts to family and friends, pay for unauthorized trips for his family, and to cover everyday expenses such as cof­fee, meals and newspapers. Charles also alleges Dann provid­ed incomplete, inaccurate and false information on his state campaign finance filings. 
McTigue told the commission that Charles' investigation went further than what was allowed by the Legislature. 
"We believe this is an instance of a government official over­reaching his authority," he said. 
McTigue argued Thursday that the $27,000 security system was a legitimate expense under Ohio campaign finance laws because it was made necessary in the course of Drum's official duties as a result of threats to Dann and his daughter. McTigue said the girl was being observed by a man with a teardrop tattoo, which can mean a person is a pastsexualoflende~ 
McTigue used Gov. Ted Strickland's decision to approve some enhanced security for Dann before the security system was installed as evidence that there was a legitimate need. 
Strickland, who led the push last spring for Dann to resign, said Thursday he may have approved State Highway Patrol protection for Dann for a brief period.· 



School officials allow cage fights 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -The Dallas school system was rocked by allegations Thursday that staff members at an inner-city high school made students settle their differences by fighting bare-knuckle brawls inside a steel cage. 
The principal and other employees at South Oak Cliff High knew about the cage fights and allowed the practice to continue, according to a 2008 report by school system investigators. 
"More than anything, I'm in shock and disbelief -shocked that this could ever occur and shocked that it would be con­doned by a professional administrator," said Jerome Garza, a member of the Dallas school board. 
The report, first obtained by The Dallas Morning News, describes two instances of fighting in an equipment cage in a boys' locker room between 2003 and 2005. It was not clear from the report whether there were other fights. 
Superintendent Michael Hinojosa told the newspaper that there were "some things that happened inside of a cage" and called the fights "unacceptable." 
No criminal charges were ever filed, and there was no mention in the report of whether anyone required med­ical attention or whether any employees were disciplined. A district spokesman would not comment. 
The allegations came to light during a grade-fixing investi­gation that eventually cost the high school its 2005 and 2006 state basketball titles. School officials were suspected of altering students' grades so that they could remain eligible to play for South Oak Cliff, a perennial basketball power­house in one of the poorer sec­tions of the city. 
In an interview with the Morning News. Donald Moten, who retired as principal last year, denied any fights were held. 
"That's barbaric. You can't do that at a high school. You can't do that anywhere," Moten said. "Ain't nothing to comment on. It never did hap­pen. I never put a stop to any­thing ?,ecause it never hap­pened. 
In the report, a teacher was quoted as saying Moten told security personnel to put two fighting students "in the cage and let 'em duke it out," according to the report. 
The report said a hall moni­tor, Gary King, told investiga­tors he witnessed the head of campus security and an assis­tant basketball coach place two students in the cage to fight. 
Another hall monitor, Reno Savala. told investigators he came upon two students fight­ing in the cage "bare-fisted with no head or eye protec­tion." Savala said the assistant coach was watching the fight and broke it up when Savala told him to. ' 
"It was gladiator-style enter­tainment for the staff," Frank Hammond, a fired counselor who has filed a whistle-blower lawsuit against the district. told the newspaper. "They were taking these boys down­stairs to fight. And it was sanc­tioned by the principal and security." ' 
Hammond did not actually witness any of the fights, according to the report. 
Garza. the school board member, said the board should look into whether criminal charges should be filed. He expressed frustration that the allegations were not brought to the board's attention earlier. 
"If, in fact, it bears out that this did occur, clearly the administration had a responsi­bility to inform the board in the proper manner and in a timely fashion," he said. 
Dallas police said they have no record of any investigation by the department. The district attorney's office would not comment. 
The allegations come about 10 days after law enforcement authorities reported that care­workers at a Corpus Christi institution forced mentally dis­abled residents to fight each other and recorded the brawls for their entertainment. 

Expert pleads guilty to stealing dinosaur 
Associated Press 
BILLINGS, Mont. -A famed paleontologist who discovered the world's best preserved dinosaur intends to plead guilty to stealing dinosaur bones from federal land. 
The change of plea motion from Nathan Murphy follows state and federal investigations into his alleged attempts to cash in on the highly lucrative fossil market. 
Murphy, 51, is a self-taught dinosaur expert who spent much of the last two decades searching 

. for bones in central Montana's Hell Creek formation -a rocky badlands once stalked by the fearsome tyrannosaurus rex. In 2000, he famously discovered a mummified, 77 -million-year-old duckbilled hadrosaur known as Leonardo. considered the best preserved in the world. 
But after previously denying wrongdoing, court documents filed Wednesday show Murphy has reached a plea deal on a fed­eral charge that he stole bones from public land near Malta. Prosecutors have not disclosed how many were taken. 
He faced up to 10 years in prison ifconvicted. 
Murphy's case offers a rare glimpse into the illicit underside of paleontology, in which wealthy collectors are willing to pay hun­dreds of thousands of dollars for rare or unusual specimens. 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 12 Friday, March 20 2009 
Petition allows chance for dialogue 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER Bill Brink John Donovan 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AssT. MANAGING EDITOR; Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR; Madeline Buckley 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 

SAINT MARy's EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarty 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631~7471 FAX • (574) 631~6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631 ~6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574)631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR . 
(574) 631~4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574)631-4540 scene.J@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial co,lltent, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration cifeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is a:vailable to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor· must be signed and must indude conract information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in Chief]enn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The: Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday c~ during exam and Y.laldon _petiods. A subsc;ription tQ The. Observer is S I 00 for one academic yc:ar;$5-5-.furoncseTW:"Ster. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 Sourb Dining H:all Send. addres~~ Corn!C£iom to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 Th< Obser= l'e:r:it!di'cal postage paid at Notre Dmlc­P.O. Bo• 779 and additiona! mailing_ offices. 024Soiuh Dining Hall 
Nocit Dame, IN-46556-0779 

The: Observer is a member ofthe Associated Pre55. Alln:production .cights art r~. ­
The Princeton Review, a company that publishes data on national colleges and universities, currently ranks Notre Dame No. 1 in the category, "Alternative Lifes~yles not an Alternative" -a fancy way of saying Notre Dame is per­ceived as having a lower tolerance for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Transgender and Questioning (GLBTQ) students compared to other universities. This is something the Progressive Student Alliance's Campaign for Human Dignity has be.en working to address by submitting a petition and letter to the Office of the President Wednesday asking that sexual orientation be add~d to its nondiscrimination clause. 
Over the past several months, the group has demonstrat­ed students are not actually as intolerant of "alternative lifestyles" as the Princeton Review ranking would lead one to believe. They collected over 2,300 signa­tures supportive of the petition to alter the University's nondiscrimination clause to pro­TIH tect GLBTQ students and faculty. While stu­OBSERVER dent support for the change is considerable, the Campaign for Human Dignity is encoun­
Editorial 
tering less support from the administration. 
Last spring, the Campaign for Human Dignity submitted a similar petition to University President Fr. John Jenkins, but the administra­tion did not respond. Assistant Vice President f4r News and Information Dennis Brown told The Observer last month that when the last petition was submitted, "no new infor­mation was presented that would have caused us to change our position." 
This failure to acknowledge the petition sent a message to students that the University IS willing to ignore this important student concern. 
But supporters of the clause change persisted. This year, the student group doubled their efforts, and this time around, it seems they are making more progress because Jenkins has agreed to a meeting with group leaders on March 30 to discuss the petition. 
Along with the petition, the Campaign for Human Dignity submitted a letter asking the University to recognize the groups, OUTreach ND and Alliance ND, which provide sup­port GLBTQ students on campus. Currently, neither group has official club status. 
Members of the Campaign for Human Dignity claim that by not including sexual orientation, the University reserves the right to discriminate. 
The University's prior statements on the issue counter this view: "We welcome all people, regardless of color, gen­der, religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation, social or eco­nomic class, and nationality for example, precisely because of Christ's calling to treat others as we deserve to be treat­ed," states Notre Dame's Spirit of Inclusion document, released in 1997. The document was adopted by the offi­cers of the University after then-University President Fr-. Edward A. "Monk" Malloy announced that the University had considered adding "sexual orientation" to the clause for over a year, ultimately deciding not to. 
"Within society at large, the phrase 'sexual orientation' sometimes becomes a term .that does not admit of distinc­
tion between sexual orientation and the manner 
in which people live out their sexual orientation 
-a distinction that is critical to us as a Catholic 
institution," Malloy wrote in a letter accompany­
ing the document. 
While the -University has made its position 
clear, it is disappointing they have ignored the 
concerns of students when raised in the years 
since the document's release. Jenkins should be commended for agreeing to meet with the Campaign for Human Dignity this year, creating the opportunity for real and constructive dialogw~. over 10 years since the Spirit of Inclusion was written. 
The administration has stated it does not discriminate based on sexual orientation. If this is the case, meeting the demands of the petition and amending the nondiscrimina­tion clause would go a step further than saying "(wle wel­come all people." The University would legally prove that GLBTQ students and faculty arc not discriminated against and undeniably confirm that these students and faculty are accepted and valued members of the Notre Dame commu­nity. 
Being a Catholic institution, Notre Dame should be a place lauded for its acceptance of all. Instead, the Princeton Review ranks it No. 1 for intolerance towards the GLBTQ community. It is now up to the University's adminis­tration to make clear that Notre Dame is a place that does not discriminate "on the basis of race, color, national or ethnic origin, sex, disability, veteran status, age or sexual orientation." 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

A Church at vvar against rape and abortion 
This is a response to James Spitalere's care, support groups and therapy would Brazilian girl, the stepfather's actions March 18 letter entitled "Rape vs. abor­be. were only uncovered when the pregnan­tion: Culture war." While concern for The assumption that the girl's age cy was discovered because the girl had • adolescent maternal mortality does · makes her automatically unable to carry gone to the doctor for stomach pains. indeed draw attention to an important a child safely is, aside from being alto­Morality and ethics require that you issue in the case of the Brazilian girl who gether false, no call to terminate the unequivocally hold up unchanging truths underwent an abortion, I cannot accept pregnancy before malignant symptoms as good and just. In order for the the argument that the excommunication are even present. Church's teachings on morality and ethics of the doctors and mother behind the With mo,P.ern medicine, it is entirely to hold any validity, they must be applied abortion is proof that the Catholic Church possible in cases of hazardous pregnan­consistently in every case because they seeks to uphold a "moral grandstanding" cies to monitor the mother's health close­are based on universal truths. (read: fa~;ade) over the health and well­ly, allow the baby to develop as much as Abortion is never an acceptable being of young girls. Rather, it is precisely possible and remove it via a Cesarean response to rape, whether the victim is a the genuine concern for the dignity and section should it become necessary to 40-year-old woman or a 9-year-old girl. worth of all human beings that has save the lives of the mother and baby. The Church's stance against abortion is moved the Church to act as it has. Why is abortion the obvious choice when only strengthened by the fact that it is 
Rape is undeniably an affront to human there are viable pro-life options that have never reinterpreted to suit current socie­dignity, and it is never acceptable in any worked in numerous instances? tal or cultural trends. I support Pope case. But, an evil deed is not a justifiable Arguably, the persistent presence of Benedict's decision to uphold the excom­response to another evil deed. Forcing a abortion (and contraceptives) heightens munications. young girl to receive an operation that the jJlrcat to young women in vulnerable halts the body's natural functionirig positions. If a man can rape a woman Sarah Dapkus before she has even had time to heal with the knowledge that his deed can be senior from the incident of rape does not seem hidden, he has an added incentive to .._. Opus Hall more loving to me than lavishing medical commit the act. In fact, in the case of the March 19 
TODAY'S STAFF QUOTE OF THE DAY 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Madeline Buckley Michael Bryan Alicia Smith Douglas Farmer Molly Madden Chris Michalski Graphics Viewpoint 
·~rhey can conquer who "Observe your enemies, for they 
Andrea Archer Michelle Maitz 
believe they can. " first find out your faults. " 
Scene Insider Stephanie DePrez Matt Gamber Virgil Antisthenes Roman epic poet Greek philosopher 

page 13 


Catholicism aIa carte 
Mary Blessed Mother of God, why must so many in this country insist that their own personal style of religion be imposed on others? Three times during the last two decades, in 1990, 2001 and last year, researchers at Trinity College in Hartford, Conn., conducted one of the nation's largest major sur­veys of religion. Results released earlier this month reveal that the rigidity of religion tends to move Americans to the fringes of the reli­gious spectrum. 
The percentage of Americans who call themselves Christians has dropped dra­matically during the past two decades. The American Religious Identification Survey, funded by the Lilly Endowment and the Posen Foundation, most recent­ly surveyed more than 54,000 people between February and November of last year. Americans identifying themselves as Christians has dropped to 76 percent of the population, down from 86 per­cent in 1990. 
Those who call themselves Christian are increasingly identifying themselves without traditional denomination labels. describing themselves rather as "non­denominational," "evangelical" or "born again." Forty-four percent of America's 77 million Christian adults now say that they are evangelical or born again. Even 18 percent of Catholics choose that label as they join 40 percent of the non-Catholic population into what Trinity's Program on Public Values director calls "a sort of generic, soft evangelicalism." 


The number of people who use nonde­nominational terms has increased from 194,000.in 1990 to more than 8 million last year. On this end of the spectrum, the survey substantiated trends sociolo­gists already identified. While the importance of denomination has slipped in America, a growing number of peo­ple say they have "no" religion. Moreover, religious minorities has increased, most notably Muslims, Mormons and movements like Wicca and paganism. 
One need but to read the recent ranti­ngs on this Viewpoint page to ask why in our world-class academic Notre Dame community must many also insist that their understanding of Catholicism is the only, correct and absolutely cer­tain way to worship? If those expres­sions are any indication of this season's personal Lenten enlightenments, the only response can be -shame, shame, shame. 
Shame on the drunken Notre Dame architectural students in London who loudly badgered fans from other teams, for that conduct does not gain heaven. Shame on the University administration for parsing the word "festival" in the ongoing Queer Film Festival series so as to suggest that the event celebrates gays and homosexuality rather than their artistic creations. Shame on last year's alumnus who ridiculed those pointing out the festival controversy while so much as saying Notre Dame should not care about gays, and goose­stepped page by page through the Catechism in an effort to prove univer­sal truth and Catholic morality ("A Catholic University," Feb. 17). 
Finally, shame on the Innsbruck pro­gram student whose Viewpoint column ("The same Church, but not mine," March 17) published on St. Patrick's Day, the cheeriest day on campus, was equally as self-absorbed. Her Catholic European Ash Wednesday experience left her so void of the feeling her Georgia parish gives that she felt like a guest rather than a member of the one, true, universal Catholic Church. Maybe her homesickness can be forgiven, but why must she choose her Catholicism a Ia carte like so many -especially that 18 percent now more frequently calling themselves evangelicals? 
The aIa carte answer may lie in our religious dogma falling siege from our free will and intellect. Ask two Catholics why Christmas day celebrates the bi"rth of Jesus. One will say that it is the actu­al birthday while the other will correct-· ly note that it was set by the early Church to counter a pagan winter sol­stice holiday. Ask two Catholics why priests may not marry. One will say that it is to better minister to the flock, natu­rally avoiding how equally well other married religious denominations can minister. The other will cite Pope Gregory's edict and his desire to grab a priest's property which otherwise went to spouses. Ask any number of ques­tions, including why women cannot be priests or why certain gospels were rejected when writing the Bible, and the magic infallibility answer emanates from those protecting the rigidity of the man-made traditions of Catholicism. 
Lent is a time of self-examination and introspection, a time when we attempt to identify with the original Christians who gave witness under penalty of death, without politics, material riches or the belittlement of others. Our Lenten eye should be on behavior that recognizes the internal conflicts of each soul and extends a patient hand as one of our own personal aIa carte offerings to others. Only then can we draw others closer in rather than out to the fringes. 
Gary Caruso. Notre Dame '73, is a communications strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be · contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
A guide to overcoming the random hook-up 
As has been discussed ad nauseam in this · space over the course of the year, random hook-ups occur quite frequently at Notre Dame. While these hook-ups are almost always characterized simply as making out (thankfully different 
from our state school counter­parts), they can happen almost any­where. In order to assist the student body in overcoming the emotional hard­ships that coincide 


with random hook-Bob Kessler ups, the following guide isolates the 
five stages it takes House ofStix to overcome them and what actions go along with them. 
1. Denial 
Denial is the first and possibly most pro­longed stage of the post-hook-up timeline. Similar to my refusal to attend NIT basket­ball games, perpetrators of the random hook-up in the denial stage will pretend/con­vince themselves that said hook-up did not occur Gust like I was never looking at NCAA tournament sites over winter break). If one sees their co-conspirator in the dining hall, he or she will turn the other way and be sure to sit with their back fl;lcing the other. When talking to friends, the perpetrator will pre­tend that they were "riding the blackout train" even though they never got close to the station. They will say things like "Man, I was so drunk, I don't even know what hap­pened last night." This translates to: "I did something so stupid; I don't even want to know what happened." Students cannot begin to overcome their hook-up as long as they are in denial of it. 
2. Anger 
The second stage of overcoming a random hook-up involves anger amongst the perpe­trators. They are angry at their friends, their parents, Taylor Swift, Excise Police, and at themselves, but most importantly, they are just plain angry. They might say something like, "I got so drunk last night..." which translates to, "Hulk Smash." The anger stage oftentimes coincides with the late afternoon hangover of the next day. Perpetrators refuse to get off the couch, and spend a lot of time moaning about the previous night. After a particularly bad hook-up, a perpetrator might punch things to help him or her deal with their stupidity. This does not help, 
... unless of course you have a time machine and can go back to punch yourself in the face (but I don't want to consider how many para­doxes that would create). 
3. Bargaining {Rationalization) 

The third stage of overcoming a random hook-up is bargaining, which can better be described as rationalization. The perpetrator will attempt to rationalize their actions by saying things like, "I really needed that" or "she was kinda hot." They will try to con­vince themselves that their co-conspirator does not hook up with a lot of people, and that this was just a onetime thing. Extreme rationalizers will convince themselves that there is 'something there' when it was really no more than a random hook-up. One exam­ple of this is Melissa Buddie, who seemed to believe that each of her hook -ups would result in the victory of a long term relation­ship. Everybody knows that random hook­ups only result in long term relationships if they are happening in the twisted mind of Judd Apatow (and last time I checked most Notre Dame Students aren't funny enough to be figments of Mr. Apatow's imagination). Therefore, all hook-ups need to move on to the next stage. 
4. Depression 

Once a perpetrator has found major diffi­culty rationalizing his or her random hook­up, the fourth stage (depression) ensues. This stage can often be confused with the second because it involves a lack of moving around and significant groaning. For some, this stage can last for days or even weeks and might cause the perpetrator to lose any and all desire to go out with their friends. A per­petrator might say things like, "but I'm gonna be alone." Ifthey continue like this, they will be alo.ne. They need to hurry up and get to the final stage. 
One way to quickly move through the depression stage is to watch one of your favorite romantic comedies. What could pos­sibly cheer you up more than Ryan Reynolds and Isla Fischer ending up together at the end of "Definitely, Maybe?" Romantic come­dies are the best way to get through the depressive stage because they are also one of the best ways to cure the hangover that usu­ally accompanies a random hook-up. Action movies are too loud. Dramas are too sad. Foreign films require too much effort to read the subtitles. Indie films demand too much thinking. Romantic comedies are the perfect blend of mindless entertainment that can make you feel better about life without hav­ing to think much at all. 
5. Acceptance 

Acceptance will finally come when a per­petrator returns to the way he was before the hook-up. Since hook ..ups are trivial acts, there is no way that they can change a per­son. If the two perpetrators were friends before the hook-up, they will continue to be friends after the hook-up. Ifthey didn't know each other before, they still do not know each other. A person who has accepted what happened might say things like, "you know what, it was fun. No harm, no foul" or "it was the best random hook-up of all the ran­dom hook-ups." This person is ready for what comes next. 
Sometime after the perpetrator has accept­ed what has happened, either one of two things will happen: a) They will enter into a long term relationship with somebody they are already friends with, or b) they will ran­domly hook up with another person. 
Bob Kessler is a senior majoring in political science and economics. You can contact him at rkessler@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

---------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 14 
Friday, March 20, 2009 

seems to have been half-decorated. The By].]. REES walls have been left their dim burnt Scene Writer orange color "for now," and the few paintings and decorations are allowed As many students come back from a on the wall until their more sensible 
spring break spent at much more tem­replacements arrive. 
perate locales, those who went to the It's possible that the 
Mexican beach town Puerto Vallarta restaurant offers too 
might be tempted to reminsce about much variety, not permit­
their week in the sun by visiting a ting itself to focus on a 
restaurant of the same name on Grape few dishes. However, one 
Road in Mishawaka. looking for Mexican food However, despite a few perks, Puerto would surely find whatev­Vallarta -the one a few miles from er they are after. campus -proved to be mostly forget­Puerto Vallarta offers table. 26 combination platters 
The restaurant itself, tucked into a (priced $6-9) outside of 
plaza, fails to leave an impression. It their regular menu, which includes bur­ritos, fajitas and other standard Mexican dis.h­
Puerto Vallarta 
es. 

But with a kitchen 
that must be relatively 
small, considering the 
4609 Grape Rd.; (574-271-9959) 
Hours: 11-9 M-Th, 11-10 F-S, 12-8 Su. 
restaura.Qt's size, the Prices: Apps $3-6, Entrees $6-13 
staff might do well to hone their skills on
10 Words or Less: Wide variety of straightforward 
dishes like the flautas
Mexican food, appetizer sampler worth the money. 
(corn tortillas rolled around a chicken fill­ing, then fried), the quesadillas or the bur­ritos, which already have a good start. 
Puerto Vallarta's hor­chata (rice milk with cinnamon) is silky with 
It's possible that the restaurant offers too much variety, not permitting itself to focus more on fewer dishes; 
ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 

a fairly strong cinnamon taste that made enchiladas proved to be simply too a second glass undesirable. The appetiz­much, and the over-serving of cheese did er sampler was the clear standout of the not help the cause. meal, with chicken taquitos, shredded The real highlights of the meal were beef quesadillas and nachos covered by the bookends: The aforementioned appe­
ground beef, cheese and tizer sampler, and the dessert treat, beans. The savory, rich which consisted of fried tortilla sprinkled tastes were fantastic way with cinnamon and sugar, drizzled with to begin the meal. honey, and topped by a surprisingly tasty 
A huge amount of food dollop of whipped cream. This unexpect­was required to fill the ed gift is typical of the service, which is massive plates, and the laid back but efficient and quick. Cokes large burri-were brought out quickly tos were a after the horchata refills good start. Upon entering, at were ruled out. T h e least on Fridays, Another peak of the meal Vall art a was the live music. Upon
Saturdays, and
Vegetarian Burrito entering, at least on (beans, rice and lettuce Sundays, one is Fridays, Saturdays and wrapped in a flour tor­greeted by a Sundays, one is greeted by tilla and smothered with a pleasant guitarist playing 
pleasant guitarist 
guacamole and fresh and singing songs. This tomatoes) was an undevi­playing and singing music provides excellent 
. ating combination of the songs. entertainment or just back­ingredients and, at every ground music. point M the meal, was too Puerto Vallarta delivers much to eat. straightforward Mexican food with very 
The flautas were crusty and had a fit­comfortable prices (the most expensive ting texture. The taste of the fresh toma­entree is $13). Nothing is extremely dis­to topping made up for the plain flavored appointing, but not much leaves an chicken. In general, the shredded beef impression. The restaurant does gain was slightly too thick and too tough, points for the appetizer sampler and the although juicy and full-bodied in the live music, but otherwise it only offers a tacos and quesadillas. wide variety of standard fares. 
The cooks paired sauce and cheese well, especially when the two were 
Contact].]. Rees at jrees@nd.edu
matched with the savory chicken. The 
By EMILY LeSTRANGE 
Scene Writer 
With the recent temperature-boost in South Bend, you might be in the market for new spring clothes, shoes and, of course, that new album with summer­time vibes to blast in the car or in your room. Fans of pop -look no further, Kelly Clarkson's "All I Ever Wanted" is the perfect new release to prep you for the upcoming summer months. 
All I Ever Wanted 

Kelly Clarkson Label: Sony BMG Recommended Tracks: "My Life Would Suck Without You," "Longshot," "I Do Not Hook Up" 

·'Alii Ever Wanted' Clarkson's Beturn·to SuiiUiler 
As Kelly fans may remember, 2007's "My December" was an uncharacteristi­cally dark and gothic album that failed to earn the kind of success that 2004's "Thankful" and 2005's "Breakaway" managed to win. Fear not, for "All I Ever Wanted" returns to the fun-pop music that propelled Kelly to A-list status after her American Idol win in 2002. Clarkson's fourth album is a collection of numerous tracks that rejuvenate the world of pop music with fun lyrics and 
addicting beats. 

In addition to the single "My Life 
Would Suck Without You," the album 
includes other hits that will entice you to 
sing along. Two sure hits, "Longshot" 
and "I Do Not Hookup," were written in 
collaboration with the rising star of pop, 
Ms. Katy Perry, and her influence is 
quite obvious. However, Clarkson's pas­
sionate voice and angry, spunk spirit 
give life to the songs in a way Katy Perry 
could not. Ryan Tedder, a lyricist who is 
responsible for Leona Lewis' "Bleeding 
Love" and Beyonce's "Halo," is the cre­
ator behind a couple of songs on 
Clarkson's new album, including "Impossible" and "Already Gone." These pieces, however, do not generate the same kind of excitement as other songs that help display Clarkson's loud, boom­ing voice. Clarkson sounds best not crooning soft R&B ballads, but rather commanding attention with her pop-rock voice while being accompanied by catchy beats. 
What is most exciting about the album is the sheer diversity of songs that remind us why we chose Clarkson as the winner of American Idol so long ago. In addition to the bubblegum pink pop songs like "Whyyawannabringmedown" and "Ready," Clarkson includes a handful of numbers that echo the "A Moment Like This" days with their soft ballad-like tem­pos and lyrics that speak to broken hearts, including "If No One Will Listen" and "Cry." Clarkson successfully crosses genre lines in "All I Ever Wanted," a feat many artists are incapable of accomplish­ing. 
In the two weeks since the album's release, "All I Ever Wanted" has 
ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 

remained in the No.1 spot on the Billboard 200 Albums Chart. In the album's first week alone, it sold 255,000 copies; this week, readers can anticipate seeing similar numbers. The album is already breaking records; the single "My Life Would Suck Without You" holds the record for the biggest leap to the top spot on the Billboard 100, jumping from No.97 to No.1 and displacing Britney Spears' "Womanizer." A deluxe edition of the album, which includes two bonus songs, three videos and a digital booklet, is available on iTunes for all you die-hard fans. 
Overall, "All I Ever Wanted" is guaran­teed to be a staple of 2009 hit summer albums. Clarkson redeems the 2007 flop "My December" with an album that promises to continue to break records. So, if your search for a perfect summer album has left you empty-handed, a good suggestion is "All I Ever Wanted." Clarkson will not disappoint. 
Contact Emily LeStrange at elestran@nd.edu 
.--------------------------------~----~---­



Senior goaltender Jordan Pearce's steady play and steadier demeanor have led the Irish to the CCHA semifinals 
·Friday, March 20, 2009 The Observeru IRISH INSIDER page 2 
Back in the semis, but this isn't like last year 
Technically, Notre Dame is in the same spot -the CCHA semifinals -as it was a year ago. 
But the Irish could hardly be in a more dif­ferent situ­ation this time around. 
A year ago, Notre Dame was limping into Joe Louis Arena after a tough three-game series against Ferris State. The Irish were the lowest seed left heading into their semifinal game against Miami (Ohio), and their NCAA Tournament lives were hanging by a thread. In its last 18 games last year, Notre Dame struggled to a 6­8-4 record. 
"Last year we just kind of squeaked by Ferris State," Irish senior center Christian Hanson said. "We were kind of the underdog going in there." 
The Irish lost to the RedHawks in a heartbreaking overtime loss after giving up a goal with just under four seconds left in regulation. 
Now? 

Sam Werner 
Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame is the No. 1 team in the country, and the Irish have had the CCHA's top seed wrapped up for a month. It's safe to say that no one would be surprised to see Jeff Jackson and company lifting the Mason Cup on Saturday night. 
"This year, we're coming in with all the momentum, and I think the target's really going to be on our back," Hanson said. 
"Momentum" is an under­statement. The Irish have lost only two games since November, and netminder Jordan Pearce has given up only one goal in the past five games. 
The most important posi­tion for any playoff run is between the pipes, and Jordan Pearce said that he feels more prepared for this year's trip to Joe Louis. 
"I would say having the experience of being there and knowing what the whole weekend is about, I think I'll be a little bit more prepared this time to not let the dis­tractions get to me," he said. 
He also admitted, though, that it's easier to play the role of underdog, as the Irish did last year. 
"It's kind of tough because the expectations are for you to win," Pearce said. "It's eas­ier to play as underdogs because you've got nothing to lose." 
The Irish won't be able to sneak up on anyone this year. Notre Dame played well against Miami last year, no doubt, but the Wildcats will have extra motivation tomor­row that Miami didn't have last year. If Northern Michigan can knock off the Irish, it would be the high­light of their season The RedHawks' win was just a stepping-stone on the way to loftier goals. 
Notre Dame certainly has the right man at the helm to deal with the target on their backs. In his ten years coach­ing in the CCHA -six with Lake Superior State and four with Notre Dame-Jackson has only missed out on a trip to Detroit once, his first year with Notre Dame. 
The reason the Irish will be able to overcome Northern Michigan's upset aspirations is Jackson's even keel. . 
"How he approaches things is the same from week to week, which is good because if you don't, you get out of whack-you get too high, you get too low-but he's been very consistent," assis­tant coach Paul Pooley said before the team's trip to Denver for last year's Frozen Four. 
That steadiness paid divi­dends during last year's run to the National Championship 

-
WU YUE!The Observer 

Irish senior captain Erik Condra splits the Nebraska-Omaha defense during Notre Dame's 5-0 home win last Friday. 
game, and it will again in cy, that are the reason Notre Detroit this weekend in an Dame is favored to claim the event that Jackson said was CCHA Championship this just as hard to win as the weekend. NCAA championship. A big difference from one 
".In hockey, it's a big deal to year ago. go to Detroit and play at the CCHA championships," he The views expressed in this said. "Our conference cham­column are those of the pionships have a lot of mean­author and not nec(Jssarily ing." those of The Observer. 
It's that approach, as well Contact Sam Werner at as a heavy dose of consisten-swerner@nd. edu 
Thang heals quickly, returns in tin1e for tourn,ament run 
Junior missed six weeks, scored goal in first game back 
By DAN MURPHY Senior Staff Writer 
The hit was ugly. 
Midway through the third period of Notre Dame's Feb. 6 game at Ohio State, Irish jun­ior Ryan Thang went down. Thang was racing an Ohio State defender to a loose puck along the boards in his defen­sive zone, and when he got there, Thang's skate got caught and his knee bent inward with all of 192 pounds on top of it. 
"I really should've wrecked my knee," Thang said. "I guess somehow I have strong ligaments so I was lucky." 
Instead, Thang was diag­nosed with a severe high ankle sprain. A week and a half later the Notre Dame training staff noticed some­thing wasn't quite right. 
His left tibia, or shin bone, had slid forwards and up underneath the knee and was pushing outwards on his knee cap. Because it had been over a week since the injury, the muscles around Thang's knee had started to compensate and had a strong hold on the misplaced bone. 
"It wasn't fun," Thang said. "For about a week straight we really had to fidget with it." 
Fidgeting with it involved a team of trainers manually pushing the bone back into place. Each day the bone would slip back and they 
would repeat the process. Thang considered himself lucky. 
"A knee injury would have kept me out until next season. So I've got to give credit to our strength coach," he said. 
Five weeks after the hit, Thang was back on the ice for the CCHA playoffs aDd a sec­ond-round matchup against Nebraska-Omaha over the weekend. 
It took the junior from Edina, Minn., less than a ·period to get back into the swing of things. 
-With three minutes remain-but Thang admitted the leg wasn't quite at full strength. 

"It's still not where I want it to be, but it's playoff time and you can play through just about anything," Thang said. "Once you get out in the game, you don't really notice it as much." 
Thang said that he didn't think he would be quite ready to go yet if there wasn't a conference title on the line. 
"Every day I get a little bit faster. It's just going to take some time. At first I had to get a feel for it, but once you're going you're going," he said. 
Jackson said that in Saturday night's 1 ~o win, Thang and his linemates looked a little out of sync as Thang worked himself back into the mix. 
"That line before he was hurt had been playing extremely well," Jackson said. "It will take a little time for them to get used to each other again." 
Whatever Thang is missing for the time being on the ice, he makes up for in the locker room. He has emerged as one of the vocal leaders of the team this season and is a big asset ofT of the ice. 
"He adds a sense of maturi­ty and leadership to our lock­er room," Jackson said. "There are positives on and off the ice with Ryan being back." 
Jackson gave the team a day off this Tuesday to keep them at the peak of their physical and mental game. Thang said that the break left him feeling fresh and ready to go for this weekend's games. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

ing in the opening stanza, Thang ripped one of his trademark wrist shots past Mavericks goalie Jerad Kaufmann to give Notre Dame a 4-0 lead. 
"He always has the poten­tial to score that goal that wins you a game," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. "He had a ton of key goals in the play­offs last year." 
Thang had two key goals to go along with his five assists during Notre Dame's run to the national title game last spring. lie helped spark a 7-3 win over New Hampshire and added a clutch shorthanded goal in the 5-4 overtime upset of Michigan in the semifinals. 
Thang had 38 goals through his first two years with the Irish, and 11 of them were game winners. He missed seven games with the injury this season but still managed to raek up 10 goals. ' 
Despite picking up the early goal in his return last Friday, Thang looked a step slow throughout the weekend. Jackson said that his alter­nate captain just needed to get himself back into game shape after a few weeks off, 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
r ,­
Friday, March 20, 2009 The Observeru IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Mr. Consistent.. 
Goaltender Jordan Pearce enjoys record-setting career after spending two seasons on the bench 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Editor 
Ask Jordan Pearce about rewriting the Irish hockey record books, and he'll smile, brush it off, and say the next goaltender in line will top his eye-popping career numbers. 
Ask him about his astro­nomical grade-point average and otherwise impressive accomplishments off the ice, and he'll sound the same, say­ing academics have always been a top pri­ority. 
Even ask him 

about his obvi­'Tou can say what "So much of it ous snubbing has to do with
you want, but Jordan 
by the CCHA's consistency,"
Pearce is going to be
coaches, who Jackson said. only chose him Jordan Pearce." "He does it as an honor-every night, and able mention to he doesn't have
Kyle Lawson 

.the all-confer-bad games. He'll
Irish junior 

ence team. occasionally 
He'll laugh again, sing the praises of the first-and sec­ond-team choices, and tell you he's just happy to be.playing in Detroit tonight. 
"He always stays at an even keel, and it really helps him," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. 
Pearce, who, after -riding the pine for two seasons, earned the starting gig as a junior. To say he ran with it would be an understatement. 
Pearce's career goals­against average (1.97). save percentage (.919) and winning percentage (.680) are all tops in the program's history, and he set the career wins record 
(57) in Saturday's 1-0 victory, when he also tied Brown's career shutout tally with 12. 
This season, he leads the nation in wins (28). goals­against average 
(1.68) and shutouts (8). 
give up a soft 

goal -very sel­dom though -and even if he does, he comes back and plays well. He doesn't get rat­tled by it." 
In four years as his coach, Jackson hasn't found a way to break Pearce's focus -even 
"Humble and quiet -great goalies are generally that way. They're unassuming." 
From backing up All­American David Brown fur two years to leading the Irish to another CCHA semifinal ap{Wanmce..-. Pear-c~ has dune.• it all with the same levelhead­ed demeanor that has helped him enjoy so much success. 
"lie doesn't have to talk or have people talk about him, he just does it with his num­bers and the wins," junior defenseman Kyle Lawson said. "He lets his play speak for itself. and I think there's a lot to be said about that. He's somebody who doesn't need to go out and boast about him­self or have that cockiness about him. 
"You can say what you want, but Jordan Pearce is going to be Jordan Pearce, no matter what happens." 
And what exactly does that mean? 
"He comes to work every day with the same attitude, the same demeanor," Jackson said. "He works hard and competes hard every day, and he doesn't complain. He just shows that level of humility and yet strength in character and mental toughness that you hope every goaltender can develop." 
Man on fire 
Nothing is more important in tournament hockey than hot goaltending, or so the old saying goes. 
So with four shutouts in his last five games -including two in Notre Dame's CCHA quarterfinal sweep of Nebraska-Omaha last week­end -is there anyone on the planet hotter than Pearce right now? 
"No," senior captain Erik Condra said. "He doesn't get enough credit. When playoffs hit, your goaltender needs to be your best player, and he definitely was over the week­end. lie stepped it up, and he was unbelievable." 
That's been a familiar story over the past two years for 
when he deliberately tries to WU YUE!fhe Observer do so. Irish senior goaltender Jordan Pearce snags a save during Notre Dame's 5-0 victory over Nebraska­
"I wish he had a little bit Omaha last Friday in the CCHA quarterfinals at the Joyce Center. more flair to him because he'd get more recognition," the end of this season, O'Brien the pressure of being the go­top priority in my life. I've Jackson said. "I try to pump will battle sophomore fron­to guy in net for the Irish, learned over the years that his tires as much as I can trunner Brad Phillips, who Jackson said there aren't you don't have to sacrifice because I think he deserves to missed the entire season after many comparisons. to be made your athletic performance or be recognized as one of the preseason knee surgery, to between the two. your attitude just to accom­top players in the country." become heir to the Irish goal­"Jordan's a bigger man, he's plish good things in the aca­
But as Lawson said, Pearce tending throne. as athletic as David, and he's demic world. You can do both, is Pearce. He'll almost admit "l-Ie (Pearce) works hard in learned to be better in the sit­you just have to be dedicated that he enjoys the personal the weight room, works hard uations that was he was weak and know how to manage accolades -"It's always nice on .the ice and is a good at when he your time.". to get those," he said -but leader in the locker room," first started," Easier said he quickly qualified that state­Phillips said. "He's a good Jackson said. than done, but
"/ had him wrong. I 
ment by saying that individual goalie to follow after and look "It's really his Pearce has got it
didn't know how bad 
honors aren't his primary up to ... ·J just want to follow competitive­under control. focus. in his foot­ness that mir­he really wanted it, But that's no sur­"To me, it's steps, and rors David prise to those
and I watch him now 
more important hopefully I can Brown's com­who know him.
"Just watching him, and he competes as
to be there play­do the same petitiveness. "The kid's ing on Friday you learn so much thing." And his hard as any goalie probably smarter night than it is to And it's not demeanor is than all of us,
about how to handle I've ever coached. " 
receive your only in games probably bet­and he's the No.
every situation you 
awards on that Pearce ter than David 1 goalie here at Thursday," can imagine. He makes some of Brown's, as Jeff Jackson Notre Dame," Pearce said. learned from the best, the spectacu­far as his abil­Irish coach Lawson said. As for the lar saves to ity to react to "The kid's got as
and I have the 

school records -which his adversity. He full a plate as well, he doesn't opportunity to learn teammates has the tendency to be able to you can get here, and he just need those, from the best." have become respond better." goes about his business quiet­either. accustomed. ly. I'm just glad I don't have 
"Only having "Even in What's next? his schedule."
Tom O'Brien

two years to play practice he's Even if the NHL doesn't As for that rock-solid here, it's nice to Irish junior unconscious," come calling, Pearce's future demeanor -well, that might be making all O'Brien said. is bright. be an important quality to these records," "I can't beat With-a 3.816 grade point have as a doctor. And as it Pearce said. "But with the him in any [scrimmage] average and a spot in Notre turns out, it works for a goal­coaching staff and the way games, it's unbelievable." Dame's Academic Honors tender as well. this program is going, I'm It might not have always Program, the anthropology "From where I was with him sure that the next goalie in been that way for Pearce, who and pre-med double major as a freshman or sophomore, line will probably just keep on said it took him a year or so to has already begun to inter­wondering how hard he was bre~king all the records that I deal with his role as a backup. view for medical school. going to compete or how hard set. Once he came to the realiza­"I wanted to pursue med he would work, he's a kid who 
tion that when Brown gradu­school so that option would be has probably made the biggest Learning from the best ated, it would be his job to there if I wanted to go that turnaround from my perspec­
Even if that's the case, lose, his view on the situation route," Pearce said. "We'll see tive of him," Jackson said. "I though, it will be with changed. if the hockey offers come my had him wrong. I didn't know Pearce's help. "It was a long two years way. I'd love to go play hock­how hard he really wanted it, 
"I didn't understand it my being behind David Brown, ey, and you only get one and I watch him now and he first couple years, but now I but I learned to adapt and I chance to go pursue a dream competes as hard as any know exactly what he was learned that by kind of pout­to play professional hockey. If goalie I've ever coached. going through being behind ing and moping around, you the opportunity comes, I'd be "It's just his nature, and somebody who's that good," don't get anything accom­excited to play." that demeanor is what makes junior backup goaltender Tom plished and you're not making Growing up in Anchorage, him even better. That low-key O'Brien said. "Just watching yourself better," Pearce said. Alaska, Pearce's parents [attitude] that I was looking at him, you learn so much about "I tried to change my attitude, instilled in him a staunch as a negative was actually a how to handle eyery situation get better every day and be a commitment to academics, positive, because it's a great you can imagine. He learned better teammate, and that and that has stuck with him at trait in a goalie to be emotion­from the best, and I have the helped me a lot in practice Notre Dame, he said. ally under control." opportunity to learn from the and I improved." "You always have to have best." Though Pearce learned a lot that safety net," Pearce said. Contact Matt Gamber at 
With Pearce's departure at from Brown about handling "Academics was always the mgamber@nd.edu 
Friday, March 20, 2009 The Observeru IRISH INSIDER page 4
r 
Irish to tak"e on Northern Michigan in Detroit 
Notre Dame swept red-hot Wildcats in four-game season series 
By DAN MURPHY Senior Staff Writer 
Irish coach Jeff Jackson com­
pared winning the CCHA cham­
pionship to his version of a 
Stanley Cup. 
"It's a big event for our con­ference," he said. ''I'm always surprised in basketball the con­


ference champi­onships don't mean much. Our conference championship has a lot of meaning." 
No. 1 Notre Dame (29-5-3, 21-4-3-3 CCHA) will take on Northern Michigan in a Miami (Ohio) in dramatic fash­ion last weekend to make the semifinals for the second · straight year. After dropping the first game in the best of three series, the Wildcats (16­16-5, 11-12-5-3) needed over­time to keep their postseason alive Saturday night and force a Game 3. On Sunday they com­pleted the upset on the road with an impressive 3-1 victory. 

"Let's face facts, we're play­ing maybe the hottest team in the country right now," Jackson said. "To win two games down in Miami is quite an accom­
"Let's face facts, we're playing maybe the hottest team in the country right now." 
Jeff Jackson Irish coach 
semifinal matchup at 4:35 p.m. on Friday to try to move one step closer to that treasured CCHA tournament title. 
Northern Michigan, which finished in sixth place in the regular season stanllings, upset plishment." 
Northern Michigan is 14-4 in the second half of the season. Two of their four losses came in the Joyce Center last month. The Irish offense exploded to finish a four-game sea­son sweep over 

the Wildcats by hanging 14 goals on them in two games ­eight of them on the power play. Notre Dame poured in nine goals the first night and five more in the Saturday con­test. 

WU YUE!The Observer Irish senior center Christian Hanson sends a shot toward the Nebrask<H>maha net during last Friday's 5-0 Notre Dame win. 
"That weekend was probably Ryan Thang said. "Usually in a little bit of a fluke for them or these games whoever has the for us. It was Friday the 13th better goalie ends up winning and that game was just wacky," the game." Jackson said. If that's the case, the Irish 
In his nine games since then, can have plenty of confidence Northern Michigan junior heading into the weekend. goalie Brian Stewart has only Senior netminder Jordan given up 19 goals. Stewart Pearce has held opponents to caught fire against Miami last one goal in his past five games. 
weekend lead- Pearce pitched  
ing his team to  back-to-hack  
victory with a 41-save per­formance in the  "/ would like to play Michigan because it's  shutouts last weekend in the team's series  
third game.  always a heated  with Nebraska­ 
"At this time of the year everyone we are going to face  battle against them, but both teams are playing really well  Omaha. "I feel pretty confident out there and I'm  
will have a good goaltender, but Stewart has  right now so it should be an interesting  seeing the puck pretty well," Pearce said. "It's  
been a big rea­ tournament."  very  much  a  
son  why  they  team  effort,  
have done so well," Jackson said.  Ryan Thang Irish junior  though." Pearce is one of the nominees  
Notre  Dame  for  the  CCIIA  
was able to put  Player  of  the  

up four quick goals on Stewart Year award which will be given in its 9-5 wip last month and out this weekend. He said that will take a similar strategy this he expected Friday's contest to weekend. be much lower scoring than the "Stewart is a really big guy last times the two teams met. and when he's hot, he's hot. If "We kind of took it to them we get to him early I think that here. We were 4-0 against them can be our best bet to try and this year but I think the fifth is frustrate him," junior wing going to be a little harder to 
get," he said. 

Notre Dame will have a little extra motivation in Detroit this weekend after losing in the semifinals last season and then falling to Northern Michigan in the consolation match the fol­lowing day. 
"We kind of embarrassed· ourselves up there last year," Thang said. "I told a couple of guys at the end of practice not to forget about that." 
If Notre Dame does get past the Wildcats they will take on the winner of the Michigan­Alaska game at 7:35 p.m. Saturday. 
No. 3 Michigan (28-10-0, 20­8-0-0) is the second seed in the tournament and has handed Notre Dame one of its two loss­es in the second half of the sea­son. Alaska (17 -14-6, 13-10-5­
3) has also been playing well, led by first-team all-conference goaltender Chad Johnson. Johnson is also up for the CCHA Player of the Year award. 
"I would like to play Michigan because it's always a heated battle against them, but both teams are playing really well right now so it should be an interesting tournament," Thang said. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 


page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, March 20, 2009 
NCAA 
Memphis, Sallie evades Matadors' upset bid 
Hummel rebounds Purdue's way ta victory over Northern Iowa; Thornton leads LSU to victory over Butler 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -The 
greatest game any Memphis play­
er ever had in the NCAA tourna­
ment fmally presented an obsta­
cle the plucky Matadors of Cal 
State Northridge could not over­
come. 
They battled heartbreak. They 
overcame tragedy. They lost their 
two best players during the sea­
son but still reached the tourna­
ment for the second time in 
school history. 
Then they ran into an unlikely 
scoring machine named Roburt 
Sallie. 
Averaging just 4.5 points all ·year, Sallie hit 10 3-pointers and 
scored 35 as the second-seeded 
Tigers came from behind to beat 
the Matadors 81-70 Thursday 
and dodge what would have been 
one of the biggest upsets in tour­
nament history. 
"Coach said keep shooting," 
said Sallie, whose previous career 
high was 13. "None of my team­
mates would ever expect me to 
score 35 points. I never made 10 
3-pointers before." 
Neither did anyone else in the 
first round of the NCAA tourna­
ment. Sallie's long-range 
onslaught erased the fust-round 
record and enabled Memphis 
(32-3) to avoid the stigma of 
being just the fifth No. 2 seed to 
lose in the opening round since 
the tournament went to a 64­
team format in 1985. 
The Matadors, quite logically, 
had trained their defense on 
Antonio Anderson, Robert Dozier 
and all the other accomplished 
shooters who carried the Tigers 
into the tournament on a nation­
leading 25-game winning streak. 
But then Sallie jumped off the 
bench and buried them. 
"They kept leaving me open. I 
got a lot of open looks today and I 
just hit the shots," he said. 
He hit them like no other 
Memphis player ever did in the 
NCAA tournament. His 35 points 
broke the school record for tour­
nament scoring and was the most 
by any Tigers player this year. 
How unlikely was this shooting 
hero? 
There were nine games this 
year when he didn't score at all. 
While he was 10-for-15 from 3­
point range, his more famous 
teammates combined for 1-for­
13. 
"I knew Rob had it in him all 
along," said And~rson, who got 
off to such a slow start he had 
one point and three fouls at one 
stage of the second half. "All dur­
ing the year, I tell him to shoot 
the ball, shoot the ball. He's a lit­tle hesitant." 
The Matadors (17 -14) seized a six-point lead with a little more than 10 minutes to play, bringing a roar from a capacity crowd that quickly became enchanted with the 19-point underdogs. 
"Obviously, we didn't anticipate what Sallie was going to do today," said Northridge coach Bobby Braswell. 
Sallie kept Cal State-Northridge at bay during a lackluster first half that earned last year's national runners-up a halftime tongue-lashing. 
"I called it arrogance at half­time," Memphis coach John Calipari said. "My job is to keep their swagger, but it moved into arrogance." 
The Matadors, who lost one of their top players in a traffic acci­dent during the season and another to a burglary charge, never seemed intimidated and led most of the second half. 
The crowd went crazy when Vmcent Cordell's bucket gave the Matadors a 62-56 lead. 
"We were never scared," Anderson said. "Scared is never in our minds. That's never a problem for us. They came out and made some shots and that's what they had to do." 
After Cordell's bucket, Sallie hit another 3-pointer and Anderson, hardly a factor most of the game, launched a decisive 9-0 run. 
Sallie's 10 3-pointers surpassed the fust-round record of nine, set by Michigan's Garde Thompson in 1987. At one point in the first half, Sallie scored 11 straight for the Tigers. 
"My hat is off to Northridge," Calipa:,i said. "They did not back down. 
The Tigers were trailing 64-61 when Anderson finally came to life. The shorter Matadors missed five straight shots and failed to pull down a single offensive rebound, and Anderson's bucket made it 64-63. 
Then the 6-6 senior hit a 6­footer to put the Tigers on top to stay. 
In a back-and-forth flurry mid­way through the second half, freshman guard Tyreke Evans put in a bucket and was fouled, and made the free throw for a 56-55 Memphis lead. But Willie Galick quickly erased that with two foul shots for the Matadors. 
"Tyreke Evans and Robert Dozier weren't as good as they usually are. But at this point, we're just trying to march on," Calipari said. 
Anderson's bad pass turned the ball back to Northridge and Rodrique Mels sank a 3-pointer, then following another turnover, Cordell's bucket gave the Matadors a 62-56 lead. 
Kenny Daniels and Tremaine Townsend each added 14 for the Matadors, Mark Hill had 13 and Galick 12. 
Evans, the Memphis freshman who replaced Derrick Rose, the No. 1 overall pick in the last NBA draft, finished with 15 points and Anderson wound up with 13. 
"Our point was to pressure Dozier inside and force other guys to hit shots," Braswell said. "I believe most of (Sallie's} shots were contested. He stepped up and made big plays. I ran into Calipari and he said that was his best game he's ever played. He made some big shots and you have to give them credit for that." 
Purdue 61, Northern Iowa 56 
The Purdue Boilermakers were beat up but smiling. 
Fifth-seeded Purdue held off a late charge by 12th-seeded Northern Iowa for a victory Thursday in a rugged fust-round game, and showed it afterward. 
E'Twaun Moore had his right shoulder encased in ice and wrapped in plastic after his game-high 17 points. Robbie Hummel, who had both knees similarly sheathed, had nine points and a game-high 12 rebounds. 
"Definitely was a physical game, sort of like a Big Ten game," Moore said, a grin spreading over his face. "The ice is just temporary. We'll be OK." 
Purdue (26-9) will face Washington (26-8} in a second­round West Regional game on Saturday. The fourth-seeded Huskies defeated No. 13 seed Mississippi State 71-58. 
The Boilermakers are 3-1 all­time against Washington, but the previous meeting was in 1967. 
JaJuan Johnson had 14 points for Purdue, which led by 14 at the Rose Garden Arena before the Panthers made it interesting down the stretch. 
Kwadzo Ahelegbe had 11 point.<> for Northern Iowa (23-11}, which closed to within 56-54 on Kerwin Dunham's 3-pointer with 
17.4 seconds left. 
Chris Kramer made a pair of free throws before Ahelegbe missed a layup on the rim with 
7.7 seconds left for Northern Iowa, and Lewis Jackson made one of two free throws on the other end for Purdue. 
Ali Farokhmanesh, the Panthers' star in the Missouri Valley tournament title game, made a pull-up jumper with 3 seconds left for Northern Iowa, before Moore made a pair of foul shots for the Boilermakers to seal the victory. 
"I think we kind of looked up and realized we needed to have a sense of urgency," Purdue for­ward Lewis Jackson said. "We knew anything could happen." 
Northern Iowa, which failed to make even the NIT the past two seasons, started off 6-6 before going on an 11-game winning streak. The Panthers lost just four games after the fust of the year and capped the season with a 60-57 overtime victory over Illinois State to win the MVC tour­nament championship. 
The Boilermakers defeated Ohio State 65-61 on Sunday to claim the Big Ten championship. The conference tournament title was a boost for Purdue, which was expected to contend a,ll year but lost three of its final four reg­ular-season games. 
The Panthers jumped out to a 6-4 lead before Purdue went on a 14-2 run, capped by Johnson's hook shot. The Boilermakers went on to lead 32-20 at the break. 
The Panthers showed tenacity, however, and narrowed the gap to 40-34 on Ahelegbe's jumper and free throw with 12:10 left to play. After Johnson hit a long jumper for Purdue, Jordan Eglseder scored on a put-back for the Panthers. 
"Every game you can always say, 'I wish I could get that back,"' Eglseder said. "But that's basketball." 
Hummel missed several games this season with a hairline frac­ture in his lower back, but he­returned to full strength in time for the conference tournament, where he averaged 16 points and 
9.3 rebounds in earning the tour­nament MVP award. 
Purdue's aggressive defense limited Northern Iowa to just 37 percent shooting (20 of 54} from the field in the first half. The Boilermakers went into the game ranked 11th nationally in field goal percentage defense. 
Purdue has held foes to under 40 percent shooting in 22 of 35 games. 
Kramer said he thought Purdue prevailed down the stretch because of confidence. 
"We're a very poised group. If you can stay poised and stay together as a team, it's going to help you out," he said. "There's no reason to rush, you've just got to stay together, just become even more of a unit." 
Purdue has lost in the second round of the tournament the past two seasons, and has won 11 consecutive first-round games dating to 1993. But while consis­tently making it to the early rounds, the Boilermakers haven't played for a title since 1969. 
Northern Iowa made three straight trips to the tournament from 2004-06 under former coach Greg McDermott, who left for Iowa State. The Panthers' only win in the tournament came in 1990, when they shocked third-seeded Missouri. 
"We played tough, but we got desperate," Dunham said. "They were able to get some points off of turnovers and some key offen­sive boards. We were able to climb back but just couldn't get enough shots to fall." 
LSU 75, Butler 71 
Marcus Thornton wasn't around for LSU's last NCAA _tournament appearance, stuck instead at a junior college while those other homegrown Tigers reached the Final Four. 
He finally got his chance on the sport's grandest stage, and played like he plans on hanging around for a while -especially when upset-minded Butler threatened to end things. 
Thornton scored 30 points while coming through with one critical basket after another for hot-shooting LSU, which held off a late rally to beat the Bulldogs 75-71 on Thursday in the first round of the NCAA tournament. 
Tasmin Mitchell had 14 points and Chris Johnson added 12 points and four blocked shots for the Tigers (27-7), seeded eighth in the South Regional. They built an early 13-point lead and shot 49 percent against one of the nation's toughest defenses in advancing to Saturday's second round against the North Carolina­Radford winner. 
"Did we think we were going to blow them out? We haven't blown anybody out all year long," coach Trent Johnson said. "We have a couple of guys that can make some plays, and when those guys don't make plays, we have some other guys that are not afraid to step up and shoot the ball." 
Matt Howard scored 22 points before fouling out with 35.7 seconds left, and Shelvin Mack added 18 points for No. 9 seed Butler. 
The Bulldogs (26-6) made things interesting by twice pulling within three in the final minute, the last coming when Willie Veasley tipped in Gordon Hayward's missed three. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
Th~ charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
SUMMER CAMP COUNSELOR for children w/disabilities. Must have strong work ethic and be interested in making a difference in the lne of a child. $9-$11 hr.. 35 hr/INk, summer only. 4 sites in Summit County, Ohio. Must enjoy outdoor activities. Visit www.akroncyo.org to download an application from the Careers link. EOE 
FoR RENT 
AndersonNDrentals.com FREE COM­CAST! 
4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Starts 6109. $850/mo. 574-250-7653. 
Affordable Graduate and Faculty Off­Campus Housing. Call for Availability (574)243-2818 or (574)276-6118. 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer­ing 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 
Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. 2­bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 574· 234-2436or www.kramerhouses.com 
Lux twnhs: 3 bdrms 3 ba, next to St. Marys $680 moper bdrm. 574-271­7030 harvey.18@nd;edu 
2009/1 0 student rentals Angela St/St. Peters & S.B. Ave. $1300­$2000/mo. Contact Bruce Gordon 574-876-3537. 
Chicago 1 bd and 1 bth condo just north of Millennium Park with 685 sq.It on 36th floor. Views of lake. river and John Hancock building. Hardwood floors. Granite counters and pendant lighting in kitchen. In­unit washer/dryer. 36th floor is the first residential floor stop in the eleva­tor bank. Amenities: gym, 24-hour door person, on-site building man­agemenVmaintenance team. pool, sun deck, media room. onsite dry cleaner and on-site grocery store. Lease parking available in building. Walk to work in the loop or shopping on Michigan Avenue. El trains to 0 Hare, Midway airport and Uncoln Park are a short walk. Lease for $1,550 or sale for $279,000. Available July 1. Please contact John (ND 04,05) at Unit3605@gmail.com for more information. 
GRADUATION WEEK TOWN­HOUSE RENTAL-2 bedroom town house. sleeps 6-8, on Ivy Court for rental Graduation Week. 2 full baths, living room. and kitchen. 2 night mini­mum $1,000. contact peterlaw­son@yahoo.com 
3bdrm,1.5 ba home in nice, clean. quiet family neighborhood. Uving & dining rms. kitchen, computer rms. large sunroom. Basement for stor­age. Close to shopping, Restaurants and bus. $2,000/mo. 1st & last mo. rent reqd. plus deposit. 1-yr. lease. Call574-233-8886 after 4pm or 574­386-7100 Geri. 
AA1 Walk to Campus 2-5 bedroom homes 574-277..0116-Cooreman.com 

Need off.<:ampus housing for next yea (00.1 0)? 2,3.4 and 5 bedroom houses available 112 miles from campus. ND ALUMNI OWNED. As low as $275 per student Contact On<ampus rep at ebar­loh@nd.edu or 1·513-706-9655 
1-3BR Conterrporary Urban APTS across from Notre Dame Stadium. The Foundry features private baths for every bedroom. washer/dryer, fitness center, theater room. tanning salon, gameroom. Preleasing for August Call 574-232-1400 or lease online www.loundryliving.com 
FoR SALE 
2car garage Basement Sun Porch Quiet neighborhood 6 mile south of University $1301< 574-291-2306 
PERSONALS 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or some­one you love needs confidential sup­port or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Rrth at 1-2685. For more information. visit NDs Assistance for Pregnant StudentsiiOffice of Student Affairs web­site at: osa:nd.eduAlealth-safety/assis­tance-for-pregnant-students. 
Hyou or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Selvices for VICtims of Rape & Assau~ at: htlp11=.nd.eduh1ealth-safety/assault/ 
NDSU67 KU66 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Friday, March 20, 2009 
page 15 

By CAITLIN FERARRO 
Scene Writer 
"Role Models" showcases the comedic talents of relative newcomers Christopher Mintz-Plasse (also known as McLovin') as Augie and the outra­geous Bobb'e J. Thompson as Ronnie, while simultaneously reminding us that Sean William Scott can play more than just Stifler ("American Pie"). Scott's womanizing, hard-partying character Wheeler is suspiciously similar. The film also stars Paul Rudd as the highly pessimistic Danny. Rudd also co-wrote the film. 
The basic premise of "Role Models" is that two grown men, Danny and Wheeler, are forced to participate in the 
-
Sturdy Wings mentoring program for children. After the two energy drink representatives crash their Minotaur truck into a statue, they are forced into the program, rather than go to jail. Danny is paired with Augie, a teenager obsessed with LAIRE (a live action role playing game), while Wheeler's "little" is a young foul-mouth, over-sexed Ronnie. They might just be the worst mentors ever, and madness ensues. The characters )Jegin to learn to put aside their selfish, sarcastic ways to help the two oddball kids. 
The supporting cast includes the very funny Elizabeth Banks as Danny's ex­girlfriend Beth and the wacky recover­ing drug addict program director Gayle Sweeny portrayed by Jane Lynch. Also hilarious is Ken Jeong as the arrogant 
Role Models DVD 
fi~liLJiiiJ ~J£11 10 ~~Hbti'!.J 'Hii 
Director: David Wain Staning: Christopher Mintz-Plasse, Bobb'e J. Thompson, Sean William Scott, Paul Rudd, Elizabeth Banks 
DVD Extras: Bloopers, Deleted Scenes, "In Character & Off Script," "On The Set of Role Models," "Game On: Creating a Role Playing World." 
King Argotron, King of Cacedonia in the LAIRE world. One might recognize J.eong, a real life doctor, from his portrayal of the strange Dr. Kuni in "Knocked Up." 
"Role Models" is a great comedy, and the recently released unrated DVD did not disap­point. There are a plethora of great DVD extras. While the countless deleted scenes and alter­nate outtakes were wisely left off the theatrical movie's release, the other bonus features are great. 
The bloopers are hilarious, and it seems the cast genuinely had a great time making the comedy. In a segment called "In Character & Off Script," three different characters are featured in hysterical improvised moments present­ing a Sturdy Wings salute to Martin Gary, the overzealous five-time mentor, and Kuzzick and Davith of Glencracken, two hilari-
Set of Role Models," as is the R-rated nature of the film. The film certainly warrants the R . rating as everyone notes that director/co-screenwriter David Wain never shies from dirty jokes and pro­fanity. The bonus features also include commentary by Wain. 
The best segment of the bonus fea­tures had to be the section entitled "Game On: Creating a Role Playing World," in which the actors and crew discuss creating their own role-playing game. It is absolutely hilarious witness­ing how they adapted Live Action Role Playing, a real thing, into the film's ver­sion LAIRE. The clips show King Agrotron being trained by a profession­al choreographer even though the char­acters use fake, almost cardboard like swords. Rudd comments how hysterical it is that the choreographer used to work on "The Bourne Ultimatum," sug­gesting the transition "is like going from Harvard to Kindergarten." 
This film is absolutely hysterical and Rudd, Scott, Mintz-Plasse and 
Thompson are great. One particularly funny scene involves Danny exploding in anger in a coffee shop. He bitterly yells at the barista over the names of the cup sizes: "No, venti is twen­ty. Large is large. In fact, tall is large and grande is Spanish for large. Venti is the only ous LAIRE players. The actors were merely allowed to improvise rants that their characters would have. The abun­dance of improvisation in the film is discussed in the segment ~ailed "On The 

The bloopers are hilarious, and it seems the cast genuinely had a great time making the comedy. 
one that doesn't mean large. It's also the only one that's Italian. Congratulations, you're stupid in three languages." Classic. 
The unrated DVD of "Role Models" is a worthwhile buy. Not only does it include both the theatrical and unrated versions of the film, it also contains tons of hilarious extra features. 
Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cferrar 1 @nd.edu 

By MICHELLE FORDICE Assistant Scene Editor 
St. Patrick's Day has come and gone, but I'm sure much of the Notre Dame student body is still recovering. What do you need after a long day and night of celebrating our Irish heritage? Some good food. Hopefully these recipes might help settle your stom­ach. 
This week's recipes: 
Chicken and Blue Cheese Pita 
This recipe has plenty of good strong flavors to it. Don't be afraid to layer on that blue cheese, it's what makes it sing. You can try adding other vegetables, like red onion, to your taste as well. 
1. 
Pick up a chicken breast and cut it up. (You can also use the chicken from the Mexican bar if you want to skip the cutting; the sauce that is going to be added later is likely strong enough to overwhelm any marinade or seasoning.) 

2. 
Pick up lettuce, diced tomatoes and as many pitas as necessary. 

3. 
Fill a bowl with a dab of ranch dressing, a good amount of hot sauce and blue cheese. (If you aren't a blue cheese fan, cheddar is a good substitute.) 

4. 
Heat the bowl in the microwave until the cheese melts and you can mix it into a sauce. 


5. Toss the chicken, toma­toes and lettuce with the sauce. 
Stuff mixture into pitas. 
Ants on a Log 
For me, these are a vivid memory of Girl Scouts. More specifically, the hiking trip where our leader gave the chaperoning moms the wrong trail markers to follow and by the time we got back from wandering lost in a field, the only thing we had time to eat before the park closed were these tasty bites. So whether you've just sur­vived a hike with a passel of Brownies or a long day in class, these will make you feel better. 
1. Pick up celery sticks, peanut butter and raisins. 

2. 
Spread peanut butter onto the celery. 

3. 
Stick raisins into peanut butter in a line -like ants on a log! Release your inner child. 


Quick Tip 
Remember to mix up not only your meal, but your drink too. Alice Ciciora sub­mitted this drink mixture, which she named Grapealadeite. Simply mix lemonade with a little bit of grape juice and Sprite. 
Have your own dining hall recipe? We would love to feature it! E-mail mfordice@nd. edu. 

OUND THE NATION 
Friday, March 20, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE sE_RVICES page 17 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL NCAA Baseball 
Division 1 Top 25 

team record points 
1 North Carolina 14-2 755 2 Texas 14-2 726 3 Georgia 15-2 649 4 Arizona St. 14-2 638 5 LSU 13-4 629 6 Cal St. Fullerton 13-3 618 7 Miami (Fla.) 14-3 608 8 Texas A&M 13-4 566 9 Georgia Tech 12-1 556 10 Coastal Carolina 15-1 428 11 Oklahoma St. 13-4 423 12 Rice 10-5 410 13 UC Irvine 10-5 317 14 Virginia 15-0 279 15 Arkansas 12-3 278 16 Oklahoma 17-4 261 17 Baylor 10-4 243 18 TCU 10-<1 218 19 Clemson 11-4 186 20 Mississippi 11-4 171 21 Pepperdine 11-5 163 22 UC Riverside 14-3 107 23 Cal Poly 11-4 95 24 Florida St. 9-6 89 25 Florida 9-7 62 
NCAA Softball Division 1 Top 20 

team record points 
1 Florida 27-2 497 2 Alabama 23-2 472 3 Washington 24-3 461 4 Stanford 24-1 436 5 UCLA 24-3 432 6 Tennessee 23-3 392 7 California 21-4 355 
Associated Press 

8 Michigan 20-7 350 and play." wrong. best effort it always gets 9 Georgia 16-4 326 KNOXVILLE, Tenn. -Things seemed to click "I could sit here and from every team it plays. 10 Oklahoma 23-8 319 Pat Summitt says her for the Lady Vols (22-10) drive myself nuts about "It's even magnified
11 Arizona St. 25-5 310 
freshmen-laden squad has when they watched their how are we going to when you go into the tour­
12 Northwestern 
13-7 285 finally started to get it: You first NCAA selection show respond and who's going nament because it's a one 
12 Missouri 22-3 256 
can't win just because on Monday night, drawing to show up. I think the and done, you win or go
14 Ohio St. 20-3 
234 Tennessee is on the front a No. 5 seed and No. 12 thing for our coaches right home," Summitt said. 
15 Arizona 26-7 228 
of your jersey. Ball State as the first now that is so important is The coach also doesn't
16 louisville 22-3 191 
And the light may have round opponent. that we bring a calmness want her players thinking 
17 Massachusetts 11-6 154 
come on just in time as the They were treated to a and direct approach to a Final Four bid is impossi­
18 North Carolina 21-7 140 
young Lady Volunteers broadcast that included how we want to do things," ble. Tennessee took 10­
19 La.-Lafayette 15-5 105 
begin the trek to keep the clips of other teams' suc­she said. losses into the 1997 NCAA
20 LSU 25-6 92 
program's unblemished cess against them and talk The Hall of Fame coach tournament and ended up 
streak of reaching the of Tennessee's "off sea­with eight national titles on winning the whole thing. 
regional semifinals alive. son." her resume -including Summitt said she plans 
Now all Summitt has to Since then Summitt has the last two -has been on showing a highlight
NCAA Men's Indoor Track do is keep the light on. been fairly pleased with reminding the Lady Vols to video called "Cinderella" 
"I think it finally, hope­her players' attitudes and take everything one pos­produced for fans after
Division 1 Top 15 

fully, might have sunk in focus in practice. But with session at a time, one that season was over to the for them, in terms of what seven freshmen, two soph­opponent at a time. Lady Vols on their bus ride they have to do to be suc­omores and only one sen­Because of its inconsis­to the first and second 
team points 
cessful," Summitt said. ior, she knows there's still tent play, Tennessee has round site in Bowling "You just don't show up plenty that could go not been able to handle the Green, Ky.
1 Oregon 1&8 2 Arkansas 
149 3 florida Sl. 101 4 TexasA&M 95 
IN BRIEF

5 Nebraska .91 6 LSU 84 Stallworth hits and kills Mig!J.el T~jada Ip.ay Broedeur to pay
7 Florida 76 
pedestrian with car avoid pnson time alimony until 2020 
B Texas 75 
MIAMI -Cleveland Browns wide WASHINGTON -A federal prose­TRENTON, N.J. -Days after 
9 Oklahoma 68 
receiver Dante' Stallworth was driv­cutor on Thursday recommended breaking the NHL victory record,
10 Texas Tech 67 
ing drunk when he struck and kil(ed that All-Star shortstop Miguel Tejada Devils goalie Martin Brodeur was
11 Minnesota 62 
a pedestrian, according to pub­get probation and no prison time for dealt an alimony setback by a New
12 Arizona St. tiD 
lished and broadcast reports misleading Congress about the use of Jersey appeals court. 
13 Georgia 59 
Thursday. performance-enhancing drugs. The court ruled that Brodeur must
14 UCLA 59 
WSVN-TV reported Thursday that U.S. attorney Jeffrey Taylor said in pay his former wife $500,000 a year
15 Baylor 57; 
unnamed sources with knowledge a memo, to Federal Magistrate Judge until 2020, the year his youngest 
of the investigation said Stallworth's Alan Kay that Tejada deserves that child will graduate from high school. 
blood-alcohol level was between .08 reduced sentence because he has The ruling Thursday came after 
and .16. The legal limit is .08. The admitted wrongdoing, accepted Brodeur appealed a lower court rul­
Miami Herald also cited an responsibility and has no criminal ing that awarded Melanie DuBois 
unnamed source as saying that record. Tejada is to be sentenced permanent alimony. 
Stallworth's blood-alcohol level was March 26. Brodeur had asked that he only be 
above the legal limit. Tejada is the 2002 American required to pay alimony until he 
The Miami Beach Police League MVP with the Oakland retires, which he estimated to be in 
around the dial 
NCAA Basketball 

Department refused to confirm the Athletics and a five-time All-Star 2012. DuBois asked for alimony pay­
Dayton vs. West Virginia 

reports. Ed Griffith, spokesman for now plays for the Houston Astros. ments until 2024, when their 
3:00 p.m., CBS Miami-Dade County prosecutor Taylor also cited Tejada's disad­youngest child is anticipated to grad­Katherine Fernandez Rundle, would vantaged childhood in the uate from college. 
NBA say only that the investigation is Dominican Republic and his dedica­"Here, the parties always agreed focusing on whether alcohol was a tion to become a distinguished major that (the) plaintiff would serve as the
Boston Celtics vs. San Antonio Spurs 
factor in the death of 59-year-old league player who gives back to the full-time caretaker of the children,"
8:30 p.m., NBA TV 

Mario Reyes. community where he was raised. the court wrote. 



page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 20, 2009 
NO WOMEN'S GOLF 

Irish face tough team·s in Texas 
ByALEXWEST 
Sports Wrirer 
The Irish return to the Betsy Rawls Longhorn Invitational in Austin, Texas, for the third con­secutive year, ready to compete against several top opponents. According to their coach, how­ever, their toughest competition will come from themselves. 
The field of 17 teams will match the Irish up against some of the top competition in the country. The competing teams include Duke, ranked No. 9, and top-ranked Arizona. 
After last week's disappoint­ing 12th place finish at the LSU Cleveland Classic, the Irish hope to improve their perform­ance in the three-day tourna­ment this weekend. 
Coach Susan Holt thinks that last week's tournament was, to some extent, a Wake up-call. 
"We didn't get beat last week, we just beat ourselves," Holt said. "We look great [at prac­tice). We need to continue to play loose when it matters." 
Senior captain Lisa Maunu. along with junior Artflie Brophy, 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Notre Dallle ready to face pair of SEC foes 
By DOUGLAS FARMER Sports Wrirer 
After a break in its schedule with six days off for the first time since the Indoor National Championships, Notre Dame will make up for the period of rest with two games this week~ end, including a trip •to Tennessee. The Irish host Vanderbilt Friday at 2 p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion, and travel to Knoxville to face Tennessee on Sunday. 
The Irish have moved up to the No. 2 ranking in the ITA Top 25, only behind indoor national champion Northwestern. 
"We are really excited about our number two ranking," said senior Kelcy Tefft. "But we know we have a lot of season left and still a lot to prove." 
Beyond the accolades of the ranking, a tangible benefit does come with the number two slot. 
"It allows us to host NCAA regionals, which is very benefi­cial," Tefft said. "But we want much more than that." 

sophomores So-Hyun Park and Katie Conway and freshman Becca Huffer have the confi­dence of their coach to put last week's disappointing perform­ance behind them. 
"I just want them to play well and put up the numbers they're capable of shooting." Holt said. Last year, the Irish finished fifth out of 18 teams at the Rawls Invitational. 
Huffer led the team at last week's LSU Classic, finishing tied for 16th at one over par. 
The University of Texas Golf Club will be a tougher challenge than last weeks course at the LSU Cleveland Classic. The course is a par-72 and teams will play from 6,324 yards in the three-day event. 
Historically, the Irish have not faired well at University of Texas Golf Club, where the Rawls Invitational is held. 
"The course has gotten the best of us in the past." llolt said. "We haven't put three rounds of solid golf together the last three times." 
Contact Alex West at awest@hcc-nd.edu 
The Irish get this ambition largely from following Tefft, who along with with freshmen Kristy Frilling, is ranked No. 3 in the doubles rankings. 
"We have learned a lot about each other's games over the last few months," Tefft said of the duo. "Hopefully we can contin­ue to win matches the rest of the season for our team." 
The Irish first put these rank­ings on the line Friday against Vanderbilt. 
"Vanderbilt is always solid," Tefft said. "They beat us last year so we are looking for revenge." On Sunday, the Irish face No. 12 Tennessee. 
"We will probably face the Volunteers outside, which will present a little more of a chal­lenge for us," Tefft said. 
Fortunately for the Irish, ris­ing rankings and outdoors experience will aid the team when the Big East tournament comes along, and even more so upon the beginning of the NCM Tournament. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmerl@nd.edu 


NOW HIRING TOUR GUIDES 
FORTHE SUMMER AND NEXT SCHOOLYEAR 
Applications available for pick up in the Office of Undergraduate Admissions, 220 Main Building Questions? Contact Beth Giudicessi, egiudice@nd.edu 

Friday, March 20, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 

r 
~ page 20 
' ' MEN'S GOLF
' 
~ 
! ' ' ' ' Georgia tourney
~ 
boasts elite field 
! ' ' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
Golfers return from spring break only to leave again 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
After a grueling, 4,000 mile spring break road-trip, Notre Dame returns to the links today at the 30th Annual Schenkel E -Z -G o Invitational in Statesboro, Ga., one of the pre­mier collegiate tournaments of the season. 
The elite field features six teams ranked in the top 25 among the 18 squads sparring at the 6,910­yard, par 72 Forest Heights Country Club. 
The Irish are coming off consecutive top-five finishes at the Border Olympics in Laredo, Texas, and the Palmas del Mar Intercollegiate in Humacao, Puerto Rico, both last week. Junior Doug Fortner's fourth place fmish in Puerto Rico propelled the team to a second-place finish, the best of the season for Notre Dame. 
Despite 4,000 miles of travel and three plane changes, the Irish put together a solid team effort to claw out a fourth­place finish in Texas. 
Notre Dame head coach Jim Kubinski, whose team features no seniors and only four jun­iors, points to the maturation of the younger members of the team as the key factor in the spring season's early success. 
"We started to gain momen­tum at the end of the fall sea­son," Kubinski said. "Our results may not have seemed a clear indicator, but I started seeing things from our play­ers, individually, that I hadn't seen from them as college players. Our first two events over spring break are just a continuation. We're improving with each event, regardless of scores." 
This year's Schenkel Invitational marks the Irish's second trip to Statesboro for the venerable tournament, and Kubinski stated that it's one of the events he will look 

The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 20, 2009 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles host nonconference foe 'Cats 

By NATHANIEL LEE 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will face tough competition in its linal noncon­ference match of the season, facing Indiana Wesleyan at home Saturday. 
The Belles head into the match with a 4-4 record after playing eight matches in Orlando, Fla., over spring break. Saint Mary's closed the trip with a strong performance in a 9-0 win over Lincoln. 
"I have seen that our team is improving every week and every match," head coach Dale Campbell said. "The girls work hard to win their matches, and work hard in general. They really want to have success in the conference this season." 

Sophomore Jillian Hurley has paced the Belles at singles, holding a 4-4 record at No. 1. Junior Camille Gebert holds a 6-2 record at No. 2, and sopho­more Jessica Kosinski stands at 4-4. At No. 1 doubles Hurley and Gebert have recorded four wins and four losses. 
"We are focusing on getting ready for the conference sea­son, but we are also excited for our non-conference home open­er," Campbell said. "To face Wesleyan we want to start off strong with our double play, and play determinedly and aggressively as a team." 
The Belles will face the No. 14 Wildcats (1-0), at 2:00 p.m. at the Saint Mary's tennis courts or the Eck Pavilion at Notre Dame depending on the weath­er. 
Contact Nathaniel Lee at 
nlee5@nd.edu 

Marclt .2Btlt, .2009 -Jordan Hall of Scien1e 

•
os1um Feoturin_g: 
2:00 
.. 4:00 PJI Fr. Bob lJowd, Dr. Kosturi Holdor 
r Mr. Jeon More Brissou,
Room 105 -rree Dr. Steve Silliman, Murk Sullivan 
Info Hour Student dubs ruffle to win lunch 
4:00 .. 5:00 PM with Fr. Hesburgh or Cqoch Mike BreyGollerio _Free oro~ autograpfied basketball,
mus1col performance
.,.,,.,
5:00 .. 7:tJO PM Buffet dinne~. the Undertones, 
Glrl • T· k t tl keynotes by Mr. Sam Donelson and 
Q leTID -,/C e e Dr. Charles Dietzen 
... A Collaborative Approach All proceeds benefit the United Children's Fund ond 
Global Health Symposlulll ancl Banquet the Timmy Foundation 
Banquet tickets are $30 f$15 for students) and can 
be purchased of the Lafortune Box Office or online ot 
studentshop.nd.edu until March 23rd 
~""'"'"' h1 NlH!, llolo.v 0.~, llaill W.r.ing Group with lbo Kallogg ln<I!Wte lor W.mollo..lStodl••· frtill.,.. Cklu !nodi, <onto• lo1 lodal (..,.,.,, hk lasl~ul• to. Glokl lfoollh, lnlttoolioool SIIHito! Mn;m m A<lftllin 
~-hiday, Ma;ch 20, 2009 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
ND SOFTBALL 
ND will play two with Saint John's 

By MOLLY SAMMON Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will play their first conference games of the season Sunday, playing a dou­bleheader against St. John's at Melissa Cook Stadium. 
The Irish are coming off two strong wins against the University of Toledo, which coach Deanna Gumpf said they hope to build on against the Red Storm. 
"It's important to carry our level of play forward and keep our momentum going," Gumpf said. "They expected to win yes­terday and they played like it." 
The Red Storm enters with a record of 8-9, with quality wins against Georgetown, Bucknell and the University of Wisconsin. 
"St. John's is a good team, and they have a strong pitching staff who keeps them in the ball games," Gumpf said. 
While Notre Dame appears to be a stronger team heading into the matchup, Gumpf said the team would not be looking past the Red Storm. 
"We try to treat every game the same, no matter if we are playing the number one team in the country or the worst team in the country," Gumpf said. "We try to keep the focus on what we can do to win the ball game." 
By switching up their practice routine, the girls are staying relaxed and focused in prepara­tion for Sunday's games. 
"Today we are hitting to stay loose and in a rhythm," Gumpf said. "The next few days we will work on more game-like situa­tiDns." 
In all areas of the game, Gumpf believes her team is very prepared. 
"Our pitchers have the ability to keep us in any and all ball games, our defense has the ability to play clean, errorless ball, and our hitters have the ability to hit for power and manufacture runs," Gumpf said. 
This doubleheader against St. John's begins the team's confer­ence play and is the first step towards a possible Big East Championship. 
"I think our team is confident and believes we can win the Big East title," Gumpf said. "They know we have prepared by playing five of the top ten teams in the country and beating one of them." 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish move on in Classic 
By KATE GRABAREK Sports Writer 
The No. 25 Irish were able to advance Thursday at the Blue Gray Classic, defeating Mississippi State by a score of 4-2 in Montgomery, Ala. Notre Dame will now face Boise State today at 2:30p.m. 
"The field is very diverse geo­graphically," head coach Bobby Bayliss said. "We opened with Mississippi State who beat No. 20 Auburn last week. There are no easy matches and we will be challenged every match we play." 
The No. 21 ranked doubles team of senior Brett Helgeson and sophomore Tyler Davis were able to defeat junior Christopher Doerr and sophomore Tanner Stump by a score of 8-5 to earn the Irish's only doubles win against the Bulldogs to start the match Thursday. Sophomore Stephen Havens and freshman Casey Watt lost a hard-fought battle against freshmen Louis Cant and Artem Illyushin by a score of 9-8. 
Watt is coming off of a strong showing at the Pacific Coast Doubles tournament with senior Santiago Montoya. 
"Because of a couple of minor injuries we were not able to play all of our regular combinations, but Santiago Montoya and Casey Watt reached the consolation finals and looked pretty good together," Bayliss said. "They brought interesting chemistry to the table -Santi's touch and feel at the net coupled with Casey's ability to dominate on serve returns and from the back of the court." 
Sophomore Matt Johnson and freshman Niall Fitzgerald fell to sophomore Antonio Lastre and senior Ryan Farlow at No. 3 dou­bles. 
However, the Irish were able to turn things around and earn the victory with their singles lineup. No. 21 Helgeson was able to defeat Farlow 6-4, 6-0 at No. 1 singles for the Irish's first singles point of the match. 
Watt was able to earn his sec­ond victory of the day defeating Lastre in three sets at third sin­gles, and sophomore Dan Stahl was able to defeat Cant in straight sets by a score of 7-5, 6­3. 
Sophomore David Anderson fell to Doerr 7-5, 6-3 at No. 5 sin­gles, while Fitzgerald was able to come through with a victory at the sixth singles position by a score 7-6, 6-1 over Stump. 
After Montoya and Watt's suc­cess over spring break the Irish are still trying to tighten things up in the doubles lineup. 
"We will be trying, as the sea­son moves forward, to shore up a few things in our doubles," Bayliss said. "As play moves out­doors, things like first serve per­centage, depth on the first volley and holding serve consistently become more important. Easy points are harder to get and con­sistency becomes imperative. You have to work harder to win points and be able to use the ele­ments to assist you tactically and strategically. We are in very good shape and have won the majority of our long matches, but we need to keep pushing to maintain that edge." 
The Irish will face Boise State today with first serve at 2:30 p.m. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO1@saintmarys.edu 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Team risks streak against Cal 
five all-time meetings between Gina Sciascia. who tallied six
By NATHANIEL LEE 
the two schools. against the Scarlet Knights on 
Sports Writer 
Senior Sam Price leads the St. Patrick's Day. Golden Bears offensively with Last year, the Irish turned in 
In the midst of a five game 26 points on 15 homestand and a six game win­goals and 11 ning streak, Notre Dame hopes assists. Junior to keep its success going midfielder Alex Sunday against California at the Tickner has 17 Loftus Center. goals for 
The No. 11 Irish, fresh off of a California, but dominating victory over Big has yet to record East opponent Rutgers, are 7-1 an assist this on the season, with their only season. loss coming to No. 1 Goalkeeper Northwestern. Morgan Dyson 
"Our defense has been and the Golden 
"Our goal was to go undefeated despite playing four games in eleven days." 
Tracy Coyne Irish coach 
an impressive performance against California, defeating the Golden Bears in the Rose Bowl after tough losses to Oregon and Stanford on their spring break road 

trip. 
This season, the team turned in an outstanding 4-0 mark during the break, and now look to build on that success as they continue Big East play next week. 
"We felt really good about how we performed on the spring break trip, especially since our goal was to go unde­feated despite playing four games in 11 days," stated Coyne. "We feel good as a team right now, people are really set­tling into their roles effective­!y." 
Contact Nathaniel Lee at nlee5@nd.edu 
improving and helping out a lot on offense," head coach Tracy Coyne said. "We have been stopping opposing offenses and especially causing turnovers 
Bears defense have allowed opponents to an average of 
10.83 goals per game. 
Under Coyne's direction, the team is well on their way to 
that lead to offensive opportunities." "Our defense has 
The Golden 
been improving and

Bears journey 
to South Bend helping out a lot on with a 4-5 offense.'' record, although the 
Tracy Coyne 

team has per­formed better 
Irish coach 

on the road (2­
1) than at 
their long-term goal of a Big East championship, and a solid run in the National Championship tournament. Already this sea­son senior attack Jillian Byers has set the all-time scoring record, while another 
home (2-4). California has record, this time for assists in a never beaten Notre Dame in game, was matched by attack page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 20, 2009 


NCAA 

Maryland upsets Cal to face Memphis next 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
Maryland didn't force a lot of 
turnovers, didn't block a bunch 
of shots, didn't even create a lot 
of mistakes. 
What the Terps did to 
California was much more sub­
tle: They disrupted the Bears' 
rhythm. 
It might not sound like much, 
but against a streak-shooting 
team like Cal it can make all 
the difference. 
Grievis Vasquez provided the 
offense with 27 points and 
Maryland used its press to shut 
down the nation's best 3-point 
shooting team, rolling to an 84­
71 victory over Cal in the first 
round of the West Regional on 
Thursday. 
"I don't truthfully know if Maryland did anything different than other (teams) did, but they got us out of our rhythm a little bit," Cal coach Mike Montgomery said. "Maybe that's a consequence of their press, but we never seemed to get in any sort of rhythm. It's very dif­ficult for us to compete against a good team without shooting the ball well." 
Tenth-seeded Maryland (21­
13) knew what it was up against. Cal was the nation's best-shooting team from 3­point range during the regular season, hitting 43 percent. When the Bears won, it was because they shot well from the perimeter. When they lost, it was because the opponent had kept their shooters from getting hot. 
Using its press to disrupt Cal's offensive flow, the Terps rarely gave the Bears a good look from the perimeter and shored up some early interior defen­sive breakdowns to win a battle of guard-oriented teams. Vasquez controlled the offense, Dave Neal added 15 points and Eric Hayes had 14 to help Maryland advance past the first round in its ninth straight NCAA appearance. 
The Terps will face No. 2 seed Memphis on Saturday. 
"We came into the game knowing we were going to pres­sure them the whole game," Neal said. "We knew they would have a tough time with it." 
After finishing ninth in the Pac-10 last year, Cal (22-11) put together an impressive run in its first season under Montgomery -a former coach at rival Stanford -to get into the NCAA tournament for the first time since 2006. Montgomery took advantage of an athletic, undersized team by spreading the floor to set up his perimeter shooters, who knocked them down more often than not. 
Against Maryland, they didn't. 

Off the mark from the start, Cal never found a rhythm and shot 7-for-24 from 3-point range, its fourth-lowest per­centage from beyond the arc this season. Theo Robertson led the Bears with 22 points and Jerome Randle had 14, but took just three shots in the second half. 
"They did a good job of mix­ing it up," said Cal guard Patrick Christopher, who was 0­for-7 from 3-point range. "They had a couple of different press­es. It just kind of messed us up offensively." 
Maryland figured to be a good matchup for the Bears. The Terps, like Cal, are undersized and like to get out in the open floor when they can. 
NONE OF YOUR 




Maryland to a three-point lead despite hitting 12-of-32 from the floor. 
Handle, the smallest player on the court at 5-foot-10, was the third-best 3-point shooter in the country during the regular sea­son. The Terps extended their defense to stop him, so Handle went around them, using a lightning-quick crossover to get in the lane for a variety of scoop shots and layups. 
Maryland paid more attention to Handle in the second half, keeping Cal's leading scorer from darting inside while stay­ing with him on the perimeter. Randle took one shot in the first 12 minutes and finished 2-for-3 from the floor in the second half. 
Vasquez never let up, slither­ing his way through Maryland's defense. 
He took the ball from Randle and scored on a layup to cap a 12-2 spurt that put the Terps up 63-53, then scored on a three­point play after Adrian Bowie tracked down his own missed free throw and flipped a pass over his shoulder-while on top of a Cal defender. 
The problem for Cal was Maryland's pressure. 
The Terps like to run a full­court press off made shots and Cal was shaky against it early. But turnovers weren't what hurt the Bears -they had just 
14. Cal just couldn't get com­fortable. 
Randle misfired on the first 3­pointer of the game and the Bears kept missing, finishing 3­for-13 in the first half. Christopher and Robertson hit consecutive 3s early in the sec­ond half to keep Cal close, but the misses started again and Maryland pulled away. 
"If we're not shooting the ball well, we struggle, which was clearly the case tonight," Montgomery said. 
The game's marquee matchup was supposed to between Vasquez and Randle. 
They lived up to the billing ­at least in the first half. 
Vasquez was his usual crafty self, tossing in off-balanced jumpers against good defense and flipping up quick shots over taller defenders inside. The "Venezuelan Sensation" had 11 points at halftime, helping 

t.·.•.· 
I 

My toatKts Blcbp: e11yedae Pay-As-Yflii..Go usen who llltllf data access charges tot My Contacts Backllll While roemma should dltl611 for abill tnldit. 02009 u.s. Cellulat 
Friday, March 20, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 
Big East 
continued from page 28 
series now is going to be a big series, and you always want to get off to a. good start." 
On paper, this weekend's match-up appears fairly even. Both squads score 6.5 runs per game and have a team ERA right near 4.3 runs per game. 
The difference could lie in the teams' ability to play con­sistent defense. The Pirates have made 32 errors through momentum going into this weekend," Schrage said. "Tuesday 'was a big day, and with the home opener, we had a great crowd. Any nerves we had, I think we got those out of the way." · 
Schrage has continued to fiddle with his lineup, and has 
used  16  different  batting  
orders in 17 games.  
Sophomore  left  fielder  

Golden Tate has-established himself as a fixture at the top of the lineup, howeve·r, and has a .368 batting average to show for it thus far. Tate is the key component in getting 
the offense going early ­

just 14 games, and when the
"[Two wins this week] 
compared to 17 Irish score 
errors in 17 gave us some good first, they are games for the momentum going into 9-1 the season. Irish. The Pirates
this weekend.,, 

Both teams are more of a have gotten on a station-to-sta­nice roll early in Dave Schrage tion team than the season. Irish coach the Irish, but 
Notre Dame, picked by the Big East's coaches to finish third in the conference's preseason poll, has won eight of its last nine games. Seton Hall, picked ninth, has won six of its last seven. 
The Irish swept a pair of non-conference games this week, beating Ball State 5-4 Tuesday and Valparaiso 10-4 Wednesday in front of the home crowd. 
"It gave us some good when Seton 
Hall runs, it 

does so effec­tively. The Pirates have been successful on 18 of their 21 stolen base attempts this year. But Irish sophomore catcher Cameron McConnell has thrown out eight would-be base stealers this year, after he and former fellow back­stop Sean Gaston combined to throw out just six a year ago. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 


Notre Dame-Apartments 
Notre Dame Apartments are a Notre Dame tradition! 
2 Bedroom, 1,200 sq. ft. Apartments Newly Remodeled Free Internet Free Water On-Site Laundry Off-Street Parking Only Three Blocks from Campus 
*These apartments rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our town homes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
(574) 234-2436 
NBA 
Pierce, Celtics clinch Atlantic title 
BOSTON -The only All-Star healthy enough to play made the difference. 
Paul Pierce scored 36 points without Kevin Garnett and Ray Allen to share the load, Dwyane Wade missed his first game of the season, and the Boston Celtics clinched the Atlantic Division title with a 112-108 overtime victory over the Miami Heat on Wednesday night. 
"It almost came down to that we had Paul and they didn't have Wade," Boston coach Doc Rivers said. · 
Wade missed the game with a right hip flexor, and the Heat missed his NBA-best 29.9­point scoring average. 
"We're a team, the Miami Heat, with or without D­Wade," said Michael Beasley, who led Miami with 21 points off the bench. "Obviously, he's a big part of our team and a majority of the scoring. But when he's out, when he's not playing, somebody's got to step up and a couple of guys did." 
The Celtics could use Garnett's presence after he sat out his 13th straight game ·· with a strained right knee. 
"We miss his leadership out on the floor, his verbal leader­ship," Rivers said. "He's the one guy that holds everybody accountable defensively." 
Leon Powe, Tony Allen and Brian Scalabrine also are side­lined, and Allen hyperextend­ed hiS" elbow Tuesday night in 

p------------------------­
Store 
Call or s~op on by & reserve today! 
15141 203-0512 
Mill £!rick Road, South Sl!<ld 

Loc~t<?d •t O"wi~r.d M.& US 20 Bypa.,, I minut<" from <;>mpu> 

a loss at Chicago. Glen Davis started at forward in place of Powe after missing the previ­ous four games with a sprained right ankle. 
The Celtics hope to get all their players back for the play­off's and a run at defending their NBA championship. 
The division title "really doesn't mean anything to the Boston Celtics," Pierce said. "They don't put that banner up. Maybe in other arenas they put that banner up, but here it really doesn't mean a thing." . 
Boston improved to 51-18. 
Second-place Philadelphia can win no more than 51 and the Celtics have won the season series with the 76ers. 
Rajon Rondo had 27 for Boston. Miami, in its third overtime game in its last five, got 19 points from Mario Chalmers and 17 from Jermaine O'Neal. 
The Heat did not say how long Wade would be sidelined, but he was not ruled out of games Friday night at New Jersey and Sunday against Detroit. 
The close game "showed that even with.out D-Wade we're still going to fight," Chalmers said. "We're a good team." 
With the score tied at 100 after regulation, Eddie House and Pierce hit 3-pointers and Rondo sank a layup for a 108­100 lead as Miami went cold from the field. 
Then Chalmers made a 3­pointer and, after Kendrick Perkins hit a free throw, Chalmers sank another 3­pointer, making it 109-106 with 44 seconds left. 
"Mario did a fantastic job," Miami coach Erik Spoelstra said, "basically doing the things that Dwyane normally does." 
But House hit one free throw and Pierce sank two before Beasley's basket ended the scoring. Boston went 3-for-6 in overtime while Miami was just 3-or-13. 
"We know that we are injured," Pierce said after Boston's second win in six games, "but just to get back on the winning mind-frame is big for us." 
With all their injuries, the Celtics relied on Pierce even more than they usually do. 
Pierce went 14-for-23 from the field and had 12 points in the first quarter, 
"He was scoring on every one of our matchups," Spoelstra said. 
In its previous four games, Miami beat Chicago in double overtime, Boston in regulation and Utah in triple overtime before losing at Philadelphia on Sunday. 
Boston had a chance to win in regulation Wednesday, but Pierce's 18-footer from the left missed as the buzzer sounded. 
The lead changed hands 11 times in the fourth quarter when the biggest edge was just three points by Miami. 
Boston led 34-21 after one quarter, but Miami opened the second period with a 10-2 run that cut the margin to 36-31. 

.--------------------------------­
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 20, 2009 
Day One 
continued from page 28 
believes his players will have to keep their nerves intact if they hope to claim a title. 
"There's tension because it's a big, upscale event and our kids were a little bit nervous," Bednarski said. "Coming as the No. 1 in the polls didn't help to build our confidence because for some of them it's the first or second time being in such a big event, so they don't know how to handle the leader position." 
Despite the big stage, the men still turned in an impres­sive performance against a much more experienced field of competition. 
Leading the way for the Irish in the sabre was sopho­more Avery Zuck, who notched 10 wins on the day and finished in sixth place for the individual sabre rankings. Teammate Barron Nydam fin­ished in 13th with seven vic­tories after losing to Zuck 3­5. 
As part of the NCAA regula­tions, each fencer is matched up against a teammate to start the day. 
"The first bout against teammates is a mental hustle because they are friends and suddenly they have to fence against each other," Bednarski said. "I think that it is something that maybe in 

NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Stitt, Maxvvell and Miller go to NCAA's 
By NATHANIEL LEE 
Sports Writer 
Junior diver Natalie Stitt and sophomore Samantha Maxwell began competing Thursday at the NCAA Swimming and Diving Championships at Texas A&M, which runs through Sunday. 
Stitt, Big East Diver of the Year, placed sixth at her NCAA Zone diving champi­onship Jast week to earn a berth at the NCAA champi­onship finals, joining sopho­more teammates Amywren Miller, who will compete in the 50 free, and Maxwell, who earned a spot in the 200 breast. 
Miller swam the 50 free Thursday in the preliminaries in 22.47, placing her at 26th overall. She was unable to advance to the finals, and ended her sophomore season with a strong performance in a tough field. 
"Twenty-sixth in the country is good; this meet is so selec­tive and elite that just making it is an enormous honor," head coach Brian Barnes said. "We had higher goals, but the 50 is such a tight event that the slightest things . can throw a time or position off." 
Miller expressed similar sentiments on her perform­ance. 
"Based on my performance in the Big East, it was a huge honor just to make it to NCAA's again, so I just wanted to have fun while trying my best," Miller said. "Today there were things I thought I could have done better, but the future should be removed from the competition when the formula will be changed, but at this moment it exists." 

In the epee division senior Karol Kostka and sophomore Greg Schoolcraft each turned in five victories, but the strongest performance of the day came from freshman Olympian and San Francisco native Gerek Meinhardt, who posted a 13-1 mark in the foil. Meinhardt topped team­mate Enzo Castellani and last year's foil champion Andras Horanyi of Ohio State to finish in first place on the foil leader board. 
"He's leading the group at this moment, and I do hope that he will be in the final tomorrow if everything will go according to our plan," Bednarski said. "But at this moment his first duty is to get to the final. He's the leader, but everybody is attacking." 
With the women's team fac­ing off on Saturday, the men still have one more day to overtake their rivals on the strip when round five gets underway at 9:30 a.m. 
"Simply, the fencers have to just be calmer and not overexcited in the bouting," Bedn.arski said. "I believe it will be good experience for them in the future, and let's hope this good future starts tomorrow." 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
my time was faster than at this meet last year, so I can't complain." 
Stitt also performed for the Irish Thursday, earning a score of 245.30 in her 1-meter dive, enough to place 32nd in the nation, but also short of the finals. Today she will compete in the 3-meter event. 
"I was a little intimidated since there are a ton of amaz­ing divers here, even Olympians," Stitt 'said. "Today I got some nerves out, and tomorrow I just need to have confidence in my dives. Seeing all these great girls makes you want to be like them, so I will have to keep working hard to build on my momen­
tum  from  this  season  to  
the next."  
Barnes  also  seemed  

impressed with Stitt's first dive at the national collegiate level. 
"Natalie is a very good diver, and she is experiencing this level for the first time," Barnes said. "She will gain experience from today and I think perform better on the three." 
Maxwell will take to the pool for the 200 breast on Saturday as the last Irish swimmer at the competition. 
"Coming out for a second time should really help me have a good feel for the com­petition," stated Maxwell. "We have been building up to this all season, so my goal is just to set a good time to build upon and come back here again next season." 
Contact Nathaniel Lee at nleeS@nd.edu 

•0 • 

Come support autism awareness this Sunday. March 22 from 2 -5 p.m. in South-Dining Halll Put together puzzles individually or in teams-prizes for the fastest assemblers! Raffle for gift cards to Target, Itunes, and more! Fun for students and families! 
email sfriends@nd.edu for more information 
Sponsored by Special Friends, Pangborn Hall, and the Sonya Ansari Center for Autism 
Pasta & Salad Just $7.99. 
Combination del Mare

St. joseph ~amr.-J ril.lpiJ. Shnmr and ll.,m>t 1\>m~t.;..:;;. ,wtr
1332 Hilltop Rd. • 269.983.9900 
An~II'Lllr i\1%! wlth \\'hnt· \\'tfl<' i:; L<~mm• f1ill Bmt<'~ Mishawaka 
~<~Ut~~~ S...~n·t~ \~1th (nlhmnn~':'ltuilt.<J: \tu::;lm,,!lfH 

5110 Edistm Lakes Pkwy. • 574.271.1692 
Visit www.PapaVinasltalianKrtchen.com to view 
our SeafoOd Celebmtion Menu

\\'WW.PnpaVi.nosltalianKitchen.(:om 

Served 11 a.m.-3p.m. 
Your choice of one of these 
lunch entrees and a Papa's 
or Caesar individual salad 
Rlgatonl Fra Diavolo 

l.lll'gc l"''wwl.>e' l<.>sS<?<I wilh o.~wtted shrimp. lr.,.;b 'flil1afh Jnd gUl'Jk In a ~PKY mmato ,;;mn• fla~t>rcd ><Hh fl"l'f'<"ocini 
CaJ*Iinl & Crabmeat 
1\ngd hllir pasw t<"'~··d with m•hn•taL ohlit;tk~ tllU>hrvom,. pea pvtb and Ronw tonwtor~ tn a li,ght g;~rlit bunn "''"''' 
Shrimp Sizzlelint" 
Our Sj>e•··~1.1Jy! Shrimp Siztldini"· i> serwd in a siz.:hn)l ,kJ!kt \\1lh a zesty p.:f.'l"'l1matil :<aut'~ ;md sp;~glwm 
Pasta Con Polio 
ChkkN> bt<';lSI, MUI·dried tomal<'">. mushrt>Vnt>, lr("!;h !)..,..! ~nd ~ h~hl :\lfrvdo ~'uu:e I<~Ssed with bow..tk pa>ta 
Lasagna Layers of JlaMa, rkum1 and mtuz;ordl~ tuppnl wuh sptt:y marimm.t i..'f tmditi(\naf 1nc~1 ~ucc 
·v~M I I a,m .-3 pm i.iJ:niltlif tmta otto&. *'Qt ).'3Jif1 t~M .>m"f Qttfflr ~R~n~. ~<11.u(1 f)~ ~"ll:~tim!M nmws. 
ff)[ood cdl:brrflil!tli

6 n~TIIlUlH; 
Friday, March 20, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 20, 2009 


NCAA 
continued from page 28 
guards that can shoot the 3 and handle the ball." 
Junior guard Katie Ohm leads the team in 3-point per­centage, hitting 39.3 percent of her 3s. Irish sophomore forward Becca Bruszewski said getting down the court in a hurry will help the 3-point defense. 
"Getting back in transition [is important] because they can stop and pop from the 3­point line," she said. 
That transition defense will be needed to clog passing lanes and stop Fox and junior guard Brittany McCoy, both of whom have more than 100 assists. 
"You really got to find them in transition. They get a lot looking for each other," 
Jackson
... continued from page 28 
"We tried to get a good shot, just anybody that was open," Jackson said. "We had seven seconds left and I felt like I could beat [my man]. And it happened and I'm still shocked right now." 
Jackson said he practices sim­ilar shots against Irish team­mates like forwards Zach Hillesland and Luke Harangody. "In terms of his athletic skill set, he's more of like a corner­back than a point guard," Hillesland said of the 5-foot-11 Jackson. " ... He jumped at the same time as the other guy did, he just hung longer than him, hung longer and was able to get a shot off." 
Jackson's shot fell through the basket with 2.1 seconds left, just enough time for New Mexico to get off a desperation shot. As the buzzer sounded, Lobos guard Tony Danridge sent the ball off the backboard and rattling around the rim. "The fact that we're on our home court and we just hit a big shot with two seconds to go, if he had hit that one, that would have broken all of our 
Ver01ont 
continued from page 28 
weeks. Despite the wins, Corrigan said he was unhappy with his team's offensive effi­ciency. During the week, he said the team has been focus­ing on the little things neces­sary to put the ball in the net. 
"We're cutting back on what we're doing so that we can do some things very well and then build off of that," Corrigan said. 
One of the things the Irish have been doing well on offense is spreading the ball around. Coming into this week­end, 14 different players have tallied goals, and another five have notched points on the sea­son. 
On the defensive side of the ball, senior goalie Scott Rodgers has been rock solid between the pipes, allowing only 7.43 goals per game. The New York native was named Great Western Lacrosse League player of the week. 
"We always count on Scott to play well," Corrigan said. "If we play good team defense, and do what we should do there, then I think Scott will continue to do McGraw said. "We haven't completed our game plan yet, but we hope to put some pres­sure defensively on them so we can hopefully take away some of the passing lanes." 
The Irish are playing at home, an unnatural phenome­non when playing in a high­stakes tournament game. But the players aren't worried ­in fact, they like it. 
"The normality of it is going to be kind of nice," Novosel said. 
Bruszewski said playing at home wouldn't create a laid­back atmosphere. Instead, it intensifies the need to win. 
"That's why you go out there and want to win so bad, because you don't want to lose at home," she said. 
Championing that attitude, McGraw said, is senior guard Lindsay Schrader, who's ramped up her intensity after the ·conference tournament. 
hearts," Irish guard Kyle McAlarney said. 
After the ball dropped to the floor, though, the Irish swarmed the court and Jackson donned the Notre Dame Leprechaun's hat. 
Jackson's heroics were only necessary after New Mexico came back from a 12~point sec­ond-half deficit. Harangody, who finished with a game-high 26 points, made a layup on Notre Dame's first possession after intermission to give the Irish a comfortable 36-24 lead. But New Mexico chipped away and took its first lead of the game on a 3-pointer by guard Chad Toppert with 11:03 remaining. 
"I never thought we could [pull] away from them," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "They're just too good a team, and they're too good offensively. But I give our guys a Iotta credit." The Lobos eventually built a 66­60 lead with 2:08 left but the Irish ran off eight straight 
. points to take a two-point advantage. McAlarney hit a runner then Harangody notched six points with a layup and four free throws. 
McAlarney said his team was in a situation similar to its first­round contest against UAB, when the Irish trailed by five 
"She came in and you watched her for about 10 min of our first practice and you knew that she was ready for the NCAA tournament," .McGraw said. "She's trying to 
elevate the underclassmen." 
The players said McGraw told them after practice Tuesday that they practiced like a No. 7 seed. On Wednesday, she upped her analysis of their performance to a No. 3 or No. 4 seed. 
"Everyone's here for a com­mon goal, and it's an exciting atmosphere," Novosel said. 
Bruszewski concisely relat­ed what Notre Dame needs to do to win. 
"Defend the 3-point line, execute on offense and crash the boards, because I think we can win the battle of the boards," she said. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
RUNAWAY BAY 
LUXURY 1-2 BEDROOM APARTMENTS ·SAUNA ·POOL ·2 LAKES WI WATERFALL 
•VOLLEYBALL 
BASKETBALL TENNIS COURTS 

•WALK-IN 
CLOSETS •FIREPLACES ·WID CONNECTIONS 

•7 
MIN. TO NOTRE DAME 

•FITNESS 
CENTER 


•HOTTUB 
ENJOY THE ATTRACTIVE SURROUNDINGS AND AffORDABLE RATES 
CALL TODAY fOR OUR SPEClA.LS (574) 256-1350 
points in the second half. "Like against UAB, you get into the huddle and it goes through your mind that if we lose, we're done," the senior said. "And then, really it hits you when you're in there and you look at the score. That kind of increas­es your focus and pisses you off a little bit, to be honest." 
Throughout much of the first half against New Mexico, the Irish looked as though they might cruise to victory. After Hillesland drained a pair of free throws with 12:21 left in the period, Notre Dame led 22-8. The Irish led comfortably until halftime, when they took a 34­24 edge into the locker room. Brey compared Jackson's game­winner to the shot former BYU great Danny Ainge made to beat Notre Dame in the 1981 ­NCAA Tournament. 
"We finally got the Danny Ainge play back 25 years later," the coach said with a laugh. "It's been a while to get that one back." 
Jackson, for his part, said he had never heard of the play; even from former Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps. "I try to hide away from Digger sometimes," Jackson said. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
his part, and do it well." more attack Derek Lichtfuss. 
Notre Dame will be facing an The trio has combined for 45 entirely new foe this weekend points so far this season. in the Catamounts, a squad the "They're a team that's very Irish have not played since strong at both ends of the 1985. Despite the unfamiliarity, field," Corrigan said. Corrigan said that he feels con­The game against Vermont fident after attending Vermont's begins a brutal stretch of three game last Sunday against Penn games in 10 days for the Irish. 
State.  After  the  
"At this point, I feel pretty com­ "Our guys are  Catamounts, Notre Dame  
fortable  with  certainly conditioned  will  take  on  
what we know about them," he said.  well enough to handle three games  conference foe Bellarmine Wednesday  
The Catamounts  in ten days. "  and Villanova  
are used to play­ next Saturday.  
ing at a slightly slower pace than the Irish, averag­ Kevin Corrigan Irish coach  Corrigan said he would play it by ear as far  
ing only 7.8 goals  as  managing  

per game, but giving up only his team's schedule. 
8.6. "We'll see where we are on 
''I'm sure part of the dynamic Sunday coming out of this of this game will be them game," he said. "And then wanting to control the tempo a we'll juggle our schedule and little bit," Corrigan said. "But our workload accordingly." they also pressure you defen­One thing he said he wasn't sively, so it'll be an interesting worried about, though, was thing to see if we can play with team fatigue. poise in the face of the pres­"Our guys are certainly con­sure." ditioned well enough to handle 
Leading the Catamounts on three games in ten days." offense are senior attack Andrew Kelleher, freshman Contact Sam Werner at attack Geoff Worley and sopho-swerner@nd.edu 
Leasing now for 2009-2010* 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 

Enjoy the good life when you live off campus at a very reasonable price! 
3, 4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 2 1/2 Baths Free Internet Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher Security System Off* Street Parking located Close to Notre Dame 
Only $350 per month, per student! 
*Our townhomes rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
(574) 234-2436 
"-.. _1( HOLY CROSSt£' \J COLLEGE 
You can advance the Catholic Mission of Holy Cross! 
HALL DIRECTORS NEEDED 2009-2010 HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
MARRIED OR SINGLE GRAD STUDENTS LAW STUDENTS 
CONTACT RESLIFE(q),HCC-ND.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Friday, March 20, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
CROSSWORD 
Across 31 Out-of-the-way Activity involving spots a needle 32 Big draw of early 1 0 Expression of Broadway 
praise 38 Putters 15 Household help? 39 Ray in pictures 16 Flavor of 40 Dispensary 
Calvados brandy stock, for short 17Wave 41 Cat's-eye measurement alternative 18 Unusually high 43 Furry sci·fi figure 17-Across 
4 7 Self-starter's 19 Closest to nil equipment? 20 Potential sucker 49 Something that's 22 Wretched picked up 23 Gallimaufry 50 Field of field 24 One getting 
workers; Abbr. pinned? 51 Small dabbler 27 Even's 52 Grinder in an counterpart Italian restaurant 28 It's hard to 53 Indication of a penetrate job well done 29 "Desperate 55 Getting ready to Housewives" make one's housewife move? 30 "Point taken" 58 Crane, e.g. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

59 Command 60 Act unprofessionally 61 M1;1rrie Melodies regular 
Down Peace 2 Thick-skinned 
fruit 3 Debilitate 4 "The Simpsons" 
bully 5 Setdown 6 Choosing 
method 7 19th of 24 8 Locale of 
Krypton in the Superman saga 9 Feigned 1 0 Madrid's del Prado 11 Useful piece of code, briefly 12 Series kickoff 13 1955 A. L. batting champ 
14 Gratuitous 
21 Part of N.Y.C.: 
Abbr. 
24 Boughpot 
25 City liberated ­during the Battle of Kursk 
26 Hollow 
30 Hypotheticals 
31 Worm 
(1980s light-up 
toy) 

32 Victoria Falls forms part of its border 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Doug Peterson  
33 "No smoking" symbol, e.g. 34 Poe poem about a knight's lifelong quest 35 Exploit  41 Bolted things down 42 Balsamic vinegar source 43 Composition of some chains 44 Ad-lib  48 Browser setting? 52 Very serious 54 Clinic worker 56 Person in the fourth grade: Abbr.  
36 Disrespectful  45 Thick  57 'The Wonder  
37 Expressions of praise  46 Big-enough catch  Years" teen who loved Winnie  

For answers, call 1·900·285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1·800-814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 

HoRoscoPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Orlando Blonm,32; Sti:phen Hendry, 40: Julia Lnuis-!Jreyfus, 4$; Ridmrd Moll. 66 
Happy Birthday: You must he ~troug this year, if you want!<) maintain your status quo, Unusual <:hangc• reganling Wllrk wi!llak~ you on rut ;<dwnlure that, in lhc end, wi1111av,~ pt>.>itiv¢ re~ult:>: Keep yo.. ur id~a~ and your phw• •m n 'Hn~U scale for nvw; there willl1t" time to cxr~uJ when the cc'>nnmy is btuer. Your munbers an~ 9, JJ, lii.ZS, .,4,39.41 
ARIES (March llcApril 19)~ I:Mnlli)"Jre any expenw when it cotnes to what you re:Jiy w;mt. Yt>U cMhUdjtd eh;ewbere. You eM make a great imptes~ion. by d(>ing a fin;t-dasli job in both your po::rwnal and prof.:ssional life. 5 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Do things you .:njey lnst.:ad of taking on what oth<'TS request you to do. You wilt tn<)ell."-'OP!e who interest you and who malre better friends and companions. Physical activity may not be your lirsl choke but it will get you moving and stimulat~ your senses. 2 stars 
0£1\-tlNl [May Zl-.lune 20): It's 1ituc 10 rcevatuat¢ your situmion and do S<'l!llething about it. .If yonr relationship~ are 4ragging you down. discn~s tb~ prohkm.~ you are ""­periendng and. if you do nOI.Jlel any coopo::ration. it is probably time to mO\'e on. 4 ~taT$ 
CANC..F;R (June 21-Jnly 22): Dnn't be ~hy when thne i~ w much to~ dmte. A ch,mge ;~t W(.lrK will be t<l y<Jur benefit i.n the cud, w do~t'! make ~ fu&~;, Getting involved with iu:>nw:>U<' nl!llsual will give you;~ new lc~ on life. 4 st.V>S 
LEO (Jllly z:J•Aug.%2): Take care of responsibilitie~ and )'QU will be praised for ~'our ability tO get 1hin!P done. Once you pul your duties behind ynu. you can enjoy a pastime that will allow you to fed free and ea~y about your life and your future. :' stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 2l·Sept. 22): A personal m.:ssnge can be sent if you are prompt aud focused on get.ring what you want Honesty and sincerity will be what coonI in the end. Love is in the picture and a weia! evening wlll pay off emotionally. 3 stars 
LIBRA (lkpt, Z.~·Od. U}; lf you mil\ busim:ss with. pkasure or share your ihoughts. FlU mny be t~keu advantage of Of used for someone else'~ ~ncfit. Focus quietly on your wolk until you are ln a po~ition to tak•~ a piece nf the action. 3 star~ 
SCORPIO (Od. 23-No11.11 )l lle wry S~'te!ive: about your plans. If <<>meone gets wind of what ymt are doing, he or m<.> will•teal your ideas and run with tlw.nL ProkCt y()llf int~restt :~nd )'()llr future, 2 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec.ll): Yot1'll have kl draw !ht: lin.: between thrill­seeking and exp;.-rkncillg a link adventure. Don't take a risk or you mny end up in a wry uncertain JXl"'ltlon. Tra\'el c:m be intere>ting but is not neassary this time around. 5 >tal> 
CAI'RICOIL'If (ll«. 22·Ja».19}; Don'! rely (111 what yi)U m told. Dish<mesty i$ prevalent.!)(> ym1r own I'<'>Clll\'h and you wiU avoid auunsawry situation. ft's best not to lake on 11 partu.:r if yoo eM get a job d.:ij1e ou your own. 3 stars 
AQlJARRJS (Jan. 16-Feb.lS): Do nm overdo it. inllliy, way. l'hu'll be tcmptt:d to own;peml.. 0\'1..-rimlulge ~nd make unrmli~tk promil~CS. Sad;. off before you let your emotim1-~ takt owr aud lead you iui(> diffi~11lt ~it11atious, 3 ~~a~ 
PISCES (Feb.19-Ma.r.:h 20); Don't get Jragg<-'ll into something you ar~'tl't ready to deal with yet, Ynu don't want to he put in a position where you have tu make a decision you are !lOt prepared to make. Someone isn'l likely io he honest withY""· 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You ar~ strong, steadfatt and :utnwt<'il to the unusual. '\'ou are com" passionate and wmt for rdorm. You are a strong leader. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

WWW.8LACK00GCOMIC.COM 

DAVID CAVADINI 

THE DOME PIECE JUMBLE 

~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one latter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
I t~os j 
@2009 Triburn~ Me<lla Services, Inc. AI! Rights Reserved. 
DAUTI 
± 

tHARTEG j 
J I I IJ 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Arglrion and Jeff Knurek 


WHAT H6 MAINTAIN60 WHE:N HE WAS IN CHARG6 OF THE FLAGPOLE. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

A: A (I I I J~l I I I I I I I J' 
{Answers tomorrow} BARON HABIT ENTIRE FEEBLEYesterday's IJumbles: 
Answer: When the boxer lost the fight, he didn't get up -BEFORE TEN 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
{Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address _____________________________________ City ______________ State _____ Zip._______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Friday, March 20, 2009 page 28 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Familiar setting for Irish in first round against Minnesota 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Struggles on defense have been a malaise that afflicted Notre Dame all season. But Irish coach Muffet McGraw may have a solution. 
"Something new, we're going to actually try to guard them this time," she said glibly. "We've been working on that for a couple days." 
She jests, but according to her players, who are prepar­ing for No. 7-seed Notre Dame's matchup against No. 10-seed Minnesota in the first round of the NCAA Tournament at the Joyce Center Sunday, she's not jok­ing about defensive improve­ments. 
"Every little thing, if we don't box out, if we don't do 
the approach right, or contain the ball, then we have to run for it," freshman guard Natalie Novosel said. 
The Irish (22-8) and the Gophers (19-11) have met once before in the NCAA Tournament, in 1994. As a seven seed. The Gophers were the No. 10 seed. At the Joyce Center. In the first round. Eerie. But Minnesota won, 81­76. 
The Gophers lost four of their last five games, but that doesn't alleviate McGraw's worries. Minnesota's dual­threat offense will present a challenge to Notre Dame's defense, McGraw said. 
"You play zone, maybe they get some threes,:· McGraw said. "You play man-to-man and they get isolation on the block." 
Senior guard Emily fox 
leads the Gophers in scoring, averaging 12.8 points per game. Junior forward Ashley Ellis-Milan averages 11.9 points and 7.3 rebounds per game. 
"They have a great inside­outside game," McGraw said. "They have a post player who's very hard to guard and they've got three or four 
see NCAA/page 26 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Jackson's layup leads . ND over New Mexico 
By FRAN TOLAN Senior StaffWriter 
In what may have been Notre Dame's final home game of the season, Irish point guard Tory Jackson gave fans a play they won't soon forget. 
After catching an inbounds pass with 7. 9 seconds left, Jackson took the ball coast-to­coast for a contested layup in traffic to give the Irish a 70-68 win over New Mexico Thursday in the second round of the NIT. New Mexico guard Dairese Gary drained two free throws to tie the game, but with a sin­gle streak upcourt, Jackson eliminated the need for over­time. 
see JACKSON/page 26 

VIC-TORY! 

Notre Dame players mob point guard Tory Jackson after the Irish's 7~ win over New Mexico at the Joyce Center on Thursday. The Irish advanced to the NIT quarterfinals with the win. 
FENCING 
Fencers third at NCAA's 
By CHRIS MASOUD Sports Writer 
With day one of the NCAA Feneing Championship in the books, the Irish find them­selves staring down a tough road to their first fencing title since 2005. 
Racking up 4 7 points through four rounds, Notre Dame still trails national champion Ohio State by nine and regular season favorite Penn State by 14. 
The talented fighters have shown maturity well beyond their years all season, but head coach Janusz Bednarski 
see DAY ONE/page 24 

MEN'S lACROSSE 
Laxers look for sixth straight win 
By SAM WERNER Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame will head to the Lone Star State for the first time ever this weekend, taking on Vermont in the Patriot Cup in Dallas on Saturday. 
A win would propel No. 3 Notre Dame (5-0) to a 6-0 start for just the second time in program history. The last time the Irish won their first 
~ 
six was 1993, when then fifth­
> year coach Kevin Corrigan got his team off to an 8-0 start. 
t Corrigan, now in his 21st sea­
! • 
son, has said that rankings don't matter as much this early in the season, but that racking up wins is certainly 

important. then-No. 3 North Carolina and 
The Irish have certainly Bucknell over the past two been adding quality wins over the past tew weeks, defeating see VERM 0 NTI page 26 
BASEBALL 
Big East season to begin with Pirates 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Editor 
Notre Dame will host Seton Hall at 5:05 p.m. today in the first of a three-game set that will open Big East play for both teams. 
The Irish (12-5) will send sophomorfl Cole Johnson (1-0, 
2.25 ERA) to the mound as they try to extend their sea­son-best win streak to six against the Pirates (8-6) and junior right-hander Sean Black (2-1. 3.43). 
Irish sophomore Brian Dupra (2-2, 7 .48) will take on Seton Hall's Keith Cantwell (2-0, 4.1 0) in Saturday's Game 2, and Sunday's contest will feature Notre Dame junior Eric Maust (2-0, 3.30) and Joe DiHocco (1-1, 2.36). 
Both weekend games are set to begin at 1:05 p.m. 
"You've got to protect your home turf and win your games at home if you want to win the league," Irish coach Dave Schrage said. "Every 
see BIG EAST/page 23 


Check out the Irish Insider previewing CCHA Championship weekend 
--. . . " . 

j-,.-.. ;
..,=:·· 







