--------~~---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------------------­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Conversation about Obama invitation continues at ND 

Lay Catholic group discusses significance ofdebate over visit 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
A discussion sponsored by Notre Dame's Communion and Liberation student group examined the nature and significance of Notre Dame as a Catholic University Sunday afternoon in response to the University's invitation to President Barack Obama to speak at Commencement May 17. 
Communion and Liberation is an interna­tional Catholic lay movement that seeks to make judgments as a group of friends, president of Notre Dame's Communion and 
see LAY/page 8 

Shirt Project unveils gold 20th anniversary edition 
By ANN-MARIE WOODS News Writer 
After much anticipation from the student body and the Notre Dame community, The Shirt 2009 is finally here -and it's gold. 
The annual unveiling took place outside the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Friday afternoon in front of a crowd of more than 
4.000 people, who watched the big revealing of the 20th anniver­sary edition of The Shirt Project. 
"The Shirt is something unique to Notre Dame and I wanted to do something unique to Notre Dame," said The Shirt Project president Matt Barloh, explaining why he participated in the proj­ect. 
Created in 1990 as a way to raise money to supplement the budget for AnTostal, the Student Union Board's spring celebration, The Shirt has grown into a nationally recognized tradition, as Notre Dame students, alumni and fans wear The Shirt each year in unified support for the team. 
Barloh will not know the exact number of shirts sold throughout the weekend, but he said he expects the bookstore will sell out of the shirts, except for the youth sizes, as it has in previous years. 
Last year, The Shirt Project sold more than 135,000 shirts, earn­ing more than $600,000 to help fund student organizations and Notre Dame students in need. 
"Of the profits generated, half goes to The Shirt charity fund which helps students facing cata­strophic illnesses and accidents," Barloh said. 
In addition, The Shirt sales help support the Rector Fund, which enables students, who otherwise couldn't afford it, to participate in dorm and campus events, such as home football games. 
The Shirt unveiling ceremony began at 4 p.m. on Friday and featured speakers, free food and drinks and activities for children. Speeches from former Notre Dame football head coach Lou Holtz and Officer Tim McCarthy of the Indiana State Police, as well as performances by the Glee Club and the Marching Band, generat­ed excitement for the 2009 foot­ball season. Members of The Shirt Project honored each year of The Shirt to mark the 20th anniversary, with former presi­dents and advisors of The Shirt committee present, Barloh said. 
see SHIRT/page 6 



Talk shovv host discusses n1edia's responsibility 
By ROBERT SINGER 
News Wrirer 

Cenk Uygur, host of liberal "The Young Turks" online tele­vision talk show, criticized the mainstream media Friday by arguing that networks often maintain "neutrality" by giving viewpoints of unequal sub­stanee equal time at the expPnsn of "objectivity." 
Uygur spoke to the College Democrats in the Carey Auditorium in the Hesburgh Library Friday. He likened the mainstream media's role in 
political coverage to an incom­petent football referee. 
"You're calling a football game and Notre Dame and Michigan are playing, and if the referee thinks the job is to call an equal number of penalties on each side, then what hap­pens if every play Michigan makes a cheap shot?" he asked. 
The mainstream media can be relevant, Uygur said, but major outlets should seek to be objec­tive by applying the same high level of criticism to both sides of an issue in order to reveal to 
see MEDIA/ page 8 
ShackGtyappearsonSouthQuad 
Annual event raises awareness ofand money for the homeless 
By AMANDA GRAY News Writer 

Several dozen Notre Dame students spent Friday night sleeping on South Quad for Shack City 2009. an annual event sponsored by Notre Dame Habitat for Humanity. 
"Shack City is an annual awareness and fundraising event our club holds on campus," said senior Jaime Amrhein, the co-president of Habitat for Humanity at Notre Dame. "We sleep out in cardboard boxes overnight on South Quad to raise awareness about the way in which 
see SHACK/page 9 

INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER Race held Saturday to benefit Hannah & Friends page 3 • Running game highlights from Blue&Gold Game page 28 • Viewpoint page 10 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, April 20, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 



A request 
A sophomore in my dorm was diag­nosed with cancer in December ofhis senior year ofhigh school. He has been courageously battling the disease every since. 
He underwent multiple surgeries and received several rounds of 
John Tierney 
chemotherapy treatments. 
But his body was Assistant resistant to the News Editor chemotherapy. 
Last year, doctors discovered that his cancer metastasized to his lungs. 
Earlier this year, he had surgery to remove his lung, pleural cavity, diaphragm and a small portion ofhis heart. 
Last week, he was put under hospice care at his home. 
Throughout the surgeries and the chemotherapies, he has continued his life at Notre Dame. He spends as much time at Notre Dame as he is medically capable. He is an important presence in our dorm. 
I am not close with this man. I am a year older than he is and we have never lived on the same floor. I mostly know him because we are both regulars at Tuesday night Mass. 
I also feel a certain degree ofkinship with him because he lived his freshman year in the room I had lived the year before. 
He was able to return to Notre Dame for a couple ofweeks following spring break. It was good to see him at Mass again. 
You may read this column -and know the young man to whom I am referring. I have left out his name from this column so I don't reveal his identity. His family does, however, maintain a Web site that provides updates ofhis condition to the public. 
According to the Web site, the family has received prayers and words ofsup­port from across the country and from Europe. 
Even ifyou don't know him, please keep him and his family in your thoughts and prayers during this Easter season. 
One thing that sets us apart here at Notre Dame is that we like calling our­selves a family. We are held together by a common mother, the Lady on the Dome. 
As a family, it is time to close ranks. 
The young man's parents are both teachers in Catholic schools. His mom teaches elementary school and his dad teaches high school. 
His roommates are taking up a collec­tion to help his family pay for medical expenses. 
His family's Web site is currently requesting prayers. 
It also provides information for making online donations to cover his medical expenses. 
I am not going to publish the Web site address here, but please email me and I can send you more information. 
For our print readers, my email address is at the bottom ofthe page. For our online readers, you may contact me at jtieme1 @nd.edu. 
I am not associated with the young man's family or with anyone else. I am merely a fellow member ofthe Notre Dame family interested in helping one of our own. 
I request that you consider joining this fight. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact John Tierney at jtierne 1 @nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS THE HIGHLIGHT OF YOUR WEEKEND? 






Adebola Giwa  Casey Robertson  Courtney Ensslin  Diana Harintho  Melissa Harintho  
senior Alumni  senior McGlinn  sophomore McGlinn  senior McGlinn  sophomore McGlinn  
"My last dance performance at ND-a tribute to the I abbawockeez. "  "Witnessing women's lacrosse halftime contest domination by my friend Spud."  "Witnessing my friends actually eating the pig at Pigtostal. "  "Seeing the Hannah Montana movie in theaters. ,  "!got to eat Bang Bang Tacos. ,  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

TOM LA!The Observer 
Former Notre Dame head football coach Lou Holtz speaks to students and fans at The Shirt Unveiling Friday. 
OFFBEAT 
NJ town can't decide what to call itself 
WOODLAND PARK, N.J. -Would a New Jersey town by any other name smell as sweet? 
West Paterson voters nar­rowly passed a referendum last November to change the Passaic County town's name to Woodland Park this year. But some supporters of the change claim borough offi­cials are secretly supporting a grass-roots campaign for another referendum that could change the name back to West Paterson. 
Among the reasons cited by Woodland Park supporters is that many signs haven't been updated with the new name of the small community just west of New York City. They claim that's an endorsement by town officials of the Save West Paterson group. 
Councilman Keith Kazmark says borough officials decided to gradually implement the name change to save money. 
Teacher takes students to strip club 
HAMILTON, Ohio -A school spokesman said a southwest Ohio teacher has resigned after acknowledging she accompanied four female students to a male strip club. Butler Tech school district spokesman Bill Solazzo said the 4 7 -year-old teacher resigned Thursday. 
He said the teacher told Edgewood High School administrators that the stu­dents, all cheerleaders, asked her to take them to the bar in February. 
The teacher told school offi­cials in an e-mail that she got permission from the parents of the 17-and 18-year-olds to bring them to the club. 
The teacher taught market­ing at the school and previ­ously served as a coach for the district's eighth-grade cheerleaders. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY a: 
1.&.1 
::J: 
~ 
1.&.1 

3: 


0,,,,,,,
0,,,,,,,
..... 
,,,,,,,
,,,,,,,
ct 
(.) 
0 HIGH 47 HIGH 40 HIGH 50 
HIGH 54
.... 
LOW 34 LOW 33 LOW 36 LOW 47 IN BRIEF 
An international confer­ence titled "The Quran in Its Historical Context" will take place today from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. in McKenna Hall. The conference will address the most recent the­ories, controversies and dis­coveries in the field of Quranic studies. 
The NO Class of 2009 with the South Bend Medical Foundation will host a blood drive "I Bleed Blue and Gold" today in LaFortune Ballroom from 11 a.m. to 
4:30 p.m. New donors need a photo ID and please bring a medication listing. 
A lecture called "Purity, Simplicity and Catholic Politics" will be presented by professor David O'Connor in the Sorin Room of LaFortune at 8 p.m. Curious about your role as a student at our Lady's University in the upcoming months? About the role of a Catholic in America today? Join in discussions led by several of Notre Dame's distinguished faculty. 
A lecture titled "Facing the Obama Administration: Economic Policy" will take place Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the first floor lounge of Coleman-Morse. The discus­sion will feature Michael Pries, Professor of Economics and Econometrics; N'elson Mark, Professor of Economics and Econometrics; Alexander Guisinger, Professor of Political Science. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 67 HIGH 75 LOW 46 LOW 52 
Atlanta 69 I 47 Boston 49 I 37 Chicago 59 I 35 Denver 52 I 36 Houston 75 I 61 Los Angeles 67 I 50 Minneapolis 66 I 42 New York 57 I 38 Philadelphia 60 I 38 Phoenix 70 I 50 Seattle 58 I 40 St. Louis 65 I 44 Tampa 80 I 57 Washington 62 I 39 
Monday, April 20, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ceooffers elllploytnent resources 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 
From internships to job opportunities, the Career Crossings Office (CCO) at Saint Mary's College is intended to assist students in all stages of their career search. ceo takes assess­ments of students to help them choose their majors, create resumes and cover letters, and find jobs and internships. 
"It's kind of anything on that whole spectrum of your career development while you are in college," said Tricia Dunton, the assistant director of ceo. 
The CCO offers a variety of different opportunities for students to gain knowledge about careers and their futures. This year, the CCO held a speed networking night, which allowed stu­dents to talk with local pro­fessionals about their careers. 
"[Speed networking night gave students] a chance to talk with local professionals, learn about what network­ing is, learn about the options available here in the community for them and really just to practice their networking skills," Dunton said. 
Similar to speed dating, speed-networking night allowed student the opportu­nity to talk with each profes­sional for about four min­
utes. Dunton said the night quick questions to the lasted about an hour and a Career Crossings Office half, and provided a casual without having to make an atmosphere for students to appointment. It is held each learn about networking. By Wednesday in the Student the end of the night, stu­Center Atrium from 11 a.m. 
dents had spo­ken to all of the professionals. 
"At the end they were able to just go around to talk to anyone that they still had questions for," Dunton said. "Then we took all of the busi­ness cards from the profession­als, and sent that out to stu­dents. Then we put together all the resumes of all the students who were there and sent those 
"[Speed networking night gave students] a chance to talk about what networking is, learn about what the options available here in the communi­ty for them and really just to practice their networking skills., 
Tricia Dunton ceo assistant director 
to 2 p.m. Personnel from the ceo are available to answer general ques­tions, as well as offer assis­tance. 
"'CCO on the go' is kind of our solution to doing pro­grams every semester.," Dunton said. "We're just available. It's a way to make it less formal than coming in 
out to the professionals, just so they had a reference for each other." 
Dunton said the event was successful overall. 
"It was very successful. We felt like it was a really good event. The students who came really enjoyed the event and really got a lot out of it and the professionals who came enjoyed it as well," she said. 
Another opportunity that the ceo has offered student this year was "CCO on the go." "CCO on the go" gives students the chance to ask 
and making an appointment and then we're just avail­able week by week. We answer everything from resumes to grad school, to I've got a job, how do I negotiate my benefits." 
The CCO offers a variety of seminars throughout the academic year. The CCO is located in 114 Spes Unica. The office is open Monday through Friday 8 a.m. to 5 
p.m. and is available for every student. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
'Finish on the 50' benefitsWeis'charily 
By NORA KENNEY News Writer 
As the theme song to the Notre Dame football film "Rudy" played Saturday morn­ing, runners made their way around campus to "Finish on the 50," a 5K race and one­mile walk to benefit Hannah & Friends, the charity founded by Irish coach Charlie Weis. 
The race began at 8 a.m. and wrapped around the south edge of campus, cutting through each of the quads before finishing where it began, at the stadium. Racers had the chance to run or walk through the tunnel and pro­ceed to the finish, adjacent to the 50-yard line. 
Freshmen Julia Sutton ran the race with her mother, Sherry, and said she was espe­cially excited about finishing to the Rudy soundtrack. She described the excitement of running through the tunnel and onto the field. 
"It was really cool to run through the tunnel because so few students get to experience that. I felt relieved the race was over but honored to be finishing inside the stadium," Sutton said. 
Freshman Kelly Nolan also ran the race, with her sister, Erin, a former Saint Mary's cross-country runner. 

"It was an invigorating race on a beautiful day," Nolan said. "My sister, a graduate, who was in from out of town, and I, were glad to participate in support of such a great cause." 
The race was a combined effort of many contributors to Weis' cause, such as Alumni Hall, which co-sponsored the event, RecSports, Notre Dame Food Services and the class of 2012. Alumni Hall residents handed out water halfway through the race and many volunteers were placed along the path to guide participants. 
Hannah & Friends was founded by Weis and his wife, Maura. It is a non-profit organization that recognizes their daughter, Hannah, who has been affected by develop­mental disorders, and helps benefit children and adults like Hannah. The organization is dedicated to "awareness and compassion" for individuals with special needs. 
"It was impressive that Charlie took time out of a big day in his spring football schedule for such a charitable event. My mom and I really enjoyed witnessing his dedica­tion to his daughter on such a family-oriented occasion," Sutton said. 
Contact Nora Kenney at hkenney@nd.edu 

r--------------~~---­
page 4 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, April 20, 2009 
Losing your head over Fall 2009? 
SIGN UP NOW! PLACES STILL OPEN IN GREAT CLASSES! 

LLRO 30610 I AFST 30578 "Slave rebellions and Peasant uprisings: Revolution in Haiti and France" 3:30-4:45 TR Prof. 1. Douthwaite 
ROFR 30630 "Landscape in French Canadian Literature & Art" 11:00-12:15 TR Prof. M. Boulton 
ROFR 40220 "Life, Love, and Literature in Renaissance Lyon" 9:30-10:45 TR Prof. J. DellaNeva 
ROFR 40635 "19th-Century Short Story" 1:30-2:45 MW Prof. A. Toumayan 
LLRO 40906 "French Literature Goes to the Opera" 12:30­
1:45 TR Prof. L. MacKenzie 
Departlnent of Ron1ance Lc1nguages and Literatures, 343 O'Shag, 631-6886, http:/ /romancelanguages.nd.edu/ 



ORLD & NATION 
Monday, April 20, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE O:ssERVEits WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. boycotts UN racism conference 
GENEVA-The United Nations opens its first global racism conference in eight years on Monday with the U.S. and at least six other countries boycotting the event out of concern that Islamic coun­tries will demand that it denounce Israel and ban criticism of Islam. 
The administration of President Barack Obama, America's first black head of state, announced Saturday that it would boycott "with regret" the weeklong meet­ing in Geneva, which already is experi­encing much of the bickering and political infighting that marred the 2001 confer­ence in Durban, South Africa. 
Aid workers kidnapped in Somalia 
MOGADISHU -About 25 masked gun­men armed with machine guns kidnapped two European aid workers in central Somalia on Sunday, aid workers and a witness said. 
Michel Peremans, a spokesman for the Belgian chapter of Medecins Sans Frontieres (Doctors Without Borders), confirmed that a Dutch and a Belgian staff member of his relief agency were missing in the Bakool region, where the attack occurred. But for security reasons he declined to say whether they had been taken hostage. 
"When we lose contact with teams we can't give much information because it can give problems afterwards," he said. "I hope you can understand that this is too delicate, too problematic at this stage." 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Hit-and-run suspect arrested 
LOS ANGELES -A man suspected of pulling a badly injured college student off a car windshield after a deadly hit-and­run accident was arrested while trying to cross back into the United States from Mexico, police said Saturday. 
Josue Luna, 32, of Los Angeles, was detained by federal agents at the San Ysidro border crossing Friday after his name prompted a computer alert that he was wanted in Los Angeles, LAPD Officer April Harding said. 
Luna was jailed on suspicion of being an accessory to the hit-and-run, she said. He was released Saturday on $50,000 bail. 

Driver charged with manslaughter 
HOUSTON -Police filed intoxication manslaughter charges Sunday against a driver who lost control of his car while using a cell phone, plunging the vehicle into a rain­filled ditch and killing five children inside. 
Chanton Jenkins, 32, was in police custody facing four counts of intoxication manslaugh­ter, one charge for each of the children found dead so far, said Houston police spokesman Kese Smith. Police said a relative told them Jenkins was the father of three of the vic­tims. 
Jenkins failed a field sobriety test following Saturday's crash, which occurred after heavy rain turned the ditch into a torrent. The results of a blood alcohol test were pending, Smith said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Child drowns in family pool 
SOUTH BEND -A 3-year-old boy died after firefighters pulled him from an uncovered pool at his family's South Bend home. 
St. Joseph County police say Brayden Apple's mother told officers that he and his two young sib­lings were taking a nap Saturday afternoon when she went to take a shower. She told police that the doors to the house were locked, but that she could not find Brayden when she finished her shower. 
Sgt. Bill Redman said the woman searched out­side, but that the pool's water was too dirty and muddy for anybody to see the boy. Redman says the pool was not covered and the entrance gate to the fence around it did not have a lock. 
HAITI 



Senate election draws small turnout 
Violence breaks out in some cities after Fanmi Lavalas party disqualified 
Associated Press  
PORT-AU-PRINCE  
Clear-plastic ballot boxes  
were nearly empty and Port­ 
au-Prince's streets unusually  
deserted Sunday as few vot­ 
ers turned out for Senate  
elections in which candidates  
from a major populist party  
were not allowed to run.  
The vote had been seen as  
a key step in the develop­ 
ment of Haiti's democracy  
and in President Rene  
Preval's bid to retool the con­ 
stitution and fight poverty.  
The international community  
gave the country $12.5 mil­ 
lion to coordinate the elec­ 
tions, including $3 million  
from the U.S.  
But the vote, delayed since  
2007 by political turmoil,  
hunger riots and storms,  
drew an extremely low  
turnout and occasional vio­ 
lence.  
Supporters of ousted for­ 
mer President Jean­ 
Bertrand Aristide, whose  
Fanmi Lavalas party was  
disqualified from the election  
by Haiti's provisional elec­ 
toral council, urged an esti­ 
mated 4 million registered AP 
voters not to participate.  
Haiti's President Rene Preval has his thumb marked with ink after voting in Sunday'sOn Sunday, poll workers  
Senate elections, for which there was low voter turnout and some violent protests. napped during long stretches  
when no voters came by.  A total of 79 candidates  blamed the low turnout on  for the unrest. One man was  
Some would-be voters carry­ were vying for 12 Senate  voter apathy after what they  arrested after firing guns to  
ing government-issued regis­ seats. No results were  said were years of broken  intimidate voters.  
tration cards said they had  expected Sunday. Most races  promises by elected leaders.  In Gte Soleil, supporters of  
been turned away by poll  had multiple candidates and  "Since I've lived in Cite  Preval's Lespwa party  
workers who said their  were likely to end in run­ Soleil, nobody has come  smashed the windows of a  
names were not on registra­ offs.  through for us. We don't  Toyota Land Cruiser carrying  
tion lists.  Lavalas claimed victory for  trust anyone. Who are we  Union party supporter and  
Others said they had trou­ Sunday's poor showing,  going to vote for?" said  Haitian folk singer Barbara  
ble reaching the polls  crediting a stop-the-vote  Fritznor Remedor, a native of  Guillaume, who said she was  
because police had ordered  campaign they nicknamed  the oceanside slum who  bringing food and documents  
public transportation closed  "Operation Closed Door."  directs a U.S.-supported  to poll workers in Cite Soleil.  
in an attempt to preserve  "The people believe in  orphanage at the site of a  Lespwa supporters said  
order.  Fanmi Lavalas. That is why  former gang stronghold.  she was carrying money and  
"When you see this kind of  they did not come out today,"  There were several violent  food to bribe voters into sup­ 
low turnout, you have to  James Derozin, a former  incidents on Sunday, though  porting her candidate  
wonder how interested peo­ Lavalas lawmaker, told a  calm generally reigned.  instead. Police fired shots to  
ple are in an election," said  reporters as polls closed  Hundreds of protesters  disperse the crowd, beat the  
Edward Joseph, an observer  around 4 p.m. Other Lavalas  raided polling places and  attackers with rifle butts and  
with the Haiti Democracy  loyalists vowed to seek  dumped ballots in the streets  took them to Cite Soleil's  
Project, a Washington-based  Preval's resignation if  of Mirebalais, halting voting  new, U.S.-financed police  
think tank. He said apathy or  Sunday's results are accept­ in the central plateau city,  station, where other Lespwa  
fear of election violence  ed.  police said. They did not  supporters threw rocks at  
could be to blame.  Others in the capital  know who was responsible  the building.  


Hurricane Katrina damages trial to begin 
could have a better shot at claiming One of the residents suing, 75­
Associated Press 
billions of dollars in damages. year-old Lucille Franz, lost her The residents argue the corps' home in the Lower 9th Ward. "I've 

NEW ORLEANS -More than poor maintenance of the Mississippi been through a lot," she said. three years after Katrina stirred up River-Gulf Outlet, a shipping chan­Her sister drowned at St. Rita's the waters and washed out levees nel dug in the 1960s as a short-cut nursing home in St. Bernard near along a 75-mile, man-made shipping between the Gulf of Mexico and New the MRGO, also known as "Mister channel dubbed "hurricane high­Orleans, led to the wipeout of St. Go." way," a judge could soon decide Bernard Parish and the city's Lower "They are responsible," she said of whether the Army Corps of Ninth Ward when Katrina struck in the corps. "We wouldn't have had Engineers owes residents and busi­August 2005. They are asking for that kind of water if it hadn't been nesses damages because of the mas­damages between $300,000 and for the MRGO." sive flooding. $400,000 for each individual. The four-week trial will explore in 
Arguments are set to begin The corps has argued that it is detail the natural history, engineer­Monday in the trial, which will be immune from liability because the ing and politics of the Mississippi heard and decided by a judge, not a channel is part of New Orleans' River-Gulf Outlet. jury. And much is at stake: If the five flood control system, but the judge The outlet was authorized in 1958 residents and one business in this has allowed the case to move for­by Congress. The route went initial lawsuit are victorious, more ward because residents claim the through largely pristine wilderness than 120,000 other individuals, shipping channel was a navigation of marsh and swamp forest south­businesses and government entities project. east of New Orleans. 
r-------------------------------­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 20, 2009 
March 
continued from page 1 
coalition of student groups who have united together against the University's invitation to have President Barack Obama speak May 17 at the Commencement ceremony. 
"We are a group of 12 student organizations with a common love for Notre Dame and a common cause in defending unborn life," Labadie said. "We joined together to create a unified response and put out one voice." 
People participating in the rally met on the steps of the Main Building to pray and listen to speakers before embarking on the march down Notre Dame Ave. 
After an initial invocation, Notre Dame law professor emeritus Charles Rice offered opening remarks. Rice is a columnist for The Observer. 
He spoke briefly about President Obama's stance on embryonic stem cell research and cloning, before turning his attention to the "conscious clause," which allows pharmacists and other medical professionals the option of refus­ing to participate in practices that are against their beliefs. Obama is against this clause. 
"(We are) honoring a guy who has started the process of remov­ing a person's conscious right to refuse murdering (the unborn)," Rice said. 
Rice also said the way ND Response is protesting the presi­dential visit to the school is proper. 
"This is something that's the way it should be," Rice said. "It's not politically disruptive and it isn't a personal thing, instead peo­ple are doing it in the best interest of Notre Dame." 
Before the group dispersed to begin the march, Rice advised the group to pray for the unborn. 
"The most important ingredient we have is prayer," Rice said. "Pray to Mary that she'll take her University back. " 

Mishawaka • 4810 Grape Rd. 574.271.1330 
Preventive Medicine, PC 
-where people come to get better. 

~ Massage Therapy ~ Manipulative Medicine ~ Acupuncture 
• 
Neck Pain 

• 
Headaches 

• 
Back Pain 

• 
Stress 


Covered by your insurance plan.. 

preventivemedicinepc..com 




Shirt 
continued from page 1 
"We couldn't have asked for a more perfect day," Barloh said. "The sun made the gold look great." 
Barloh, who became involved in The Shirt Project during his fresh­man year, said the planning of The Shirt began in November of 2008, led by a committee of about five students who designed and marketed The Shirt Project. 
"We wanted to create a shirt students would want to wear," Barloh explained. 
As The Shirt Project Web site explains, the idea behind this year's design is that no matter what the obstacle, Notre Dame students, alumni and fans must fight and defend their school. 
"The design of The Shirt 2009 captures the fanatical devotion of the Notre Dame football faithful and illustrates the need to fight in defense of Notre Dame," The Shirt Project site said. 
The "Rise and Strike," embla­zoned on the front of The Shirt is inspired by the song, "Hike, Notre Dame," and calls for the Notre Dame community, in support of our team to "fight with force and ferocity," the site said. 
"People had questions about 

Bishop John D'Arcy, who over­sees the Fort Wayne-South Bend diocese, voiced his support for the mission of ND Response in a recent statement. 
"I am supportive of all efforts by ND Response or any other prayer­ful and dignified demonstrations by Notre Dame students," he said. 
The group has received national attention and support from people around the country. 
Aside from receiving thousands of letters and e-mails in support of their mission, ND Response has also received media attention from outlets such as Fox News and various Catholic news servic­es. 
"We have had an amazing e­mail response," Labadie said, "I have received over 2000 e-mails since we released our first state­ment on March 25." 
ND Response chose this week­end to have the march because of the annual Blue-Gold football game, which brought a high vol­ume of people to campus. 
Labadie said because of the game, they decided to put up the Cemetery of the Innocents on South Quad, a collection of crosses and flags. 
The white crosses signify the 600 fetuses aborted during the time it takes for a Notre Dame football game to be played, and the pink and blue flags stand for the 3,600 abortions performed in America daily. 
New York resident Colleen Barry attended the Friday March to show her support for the coali­tion's mission. 
"I have been writing bishops around the country and asking my friends to sign the online petition," Barry said. "I was traveling to Chicago and heard this was hap­pening so I decided to come." 
The rally Friday was the second held by ND Response since the group formed. Labadie said the group has other events in the works. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd-edu 
what "Rise and Strike" means, but when we tell them, they tend to like it even more," Barloh said. 
The image on the back of The Shirt was taken from the Snow Bowl of 1992 against Penn State "as a tribute to the countless foot­ball players who have defended the honor of Notre Dame in years past," the site said. 
Sophomore Maureen Champa approved of the new The Shirt. 
"I like the gold," sophomore Maureen Champa said. "They've never done the gold before, so I think it's good. I'm excited to wear The Shirt. It's a good pur­chase." 
Other students were not sure of the color choice for this year's shirt, with complaints ranging from the student section looking terrible in such a light color to the fact that you can't fashionably wear khakis with a gold shirt. 
Barloh addressed complaints about how the shirt will look in the stadium on game days. 
"The best example of how it will look en masse is the band, who all wore the shirt for the Blue­Gold game," Barloh said. "I am absolutely confident that [the gold] will pop when the stadium is filled to the brim." 
Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods4@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Monday, April 20, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 8,131.33 +5.90 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,047 92 1,023 3,056,071,027 

NASDAQ 1,673.07 +2.63 NYSE ·· ' 1 1li::i:l,llli•.lll'!lllllll!li S&P 500 869.60 +4.30 NIKKS...('l(I~J SiWJtiSii: !l•#ii·!·tf~B' FTSE 100 {London) 4,092.80 +39.82 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP INC (C) -8.98 ·0.36 3.65 BK OF AMERICA (BAC) +2.51 +0.26 10.60 ANANCIAL BULL 3X (FAS) +3.98 +0.36 9.40 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +0.67 +0.58 87.08 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +3.53 +0.10 2.93 13-WEEK BILL +4.00 +0.005 0.13 30-YEAR BOND +1.97 +0.073 3.785 5-YEAR NOTE +6.34 +0.112 1.878 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.35 50.33 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -11.90 867.90 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) -1.80 84.73 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 99.3850 EURO 1.3013 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2144 BRITISH POUND 1.4782 
IN BRIEF 
Government to address credit cards 
WASHINGTON -The White House says that it will back congressional efforts to clamp down on credit card abuses in an effort to address the recession's effect on Main Street. 
The House and Senate are considering a credit card bill of rights to limit the ability of credit card companies to raise interest rates on existing balances and to require greater disclosure. White House economic adviser Larry Summers said people need to save more, but that the government also needs to curb credit card pitches that addict people to plastic. 
President Barack Obama is "going to be very focused, in a very near term, on a whole set of issues having to do with cred­it card abuses, having to do with the way people have been deceived into paying extraordinarily high rates that they wouldn't have paid if they knew what they were getting themselves into," Summers said. 
Summers said the administration wants to see a better-regulated financial system, encourage savings and eventually get back to a situation where government spending is not a drain on the economy. 
Customers lock in power prices 
DALLAS -At TXU Energy, the biggest electric company in Texas, the fastest­growing billing plan is one that lets cus­tomers lock in the price of power for one or two years. 
"It's easier to plan that way, and I think you're saving money," says Brian Bell, an advertising salesman who signed a 2-year, fixed-price contract for electricity at the 1,500-square-foot Dallas town house he bought last year. 
Other homeowners across the country are locking in prices now on electricity for sum­mer cooling and heating oil for next winter. Heating oil prices are nearly 60 percent lower than they were at this time last year, according to Energy Department figures. 
Natural gas prices have fallen as well, which not only affects the price homeown­ers pay for gas but the price of electricity produced by power plants that run on gas. 

Exxon Mobil tops Fortune 500 list 
Oil company earns top revenue in worst year ever for publicly traded companies 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Exxon Mobil Corp. unseated Wal-Mart Stores Inc. in the 2009 Fortune 500 list, shrugging off the oil price bubble and weathering what the magazine called the worst year ever for the country's largest pub­licly traded companies. 
Fortune's closely watched list, released Sunday, ranked compa­nies by their revenue in 2008. Irving, Texas-based Exxon took in $442.85 billion in revenue last year, up almost 19 per­cent from 2007. The com­pany also raked in the biggest annual profit, earning $45.2 billion. 
Bentonville, Ark.-based Wal-Mart had held the top spot for six of the last seven years but fell to No. 2 this year. Still, the retail giant's 2008 revenue climbed 7 percent to $405.6 billion, as the bat­tered economy sent more consumers searching for bargains. The world's largest retailer took in $13.4 billion in annual profit, an increase of about 5 percent. 
Although it may have been a good year for Exxon and Wal-Mart, 2008 was far from rosy for most of remaining companies on the list. enue, up 25 percent. Inc. moved up two notch­Top 10. Overall earnings plunged ConocoPhillips climbed es to take eighth place, Thirty-eight companies 85 percent to $98.9 bil­one place to fourth, with with Hewlett-Packard Co. fell off this year's list, lion from $645 billion in $230.76 billion in rev­and Valero Energy Corp. including financial firms 2007, the biggest one­enue. rounding out the top 10. Lehman Brothers year decline in the 55-General Electric Co., the Among the hardest hit Holdings Inc., Washington year history of the diverse conglomerate in 2008 were financial Mutual Inc. and Wachovia Fortune 500 list. whose troubled financial services companies, Corp., all of which have 
"America is getting arm has been weighing Fortune said. Banks, either gone under or been used to the sound of bub­on recent results, rose securities firms and acquired by rival banks. bles bursting," Fortune one notch to fifth. insurers took cumulative Engineering and con­said. Battered automaker losses of $213.4 billion, struction company URS 
Energy companies con­General Motors Corp. fell accounting for almost 70 Corp. moved the most up tinued to dominate many two spots to sixth, as rev­percent of the total dollar the list, leaping 185 spots of the top positions, as enue fell 18 percent and decline from the peak to No. 264. But the title of last summer's skyrocket­losses totaled $30.86 bil­year of 2006, the maga­"biggest loser" went to ing oil and gas prices lion amid the imploding zine said. Citigroup Inc. AIG Corp. The insurer, more than compensated car market. Crosstown and Bank of America which has received more for their plunge later that rival Ford Motor Co. fol­Corp., which were No. 8 than $180 billion in gov­fall. Chevron Corp. held lowed, with $146.28 bil­and No. 9 respectively ernment bailout aid since on to third place with lion in revenue. last year, each slipped a last fall, fell 232 spots to $263.16 billion in rev-Telecom giant AT&T couple notches from the 245 in this year's ranking. 


Banks will need more bailout money 
ulate in any detail on what the tests added. Emanuel did not say that he had 

Associated Press 
might show. seen the tests, but said, "I do believe we 

WASHINGTON -Some big banks "I think what you'll see is that, not have the resources to handle what the will need more bailout bucks, Obama surprisingly, different banks are in dif­results will be." administration officials said Sunday, ferent situations. They are going to The tests subject banks' balance although it is unlikely the government need different levels of assistance from sheets to scenarios that include rising might need to take over any reeling taxpayers," Obama said. "We'll have job losses and declining home prices. institution. more information as these stress test The results will help officials divide 
"We're confident that, yes, some are numbers are provided. I haven't seen banks into three categories: banks that going to have very serious problems, all of them yet." need more capital, either from the gov­but we feel that the tools are available White House chief of staff Rahm ernment or private investors; those that to address these problems," senior Emanuel cited first-quarter reports are healthy; and those that are too presidential adviser David Axelrod said. from major banks showing they are weak to survive. 
Regulators now are putting the making money as an encouraging sign. Asked on ABC's "This Week," nation's 19 largest banks through tests "But that doesn't take away that some whether the Obama administration will to determine their ability to withstand are going to need resources. We believe avoid any kind of temporary national­worsening economic conditions. The we have those resources available in ization of banks, Emanuel responded: government hopes to make the results the government as the final backstop to "I think we will be able to avoid that .... public in early May. make sure that the 19 are financially I believe we will not have to deal with 
President Barack Obama, speaking at viable and effective," he said. nationalization, and that's not the goal, a news conference at the Summit of the That does not mean going back to nor do we think that's the right policy Americas in Trinidad, declined to spec-Congress for more money now, he objectives here." 

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 20, 2009 
... because there's a presump­a Catholic institution's 'open­Notre Dame is not true to its Catholic university like Notre tion that we have a common ness' to the world. At stake is Catholic identity, yet Carozza Dame are also present in each
Lay 

way of our hope for and Bacich both said that individual. Both individual thinking the future of Catholic identity is based on a human beings and the
continued from page 1 

"We can take the institution 
a b o u t the University presence found within each University as a whole must Liberation group Juliet Joly things," as a whole andjudge it as and the future individual. focus on personal encounters said. Carozza of society." "We have to answer these with Christ. 
an institution and keep
Joly, a junior, said Communion said. "It's Bacich said questions for ourselves and "In this sense, the mind can't
tallies ofwhether they invite 
and Liberation has not officially an effort to the pamphlet among ourselves on the basis of be formed in a Catholic way aligned itself with any group in help us a president who's promoting is meant to personal experience," Carozza without this opening of the response to the University's invi­understand the destruction ofembryos promote dis-said. heart," he said. "The essential is tation to President Obama. the truth of cussion . Carozza is currently spending the opening of the heart and the 
... and many ofthe other
Rather, the group released a things bet­"For us, the year as a visiting professor encounter." pamphlet titled "A New ter." things that rightly exert us hope begins at Harvard, but he said he has Carozza said that while sever­Commencement," which they The pam­and excite us," from the chosen to stay at Notre Dame al constantly changing factors distributed and printed in The p h l e t recognition because he sees it as a truly could define Notre Dame as a Observer last week. acknowl­that with Catholic university. University, personal encounters 
Paolo Carozza 
Notre Dame Law Professor edges the Christ we dis­"We can take the institution as with Christ continue to defme it Paolo Carozza and national controver­Law Professor cover a new a whole and judge it as an insti­as Catholic. Communion and Liberation sy, but nei­way to live tution and keep tallies of "If we really expect everything leader Chris Bacich led Sunday's ther con-life, to study, whether they invite a president from Christ, then that's the thing discussion, which was based on demns nor approves of the to do research, to be involved in who's promoting the destruction that doesn't change," he said. the pamphlet. More than 30 stu­University's decision to invite politics and economics, to work of embryos . . . and many of the "To say that the encounter with dents, faculty and other commu­President Obama. in the world," the flier states. other things that rightly exert us Him generates a University, that nity members attended and "What then is at stake in this Carozza asked the discussion and excite us," he said. "But at is infinitely beyond anything voiced questions and opinions Commencement Day?" the pam­participants to examine the the end of the day, it is a human that we can build for ourselves." about the true nature of a phlet asks. "Much more than meaning of Notre Dame as a presence that matters." Catholic university. merely defending values -even Catholic University. Bacich said the same contra­Contact Laura McCrystal at 
"People weren't invited here the most sacred -or affirming Some students argued that dictions of faith that exist in a lmccryst@nd.edu 
The Schmitt Lecture Series 

SCIENCE AND THE HUMAN ~000: 
HOW TO THINK PHILOSOPHICALLY OF VALUES IN SCIENCE 
DON HOWA~D P~OFESSO~ OF PHILOSOPHY VNIVEf'.SlTY OF NOTf'.E DAME 
UESDAY APRJL 21ST AT 4PM MCKENNA HALLAUDITO~IUM 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture For more information, visit http://ethicscenter.nd.edu 
Media 
continued from page 1 

the audience which viewpoint carries more weight. 
"I think you still need the referees, you still need the mainstream media, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't have people pushing from both sides," he said. "You need to have people say, 'I've listened to that and I've lis­tened to this. Now here's the reality."' 
Uygur also discussed the power of the media to influ­ence public thought and 
political outcomes, drawing on the examples of Rush Limbaugh and Fox News. He argued that Fox News tilted the 2000 presidential election to the Republicans by calling Florida early. 
"The 2000 election, you guys might remember it's pretty close. It's a statistical dead heat," he said. "So, it's too close to call and Fox News has hired their top guy to make calls in the election. That guy who makes that decision is the cousin of George W. Bush. They call it for Bush and media and the reporters are lemmings, so they panic." 
"They changed the course of history when they said 'We don't care what the facts say, we're declaring George Bush the winner,"' he added. 
Voices on the fringe of pub­lic opinion cannot be dis­counted, because of the power of media to reach across geographical markets and consolidate extreme views to form an influential movement, according to Uygur. 
"Rush Limbaugh drives the agenda more than any Democrat or Republican con­gressman," he said. 
Uygur also made the case that the new media environ­ment -the explosion of instantaneous and diversified communication networks of blogs and satellite radio sta­tions -has created more opportunities for aspiring journalists and political com­mentators. 
"So, the media makes an enormous difference and in this day and age you don't have to wait around and hope somebody picks you out of a crowd," he said. "You can go and actually be the media ­you can start your own blog and start your own idea on YouTube. You're only remain­ing job is to win the crowd." 
Uygur also shared his own experience as a nsmg voice in the political arena. He took an unconventional path that culminated with him founding the first ever live, daily web television talk show. 
"In the old days, if you wanted to go down this path you had to become a local TV reporter," Uygur said. "That's the clear path. I hated that path, but it works. David Gregory came up that path. Almost all the people who are anchors or host came up that way." 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 

Monday, April 20, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

Dutch professor places Quran within historical context 
The organization ofthe Muslim text, which proceeds in order oflength, is important to reflecting divine message, speaker says 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA  Quran is the text's order, according to Abu-Zayd. The  This organizational system distinguishes the Quran from  cally in the way divinity is portrayed within the text.  political situation in Egypt changed, the book morphed 
News Writer  book  is  the  Bible,  "We find contradictions in  into  one  that emphasized  
organized in  which  is  to  many aspects of the Quran,"  peace and of protecting pri­ 
According to Nasr Abu­Zayd, a professor from the University of Humanistics in  order of length, not chronologi­ "If the Quran was in chronological order, it  be read chronologi­cally.  Abu-Zayd said. "We find con­tradictions in the way the divine is presented."  vate property. Based on all these factors, Abu-Zayd concluded that  
Utrecht, Holland, the  mean­ cally.  The  would simply be the story  Another  Abu-Zayd said this issue  there is indeed  a  worldview  
ings and ideologies present in the Quran have changed much over time, but the  longer chap­ters come first and the  of the life ofMuhammad. It would not reflect a  facet of the Quran is meaning,  brings forJh an essential question: does the Qur'an present a coherent message  present in the Quran, but one that still needs to be carefully analyzed. Since the  
book still presents  a  coher­ shorter  divine message.  which  Abu­ or should its readers simply  historical context changes as  
ent worldview.  chapters can  Zayd  said  do the best they can in con­ time passes, the book needs  
Abu-Zayd spoke at McKenna Hall Sunday about  be near  found the  Nasr Abu-Zayd  overshadows other impor­ necting all of the different messages to one another?  to be reread as a whole, and not analyzed in terms of  
the origins of the Quran  as  back.  professor  tant  ques- The Quran's meaning has  individual passages.  
part of the "The Qur'an in its  Abu-Zayd  University of Humanistics  tions  that  also changed  over  time  as  "There is  a  world view in  
Historical Context" confer­ said  he  scholars  the  political  climate  in  the Quran, but  we  have  to  
ence, which aims to  bring  thinks  the  should  con- Islamic countries changed.  read the Quran not in this  
the Bible and the Quran back  book is organized this way to  sider.  "Between the 1960s and  fragmented  way  that has  
into  conversation  and  reflect a divine message.  Scholars of Islam spend  the 1970s, the meaning the  been done  so  far," Abu-Zayd  
explore  new readings of the  "If  the  Quran  was  in  much time trying to deter­ Quran  changed  180  said. "This is  a  reading  we  
document. The conference  chronological order, it would  mine how the meaning of life  degrees," Abu-Zayd said.  are still waiting for scholars  
will  run  until Tuesday and  simply be the story of the life  is connected to the meaning  In the 1960s, Egyptians  to do."  
will take place at McKenna  of Muhammad," he said. "It  of the Quran, which is diffi­ considered the Quran a book  
Hall.  would not reflect  a  divine  cult because the text is rife  of socialism  and  justice,  Contact Irena Zajickova at  
An important aspect of the  message."  with contradiction, specifi­ Abu-Zayd explained. As the  azajicko@nd.edu  


Notre Dame Apartments 
Notre Dame Apartments are a Notre Dame tradition! 
2 Bedroom, 1,200 sq. ft. Apartments Newly Remodeled Free Internet Free Water On-Site Laundry Off-Street Parking Only Three Blocks from Campus 
*These apartments rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our town homes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 

(574)234-2436 
Shack 
continued from page 1 
many people in our country, even in this area, live each night." 
Junior Mike Rohman, one of two co-chairs for the event, was also very enthusiastic about Shack City. 
"With the display of the boxes and guest speakers, we hope to remind people of actual sub­standard housing in this coun­try and abroad," Rohman said. 
The event is very helpful as a fundraiser for the group's activ­ities, like building a house in the area, Rohman said. 
"Notre Dame is the only University in the country to finance and build its own house," Rohman said. "Needless to say, these types of fundraisers are very important for us as we raise the $60,000 needed to construct our house." 
The event organizers said they were pleased by the turnout. 
"The turnout was fantastic," Rohman said. "We had 50 or 60 people spend the night, which is twice the number from last year." 
Rohman credits the good weather with helping the large turnout. 
"For years, it had been cold and raining for every Shack City," he said. 
Jim Williams, the executive director of the St. Joseph County Habitat for Humanity, and Notre Dame senior Michael McDonald, who is involved with local poverty issues, spoke to the Shack City dwellers. 
"This event is a beautiful start," McDonald said. "Hopefully it will inspire people to go to South Bend and become friends with individuals who are homeless." 
McDonald said there is a big difference between the word 
"homeless" and the phrase "individuals who are home­less." 
'"Homeless' has a stigma, a tendency to dehumanize," McDonald said. "Whereas 'indi­viduals who are homeless' give individuality." 
Freshman Ashley Havens and Christina Chavarin built a large shelter for the night. 
"We started hearing people talking about it and we got excited because we weren't just sleeping in boxes," Chavarin said. "You get to know people." 
During the event, Finance professor Carl Ackermann held games at a ping pong table, Rohman said. 
"He made a very generous donation at the end of his hour­long run," Rohman said. "For every point scored on him, he donated a dollar to Habitat [for Humanity]." 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

MeWillia111s na111ed MEP director 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame's College of Engineering has appointed Leo 
H. McWilliams director of the Minority Engineering Program 
!NO'W £easi:"'J Por 2009-2010 .Jlpp[y q-otfay £imitetfSpace.}tvaifa6felI I 
Offerine Tfte <Best l]?§ntaf<J«ttes in <Town! $99 Por 1" Mont/is C}?snt 'Witli 12 :Montfi £ea..w! $300 Ojj1" Mont/is ~nt 'Vtlitli 9 !Montfi .Cease! PreeYlppl.ication Pee PorStwfents 'Vtlitfi J.([).! Cwse to Campus! 
(MEP). 
McWilliams served most recently as co-course coordina­tor and an instructor for a first-year engineering course sequence. In addition to his work as an instructor for these courses, he also will now also be responsible for achieving the vision of MEP, which encompasses involving stu­dents in all aspects of academic life at Notre Dame, advocating for the needs of under-repre­sented students and creating opportunities to bring together engineering faculty, alumni and students to work together to achieve success in their aca­demic and professional endeav­ors. 
Prior to joining the University in 2002, McWilliams served as a principal engineer at Honeywell International in South Bend, where his duties included the investigation of advanced control concepts for gas turbine engines, the model­ing and analysis of hydrome­chanical and electronic con­trols for gas turbine engines, and the design, analysis and integration of landing systems for aircraft. 
McWilliams holds four degrees from Notre Dame: bachelor's degrees in econom­ics and electrical engineering, which he earned in 1981 and 1982, respectively; and mas­ter's and doctoral degrees in electrical engineering, earned in 1985 and 1993. 
The MEP was established in 1987 to encourage minority students in their pursuit of undergraduate degrees in engi­neering. Although the primary activities in the program are aimed at recruitment, retention and engagement of students, leadership skills also are culti­vated throughout the MEP via lectures, workshops, student competitions, scholarships, internships and career place­ment activities. 
Upon graduation, students become part of the MEP Alumni Network, a group of engineering graduates who make themselves available to answer the questions and con­cerns of current engineering students. The network also serves as a resource for University students whose internships require them to live away from family and friends. 



page 10 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Monday, April 20, 2009 





Atlanta suburbs have amenities for drug traffickers 
Associated Press 
LILBURN, Ga. -Azaleas bloom brightly in front of two­story homes on quiet streets where speed humps enforce the 20 mph speed limit. Neighbors wave and smile at passers-by, drawn to the booming Atlanta area by its accessible transporta­tion, increasingly diverse popula­tion and urban amenities. 
But others are drawn to the quiet suburbs in the hopes that law enforcement or their busi­ness competitors will miss what happens inside -the movement of tons of illegal drugs, millions of dollars in cash and sometimes lethal discipline of wayward employees. 
"This county's awash in drugs," said Gwinnett County Assistant District Attorney Keith Miles. 
The placid nature of Gwinnett County and other nearby coun­ties has drawn workers for Mexican drug cartels to suburbs like Lilburn, northeast of Atlanta. Interstate 85 provides conven­ient transport, and the area's exploding Latino population makes it easy for Mexican traf­fickers to blend in. 
Over the last five to seven years, the Atlanta area has become the main distribution hub to move drugs and cash throughout the East, Drug Enforcement Administration offi­cials say. The cartels are drawn to Atlanta by the same conven­iences that have attracted corpo­rations here over the last decade or so -access to major trans­portation systems and proximity to large population centers. 
But Georgia-based corpora­tions don't bring with them the kind of disciplinary practices the cartel-affiliated workers have imported from Mexico. Dominican citizen Oscar Reynoso, 31, was lured to Lilburn from Rhode Island last July to settle a $300,000 debt to the Mexican Gulf Cartel. Dehydrated, gagged and badly beaten, Reynoso was found chained to a wall in a basement. The onslaught of law enforce­ment on the scene shocked neighbors, said resident Maria Ramos. 
That same month, police in another Gwinnett County suburb shot and killed a suspected kid­napper as he tried to pick up a $2 million ransom owed to his cartel bosses. 
Authorities have also won a string of high-profile drug busts in recent years, including Project Reckoning, which targeted the Gulf cartel, and Operation Xcellerator, which hit the Sinaloa cartel. In fiscal year 2008, feder­al authorities seized about $70 million in drug-related cash in Atlanta, more than any other region in the country, according to DEA records. Already this fis­cal year in Atlanta they've seized about $34 million. 
Project Reckoning alone seized $60 million and more than 40 tons of illegal drugs over nearly two years. That operation also resulted in the arrest of 17 5 peo­ple over two days, including 43 in the Atlanta area. 
"We've seen this coming for a while, with bigger seizures of drugs and cash," Miles said. 
Whereas five years ago a 1­kilo cocaine seizure was a big deal, said District Attorney Danny Porter, it is common now for law enforcement oflicers to seize 10, 20 or even 50 kilos in a single bust. 
And while the overall number of drug cases has actually dropped, Porter said, the num­ber of cases involving organized distribution groups has increased. 

Chuvalo Truesdell, a DEA spokesman in Atlanta, said known Mexican drug cartel members have been arrested in the Atlanta area. 
While the command and con­trol structures tend to be compli­cated and compartmentalized, the cartels' basic operations are simple, said Rodney Benson, the DEA special agent in charge of Atlanta. 
Drugs destined for Atlanta are brought across the U.S.-Mexico border into Texas in relatively small quantities -20 to 25 kilos -frequently hidden in secret compartments in personal or commercial vehicles. They are accumulated near the border, and then larger shipments are sent along Interstates 10, 20 and 40 to Atlanta, often in commer­cial trucks carrying legitimate cargo. 
Once the drugs reach the Atlanta area, they are taken to stash houses and broken down into smaller shipments that are 


p rt 

ity 5 k 1n 
All those cynics out there say opportunity only knocks once. Of course that's because they never worked here with us. Vle invite vou to explore opportur11ties ot GE in a number of disciplines. 
www.ge.com/ co reers 

imagination at vvork 
sent via Interstates 75, 77 and 85 to cities like Miami, New York and Detroit. Cash collected is heat sealed in plastic to prevent tampering and sent on the reverse journey back to Mexico. 
In suburban Atlanta, Mexican drug trafficking organizations generally rent nondescript hous­es in middle-class neighborhoods in suburbs like Lilburn. They often have one house for storing and processing drugs, one house for storing and processing money and a third for conducting trans­actions, so when an arrest hap­pens at one house, they don't lose everything, Porter said. 
Unlike the Colombian traffick­ers in south Florida in the 1980s, the Mexican cartels tend to keep a low profile, said Jack Killorin, director of a government pro­gram to fund drug-fighting efl'orts in the region. 
"They tend not to be too bling and high-living," he said. "They're very quiet, they try to stay hidden in the communities. They want to be low key. They prefer not to be observed. They're serious businessmen ­they bring their drugs here and money back, and that's what they focus on." 
Drug-fueled violence has increased in Mexico in response to President Felipe Calderon's crackdown after he took office in December 2006, and spillover violence is a rising fear. 
The violence in the Atlanta area, like in other distribution hub cities, tends to be limited to those involved in the drug or human trafficking trade, authori­ties said. 
But Miles said he thinks the violence is already increasing and cited about a dozen unsolved homicides in Gwinnett County that he believes are drug related. He cited a case in which two men apparently shot each other to death in a house where a money counter was found. As busts net increasingly large amounts of drugs and cash, he said, law enforcement officers are also finding more and bigger guns. 
"You don't have shootouts in the street, but who's to say that's not coming? I think it is," Miles said. "I see it getting worse before it gets better." 
Atlanta was designated a High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area, or HIDTA, in 1995. The city's des­ignation has been broadened over the last two years to include 12 counties in Georgia and five in North Carolina. The Atlanta HIDTA program, directed by Killorin, uses federal grant money to fund anti-drug efforts by local, state and federal law enforcement agencies. 
Porter said he believes the coordinated efforts are paying off, but he acknowledged some problems. While his office would often like to immediately arrest any dealer who's putting drugs on the street, federal authorities often want to hold off to use that smaller dealer as an entry into the operations so they can bring down a larger chunk of a cartel's network. 
'That tension is always there and if we don't cooperate well there are issues," Porter said. "In the face of what we're dealing with, though, we have to work together and put our differences aside." 

Monday, April 20, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 

Coverage you can count on 

New year-different economic times. Take a look at the Notre Dan1e sponsored student health insurance plan and compare it to your current coverage. Look at premiums, deductibles, and benefits/time covered. For more information, attend the following sessions presented by Aetna Representatives. 
Mon-Tues-Wed 12:15-1:00 Law Building Room 1130 Monday 8-10PM Beichner Community Center at University Village Tuesday 6-8PM Jordan Auditorium in Mendoza Wednesday 5-7PM Saint Liam Hall 3m Floor Conference Room (Health Center) 
Aetna Student Health is a national leader in creating alternatives in student health insurance. 


lAetnff 


THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 12 Monday, April 20, 2009 
THE OBSERVER Mountain humility 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROll.ER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriariry 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu EDITOR-IN-CHIEF (574) 631-4542 jmerz@nd.edu MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint. I@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 sporrs@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY's DEsK 
a'charnO1@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the Universiry ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right co refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and deparrmem editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Obsm;erpolici~ shouldbe directed to Editor-in-Chief]enn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Thl! O'*fY(:r (USPS 599 2-4000} is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vaation periods. A sub5cription to The Ohsc:tv(:r is $12:0 for one ~mic yean $65 for one S<:me$fl!r. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 Sooth Dining Hall Send address corrections ur. No"" Dame, IN <6S%-On9 The Obsenoer Pcriodial pos~ paid at Notrt DUle P.O.Boxm -and additional mailing of&es. 02-4 South Dining Hall 
Notte-Dame, lN 46'S56-0T79 
The Obsc:rvc:r b. a mcmb:r ufthe Associated Ptds. All reproduction rights ar:e: 
~­
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Kaitlynn Riely Sam Werner Becky Hogan Douglas Farmer Laura McCrystal Alex West Graphics Scene Mary Cecilia Patrick Griffin 
Mitsch Viewpoint Lianna Brauweiler 

Mountains are big. Some &re admit­tedly smaller than others, but by defi­nition, they're big. Wikipedia's entry for mountain says it is a landmass "that stretches above the surrounding 
land in a limited area.-------...., usually in the form of a peak," but also that 
there is no universal definition (I'm reminded of when westerners scoff at the once-mighty and now quiet Appalachians). However you define them, though, they are awe-provoking, humbling and impressive. 

It doesn't come as a great surprise, then, that moun­tain people tend to be particularly religious. From the overwhelmingly Catholic Alps to the Buddhist moun­tains of Tibet to the Incans of the Andes to the "hillbillies" of the Appalachians, mountain communities tend to be very close-knit with religion as a central part of communal life. 
The German word for religious is "gliiubig" [gloy-bigl. Gliiubig means literally "believing," and it comes from the word "glauben," to believe. I think the German word expresses the believing-ness of the people in moun­tains communities better than the English word "religious." It doesn't assume that spirituality is connected 
Jackie 
Mirandola­
Mullen 
Chlorofilled Cardboard 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

to any particular religion or organized faith, but rather expresses the charac­teristic as having faith -believing­in an undefined something. 
When the earth around you is untamablc, staeked in massive poles, whole roeks and snow could come crumbling down at any slight wind or temperature change, you learn pretty quickly not to overestimate yourself. We can put trails, ski slopes, even horses or other animals on them, we can cut down their trees and try to redirect their streams, but it's all only to a certain point. lienee the phrase, "trying to move mountains" to express attempting a nearly futile task. 
A simple but profound reminder of my own limits occurs every time I go on a long hike here in Innsbruck. At home, if' I walk too far, I can take a bus home, I can call home for a ride or I can wait and rest a while before heading back. But if you walk up into the mountains, up onto a remote slope away from highways and roads and miles from home, you'd better have it in you to walk back down, and do it before it gets cold and dark. Somehow that always gets me -that I did it, I'm on the top of a mountain, but I have no way of returning home other than picking up my tired feet and get­ting back to work. Otherwise, I'm stranded alone in the cold for the night. 
We could all learn a lot from the mountains. About the humility of rec­ognizing that something is bigger than you are, something that is unfath­omably beautiful and dumbfounding and dangerous all in one. In America, we are taught to work hard and con­tinue plugging away to make anything possible. Our optimism and work ethic are some of' our greatest and strongest qualities, but they can also lead to an arrogant notion that we really are the best. the biggest, the brightest and that the entire world is at our disposal. 

It's time we stepped back and lis­tened to the mountains and the histo­ries of' mountains' people and accept­ed our own limits in the natural world. Most resources aren't renew­able, most soil gets worn out and the air and ocean can't absorb our mas­sive amounts of waste forever. When we live too far from the believing-ness that the challenges and beauties of this world inspire, we can easily for­get to respect the life in the world around us and instead slowly kill it with our unrestrainable ambition. You don't have to be a mountain person yourself to believe there is something bigger and uncultivatable out there whose beauty and worth is greater than us; we can all receive a humbling from these giants. 
Jackie Mirandola Mullen is a junior History and German major. She wishes everyone a happy Earth Week. She can be reached at jmirando@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


OBSERVER POLL 
Do you like "The Shirt" this year? 
Yes No Undecided 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Most people are mirrors, reflecting the moods and emotions of the times. Some peop_le are windows, bringing l(qht to bear on the dark corners wliere troubles fester. The whole purpose ofeducation is to turn mirrors mto windows. " 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Monday, April 20, 2009 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Cover up the crosses 
On Thursday, reports surfaced that President Obama, our chosen Commencement speaker, gave a speech on Tuesday at Georgetown University -a Catholic institution -but before he did so, made a request of the University: Cover up and hide all sym­bols of the school's Catholic identity, including the name of Jesus Christ. This act of Obama's White House should convince any Catholic, and most importantly our president, Fr. Jenkins, that such a man should not ever be invited to speak at a Catholic university. Does Mr. Obama expect us to blot out the cross on our school seal and throw a tarp over the golden statue of Mary on the Dome? This action by Mr. Obama and his White House is clear proof that he values nothing about our Catholic faith besides the millions of votes that Catholics represent. 
In addition to his abhorrent views on life issues such as abortion and stem cell research, Mr. Obama has taken a further step and requested a Catholic institution to deny its faith. What is next for Mr. Obama? It appears that his next encroachment of our faith will occur in May when he gives the Commencement address at the most prestigious and well-recognized Catholic university in the nation, the University of Notre Dame. Fr. Jenkins should take heed of this latest betrayal of the Catholic faith and immediately rescind his invitation to Mr. Obama, lest we are asked to do the same as Georgetown. 
Brendan Durr 
sophomore 
Knott Hall 
April16 

Pro-life terrorism.? 
In regards to A.J. Radcliffe's April16 letter ("Terrorism at NO") derailing Randall Terry's radical pro-life tactics, I'd like you to consider Mr. Obama's much more radical pro-abortion leanings. While Mr. Randall dresses up with a bloody Obama mask, Obama voted -while an Illinois senator-multiple times against legisla­tion that would protect infants who survived a failed abortion attempt. Think about that. At least Mr. Terry is open about his position. Obama, hiding behind his moderate-sounding rhetoric, is perhaps the most ruthless and leftist abortion supporter to ever reach such high political office. You may call Mr. Terry a terrorist, but he isn't the one supporting the rights of mothers to murder their unborn children. 
Brendan Cordial sophomore Keenan Hall April16 

Where is Fr. Jenkins? 
While Notre Dame continues to erupt in turmoil hear the other side and to debate (respectfully) with to what others have to say and that listening to the over the approaching commencement and President them, for that in those conversations you might come other side is not a threat to our belief system. By his Barack Obama's presence on campus, I ask myself, out a stronger Catholic, Christian or whatever your inaction, if the Commencement blows up in flames where is the President of our university, Fr. Jenkins? beliefs may be. But where is he? and if Notre Dame is embarrassed by the irrational Now would be such a great opportunity for him to Fr. Jenkins is, as usual, hiding behind closed doors. actions of the voices of opposition, then the blood will calm those troubled by his arrival, to remind those so He is allowing President Obama to come to campus be on his hands. vehemently against Obama's arrival that it is okay for while the warfare continues, simply to increase the the voices of opposition to have a place on campus ... prestige of the university, when he could be inviting Erin Weedon that engaging in dialogue does not mean jeopardizing President Obama in for a conversation, and a symbol alum your belief system, or that it in any way demonstrates to the rest of the world that the university is finally class of 2007 moral weakness ... that instead it, is a good thing to ready to move forward, that we are willing to listen April18 
Withheld donations expected in trillions 
We would like to thank Mr. DiFranco ("Group of alumni launch Web site to tally sum of withheld donations," April 17) for his efforts to quantify the amount of money withheld from Notre Dame because of Fr. Jenkins' invitation to President Obama. 
Below, we quantify for tallying purposes the amount of money we have decided to not donate. We will not donate $600 million for maintenance of the facilities on campus. We will not donate an additional billion dollars for grounds keeping. Further, to express our heartfelt discontent, we will not donate the $25 million we expect to win in the lottery. Our crystal ball has indicated a future windfall from sports betting. We would like to not donate this money. Let's call it $500,000. 
To assist Mr. DiFranco's calculations, we propose a simple formula. All money gained by alumni through wages, salaries, 40lk investments, tort judgments, insur­ance, blackjack in Las Vegas, pawned personal items and birthday presents from grandma should be not donated. From this should be subtracted all money not not­donated. 
By our estimates, the cost of inviting President Obama to speak at Notre Dame runs into trillions of dollars in not-donations. In the interest of full disclosure, our calculations may be slightly inaccurate simply because, a) we don't exactly have six hundred million dollars, b) we project that tuition will leave us six figures in debt and c) grandma doesn't give us birthday presents. However, because the predictive principle is roughly the same, this makes our calculation no less accurate than Mr. DiFranco's. 
Patrick Hines, Ryan Finlen law students off campus April17 


Panning ND tnusic scene ignorant, disrespectful 
Really, Scene? Really? There may not be the type of music scene at Notre Dame that would satisfy an appetite for Pitchfork credibility and hipness, but to dismiss the talents of current Notre Dame musicians is disrespectful and shows an ignorance of the cur­rent music scene. The claims made in "Vanishing Act" (April16) regarding the Notre Dame music scene demonstrate the myriad problems that stifle creativity. The work of South Bend Power '90s exists as a valuable resource for both fans of that scene and new listeners. 
To say that the student body should be "ashamed" that things in the campus music scene are not the way they were in Ted Leo's hey-day shows a stuck-in-the-past men­tality that goes against everything those older bands stood for creatively. In what way does criticizing a music scene help it develop? Instead of criticizing AcoustiCafe and Legends for not being the same types of venues as the Notre Dame scene of the past, the campus should enthusiastically embrace what it has and encourage it to become better. 
Calling for a "counterculture" inside the pages of The Observer shows a limited scope of what is available on and around campus. Bands like Sans Katoi and Chicken Jackson have developed and presented themselves to the Notre Dame community. Legends is always looking for student acts to support the national talent that it brings to the cam­pus. Expressing oneself through music is one of the most revealing endeavors a person can undertake. Calling for an overnight music scene full of Vampire Weekends and MGMTs denies this personal nature of music, while keeping the Notre Dame scene mired in imitation rather than letting it expand to be something truly special. 
John Siegel 
senior 
Keenan Hall April16 


We have seen Notre Dame's stadium as a "sea of green" or "field of blue." Graduation weekend, it would be nice to see the campus turned into a "river of gold." Not to protest ... but to celebrate Ambassador Mary Ann Glendon's recep­tion of the Laetare Medal. What an honor! An award that stands for being Catholic in today's world. Given to a person who models what it means to be Catholic. She is pro-life in a pro-choice world. A woman known as "God's Lawyer." 
The Easter Season is a time for cele­brating life. Unfortunately, those of us who are affiliated with Notre Dame are in turmoil. Brought up in the Notre Dame family, I love celebrating my Catholic faith. I was taught by my father (class of '52) to see the joy in life and 

River of gold 

the good in people. Perhaps it is time for all of us no matter what our political affiliation to celebrate life as Christ would want us to, not by being negative, but by focusing on the positive of Christ's Resurrection and His admoni­tion to celebrate life in Him. 
Graduation weekend, I am sending Ambassador Glendon 24 golden roses via President Jenkins' office. Perhaps those in favor of life, whether they are Republicans or Democrats, would want to send Ambassador Glendon just one golden rose to celebrate her honor. Picture President Jenkins' office filled with 65,000 roses. Parents, give your graduates golden bouquets and bouton­nieres, and graduates, give golden cor­sages and rosebuds to your loved ones. Imagine a "river of gold" throughout the campus, spreading love, joy and life. 
I have also sent a donation to the University's Fund to Protect Human Life, in honor of Ambassador Glendon. Send a donation there or to your local pro-life office, because being Catholic means doing something positive. Our Easter colors are white and gold, and Our Lovely Lady atop the Dome is adorned in gold. We all know the song "Peace is Flowing Like a River." Let it flow golden throughout the campus, like the river Jordan, washing away the negatives and helping us celebrate life and another lady who truly deserves to be honored. 
Kathleen Daday Merkel grad student off campus April19 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 14 
Monday, April 20, 2009 

ZacEfron Makes You 
Want to See 

By CAITLIN FERRARO Assistant Scene Editor 
A shiny silver car pulls into a park­ing spot and out steps a hot guy in tight black jeans, Converses, a tight white tee and a leather jacket. The camera rises to meet his face, but Aviators cover his blue eyes. He tosses his trademark hair and struts into school. No, this isn't "Twilight" all over again, but if this ilnage sounds appeal­ing, then "17 Again" is the movie for you. Because more than being a com­edy about reliving high school, it's a launching pad for Zac Efron's new career post "High School Musical." 
"17 Again" grossed $24.1 million this weekend making it the No. 1 movie at the box office and beating out the Russell Crowe flick "State of Play." This probably says more about the power of the audience -predomi­nantly tween and teenage girls ­than it does about acting skills. However, there is no doubt it was a successful first solo performance for the teen idol. 
The film is your basic body-swap­ping film; picture Tom Hank's "Big" in reverse, that centers on Efron/Matthew Perry's character Mike O'Donnell. Perry is a 37 -year old Mike in a rut. He hates his job, his wife is divorcing him, his kids want nothing to do with him and he regrets how his life ended up. He longs for a friendlier year like 1989 when he was on top of world as the star basketball player . 
·seatnce an 
Opera Notre Dame succeeds at getting the audience to laugh with them, and at them. 
Photos Courtesy of opera.nd.edu 

Hector Berlioz's opera, "Beatrice and Benedick," is set in Messina, Italy, and is loosely based on Shakespeare's 'Much Ado About Nothing.' 

Scene Writer 
This year Opera Notre Dame had the arduous task of producing Hector Berlioz's "Beatrice and Benedick." Set in Messina, a city in Sicily, "Beatrice and Benedick" is a story that reminds audiences that falling in love is tricky, especially when it is with the person you hate. 
While the play is loosely based on Shakespeare's "Much Ado About Nothing," do not expect a direct correlation of plot events. Among other things, the Don John storyline is entirely omitted to focus on the romance of Beatrice and Benedick. The plot omissions help the opera tell a more con­cise story in a manageable 65 minutes without an intermission. What is not lost in the translation is the humor so prevalent in both Shakespeare's and Berlioz's works. Opera Notre Dame succeeds at getting the audience to laugh with them, and at them. 
What is unique about this year's produc­tion is that it utilizes two casts -one for the Thursday and Saturday night shows, and the other for Friday night and Sunday after-
But when a mysterious janitor {later dubbed his Spirit Guide) does some magic, the cheesy special effects fol­low and Mike is suddenly "seventeen again." He quickly realizes his second chance is not about getting a college basketball scholarship but about help­ing his family. His wife is unhappy and his daughter is dating a jerk that is beating up her little brother. 
Besides the unoriginal premise the film is also cliche at other times. It can be a bit heavy on the messages (we get it -family is important) and the film has all the regular teen comedy moment.<>. But strangely enough, Efron actually seems to pull off that he is a middle-aged man. He is oddly believ­able when he spouts off an awkward speech about abstinence and tries to teach loose girls to respect them­selves. 
And it was refreshing to see Efron in a PG-13 role. We all know he can dance and sing; see the "High School Musical" series or "Hairspray" as evi­dence. But this time around the only thing Mike had in common with Troy Bolton was a few good basketball moves and some really great hair. Disney probably shuddered to see Efron curse, get his teenage girlfriend pregnant and talk about condoms. It is apparent that Efron has matured, and this was the opportunity for him to step out on his own. Efron is actually funny, but if you need confirmation to believe this check out his SNL skit "High School Musical4". 
The film is hardly perfect and defi­nitely awkward at times. The charm­ing Leslie Mann plays Mike's wife, but when Efron leans in for a kiss you can't help but squirm. And the teenage version of Mike also has a horribly tense encounter with his daughter (Michelle Trachtenberg) as she tries to make a move on her dad. 
Efron does not deserve all the credit as he is surrounded by much more seasoned comedic actors like Thomas Lennon ("Reno 911 !") as Ned the geeky best friend turned millionaire and Melora Hardin ("The Office") as the school principal. Lennon is one of the best parts of the film as he takes on an impossibly dorky character and makes him bearable to watch. rhen he first discovers Efron after the transformation, the two have an epic sequence involving medieval weapons and light sabers. On the other hand, Perry is horribly underused. This is Chandler Bing we're talking about here, and he just mopes around for twenty minutes. Perhaps, this was a ploy on the director's part so that you are on the edge of your seat for your protagonist to transform and get more interesting. 
In the end, "17 Again" knows what is it is -a showcase and springboard for Efron. And in the end he is funny, 
cferrar I @nd.edu 

. d Benedick 
noon. The casts contain the fantastic talents of Notre Dame students Joshua Diaz, Dominic Go, Stephanie DePrez, Jennifer Valencia and Dan Crupi. The cast does a great job of responding to the audience, knowing when to make them laugh and when to make them applaud. 
The only downside to this opera is that a large majority of its songs are given to female characters, but that does not make the high notes these sopranos and altos hit any less incredible. 
Also making an appearance is none other than the chair of Notre Dame's music depart­ment, Louis MacKenzie. His self-referential style of humor includes several Notre Dame images. Yes, the jig and the various hand gestures that 
accompany football games can be found here. Instead of depreciating the aesthetic value, these allusions further the humorous tone that is so prevalent throughout the opera. 
"Beatrice and Benedick" succeeds in mak­ing audiences laugh and telling a love story with an upbeat and light-hearted tone. 
Contact Cornelius Rogers at crogersl@nd.edu 
Photo courtesy of aceshowbiz.com 

Leslie Mann stars as Scarlett, the wife of Efron's character, Mike O'Donnell, in '17 Again.' 
17 Again 
New Line Cinema Directed By: Burr Steers M Starring: Zac Efron, Thomas Lennon, Leslie Mann, Matthew Perry 
THE OBSERVER 





CENE
Monday, April20, 2009 
page 15 

Gym Class Heroes played to a crowded and very enthu­siastic house on Thursday night at Legends Nightclub. Two hours before the concert began, the line of Notre Dame, Holy Cross and Saint Mary's students waiting to get in wrapped around the front of the building and down the side street. By the time opening band Chester French began their set, the venue was packed with students pushing towards the barricade in the hopes of being clos­est to the front when Gym Class Heroes took the stage. 
Sadly, I didn't get to hear Chester French play, because as soon as they began their first song, Gym Class Heroes' tour manager found me and took me outside the club to talk with some of the members of the band. The manager left me outside the tour bus for a minute, as he entered and then reemerged with drummer Matt McGinley, gui­
arist Disashi Lumumba-Kasonga and bassist Eric Roberts. I introduced myself, we shook hands and I began to talk with them. 
The band just finished a four month tour opening for rapper Lil' Wayne, and I started by asking them what the difference was between opening for rappers and hip-hop groups and opening for a rock band (they've opened for 
hop icons The Roots and alternative rock acts like the 
Rejects and Fall Out Boy on other tours). 
"It can be a challenge," McGinley remarked, "based on who we're touring with." He spoke of opening for rock shows where he and his band mates were booed during their set. "But at the same time, we get to introduce our music to new people, which is fun," added McGinley. 
Guitarist Lumumba-Kasonga added that the support of alternative stars like Fall Out Boy, whose bassist, Pete 
, signed Gym Class Heroes to his Decaydance label in 2004, has helped the band attract an audience that normally might not be interested in hip-hop or rap music. 
Gym Class Heroes will spend April and May touring col­leges, tours they claim to enjoy more than those played in huge venues (at one Lil' Wayne show in the southwest, 
to a crowd of 15,000). 
explained, "It's harder on arena tours, you 
to connect with the audience." 
"I love playing colleges," Bassist Roberts agreed, "It's 
intimate. Smaller." 

Lumumba-Kasonga highlighted the importance of being able to interact with the people watching the show, adding, "This last tour was the first time I've been able to connect with people in [such a large] crowd. It really helps." 
Drummer McGinley and MC Travis McCoy met in class (hence the band's name) in high school in 1997 formed Gym Class Heroes the same year, but the group remained a mostly underground band with a strong fol­lowing in upstate New York until the Lumumba-,'\c'""L"'~·"' replaced the band's guitarist in 2004 and the new group recorded "The Papercut EP." This led to a record deal and the album "The Papercut Chronicles" in 2005. Soon after that, Roberts replaced the band's bassist and the group was complete. 
We talked about colleges and higher education as the band explained Gym Class Heroes's gradual formation. I learned that McCoy attended community college during the band's early years and Roberts graduated from a culi­nary school in Schenectady before he joined the group. McGinley is currently taking online courses at BU and has yet to declare a major. Lumumba-Kasonga's story is par­ticularly fascinating-he dropped out of Cornell U as a senior to join Gym Class Heroes, despite the fact tha his parents are both professors at the school. When I asked him how his parents felt about his decision, he admitted that at first they were disappointed, but "in end, it's about making yourself happy. 
After completing their college tour, the members of Class Heroes plan on renting a house near the Lakes in upstate New York and spend a summer writing a new album. The band seemed eager to recreate the success of their second album, "As Cruel as Schoolchildren," but McGinley acknowledged, '"The Quilt' [our latest album] gave us the opportunity to make the kind of record we want to make now." 
I finished the interview with a question that I -as longtime Gym Class Heroes fan -have always wanted to resolve. Specifically, I wanted to know why MC M brushes his teeth in almost every one of the band's videos. 
Laughing, Roberts said, "Well he's just a really guy." McGinley added, "I think he did it in the first video decided to make a thing out of it." 
About an hour after I finished talking to them, Gym Class Heroes took the stage and delivered one of the high-energy and exciting shows I have ever seen Legends. Performing songs from all three of their cu•Ju'""· the band made the people in the club scream, dance, demand an encore when the group tried to leave the stage. Legends Nightclub could not have chosen a better group to end this school year on a high note. 
Contact Ellie Hall at ehall4@nd.edu 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, April 20, 2009 
MLB 
Posada home run leads Yankees to home victory 
Cameron home run, Coffey save earn Brewers win at Citi Field; solid outingfrom Perkins stymies Angels through eight innings 
seven and threw three wild play.
Associated Press 
pitches -but allowed only New York put its first two bat­
NEW YORK-Pinch-hitter three hits. ters on in the eighth against Jorge Posada's drive to right in Pavano was making his first Coffey, but Fernando Tatis the seventh inning was ruled a start against the Yankees since struck out and Santos lined into two-run homer by video replay, the team declined the option on an inning-ending double play. and the New York Yankees his $39.95 million contract after Weeks provided an insurance spoiled former teammate Carl four miserable years. The run with a two-out RBI double Pavano's return with a 7-3 victo­43,068 at Yankee Stadium let in the ninth, giving him three ry over the Cleveland Indians on him hear how they felt from the hits. Coffey worked a one-hit Sunday. moment he headed to the ninth and pumped his first when 
Balls have been flying out of bullpen. When he was intro­David Wright hit a soft looper the stadium at record pace, but duced, the closed captioned for the final out. the homer that gave the Yankees scoreboard read, "Carl Pavano, The burly right-hander has a split of their first series at the (crowd booed)." not allowed a run in 17 innings $1.5 billion ballpark required Pavano silenced the surly spanning 16 games since he was the first video replay of the year crowd, retiring the first 10 claimed off waivers by the in the major leagues. Yankees before Jeter's liner to Brewers last Sept. 10. 
Posada sent a high fly to right right-center fell for a double. Suppan was charged with two off Jensen Lewis (1-2) with one Mark Teixeira drove him in with runs and eight hits. He struck out. Trevor Crowe leaped at the a sharp single to right with two out four and walked one. wall, but the ball was deflected outs in the fourth to make it 3-1. Milwaukee pitchers have by a fan and bounced off the top Pavano gave up a run and four delivered four straight quality and back into play. Posada hits in six innings, his best out­starts, though a Brewers starter slowed his trot between first and ing for Cleveland. In two previ­has yet to go seven innings this second, looking out to right field, ous starts he had a 16.71 ERA. year. before he saw the homer signal Delgado's two-out RBI double from second base umpire Phil Brewers 4, Mets 2 put the Mets ahead in the first, Cuzzi. Mike Cameron homered but Suppan pitched out of trou­
Crowe ran toward the infield against his former team and ble for much of the afternoon. indicating a fan interfered, and Todd Coffey escaped a pair of lie retiwd Gary Sheffield on a Indians manager Eric Wedge late jams during an eight-out hard grounder with two on to came out to dispute the call. save, leading the Milwaukee end the inning, then induced a the Minnesota Twins to a victory without a hit. sealing the loss for 
The umpires convened for sev­Brewers to a victory over the double-play grounder from Sunday that completed a three­Los Angeles and starter Shane 
eral minutes near the mound New York Mets on Sunday. Delgado to close the third. game sweep of the sputtering Loux (0-1 ). The Angels right­before going to the video room Jeff Suppan (1-2) bounced New York failed to take advan­Los Angeles Angels. hander gave up 10 hits and through the visitors' dugout. back from two poor starts to tage of a break in the fifth, when "Trying to get them to hit my three runs in seven innings. They returned and summoned begin the season, pitching effec­Hart lost Reyes' high fly in the pitches, and they weren't able to "We pay a lot of money to Joe both managers to explain the tively into the seventh inning sun -more evidence that right do it," Perkins said. "That's to get saves, so it's only fair that decision. and helping himself at the plate. field can be awfully tricky at Citi what I try to do every time: Be he gets out there and gets his," 
Posada's homer capped the Milwaukee avoided a three­Field. Reyes raced to third for a efficient and get deep into a Perkins said. Yankees' three-run rally in the game sweep in its first trip to triple but was stranded when game, and right now it's work­The Twins skimped on the run seventh. Robinson Cano led off Citi Field and improved to 28-51 Daniel Murphy, who had three ing out." support again, but it was with a double against reliever against the Mets since moving hits, grounded out. Perkins (1-1) scattered four enough for Perkins' first win. Rafael Perez, and Hideki Matsui from the American League to Suppan got Tatis on a long fly hits and walked one while strik­The left-hander and lifelong hit an RBI single. the NL in 1998. to left with two on to end the ing out four, needing only 84 Minnesotan, who still keeps a 
Lewis, who gave up Derek The Mets went 2-for-13 with sixth. pitches. His performance was year-round home in the Jeter's go-ahead homer Friday, runners in scoring position and Hart singled to open the third, persuasive enough for manager Minneapolis suburb of Lakeville, came on and after an out, wasted a credible spot start by stole second and scored on Ron Gardenhire and pitching has pitched 24 innings in three Posada made it 4-3 to help make Nelson Figueroa (0-1), called up Prince Fielder's groundout to tie coach Rick Anderson to leave starts and allowed only four up for a wild outing by A.J. from the minors to pitch in place the score 1-all. him in the game after Abreu's runs, 16 hits and four walks. Burnett. of No. 2 starter Mike Pelfrey Pitching for his hometown drive bounced off the side of his He became the first Twins 
Posada's homer was the 20th (forearm tendinitis). team, Figueroa allowed three left leg-just above the knee. starter to fmish eight innings in at Yankee Stadium, the most Coffey, who hasn't allowed a runs and five hits in six innings. Third baseman Brendan three straight starts since Johan ever in the first four games at a run since joining the Brewers The 34-year-old right-hander, Harris picked the ball up and Santana in June 2005. The only big league ballpark, according last September, earned his first who grew up a Mets fan in the threw to first for the out, and run against Perkins came in the to the Elias Sports Bureau. The save since 2006 with Cincinnati. Coney Island projects, had a sto­after realizing he was all right second inning, when Morales hit previous high was 16 in 1996, The back end of Milwaukee's rybook night against the Perkins struck out Torii Hunter a bouncer that second baseman when Oakland opened the sea­bullpen is in flux with career Brewers at Shea Stadium last and retired Kendry Morales on a Alexi Casilla stopped with a son at Cashman Field in Las saves leader Trevor Hoffman on April. With a huge flock of fami­grounder. Perkins set down 13 dive. Abreu came home on the Vegas. the disabled list, but Coffey ly and friends in attendance -straight before Erick Aybar grounder. 
Jonathan Albaladejo (1-0) keeps getting the job done. some watching from teammate bunted for a hit with two outs in Casilla went 0-for-4 and is bat­came on with the bases loaded Suppan hit a leadoff single in Billy Wagner's suite -he the eighth. He left to a standing ting .196, but was flawless in and one out in the seventh to get the fifth, moved to third on retired his first 14 batters and ovation after retiring Chone the field and also threw from his the win. Brian Bruney pitched Rickie Weeks' ringing double beat Milwaukee 4-2 for his first Figgins on a harmless roller. knees to retire Morales on a the eighth and Mariano Rivera and scored on Corey Hart's sac­major league win since 2003. "I didn't think he had much of grounder to end the seventh. gave up a hit in the ninth to fm­rifice fly to give Milwaukee a 2-1 a chance to stay in when you get From the third inning on this ish the four-hitter. lead. Twins 3, Angels 1 hit right above the knee like year, Perkins has been nothing 
Cody Ransom added a three­Cameron, who played for the Glen Perkins is making this that," Gardenhire said. "Pretty short of dominant: 18 frames, run double in the eighth for New Mets from 2004-05, made it 3-1 look easy. Even a blistering tough. Tough kid." seven hits, one run. York off Rafael Betancourt to with a shot to left-center in the comebacker off Bobby Abreu's Anderson asked Perkins in the Loux's start was a lift for the make it 7-3. sixth, his fourth of the season. powerful bat couldn't keep him dugout during the seventh­Angels, who used 11 pitchers in 
Shin Soo-Choo homered in the Omir Santos' leadoff triple in from finishing off another fine inning stretch whether the spot the first two games. But their second inning, a day after he hit the seventh chased Suppan, and start. where the ball hit had gone bats were quiet for a second a three-run shot in a record 14-an infield single by Jose Reyes Perkins walked gingerly numb. Perkins thought his coach straight game. On their way to a run second for Cleveland, and off Mitch Stetter cut it to 3-2. around the mound after the said he was done for the after­lopsided victory on Friday, they Ryan Garko hit a two-run shot But Coffey came on with the scary moment in the seventh, noon. No, he had one inning left, let the Twins score seven times in the third to temporarily take bases loaded and one out to face but passed the warmup test, before turning it over to Joe in the eighth in an 11-9 loss and the focus of the boos off Pavano slugger Carlos Delgado, who pitched through the pain, and Nathan for the ninth. now head home after a 1-5 road and onto Burnett, who walked grounded into a 1-2-3 double completed eight innings to guide Nathan notched his third save trip. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
$35 Paid Today! New Donors (w/ad) IBR Plasma Center 2102 S Michigan, South Bend 574-234­9568. 

FOR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer­ing 10-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 
3 bdrm house for 07/01/09 on Corby, $1600/mo. Owners are ND alums. Pis call/text 619-804-3359. 
2009/1 0 student rentals Angela St./St. Peters & S.B. Ave. $1300­$2000/mo. Contact Bruce Gordon 574-876-3537. 
Rental House 1 mile from ND, on TRANS PO route. New kitchen, bath, windows & carpet. 2 bed­rooms, 2 living rooms & dining room. APPLIANCES INCLUDED. Call Linda 574-288-0168. 
Off-Campus housing at Dublin Village, Irish Crossings. Now up to $100 off per room per month with an application by May 15. Call CES Property Management at 574-968­0112. 
Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or www.kramerhous­es.com 
FoR SALE 

Condo for Sale 1564 Sq Ft 3 bdr 2 baths 2 car garage Basement Sun Porch Quiet neighborhood 6 mile south of University $130k 574-291­2306 


PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs con­fidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Rrth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NDs Assistance for Pregnant Students//Office of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd.edu/health-safe­ty/assistance-for-pregnant-students. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: http:1/osa.nd. edulhealth­safety/assault/ 
ADOPTION -Loving Domer couple looking to adopt a baby (babies), please call Marie and James (301)977-5069 or (866)202-1424 PIN 5448. 
WAKE WEEK09 WAKE IT SHAKE IT 





OUND THE NATION 
Monday, April 20, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 17 
NBA 

NCAA Men's Baseball Baseball America Top 25 Poll·· 
team record 
1 LSU 26·6 2 Rice 25·8 3 UC Irvine 22·9 4 Arizona State 25·8 5 North Carolina 27·9 6 CS Fullerton 22·9 7 Baylor 23·10 8 Georgia 29·6 9 Texas 24·8 10 Oklahoma 28·8 11 Arkansas 24·8 12 Georgia Tech 21·8 13 Miami (Fla.) 25-10 14 Oregon Stale 25·10 15 San Diego State 20.7 16 TCU 25·12 17 Mississippi 22-10 18 Cal Poly 24·8 19 Virginia 28·7 20 Costal Carolina 29·7 21 Kansas State 26·9 22 Gonzaga 23·10 23 East Carolina 26·9 24 Kansas 23·12 25 Minnesota 20-10 
NCAA Men's Lacrosse 
Inside Lacrosse Top 20 
team record points 
1 Princeton 10.1 315 2 Virginia 12·1 298 3 Syracuse 9-2 284 
··~.':,·········· 
282
4 NOTRE DAME 10.0 

··5  ·Cornell  9-2  241  
6 . Hofstra  9-1  232  
7  Duke  9-3  229  
8  UMBC  H  228  
9 Johns Hopkins 1o North Carolina  5-4 9-4  189 171  
11  Navy  9-3  154  
12  Massachusetts  7-3  122  
13 14  Colgate Maryland  9-3 s.;s  121 111  
15 16  Loyola (Md;) Brown  7-4 9-2  104 98  
17  Harvard  5-4  58  
18  Albany  s-;4  32  
19  Penn State  6-5  30  
20  Bucknell  l·6  16  

NCAA Women's Golf 

around the dial 
NBA Playoffs 
Chicago at Boston 7p.m., TNT 
Dallas at San Antonio 
9:30 p.m., TNT 


Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -The Lakers won the West in a runaway and they stuck to a similar script in their playoff opener. 
Kobe Bryant scored 24 points, Trevor Ariza added 21 and Pau Gasol 20 as Los Angeles defeat­ed the Utah Jazz 113-100 Sunday. 
Allowing a Phil Jackson-coached team to win Game 1 of any series doesn't bode well for the opposition. Jackson's teams improved to 42-0 in series openers, includ­ing 18-0 with the Lakers. 
The Lakers wrapped up the top seed in the 
IN BRIEF 

Western Conference with 2 1/2 weeks remaining in the regular season, and eventually won the West by 11 games. 
They pretty much had their way against the Jazz, leading by 22 points at halftime and then answered resoundingly both times Utah got with· in nine in the second half. 
Bryant's total gave him 3,710 career postseason points, moving him past Magic Johnson and into ninth on the NBA's list. He trails only Kareem Abdul· Jabbar (4,070) and Jerry West (4,457) for most points in the playoffs with the Lakers. 
Carlos Boozer led the 
Jazz with 27 points and Deron Williams added 16 points and a career play­off-high 17 assists. Both were in foul trouble, with Boozer getting his third just before halftime when Williams already had two. 
The Jazz sorely missed Mehmet Okur, who sat out with a mild right hamstring strain. He averages 17 points and 
7.5 rebounds and gives Utah a much-needed inside presence against the Lakers' twin 7-foot­ers, Andrew Bynum and Gasol. 
Bynum had seven points and three rebounds play­ing in foul trouble most of the game. 
The Jazz were 15-26 on the road during the regu­lar season, and their luck at Staples Center isn't any better. The Lakers have won 10 in a row, includ­ing playoff games, at home against them. 
The Jazz outscored the Lakers 33-24 in the third quarter to trail 86-73 going into the final 12 minutes. They opened the quarter on a 9·0 run, then a 9-2 burst got them to 72-63, their first sin­gle-digit deficit since late in the opening quarter. 
But Bryant scored three in a row and Shannon Brown hit a 3-pointer that kept the Lakers ahead by 13. 

No hard feelings after 
Murray's shot hits woman 
LUTZ, Fla. -One day after she was plunked on the head by Bill Murray's wayward tee shot, Gayle DiMaggio had a request: a signed copy of his movie "Caddyshack." 
The actor, meanwhile, was back on the course Saturday for the second round of the Outback Pro· Am. And the course marshals took no chances: They wore hard hats. 
DiMaggio lives on the course where Murray hooked his shot far to the left of the No. 9 hole at TPC Tampa Bay. She was hit on the left temple Friday as she stood in her backyard to watch the first round. She never lost consciousness but needed stitches at a hospital. 
DiMaggio, who has lived on the course for eight years, recounted her mishap and her encounter with Murray. 
"He came over and laid down on the ground with me and he was very con· cemed, asking ifI was OK," she said. 
Lester to start Friday against 
Yankees, Beckett suspended 
BOSTON -Josh Beckett's suspen­sion was reduced from six games to five on Sunday, allowing the Boston Red Sox ace to take his next turn in the rotation. 
Beckett threw a pitch near the head of the Los Angeles Angels' Bobby Abreu last Sunday, leading to both dugouts and bullpens empty· ing. The right-hander was suspend· ed on Tuesday and immediately appealed the ruling. 
With the Red Sox off Thursday, the new penalty allows Beckett to switch spots with Jon Lester and start Saturday. Lester is now sched· uled to start the series opener against the New York Yankees on Friday. 
"We didn't actually have a hearing because everybody has to answer to somebody, and my boss told me that this was the best thing for the ball­club," Beckett said. 
Lebron's 38 in Game 1 
helps power Cavaliers 
CLEVELAND -LeBron James crossed midcourt and launched the ball toward the basket more than 40 feet away as the hom sounded. 
As Cleveland's star, the Detroit Pistons, 20,000 fans and a TV audience watched the shot's arching flight, James never stopped running. 
"I was going to chase it until it went in the hoop," he said. Off the back· board, through the rim, then the net. It was halftime. It was over. 
James banked in a stunning 3-point­er at the end of the first half and fin. ished with 38 points, eight rebounds and seven assists as the Cavaliers embarked on their quest for a first NBA championship with a 102-84 win over the Pistons in Game 1 on Saturday. 
James' 41-footer demoralized the Pistons and gave the Cavs the league's most dominant team -home or away -during the regular season, momen­tum and a 12-point halftime lead. 
,-------­
! page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 20, 2009 
NBA 
Iguodala's last-second shot seals comeback victory 
After T.I. introduces lineups, Smith, Hawks hold Wade to 19 and race to resounding victory over Heat 
Gundy said. "I was surprised a 3-pointer -and 11 points in 
Associated Press 
not only for our lack of intensity the four -for Philadelphia and 
OHLANDO, Fla. -Andre defensively, but I was really sur­Iguodala did the rest. Iguodala waited for the clock to prised with our lack of focus." "You've got to understand, tick down, took a few dribbles The Sixers came into the play­when I come into the game to his right and let go a high­offs losing six of their last seven we're usually down 15 points," arching jumper. Swish! The games but were able to put that Marshall joked. "So my job is Magic were stunned, their fans skid in the past the same way just to come in and shoot." silenced. they did last year, when they Starting Magic forwards 
For the Philadelphia 76ers, it won Game 1 at Detroit. The Hashard Lewis and Turkoglu was the sweet sound of stealing Pistons eventually took the looked rusty in their first games home-court advantage. series in six games. in more than a week after being 
Iguodala made a 22-foot Orlando's inside-out game sidelined with injuries, part of jumper with 2.2 seconds seemed as if it would too much the reason Orlando was pushed remaining, and the Sixers ral­for Philadelphia back to the Eastern lied from an 18-point deficit to Lee's shooting and Howard's Conference's No. 3 spot. beat Orlando 100-98 in Game 1 muscle highlighted a 15-3 run Lewis said the injury didn't of their opening-round playoff in the third quarter that built an slow him and what hurt after series Sunday. 18-point lead. With Howard the game was the loss, not the 
He then stood at halfcourt banging on the inside, the tendinitis in his right knee. waving his hands as teammates Sixers were forced to throw "It's a loss on your home court joined him to celebrate. double-teams at him, allowing and now home-court advantage 
"We won one more game than the Magic's perimeter players to is toward them," Lewis said. people thought we would win," break free. "But this is the playoffs. It's not Iguodala said. "I was pretty When they did, Howard again the NCAA tournament. One amped up." took charge. game is not going to eliminate 
Iguodala had 20 points, eight Rim-rocking dunks, smooth you." rebounds and eight assists, and hook shots and even some The Magic could never make Louis Williams scored 18 to help uncharacteristic crisp free up the difference. the Sixers beat the Magic for the throws by the Magic's center The sixth-seeded Sixers were first time in four tries this sea­capped the spurt. The only time able to withstand an early son -and when it mattered Philadelphia actually slowed Magie run and a strong start most. Hedo Turkoglu's fadeaway Howard was when Samuel from Howard, who finished 9­3-pointer missed at the buzzer, Dalembert inadvertently for-11 from the floor. Thaddeus and Magic fans stood in disbe­scratched both his eyes and was Young had consecutive three­lief before filing out quietly. called for a foul. Howard said point plays to help Philadelphia 
Iguodala had missed two free his eyes were pulsating after the rebound from five down to throws with about a minute left game but shouldn't be a prob­eventually take a 27-21 lead in before more than redeeming lem. the first quarter. himself with the game-winning "I got backslapped," Howard But any momentum the Sixers Miami was held to its fewest doled out eight assists and shot. said. built evaporated on the final points of the season -its previ­turned seven turnovers into 10 
"He really made up for it, did­Maybe that was all play of the period. ous low was 68 -and the points. Miami shot just 39 per­n't he?" Sixers coach Tony Philadelphia needed. In a rare display of speed and Hawks tied the mark they set cent (7 of 18). the final attempt DiLeo said, smiling. "He's like Howard made the pair of free power, 34-year-old Magic back­against the Charlotte Hornets in a desperation heave by Wade, our secret weapon." throws to put Orlando ahead up guard Anthony Johnson took a 1998 playoff victory. who ran into an Atlanta player 
Dwight Howard had a career 79-61 and then went to the it end-to-end and dunked over Smith scored 23 points and on the follow-through and was playoff-high 31 points and 16 locker room with a towel to his Hatliff. The throttling one-hand every other Atlanta starter also sprawled out on the court as the rebounds, and rookie Courtney face. He returned to the game slam in the waning seconds of was in double figures. Wade horn sounded. Lee scored 18 for the Magic. It after a few minutes. the quarter had the Magic's made just 8 of 21 shots, and He got up slowly, clapped his was the biggest lead the Magie The Sixers rolled off eight bench so exhilarated that Van Michael Beasley added 10 hands in disgust and walked to blew all season, topping the loss straight points in the fourth and Gundy had to shove a few of his points on a night in which the the locker room. on Oct. 31 to Memphis when eventually tied the game at 91 own players back who had Heat showed their youth, shoot­Atlanta actually took control they were ahead by 15 points. with fewer than four minutes made their way onto the court ing just 37 percent and manag­late in the first quarter. After Game 2 in the best-of-seven left on a layup by Andre Miller. in celebration. ing seven points in the final Wade dunked coming off the series is Wednesday night in After Howard's dunk over Thea It was premature. period. baseline, the Hawks scored the Orlando. Ratliff put the Magic ahead 98-The Sixers hung tough and The Hawks learned a year ago final two baskets for a 24-21 
"I was very surprised at the 95 with 49.1 seconds remaining, bumped back, with Iguodala just how valuable that extra lead. 
effort." Magic coach Stan Van Donyell Marshall answered with going for a pair of reverse home game can be. facing The second period was no dunks in a back-and-forth sec­Boston in their first playoff contest. With Wade getting a ond quarter. Philadelphia had appearance in nine years. quick breather at the start, the an answer for everything Atlanta made a series of it by Hawks quickly stretched their Orlando threw its way. winning three thrilling games at lead to 30-22. Then Smith took Everything, that is, except Philips Arena, but the Celties over, scoring 13 high-flying Howard. won four blowouts in Boston to points before the quarter was 
"This is a game that we get started on their way to an done. should have won," Howard said. NBA title. Al Harford blocked Wade at "But there's no need to panic. From the day the Hawks one end and the Hawks were off We just have to come our with a walked off the court in Boston, to the races, with Joe Johnson better effort." they set a goal of gaining home­lobbing to Smith for a thunder­
court advantage to start the ous jam. The former NBA dunk Hawks 90, Heat 64 playofl's. Atlanta came through, champion was just getting start­
This is why the Atlanta Hawks claiming the fourth spot in the ed. His most spectacular play wanted to start the playoff's at East with its first winning came off a lob by Mike Bibby, home. record (47-35) in a decade. with Smith caught with his back 
With Josh Smith delivering Instead of opening in a hostile to the hoop and slammed one rim-shaking dunk after environment, the Hawks got to through while facing the other another and plenty of team­play in front of a raucous crowd way. On the very next posses­mates chipping in, the Hawks that cheered their every move. sion, the Hawks ran off a Wade made Miami look like a one­They even brought out Atlanta­miss and Smith rocked the man team, running Dwyanc native T.I. to make the player house with another flying left­Wade and the Heat ragged for a introductions, the rap star still a handed dunk. blowout in Game 1 of their month away from reporting to Miami rookie coach Erik Eastern Conference playoff federal prison to serve his one­Spoelstra got a rough initiation series Sunday night. year-and-a-day sentence for to the playoff game. He called 
Wade scored 19 points -11 pleading guilty to weapons three timeouts during the sec­below his NBA-Ieading average charges. ond quarter in a futile attempt -and only one other Miami Wade may have been the best to slow the Hawks, but all that even reached double figures as player on the court, but the seemed to do was give them a the Hawks tied a franchise Hawks clearly had the best little extra rest so they could record for fewest points allowed team. Smith led the way, firing keep on running. in a playoff game. Wade spent everyone up with three thun­Bibby, whose acquisition at much of the night on his back­derous dunks during a decisive last season's trade deadline side or complaining to thA refer­second quarter in which the gave Atlanta its first true point ees, his frustration growing as Hawks outscored the Heat 35-guard in years, ran the offense the Hawks turned the opener to 18 to build a 59-39 lead at half­masterfully beyond just throw­the best-of-seven series into a time. ing up passes for the highlight Iaugher before halftime. The Hawks made 11 of 16 (61 shows. He dished out nine 
Game 2 is Wednesday night in percent) in the second quarter, assists to go along with 10 Atlanta. outrebounded the Heat 12-7, points. 



Monday, April 20, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 


CFNrF.R IU SPIRfl'UAIJTY SAINT MARY'S COLI.Ja Presents The 24th Madeleva Lecture 
Pick up your 2009 Dome yearbook 
Tuesday, April21: 11·5 in 108 LaFortune (Sorin Annex--adjacent to main lounge) 4:30-8 at North Dining Hall (south porch) 
Wednesday, April 22: 11-5 in 108 LaFortune 4:30-9 at South Dining Hall (main lobby) 
Thursday, April 23: 11-5 in 108 LaFortune 
• 
No charge to undergraduates (just show ID). Grad students and others may purchase for $29 at LaFortune Information Desk. 

• 
2006, 2007 and 2008 yearbooks will be available in 108 LaFortune while supplies last. (No charge to undergrads). 

• 
Students who are abroad may have a friend pick up a copy for them, or they may come to 315 LaFortune next fall. 

• 
For more information, e-mail Dome@nd.edu. 


Thank you and enjoyyouryearbook 
Work for the 2010 Dome 
Openings for section editors and assistants, designers, photographer and writers E-mail Dome@nd.edu 
MEN'S GOLF 
Irish in middle of pack after first day 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
The Irish put together a solid first round at the Big East championships at the Lake Jovita Golf and Country Club in Dade City, Fla., finishing the first day of competition in fifth place with a seven-over par 
295. No. 44 Louisville leads the field of 12 with a six-under 282. 
Notre Dame freshman Max Scodro, in his fifth collegiate tournament of his career, vaulted himself to fifth overall on the back of eagles on the second and 11th holes. He stands at one~under par after a torrid 33 on the back nine. 
"Max is strong through the bag, stays loose out there and just enjoys playing," Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. 
Junior Doug Fortner, the only upperclassman to make an appearance at the tourna~ ment for Notre Dame, heads into Monday's play in 14th place. After sitting at three­under par through 11, Fortner fired two bogeys and a double bogey over four holes on the back nine to slide to one-over par for the day. Fortner's strong play leaves open the possibility for back-to-hack All~Big East honors for the junior. 
Trailing his veteran team­mate by only one stroke, soph­omore Jeff Chen carded a two­over 7 4 to end up in 23rd for the day. Chen quickly settled down after opening his round with four straight bogeys. Kubinski has lauded Chen for 
his veteran attitude and icy nerves throughout the season. 
"Even when he doesn't have his golf swing where he'd like it, he doesn't panic," Kubinski said. "He just goes out with what he has and competes. He now knows he can compete at this level." 
Fellow sophomore Dustin Zhang shot a five-over 77. Coming out of the turn with a one-over 37, Zhang struggled down the stretch to fire four bogeys on the back nine. Sophomore Connor Alan-Lee rounded out the Irish lineup with an 11-over 83. Alan~Lee never quite seemed to find his stroke, scattering eight bogeys and two double bogeys in addi~ tion to his birdie on the 17th. 
Despite finding themselves squarely in the thick of a tight field -only 12 strokes sepa­rate the third-and lOth-place teams -Notre Dame has his­tory on their side. In perhaps the finest performance in their long history, the Irish shot an incredible 16-under par on the final day of the 2006 Big East championship at Jovita to come back from 12 strokes down and clinch the title. 
"We know we can do some­thing -win -we've felt capable of all year," Kubinski said. "We'll have positive vibes. Lake Jovita was 'our place' the last time we com­peted there." 
Competition continues today with an 8:50 a.m. tee-off and will conclude tomorrow after­noon. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 20, 2009 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles suffer tough loss to Kalamazoo 
NO WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish second after first day of Big East tourney 



'Tm happy to see the
coach Susan At the end of Holt said she work we've put in round one, the was hopeful that Irish trail
this week paying off" 
her team can Louisville by 16 build off of the strokes. Holt 
Susan Holt 
first round per­knows that if formance. Irish coach her team is to 
By MOLLY SAMMON Sports Writer 
After last Wednesday's big victory over Bethel, it looked like the Belles may have found the right combination for MIAA success. But any optimism was doused Saturday with an 8-1 loss to Kalamazoo. 
"They were very steady and had an especially tough lower part of their lineup," Saint Mary's coach Dale Campbell said of the Hornets. 
There were crucial parts of the match where the Belles (6­8, 1-3 MIAA) showed promi­nence as a team and capable of responding to pressure. 
"Camille Gebert played tough at number two as she has all year," Campbell said. "She is a leader and has pulled through even when the team has not. Camille dominated her match." 
Though junior team captain Gebert was the only Belle who pulled out a win in Saturday's match, the rest of the squad battled tough and lost only nar­rowly. 
"Betsy Reed also fought really hard at No. 4 and almost came back, and Jillian Hurley lost a close match with an excellent opponent at No. 1 singles," Campbell said. 
Saint Mary's set itself up for disappointment Saturday after poor results in the early dou­bles matches. 
"Most crucial was losing all three doubles, which is difficult to come back from," Campbell said. "Most of the singles matches were close, however." 
Despite the loss, the team's attitude still boasts positivity for the rest of the season. 
"I think the team was disap­pointed in the loss, but viewed the match as an opportunity to improve from our mistakes," said Hurley. "No one wants to lose matches, and this loss hit us hard, but we are moving for­ward and definitely looking to improve our games." 
Even after the loss, the Belles still felt that they could com­pete with the top teams in the MIAA. 
"We had the advantage that Kalamazoo had lost to teams that we had lost to, so in regards to our records, we were fairly equal," Hurley said. "In addition, we beat them last year, so we had that edge over them." 
Next up for the Belles is a make-up match against Trine at home Monday. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
ByALEXWEST Sports Writer 
The Irish find themselves in second place after a strong first round at the Big East Championship at the Jovita Golf Club in Dade City, Fla. 
Sunday, the Irish fired a team score of 7 -over to wrap up the first round of three at the champi­onship. Irish 
"[The team's] game is where it needs to be," Holt said. "We started out even on the front nine but just lost some shots on the back nine." 
Leading the way for the Irish after day one was sopho­more So-Hyun Park. Park recorded a hole-in-one on the 145-yard, par-3 fourth hole. On the back nine, Park traded three birdies with three bogeys to finish the day at 2­under tied for third. 
"So-Hyun played solid today," Holt said. ''I'm happy with her performance." 
Senior captain Lisa Maunu tallied a 2-over to finish in a tie for seventh. Freshmen Becca Huffer, junior Kristin Wetzel and junior Annie mount a come­
back, it won't 

be because Louisville will stumble and come back to them. 
"We've got to do what we can to get out of the hole we're in," Holt said. "Louisville is playing well and they wont come back to us." 
Holt doesn't remember how the Irish finished after their first round of last year's championship run, but she is confident that the Irish can catch Louisville if they can play well the next two days. 
"I don't remember how we stacked up last year," Ilolt said. "But I know that [catch­ing Lousiville] can be done." 
Contact Alex West at awest@hcc-nd.edu 
Brophy rounded out the Irish scores tallying rounds of 3­over, 4-over, and 5-over, respectively. 
"''m happy to see the work we've put in this week paying off," Holt said. "But I am a lit­tle disappointed we didn't fin­ish stronger down the stretch." 
Last season, the Irish beat Louisville to win their third Big East Championship. 

Monday, April 20, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
ND MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish place fourth in Big East 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
After a win over Georgetown to start the Big East champi­onships, hopes were high for the Irish. But after consecutive losses to South Florida and Louisville, Notre Dame finished fourth in the conference. 
No. 28 Notre Dame lost a hard-fought match against South Florida, each singles matches going to three sets. 
"[South Florida] beat top-25 teams Miami and Florida State this season when they played here in Tampa," head coach Bobby Bayliss said. "Lucas Jovita and Wael Kilani at the top of their lineup are two very strong baseliners who will make you earn every point." 
The No. 31 doubles team of senior Brett Helgeson and soph­omore Tyler Davis were able to give the Irish a 1-0 lead with an 8-2 victory over Jovita and Thomas Estrada. 
At No. 2 doubles sophomore Stephen Havens and freshman Casey Watt fell to Mahmoud Hamed and Jammal Adderley by a score of 8-4. 
"Casey Watt has been a real force for us this year," Bayliss said. "His combination of speed, aggressive ground strokes, and competitiveness separate him from most play­ers." 

Lafayette Square Town homes 
Enjoy the good life when you live off campus at a very reasonable price! 3,4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 2 1/2 Baths Free Internet Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher Security System Off-Street Parking Located Close to Notre Dame 
Only $350 per month, per student! 
*Our townhomes rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
(574) 234-2436 
Arts &Le Stud ts 

You're inuited to a gathering to 1nark the release.'! ofthe 
JOUR1\lAL OF UNDER(;RA.DU...4~TE RESEARCll 
·t#dite.rddy, .Jlpnf22ttd 
r;reat:Jfatro/0 :flimi,!Jiittes.ry 
.J:.J{}-4:45 
rJ?.tfre.rlimetlts .ren-'t'd 
Please come join the authors and editors of this year's JUR to discuss the JUR, particular articles. or vour own research. 
Senior Santiago Montoya and sophomore Dan Stahl lost the doubles point for the Irish, falling at No. 3 doubles by a score of 8-5. 
Estrada was able to defeat Davis at No. 6 singles to give the Bulls a 2-0 advantage. 
Watt, though, pulled out a third-set singles win over Hamed by a score of 6-4, .1-6, 7­5 to keep the match alive, and earn his team-leading 17th vic­tory of the season. 
Adderley defeated Stahl at No. 4 singles to earn the victory for South Florida and clinch them a spot in the fmals Saturday. 
After the loss, the Irish faced No. 23 Louisville for third place Saturday. 
"While they beat us in Louisville last week, the match was within our grasp," Bayliss said. "We found ourselves at 5­5 in the tiebreaker to win the doubles point at No. 1 and we led 4-3 in the third set at No. 1 singles." 
The Irish were looking to avenge a 4-3 loss against Louisville from earlier in the season, but again fell just short in their comeback bid losing 4-3 again. 
Again, Helgeson and Davis gave the Irish an early 1-0 advantage at No. 1 doubles, but Notre Dame couldn't capitalize. 
At No. 3 doubles Austen Childs and Sumit-Prakash Gupta tied the doubles point at 1-1 when they defeated Montoya and Stahl by a score of 8-3. 
At No. 2, Havens and Watt battled to take an 8-7 lead late but fell to.the Cardinals duo of Alejandro Calligari and Robert Rotaru in a tiebreak where Louisville won 7-2. 
The Cardinals jumped out in singles to a 3-0 lead with wins at No. 1 and 2 singles. No. 31 Childs defeated Helgeson 6-1, 6­2, while Havens fell No. 79 Viktor Maksimcuk 6-3, 6-1. 
Davis earned Notre Dame's first singles victory at No. 6 over Robert Hall 6-4, 6-3 to bring the match to 3-1. 
Sophomore David Anderson won at No. 5 singles, while Watt earned his 18th win of the sea­son at No. 4 singles to tie the match at three wins apiece. 
Stahl fell to Caligari in three sets, though, to give the Cardinals the victory. 
South Florida ended up win­ning the event, and the Irish will now await their NCAA frrst round opponent when draws are announced after the com­pletion of all conference tourna­ments next weekend. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at 
kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Tea111 takes third Big East title in four years 

Senior captain Kelcy Tefft returns a serve against Marquette last April. Tefft and the Irish won the Big East Championship Sunday. 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
After a dominating weekend, another gold trophy has been added to the women's tennis tro­phy case. 
No. 2 Notre Dame (22-4, 6-0) claimed its ninth overall Big East title by winning the Big East tournament Sunday. The team successfully defended last year's title and won the crown for the third time in four years. 
The Irish opened the tourna­ment with a 4-0 sweep of Pittsburgh Friday, and then quickly replicated the victory with a 4-0 win over Rutgers Saturday. In the championship match Sunday, Notre Dame won 4-2 over DePaul, the second vic­tory over the Blue Demons in two weeks. As made evident by the lopsided scores, the entire team contributed to this display of Big East supremacy. 
"Everyone played well the whole weekend, especially since we hadn't been outside for awhile," senior captain Kelcy Teffisaid. 
Each of the three matches began with Notre Dame sweep­ing the doubles point without dif­ficulty -no match came closer than 8-2. The sweeps brought second-ranked Tefft and fresh­men Kristy Frilling's season dou­bles record to 34-3, and fresh­men Shannon Mathews and jun­ior Colleen Rielley's dual match record to 20-8. 
These doubles points set the stage for the Irish to cruise to victory. The two points DePaul won equaled the number of points Notre Dame lost in their five victories since last beating DePaul. 
"DePaul is a very good team, and I was a little bit nervous about it going in because we had a pretty tight match with them at their place two weeks ago," Teffi said. "But everyone played really well, and we're all happy with everyone's performance." 
This is the third Big East title in the careers of seniors Tefft and Katie Potts. 
"Every year it is fun to come down to Florida and even more fun to return home with a victo­ry," Teffi said. 
Last season the Irish came away from Big East play laden with awards. Most notably, Teffi won Player of the Year and head coach Jay Louderback was awarded Coach of the Year. The end of the season awards will come out early this coming week, and after earning the Big East championship, more acco­lades will likely come the team's way. 
"We should represent pretty well on all-tournament teams across the board," Teffi said. 
Now on a six-match winning streak, Notre Dame approaches the NCAA tournament in prime form. 
"We have a few weeks off to recover from some injuries and work on our conditioning a little bit," Tefft said. "Then we just need to be ready in early May whenever we host NCAA Regionals." 
NCAA Regionals will be the weekend of May 9, and if the Irish prevail, the team will advance to sectionals at Texas A&M. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer 1 @nd.edu 
Store Your Stun 
0111' Uil SIOUtllfl 
Call or !itop on by & "'!seN<! today! 
[5141 203-0572 

6<182 Brick !Wad.South !lomd l<><~l...:l ilt O&<Oiant.! Rd.& US 10 Bypi>%, 7 minul"' '"'"" corn~><J~ 

College of Arts and Letters Journal of Undergraduate Research is now available in the Great Hall. 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall, and Decio. 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 20, 2009 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles falter down the stretch in MIAA play 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sporrs Writer 
It's coming down the crunch time in the MIAA, and the Belles aren't responding well. 
After starting the season 22-4 and in prime position for a MIAA playoff berth, the Belles began a six-game los­ing streak, four against league opponents. This week­end, they lost 4-3 and 12-4 against Adrian, dropping their league record to 6-6 and knocking them out of the playoffs. A day after those heart-breaking losses, the Belles were swept by North Central 9-5 and 14-2 on sen­ior day. 
"We just had a bad week. It started Wednesday, it carried over into this weekend," Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. "We played well, but we just didn't take advantage when we had runners in scor­ing position." 
The Belles were forced to play from behind for almost all of the first game against Adrian after giving up four runs in the top of the first inning. They had nothing going until they sparked a rally with one out in the bot­tom of the seventh inning. A pair of errors allowed them to plate three runners, but 
Bulldogs pitcher Kelly Tomasek eventually shut the door, bringing her record to 19-0. 
The second game was simi­larly close, with the Belles only down 4-2 after three innings. But after the Bulldogs rattled off eight unanswered runs to bring the lead to 12-2, the Belles' hopes for an MIAA title were all but crushed. The Belles managed to add two runs in the bottom half of the six, but it was not enough to avoid the run rule. With no momen­tum whatsoever to take into Sunday, the Belles were swept again. 
"It was rainy, it was cold, and the team was still depressed. I don't think it was a lack of effort by any means, I think they were just a little confused," Sullivan said. 
The Belles are now forced to regroup and overcome the shock of falling in the stand­ings so quickly. They will have one more chance to end the season on a high note as they travel to Angola, Ind. to face off against divisional foe Trine University. The double­header is scheduled to begin at 1 p.m. Saturday. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish bounce back vs. UConn 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sporrs Writer 
After losing their last two con­tests, the No. 9 Irish came back with a victory in their final regular­season game as they took down Connecticut 20-5 and senior co­captain Jillian Byers set a single­game record with 12 points. 
"It took us a little while to figure out how to beat them," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. "But once we did we really controlled the ball in the second half." 
Notre Dame (12-4, 5-2 Big East) returned home Saturday after a string of four road games to dose out the season and honor the team's four seniors-Byers, co­captain and defender Shannon Burke, goalkeeper Erin Goodman, and midfielder Beth Koulup. The victory over Connecticut (3-13, 2-5) closes out conference play until the Big East tournament starts Friday. 
The Irish offense had been struggling to find the net in their last two games at Syracuse and Vanderbilt, but did not have any trouble Saturday. Notre Dame out­shot Connecticut 43-17 and had scored 14 goals by the time the Huskies netted their first. Leading the Irish offense alongside Byers were junior attack Gina Scioscia with two goals and three assists, sophomore midfielder Kaitlin Keena with three goals and an assist and freshman attack Maggie Tamasitis with three goals. 
Notre Dame's defense showed its strength as well Saturday, shutting Connecticut out 10-0 in the first half. 
"We were obviously pleased with the first half," Irish head coach Tracy Coyne said. "It's difficult to shut somebody out, and to have that type of defensive performance is exciting." 
Anchoring the Irish defense was Goodman, playing more than 46 minutes and making six saves while letting only two shots get past her, the first rolling across the goal line after she stopped it. 
"Erin had a great first half," Coyne said. "And a solid 40 min­utes." 
The Huskies' offense was fronted by senior midfielder Katy Ryan with two goals, followed by single goals from three other players. 
Notre Dame got the game off to quick start, jumping out to a 10-0 lead at the break. 
"Connecticut rarely got the ball down on our defensive end," Coyne said. "I think that really speaks to the tenacity of our mid­field and defense." 
Byers and Scioscia opened the second half in the same fashion of the first before Keena came down the field to put in two back-to-hack goal<> off of a free position shot and an assist from Byers. The Huskies got their first goal at 22:09 in the second half from Crerar to put the game at 14-1. 
The Irish defense has been key for the team this season with many players contributing in different games throughout the season. The team had 26 ground balls to Connecticut's 14, 17 draw controls and 10 caused turnovers. 
"We've been pushing to domi­nate defensively, and seeing so many defenders contribute at so many different times really shows what we've been working on," Coyne said. 
A highlight of the game was Byers breaking another school record with her seven goals and five assists. Previously held by her former teammate Cristy Foote ('06), Byers' 12 points beat the for­mer record by one point. 
"Cristy was inspirational for Jill," Coyne said. "No matter who you play, you have to be on your game to set a record like this. I'm really happy with the balance Jill had of seven goals and five assists." 
Byers wasn't the only senior to have made an impact on the Irish team over the last four seasons. The team's four seniors have the best four-year success the pro­gram has seen with a record of 50­21. 
Up next for the Irish is the Big East tournament this weekend at Georgetown. 
"Our focus is on our defense transition and stopping our oppo­nent before they get into scoring position," Coyne said. "Most important though is to go in with confidence in our game plan and to play a solid 60 minutes." 
Notre Dame will take on Syracuse in the first round Friday at 5:30 p.m. at Georgetown's Multi-Sport Facility. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO1 @nd.edu 
CONTROVERSIAL TOPICS IN ETHICS: 
LIVING TOGETHER BEFORE MARRIAGE 
CONDOM AND BIRTH CONTROL DISTRIBUTION IN POORER COUNTRIES BABIES RAISED WITHOUT THE CONSTANT PRESENCE OF 
THEIR MOTHERS WHAT ARE THE SCIENTIFIC FACTS BEHIND THESE ISSUES? WANT TO FIND OUT? THE 5th ANNUAL MIDWEST REGIONAL BIOETHICS 
CONFERENCE MAY 2, 2009 University of Notre Dame, Raclin Carmichael Hall, 1234 
Notre Dame Avenue, Notre Dame, IN Renowned speakers: Eugene Diamond, M.D., Brian Clowes, Ph.D., 
A. Patrick Schneider, M.D., and Christopher Mcintire, D.O. 
Registration (lunch included): $20 for Students/Clergy, $50 General Public, $75 Physicians: 4 CME credits available 
Online Registration and info at www.illinoiscma.org/sjbc.html For more information or mail-in registration, contact: 

Monday, April 20, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 

Sponsored by Students for Environmental Action 
MOUNTAINTOP REMOVAL
MONDAY 

DOCUMENTARY SHOWING 
April 20th, 8:00-1 O:OOpm 
Montgomery Auditorium, LaFortune 
Co-sponsored by N0-8 and GreeNO 
*Free Subway, drinks, and snacks 
NO WASTE
TUESDAY 
VEGETARIAN DINNER 
April 21st, 7:00-8:30pm 
Sarin Room, LaFortune 
Co-sponsored by NO for Animals 
*Bring your own cup, bowl, and utensils! 
WEDNESDAY EARTH DAY RALLY 
April 22nd, 11 :30am-2:30 pm 
Fieldhouse Mall 
THURSDAY BANFF FILM FESTIVAL 
April 23rd, 9:30pm-12am 102 Debartolo 
Co-sponsored by Climbing Club 
FRIDAY BIKE FESTIVAL 
April 24th, 3:00-7:30 pm South Quad in front of Rockne Memorial 
Sponsored by RecSports 
ALL EVENTS ARE FREE AND OPEN TO EVERYONE 
-
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 20, 2009 
Swezey 
continued from page 28 
League) continued their run as the only undefeated team in Division I. Neal Hicks opened the scoring just five minutes into the game, and Eric Keppeler, Adam Felicetti, Grant Krebs and Nicholas Beattie added goals in the first half. Swezey notched both of his goals towards the end of the period and the Irish had a 7-0 lead going into halftime. 
The Bobcats finally got on the board on a goal from Jack Oppenheimer with 11:58 left in the third quarter, but Krebs and senior Ryan Hoff notched two more goals to extend the Irish lead. 
After Kevin Kelly cut the lead to 9-2, Notre Dame picked up a goal from Kevin Cullinane to give the final score. 
After the final whistle blew, it was a quick turnaround for Corrigan's squad, as faceoff against the Red Storm was just over 24 hours, and 750 miles, away. 
The jetlag may have had a slight effect on the Irish, as the first quarter ended with the score knotted at two. Any lingering effects quickly wore off, though, and the Notre Dame offense found it's rhythm, leading to a 12-2 win. 
Krebs and Hoff both netted hat tricks, and Neal Hicks earned three assists and a goal on the day. 
After the Red Storm took a 2-1 lead early in the game, Hicks tied the game with 2:43 left in the first quarter. Sophomore midfielder Zach Brenneman scored what would eventually be the game­winner just three minutes into the second quarter, and the Irish defense took it from there. 
The Irish scored two man-up goals on the afternoon, moving their total up to 18 on the season. 
"It's nice to see our man-up click a little bit," Corrigan said. "I think we've got the right people there and we're getting good looks. We're not as consistent this year as we were a year ago, but it's still there." 
The two goals equaled season bests for the Irish, and Hoff said the stout effort was a credit not just to the defensemen, but also to the team as a whole. 
"Offensively we're not having bad possessions, so it doesn't translate into sloppy goals on the other end," Hoff said. "Early on we were giving up six or seven goals a game, and that was our offense's fault because we weren't having quality possessions." 
Hoff also credited senior goalie Scott Rodgers. 
"We had the best goalie last year in Joey Kemp," Hoff said. "He left, and now we've got the best goalie in the country this year in Scott Rodgers." 
Sunday was senior day at Alumni Field, and the graduating players were recognized before the game. The win against St. John's marked the last regular season home game for the seniors, though they could play at home again in the NCAA Tournament. 
"Four years is a long time and it's been incredible," Hoff said. "We try not to make too much out of it, but it defmitely means a lot coming out of here with a win." 
Corrigan said he wanted to wait until the season was over before he started singing the praises of his senior class. 
"They're not done," he said. "They still have, I hope, over a month to play." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
NO SOFTBALL 

Irish sweep doubleheaders 
By CHRIS MASOUD Sports Writer 

The final stretch of the Big East regular season can either propel a team into the playoffs or break its back permanently. For the surging Irish, the home stretch has brought out the best in a young team looking to make a statement in an unforgiving conference. 
Notre Dame (31-13, 13-3 Big East) is playing its best softball of the year, sweeping Villanova and Hutgers over the weekend to maintain its third-place rank in the Big East standings. The Irish extended their winning streak to 10 games and have yet to lose a conference game on the road. 
The IrL<>h handed the Wildcats (19-19, 4-15 Big East) a pair of losses Saturday, taking care of the Big East's weakest team by scores of 3-0 and 7-1 respective­ly. 
Senior Brittney Bargar picked up her 17th win of the year in game one, striking out five in the four-hit shutout, her seventh of the year. 
Although the Irish came out sluggish at the plate in the open­ing frames, they turned it on in the fourth to the tune of three runs on three hits. Freshman Dani Miller plated two runs after a bunt by junior Heather Johnson and an error by the Wildcats brought in the game's first run. 
Game two was a decisive victo­ry for the Irish, as all the pieces came together in a display of fundamentals and confidence. Solid hitting, airtight defense and shutdown pitching set the tone from start to finish. 
Miller continued her hot streak with a home run to left field to ignite the offense in the fourth, followed by a two-RBI single by freshman Alexa Maldonado later in the frame. Junior Alexia Clay added some insurance in the seventh with a two-run fly to give the Irish a six-run lead. 
Sophomore Jody Valdivia picked up her 12th win of the season by going the distance, giving up only one run on three hits and striking out seven. 
Many teams will fall into com­placency, resting on their laurels after picking up a sweep on the road. But not the Irish, who capped off a stellar weekend on the diamond by taking both games of a twinbill against Rutgers by scores of 4-3 and 4-1 Sunday. 
Not only did Sunday's victories extend the conference road win­ning streak to eight, but it also marked the 20th consecutive game in which Miller has record­ed at least one hit. Miller reached base safely in each of the four games against Villanova and Rutgers this weekend to build upon her school record. 
Rutgers (17 -28, 4-14 Big East), second to last in the Big East rankings, had their hands full, as solid defense and clutch hitting highlighted a weekend of trade­mark Irish softball. 
The Irish fell behind in tl1e first game of the doubleheader when Brittney Lindley doubled in a run in the second to give the Knights a narrow lead. But Bargar was stingy the rest of the way, picking up the win and lowering her ERA to a meager 1.72 to put her fifth in the Big East overall. 
Notre Dame broke loose for three runs on five hits in the fourth to overcome the deficit and take the lead. Led by Johnson's 3-for-3 day at the plate and timely team hitting up and down the lineup, the Irish cruised past a struggling Rutgers team that faded away as the game wore on. 
The back end of the double­header was a much closer con­test, as the Irish needed a little bit of heroics in the seventh from Valdivia to complete the sweep. 
Rutgers opened the game with a two-run homer from Sarah Kalka to take the early lead. But once again the Irish bats came alive in the fourth, scoring four runs in the frame to pull away from a dangerous Scarlet Knights team desperate for a win. The inning was highlighted by Miller's two-RBI double and an HBI single by sophomore Katie Fleury. 
Kate Valiante pulled Rutgers within one with a lead-off homer. But Valdivia put it together in remarkable fashion, striking out two and inducing a flyout to con­clude a hugely successful Irish weekend. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

Bookstore 
continued from page 28 
No. 6 Hallelujah Hollaback 21, No. 3 Mathletes 14 
Hallelujah Hollaback contin­ued to impress the Bookstore Basketball community Sunday afternoon with an impressive victory over the Mathletes. 
Hollaback, composed entire­ly of freshmen, was able to maintain a six-point lead con­sistently throughout the first half. However, some defensive adjustments by the Mathletes slowed their scoring at the beginning of the second half. 
"They switched to a man-to­man defense in the second half and that really slowed us down offensively for a while", Hollaback member Griffin Naylor said. 
Hollaback, however, quickly got back on track thanks to the help of big men Dayne Crist, Pat Kelly and Joe Fauria. 
"I think our defense got us back on track. The Mathletes had a couple of guys who could really get to the rim but I think they struggled finishing against our big guys and were forced to take difficult shots," Naylor said. "Offensively we really attacked the glass so we were able to get a good deal of put backs". 
Hallelujah Hollaback will face No. 7 Kramer Properties tonight in the final four at 7 p.m. 
South Bend Pollee Squad ­You're Screwed 21, Shirts and Skins 15 
The remarkable run of South Bend Police Squad -You're Screwed continued as they notch their third straight upset 

Candide 
THE ROYAL NATIONAL THEATRE VERSION Music by LEONARD BERNSTEIN Book Adapted from Voltaire by HUGH WHEELER In a New Version by JOHN CAIRO Lyrics by RICHARD WILBUR Additional lyrics by STEPHEN SONDHEIM, JOHN LATOUCHE, LILLIAN HELLMAN, 
DOROTHY PARKER and LEONARD BERNSTEIN 
Directed by MARK ABRAM-COPENHAVER Music directed by NANCY MENK Choreography by LAURIE LOWRY Costumes designed by MELISSA B BIALKO Lighting and set designed by MICHAELA DUFFY 
CANDIDE (NATIONAL THEATRE VERSION) is presented through special arrangement with Music Theatre International (MTI). All authorized performance materials are also supplied by MTI. 421 West 54th Street, New York, NY 10019 Phone: 212-57 4-4684 Fax: 212-397-4684 www.MTIShows.com 
of the tournament, beating Shirts and Skins 21-15 
The win yesterday was the most impressive of SBPS's run, as Shirts and Skins were the No. 2 overall seed. "We like the underdog type thing," You're Screwed guard Colleen Flahive said. 
Despite being only the No. 23 seed, her team played well throughout and maintained a lead the whole second half. Christine Hamma's back-to­hack 3-pointers late in the game helped You're Screwed pull away and eventually cruise on to victory. 
"I think we played really well," SBPS captain Liz Shadley said. "We were expecting a big fight and it was a big fight but we over­came." 
With the win, You're Screwed advances on to the Final Four of the women's bracket and will face off against SpineCrushers tonight at 7 p.m. 
Supreme Court 22, By All Means Move at a Glacial Pace 20 
In the last semi-final game to finish on Sunday, the two teams were so evenly matched that it took more than 21 points to decide the outcome. 
There were six ties and three lead changes in the sec­ond half alone, but Supreme Court ended the game on top. 
With the wet conditions, By All Means Move at a Glacial Pace chose to utilize the zone defense, hoping to force out­side shots. Supreme Court's shooting was effective enough, though, as they hit a number of jumpers down the stretch. 
Despite the win, captain Erin Newsom saw room for improvement and felt her team could have done things to close out the game better. 
"We made a lot of mistakes today; we came out a little slow. That hurt us, it made it into a longer game, but I think we played pretty well," Newsom said. "We pulled together and all contributed for the team." 
Supreme Court advances on to the Final Four to play the winner of the Muffet McGraw region of the women's bracket, enchantEe, at 8 p.m. tonight. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu and Bobby Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 


.----------------------­
Monday, April 20, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 
Undergraduate Male Athlete of the Year: Carl Andersen Senior Carl Andersen, one ofthe top basketball players on campus, led Morrissey Manor to their second straight Interhall Basketball title and undefeat­ed season with 17 points in the championship game. Carl's athleticism and ability to shoot it from anywhere make him a tough opponent and an impres­sive player to watch. In addition to playing basketball, broornball and volleyball, Carl also plays Interhall and CoRee football where he is one of the league leading wide receivers for both his Interhall and CoRee football teams. Alex Klupchak Alex Klupchak, a senior from O'Neill Hall, can be found most afternoons playing several hours of pick-up basketball at Rolfs. Alex has a confidence and intensity that can be matched by few other players and his quickness and ability to both drive the lane and shoot it from deep make him a constant threat. As captain and leading scorer of his CoRee and Interhall basketball teams, he led them both to appearances in the championship games, putting up 23 points in the Interhall Final. When not on the hardwood, Alex plays wide receiver on O'Neill's Interhall Football team and referees countless bas­ketball and football games. Casey McGushin Casey "Pistol" McGushin is the captain and leading scorer for Sarin's Interhall Basketball team where his driving ability and accuracy from deep behind the arc make him the Otter's number one threat. In addition, Pistol plays quarterback on the Otters' Interhall Football team and is the captain of the Little Giants flag football team who had an undefeated regular season, beating opponents by an average of 52 points. 
Undergraduate Female Athlete of the Year: Kathleen Stanley Kathleen Stanley helped McGlinn Hall capture the Interhall Women's Basketball & Flag Football championships. McGlinn upset the top seeded Purple Weasels ofPW in a 41-33 victory to win the Interhall Women's Basketball title. In addition, Stanley plays in multiple soccer leagues, Interhall Lacrosse, and was a member ofDVD Late Night who made an appearance in the CoRee basketball final. Mary Forr Mary Forr was a major component ofPasquerilla West's Flag Football team as their top wide receiver. She also led the Purple Weasels to the number one seed in the Women's Interhall Basketball tournament where they fell to McGlinn in the championship game. In addition, Mary was a key contribu­tor on several CoRee teams including Flag Football, Basketball, and Broornball. J enni Gargula Jenni Gargula plays quarterback for Welsh Family's Interhall Flag Football team that lost the championship game in the final minutes. Over the past three years, she has a perfect record in the regular season as the Whirlwind's quarterback. Jenni also brings an unmatched intensity to the point guard position on the Whirlwinds' Interhall Basketball team. 
Graduate Male Athlete of the Year: Matt Hamel After losing on penalty kicks in the GFS Soccer championship game, Matt Hamel helped the Insurance Waivers capture the CoRee Basketball title en route to an undefeated season. Hamel brings an unmatched intensity and determination to all sports as the leading scorer of the GFS basketball team, Flannel, and a strong defender on his CoRee Soccer team. In addition to playing basketball, soccer, broom ball and volleyball, Hamel is one of the top officials for both soccer and basketball. Braden Turner Braden Turner represents MSA in a variety of sports including basketball, flag football, and volleyball. He was captain of the MSA flag football team and a member of the MSA soccer team that lost in the finals on penalty kicks. David Standa As captain of his self-titled team, Dave Standa led his team to the GFS baseball title with a victory over CEGEOS. Dave played GFS basketball on Team Flannel who made it to the semifinals before losing to the eventual champions. He is also a key contributor to his league leading Floor Hockey team, Threat Level Midnight, who has beaten their opponents by an average of 10 goals. 
Graduate Female Athlete of the Year: Susan Pinnick Susan Pinnick represented the MSA program well, playing as many sports as she could. She was a member of MSA soccer team that lost the champi­onship game on penalty kicks and a key component of her undefeated CoRee soccer team. In addition, Susan played basketball, flag football, and vol­leyball. Chrissy Vaughn Chrissy Vaughn was the captain ofthe Mighty Mendoza GFS soccer team that won their league. She always brought enthusiasm and leadership to her team as a key contributor to their successful season. Brittany Baron Brittany Baron is the leader of MSA athletics as the captain of both their soccer and basketball teams. She was a member of the CoRee championship basketball team, Insurance Waivers, and the GFS soccer runner-up as well as flag football and volleyball. 
Team of the Year: Interhall Men's Basketball Champions: Morrissey Manor Basketball By averaging 65 points a game, Morrissey Manor completed an undefeated season and claimed the number one seed in the Men's Interhall Basketball Championship. Led by senior Captain Carl Andersen's 17 points, they were able to defend their Interhall basketball title with a 69-62 victory over O'Neill Hall. CoRee Flag Football Champions: Weapons of Mass Destruction Weapons of Mass Destruction struggled in the regular season, but a 2-2 record was just enough to get them into the playoffs where their season took off. They upset both the number one and number two seeds en route to the CoRee Flag Football Championship. CoRee Basketball Champions: Insurance Waivers Joe Marnell, Matt Hamel, & Joe DeMott led the Insurance Waivers to an undefeated season. Averaging 71 points a game to their opponents' 38, they captured the CoRee Basketball Championship over DVD Late Night with a 71-30 victory. 
Game of the Year: Men's Interhall Hockey Championship: Siegfried vs. Stanford The #4 seed Siegfried met the #1 seeded Stanford Griffins in the Interhall Men's Hockey championship after both teams had to go into OTto win their semifinal games. The Siegfried Ramblers pulled off the 3-1 upset over the heavily favored Stanford Griffins to take horne the championship trophy. Men's Interhall Football Championship: Siegfried vs. Keenan The top-seeded Siegfried Ramblers defeated the seventh-seeded Knights ofKeenan Hall14-13 to capture the Men's Interhall Football Championship trophy and complete an undefeated season. Despite the inspired play of the Knight's wide receiver, James Zenker, Siegfried was able to seal the victory when they stopped Keenan's attempt at a two-point conversion with just over two minutes to play. GFS Soccer Championship: Team MSA vs. Pick Up United Forty minutes wasn't enough to settle the GFS Soccer Championship as the game went into overtime tied 2-2. Top seeded Pick Up United pulled out the victory over third seeded Team MSA in Penalty Kicks 5-3. 
Fans of the Year: Zahm Hockey Defending Interhall Hockey Champion, Zahrn House, could always be found with a large contingent of fans including fans in costumes of all sorts. Even as the team started to struggle, their fan base stayed strong during the early morning hours at the JACC Ice Rink. Welsh Flag Football Welsh Farn was never short of fans, especially for Flag Football. Even Father Greg never missed a game. It's hard not to play well when you have the fan support that the Whirlwinds do, cheering them on to an undefeated regular season and an appearance in the Interhall Championship game. Purple Rain GFS Flag Football team, Purple Rain, always had· a ton of support from their fans, even bringing a mascot. The fans for Purple Rain stayed strong even as the weather turned cold and rainy for the playoffs where the team lost in a hard fought semifinal game to Palin's Spawn. 
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 20, 2009 
Clausen 
continued from page 28 
"Coach [Corwin] Brown made a great call," Blanton, who was named defensive MVP, said. "[Jimmy Clausen] just threw the ball right to me. It wasn't too hard. Jimmy told me to thank him later. I had some great blocking from the defensive line and safeties." 
Clausen finished the day 8-of-17 for 70 yards and the interception, while fresh­man Dayne Crist, who sat out last season as a red­shirt, finished 4-of-1 0 for 40 yards. Crist and Clausen alternated drives, with Clausen getting slightly more snaps. 
"He is doing a much better job at running the opera­tion," Irish coach Charlie Weis said of Clausen. "The [evolution] from calling plays to running plays to running the offense is really a three-step deal. First, just call the play, then you run the plays, ance of the defensive line, which sacked Clausen twice and Crist once. 
"These guys are hungry and they gave a lot of effort," honorary coach and former Irish defensive line­man Jus tin Tuck said. "These guys are young, and the sky could be the limit for them. They are in a good place. I told these guys that just because it was the spring game doesn't mean that they have to stop work­ing. We need guys to step up on this football team, and Ethan [Johnson] can defi­nitely be one of those guys." 
After the game, Weis agreed that the defensive line, while inexperienced, could be a major force this season. 
"I thought we ran the ball with power inside and our defense was good to the edge and put a lot of heat on the quarterback," Weis said. "Against our defense, oppo­nents are going to spend a lot of time scheming to get their quarterback extra time because they are very ath­letic. You only 
then you run ''Against our defense, saw about a the offense, tenth of what
opponents are going
and that is they have 
to spend a lot of time
where he has dialed up." gotten. He has scheming to get their Freshman gotten to the early-enrollee
quarterback extra 
point where Zeke Motta
time because {the 
he is running also stood out the offense defensive line] is very on defense, and once you athletic. ,, leading the get to that team with point, the sky seven tackles. is the limit." Charlie Wels "He might 
In terms of Irish coach have some 
pure statis­tics, the most effective quar­terback was freshman walk­on Nate Montana, son of for­mer Irish quarterback Joe Montana. The younger Montana played sparingly, but finished 2-of-2 for 51 yards. 
"It was nice for Nate to get a couple of completions," Weis said. "I think it was good for him to get those under his belt. There's a lot of pressure on him, being a legacy, especially now that you're out there playing in front of over 30,000 people instead of just in practice." 
The key to the offense's victory was new-found suc­cess in the running game. Sophomore running back Armando Allen was named offensive MVP, gaining 70 yards on 12 carries. Fellow sophomore Robert Hughes also put up impressive num­bers, gaining 93 yards on 21 carries with two touch­downs. Freshman Jonas Gray, who saw limited play­ing time last year, rounded out the trio with 89 yards and a touchdown on 20 car­ries. In all, the Irish aver­aged 4.2 yards per carry Saturday, a clear improve­ment over last year's aver­age of 3.3 yards per carry. 
On the other side of the ball, Weis said he was pleased with the perform-work to do 
mentally," 

Weis said of Motta. "But he's a very physically gifted athlete." 
Note: 
+While this year's scoring system gave points for "explosive plays," next year's may have include points for most creative cel­ebration. The defense start­ed with a game of "duck, duck, goose" after Blanton's touchdown. 
"I don't know whose idea that was, but it was proba­bly the tightest celebration I've ever seen," Blanton said. "I was running down the field and Kyle McCarthy was yelling 'duck, duck, goose.' Somebody had planned the celebration out before. I didn't worry about looking stupid because you only live once so you have to have some fun." 
The offense fought back with a grenade explosion celebration after one of Robert Hughes' touchdowns. Weis said he told the game's officials to not call personal foul penalties, so his players could have some fun. 
"I just hope they got it on video so I can see how stu­pid they really were," Weis joked. 
Contact Sam Werner at swemer@nd.edu 

Rushing 
continued from page 28 
for a combined 268 yards on 53 carries. Hughes found the end zone twice and Gray once to lead the Blue team scoring, but it was Allen that was named the game's Offensive MVP. 
"We have a real talented group," Allen said. "When any of us is on the field, nothing changes. We don't lose a step." 
Allen also praised the efforts of the defense on Saturday, despite the lopsided score. 
"I thought the defense played well," he said. "I guess you could say the scoring system kinda screwed them over." 
The rushing attack was a focal point in spring practice after Irish coach Charlie Weis looked for common elements in successful teams this past sea­son. 
"[The running gamel has been a major focus. We looked baek 
Tate 
continued from page 28 
Schrage said he wasn't sure when Tate would be available after the spring game and didn't have him in the lineup, but Tate showed up in the locker room -in football pads -before the game. Schrage asked him he could play, and Tate said, "Yeah, put me in." 
"I think Golden thrives on these kind of things," Schrage said. "He loves the limelight. He performs better in front of a lot of people." 
Mills walked to lead off the sixth inning and a hit-and-run single from Doyle sent him to third. Martin grounded into a double play, but Mills scored to make the score 3-0. 
The Mountaineers held the Irish for the rest of the game, but couldn't get anything from Maust. Maust improved his record to 5-2, allowed only sin­gles, didn't let anyone get past second base and lowered his ERA to 3.93. 
The Irish got another com­plete game from sophomore Brian Dupra in the first game of Saturday's doubleheader, an 8-6 win. Dupra has now thrown three straight complete games; he struck out three and walked one Saturday. 
"!Maust and Dupra] both exe­cuted the game plan and they were hitting their spots," Schrage said. "They were able to exploit some of West at all the teams that played in the BCS, took the highs and lows, and said here is what the teams in the BCS are doing, and those teams were averaging 4.6 yards per carry and we were averaging 3.3," Weis said. 
Weis also explained that each back brings different styles and abilities to the offense. 
"[TJhose guys are different types of backs. Allen is the small fast guy, Robert is the pounder guy and Jonas is the guy who's got a lot of both of them in him but with the least experience," Weis said. 
One reason for the apparent strides of the running back and blocking units may be new coaches Tony Alford and Frank Verducci. Alford joined the coaching staff this offseason after coaching running backs at Louisville, and Verducci brings 27 years of offensive line expe­rience at the pro and collegiate levels to the ranks. 
"Both of them are going to push you beyond the expecta­
Virginia's weaknesses." 
The Irish cranked out 16 hits in the game. Tate had three of those hits, scored a run and had an RBI. Martin went 3-for-4 and scored a run. 
Mills doubled in the second inning and sophomore catcher Cameron McConnell drove him in to give the Irish an early lead. Tate scored from first in the second inning on Barnes' dou­ble. Doyle gave the Irish a 3-0 lead when he hit his first career home run in the fourth inning. 
The Irish doubled their lead in the fifth, when Casey doubled and scored on Doyle's fly to right. Junior A.J. Pollock deliv­ered a two-run single with the bases loaded to make the score 6-0. 
The Mountaineers first scored in the sixth, when Justin Parks and Dan DiBartolomeo both doubled and Parks scored. Tobias Streich then doubled in DiBartolomeo to make the score 6-2. West Virginia scored in the seventh, but two-out RBI singles from junior Ryne Intlekofer and Tate made the score 8-4. 
Parks made it interesting by hitting a two-run home run in the ninth, but Dupra got out of the inning. Dupra is now 4-4 with a 5.59 ERA. 
The great pitching Notre Dame displayed Saturday had­n't arrived in time for Friday's game. Sophomore Cole Johnson, who had pitched well of late, suffered his first loss of the sea­son, giving up 11 runs on 10 hits in five innings. 
"lie could not hit his spots at tions you have for yourself," Allen said. 

Weis said he was pleased with the performance of the running attack, which he said would have a significant impact on other areas of the team. 
"It all starts with the run game. If you can run the ball, everything is easier," Weis said. "Protection is easier, throwing the ball is easier, everything is easier. It all starts with being able to control the line of scrim­mage." 
Honorary coach and former Notre Dame running back Reggie Brooks said he was impressed with the gains he saw from the running back corps in his time at spring prac­tice. 
"They are still young backs but I am definitely pleased with what I have seen." Brooks said. "It has been a marked improve­ment." 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

all. He was struggling with his location," Schrage said. "His bread and butter pitch is his cutter, and for some reason on Friday it flattened out." 
The Mountaineers had 15 hits in the game, with DiBartolomeo responsible for three of them. Jarryd Summers picked up the win for West Virginia with a seven-inning, two-run outing. 
Parks scored four times and drove in three runs and Jedd Gyorko had five RBis for the Mountaineers. 
West Virginia scored three runs in the first inning. Three consecutive singles gave the Mountaineers a 1-0 lead, and a double and RBI groundout made the score 3-0. Pollock doubled and scored on a wild pitch in the second inning for the Irish. 
West Virginia scored four runs in the fourth and fifth innings and six in the seventh. Freshman Dustin !spas, who came on in relief of Johnson, gave up six runs on three hits in 1 2/3 innings of work. 
The Irish next face Michigan Tuesday on the road, and the Wolverines come to South Bend Wednesday before the Irish travel to Louisville over the weekend. 
"I hope Saturday instills in them that they can beat any­body at any day," Schrage said. "Hopefully we look back on Saturday as the turning point of the season." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


Monday, April 20, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
CROSSWORD 
Note: The answers to the eight italicized clues all have somelhing in common, each in a different way, 
Across 32 Bryn Mawr 60 Second­graduate generation
China's_ Zedong 35 Cause of a clock senator from change twice a Indiana
4 and yr. 62 Away from thesctences 36 Paint layer coast
8 Wrist, elbow and ankle 
37 Smart aleck 63 Faith 39 Salon supply in 64 Insurance sellers 14 Reach a bottle 65 Exam given 16 Shook hands face-to-face
41 ·-·go bragh!" 42 Cotdand 66 Snaky swimmer 
(on) 
17 Fraternity with a 
blustery

sweetheart of a song Down
44 Attach with Elmer's

18 Drink that often 1 Sail holders 
45Cul-de-_

comes w#h an 2 First sign of !he umbrella zodiac
46"_Wasa Rollin' Stone" 

19Af1emoon 3 Hymn
47 "Bad"

socials accompaniment
cholesterol, lor 

20"My bad!" 4 .-Gardner,
short Mrs. Sinatra #2 

22 Cold war foe, for 
48 Good picnic 

short 5 Military info­
forecast 

gathering23 Info on a W-2 51 Opposite of 
form: Abbr. 6 Sierra Nevada 
post-resort lake 

24 Like some socks 
54 "The Simpsons" 

7 Grad student's 26 "Apres _ le girl income, often deluge• 56 Lt. Kojak 
8 Smucker's
28 Ready for 57 Plenty productskinny-dipping 
58 Chocolaty ice 

9 Track choice for 29 Ax signers cream dessert Uonet trains 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 ~~~~~:b~~· J F K p L A z A T A X T I p celebrants E L I C I T 0 R I M G 0 N E 11 Meshes 12 Rip ~~-±-T L I N G ,Q_ p A Q U E 13U.S. Star Wars _g.~ C A L K Y D~ M U I R program 
SHAD T E T S 15A0lchitchat
E ~~-E A F R 0 S 0 E V I L S 21 "Be quiet!" L I S L E S S 0 R E C F L 240 • E R 0 T I C A N t A G~~ t ueen 5 mate 

ME "N• S A V E S C 0 P E s 25 ~~;%~1~a~ a 0 0 N E H E S S E 27 Broken mirror, to I D L Y R U H R some H A L F • ~ R E P A y • L E 0 29 Small replica of A X 1 L L A M A H A R A N I the Spirit of St. 
Louis, e.g. R E F U E L I S 0 L A T E S 30 Harry Belafonte DREXEL COOLJERK catchword 
WILLSHORTZ 


PuzzJ. by lynn L.empel 

31 Brit's WW. II gun 43 Purple Heart 54 Where inhaled recipient air goes 
32 Fills with wonder 46 Lament 55 No longer 
33 Franc : France ;; _:Italy 48 Network working showing Capitol 

57 Lawyers' org. 

34 Saintly gtows Hill proceedings 
58 _ Farrow, Mrs. Sinatra #3 36Gunk 49 Cutoff 

50 Australian persistently and eucalyptus eater 59 Bradley and With a big mouth 52 Rolls·_ (car) Begley 38Talk to 
40Badly 53 Jazzy Waters 6'1 Zilch 
For answers. call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for lhe best ol Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 366 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more Information. Online subscriptions: Today·s puzzle and more than 2.000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.comtwordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytfmes.coml!earning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Hayden Christensen, 28; Kate Hudson, 30; Luis Miguel, 39; Ashley Judd, 41 
Happy Birthday: Your time to move ahead and follow your own needs and desires is now. Standing tall and being proud of who you are and what you have accomplished will lead the way to your success. Act swiftly this year to reach personal, professional and philosophical goals. Your numbers are 3, 15, 24, 27, 29, 34, 39 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Take on a task or a fight that no one else is up to and you will build a loyal following. Your ability to come up with reforms and efficient, new meth­ods will be praised by people who have been at a loss. Do the work without making a fuss and you will be successful. **** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't count on promises being kept. Keep secrets to your­self in order to avoid rumors and gossip. Meddling in someone else's affairs will result in troubles you can do without. ** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't let someone's jealousy or disruptive manner pose a problem for you. Family matters can be addressed and plans set to attend events or partici­pate in an activity together. A responsibility can be shared to lighten your load. ***** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't feel obliged to take part in things that don't interest you. However, be supportive of friends and family who wish to engage in such activities. You will receive loyalty, respect and friendship. ***s 
LEO (Jnly 23-Aug. 22): Don't get sucked into a risky financial deal. You won't be given all the details needed to make a practical decision. Emotional mind games may end up costing you financially, physically and mentally if you don't protect yourself. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Think of what you would like to learn or places you'd like to visit and plan your journey. Talking to someone with experience can open your eyes to un­usual means to make cash. A passionate encounter will be costly but well worth it. *** 
LIDRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You've got clear passage to whatever you want to do if you are willing to put in the effort. Don't believe everything you hear or the promises being made. Do your own research and work. This is not the time to cut corners. ***** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Problems at home or with partners will ruin your day if you stick around waiting to be pounced on. Jealous, overreacting and indnlgent individuals must be avoided. A love relationship will develop. ** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You'll be looking for adventure and excitement and perhaps a battle to get your energy popping. Instead of looking for a fight, challenge your­self to a physical game to ease your stress and give you a sense of accomplishment. 
**** 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can write your own ticket and make alterations that will please you and the people about whom you care most. A money deal or real estate purchase is looking good. *** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): An argument with a sibling or someone you care for will leave you upset and confused about life, love and your future. Don't fret; instead, expand your circle of friends and your interests. You will find peace in the experience and knowl­edge you obtain. *** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Someone is talking about you behind your back. Don't give anyone information that conld be used against you. Be diplomatic and let situations play out naturally. You may not be able to salvage everything but you can minimize the damage.*** 
Birthday Baby: You are powerful and courageous, a leader and a Good Samaritan. You are unique, charismatic, popular and imaginative in all that you do. 
BLAcK DoG 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


THE DOME PIECE 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
DAVID CAVADINI 

IN USS WORDS. ;:o. F/111/.. 

Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
JUMBLE 
~~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
YAGIL 
j
I I ( I I 
•©2009 Tribuoe Media Services, toe. 
frfi II 
DOONBY b
1 
rJ 
NeN JUMI'Il.E NMENOO www.jum!)le.(:()llllds 
LOWELY 
I [ J b 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jell Knurek 

1_-o ~ 
WHAT HIS WIF!: 010 WHEN THE GAME WENT INTO OVEI<TIM!:. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print answer here: "[II I I I J" 
Saturday's  I  Jumbles: Answer:  (Answers tomorrow) SMACK TOKEN MAYHEM FRACAS When lhe chess team won, they became ­ 
"CHECK" MATES  
The Observer  
P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address _____________________________________ City _______________ State _____ Zip._______ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, April 20, 2009 
page 28 
fOOTBALL 
Offense overpowers defense in blowout win 
By SAM WERNER Associate Sports Editor 
The offense took advantage of a unique, and somewhat complex, scoring system to beat the defense 68-33 Saturday in the 80th edition of the annual Blue-Gold game. 
Even though the offense, designated as the Blue team, won decisively, it was fresh­man cornerback Robert Blanton who stole the show, picking off a Jimmy Clausen pass early in the first half and returning it all the way for a touchdown. 
see CLAUSEN/page 26 

Running w-ild 

Allen finished with 70 yards on 12 carries and was named offensive MVP. 
Rushing game shows improvementfrom '08 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Associate Sports Editor 
The scoring system in this year's edition of the Blue-Gold game may have made the game seem more one-sided than was the case. The one thing that was evident, however, was the success and improvement of the Irish rushing attack in the 68­3 3 exhibition win for the offense. 
The three-headed running back team of rising juniors Armando Allen and Robert Hughes and rising sophomore Jonas Gray combined to domi­nate the scrimmage, rushing 
see RUSHING/page 26 

BASEBALL 
Notre Datne rebounds with doubleheader svveep of WVU 
Irish took two of three from the up five hits in the second game. has a 10-game hitting streak The Irish scored two in the By BILL BRINK 
Mountaineers this weekend by "When a team's hitting .367 going. Schrage said Casey was second. Sophomore Golden Sports Writer 
sweeping a doubleheader as a team that makes the per­the team's hottest hitter and Tate, who also saw time in the Saturday. formance more remarkable by attributed it to his work ethic. spring football game, doubled to 
It was a rough 10-day stretch. The Irish (22-14, 8-7 Big East) Eric," Irish coach Dave Schrage "I would bet if you walked right field. Senior shortstop The Irish had lost five of six, won 8-6 and 3-0 Saturday said. over to the cages right now he's Jeremy Barnes walked and including a 19-3 stomping by behind great pitching perform­Sophomore designated hitter probably in there hitting," Casey singled to score Tate. West Virginia at Eck Stadium ances. Junior Eric Maust, after David Casey and sophomore Schrage said. "He's got a big Junior David Mills then singled Friday. punting in the Blue-Gold game Mick Doyle each had two hits heart, he wants to do well. The to score Barnes. 
But as the weather improved, earlier in the afternoon, pitched and an HBI in the game. Casey thing with David is he's matur­so did Notre Dame, and the nine scoreless innings and gave raised his average to .407 and ing as a hitter too." see TATE/page 26 

MEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish win two over weekend 
By SAM WERNER Associate Sports Editor 
While it was a busy weekend for Notre Dame, with the Irish play­ing games on both Saturday and Sunday, it was a quiet one for opposing attackers. The Irish gave up just four goals combined on the weekend en route to wins over Quinnipiac and St. Jolm's. 
"To go back-to-hack with two goal games is unbelievable," Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. 
In Saturday's 10-2 win over the Bobcats, senior attack Duncan Swezey led the way with two goal<> and an assist. The Irish (12­
0. 4-0 Great Western Lacrosse PAT COVENEY /The Observer 
Irish senior midfielder Peter Christman cradles near the St. see SWEZEY/page 24 John's net during Notre Dame's 12-2 win over the Red Storm. 
BOOKSTORE 
Main St. Pub advances to Bookstore Final Four 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI and 
BOBBY GRAHAM 
Sports Writers 
Main Street Pub secured its spot in tonight's Final Four with a commanding 21-4 win over the Monstars. 
Last year's runner-up never lost control of the game, cruising to victory. 
"We knew they were a really good team," Main Street captain Alex Klupchak said. "We were very sur­prised by the final score. Their shots just wouldn't fall." 
Klupchak attributed his team's performance to good, aggressive defense and noted the poor weather as the main reason as to why both teams may have looked slop­py at times. 
"The weather made the ball pretty hard to handle and it definitely influenced our shots," he said. 
Klupchak and the Main Street Pub will look for bet­ter weather tonight as they face the No. 5 seed, The Delivery Boys. tonight at 8 p.m. 
see BOOKSTORE/page 24 





