the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


CSAP recommendations take effect 
Committee on Sexual Assault Prevention offers 22 suggestions for 2009-2010 
By JENN METZ 
News Writer 
The Committee on Sexual Assault Prevention (CSAP), along with student government, offered 22 recommendations last spring, Ann Firth, associate vice presi­dent for Student Affairs said, and several of those recommenda­tions have been implemented in the 2009-10 academic year. 
The recommendations fall into five categories — policies and procedures, resources for sur­vivors, communication about sex­ual assault resources, educational initiatives and staff training and development — and were pre­sented to University Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. Mark Poorman in April. 
“We are working diligently to implement these recommenda­tions,” Firth, who serves as co­chariman of CSAP along with Associate Vice President for Residence Life Bill Kirk, said. “We are very pleased at the progress we have been able to make.” 
The five recommendations put into place this year include an expanded training on sexual assault for residence hall staff, expanded CSAP membership and the addition of a second sexual assault resource person. The two resource persons — Ava Preacher, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, and Catherine Pieronek, assistant dean of the College of Engineering — are now available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, compared to normal Monday-Friday business hours previously. 
Other recommendations imple­mented include improvements to “College HAS Issues,” the Unviersity’s mandatory sexual assault education program for first-year students and the cre­ation of a follow-up program to be piloted in 12 residence halls. 
According to the letter CSAP submitted to Poorman, the Committee “focused on identify­ing additional, practical steps the University might take to prevent sexual assault, address unaccept­able behavior, and help to ensure the safety of every student” in drafting its recommendations. 
see CSAP/page 3 

BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 


NASCAR team wins competition 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame’s NASCAR Kinetics: Marketing in Motion team came away victorious this weekend at the national com­petition in Miami, team mem­ber and Notre Dame sopho­more Cate Hefele said. 
“We competed against five other universities throughout the semester and then the top three universities were chosen to come to Miami for the finals,” Hefele said. 
“Once in Miami we presented to a panel of five NASCAR exec­utives — and some other NASCAR-affiliated people who weren’t judging us, making it about 15 people in the room — and then awaited the results. It was all very The Apprentice-like,” Hefele said. “Each team 
see NASCAR/page 4 



iTunes U set to offer class content on Web 
said. ing that content, storing it in a and keep growing as we go he said. “We’re hopeful that peo-
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 

“I would say that there is a place that’s safe, and choosing the along.” ple find us out there and enjoy it.” 
News Writer 

great desire on the part of alumni correct distribution outlets to push The content itself is left up to Paul Turner, academic technolo­
and the general public to learn the information out to people,” he the individual colleges and gy services manager for the Office 
Last week, Notre Dame more about what is going on at said. “The beauty of iTunes is you departments, Woodward said. He of Information Technologies (OIT), announced the launch of iTunes Notre Dame,” he said. “So we can put a lot of stuff up.” said as more time passes, each said the University began working U, a partnership with Apple that have a great opportunity. People Woodward said the University college will be able to judge which with Apple in January to develop allows schools to offer multimedia look to us on a religious front, created and collected content for content is most popular and effec-Notre Dame’s iTunes U. He also content on the Web, according to they look to us on an academic iTunes U for nearly a year tive for them to develop, which met with people who planned Todd Woodward, associate vice front and they look to us on an because they wanted to have a will be a wide variety. iTunes U at other universities. president for marketing commu-athletic front.” wide variety when they launched Woodward said he has only “Apple has been reviewing our nications. iTunes U is just one mode of the site. heard positive feedback about site and offering suggestions,” he 
The recently launched site is communication available through “I think it’s an evolutionary iTunes U thus far, but it is too soon said. “Really I’ve gotten more open to the public and features a the Internet, Woodward said. process so we start out with a to judge the success of the site. input from other universities simi­variety of content about every “I think the future of communi-base level of content in iTunes,” “We won’t be able to measure aspect of Notre Dame, Woodward cations for Notre Dame is gather-he said. “I think it will just grow anything for a couple of months,” see ITUNES/page 4 


New CIF incentive launched 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Students who fill out their Course Instructor Feedback forms (CIFs) this semester will be able to view their grades about a week earlier than students who do not, Vice President and Associate Provost of Undergraduate Studies Dennis Jacobs said. 
“Last year’s response rate, aver­aged across all courses at the University, was 63 percent in fall 2008 and 58 percent in spring 
see CIF/page 4 



IT addresses Zimbra issues, updates servers 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s Information Technology (IT) department is “absolutely” working to address the issues currently involved with Zimbra, Saint Mary’s e-mail provider, Doug McKeown, senior technology engineer at the College, said. 
Students have been frus­trated with Zimbra’s per­formance and IT recognizes the issues. 
McKeown discussed the many factors involved in switching to a new provider as well as the issues with the Zimbra. 
The switch to Zimbra was made in 2007 when the College’s previous provider crashed, McKeown said. The decision had to be made 
see ZIMBRA/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SGA approves sponsorships page 3  The magic of Nintendo 64 page 10  Women’s soccer page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Tuesday, November 24, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Go make something 
My friend Andy told me that when he went away to college, the thing he missed most from home was his dog. 
“I can talk to my family on the phone,” he said, “but my relationship with my dog is fundamentally 
Tess Civantos 
physical-cud­dling, going for 

News Writer 
walks. You can’t play with your dog over the phone.” 

When I first came to Notre Dame, I never got homesick. Like Andy, what I missed wasn’t something I could talk to. It wasn’t even something I could play catch with over Thanksgiving break. 
I missed creativity. 

Now don’t get me wrong. I didn’t turn off my imagination when I went away to college. Notre Dame students are end­lessly creative. 
The business majors devise clever marketing projects, Arts and Letters majors have brilliant thesis topics and as for the design majors, their inven­tions on the walls of O’Shaughnessy prove their ingenuity. 
But these are works of mental creativ­ity, which wasn’t my problem. If any­thing, I spent too much time thinking and planning. 
No, what I missed was making real, physical things. 
Before I came to college, I was always making something. Planting geraniums in the front yard. Kneading dough to make dinner rolls. Cutting and gluing paper to make scrapbooks or hand­made party invitations. 
I missed working with my hands. 

Sometimes it got so bad that I would spend hours on MarthaStewart.com, ogling the cupcake recipes and craft projects. 
Making things isn’t just about self-expression or even survival. It’s actually good for you. Students who receive reg­ular arts instruction are four times more likely to be recognized for aca­demic achievement than their peers. Schools that offer students more access to arts education have higher gradua­tion rates. 
Now, these findings refer to drama, music and dance. They don’t refer to baking muffins or carving pumpkins, which were the arts I missed. 
But there isn’t such a big difference between painting roses on a canvas and painting frosting onto a cake, except one is ephemeral. And edible. Either way, you’re envisioning what to make and using your hands to make it. 
It’s so easy to buy things ready-made that we forget to make things for our­selves. But we should make things our­selves. We’re not just minds and souls. We’re bodies too and those bodies need to be used. 
That’s why I missed making things so much. Making things by hand fulfills a basic human need — to build, to imag­ine, to look at something beautiful and say, “I made that thing. And hey, it’s pretty cool.” 
When you go home for Thanksgiving, I hope you get to play with your dog and catch up on sleep. But that’s not what I’ll be doing. I’ve picked out a different craft project for every day and I hope to make them all. 
And now you’ll have to excuse me. I’ve been sitting at the computer for too long and the oven is beeping at me. I’ve got some sugar cookies to frost. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Tess Civantos  at tcivanto@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

In the Nov. 17 issue of The Observer, the article on Campus Life Council said the task force on Disciplinary Records met with Jeffrey Shoup, director of the Office of Residence Life and Housing. The task force actually met with Bill Kirk, associate vice president of Residence Life. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IS IT APPROPRIATE TO PUT UP CHRISTMAS LI HTS BEFORE THANKS IVIN ? 








Angela Salvo  Daniel Anderson  Johanna Kirscha  Jordan Matulis  Sarah Spieler  Stephen Santay  
senior Pangborn  freshman Keenan  senior McGlinn  sophomore Howard  sophomore Pasquerilla West  junior Alumni  
“I think they’re pretty regardless of time, but I don’t think I’d put them up that early.”  “If you do, it means you’re not thankful for anything.”  “As long as you hold 0ff on the Christmas music, then yes.”  “Abso-freaking­lutely! Nothing like a few Christmas lights to brighten your night.”  “Sure, but it’s way classier to keep them up year round.”  “Absolutely. Christmas in July anyone?”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer GreeND members from left Connor Kobeski, Anne Whitty and Jackie Mirandola-Mullen reenact a swordfight between Energy Abusers and Energy Savers that was staged in South Dining Hall to promote the dorm energy competition. 
OFFBEAT 

Kangaroo attacks man and dog, man in stable condition 
MELBOURNE, Australia 
— A kangaroo startled by a man walking his dog attacked the pair, pinning the pet underwater and slashing the owner in the abdomen with its hind legs. The Australian, Chris Rickard, was in stable con­dition Monday after the attack, which ended when the 49-year-old elbowed the kangaroo in the throat. 
Rickard said he was walking his blue heeler, Rocky, on Sunday morning when they surprised a sleeping kangaroo in Arthur’s Creek northeast of Melbourne. The dog chased the animal into a pond, when the kangaroo turned and pinned the pet under­water. 
When Rickard tried to pull his dog free, the kan­garoo turned on him, attacking with its hind legs and tearing a deep gash into his abdomen and across his face. 
Woman asks for donations for surgery for pet turkey 
REHOBOTH, Mass. — A Massachusetts woman is seeking donations from fel­low pet lovers to help pay for eye surgery for her turkey named Jerry. 
Lyndsey Medeiros and her husband adopted three­year-old Jerry and another turkey from a Rhode Island farm last week. But Jerry has cataracts, and the eye problems mean he can’t eat independently or join his female companion, Penelope, in flying. 
Medeiros has posted an ad on Craigslist seeking donations for the surgery. She said the procedure could cost up to $2,600. Her farm in Rehoboth, Mass., cares for other ani­mals with health problems. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Wednesday Thursday 

IN BRIEF 
“Darkness and Light: Death and Beauty in Photography” will be shown in the O’Shaughnessy Galleries in the Snite Museum of Art today. The exhibit will open at 10 a.m. 
An exhibit titled “Sculptural Vessels” will be held at 10 a.m. today. The display will be in the Milly and Fritz Kaeser Mestrovic Studio Gallery in the Snite Museum of Art. 
“Dia de los Muertos (Day of the Dead) Ofrenda Installation will be held in the Scholz Family Works on Paper in the Snite Museum of Art today. The exhibit will open at 10 a.m. 
A blood drive will be held 11 
a.m. today at Stadium Gate D. 
The Lunchtime Workshop Series “The Secrets to (Academic) Success and Making Your (Academic) Life Easier” will be held at 12:30 p.m. today in Madeleva Hall at Saint Mary’s College. 
A lecture titled “European Immigration Pathways from Sept. 11th: What Trajectories and What Role for Public Opinion” will be held at 12:30 p.m. today in C-103 Hesburgh Center. 
“An Integrative Biology Approach to Reverse Engineering Living Systems” will be held at 4 
p.m. today in 101 Jordan Hall of Science. 
Bible Study will be held at 6 p.m. today in the Campus Ministry Resource room in the Student Center at Saint Mary’s College. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Friday Saturday 


Atlanta 67 / 46 Boston 52 / 44 Chicago 51 / 39 Denver 42 / 16 Houston 71 / 59 Los Angeles 70 / 54 Minneapolis 50 / 41 New York 58 /47 Philadelphia 60 / 47 Phoenix 75 / 49 Seattle 51 / 42 St. Louis 55 /46 Tampa 79 / 65 Washington 56 / 47 
Tuesday, November 24, 2009 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Students share plans for break 
ing an alternative take on of my own home because I
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 

Thanksgiving. Students have can say that I am thankful 
News Writer 

the opportunity all I want, but to travel to there is no rea-Typically when people Indianapolis to “It’s a different son why I think of Thanksgiving, they participate in a way of shouldn’t take think of football, turkey and variety of serv-action and truly 
experiencing the
all the trimmings; however, ice projects demonstrate Notre Dame and Saint with the Peace holiday —giving that I [am] Mary’s students are thinking Institute. back to those who thankful for the family, friends and service. Kate Williams, life and oppor­
don’t have the 
Junior Kenny Maher director of the tunities I have,” expressed his excitement for program and a option of going she said. spending the holiday with Saint Mary’s home like I do.” Another Saint his brothers. Originally from alumnae, said Mary’s student Maine, he is unable to go six students will participating in 
Anabel Castaneda
back home for Thanksgiving, be helping at the event, soph­but a trip to his brother’s the Mozel sophomore omore Anabel 
house in Indianapolis is S a n d e r s enough, he said. Foundati on, 
“For those of us who can’t which serves thousands of make the trip back to our individuals in Indianapolis home states, its e a c h nice to have Thanksgiving. other loved ones “For those of us “They will be to spend the day who can’t make volunteering at with,” Maher the Drumstick 
the trip back to
said. Dash, an annual Audrey our home states, 5K that benefits Dalrymple, a its nice to have the Wheeler Saint Mary’s Mission,” 
other loved ones
sophomore, is Williams said, also excited to to spend the day “[They will be] go home for a with.” serving meals little while. with the Mozel 
“I’ve been Sanders
Kenny Maher 
waiting for Foundation, and 
junior
break since last [they will volun­week,” she said. teer] with a local “Although I am con gregation still going to have a lot of working to meet the needs of work to do, I’m happy that I the community.” will be surrounded by my Mallory Price, a Saint family, for whom I am very Mary’s senior, is excited to thankful.” participate in this event. 
For those students who “I felt that this year, I did-Castaneda, said 
she turned down the option of going home in order to serve. 
“It’s a different way of experiencing a holiday — giving back to those who don’t have the option of going home like I do,” Castaneda said. 
Price said while serving turkey on Thanksgiving may not seem to make a huge dif­ference, it’s the relationships she will form with communi­ty members that will be the true change. 
“Each time we listen to another person, or we come together in solidarity, or we challenge the status quo and how the world operates, and we put others’ needs before our own, we empower oth­ers, we come together and the world is changed,” Price said. 
aren’t going home for break, n’t want to sit around the Contact Caitlin Housley at Saint Mary’s College is offer-dinner table in the comforts chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
CatholicpaneltobeheldThurs. 
Special to The Observer 
A panel discussion titled “What Would a Good Conscience Clause Look Like? A Catholic University’s Perspective” will be held Dec. 3 (Thursday) at 12:30 p.m. in the Patrick F. McCartan Courtroom of the University of Notre Dame’s Eck Hall of Law. 
The discussion will concern how Catholic teaching and tra­dition, scholarship and legal developments might inform efforts to protect the rights of conscience of health workers, pregnant women, taxpayers and other citizens. 

The panelists are Rev. Michael D. Place, chair of the International Federation of Catholic Health Institutions; O. Carter Snead, associate profes­sor of law in the Notre Dame Law School; and Margaret F. Brinig, Fritz Duda Professor of Law in the Notre Dame Law School. 
Father Place, who holds a doctorate in sacred theology from The Catholic University of America, is the former presi­dent and chief executive officer of the Catholic Health Association of the United States. Snead, former general counsel to the President’s Council on Bioethics, was recently appoint­ed by UNESCO to its International Bioethics Committee. 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 
Four more clubs to receive funding 
Hall Council, Sisters of Nefertiti, Around the World, Women’s Issues clubs gain sponsorship 
By NIKKI TAYLOR 
News Writer 
As finals quickly approach, the Saint Mary’s community is preparing for the stress that is to follow. The Saint Mary’s Student Government Association (SGA) approved sponsorships for four differ­ent clubs at their meeting Monday night, most with study break themes in mind. 
Holy Cross Hall Council president Kelly Zenere spoke on behalf of her organization. The Hall Council is sponsor­ing a study break during finals for all resi­dents where they were also rewarded a spon­sorship for their campus pro­gramming event. The club is putting on a pre-Kwanza cer­emony, Kristle Hodges, Board 
of 
Trustees commissioner said. 

Kwanza itself runs for seven days — Christmas to New Years. There will be speakers talking about each 

of 
the seven principles of Kwanza and there will be the opportunity to make crafts to give to others present to sym­bolize the gift giving aspect of Kwanza, Hodges said. SGA approved Sisters of Nefertiti’s sponsorship to help cover the 


cost of their refreshments. 
can come and have Around the 
“We’re trying to 
cookies and hot World Club 
provide a different
chocolate to was the fourth unwind, Zenere outlet for relaxing approved said. during fnals sponsorship of 
The council was the night. They 
week.” 
granted their allot-are planning ment with the a n exception of Mia Ravasio International requested money Spa Day, club 
Women’s Issues 
for a frame for secretary Molly 
commisioner
their hall photo, which was denied because funds of that nature can come from the council’s allotment funds. 
Mia Ravasio, Women’s Issues commissioner, present­ed her sponsorship request for a study relaxation pro­gram Monday through Thursday of finals week in the Women’s Resource Center. A sponsorship was granted to the center, which is located on the second floor of the Student Center. They plan to have relaxing activi­ties and food, including bagels, movies, coloring books, cookie decorating, tea and hot chocolate. 
“We’re trying to provide a different outlet for relaxing during finals week,” Ravasio said. 
The Sisters of Nefertiti Schall said. 
The club was 
requesti ng money for some basic refreshments to be served along with the vendors they are bringing in. 
Students will be able to take advantage of eyebrow threading from India, Henna tattoos and African hair designs, for a minimal fee. There will also be a booth from Sephora Cosmetics, Schall said. 
In other SGA news, the board will be decorating the outside of the Student Center next Monday after their meeting to spread a little hol­iday cheer to campus, stu­dent body president Jenny Hoffman said. 
Contact Nikki Taylor at ntaylo01@saintmarys.edu 
CSAP 
continued from page 1 
The Committee features repre­sentatives from the Office of Residence Life, the University Counseling Center, University Athletics, Notre Dame Security Police, Saint Mary’s College, the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education and University stu­dents and rectors, as well as sev­eral other campus and communi­ty resources for victims of sexual assault or violence. 
“We have all of these people around the table who are work­ing together to eliminate sexual assault on campus,” Firth said, adding that this group with diverse backgrounds can “offer a comprehensive look” at the reali­ty of sexual violence at Notre Dame. 
Student body vice president Cynthia Weber became a member of CSAP this year. She said she believes the expanded member­ship of the Committee to include rectors added a previously miss­ing element in the discussion of sexual violence on campus. 
“[Rectors] add a unique and valuable perspective to the efforts to prevent sexual assault,” she said. 
In the course of her work with the Committee, Weber said she has discovered that sexual assault is “not an easy issue to address.” 
Lauren Cummings, an assistant rector in Farley Hall and CSAP member, said one of the most important things hall staff, includ­ing rectors, can do to prevent sex­ual assault from occurring on campus is “to foster of community of mutual respect for one anoth­er.” 
“Sexual assault is about assert­ing power and control over another person,” she said. “If you respect someone, you will not vio­late his or her human rights by attempting to overpower that per­son.” 
Hall staff, Cummings said, plays “a critical role” in supporting the members of the University com­munity who share their stories of surviving sexual assault. 
“We need to believe the sur­vivors’ stories and avoid judgment based on dress, sexual history or alcohol consumption,” she said. 
Student government’s role, Weber said, is “to bring our knowledge specifically as students to this broad discussion. CSAP provides the venue whereby these efforts can be discussed and enacted.” 
Weber said student government focuses primarily on education through programming and policy, and has worked on improving the “College HAS Issues” program, presented during freshman orien­tation at the University, as well as implementing other events aimed at raising awareness, such as “Sex Signals,” which premiered in October. 
After the Student Senate passed a resolution calling for a review of University sexual assault policies in the spring, the collaboration between CSAP and student gov­ernment began. 
“The resolution was a catalyst to an important and open discus­sion about how we can improve our university’s efforts,” Weber said. 
Firth said she believes the Committee’s work in recent months is evidence of “a success­ful collaboration between CSAP and student government.” 
Firth, Cummings and Weber believe Notre Dame’s community can achieve the elimination of sexual assault and violence from the campus. 
“Community awareness and frank discussion about sexual assault is also a key component to preventing it,” Weber said. “When a community says, with a clear voice, ‘we will not tolerate this,’ it helps stop the crime from happening.” 
Firth said sexual assault is “antithetical” to the values of the Notre Dame, as a Catholic univer­sity. 
“This is a serious issues that should never be accepted as a part of our culture,” Cummings said. 
Events like Sexual Assault Awareness week, which takes place annually during the spring semester, offers the community the opportunity to hear from sur­vivors of sexual assault, which can have an impact, Weber said. 
“Hearing from survivors … helps us be aware of precaution­ary steps we can take, like creat­ing situations where we can socialize in our comfort zones,” she said. 
Firth said she hopes these events will “get people talking about the issues.” 
Sexual assault “is under-report­ed across the board,” she said, citing the national statistic report­ing one in five women experience sexual assault and 10 percent of men are victims of sexual vio­lence. 
“Notre Dame faces the same challenges [as other universities nationally] in getting good num­bers,” Firth said. 
“Sexual assault harms our com­munity,” Weber said, “and at Notre Dame, we are tasked to hold each other to high stan­dards. We value any questions or input about sexual assault and how it can be prevented on cam­pus.” 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 24, 2009 
Author focuses on reconciling societies 
Special to The Observer 
How do you reconcile former enemies in a society shattered by war, genocide or violence? 
In a new book, “Unchopping a Tree: Reconciliation in the Aftermath of Political Violence,” published by Temple University Press, Ernesto Verdeja answers this question by examining rec­onciliation efforts in post-con­flict regions from Chile to South Africa to Bosnia and Herzegovina. He proposes a new theory of reconciliation — one focused on a process of public truth-telling, accountabil­ity for perpetrators, recognition of victims, commitment to the rule of law and, most impor­tantly, cultivation of moral respect and dignity. 
“After war or genocide, for­mer enemies must reach some form of morally acceptable coexistence, even though they have great political differences and disagreements,” says Verdeja, assistant professor of political science and peace stud­ies at the University of Notre Dame. “The key to reconcilia­tion is not forgiveness or social harmony, but respect for each other’s moral worth.” 
The book analyzes reconcilia­tion at four levels: among politi­cal leaders, through legal and institutional actors (trials and truth commissions), within civil society and among individuals. 
CIF 
continued from page 1 
2009,” Jacobs said. “Given the disappointing response rate last year, we are launching a univer­sity-wide campaign with a stronger incentive to improve student participation.” 
Students who fill out their CIFs will be able to view their grades on Dec. 22 and students who do not complete them will be able to view their grades on Dec. 28. 
The University enacted this change because 78 percent of students said having early access to grades would motivate them to complete online feedback forms, according to a survey by the Office of Institutional Research. 
Jacobs said the University also based their decision off of peer institutions like Stanford, Yale and Princeton, who have very high response rates for their online student evaluation. 
“We discovered they all employed a common incentive,” he said. “Those students who completed all their evaluations were able to see their grades before those students who did not complete their evaluations.” 
Student body chief of staff Ryan Brellenthin said students seemed initially apprehensive about the change in policy, but supported the change once they understood the importance of CIFs. 
“At first, students seem to be suspicious of the University, almost afraid that Big Brother is forcing them to fill these evalua­tions out,” he said. “However, once we let them know how important CIFs are to the quality of our undergraduate education, student reaction has been over­whelmingly supportive. 
“CIFs are essential to the qual­ity of the Notre Dame education because it is the best way for As the title suggests, the process is often disjointed and may occur differently among politi­cal elites and regular people, Verdeja says. 

“True reconciliation is achieved in a society only when the conflict-era identities — black/white, left/right, Hutu/Tutsi, Muslim/Christian — are no longer the primary cleavages in politics, and people acquire new identities that cut across those earlier fault lines.” 
“‘Unchopping a Tree’ ... offers a sustained and clarifying analysis of respect and thus moves beyond forgiveness as the key to personal and political reconstruction after mass atroc­ities,” writes Martha Minow of Harvard University. “The inte­gration of personal narratives into the conceptual analysis makes this an especially valu­able treatment of the daunting and demanding challenges for societies recovering from vio­lence.” 
Verdeja “does an excellent job of presenting what he finds to be the strengths and weakness­es of the competing major approaches to this topic on the way to constructing and defend­ing his alternative,” writes Ron Eyerman of Yale University. “His style is both pedagogic and clear-sighted. I think this will be an important work that makes a clear contribution to the liter­ature.” 
students to hold their instructors accountable,” he said. “In past years, there has been a percep­tion that … the results went into some administrative black hole and would never benefit the stu­dents.” 
Brellenthin said the CIFs do make a difference. 
“The feedback from our evalu­ations plays a crucial role in deciding promotions and pay levels for our professors,” Brellenthin said. 
Jacobs said he received sug­gestions that CIFs remain open through finals. 
“This suggestion is under con­sideration for future semesters, but for this semester the feed­back window will close before finals,” he said. 
Though Jacobs said he received relatively little feedback from students about the new policy, those who responded “have commented that the new incentive is likely to be effective. One student wrote to say he felt that delaying access to grades was unfair.” 
Brellenthin said the new policy is not intended to be a punish­ment. 
“Students are not being pun­ished for not filling out their CIFs,” he said. “Instead, the University is trying to show stu­dents that it supports their feed­back by giving people who fill out their CIFs an extra incentive that is not available to people who do not.” 
The new policy only applies to courses that close on or after Dec. 2, Jacobs said. CIFs for a course that already ended will not be counted. 
The University will continue to allow students who fill out their CIFs to see the student feedback portion of Class Search, in addi­tion to having early access to grades, Jacobs said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
rience, and even if we didn’t win, I would not regret the time put in. However, if you do win, you are sure to get an experience of a life­time.” 
The group has put in many man-hours over the entirety of the semester, Gonzalez said. 
“It was essentially the equiva­lent to another three credit hour course,” Gonzalez said. “We’d meet on average, once or twice a week for at least an hour at a time, but when cases were due, upwards of two to three hours each meeting.” 
Hefele said she doesn’t regret the time commitment. 
“I mean we logged a ton of hours at the library and had to sacrifice other homework and some serious sleep, but I’m answering my e-mail from a lawn chair in South Beach,” Hefele said. “Doesn’t get much better than that.” 
If interested in joining the group, contact Gonzalez at egon­zal6@nd.edu or Notre Dame’s representative from NASCAR, Talia Mark, at NASCARkinetics@nascar.com for an application. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 
NASCAR 
continued from page 1 
had a separate practice and pres­entation time and we couldn’t watch each other, and then we didn’t find out until the next day who won.” 
The team found out Thursday morning they won out over the other schools. 
“We waited and waited and waited, and finally the two cars arrived to take the losing teams straight to the airport — no pass­ing go, no collecting $200,” Hefele said. “We went outside and each car had a school logo on it, desig­nating which school was to ride in the car. When we looked at the cars and saw that the ND logo wasn’t there, it dawned on us that we won.” 
Winning was an amazing feel­ing, team captain and junior Ricky Gonzalez said. 
“It was very intense, almost a reality TV show,” Gonzalez said. “We were confident with our presentation, and felt that the judges received our ideas well, and we felt comfortable in the room even though there were very high executives judging. 
However, we had absolutely no idea what ideas the other school’s had, nor how they presented. We learned it was very close with Howard University, but we were certainly proud to win.” 
The group got to stay in Miami for the weekend, attending the last three races of the NASCAR season and going behind the scenes with the drivers, among other activities, Hefele said. 
“Really it was the intangibles that I know I got the most out of,” Gonzalez said. “The experience of working with a professional organization, presenting to top officials within that organization, and learning the values of leader­ship and teamwork are things that cannot really be measured, but I can assure have paid off so much in job interviews and just in practicality. These are all things that cannot really be learned in the classroom, and as a result, that is why I got way more than just a trip to Miami.” 
This is only the second semester of the NASCAR Kinetics program, and the first semester Notre Dame participated, Gonzalez said. He hopes Notre Dame continues to have success with the program. 
“This program is awesome,” Gonzalez said. “It is a great expe­“You may be sorry later.” 
Once content enters the sys­tem, it is no longer completely private. 
McKeown stressed that IT will never ask for a student’s password via e-mail, which is what many phishing scams request. 
“Once they have your pass­word they can send out thou­sands of e-mails in minutes. [Providers] will then put Saint Mary’s on a blacklist,” McKeown said. 
Sifting through email can also be a struggle because of the volume of spam that comes through. According to McKeown, since January of this year, 46 million e-mails were marked spam, while only 10 million were sent by users. So around 80 percent of e-mails being sent into the system are spam that “clogs the pipes,” he said. 
If students have questions or IT concerns, Thomasson said they can contact ResNet to have their issues addressed. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
Zimbra 
continued from page 1 
quickly, and Zimbra was an inexpensive, progressive package that was still new. 
“Any piece of software is going to have problems,” McKeown said. 
In order to switch to a new, less problematic server, IT is working to create an Active Directory that would con ­dense Saint Mary’s three main servers into one. According to McKeown, he could then allo­cate the memory within the new server when needed, which would allow for higher quotas in e-mail. 
The process to switch from three servers to an Active Directory will take several months, but IT hopes to com­plete it early in the spring semester of 2010, McKeown said. 
Once on Active Directory, Saint Mary’s will be able to more readily switch to a new e-mail provider and help stu­dent, faculty and staff com­munication run smoother, he said. 
“With Active Directory, big changes in e-mail and relief from Zimbra will be possible,” McKeown said. 
Until the change happens though, there are things stu­dents can do and should be aware of to help their e-mail accounts work better. 
McKeown said crashes gen­erally happen when a large number of people are on at the same time, or high vol­umes of e-mails are coming in. 
According to McKeown, sim­ple things like remembering to edit down the sizes of your pictures before you send them will help speed up the system. 
Students should also keep their quotas low and clean out their e-mails periodically, he said. 
IT also wants students to be more aware of their content before they send messages. 
Janice Thomasson, Chief Information Officer for IT, warns students to be aware of what they are sending at all times. 
“Be careful what you send on e-mails,” Thomasson said. 
“Our role came down to making sure student content had a way to get on iTunes U and making sure student content is generated for iTunes U,” he said. “We’re excited for it and we’re looking forward to the launch.” 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 

iTunes 
continued from page 1 
lar to Notre Dame, places like Duke and Emory.” 
A different iTunes U site, avail­able only to students, faculty and staff at Notre Dame, will offer material for specific classes and feature content by student groups, Turner said. Access to this private site will require a netID and pass­word. 
Some professors have already used iTunes U in their classes, Turner said. This semester, the introductory chemistry class for freshmen as well as some engi­neering and Film, Television and Theatre classes have used iTunes U. 
Sophomore Walker Anderson, chair of student government’s campus technologies committee, said the private side of iTunes U will launch for use by on-campus student groups early in the spring semester. 
“It enables students to share multimedia content and enables students to advertise their groups and what they do to the rest of the student body,” he said. “It’s a great resource for students to share the content that they gener­ate.” 
When this site launches, Anderson said student govern­ment plans to advertise and organize a competition between student groups to produce the best content. The competition would add incentive to explore and use the site, he said. 
Anderson said student govern­ment has been working with the Student Activities Office (SAO) and OIT to develop iTunes U as a resource for student groups. 


World & Nation 
Tuesday, November 24, 2009 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Compromise issues delay Iraq election 
BAGHDAD — Iraq’s parliament failed Monday to produce an election law accept­able to minority Sunni Arabs, prompting U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton to say that nationwide balloting scheduled for January “might slip” to a later date. 
The United States has linked the pace of its military drawdown to the elections, though the top U.S. commander in Iraq has said the schedule is on track for now. U.S. combat troops are supposed to be out of Iraq by August, and the rest of the forces are sched­uled to leave by the end of 2011. 
The dispute over an elections law high­lights the ethnic and sectarian divisions in Iraq. While more secure than in past years of war, the country has yet to achieve the politi­cal reconciliation vital to long-term stability. 
McDonald’s adopts green logo 
BERLIN — McDonald’s is going green — swapping its traditional red backdrop for a deep hunter green — to promote a more eco­friendly image in Europe. 
About 100 German McDonald’s restaurants will make the change by the end of 2009, the company said in a statement Monday. Some franchises in Great Britain and France have already started using the new color scheme behind their Golden Arches.didunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. 
“This is not only a German initiative but a Europe-wide initiative,” Martin Nowicki, McDonald’s Germany spokesman, told The Associated Press. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Ruling delayed on Filipino spy 
NEWARK, N.J. — A judge reserved ruling Monday on whether a former Philippine National Police officer who served prison time for receiving classified U.S. government documents will be extradited to face murder charges back home. 
U.S. Magistrate Esther Salas heard argu­ments on an attempt by Michael Ray Aquino to fight extradition, an effort that began in earnest earlier this year after the 43-year­old had served more than three years behind bars for receiving the documents from a for­mer Marine at Fort Monmouth. 
Aquino was released from federal prison in March but has been held in the Hudson County Jail while his extradition case goes through the courts. 
Man with porn shrine arrested 
MADISON, Wis. — A Wisconsin man trans­formed his apartment into a pornographic shrine to young girls, arranging mannequins in a sex act, plastering every flat surface with pictures and setting up a bed covered with stuffed animals, investigators said Monday. 
Kevin M. Derks’ collection featured photo­graphs of Hollywood starlets, including a poster of actresses Mary Kate and Ashley Olsen with a caption inviting himself to join in sex acts with them, DVDs of child pornog­raphy and photos he said he took of girls at local beaches. 
Prosecutors charged Derks, 53, of Kenosha, with 20 felony counts of possessing child pornography. His attorney, Nancy Barasch, said she had just learned of the case Monday afternoon and knew little about Derks so far. 
LOCAL NEWS 

“Zachary’s Law” killer gets life 
LAFAYETTE, Ind. — A convicted child moles­ter whose murder of a 10-year-old boy led to the creation of Indiana’s sex offender registry has been resentenced to life in prison without parole. 
A Tippecanoe Superior Court judge sentenced 37-year-old Christopher M. Stevens on Monday. Stevens had been sentenced to death for the 1993 murder of Zachary Snider of Cloverdale. 
But a federal appeals court set aside his death penalty in 2007 and let the murder conviction stand after determining that defense lawyers at the original trial hadn’t presented adequate evi­dence of Stevens’ mental illness. 
KENYA 

Children become war casualties 
Injured boy represents the thousands of civilians hurt in the Somalian crisis 
Associated Press 

NAIROBI — The bullet hit  
mother and son as they  
walked through Somalia’s  
capital. She felt a sharp  
pain in her palm. Then she  
saw her 8-year-old: The  
bullet tore through his  
cheekbones, nose and  
mouth. Blood gushed down  
to his waist.  
Two months later, Ahmed  
Mohamed Mohamoud’s  
nose is a small hole. His  
mouth is always open  
because he has no upper lip  
and his right eye is gone.  
He can barely speak.  
His is a lost face of  
Somalia’s war.  
Like so many other vic­ 
tims of a savage war,  
Ahmed was caught in the  
crossfire between Islamist  
insurgents and government  
forces, struck as he walked  
home from a Mogadishu  
market with his mother,  
who says a barrage of bul­ 
lets poured out from the  
presidential palace.  
Unlike Afghanistan and  
Iraq, there are few images  
of the bloodshed in Somalia,  
where thousands of chil­ 
dren have been casualties  
without the world knowing.  
Most foreign journalists stay AP  
away because of the danger. Dr. Igohwo Etuh examines Ahmed Mohamed Mohamoud in a hospital in Kijabe,  
On Sept. 24, an Kenya, on Nov. 11. Mohamoud is one of the latest victims of Somalia's savage war.  
Associated Press photogra­ 
pher was present after  did this to my son,” she  diers.  tugged at heartstrings.  
Ahmed was shot and took  said.  There are no reliable  Doctors at Mogadishu’s  
pictures of the boy, bleeding  The lack of basic medical  casualty figures for children  Medina Hospital did all they  
profusely as he was carried  care, much less specialized  in Somalia, according to  could: They inserted a tra­ 
from the scene by two  doctors, has worsened the  Grant and Susannah  cheotomy tube for Ahmed  
bystanders. During the  plight of children wounded  Friedman, emergencies  to breathe and a feeding  
weeks that followed, AP  in Somalia, a country mired  director for Somalia for  tube for nourishment.  
journalists kept tabs on  in chaos since the last cen- Save the Children U.K.  Doctors stitched together  
Ahmed and his mother, who  tral government was ousted  “It is one of the most dan­ the horrific wounds to his  
are still struggling with his  in 1991 and warlords  gerous situations we’ve  face and wrapped it in thick  
grievous wounds.  turned their guns on each  seen for children,” said  layers of gauze.  
“My heart bleeds whenev­ other.  Friedman, whose agency  But medical supplies —  
er I recall his former face,  “Ahmed’s situation repre­ has aid workers in southern  and expertise — are scarce  
whenever I compare the  sents the crisis faced by  and central Somalia, but  in Somalia. When heavy  
two faces,” said Safi  many, many children in  has pulled out of  fighting hits the seaside  
Mohamed Shidane as she  Somalia,” said Katherine  Mogadishu.  capital, tents go up at  
inspected her son’s scars at  Grant, a child protection  Yet even in violence- Medina to accommodate all  
a hospital in neighboring  specialist with UNICEF who  plagued Somalia, where the  the casualties. Inside,  
Kenya, where Ahmed was  has visited the boy in the  U.N. says one child in 10  bloody footprints track  
flown for treatment after a  hospital outside Nairobi.  dies before his or her first  down long corridors echo­ 
Minnesota-based Somali  Her agency will soon  birthday and only 30 per­ ing with screams.  
immigrant group inter- release a report accusing  cent of the population has  Appeals went out for help  
vened.  all parties in Somalia’s con- access to clean drinking  for Ahmed, including on  
“God will judge those who  flict of recruiting child sol- water, Ahmed’s suffering  Somali Web sites.  

CHINA 

Activist speaks out on quake, gets 3 years 
Sichuan province a month earlier and crushed in badly built schools. The 
Associated Press 
killed about 90,000 people. government has attempted to quash 

BEIJING — A veteran dissident was Huang had alleged that state-con-such complaints, fearing the con-sentenced Monday to three years in trolled media provided skewed tentious issue could undermine the prison after casting a spotlight on reports on relief efforts and accused admiration and goodwill it earned for poorly built schools that collapsed the government of obstructing the the massive rescue effort it led, boost-during China’s massive earthquake work of non-governmental organiza-ed by volunteers and international last year, killing thousands of children tions responding to the disaster, aid. 
— an apparent government attempt according to reports at the time by But activists and parents — many of to squelch such information. Paris-based monitoring group whom lost their only children in the 
Huang Qi, founder of a human Reporters Without Borders. quake — have repeatedly demanded rights Web site, had been charged “The government is using its propa-those responsible for the shoddy con-with illegally possessing state secrets, ganda to portray itself as a savior to struction be punished and called for his wife Zeng Li said by telephone. little avail,” the group quoted him as an inquiry. Those seeking to press the His detention in June 2008 came after saying in one Web posting. issue have been detained, harassed several posts on his blog that criti-Huang had also spoken to foreign and threatened by police and thugs cized the government’s response to media outlets about parents’ accusa-believed to be in the employ of local the massive earthquake that struck tions that their children had been officials. 
page 6 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, November 24, 2009 
Somali men convince others to join terrorist group 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS — Promising both “true brotherhood” and “fun,” several Somali men con­vinced fellow immigrants in Minneapolis to return to their East African homeland and take up arms with a terrorist group, according to federal charges unsealed Monday against eight individuals. 
The charges are part of an unfolding federal investigation into the disappearance of as many as 20 young Somali men from Minneapolis over the last two years — most of them U.S. citizens who federal authorities say are guilty of terrorism. Federal prosecutors say most of the men traveled to Somalia to join the terror group al-Shabab, which the U.S. State Department says has links to al-Qaeda. 
Ralph S. Boelter, the special agent in charge of the FBI’s Minneapolis field office, called the latest round of indictments a “tip­ping point” in the more than year­long investigation. “We have reached momentum, and reached a point where we will have full resolution of this case,” Boelter said at a news conference with Minnesota’s U.S. Attorney, B. Todd Jones. 
Fourteen people have been charged in the investigation. The eight charged Monday are accused of a mix of recruiting and raising funds for the trips, and of engaging in terrorist acts in civil war-torn Somalia. Indictments say some attended terrorist train­ing camps where they received instruction in firing small arms and machine guns, military style tactics and indoctrination in “anti-Ethiopian, anti-American, anti-Israel, and anti-Western beliefs,” according to a federal affidavit. 
Two of those charged Monday helped raise money for the trips by approaching unknowing mem­bers of Minnesota’s Somali com­munity and soliciting funds by telling them it was to pay for trips for young Somali men to travel to Saudi Arabia and study the Koran, according to the affidavit. 
Boelter and Jones said one rea­son they disclosed new details about the case was to reassure members of Minnesota’s Somali community that the investigation is focused on a relatively small group of individuals. The larger community “has consistently expressed deep concern about this pattern of recruitment activi­ty,” Jones said. 
Still, the federal officials declined to say whether any of the new indictments targeted alleged leaders or masterminds of the recruitment scheme. The investi­gation is ongoing, they said, and there could be more indictments and arrests. Federal officials declined to name a local mosque which court documents allege was a site for some recruiting and planning. 
Of the 14 people indicted, four have pleaded guilty and are awaiting sentencing. Seven are not in custody and are believed to be outside the United States. 
Boelter said he did not think that Minnesota Somalis are still being recruited, but he could not say for sure. “I’m confident it’s not happening, but you’re never 100 percent sure there’s no activity,” he said. 
FBI Director Robert Mueller has said the case is worrisome because it shows young men raised in the United States can be recruited by terrorists overseas, trained to conduct attacks and in some cases killed in the fighting there. 
One of the men who left Minneapolis, Shirwa Ahmed, allegedly carried out a suicide bombing in Somalia’s Puntland 

Memorial service held for 15-year-old boy 
Associated Press 
HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. — An impromptu memorial of artificial flowers and dozens of stuffed animals remained Monday near strands of yellow crime-scene tape in a vacant lot where relatives say 15­year-old Jamar Pinkney Jr.’s father shot him in the head while he begged for mercy. 
The lot is next to the two-story brick home where Jamar lived with his mother in the impoverished Detroit enclave of Highland Park, a once-pros­perous city of 16,000, where decay, abandonment, fires and demolition have eaten away at the community. 
Around the neighborhood, Jamar was remembered as a humble and generous boy who grew up tossing the football and worried about keep his grades up. Since his death a week ago, friends, family and the community have struggled with making sense of his slay­ing and his father’s arrest. 
Relatives say Jamar’s father, Jamar Pinkney Sr., was irate over allegations that his son had sexual contact with a 3­year-old girl and made him strip at gunpoint, marched him to the lot and shot him as he begged for his life. Prosecutors have charged him with first-degree murder and jailed him without bond. 
Police say the sexual mis­conduct accusation isn’t part of the their investigation, and for many who knew Jamar, that allegation hasn’t tem­pered the grief and outrage that another young life has been cut short. 
“Most people feel that no 15­year-old, no matter what the circumstances or no matter had transpired, was deserving of this kind of fate,” said Bishop Edgar L. Vann II, who delivered the eulogy before about 1,600 people gathered for Jamar’s funeral on Monday at Second Ebenezer Church in Detroit. 
Jamar’s family said he was known for his entertaining personality and selfless kind­ness. He had competed as a wrestler since age four and played football since he was six. 
“He was generous, he was kind,” said Deborah Jenkins, principal of Martin Luther King High School in Detroit, where Jamar was a sopho­more. “Many of the children claimed him as their best friend. They said anytime that they had a down moment it was Jamar that came up to them, giving them a hug and making them feel better.” 

AP FBI Special Agent in Charge Ralph Boelter speaks during a press conference Monday in Minneapolis about charges against eight related to involvement in extremist groups in Somalia. 
region in October 2008. New charges unsealed Monday said Ahmed was also among a group of al-Shabab fighters who launched an armed ambush against Ethiopian troops. 
Boelter said he had “no indica­tion” that any of the Somali men ever intended to engage in a ter­rorist attack in the United States. “But the national security implica­tions are evident — Americans with U.S. passports attending for­eign terror camps,” he said. 
One of the eight named Monday was Mohamud Said Omar, who was arrested earlier this month in the Netherlands. Prosecutors accused Omar, a Somali citizen and U.S. permanent resident, of helping with travel plans for some men between Minneapolis and Somalia, and providing hundreds of dollars to fund the purchase of AK-47 rifles for the men. 
Two of Omar’s brothers who live in Minnesota have said they believe their sibling is innocent, was not an extremist and was so poor that he couldn’t afford to bring his new wife from Somalia to the U.S. 
The newly unsealed court docu­ments reveal a series of meetings beginning in 2007 “in a variety of locations around the Twin Cities,” as well as in phone calls in which several individuals, both in Somalia and in Minnesota, tried to convince Minnesota Somalis of the worthiness of the cause. 
Somalia has not had a function­ing government since 1991, when warlords overthrew a socialist dictator and then turned on each other, causing chaos in the African nation of 7 million. Minnesota has the largest popula­tion of Somali immigrants of any 
U.S. state. 
The investigation, which Boelter described as “global” in scope, has spread beyond Minnesota to California, Ohio, Massachusetts and multiple foreign countries. 

Interrace Forum: 
Census 2010: Issues of Countability and Accountability 

Geddes Hall 
(Center for Social Concerns Coffee House)
 RSVP by Monday, November 30th to msps@nd.eo msps@ r
Please nd.edu with “Int errace” in t he subject line or call 574-631-6841 

d by Multicult t s and NAACP
S icultural S udent P rams and Service 
The Observer 

Business
Tuesday, November 24, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

U.S. to present emissions target 
WASHINGTON — The United States, under pressure from other nations as one of the world’s largest greenhouse-gas polluters, will present a target for reducing carbon dioxide emissions at next month’s climate conference in Copenhagen, Obama administration officials said Monday. 
The development came as the European Union urged the United States and China to deliver greenhouse gas emissions targets at the long-anticipated summit, saying their delays were hindering global efforts to curb climate change. 
For nearly a year the Obama administration has indicated it would eventually come up with specific targets for quick reductions in pollution that causes global warming, as part of interna­tional negotiations. Those targets will soon be made public, officials said. 
A senior administration official, briefing reporters only on condition of anonymity in order to discuss the administration’s thinking, said that all countries, including the U.S., “will need to put their emissions targets on the table.” 
The Obama administration has resisted talk­ing specific numbers without the backing of Congress, which is not expected to pass climate legislation until next year at the soonest. The official would not offer details about the U.S. tar­gets but said any U.S. goal will reflect the unfin­ished state of legislation on Capitol Hill and would not seek to get ahead of it. 
Spammer gets 4 years in fraud scheme 
DETROIT, Mich. — A federal judge has sen­tenced a suburban Detroit man described as one of the world’s most prolific senders of spam e-mail to more than four years in prison for his role in a 2005 stock fraud scheme that netted him $2.7 million. 
Alan Ralsky of Oakland County’s West Bloomfield Township pleaded guilty in June to fraud and acknowledged that he sent millions of unsolicited e-mails trying to influence Chinese stock prices. 
Ralsky told Detroit U.S. District Judge Marianne Battani during Monday’s sentencing that he took full responsibility for his crimes. 
He said his company specialized in mass Internet mailings, and he entered the business with good intentions. 
Feds investigate Chinese drywall 
Gov. finds strong association between Chinese-made product and corroded pipes 
Associated Press 

WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. 
— The federal government said Monday that it has found a “strong association” between problematic imported Chinese drywall and corrosion of pipes and wires, a conclusion that sup­ports complaints by thou­sands of homeowners over the last year. 
In its second report on the potentially defective building materials, the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission said its investi­gation also has found a “pos­sible” link between health problems reported by home­owners and higher-than­normal levels of hydrogen sulfide gas emitted from the wallboard coupled with formaldehyde, which is com­monly found in new houses. 
The commission, along with the Environmental Protection Agency and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, continues to study the potential health effects, and the long-term implications of the corro­sion. 
“We can say that we believe that there’s a num­ber of different chemicals that when brought together can be related to some of these irritant health effects that we’ve been getting “irresponsible to speculate study. ban or other action. reports of,” said CPSC that formaldehyde and However, officials cau-Thousands of homeown­spokesman Scott Wolfson. hydrogen sulfide can act in a tioned that not all Chinese ers who bought new houses “But we’re still working synergistic ... manner to drywall is necessarily prob-built with the imported toward that exact nexus.” cause irritant effects in lematic and that homes with Chinese building product are 
The commission said it human beings at the low lev-American-made drywall also finding their lives in limbo as can now move forward with els found in the CPSC study.” are being studied. hundreds of lawsuits against additional studies to identify The CPSC has spent more “Not all drywall is alike,” builders, contractors, suppli­effective remediation of the than $3.5 million on the said Jack McCarthy, presi-ers and manufacturers wind problem and potential assis-studies, and has received dent of Environmental through the courts. tance from the federal gov-more than 2,000 homeown-Health & Engineering Inc., During the height of the ernment. However, Warren er complaints from 32 the firm hired by the govern-U.S. housing boom, with Friedman of the U.S. states, Washington, D.C., ment to perform the air building materials in short Department of Housing and and Puerto Rico, in what is quality tests. “It depends on supply, American construc-Urban Development said it’s now the largest consumer what it’s made of, not neces-tion companies imported too soon to discuss specifics product investigation in U.S. sarily the country where it millions of pounds of of any financial assistance history. Most of the com-came from.” Chinese-made drywall homeowners could get. plaints have come from Added Wolfson: “We are because it was abundant 
The Formaldehyde Florida, Louisiana, and not limited in the scope of and cheap. An Associated Council, a trade group, said Virginia. Wolfson said the our investigation to just Press analysis of shipping there is no scientific evi-CPSC has committed nearly Chinese drywall.” records found that more dence to support the theory 15 percent of its staff to the The commission released than 500 million pounds of that the two chemicals can issue. its first report on the drywall Chinese gypsum board was combine to sicken people. The results released last month, noting further imported between 2004 and 
Betsy Natz, the group’s Monday came, in part, from studies were needed before 2008 — enough to have built executive director, called it a 51-home indoor air quality it could consider a recall, tens of thousands of homes. 


Tax credit gives home sales a big boost 
Associated Press according to Thomson Reuters. slow. People remain reluctant to spend. 
Analysts said the gains mainly And construction of new homes — as 

WASHINGTON — First-time buyers reflected the tax credit of up to $8,000 opposed to sales of existing ones — taking advantage of a special tax credit for new homeowners, which was due plunged in October. gave sales of existing homes in October to expire this month before Congress The biggest contribution the housing their biggest surge in a decade, raising extended it until spring — and expand-industry makes to economic growth is hopes for a turnaround in the housing ed it to more buyers. from home building. Commissions and market and pleasing Wall Street. The sales figures released Monday fees generated from home sales also 
While rising foreclosures and disap-provided the juice for a rally on Wall help, but far less than construction. pearing jobs still threaten the come-Street. The Dow Jones industrial aver-“I wouldn’t want to bet the house on back, there are now bidding wars for age, also lifted by a weak dollar, rose housing, really, in terms of the strength houses in some cities, and home sales more than 130 points. of the U.S. economy going forward,” are nearly 36 percent above their low The extension of the homebuyer tax said Diane Swonk, chief economist at point in January. credit should help sustain the housing Mesirow Financial in Chicago.” 
The National Association of Realtors market next year, economists said. Yet That’s partly because shoppers seem said resales rose 10.1 percent to a sea-the overall economy will probably ben-in no mood to spend. In fact, 93 per­sonally adjusted annual rate of 6.1 mil-efit only slightly from higher home cent say they’ll spend less or about the lion in October, from 5.5 million in sales. same as last year, according to an September. It was the biggest monthly There are still too many factors Associated Press-GfK poll. Half of all increase in a decade and far better weighing down the recovery. those polled say they’re suffering at than what economists expected, Foreclosures are rising. Job creation is least some debt-related stress. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Tuesday, November 24, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
Single-issue politics 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
The health care debate shows the limits of single-issue abortion politics. Obamacare, in its several versions, is objectionable for reasons beyond the funding of abortion and of euthanasia through rationing of care. It would transform the economy and Charles Rice culture. Its central-
Right or
ization and perva-
Wrong?

sive reach violate the principle of sub­sidiarity. The takeover of health care invites bureaucratic control of everything that affects your health, including what you eat, how you heat your home, etc. 
Individual bishops and the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB) have objected to federal funding of elective abortion. They rightly insist that any reform must improve access to health care and protect conscience rights and the rights of the elderly, the disabled, immigrants and other vulnerable persons. Major pro-life entities, however, including the National Right to Life Committee (NRLC) and the USCCB, have stressed the restriction of abortion to such an extent as to generate the impression that the lack of such a restriction is the only decisive objection to Obamacare. That impression contributed to the House approval of Obamacare. 
On Saturday night, Nov. 7, the House passed H.R. 3962, The Affordable Health Care for America Act, by a vote of 220 to 
215. Its passage was secured by the approval that night of the Stupak-Pitts Amendment, which made H.R. 3962 subject to the Hyde Amendment, the restriction on other appropriations that forbids federal funding of abortions except to save the life of the mother or where the pregnancy resulted from rape or incest. 
Stupak-Pitts was adopted, 240 to 194, with one “present.” The Member voting “present” was John Shadegg, a pro-life Republican from Arizona. He had obtained commitments from numerous Republicans to vote “present” so as to defeat Stupak-Pitts and ensure the defeat of H.R. 3962 itself. At noon Saturday, Nov. 7, however, the National Right to Life Committee (NLRC) informed all members of the House that “NRLC will regard a ‘present’ vote as equiv­alent to a negative vote on the Stupak-Pitts Amendment.” Faced with that threat of NRLC opposition to their re-election, those who might have supported the Shadegg strategy voted “yes” on Stupak-Pitts. 
Shadegg’s strategy of voting “present,” so as to defeat Stupak-Pitts, was designed to kill H.R. 3962 itself since, if Stupak-Pitts were defeated, enough Democrats would have voted against H.R. 3962 to ensure its defeat. His strategy would have stopped Obamacare and would have cleared the way for a genuinely deliberative considera­tion by Congress of health care reform. H.R. 3200, the original House proposal, had 1,017 pages. H.R. 3962 has 1,990. The main Senate bill, which funds abortion, has 2,074. The accelerated votes on those and other bills, which very few, if any, members of Congress have read, is a mockery of leg­islative process. 
Not even a total prohibition of abortion funding would make Obamacare worthy of support. Pro-life entities, therefore, should have supported the Shadegg strategy instead of reacting to the Stupak-Pitts approval by virtually endorsing Obamacare. “Over the weekend,” said the USCCB Monday, Nov. 9, “the US House of Representatives advanced major legislation to provide adequate and affordable health care to all.” None of the versions of Obamacare deserves that description. Stupak-Pitts incidentally, in addition to fund­ing abortion in life-of-the-mother, rape and incest cases, would not restrict funding of abortifacients which can prevent implanta­tion of the embryo in the womb and which are wrongly defined as contraceptives. 
At the other end of life, Sec. 1233 of H.R. 3962 provides Medicare reimbursement to practitioners for “voluntary advance care planning consultation” between “the indi­vidual and a practitioner” who does not have to be the individual’s physician. It does not state whether the consultation will be initiated by the practitioner or the patient. An individual may receive such consultation “no more than once every five years unless there is a significant change in [his or her] health.” The bill imposes no limit on the number or frequency of such consultations. A consultation may include: an explanation of “end-of-life services [and an] explanation by the practitioner of physician orders regarding life sustaining treatment.” Such is “an actionable medical order relating to the treatment of that individual that … is signed … by a practitioner, and is … to be followed by health care professionals across the con­tinuum of care.” The order “communicates the individual’s preferences regarding life sustaining treatment.” But it does not speci­fy that the order must comply with those preferences. The order must be “signed and dated by a practitioner” who could be someone other than the practitioner who gave the consultation and formulated the order. Nor does the bill require that the signer ever saw the patient. Could the sign­er by a member of a panel reviewing such orders without ever seeing the patient? Yes. Could that fairly be called a “death panel?” Yes. 
Speaker Pelosi won approval of H.R. 3962 by exploiting the pro-life focus on restricting funding of abortion. “The Stupak amend­ment,” Shadegg said, “gave political cover to Democrats … Before the vote [Pelosi] promised pro-abortion Democrats she would strip the Stupak language [from the final bill]. Obama will help her. She will strip the Stupak amendment in Conference and pass the bill with the votes of Democrats who claim to be pro-life. … Republicans who, at the request of Right to Life … voted “yes” on Stupak last night defined a ‘yes’ vote as the pro-life vote. But, it wasn’t. A ‘yes’ vote increased the votes for [H.R. 3962] and enabled Pelosi to pass it. That means more abortions … If Republicans had voted ‘present’ as a group, we would have defined the ‘present’ vote as the pro-life vote. … Now, the Democrats who voted for Stupak will say the ‘Right to Life’ vote was on Stupak and they voted pro-life. Republicans set the standard. Instead of making ‘pre­sent’ the pro-life vote, we made ‘yes’ the pro-life vote. … When the Stupak language is stripped in Conference (and Nancy Pelosi will strip it), the supposedly pro-life Democrats will be pressured by Pelosi and Obama to vote ‘yes’ on the Conference report … Pelosi and Obama … will tell [them] they’re safe from attack by Right to Life because they voted for the Stupak amendment. For real pro-lifers to stop the Conference Report after the Stupak lan­guage has been stripped will be nearly impossible. I pray we can, but fear last night was our best chance … Nancy Pelosi caught Republicans off-guard.” 
The Obama Administration has indeed brought change. For a comparable trans­formation of a constitutional republic to a command economy under a leader with an anti-life agenda, one has to go back a few years. Adolf Hitler was named Chancellor on Jan. 30, 1933. In the following weeks he consolidated his power through decrees and other measures. The decisive event, howev­er, was the Reichstag’s approval of the Enabling Act on March 23, 1933, by which it ceded practically full and irrevocable powers to Hitler. The Enabling Act received the needed two-thirds vote only because it was supported by the Catholic party, the Center Party. Eliot Barculo Wheaton, “The Nazi Revolution: 1933-35” (1969), 286-93; William L. Shirer, “The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich” (1959), 88, 276-79. If Obamacare becomes law, it will be perma­nent lights out for limited government in the United States. It will be pathetically tragic if it becomes law through the misguided tun-nel-vision support of Catholic entities and individuals. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the law school faculty. He may be reached at rice.1@nd.edu or 574-633-4415. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be EDITORIAL CARTOON directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Ashley Charnley Douglas Farmer Alicia Smith Jared Jedick Tess Civantos Meaghan Veselik Graphics Chris Michalski 
“Roe v. Wade is the best thing that 
“You can tell a lot about a fellow's Blair Chemidlin Scene ever happened to The Observer 
character by his way of eatingViewpoint Kaitlyn Conway [Viewpoint].” 
jellybeans.” 
Lauren 

Joseph Eno Ronald Reagan
Brauweiler 

Sorin senior 40th U.S. President 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, November 24, 2009 page 9 
Responsibility lies with Father Jenkins 
Let’s go back five years to see how we got to where we are now. 
1. Newly-elected Fr. John Jenkins acts in December 2004 to fire Tyrone Willingham prior to his formal installment as President in the 
spring. Michael Sydlik
2. Kevin White, his athletic direc-Guest tor then, publicly Columnist states that he had no part in this decision — in fact, he did not agree with it 
— yet is retained to embark on a program of watering down Notre Dame’s schedule for the near-eternity by employing the Ohio State model of 7-5 (later to be per­fected to 7-4-1) with the inclusion of increasingly-crappier teams over time. (And after the 10 year deal-in-the-making with Rutgers fell through, Mr. White then agreed to a five year contract with upstart Connecticut — and we all know how that turned out.) 
3. 
Obviously, with White not being on board with the firing, no real homework regarding a replacement had been done other than living on a prayer that Urban Meyer would obviously want to come to his “dream school” and work for the group that for over a decade just couldn’t seem to shoot straight. 

4. 
After nearly-constant abuse on vari­ous Notre Dame Football-related blogs, said former athletic director leaves of his 


own volition to pursue employment oppor­tunities at a school with which we hoped to “aspirationally peer.” That he was never outright fired at the time of the Willingham dismissal or essentially told to hit the road a short time later is especially telling. 
5. 
And this special telling is that Fr. Jenkins — and not Jack Swarbrick — is essentially calling all the important shots on the football program at Notre Dame. Now why would I say this? Well, think about it. When Jack Swarbrick, a lawyer with zero experience in running a college athletic program of any kind — not even considering football at any level — is hired to be the new yes-man in town, he promptly proclaims that he and Fr. Jenkins have a “shared vision.” 

6. 
So what then does Mr. Swarbrick pro­ceed to do upon his hiring? He promptly proclaims upon meeting with Charlie Weis in the summer of 2008 that both he and the coach have the same “shared vision” too. So now what you have is not just two but the top three people responsible for the football program at Notre Dame all running around sharing the same flawed vision for the long-ago-storied Notre Dame Football program. 

7. 
So then you start the 2008 season thinking you’re on Easy Street, but when cracks start to show up in the offense, it becomes painfully obvious that the book on beating Notre Dame is to rush only 


four, double on Tate and Floyd, and wait for us to absolutely not exploit such a defense obviously stacked against the pass by trying to develop some semblance of a running game. 
8. 
And then you finish the season out with an embarrassing loss to lowly Syracuse and the customary blowout loss to USC. But instead of firing the guy with so many flaws at being head coach of a major college football program, both Swarbrick and Jenkins let said coach B.S. his way into keeping his job by throwing out some nonsense about saving the recruiting class, having an experienced Jimmy back, and being in the “BCS con­versation” with an overall experienced roster returning next year also. 

9. 
Then, come this year, the new AD with the apparent good father’s blessing, proceeds to further tarnish the Notre Dame Football mystique by adding power­house programs such as Utah, Tulsa, and Western Michigan to our illustrious home schedule so as to clear the field for our obviously-overmatched coach next year as a follow-up to inking multi-year deals with Army at really cool, off-site venues at the same time. Then the season that was never-meant-to-be turns out to be the same-as-it-ever-was as our head coach outright refuses to commit to the run with opposing teams continuing to stop our decided schematic advantage dead in its tracks with the same rush-four, double­


on-the-outside-receivers, and wait-for-us­to-blow-up-on-offense defense. 
10. Now the new yes-man in town is going around making inane statements that his evaluation matrix for Coach Weis 
— which includes a lot more data points than mere wins and losses — doesn’t begin until after this week’s impending debacle. So give me a break. Fr. Jenkins got exactly what he wanted when he hired Jack Swarbrick, no more and no less, so it’s going to have to be up to the good father himself to make the right decision for the first time in nearly 15 years regarding the football program at Notre Dame. And I’m not sure he’s up to it given his track record over the last five years. And if he isn’t, he should step aside and let someone with some basic knowledge of college football step in and do so. 
11. So if you truly care about the Notre Dame Football program and its impor­tance in the lives of so many people — as well as the prestige that college football success at Notre Dame affords the University — please, please, Fr. Jenkins, do the right thing here and do it sooner than later, real soon to be precise. Otherwise, it may be forever too late. 
Michael Sydlik is an alumnus of the classes of 1973 and 1975. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Thankful for the Weis family 
My son is the biggest ND fan on this planet. My son also has autism. We were watching the game at Hannah and Friends. I knew my son was tense, and he could not even sit down to watch the ND/UConn game. My son’s savant area of expertise is sports. He is quite aware of the pressure coach Weis is under. We had to abruptly leave, the game was too close, and my son’s passion for the Irish and coach was more than he could bear. He started to cry in the car. He was very overwhelmed. He finished watching the game at home. He said, “Mom you know the coach’s job is on the line here. If we lose, he will get fired. Who will support Hannah and Friends? All the Alumni care about is a winning football team.” I told him Hannah and Friends is the Weis family’s dream come to reality. They will continue their mission of compassion what ever may happen. 
So for Thanksgiving, I want to thank the Weis family for giving my son a happy life. He loves his cooking classes, the dances, the football games, the Family Fest, all the parties. You have provided a haven where our children can be respected, celebrated and loved. I also want to thank all the ND stu­dents who volunteer and make our kids smiles even bigger. I am thankful for the Alumni who have given their time to help raise money for Hannah and Friends, and the Domers that come to fundraisers. Last but not least, I want to thank coach Weis, Maura, Charlie Jr. and Hannah — you will always be our Champions. We are thankful for you helping make our com­munity more compassionate to our angels walking the earth. 
Katherine Robinson Coleman 
alumna 
class of 1978 
Nov. 23 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


Not quite Christmas yet ... 
Well, I’ve waited as long as I could. I’m supposed to be writing a midterm paper, but my hand has been forced, and my ear is pressed firmly against the grindstone. Does that make sense? Not really, but whatever. The tide of Christmas music and decorations has finally pushed me over the edge — my own Keough Hall has begun decorating for Christmas. 
You would think something as sacred as the commercialized, secular Christmas season would command more reverence. I’ve always felt strongly that Christmas music and what not should be specifically reserved for, at most, the weeks between Turkey Day and Christmas. I would pre­fer not starting until December 1st, but impoverished college students can’t be choosers. The rest of society, however, deems it appropriate to begin spreading schmaltzy tidings of good cheer sometime circa Halloween. “Halloween? But that’s in October!” you might exclaim incredu­lously “In most normal places, there’s not even snow on the ground. Egad!” I know, I know — as Cat Stevens once said, “Oh, baby, baby, it’s a wild world.” 
And yet it persists. Howard Schultz, although I love the man and all he’s done for my burgeoning caffeine addiction, is one of the most notorious enablers. It wasn’t too many years back when Starbucks refrained from serving holiday drinks until the second of December. Then the first. Then Thanksgiving. And now, to the extreme dissatisfaction of Peter Frampton, myself, and numerous others, November 2. That is altogether too early. 
Following the principle of Double Effect, which I understand very little, and the teachings of the Catholic Church, I am fairly certain this is a mortal sin, one which usually results in an eternity of Hellish captivity in a pit filled with boiling monkey sputum. A Christmas season which occupies one-sixth of the year is altogether too long. 
If this trend continues, soon there will be nothing special about all the Christmas classics, like Jimmy Buffet’s masterpiece of sanctimonious Yuletide cheer, “Ho ho ho and a bottle of Rum,” or “National Lampoon’s Christmas Vacation,” or robotic reindeer and Santa Claus spawning like weeds on lawns all across America. 
Nick LaPlante 
junior Keough Hall Nov. 23 

The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Tuesday, November 24, 2009 

By NICK ANDERSON 
Scene Writer 
Everyone loves getting awards. They tend to be incredibly shiny and heavy, have your name printed on them, look impressive on a mantle and normally come with some cash. It’s not at all unexpected, then, that there’s a glut of award shows to honor the humble among us: musicians. Never ones to toot their own horns, it’s impor­tant we gather annually to pass out the American Music Awards. 
At first glance, the AMAs seem redundant in the pres­ence of the more popular, rel­evant and respected Grammies, but AMA creator and American icon Dick Clarke disagrees. Since its inception in the early 70’s, the awards have been decid­ed solely on popular vote, wrestling critical acclaim away from professional writ­ers, producers and musicians to its rightful place in the hands of the same population which determines record sales. 
This year’s show proved, yet again, that the American pub­lic really likes both the records it buys as well as a fair share of misinformed sentimentality. Taylor Swift took several awards to the bank, including Artist of the Year, Favorite Female Country and Pop/Rock Artist, as well as Favorite Album. It’s good to see her four-times Platinum album get some recognition, especially after Kanye West was so mean to her at the VMA’s. 
The other big winner of the night was Michael Jackson. Jackson won Favorite Male Pop/Rock and Soul/Rhythm Artist and Album. These awards were won on the merits of “This Is It”, the compan­ion album to the documen­tary of the same name and one of 13 Michael Jackson collec ­tions to be released in the last year. The Man in the Mirror’s winning spree was nothing but a life­time achievement award, especially contrasted with his last new release, 2001 ’s wholly forgettable “Invincible.” 
After a night of boring, pre­dictable awards, it seems the only talking point could be provided by the show’s clos­ing performer, Adam Lambert. Lambert, whose sexuality is cited as a factor in his loss of American Idol, followed in the footsteps of Justin Timberlake and Janet Jackson with an efficiently calculated publicity stunt aimed squarely at conserva­tive America. 
Lambert, who spent the previous two weeks complain­ing about the double standard between male and female pop stars, put his own “edgy” brand of sexuality on display during his performance of his newest single, “For Your Entertainment.” Impressively, he managed to back up his words by working in dancers in bondage gear, male dancers on leashes, an open mouth, male on male kiss, and simulated oral sex. It should be noted that all of these moves could have been taken straight from a Ziggy Stardust-era Bowie concert. 
His actions are gathering a fair share of headlines in the aftermath, as well as a mod­erate 1,500 indecency com­plaints (which undoubtedly came from a small number of people who didn’t even watch the performance). Helping his point, Lady Gaga and Rihanna gave sexually-charged per­formances nearly nude. 
Should we really be shocked by Lambert ’s actions? Lambert only furthered his career by getting his name in the paper (or more accurate­ly, the blogosphere). The cur­rent uproar is evenly divided; one side claiming indecency while the other claims a dou­ble standard. One only has to look back to Madonna’s 2003 VMA lip lock with Britney Spears to see that the latter argument appears the stronger. 
Lambert wanted to prove a point and make himself some money. Was he raunchy, bla­tant and vulgar? Yes. Did he manage to alienate most of his American Idol fan base? Not likely. Did he change any­thing? Other than his own profile, not really. In a post-Nipplegate world, it seems there’s nothing left to shock our culture. The real question remains, is that really a bad 
thing? 
Contact Nick Anderson at 
nanders5@nd.edu 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 
Observer Graphic I BLAIR CHEMIDLIN 
The Observer 

Scene
Tuesday, November 24, 2009 page 11 

He is also guest starring on an episode of “30 Rock,” attending graduate school at New York University, and he will be starring in the come­dies “Your Highness” with Natalie Portman, “Eat, Pray, Love ” with Julia Roberts and “Howl,” where he portrays Allen Ginsburg. This guy doesn’t dispatch his time carelessly, and that should really say something in defense of soaps. 
He is also certainly not the first celebrity to do a cameo on a soap opera. Every fan knows that a celeb in town can shake things up more than an evil twin carrying her sister’s hus ­band’s illegitimate child. The B-52’s were on “Guiding Light” in 1982, Snoop Dogg was on “One Life to Live” in 2008, Betty White made an appearance on “The Bold and the Beautiful, ” Lily Allen appeared on the Australian soap opera “Neighbours” earlier this year and of course there was Elizabeth Taylor’s mesmerizing performance on “General Hospital” in the 80’s. 
Even if you’ve never watched a soap before, even if you think they’re stupid and ridiculous (careful with those stones — many ridiculous things are also good, the perfect example being “Twilight ”), everyone knows someone who watches a soap. Now there is finally something to get even the most cynical cynic of daytime television watching — James Franco’s face. Soaps love—nay, are practically obsessed with the awkwardly long, yet meaningful close-up. Which means that James Franco’s face will be taking over the television screen for probably what amounts to 10 minutes per episode. 
Is the writing great? No, especially consider­ing that James’ character’s name is ‘Franco’, so there are no points scored for creativity there, and “Law and Order” has already done the whole serial killer photographer thing, but soap operas are supposed to be cheesy. There is a reason housewives are the majority of watchers, and it’s the same reason why college students should be — to escape. Escape from the everyday, the grind of classes, the laundry that’s piling up, whatever. What could be more out of real life than two rival killers clashing in epic proportions in a town of people who have been married upwards of six times and hang out in the local hospital just for fun? Not a sin­gle thing comes to mind. 
Contact Courtney Eckerle at cecker01@saintmarys.edu 


By ERIC PRISTER 
Scene Writer 

There’s something about multi-player Nintendo 64 games that brings out the worst in people. Even the most mild-mannered person can be seen scream­ing when his he loses his last life in Super Smash Bros., or when he gets a star stolen from him in Mario Party. 
But there’s also something about these games that brings people togeth­er, some small enjoyment that comes from competition that requires nothing but some hand-eye coordination and basic video game playing skills. I sug­gest that every dorm room should include a Nintendo 64 (something that can now be purchased relatively inex­pensively) and these few games which can provide hours of entertainment, and often some bitter rivalries and excessive yelling. 
Super Smash Bros. 

Arguably the greatest multi-player video game of all time, Super Smash Bros. is a must-have for any Nintendo 64 owners. The enjoyment comes from being able to match your fighting skills with someone else’s, one-on-one, and proving that you can beat up your opponent, even if it’s only in a video game. Intensity and hilarity can ensue when the lives start slipping away and it starts coming down to the last few attacks, especially if someone finds a hammer. And no, using Kirby is not cheating. It’s just smart game play. 
Mario Party 

Why play a regular board game when you can play a Mario board game complete with mini-games and the frustration that comes with happ ening spaces and chance time? Mario Party appeals to all because of the combination of strategy and luck, and the vari­ety of mini-games allows every­one to excel at something. And what brings more intensity than the end of a round of Mario Party, waiting to see who will get the coin star, the happening star and the game star, all in the pursuit of the ever-elusive Super Star. Wow, I’m a nerd. 

Mario Kart 
A game that tends to be more lop­
sided in favor of those who have experi­ence playing the game (or those who have 
memorized the courses forwards and back­wards), Mario Kart is a game that should be played with play­ers of com­parabl e skill level. The 16 courses provid e variation that gives the game replay value, but the ability to play as 
many or as few races as you want makes it a good game for filling any amount of free time. Just remember not to drink and drive. It’s against the rules. 
Mario Golf 
Another game that takes some getting used to before it really becomes fun, Mario Golf can provide a much-needed golf fix in the midst of the cold winters of South Bend. One drawback is that rounds of 18 holes can take a while, but Mario Golf offers a save feature which can postpone rounds for later. Nothing is more frustrating that missing a short putt for the win, but nothing is more exhilarating than chipping in or record­ing the rare albatross. Don’t forget to factor in the rain, though. Or the lie. Or the wind. 
If any of these appeal to you, the I strongly urge you to find a Nintendo 64, get some friends together and play one of these games. Just be prepared for the biting insults, a lot of yelling and the occasional controller-throw. Just make sure that you don’t hit the system too hard, or it will freeze. Epic fail. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, November 24, 2009 
NHL 

Garborik helped in victory over Blue Jackets 
Ottawa comes back in overtime to defeat Washington; Islanders outshoot Maple Leafs in overtime victory 
Columbus is 0-1-1 on its 
Associated Press 
five-game road trip, which 

NEW YORK — Marian began after a three -game Gaborik again sparked the winning streak. The Blue Rangers’ offense with two Jackets lost in regulation for goals and two assists, but this the first time since Nov. 11 time he had lots of long -when they were beaten 9-1 by awaited help in New York’s 7-Detroit in coach Ken 4 victory over the Columbus Hitchcock’s 1,000th NHL Blue Jackets on Monday game. night. With Hall of Fame New York 
Sean Avery also scored defenseman Brian Leetch twice and Henrik Lundqvist looking on, Matt Gilroy — made 26 saves for the another Rangers rookie Rangers, who strung together defenseman — scored a seven straight goals after breakaway goal at 12:47 of falling behind 2-0. the second to make it 7-2. 
After Columbus scored twice New York had three goals on in the first period, Gaborik its first five shots against got the Rangers going on their Garon, who was bailed out way to matching their biggest later in the period when offensive output of the season Christopher Higgins and Ryan following coach John Callahan both hit posts with Tortorella’s timeout. The shots. often-fiery Tortorella seemed When Garon finally did to deliver a positive message secure the puck with a save, during the break. he heard mock cheers from 
Whatever he said, it surely the festive Madison Square worked. Garden crowd that had been 
New York scored three longing to see a win. The times in the first to take the Rangers were 4-9-1 since a lead and then added four seven-game winning streak goals in the second against ended in mid -October and Blue Jackets starting goalie they had dropped three Peter Regin gave the skate. Ovechkin drew an roughly 100 friends and fami-Steve Mason and beleaguered straight at home as their Senators a 1-0 lead 7:27 in assist for his pass to Pothier ly. The 19-year-old from near-backup Mathieu Garon. offense sputtered. before Ottawa allowed three to begin the play — and the by Oakville was limited to one 
Gaborik, Artem Anisimov Gaborik and linemate Vinny straight goals. goal was upheld by a video quality scoring chance — he and rookie defenseman Prospal had scored each of Chris Neil got his fourth review. roared in off the wing in third Michael Del Zotto wiped out New York’s previous goals goal 3:18 into the third to Morrison gave Washington period and had a shot stopped the early deficit. Avery scored before Anisimov broke the draw the Senators to 3-2 the lead with 29.3 seconds by Jonas Gustavsson. at 6:12 of the second period string and tied it 2-all at before Picard beat Varlamov left in the first when he skat-The Islanders surged to a 3­to make it 4-2 and chase 13:37. Tortorella has been with a slap shot from the ed past the crease to redirect 0 lead over a span of 3:13. Mason — last season’s NHL calling for the Rangers to get point to tie it after Alex Mike Green’s pass for his Tambellini took a nice break-rookie of the year — who much-needed secondary scor-Ovechkin was called for eighth goal. away pass from Mark Streit made only 14 saves. ing, and Anisimov’s goal roughing at 6:43. Beagle made it a 3-1 advan-and beat Vesa Toskala high, 
Anisimov had a goal and snapped a stretch of 212 min-Rookie Jay Beagle got his tage with an unassisted effort Moulson pumped his fists two assists, and rookie for-utes, 19 seconds over four first NHL goal to put 11:44 into the second. The after tipping home his team-ward P.A. Parenteau also games since someone other Washington up 3-1 in the sec-24-year-old rookie beat Elliott leading 11th of the season helped set up two goals. than Gaborik or Prospal found ond after Chris Clark and with a snap shot from the slot and Bergenheim came in 
Garon was under siege as the net. Brendan Morrison scored in after the puck landed at his alone on a short-handed rush soon as he came in. Avery, New York had scored only the first. feet when Senators forward and roofed a shot over who hadn’t scored in 15 18 goals overall in its previ-Varlamov stopped 33 shots Jonathan Cheechoo’s back-Toskala. games, added his second goal ous 10 games (3-7). for the injury -ravaged hand clearing attempt struck Suddenly, the boos poured of the night just 51 seconds Capitals, who have dropped him on the skate. down from an Air Canada later on the first shot Garon Senators 4, Capitals 3 four of five (1-2-2), including Centre crowd that has wit-faced. New York made it 2 for Mike Fisher scored 1:14 into a 2-1 shootout loss Saturday Islanders 4, Maple Leafs 3 nessed just two wins in 11 2 just 20 seconds after that overtime, giving the Ottawa in Toronto. Dwayne Roloson made 58 games this season. when Gaborik netted his sec-Senators a comeback victory Capitals right wing saves and Josh Bailey scored A glimpse of hope arrived ond goal and 18th this season, over the Washington Capitals Alexander Semin missed his in overtime to lift the New soon after off the stick of moving him into a tie for the on Monday night. fourth straight game because York Islanders to a win over Kessel, who scored for the league lead with San Jose’s Fisher, selected the NHL’s of a wrist injury. Milan the Toronto Maple Leafs on sixth time in 10 games with Dany Heatley. third star of the week earlier Jurcina, Boyd Gordon, Shaone Monday night. the Maple Leafs . He charged 
New York scored three goals in the day, batted Chris Morrisonn and Tom Poti all Bailey scored 4:18 into hard to the goal and had a in a span of 1:11 to break it Phillips’ centering pass out of remain day -to -day with a overtime, taking a pass from tap-in after taking a nice pass open. Avery muscled defense-the air and past Semyon variety of injuries and were Sean Bergenheim and slam-from Matt Stajan at 15:32. man Mike Commodore off the Varlamov for his 10th goal of also out of the lineup once ming the puck into an open Interestingly, Leafs coach puck and stuffed it in for his the season. again for Washington, which net. It was the Islanders only Ron Wilson sent Gustavsson in first of the game. Then he fin-Brian Elliott made 25 saves has also lost Mike Knuble to a shot of the extra period. Jeff for Toskala shortly after ished off a 2-on-1 for his sec-in his fifth start for the broken finger and Quintin Tambellini, Matt Moulson and Kessel’s goal. It was unclear if ond. Senators, who rallied from a Lang to a broken jaw. Bergenheim also scored for Toskala suffered an injury ­
Derek MacKenzie, with his 3-1 deficit in the third period Regin opened the scoring off New York (9-8-7). he went straight to the dress-first of the season, and Jared to win their fourth in a row a deflection. He tipped Jesse Phil Kessel, Wayne Primeau ing room after getting pulled Boll gave Columbus its 2-0 and wrap up a 4-0-1 homes-Winchester’s shot past and Niklas Hagman replied before returning to the end of lead. Kristian Huselius scored tand. Varlamov from the edge of the for the Maple Leafs (4-11-7). the bench for the third period. with 1:12 left in the second to Alexandre Picard scored crease for his third goal. It was a relatively quiet Primeau scored at 2:10 of snap the Rangers’ streak of Ottawa’s second goal in a Clark drew Washington even night for Islanders rookie the third period from his seven goals. Jakub Voracek’s span of 4:20 on a power play at 11:19 when Brian Pothier’s John Tavares , who admitted knees before Hagman roared tally with 11:47 left brought 7:40 into the third to tie it at slap pass went in off the to feeling some nerves before around Freddy Meyer and the Blue Jackets to 7-4. 3. Washington captain’s left a game that was attended by made it 3-3 at 9:18. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

WANTED FOR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com. HOUSES Considering Adoption? ND Alums UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Are we idiots? What right, does Jim Hoping to Adopt. If you are an Do not go it alone. have to claim authority? Is he as expectant mother searching for a Notre Dame has many resources in good a salesman as I? Is he as family, please see our website at place to assist you. matronly as Phyllis? There are 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base-522 Napoleon Street: 1-2 student PERSONAL http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro-If you or someone moments where we can affect appt., no experience needed, cus-Nice ktchn,bath,2bdrm,storage file.net. you love needs change. For a few seconds every tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835. Washer/dryer. 5 blks W. off ND Ave. If you or someone you care about ——————————————— confidential support decade... We exist. These are ——————————————— $580/mo+utl (219)629-5483 has been TODAY IS THE LAST or assistance, those seconds! Let us storm his CHILDCARE Needed for Catholic ——————————————— sexually assaulted, OBSERVER UNTIL please call castle. Come on! Let's get him. family, 8-10 hours Irish Crossings and Dublin Village 3 we can help. TUESDAY, Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-17819 Let's get Jim! per week, in Granger, and 4 bdr, furnished and unfur-For more information, DEC. 1. or ——————————————— $8 per hour. nished. January and June 2010 visit HAVE A HAPPY Ann Firth at 1-2685. Support the Eyes On Africa Must have own transport. leases available. Notre Dame's AND For more information, Foundation and help them win 25K althoffamy@yahoo.com or www.cespm.info website: SAFE visit ND's website at: by voting for them on the Facebook 574-271-0383. Call 574-968-0112. http://csap.nd.edu THANKSGIVING. http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu Chase Community Giving contest. ——————————————— ———————————————-———————————————-——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around theNat on 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Tuesday, November 24, 2009 page 13 
NCAA Men’s Basketball Division I AP Top 25 
team previous 
1 Kansas 1 2 Michigan State 2 3 Texas 3 4 Kentucky 4 5 Villanova 5 6 North Carolina 6 7 Purdue 7 8 West Virginia 8 9 Duke 9 10 Tennessee 10 11 Butler 11 12 Connecticut 12 13 California 13 14 Washington 14 15 Michigan 15 16 Ohio State 16 17 Oklahoma 17 18 Dayton 21 19 Georgetown 20 20 Louisville 19 21 Georgia Tech 22 22 Clemson 24 23 Illinois 23 24 Minnesota 25 25 Maryland NR 
NCAA Women’s Basketball Division I USA Today Top 25 
team previous 
1 Connecticut 1 2 Stanford 2 3 Ohio State 3 4 North Carolina 5 5 Tennessee 9 6 NOTRE DAME 7 7 Arizona State 11 8 Texas A&M 16 9 Baylor 4 10 Florida State 12 11 California 13 12 Duke 6 13 Texas 14 14 Xavier 15 15 LSU 17 16 Oklahoma 8 17 Virginia 18 18 Vanderbilt 20 19 Louisville 19 20 Maryland 21 21 Michigan State 10 22 Georgia NR 23 Purdue 23 24 Iowa State 24 25 Pittsburgh 22 


around the dial 
NCAA Football 
Ball State at Western Michigan 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NCAA Basketball 
Maui Invitational 1:30 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 


Twins’Mauer wins AL MVP decisively 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK — Joe Mauer sat behind a table on a podi­um in a conference room at the Metrodome when Justin Morneau shouted out the last question of the day. “Are you finally going to buy din­ner now?” Morneau said to his teammate from the audi­ence, one MVP to another. 
Mauer became only the second catcher in 33 years to win the American League Most Valuable Player Award, finishing first in a near-unanimous vote Monday. 
The Minnesota Twins star received 27 of 28 first-place votes and 387 points in bal­loting by the Baseball Writers’ Association of America. 
Yankees teammates Mark Teixeira (225 points) and Derek Jeter (193) followed. Detroit’s Miguel Cabrera drew the other first-place vote and was fourth with 171 points, one point ahead of the Angels’ Kendry Morales. 
Mauer became the second Twins player to win in four years, following Morneau in 2006. Morneau gave Mauer a bottle of champagne. 
“Hopefully we can pop that open here a little later,” Mauer said. 
Born in St. Paul, the 26­year-old can leave the Twins and become a free agent after the 2010 season, when he is to make $12.5 million. Minnesota is expected to try to sign him to a new deal. 
“I’ve always said it will happen when it needs to happen and I truly believe that,” he said. “I’m not the kind of guy that, you know, says by this date we need to have something done.” 
He enjoys playing in front of his family and friends and his preference is to stay with the Twins. 
“Can we win here? Yes. Definitely. I think so,” he said. “And that’s ultimately what I would like to do.” 
For now, Twins general manager Bill Smith didn’t want to address the busi­ness side. 
“All that contract stuff, that’s for another day,” he said. “I’ll just say one thing: If you think if he finished second that the price is going to come down ... No.” 
Morneau, signed at $14 million for each of the next four seasons, usually picks up checks as the highest-paid member of the Twins. He might be losing that sta­tus to Mauer sometime soon. 
“We’re going to do every­thing we can to keep him here as a Minnesota Twin,” Morneau said. “The biggest thing now isn’t the money. It’s going to be whether or not he feels like we can win every day.” 
Mauer set a major league record for highest batting average by a catcher and won his third batting title, becoming the first repeat batting champion since Nomar Garciaparra in 1999­00. 
IN BRIEF 

Judge clears sale of Lions ’ old stadium 
PONTIAC, Mich. — A judge has cleared the way for Pontiac, Mich., to sell the stadium that was once home to the NFL’s Detroit Lions to a Canadian company for $583,000. 
The Lions abandoned the 80,300­seat Silverdome in 2002, when they moved to Detroit’s Ford Field. Pontiac has been spending $1.5 million a year to maintain the largely unused stadium. 
Oakland County Circuit Court Judge Edward Sosnick refused Monday to grant a preliminary injunction to Silver Stallion Corp., which made a $20 million offer for the Silverdome last year. 
That deal fell through in a dis­pute over environmental cleanup costs. 
Pontiac officials say the Canadian company, Triple Properties Inc. of Toronto, will take ownership with­in 45 days. 
Tebow, McCoy, Ingram named Maxwell finalists 
DALLAS — Tim Tebow and Colt McCoy are set for at least one show­down off the field. 
The quarterbacks for No. 1 Florida and third-ranked Texas were chosen finalists Monday for two of the biggest postseason awards outside the Heisman Trophy. 
Tebow, McCoy and Alabama running back Mark Ingram are the finalists for the Maxwell Award that goes to the best all-around player in college football. Tebow won the past two Maxwells. 
Houston’s Case Keenum joins Tebow and McCoy as finalists for the Davey O’Brien Award given to the best quar­terback. 
The winners of the Maxwell, O’Brien and seven other awards will be announced at Walt Disney World in Florida on Dec. 10, two days before Tebow and McCoy figure to be in New York as Heisman finalists for the second year in a row. 
Stafford, Johnson may not play against Packers 
ALLEN PARK, Mich. — Matt Stafford and Calvin Johnson played the game Sunday that Detroit Lions fans had been waiting all season to see. 
Stafford set an NFL rookie passing record with 422 yards in a 38-37 vic­tory over Cleveland and became the youngest player to throw five touch­down passes in a game. Johnson had seven catches for a career-best 161 yards, including a 75-yard touch­down. 
Trouble is, a national TV audience might not get to see either player on Thursday. 
Stafford and Johnson were both injured on a chaotic play as time expired, and Lions coach Jim Schwartz didn’t sound optimistic that either would be available to face Green Bay on Thanksgiving Day. 
Stafford suffered a dislocated left shoulder when he was hit as he threw a desperation pass into the end zone. 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, November 24, 2009 
LPGA 

Nordqvist triumphs at Tour Championship 
Associated Press 
RICHMOND, Texas — Lorena Ochoa and Jiyai Shin’s duel for LPGA player of the year fittingly came down to the final hole of the season. 
Anna Nordqvist won the LPGA Tour Championship on Monday and Ochoa finished second to earn the top player title for the fourth consecutive year. 
The 22-year-old Nordqvist shot a final-round 65 to finish 13 under par. Ochoa was two strokes back and won the top player honor when Shin couldn’t chip in goals. I just missed player of the year, but I still had a good year.” 
Ochoa also won her fourth straight Vare Trophy, honor­ing the season’s lowest scor­ing average. Ochoa and Shin were separated by decimal points in that race award coming into the tournament. 
Though she was constantly aware of where she stood with Shin, Ochoa said she never lost focus on the task at hand. 
“I was just trying to win the tournament, so I didn’t have 
to worry about 
how she fin­
ished, or the 

for birdie from “I always say that I points at the end the front of the of the day,” 
want to stay on top
18th hole. Ochoa said. “I’m 
as long as I continue
“I always say just really proud that I want to playing.” of the way I fin-stay on top as ished.” long as I con-Nordq vist,
Lorena Ochoa
tinue playing, meanwhil e,
Golfer
so this is just a 
great year for me,” Ochoa said. “It’s been tough in many different ways, but the impor­tant thing is I’m at the top.” 
Shin led Ochoa by eight points (156-148) in the race entering the tournament. Once Ochoa secured second place, Shin had to finish no worse than seventh to win the player of the year award. Point totals are based on top­10 results. 
Shin seemed to take the inside track when Ochoa needed two shots to escape a greenside bunker on the par-3 17th hole. Ochoa sank a bogey putt, virtually ending her chances of 

“I defnitely tried to
winning the the tournament tournament, as be aggressive. It was and clear the Shin and 
pretty tight up the way for Ochoa 
Nordqvist and Shin to 
leaderboard.” 
watched from decide their the tee. duel. 
But Shin also Anna Nordqvist “I definitely hit a bunker on tried to be 
Golfer 
earned her sec­
ond career vic­
tory and made it through the season without missing a cut in 15 starts. She also won the LPGA Championship this year. 
Shin and Nordqvist played in the day’s final group, right behind Ochoa. The Houstonian Golf and Country Club was still soggy after more than an inch of weekend rain and players were allowed to lift, clean and place their balls. 
Nordqvist surged to the lead at 12 under with five consecu­tive birdies between Nos. 8­
12. She bogeyed the 13th, then added birdies on 14 and 15 to settle 

the 17th, blast­ed out short of the green and bogeyed. 
Ochoa dropped her approach to the 18th hole about 16 feet away and stud­ied the leaderboard as she walked to the green. She and caddie Greg Johnston talked about the situation before Ochoa curled in the putt, giv­ing a modest fist pump after it fell. 
Shin’s second shot to the 18th hole stopped a few feet off the green. Her chip missed the hole by inches and Ochoa patted her heart, embraced Johnston and held back tears near the scorers’ tent. 
“I’m happy I can make his­tory, and my goal is to contin­ue that,” said Ochoa, who’s getting married in two weeks. “Hopefully, I’m going to get back home and work hard and be ready for next year.” 
The 21 -year-old South Korean fell short in her bid to win the rookie and player of the year awards. Nancy Lopez remains the only player to sweep both titles, in 1978. 
The good-natured Shin was still smiling after coming up short. 
“I learned a lot from this year,” she said. “I need more focus, concentration, and everything. I really made my agg res si ve,” 
Nordqvist said. 
“It was pretty tight up the leaderboard, so you were really going to have to shoot low in order to pull it off. I’m just very, very happy that I did.” 
Na Yeon Choi (64) and sec­
ond -round leader Kristy McPherson (70) finished 10 under, tied for third. A trio of players finished 7 under and Shin’s costly par dropped her into a four-way tie for eighth. 
Choi surged up the leader-board in the early afternoon with a 30 on the front nine. She holed a 175-yard shot from the ninth fairway and birdied the 10th hole to reach 10 under. 
Shin struggled to make putts on the front nine and didn’t make her first birdie until No. 
11. By then, Ochoa was within a shot of the lead. But Ochoa dropped shots at Nos. 8 and 9, and Nordqvist to zip past her. 
Ochoa got back on track with an 8-foot birdie putt on No. 15, setting up the dramat­ic finish. 
The event was shortened to 54 holes after weekend rains forced long delays. The sec­
ond round was completed Monday morning, the cut was made and the third round began immediately in sunny, calm conditions. 
NFL 
Injuries plaguing teams 
Associated Press 
The playoff chase has gotten much more difficult for the Packers after they lost two key defensive players to season-end­ing injuries. 
Cornerback Al Harris and linebacker Aaron Kampman will have knee surgery after suffer­ing major injuries Sunday. Both were hurt on separate plays in the second half of a victory over San Francisco, apparently dam­aging their left knees. Coach Mike McCarthy would not con­firm specific details of either injury. 
“They’re both professionals,” McCarthy said. “I think we have a lot of confidence they’ll both respond very well. They’re both in great shape, both take great care of their bodies.” 
The Packers have a short turnaround before visiting Detroit on Thanksgiving Day. The Lions also have injury con­cerns, particularly quarterback Matthew Stafford. 
Lions coach Jim Schwartz said Monday that the top overall pick in the draft was “extremely sore” after sustaining a separat­ed left shoulder on the next-to­last play of the win over Cleveland, and he won’t play against Green Bay unless the pain subsides. 
Stafford said he is “in a good amount of pain.” 
Schwartz was also unsure about receiver Calvin Johnson, who hurt his knee on the same play that Stafford was injured. 
The Redskins, already among the league’s most injury-ravaged teams, added running back Ladell Betts (torn left knee liga­ments), tackle Chad Rinehart (broken leg) and fullback Eddie Williams (broken leg) to their long injured reserve list. Betts is the backup to Clinton Portis, who likely won’t return from his concussion for at least one more game. Tight end Chris Cooley will be in a walking boot for another 10 days, and DeAngelo Hall has a sprained knee. 
“Brutal. Brutal. It’s been bru­tal,” said Rock Cartwright, now Washington’s starting running back. “We lost a lot of key guys we planned on having for the season.” 
The Steelers not only dropped to 6-4 with a stunning loss at Kansas City, they saw their top two quarterbacks go down. After Ben Roethlisberger left with concussion-like symptoms, backup Charlie Batch injured his left wrist during overtime. Batch could undergo surgery later this week and miss about six weeks. Batch sat out last season with a broken collar­bone. 
Arizona’s Kurt Warner, the other starting QB in last February’s Super Bowl, left in the second quarter against the Rams after banging his head against the turf. Cardinals coach Ken Whisenhunt said he spoke with Warner on the flight home, and the quarterback was “very upbeat and alert.” 
Warner will undergo a mandatory “baseline test” of his cognitive functions Tuesday. 
“We are obviously optimistic that there won’t be any issues with that whatsoever,” Whisenhunt said. 
Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo took a knee to the back early in a victory over Washington. He didn’t miss a snap. 
“We’ve already talked to Tony and he says he feels a lot bet­ter,” coach Wade Phillips said. “He had a little bit of stiffness. He had quite a bit during the ballgame, but says he feels a lot better.” 
Phillips expects Romo to play Thursday against Oakland. 
Rams QB Marc Bulger will be sidelined 3-6 weeks with a bro­ken left leg sustained in Sunday’s loss to the Cardinals. The team said it would not place Bulger on injured reserve. 
He also underwent an MRI exam on his groin and ham­string Monday and was due for a second MRI on a swollen knee. Plus he’s being tested for con-cussion-related symptoms. 
Linebacker Chris Chamberlain and rookie offensive tackle Jason Smith also will be tested for concussions Tuesday. 
Dolphins nose tackle Jason Ferguson will miss the rest of the season with a quadriceps injury. Coach Tony Sparano was unsure if Ferguson, who turns 35 on Saturday, will need sur­gery. 
“We lost a heck of a player and another captain and those types of things,” Sparano said. “It is happening every place you look around the league right now. That is what happens. It is Week 12.” 
Dolphins running back Ronnie Brown (foot) and quarterback Chad Pennington (shoulder) have also suffered season-end­ing injuries this year. 


Tuesday, November 24, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
MLB 

Shortstop Vizquel signs contract with White Sox 
be a mentor to younger found it to be an opportunity 
Associated Press 

infielders. to see the game from a differ-
CHICAGO — Omar Vizquel Chicago traded for Mark ent perspective, something is joining a team with a long Teahen and he will play third; that could help him someday history of Venezuelan short-Alexei Ramirez will be at should he manage. stops, and that was part of shortstop and But right now the attraction in coming to G o r d o n the White Sox the Chicago White Sox. Beckham will are also count-
The 42 -year-old Vizquel switch from “I think this kid is the ing on him to be agreed Monday to one-year third to second a productive 
best player to come
contract worth nearly $1.4 in his second c o n t r i b u t o r
out of my country.” 
million to add depth, experi-season. because he is ence and perhaps advice to a “I look at still in such young infield. Last season, myself as a Ozzie Guillen great shape. the White Sox made 113 mentor to some They guaran ­
White Sox manager 
errors. other guys,” teed him 
Now they have an 11-time Vizquel said. “I $1,375,000. Gold Glove winner around, don’t think “I think this one who has spent most of his that’s going to be an issue. kid is the best player to come days at shortstop during a 21-I’ve always been there for out of my country,” Guillen year career. younger guys. I’ve been play-said. “I don’t want to say kid 
“I feel pretty comfortable ing in the big leagues for a — he’s almost the same age that I can do the job in the while.” as me.” field, that I can still run and With the Texas Rangers this Vizquel, a switch-hitter, has hit and do year, Vizquel hit 2,704 hits. He is a career everythi ng .266 with one .273 hitter with 78 homers, that a major homer and 14 906 RBIs and 1,378 runs in league player RBIs in 62 2,742 games with Seattle, 
“I look at myself as a
is asked to games. He had Cleveland, San Francisco and do, ” Vizquel mentor to some other no errors in 207 the Rangers. said. guys.” chances while Vizquel, who has played 238 
V i z q u e l , playing short -games at shortstop since who will turn stop, third and turning 40, has a career field-
Omar Vizquel 
43 in April, second. The ing percentage of .984. A will play for White Sox shortstop slick -fielding three-time AL All -Star, he f e l l o w veteran also played in the 1995 and 1997 Venezuelan m e n t o r e d World Series with Cleveland. Ozzie Guillen, V e n e z u e l a n Vizquel considered joining a former shortstop who will shortstop Elvis Andrus, the the White Sox five years ago be 46 in January. runner-up for AL Rookie of before signing with the San 
The White Sox manager the Year. Francisco Giants following his made it clear his team didn’t Vizquel said he had to make stellar stint with the Indians. sign Vizquel to be a coach. an adjustment to being a util-One thing that will likely But Vizquel said he’ll gladly ity player last season but change is his number. 
Familiar No. 13 belongs to Guillen. 
“That’s going to be a hard thing. I don’t think Ozzie is going to give up his number,” Vizquel said. 
He said he might ask coun­tryman Luis Aparicio if can wear his retired No. 11 as a tribute. Or maybe the No. 17 that was worn by another Venezuelan shortstop who played for the White Sox, Chico Carrasquel. 

Guillen said nothing has been decided but he would be reluctant to part with his number, one he wore for so many years with the White Sox. 
He suggested that Vizquel try No. 23 — just one digit removed — because it’s such a big number in Chicago, the 
one most notably worn by Michael Jordan. 


page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, November 24, 2009 
NFL 

Cardiac Colts winning close games this year 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — On paper, everything looks perfect for Indianapolis. 
The Colts are 10-0 again, in charge of the AFC South again, and could lock up another playoff spot in the next two weeks. 
Yet with four straight victories by four points or fewer, coach Jim Caldwell knows this is not like the last time Indy opened the season with 10 straight wins. It’s been a whole lot tougher. 
“The realistic thing is that this is more typical of what you see week-to-week in the NFL,” he said Monday. “I think there are a number of areas we need to improve upon, but the bottom line is we’re getting the job done.” 
Nobody can quibble with the results. Indy holds a three-game lead in the chase for the AFC’s top seed. What many want to know is whether the Colts might be living on borrowed time. 
In some ways, this looks like the same old Colts. 
They went 7-0 in 2007 before losing to eventu­al AFC champion Pittsburgh. 
This year, the Colts have won six of their 10 games by four or fewer points — including three straight escapes. 
Houston’s Kris Brown missed a potentially tying 42-yard field goal as time expired, Bill Belichick lost his risky fourth-down gamble and Baltimore’s Joe Flacco threw an late interception, thwarting a chance at a possible go-ahead field goal Sunday. 
Lucky? Perhaps. 
Caldwell thinks all these close calls could make Indy a tougher playoff opponent. 
“We certainly feel we’ve devel­oped a pretty solid mental tough­ness,” he said. “Hopefully, it’s going to serve us down the road and make us continue to get bet­ter. Hopefully we can benefit from it.” 
There are already indications that philosophy is taking root. 
Over the first 10 games, the offense and defense have traded big plays. 
At Miami, Manning had the ball less than 15 minutes yet rallied 
the Colts for an 
improbable victo-


New England. ry. Against New 
“I think there are a
They were 9-0 England, the 
number of areas we
before losing at defense stopped Dallas in 2006, need to improve the Pats short on and they opened fourth-and-2 and 
upon, but the bottom 
13-0 in 2005 Manning slowly 
line is we’re getting
before San Diego took the Colts 29 finally stopped the job done.” yards for the win-their quest for ning score. On perfecti on. Sunday, it was 
Jim Caldwell 
Peyton Manning middle linebacker 
Colts coach 
Gary Brackett has topped 3,000 yards for a 12th consecutive sea­son, second only to Brett Favre’s 17, and they have overcome the usual spate of injuries to key play­ers. 
In other ways, these Colts are very different. 
Their 19-game regular-season winning streak is now the second-longest in league history, trailing only New England’s 21-game streak. The Colts haven’t missed a step with Caldwell taking over for Tony Dungy while Reggie Wayne and Dallas Clark have taken up the slack left by Marvin Harrison’s departure. Wayne and Clark have combined for 141 receptions this year, the most by teammates over the first 10 games of a season in league history. 
But the big change is how Indy is winning games. 
Back in 2005, the Colts opened 13-0 with an average victory mar­gin of 16.3 points. None of the wins came by fewer than seven points, though Indy wound up los­ing three of their last four includ­ing a divisional round game to eventual Super Bowl champion fooling Flacco and 
then making a nifty grab for his first interception since 2007. 
And it’s the defense that has made the greatest progress. 
Baltimore was forced to kick five field goals Sunday, giving Indy a three-game total of six TDs allowed vs. 10 field goals. 
That’s not good enough against Manning. 
“With our offense, nobody is ever going to beat us kicking field goals,” safety Antoine Bethea said after Sunday’s 17-15 victory. 
The question, of course, is whether Indy can continued win­ning close contests. 
“Obviously, any time your team is finding ways to win, particular­ly when things haven’t gone per­fectly, you find some satisfaction there,” Caldwell said. “You can also look at it is maybe there are some situations that occurred earlier in the game that could have put you in a little bit better position, but the reality and the fact of the matter is that typically in this league that’s what the games boil down to.” 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Profs say refs affect game 
Associated Press 
They don’t all need glasses. But if you always suspected basketball referees are biased 
— well, you’re right, according to a couple of professors who’ve studied the matter. 
Refs favor the home team, the academics say. They’re big on “make-up” calls. They make more calls against teams in the lead, and the discrepan­cy grows if the game is on national TV. 
The professors studied 365 college games during the 2004-05 season and found that refs had a terrific knack for keeping the foul count even, regardless of which team was more aggressive. 
Exhibit A: The 2005 Final Four meeting between Illinois and Louisville. The Illini, known for being more aggres­sive defensively, got whistled for the first seven fouls. By the end of the game, the foul count was Louisville 13, Illinois 12. The Illini won 72­57. 
Results like this were the norm across all the games the professors studied from that season — from the Big East to the ACC to the Big Ten and all 63 NCAA tournament games. The take-home message for coaches: The more aggressive your teams the better because, in the end, the foul count is going to be about even no mat­ter what. 
It helps explain, the profes­sors say, why college basket­ball has gotten increasingly physical over the past 25 years. 
“Part of the reason for the study came from something my coach used to tell me,” said study co-author Kyle Anderson, a visiting professor at Indiana University’s Kelley School of Business, who played at Division III Knox College. “He said a team can come in and push and shove and grab and hold, and by the end of the game, or end of the half, they’ve only got one or two more fouls because officials kind of get tired of calling it.” 
Among the key findings, which were published The Journal of Sports Sciences ear­lier this year: 
—The probability of a foul being called on the visiting team was 7 percent higher than on the home team. 
—When the home team is leading, the probability of the next foul being called on them was about 6.3 percentage points higher than when the home team was trailing. The professors also cited an earlier study that concluded there were more calls against teams ahead in games on national TV versus those ahead in locally televised games. Calling fouls against the leading team tends to keep games closer, the studies said. 
—The bigger the difference in fouls between the two teams playing, the more likely it was that the next call would come against the team with fewer fouls. When the home team had five or more fouls than the visiting team, there was a 69 percent chance the visiting team would be whistled for the next foul. 
As part of their 365-game sample, the professors looked at 93 games played on neutral courts, and the numbers remained largely the same when it came to leveling the foul count. 
“There’s something to it,” said Irv Brown, a former offi­cial who worked six Final Fours and was supervisor of officials for the Western Athletic and Big Sky confer­ences. “If you’re looking at the board and one team has a lot more fouls, you probably look a little harder to do something, subconsciously.” 
Brown said he used to experiment and try not to look at the scoreboard, but human nature dictates that referees will. Same for home-court advantage. Try as they might, there’s no way a referee can completely block out thou­sands of fans yelling at him from close range. 
“As an official, you get the reputation that you’re tough on the road, and that’s what you want,” Brown said in a telephone interview last week. “But it takes a lot of years. You have to get established. Some guys who aren’t established, you’ll see them out there, try­ing to take some of the heat off, trying to take care of the home crowd.” 
Anderson said he talked to a number of referees as part of the research and the majority said “you’re crazy. We don’t do this.” 
“But a few others said, ‘Yeah, I try to make it even out,’” Anderson said. 
The NCAA asked for a copy of the study, and Anderson said he hasn’t received any negative feedback — at least not yet. 
The professors looked only at first halves because teams committing intentional fouls while in catch-up mode at the end of games skewed the sec­ond-half results. 
Anderson and his co-author, David Pierce of Ball State, made it clear in the study that referees aren’t intentionally trying to influence foul counts. 
“We’d like them to have no memory and strictly call what’s going on on the court,” Anderson said. “But part of this is, if I’m a ref, I want everyone to think I’m fair and if I call 10 fouls on one team and two on the other, people are going to think something’s going on here. It’s sort of sub­conscious. And it points out one of the biggest problems with basketball is that it’s a very hard game to officiate.” 


Tuesday, November 24, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
McGraw 
continued from page 20 
ment,” McGraw said. “How do you play three days in a row and how do you adjust your game?” 
The Aztecs are off to a strong start this season behind the outstanding play 
of forward Paris Johnson, who is averaging 14.3 points, seven rebounds and 3.7 blocks per game. Jene Morris leads the Aztec backcourt averaging 13 points and four steals per game. 
“It going to be interesting having speed on speed,” McGraw said. “We have a quick team but they have some great post players too and I think that is where our challenge is going to be. They will be a very difficult match-up for us because they can run and pressure defensive­ly.” 
The Irish will counter with an impressive lineup of guards led by senior Ashley Barlow and freshman Skylar Diggins. In three games, Barlow has tallied 13.7 points per contest while Diggins, last week’s Big East Freshman of the Week, has added 13.3 points per game despite not yet having cracked the Irish’s starting five. 
“Barlow is kind of the unsung hero of our team … 
She doesn ’t get a lot of attention, ” McGraw said. “I think Skylar has done great so far, scoring and defend ­ing. I’m most happy with her defense, the way she gets up on the ball and gives intensity.” 

“We aren’t going to get to practice [in the Virgin Islands] which could be a problem.” 
Muffet McGraw Irish coach 
us a lot of 
Friday, the Irish will face the Gamecocks, who boast one of the most talented play­ers in the country, before matching up in Saturday’s finale with the Sooners. 
Gamecocks center Kelsey Bone is averaging 21.3 points and 11 rebounds per game and was the second highest-rated freshman recruit com­ing into this season behind only Diggins. 
The Irish will be short on bodies to throw at Bone as sophomore forward Kellie Watson will not make the trip 
Florida 
due to a knee injury. Senior center Erica 
continued from page 20 Williamson looks to be Notre Dame’s best option inside on 
and I have every reason to the defensive end, however 
believe that we’ll still be 
highly motivated. It’s an 
her minutes 
opportunity for us again to 
have been lim­
play a top 25 team, so that 
ited so far this 
in itself is perfect for us. We 
season as she 
also know that this is really 
too continues 
important in terms of get-
to recover from 
ting momentum going into 
an injury. 
the NCAA Tournament.” 
Overall, 
The Irish recognize the 
McGraw has 
postseason benefits they can 
been pleased 
gain from playing a
with the results 
her team has 
NBAintrigued by the unique chal­lenge that this weekend’s tournament will present. 
“[The team has some 
Duncan, Spurs stop 
momentum] coming off the win at Michigan State and I thought we played well defensively at home against 
the Bucks, Jennings 
Iona,” McGraw said. “But we 
achieved thus far and is 
aren’t going to get to practice [in the Virgin Islands] which 
Associated Press 
could be a problem. We are going to see how the team SAN ANTONIO — Tim 
reacts to that.” 
Duncan had 24 points and 12 rebounds, and the San 
Contact Alex Barker at 
Antonio Spurs halted the 
abarker@nd.edu 
Milwaukee Bucks’ three-demanding regular-season schedule. 


“Playing Louisville this past weekend, who’s playing at a very high level right now, and obviously Florida playing at a high level, we know that to get into the Tournament you have to keep getting better and bet­ter,” Brown said. “We’ve consistently played at a higher level, we haven’t peaked, and we know that the best is still ahead of us.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
game winning streak with a 112-98 victory Monday night. 
Matt Bonner had 23 points off the bench and the Spurs won consecutive games for only the second time this sea­son. They also finally took advantage of a big night from Duncan, having previously been 0-4 when the All-Star scored 20 or more. 
Milwaukee Bucks forward Ersan Ilyasova is defended by the San Antonio Spurs’ Tim Duncan during the second half of an NBA basketball game at the AT&T Center in San Antonio, Monday, Nov. 23, 2009. 
Ersan Illyasova led Milwaukee with 20 points. Brandon Jennings scored 12, held well below his rookie-leading average of 25.3 points per game. 
Michael Redd scored four points in his first action in nine games. The former All-Star strained a tendon in his left knee when he went up for a dunk during Milwaukee’s first game of the season. 
Bonner was 6 of 8 from behind the arc, matching his career-high for 3-pointers in a game. 
George Hill had 14 points off the bench for the Spurs, who blew out their opponent for the second time in as many games. Five of San Antonio’s six wins have come when scoring 100 points or more. 
The Spurs (6-6) climbed back to .500 during what has been one of the worst starts to a season in the Duncan era. They play four of their next five at home. 
Hakim Warrick scored 15 points and Carlos Delfino had 11 for Milwaukee. The Bucks entered the game as the top rebounding team in the league but were bullied on the boards 46-29. 
Redd played 11 minutes off the bench and showed a pre­dictable bit of rust while playing for the first time in four weeks. His first shot was a jumper that badly missed the rim, and he finished 1 of 3 from the field and made just one of six free throws. 
Bucks coach Scott Skiles said Redd returned probably a little sooner than even he expected. But the 10th-year guard fared well after getting through his first contact practice Sunday. 
Milwaukee lost for the sec­ond time in nine games as the Bucks (9-3) came to San Antonio off to their best start since the 2001-02 season. 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, November 24, 2009 
Seminoles 
continued from page 20 
the two teams have played each other in the College Cup. The two teams faced each other in consecutive national semifinals matches in 2006 and 2007, with the Irish taking the first matchup and the Seminoles the second. 
Since Notre Dame defeated Florida State in the national quarterfinals last season, Irish coach Randy Waldrum said he believes the Seminoles may be out for year long and kids like [senior Amanda] DaCosta and Casey Short at midfield, you know a lot of kids who can score goals. They’re just like us where they have a lot of weapons.” 

Waldrum said he believes both teams have multiple goal­scoring threats and that dead-ball set pieces could have a big impact on the game. 
“They’ve got a girl with a long throw and we have [senior forward Michele] Weissenhofer with her flip throw, and we’ve been good in set pieces,” Waldrum said. “I think the game could turn on a dead-ball 
revenge against “They’re just like us play.” his team. As the Irish 
where they have a lot
“I think cer-have advanced 
of weapons.” 
tainly they’ll this far in the remember last N C A A year and having Randy Waldrum Tournament in to come here each of the 
Irish coach 
and play, and it seems like the last four years we’ve had to play them some­where along the way,” Waldrum said. “So when they beat us two years ago, we remembered it last year, so I’m certain they’ll be thinking about it when we play them.” 
The game features two of the more prolific scoring offenses in the Tournament thus far, as the Irish are second in the field with 11 goals in three games, trailing only UCLA’s 15, and the Seminoles have nine, behind the Bruins, Irish and Portland. 
“It’s going to be tough [to shut FSU down],” Waldrum said. “They have a couple of kids with [sophomore Tiffany] McCarty and [sophomore Jessica] Price up front as good as any forwards we’ve seen all past six sea­
sons, Waldrum 

thinks that the team should be ready for the matchup mentally, especially with their ability to adapt to dif­ferent styles of play. 
“The one thing I’ve been real­ly proud of this group about, and I told them [Monday], is that this team maybe more so than some of our other teams has adapted to the game in terms of playing whatever style we need to play in order to win games,” Waldrum said. “The one thing our team has done this year is to find ways to win. This team has shown that they can win in different ways.” 
Notre Dame plays at Florida State 2 p.m. Friday. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
Brey 
continued from page 20 
Harangody scored 32 points and had nine rebounds against Liberty, making all 10 of his free throws. Junior forwards Tim Abromaitis and Tyrone Nash both had 12 points. 
Notre Dame has gotten great performances from Abromaitis off the bench this season. He has averaged 13.3 points per game and has made 11-of-16 3-point shots. 
Senior point guard Tory Jackson is the final of the four Irish players who has averaged double-digit points so far this season — he scores 10 per game. He also averaged six assists per game in the first four games of the season. 
The Owls are 2-1 and lost to 
Rydberg 
continued from page 20 
improvement by six spots from their overall performance in last year’s national meet. 
“We didn’t get out well and got stuck early on,” Irish coach Tim Connelly said. “We didn’t run poorly, but we didn’t run as well as I’d hoped we would run.” 
Senior Lindsey Ferguson led the team, finishing 35th overall in 
20:43. As a top 40 finisher, Ferguson earned All-American status, a goal she had been work­ing towards since she began run­ning at Notre Dame. 
“[Ferguson] put herself up into the lead pack and just stayed there the whole race,” Connelly Saint Louis 76-66 Sunday. Jon-Michael Nickerson and Markeith Cummings have both scored in double figures in all three of the Owls’ first three games. Cummings leads the team in scoring with 16.5 points, and Nickerson is right behind him with 16. Cummings also pulls down 8.5 rebounds a game. 
Brey said he wanted the team to focus on being basketball play­ers given the fact that they have the week off of classes for Thanksgiving. 
“Some of the school responsi­bilities are going away this week, so we can just become basketball players, which is a good thing given the challenges of this week,” he said. “We can really step forward as a team.” 
The quick turnaround of games in the coming two weeks, Brey said, will test the team’s abilities under pressure and fatigue. 
said. “It was familiar territory for her. She decided early in the year that she was going to be the leader for us, and that’s what she did.” 
Following Ferguson was Rydberg (21:04) in 54th place as the seventh freshman in the coun­try, junior Marissa Treece (21:43) in 129th place, sophomore Rachel Velarde (21:44) in 130th place, freshman Rebecca Tracy (22:16) in 176th place, sophomore Kari Johnson (22:46) in 195th place and junior Erica Watson (22:47) in 196th place. 
Despite the men’s team not qualifying from the NCAA Regional competition, Walker made the cut to compete in Monday’s national meet as in indi­vidual to represent Notre Dame. Walker came in 129th place over­
“This is a good two weeks for us,” Brey said. “It gets really intense. I told the guys I want to see them concentrate better than we ever have before.” 
Because of Notre Dame’s early-season schedule, the freshmen — Mike Bronghammer, Joey Brooks, Jack Cooley and Tom Knight — have gotten some play­ing time. Brooks has made 57.1 percent of his field goals and averages two points in 19 min­utes. 
“We want them to compete and play hard,” Nash said after Sunday’s game. “They need to take advantage of every minute and every second out there. It’s good to see them having fun. I’m glad to see them having fun.” 
Tip-off is at 7:30 p.m. tonight at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
all in 31:12.50. 
Though the 2009 cross country season is over, the teams will both begin training soon to prepare themselves for potentially making it to next year’s NCAA Championship meet, but the nec­essary physical recovery is crucial. 
“These kids never quit as they go from cross country to indoor track in January,” Connelly said. “Right now, what we need to do is make sure that they’re recovering from the season.” 
Both Connelly and men’s cross country coach Joe Piane said potential growth in ability from the younger members of each team will be crucial to next sea­son. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  
 
 
 18  
 19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  27  
 
 
 
 
28  29  30  31  
32  33  34  35  36  
37  38  
 
 
 
 39  40  41  
42  43  44  
45  46  47  48  49  50  51  
52  
 
 53  
 
 54  55  56  
57  58  59  
60  61  62  63  64  65  
66  67  68  
69  70  71  

Tuesday, November 24, 2009 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 
68Kovacs of earlyTV 69Word after Bay orgray70Eyelid woe 71Aid in pulling an all-nighter 
Down 
1 Itwashell, to
Sherman 2 Punk rock subgenre 
3 “You're on!” 
4 Leopold's 1920s co-defendant 5 Mr. Spock's forte 
6 Foundonthis page
7 Likea“Ripley'sBelieve It or Not!” item 
8 Cyclops eyecount 9 Trousers 10Addams Familyuncle 11Panini cheese 
12France's Bruni-Sarkozy andothers 
13Bit of afight18Greece's capital,in its airport
code 22Tropicana fruit23___Holliday24Folkie Guthrie 26Partner of oil 27On ___with 
(equal to)29Drug sold on blotting paper 33Visit while onthe road,asamotel 34Broadcast 
WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Puzzle by Gary Cee 

36___Wednesday 45#2 in a 54Tennis do-over 
38Prey for owls prosecutor's 55Three-star U.S. 
office: Abbr. 

39Biceps'place Army officer 
46Newsman Dan 

40The rest of the 59Commercial U.S., to 47Chunnel's home prefix with “flot” Hawaiians 48Patriotic chant 
62Busby orderby41“You're 50Chewy coating 
63Wall creeper 

something ___!” foranapple 64Ipanema's locale
44Preceder of com 53Says while ororg choking 65“___ who?” 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 aminute;or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions areavailable for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&Tusers: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for moreinformation. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and morethan 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 ayear).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

Across 
1 Composer Kurt 6 Basketball backboard 
attachment 10It's the truth 14“Are not!” retort 15Dame who's a 
hoot 16Jacob's twin 17View from the 
Oval Office 19Madams' partners 20Grab ___(eat onthe run) 21Wrecks beyondrepair 23Stay-at-home 
25Premium Scotch whiskey 28SportscasterHershiser 30Sip from aflask 31Greeted the morning 32First-rate 
35Tandoori-baked bread 
37Event featuringsports stars ofyesteryear

42Not acopy:Abbr. 43New York's ___ Square45“Your 15 minutes of fame ___!” 49Litter box visitor 51Sushi bar soup52Pastry sold atpizzerias
56Safety deviceeschewed by theFlying Wallendas
57Levels of society58Like anunborn 
baby's position6010 C-notes 61Make anabrupt
change…anda hint to this puzzle's theme 
66Passbook amts. 67Smooth, asthe way 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Tuesday, November 24, 2009 page 20 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Rivalry Renewed 
Seminoles stand in way of Irish once again 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
For the sixth straight season, No. 5 Notre Dame is making an appearance in the Elite Eight of the NCAA Tournament, and for the second straight year, Florida State stands between the Irish and a trip to the College Cup Final Four. 
Unlike last year, Notre Dame will hit the road for this contest with the Seminoles. The Irish hold a 2-1 advantage in the all-time series between the two teams, but this will be the first time that Notre Dame has played in Tallahassee. 

This fourth match-up between Notre Dame and Florida State will also be the fourth time that PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
Junior midfelder Julie Scheidler takes a free kick against Oregon State during Notre Dame’s 1­see SEMINOLES/page 18 0 victory on Nov. 20 in the third round of the NCAA Tournament at Alumni Stadium. 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 
NDfnishes season23rd at NCAAs 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The 2009 cross country season ended Monday at the NCAA National meet as the Irish women’s team and senior Jake Walker from the men’s team com­peted against the fastest runners in collegiate cross country. 
“The team did well today, and we finished about where we were predicted to,” freshman Jessica Rydberg said. “It was a fast race with a lot of competition and I think everyone stepped up to the challenge.” 
The seven women from Notre Dame competed as a team at Indiana State University’s home course and finished in 23rd place overall with 519 points, an 
see RYDBERG/page 18 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Notre Dame heads to Florida before NCAA Tournament 
of the conference tournament, out right at the end. We can will make the necessary a great place.” 
By CHRIS MASOUD 

the fifth straight year the two definitely learn from it, and adjustments to succeed While Notre Dame’s perfect 
Sports Writer 

teams have met in postseason there are things that we can against Florida and future Big East record did not trans-
play. Although disappointed get better at.” opponents. late into a conference champi-
Following a narrow loss to by the outcome, Irish coach With that in mind, the Irish “We weren’t as strong offen-onship, don’t expect Louisville in the Big East Debbie Brown said she begin preparations for a sively as we’ve been in the Saturday’s game to have any championship last weekend, believes her team hit the Florida squad that has dis-past, so a couple things to lingering effects. The Irish fol-the Irish face the task of court ready to play. mantled non-conference oppo-tweak there,” Brown said. lowed up their last loss by rat-bringing their best effort to “I think we actually played nents. “We’re in the process of look-tling off 15 straight victories. the court when they face No. really well,” Brown said. “We The Gators (21 -5, 15 -4 ing at the film and evaluating “I don’t think motivation has 15 Florida on the road came up against a team who’s Southeastern Conference) are things and trying to get the ever been an issue with the Saturday. on fire and has played coming off a convincing 3-1 team into the best postseason team,” Brown said. “I think 
Notre Dame (21-5, 14-0 Big extremely well. It’s just one of win against No. 10 Kentucky, shape that we can in terms of it’s a highly motivated group, East) fell to the Cardinals in those really competitive the division leader. taking care of all the little five sets in the second round matches, and we got edged Brown is confident her team things. We still think we’re in see FLORIDA/page 17 

MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish busy over Thanksgiving 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame’s season intensi­fies this week when the Irish face Kennesaw State today before heading to the Chicago Invitational Challenge this week­end. 
The Irish (4-0) play their first game away from the Purcell Pavilion Friday when they play Northwestern in the Challenge. If they win, they advance to the finals Saturday. 
“It’s a busy week for us,” Irish coach Mike Brey said after Notre Dame’s 91-72 win over Liberty at home Sunday. “It’s a week we can really get better. We have three practices and three games by Saturday night. It’s a chance for us to really step forward as a team.” 
Irish senior forward Luke 
see BREY/page 18 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
McGraw and team head to Virgin Islands 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
No. 6 Notre Dame will get a break from the chilly Midwest as it travels to play in the Paradise Jam tourna­ment hosted by the University of the U.S. Virgin Islands over the Thanksgiving holidays. 
“It’s great for the girls to have such a nice destination to go to,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “It’s just a great tournament and the teams we’re playing will offer some strong competi­tion.” 
With the number of dis­tractions that will greet the Irish in the Caribbean, McGraw said she just hopes her team will be able to keep its focus. 
“I’m a little worried about the focus of the team,” she said. “The veterans should be okay, but it’s going to be a bit of a challenge. We’re going to keep our usual road trip routine, but when you look outside its going to look a little different.” 
While the weather and scenery are sure to keep Irish eyes smiling, the tour­nament competition will be far from accommodating. 
Notre Dame (3 -0) will meet No. 23 San Diego State (3 -0) Thursday before squaring off with South Carolina (2-1) and No. 20 Oklahoma (2 -1) over the weekend. 
“This will be like training for the Big East tourna ­
see MCGRAW/page 17 





