
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
HlNl flu 
•
vaccines arrive In county 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
St. Joseph County has recently received shipments of the newly developed H1N1 vaccine, and University Health Services Director Ann Kleva said a limited amount will distrib­uted on campus, but she just doesn't know when. 
The local health depart­ment will decide how much of the vaccine to give to Health Services and when it will arrive at Notre Dame, she said. 
"We're going to be getting the vaccines in little by little each week," she said. "We will be giving it to the high­est priority of people, which has been outlined by the [Center for Disease Control]." 
Kleva said the H1N1 vac­cine will be offered first to pregnant women, people caring for young children and infants and health care personnel. Young adults aged 19 to 24 are also listed as a priority because they tend to live in close proximi­ty, generally on college cam­puses. 
Students, faculty and staff will be eligible to receive the University's supply of the 
see HINI/page 9 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 12,2009 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
ND students race through Wmdy City 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
A number of Notre Dame students raced through the streets of the Windy City alongside over 45,000 partici­pants in the Chicago Marathon on Sunday. 
The winning time was 2:05:41, completed by Kenyan Sammy Wanjiru. While Notre Dame students did not exactly challenge Wanjiru's course record run, several students still attempted to complete the 
26.2 mile race. Runners took off at 7:30 

College~ocraffirally 
for health care reforlll 
By ROBERT SINGER 
Assistant News Editor 
The College Democrats of Notre Dame co-sponsored the "Health Care for All" rally in downtown 
South Bend Saturday to support health care reform. a cause they say will make for a wiser sys­

tem of med- Donnelly  
ical insur­ 
ance  - and  a  healthier and  

wealthier nation. 

Attended by about 150 com­munity residents and students, the rally kicked off at 1:30 
p.m. in front of the Morris Performing Arts Center. 
"It becomes unaffordable for our businesses to provide health care for the people who work for those businesses," Congressman Joe Donnelly, a Democrat who represents Indiana's 2nd District,~ said at the rally, arguing the current system is unsustainable in the long term. 
The rally was intended to put political pressure on Indiana's Democratic elected officials, College Democrats co-presi­
see RALLY/page 4 
a.m. to cover the course that winds through twenty-nine different neighborhoods and passes the historic sites of Chicago. 
The race, which is spon­sored by the Bank of America, encourages runners to raise money for different charities during the months leading up to Sunday's marathon. 
The day began with temper­atures around thirty degrees. Sophomore Christina Carson described the weather as chilly but perfect for running. 
The Chicago Marathon was 
see MARATHON/page 4 




Ryan Hall chooses Wildcat as mascot 
Dorm also elects to name turquoise and white as official colors, says symbols will boost unity 
said. "It's a rallying point, it helps give us an identity." 
The process of choosing a mascot and colors began after the dorm elected its first exec­
utive council  on  Sept. 15,  
Tornifolio said.  
Sophomore  Courtney  

Vargas, the first president of Ryan Hall, said residents sub­mitted ideas for color combi­nations and mascots to her. There were 44 mascots and 25 color choices submitted, Tornifolio said. 
Three rounds of voting were held before the final mascot and colors were determined. Tornifolio said the top six 
see RYAN/page 9 

By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
The women of Ryan Hall, the University's newest resi­dence hall, established their identity as the turquoise and white Ryan Wildcats Oct. 4 and released the image of their mascot Sunday night. 
By voting on a mascot and dorm colors, Ryan, which opened this fall, took one more step toward creating the tradition and dorm pride that exists in other residence halls on campus, Ryan rectoress Breyan Tornifolio said. 
"Hopefully our nickname will bring us together," she 


Lyons hosts Mara Fox Run 
By LAUREN BALDWIN 
News Writer 
Over 350 runners participat­ed in the 16th annual Mara Fox Fun Run Saturday, sponsored by Lyons Hall, in honor of a stu­dent killed by a drunk driver in 1993, event co-commissioner Jeana Caminiti and Lyons Hall vice president Katie Sample said. 
"It was a perfect day for run­ning. We were very excited about the turn out and success of the event," Sample said. 
The event honors Mara Fox, who was a freshman in Lyons Hall at the time of her death. Fox was from northern Virginia 
see FOX/page 9 


INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER Poet visits Saint Mary's page 3 • Couples Retreat review page 12 • Irish hockey splits opening series page 24 • Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Crossed out 
Late Thursday night while walking back from DeBartolo Quad, a friend and I stumbled upon something quite shocking-a graveyard in the middle of South Quad. And I thought Halloween was 
at the end of Joseph McMahon October! 
Associate
I'm just kidding. 
News
As soon as we saw the crosses, the Editor myriad blue and pink flags and the signs extolling the horrible nature of abortion, we both immediately knew what we were see­ing. 
The annual public protest staged by Notre Dame's Right to Life Group orig­inally shocked me when I arrived as a freshman two years ago. Since then the act has become repetitive, to the point where my only reaction this year was to keep on walking. 
The major issue that I have with the annual graveyard protest has nothing to do with my views on abortion. Rather, my opposition is based on the grounds that radical protests, such as the South Quad display, totally trans­form what could be an intellectual .· discussion about a serious issue into a screaming match on par with what has recently been seen at "town halls" around the country. 
If the goal of the graveyard is to convert pro-choicers on campus or at least encourage them to consider a different point of view, then allow me to be the first to tell the Right to Life Club that they are failing miserably. 
My pro-choice friends have general­ly all have the same reaction. Most of them just laugh it off, considering it one of Notre Dame's many quirks while postulating about the stability of the mental health of those responsi­ble. 
The problem with just "laughing it off' is many pro-choice people label the other side of this debate as crazy, religious lunatics who believe con­doms are the devil's latex gloves. 
But, as someone who has talked to numerous people about the issue, I have found that many of the points made by both sides are legitimate and informed by extensive scientific research and moral reflection. 
Believe it or not, Notre Dame actual­ly does have a history of supporting academic debate on this issue (although allow me to stress the word academic). And I am not simply talk­ing about President Barack Obama's Commencement address last year. 
On Sept. 13, 1984, then-New York Governor Mario Cuomo gave a speech at Notre Dame about how his identity as a politician sworn to uphold the Constitution might be in conflict with his identity as a Catholic. Cuomo said his private beliefs as a Catholic did not allow him to curb what he consid­ered to be a right under his interpre­tation of the Constitution. 
The speech was met with extreme criticism, but was a legitimate exami­nation of the abortion question from one man's perspective. And, in the end, it was more persuasive in form­ing my opinion on the issue then the graveyard taking place on South Quad will ever be. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Oct. 9 edition of the Observer included a Letter to the Editor entitled "Students stand up to discrimination" by senior Ellen Rolfes rhat inadver­tently included two errant sentences at rhe end of the letter. This was caused by a technical problem; the sentences were nor included in the original sub­mission. The Observer regrets rhis error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, October 12, 2009 QUESTION OF THE DAY: How DID YOU SPEND YOUR WEEKEND WITHOUT A NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL GAME? 






Chris Bell  Alex Karamol  Greg Morman  Kallie Drexler  Christopher Anderson  
sophomore Knott  sophomore Badin  freshman Keenan  sophomore Walsh  sophomore Keenan  
"Chillin, with  "Raving in the  "Gettin, groovy  "/spent my  "Wearing tight  
the Amish.,  Knights of Columbus  at the Keenan Disco Roll!,  weekend not wearing my  pants and attempting to  
basement.,  band uniform  roller skate. ,  
and watching  
Michigan lose. ,  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

TOM LAffhe Observer 
The quarterback from Zahm House drops back to pass at the lnterhall football game against St. Ed's on Sunday. St. Ed's returned a fumble for a touchdown resulting in a 7-0 victory for the Gentlemen. 
OFFBEAT 
School asks students to bring their own toilet roll 
DUBLIN -Irish parents struggling to buy school­books and uniforms in the face of a deep recession may now have to worry about sending their children to school with a toilet roll as well as a packed lunch. 
Pupils at a primary school in the southern county of Cork are being asked to bring their own toilet paper to school to help save money, one of the starkest examples yet of the death of Ireland's "Celtic Tiger"econ­omy. 
"The letter was sent out just as a way of balancing books here in the school and not intended as a demand," said Catherine O'Neill, principal at St John's Girls National School. 
Healthy baby born to woman in a coma 
MUNICH -A 40-year-old woman who fell into a coma in the 13th week of her pregnancy delivered a healthy baby 22 weeks later in a Bavarian hospital, German broadcaster Bayerischer Rundfunk reported on Friday. 
She suffered a heart attack and fell into a coma early in her pregnancy. The University Clinic in Erlangen said it was the first time that a woman in a persistent vegetative state was able to deliver a healthy baby, the broad­caster said. 
The baby is now 1-1/2 years old, it said. 
It quoted Matthias Beckmann, a director at the hospital, saying: "We want­ed to keep the spectacular case secret for as long as possible to demonstrate that we're not experiment­ing on people and that the child is still healthy." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a:: 
L&.l 
::::c 

!;;: 
L&.l 
3: 
...1 
e
~ 
(.) 0 

HIGH 53 HIGH 42 HIGH 50 HIGH 44
...I LOW 45 LOW 39 LOW 36 LOW 38 
IN BRIEF 
Horst Teltschik, Chancellor Helmut Kohl's national security advisor will delivier a lecture titled "The Fall of the Wall and its Implications Twenty Years Later" today at 8 p.m. in the McKenna Hall auditorium. 
Robert Bird will continue the Catholic Culture Literature Series with "Close to Catholic: A Celebration of Kindred Spirits" on Tuesday at 8 p.m. at DeBartolo Hall in room 
155. The lecture will focus on the writings of Fyodor Dostoevsky. 
Todd Schultz, senior applica­tion engineer for The MathWorks, Inc., will present two technical sessions on MATLAB for Notre Dame fac­ulty, staff and student on Tuesday at The Eck Visitors' Center auditorium. The first session will be held from 10 
a.m. to 2 p.m. and the second session will occur from i 2 
p.m. to 2 p.m. 
The film It Might Get Loud will be screening in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on Thursday at 9:30 
p.m. Tickets are $3 for stu­dents $5 for faculty and staff. Purchase tickets online at per­formingarts.nd.edu or call the ticket office at 574-631-2800. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will perform their fall concert at Leighton Concert Hall at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on Friday at 8 p.m.Tickets are $3 for students and $6 for faculty. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 




0,,,,,,,
,,,,,,, 


HIGH 43 HIGH 43 LOW 35 LOW 35 
Atlanta 66 I 59 Boston 55 I 42 Chicago 52 I 42 Denver 55 I 38 Houston 82 I 74 Los Angeles 67 I 58 Minneapolis 36 I 27 New York 55 I 50 Philadelphia 58 I 52 Phoenix 87 I 66 Seattle 55 I 41 St. Louis 63 I 46 Tampa 92 I 7 4 Washington 61 I 56 
Monday, October 12, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Hellwig honored at Saint Mary's 
Friends and former students gather to celebrate theologian's life 
By SAM STRYKER News Writer 
The life of the former pres­ident of the Association of Catholic Colleges and Universities Monika K. Hellwig was celebrated this past Friday at a Saint Mary's College symposium titled 
"Monika  K. Hellwig:  The  
People's Theologian."  
Former  students,  col­ 

leagues and friends all spoke on Hellwig's behalf. 
Shalem Institute was a fel­low parishioner of Hellwig and highlighted her humility as one of her most outstand­ing attributes. Clark said she was shocked when she visit­ed Hellwig's home and saw the small size of her closet. 
"Here is this woman, inter­nationally renowned, travel­ing everywhere, whose 
lifestyle  was so  simple," she  
said.  
John  Haughey  of  the  

Woodstock Theological Centerat at 
Georgetown

"She invited, not
Rosemary University said Carbine of coerced, college in addition to Whittier her humility,
students to live 

College said Hellwig pos­
Christianity as a
her experience sessed a strong of Hellwig as a dynamic tradition.,, sense of professor was courage. extremely " [ I m
Rosemary Carbine 

formative, and impressed] how

Whittier College 

said Hellwig she could be so 
presented "wisdom's feast" at each class. 
"She invited, not coerced, college students to live Christianity as a dynamic tradition," Carbine said. "Any educational institution, Catholic or not, that pro­motes wisdom's feast will help students negotiate their religious and political identi­ty." 
Suzanne Clark of the 
courageous with the courage of her hope, faith and love," he said. "It was a reconciling courage, not a dividing courage. She never alienated with her words, she only informed." 
Freelanc;e writer Evelyn Haught said Hellwig's most impressive role was as a mother. Hellwig lived with a British family during World War II as a refugee from the 
Nazis -an experience which influenced her deci­sion later in life to adopt children. 
Haught said Hellwig faced many struggles as a single mother, which were com­pounded by health issues, lack of monetary support and the controversy at the time of a white mother rais­ing biracial children. 
"Many people knew she had children," Haught said. "[But] very few people knew the type of burden she car­ried in that act. Monika remained consistently loving towards her children and consistently hopeful." 
Freelance writer Paula Minaert closed the sympo­sium with a reflection on the life of Monika K. Hellwig as a woman who fully lived her Catholic baptismal calling. 
"We can see Monika as a model for women, men, Catholics and Christians in the sense that she lived her life wholeheartedly with the gifts she had been given out of her faith." 
The symposium was part of the college's year-long cele­bration of the 25th Anniversary of the Center for Spirituality. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstrykel@nd.edu 



Medina performs poetry at College 
By MEGHAN PRICE News Writer 
Award-winning poet Gabriela Garcia Medina performed selections from her work Friday evening at Saint Mary's College. 
Medina has several poetry awards, been a part of the late night DEF Jam Poet show and done commercials for such companies as Toyota and Dove. 
Medina's family moved from Cuba to London when she was young, and much of her work focuses on the immigrant experience. 
Medina shared comedic poems about things like cooking experiences gone wrong but also addressed topics including rape, abuse, poverty, love and herself. Medina said she tries to discuss these topics in a way that will allow everyone to relate it to their own life experiences. 
Medina said she was deeply influenced by her first visit to a homeless shelter. 
"The only way I could stop crying was to get my emotions out," Medina said. "And I did that by writing." 
Although she enjoys suc­cess now, Medina told the audience life as a writer is often strenuous, especially for fledgling writers. 
"Write all the time," she said. "[Because] 90 percent of what you write will be crap, so to get that other 10 percent, you have to com­mit to doing it everyday." 
After she was finished, Medina invited other writ­ers in the audience to share some of their own works. 
"I remember when I was a young poet just starting," she said. "I was always looking for someone to lis­ten to my work and to get feedback, and I want that to be available to you." 
Caitlin Duerinck, Saint Mary's student and long­time DEF Jam fan,. had been introduced to Medina's poetry by a teacher. 
"I love DEF Jam poetry, they have a wide range of work, some serious and some hilarious and I love it all," Duerinck said. "When I heard [Medina] was com­ing, well there went all my plans for tonight." 
Contact Meghan Price at mprice02@saintmarys.edu 


>'"!~-<!~-~~.-:, -~"' ~~t~..~~~~ ---· 
*.A.Goshm 4568 Elkkm Ro<ul. iCiff Hwy 33, nmr Ml!i(l'n, i574) srvm 7 *Open Sund;ty *Mishawaka 4170 C.ropl.• Rd.,. !'>74!251-2121.! *Mishawaka/South Bend Uniwni~y l'.1rk M.ll!, iloc~t(l(J ill the f(io\J Coum 
1574i 14J,I\06'1 
,. .•... .-: ,.,o ,·~. 
fkrr!m SjlrinfiS 10'1 W. ferry 51, 12fi.<J) 4TH321l 
@RadioShack.~mubile hh<jregg 
hw int~#n~~~.~~n un nd~~ AT&T pm&.~t:!>rulll·M<~t,!V>411l 
·AT&T impes~n: a Rt'9u!atery Cost Rerolfflry Charge of up to $1.25 !e help defray costs incurred in complying with obligations ancl~:harges imposed hy State and Federal teil!t.nm regulations; State ami fedl!fral Universal Ser~~ke rllarges; and sur<harges for guvemmel'lt assessments on Al&l Those foos am not taxes or governmenHequired d1argce;. 
wwra\w map &t S!W\5 b \klaih. limited·lime offerOl!lfr mmlitl<lM &ieslt.itiion>app!'/. Set' (Qi\bilt! &mte pan bmdww lor.di:'l>il>.S!kwibm must liv~ &hilw ,; maiilng ad~!. wllllin !iT&T's ownHJ wire!e:>$ i!V<lil ilk~ Wlry by mrk &HHy !lnl be ;waiwb!e Jmm iN!epeidenlldiiiler~ Early Vermination fet~: lfnmi! Um0U!\4 in tlw Jir~t 3(1 !!J~'S, bui Uj)t!J $35 W\10C~mg lef ffi.'ly<tpp!y lo ~Uij)ilWrti retlJms;lhMeidtervp Ill 
· yc.;u wntmt! i5 $119.99. Hlnimum S&:l Do~1Connert p~m rrqulwd. A!inw &0 dJts br !uti!Hment Card may bfund un!y tn the u.s. &it VB!io lor . .. Ms or ~<•tonwte gJ>olin¥ptlmtrs. C<lffi requ~Xtmmt !w !Ji!S1marked by 12!0G/09&yO\l rm1>Hwil msmmer fur 30 mnsemlke deys tnreteNe cJrd S<lles taK olrul<lleil ~;s~J on price ot Wlacti'I<Md equipmert. !JirtaC!J!l!Wtt pkm is ilO\ tm!i0.r\l:d &subsatrtia! tharg!'Vlli!Y l!e inwrreclll il:tllidedallwuwte i5 !'tteoo~d t:2009 AT&T lnleH<Xtual f'rl\f)!llty; Se1vke provided by Ar&T MotlWJy 1\H riqhhJHerveHI&T,!hi! AT&Itogo, ;ndall othe mllrh tnM.ilintd heitin ar~ 11Mtmwrkscl AT&T lll!f!lttttua! !lrorerly!ird/flr Af&I alMWtd tomp&ni% Ml other mmk> crn~taintd hHein ar~ the JlW)Wlt{o1thl!lf re~twe Qwn~rs 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 12, 2009 


Domer Doggie Walk promotes neutering 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
About 60 dogs and their own­ers from the South Bend area participated in the fourth annual Domer Doggie Walk Sunday to raise money for low income people to spay or neuter their pets. 
"It's a great way to socialize and the campus is so pretty," Ashley Walther from Mishawaka said. "I think it's just a really cool thing ... that they reach out to the public and try to help." 

Owners and dogs that partici­pated paid a registration fee and also collected pledges in order to raise money to help stop animal overpopulation. The proceeds of the event went to the St. Joseph County Spay Neuter Assistance Program, Kay Stewart, faculty advisor for the Pre-vet 
"It's just critical that 
and. Proponents behaved dog," 
of Animal people spay and Pat Mooney of Welfare Service neuter their pets." South Bend said (PAWS) clubs with a laugh. said. "[My dog] was
Mariah Covey 
Mariah Covey barking the of South Bend, South Bend resident whole time." 
who works for a local veterinary clinic, brought her dog to the walk in order to support the cause. 
"There are so many unwant­ed cats and dogs in this area and with the economy, people who love their pets are having to give them up," Covey said. "It's just critical that people spay and neuter their pets." 
The money will go directly towards spaying and neutering animals in the area, for people who cannot afford to get their pets spayed or neutered because of the cost of surgery, Stewart said. 
Surgery to spay or neuter depends on whether it is a dog or cat, and the size of the ani­mal. It can cost anywhere from $20 for a male cat to $250 for a female dog. 
There are 120,000 cats in St. Joseph county, and 40,000 are homeless, Stewart said. 

"Our overall goal is to reduce the number of animals going into shelters because this area has a very large overpopula­tion of animals," she said. 
The Domer Doggie Walk, which is sponsored by the Biology Club, the Pre-vet Club and the Proponents of Animal Welfare Service (PAWS) club, began with a blessing of the animals. 
"There was a little prayer and speech," Covey said. "Just talking about St. Francis of Assisi and how animals are very important to our lives and how we need to remember that they are a part of us." 
The participants then went on a walk around campus. The dogs could try at a mini agility course with jumps and hoops, or enter in contests like best trick, owner-dog look-a-like or friendliest dog, Stewart said. 
"We asked if 
there was an 
award for best 
There was also 
a raffle and pet­a-cures, where dogs could get their nails trimmed, Stewart said. 
The event also provided an opportunity for community members to come onto campus and also interact with students. 
"Last year with us being on South Quad, we had a lot of students coming in and inter­acting with the owners and the pets and just enjoying having dogs on campus," she said. 
Walther, who does not nor­mally bring her dog on campus because it a little far form her home, said it was a nice change from her typical walk­ing route. 
"It's nice because it's got more nature and more people to interact with," she said. "It's fun to see all the dogs." 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 

Marathon 
continued from page 1 

Carson's first marathon, and she trained hard to accom­plish her goal of finishing the race in under four hours, she said. 
"I've heard that Chicago is a good first marathon because the course is nice and flat," she said. "I just had a lot of fun." 
Junior Kelly Paulius also represented Notre Dame. She began her training in May when friends who were marathon veterans inspired her to participate. 
"This was my first race, and there were so many fans and so many runners that it was really motivational," she said. 
Hundreds of thousands of 

Rally 
continued from page 1 

dent and junior Christopher Rhodenbaugh said. 
"The rally is about showing the widespread support in South Bend and the surround­ing area for health insurance reform, showing the members of Congress that this is some­thing that people really need and want and anyone who votes for it, this community will support and volunteer for them when they come up for re-election," he said. 
To demonstrate public sup­port for health care reform, the College Democrats have been calling Indiana residents during a weekly phone bank. Their goal is to reach five thousand people before the health care bill is submitted for a vote, which should be in mid-November, Rhodenbaugh said. 
Rally attendee Sean Fritts shared the story of a family tragedy, which he believed could have been avoided with affordable health insurance. 
When his wife Jennifer sought medical care for a cold during her pregnancy, the hospital turned her away. The next day, feeling more ill, Jennifer went with Sean to a different hospital. There, they lied that they had insurance, and she was diagnosed with fans lined the course in order to cheer on family and friends, adding to the excite­ment. 
Paulius ran with a source of 
motivation greater than 

"This was my first
the crowds, however. She 

race, and there were completed a so many fans and so 
service proj­

many runners that it 
ect at the Boys and 

was really Girls Club motivational. " over the sum­mer and 
Kelly Paulius 
wanted to 

junior
continue her connections 
Shaughnessy also dedicated her perform­ance to a chari­table cause. Leading up to the race, she raised over $3,000 dollars for St. Jude Children's Research Hospital for cancer studies. 

with the group through "[ wrote letters and started fundraising. a Web site, so I received a lot 
"I collected a little over of donations from my friends $1,000," Paulius said. and family," she said. "Donations from family and friends really helped me on Contact Megan Doyle at this project." mdoylell@ud.edu 
Sophomore Cristin Shaughnessy trained with her sister and her father and began in June, increasing her daily running mileage. 
double pneumonia. But the 
finding came too late  - 55  
days later, she died in  an  
intensive care unit.  

Citing a recent study by Harvard Medical School and the Cambridge Health Alliance that found 45 thou­sand deaths each year are linked to a lack of health insurance, Rhodenbaugh voiced a moral argument for health care reform. 
"We believe that health care is a human right and that it is a social justice issue and to have one of the wealthiest countries in world have 45 thousand people die every year because of lack of insur­ance is wrong," he said. 
Sophomore Tim Ryan, who attended the rally, said that a for-profit system of health insurance is immoral. 
"It's unethical," he said. "It's a violation of human rights." 
Freshman James Crowe said any short-term costs will be outweighed by a system that cuts expenses in the long term. 
"In the short run, it will send us into a deficit, but in the long run, it will be more efficient," he said. 
"The fact that the public option means a government takeover" is a part of the debate that Rhodenbaugh believes is often misunder­stood. 
"President Obama said in 
the health care speech that with the public option, rough­ly five percent of the popula­tion will be getting health insurance from the govern­ment," he said. 
About 15 people attended an adjacent counter-demon­stration in opposition to pub­lic intervention in the health care system. 
Tim Grimes, founder and assistant organizer of Michiana's "9/12 Project," said he believed President Barack Obama's health care initiative was part of a larger scheme by the current admin­istration to seize absolute control of the government and implement Obama's "total socialistic views." 
Grimes also saw a conspira­cy in the program proposed to limit carbon emissions, claim­ing that "cap-and-trade is going to make AI Gore rich." 
Rhodenbaugh said he was displeased with the debate's level of discourse thus far. 
"I am unhappy with how the debate among the American people has gone about. The fact is that it's been very much reflex poli­tics," he said. "I wish there was more thoughtful debate. A lot of people forget that Medicare is a successful gov­ernment health insurance program." 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 



STUDE~TS WITH A MA~OR, ML'IOR, OR CO.NCENTRATIO.N lN MEDIEJ/AL STUDIES 
STUDY'IN ST. ANDREWS, SCOTLAND 
SPRLi\'6. 20 1 1 


MONDAY;POCTOBE.R lE 6:00PM 71 S HE.SBUR&H LIBRARY 
Application Deadline is November 15, 2009 www.nd.edu/-ois 






ORLD & NATION 
Monday, October 12, 2009 CoMPILED FROM. THE OBSERVERS WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS Australia resettles explosion survivors 
CANBERRA, Australia -Australia will resettle 42 Afghan men who survived a boat explosion that killed five fellow asylum seekers in Australian waters in April, an official said on Monday. 
Police announced this month that passen­gers had deliberately set fire to their wooden vessel after it was intercepted by the Australian navy about 350 miles (600 kilome­ters) northwest of the Australian coastal city of Broome. 
But police said there was not enough evi­dence to charge any passenger. 
The survivors, several of whom were injured by the explosion, had been found to be gen­uine refugees "because of the situation in Afghanistan and the potential threat to their lives that existed in Afghanistan," Immigration Minister Chris Evans told Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio on Monday. 
Garbage amounts increase in China 
ZHANGLIDONG, China -Visitors can smell this village long before they sec it. 
More than 100 dump trucks piled high with garbage line the narrow road leading to Zhanglidong, waiting to empty their loads in a landfill as big as 20 football fields. 
In less than five years, the Zhengzhou Comprehensive Waste Treatment Landfill has overwhelmed this otherwise pristine village of about 1,000 people. Peaches and cherries rot on trees, infested with insect life drawn by the smell. Fields lie unharvested, contaminated by toxic muck. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Students injured in Iowa bus crash 
INKOM, Iowa -A bus carrying a celebrated Utah high school band swerved off an Idaho interstate and crashed on ·its side, killing an instructor and injuring some students, police and a school official said. 
Two students were rushed by helicopter ambulance Saturday night to a hospital in Pocatello, John Miller, director of the American Fork, Utah, high school band, told The Associated Press. Another 12 were sent to a hospital by ground ambulance with serious injuries, and 30 students were taken to a hospi­tal for minor injuries, he said. 
Idaho state police said a preliminary investiga­tion showed that the bus driver had a medical condition that caused the crash. 
Police have identified the person killed as 33­year-old Heather Christensen of Spanish Fork, Utah. She was the school's woodwind instructor. Police said the students' injuries were not life­threatening. 

Wash. landslide forces evacuations 
NACHES, Wash. -A massive landslide in central Washington state has blocked a high­way, diverted a river and heavily damaged a home. 
No injuries have been reported, but authori­ties tell the Yakima Herald-Republic that resi­dents near the sparsely populated community of Nile were being evacuated because of flood­ing fears. Several homes received water dam­age as the Naches River sought a new course around the slide. 
The state Department of Transportation says the slide, estimated to be a half-mile long, cov­ered State Route 420 with at least 20 feet of dirt and rocks, about 10 miles west of Naches. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Underage alcohol program nabs 370 
FORT WAYNE, Ind. -An Indiana State Excise Police initiative that uses underage customers to catch retailers selling alcohol to people under age 21 netted more than 370 violations across Indiana in only three months. 
The program sends people ages 18 to 20 into restaurants, grocery stores and other alcohol retail­ers with no identification. The underage shoppers are not allowed to lie ifa retailer asks their age. 
"I don't think we had any idea what to expect because it was a new program," said Excise Police Officer Jennifer Fults said. "From an enforcement perspective, it's been enlightening to see where the problem areas are." 
Gay rights advocates march in D.C. 

Supporters of homosexual advancement rally in capital demanding reform 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON Thousands of gay rights supporters marched Sunday from the White House to the Capitol, demanding that President Barack Obama keep his promises to allow gays to serve openly in the military and work to end discrimination against gays. 
Rainbow flags and home­made signs dotted the crowds filling Pennsylvania Avenue in front of the White House as people chanted "Hey, Obama, let mama marry mama" and "We're out, we're proud, we won't back down." Many children were also among the pro­testers. A few counter-pro­testers had also joined the tens of thousands of people in the crowd, which stretched several blocks by the afternoon. 
Jason Yanowitz, a 37­year-old computer program­mer from Chicago, held his daughter, 5-year-old Amira, on his shoulders. His part­ner, Annie, had their 2-year­old son, Isiah, in a stroller. Yanowitz said more straight people were turning out to show their support for gay rights. 
"If somebody doesn't have equal rights, then none of us are free," he said. 
"For all I know, she's gay openly in the military during problems. 1979 and others in 1987, or he's gay," he added, a speech to the nation's March organizer Cleve 1993 and 2000 that includ­pointing to his children. largest gay rights group Jones, creator of the AIDS ed celebrity performances 
Keynote speaker Julian Saturday night. Memorial Quilt and a pro­and drew as many as Bond, chairman of the The chairman of the tege of gay rights pioneer 500,000 people, Sunday's NAACP, firmly linked the Senate Armed Services Harvey Milk, said he had event was driven by grass­gay rights struggle to the Committee said Sunday that initially discouraged a rally roots efforts and was Civil Rights movement, say­Congress will need to earlier in the year. But he expected to be more low­ing gays and lesbians should muster the resolve to and others began to worry key. Washington authorities be free from discrimination. change the "don't ask, don't Obama was backing away don't disclose crowd esti­
"Black people of all people tell policy" -a change that from his campaign promis­mates at rallies, though at should not oppose equality, the military may be ready es. least several thousand and that is what marriage is for. "Since we've seen that so appeared to be in atten­all about," he said. "We "I think it has to be done many times before, I didn't dance. have a lot of real and seri­in the right way, which is to want it to happen again," he Also among the crowd ous problems in this coun­get a buy-in from the mili­said. "We're not settling. were a couple of noteworthy try, and same-sex marriage tary, which I think is now There's no such thing as a activists: Cynthia Nixon, a is not one of them. Good possible," said Sen. Carl fraction of equality." cast member from HBO's things don't come to those Levin, D-Mich. Pop singer Lady Gaga got "Sex and the City" who who wait, but they come to Obama's political energies the biggest cheers on stage. hopes to marry partner those who agitate." have been focused on two She didn't perform but Christine Marinoni next 
Some participants in the wars, the economic crisis pledged to reject homopho­year; and Judy Shepard, National Equality March and health care reform, bia in the music industry for who became an advocate woke up energized by though he pledged "unwa­her "most beautiful gay fans for gay rights after her son Obama's blunt pledge to end vering" commitment even as in the world." Matthew was killed because the ban on gays serving he wrestled with those Unlike the first march in he was gay. 

IRELAND 


IRA splinter group renounces violence 
Associated Press 

DUBLIN -The Irish National Liberation Army, an IRA splinter group responsible for some of the most notorious killings of the Northern Ireland conflict, renounced violence Sunday and sig­naled it could hand over weapons soon to disarmament officials. 
Eleven years after calling a leaky cease-fire, the outlawed INLA said it would observe "exclusively peace­ful means" and cooperate with Canadian Gen. John de Chastelain, leader of an international commis­sion that oversees the disarmament of underground armies operating in both parts of Ireland. However, the INLA did not explicitly promise to disarm fully nor specify when the secretive process would start. 
The INLA-linked Irish Republican Socialist Party made the announce­ment at its annual parade near Dublin in honor of their movement's founder, Seamus Costello. He was shot to death by an Irish Republican Army member in the capital in October 1977. 
The move was widely seen as another shot in the arm for Northern Ireland's largely success­ful peace process, which already has delivered IRA disarmament and a Catholic-Protestant government in Northern Ireland. INLA officials said the announcement was not timed to coincide with Sunday's visit to Dublin and Belfast by U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. 
British and Irish security officials downplayed the value of words from the INLA, a feud-prone alliance of small gangs that long have turned on each other for con­trol of criminal rackets, including sales of counterfeit goods and smuggled cigarettes. 
The IRA-linked Sinn Fein party likewise expressed skepticism that the INLA statement really meant an ironclad commitment to nonvi­olence. 
page 6 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Monday, October 12, 2009 
Iraqis start over in America 
Associated Press 
Her mansion in Iraq was bombed, her medical career and future in her beloved coun­try dashed the day she found a white envelope on her car windshield. Inside was a single bullet. Wassan Yassin was marked for death. 
She knew she had to flee. She eventually landed in America, far from where her life was threatened, her sister was shot and her co-worker kidnapped. Her new Florida surroundings offered a haven from the hor­rors of war. 
But there is no happy ending. Not yet, at least. 
Yassin 's first year here has been marked by frustrating ­even humiliating-experi­ences: A small apartment in a crime-scarred area of Jacksonville. Food stamps. And no job, even though she's a gynecologist who also morphed into a construction company executive during the war. 
Saif Alnasseri, a 31-year-old wartime translator and journal­ist, has fared better. A former pharmacist at a large Iraq hos­pital, he now is a pharmacist's assistant in a New Jersey drug store. Life in. America has been a trade-off: His job supervising dozens of workers, his comfort­able home and lush garden in Baghdad are gone, but he has something else -security. 
"We are safe here and this is very important to us," Alnasseri says. "But there are a lot of things I spent years building in Baghdad.... I was very well­known in my neighborhood. They called me doctor. I had a lot of people who respected me. Here I'm starting from the beginning. From zero." 
"Every day I say, 'OK, I made the right decision,"' he adds. "After two hours, I say, 'Did I really?'" 
For thousands of Iraqis, resettling in America has been an agonizing transition filled with questions, doubts -and, sometimes, despair. 
Many Iraqis have discovered that gold-plated resumes have opened few doors in a nation reeling from its worst economic decline since the Depression. Stories abound of Iraqi profes­sionals doing menial jobs -a doctor flipping burgers, a drug­gist washing dishes. 

Iraqis also have struggled to navigate a confusing bureau­cracy and an overburdened social service system that has sometimes run of out money to help provide their basic needs. 
"Everything is kind of con­spiring to make it a particularly difficult time for them," says Bob Carey, a vice president of the International Hescue Committee, a refugee assis­tance agency. "There's the declining economy, the condi­tions from which they come, the conditions in which they arrive, the fact they're often highly skilled professionals with sometimes high expecta­tions." 
"It is," he says, "the perfect storm." 
Only a trickle of some 2 mil­lion Iraqi refugees have reset­tled in America since the war began. Most have poured into Syria, Jordan or other neigh­boring countries. 
About 38,000 Iraqis have come to the United States in the last three fiscal years, com­pared with just hundreds in the three prior years. The over­whelming majority are refugees; others received spe­cial immigrant visas, awarded to translators or those who've worked with the U.S. govern­ment or contractors. 
The State Department says the exodus of Iraqis didn't start until 2006, after the bombing of the mosque in Samarra ignited sectarian violence. 
Advocacy groups and some lawmakers have long accused the U.S. government of being too slow to respond to the Iraqi refugee crisis, imperiling those who'd been targeted because they'd worked with Americans. Some of the delays were blamed on the many layers of security clearance. 
But things have improved. After Capitol Hill hearings, a new law making it easier for American-affiliated Iraqis to 
move here and the appointment of a State Department adviser to deal with the issue, the pace of admissions has picked up dramatically since 2007. The Obama administration this summer also named a coordi­nator of Iraqi refugee efforts. 
Even so, only 20 pereent of at least 20,000 Iraqis with American ties who've applied have arrived in the United States since 2003, aceording to an April report by Human Hights First. Some wait more than a year in other countries, unable to work. "It has the potential to put them in this cruel psychological limbo," says Huthie Epstein, the report's chief author. 
Once Iraqis do arrive, they face new problems. 
Many Iraqi refugees inter­viewed in Atlanta and Phoenix had exhausted government and social service aid, according to a recent report by the rescue committee. 
"We really do have a moral obligation as a country to help them start over with basic tools in a dignilied way," Carey says. "Hight now, that's not happen­ing." 
Almost every refugee has a story of tl"\rror in Iraq, followed by struggle in America. 
Consider Sameer Oro, a food and beverage managnr for a 
U.S. Army contractor who later opened a store selling liquor near a Baghdad hotel. In 2005, he says, ho was kidnapped, blindfolded, stuffed in a car trunk, a knife held to his throat. lie was frf~ed after seven days when his wife raised $35,000, selling their ear and gold. 
Last year, Oro moved with his family to California, where his brother Jives. At first, he says, his $1,350 monthly government aid (along with food stamps) was enough, but then the pay­ments shrunk. Now he has to borrow about $400 a month from his niece. 
"We are not coming here to start suffering again," laments the 57-year-old former airline l'light service director, who is unemployed. 
No prison time for relic looters 
Associated Press 

SALT LAKE CITY ­Stepping into the afternoon sun last month, Jeanne Redel and her daughter Jericca walked away from a federal courthouse with probation papers -not prison time ­for their role in the theft and illegal trafficking of Indian artifacts. 
Some, including one of' the Salt Lake City's daily news­papers, expressed frustra­tion that the judge didn't come down harder on the duo from southern Utah. 
History however says the punishment for the Hedds, who pleaded guilty to sever­al felonios, was fairly typical. Despite high-proiile arrests and indictments, most peo­ple convicted of illegally dig­ging up, collecting and cash­ing in on artifacts in the United States don't go to prison. 
And for those that do, most are in for a year or less, according to a 1 0-year analysis or prosecutions under a 1979 law meant to punish those that foul the country's cultural resources. 
In Jeanne Hedd's case, prosecutors had sought at least 18 months in prison. She's among 26 people charged alter a federal sting operation that lasted more than two years and ineluded hundreds of transactions between an undercover agent and buyers and sellers from Utah, New Mexico and Colorado. 
At senteneing, U.S. District Judge Clark Waddoups gave her three years probation and a $2,000 fine for seven felony counts of plundering artifacts from tribal and fed­eral lands. She and her daughter, who got two years of probation, had already surrendered a collection of more than 800 artifacts ranging from exquisite pot­tery and decorative pen­dants to human remains. 
The sentences didn't sur­prise Robert Palmer, an archaeologist and former academic who analyzed Archaeological Resources Protection Act prosecutions from 1996 to 2005. 
His analysis, published in an obscure law journal in 2007, found that of the 83 people found guilty, 20 went to prison and 13 of those received sentences of a year or less. Palmer also found that while prosecutors were successful in the cases they took on, they turned away about a third of the cases they got, mostly because of weak evidence or a lack of clear criminal intent. 
Those refusals -along with a lack of manpower and other priorities for investigators -are part of the reason why "we are wit­nessing the wholesale strip­ping and selling olf for scrap our collective American her­itage," said Palmer, who now works as the senior law enforcement ranger at Efligy Mounds National Monument in Iowa. 
"People might see these as insignificant but over time, you're removing context, you're removing signifi­cance, you're removing the lens of the future to look back at the past," he said. 
On average, 840 looting cases are reported each year -more than two per day ­across federal land managed by the National Park Service, the U.S. Forest Service, U.S. Bureau of Land Management and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, according to Todd Swain, the Park Service's lone investigator on cultural crimes. 
Darker side of Columbus taught at schools 
Associated Press 
TAMPA -Jeffrey Kolowith's kindergarten students read a poem about Christopher Columbus, take a journey to the New World on three paper ships and place the explorer's picture on a timeline through history. 
Kolowith's students learn about the explorer's signifi­cance -though they also come away with a more nuanced pic­ture of Columbus than the noble discoverer often portrayed in pop culture and legend. 
"I talk about the situation where he didn't even realize where he was," Kolowith said. "And we talked about how he was very, very mean, very bossy." 
Columbus' stature in U.S. classrooms has declined somP­what through the years, and many districts will not observe his namesake holiday on Monday. Although lessons vary. many teachers are trying to present a more balanced per­spective of what happened after Columbus reached the Caribbean and the suffering of indigenous populations. 

"The whole terminology has changed," said James Kracht, executive associate dean for academic affairs in the Texas A&M College of Education and Human Development. "You don't hear people using the world 'discovery' anymore like they used to. 'Columbus discov­ers America.' Because how could he discover America if there were already people living here?'' 
In Texas, students start learn­ing in the lifth grade about the "Columbian Exchange" ­which consisted not only of gold. crops and goods shipped back and forth across the Atlantic Ocean, but diseases carried by settlers that decimat­ed native populations. 
In McDonald, Pa., 30 miles southwest of Pittsburgh, fourth­grade students at Fort Cherry Elementary put Columbus on trial this year -charging him with misrepn~senting the Spanish crown and thievery. They found him guilty and sen­tenced him to life in prison. 
"In their own verbiage, he 
was a bad guy," teacher Laurie Crawford said. 
Of course, the perspective given varies across classrooms and grades. Donna Sabis-Burns, a team leader with the U.S. Department of Education's School Support and. Technology Program, surveyed teachers nationwide about the Columbus reading materials they used in class for her University of Florida dissertation. She exam­ined 62 pieture books, and found the majority worn outdat­ed and contained inaccurate ­and somntimes outright demeaning -depictions or the native Taino population. 
The federal holiday itself also is not universally reeognized. Srhools in Miami, Ilallas, Los Angeles and S<~attle will bP open; New York City, Washington and Chicago schools will Lw closed. 
Tlw day is an nsper.ially sensi­tive issue in pla<:es with larger nativn American populations. 
"Wn have a very large Alaska native population, so just tho whole Columbus being the founder of the United Status, doesn't sit well with a lot of people, myself included," said Paul Prussing, deputy director of Alaska's Division of Teaching and Learning Support. 
Many recall decades ago when there was scant mention of indigenous groups in discus­sions about Columbus. Kracht remembers a picture in one of his fifth-grade textbooks that showed Columbus wading to shore with a huge flag and eross. 
"The indigenous population was kind of waiting expectantly, almost with smil<~s on their faces," Kracht said. "'I wonder what this guy is bringing us?' Well, he's bringing us smallpox, l'or one thing, and none of us arc going to live vnry long." 
Kracht said an mnerging mul­tieulturalism lnd morn peopiP to invcstigate the crunftins Sll f­fernd by thn Taino population in the 1 960s and '70s, along with the 500th anniversary in 1992. 
Jlowcver, there are peopln who believe tlw discussjon has shil'tnd too l'ar. Patrick Korten, 
vic:n president of c:ommunic:a­tions for the Catholic fraternal service organization the Knights of Columbus, recalled a note from a member who saw ales­son at a New Jersey school. 
The students were forced to stand in a cafeteria and not allowed to eat while other stu­dents teased and intimidated them -apparently so they could better understand the suf­fering indigenous populations endured because of Columbus, Korten said. 
"My impression is that in some dassrooms, it's anything but a balanced presentation," Korten, said. "That it's deliber­ately V<~ry negative, which is a matter of great concern beeausn that is not ac<:urate." 
Korten said he donsn 't believe such activities are widespread -though the lessons will cer­tainly vary. 
In Kolowith's Tampa class, students gathered around a white carpet, where they exam­ined a pile of bright plastic fruits and vPgetablns, baby dolls, construetion paper and other items as th<w decidnd what would be best for their voyage. 
THE OBSERVER 


USINESS

Monday, October 12, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 
Jones 9,864.94 +78.07 
Up: 1,844  Same: 101  Down: 1,205  Composite Volume: 3,911,235,711  
1,810~64 •···•• 47;!:)6 2,139.28 +1535 7~015.54 +24~87 1,071.49 +6.01  

+7.23 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP (C) ~0.43 ~0.02 4.63 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +0.61 +0.65 107.26 SPRINT NXTEL CP (S) ·2.72 -0.10 3.58 BK OF AMERICA CP (BAC) +0.98 +0.17 17.,'20 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE +3.96 +0.1290 3.38 13-WEEK BILL +8.33 +0.0050 0.0650 30-YEAR BOND +3.25 +0.1330 4.23 5-YEAR NOTE +5.44 +0.1210 2.35 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE {$/bbl.) +0.08 71.77 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -7.70 1048.60 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.53 84,25 
Exchange Rates 
YEN 89.9850 EURO 1.4700 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0433 BRITISH POUND 1.5825 
IN BRIEF 
GM customers ch~ rebate over refimd 
NEW YORK -For most GM customers, a money-back guarantee just isn't as tempting as money up front. 
General Motors Co. CEO Fritz Henderson said Friday that the "vast majority" of GM buyers are choosing a $500 rebate instead of the automaker's 60-day money-back guarantee. 
Under GM's much-touted refund promotion, which runs through Nov. 30, customers can return their Chevrolet, Cadillac, GMC or Buick vehicle nearly free of charge if they are unsatis­fied. They can also waive the return policy and take a $500 rebate toward the purchase of their car instead. 
Henderson said during an online chat on a com­pany Web site that "consumers appreciate the option, but the facts speak for themselves." 
It's still too soon to know if any customers are taking GM up on its return offer. Buyers can only make returns after 30 days of ownership, and the promotion officially launched on Sept. 14. That means even customers who bought their vehicle on the first day would have to wait a bit longer to ask for a refund. 
The program, whose launch coincided with an advertising campaign featuring Chairman Ed Whitacre, is designed to lure customers who were uncertain about buying a GM vehicle. GM officials have said the program is designed to show con­sumers that perceptions of inferior quality are outdated. 
Foodstamps swapped for booze, viagra 
DETROIT -Viagra and pornography are not staples on the government's food stamp list. But authorities say a Detroit store supplied them during a series of illegal deals. 
Federal prosecutors filed fraud charges this week against three people who worked at Jefferson's Liquor Palace. 
The alleged scheme worked this way: Food stamp recipients would get cash from the store in exchange for swiping larger amounts off their electronic cards. The store would then be reim­bursed by the U.S. Agriculture Department. 
But in some transactions, the government the store provided informants Viagra, liquor and porn in exchange for swiping about $2,000 off food stamp cards. 
The government says fraud at the store topped $130,000 over 21!2 years. The store is closed. 

Hudson River cleaning wraps up 
Phase 1 of PCB removal from New York river ends with successful results 
Associated Press 
FORT EDWAHD Crews dredging a polluted stretch of the upper Hudson River this year battled high water, old logging debris and unex­pected levels of PCB con­tamination that slowed progress. 
But as the first phase of one of the most costliest and complex federal Superfund projects wraps up this month, regulators say results are generally positive and show dredg­ing can work. They are already preparing for a far more expansive sec­ond phase, which would clean up 40 miles of river and likely push total proj­ect costs over $700 mil­lion. 
"We took on Mother Nature. She threw every­thing at us but the kitchen sink, from timber, to boats that were sunk, to tree· branches," said George Pavlou, acting regional administrator for the Environmental Protection Agency. "We prevailed in the end." 

Dredging began in the rural area in May after decades of argument over how to deal with tons of PCBs that flowed down the river in 1973 after a site for burial in a landfill the old Adirondack log­will be cleaned up next dam was removed. designed to isolate the ging industry complicated year or rolled into Phase Upriver General Electric treated PCBs from the work. 2, which the EPA wants to plants in Fort Edward and surroundings. "There was substantial­start in 2011. neighboring Hudson Falls Crews managed to ly more wood debris than Barges will start leaving discharged wastewater dredge 10 of 18 PCB "hot expected, and the wood the river in the coming containing PCBs for spots" targeted this year. debris at the bottom of weeks. Results of the decades before the popu­They removed more than the river made it impossi­work will be analyzed by lar lubricant and coolant 240,000 cubic yards of ble for the sampling to General Electric, the EPA was banned in 1977. contaminated sediment, determine the depth of and an independent panel PCBs, or polychlorinated but expect to fall shy of the contaminated sedi­of experts with an eye vinyls, are considered the original target of ment," Behan said. toward making improve­probable carcinogens. 265,000 cubic yards when At one point, dredging ments for the next phase, 
Under an agreement dredging ends mid-month. crews accidentally ripped which could take five between General Electric Progress was slowed into the original Fort years. Co. and the EPA, the com­because contamination Edward, which had been The overriding question pany paid the cost of was often deeper and buried in a river bank, before the work began dredging concentrated more concentrated than prompting an archaeolog­was whether dredging pockets of PCBs this year expected. In some areas, ical excavation of the would be a cure worse about 40 miles north of crews removed 60 to 80 1750s British fort and than the disease. Albany. GE treated the percent more sediment revelations about military Opponents feared dredg­toxic waste at a nearby than expected, said GE engineering of forts in the ing would kick up con­"dewatering" plant and spokesman Mark Behan. wilderness. taminated silt and spike shipped the dried remains In particular, contaminat­It's still not clear if the pollution levels in the by rail to a western Texas ed debris left over from eight unfinished hot spots river. 


Teens' top savings goal is college 
Associated Press financial literacy education in Although the survey by Omaha, 
schools. Neb.-based TD Ameritrade indicated 

DES MOINES, Iowa -Stroll "It's a pleasant surprise that we're teens understand some of those con­through the mall on a weekend and seeing young people paying that cepts, it revealed some interesting you get the impression teens save much attention to the importance of generational shifts in attitudes money to buy clothes or iPods and this issue," said Joseph Peri, CEO of about money. video game systems, but a new sur­the nonprofit Council for Economic Fewer than half of today's teens vey shows their priority is quite dif­Education. "Part of teaching the said they get their cash from part­ferent -saving for college. importance of investing is showing time or weekend jobs, while 77 per­
The survey by online brokerage that the best investment a young cent of adults said work was their TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. shows person can make is an investment in source of money as teens. putting money away for higher edu­themselves." Today's teens get most of their cation is the top savings goal for Peri's group and several other money from their parents or from today's teens. The results showed 62 educational organizations are hold­gifts for occasions like birthdays. percent of teens aged 14 through 19 ing a conference in Washington this The fact that they are given more save their money for college, a weekend in which 500 educators of their money rather than earning much higher rate than the 40 per­and government officials are dis­it increases the importance of finan­cent of adults who said they saved cussing ways to teach basic financial cial literacy at a young age, said when they were teens. literacy in schools. That means edu­Diane Young, director of retirement 
The results weren't expected by cating students about budgeting, and goal planning for TD educators who are pushing for bank accounts, investing and saving. Ameritrade. 






1.:8__ _ 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, October 12, 2009 

Dr. h.c. HORST M. TELTSCHIK 
National Security Advisor to Chancellor Helmut Kohl, Federal Republic of Germany ( 1982-1990) 
Monday, October l 2th McKenna Hall Auditorium -Open to the Public 8:00 p.m. 
•·•· · -g CuestSpeaker ]Jl! BINDENAc:;;EL> 
Deputy Chief of Mission, East Berlin (l98S~SW)
: . :~·=.::=·,:::::: ::=.}};'. ::.:.:,:#~:'·· 
ALEXANDER MARTIN MIKOLAJ KUNICKJ 
Monday, October l 2th _ McKenna Hall Auditorium -Open to the Public 

4:00 p.. m. 


Sponsored by the Nanovic Institute for European Studies Distinguished European Lecture Series and the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, College of Arts and Letters, University of Notre [)ame. 

The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
alumni and the day of the race

Fox 
registration we raised over 

continued from page 1 
and intended to be a Psychology and Spanish double major, with an interest in studying abroad. 
The funds raised from the run go directly to a scholarship that multiple people can receive to study in Toledo,. Spain. Applicants are 
$5,000 that goes directly to the scholarship fund," Caminiti said. 
The race is five kilometers long and started in front of Rockne Memorial Hall. The route went around the lakes, through campus and ended in front of South Dining Hall. There was also a 1-mile fun 
walk around 

required write an  to essay  "With the donation  Saint Lake  Mary's partici­ 
about how they  from alumni and the  pants  could  
are representa­tive of Fox's qualities and  day ofthe race registration we raised  choose instead, Caminiti and Sample said.  
about  what  over $s,ooo that goes  Luna  Bar  
good they hope to do while studying in  directly to the scholarship fund."  sponsored the race and par­ticipants had  
Spain, Caminiti  six  different  
and  Sample  Jeana Caminiti  kinds of Luna  
said. This year, the  Run c<H:ommissioner  Bars and two types of Luna  
commissioners  cookies  to  

contacted Notre Dame alumni choose from. Participants also inviting them to the run. If they received a long sleeve purple 
• couldn't attend the run, they shirt and a Luna water bottle. were encouraged to purchase There were also prizes for the T-shirts. top runners, including dona­
"With the donation from tions from the Hammes 
Bookstore and gift cards to restaurants, Caminiti and Sample said. 
The male winners were Eric Bens and Ian Graham, and the female winner was Laura Lindsley. The top finisher from Lyons was Kat Rodriguez, Caminiti and Sample said. 
The week leading up to the race was Mara Fox Week in Lyons, which focuses on alcohol awareness. Lyons had scrap­books out for people to learn about Mara's life, showed part of a video of the news coverage of the trial of the man who killed Fox, took a trip to the Grotto to light a candle and say a prayer for Fox, had a drunk­driving simulator and their brother dorm, St. Edward's Hall, had a question and answer session with University President Fr. John Jenkins, Caminiti and Sample said. 
Every year, Fox's family comes to South Bend for the run, and this year 25 family members attended. 
Contact Lauren Baldwin at lbaldwin@nd.edu 



HINI 
continued from page 1 
vaccine. 
"Our students are still in a high priority group, but since we're only going to get so much of the vaccine, it's tiered even further," she said. 
Currently, the vaccine is available in the form of nasal flu mist. Kleva said eventually the state may receive it in the form of an injection. 
Ryan 
continued from page 1 
choices for mascot included rascals, renegades, sirens, roses, and wranglers. 
The final vote included a choice of renegades or wildcats for mascot and pink and navy or turquoise and white for col­ors schemes. The results were announced Oct. 4. 
"I haven't heard any com­plaints," Vargas said of the out­come. "I think we all came together as a dorm." 
Last week Ryan collected sub­missions from residents for drawings of the Wildcat mas­cot. The residents voted on the 13 options Friday and Saturday, and the result was released Sunday night. 
With the Wildcat mascot, Tornifolio said she hopes there will be more pride and spirit in the dorm. For example, at interhall football games, she said other dorms cheer for their team by calling out the name of the mascot, but Ryan was without one for the first few games. 
"Now we have something that we can say," she said. 
Tornifolio said the next step would be the creation of Ryan apparel. 
"I think that a big thing for us is to have something that actu­ally says 'Ryan Hall Wildcats' on it," she said. 
After fall break, the executive council will begin to establish a signature event for the hall, in addition to other events that will develop community among the residents, Vargas said. 
"[Ryan I really needs to be a community where people get to 
"I feel very strongly that we make the vaccine avail­able to our population, should they chose to receive it," she said. 
Kleva said she has heard some concern about the spread of the H1N1 virus, commonly referred to as swine flu, from students and parents -especially after reports of a swine flu-related death in St. Joseph County. 
The Indiana Department of Health confirmed Thursday that a resident of the County died after contracting the H1N1 virus. 
The death is the state's fifth swine flu death in 2009. 
The 11-year old girl was taken to Memorial Hospital last Monday, and died early Tuesday morning, according to a South Bend Tribune report. 
But Kleva said the inci­dents of H1N1 on campus have been relatively mild. 
"This case had a tragic outcome," she said of the 11­year-old's death. "But we have to remember the vast majority of people who get H1N1 are experiencing a lot less symptoms than even the seasonal flu." 

The number of swine flu cases on campus has decreased in the past three weeks, Kleva said. 
Through Oct. 3, Health 
Services has treated a  total  
of  334  students  with  
Influenza Like IlLness.  

"I would love to think that we are over the hump with H1N1 ," she said. 
But she said students are 
not in the clear yet. 
Kleva said another rash of outbreaks could occur after Fall break as students return to their homes all over the country and get exposed elsewhere. 
"The numbers are coming down, but the seasonal flu season is just starting." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

1251 Eddy Street! {574) 855-3201 
Are you an A&l sophomore planning to Study Abroad? 
Please visit the following site httn:/ial.nd.edu/academic·advising·and·requiremerts/ to successfully complete your application. 
Note: You must receive adean's approval for your application to be completed. 
To see adean make an appointment with: 
Office for Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall Phone: 1574) 631-7098 
Deadline:Nov.6,2009 



Now Open 
and Accepting Employment Applications 


know each other," she said. "It's really up to the dorm. I want everyone to be involved. I want to see events that people want to go to." 
Vargas said the process of leading a new residence hall to create traditions has been exciting. 
"We're trying to form our own identity," she said. "I think that it's a really great experi­ence. You really get to start from scratch and try new things. No one has any expecta­tions yet because nothing's set in stone." 
One of the challenges in this process is the mixture of upper­classmen who moved from other residence halls and were accustomed to a variety of dif­ferent traditions and dorm cul­tures, Vargas said. 
Tornifolio, who was the rector of Pasquerilla East Hall for three years before moving to Ryan, said this year has been both fun and challenging. 
"I think when you have stuff established, you just take things for granted that it's going to run smoothly," she said. 
The dedication of Ryan Hall will take place Oct. 16 with a mass in the Basilica with the Ryan family. University President Fr. Jenkins will also bless the Hall. and the residents will host a reception following the dedication, Tornifolio said. 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 
Are you vvriting a great paper this \h!eek? 
Did you ever consider getting it 
published? 
The Journal of Undergraduate Research 
publishes a research journal every April 

for Arts & Letters scholarly original 
research. The 1nost outstanding 
subnlissions v<v'ill be published in the hard 
copy of the Journal and adelitiona! 
selections V\lill be published in the 
Journal's online edition. The selection 
process is con1peti tive, so be sure to 
subnlit only your best "y>;Jork. For n10re 


inform.a tion .. visit ncl.edut--ujournal. 
y"ife are also looking for staff for OIU' editorial review hoard ilt the spring. and Ute applicatiorJS are due Friday. October 16 at 5PM. 


~-··~-·------~ ---~ ~­
-·-­
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, October 12, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 

lam woman? 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Merz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AssT. MANAGING EDiTOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Mairz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber ScENE EDITOR: jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: [an Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala SYSTh\IS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asreiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersporrs@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO1 @sainonarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONLJN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial coment, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represem the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commemaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The fiee expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qt«rtiom regarding Observer policies should be directt:dw Ediwr-in--Chieffenn Maz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obsavcr (USPS ~99 2-4000) ~ publi5hed Monday rhrougb Frid.ay except during ('Ufll and vacation periods. A SI,Jbscription to The Obsttver is $120 fi1r one academic year; $65 for one scmesr.er. 
The Observer is published it: POSTMA.>l'ER 024 So"th Dining H;all S<:nd ad~ comqion$ to: Not~ O..:mc, IN 46556~0779 ThcObse~r Periodical prurage p;tid .u NO(rc Dame P.O.Box.'n9 and additiooal nmling offi«s. o-24 Soutt. Dining Hall 
Notre [hrnc, IN 46556--0779 
The Ob$crver is :l mc:n1ber of the &sodared Press. All reproduction righu an: «:servtd. 
I used to think being a woman was not so bad. Apparently, it's awful! Locked out of the priesthood and loeked into providing the moral ideals for all of America! Worse than the weather, but more beautiful than men. Sex object in any set­ting, but ugly when smart, tiber-profes­sional, and yet, coldly catty. No respect from men and too much deference from men, having doors held open for you all the time and other such nasty things. 
Thank goodness I've now been enlightened as to just how horrible womanhood is. Otherwise, I may have quietly continued on in a situation l didn't even realize I needed to get out of: getting free things, discriminated against, berated for the body I do hav1~ and yet discouraged from the alterna­tive; possessing infinite freedom in our new age while resisting infinite pres­sure to be everything. 
I would therefore like to take this opportunity to announee my resigna­tion of womanhood. I have enjoyed it tremendously and I resign quite hesi­tantly, but I cannot continue to lie to myself about the state of our gender. The results of my inquiries have been too inconclusive to support continuing on unchanged. 
In researching what it means to be a woman, the evidence has pointed to the label as repressive, freeing, sexual, prudent, stylish, bland, endearing, overbearing, seductive and revolting. It 

Jackie Mirandola Mullen 
Freckled Thoughts 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

doesn't take an English Major to realize how antithntical those characteristics are of each other. You can keep argu­ing, trying to decide which opposite wins, but if you do, you may be missing the larger point: 
Women don't aetually exist! 
Many things contradict themsPives. Water bottles give p1~ople in third world countries water to survive, but they also create pollutants and unmanage­able expenses. The Dining Hall puts the salad bar right next to the donuts. The football team simultaneously gets bet­ter and worse every year. 
These things ean all be very confus­ing. But when a girl is trying to grow up, trying to establish herself as a woman and she hears f'rom nvery side that women arc too Iadjective I while also too [opposite adjective], who is she supposed to be? 
It's easy to be eute, girlish and also a little tomboyish when you are still young and unaceountable for the defi­nition of "woman." But when you hit colleg1~. womanhood becomes a neces­sarily deli ned state of being. Do you valun a earner or childrnn? Do you spnnd Limn on fashion or books'! Are you seductive or bubbly'! Do you "get things done" or havn lots of time for friends? 
Or do you manage to attempt them all, like so many women unable to pick between tlw diametric opposites and end up exhausted, eonfused and with­out feelings of individuality? 
Being a "feminist" apparently is too obnoxious to exist in today's world ­that was only part of the radical, pot­smoking, peace-loving (and therefore God-less?) decade of the 1970s. No, today, that women's rights stuff super­sedes acceptable social behavior, and for some reason isn't worth saving women from unfair discrimination, assault or domestic violence. But eould that be wrong? How about when you consider that between 1998 and 2002, according to the American Bar Association, 84 percent of spouse abuse victims were female and 86 percent of victims of dating partner abuse were female? 
Debating so much about what women are, and in what ways they are dis­criminated against or favored, enables the same gender inequalities that so many women and men spend their lives combating. Overly debating the intrin­sic nature of women introduces an unmanageably paradoxical set of eriti­cisms and expectations for women to meet, making them even more vulnera­ble to feelings of low self-worth that make abuse so difficult to prevent. 
And it's exactly those feelings that make it seem like being a woman is not worth it. What dignity am I trying to uphold, if womanhood contradicts itself to the point of absurdity'? What if I don't want to choose between a family. a eareer and making a diffenmce, and I instead just want to retain a litHe bit of myself in the fold'? I'm too exhausted to figure out who I am right now, and try­ing to figure out what type of woman I am adds too inuch stress to be helpful. 
I'd like to call myself a woman again someday, but until I figure out what that is, I'm just going to be plain old Jackie for a while. 
Jackie Mirandola Mullen is a senior history and German major. You can contact her at jmirando@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily ~hose of The Observer. 

BEcAuse: 
\\-\EY kNOW You ARE 
GOING TO 
BG A G.RE.AT MAN, TIMMY. 
TODAY'S STAFF QUOTE OF THE DAY 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Viewpoint Molly Madden Lianna Carly Landon Brauweiler 

Joseph McMahon Sports 
"No place affords a more strikingGraphics Sam Werner "Never trust a computer you can't throw out a window." conviction ofthe vanity ofhuman
Mary Cecilia Jared Jedick 

hopes than a public liorary." 
Mitsch Chris Michalski 
Steve Wozniak 

Scene Samuel Johnson 
founder of Apple Inc. 

Maija Gustin English author 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Monday, October 12, 2009 page 11 
LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
A Cullen's response to a Mullen 
Hey Sean Mullen, it's Sean Cullen. I know you don't know me, but I wanted you to know that I personally tried to live the way you believe homosexuals should live. Seriously, dude, it majorly sucked. The struggle I had over the course of my years at Notre Dame coming to grips with my sexuality was not an insignificant one. I am talking about an all-consuming guilt and shame that ultimately led me to cry myself to sleep one night in my dorm's chapel, praying to not be gay anymore. I need you to know an ounce of what it feels like to try and live that way. 
Fortunately, my story is a happy one. The first person I came out to, my ex-girlfriend, remains one of my closest friends. When I came out to guys in my dorm, my friend Joe stood up, gave me a hug and said they were all there for me. I even had some retrospectively hilarious coming­out moments. (Note to past self: Do not get gay­themed movies sent to you by Netflix if you live with people who don't respect federal laws pro­hibiting tampering with the mail of others.) 
What is the common thread to these stories? They involve Notre Dame students-s"tudents who idealize all the reasons why I love Notre Dame. They help those in their most dire times of need. They offer support instead of judgment. Quite simply, they love. Indeed, it is these ideals that inspired me to pursue my current career. I am a second year M.D./Ph.D student at Baylor College of Medicine. I have a boyfriend and fami­ly and friends that love me as I am. 
I say these things to assure anyone in the Notre Dame community struggling with similar issues that it is possible to lead a fulfilling, happy life as an openly gay person. You should know that for every Sean Mullen in the world who wants you to hide who you truly are from everyone, there is a Sean Cullen who thinks you are good and beauti­ful and perfect exactly as you are. 
Sean Cullen alumnus class of 2008 Oct. 9 

USC pep rally 
Dear whoever is in charge of pep rallies, 

Why is the pep rally for the biggest game I will ever witness as a student being held at Irish Green? Those things are pathetic excuses for pep rallies. Any pep rally that does not include the whole team, the whole band and the largest portion of the student body is not worthy of any game, much less this game. What happened to holding it in the stadium? Or better yet, if the powers that be want some nice little carnival to cater to kids and old alums, go ahead and have that for them. Have a coach go speak down there. Let the students and team have another one in Stepan. Beat SC! 
Sincerely, Tara Pillai 
senior 
Pasquerilla Easr Hall 
Ocr. 8 


Beat SC 
Dear Students, 

We're still losing to SC. If you're like me, then you hate this. You hate them. The time has come for the Irish to resume their place in this rivalry. Southern Cal is the only program that matches our history and our mystique. That sentence does not please me. It is time to knock them down a few pegs. If you don't think this game is important, then consider that nearly 20 recruits are going to be at this game. We go toe­to-toe with SC on recruiting nearly all of these men. We can beat them in recruiting and on the field. 
A lot of it comes down to you. Starting Monday, show the team that you are behind them 100 percent. Newspaper ads, posters, signs, cheers at dinner, 'greeting' SC, seeing a player and letting him you know you will be there, etc. I cannot be there on Saturday, but my wife will attest to the fact that I will stand and cheer in front of my TV for the whole game. 
The crowd at the 1988 Miami game helped the Irish win that day. You can do the same. Be loud. Be heard. Be Irish and fight for them all week long. Bury SC! 
John L. Morris alumnus class of 2002 Oct. 8 

We are all ND 

Having endured the toils and trials of Catholic education since age five, I feel it's safe to say I am somewhat well-versed in our church's stanee on homosexuality. So, as a member of the Notre Dame family, Sean Mullen, I'm going to share a quote from our Catechism: "2206 The relation­ships within the family bring an affinity of feel­ings, affections and interests, arising above all from the members' respect for one another." Stemming from Oct. Ts colorful Viewpoint, "Don't ask, don't tell," do you feel that you really showed respect for the homosexual members of the Notre Dame family by telling them they should effectively hide their identity because you feel that by being themselves they "can feel bet­ter about their sin?" 
Sex is described by the Catechism as needing to be between a man and a woman for "2363 The good of the spouses themselves and the transmission of life." So, if we're following cor­rectly, the purpose of sex is to share love and make babies. The Church, then, is against any act of sex whose goals or outcomes aren't those two things. Unfortunately, "practicing homosexu­ality," or even using contraceptives, won't pro­duce life and therefore is a big "no-no" in the Church's eyes. That, ladies and gentlemen, is why the Church is against the act of practicing homosexuality. Nothing to do with the people, just the act. Think hard and you could conclude that the church is equally against pre-marital sex and sex used with contraceptives. Yet, there aren't nearly as many prejudices against hetero­sexuals who technically don't abide by the cate­chism in their sexual practices, are there? Clearly, this is an issue of prejudice toward homosexuals which is a shame, because I've met some extremely interesting and kind-hearted people here at Notre Dame that just so happen to be gay. 
So, Sean Mullen, although you "have nothing against gay people," your inflammatory "Don't ask, don't tell" suggestion and lack of overall tact were offensive, not only to the GLBTQ communi­ty of Notre Dame, but to all those lucky enough to call ourselves their friends. Being inclusive doesn't make us "secular," it makes us Catholic. 
Ellen Peralta sophomore Howard Hall Oct. 8 


The fairer sex-ism. 
I hate nothing more than people who decide it's their job to provide hilarious reading by responding to the "Question of the Day" with witty remarks or "facts." Fact: "Question of the Day" is the only public forum where heartfelt viewpoints can be expressed. To Colin and all the other comedians freeloading on this sacred Observer ground, here is a free lesson on how to respond to Q's of the D. 
Question: Why is it worse to be a woman? Answer: Societal oppression -something that chivalrous men like myself are trying to end for our "broken rib"(Gen. 2:18-24). 
To properly address why it is worse to be a woman, we must assess the degree to which men and women are different. As this is a forum for logical thought, the dominion of man, I will present a rational argument with scientific backing. In order to achieve this, I am going to be objective and frank in a compari­son of the sexes. I will begin by presenting a list of notable women, all great credits to their sex: Taylor Swift, Beyonce, Emma Watson, Blessed Virgin Mary, Oprah and Lady Gaga (Honorable mentions: Miley Cyrus and Melissa Buddie). Likewise, I present a list of notable men: every president ever, Jesus, Harry Potter, Twilight Vampire Dude and Lady Gaga. After constructing an extensive table of pros and cons (see Appendix A) it is evident that males have a small innate supe­riority over females. 
The most notable benefits of being a man are standing while peeing, physical and intellectual dominance and survival skills. While there are remarkably more benefits of being a man, the weight carried by the male cons (innate sense of superiority, 
93.4 percent of the incarcerated population and embarrassing erections) make for a close comparison. In the end however the staggering amount of cons for being a women (re: sexist stereotypes) tip the scales in favor of man. 
Colin, I hope this letter has taught you a lesson. I leave you with one last thought: Always speak from your heart ... because a certain sex probably wouldn't understand your sar­casm anyways. 
Patrick Collard sophomore St. Edward's Hall Oct. 9 

Do it for the kids 
We were shocked to learn that the Hall President's Council financial committee decided not to fund Zahm's signature event, the Spring Carnival. For those of you who don't know, the Spring Carnival is a cooperative effort with Big Brothers Big Sisters, La Casa de Amistad, Boys and Girls Club, Center for the Homeless and the Robinson Community Center to bring under-privileged children from the South Bend community on campus for a day of fun, games and free food. This is a very special experience for these kids because it gives them a day for which they don't have to worry about the tough world they grow up in; they just get to be kids. This is also a very reward­ing experience for all students who participate, which includes residents of Zahm, Cavanaugh, Breen-Phillips and anyone else who happens to wander out onto North Quad. 
Swayed by two members of the council, the financial commit­tee decided to discontinue funding for this long-running event because "it is not inclusive to all of campus." Meanwhile, the Council decided to continue funding for events like the Keenan Revue, which provides no form of service to anyone, only includes the members of one dorm and is not even allowed on campus. Somehow the committee decided that making fun of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students was more worthwhile than helping under-privileged children and giving back to the community. 
I am embarrassed that the elected student leaders of Notre Dame could make such an absurd decision. This is a no-brain­er. Reverse the decision, and like Matt Damon says, "Do it for the kids." 
Mark Pomerenke 
JUniOr 
Joe Bizjak 
sentor 
Zahm House Oct. 7 
Don't rush the field 
We are a better football team than USC. I propose that after we beat them this Saturday, we show our confidence in our team and limit our celebration to the stands. Stay off the field and show the nation that 80,000 people expected nothing less than a winning effort. Clausen for Heisman. Go Irish! 
Kevin Sullivan alumnus class of 2009 Oct. II 


THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 12 
Monday, October 12, 2009 



.siii:c" 
-
.. 
f 


Gather round children, and I will tell you a tale. A frightening tale of dark times filled with despair and dread. A time where there seemed to be no hope, no glimmering light on the hori­zon to let you know that if you 
Matt Brown

keep fighting, if you just hold on, things will get 
Scene Writer 

better. A tale of the new toasters in the dining hall. 
It all started one early Sunday moru­ing-around 11:30 a.m. -when an innocent wide-eyed youth, possibly named Matt, stumbled over to the English muffins, made his selection and proceeded to the toaster area. 
Imagine his surprise as he sees two sleek toasting machines where the comforting silver monstrosities used to loom over his early morn­ing repast. Anyway, shocked and a little intrigued, he continued with his toasting preparations and placed his two muffin halves onto the "this toaster toasts both sides" conveyer. Unconcerned, he did his customary toddle over to the cere­al, perused the selection and ulti­mately decided on Apple Jacks. He then returned to the toaster to see his muffin lying in the tray. 
For some reason, though, it strongly resembled untoasted toast. Remembering how in the past he was forced to put the bread through twice to reach optimum toastiness, he blithe­ly put the halves on the conveyor for one more round. Ile tottered off to get some fruit, only to return and find his English muffin once again doing a freakishly talented untoasted toast impression. This was an outrage! 
Twice through a toaster and the only signs of toasting were slight warmth and the barest hint of brown, and only you squinted your eyes and turned your head to the left. He then thought the difficulty might be attributed to the fact that we live within the Arctic Cirele. I mean, can you really expect a toaster to be able to toast when it feels like Both outside? lie decided to watch his muffin's journey through the bow­els of the beast. He placed his bread thrice upon the conveyor, looked up to acknowledge a friend that was walking 


by and when he 
returned his gaze to the toaster, the toast was already out! 
These new toast­ers have their con­


~~~?~~~r~e~s a~ 0~~ch 
sun ray's chance in South Bend that a defenseless piece of bread could even get a sun­burn, much less achieve toasty per­fection on these 

speed demons. 
At this point he couldn't allow the new toasters to win, 
so he resolutely threw his muffin halves upon the belt once more, and once again they returned with trouble­some pfliciency, this time, however, 
finally showing signs of toasting. ignit­
ing a flame of hope within his breast. 
So for the fifth and final time he sacri­
ficed his muff1ns to this metallic beast, 
knowing that when he saw them again 
3 seconds later, they should be done. 
But they didn't show. He waited a little longer and still he saw no delicious golden brown starchy wonders. He 
crouched and looked down the return tray of the toaster and way at the 
back, nestled against the wall was his 
prize. Holling up his sleeve, he grabbed the tongs and began trying to fish them out, reaching further and further into its shimmering maw. If 
that toaster were a human he would've been tickling its duodenum. These toasters do not return you your toast! You have to play hide and seek with your food. If I wanted to do that I could just go to North Dining Hall where they hide their food in secret rooms. 
I want the old toasters back. Sure they were large and old but they actu­ally did their job. Two times around and boom! Toasted. Two perfectly toasted English muffin halves arrived right in front of you. Could you ask for a better start of the day than that? I think not. 
Matt Brown may be reached at mbrown14@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
By EMILY DORE Scene Writer 
United States (only behind The Beatles worldwide), Mariah's songs have taken Mariah has claimed the title of third best-selling a pleasant turn towards female artist in music history, iconic for a gen­hip-hop in the 2000s. eration listening to her soulful tunes like "We "Obsessed" elearly demonstrates this, and 
Winner of Billboard's "Artist of the Decade Award," Mariah Carey was on top of the world in the 1990s. With the most number-one singles for an artist in the 
Belong Together" and "One Sweet Day." 
But in 2001, this golden singer turned into superficial glitter, releasing albums of pure teeny-bop rock and squeals. She had a physical and mental breakdown and faced heavy criticism for her "vani­ty project" film, "Glitter." Producing and starring in the flick, Mariah fought the reviews even before the movie was released, and today it is regarded as one of the "worst movies of all time." To both critics and fans alike, it seemed that this pop princess had been dethroned, replaced by up and coming singers like Beyonce. Now at the close of the decade, Mariah is try­ing to regain lost prominence, with hit albums like the "Emancipation of Mimi" and "E=MC2." Her newest release, "Memoirs of an Imperfect Angel," promises to be her most self­revealing and personal album yet. 
So how is this "Angel?" The 
MARY CECILIA MTSCH Observer Graphic 
album contains hit single "Obsessed," currently top­ping the Billboard charts at No. 7. li debuted at No. 11, the highest for Mariah since 1998. Other notable songs inelude a cover of Foreigner's '80s anthem, "I Want to Know What Love Is" and third single, 
"II.A.T.E. U." 

tho heavy beat and high-range vocals of Mariah have made it a surefire dance hit. tier cover of Foreigner's "I Want to Know What Love Is" is an interest­ing take on a song so iconic for the '80s. Replacing British voices with her own 
soulful croon, Mariah pres­ents a gospel take on the song, with an accompanying gospel choir actually singing the refrain. Though enter­taining, it does not, however, have the powerful emotion and heartache that Foreigner evokes so well. 
Though claiming to be her most personal album. the lyrics in many songs question this statement. Songs like, "Up Out of My Face" and "It's a Wrap," seem like a step back to the old Mariah of high­pitched squeals and sugary girl sweetness. 
And how personal could Mariah be getting with inane lyrics like, "If we were two Lego blocks, even the llarvard University graduating class of 2010, couldn't put us back together again?" With an album cover that suggests a posing 16-year-old Miley in pink mini-dress and flowing hair. many had hoped Mariah would turn to more mature themes as such a weathered and successful 39-year-old vocalist. 
Despite its faults, Mariah brings us tunes perfect for heartache and love lost, tunes we remember lis­tening to in the '90s. And her climb back into the charts reveals that she is back and ready to reclaim her role as top performing female artist of the decade. 
Contact Emily Dore at edore@nd.edu 
"Memoirs of an Imperfect Angel" Mariah Carey Best Tracks: "Obsessed," "I Want to Know What Love Is," "H.A.T.E.U." 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Monday, October 12, 2009 
mom mad. 

By MAIJA GUSTIN 
'Worried Shoes" is one of the more peace­

Assistant Scene Editor ful songs on the album, with Karen 0 The long awaited film "Where the Wild singing to the accompaniment of a piano Things Are" has been building buzz ever and some ambient noises. since the release ofits first trailer last spring. Following this is "Rumpus," in which Max The movie is set to open in tlloaters Friday, is crowned King of the Wild Things, and as but for those too excited to wait, check out his first order of business, he screams, "Let the movie's soundtrack by Karen 0 and fue the wild rumpus start!" Thic; uplifting song Kids. features chanting by what sounds like a Many might recognize Karen 0 as tlle lead choir of really happy kids and is one of the singer of indie band Yeal1 Yeal1 Yeahs, or as catchiest songs on the soundtrack. Head the former girlfriend of "Wild Things" direc­bobbing is mandatory. tor Spike Jonze. The "kids" are made up of "Rumpus Reprise" comes next, which is Yeah Yeah Yeahs members Brian Chase and essentially Karen O's slower, sweeter version Nick Zinner. their former touring guitarist of"Rumpus." Imaad Wasif, Brian Cox of Deerhunter, "Hideaway" is a more melancholy tune Aaron Hemphill of Liars, Dean Fertita of the from the perspective of Mom, whose son has new band Dead Weater and Jack Lawrence run away to be King of the Wild Things. It's of The Raconteurs. The soundtrack also fea­hauntingly beautiful and displays the softer tures one song by Carter Burwell, who side of Karen O's tmique voice. recently composed the soundtrack to "Cliffs" serves mostly as filler, witl1 some "Twilight." chanting over harmonious guitars, but it is a The "Where the Wild Things Are" sound­beautiful addition nonetheless. "Animal" is track is an eclectic mix of upbeat, childish an awesome blending of Karen O's unique ravings and slower, more serene ballads to sound with folkish guitars and drums, and balance the album. Given the striking provides for one of the most interesting images of "Wild Things" that have been sounds on the record. It really lets the making the Internet rounds for months now, instrumentalists of Karen 0 and The Kids these songs seem to fit the tone of the movie shine. perfectly. They are at once as miraculous "Lost Fur" ic; Carter Burwell's contribution and mesmerizing as a child's imagination, to the album, and it both stands apart from but still carry a weight of maturity that the rest of the album and yet finds a place keeps them fresh and interesting for the within it. Karen 0 ic; definitely back in her older audience sure to buy fuic; album. Much element witll "Heads Up" which would fit like Jonze's film. the album is focused on perfectly with her other indi<> rock reper­exploring that "inner child" that supposedly toire. resides in all adults. "Building All Is Love" acts as another The soundtrack opens witll "Igloo," which reprise of sort<> and brings back tho themes sots up tl1e albwn wiili lines from the film in of the main single. "Food Is Still Hot" brings which Mom (Catherine Keener) asks Max Karen 0 back to tlle slower chanting of ear­(Max Records) lor a story. What follows is a lier songs like "Cliff.c;" and "Igloo," maintain­lusciously melodic song driven by guitars, ing the connection between the up-tempo tambourines and Karen 0 hum­songs and the ballads. The album ming a quiet melody. It seems ends with "Sailing Home." which very dreamlike. creating a is short and features only hum­mood of storytelling to comple­ming. However, it ends tlle album ment the movie. on an upbeat note and is sure to The next song. tho first sin­excite those waiting for the gle "All is Love," starlc; wiili chance to see it. Max screanling "One, two, Until "Where the Wild Things ready, go!" It's lyrically Are" opens on Friday, the jury is simple and totally repet­still out on how well the sound­itive, but it's also cap­track will fit with the movie. tivating and joyously However, Karen 0 did a wonder­ecstatic. ful job creating a cohesive yet "Capsize" totallv diverse and bizarre albun1. sounds like some­All the songs capture both child-thing that could be hood wonder and mature wisdom right at home on a masterfully, and, as an added bonus Yeah Yeah Yeahs for those about to hit the books hard album. with Karen tl1is week, the album works great as screaming, telling study music. "mama" "M-1-S-S-M-E all that you want, At tlle least, the "Where the Wild Things you're gonna wait a while." Are" soundtrack promises to accompany an While "Igloo" and "All Is Love" are about exciting and unique movie-going experience. the happier times in child's life, "Capsize" describes the darker times, when the only Contact Maija Gustin at option for a kid seems to run away to make mgustin@nd.edu 
"Where the Wild Things Are" Soundtrack 
Karen 0 and the Kids 

Best Songs:."AIIIs Love," "Capsize," "Hideaway," "Animal," "Heads Up," "Rumpus," "Worried Shoes" 
• 


neurotic and overly organized Jason and By ADRIANA PRATT Cynthia could have been hilarious if given Assistant Scene Ediror the proper attention but, once again, the 
writers took the easy route and stuck to 
It is a sad day when the best character generic material. in a Vince Vaughn movie is a little boy Joey (Favreau) and Lucy (Davis) were whose total screen time lasts around 10 the typical high school f(lotball player and minutes. Unfortunately, that's the case in cheerleader who conceived their daughter Vaughn's latest film "Couples Hetreat," on prom night and were burnt out by the which he both co-wrote and acted in. time she reached college. Both sought 
With a cast that consisted of big names attention from sources other than each such as Vaughn, Jason Bateman, Jon other and both were in their own ways Favreau (who also co-wrote the film). fairly disturbing. Joey was just plain Malin Akerman, Kristen Bell and Kristin creepy and Lucy was undeniably forget­Davis, there was no excuse for this movie table. Davis gave the most discouraging not to be a winner. performance of all, half-heartedly embrac­
In reality, though, it falls flat and should ing the role she was cast in. Hopefully that probably be called "Acting Retreat," was a conscious choice and she just didn't instead of "Couples Retreat" because each want to give her best because she realized 
of these stars could use some centering to the film was a complete failure. refine their skills after the performances Ronnie (Akerman) was by far the most they gave. Akerman and Faizon Love were realistic and well-acted adult character, the only ones who made something of the but she also failed to be multi-faceted and subpar material they were given. only halfway complemented her husband 
The storyline centers around four cou­Dave's character. The actor who showed ples who take a joint trip to Eden West, a up all or the adults was the three-year old tropical island used for couples' therapy, to Colin Baiocchi, who played her son Kevin. support Jason (Bateman) and Cynthia His scenes saved the film from being com­(Bell), whose marriage is on the brink of pletely unwatchable. failure after Cynthia is unable to conceive. What also made the film unbearable A few legitimately funny moments ensue, were the blatant product promotions. They including a scene in which their largest were constantly shoved in the audience's friend, Shane (Love), is forced to publidy faces, the most obvious one being "Guitar strip nude for his partner, and when an Hero." Not only was Dave a salesman of embarrassingly toned Fabio-esque yoga tl10 product, but there was also a painfully instructor gives a physically invasive long scene in which he played one of the yoga class. The romantic comedy resort's managers in a "Guitar sprinkled with a few comical one-Hero" battle. The techno­liners and many awkward situa-logically-savvy film tions, but the execution and combi-of this particular seen nation of these do not add up to was a complete! a memorable film. different 
Vaughn's rambling than tho comedic style, at its best in "Wedding Crashers;'' is., employed, but his attempts at humor fail ..­because his Retreat" characte Dave is not quite lovable. Audience are led to believe he's the good guy, but then the tables turn and he becomes . self-focused and judgmental ... or does he? of fue movie and, combined with awkward It's hard to know which image of Dave the scene transitions, made the film incohe­writers were trying to give, because half sive. the time he was the voice of reason, and One plus for the movie was that all the the other half he was nonsensically rude. females had stellar bodies, which the The attempt at making a multi-dimension­director made sure to show as much as al character, which is a must in a quality possible. This, plus the little kid, was the film, was poorly executed in Dave's case only redeeming factors and both were and altogether nonexistent for the rest of cheap attempts at entertainment. Vince, the cast. Shane and his much younger girl­you've failed us. Please bring back the friend, Trudy (Kali Hawk), took both the days of crashing weddings and dodging sugar daddy and African American stereo­balls. They were much more successful types to town, occasionally landing on a and, surprisingly, more believable. funny line or two, but most often making audiences cringe at the predictability. The Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 

"Couples Retreat" 
Universal Studios 

Director: Peter Billingsley Starring: Vince Vaughan, Jason Bateman, Jon Favreau, Kristin Davis, Kristen Bell, Malin Akerman, Faizon Love, Kali Hawk 




page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, October 12, 2009 
NFL 


Goal-line stand secures victory for Cardinals 
Bengals take sole possession offirst place in AFC North; Browns earn first win against hapless Bills 
to Steve Slaton made it second
Associated Press 
and goal at the 1. Brown was 
GLENDALE, Ariz. stopped just inside the 1, then Dominique Rodgers-Cromartie on a play action pass, Schaub returned an interception 49 threw too high to Joel Dressen, yards for a touchdown with who was open in the back of the 
2:2 0 to go and the Arizona end zone. Cardinals' defense stopped the That made it fourth down, Houston Texans three times at and with the noisy home crowd the 1-yard line in the final at its loudest, Brown again minute Sunday to eke out a 28-failed to make it to the goal line. 21 victory. The Cardinals scored on their 
Matt Schaub brought the first possession and were at the Texans back from a 21-0 half­Houston 9 on their second, time deficit to tie the game and when a vicious hit by Eugene had completed 11 straight when Wilson forced Anquan Boldin to Rodgers-Cromartie, playing fumble. with a fractured right index fin­The game stayed 7-0 until ger, stepped in front of intended Warner went 9 for 9 on two late receiver Kevin Walter. first-half touchdown drives. The 
The young Cardinals corner­first went 68 yards in seven back intercepted, raced down plays, with Warner throwing 9 the sideline, then high-stepped yards to Fitzgerald for the the final 20 yards for the score. score. 

A 60-yard kickoff return by Houston went three-and-out Andre Davis helped set up the and a 29-yard punt by Matt final Houston threat. Schaub Turk gave Arizona the ball on quickly moved the team to the the Texans 48. Warner threw 1, but Chris Brown was stopped 10 yards to Jerheme Urban and on second down, there was an 12 yards to Boldin, then hit incomplete pass on third and Fitzgerald on a 26-yard scoring Brown was stopped again on play. The drive took 53 seconds. fourth down with 40 seconds On the next play, Palmer don't matter." ered at its own 16. left. Bengals 17, Ravens 14 found Caldwell over the middle The Ravens, quite simply, did The Bengals took a 10-7 lead 
Kurt Warner topped 300 In a duel for first place in the for the game-winning score. not come close to dominating. in the third quarter with an 84­yards passing for the 50th time AFC North, the Cincinnati After the following kickoff, They were limited to one offen­yard drive kept alive by a in his career but he and the Bengals found a way to win thousands of fans among the sive touchdown after averaging penalty against Baltimore cor­Arizona offense struggled after another close game. 71,161 directed a derisive chant 32.5 points in their first four nerback Domonique Foxworth, a near-perfect first half. For the Baltimore Ravens, it toward the referee crew. games, and the defense yielded who was called for illegal con­
Warner completed 26 of 38 was a familiar loss. Cincinnati's Cedric Benson 403 yards -including 142 on tact during a third-down play in passes for 302 yards, but Carson Palmer threw a 20-ran for 120 yards, becoming the the ground. which Palmer was sacked. Four almost all of them came in the yard touchdown pass to Andre first player in 40 games to Which is one reason why the plays later, Benson broke loose first half. In the first two quar­Caldwell with 22 seconds left to eclipse 100 yards against the Ravens weren't overly critical of for a 28-yard touchdown run, ters, the 38-year-old quarter­cap an 80-yard drive fueled by Ravens. Palmer was 18 for 31 the officials. which put him over 100. back was 20 of 23 for 262 Baltimore penalties, and the for 271 yards, and Chad "The officials, they're just Cincinnati botched the extra yards, including a pair of touch­Bengals escaped with a victory Ochocinco had seven catches calling the game," Walker said. point, but the Ravens were down passes to Larry Fitzgerald Sunday. for 94 yards. "These games are close because called for illegal formation and in the fmal 1:44 to give Arizona All five of Cincinnati's games "We weren't as sound as we we let them be close." Shayne Graham converted the a 21-0 lead at the break. this season have been decided should have been. Offensively, Baltimore trailed 10-7 when extra chance. 
Schaub was the one who was by seven points or fewer. The and as a whole, we had a cou­Ray Rice took a screen pass magnificent in the second half. Bengals have won three ple of turnovers," Ochocinco from Joe Fiacco, then turned Browns 6, Bills 3 Overall, the Houston quarter­straight games by three points said. "But we were able to find upfield with several tacklers in Backup kicker Billy Cundiff back set franchise records for apiece, and at this point they some breaks and make our way. his way. After ducking line­hit an 18-yard field goal with 23 completions and attempts, seem like they wouldn't want it We were able to capitalize on backer Brandon Johnson, the 5-seconds remaining Sunday, giv­going 35 for 50 for 371 yards. any other way. the last drive." foot-8 running back dipped his ing Cleveland a victory over In the second half, he was 25 of "They believe they can win, Baltimore (3-2) has lost two left arm and stayed upright by Buffalo for its first win under 32 for 279 yards. He threw two no matter what the circum­straight after starting 3-0 for planting his fingers on the arti­coach Eric Mangini. touchdown passes to Andre stances are," coach Marl'in the second time in franchise ficial turf before completing the Cundiff's kick ended a display Johnson. The second, with the Lewis said. "We keep talking history. Last week, two rough­48-yard play. of offensive ineptitude between big receiver bowling over three about that. Don't worry about ing the passer calls played a key Then it was Palmer's turn. the Browns and Bills in a how­defenders on a 17 -yard scoring it, don't flinch, keep playing." part in a 27-21 defeat at New "That was Carson in the hud­bad-was-it game. play, tied it at 21 with 6:59 to The Bengals ( 4-1) appeared England. dle, being very confident, being Cundiff also made a 24-yard play. destined to come out on the Against Cincinnati, the very sound, keeping everybody field goal in the second quarter, 
The Cardinals (2-2) couldn't short end of this one until Ravens were penalized 10 times calm," Ochocinco said. "When while punter Dave Zastudil was move after that, but they pinned Palmer masterfully directed the for 76 yards, with several of the he talks the way he does in that the Browns' MVP. Zastudil Houston (2-3) on its 11-yard final drive -with the help of infractions seemingly coming at huddle, with that confidence downed seven of nine punts line. Houston methodically three yellow flags. the worst possible time. and that swagger like that, inside the Bills 20, including advanced to its 4 7, and on An illegal contact penalty "Some tough calls. But you there's no doubt that we're three inside the 5. Zastudil also third-and-7, Schaub threw to against Chris Carr and an can't leave it in their hands," going to go down and score." provided the game-turning play the sideline toward Walter. unnecessary roughness call Baltimore defensive tackle Kelly It was the second time the when Roscoe Parrish muffed a Rodgers-Cromartie got there against Ray Lewis preceded the Gregg said. Bengals had to rally. A 52-yard rolling punt. The Browns recov­first and there was no one who topper, a pass interference It was a mantra repeated by interception return for a touch­ered at the Bills 16 to set up the could stop him, even though he penalty against Frank Walker several of his teammates. down by Reed gave the Ravens winning score. high-stepped nearly the final on a third-and-16 from the ''I'm not going there with you. a 7-0 lead in the second quar­The Bills (1-4) have lost to half of the way. Baltimore 30 (although the I don't do the referee thing," ter, and later in the half, Reed winless teams in consecutive 
Houston seemed destined to infraction was called by the offi­defensive end Trevor Pryce knocked the ball loose from weeks following a 38-10 defeat tie it when Schaub's 5-yard pass cials against Ed Reed). said. "If you dominate, the calls Ochocinco that Baltimore recov-at Miami. 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. AI dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR RENT 
andersonND rentals.com HOUSES 
4 BDRM HOUSE ON 32 ACRES OF NATURE AND SERENITY. 9 MILES NORTH OF NOTRE DAME. $1 ,200 FOR WEEKEND. CALL GEORGIA PEACH BED AND BREAKFAST@ 269-357-6979. 
2 BDRM APT. CLOSE TO ND. UTILITIES NOT INCL. CALL 313­382-0536 OR 574-386-3896. 54684 TWYCKENHAM 

TICKETS 
HELP I Need FB tix for family. Will pay top$$. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 57 4-232-0964. 

WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt., no experience needed, cus­tomer sales/service, 574-273­3835. 
FoR SALE 
Ford 79 T-Bird. 45 K miles. Original owner $8,000. 574-299-0925 



PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 
1-7819or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more infor­mation, visit NO's website at: http://preg­nancysupport@nd.edu 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame's website: http ://csap. nd .edu 
I'll never be your beast of burden My back is broad, but it's a hurting All I want is tor you to make love to me I'll never be your beast of burden I've walked for miles, my feet are hurting All I want is for you to make love to me Am I hard enough, Am I rough enough Am I rich enough, I'm not to blind to see I'll never be your beast of burden So let's go home and draw the cur­tains Music on the radio Come on baby make sweet love to me Am I hard enough, Am I rough enough Am I rich enough, I'm not to blind to 
see 
Oh little sister 
-~ 




OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES
Monday, October 12, 2009 
page 15 


NCAA FOOTBALL NCAA Football 
APTop25 
team previous 

1 Florida 1 2 Alabama 3 3 Texas 2 4 Virginia Tech 5 5 Boise State 6 6 Southern California 7 7 Ohio State 9 8 Cincinnati 8 9 Miami (Fla.) 11 10 LSU 4 11 Iowa 12 12 TCU 10 13 Oregon 13 14 Penn State 14 15 Nebraska 21 16 Oklahoma State 15 11 Kansas 16 18 BYU 18 19 Georgia Tech 22 20 Oklahoma 19 21 South Florida 23 22 South Carolina 25 23 Houston NR 24 Utah NR 25 NOTRE DAME NR 
NCAA Football USA Today Coaches' Poll Top 25 
team previous 

1 Florida 1 2 Texas 2 3 Alabama 
3 4 Virginia Tech 5 5 Southern California 7 6 Boise State 
& 

7 OhioState nervous about 'Why do connect players with spokesman, said he didn't
8 Associated Press 8 TCU 9 these NCAA people have me Parker. He said former have an opportunity to 
9 Cincinnati OKLAHOMA CITY -in this room with a closed Texas Tech receiver intervene with Bryant
10 

10 LSU 4 Former NFL player Deion door questioning me?' Now, Michael Crabtree connected before he spoke to the 11 Miami (Fla.) 11 Sanders says his longtime had I been a liar or falsified with the agent because he NCAA, and that shouldn't 12 Iowa 14 agent was not present for any incident or evidence, also represented Arizona have been necessary. 13 Penn State 12 his meeting with Oklahoma my story would have collab­Cardinals receiver Larry "I don't have to prepare a 14 Oklahoma State 13 State's Dez Bryant and the orated with Dez," Sanders Fitzgerald. person to tell the truth. The 15 Kansas 15 star didn't give the player said. "The kid said he didn't "I don't need to make truth is what it is," Sanders 
16 Oregon 17 
any gifts. come to my home. In actu­money off a child. God has said. "So the fact that he 
17 Nebraska 
22 Sanders said on the NFL ality, he did." taken care of me," Sanders got nervous and falsified 
18 Oklahoma 
21 Network's "NFL Gameday The All-America receiver, said. "The first thing I do the truth, he thought he 
19 BYU 
20 Morning" on Sunday that who was ruled ineligible by when I talk to these guys had done something wrong.
20 Georgia Tech 23 
agent Eugene Parker was Oklahoma State, issued a like a Dez Bryant is I look When soembody's there:
21 South Florida 24 
"not whatsoever" involved statement earlier this week them in the eye. I say, 'I 'Were you at the house of
2.2 South Carolina NR 
in the meeting at Sanders' that he "made a mistake by don't need nothing. I don't Deion Sanders? Were you
23 Houston NR 
home and there wouldn't not being entirely truthful want nothing. I'm not here there? Were you there?'
24 Missouri 18 
have been any problems if when meeting with the to benefit off you. I'm here The kid got nervous, and I
25 NOTRE DAME NR 
..::;:?::;:''::. Bryant hadn't falsified his NCAA." to help you. But don't lie to don't know why he falsified story to the NCAA. Oklahoma State is apply­me."' the truth, but I must rein­"Now, the problem was ing for Bryant's reinstate­Sanders, who has state: If I was a liar, my someone -they wanted to ment. declined interview requests story would have collabo­question Dez about our Sanders said he has not from The Associated Press rated with his. Just think
Men's Cross Country 

relationship and Dez was served as a go-between to through an NFL Network about that." 
USTFCCCA Top-10 
IN BRIEF 
team points 

1 Stanford 355 49ers Lewis leaves game Mickelson gets surorise visit Driver Donna Mae Mims 2 Northern Arizona 338 with third concussion from wife at Presidents Cup dies from stroke at age 82 3 Alabama 326 SAN FRANCISCO -San Francisco SAN FRANCISCO -This was the BRIDGEVILLE, Pa. -Donna Mae 4 Oklahoma.State 319 strong safety Michael Lewis has sus­15th time Phil Mickelson has played Mims, the first woman to win a Sports 5 Colorado 319 tained his third concussion of the sea­in the Presidents Cup or the Ryder Car Club of America national champi­6 BYU 304 son, going down during the 49ers' game Cup, and the first time he came onship in 1963, has died. She was 82. 1 Oregon 293 against Atlanta early in the third quarter alone. His wife, Amy, is recovering Mims died Tuesday of complications 8 Portland 267 trying to tackle Michael Turner. from breast cancer and stayed home following a stroke, said Aaron 9 William & Mary 247 Lewis, who sustained two concussions in San Diego. Beinhauer, director of Beinhauer Family 10 Georgetown 235 during an 11-day span in the preseason, Or so he thought. Services, which is handling the arrange­
could be sidelined for a prolonged peri­Mickelson had no idea that when he ments. od. returned to his hotel room Saturday Per her wishes, Mims' body was seat­
He led with his helmet on the hit night, his wife was hiding in the bath­ed behind the steering wheel of a 1979 Sunday and was face down on the field room. pink Corvette for visitation hours at the for several minutes while being exam­"It was an incredible surprise," funeral home in McMurray, Pa.,
around the dial 
ined. He eventually sat up and was Mickelson said. "I didn't think she Beinhauer said Sunday. helped off the field, appearing dazed. was coming up, and she actually hid Known as the "Pink Lady" because Athletic trainers ran a series of test<> on in the bathroom when I walked in the of her preferred color for cars, Mims
NFL 

Lewis as he sat on the sideline. room. I didn't know she was there, worked for Yenko Chevrolet and the 
New York at Miami 

Lewis' first concussion occurred Aug. and she scared me pretty good. It company's sports car division and 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 18 during a joint practice with Oakland was an awesome surprise, though." started racing in 1958, according to at the Raiders' wine country training site It was a treat for the rest of the Beinhauer Family Services. Mims' in Napa when he got hit by a fullback. team, too. association with the car company led
MLB 

· He suffered another in an exhibition They had worn pink ribbons in her to race cars, including the
Philadelphia at Colorado 

game at Dallas on Aug. 29, when he fell their hat during the week to com­Camaro, Austin Healey, MG. Corvette
TBA, TBS 

and took a knee to the helmet. memorate breast cancer awareness. and Corvairs. 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 12, 2009 
TENNIS 
Djokovic takes first in China Open 
Associated Press 
BEIJING -Novak Djokovic won the China Open with a 6­2, 7-6 (4) victory over Croatia's Marin Cilic, and Svetlana Kuznetsova of Russia defeated Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland 6-2, 6­4 in the women's final on Sunday. 
The second-seeded Serb broke Cilic's 
serve in the plan ing WTA Tour Championship
"I have some

sixth game and that I should in Doha at the end of the again in the different luck here play in the month, and said she will eighth to take and definitely like the continuation spend some time in Moscow the first set fol­of the match. practicing before arriving in
atmosphere. The 

lowing a 90-"I was very the Persian Gulf a week early minute rain support is great., fresh on the to acclimatize to the condi­delay. court after tions. 
The second that. What "Normally I feel really tired
Svetlana Kuznetsova 

set was much makes my suc­at the end of the season, but
Tennis player 
cess in the now I feel great," she said.

tighter, with each breaking the other's serve three times to force the tiebreak. But Cilic then struggled, and his return at 6-4 went wide, handing Djokovic the win. 
"My patience and the choice of certain shots and a little more experience than he has decided the winner today," said Djokovic, who has won all four encounters between the two, all on hard courts. 
"Whenever I needed to step it up and play some big shots that would decide the match, I did." 
The sixth-seeded Kuznetsova needed just 1 hour, 20 minutes to complete her victory, racking up six aces along the way. 
"I guess I just like to play here," she said. "I have some different luck here and defi­nitely like the atmosphere. The support is great." 
The third-ranked Djokovic's path to the title was eased by Cilic's upset of top-seeded Rafael Nadal in Saturday's semifinal. The rain delay also appeared to have been a fac­tor, allowing Djokovic time to regroup. 
"I certainly played much better after the rain delay," he said. "I kind of got my nerves together and thought 
of the tactics 
and the 
5-4 and 6-5. Djokovic broke him both times. 
"The things that I didn't do well decided (the match)," said Cilic, whose booming serve had so flummoxed Nadal. 
Djokovic was flying directly to Shanghai to compete in this week's Shanghai Masters. 
Kuznetsova has already qualified for the season-end­
second set The 20-year-old even bigger is that I man­Radwanska, who won the aged to save the concentra­Wimbledon and Roland tion, to maintain the focus Garros titles as a junior, was and get back into the match." playing in her first singles 
Cilic said the final since rain delay may June 2008. have had the "Svetlana's
"Whenever I needed 
opposite effect to step it up and play been very on him. good today,
some big shots that 
"First time I hitting hard
would decide the 
went out on the every ball. I court I started match, I did. , think also she pretty good, had nothing to but when we lose today,"
Novak Djokovic 
came back the s a i d 
Tennis player 
conditions Radwanska, were a little bit who moves different," he into the top 10 said. "It was a little cooler in the rankings following a and Novak started really successful two weeks in good and I missed my shot to Japan and China, but is still get back into the game." chasing qualification for 
Cilic struggled to find his Doha. range throughout the match "Of course it's better to win and had two chances to force a tournament, but I'm still in a third set before the the top 10 so it's not that tiebreaker when serving at bad," she said. 

PGA 


Americans win at 
Presidents Cup 
Associated Press 
SAN FHANCISCO -Tiger Woods provided a fitting conclu­sion Sunday to a perfect week at the Presidents Cup, for him and an American team that remains perfect at home. 
With a flop shot out of the trees to set up one last birdie, Woods won the point that clinched the cup and made him only the third player in the Presidents Cup to win all five matches. 
His 6-and-5 victory over Y.E. Yang was a tiny token of revenge for Woods blowing a final-round lead to him in the PGA Championship this sum­mer. Even so, it was the first time in either the Presidents Cup or Hyder Cup that Woods earned the decisive point. 
And he didn't even know it. 

"Oh, perfect," Woods said, an apt choice of words. "All I knew was I was trying to get my point, and I was 5 up trying to make it 6." 
Phil Mickelson wrapped up another antidimactic finish with a 7 -foot birdie putt for a 2-and­1 victory over Retief Goosen, leaving Lefty unbeaten (4-0-1) in the Presidents Cup for the second time in the last three contests. 
The Americans won 191f2­141fz, the same margin as last time against an overmatched International team. 
The United States leads 6-1-1 since the Presidents Cup began in 1994, and it improved to 5-0 on home soil, the previous four victories coming across the country in Virginia. 
''I'm sure we tried our best all week," Geoff Ogilvy said after his 2-and-1 victory over Steve Stricker. "Coming in today, we had too much to do and the U.S. team was obviously very moti­vated." 
British Open champion Stewart Cink. disgusted with his performance Saturday, asked to play early and put the first point on the board by overwhelming Adam Scott, a questionable cap­tain's pick who contributed only one point for the week. 
Sean O'Hair and Anthony Kim followed with big victories of their own, while Hunter Mahan eventually won his leadoff match over Camilo Villegas of Colombia, the only player to get shut out at Harding Park. 
That set the stage for Woods, whose performance has been mediocre since he started play­ing these team competitions in 1997. 
l-Ie won four holes in a five­hole stretch in the middle of the round, pouring in one birdie putt after another, then sealed it with a 9-foot birdie on the 13th hole. 
Woods went 5-0 for the week, joining Mark O'Meara (1996) and Shigeki Maruyama (1998) as the only players to win all five matches in the Presidents Cup. Woods has 18 victories, the most of any player in this event. 
Woods and Stricker became the first partnership in the Presidents Cup to win all four of their matches, with Stricker making all the putts and Woods providing the defining moment Saturday morning with a 25­foot birdie and a 3-iron to 8 feet on the par-S 18th that turned a certain loss into an inspiring victory in foursomes. 
U.S. captain Fred Couples was the first to greet Woods with a hug. 
When Couples was appointed captain, he called Woods and jokingly asked for a big favor: Make the team so Couples wouldn't have to waste a cap­tain's pick on the world's No. 1 player. 
What he didn't tell Woods were the expectations Couples had for him at Harding Park. 
"I needed him -this is going to sound stupid -to go 5-0," Couples said. 
It was the first time Woods and Yang have played together since the South Korean became the first player to rally in the final round at a major to beat Woods. This wasn't quite the same. 
"He got me there, and I fig­ured I could get him here," Woods said. "It certainly was not exactly the same atmos­phere, but then it still was an important point." 
Mickelson might have played the best for the Americans, car­rying along three partners in the team matches and hanging on to beat Goosen. He went 4-0­1 for the week, and revealed after his match that his wife, Amy, had joined him on the weekend. 
She is recovering from breast cancer and has not traveled with Mickelson since The Players Championship. a week before she was diagnosed. Amy Mickelson did not come to Harding Park on Sunday. 
"I didn't think she was coming up, and she actually hid in the bathroom when I walked in my room," Mickelson said. "I didn't know she was there, and she scared me pretty good. It was an awesome surprise, though." 
Among the few bright spots for the International team on a cold autumn afternoon was Tim Clark, who made eight birdies in 15 holes for a 4-and-3 victory over Zach Johnson. Ryo Ishikawa of Japan, at 18 the youngest player ever in these matches, kept his cool down the stretch to beat 49-year-old Kenny Perry. 
Another moment came from Vijay Singh, who led the International team with a 2-0-3 record. It might have been slightly better, but after narrow­ly missing an eagle putt on the 18th hole, he graciously conced­ed Lucas Glover's 7 -foot birdie putt to halve the match. 
Glover had been 0-3 for the week, and it kept the U.S. Open champion from being shut out. 
"He would have made it, any­way," Singh said. 
By then, the Presidents Cup had long been decided. The Americans had a three-point lead going into singles, and picked up seven points in the final session. 
Next up is a trip to Royal Melbourne in Australia in 2011, site of the International team's only victory. Greg Norman is expected to return as International team captain. The Americans, meanwhile, start qualifying in earnest next year for the Hyder Cup in Wales. 
This is the first time since 2000 that the Americans held the Ryder Cup and the Presidents Cup at the same time. 

'! -<[;---~-~ 
ff 
ffttA_~!.y/(/A,.n~­
·nF. H.\ll.f\\ :'i. T!\'1\o\,\K. <;i:'i\OI.AidHW i'\J\'·y·nAT!(}V 
Could you use $30,000 to attend graduate or professional school to help prepare for a career in public service? 
JUNIORS who 
• 
have extensive records of public and community service, 

• 
are committed to careers as "change agents"in government or other public service) and 

• 
have outstanding leadership potential and communication skills 


Visit JPJVW.fruntan.got) for more infottnation, then contact the ND Fellowships ()ffice for application details, 346 O'Shaughnessy Hall ftllows@nd.edtJ 


CAMPUS DEADLINE: MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9 

Monday, October 12, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
Angels blast Papelbon in ninth for divisional s-weep 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Torii Hunter emerged from the visitors' clubhouse at Fenway Park to spray champagne over the fans and family gathered there. Erick Aybar did him one better, handing over bot­tles of bubbly to those who came from California to see the Los Angeles Angels go for the sweep. 
History gave no reason to hope for such a celebration. 
The Angels and Vladimir Guerrero shrugged off their postsea­
son failures 'Vladdy came tribute to pitch­and swept through. That's er Nick 
away the Red Adenhart, who
probably one of the

Sox on Sunday, was killed in an scoring three biggest hits ofhis April car crash runs off with a man who
career. " 

Jonathan has been Papelbon in the charged with 
Torii Hunter

ninth inning to drunken driv­beat Boston 7-6 Angels' center fielder ing. As they 
and advance to the AL champi­onship series. 
It was the first postseason sweep in Angels franchise history. And they did it against the team that has knocked them out of the play­offs the previous four times they met. 
"[ told you guys earlier: It's going to be a diffp,rent scene," Hunter said in the clubhouse afterward. "Vladdy came through. That's probably one or the biggest hits of his career. They've been waiting for him to do it, and he did it." 
Papelbon was one strike away from extending the series with three different batters, but Aybar singled on a two-strike pitch, Chone Figgins walked after fouling off a full-count offering and Bobby Abreu fouled off three straight pitches before dou­bling in one run. 
Hunter was walked inten­tionally before Guerrero sin­gled the first pitch to center and Figgins and Abreu raced home to give Los Angeles a 7­6 lead. Major league saves leader Brian Fuentes pitched the ninth, and when Aybar caught Dustin Pedroia's popup to end the game, pumping his right arm even as he tracked the ball with his left, the Angels advanced. 
"It's nice to be going home and playing again, instead of going home and it's over," said pitcher John Lackey, who was part of the Angels teams that were eliminated by Boston in three times in the previous five years. "This is the most fun for me, and I've got a ring. That says a lot." 
An eight-time All-Star and former AL MVP, Guerrero has 
a .321 career batting aver­age, 407 regular-season homers and 1,318 RBls. But he'd managed only one extra­base hit in 69 at-bats going into Game 3, and he had one RBI in 19 playoff games since his grand slam against Boston in the 2004 division series. 
And he came through against Papelbon, who had never before allowed a run in 27 postseason innings. 
"You're not going to get to him too often. But we did this afternoon," Angels manager Mike Sciascia said. "And I felt great for Vlad. hopefully, that's a momentum-builder for him .... I know he's relieved. He's excited about contributing. And hopefully it will be the start of something good." 
For the AL West champion 
Angels, it was a 
chance to 
extend their 
streamed out of 
the dugout to 
celebrate, and J erect Weaver carried Adenhart's jersey onto the l'ield. 
"When it comes down to honoring Nick Adenhart, and what happened in April in Anaheim, yes, it probably was the biggest hit (of my career)," Guerrero said. "Because I'm dedicating that to a former teammate, a guy that passed away." 
The Angels open their first ALCS since 2005 on Friday against either the New York Yankees or Minnesota. The Yankees led that series 2-0 going into Game 3 Sunday night. 
"We're finally here," said Angels owner Arte Moreno, who bought the team in 2003, a year after they won their 
only World Series. "I think that the fourth time's a charm. It's great for us, because we've been knocking on the door for a while." 
Los Angeles trailed 5-1 early, was behind 5-2 after seven innings and still down 6-4 when Papelbon retired the first two batters of the ninth. 
The crowd that just one inning earlier had been primed for a celebration qui­etly filed out of the ballpark for the last time in 2009, hav­ing seen the wild-card Red Sox beaten. 
"The season doesn't wind down. It just comes to a crashing halt," Boston man­ager Terry Francona said. "You go into the top of the inning excited because you think you're going to keep playing. Half an inning later, you're going home. So it's dis­appointing." 
The Red Sox had won 12 of 13 postseason games against the Angels heading into the series, including an 11-game winning streak that dated back to Dave Henderson's homer off Donnie Moore in the 1986 ALCS. Henderson, not coincidentally, threw out the ceremonial first pitch on Sunday, even adding a little jump and twist like the one he did after he helped propel Boston to within one strike of the '86 World Series title. 
Hendu's shot in Game 5 sent the Hed Sox to a win by the same 7-6 score. 
Boston didn't win it that year, but they ended their 86­year championship drought in 2004 after sweeping Los Angeles in the first round. The Red Sox swept out the Angels again in '07 en route to a second title, and beat them in four games last year 

before losing to the Tampa off first base. Bay in the ALCS. After Mike Lowell's RBI sin-
Darren Oliver earned the gle made it 6-4 in the eighth, victory after getting one out Papelbon got Maicer Izturis in relief, and Papelbon took on a foul popup and Mike his first career postseason Napoli on a fly ball to center. loss. The Red Sox closer had Abreu lined a double off the converted seven of his previ--Green Monster to cut the lead ous eight postseason save to 6-5. opportunities. The three runs Boston 
But after Billy Wagner put scored in the third inning two on with two out in the were more than it had scored eighth, the Red Sox were in the first two games of the forced to bring Papelbon in series combined. In fact, with a 5-2 lead. He gave up a Boston had scored a total of two-run single to Juan Rivera two runs in 32 postseason that made 5-4 before picking innings before taking a 3-0 pinch-runner Reggie Willits lead on Sunday. 





·A PRIME CAMPUS HOUSING COMMUNITY 
Deluxe Walk-to*Campus Student Apartments 
& 
2Bedroom Apartments &: Townhouses lBedrooms Furnished Studios 
...,.·.······=·~mm~,,,.,, 


1,2, & 3 Bedroom Apartments 
••<::,."J;,_v. 
·.. ..:.:-.,....~~'"0: 
• SwimmingPool. TennisCOurt.24Hour~.Fr· · tball Court ·· 
'hig·.··.····Beds " 
h"-"-:<,;: 

\f~Jiet and Dryer in each unit. ; · · Ji Speed Wireless Internet and Comcast Pr~miunt Cable Included 
• 
O~i; Site Mal)agement anci.~1£? Maintettanfe 

• 
On Site Security Officer ····· ·· 



page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, October 12, 2009 

NASCAR 
Johnson keeps first place position 
Associated Press 
FONTANA, Calif. -Jimmie Johnson is back in control of NASCAR's Chase for the championship. 
The three-time defending Sprint Cup champion easily pulled away from Jeff Gordon following a restart with three laps left to win the Pepsi 500 on Sunday at Auto Club Speedway for his 
fifth victory of the year and 45th overall. 
The win was Johnson's fourth at the 2­mile oval and sent a message to the rest of the contenders he has no plans of giving up his spot atop the series easily. 
The native Californian took his time drinking in the moment, doing several burnouts and goofing off along the back straightaway before NASCAR officials reminded him he needed to make a stop in Victory Lane. 
"I just wanted to have a lit­tle fun with it," Johnson said. 
He certainly earned it after another signature perform­ance at a track he has turned into his own personal play­ground through the years. He won so effortlessly all Gordon could do afterward was shrug his shoulders. 
"What else can you say? They're the best out there," Gordon said. "They've won the last three championships. They're going to be hard to beat for this one. Really, 
unless they make take, I don't see how they lose it." 
Johnson, who led 126 laps, dominat­ed the second half of the race but had to sweat out a series of dou­ble-file restarts follow­ing a number of late-race 
"I just wanted to have a little fun with it." 
Jimmie Johnson Nascar driver 
a mis­
collisions, including an eight­car pileup that forced a 22­minute red flag with six laps remaining. 
Waiting out the delay, Johnson worried he didn't have enough car to hold off Gordon. He shouldn't have. His No. 48 Chevrolet roared away from his Hendrick Motorsports teammate and he quickly put the rest of the field in his rearview mirror to propel him into the points lead for the first time all sea­son. 
"That's it, that's what we want," Johnson said. "We've just got to keep chipping away." 
Juan Pablo Montoya was third, his fourth straight top­five finish. All that consisten­cy, however, hasn't helped Montoya make up any ground on Johnson. 
"We have four or five in a row and I've been losing points to the leader," said Montoya, who trails Johnson 
.bY 58 points. "(You're not) going to make any points on anybody. Everybody that runs good is going to be there. You just got to make sure you don't lose any." 
Mark Martin, who started 
the day with an 18-point lead over Johnson, was fourth and now trails Johnson by 12 points heading into Saturday night's race at Charlotte. 
"There was a time when we could go 
out front, but we were right there," Martin said. 
Tony Stewart rallied from an early pit-road speeding penalty to finish fifth. 
Gordon briel'ly slipped by Johnson in the later stages but held out no 
real hope of "We were pretty to fifth. catching him. "We were
fortunate to get a
"He's unbe­pretty fortu­
lievable out couple ofbreaks when nate to get a there," Gordon we needed them. " couple of said. "From breaks when where I was we needed
Tony Stewart
at, he ran t h e m , " Nascar driver 
with it Stewart said.
away today." 
Johnson, however, was­n't ready to proclaim the Chase over with six weeks left. 
"We got maximum points today ... but I don't want 
"They've won the last to think 
about it," he
three championships. 
said. 
They are going to be W h i I e hard to beat for this Johnson 
surged, sev­
one. 
eral Chase contenders Jeff Gordon stumbled. 
Nascar driver D e n n y 
Hamlin, K a s e y Kahne, Greg 
Biffle and Brian Vickers all saw their Chase hopes likely evaporate for good. 
Hamlin was leading with 60 laps to go when he collid­ed with Montoya on a restart. Hamlin spun into a barrier at the end of pit road and quickly drove his No. 11 Toyota back to the garage. He attempted 37th. "I thought I was clear and l misjudged it. I got to apologize to the team. They deserve better than that." 
Kahne and Biffle didn't fare much better. After a debris caution bunched up the field for another restart, Kahne and Biffle collidfld with about 15 laps to go. The contact started when fellow Chaser Kurt Busch wiggled (or hit the wall?) and the arterm ath sent Bi l'fle in to Kahne. The two slid across the infield grass. Biflle ended up 20th while Kahne slid to 34th. 
"NASCAH threw a debris caution for no debris," the frustrated Kahne said. "We had a bad race to gflt a cau­tion to put a show on for the fans." 
Stewart, who vaultfld back into the thick or the titlfl hunt with a win at Kansas last week. started 20th but steadily moved into the top 10 before being penalized for going too fast while exiting tlu1 pits, sending him a lap down. Stewart apologized over the radio to crew chief Darian Grubb before scrambling 
The fiflld 
would need 
more than that to catch Johnson, who admitted that he was frus­trated by an inability in recent weeks to close out races. He finished ninth last week at Kansas despite hav­ing arguably the best car on the track early on. 
There were no such trou­bles this time. He didn't panic when a couple of slow pit stops cost him track posi­tion early, letting crew chief Chad Knauss make sure he got the car right. 
Once Johnson did, he wast­ed little time taking control. He led by as much as eight seconds at one point before the cautions bunched up the field. 
Montoya brought the car 
"Just because we won the last three doesn't mean we're a shoo-in for a fourth. " 
Jimmie Johnson Nascar driver 
he used at Indianapolis in July, hop­ing to dupli­cate the dominance he showed at t h e Brickyard before giving the victory away with a careless pit road speed­ing penalty, 
NFL 

Favre leads Vikes over slack Rams 
Associated Press 

ST. LOUIS -A 40-year-old in pink cleats was good enough to beat the St. Louis Hams. 
OK, so maybe it wasn't any 40-ynar-old. It was Brett Favre, and it doesn't seem to matter what color his cleats are. 
Favre threw for 232 yards and a touchdown a day after a milestone birthday, leading the undefeated Minnesota Vikings to a 38-10 rout over the hapless and helpless Hams on Sunday. 
Showing no signs of a let­down just six days after an emotional win over Green Bay, his l'ormer team, Favre didn't put up big numbers and didn't have any last-sec­ond heroies. lie was simply spry and effieient, dodging defenders and winging passes in every dirnetion in his 274th straight regular-season start. 
Now Favre is 5-0 for the first time in his career, 1-0 as a 40-year-old. 
"I hope there's many more to come," Favre said. ''I'd be lying if I said l thought I'd still be playing at 40 and not miss a game at this point. I just hope I can lead this team to bigger and better things." 
It's a good start. 

The Vikings are 5-0 for the first time in six years by win­ning last-second games, emo­tional games, games they were supposed to win. 
Against the Rams, they sim­ply overwhelmed an over­matched opponent. 
Minnesota led 14-0 by the midpoint of the first quarter, let up a bit, then methodically wore down St. Louis. Jared Allen returned one of his two fumble recoveries 52 yards for a touchdown, Adrian Peterson rumbled in for a pair of touchdowns and the Vikings forced four turnovers for their 400th win (400-322­
9). 

"We think we're a good football team," Allen said. "The worst we can finish now is 5-11." 
St. Louis (0-5) wore throw­back uniforms from 1999, a nod to the team's only Super Bowl victory. The Rams looked nothing like the Greatest Show on Turf, bum­bling their way to three turnovers inside the 10-yard line in an NFL-worst 15th straight loss. 
St. Louis has scored four offensive touchdowns this season,none rushing; allowed at least 35 points in three straight games; and has seven turnovers the past two games while getting outscored 73­10. 
No, it can't get much worse. "This is extremely tough," Rams guard Richie Incognito said. "It wears on you, but to be a professional, you don't 
let it show. You just keep preparing hard to go out and get a win." 
Favro, sporting pink-and­black cleats for Breast Cancer Awareness month -his wife, Deanna, is a breast cancer survivor -came out firing early. He threw for 66 yards on Minnesota's first drive to set up Peterson's 5-yard scamper around left end. 
lie also hit Sidney Rice on a 4 7 -yard pass early in the third quarter, then eonnected with Visanthe Shiancoe on 1:3-yard pass that put the Vikings up 24-3. Favre fin­ished 18 for 24 with one interception and seems to be getting more comfortable with his receivers. 
"It's a work in progress," Vikings coach Brad Childress said. "It's going to be still until we get done playing this year. I just see him getting incrementally better." 
The Rams had plenty of good plays on offense. They just couldn't get out of their own way. 
Quarterback Kyle Boller, starting for the second straight game in place of Marc Bulger (shoulder), fum­bled without being hit on St. Louis' fifth play from scrim­mage, the ball popping out like a half-melted ice cube to the turf. Allen, who had 4 1-2 sacks against Green Bay last week, scooped it up and ran 52 yards for a touchdown to put the Vikings up 14-0. 
Another St. Louis drive in the second quarter ended inside the Vikings 5-yard line, where Steven Jackson could­n't handle the exchange with Boller and Allen recovered. The Rams got to Minnesota's 10-yard line after Favre's interception, settling for Josh Brown's 29-yard field goal after Boller was dropped for a loss and threw two errant passes. 
They weren't finished. 
Driving late in the first half, St. Louis lost another chance to score when tight end Daniel Fells was hit from behind by Chad Greenway and coughed it up on the 2. 
The Rams started the fourth quarter with another turnover. On fourth-and-6 from the Vikings 9, Tyrell Johnson intercepted Boller's pass in the end zone. Peterson scored at the other end from 7 yards to make it 31-3. 
"I've never seen anything like that," Fells said. "We've got to get better than that." 
Boller finished 20 for 31 for 209 yards and missed the final 10 minutes after being shaken up late in the third quarter. He was replaced by Bulger, who hit Donnie Avery on a 27-yard TD pass late in the fourth quarter. 
By then, it was much too late: Minnesota led 31-10. 
to get back on the track after missing 25 laps but was black-flagged for not reach­ing minimum speed. 
"I made a rookie mistake," said Hamlin, who finished a mistake that opened the door for Johnson to win. 
"Just because we won the last three doesn't mean we're a shoo-in for a fourth," Johnson said. 


~--------­
Monday, October 12, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Saint Mary's finishes ninth in Terre Haute 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Wrirer 
At the Gibson Family Intercollegiate Invitational in Terre Haute, Ind. Saint Mary's finished ninth with a team score of 282 in a field of 15 on Saturday. 
On the same course that will be hosting the NCAA Division III Championships in a few weeks, freshman Julia Kenney lead the Belles for the first time in her collegiate career with a 
24:53 on the 6-kilometer course. Two other underclass­men finished in the Saint Mary's top five. 
"We have some very hard working underclassmen, and I'm thrilled to see them per­form well." Belles coach Jackie Bauters said. "Julia [Kenney] is a worker and always looking to improve. I'm excited for her performance." 
DePauw lead the field with a team score of 61. and Tiger senior Lauren Heich took home medalist honors with a time of 22:19. 
Bflhind Kenney's 42nd-place finish, senior captain Megan McClowry finished 46th overall with a 25:01 time. It marked the first time this season that McClowry did not lead the Saint Mary's squad. 
A cluster of Belles runners rounded out the scoring effort for the team, with sophomore Joanne Almond (25:35, 60th). junior Catie Salyer (25:46, 66th). sophomore Arianne Rodriguez (25:49, 68th) and junior Clare McVey (25:54, 70th) all finishing within 20 seconds of one another. 
Bauters has cited her squad's back four runners as the key to Saint Mary's efforts this season. 
''I'd like to see our 3-6 close the gap a bit with our 1-2," Bauters said. "If we can do that, we've got a great shot of achieving our goals. I want the team to focus on why we're out there -because we love to run and compete. If they bring that competitive spirit consis­tently, we'll be successful." 
The Belles will head to North Manchester, Ind., on Saturday for the Manchester Invitational. The 6-kilometer race is hosted by Manchester College and will be the final meet for Saint Mary's before the MIAA Championships on Oct. 31. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
Needmore 

ND/SMC!sperts?
Ch k ::: ...... ''i• .•••
ec ·out.:..t r1s............. 
·):,:= .,.,.,.,.,.,, ·'· ... :.:.·::::·:·:·==·===·===·=::::;:;:::::=::=::\::;:;·:;::::· :..;:,::M'='······· ,.=:=.;::;:~;:;:::::;::::::::::=:=·=:=:=·====····· 

Insider j:>Odea,s~a:f•: 

MLB 

Yankees advance to ALCS 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS -After so many October misses, Alex Rodriguez delivered the playoff performance his tal­ent demanded. 
Rodriguez and Jorge Posada hit seventh-inning home runs to spoil Carl Pavano's opportunity to frustrate New Yorkers one more time, and the Yankees advanced to their first AL Championship Series in five years with a 4-1 victory and sweep of Minnesota on Sunday night. 
Mariano Rivera closed out Game 3 -the last baseball game at the Metrodome ­to preserve Andy Pettitte's record-tying 15th career postseason win. 
Game 1 of the ALCS against the Los Angeles Angels will be at Yankee Stadium on Friday night. The teams were 5-5 against each this season. The Angels swept Boston earlier in the day. 
"It's exciting," Hodriguez said. "We were very disap­pointed last year when we went home, and ownership got us some good players. We came out and played like a team, like a group of brothers." 
This pitching duel between former teammates Pettitte and Pavano ended with another first-round playoff victory in Minnesota for the Yankees, who also eliminated the Twins here in 2003 and 2004. 
"I was trying to match zeros with him," Pettitte said. 
For all their success this decade by being so good at the basics, the Twins made glaring gaffes at the worst times -against the team that led the majors with 103 wins, they were doomed. 
The Yankees aren't about to let an opponent get away with overrunning the bases, as Carlos Gomez did in Game 2 to cost the Twins a run. Nick Punto then wast­ed his leadoff double in the eighth by failing to see that Denard Span's single didn't get past shortstop Derek Jeter, and he was thrown out trying to retreat to third base. 
Pavano's renaissance was 

upstaged by Rodriguez, who's starting to make up for all those past postsea­sonr failures, and Posada, who proved he wasn't too proud to publicly wish he started Game 2. 
Rodriguez went 5 for 11 with two homers and six RBis in these three games. Posada complained about being benched for Jose Molina with A.J. Burnett on the mound on Friday. 
Posada gave Rivera more room with an RBI single in a two-run ninth against the Minnesota bullpen, as the crowd began to file out of the Dome for the final time. 
Pettitte retired 17 of the first 18 batters he faced and left Joba Chamberlain a 2-1 lead and one out in the seventh. 
Pettitte matched John Smoltz for career postsea­son victories. Pettitte's pre­vious such win came back in the 20.03 World Series against Pavano's Florida Marlins, who won it all that year. 
The Yankees haven't experienced that euphoria since 2000, the Pettitte­Posada battery, closer Rivera and captain Jeter the only pieces left from that squad. 
Hivera, a 10-time All-Star, came in to get Joe Mauer on a bat-shattering ground­out to end the eighth after the Twins blew their chance to score against Phil Hughes thanks to Punto's blunder. Manager Ron Gardenhire had his hands to his head in exasperation, and Orlando Cabrera fol­lowed with a fly out to cen­ter field that could've got the run in. 
Rivera then closed out the ninth for save. 
The Twins left 26 runners on base over the first two games, including 17 in the 11-inning defeat in Game 2, failing to get those big hits. The Twins enjoyed a power surge during the regular season, but they didn't go deep at all in this series. The AL East champion Yankees hit six homers. 
Pavano couldn't have started stronger against the team that couldn't wait to get rid of him after four forgettable seasons in pin­stripes. He struck out four during the first trip through baseball's best lineup -the Yankees led the majors in runs, home runs and on­base percentage during the regular season -and the only hit he gave up in the first four innings didn't make it out of the infield. 
Effectively spotting his changeup and sinker, Pavano completed seven innings with a season-high nine strikeouts and no walks. That was more than half of his total with the Yankees all of last year, the last of his injury-filled sea­sons with them. 
The last professional baseball game under this billowing roof was sup­posed to be a week ago. After beating Detroit in an AL Central tiebreaker on Tuesday nigh t, he r e the Twins were, playing in front of another packed stadium. 
They made every game down the stretch count for more than just a last­chance-to-see-the­Metrodome memory, catch­ing Detroit with 17 wins in their last 21 games includ­ing that epic tiebreaker game for the division title on Tuesday. 
Ah, but these Yankees aren't the same as the Tigers or the White Sox or the Hoyals, as the Twins were painfully reminded during the first two games in New York -and again on Sunday. 
Mauer's two-out single justified the "MVP!" chants, gave the Twins their first lead at home over the Yankees in four games this year, and made it three straight runne·rs on against Pettitte in the bottom of the sixth. 
The 3 7 -year-old left-han­der, who became the all­time major league leader in postseason innings pitched, snapped back to strike out Michael Cuddyer on a high fastball. Pettitte pumped his fist as he headed to the dugout. 
Then Pavano's perform­ance was quickly blemished by the big opposite field homers by Rodriguez and Posada. Rodriguez had fall­en behind 0-and-2 before working the count full. Just like that, the Yankees were back in front. 


St-udents from any discipline may participate. For mont information visit: kellogg.nd.edu/students!FIPS£NA 
Sites offered at the Universite de Montreal (french rf!quired). University of British Columbia (English speaking), El Colegio de Mexico (Spanish required), and Universidad de las Americas Puebla (Spanish sequh·ed). 
,...,INSTITU--:rE 

SMC GoLF 


Belles win MIAA conference crown 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
The No. 2 Belles took back their title as MIAA champions this weekend as they won their fifth conference championship Saturday with a 329 in the one­round finale at Bedford Valley Country Club in Battle Creek, Mich. Freshman Martyna Mierzwa earned medalist hon­ors at the championship as well as the title of season medalist and MIAA Most Valuable Golfer honors for the season. 
Saint Mary's held the title of conference champions from 2002-2005, and was 13 strokes ahead of three-time defending champion Olivet. The Belles entered the competition 17 strokes ahead of the Comets, who shot a 342 Saturday for a season total of 1650. Saint Mary's posted a stroke total of 1620, a 324 average for the fall season. 
Hope came in third overall. with a season total 1699 strokes and a 344 for the day. Trine followed in fourth with 1812 after shooting 368 Saturday, Calvin with 386 for the day for a total of 1867. Albion took sixth with a 402 on the day and a 1905 overall, Alma in seventh after shooting 390 on the day and a total 1943 and Kalamazoo shot a 400 for a season of 1946. Adrian rounded out the day in the ninth and final spot with a 396 for the day and a 2010 on the whole. 
Mierzwa shot a 78 for the day to take her place as the youngest golfer in school histo­ry to earn the league honors of Championship and season medalist. She also set a MIAA record of lowest scoring aver­age in the fall season with her average of 76.8 per MIAA round. A former Belles player, Julia Adams, previously held the record in 2004 with a 79.4 average. It is only the second time an MIAA golfer has aver­aged lower than and 80 on the season. 
Saint Mary's junior Mary Kate Boyce finished the season on a high note in third overall with her score of 81. Sophomore Natalie Matuszak followed in sixth off of her 84. Junior Rosie O'Connor shot an 86 to put her 

NO SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Irish come in second in relay meet 
in ninth place, and land her, as well as the Belles top three golfers, a spot on the All­Tournament Team. Senior Perri Hamma rounded out Saint Mary's top five golfers with a 99 for the day. 
Mierzwa, Boyce and Matuszak were named to the All-MIAA First Team while O'Connor was named to the All­MIAA Second team. Saint Mary's has not had three play­ers named as First Team hon­orees since the fall 2004 sea­son. 
By winning the championship, the Belles earned the right to host the final two of three MIAA tournaments to determine the league's automatic qualifier for the NCAA tournament in May 2010. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselOl@saintmarys.edu · 


By ERIC PRISTER Sports Writer 

Irish divers Caleb Dunnichay and Eric Lex were able to sweep the men's diving portion of the Dennis Stark Relays Friday, help­ing the Irish men to a second place finish in their first meet of the season. The Irish women also fini'ihed second at the meet. 
A senior and junior respectively, Dunnichay and Lex totaled 555.02 points in the 1-meter diving relay and 253 points in the 3-meter synchronized diving competition, one of only two first place fmishes Notre Dame had in the meet. 
"[The divers] help us a lot," Irish men's coach Tim Welch said. "If swimming were football, divers would be like 'special teams' ­almost always a big f~tetor in the outeome." 
Despite only one first placn fin­ish in the swimming events, the men's team was able to record three second place finishes and five third place ljnishes, finishing ouLo;;ide of the top thrnn only once, a consistency which helped them earn the silver medal. 
"The meet was a solid start," Welsh said. "It shows us where we are now. What counts is how much we improve from here." 
ln a meet with only relay events, the Irish men's 400-meter freestyle relay team gave the Irish their only first-place finish on the swimming side of the meet, finish­ing just over nine seconds ahead of Oakland University, the second­place finisher. Posting a time of 3:10.03, seniors John Lytle and Andrew Hollman, along with jun­iors Thomas Van Volkenburg and Steven Brus made up the relay team that gave Notre Dame the gold. 
Michigan, which won the men's meet handily, posted a better time than Notre Dame in the 400­metnr freestyle, but was disquali­fied in the race. The Wolverines won eight out of the 10 swimming matches in the meet, in their first appearance in a meet at Notre Dame. 
"We wero pleased to weleome them here," Welch said. 
"Hio;;torically they are very fast. No surprises there." 
On the women's side, Notre Dame also finished second to the Wolverines. The Irish won the 200 medley relay in 1:44.67 for a meet record and swept the 1-meter Diving Relay and 3-meter Synchronized Diving events. 
The Irish women faced Michigan in a dual meet the next day, and fell again by the score of 165-133. 
Oakland, who finished third at the Dennis Stark Relays in the men's competition, actually scored more points on the swimming side of the meet than the Irish. The Irish men will face Oakland in their second match of the year, which will take place on Oct. 23 in the Holfs Aquatic Center. 
"They scored more swimming poinLo;; and we scored more diving points. so expect a good meet," Weleh said. "We will need a whole team effort, seniors through fresh­men, for that meet." 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 





What have you done for me lately? 
It's never too late to start making a difference in the world. Start today by considering a career at GE, where we're making a positive impact on the planet we live on and the people we share it with through our Ecomagination and Healthymagination initiatives. Whether your interests lie in engineering, finance, manufacturing, marketing and sales. human resources or information technology, we have an opportunity for you to join us in creating a better world for generations to come. 

imagination at work ge.com/careers 

~~--------~­
! Monday, October 12, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Clark 
continued from page 24 
Dike. Dike's team-leading eighth goal of the season was enough to prevent the game from ending in a tie with Providence (5-5-1; 2-4-1 Big East) and earned the Irish three points for the win. The win put Notre Dame in a tie with No. 19 Georgetown (8-3-1: 5-2 Big East) for second in the Big East Blue Division with 15 points, one point behind division leader No. 13 Connecticut (6-2-3; 5-1­1 Big East). 
Dike's goal was set up by a powerful shot from freshman midfielder Dillon Powers that deflected off of Providence sen­ior goalkeeper Timothy Murray, who had nine saves on the day. Dike was able to collect the deflection and deposit into the back of the net for the game­winner. 
"Powers drove forward to goal from 25 yards out and got a really good shot on target," Clark said. "Bright got in on the rebound and hammered it in." 
The golden goal was the first for the Irish since the open of the 2007 season in their 2-1 victory against then top-ranked UCLA. 
Clark believes that Dike can get a lot more goals than he already has if he keeps putting himself in good positions. 
"If Bright [Dike] stays in the goal area he is going to find goals," Clark said. 
It was a strong outing for the Irish defense and senior goalie Phillip Tuttle, as the Irish post­ed their second shutout in as many games. The Irish did not allow a shot on goal in the entire second half and two overtime periods, and Tuttle earned his second shutout of the year to improve his season record minding the net to 5-2-0. 
"I think Tuttle played excep­tionally well," Clark said. "He did not have a lot of saves, but he also came out of goal and took care of balls played behind." 
Notre Dame held an.18-14 advantage over the Friars in shots and Providence earned the nod with a slight 6-5 advan­tage in corner kicks. 
The game began as a defen­sive struggle between the two 

Goudreau 
continued from page 24 
Belles in the contest, and along with Colleen Ferguson were the only Belles starters to register a shot for the day. 
Freshman Maddie Meckes was able to come in as a sub­stitution for the Belles and also registered a shot on goal teams, with Providence earning the first half advantage in shots 9 to 4, but neither team was able to put the ball in. The sec­ond half saw the momentum swing in Notre Dame's favor with the Irish holding the 9 to 4 advantage in shots, but the game went to overtime tied 0-0. 
"We kept pushing things harder as the game went on," Clark said. 
In the first overtime period, the Irish were the only team to threaten to score. The period opened with a strong shot from Powers ·that was saved by Murray. Quickly following up that shot in the 93rd minute was a strike from junior mid­fielder Jeb Brovsky that just could not beat the Providence keeper. 
In the second overtime Dike attempted to sneak a header passed Murray off a corner kick but the Friar goalkeeper was again up to the task. 
Throughout 'overtime the Irish dominated the chances on goal and the defense set the tempo of attacking the Providence goal, as the Friars appeared ready to accept a draw as the game wore on, according to Clark. 
"The fullbacks played well," Clark said. "Most of the full­backs are doing a good job defensively and also getting for­ward." 
Clark wants to see more of an attacking philosophy from his defense, and he is impressed with the play of senior captain Justin Morrow, who is new to the position of attacking full­back for the Irish, but seems to be adapting well. 
"Justin [Morrow] hasn't played wing fullback until this year, but he is taking to it well," Clark said. "He is a very attack­ing defender." 
Neither team was able to break through until Dike's gold­en goal in the last minute to seal the victory 1-0. 
"We still have to play a lot of the teams that are in position to threaten us, so it is all in our hands," Clark said. "We cannot relax. We are very aware of the magnitude of the task." 
The Irish are next in action at home against Indiana on Wednesday. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
Recycle The 
Observer. 
in the game. 
Having already exceeded last year's win total the Belles seem to be heading in the right direction, and with a strong group of new faces they will look to regain form as they take on Elmhurst on \\'ednesday beginning at 4 p.m. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO1@saintmarys.edu 

Brown 
continued from page 24 
have such a huge target on our back and every team in the Big East is going to be fired up to beat us. We can't for a second think that we accomplished anything. It's going to have that attitude of just making sure that we're really mentally prepared, physically prepared for every part that we have." 
In the battle of the undefeat­eds, the Irish handed Cincinnati (13-8, 4-1) their first conference loss of the season in a thrilling five-set affair (25-22, 25-19, 20-25, 23-25, 15-10). Senior outside hitter Serinity Phillips record­ed her 1,OOOth career kill en route to her total of 17 against the Bearcats, becoming the 18th player in program history to reach the historic mark. 
"I think our senior class has definitely stepped up and we've definitely focused on our game," Phillips said. "I think that shows up on the court and so I do think there's a big emphasis on experi­ence." 

Facing their first test as the lone unbeaten team in the conference, the Irish showed any remaining doubters that they will be a force to be reck­oned with as the season rolls on. Donning pink jerseys, the Irish cruised past Louisville in four sets (25-16, 21-25, 25-16, 25-21) in front of a home crowd of 1, 7 46 who came to support the program's "Dig Pink" initiative. 
"The support from the com­munity is just huge, and obvi­ously it's for a great cause," Brown said. "I think they were treated to some good volley­ball, but just to have that kind of support for anything raising awareness for something that's so important to all of us was huge. Having the band there really highlights the atmosphere, and it was just really fun for the players and the staff to be in that type of chance," Waldrum said. "She got a shutout, so we just went with her again this week. It is nice to see her in a big game and not just in mop up duty. She has absolutely showed she is ready to play." 
Sophomore forward Melissa Henderson netted Notre Dame's first goal, and junior forward Taylor Knaack scored the sealing goaL 
After the successful four­game road trip (3-0-1), the Irish will hope to build on their momentum in a homestand next week beginning against Connecticut Friday. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmerl@nd.edu 
Waldru01 
continued from page 24 
first half they outplayed us. We did not do a good job of match­ing their intensity. In that sec­ond half we were much better at taking over the game." 
Waldrum also said he was very pleased to top an elite team like the Scarlet Knights after Notre Dame's struggles earlier this season against top 10 teams North Carolina, Santa Clara and Stanford. 
"Of all the teams we have played this year," he said. "I felt they are one of the best two or three teams we played." 

Notre Dame used an extraor­dinary defensive performance to top Seton Hall 2-0 Sunday. Notre Dame did not allow a single shot on goal in the game, only yielding two shots overall. The Irish managed 10 shots on the Pirates goal, and 19 in the game. 
The defensive performance allowed junior Nikki Weiss a reprieve in her third consecu­tive shutout. 
"After the West Virginia game a week ago -we won in overtime 3-2 -I felt there were a couple situations we could have handled a little bet­ter in goal so that Sunday we went with Nikki to give her a environment." 
Phillips and senior outside hitter Christina Kaelin led the way for the Irish, combining for 32 kills, five blocks, and 
35.5 points. Despite a lacklus­ter effort in the second set that saw the Irish commit nine errors, the Irish were able to rebound to hold the Cardinals (10-8, 3-2) to a .101 hitting percentage overall. 
"One of the things that hap­pened in the second set was our ball control wasn't real good, so we weren't passing very well and we were having to rely solely on our outside hitters," Brown said. "I think in games three and four we did a lot better job with our ball control, and l think we served really aggressively and kept them out of the system." 
Notre Dame takes its unde­feated record on the road as they travel to Pittsburgh next Saturday in pursuit of a regu­lar season conference title. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, October 12, 2009 
Ryan Thang got whistled for backhander over the shoulder of interference when he got tied up Notre Dame junior goalie Tom

Chargers 
with an Alabama-Huntsville O'Brien, who was making his player after the faceoff. The Irish first start of the season.

continued from page 24 
killed off the penalty, but as "Tommy earned the start," for Notre Dame Friday night, as Thang was skating back to the Jackson said. "He worked hard. freshman center Riley Sheahan bench, he slipped and appeared He's worked hard since he's been scored a goal on his first colle­to bring down a Charger player. here. I thought in training camp giate shot 3:02 into the fiist peri­The referee sent Thang back to he was head-to-head with Brad od. On the powerplay, sopho­the box for tripping, but Jackson as far as how he was perform­more left wing Billy Maday fed was displeased with the call. ing." Sheahan at the left side of the net "I thought the guy tripped Kyle Lawson put the Irish up 2­and the rookie calmly fired the himself," he said. "I thought that 1 shorthanded at the end of the puck past Charger goalie was a really poor call." second period. Ian Cole fimd a Cameron Talbot for the score. This time, the Chargers took rocket from the high slot that ric­
"I liked what I saw out of advantage of the powerplay. Just ocheted off the back board right [Sheahan] tonight for his first when it appeared the game to Lawson, who coolly slid the college game," Jackson said. would be heading to overtime, puck past Talbot, who seemed 
The score remained 1-0 in Cogy Campbell pushed another unsure as to where the puck favor of Notre Dame until 13:13 rebound past Phillips to give was. The goal came at 19:33 of into the second period, when Alabama-Huntsville the win. the period. Tom Train tied the score for "The third one, I just came "I wasn't able to play with Cole Alabama-Huntsville. Train col­across, I thought he tried to wrap a whole lot this weekend but I lected the rebound from a Vmce it around," Phillips said. "I still remember from last year that Bruni shot and slid the puck past don't know what happened." he's got a big shot and he let one Irish junior goalie Brad Phillips, The Chargers took advantage rip," Lawson said. "To be honest, who was making his first start of second-chance opportunities they got a lucky bounce [Friday] since Jan. 19, 2008, after missing all night, something Phillips took night, we got a lucky bounce all of last season due to injury. responsibility for. tonight. It kicked oft' one of the 
Jackson said that he was "They did a good job trying to seams [in the boards], came right pleased with the way Phillips create rebounds, and I probably to me, and I got lucky." played, but that the team defen­should have done a better job Palmieri netted his second goal sive effort left something to be controlling them," Phillips said. of the weekend 12:28 into the desired. The Irish certainly came out third when he took a Kevin 
"We didn't do a good job defen­firing Saturday night, outshoot­Deeth feed and fired the puck sively in front of [Phillips]," ing Alabama-Huntsville 51-14. between Talbot's legs. Jackson said. "I thought we were Notre Dame didn't waste any "Just being a part of Notre cheating too much offensively." time staking themselves an early Dame now, it was a lot of fun my Jackson said that Minella would the way the Irish bounced back 
Just under three minutes later, lead either, as senior defenseman first weekend," the freshman miss the team's next game as a in the second game. freshman Kyle Palmieri put Brett Blatchford lit the lamp 1:57 Palmieri said. "Got my first goal team punishment for the penalty. "I think they're ranked 58 out Notre Dame back on top on a into the game. Blatchford took out of the way, got our frrst win Jackson said he was much of 58," Lawson said. "But if that's powerplay one-timer from the the puck at the top of the left cir­out of the way." more pleased with his team's the 58th-ranked team, it's going left circle that got past Talbot's cle, skated into the high slot area Saturday night's game never defensive effort Saturday night. to be a hell of a season because glove. and fired a wrist shot past seemed to find a rhythm, with "It's a little bit more like Irish that's a pretty good team over 
The Irish took a 2-1 lead into Talbot. the teams combining for 25 hockey," he said. "Last night, we there." the second intermission, but 8:01 The 1-0 lead held until 2:01 penalties on the night. Blatchford were loose with the puck and The Irish return to action next into the final stanza, Justin into the second period. After received a game misconduct in gave up 30 shots. Tonight we weekend with games Thursday Cseter knotted it up at two when Irish sophomore defenseman the second period for a hit from were mueh better with the puck and Friday night against he pushed home the rebound Nick Condon turned the puck behind, and Irish right wing and we give up 14." Providence College at home. from an initial Train shot. over around the Notre Dame Christiaan Minella was tagged Even though the Chargers won 
With 2:44 left in the game, blue line, Alabama-Huntsville's with a ten-minute misconduct for only five games last season, Contact Sam Werner at Notre Dame senior right wing Neil Ruffini skated in and lifted a verbally abusing an official. Lawson said he was pleased with swerner@nd.edu 


SIGN YOUR IRISH ROW OR IRISH CROSSINGS LEASE NOW FOR 2010-2011. 

livejust east of the NO athletic fields, near every convenience -friends, fun. food and campus. 
Besides our great location, our furnished apartments and townhomes for rent include: Private full bath meach bedroom 40" flat panel HDTV FREE Internet & 200+ TV stations, including HBO -Laundry room with washer & dryer in each unit FREE. use of Irish Row Fitness Center Tanning 


• Secured access to each building 
All this at one of the best rents in town. 

We're now leasing for the 2010-2011 school year. Irish 
Contact Karie Miller at kariem@lrishRowApartments.com ROW 

or 574.277.6666 for details. 

lrishRowApartments.com 574.277.6666
You can visit us at our leasing office at Vaness and Burdette 1H~~i Vaness Street. South Bend, Indiana 4GG:n
Streets or at www.lrishRowApartm~nts.com. 



-------_________________________________________________________. 
Monday, October 12, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
n:I.E6RffiES BORN ON TUIS DAY: Mi<:hd!e Tracllteuber~. 24; Emily llescb:md. 
Across 33 Brother of Cain 69 Hell-_ (rowdy 
JJ; Luke Perry. 44; Joan Cmw.<:k, 47

and Abel sort) which a player 36 Walk the runway 70 Call to a Happy Birthday: '11nnk before yon do or you will spend mo>t of your year tryinj! to re· shepherd ver>e the impulsive acts you com1mttcd. Being 1\'CII·prep;tred and knowlcdjteahk will be 
Card game in 
might ask "Got at a f~shion 
half the battle. K<'Cj> your S<-'hcduk deru-. be willing to '"'lll!JI'Oillise and l<andle wtth diplo·
71 State when any 8's?" show 

llliKY anym.te wh<:> tries lo cause tr<.~tbl,•. Pusitiw acrion will hrinl!. itood results. Your uum·
one's nose is out

7 Sluggers' slats 38 Complains ben;""' 6, 10, IS, 23, 27, :W, 4.l
of joint 11 B'way's "Les 
40 Actress Scala 

72 Hook, line and ARIES (March 2l-April19): Ho!cl off s:tyinf1 somcthmg dero~aH.ny ancl tlunp;s will rum
41 Start something 

ill ynur favor much f3sler. Ifs better to l"t others do as I hey ple:"e. Addtl!onal resjxmsihll• 
that one ti~'"ll can be ""!>edeclancl,ifymtlllkc them on willinp;ly.~"Otl will !'-"in re<pt."<'l and rewanl• shouldn't start ill the tnmre. ** 
14 Southwest 
Indian home Down 
44 Certain camera,

15 Alan of Navigational TAlTRliS !April W..Mny 20): Fix np your dig$ and you ~t·ilJ feel productiw.ln.dnd<• "M*A*S*H" for short gizmo friends and family in something you want to en!l.a.ge iu ami Y<'ll will brin~t t'''<'I)'Vlle closer 45 Sacred song together. Celebrations and planscan be pill illlo play. brmp.ing unuy to your life.****
16 Useful item 2 Yes, in Quebec 46 liberates
accompanying a 3 Masc. alternative GEMINI !May 21-Juue 20!: Giviu.g hdp will be 11111'-'h more !\'Warding i( you dow ex. face card in 47 Head: Fr. p....:ting uO!hing in rehUll. SoniCQtiC will baw a <:'han)lc of hcan aud plans that may pcrple11
4 "Yeah, sure"· 

}~>u; letthiuj!s 1mfold n:mn:dly *** .
blackjack 49 Bowler's button 
5 M.I.T.'s 17 San _ (Hearst 51 Steeple conten.ts CANCER (June 21-July 22): Look townrclllw creative :llld more mm~wtl tmllbics and vo.
School of 

castle) cations and you will fi1~i a niche that allows you tn enjoy yvur life mall r<:>J:>e<:ls. Romanc.:
52 Hem's. partner 

Management --­
looks prontismg. S<' put time asi.:k for kwe. A wekome .-ban~ IS cominj! your way *** 
18 Coconut source 54 Astronaut" 
6 qave a toot 20 Fall for it Grissom· . LEO iJul~·l.l·Aog. 22l: Yon1teed to get 3WllY and ex~~rienct> a change of location, seen·
7 Transfixed 

~'!)' and people. Let ~"'!lf imuita>n guide yot1 and you will find yourself heading to a much
56 Bill the Sc~ce22 ''The Simpsons" 

8 Unexciting beuer plaw ment~lly, physically m1d emotiomuly. *** 
clerk Guy 
.. 9 Twiddling one's 25 ''The Simpsons" thumbs
57 Be a sucker V[R(;O iAog. 2J-Sept. 22\: C;ct invoh•ed in :ro1nctbi"g f"" 11nd iu~erestins mMi i~tspiri:nJ! 62 Insert in a tape and rlw ;;au karl to meefinJ:l.I""'Ple will• mucb to offer. Chauj!es at home will be direcrly
neighbor 
recorder · · fo Latin ballroom rdate<ito your relauonships with tbe J"-~>pk ynu are dc:>st.'l<! to ** ** 26 Raggedy_ dance
63 Boxing combo 

LIBRA I &pt. 23-0d. 22}: Refuse to let tlunfl,S get to yon. huruly t~uds will onlr leave
27 Give away 11 Algae color 
67 What the rings you feditw aw:rvot~>. Ju~r kttbillJ:l.' go iu order to keep tl-., peace. You will !l;oillnmhiu.p, hy
temporarily 12 Rapper turned 
signify on a tree 32 Letters on a 43 Globe 58 School for mmdhng. Ftxm "'' wnwthing that brin.fs you J'"'Y· ** 29 Jilts 68 Verb go-with Coppertone
actor princes William 
48 Grabs dinner 

and Harry SCORJ'fO (Oct.lJ-N<>v. 211' n..·r (>llt mtd cnjny dw wutpany of Jl<">ple who apprt:ciate
bottle13 New York's 

50 English 59 Decorative your point ot vi~w. &pe.:t some nmts.ml dewh:lJllllftth reganhng home aud tamilr BeANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Tappan_ 34 Opportune monarchs from needle case ready I<> init~~te dli!IIJ<l Alittle «llll:Ulcc wi!lle~d b> ~ri<lU>plat~<. *•·••* 
Bridge 35 Big Henry VII 60 Period of fasting 
SAGITTARil!S (Nov. 22-~. 21 t: Dixus~ one of yonr itkas wilh (amily or fncnds and
19 Bronzes at the inconvenience through 
61 No, in 

you will (li~over new ways to develntl your pLms. A!li(Weor makiu~ dtalljte< 1<.1 yonr rcsi
beach Elizabeth I

37 Escapee's run Nuremberg de1~<:e may l~1ppen n.IR"XJl<"'l~d1y and should be hmltlld with camion. luqmbiw a<:timt "·ill 21 Instill with the 53 Birds in many 62Taxi not !.>ode v.·e!l. ** * 
39 Abbr. in
three A's birdhouses
personals 64 ''T ut-tut" 

C Al'RlCORN IO.,c • .22-Jan, 19): YN.t wilJ 11<:' pulled m :1 nHJple of ditlcrem directtons. 
22 "Close but no 55 Egyptian desert 65 ltsy-bitsy

42 Where streets 1k ttu" to ym~t>Cif. Tln~ is IK>t the tim~ to wvc in whm then; is too nrucb to !O>K if you do.
cigar" 

meet: Abbr. 57 Daffy 66 Hockey's Bobby He l><.>nest and make your mtwe *** 23 Us Weekly rival For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit AQl'ARHiS (Jan. 20-Fth.lSl: T~lk to snmooue you ;e<;pet<t ~ll<lut a dc,1l or a l'<'t><lint
24 Disney lyric 

card, 1 -800-814-5554. >dtlcmcnt. You will )!d Sldlku:ul ini(mna!iou !(> iui!Ja(c the dtaug~-,; you need put mt(>repeated before Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday pl~cc Think ~h<lut ymtr titlnre and bow y~u rallllllpl'<>"'' y<>ur hf.:> *** "Darling it's 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

better I Down PlSCE.'> (Fch. 19-Ma.rch lO!: Enjoy friends. childt<>u aucl {amt!y. Do S<>lltethiut that will
AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit 

uuily the f.I<Xlflle you (are about most. Gettmt tnyetbt:r socially will l'l!ahle you ltJ itllm·
where it's wetter" nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. 

ducc S<lllleOIIC mtv your troup who nw:ans a lui. to you. '11~e chaug"s you make now wtll
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past 

28 Lion's lair imrmm~ your life.*****
puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).
30 Lions' hair 

Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Birthday Uuby: You me iust~.btlul and un.iquc. You are pa,.iom11e about tlw: JJ<."Oplc mul 31 Tutee Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords. cau~-t..~ y<.>n. c~nt· f'hou1. Yf.>tl a:re (.•ut:rcpreneunal, 


JEFF KNUREK 
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
SCHAD & FREUDE JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WOAD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knure~
~J! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, 
let's ride
to form four ordinary words. 
this baby /
N~ET j

r r I I 

THE MOBILE PARTY DRATOW 
What 
your forty says 
about 
you: 

WHAT THE MOBSTERS
I [ J 

EXPERIENCED WHEN THEY WENT SURFING. Steel Reserve Magnum Colt 45 You own the night, Compensating 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer. as
blackout aside for something? required 
I rx J I 

suggested by the above cartoon, 
Ans: A ( 

J I I I J" ( I I I ) " 
(Answers tomorrow) Saturday's I Jumbles; PUTIY GIVEN PEPSIN BANISH Answer: What the eye doctor required for his new 'De office building -A SIGHT SITE 


THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Daine and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City ________ State _____ Zip_______ 
..... 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, October 12, 2009 
page 24 
HOCKEY 
Irish win one, lose one vs. Alabama-Huntsville 
By SAM WERNER Associate Sports Editor 
After a tough opening night loss, Notre Dame rebounded like you could only hope the No. 5 team in the country would. 
The Irish (1-1-0, 0-0-0 CCHA) fell to Alabama-Huntsville (1-1­0, 0-0-0 CHA) 3-2 on Friday night on a goal with 5.4 seconds left in the game, but came back Saturday and beat the Chargers 3-1. 
"We did a much better job in the third [period Saturday]. though," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. "I thought the guys played with a lot more determination and executed the little things we need to do against this team." 
Things started off well enough 
see CHARGERS/page 22 
Split decision 
Q,_ .., 
-
-


MEN'S SOCCER 
Dike gives NDdouble OTvictory 
By JARED JEDICK Sports Writer 
The Irish won a double-over­time thriller this weekend over Providence 1-0 in Rhode Island on Saturday, winning their third straight game and putting themselves right back into the thick of the race in the Big East. 
"I believe that we were trying to win the game and Providence was just trying to settle," head coach Bobby Clark said. 
Scoring the game-winning goal with 51 seconds left in the second overtime period for the No. 24 Irish (7-4-1; 5-2-0 Big East) was senior forward Bright 
see CLARK/ page 21 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Notre Dame takes road matches against Rutgers, Seton Hall 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame made a strong claim for Big East supremacy this weekend with two shutout victories on the road against conference foes. 
The No.8 Irish (10-3-1, 6-0-1 Big Ea~t) handed No. 10 Rutgers (9-2-3, 3-1-2) its first conference loss Friday, leaving Notre Dame as the lone unde-
NO VOLLEYBALL 
feated Big East team with only a few weeks left on the confer­ence slate. 
"We have two or three big weekends coming up," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. "We aren't through this tough stretch completely yet, but we are sitting five points clear of Rutgers now, which gives us some breathing room." 
Neither the Irish nor the Scarlet Knights found the back of the net for most of the game, but with barely six minutes remaining in regulation, junior midfielder Lauren Fowlkes delivered a shot past the Hutgers goalie. Freshman defender Jazmin Ilall assisted on the goal. 
"It was a world-class goal," Waldrum said of Fowlkes' game-winner. "Jazmin got down the left side late in the game and served a cross that Lauren hit first time from 12 or 15 yards out. It was a great way to 

Team beats Big East rivals 
By CHRIS MASOUD Sports Writer 
Coming into play on Saturday, only two teams could lay claim to undefeated records in the Big East. But after the dust settled following a week­end of intense action, the Irish stand alone atop the Big East rankings without a loss to their name. 
Notre Dame (11-4, 5-0 Big East) completed a sweep of the home stand with victories over previously undefeated Cincinnati and highly-touted Louisville, extending its win­ning streak to five games. The Irish have won eight of their last nine matches dating back to their victory against Wisconsin over a month ago. 
"We're going to certainly enjoy this weekend because it was big for us," Irish coach Debbie Brown said, "but we 
see BROWN/page 21 


finish ofTthat game." 
After the goal, the Irish knew the Scarlet Knights would attack with everything but the kitchen sink, but Notre Dame did not change its gameplan. 
"We had to decide if we want­ed to drop back defensively for the rest of the game or stay the way we were," Waldrum said. "We opted to stay how we were. We didn't want to spend six minutes in a defensive shell to just absorb pressure." 
SMC SOCCER 
The victory extended Notre Dame's NCAA-record unbeaten streak against conference oppo­nents to 58 games and its con­ference road unbeaten streak to 25 games-both streaks would be lengthened by one more game after the victory over Seton Hall. 
"Winning on the road there is big," Waldrum said. "It is a very tough to place to play. In the 
see WALDRUM/page 21 
Saint Mary's loses to conference foe Alma 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's dropped its second straight conference game Saturday to MIAA foe Alma by a final score of 5-l, after dropping their previous game 1-0 to Calvin. 
Alma (6-6-2, 2-1-1) was able to gain an early advan­tage in the game scoring both in the 24th and 27th minutes to take a commanding lead that the Belles (4-9-1, 1-3-0) were never able to recover from. 
The Belles were down 3-0 heading in to the half but eame out strong in the seeond half scoring early in the half on senior Micki Bedinger's ninth career goal. 
Heading into the game head eoach Ryan Crabbe noted that the Belles needed to come into the game and earn three points and he also felt the team would need to get ahead early and play with a lead. 
Unfortunately, the Belles were not able to do that and currently sit seventh in the standings out of nine teams. 
Alma rebounded from the Belles score to net two more goals past senior goalkeeper Patty Duffy and claim the 5-l win. 
Duffy played the entire 90 minutes of the game for the Belles and totaled eight saves. 
Alma was able to double the number of shots taken by the Belles in the game 20-10 to help lead their charge. Thirteen of those shots were on goal. 
Sam Smogor and Sam Goudreau registered the only two shots on goal for the 
see GOUDREAUIpage 21 
COURTNEY ECKERLE/The Observer Seniors Tara Enzweiller and Serinity Phillips go up for a block during Notre Dame's 3-1 win over Louisville Sunday. 










