
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Class of 2013 receives record aid 
Economy contributes to increase in fund allocations; admissions process remains need-blind 

By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
With historic standardized test scores and high school perform­ance, the Oass of 2013 is breaking all kinds of University records ­including one concerning financial aid. 
"This was the strongest appli­cant pool we've ever had," said Dan Saracino, assistant provost for Undergraduate Admissions. "But it was also financially needier because of the economy." 
Over 50 percent of the Oass of 2013, which boasts an average SAT score of 1410 and an average ACT score of 32, requires University need-based financial aid -a percentage that is up from about 44 percent last year. 
Saracino said the Oass of 2013 not only had record-breaking test scores, but also took more Advanced Placement courses in high school and had the strongest high school transcripts. 
"I think the classes are getting stronger because the story of the benefits of Notre Dame is getting out more and more," he said. "It's a fantastic place." 
But Saracino said the biggest benefit Notre Dame offers is prob-
see 2013/page 11 ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 
Frosh-0 madness begins again 
Freshmen describe orientation activities, move-in process as 'fun' and 'chaotic' 
each dorm has planned different activities for its freshmen, in addi­tion to campus wide activities for all freshmen. 
Most dorms used Friday as a time to move in and a chance to get to know one another with ice­breakers. 
Sorin College freshman Adam WJSbrock said the move-in process was easy because his Frosh-0 staff moved in all of his belongings. 
"They moved it all in. It was really easy," Wisbrock said. "By the time we were done registering everything was in here." 
Freshman Brittany O'Donnell, who lives in Badin Hall, said the move-in process was a little stress­ful, but not too overwhelming. 
'Tm glad my family is here to help," she said. "At first I thought 
see FROSH-0/page 11 

Students move into Farley Hall Friday before Freshman Orientation activities begin. 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
New Zahmbies, Chicks, Gentlemen and Wild Women alike have arrived on campus to their new home under the Dome. But many incoming freshmen may not be feeling quite at home just yet. 
This weekend, Freshmen Orientation, or Frosh-0, aims to make the transition a little easier by helping incoming students get to know others and feel more comfortable on campus. 
"The whole point of the week­end is to make friendships and get integrated, to make this your home away from home," sopho­more Garrett Campbell, who is on the Frosh-0 stafffor Sorin College, said. 
In order to make that happen, 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Business booms for local stores 
Back to school shoppers still spending money 
By KATIE PERALTA Assistant News Editor 
As Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students from all parts of the country make their way back to campus this week, area retail­ers are enjoying the usual busi­ness boom that accompanies stu­dents' arrival despite economic concerns. 
Retailers like Mishawaka's Super Target, which devotes an entire section of its store to back­to-school items, has not seen a noticeable drop in spending. 
"We kind of had a slow start [this year,] but there has been no significant decrease in spending from years past," Kim Godfrey, an executive team leader at Super Target, said. She said the store is extremely busy but only for a few weeks, mainly during the month ofAugust. 
"The store, however, has seen a spike on back-to-school items this month," Godfrey said. She said that the store prepares for weeks before student arrivals, stocking up on popular dorm items. 
"There is a lot of prep work done on our part. We need to keep the store in full form," she said. 
Godfrey added the economic impact of back-to-school shop­ping is significant, second only to that of the fourth quarter, the period right after Thanksgiving 
see BOOM/page 9 

Ryan, Geddes open; other construction continues 
Newest female residence hall on New University building projects campus to house 248 students seek LEED certification, funding 
also has modified funds pledged and 7 5 per­
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA By JOSEPH McMAHON
"super doubles," cent of the cash in hand. Due 
News Writer Associate News Editor 
which have bay win­to this policy, Lyphout said 
dows, and "super none of the current projects 
As the school year quads," which have In a summer rife with eco­were affected by the reces­begins, 248 Notre private bathrooms. nomic worries and recession sion because the funds were Dame women prepare The dorm also has one fears, construction continued already set aside. to begin a new tradi­triple room. on the Notre Dame campus "Perhaps we would be tion in Ryan Hall, the Ryan Hall's improved with greater emphasis being moving faster if we didn't University's newest room options enticed placed on reducing the have the recession, but we're residence hall, located many girls to apply to University's environmental very fortunate to have a pret­between Welsh =ily move. Senior Michelle impact. ty substantial construction Hall and the Ha es Maloney, who moved James Lyphout, vice presi­effort," he said. "In the 18­Notre Dame Bookstore. to Ryan from Lewis dent of Business Operations, month period that will end at 
Ryan features tradi­Hall, said the new said the University will not the end of this calendar year, tional single, double break ground on any project and quad rooms, but see RYAN/page 11 until it has 100 percent of the see BUILDING/page 11 


INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER Saint Mary's freshman class profile page 3 • HlNl flu tips page 4 • Football freshman class page 32 • Viewpoint page 13 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Moving 
•
1n 
I moved into Cavanaugh for the fourth and fmal time this week. You would think, that from experience, I would have 
learned how much stuff a dorm room can fit. Though I tell my parents every year not to worry, it will all fit, the inevitable happened: I brought too much. 
No matter how 

much you plan, no Jenn Metz 
matter how expe­
rienced you think 
you might be at Editor-in-Chief something, there are going to be some bumps in the road. Moving into a dorm room might not be the best metaphor, but since you all just went through it, I thought it would be appli­cable. Judging from personal experience, I'm doubtful your move-in went as smoothly as you planned. Your first class schedule will probably not be what you wanted. Your roommates and next-door neighbors might be your best friends this week, but next week you might wish you lived across campus. Starting your freshman year in col­lege is one new experience after another, some you might be prepared for, others not so much. Adjusting to your new life at Notre Dame might be difficult at frrst. But slowly, it will get better. You will find a place for your extra stuff, you will adjust your schedule, and you will fmd people you can trust. You will learn the words to the Fight Song (if, like me, you hadn't before arriving), you will take tradition to heart, and you will feel like a true member of this wonderful community. Things still might go wrong from time to time. You'll still hit those road bumps. They won't be as frequent, and when they come they might be more of a surprise. But, seeing as you got yourselves accepted to this University, you'll be able to handle it. Go for a run around the lakes, drink herbal tea, do whatever you need to do to clear your head, and tackle your problems one step at a time. If you keep things in perspective, they won't seem so big. You won't want to waste your time here worrying about them. Trust me, and trust every upperclassman on this campus, when I say your time here will go by entirely too quickly. Though that 88th awkward bonding activity at Frosh-0 might seem like it's dragging on for ages, before you know it, it will be Winter Break. Then you'll be DARTing for your sophomore class­es. (You'll figure out what DARTing means.) Before you know it, you'll be moving into your dorm again. And you will inevitably still bring too much stuff. It's not the road bumps that you'll remember about your time at Notre Dame, though. You have so much to look forward to during your years here-you'll get involved, you'll fmd a family and you'll leave your mark on this place. Welcome home. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and suives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Saturday, August 22, 2009 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU MOST EXCITED ABOUT IN YOUR FIRST YEAR? 





Adrienne Chabot  Jenn Cihlar  Anne Crowley  John Madison  
freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  
Badin  P.E.  Walsh  Morrisey  
"Meeting a lot  'The football  "Being on my  "Football  
ofnew people.,,  games.,,  own.  games.  



ORIENTATION WEEKEND 

TODAY TONIGHT SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 







..... 
<C 
(.) 
0 HIGH HIGH HIGH HIGH 79 HIGH 80
.... 
LOW LOW LOW LOW 59 LOW 60 

Atlanta 88 I 63 Boston 80 I 69 Chicago 70 I 57 Denver 90 I 65 Houston 98 I 74 Los Angeles 77 I 63 Minneapolis 70 I 62 New York 81 I 70 Philadelphia 80 I 70 Phoenix 94 I 81 Seattle 73 I 53 St. Louis 77 I 55 Tampa 88 I 77 Washington 78 I 69 
Saturday, August 22, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Saint Mary's vvelcotnes diverse first-year class to catnpus 
Larger class szze reflects five-year plan to increase student body to between 1,600 to 1,700 students 
front China, Korea, Panama andBy KEVIN SARLO Poland will also be arriving on 
News Writer 
campus. 
The Class of 2013 also boasts 
· The 438 women of Saint 16 valedictorians, and one third· 
Mary's Class of 2013 represent of the incoming class graduated 
the most diverse class in the with a GPA of 3.91 or above. 
school's 155-year history , help­"The Class of 2013 possess~s 
ing fulfill exceptional 
President Carol academic cre­
Ann Mooney's dentials by
''The need to diversify
goal of enhancing every indicator campus diversity. arises from the role -especially · Approximately noteworthy is
that diversification 
15 percent of the the fact that 
can play in making 
incoming fresh­nearly 10 per­men come from Saint Mary's a more cent ranked in historically the top 10 per­
. vibrant learning 
underrepresented cent of their
community and
groups: high school "The need to preparing all ofits class and about diversify arises 60 percent in
students for life and 
from the role that the top 20 per­
work in a diverse and
diversification cent," Vice· can play in mak­global world. " President for ing Saint Mary's a Enrollment more vibrant Management
Carol Ann Mooney 
learning commu­Daniel Meyer
College president 
nity and prepar­said in a press 
ing all o{ its stu-release. "The 
dents for life and entire Saint 
work in a diverse and global Mary's community looks for­
world," Mooney said in her ward to the positive contribu­
Strategic Vision for the College, tions this class will have on the 
a document detailing the College for the next four years." 
College's new diversity goals. Sports team captains·, student 
Students come from 37 differ­body presidents and Girl Scout 
ent states, and four students Gold Award winners also com-

ANDREAARCHER I Observet Graph! 
which included hiring of new hall staff and the re-opening of previously closed living spaces last year. 
The increase in enrollment is expected t() help close Saint Mary's $1.5 million budget defi­cient from 2005. 
Contact Kevin Sarlo at ksarlo@nd.edu 
pose a portion of the incqming class. . 
"We know that'these talented young women will find both the academic rigor they seek and countless opportunities to serve during their four years here," President Mooney said. "The opportunities for personal growth are endless and I look forward to the many wonderful 

Interested in working for 
things they will accomplish at Saint Mary's and in their lives as alumnae." 
The Class of 2013's size of 438 reflects an attempt by the college to increase the student body to between 1,600 and 1,700 women. The 2009-2010 school year is the second year of a five-year program designed to enlarge the student body, 


Notre Dame and Saint Mary's daily campus newspaper? 



Come to our 
Contact ·U.s 
News


Open House! 
Sports Matt Gamber mgamb·8(@nd.edu 

Sunday Aug. 30 
Scene jess Shafter jshaffe 1 @nd.edu 

Basement of 
Photo 
Jan Gavl<ick igavlick@nd.edu

South Dining Hall 
Graphics Andrea Archer aarcher@nd.edu

3-5 p.m. 
Viewpoint· · MichelleMaitz• .mmaitz@nd.edu Advertising. ·Mary Clare Rodriguez mrt;Jdrig9@nd.edu Theresa:Bea tbea@nd.edu
: ·. . :·:·. 
SMC ·Ne_;s::m,:~flley··Gili~nley acharnO1@saintmarys.edu 




page 4 The Obsemer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Saturday, August 22, 2009 


I 
I. i 
Welcome Back Stt1de11ts 

Retnetnber: Breakfast is tl1e 111ost importa11t n1eal of tl1e day ... )'Oll can eat it anytime at LePeep! 
Mo11day-Friday 6:30-2:00 p.m. Saturday-Stinday 7:oo-2:oo p.m. 
,.Lttke, tve are really glad yoiL decided to stay!" 


GO IRISH! 
127 S. ~lichigan Street Downtown South Bend 
288-PEEP, ' 
Big GnttJPS VVel~Oll1e ..call ahead 

Thanks for making us your favorite breakfast and lunch place 
ND Cot1po11 Buy one entree and get the second entree 1/2 off Valid through 10/4/09 Go IRISH! 

. . 
Saturday, August 22, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 5 



Three ROTC branches grow by 100 members 
Early weeklong orientation introduces students to cadet life with leadership, marching and training activities 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
Notre Dame's Naval, Army and Air Force Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) wel­comed its largest group of new members in several years, as 100 students arrived on campus one week early for their own orientation. 
Notre Dame ROTC members include students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Holy Cross and other area colleges and uni­versities. 
Naval ROTC held orientation activities off-campus for the first time this year, Notre Dame sen­ior and Battalion Commander Brad Towne said. 
Eleven upperclassmen and three active duty servicemen accompanied the new midship­men to Fort Custer, near Kalamazoo, Mich. They slept in the squad base and learned the fundamentals of military life, physical training, marching drill and land navigation, Towne said. 
They also became the only 
freshman group in the nation to shoot M4 rifles during orienta­tion. 
"It's a pretty intense orienta­tion," Towne said. "They really got to see what the military is 
..
like. 
At Fort Custer, the day lasted from 5:30 a.m. to 9:30 p.m. without any downtime. 
"I think it was a little bit more intense than I had expected," freshman Quinn-Kilpatrick said. 
Kilpatrick both said that the intensity at Fort Custer was worthwhile because it was an introduction to military life. 
"I felt like joining the Navy after my four years here would be a good way to serve my country," freshman Billy Kearns said. "But it also pays for my education, which is a huge ben­efit." 
Army and Air Force ROTC members arrived on campus Monday morning for their ori­entation activities, which were held on campus. 
The Air Force welcomed 30 new cadets this year, new stu­dent orientation commander Mallory Glass said. 

Glass, a senior at Saint Mary's, said that the Air Force orientation involved marching, physical training, group leader­ship projects and briefings to introduce students to ROTC. 
"[The new cadets] come in with such open attitudes you can tell they're excited to be here," she said. "It's neat to see their enthusiasm." 
Air Force ROTC orientation concluded Thursday evening with a swearing-in ceremony and drill demonstration, fol­lowed by a picnic for the new cadets and their families, Glass said. 
"They should be really proud of what they've done," Glass said. 
Army ROTC had 33 new cadets at orientation this year, junior Army ROTC member Colin Raymond said. In an aver­age year, there are only 20 new students, Raymond said. 
"The program is growing, which is great," he said. "It's been great to have the extra energy." 
During orientation, Raymond and other Army ROTC upper-classmen led the new students through Basic Rifle Marksmanship as well as basic movements, marching, customs, drill and ceremony, Raymond said. 

Freshman Andrew Simms said although the training was challenging, he enjoyed coming to campus early for Army ROTC. 

"It's long days but it's been a loi of fun and it's definitely worth it," he said. "Part of Uoin­ing Army ROTC] was the schol­arship and part of it is that going into the military is some­thing I've always wanted to do." 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 

For your convenience, the following Student Service Offices will be open under the "Golden Dome" 
.· .....·.. ·::·:···:·. 
..:: ::· :·::·..:>: 
August 22) f~om 9:00 .a~m. to\Noon ·and 


... • • • 7 ••• . ·•.·.·•·.. .... .·•·.···• . <

Student Accounts  100 Main Building  
Financial Aid  115 Main Building  
Student Employment  115 Main Building  
Undergraduate Admissions  220 Main Building  
Residence Life and Housing  305 Main Building  

Regular business hours are 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. 
----------------------------------. 
page 6 The Observer + THE YEAR IN REVIEW Saturday, August 22, 2009 
Duncan Hall opens. Student body expresses concerns over BOG budget issues. America elects Obama; student groups 

By MADELINE BUCKLEY ar!d ASHLEY 
CHARNLEY 
News Writers 
Duncan Hall opens 
Duncan Hall, the newest male dorm, welcomed its first residents at the beginning of the 2008-09 academ­ic school year. 
The dorm, which houses 232 stu­dents on West Quad, is the first new dorm to be built on campus since 1997. ­
The dorm cost about $20 million and took 17 months to build. 
The Hall integrated itself into Notre Dame life, choosing the "Highlander" as its mascot and hosting its first sig­nature event, the Highlander Games, an adaptation of the traditional Scottish games, including food, music and games of skill. 
The dorm colors are blue and green and the residents of the Hall donned kilts and war paint in the tradition of a Scottish warrior to celebrate the mascot. 
The newest female dorm, Ryan Hall, is currently under construction and will open for the 2009-10 school year and will house 246 students. 
SMC opens and dedicates new aca­demic building 
Spes Unica Hall, the newest aca­demic building on Saint Mary's cam­pus, opened at the beginning of the fall semester. A dedication for the building on Oct. 30 included alumnae, benefactors and students. 
The new building houses 13 differ­ent departments, the Career Crossing Office and the Center for Academic Innovation, the Center for Spirituality and the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership, as well as classrooms, laboratories, and office spaces and common areas. 
"I am amazed how many students are camped in the chairs and sofas. Staff lights are on before the sun rises. I see faculty pouring over their work at their desk," Vice President and Dean of Faculty Patricia Fleming said. "It's an environment that seems to draw our academic community to itself." 
Along with the new academic build­ing, Saint Mary's is also renovating Madeleva Hall, which will offer up-to­date classrooms and offices. 


Dillon Hall cancels annual pep rally 
Rector of Dillon Hall Fr. Paul Doyle cancelled the annual Dillon Hall Pep Rally -the dorm's signature event held every year the Friday before the first home football game -a week before the pep rally was supposed to occur. 
The pep rally, an annual campus fixture, mocks various aspects of life at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Doyle said the pep rally was can­celled because he failed to give the necessary guidance and the script writing and production was not com­ing together in a timely manner. 
But the writers and directors of the show told The Observer they were surprised by the sudden decision because the script was finished and production was underway. 
Dillon Hall residents and other stu­dents expressed disappointment over the abrupt cancellation of a Notre Dame tradition and confusion over the reasons for the cancellation. 
Student body expresses concern~ over BOG budget Issues 
Early in the fall semester, Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) began voting on the budget presented by the Executive Board that included a $20,000 stipend for the eight mem­bers on the Executive Board. 
Some members of BOG and the stu­dent body expressed concern over the amount of the stipend, which was actually only half of what the previ­ous Board had voted on and awarded themselves. 
The budget was voted down by BOG and the Executive Board was then forced to change the plans for the budget. 
Many members believed that there was a "conflict of interest" and the Board should not be able to choose their own allotments. 
"We were not informed of this [hap­pening] last year," Pauline Kistka, a member of the 2008-2009 BOG, said. "My concern is that I know that six people -and I'm not saying you guys, I'm saying on boards prior ­were given the option to receive money. If the decision was in their hands and they're the ones going to receive the money, I don't see the open-mindedness of the d.ecision or an unbiased decision regarding it. I guess I kind of see a conflict in get­
ting money in general." 
After over a month of disputes, the budget was approved on the third vote and it did not include an execu­tive stipend. The money left over from the stipend was then dispers~d between the College Readership Program and a contingency fund. 
America elects Obama as presi­dent; student groups campaign, educate 
On Nov. 4, Barack Obama, then a senator from Illinois, defeated Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) to become the first black president of the United States. . ~ 
Obama won with 365 electoral votes and 52.92 percent of the popular vote and narrowly won the state of Indiana. 
Attracted by Indiana's traditional status as a swing state, many stu­dents elected to register to vote in Indiana in lieu of voting absentee in their home state. 
NDVotes '08, a nonpartisan group, sprung up to educate students about issues in the election and help get them registered to vote. 
The group held "Pizza, Pop and Politics" discussions with students and faculty and rscruited a commis-• sioner from each dorm on campus to help students in the dorm register to vote. 
Students also rallied to campaign for specific candidates. 
Notre Dame College Democrats col­laborated with students from other local colleges to open a democratic campaign headquarters in South Bend. 
"We want to help elect Senator Obama and all the other candidates we are working for," Notre Dame's College Democrats then-president Spencer Howard said. "And in the broader scheme of things, [our goal] is to put the country on what we con­sider the right track." 
Notre Dame's College Republicans organized a group of students to attend a political rally in Sterling, Heights, Mich. in support of the John McCain ticket. 
"The rally was absolutely awesome and inspiring," then-College Republicans president Edward Yap said. "The 25 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students that collectively drove more than 40 hours to see the 


2008+ 
McCain/Palin rally in Sterling Heights left ready to do anything and every­thing necessary to elect John McCain and Sarah Palin." 
Schmidt, Weber elected as student body president, vice president 
Grant Schmidt and Cynthia Weber were elected student body president and student body vice president on Feb. 12 and took office on April 1. 
Schmidt had previously served as student body vice president and Weber, sophomore class president. 
Schmidt and Weber defeated juniors Laura Burdick and Derek Sanchez in a run-off-election with 51.9 percent of the vote in one of the closest elections in recent years, according to then­Judicial Council president George Chamberlain. 
The duo credited their win to their "grassroots campaign" in which they took the time to meet and talk with individual students. 
Schmidt and Weber promised taxi reform and cheaper text book options and said off-campus safety and com­munity relations are also a priority. 
Hoffman and Griffin elected to 2009-2010 Student Government Association office 
Rising senior Jenny. Hoffman and rising junior Meg Griffin were elected as Saint Mary's student body presi­dent and vice president for the 2009­10 academic year. 
They took office April 1, and the duo said they hoP.e to continue the projects of the previous Gruscinski­Falvey Board. 
Hoffman and Griffin said they would like to distance themselves from the stipend disputes that occurred earlier in the school year and start to bring the student body and student govern­ment back together. 
Hoffman said she would like to extend Student Center and library hours, have printers placed in all the residence halls and improve commu­nication with the student body through open forums and e-mail sur­veys. 
"Now that we're in place we're really eager to hear what students want done," Hoffman told The Observer earlier this semester. "Right now we have a blank slate and we want to get some issues on it so we can start addressing them." 

October 29  .  -x"  
The Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) approved  
the StUdentGo .  sociation(SGA,) budget aft:r  
thethirdvote on  t their weekly meeting. The '  
budget had difficulty passing because ofthe stipend the  
Executive Board was al1otting for themselves. Students  
andmeJitbe~s ofBOGopposedthe stipe11d, and it was  
eventually removed from the budget.  .. !I;» ,.  i'  
'· I  
August·,:B4  ::, :;;·:::;:;:;;;,:...... .  November4  
Duncan Hall opens  2008-20Q9school year,  America elects Barack Obama as president of  
'rhe newest male dormbouses 232 studcntsonWest  the United States. Manystudents register to  
Quad. ltcost $20  nand took  vote in Indiana rather than their home state, ' all.d student groups, $UCh as NDVotes 'o8,  
Notre Dame College Republicans and Notre  
Dame College Democrats, campaign for  
candidates and educate students.  
ANOREAARCHEA I Observer  


Saturday, August 22, 2009 The Observer + THE YEAR IN REVIEW page 7 
campaign, educate. Student shot near off-campus home. Sophomore Kevin Healey dies. Obama to speak at Commencement. 
• 

+2009 
A new Student Government Association Constitution was voted on and approved by the student body this semester and Hoffman and Griffin have said they will begin adding amendments in the fall. 
Student shot near off-campus home 
A Notre Dame student was shot in the arm early morning on Feb. 24 after trying to enter a neighbor's house, which she mistook for her own off-campus residence. 
The 23-year-old female was shot on the 800-block of E. Miner St. after returning from Club 23, a bar located at the corner of South Bend and Notre Dame Aves., and knocking on the door of a neighbor's house. 
Police said the victim was intoxicat­ed. 
The residents of the house told police they heard knocking on the door and told the woman to leave. When the knocking persisted, they fired a shot through the door. 
The student was treated at Memorial Hospital in South Bend with a gunshot wound to the arm. 
Students petition to add sexual ori­entation to non-discrimination clause 
Members of the Campaign for Human Dignity, a coalition of the Progressive Student Alliance (PSA), presented the Office of the President with a petition asking that sexual ori­entation be added to the University's nondiscrimination clause in March. 
Currently, the clause states the University does not discriminate based on "race/ethnicity, color, national origin, sex, disability, veter­an status or age." 
The leaders of the group presented University President Fr. John Jenkins with a petition of about 2,300 student signatures and he agreed to a meet­ing with the group. 
At the meeting, Jenkins told the group the University will not change the nondiscrimination clause to include sexual orientation. 
"That is, after careful analysis from both the legal and theological per­spectives, it was determined that adding the clause may not allow us to distinguish between sexual orienta­tion and behavior, which is a distinc­tion that we must maintain as a Catholic university," University spokesperson Dennis Brown told The Observer at the time. 
But Jenkins told the group he would be open to alternative ideas to make Notre Dame more welcoming for the GLBTQ (Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Transgender and Questioning) com­munity. 
SMC Dance Marathon receives award, raises $91,538 
Over the summer, Children's Miracle Network awarded Saint Mary's Dance Marathon with the Incentive Award, the highest award the organization gives to a commit­tee. 
"The Incentive Award is to recog­nize exceptional Dance Marathons that have broken the mold," Zac Johnson, national director of Dance Marathon in the press release, said. "Saint Mary's College students have set the bar very high for campuses just starting the program. These young women re-imagined what can be accomplished in such a short time and serve as an example to other campuses." 
This year, Dance Marathon raised over $91,000 for the Riley's Children Hospital in Indianapolis which is up over $6,000 from last year's total. 400 participants stood for 12 hours in Angela Athletic Facility to help raise money for the cause. Families and children from the hospital were there throughout the night to visit and encourage students. 
Obama accepts invitation to speak at Commencement 
The White House and the University announced on March 20 that President Barack Obama will deliver the 2009 Commencement address at the May 17 graduation ceremony and receive an honorary degree from the University. 
Catholic and pro-life groups and religious leaders, including Fort Wayne-South Bend Bishop John D' Arcy, condemned University President Fr. John Jenkins' invitation to Obama claiming it violates a docu­ment of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB) that states Catholic institutions should not honor politicians "who act in defiance of our fundamental moral principles." 
Jenkins said the invitation should "in no way be taken as condoning or endorsing his positions on specific issues regarding the protection of life, such as abortion and embryonic stem cell research." 
Students rallied both in support and opposition to the invitation. 
ND Response, a coalition of student groups in opposition to Obama deliv­ering the Commencement address and receiving an honorary degree, created a Web site, held a prayer rally and organized the first Right to Life March on campus. 
The Progressive Leadership Council gathered the support of about 20 campus clubs -including the Progressive Student Alliance, College Democrats, Feminist Voice, the Notre Dame NAACP chapter, Students for Environmental Action and the Black Cultural Arts Council (BCAC) -and met with Jenkins to show support for his decision and presented him with a petition with about 1,150 signatures from students and faculty also in sup­port. 
Both groups said they will continue to make plans to create dialogue about the issue until the ceremony on Sunday. 
Glendon declines Laetare Medal 
Mary Ann Glendon, former U.S. ambassador to the Holy See, declined the Laetare Medal, an award given annually to an American Catholic since 1883. 
Glendon declined the Medal in a let­ter to University President Fr. John Jenkins. 
"I could not help but be dismayed by the news that Notre Dame also planned to award [President Barack Obama] an honorary degree," Glendon wrote in the letter. 
Glendon initially accepted the award and Jenkins told The Observer she is "probably the most powerful spokesperson for the Catholic view­point in our world today." 
This marks the first time the award was accepted and declined. 
Instead of choosing a new recipient for the award, the University invited previous Laetare Medalist Judge John 
T. Noonan to deliver an address at 
the Commencement ceremony. Noonan received the award in 1984. "In thinking about who could bring 
a compelling voice, a passion for dia­logue, great intellectual stature and a deep commitment to Catholic values 
·· 
April27 

Mary Ann Glendon declines the Laetare Medal in a letterto.Fr; Jenkins, writing that she was 
"dismayed" bythe news that Obama would receive an honorary degree. Glendon initially ae<lepted the award, marking the first time the was accepted and then declined since its iri 1883. 
to the speaking role of the Laetare Medalist -especially in these unusu­al circumstances -it quickly became clear that an ideal choice is Judge Noonan," Jenkins said in a statement. 
Sophomore Kevin Healey dies 
Kevin Healey, a sophomore of Sorin College, died on April 24 after a bat­tle with cancer. He was 20. 
Healey, a native of the Cleveland area, was diagnosed with osteosarco­ma, a type of malignant bone cancer, in December 2006. 
Attending Notre Dame was a "life­long dream" of Healey's, according to Fr. Jim King, rector of Sorin College. 
Friends of Healey's said his courage was inspirational. 
"We ought all to thank Kevin Healey, at least those of us in Sorin College with whom he willingly offered friendship and many lessons to learn, even in his final days," soph­omore Steven Lechner said. "May his memory, which has united us now in this time of sorrow, live on forever in our hearts in thanksgiving to him and to God." 
A plaque that says, "Reserved for Kevin Healey '11" is attached to the seat closest to the altar in the Sorin Chapel. 
SMC spends a second year on U.S. News and World Report ranking 
Saint Mary's has been ranked 104 out of 248 schools on the U.S. News and World Report magazine's "2009 America's Best Colleges" list, marking the second year in a row the College has made the list. 
"We know we compete on a nation­al level. Saint Mary's excellent faculty and our commitment to educate the whole person set us apart. The real proof of our success can be found in our graduates," President Carol Ann Mooney said in a press release Aug. 22 earlier this school year. 
In addition, the College was named a "Best in the Midwest" school by the Princeton Review. Out of the 2,500 four-year colleges, Saint Mary's ranks in the top 25 percent, according to a press release from earlier this year. 
This is the sixth year Saint Mary's has received this designation. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu and Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
nh1lrri1tire Kevin Healey dies at 20 after a 
~..-~+1"·~•a:~.·: cancer..Healey was diagnosed . osteosarcoma, a type ofmalignant bone cancer, in December of 2006. Residents of $Orin College, Healey's home on campus, said Healey's courage and strength were an inspiration. 
March2o 
page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Saturday, August 22, 2009 
"LIVE LIKE A CHAMPION TODAY AT LEGACY VILLAGE" 

Legacy VIllage Is the most luxurious off-campus student 
housing development In South Bend and Is located three 
blocks east of campus on McErlaln Street between 
George Street and Ironwood Road and about 200 yards 
south of Douglas Road. It has ten (1.0) brand new 3,250 
square foot brick homes and each home has 6 bedrooms 
and 3¥.l bathrooms. The homes are fully~furnlshed with 
high quality furniture and are specifically designed for the 
lifestyle of college students. No off-campus housing 
development offers the amenities available at Legacy 
VIllage: Legacy VIllage Is sure to set the standard for 
off-campus housing for the students of Notre Dame, St. 
Mary's and Holy Cross for years to come. The following 
are the features and amenities of a Legacy VIllage home: 
1. 
Square footage of home: Approximately 3,250 square feet; 

2. 
6 bedrooms, 3~ bathrooms, foyer, living room, kitchen, family room/dining area, and utility room; 

3. 
Back patio with gas barbeque grill; 

4. 
Spacious yard; 

5. 
Abundant parking; and 


6. 
Other amenities: 


a. 
Fully equipped kitchen with new refrigerator, range, freezer, oven, dishwasher, microwave, cooking pots/ pans and cooking utensils and dinnerware; 

b. 
Dining room table with 8 chairs; 


c. 
Fireplace in family room with granite or marble hearth; 

d. 
Family room furniture having two (2) couches, a lounge chair, coffee table, end table, table lamp, floor lamp and 42" tv over fireplace; 

e. 
Laundry center in utility room with washer and dryer; 

f. 
Hardwood flooring on entire first floor, except for entry way in foyer and utility room which will have porcelain tile; 

g. 
Each Bedroom area is approximately 11' x 16' and has the following design features: 

* 
Fully carpeted; 


* 
Vanity cabinet with sink and mirror; 

* 
Spacious closet; 


* 
Bed with full-size mattresses, night stand, dresser and desk/chair; and 

* 
Wired for cable television and internet service. 



h. 
Each two bedrooms share a porcelain-tiled bathroom (private toilet room and a large shower with seat); 

i. 
Wireless internet service ready; 

j. 
Fire sprinkler system; 


k. 
Fire and security alarm system with monitoring service and Emtek locks with deadbolts for all exterior and bedroom doors; 




1. Top-of-the-line mechanical systems having high-efficiency heat pump systems/air conditioning systems (the ·Mechanical Systems"); 
m. 
Grohe, Kohler and Elkay plumbing fixtures; 

n. 
Granite and marble countertops; 


o. 
All windows have wooden-slat style window shades; 

p. 
The homes are extremely well~insulated with sound insulation in all floors and ceilings and the walls surrounding all bedrooms and bathrooms; 

q. 
Reduced utility costs because of the quality of the Mechanical Systems and the fact the homes are extremely well-insulated; and 

r. 
The homes' lawns have a lawn sprinkler system. 


Legacy Village is completely rented for the 2009~201.0 school year and only four houses remain for the 201.0-2011 school year. Six houses remain for the 201.1~2012 school year. Hurry, before it is too late! For more information, contact RWD Camp_us Developments, LLC at (630) 655-3223, (630) 88S..7715 or rwd.campusdevelop@sbcglobal.net or visit our website at rwdcampusdevelopments.com. 


Saturday, August 22, 2009 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Princeton review recongnizes SMC 
By NIKKI TAYLOR News Writer 
Saint Mary's College was named one of the best colleges or universities in the Midwest by the Princeton Review in their latest region-by-region summa­tion of institutions. 
The Princeton Review recog­nized 158 colleges as being the "Best in the Midwest," marking the seventh year the education services company has profiled colleges and universities on a regional basis. 
Saint Mary's has been recog­nized among the Midwest schools every year in the regional profiles. 
The Princeton Review does not rank the colleges or univer­sities but rather provides a list­ing of schools that have been distinguished based on their independent research. 
The research behind the recognition includes campus visits, institutional data and rec­ommendations of independent and high school advisors from hundreds of schools in each region,Princeton Review's vice president of publishing Robert Franek said. 
The Princeton Review also surveys students, and their responses play a major role in the selection of the top regional schools. 
Boo01 
continued from page 1 
and before Christmas. 
Store manager of Mishawaka's Bed Bath and Beyond, Johnny Skeen, said sales increase around 40 to 60 percent during the month of August, the busiest time for his store. 
Skeen said people are spend­ing less, but not significantly. Students still are stocking up on dorm items like sheets, mattress pads and pillows like any other year. 
Other area stores such as the Futon Factory in Mishawaka enjoy similar profits during the month and offer student specials as well as extended store hours, as advertised on the store's Web site. 
"Business is picking up as the students move in," Mary Burrer, owner of the Futon Factory, said. "We have a great business from the ND students and always look forward to this time of year." 
While spending on school and dorm items is costly to any stu­dent, incoming parents and stu­dents agree cutting back on essential items for back-to­school is difficult, especially freshman year. 
"You can't not buy things like sheets," freshman Meghan Smith said. "I am going to have a lot of the stuff I buy for all four years," she said. 
Smith said she did, however, compare prices carefully for larger items like bedding before making her purchases from stores like the Company Store, Target and Bed Bath and Beyond. 
"I probably would have done that any year though," Smith added. 
Other students agree that careful spending is important 
"We also take into account what each school's customers -their students -report to us about their campus experiences at them on our SO-question stu­dent survey," Franek said. 
Saint Mary's College President Carol Ann Mooney is delighted to have been recognized by the company for the seventh year in a row. 
"We are very pleased to once again be listed in the Princeton Review," Mooney said. "Our commitment to an excellent intellectual and academic expe­rience for our students is unwa­vering. Our graduates are our best recruiters. Their accom­plishments speak volumes about the quality of the educa­tional experience they received here." 
Saint Mary's students are proud of their school's recogni­tion although they said there were other perks that drew them to the school. 
"It's exciting, but I don't think a ranking would have changed my mind. I liked the tradition and the liberal arts education of Saint Mary's," junior Mary Beth Gizinski said. 
Junior Ellen O'Brien agreed, saying that Saint Mary's nation­ally recognition was like "icing on the cake." 
Contact Nikki Taylor at ntayloO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
for anyone. 
Freshman Morgan Iddings, who had to buy dorm essentials like a futon, has been bargain shopping at stores like T J Maxx and Marshalls. 
"I refuse to pay full price," Iddings said. "You can get the same thing [at some stores] but cheaper." 
Smith and Iddings, like many other students, said they will also be taking advantage of the student government-sponsored Fall Mall, which is held in the Stepan Center and offers Notre Dame student a variety of dorm supplies from local retailers. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 
•CARPET •VINYL 
•WOOD 
•CERAMIC 
•AREA RUGS 

Decorators Walk Shopping Center • Grape at Day Road, Mishawaka OVER 1000 CARPET REMNANTS ON SALE! 

ND encourages HlNl flu prevention 
Health services suggest items to help protect students against illness 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY News Editor 
When shopping for basic back-to-school items, did you remember to grab a disposable thermometer? 
Although not generally part of the average student's shopping list, Notre Dame Health Services is encouraging all students to be equipped with one to recognize flu symptoms, according to Director Ann Kleva. 
Part of an education initiative to help students prevent season­al flu and the HlNl virus (com­monly referred to as swine flu) and recognize symptoms, Kleva said Health Services is also encouraging students to bring an alcohol-based sanitizer, Kleenex, throat lozenges and a disposable paper mask. 
"Our biggest emphasis is going to be encouraging students to take personal responsibility for good hygiene and healthy habits," she said. 
Because of widespread swine flu contractions worldwide, Health Services resurrected an old germ-fighting campaign with the tag line: "Be a 'Notre Dame Germ Fighter'... remain 'Flu­less, not Clueless!"' 
In April and May, two Notre 

Cheerleading Tryout FRESHMEN LADIES ONLY 
August 27, 2009 Rockne Memorial 
5:30p.m. 

Pick up tryout forms above Gate 3 of Joyce Center from Jeanne at front desk. Complete forms & Bring to Tryout at the Rock. 
Notre Dame Cheerleading 
277-971:1 
50% 


REG. PRICES 
Douglas Road easttoGrape, tum right (south) ontoGrape Road, 1/2mile on leftatstoplgiJt. tum right for the best deals on carpet 
MON • ..fRI 9;00.8:00 SAT. 9:00-5:30 SUN. 2.:00-5:00 

Dame students contracted swine Kleva said a good rule of flu and fully recovered. thumb is to stay about six feet Kleva said Health Services away from a person who is 
plans to hang posters on cam­exhibiting flu symptoms. 
pus instructing  "Students  
students  on  should  always  
healthy  prac­ "Our biggest  cough into their  
tices, such as the best way to sneeze to mini­ emphasis is going to be encouraging  sleeves and if they sneeze into a tissue, throw it  
mize  germ  students to take  into  a  correct  
spread. "We know it's going to be diffi­ personal responsibility for  receptacle immediately," she said. "Germs  
cult  with  kids  good hygiene and  can stay alive on  
having beginning  healthy habits. ,  a surface that's  
of  the  school  not  cleansed  
year parties and  with disinfect for  
the first football  Ann Kleva  two hours so if  
games," she said.  director of  you cough and  
"We  know  health services  then use a com­ 

there's going to be exposure on campus and we are trying to limit that exposure." 
But Kleva said the University is prepared for any flu outbreak. 
"We have purchased more masks and more disposable thermometers," she said. "In the waiting rooms, we will have stu­dents with identified flu symp­toms waiting separately so a student in for a strain or sprain isn't sitting next to a student with the flu." 
The biggest message of the campaign, though, is prevention. 
puter in the lab, 
germs can stay on the keyboard for two hours after." 
Healthy eating and good sleep­ing habits as well as frequently washing hands are also necessi­ties, she said. 
"There is no true cure or pre­ventive measure for the flu," Kleva said. "We will just hope­fully get our messages out to offer support and education for seasonal and HlNl flu." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 


page 10 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS Saturday, August 22, 2009 
OIT revamps insideND navigation systen1 
By AMANDA GRAY News Writer 
InsideND got a makeover this summer. 
Notre Dame's Office of Information and Technology com launched the latest version of the University's navigation system, resulting in a new look for the site and several new features, said Patricia Sperry, manager of Interactive Web Services at OIT. 
InsideND is Notre Dame's major "gateway"-used as a navigation tool to services like web registra­tion and e-mail and also as a way to communicate information, Sperry said. 
"It was easier to change because it was all in one pack­age," Sperry said. "We had a new, upgraded version." 
A June 18 ND Works article said this was the biggest change to the system in three years. 
"Some of the changes were because of student focus groups," Sperry said. 
Groups were asked questions about what they used insideND for, such as what links were the most popular and how they navi­gated the site. This information was used to make insideND run more smoothly. 
This leads to one major visual difference -it appears there is less on insideND than there was before, Sperry said. However, all of the same information is avail­able, but a new organization sys­tem makes the site appear less cluttered. 
"What we did was make it more condensed, but still have all of the information," Sperry said. 
The site also features drop­down menus, said Lenette Votava, organizational communications analyst at OIT. These menus, which include related links to the menu topic, were determined through the focus groups' opin­ions, Sperry said. 
Other updated areas include the classifieds channel, where students have more options for their listings, Sperry said. Also available are tutorials on cus­tomizing insideND, such as removing channels and editing tab content. 
While OIT is excited about the new InsideND, some students cite confusion over the new layout. 
"I knew where everything was before, and now I'm not sure where everything has been moved to," sophomore Allie Hamman said. "It will just take some time to get used to." 
One thing everyone can agree on, however, is how it looks. "It's aesthetically pleasing," Hamman said. 
OIT will have several events to welcome new students to campus, including extended Help Desk and Computer Store hours during Freshman Orientation. 
A full calendar, including dates, times and locations is available at oit.nd.edu, OIT's Web site. 





University Choral 
Auditions 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME CHORALE NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB NOTRE DAME LITURGICAL CHOIR NOTRE DAME WOMEN'S LITURGICAL CHOIR BASILlCA.SCHOLA 
University Choral Auditions will be held in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
SUNDAY. AUG. 23, 3-6 PM MONDAY, AUG. 24, 12:00 PM -4:30 PM; 5:30 PM -10:00 PM 
To reserve an audition time please go to http://campusministry.nd.edu/about/events/choral-auditions or e-mail dbayless@nd.edu until 2:00 pm Sunday. August 23 
After 2:00 pm Sunday~ August 21, please sign up at the coat check in the DeBartolo Perfonning Arts Center (DPAC) 
For more infonnation please phone DPAC at 631 ~ 7800 
f$lUNIVERSlTYOP 
~NOTRE DAME 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

Take a Film Course in the Browning Cinema! 
lltlliall 1Vational Ci11e1na 


FTT 40233, RO!T 40505 3:} 5 in Bro1vning Cinema, DEPAC 
Taught in English with no pre-requisites 
Leam the histm:v t~l one t~,f' the• world\-most renmvned national cinemas. Amt~v:::e great films by Pastrone, Rossellini, Fel!ini, Ptrsolini, Visconti and con!empormy}Jfmmakers. Understand !he interaction betlreen Italian hL>tm:v,jllm histm:v, and national idemi~v. Class meets in Brmrning Cinema in DltPAC Fu(fi!Lv tmil'ersi(rjlne arts requirement, Fn' internationa!fi!m requirement, and l!tllian Studies electives. Instructor Lv em imenwtional(v recognized scholor specializing in the histm:v (~lftalian cinema. 
Saturday, August 22, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 11 
Ryan 
continued from page 1 
dorm has much more versa­tility than her old dorm. 
"My friends and I decided to move to Ryan because it gave us a lo-t more room options than Lewis," Maloney said. "Although we didn't know at the time that Lewis was going to be reno­
vated." "[The reaction to the Mendoza. Nonetheless, he said the  
Upperclassmen  like dorm] has been extremely, University is very close to  
Maloney  aren't  the  breaking only extremely positive," ground on some of these new  
ones  excited  to  move  in  to Tornifolio said. "I think the buildings.  

the new dorm. Julianne Rizzo, a freshman from California, said she is excit­ed to be able to spend all of her time on campus li'ving in Ryan. · 
"It's amazing," Rizzo said. ''I'm truly lucky to be here, especially right since fresh­man year." 
Because Ryan Hall is so new, all of its residents are starting with a clean slate. They get to help create the dorm's cheers, traditions and signature events. 
"It's exciting and fun because we get to build new traditions," Ryan Resident Assistant Nkechi Ekwunife 
2013 
continued from page 1 
ably financial aid options. He said the administration still commits to meeting the demonstrated need of every student, and the Office of Undergraduate Admissions is one of the few in the country that is still need-blind. 
"If we didn't have financial aid, the class profiles would not be get­ting stronger," he said. 
However, the administration did ask the office to admit about 50 more students than usual because 
Get Involved in Irish Athletics! 
The Sports Information Office is looking for 
student assistants for the 2009-1 0 school year. 
Any students interested in becoming active and 

involved in Irish athletics should come to an 
informational meeting on Mon., Aug.. 24 at 7:00 
p.m. in the Sports Information Office (2nd floor 
Joyce Center; enter at Gate 2). Students with ex­
perience in writing, photography and new media 
(web sites) are encouraged to attend. For more 

information contact 631-7516. 
said. "We're the first women to live in Ryan and our legacy will continue." 
Ekwunife said she already feels a sense of community from the girls in the dorm. 
"I feel like everyone's gen­uinely excited to live here," she said. "Not just to be back on campus, but to live in Ryan." 
The dorm's rectress Breyan Tornifolio feels the same sense of excitement. 
girls feel very blessed to be here. They think it's beauti­ful." · 
Like Ekwunife and the other residents, Tornifolio is excited about the chance to create new traditions for the dorm. 
"I think the greatest part about Notre Dame is its tra­dition, hands down," Tornifolio said. "And it's really nice to start your own traditions. It's nice to see so many women take an active part in that. There's a lot of excitement here." 
of the recession, yielding more rev­enue from tuition and a slightly larg­er-than-average class size of about 2,060. 
Of the 2,060 students, 12 percent were valedictorians or salutatorians of their high school and 18 students achieved a perfect ACT or SAT score. 
The Class of 2013 is 55 percent male and 45 percent female and 24 percent are children of Notre Dame alunmi. 
The incoming freshman class is also one of the most diverse Notre Dame has seen with 23 percent of the class an ethnic minority, but Saracino said the University hopes Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 



Building 
continued from page 1 
we will have done about $275 mil­lion worth of construction." 
Lyphout said the recession did impact raising funds for new proj­ects, such as a free standing ice arena, remodeling of the first and second floors of the Hesburgh Library and a new center for exec­utive education to the south of 
"Our construction is totally dependent upon having the money in hand, so with the recession we did have to slow down some, but we still have a pretty aggressive construction schedule," he said. "These projects we're working on designs for right now. We think we're close to having the appro­priate fundraising completed." 
Executive Vice President John Aflleck-Graves said he is also opti­mistic that construction on the ice rink would begin soon. 
"[The new ice rink] is one of the projects we are waiting to close the funding on," he said. "We won't start a project until we have 100 percent of the funds pledged for the building. It is a building 
to increase that percentage in future years. 
"If we came up short in an area, it's ethnic diversity," he said. "We are disappointed in the area of diversity and international stu­dents." 
About three percent of students in the Oass of 2013 are international, but Saracino said many other top universities reach about seven per­cent. 
This year, the class contains stu­dents from 23 different countries. The largest group of international students comes from South Korea, followed by China. 
Ofthe 23 percent of ethnic minori­that hopefully we will close the funding on but we haven't yet." 
Two new buildings were com­pleted over the summer -Ryan Hall, a female dorm, and Geddes Hall, the new home of the Institute for Church Life, which will also house the Center for Social Concerns (CSC). 
Lyphout said Geddes Hall should be the first building on campus to attain Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) cer­tification. 
"LEED is the national standard in green building," according to a July 21 press release from the Office of Sustainability. "To achieve LEED certification, a building must meet high benchmarks for energy efficiency, water efficiency, indoor air quality, protection of natural resources and waste reduction." 
Affieck-Graves said the LEED certification process is lengthy, beginning when the building in question is designed, in addition to being "a little bit more expensive to do LEED buildings." 
Lyphout said a number of vari­ables are considered by the certifi­cation committee. 
"You get points fo·r certain aspects of design as well as the construction methods used, the way the construction site is han­dled, the trailers that you use for the construction, the environmen­tally-friendly energy systems you install -there is a whole variety of points you can earn," he said 

Affleck-Graves said the University has followed the requi­site procedure and he fully expects Geddes Hall to become Notre Dame's first LEED building. 
"It will be [LEED certified]," he said. ''We are absolutely confident that it will be because we know what we have to do to meet the standards. But technically it is not certified yet." 
Furthermore, several buildings currently under construction are scheduled to be finished this year. 
Lyphout said the renovation of the old Law School will be finished on June 1, 2010, and Stinson­Remick Hall, the "new engineering building,~ scheduled to be com­pleted in December. 
Several new athletic facilities are also nearing completion. 
''We are completing the two sta­diums," Aflleck-Graves said. "The one for soccer, Alumni Stadium, and Arlotta Stadium for lacrosse. They will actually start playing the week after next in the soccer one. The lacrosse is a little bit further behind, but they're in the process of being completed." 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

ty students, an estimated 10 percent are Hispanic, nine percent Asian, three percent African American and one percent Native American. 
"The most disappointing is the number of African American stu­dents," Saracino said. ''We are now spending more time and energy in areas of the country where Notre Dame is not being heard and doing more outreach work." 
Along with academic achieve­ments, the Class of 2013 was also active outside of the classroom: 
+ 11 percent were class or stu­dent body president 
+14 percent were an editor of a student publication 

Frosh-0 
continued from page 1 
[my room] was a little small, but once everything has been moved 
. around. and everything is getting unpacked it's getting to look like a normal size." Today, incoming freshmen will be busy with dorm activities. For example, Walsh Hall will have a scavenger hunt on campus, Walsh Commissioner Joanie Fisher said. "We make them go into DeBartolo and tell us how many chairs are in the back of 101," Fisher said. "They go into the Huddle and get a picture of them­selves huddling in the Huddle." Through the scavenger hunt, Fisher hopes the Walsh freshmen will get to know each other and get acclimated to campus "in a fun and friendly way." In addition to the scavenger hunt, Fisher said Walsh freshmen will also be learning a song, which is medley of "Grillz" by Nelly, "That's No1!tMy Name" by the Ting-Tmgs, and various Backstreet Boys songs. Campbell said in an effort to help make incoming freshmen feel com­fortable Frosh-0 has a slightly dif­ferent focus this year. Frosh-0 is more focused on helping freshmen meet other students in their own dorm, as opposed to those from other dorms. "This year they are trying to focus on in-dorm stuff," Campbell said. "It's less focus on spreading yourself out to people you'd meet once and feeling overwhelmed, and more focused on meeting people in your dorm." 
+ 
51 percent participated in music, art, drama or dance 

+ 
85 percent were involved in community service 

+ 
78 percent lettered in at least one varsity sport 


+35 percent captained an athlet­icteam 
+6 percent were Eagle Scouts or achieved a Girl Scouts Gold Award 
"This is the strongest class," Saracino said. "It's not just the SAT scores that are getting higher, but their high school records are getting stronger." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
But freshmen will also have many opportunities to branch out and meet people from other dorms, he said. This weekend, freshmen will have ice cream socials, play recess games, have bonfires and eat meals with other dorms. _ 
Domerfest, a dance for all fresh­men that takes place tonight, will be another opportunity to meet stu­dents from across campus. 
With all of the commotion this weekend, many freshmen said they are feeling a mixture of excitement and nervousness. 
''I'm just really excited to be on campus," O'Donnell said. "I heard you meet a lot of different people [during Frosh-0] and it's just a real­ly fun experience to get settled in." 
Freshman Andrew Anderson of Keough Hall said so far, being on campus has been "fun" and "chaot­ic." 
''I'm just excited about the whole thing ... but I'm still nervous at the same time," Anderson said. ''I'm just nervous about meeting new people, getting to know my profes­sors and making sure that I pick the right major." 
Anderson said he has not been informed about any plans for the weekend and has no expectations for what Frosh-0 will be like. 
''I'm totally just going with the flow," he said. "I have no idea what's going on." 
At the end of Frosh-0, Anderson said he hopes he will feel a bit more settled in. 
''I'd like to feel comfortable, like I feel like I fit in and I know the cam­pus better," he said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Saturday, August 22, 2009 
Saint Mary's offers 111oney to student service 111e111bers 
New government bill allows College to award scholarships to women serving or who have families in the armed forces 
participating in the Yellow
By MEGAN LONEY Ribbon Program, a new federal 

News Writer 

program sponsored by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 
Saint Mary's is expanding its intended to help veterans attend efforts to help student veterans, college or graduate·school. service members and their fami­"Saint Mary's involvement in lies with help from grants and the Yellow Ribbon Program pro­gifts. vides an ideal partnership with 
In July, Saint Mary's the Veteran's Administration to announced it is one of 21 higher reach out to meet the needs of education institutions in Indiana female veterans who have given · to receive a share of $270,000 in of the time and talents to serve 
grants given by  this  great  
Operation  nation,"  Dan  
Diploma, a pro­ "We believe that we  Meyer, vice presi­ 
gram designed by P u r d u e University's  offer the kind of education that  dent for enrollc ment manage­ment, said in a  
Military Research  women veterans are  June  press  
Institution, and a  seeking  -small,  release.  
$5.8 million gift from the Lilly  intense classes,  · The Post-9/11 GI Bill covers the  
Endowment.  faculty interaction  - cost of attending  
The Operation  and that we can also  the most expen­ 
Diploma grant is designed to "help institutions and  offer great leadership opportunities for  sive in-state tuition at a public institution in  
student veteran  women veterans."  each  state.  
organizations  Veterans  may  
implement poli­cies and pro­ Karen Johnson  also choose to attend private  
grams that assist  vice president of  institutions that,  
in the transition  student affairs  under the Yellow  
from combat to  Hibbon Program,  
the classroom,"  have agreed  to  

the Military Family Research pay at least some of the extra Institute at Purdue Web site said. cost. The private institutions 
With a focus on student service determine the number of stu­members and veterans -both dents that may receive aid and those beginning their college the amount of tuition it will education and those who are cover, and the VA matches this returning to college after extend­amount. ed service or deployment -this Up to five qualifying students grant will enable the College to could potentially a"ttend the make the transition from service school free of charge for the to school smooth for these stu­2009-2010 academic year, as a dents. result of the agreement between 
Studies have shown that stu­Saint Mary's and the VA. dents who have served or are Saint Mary's is awarding this currently serving in the military financial aid on a first come, frrst may deal with barriers to their serve basis. The five slots have education, such as feeling frus-• not yet been filled. trated, alone and misunderstood "At the time this new program on college campuses. was announced we had already 
A grant of $14,999 will assist set our aid budget for the 2009­with Saint Mary's plans to form a 10," director of financial aid task force to oversee the grant Kathleen Brown said. "In addi­and review the issues involved tion, as with any new program with recruiting and enrolling vet­there were a lot of unknowns at erans, develop a strategy to the time we had to make our recruit veterans, train student commitment, such as how many affairs staff to address the of our students would quality and unique issues veterans face and how much it would cost. For develop ·a peer support network these reasons we tried to be fis­for veterans. cally responsible while still show­
The number of veterans who ing our support for veterans and have attended and are currently their families." attending Saint Mary's is not cur­Saint Mary's will review the rently available, but data is being effects of the program on the stu­gathered. dents and the College at the end 
Recruiting student service of the fall and will make a deci­members, veterans and military sion about changes for the fol-family members lowing academic is important to year. One factor Saint Mary's that will influence
"By the nature of
College for sev­the number of
their experiences 
eral reasons, award offered vice president of veterans and their next year is the student affairs amount of interest 
children can 
Karen Johnson the program
contribute in unique
said. draws this year, "We believe ways to the diversity BroWn said. that we offer the "There has
ofour student body 
kind of educa­been a lot of inter­
· and enhance the 
tion that women est, both from ,stu­veterans are learning experience dents enrolling seeking -small, this year and high 
for all ofour 
intense classes, school students
students.''
faculty interac­who are in the tion -and that middle of their we can also offer Kathleen Brown college search," great leadership Brown said. 
director of 
opportunities for Although there
financial aid 
women veter­are only five slots ans," Johnson available, Saint said. "Additionally, bringing Mary's has committed to provid­women veterans to campus will ing the maximum amount possi­provide other diverse viewpoints ble for those five students -up and the interactions with women to 50 percent of the tuition and who have had amazing lives." fees not already covered by the 
In addition to Operation Post-9/11 GI Bill. Diploma, Saint Mary's is also Brown is positjve about this program and its benefits for the Brown said. "By the nature of gram provides one more way we College and those who are eligi­their experiences veterans and can make a Saint Mary's educa­ble. their children can contribute in tion affordable for more fami­
"First, we're excited at the pos­unique ways to the diversity of lies." sibility of potentially enrolling our student body and enhance more veterans, and their chil­the learning experience for all of Contact Megan Loney at dren, at Saint Mary's College," our students. Second, this pro-mloneyO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Padftc Coast Concvrts 
Proudly Presernts in South Bernd Ther Littler 01* Bond From Tctxasl Rock & Roll Hall of Fame Members 
Tickvts go on salv Wvdnvsday Aagast 26th at 
10:00 AM at thcr Morris Box Offtccr. Sa Soands in Goshvn. charger by phonv 574 
online www.morrisccrnter.org •LIMIT 8 TICKETS PE~ PE~SOH• 
Brandt's ttarlvy Davidson Wabash 






SALON ROUGE 
www.salonrougeinc.com 
Salon Rouge would tike to welcome you back to the Notre Dame campus. We've missed you! As a student you receive a 15% discount on hair services Monday through Wednesday with your student ID. Or, check 
out our apprentice program. All cuts are $10.00 with an apprentice stylist and color is 1/2 price! Call to schedule your appointment today. 
Close to Campus Manicures s-F edic:ures Specializing in Color & Cub; Now Of.ferin3 full 5od_y Waxing 
Visit our new second location! 
SR 2; @ Ironwood f ormerl9 Atria 2 ­
57+-258-5080. 57+-271-880+ 620 W. E._dison Kd. 2027 South 5end Ave. St. Andrew's Flaza Martin's Flaza 
*I 5% discount not valid with apprenti~e program 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Saturday, August 22, 2009 page 13 

THE OBSERVER Look below the surface 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR 8USINFSS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber ScENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: !an Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

. ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CoNTROLLER: Patrick Sala SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu • 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4324 kkirig5@nd.edu, astein'\r@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews~nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK acharnO I @saimmarys.edu PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrerJt, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Ediror, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must indude contact infOrmation. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed tu Editor-in-Chiefjenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Th~t Obsctver (USPS 599 2-4000} is published Monday through Friday accpt during exatn and nouion periods. A subscripcion m 1be Observer io> $120 ror one academic year:-$65 forunc~tcr. 
nl(~ ~r is published at< 024 South Dining Hall &nd~<:Qr~i(JM-to: Nom~: Dame, IN 45556-0779 Th•O"""""" Pcriodkal fH~Iagc paid at N<:Jttt O.amr P.O. ao. 779 ;and addilional Ollliling offkcs, 02.4 South Dining HV_l 
Nottt" DallK, IN 46-556-o-779 

10¢ Observer is a member ofthe Aisociattd ~-All rtprodua.ion righo, are 
,.,,w, 
To all you freshmen who grew up reciting Rockne's speeches, who· lay in bed not with visions of sugarplums but of Touchdown Jesus and the Golden Dome, who have 37 family members who went here, who watched "Rudy" so many times you know the order in which the players turned in their jer­seys to Dan Devine: Wake up. 
Rise and shine, ladies and gentle­men, because life here ain't like that. You may as well have just hopped off the Mayflower, because you've entered a world of conservatism, religion and two months of sub-zero temperatures, a place where alumni treat Barack Obama as though he were Michael Vick. Buckle up. 
Airplanes flew over campus this spring towing pictures of aborted fetus­es to protest Obama giving the com­mencement address. Awesome dorm events get cancelled and controversial plays cause uproars. You can't camp out for basketball games a Ia Kryzewskville or the police will run you away. 
No joy on finishing that movie/home­work assignment/date in the dorm of the opposite sex after midnight -the rules governing this are called pari­etals, a word which will soon have the same annoyance as the words "traffic" or "airport security." 
Boys and girls can't see each other until tonight. What better way to teach kids away from' home for the first time to interact with the opposite sex than to keep them apart? Sex is banned on campus. Not fr?wned upon. Baimed. So 

Bill Brink 
Managing Editor 
is hard alcohol. 
Welcome to college! 
So why am I still here after three years of this nonsense? Why does any­one con their folks into shelling out · $200,000 for tuition and make the trek to South Bend rather than party their way through the cheap local'state school? 
Chances are you knew some of this coming in. So there must be something that brought you here anyway, no? 
You're here for the intangibles, the things that can't be quantified by rules or SAT scores or football records. You're here for the community you've joined and the friends and memories you'll make. 
If you're here, you're part of a com­munity that transcends all others, that includes some of the finest people in the world (Condoleeza Rice) but also some of the dumbest (Steve Bartman). 
This school isn't about the Dome and T J, it's about creating drinking games with your friends that your RA can't hear. (Hint: stay away from ping pong balls and quarters. Cards and dice are good). It's about the little things that don't show up in the brochure or on Saturdays on NBC. Those stick with you longest. 
You'll get so close to your group of friends that you cim literally hear them think. I had the same roommate for two years, and if he were suddenly struck mute I could speak for him and no one would ever know. 
This skill is only useful every once in a while. What you learn in classes, however.. will be useful ... every once in a while. Slog your way through the requirements so you can take classes you like. Parents reading this, let your kids major in what they want. Wouldn't you rather they graduate with a degree in Latin than drop out after three semesters of chemical engineering? 
This place has spirituality without parallel. If you're religious, Notre Dame provides ample opportunity to practice. If you're not, Notre Dame surrounds you with nice people who don't care. 
Your fellow students don't become your best friends by accident. You all came here for similar reasons: You chose a -school known for its solid aca­demic program and top-tier athletics with a manageable size and close-knit nature. You're most likely willing to sacrifice some freedoms other schools provide to take part in these things. 
It's worth the sacrifice. 
In the scheme of things, the negative aspects of this place stand out to the outside observer. You have the rare chance to see the inside, to experience the joys of this place that lie below the surface. So you'll leave respectfully at 11:55, you'll tolerate the insane views of the University's supporters, you'll find other ways to prepare for basket­ball games. Trust me, you'll live with the restrictions and negatives, even embrace them, because the greatness of Notre Dame will eventually shine through.· 
The friends and connections you make here last and the community of the place -put it this way, I've been here three years and can't accurately put it into words. I've tried to do so in this column, and you still have no idea, do you? Give it some time. By the Michigan State game you'll know what I mean. 
Bill Brink is a senior History major and Journalism minor who hopes you still want to be here after reading this. He can be reached at wbrink@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
OBAMA 

TODAY'S STAFF QUOTE OF THE DAY 
QUOTE OF THE DAY

News Sports Madeline Buckley Matt Gamber Joseph McMahon Sam Werner 
Ashley Charnley Laura Myers "Honest differences are often a healthy
"Failures are finger posts on the road 
Scene Eric Prister sign '!fprogress."
to achievement. " 

Jess Shaffer Molly Sammon 
Mahatma Gandhi 

Jordan Gamble Graphics C.S. Lewis 
Indian spiritual leaderEnglish author 

Alexandra Andrea Archer Kilpatrick Viewpoint Michelle Maitz 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 14 Saturday,· August 22, 2009 
Experience Notre Dame outside the classroom 
In the second class of my freshman year, my professor informed me that someone was paying approximately $100 per class for me to be there. I think he used this piece of information to try and guilt trip the impressionable freshmen into attending every lecture. It didn't work. 
You don't come to college for the classes (sorry Mom and Dad). Notre Dame will give you a great education but the classes here are pretty much the same as anywhere else you could have gone, contrary to the much-hyped U.S. News' annual rankings. 
You come here for the name, for the prestige, for the experience. You com-e because it's Notre Dame and nowhere else can compare. 
So while some of what your parents -or your alumni club, or your finan­cial institution -are paying goes to your classroom education, I doubt I'd attribute quite so heavy a weight to 

Kara King 
Assistant Managing Editor 

the statistic as my physics professor did three years ago. Remember you came here for the experience, so don't miss out on such a crucial aspect of college life by sitting in your. room studying on a Friday night. No test will ever be worth it and no bad grade will hold you back as much as most freshmen seem to think. Your GPA can only get you an interview; it won't help you once you're through the door. Go find something other than group projects to BS about. Besides, it's Notre Dame, and, as long as you're not a science major, it's pretty hard to get anything below a B. 
Focus on really learning here. Don't completely neglect your classes -I'm not endorsing scholastic failur.e, I'm just saying a B isn't the end of the world -but realize what you learn in them won't have as much influence on your future as the life experience you gain here. I like to think of classes as a necessary evil, a way to signal to employers that I actually care enough about my future to broaden my hori­zons, even if everything I learn will be outdated in the next five years (Literally. IFRS will soon replace every accounting standard I've studied). 
Find out who you are and know what you can accomplish. Don't be 
The words "all women's college"  decided where to go in life, met  
were a huge red flag in my mind.  inspiring professors and found my  
Not because I'm boy crazy, but  closest friends.  
because I had grown up in a house  Your first few weeks, maybe even  
of all women, and couldn't imagine  months at Saint Mary's won't be  
adding another  perfect. They are filled with appre­ 
1,500 females  hension about meeting new people  
to that list.  and getting the·work done.  
However, one  However, before you leave at the  
orientation day  end of your first year, you will find  
later, I knew  yourself missing everything about  
there was no  your time here. The late night cram  
other place I  sessions with the girls, the junk  
would rather  food at 2 a.m., and the girls you  
be.  were in the trenches with when the  
AshleyBeing a  professors gave you two papers and  
Charnleynorthern  a test on the same day will make  
Indiana girl, I  you long for fall to come. 
Saint Mary's had visited Editor  So, for those of you who were like  
Notre Dame  me and worried about moving to  
several times  the all-female world that is Saint  
with my family. In all those trips to  Mary's, you should know that this is  
the golden dome though, I never  one of its strengths, not one of its  
once went to see Saint Mary's.  weaknesses. This is a place where  
Unlike many of the girls here, no  women can thrive, find themselves  
other women in my family had gone  and form bonds that nothing can  
here. So, I stepped onto campus  break. This isn't just a place of  
with absolutely no idea what to  higher education, but a home  
expect. I had come from a public  where you can grow within your­ 
school, so the concept of an all­ self. My best advice to you is come  
women's Catholic college was com,  here, but more than that, come  
pletely foreign to me.  here and get to know the amazing  
President Mooney gave the wel­ women that surround you. There is  
come speech at orientation, and she  no other place where so many tal­ 
began to talk about the type of  ented, compassionate and intelli­ 
women who had been accepted into  gent women will gather together.  
Saint Mary's. She began to talk  Take advantage of the company you  
about her own experiences at the  are privileged to keep for the next '  
College, and what struck me most  four years.  
about her words were how genuine  I know you are nervous now  
they were. You could tell that she  because you are here on your own.  
wasn't just trying to sell the school,  I know that feeling. I came here  
but sharing her real feelings about  alone too, but I will leave here with  
what Saint Mary's had meant to her.  dozens of women who I will.never  
As the day went on, all the stories  forget. Saint Mary's and the women  
were the same. This wasn't a school  you meet here will always be with  
where you just go to class, but a  you. So no matter what, just  
place where you formed your views  remember to have fun.  
on life, the world, and your place in  
it. The girls here made it clear this  Ashley Charnley is a junior  
wasn't just a college, it was a home.  Communication Studies and English  
Now, entering my junior year, I  Writing major at Saint Mary's. She  
am one of those girls who can tell  can be contacted at  
you that Saint Mary's will become  acharnO 1 @saintmarys. edu  
your second home, not only for the  The views expressed in this  
next four years, but for the rest of  column are those of the author and  
your life. Saint Mary's will never  not necessarily those of The  
just be a school to me. It is where I  Observer.  


Building bonds 
afraid to ask your professors for advice; their goal is to help you suc­ceed. Take a class with Carl 1\ckermann, who understands the importance of real world skills, and even devotes a portion of his class to them. As with every professor here, he''ll go above and beyond what you expect. 
There will be times when you hate this place. (Every year, someone finds it humorous to submit a Letter to the Editor listing these instances. If you ever feel so compelled, please refrain.) Maybe you're already regret­ting your decision to attend based on the awkward interactions and forced prancing that is Frosh-0. If you haven't yet found a reason for bitter­ness, rest assured you will. There will be days when you blame everything from a bad grade to a bad night out on the fact that you chose to attend Notre Dame rather than State U back home. I dD it all the time and am always fascinated by how I can loathe and love a place so much. 
Notre Dame is exclusive, and that exclusivity gives plenty of people many more valid reasons to harbor resentment. It's fine to be angry and bitter, but don't waste too much ener­gy or you won't find the time to real­ize all Notre Dame has to offer. 
You are lucky to be here. Regardless of how hard you worked in high school or your athletic inclination or who you're parents ars, I guarantee that for each of you here, there are numerous equally-qualified people willing to take your spot in the Notre Dame family. Do not forget that. 
I love Notre Dame and (almost) 
· everything about it. It has given me all I could have asked for in preparing me for the next phase in life. You will become someone new here, and not because of your time in the classroom. But, given the hiring rate of Notre Dame grads, I'd say that's a good thing, 
Kara King is a senior accounting and economics major. She would like to apologize to any of her professors who may have been offended by the priorities listed here. She plans on working for Ernst and Young after graduating before pursuing a law degree. Winning the lottery has fallen to a distant third on her list of career goals. She can be contacted at kking5@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are t!'tose of the author and not 'necessarily those of The Observer. 

Exceeding expectations 
I l 
I happened to pick up a South Bend you recognize the opportunities in travel brochure earlier this week at a front of you and take them whenever rest stop along I-80 on my way to cam­you can. pus. Notre Dame graces· the cover and This.weekend, when you're doing all some of the text inside touts your new sorts of Frosh-0 activities, take the school as "the 
opportunity to meet as many people most famous from your dorm as you can. Use this University" in the opportunity to find a friend or a few in nation. your dorm or elsewhere. 
Notre Dame is In two weeks, when Activities Night known the world is held, head to the JACC and consider over. Whether all sorts of clubs and activities the they know the opportunities they provide. athletic program, When RecSports starts advertising the academic rep-club or dorm sports, consider joining a utation or the Aaron Steiner team or two. Catholic history of When a professor or upperclassman Notre Dame, peo­Assistant mentions studying abroad, talk to them ple know this Managing about the opportunity and any experi­University. Editor ences abroad they've had. 
With that kind of When the Center for Social Concerns reputation, stereotypes and expecta­takes applications for their ~eminars tions about this place abound. and service programs, check out 
As a freshman, I took these expecta­opportunities and consider giving back. tions to heart, and had plenty of my When Campus Ministry starts an own imaginations about the four years Emmaus group in your dorm, consider ahead of me. the opportunity to meet for Bible study. 
I think it's normal to arrive at an When your RA invites you to have unfamiliar place and have all sorts of dinner, seize the opportunity to get to expectations and notions about what know him. the experience will be like. If you're When you have the chance, take the like I was, you're a little nervous arriv­opportunity to get to know your rector. ing on campus and have been trying to When you're in an interesting class, imagine for months what heading to go to the professor's office hours and college would be like who you would use the opportunity to get to know him meet, what you would do, how you and talk about the course. would fit in. And you probably have And whenever you have the opportu­some expectations. nity, introduce yourself and reach out 
You might think you know exactly to as many of your classmates as you what's coming, but more likely than can. not there is no way to imagine the If you lack any motivation to take the types of things you'll experience at risk and seize any of these opportuni­Notre Dame. ties, find a senior. We'll all confirm 
I, for one, did not expect to travel all that time at this place is limited, and it over Europe while studying abroad for goes all too fast. a year, go to USC or New Orleans with If you're lucky enough to have a the Band of the Fighting Irish, inter­diverse number of experiences and view a Senator while working at the meet a wide array of people, I think campus newspaper, have professors that you, too, will in retrospect agree who have become friends, or meet so that Notre Dame has exceeded your many amazing people and make so expectations. many great friends. 
The biggest thing I didn't expect was Aaron Steiner is a senior Finance the huge number of opportunities I'd and German major. He can be have as a student at Notre Dame. contacted at asteiner@nd.edu 
In other words, Notre Dame has far The views expressed·in this column exceeded my expectations. And I'm are those of the author and not sure the same can be true for you, if necessarily those'of The Observer 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Saturday, August 22, 2009 page 15 
Campus leaders welcome Class of 2013 
Dear Students: 
With the beginning of a new academic year, I extend a warm welcome to all new and returning students of the University of Notre Dame. In particular, I wish to congratulate and welcome our freshmen and transfer students. We are excited and grateful that you are here, and we will strive to help you grow during your time at Notre Dame. 
Make the most of your time here. Be open to engaging new friends, those who may have very similar or very different personal stories and perspectives. Embrace each classroom experience as an opportunity to learn, hone your talents and share your ideas. If you live in a residence hall, explore the multiple ways that you can contribute as a leader. When you face challenge, know that you are not alone and do not hesitate to seek support from those around you. Finally, in all that you do, take a few moments each day for personal reflection to refresh your spirit. 
One of the primary objectives of Notre Dame, as a Catholic university, is to develop people who will be prepared to make positive contributions to the Church and the world and to con­front the challenges of the future. We are confident that you possess the talent and desire to make meaningful and lasting contributions. 
Once again, welcome to Notre Dame. May you soon come to feel at home on campus, and to love this place, as do so many graduates of past years. I hope to meet you in person over the course of your time, and throughout that time, I will keep you in my prayers. 
In Notre Dame, · 
Reverend John I. Jenkins, C.S.C. University president Aug. 21 
On behalf of the faculty and staff at Saint Mary's College, I extend a warm welcome to the Class of 2013 and our transfer students. As the 11th president of Saint Mary's, and a proud alunma, I know how powerful this experience will be for you. You will spend the next four years in a rigorous academic environment supported by an excellent faculty, close friends, and a deeply caring staff. 
As a Holy Cross institution, we place a special emphasis on the edu­cation of the whole person. Your education will not end when you leave the classroom, each activity in which you participate will enhance your collegiate experience. I encourage you to participate in as many co-curricular activities as time and your academic schedule will permit. 
One ofmy aspirations for you is that you will develop a sense of obligation to the common good and that your entire life and work will reflect that understanding. If this happens for you, then you, too, will have experienced the real Saint Mary's. 
Our proud 165-year tradition of educating women to make a differ­ence in the world now includes you. It is your turn to make history at Saint Mary's College. I look forward to accompanying you on this exciting journey. 
Carol Ann Mooney College president Aug. 21 

Class of 2013: 
You chose to go to an all-women's, Catholic, liberal arts college. Located in South Bend, Ind. Winters here make Antarctica seem like Fiji. Call me crazy, but that doesn't exactly sound like the best four years of your life. You're in the midst of orientation activities, and you've met more Marys, Caitlins, and Megans than you ever thought possible. Between the time your parents head back home (to measure your rooJ;n to make sure the hot tub fits} and you and your roommate awkwardly make small talk, you're probably wondering, "What am I doing here?'' 
These same thoughts filtered through my head as a first year, but they quickly changed after a few short weeks. Saint Mary's College is truly a school unlike any other. As you become more comfortable on campus, you will inevitably become involved in campus life. That's where Saint Mary's Student Government Association (SGA} comes in. SGA is here to ensure that your tenure at Saint Mary's is the best that it can be. SGA consists of leaders from campus who meet once a week to discuss rele­vant issues and take action to improve campus life. 
Last year, SGA revised Saint Mary's constitution and took other measures to ensure the organization ran smoothly. Now that our foundation has been laid, SGA is ready to serve you. Want new vacuum cleaners in the residence halls? Tell us. Want to discuss transportation to and from campus? Tell us. Want to go co-ed? Tell us (but after 165 years, we probably won't do anything). Nothing is too small or too trivial. The only way we can truly give the student body what it wants is if you tell us exactly what that is. You have the power to change things, and we will do everything in our power to make your voices heard. 
As a member of SGA, I promise you that we will be a proactive and transparent organization whose primary goal is to better student life. Our lines of communication will be open, and we will share our activities with students. We have nothing to hide from you, and you should have a governing body in which you take pride. SGA will be more efficient and strive to complete tasks in a timely manner. I don't like wasting time, and I do not plan on wasting yours. SGA will communicate better with students. As the liaison between administrators and students, we will be aware of your concerns and suggestions. Completing tasks is great, but it means nothing if these tasks don't improve the welfare of students. Likewise, we invite you through open forums to share your opinions. 
In accordance with our mission, SGA hosts wonderful social events throughout the year. Jamaica Shaka is tomorrow night right here at Saint Mary's (a great opportunity to follow up with your Domerfest friends). Ice cream socials, movie nights and formals are only a few of the many ways SGA caters to you. Spring events like SMC Tostal and the Dalloway's Carnival bring all students together. We hope you'll take advantage of these fun activities. 
That being said, SGA can only do as much for you as you want us to. As student body president, I am here to ensure that you women get as much out of your four years at Saint Mary's as possible. SGA is your organization; please use us to improve your col­lege experience. If you let us serve you, I think you will find that this all-women's, Catholic, liberal arts college in snowy South Bend is exactly where you're supposed to be. 
Welcome home, Belles! 
Jenny Hoffman and Meg Griffin Saint Mary's student body president and vice president Aug. 21 

Class of 2013­
On behalf of the student body, welcome home! 
I can't tell you how excited we are to have you on campus. Each year, the incoming freshmen become more and more impressive. Each of you bring an incredibly dynamic perspective to the table. For some of you, Notre Dame has been the dream school. This university has been in sight for many years and you're fmally here. For others, you may have recently made the Notre Dame decision during your latter years of high schooL And for others, Notre Dame may have even been a last minute decision. Regardless of the reason or path that brought you here, you and your family have made a decision that will reward you in so many ways. 
You will hear this countless times throughout your time here, but Notre Dame is much more than a university. We are a community, an athletic pow­erhouse, a Catholic university, a place ofresearch, a center for development, maturation and understanding. I encourage you to live life to the fullest throughout your time at Notre Dame. Be open to growth. Learn about each other. Study hard, but go out. Spend time with your friends. Meet with profes­sors outside of class. Stay on top of your work. Join an interhall team. 
Many of you may be coming from many commitments throughout high school. and you can't wait to join a leadership position on campus. Others may be overwhelmed, and simply want to slowly and comfortably transition into college life. Either option is perfectly fine. 
These next four years are yours. But just know that the support you will fmd here is incomparable. All of the upperclassmen are here for you. Ask us questions. Let us give you some feedback. Continue to seek advice from pro­fessors, advisors and your friends across campus. Continue to meet people in your dorm. Everyone is in the same boat and we all want to get to know everyone that we can. Student Government is always here to help. We'll be in 203 LaFortune pumped to help in any way that we can. So bottom line, tear it up this year. Be confident. Do everything with energy and passion. And more than anything, enjoy it! 
Take a deep breath. You're here. 
Grant Schmidt Notre Dame student body president Cynthia Weber Notre Dame student body vice president Aug. 21 
Welcome to the Notre Dame Family. Whether you join us as a first-year undergraduate, a transfer student, or a new graduate/professional student, it is an honor to be among the first to welcome you to the University of Notre Dame. On behalf of all of us who serve in Student Affairs, we are glad you are here and hope that you will soon feel comfortable calling this place home. 
This University offers a host of incredible resources that exist to help you do just that. Our 28 undergraduate residence halls and two graduate residence facilities are at the heart of the very real sense of community that is one of the most distinctive features of a Notre Dame education. The quality of the student service departments in the Division of Student Affairs is unparalleled; these offices include Alcohol and Drug Education, Campus Ministry, the Career Center, the Counseling Center, the Gender Relations Center, Health Services, International Student Services and Activities, Multicultural Student Programs and Services, the Office of Residence Life arid Housing, Notre Dame Security/Police and Student Activities. The staffs in your residence halls and graduate residences are present to assist and to support you in your transi­tion to life at Notre Dame. 
Although we provide a variety of services, we share a common desire to do everything we can to help facilitate your intellectual, spiritual and personal growth. 
As a community, we draw our strength from the unique and diverse gifts offered by each of you. We hope that all of you will be able to achieve the goals you set for yourselves this year. 
I hope that I will have the opportunity to come to know as many of you as possible in the months ahead. Until I am able to greet you in person, please know that you have my very best wishes for a year filled with all God's blessings. 
Father Mark Poorman vice president for student affairs Aug. 21 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 16 
Saturday, August 22, 2009 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Scene Writer 
What to do, what to do? You've arrived on campus, gone to your dorm, moved a life-time's worth of belongings into a room the size of a walk­in closet, met your roommate and had a meal in North Dining Hall. 
But now, you have a week­end to spend (albeit with some Frosh-0 activities) in South Bend, Ind. with your parents before they return home and leave you to your own devices. Now, South Bend has never been described as the most interesting city in the world, but you do have options for entertainment in the city and the surrounding areas. 
For sports fans, or at least college football fans, South Bend is home to the College Football Hall of Fame. From busts of the greatest athletes to ever step on the gridiron to interactive areas allowing visi­tors to feel included in the game, the Hall of Fame would provide hours (though maybe only two) of enjoyable family time. Also, stop by the South Bend Chocolate Cafe while you're downtown and try their homemade chocolates. 
For those families who pre­fer something more active, South Bend is home to the East Race Waterway, a white­water rafting facility and one of the 2004 Olympic Trial locations. For both beginner and advanced kayakers, the East Race can provide an afternoon of fun for you and your family. 
Golf fans have a multitude of choices for hitting the links in South Bend. Notre Dame itself is home to two courses, and South Bend's Blackthorn ranks in the top 50 public courses, according to "Golfweek." 
Lake Michigan is also within an hour of campus. Although the Lake Michigan beaches do not compare to either the Pacific or Atlantic coast, they do serve as a decent replace­ment. The beach in New 
Buffalo, MI is particularly appetizing, if only because of its proximity to Redamak's, which serves some of the best hamburgers in the area. 
However, one could still con­tend that the most exciting, beautiful and enjoyable place to spend time in the South Bend area is the very place that you will be spending your next four years. Notre Dame, with its park-like atmosphere, is a perfect place to enjoy your last few days with your par­ents. 
Take a walk around the lakes, visit the Golden Dome, the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center and the Grotto, or just play catch and have a picnic on one of the quads. Your experiences at Notre Dame will surely shape your life, and your parents certainly would enjoy experi­encing some of its greatness with you. 
Contact Eric Prister @ eprister.nd.edu 

Legends ~ ~; ~ 
AflJII-sl;ale re61lll.lnlltt and bar lh11t IWVIII N<>tre ~lhemad dlnnar t-. , , Tha att~ cll.d:! and !l'lrf<lrmaf!Ce tifll~CII !~leo hinl• C<illltlllrtll, rllf11llnQ from ~;amp;•l:l/lndlo 11:1 \:IIQ n>llllO a.;c.. P$t Plirfl'l!lllerilhll~ ~Pen~ triCl lha Plilin Whiw T•R•NI.Irnnl gpt111 Mood~~¥ -Slll~~¥<~111. nlWl· mll PJIJ· 
······~~~~··
"':lll'.~tt· ~m1 rt 



-, 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Saturday, August 22, 2009 
page 17 
Dorm Deco 
By JESS SHAFFER 
Scene Editor 
We could all use tips when it comes to the difficult choices made when decorating our respective college habitats. Unpacking is only one step in the process of making a dorm your home-away-from-home, but dec­orating takes a room from the place where you keep your -things to the place where you . can feel comforted, inspired, and relaxed. Here are a few ideas to keep in mind during this process. 
To Theme Or Not To Theme? 
Themed rooms are a very com­
mon way for roommates to bond 
over a common interest. 
Common themes include beach 
paradises, black and white 
motifs, pink and polka-dotted 
looks, and even "High School 
Musical" devotion that extended 
past graduation into Notre Dame 
move-in. 
Sometimes a chosen theme can 
help navigate the wide range of 
room decor options. With a 
theme, roommates can go wild in 
the creation of a cohesive ambi­
ence. But there are some down
sides to a theme. A tropical 
haven might not seem so warm 
with the change of seasons. Or 
the phrase "orange is the new 
pink" might make you panic if 
your room looks like set from 
"Legally Blonde." 
It's important to decide if a 
theme will be overbearing or too 
inflexible for you before you 
commit to it. Once you gauge 
this, dive into your chosen motif or divert to a more eclectic, 'diverse look. 
Points for Creativity 
Making dorm room decor takes a lot of flexibility and compro­mise. You have to combine the tastes of anywhere between two and six people. Being considerate and letting each persons prefer­ences have a presence in the room not only will make for peaceful roommate relations but also for peace of mind. Eclectic nirvana can be achieved by mak­ing everyone happy in your living space. 
At the heart of compromise is creativity. Creatively incorporat­ing all parties allows for a new comprehensive look. Creativity is not only vital to the personality of a room but also essential for making the room functional. Creativity is crucial in making the most of small or oddly shaped rooms found in older dorms and in spicing up boring, homogenous spaces in newer dorms. Stay Classy, Stay Yourself 
Your dorm room environment should be a place where you feel comfortable, and one great way to increase your comfort is to surround yourself with things that you like. This can mean pic­tures from home or posters of your favorite movies. 
One big mistake made particu­larly by campus males is making prominent displays of poor taste. Obviously taste is subjective, but certain interests begin to scrape the bottom of the barrel. The best and most prevalent example of this is found in rooms that are adorned purely with drinking memorabilia and posters of ladies who are wearing varying amounts of clothing. It's clear that you like women and drink­ing. But is it really the best inter­ests to highlight? Well, not only does it generally lack class, it also lacks originality. 
The message here is not to be someone that you aren't but rather to show how diverse and high-quality your interests are. Allow your room to speak to your credit rather than your detri­ment. Be prepared to use both sides of your brain when it comes to dorm room problem solving, and you will be ready to tackle any obstacles in the way to mak­ing the room of your dreams. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at 
jshaffel @nd.edu 
Observer Graphic I ANDREA ARCHER 

page 18 The Observer + Cl.ASSIFIEDS Saturday, August 22, 2009 
Fresh01en 
continued from page 32 
won national titles and lost national titles before and we continue to be very resilient and have that hunger to achieve this year." 
The 2009 Irish may be just as deep as last year's squad with 19 monogram winners and seven starters returning. Last year's depth will help the Irish this season as they look to replace many of their grad­uated stars, including two­time Hermann Award winner Kerri Hanks. Although the Irish return few proven goal scorers, they return a great number of offensive players who have the ability to light up the box scores this season. Among those who Waldrum expects to step up and pro­duce is sophomore forward Melissa Henderson, the reign­ing Big East Rookie of the Year who ranked second in the conference behind Hanks in both goals and points. 

"We're looking at Melissa Henderson, who's into her sophomore year as one who's fully capable of stepping up and filling that goal scoring," Waldrum said. 
Waldrum also believes that sophomore forward Courtney Barg will contribute on the front line. Barg came on strong for the Irish late last season and started in all six of Notre Dame's College Cup games. 
"Courtney Barg may be one of the best players in the country this year," Waldrum said. "She has the ability to score a lot of goals." 
The Irish also boast a strong incoming freshman class, led by Canadian for­ward Tereza Stastny, whom Waldrum said he expects to contribute early. 
"Freshman Tereza Statsny from Canada can step in and 
put up a lot of goals," Waldrum said. 
Fans looking to see the Irish make another run at a nation­al championship will be able to do so in the comfort of Notre Dame's brand new Alumni Stadium, which Waldrum believes may be the final step in making Notre Dame a perennial national power. 
"As a university we have great academics, and we've had a great women's program over the years and we think [the stadium] is the last piece of the puzzle to make sure we remain a national power," Waldrum said. "More impor­tantly, I hope it helps draw students, and I hope we get more of the student support out there because we think that if we get students out there once, it will get them hooked." 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 

want to judge ourselves is if we 25 by the National Soccer with upperclassmen, including "That will be up to Dillon," can win the championship," he Coaches Association of nine returning starters. Clark said. "He's going to chal­

Wildcats 

said. America. The Irish are ranked "There's no question that lenge when he comes in, and continued from page 32 However, even qualifying for No. 12. we'II miss all the seniors," he he'll certainly add depth." 
the NCAA tournament is a "We play a difficult schedule," said. "I think every year you Powers and sophomore "Northwestern is a great tough task. Clark said. "We'll find out pretty have a good team, defender Aaron team, but we felt that we didn't "Making the tournament early if we've got what it takes." you're going to Maund may
'The secret is to

do what we were capable of. makes it a successful season," The schedule may be even graduate very miss up to six We had the potential to go all Clark said. "But harder to navi­good players. The replace [seniors]. It's games if chosen the way." to make it a great gate after the secret is to an opportunity for to play for the
"We play a difficult
The team's first game, against season, I'd say loss of nine sen­replace them. It's United States at
the lads who have 

Michigan on Sept. 1, should be the final four is schedule. We'llfind iors from the an opportunity for the 2009 U20 played in the brand new Alumni what the target out pretty early if 2008 squad the lads who have been waiting World Cup. Stadium, which Clark had the is." including first­been waiting in in the wings. " Both have been
we've got what 
opportunity to tour last week. The Irish will team All­the wings." named to a 30­"It's exciting," he said. "It have to prove it takes ... American cen­One key player list, of
Bobby Clark

looks like a castle. Hopefully it themselves right tral defender replacement which 21 will becomes a fortress for Notre away, as their Matt Besler, comes in the form Irish coach be selected. 
Bobby Clark 
Dame soccer." first games come who was draft­of incoming fresh­"It's great
Irish coach 
Clark said he is looking for at home against ed in the first man midfielder news if they the Irish to make it further into No. 22 Michigan round by the Dillon Powers. Powers was make the squad," Clark said. the NCAA tournament this sea­and then at the Adidias/IU Kansas City Wizards, and all­named the 2008-09 Gatorade "But the bad news is we might son, though another Big East Credit Union Classic against No. Big East left back Jack Traynor. Boys Soccer Player of the Year have to do without them. But title is also a big goal. 3 Wake Forest and No. 5 St. Both men started every game for his senior year at Plano we're very happy for them. 
"I think the league is the true John's, both of which made the for the Irish in 2008. Senior High School in Plano, We'll be good still." measure of success, but in fair­Final Four in 2008. Overall, the But Clark said he is confident Texas. Clark said he does not ness the way we are going to be schedule contains eight teams that the team will overcome the yet know how soon Powers will Contact Laura Myers at judged, and the way we really ranked in the pre-season Top losses and is still well-stocked play. lmyers2@nd.edu 

The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 

024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The 
char~e is 5 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all



CLASSIFIEDS 
class1fieds for content without issuing refunds. 

WANTED 
SOCCER REFEREES Needed for 2009 Fall Season-The Stanley Clark School, a south side elemen­tary/middle school is located north of Erskine Golf Course on Miami Street. Soccer referees are needed for 5-6th grade and 7-8th grade girls and boys soccer matches. Pay is $37 per game to licensed refer­ees. If interested, please contact Caryn MacKenzie, Athletic Director, at Stanley Clark School at 574-291· 4200. 

FoR SALE 
Maintenance-Free Villa, minutes from the Golden Dome! Like new, one owner, very convenient to shopping, dining & the airport! Well constructed featuring cathedral ceil­ings and thoughtful floor plan. II you are looking for a place to call home for a weekend, a month or forever near the shadow of the Golden Dome, please give me a call, I would love to show you this great villa! REMAX100-SUSAN ULLERY, Broker Associate (574)235­3446.trim -Broyhill-$150 674­6150 

FoR RENT 
I 

Unfurnished House lor rent. 2 bedrm fenced yard 2 car garage. 1 mile to campus. 219-575-0550 leave a message. 
Looking for a quiet place to relax after the game? Charming rental unit lor 2-4, beautiful view, free canoe and kayaks with direct access to St. Joe River. Adults only, no smoking, no pets. See pictures on www.TheRiverGetaway.org or 269-815-3000. Great to stay lor Notre Dame Events. 3 day mini­mum. 
Garage lor storage plus room lor rent lor football weekends. 112 mi. to NO. Call Matt at 574-302-7224. 



PERSONAL 
EARN $50 FOR 1 HR OF WRITING ACT, Inc. invites you to participate in an essay-writing study. Limited number of participants so register soon to secure a spot. www.act.org/essaystudy 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame s website: http://csap.nd.edu 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. II you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­lance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at1-2685. For more information, visit NO s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
She was more like a beauty queen from a movie scene I said don~ mind, but what do you mean I am the one Who will dance on the floor in the round She said I am the one, who will dance on the floor in the round 
The Way You Make Me Feel (The Way You Make Me Feel) You Really Turn Me On (You Really Turn Me On) You Knock Me Off Of My Feet (You Knock Me Off Of My Feet) My Lonely Days Are Gone (My Lonely Days Are Gone) 
I wanna love you ( P.Y.T.) pretty young thing you need some Iovin (T.L.C) and I'll take you there I wanna love you (P.Y.T.) Pretty young thing You need some Iovin' (T.L.C.) Tender Iovin' care I'll take you there 

,-----------------~-~--~---­
Saturday, August 22, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 



Jackson 
continued from page 32 
No. 1 in the national rankings last year, and claimed both the CCHA regular S!)ason and clayoff Championships, earn­ing the latter with a 5-2 come-from-behind victory over Michigan at Joe Louis Arena in Detroit. 
Jackson said the Bemidji State loss has stuck with him over the off-season, and expected it had with his play­ers as well. Even though NCAA regulations prohibit much contact between coach­es and players over the sum­mer, Jackson said he trusted in his team's work ethic. 
"They're a pretty focused group," Jackson said.. "And I'll be pretty surprised if they weren't working hard." 
The biggest question mark heading into the new season will be between the pipes, just as it was two years ago. Going into the 2007-08 campaign, then-junior Jordan Pearce beat out then-sophomore Tom O'Brien and the highly touted then-freshman Brad Rhillips. Pearce went on to become one of most decorated net­minders in Irish history, set­ting prog'ram records in sin­gle-season wins and shutouts as well as career wins. 
Jackson said Phillips, who missed all of last season because of a leg injury: would be the starter this season with O'Brien and freshman Mike Johnson serving as suit­able back-ups. 
"Jordan Pearce, when he got his first opportunity he never looked back, and we hope that Brad can do the same thing," Jackson said. "That's going to be the biggest question mark going into the season, but I have full confidence that Brad can take the similar type of step that Jordan took." 
As far as Phillips' injury goes, Jackson said he expect­ed Phillips to be fully recov­ered from the surgery, which was done last October. Phillips returned to the ice last spring for some light practice just before the NCAA Tournament. 
"He looked pretty good for a guy that hadn't played or practiced all year," Jackson said. "The biggest thing for Brad is going to be his mental approach to the game." 
In addition to Pearce, the Irish also have to replace sen­iors Erik Condra, Christian Hanson, Garrett Regan and Justin White. 'Jackson said he expected the current senior class, specifically players like Ryan Thang and Kyle Lawson, to take on a larger role. 
Rounding out the roster will be the six-man freshman class of forwards Kevin Nugent, Nick Larson, Kyle Palmieri and Riley Sheahan, defenseman Sam Calabrese, and Johnson. 
Jackson said Palmieri, sele.cted 26th overall in the 2009 NHL Draft by Anaheim, and Sheahan, second cousin of former IriS'h player Brock Sheahan, have the best chance to contribute immedi­ately, though he expects all the freshmen to leave their mark eventually. 
"There's no question that Kyle Palmieri is going to be ready to play right away, and I hope that Riley Sheahan will as well," Jackson said. 
Notre Dame will need con­tributions from across the board if they expect to suc­cessfully navigate a confer­
ence schedule that includes four games each against rivals Michigan and Michigan State and two against last year's national runner-up Miami (Ohio). Outside of CCHA player, Notre Dame has a home game against peren­nial power Boston College, a potential match-up against North Dakota in the midsea­son Shillelagh Tournament in Chicago, and, to top it all off, a fall break trip to Boston to play defending national champion Boston University. 
"I don't want to go through the season without having some bumps in the road so that your team gets better and knows how to play teams · of that caliber," Jackson said. 
The agreement with Boston University stipulates that the Terriers will play a return game in South Bend in 2011, Notre Dame's first season in the new Lefty Smith Ice Rink, which will break ground this spring. 
"There's motivation to pre­pare our team, but there's also motivation to bring teams into our building as well," Jackson said. 
The Irish open their season with a non-conference two­game series against Alabama­Huntsville on Oct. 9 and 10 in the Joyce Center. 
Note 

+The CCHA voted on Aug. 11 to deny admission to Alabama-Huntville. The Chargers currently play in the College Hockey Association, a four-team conference that is set to disband after the 2009­10 season. The CCHA will be dropping to 11 teams after this season, as Nebraska­Omaha will·be joining the WCHA. 
"We certainly didn't do it out of disrespect for Alabama-Huntsville," Jackson said. "We were just more worried about the members of our conference and making sure our league is in full health for the future. It's dis­appointing and I hate to see that happen, but it is based on a lot of different reasons." 
Contact Sam Werner at swemer@nd.edu 

Brey 
continued from page 32 
East teams will face. 
"We lost four seniors who were such a key part of our fabric, it just changes the per­sonality of the team, which is neat about college basketball," Brey said:· "You always have new personalities to add." 
Hansbrough averaged 10.5 points per game in his last year at Mississippi State, and will join Jackson on the perimeter as ~he likely shooting· guard. Martin, a 6-foot-8 swingman with range from outside, will replace Ryan Ayers at small forward. Martin averaged 8.5 points and 3.8 rebounds per game in his only year with the Boilermakers. 
Manning the frontcourt with Harangody will be junior for­ward Tyrone Nash, who emerged as a key rebounder and post presence for Notre Dame at the end of last season, averaging 6.2 boards per con­test. 
Brey said there are definite points of improvement he would like to see on both ends of the floor for the upcoming season. 
''I'd like to see us getting a little better offensively than we were this year," Brey said. "The year or two before we were very potent offensively, up in the 80s [in points per game]. I think we probably have that potential again." 
"Certainly on the defensive end, we can get better there, can we rebound the ball better, that's always a · certain, rebounding the basketball against the athletic ability in our league;" Brey said. "We're not going to necessarily steal in down from people but can we keep the keep the field goal percentage down." 
Brey also said he preferred the lack of pressure compared to last year's preseason top 10 ranking. 
"We're not on anybody's radar right now and I think that's a good thing for us," he said. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu · 

On-Line Grocery Shopping and Can1pus Delivery ''Right to Your Door'' 

www.IndianaGroceries.com 
../ FREE DELIVERY-Right to your Hall Room or on:.campus Home ../ $5.00 in FREE GROCERIES by Creating an Account ../ NATURAL & ORGANIC-STORE BRAND-NAME BRAND 
(Over 7,800 items to choose from) ../ Earn Loyalt)' Points ../ Receive $5.00 in free Groceries when you Refer a Friend (no limit) ../ Parents can Deposit Grocery Funds Directly into a Students Account ../ Locally Owned and Operated ../ No Car on Campus-No \Von·ies! ../ Keep your Room Stocked-Great for Tailgate Parties-Stay out ofthe Bad Weather! 





TIVITIES IGHT 
There ore over 250 undergraduate clubs and organizations at ND that draw more than 500,000 participants every academic year to events, performances, competitions, rehearsals, practices, meetings and more. Learn more about getting involved with a group that interests you at ActiviHes Night. 
TUESDAY • SEPTEMBER 1ST 
7:00 PM • 9:00 PM 

JOYCE CENTER FIELDHOUSE 


Saturday, August 22, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 


NoTRE DAME 
SHAKESPEARE 
FESTIVAL 
presents its 2009 professional Mainstage production 

I 

by William Shakespeare Idirected by David H. Bell 
AUGUST 18-30 
574.631.2800 
shakespeare.nd.edu 
881
1nfotm fHiJUN!VE!tSJTY Oli
NationalCity • 
£nlettaln ~NOTRE DAME 
Now a pan ol {i)PNC ~Inspire 
Evans 
continued from page 32 
open practice last Saturday, and Weis likes the flexibility his presence gives the rest of the Irish offense. 
"We all know Michael and Golden are going to be on the field a bunch," Weis said. "So does he end up as backup to Golden, because he has simi­lar type speed? Or do you put him opposite of Golden, and now you have speed on both sides out there, rotate him in with that three-wide group?" 
Fellow receiver Roby Toma, Te'o's high school teammate, has caught his head coach's eye by exceeding early expec­tations, particularly as a blocker, despite his 5-foot-9­inch, 175-pound frame. 
"Everyone thought that Roby was a throw-in. He's the Punahou throw-in," Weis said. "But that's not the way it's working out. He's been competitive." 
Tailbacks Cierre Wood and Theo Riddick both took signif­icant reps in Saturday's open practice with junior starter Armando Allen not participat­ing in full-contact drills, and both could contribute in the backfield and on special teams right away. 
Tight end Tyler Eifert is making a push to play behind sophomore Kyle Rudolph and junior Mike Ragone, and· Weis used Eifert as an example of the "proverbial semantics conversation about playing or not playing freshmen" that coaches have at this time of the year. 
"He's making it tough for us to want to not play him," Weis said. "He's picked it up men­tally and physically he's han­dled the roles of a tight end, including the blocking, which has been a very pleasant sur­prise for us." 
Though offensive linemen Chris Watt, Alex Bullard and Zach Martin aren't likely to see much, if any, playing time with an ex,perienced group of linemen ahead of them, Weis said all three impressed him. 
".In some other years, I think they might be playing in the two-deep right now~" Weis said. "Fortunately, we can wait ·a little while. We'll see how it goes. But we've been happy with all three of them." 
Fellow freshman offensive lineman Jordan Cowart has already been named the 
· starting long snapper. On the other side of the ball, defensive lineman Tyler Stockton has impressed the coaching staff but might remain behind several talent­ed veterans on the depth chart. "He's done a really nice job, but there's a perfect situation of he might be a luxury item," Weis said. "Here's a guy that you could spend that year developing, because he'll be 
that much better of a player." 
Depth at the linebacker position will likely preserve a year of eligibility for both Carlo Calabrese and Dan Fox. In the secondary, corner E.J. Banks has been joined by fel­low early genrollee Zeke Motta, who moved from line­backer to safety. Motta emerged as one of the team's quickest, most athletic play­ers in the spring, and Weis said he'll see the field imme­diately. 
"We need to play him on special teams," Weis said. "I see him playing on all four teams, and don't be surprised if you end up, as the year goes on, seeing him play on defense too." 
Both punter Ben Turk and placekicker Nick Tausch have challenged returning upper­classmen for starting roles. Weis said Thursday "the punter situation is too close to call" between Turk and senior Eric Maust, though using Maust to preserve a year of eligibility for Turk is an option Weis will consider. 
"As far as leg strength, there's no one here with the leg strength [Turk] has," Weis said. "He's got big-time pop." 
With the quality and depth of Weis' last few recruiting classes, the Irish have talent­ed returnees at virtually every position that will allow most of the newcomers a year to grow acclimated to the col­lege game. Still, though, there are the few who have already secured a spot in the rotation -no small feat, Weis said. 

"The guys that get on the field now as freshmen are getting on the field because they're really good, or they're playing on special teams," Weis said. "But I'm telling you, on offense and defense right now, to get on the field, 
that means you're pretty good." 
For more notes from Notre Dame's freshman media day, check out The Casual Observer at observersports­blog. wordpress. com 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Saturday, August 22, 2009 

Notre Dante: 

Volleyball falls just short in Big East champ·ionship; Men's swimming earns conference crown in last race; 
Also making an impact for the in 2008, the Nov. 19 National not expecting us to swim as well going to continue to learn and
Observer Staff Report 
Irish on offense· was freshman Catholic Championships and the as w,e did, and they were expect­grow." Volleyball outside hitter Kristen Dealy. Dealy Oct. 3 Notre Dame Invitational. ing a rather easy win." A Clean sweep of the Dennis 
Despite finishing fifth in the Big was second on the team with 2.79 Junior Lindsey Ferguson and After being predicted to fmish Stark Relays' 12 events at the East regular season standings, kills per set, with a .177 hitting sophomore Paul Springer each almost seven seconds behind the Rolfs Aquatic Center gave the the Irish came within two games percentage. finished first in the Catholic Cardinals and suffering a regular team its first win the season. The of claiming the conference crown, "I think Kristen's greatest asset Championships while senior season loss a few weeks before, Irish won each of the 10 races falling in a close match to is that she's a really strong all­Patrick Smyth led the men's team the Irish were able to pull off the and both diving competitions to Louisville in the Big East champi­around player," Brown said. "In with a fifth place finish in his first upset. post a record-setting 280 points. onship game. particular, her passing was so race of the year in the Notre During the regular season, the "I knew we had several poten­
"We continued to improve as a important for us." Dame Invitational. Irish went 4-5, earning crucial tial All-Americans swimming in team as the year went on," Irish Notre Dame should be poised Smyth paced the Irish men for victories over Pittsburgh, Miami the pool over at Rolfs," Barnes coach Debbie Brown said. "And for improvement in 2009, losing the rest of the season, finishing (Ohio), and Cleveland State. said. "While the long-term· goal is that allowed us to have a really only two seniors to graduation. l>econd at the Big East champi­"The last four years showed me setting times that will be competi­strong finish." Senior middle blocker Justine onships and first at the Great that teamwork exists, and even tive at the national champi­
Notre Dame's Big East tourna-. Stremick spent the early part of Lakes Regional. He placed lOth at though I am alone during my onships, we are always compet­ment run included a victory over the season recovering from an the NCAAs to earn his third cross­race, I am supported by a team," ing to win." Big East regular-season champi­ACL injury, but came on at the country All-American selection. Rave said. "Whether it is through After posting a 3-3 record in on St. John's, 3-1 (23-25, 25-20, end to lead the team with 1.11 For the women, Ferguson made racing someone during practice dual meets and finishing third in 25-21, 27 -25). blocks per set. a name for herself early in the or by seeing others having great the Ohio State Invitational in 
"I feel like we had a really "She was just getting in the season and continued to lead the races during meets, your team­early December, Notre Dame strong finish and were playing groove of things," Brown said. Irish at each race. mates influence you." posted a Big East meet perform­really good volleyball at the end "As the season went on she got "Lindsey had a very consistent, The Irish will return several key ance in mid-February that can of the year," Brown said. · more and more comfortable so solid season," Connelly said. swimmers from this year's squad, only be described as dominant. 
The Irish started the season in that by the end of the season she "Hopefully next year she will be and should be in good position to The Irish set ll school records four nonconference tournaments, was playing the way we knew she able to contiriue to perform at a compete for the third consecutive and beat runner-up Louisville ­going 5-7 in early play. One of could." high level throughout the season conference championship. Last which had edged Notre Dame in those defeats, though, was a tight The Irish will also lose senior and finish with a great race at the season's most valuable players dual meet competition in January loss to then-No. 4 California. outside hitter Mallorie Croal, who NCAA Championships." MacKenzie LeBlanc and John -by nearly 150 points, all while Notre Dame fell to the Golden played in only 11 matches this Ferguson finished 13th at the Lytle will be back, and hope to extending the longest champi­Bears 3-2 (25-17, 21-25 20-25, season due to injury. Brown, Big East championships to earn lead Notre Dame to another onship winning streak in Big East 25-23, 16-14). though, said that Croal still found her second all-conference honor champioinship. competition for any sport. 
After the nonconference tour­a way to help the Irish win. and led the Irish at the NCAAs "It's a long season and there Maxwell set school and Big East naments, Notre Dame got down "There's no quest~on that with a 99th place fmish. are a lot of ups and downs," sen­records in the 200-yard breast­to business in Big East play. The Mallorie is one of the best leaders Both teams were young in ior diver Michael Bulfm said. "In stroke. Miller's 22.37 -second time Irish won their first three confer­we've ever had," Brown said. 2008; the men will lose only three the end we needed to make sure in the 50 free made her the ence matches before falling to "And the way that she could con­runners to graduation and the that we had put ourselves in the fastest female Notre Dame swim­Cincinnati on Oct. 5. Notre Dame tinue lead the team even when women just two. Both will still right position to win the Big East mer ever. Junior Megan Farrell went 6-4 the rest of the way in she wasn't on the court was just have stars in 2009, including and have a good shot at sending set the school's 200 IM mark. conference play, and dropped a 3-amazing." Ferguson and sophomore Marisa people to the National Sophomore Katie Casey made her 1 decision to Long Beach State in Overall, Brown said the early Treece for the women and all-Big Championships." own mark in the 200 butterfly a nonconference match. outlook for next season was posi­East junior Jake Walker and After a season with big wins record books and Stitt won both 
Once the conference tourna­tive. freshman Joe Miller on the men's and upsetting losses both, the diving events. ment started, though, the Irish "Obviously we're very opti­side. Irish men's swimming and diving "All season we have talked turned up their level of play. The mistic," she said. "I think that "With the bulk of our team back team walked away conference about swimming well and being Irish beat Connecticut 3-0 (25-19, everything is in place for us to next year, some of our younger champions and with high hopes confident and working like a 25-19, 25-22), before downing have a very strong season." runners continuing to develop for next season. team," Barnes said. "It takes tlie Red Storm and ultimately and the addition of several fresh­more than one or two stars to win falling to the Cardinals, 3-1 (25-Cross Country men contributors, we would Women's Swimming a title, and at the Big East cham­23, 28-26, 15-25, 25-22). The Irish had a successful 2008 expect to be back at the NCAA Notre Dame capped off its pionships we performed like a 
Brown said the late-season suc­campaign that ended with both and improve on this year's per­record-extending 13th consecu­team and won like a team." cess was mainly a result of her teams competing in the NCAA formance next fall," Con·nelly tive Big East title this season with team finally getting healthy. championships. said. NCAA championship berths from Rowing 
"We were just able to kind of The men and women both fin­three athletes. The Notre Dame women's row­tweak the lineup a little bit and ished fourth at the Great Lakes Men's Swimming Though sophomore swimmers ing team was a force to be reck­get more comfortable," she said. Regional, good enough for at­It took a dramatic last-second Amywren Miller and Samantha oned with in the Big East again "We lost a couple of matches large team bids for nationals. The finish, but the Irish walked away Maxwell and junior diver Natalie this year. early on because we didn't have men finished 19th overall at the the 2009 season with their sec­Stitt boasted tremendous individ­The biggest meet of the year up the depth at that point." NCAAs and the women finished ond consecutive Big East title. ual efforts, first-year Irish coach to this point, the Big East champi­
Junior outside hitter Christina 29th. The 400-yard freestyle relay Brian Barnes said it was the onship, was a success for Notre Kaelin led the Irish on offense, "The highlight for our team was team of juniors John Lytle and teamwork that was emphasized Dame. The Irish placed first out averaging 3.25 kills per set, with our performance at the regional Andrew Hoffman, senior Danny from the start that had the of eight teams overall, and placed 
a .258 hitting percentage. Kaelin meet to qualify for the NCAA Lutkus and sophomore Joshua biggest impact on his team. either first or second in all races returned to the Irish lineup in championships," Irish women's Nosal defeated top-seeded "-It wasn't easy coming into this that weekend. They finished with 2008 after sitting out 2007 due to coach Tim Connelly said. "Our Louisville to clinch the crown for team in August with no familiari­112 points, which was far above injury. goal each year is to qualify for the Notre Dame. ty with the program, but the team second-place Syracuse at 97 
"As the season went on, she NCAA Championships and run "We managed to fight back and really embraced me," Barnes points. · just became more and more con­well there, so we accomplished win in the most dramatic fash­said. "I am so lucky that I have a The Irish also fared well in sev­fident in what she could do," part of what we had hoped to." ion," senior breaststroker Daniel" motivated group who believes in eral big regattas, including the Brown said of Kaelin. Notre Dame hosted two meets Rave said. "I think Louisville was what I believe in, and we are San Diego Crew Classic, where 

Saturday, August 22, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
Year in Revie-w 
Sandman, Fortner help young men's golf team mature; Men's track wins second consecutive league crown 
the second varsity eight finished four years, as I arrived in the the University of Colorado likely remember their comeback the NCAA Regionals in Louisville, fifth overall in the N Grand Final. spring of 2005. It's been such a Tournament, the Irish set a pro­victory over Louisville to win the Ky. on May 29. In a three-team competition thrill for me to watch him grow, gram record for scoring on their Big East Championship. between in-state rivals Indiana not only becoming a top player way to winning the tournament. The Irish repeated as the Big Women's Track and Purdue earlier in the year, and leader on our team but also "The win in Colorado was huge East Champions at the outdoor The Irish women's track and Notre Dame was able to capture how he has grown as a student for us," Holt said. "[The tourna­championships in Philadelphia, field team capped off a successful victories in four out of the five and as a person." ment win] was significant for the Pa. on May 3 when they squeaked year with a fourth place finish at races. Sandman, who missed the fall team because it gave them confi­past Louisville by just half a point. the Big East Championship in 
The Irish have found success and spring seasons due to back dence." Irish coach Joseph Piane thinks early May. The 2009 season was this season, and head coach surgery, watched as a young Irish The spring season brought a that the 2009 season will be well­highlighted by the efforts of sen­Martin Stone has had a simple squad endured a tumultuous sea­new challenge for the Irish. remembered by the team. iors Mary Saxer and Joanna formula all year: "To go faster son. Junior Doug Fortner, the Before the season started, Holt "Winning the Big East Schultz. than the year before and be fast only upperclassman who started set some lofty goals for the team, [Championship] was special," Schultz was ranked in the top enough to win the Big East." consistently, was the rock for a including finishing nationally­Piane said. "Coming from behind 10 nationally in the women's 400­
The team is repeatedly working team experiencing growing pains ranked in the top 15 and winning to win on the last event, that was meter, an event she won at the on conditioning and strength, with his team-leading 74.24 the Big East Tournament again. something even more special." Big East Championships. In addi­always searching for that physical stroke average. Freshman Max The Irish came up short on both The Irish met Piane's pre-Big tion to taking the top spot in the edge on the competitor. The next Scodro emerged as a solid colle­of those goals, but still came away East Championship challenge of 400-meter, Schultz also placed step is to be fast enough to com­giate golfer, picking up medalist with a successful regular season. scoring in every event on their sixth in the 400-meter hurdles on pete in the NCAA Championships, honors at the UNCG Bridgestone "We played tougher competi­way to claiming the champi­her way to earning first team all­which is the ultimate goal for the Intercollegiate and four top-10 tion on some difficult courses," onship. conference honors. crew. finishes. Both Scodro and Fortner Holt said. "Plus it rained in just After finishing second at the Saxer won the pole vault at the 
As is the case for any successful earned All-Big East honors for about every tournament, but I indoor Big East Championships in Big East Championship on her team, the Irish have had excellent their efforts. still feel good about where we're New York City on Feb. 22, the way to All-Big East honors for the leadership, especially from the Notre Dame shared defeat at right now." Irish started a tough outdoor fifth time in her career. Irish track seniors. "I think all the seniors along with its successes. Youth On April 21, the Irish fmished schedule that often put them coach Joseph Piane praised have shown themselves to be and inexperience hurt the Irish second at the Big East against some of the nation's top Saxer's performance while at leaders at one point or another," this season, but the veteran pres­Tournament and qualified for a competition. Throughout the sea­Notre Dame. Stone said. "They are all very ences of Sandman and Fortner spot in the NCAA Tournament. son, Notre Dame butted heads "This year she was ranked No. passionate about the sport and allowed the younger golfers to Notre Dame competed at the ,against ranked opponents like 1 in her event," Piane said. "But work to see the program suc­mature quickly. NCAA Central Regional at Ohio Arizona State, Stanford and top­now I think she's down to sec­ceed." "[Sandman] has meant expo­State this past weekend, ending ranked Texas A&M. ond." 
Some of these seniors were rec­nentially more to our program its season with a 16th place fin­The Irish currently have quali­Saxer set the Notre Dame ognized for their performance than his scores," Kubinski said. ish. fied 20 athletes on both the men's women's pole vault mark last sea­both on the water and in the ''I'm not even sure how to meas­Leading the Irish this season and women's teams to send to the son with a vault of 4.06 meters. classroom. Erica Copeland, a ure his contributions. He has not was senior captain Lisa Maunu. NCAA Regional. Of those 20 ath­She is also one of the Notre member of the second varsity only related to each and every Maunu was one of four Irish letes, Piane was especially proud Dame's three indoor All­eight crew, was given The Top one of our younger players but golfers named to the All-Big East of the efforts of senior hammer Americans with a good chance of Gun Award as well as the Notre has been able to contribute to team after the Big East thrower Jeff Mensch. Mensch being named an outdoor All­Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley their growth. He has never given Tournament, and finished first won the individual title for ham­American with a strong showing Rockne Student-Athlete Award. any attitude toward younger play­individually in the conference me'r throw at the Big East at the NCAA Regional on May 29. Sophomore Emily Crosby and ers, as if to say, 'I'm important,' tournament. Championship improving on his The Irish have already had 20 junior Braegan Padley were or 'I'm older.' Quite the contrary.'' Junior Annie Brophy, sopho­personal best by five meters in members of the men's and named to the Rosenthal With Scodro, Fortner and more So-Hyun Park and fresh­the process. women's track and field teams Leadership Academy. Sandman returning alongside a man Becca Huffer were also "[Mensch's improved] astro­qualify for the NCAA Regional. 
The Irish are still in-season, very strong sophomore class named to the All-Big East team nomically." Piane said. "To They still have one more chance with the South/Central Sprints in highlighted by Jeff Chen, the for the Irish. In addition to taking improve by about 16 feet like that to add more qualifiers to that list Oakride, Tenn. coming up on future is bright for Notre Dame. home All-Big East honors, Huffer is really a special effort." today at the Georgia Tech graduation weekend and possibly was voted as the Big East Fellow senior Daniel Clark Invitational. the NCAA Championships in Women's Golf Freshman of the Year. claimed All-Big Ea'st Honors with All year Notre Dame has been Cherry Hill, N.J. to follow. Coming into this season, the With the success of the last few a third place fmish in the 1500-competing against some of the 
Irish women's golf team had a seasons, the Irish women's golf meter. Senior Patrick Smyth toughest talent in the country. Men's Golf tough act to follow from their program appears to be on the added another impressive finish The Irish traveled to events in 
As Notre Dame looks back on a 2007-2008 campaign. The upswing. in the 5000-meter to finish third Tempe, Ariz. and Palo Alto, Calif. season marked by both success defending Big East Tournament "We've got a lot of talent right and take home All-Big East to take on some of the nation's and failure from its young team, champions took to the links in now and some good players com­Honors. elite. Piane said the team should it welcomes with open arms sen­September to try and replicate ing in the new few years," Holt The Irish will return the majori­be even more competitive next ior Josh Sandman, who will their success with some new said. "I think it's a sign of things ty of their team for next year in year. return to the team for a fifth year faces on the roster, and Irish to come.'' the hopes of a third straight Big "[The team] is pretty young," after missing the 2008-2009 sea­coach Susan Holt was happy with The Irish will be returning four East Championship. Piane said. "We're bringing back son due to injury. Sandman is the the way the team came together of the five major contributors on "We're graduating 31.5 points a lot of talent to improve.'' team's only senior and holds the in the fall. next year's team, led by Huffer out of the 130.5 we scored [in the Some of the young talent program record for scoring aver­"In the fall, we got acclimated and 2008 All-American So-Hyun Big East Championship]," Piane includes sophomores Kelly age. to a new team," Holt said. Park. commented. "That means we Langhans in the 800-meter, 
''I've been fortunate enough to "Everyone was getting used to the have quite a few points coming Marissa Treece in the 1500-meter watch him in so many stages of new line up.'' Men's Track back next year which is good." and Kali Watkins in the 100­development," Irish coach Jim It wasn't long before Notre When the athletes of the men's The Irish will have one more meter hurdles, all of whom fin­Kubinski said. "He's my first play­Dame experienced some success track and field team look back at event beginning today, the ished in the top 10 in their events er to have gone through a full with the new team. On Sept. 29 at the 2009 season, they will most Georgia Tech Invitational, before at the Big East Championship. 
r 

page 24 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Saturday, August 22, 2009 

for the 2009-2010 Academic Year 
From the Division of Student Affairs 
Rev. Mark lj. Poorman, C.S.C. 
Vice President for Student Affairs 316 Main Building 631-7394 

Mr. William Kirk 
Associate VP for Student Affairs Associate VP for Residence Life 316 Main Building 316 Main Building 631-2685 631-6144 
Sr. Susan Dunn, O.P. Mr. M. Brian Coughlin Dr. G. David Moss 
Assistant VP for Student Affairs Assistant VP for Student Activities Assistant VP for Student Affairs 316 Main Building 315 LaFortune Student Center 316 Main Building 631-5550 631-9314 631-5550 
Ms. ~Jennifer Monahan Rev. Mark B. Thesing, C.S.C. 
Executive Assistant to the Vice President Budget Manager 316 Main Building 316 Main Building 631-5550 631-3069 
.~LCOHOL &DRllG EDUCATION CAMPUS MINISTRY 
Ms. Christine Nowak, Director Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C., Director 204 St. Liam Hall 316 Coleman-Morse Center 631-7970 631-7800 
CAREER CENTER GENDER RELATIONS CENTER 
Mr. Lee Svete, Director Ms. Heather Rakoczy-Russell, Director 248 Flanner Hall 311 LaFortune Student Center 631-5200 631-9340 
INTERNATIONAL STllDENT SERVICES &ACTIVITIES MllLTilllLTllRAL STllDENT PROGRAMS &SERVICES 
Ms. Bethany Burgun, Director Ms. Iris Outlaw, Director 204 LaFortune Student Center 210 LaFortune Student Center 631-3825 631-6841 
RESIDENCE LIFE &HOllSING SECIJRITY POLICE 
Mr. Jeffrey Shoup, Director Mr. Phillip Johnson, Director 305 Main Building 204 Hammes-Mowbray Hall 631-5878 631-5555 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES UNIVERSITY COUNSELING CENTER 
Ms. Peggy Hnatusko, Director-Programming  Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Director  
Mr. Ryan Willerton, Director-Facilities  3rd Floor-St. Liam Hall  
315 LaFortune Student Center  631-7336  
631-7308  
llNIVERSITY IIEALnl SERVICES  
Ms. Ann E. Kleva, Director  
1st Floor St. Liam Hall  
631-7497  

~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
I I ­I I 
I I I 
I 
I ­
Saturday, August 22, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 

The Core Council for Gay, lesbian, Bi...sexual & Questioning Students 

We Core Council members are administrators, and gay, lesbian, and ally students who are a resource in identifying the ongoing needs of our gay, lesbian, and bi-sexual students. By implementing campus-wide educational programming on gay, lesbian, and bisexual concerns, we strive to eliminate homophobia, and to make Notre Dame a welcoming and accepting place that prizes the uniqueness of all its students. 
Meet student members of the Core Council and find out more about resources available to gay, lesbian, bisexual, and questioning students on the Notre Dame campus. 

Visiit our web site . recounciJ.n,dl.edu 
-' ' 
' 
The Core Council for Gay, Lesbian, Bi-Sexual & Questioning Students also sponsors: Coffee & Conversation at the Co-Mo t Gold Roorn "Conversations" t Solidarity Sunday t CommUnity NETWORK Sessions t StaND Against Hate Week t Day of Silence 
page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS Saturday, August 22, 2009 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Tea111 returns all players, adds top recruits for new season 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Turnover and graduation are staples of college sports, but this year Notre Dame has a get-out­of-jail-free card. 
Not one player from last year's team left. The addition of one of the country's best high school players is just piling on. 
That doesn't erase last sea­son's first-round loss at the Joyce Center in the NCAA Tournament, which coach Muffet McGraw and the Irish have not forgotten about. 

''I'm sure not over it. I'm pret­ty sure they're not either," McGraw said. "It was a really devastating blow to us." 
The Irish finished 22-9 last season, 10-6 in the Big East con­ference. They drew a No. 7 seed in the NCAA Tournament and faced No. 10 seed Minnesota, who beat them 79-71. 
The only senior on last year's team, guard Lindsay Schrader, has one more year of eligibility because she redshirted her sophomore season after tearing her anterior cruciate ligament (ACL). Schrader scored 12.5 points per game last season and led the team with 7.4 rebounds per game. 
Schrader, along with seniors Melissa Lechlitner, Ashley Barlow and Erica Williamson, understand they only have one more shot. 

"[They are] trying to get together the rest of the team to kind of get on that page of, 'Hey this is it for us,"' McGraw said. 
Torn ACLs kept the Irish short­handed for much of last season as well. Junior forward Devereaux Peters and guard Brittany Mallory both tore their ACLs early in the season. 
Mallory was cleared to play in July, McGraw said, and got a chance to play with the Irish over the summer. 
"I think mentally she's over the hump of coming back in terms of testing out her knee and feeling it's strong, she got knocked down a couple of times so she'll be ready to go," McGraw said. 
Peters tore the ACL in her left knee for the second consecutive season, but had more time to rehabilitate since she suffered the injury so early. She had a preliminary surgery in January to clean out the knee and anoth­er surgery in May, both of which were successful, McGraw said. She will not be ready to play until December. 
"It really takes a year," McGraw said. "She's going to be a year out and I think she's going to really be ready." 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Squad shoots for top three in conference race 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 

After back-to-hack fourth-place MIAA finishes in 2007 and 2008, Saint Mary's begins the fall with an eye on cracking the conference's top three for the first time in the program's history. 
The Belles are looking to build upon a season in which they fin­ished fifth or better in six of eight meets. 
Fifth-year head coach Jackie Bauters, a 2004 Saint Mary's grad­uate and former student-athlete, said she is pleased with the progress the Belles have made under her watch. 
"The [program] is steadily head­ed in a positive direction, and, as an alumna, it means a lot to me," Bauters said. "Being able to steadi­ly progress toward the top tier of the MIAA during my tenure has been a great thrill." 
All eyes are on senior captain Megan McOowry, who earned sec­ond team All-MIAA honors in last year's MIAA Championships. McOowry -who finished 13th in last year's conference meet -was only the fourth Belle in program history to earn conference honors. 
"My wish for [McLowryl is that she has her best season yet -filled with career highlights," Bauters said. "She is a wonderful athlete to coach and has a lot of natural tal­ent, so I really hope she reaches all the goals she strives for this year." 
Bauters named senior Ellen Pfister as captain alongside McClowry and believes that her team displays leadership through­out the roster. 
"[McOowry] is a leader by exam­ple," Bauters said. "[Pfister] is a great vocal leader. I believe our captains make the biggest impact on the team, as far as seniors, [but] our junior class is very strong and their work ethic, enthusiasm and spirit ~. help carry the team this year, too. 
Junior Catie Salyer and sopho­more Joanne Almond were key contributors to the 2008 squad's success, routinely placing near the top of the Saint Mary's fmishers, while sophomore Arianne Rodriguez and junior Oare McVey look to make strides from their promising 2008 seasons. 
The Belles begin the season Sept. 5 with a Saint Mary's alumnae exhibition meet. Formal competi­tion kicks off Sept. 12 at the NIU 1-Iuskie Open, before the opening of MIAA competition at the Calvin Invitational Sept. 19. 
"Returning to the Calvin meet is exciting," Bauters said. "Last year there was great competition on a beautiful course early on. It's a great event, and I'm excited to take the women back. The MIAA meets are of obvious importance to us." 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
Joining the Irish this season is point guard Skylar Diggins, the Gatorade National Female Athlete of the Year from South Bend's Washington High School. Diggins recently helped the U.S. U19 team win the World Championships in Bangkok, Thailand. 
"I think that really helps pre­pare you because you're playing for a college coach," McGraw said. "That definitely gives her a little bit of an advantage." 
In addition to Diggins, the Irish bring in 5-foot-8 guard Kaila Turner from Joliet, Ill. Turner was a four-year starter at Marian Catholic High School, where she averaged 10.8 points per game as a senior. 
McGraw said Turner's athleti­cism was impressive and that she sees her as a defensive stop­per at the moment. 
"Our strength and conditioning coach was very impressed with her speed and quickness," McGraw said. "We're excited about getting her in the gym and seeing what she can do." 
The Irish started 13-1 last sea­son, their only loss coming in overtime on the road at Michigan. Then, they went 1-3 in four conference games. They split their next six conference games, which included a 10­point loss to eventual champion Connecticut. 

Notre Dame won three straight to end the season and earned a first-round bye in the conference tournament. The Irish beat St. John's in their first game of the Big East tourna­ment, but lost to Villanova in the third round. 
That second-half struggle dropped the Irish, who were ranked No. 8 in the Associated Press poll at one point, down into the 20s. 
The only junior who was healthy last season, forward Becca Bruszewski, emerged as a multi-talented offensive threat. She averaged 10.7 points per game and led the team in 3­point percentage (37.5 percent). 
"Becca is most improved play­er two years in a row," McGraw said. "She's someone I know I can count on." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

r-----­Theatre Subscription 
Student BUY 
oupon 
--, 
Buy one 2009-2010 Theatre Student Subscription for $21 and get a second one free! 
One Theatre Student Subscription includes one ticket to each of the 
following three plays: 
The Sugar Wife 
by Elizabeth Kuti Nov lQ-15 
Natural Selection 
by Eric Coble Feb 23-28 
Blithe Spirit 
by Noel Coward April13-18 
Redeem your coupon at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Ticket Office. Ticket Office hours are Monday-Saturday, Noon-6:00 p.m. 
ftt.nd.edu performingarts.nd.edu 
-.. 



Saturday, August 22, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 27 


E'VE B.EEN 
PUTTING 0 U·T* EVERY NIGHT FOR
• 


ORE·THAN 
40 YEARS. 
-

*WE'RE TALKING ABOUT NEWSPAPERS. HAVEN'T YOU HEARD OF PARIETALS YET? 
Meet editors from News, Sports, Viewpoint, Scene, . 
I
Photo, Graphics & Ads to find out what you could do I 
I 
l 
I 
I 
I
for the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's daily newspaper. I 
-l 
PleaseJoin Us For 
l l
The Observer Open House l 
I 
I 
I
Sunday,August30,2009 l ' I 
' 
3-'5 p.m. ­Basement of South Dining Hall· . . 
'
I 
There will be food (you'll learn to take advantage of this). 
page 28 The Observer + SPORTS Saturday, August 22, 2009 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles hope to bounce back after disappointing 2008 campaign 
MEN'S GOLF 
Sandman returns to squ~d in 2009 
type players in our lineup."
By ERIC PRISTER 
Sophomore Max Scodro is Sports Writer 
another player in the Irish lineup looking to improve on a After no first-place finishes solid 2008-09 season this year. and a fourth-place showing in The only player to finish a the Big East tournament in the tournament in first place -he 2008-09 season, the Irish look tied for first place in the UNCG to use the experience they Bridgestone Collegiate gained last season on the road Championship -Scodro fin­to a more successful 2009-10 ished the year with two top-S campaign. finishes and four top-1 0 fin­
"Last year's ishes and was results were named to the somewhat pre-All-Big East dictable given team with the timeline of "Last year's results Fortner. our program "Max is anoth­
were somewhat 
and the loss of er extremely
predictable. " 
our best player talented play­and lone senior, er," Kubinski Josh Sandman, Jim Kubinski said. "He has a before the sea­great attitude
Irish coach 
son began," and has shared Irish coach Jim some very lofty Kubinski said. goals with me. 
"We had some With continued growing pains but gained a hard work, patience and his great deal of experience. ever growing emotional matu­We're going to build on those rity development, [Scodro] can experiences and are looking become a top player national-forward to a great season this !y. " year." Senior Carl Santos-Ocampo, 
After missing all of last sea­juniors Dustin Zhang, Connor son because of an injury, Alan-Lee and Jeff Chen and Sandman will return for a fifth sophomore Chris Walker will year with the school's best each look to contribute this career stroke average. In his season for the Irish. Chen was junior season, he recorded second in scoring average for two top-S finishes and five Notre Dame last season, and top-10 finishes and was also Santos-Ocampo and Zhang named to both the PING All­both recently qualified for the Midwest Region team and the U.S. Amateur golf tournament. All-Big East team. The Irish will begin the sea­
Sandman will be joined by son competing in tournaments senior Doug Fortner, who led hosted by Minnesota and the Irish last year with a Vanderbilt before returning 
74.24 scoring average and has home for the Fightin' Irish been named to the All-Big Gridiron Golf Classic, where East team two years in a row. Kubinski promises his team He also ended last season with will be ready to compete. a runner-up finish in the Big ".We just came out flat [at East tournament. the 2008 Fightin' Irish Classic] 
"[Fortner] is primed for a and never recovered in that big year," Kubinski said. event. We won't do that again. "Given the experience he We'll be fired up for our event gained last season playing this year. I guarantee it," he number one in our lineup and said. with the return of [Sandman] as a fifth -year senior, I feel Contact Eric Prister at we'll have two number one eprister@nd.edu 
• 

By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
After a difficult 2008 cam­paign that ended with a 2­13-1 overall record, the Belles are looking to contin­ue to move forward. 
"Now I have a better understanding of our play­ers and what I feel are their strengths and weaknesses," Belles coach Ryan Crabbe said. "In addition, we had a very good four weeks of training in the spring which allowed us to continue to improve and stay focused on Saint Mary's soccer. I also feel the players have a better understanding of my expectations. While we struggled in 2008 to win close games, I feel in 2009 we are all more highly motivated to turn those results around." 
The team is returning 17 players in 2009, many of whom saw playing time · during the 2008 season. 
Crabbe would like to see the team finish their games better. In 2008 the team los.t eight games by one goal and Crabbe is hoping this will provide increased moti­vation for the players and get them to take more responsibility when scoring goals. 
The team will be led by senior eo-captain Bridget Ronayne, who has been a mainstay on a tough defense for the Belles. 
"Bridget is a very mature player on the field," Crabbe said. "She is a good leader and her teammates respect her. Her success playin·g in the back for us comes from her ability to read the game and make good decisions under pressure. She is very good at minimizing mis­takes which is key as a defender." 
The Belles will count on Ronayne and other veterans to lead a freshman class 

that is coming in from all over the country. 
"We have players coming from Georgia, Kentucky, Ohio, Illinois, Missouri and Indiana," Crabbe said. "We look to have between eight and 10 freshmen competing for spots on this year's ros­ter." 
Senior Patty Duffy will also be a force for the Belles as the goalkeeper· this season. Duffy regis­tered 81 saves in 1S appearances last season for the Belles. 
"Duffy has a tremendous competitive spirit," Crabbe 
said. "She has spent many extra hours on her own in order to get better at her position. Having a full sea­son in 2008 and the number of minutes she played should translate into an advantage for her coming into the 2009 season that she did not have last year." 
The Belles will open the season with a tough road trip when they play Centre and Transylvania Colleges on Sept. S and 6 at Centre College's Tournament. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
. . .. . . .. . . ... . . . . . . . . . ..... . .... . . . .. . .... . . 
.
~ 
Eat well. Be happy. 
E!!jCtJ a. JHtU..Lf.Jr~IJt.ff a.rra.y. cJ tfresJt, cr~a,1 • ,-J,;?/' ~~~ jood.$. •• 

•• ~---____, • 
• 
•
FEATURING HOURS 
•
• 
•

Jl ::;,. 
Breakfast served all day Sunday -Tuesday; 7a.m.-2p.m. 
•

• t..>JJt£. s£~£e.fioJd 
House-made soups, salads, and 5andwiches Wednesday-Saturday; 7a.m.-9p.m•
• 
•

Enjoy ag\awor bottle of our 
Gourmet pizzas 
• 

lint' wine at unbelieveable 
Great wine selection! 
574.968.3030 • 

e'•erydaY p1ke~1 
Dinner specials Wednesddy-Saturday 
Reservations acceptedforany meal. • 
Ask about our catering!
• 
•
• 

Located inToscana Park ShoppingCentre • 303 Florence Ave., Granger, IN 46530
•

• E-mail: info@uptownkitchen.net • Web: www.UptownKitchen.net 


Saturday, August 22, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 29 
Prepare for H:I.N:I. and Seasonal Flu 

Help us prevent the spread of the flu. 
1. 
Wash your hands often. 

2. 
Eat right! 

3. 
Get plenty of exercise. 

4. 
· Wash your hands often. 

5. 
Get lots of fresh air. 

6. 
Get plenty of rest. 

7. 
Wash your hands often. 

8. 
Use tissue and toss; cover your cough by coughing in your sleeve. 

9. 
Don't share anything that touches someone else's mouth. 





'
10. Wash your hands often. ' ' 
-I
I 
l 
' 
More information is at: http://uhs.nd.edu 
University Health Services 
574-631-7497 

page 30 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish hope to live up to expectations 
amassing 24 kills against Bowling By CHRIS MASOUD Green in her first collegiate experi­
Sports Writer 

ence, which tied an Notre Dame 
record for the second-best mark in 
One phrase can motivate a team a three-game match. Kaelin was or damage a team before the sea­also twice named Big East Rookie son even starts, and that phrase of the Week. describes this year's sqliad: high Sciacca adds depth and talent as expectations. · a 6-foot-1 middle blocker to an 
The Irish received five first-place already experienced team that votes and a total of 178 points in features six returning seniors and the pre-season Big East coaches four juniors. Like Kaelin, Sciacca poll and sit tied at No. 2 with wasted no time in making a name Cincinnati. for herself during her freshman 
The high rank comes despite a year. Sciacca became only the sec­less than spectacular 2008. season ond Irish player to earn tbe AVCA in which the Irish finished 14-13 in Northeast Region Freshman of the the regular season and took sec­year honor. ond in the Big Easttoumament. But this year's most promising 
The Irish may need to avoid sign may be the return of assistant turning the preseason poll into a head coach Robin Davis, who jinx. After last season's preseason spent five years on the Notre coaches poll had Notre Dame fin­Dame volleyball staff from 2002­ishing fourth in the Big East stand­2005. Davis spent the last three ings, the team fell to fifth with a 9-seasons as the head coach at Boise 5 record in conference play.· State and replaces former assis­
The Irish will be cdunting on · tant ·coach Greg Smith, who was more than luck to carry them to named head coach of the victory during the length of the University of Toledo in May. season. Senior Christina Kaelin ''I'm really excited to have Robin and junior Kellie Sciacca return to back on staff," Irish coach Debbie lead the squad. Both were all-Big Brown told und.com. East selections for the Irish last Led by experience both on the year and will likely have to contin­court and on the sidelines, the ue their dominance in the confer­Irish will begin the 2009 season ence for the squad to have suc­with a Big East title on their minds cess. from start to finish. 
Kaelin, a 5-foot-10 outside hitter, made an immediate impression Contact Chris Masoud at during her fr'eshman year by cmasoud@nd.edu 
The Observer + SPORTS Saturday, August 22, 2009 




Join us at our Back To School Event! 
Comcast is proud to be the provider of cable television and enhanced video products for the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. 
Visit us to get more information on optional products and services that will compliment the service already provided in residence halls. 
::.  Comcast Digital Cable with  
Notre Dame Campus  On Demand  
lTC Building, Room 121  '\'; High-Definition Television Service  
-+ Sunday, August 23rd 1:00 p.m. to 5:00p.m.  .,, Digital Video Recorder Service ';. Digital Music Channels ''i International Premium Channels  
-t  Monday, August 24th 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m..  *' 11  Selecto Completo+iispanic Tier Sports Packages on Pay-Per-View  
@omcast.  

University of Notre Dame OffiCe of Information Technologies 


L I 
..-------------------------------------­
Saturday, August 22, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 31 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Doug PeteniOD and BanyC. Sillc 
26 Shooting star, briefly?  38 Modem, to Beethoven  52 Outfielder Francona  
28 Opposite of FF 30 Rose with a hit  43 Crash site sight 45 "Hoffman~ co­ 53 Some like it hot 54 See 24-Across 

record 

star Cusack 
55 Solar or lunar31 180 is its max. 

score 48_-high phenomenon 
32 Does a nursery 50 Amaryllis family 562009G.M. job members spinoff 
34 Put aside 51 Completely 59 Part of the fourth 37 Emeritus: Abbr. smooth qtt . 
For answers, call1·900-285·5656. $1.49 a minute; or. with a credit card, 1·800·814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year}. Share tips: nytimes.comtwordplay. Crosswords for vounQ solvers: nvtimes.com/leaming!xwords. 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Cffi.EBR.ITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Erica Eleniak, 39; Emily Lloyd, 38; Bryant Gumbel, 60; Jerry 1= Lewis, 73 
Happy Birthday: Use your Libra 50phistieation to gain acecss to groups that inter­est you this year. Before you know it, ~ou will be in a leadership position. There is moll¢)' lo be made and new prospects m the future ifyou use your good sense of style and origi!U!lily. Your numbers"'"" 6. 8, 16, 26, 35, 40,47 
ARIES (March 2t·April t9): You'll be a little anxious, especially if things aren't 
moving fast eMugb for you. Don't hesitate to take over and push a little harder to 
get results. It's your insight and crelltive touches that will give whatever you are 
doing that lidded pizzazz. *** 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Some<>ne may try to out.~hine you at work, school or wi.tbin your group offriends. He methndkal and ponder the situation fully before you decide to make a statement or move that could alter your standing. *** 
GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): Get your work done but have fun doing it. The more networking you can fit in, the further you will get professionally. This is a wonder­ful time fur you tuex.preu your thougblll, idcaa, coocema and plans.***** 
CANCRR (June 21-luly 22): Concentrate on family, your lover and your friend­
ships. So much can go wrong ifyou are shortsighted or neglect something or 
someone. A new concept or way ofdoing things will help you achieve mon: but 
the cbanae may be difficult. *** 
!.EO (July 23-Aug, 22): Open up about the way you fecllllld what you want to ­
happen. Money will come to you from an unusual &oum:o. This should help you 
make !be c:banaes at home that will ease stress and add to your comfort and effi­
ciency. **** 
VIRGO (Auc. 23-Sept. 22): l..oolr. for an intcrcstinc positiOJl in a field that •nits 
you and you wilt cxciel. A change of career or companies oreven starting YQnr own 
Uutc busiliCSll can all work out well. Opportunities are preacnt. *** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23·0c:t. 22): You've cot lots on your plate and plenty of(ICOPie wait­ing to ICC how you are aoing to handle everything. Don't let your emotiona get the better of you. J.ct your i11Witi011 gui4e you, not your heart. *** 
SCORPIO (Oc:t. 23-Nov. 21): Make a few necessary c:llaDJICI to your penonallifc 
and the way you diride work and down time and you will eliminate a Jot of stres1. 
Keep a level bead to liCCOmplish the IIW$l in the least amount of time. *** 
SAGI1TARIUS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 21): Achance to show your talent will ensure ...:1­
vancement. A trip may he opuned 011 by something that happens but pboae ahead 
ordeal with matten over the loternet iootead ofio penoo."**** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jm. 19}: Wateb what you say and he can:ful when: you travel. Someone is tryina to make you look bad, sobe ready to troubleshoot. Over­spending, overdOing or ovetindulgin& wiU lelld to more trouble. ** 
AQtJARJUS (bn. 20-Fcb. 18): There is an. opportunity to close a deal, pu$h a settlement through or cveG rollect money owed to )'QU. Your indpt will&uide yo11 to make.the right choices. You will win in legal mattera. ***** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March. 20): Confusion is prcliClll. Don't he surpri.ed ifsomeone you leaat erpeet uudermincJ you. Don't be bullheaded and fOI'ge ahead. You d¢111'1 bvc all the flJCII, *** 
Birthday Baby: You are imaaiutive, iaiUitive and inJcnlOWI. Your charisma cap­
tures interest and atteotion. You teDd to go overboard tryina to please. Subtle 
power plays are your forte. 
~Mia's lt\!11 sit#>: as~ice,WJll fin' frat, trtt..,Uikut.ctmlfin' ,.,.fidtmtia/ ~""''· lfi1$~.COWtlt~tlhm/M Et>!ttrit"t'i blqg 

CROSSWORD 
Across Reasonable 
treatment 10 Striking ends 15 63·Across? 16 Moon of Uranus 17 Having a lot to 
lose? 18 CD player part 19 Supply for 
driving 20 Most night owls 22 Pieta figure. 
literarily 23 Turned up 24 With 54-Down. 
approach with a line 27Tawny 29 Factory 31 Kind of door or window 33 Draft sources 35 Have yet to 
settle 36 Highway caution 39 Rich or famous: 
Abbr. 
40 Particular 41 Michael of the G.O.P. 42Word accompanying finger-pointing 44 People of the 
Platte, once 46 lump in cloth 47 "If I Had 
(lyle Lovett 
song) 
49 Symbol of innocence and purity 
51 Lucy and Ricky Ricardo's residence, e.g. 
53 Eschewer of convention, in slang 
57 One way to be taken 58 Comment from the beat 
60 Big maker of communications satellites 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

61 One singing in the kitchen 
62 Artist with the 1999 6x platinum album "2001" 
63 Opposite of avant-garde 
Down 
It's not fancy 2 Tropical flower 3 Hungarian writer 
Madach 4 62·Across 
offerings 5 Big D campus 6 Berry with juicy 
parts? 7 Chilling, so to speak 8 Honorary title 
bestowed on Bill Clinton, Muhammad Ali and Mae West 
9 "Manhattan Mary v· artist 10Woman on a 2008 ticket 11 Takes back one's words? 
12 He said"A people that values its privileges above its principles soon loses both" 
14 Pentax Spotmatic and Nikon F2. for 
short 21 Sketches {out) 22Some 
Cherokees 24 Site of Robert E. Lee's last victory 25 Means of getting some answers 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Af9!rion and Jaff Koorek
~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 


WHAi 
A(;RAHAM L.lNC.OLN
IIJ 
NEVfEI< TOL.D.
tDROBIF t 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
:J [J J I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: 
A rr rrI I rI I Jr I IJ 
(Answers Monday) SNACK ABYSS OUTCRY VIABLE
Yesterday's IJumbles: 
Answer: A good way to improve the view at a football game -BINOCULARS 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________________ 
Address ________________________________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
j 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Saturday, August 22, 2009 
page 32 
FOOTBALL 

Man(ti) of the hour 
Hawaiian linebacker leads deep, talented freshman class of 17 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Editor 
The expectations surround­ing heralded linebacker Manti Te'o could be summed up by the scene at Friday's freshman media day, where he was undoubtedly the cen­ter of attention. 
Since the prized recruit announced his commitment to the Irish on signing day, any discussion of Notre Dame's freshman class has begun with the Honolulu, Hawaii, native. But when he first greeted the Irish media con­tingent in the Guglielmino Athletics Complex, Te'o downplayed the attention he has received. 
"I just try to be myself and take every day one at a time. 

I don't pay attention to all the hype," Te'o said. "Just like everybody else, I'm just try­ing to make the team better." 
Te'o has been somewhat limited in camp by a ham­string injury, but Irish coach Charlie Weis said Thursday that the linebacker has only missed "parts" of practices. The injury won't keep Te'o out of the rotation in the sea­son opener against Nevada on Sept. 5, Weis said. 
"I expect to see him on the field in the opener," We is said. "I don't think we'll be seeing him standing on the sideline very long." 
The same could be said for several of Te'o's classmates, including wide receiver Shaquelle Evans, who has worked his way into the third-receiver battle behind junior Golden Tate and soph­omore Michael Floyd. The Inglewood, Calif., native impressed at Notre Dame's 
see EVANS/page 21 


HOCKEY 

NDhungry after early tourney exit 
By SAM WERNER Associate Sports Editor 

As the prominence of the Notre Dame hockey program has grown over the past few years, so too have the expecta­tions. Those lofty standards came crashing back down on the Irish last spring in a 5-1 upset loss to Bemidji State in the first round of the NCAA Tournament. 
"We had a great season, and I don't want to take away from that," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. "But the last game of the year, we weren't the same team that we were for the majority of the season." 
Notre Dame rose as high as 
seeJACKSON/page 19 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Return of Harangody gives Irish high hopes for 2009-10 
"We just want to fight back and the newly renovated Joyce "It's good to be on a team Both players were ineligible
By MICHAEL BRYAN 

get one of those seven or eight Center this year. again with guys that are family, last season after transferring fol­
Associate Sports Editor 

(Big East) bids," Irish coach Mike Harangody can cement his lega­and I'm just looking forward to lowing the 2007-2008 season -
Brey said at the press conference cy at Notre Dame by placing wins this year and not individual Hansbrough following his sopho­"I realized my time here wasn't announcing Harangody's return. himself in the record books statistics," Harangody said. more year at Mississippi State done yet." "I think with [Harangody] back alongside the program's all-time This season the Irish will look and Martin after his freshman 
With these few words Luke and what we have, we can real­greats. After three years, to replace the scoring and depth campaign at Purdue -but both Harangody summed up his deci­istically say we can make a run Harangody ranks eighth in points provided by departed senior cap­have been practicing with Notre sion to forgo entering the NBA at one of those bids, period." (1,823) and fifth in rebounds tains Kyle McAlarney, Ryan Dame for a full season, and draft and return to Notre Dame The senior class of Harangody (949). Both school records are in Ayers. Zach Hillesland and Luke should make the transition of for his senior season, changing a and guards Jonathan Peoples reach this year, but the power Zeller, but that task may be replacing the graduated seniors potential rebuilding year for the and Tory Jackson has a chance forward said the individual made much easier with the addi­far easier than the task other Big Irish into plans for a trip to the to become the winningest in achievements are far from his tion of transfers Scott Martin and NCAA Tournament. school history, and will break in top goals. Ben Hansbrough. see BREY/page 19 
MEN's SoccER 

Powers leads freshman class 
By LAURA MYERS Sports Writer 
The Irish may be able to make up for past mistakes Monday, if only symbolically, before moving on to a new sta­dium and another chance to win a championship. 
Northwestern shocked Notre Dame in 2008 in the second round of the NCAA Tournament, beating Notre Dame 2-1 and knocking them out of contention for the College Cup.­
Now the teams return to the same field before the start of their 2009 campaigns in a pre­season match-up -and it will most likely be the last game the Irish play at the old Alumni field. 
"There's a lot of returning players, and they were very disappointed last year," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. 
see WILDCATS/page 18 


ND WoMEN's SoccER 

Near perfection inspires tea111 for new season 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 
The term "nearly perfect" is often used in sports to describe great teams. It can be used to describe the 1996 Chicago Bulls or 1998 New York Yankees that were so good they had few, if any, naws as they cruised to titles in their respective leagues. llowever, some teams, like the 2007 New England Patriots, find themselves on tho other end of the spec­trum, coming up just short in the big game while on the brink of true perfection. 
In 2008. Notre Dame found itself on the same ground as those Patriots, as it came up short in its pursuit of perfec­tion during the final minutes of the championship game. The Irish, who entered last year's College Cup final with a 26-0-0 record, suffered a 2­1 loss to North Carolina as Tar Heels forward Casey Noguiera drilled home the game-winning goal from 20 yards out with less than two minutes to play in the match. 

Despite the tough finish to an otherwise fantastic season. Irish coach Handy Waldrum said he expects the team to rebound and compete at the high level that they have been accustomed to during his tenure at Notre Dame. 
"I would expect the response to be just like it is every year," Waldrum said. "[The lossl continues to drive you and realize that you were so close and there were one or two little mistakes that cost you a championship. It was a difficult loss but we've 
see FRESHMEN/page 18 









