IRISH INSIDER 
THE 

Monday, November 23, 2009 observer Connecticut 33, Notre Dame 30 (2 OT) 
Broken record 
Same old story as Irish lose another heartbreaker on Senior Day 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
When former Yankees catcher Yogi Berra famously quipped “It’s déjà vu all over again,” who would have ever thought he could be talking about Notre Dame football? 
Notre Dame lost on Senior Day to a Big East team with a losing record that had strug­gled through a season of adversity and was desperately looking for a signature win. Unfortunately for the Irish, it was the second year in a row that this nightmare scenario played out — this time with a 33-30 double-overtime loss to Connecticut capped by Andre Dixon’s game-ending 4-yard touchdown run. 
In 2008, Syracuse came into Notre Dame Stadium to spoil the last home game for Notre Dame’s seniors a week after the Orange had announced head coach Greg Robinson would be fired at the season’s end. 
After Saturday’s game, Huskies coach Randy Edsall called the win the biggest one in program history. 
“We’re just very, very proud to win and know that we have to stay humble and stay hun­gry because we still have 
other things that we still would like to accomplish,” Edsall said. “But there is no doubt that this is the biggest win that we’ve had so far in the short time that we’ve been an FBS school.” 
It was also a much-needed win for a Connecticut team that had not won a game since the tragic death of jun­ior cornerback Jasper Howard. The Huskies win allows them to finally gain some closure now that they have honored their fallen teammate with a victory. 
“It’s just another game, but you’ve got to understand the human part of this, and you’ve got to understand what this team has gone through,” Edsall said. “A couple of close games, and then you lose a teammate, you lose a brother, you lose a son, and you’re try­ing so hard to honor him by winning on the field. We had-n’t done that, so that first win that we were going to get was going to be special and what better place than here?” 
For the Irish, head coach Charlie Weis once again found himself fielding questions from the hot seat after anoth­er Senior Day loss. 


“I really feel miserable for  an 8-ya r d touch do wn pas s  again with a 96-yard kickoff On the ensuing Irish posses- 
t h o s e 3 3 g u y s , ” We i s s a i d  f r o m j u n i o r q u a r t e r b a c k  return for a touchdown that s i o n , j u n i o r r u n n i n g b a c k  
S a t u r d a y a f t e r t h e g a m e .  Jimmy Clausen to junior wide  evened the score 17-17. Armando Allen fumbled on  
“And as I’ve said the other  receiver Golden Tate in just  The two defenses held until the Notre Dame 41-yard line  
da y an d I ’ v e n e v e r b e e n a  3:11 to give Notre Dame a 7-0  the Notre Dame offense was with 58 seconds left, giving  
hypocrite before, I come in  l e a d . I n t h e f i r s t q u a r t e r  stifled in the red zone early in the Huskies a shot to win the  
here and start talking about  alone, the Irish outgained the  the fourth quarter, leading to g a m e i n r e g u l a t i o n . B u t  
me, I’m really barking up the  Huskies 169-51.  a 23-yard field T e g g a r t  
w r o ng tr ee, be cause tho s e  Notre Dame capped off an  g o a l f r o m m i s s e d a 3 7 - 
guys are the guys I should feel  80-yard scoring drive just 28  Ruffer. “I feel miserable. No yard field goal  
for today.” It was a bitter feeling for Weis, who called last year’s  seconds into the second quar­ter when Clausen got into the end zone on a 1-yard quarter- C o n n e c t i c u t t r y a s t i m eone cares more marched deep e x p i r e d t oabout these kidsinto Irish terri­force overtime.  
Senior Day loss to Syracuse a regret, having to face that reality for a second straight  back sneak to give the Irish a 14-0 lead. B u t a s t h e y h a d d o n e s o  t o r y o n i t s short term and long T h e t w o e n s u i n g p o s -t e a ms t ra dedterm than me.” s e s s i o n , b u t t o u c h d o w n  
season. “I feel miserable,” he said.  many times this season, the H u s k i e s b o u n c e d b a c k o n  j u n i o r l i n e -p as s e s in th e b a c k e r B r i a n Charlie Weis first overtime,  
“ No o ne ca r e s m o r e a bo u t  their next drive, as running  S m i t h i n t e r -Irish coach and on its sec­ 
t h e s e k i d s s h o r t t e r m a n d  back Jordan Todman took a  cepted a pass o n d o v e r t i m e  
long term than me. I don’t  43-yard run to the house to  f r o m H u s k i e s p o s s e s s i o n ,  
worry about them just now,  finish off a scoring drive in  junior and former Notre Dame Notre Dame settled for a 36­ 
just today, or just next week. I  which the Huskies went 75  quarterback Zach Frazer in y a r d f i e l d g o a l b y R u f f e r  
worry about them and their  yards in 2:41 to pull within a  the end zone. before Dixon ran home the  
lives, which is part of this job  touchdown. A field goal by  T h e H u s k i e s w o u l d g e t game winner.  
right here.”  Hu s kies s o p ho m o r e k i ck e r  another chance after a stalled With the loss, Notre Dame  
I n t h e e a r l y g o i n g , i t  Dave Teggart with 3:14 sec- Notre Dame drive, and they h a s n o w l o s t i t s l a s t f o u r  
appeared that Notre Dame  onds left in the half put the  tied the score 20-20 with 1:10 games against Big East foes,  
w o u l d p u l l a w a y f r o m t h e  score at 14-10.  left in the game with a 29­with its last Big East win com- 
H u s k i e s . A f t e r h o l d i n g  After junior kicker David  yard field goal from Teggart. i n g a g a i n s t S y r a c u s e o n  
Connecticut to a three-and- Ruffer kicked a 20-yard field  The field goal try came only Senior Day in 2005.  
out on their first possession,  goal to put the Irish back up  after a pair of holding penal- 
the Irish marched 69 yards  by a touchdown early in the  t i e s n e g a t e d C o n n e c t i c u t Contact Mike Gotimer at  
down the field and scored on  third quarter, Todman struck  touchdown runs. mgotimer@nd.edu  


player of the game stat of the game play of the game quote of the game 
Jordan Todman 6 Jordan Todman’s 96-yard kickoff 
“The finality of that being your last
Connecticut running back return touchdown in the third quarter 
opportunity to play for the University of 
Number of points Notre Dame Notre Dame, I think it’s gut wrenching.” Todman rushed for 130 yards and a scored in regulation after taking The special teams score tied the touchdown and returned a kickoff 96 a 14-0 lead with 14:32 remaining game 17-17 immediately after an Charlie Weis 
yards for a score. in the second quarter. Irish field goal made it 17-10. Irish coach 



page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 23, 2009 


report card 
B+ quarterbacks: As usual, Clausen’s num­bers were phenomenal. But as the offense’s leader, he deserves some of the blame for the unit’s uninspiring finish. 
B 
running backs: Allen had a nice day with 170 total yards, but his fumble on Notre 
Dame’s last drive in regulation gave the Huskies a shot at a makeable field goal. 
A-
receivers: Tate and Floyd both registered at least 100 yards and a touchdown yet again, 
but the Connecticut defensive backs made big plays in critical situations. 
B+ 
offensive line: Clausen was sacked twice and pressured in some critical situations, 
but the line paved the way for some good gains by Allen. 
defensive line: The front four got man-D handled in the critical fourth quarter, as the Huskies were able to physically dominate with a run-first attack. 
linebackers: Brian Smith made a critical interception in the end zone, but the line­backers looked a step slow and out of position too often in the run game. 
B-
defensive backs: The secondary contained Frazer for most of the day but allowed a touchdown pass on 3rd-and-9 in the first 
overtime. 
B-
special teams: Ruffer made three big field goals and Turk looked solid in his return to punter. But the Irish gave up a kickoff 
return touchdown that changed the com­plexion of the game. 
C-
coaching: The Irish came out firing on offense but inexplicably went away from the no-huddle approach that worked well 
in the first quarter, and the run defense looked lost at the end of the game. 
2.59 
overall: Another disheartening loss on a day when the Irish hoped to send their seniors out with a victory. 


adding up the numbers 
Number of November losses during the Charlie Weis era at Notre Dame. Weis is 10-10 in the 
10 
season’s final month in five seasons. 
Number of Notre Dame games decided by seven9 points or loss, the most in college football. The Irish are 4-5 in those contests. 
Number of Notre Dame field goals 0in the red zone. The Irish scored on all six red zone posses­
3
sions but managed only three touchdowns. 
4 
Number of games in which both Michael Floyd and Golden Tate recorded 100 yards receiving. The Irish are 0-4 in those games. 
Number of yards the Irish offense amassed in the first quarter. Notre Dame also gained 
169
163 yards in the third and totaled 452 total. 
49 
Number of consecutive starts by senior right tackle Sam Young, who broke Notre Dame’s all-time record by starting Saturday. 
Number of kickoff return yards for freshman Theo Riddick this season, a school record. He 
727 
returned three kicks for 68 yards Saturday. 
8 
Number of 100-yard receiving games for Golden Tate this season, which ties a school record. He has 14 for his career, also a school record. 



Loss on Senior Day really hurts 
Only being a junior, I didn’t think the emotions of Notre Dame’s Senior Day would get to me. But when Connecticut’s Andre Dixon scampered into the end zone and hand­ed five fifth-year seniors, including cap­tains Kyle McCarthy and Scott Smith, their second straight Senior Day loss — well, it got to me. 
It wasn’t just about the loss, which dropped the Irish to a shocking to some, disappointing to all 6-5 record this season, exactly where Notre Dame was a year ago. And while most Notre Dame fans are angry, to say the least, I can’t help but just feel sad for the Notre Dame family, from the students and alumni to the players and coaches. 
Some would argue that you can’t hurt for Charlie Weis, a man paid millions to coach football at his alma mater and who, by most any statistical measure, hasn’t lived up to expectations. But for all Weis’ shortcomings — and they’ll all be discussed over the next week or so, until an official announcement about the pro­gram’s future is made at some point after Saturday’s game at Stanford — I still have a great deal of respect for him. 
Just after Weis’ Sunday press conference, I happened across the 2005 ESPN video story on “Pass Right,” when Weis famously stuck to a promise he made to a dying 10-year-old Irish fan to pass to the right on Notre Dame’s first play against Washington, even though the Irish were backed up inside their own 1-yard line. 
That was five years ago, just three games into the Weis era that seemed so full of promise. The contrast was stark between the Weis in the video — fresh, ener­getic, optimistic, well perceived — and the one who sat in front of the media Sunday, appearing worn out, physically and emotionally, despite trying to take a light­hearted approach with the local beat writers before the press con­ference. 


Weis has been the subject of as much pointed media speculation as any figure in the sports world in recent weeks, and it hurts to see that happen to a man who loves Notre Dame and has put so much into turning his program around. 
Despite his disappointing win-loss record, the fact is he is still part of a Notre Dame family that prides itself on its closeness even in tough times, and this may be the toughest of times for Weis and his players. To hear the boo birds come out for the Band’s tradition­al 1812 Overture — usually played as a tribute to Notre Dame’s head coach — following the singing of the Alma Mater as the team, and particularly the seniors, slowly trickled into the locker room stung, for me at least, more than another close loss that, unfortu­nately, didn’t come as a huge sur­prise. 
No, Weis hasn’t beaten USC in five tries. He’s lost at home to Navy twice. He’s lost two straight Senior Day games. His winning percentage is lower than those of both Bob Davie and Tyrone Willingham at the time they were fired. 
Those damning statistics don’t lie, and I can no longer believe he could, should or would be retained. While he’s taken the right tact with the media by politely declining to answer those loaded “big picture” questions until after the season, I’m not sure I believe him when he says he hasn’t reflected on the program’s progress and how it affects his job status. 
No, I haven’t believed in a lot of the moves Weis has made this sea­son, and I don’t believe a lot of what he’s said as the pressure turned up in recent weeks. But when he says he’ll continue to prepare for Stanford, I believe him. When he says he’ll continue to recruit “full speed ahead” until he’s told he’s not coming back, I believe him. And when he says he cares most about his players in these uncertain times, I believe him. 
Charlie Weis is a good man. He is a Notre Dame man. And, per­haps even more importantly, his players, and especially his seniors, are Notre Dame men. It is admirable the way they have stood by their embattled coach over the last three tumultuous years, and the way in which the team emerged from the tunnel Saturday — standing behind their four captains and their head coach, both literally and figura­tively — made me proud to sup­port this team, even if the final result didn’t. 
Just as the struggles of Notre Dame’s players in certain areas of the game — an inconsistent ground game and poor tackling fundamentals come to mind — are a reflection of their head coach, so too is the way with which these players carried themselves before and after what might have been the most painful loss for a group of players who have endured more than their fair share of painful losses. 
Of course I wish the offensive line played a little nastier, the linebackers tackled much better and the defensive backs were more aggressive with the ball in the air. Those are only three examples of concerns and criti­cisms any casual observers of this Irish team would make, and, fairly or unfairly, those ultimately fall on the shoulders of the head coach, as Weis acknowledged Sunday. 
But if you listened to the seniors talk about their Notre Dame expe­rience leading up to their final game in the Stadium, and if you watched the pain with which so many of them lingered on the field after this gut-wrenching defeat, you know these guys have given it all they could. And so has their coach. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

Monday, November 23, 2009 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Third straight loss comes as shock 

TOM LA/The Observer 
Senior fullback James Aldridge stands on the field after Notre Dame’s 33-30 loss to Connecticut in double overtime Saturday. 
The Irish have now lost three straight after a 6-2 start put Notre Dame in BCS contention. 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 

There was no snow this time, but the rest seemed eerily familiar. 
The collapse of a promis­ing season came to a climax Saturday with an emotional Senior Day loss to a Big East team. And just like after the 2008 loss to Syracuse, players are trying to figure out what went wrong. 
“It’s just tough,” junior wide receiver Golden Tate said. “Sitting at 6-2 you know we had a chance to do some special things, and then it’s just all taken from you.” 
In 2008, Notre Dame sat at 5-2 before ultimately los­ing four of its last five. It was a disappointing finish for a team that was trying to prove itself after the dis­astrous 2007 season. 
This season, the stakes were even higher. At 6-2, junior quarterback Jimmy the Irish were ranked and Clausen said. “You know, had a chance to play in a it’s just really hard to swal-BCS bowl. Now, after three low.” straight losses the Irish will Added Tate: “Playing most likely not even have a close games, at some point shot at the Gator Bowl, it happens, unfortunately.” which many Tate and had termed a Clausen have fallback for both put up 

“Sitting at 6-2 you
this year’s big numbers squad. know we had a in the losses, 
“I would’ve but with 
chance to do some 
laughed in nothing to 
special things, and 
your face if show for it. you had told then it’s just all taken In the last me this is from you.” three games, what would Tate has happ en,” notched 368 
Golden Tate 

senior safety receiving 
Kyle Irish wide receiver yards, and McCarthy Clausen is said. 94 -of-138 
The losses were games passing for 1,064 yards. seven, eight and nine decid-Statistics like that don’t ed by a touchdown or less usually lend themselves to in 2009. Players pointed to three straight losses, but the close decisions in their Clausen said that is beside search for an explanation. the point. 
“Just losing by very little, “Stats really don’t matter those are the tough ones,” unless you get a W at the end,” Clausen said. 
Even though the Senior Day loss looked similar to last year’s, the Irish will now look to conclude the regular season differently. 
“We can’t point fingers. We can only point back at ourselves,” McCarthy said. 
Last year, Notre Dame traveled to USC for its last game and took a beating in an ugly 38-3 loss. 
This year, the Irish will again head to California, but this time to take on a hot Stanford team. Still, they’re hoping for a differ­ent result. 
“The guys are just hang­ing their heads, but we still have one game left and need to keep moving,” jun­ior linebacker Brian Smith said. “Losing wears on you, but you have to work to not let it wear on you and just work to win.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 


Tate sets pair of school receiving records 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
Junior wide receiver Golden Tate set two new school receiving records in the loss to Connecticut. With his 39-yard reception in the first quarter, Tate passed Jeff Samardzija’s previous record of 1,249 receiving yards from the 2005 season, and, at the end of the game, he had 1,295 yards on the year. 
On the same catch, Tate passed both Samardzija and Tom Gatewood ’s shared record of 77 receptions in a single season, and he cur­rently has 83 catches on the year. 
. Walk-on junior kicker David Ruffer found out that he would start at kicker just before kickoff on Saturday after freshman kicker Nick Tausch was scratched from the game. 

“It was right before the series went off that I found out I was going to start,” Ruffer said. “I misheard the coin flip and thought we Connecticut before the 2007 season after finishing fourth in the quarterback competition to replace Brady Quinn. After the game however, Frazer downplayed the individual 
were going to take the ball, so I started kicking field goals. [Junior kicker] Brandon Walker had to yell at me to kickoff.” 
. Huskies junior quar­terback Zach Frazer walked away victorious 

“I don’t feel like I proved anything. I feel like we proved something today, you know, coming in here and getting a victory.” 
Zach Frazer Huskies quarterback 
significance of the win. 
“I don’t feel like I proved anything, ” Frazer said. “I feel like we proved somethi ng today, you know, coming in here and getting a vic­tory.” 
. With the loss, Irish 
yesterday in his return to Notre Dame Stadium. Frazer, who was a fresh­man on the Irish roster in 2006, transferred to 
coach Charlie Weis’ record at Notre Dame dropped to 35-26, for a winning per­centage of .574, below the winning percentages of for­
mer Irish coaches Bob Davie and Tyrone Willingham. Weis ’ home winning percentage of .576 ranks as the worst home winning percentage amongst all Notre Dame coaches since 1975. 
. Notre Dame’s red zone 
offense struggled once again to put the ball in the endzone, converting only three touchdowns in six red zone appearances, includ­ing in overtime. Going back to the Navy game, the Irish have scored just seven touchdowns in 14 trips to the red zone. In their seven combined red zone chances in the Navy and Pittsburgh games, the Irish have con­verted three field goals, committed three turnovers and missed one field goal. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 




scoring summary 

1st Connecticut 0 Notre Dame 7  2nd 10 7  3rd 7 3  4th 3 3  OT 13 10  Total 33 30  
First quarter  

Notre Dame 7, Connecticut 0 
Golden Tate 8-yd pass from Jimmy Clausen (David Ruffer kick) with 10:59 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 69 yards, 3:11 elapsed. 

Second quarter 
Notre Dame 14, Connecticut 0 
Clausen 1-yd run (Ruffer kick) with 14:32 remaining. Drive: 11 plays, 80 yards, 5:05 elapsed. 

Notre Dame 14, Connecticut 7 
Jordan Todman 43-yd run (Dave Teggart kick) with 11:51 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 75 yards, 2:41 elapsed. 

Notre Dame 14, Connecticut 10 
Teggart 39-yd field goal with 3:14 remaining. Drive: 13 plays, 52 yards, 6:12 elapsed. 

Third quarter 
Notre Dame 17, Connecticut 10 
Ruffer 20-yd field goal with 9:29 remaining. 
Drive: 11 plays, 77 yards, 5:31 elapsed. 

Notre Dame 17, Connecticut 17 
Todman 96-yd kickoff return (Teggart kick) with 
9:17 remaining. 

Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 20, Connecticut 17 
Ruffer 23-yd field goal with 10:47 remaining. Drive: 11 plays, 41 yards, 5:32 elapsed. 

Notre Dame 20, Connecticut 20 
Teggart 29-yd field goal with 1:10 remaining. Drive: 12 plays, 40 yards, 4:04 elapsed. 


First overtime 
Connecticut 27, Notre Dame 20 
Kashif Moore 11-yd pass from Zach Frazer 
(Teggart kick). 

Connecticut 27, Notre Dame 27 
Michael Floyd 4-yd pass from Clausen (Ruffer kick). 


Second overtime 
Notre Dame 30, Connecticut 27 
Ruffer 36-yd field goal. 

Connecticut 33, Notre Dame 30 
Andre Dixon 4-yd run. 



statistics 

total yards 

rushing yards 

passing yards 

time of possession 

passing  
Clausen  30-45-329 Frazer  12-25-141  
rushing  
Allen Tate  24-106 Todman 1-12 Dixon  26-130 20-114  
receiving  
Tate Floyd Allen  9-123 Easley 8-104 Griffin 7-64 Moore  4-67 3-33 2-13  

page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 23, 2009 



A familiar story 
Notre Dame reversed its recent trend of struggling to start games, but the Irish could not sustain their early momentum and lost their third straight game, 33-30 to Connecticut in double overtime. Jimmy Clausen marched the offense down the field on its first drive, finding Golden Tate for an 8-yard touchdown pass and a 7-0 lead. On the second play of the second quarter, Clausen plunged in from one yard out to put Notre Dame up 14-0. A 43-yard Jordan Todman touchdown run and a Dave Teggart field goal brought Connecticut to within 14-10. On their first drive of the second half, the Irish moved deep into Huskies territory but settled for a David Ruffer field goal — which Todman immediately answered with a 96-yard kickoff return touch­down to tie the game at 17-17. After trading fourth-quarter field goals, the teams headed into overtime, as both Connecticut and Notre Dame scored on touchdown passes on their first drive. But after the Huskies forced the Irish to settle for a field goal in the second overtime, Andre Dixon ended the game with a 4-yard touchdown scamper to give Connecticut the 33-30 win. 
For more photos, check out the photo gallery at ndsmcobserver.com 



Clockwise from top: Junior running back Armando Allen has his helmet knocked off as he attempts to cross the goal line; junior quarterback Jimmy Clausen passes to Allen; senior center Eric Olsen runs out of the tunnel before the game; Allen tries to escape a tackler; junior linebacker Harrison Smith dives to make a tackle. 



