the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Pickens discusses energy 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
The issue of how and where America acquires its sources of energy took center stage over other political issues as T. Boone Pickens, founder and chairman of BP Capital Management, host­ed a lecture on his goals for American energy followed by a town hall session in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Monday. 
Pickens focused on his “Pickens Plan,” which lays out his energy policy ideas, aiming at reducing American depend­ence on foreign oil while shifting to other energy sources. The plan’s Web site has had over 20 million hits and over 1.6 million citizens sign up in support since its inception in July of 2008. 
Pickens said his plan was inspired by a lack of political 
SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 

T. Boone Pickens, founder and chairman of BP Capital see PICKENS/page 6 Management, lectured on his goals for American energy Monday. 



Fr. Jenkins chosen for second five-year term 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
The Board of Trustees has elected University President Fr. John Jenkins to a second five -year term, Board Chairman Ri chard Notebaert announced Oct. 16. 
“I am humbl ed that the Board has expressed its confidence by electing me to a second term,” Jenkins said in a press release. “With the support of our Trustees, I will continue pursuing the goals I cited at my inaugura-tion four years ago — offering an unsurpassed undergradu­ate education, becoming even more pre-eminent as a research university and ensur­ing that our Catholic character informs all that we do.” 

Jenkins was inaugurated as the University’s 17th president in September of 2005 after taking office in July of the same year. He had previously served as vice president and associate provost. University President Emeritus Fr. Edward “Monk” Malloy held the position from 1987-2005. 
“The vision and leadership that Father Jenkins has demonstrated in his first four years in office have been inspiring and innovative,” Notebaert said in the release. “Building upon the foundation 
see JENKINS/page 6 


Students get in car accident on service trip 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
Senior Alan Geygan returned to Notre Dame feeling lucky to be alive after spending Fall Break on an Appalachia service trip. 
On the second day participat­ing in Notre Dame’s Appalachia seminar in Tennessee, Geygan and three other students drove up a mountain to go hiking. 
But during the drive, their van veered off the road and fell several feet down the mountain before flipping over. 
“We were driving up a moun­tain road, and a car was com­ing down the mountain in other direction so we pulled over to the side to get out of the way,” Geygan said. “But the van tipped and slid down the side of the mountain, flipped over and slammed into a tree.” 
Geygan said the students as well as the four other passen­gers in the car sustained only 
minor  injuries,  but  the  
University -rented  car  was  
totaled.  

Junior Gabby Tate, the driver of the van, said the experience was “absolutely terrifying.” 
“The car was tipping so slow­ly, it seemed like,” she said. “And then all of a sudden it flipped over. A tree luckily stopped the car from rolling all the way down the hill.” 
Geygan and Tate said the accident was a result of the poor conditions of the moun­tain road. 
“It was a gravely, muddy road and it didn’t hold the car’s weight,” Geygan said. “And the road wasn’t big enough for two cars to begin with.” 
Junior Nathan Hall, also a passenger in the van, said the mountain road had no guardrails. 
“I was surprised at how loose the edges of the road were. Even under my own weight, 
see ACCIDENT/page 8 



Fourteen arrested during BC game 
Students hope the win will set the tone for the remainder of the season 
By HONORA KENNEY AND 



JOSEPH McMAHON 
News Writers 
Students said they recognized how critical Notre Dame’s football game against Boston College on Saturday was, making the win all the more satisfying. 
“For me, this game was crucial because we started last year’s sea­son with a 4-2 record as we have this year, but then ended 6-6. Another win was necessary to 

see ARRESTS/page 8 ANDREA ARCHER|Observer Graphic 




Trustees talk about off-campus safety 
Trustees on Oct. 15, student body 

By AARON STEINER 
president Grant Schmidt, vice 
News Writer 
president Cynthia Weber and chief of staff Ryan Brellenthin said they are collaborating with Student government leaders University administrators and told members of the University community leaders on a variety of Board of Trustees that off-campus projects related to safety off cam-crime continues to be a concern 
pus. 
among students and highlighted Schmidt emphasized that while their efforts to address off campus local authorities say crime rates safety concerns in a meeting off campus have not increased 
before fall break. In a presentation to the Student 
Affairs Committee of the Board of see TRANSPO/page 8 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SGA discuss sponsorship guidelines page 3  Flight of the Conchords review page 12  Hockey falls to BC page 24  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Tuesday, October 27, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Girl gamers 

I’ve spent the past two and a half years looking for other girls who play video games, and after much searching, I’ve decided to do as all Notre Dame students do and turn to The Observer to voice my frustration. I’m a jun­ior, and in my time here I’ve only met three girls with video game consoles in their rooms, and two of those systems were used exclusively for party games like Rock Band and Wii Sports. By compari­son, most of the ND boys I know have at least one gaming sys­tem in their room, and many of them have two. They also play them a lot more than the girls I know do. 
The apparent lack of widespread femi­nine interest in video games frustrates me, not only as an empowered woman and a more-than-casual gamer, but as a penny-pinching college student whose younger brother back in Virginia refuses to relin­quish the Xbox 360. I’ll be brutally honest­it’s getting cold outside and I don’t want to walk across campus to guy friends’ dorms whenever I want to play Halo ODST or Left 4 Dead. 
I’m a girl gamer, or a girl who plays video games for fun. Girl gamers can be casual players who break out Mario Kart and Guitar Hero when company comes over, hardcore competitive players who log hours daily and anywhere in between. Given the overwhelmingly male fanbase of all video games, female players often encounter hostility, ranging from insults about appearance, sexuality and gaming ability to criticisms about the games they choose to play. Even casual games of Mario Kart among friends can turn ugly when girls beat guys. We’ve all seen it. 
I played World of Warcraft freshman and part of sophomore year, much to my roommate’s chagrin, and observed not only the interesting and addictive world of massively multiplayer online games, but the ways in which openly female players can be harassed. Many of the girls I talked to online chose to play as male characters in order to avoid negative attention. This may be in large part due to the somewhat inhospitable conditions for females in the gamer world, and it’s no wonder! One of the most popular themes of video games across platforms involves macho men res­cuing pathetic/stupid females. Not exactly encouraging. 
Thirty-eight percent of video game play­ers are girls, according to the Entertainment Software Association in a report released last year. That means that there must be more girls at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s who game and just aren’t out in the open about it. Why not? Video games are an excellent way to escape from papers and tests, as well as a great means of releasing pent-up aggression. Lots of colleges have campus-wide gaming clubs for this very reason, as well as to encouragethe fun of multiplayer gaming. Girl gamers of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s, teach other girls to play. Invite the freshman on your hall to play Super Smash Brothers or Mario Kart. Not only will you make new friends, you’ll be help­ing other young women relax through car­toonish violence. It’s not Aperture Science, ladies. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT WAS T E  IG LIG T OF YOUR FALL BREAK? 






“I got to visit  “Tony’s yard  “Visiting my  “Having the flu  “Going in a  “Winning the  
friends at other  and Mafia.”  friends at their  ... but it  haunted corn  BC game.”  
colleges.”  colleges.”  wasn’t the  maze in  
swine.”  Sagatuck,  

Michigan.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 
Man gets high school class ring back after 57 years 
AKRON, Ohio — An Ohio man was shocked to have his high school ring back after 57 years and was sur­prised by where it was returned: at the wake for his high school sweetheart. Joe Lepera, 75, had dated Sharon Coddington Gainer for two years, but they broke up when he joined the Air Force following his 1952 graduation from Akron Central High School. 
He saw the obituary after her death earlier this month and went to the funeral home in the Akron area Oct. 11. 
Lepera said he was tapped on the shoulder by Bill Gainer, the man who eventually married his old flame. Gainer handed over the class ring that his wife had been given by Lepera when the two were an item. 
Gainer said his wife had instructed him to return the ring if Lepera visited the funeral home. 
Residents pick up trash from Minnesota roadsides 
MENDOTA HEIGHTS, Minn. — Motorists in Mendota Heights might have seen a group of resi­dents picking up trash while packing heat this weekend. About a dozen people spent nearly three hours picking up litter Sunday along a 2-mile stretch of highway. All legally carried guns on their hips. It was the inau­gural trash cleanup event for the group that calls itself the Minnesota Carry Permit Holders. 
The Minnesota Department of Transportation said the group is legal, and it appreciates their efforts to keep the roadside clean. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight Wednesday Thursday 
IN BRIEF 
Nanovic Visiting Scholar Seminar: Ecumenism and Peace Studies with Antoine Arjakovsky will be presented in Geddes Hall Coffeehouse today at 11 a.m. 
The Lunchtime Workshop Series “The Secrets to (Academic) Success and Making Your (Academic) Life Easier!” will be held in Madeleva Hall at Saint Mary’s College today. The series will begin at 12:30 p.m. 
“Seizure of Power: What We Know and Don’t Know About When Coups are Attempted, When They Succeed and When They Fail” will be held in the Hesburg Center for International Studies, room C103. The lecture will begin at 
12:30 p.m. today. 
A seminar titled “Approximate Dynamic Programming Based Learning Approach to Multi-stage Decision Making” will be held in 129 DeBartolo Hall today at 
3:30 p.m. 
“Trends in Aeuronautics” will be held in 138 DeBartolo Hall today at 3:30 p.m. 
Dr. Tony Bennett, Indiana Superintendent of Public Instruction will give a lecture titled “Educational Leadership for Indiana and Beyond: Descerning a Career Path With Passion and Purpose.” The lecture will be held in Madeleva Hall at Saint Mary’s College today at 6:30 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 


Friday Saturday 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Ellie Hall at ehall4@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

An Oct. 13 Letter to the Editor about a house break-in incorrectly quoted a South Bend police 
HIGH 57 HIGH 54 HIGH 60 HIGH 60 HIGH 61 HIGH 53 

officer in stating, “You guys should really invest in a gun.” The house in question is outside of South Bend police jurisdiction. The Observer regrets this 
Atlanta 59 / 58 Boston 57 / 45 Chicago 55 / 50 Denver 55 / 37 Houston 72 / 55 Los Angeles 69 / 51 Minneapolis 56 / 40 

New York 59 / 52 Philadelphia 60 / 53 Phoenix 85 /58 Seattle 52 / 39 St. Louis 58 / 49 Tampa 93 / 71 Washington 62 / 56 
error. 


Tuesday, October 27, 2009 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 




SGA reviews guidlines for club sponsorship 
By NIKKI TAYLOR 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s Student Government Association (SGA) reviewed updated guidelines for sponsorships at their board meeting Monday night. 
The new handout that was sent around to all recognized campus clubs at the College outlines the requirements and protocol for requesting sponsorships from SGA. The new format breaks sponsorships down into three categories: Service, Academic/Education, and Campus Programming, student body president Jenny Hoffman said. 
Clubs requesting money under Service or Academic/Education sponsorships can receive between $200 and $1,000 in funding. Requests under the Campus Programming category have no minimum requirement and can receive a maximum of $2,000, Hoffman said. 
Clubs can only request spon­sorship money to put on events that are open to the entire stu­dent body; SGA is not funding outings solely for the club mem­bers. Clubs are also required to state exactly what the money they are requesting will be used for, Hoffman said. 
SGA is also getting ready for the approval of clubs’ monetary allotments. Voting was originally scheduled for Monday night but the deadline for clubs to request an allotment was extended until this coming Friday, so approval by the SGA board will take place next week, Hoffman said. 
The Navy Ball with the Midshipmen of the Naval Academy is quickly approaching. The dance will be held after the Notre Dame football game against the Naval Academy on Nov. 7. 
The formal dance will be open to all Saint Mary’s students on a first come first serve basis with admittance granted upon pre­senting a Saint Mary’s ID, junior class president Meghan Helmle said. SGA is seeking to secure Angela Athletic Facility as a venue for the dance, but this has not yet been confirmed. 
The SGA board also discussed possible ideas for a service proj­ect they could do as a group, in order to give back to the South Bend community. Possible ideas include Habitat for Humanity and a leadership conference for local high school girls. 
“I think that Saint Mary’s prides itself on making known the importance of service,” Hoffman said. “It only makes sense that we as a student gov­ernment fulfill that.” 
Contact Nikki Taylor at ntaylo01@saintmarys.edu 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 



Discipline, legal services discussed 
By LIZ O’DONNELL 
News Writer 
The Campus Life Council (CLC) discussed the progress commit­tees on student legal services and disciplinary action have made this semester during their meeting Monday afternoon. 
Sophomore John DeLacio, chair of the Student Legal Services committee, presented a Powerpoint to the council outlin­ing the group’s findings. 
“We knew there was a lot of information out there, but that it was time to bring it all in,” he said. 
DeLacio reviewed the five options the group identified that Notre Dame has for incorporat­ing some form of legal service to the student body. These include hiring a single attorney, using legal interns, creating a data­base of approved local law firms, soliciting volunteers to provide legal info and using the law school’s legal aid clinic. 
Of these options, he said the most economically feasible for the University would be to cre­ate an online database listing local law firms. 
“This option is appealing because it has no substantial cost to the University,” he said. 
DeLacio said the goal of the endeavor is to allow students to focus on education while at Notre Dame and to minimize outside issues. He said they are hoping to use the database as a measuring tool to see if it is being used, and thus to look into other options, such as hiring a single attorney, down the road. 
“The goal is to determine the threshold value and monitor force has narrowed their focus and will continue to work towards some form of removal for minor disciplinary infrac­tions that occur during a stu­dent’s freshman year. 
Web site hits until deter­mined value is hit,” DeLacio said. “We will hopefully then take action if it is hit.” 
CLC mem­bers had vari­ous sugges­tions for DeLacio, who will be draft­ing a resolu­tion on the subject some­time in the near future. 
“The goal is to determine the threshold value and monitor Web site hits until determined value is hit.” 
John DeLacio chair Student Legal Services Commitee 
“Discipline at Notre Dame is an educational tool and is not neces­sarily punitive,” she said. 
Since the student handbook du Lac lays out no separa­tion between minor and major di scipli nary actions, the com­mittee identified a minor disciplinary infraction as one with a sanction of less than 30 hours 
Fr. Jim King, rector of Sorin College, said the idea is fine, but noted that down the road there may need to be an inclusion of Notre Dame’s law school in the process. 
Chief executive assistant Ryan Brellenthin suggested the com­mittee look into other similar-sized Catholic universities to find statistics on the usage of student legal services at schools similar to Notre Dame. 
Also discussed at the meeting was the current development of the evaluation of student disci­plinary records. 
Student body vice president Cynthia Weber said the task of community service or its mon­etary equivalent. 
Weber said if that offense were the only one committed by a student, then they would have the option of removing it at the end of their sixth semester. While the process would not be automatic, it would not be as complex as an appeals proce­dure. 
The third CLC committee, advertising, said they are going to wait until the new version of agenda.nd.edu comes out to evaluate what still needs to be accomplished. 

Contact Liz O’Donnell at eodonne1@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 27, 2009 



Students take pilgrimage 
Campus Ministry accompanies Saint Mary’s students to Mexico 
By BRITTANY VANSNEPSON 
News Writer 
While some students went home or relaxed on the beaches in places south of Indiana over fall break, one group of seven Saint Mary’s College women went on a pil­grimage to Monterrey, Mexico. 
Supervised by College Campus Minister Sr. Veronique Wiedower, the group met consistently over the fall semester in prepara­tion for their journey. The goal of the pilgrimage was “to witness another culture … and let their reality dia­logue with our own,” Wiedower said. 
Since the group stayed with the Sisters of the Holy Cross during their stay, they were able to interact with people from several “chapels” or mission churches. Senior Mallory Price said she met people from all walks of life there. 
“We met about 130 chil­dren … who attend the Kids’ Club after-school program,” stated Price. “Teenagers … who have their own club … [and] about 15 women who have a women’s club.” 
The women also visited dif­ferent neighborhoods or “colonias” to partake in mass and other ministries. Price said a memorable highlight was when the group also ministered to people and vis­ited the sick. 


“I learned that when you set out to change things or help the world, it is never just the people you are serv­ing that are changed, but you, yourself are forever changed.” 
The group encountered cultural barriers such as customs and languages, but these differences did not hin­der the women from learning from those around them. 
“I had the opportunity to go with an elderly woman,” said Price. “Marcia inspired me, even though I didn’t know everything she said.” 
Not only were current Saint Mary’s women involved in making a difference, but an alumna as well. 
“It was like a mini ­reunion,” Wiedower said as she discussed the graduate student who is volunteering a year of service in Monterrey. 
Contact Brittany VanSnepson at bvansn01@saintmarys.edu 




Students find time to relax, rest during break 
said. 

By JIM FERLMANN 
Freshman Matt Keenan 
News Writer 
agreed. 
“I got lots of sleep, and that 
As students return to campus was the biggest part of break following fall break, many said for me. I just walked home, they got much needed rest and since I’m a South Bend townie. relaxation following a difficult None of my friends had fall midterms week and a disap-break at the same time we did, pointing loss to USC. so I read a lot. I also got to see 
“I drove back my family, who home to South don’t see a lot of, Dakota right after even though I’m a
“I got lots of 
the USC game,” jun-townie.” 
ior Miranda Fees sleep, and that Fellow area native said. “So, I really was the biggest Sarah Harker, a jun-only got to spend ior, said that her 
part of break 
about four days at break allowed her to 
for me.” 
home before I had to rest. 
go back to Notre “I just went home Dame in time for the Matt Keenan and did a lot of Boston College relaxing. Both of my 
freshman 
game. 
“I mostly hung out with my girlfriends and family, and then I had to drive back all the way to Notre Dame to catch the game. That’s 15 straight hours on the road. Needless to say, I slept pretty well that night.” 
Not everyone ventured home for break. Others just remained on campus. 
Senior Joe Crone, a Georgia native, was one of them. 
“I was able to get a lot of cleaning done in my room, but mostly I went out to eat with some of my friends and got to catch up on some much-need­ed sleep. That is the most important part of break,” he brothers are away at 
school right now and 
both of my parents work during the day, so I spent most of the time with my dog and boyfriend. It was a pretty good break.” 
Junior Ally Suding said her break was very productive. She went on a weeklong seminar with the Center for Social Concerns to Appalachia. 
“I went to Appalachia this week. It was very fun,” she said. “We had a good group. It was a great experience to go along with the group and get out and help people.” 

Contact Jim Ferlmann at jferlman@nd.edu 






World & Nation 
Tuesday, October 27, 2009 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 


UN: Gitmo detainees should be freed 
UNITED NATIONS — A U.N. human rights investigator says all detainees at the Guantanamo Bay prison should be freed or transferred to U.S. federal courts for trial. 
Martin Scheinin, who reports on the pro­tection of human rights in the war on terror, said the prison can and should be closed by the Jan. 22 deadline set by President Barack Obama. 
Scheinin told a news conference Monday that Guantanamo should not be closed by trying to prosecute detainees through mili­tary commissions, which do not meet inter­national human rights standards. 
He said all the remaining detainees should either be sent to trial by U.S. federal courts on the mainland or released — either in the United States or third countries. 

German politicians begin coalition 
BERLIN — Germany’s political leaders have formally approved a new center-right coalition government led by Chancellor Angela Merkel, nearly a month after a gen­eral election. 
The agreement was signed Monday night by the future government coalition leaders of Merkel’s Christian Democrats, their Bavarian sister party the Christian Social Union and the pro-business Free Democrats. 
The coalition has promised an overhaul of the health care system, more help for fami­lies and annual tax cuts of up to euro24 bil­lion. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Man takes pay where he never worked 
SOMERVILLE, N.J. — An Illinois man has admitted banking more than $470,000 in paychecks from a New Jersey company he never worked for. Anthony Armatys, 35, of Palatine, Ill., pleaded guilty Monday in New Jersey Superior Court to one count of theft. 
Prosecutors say Armatys accepted a job with Basking Ridge, N.J.-based telecommu­nications company Avaya Inc. in September 2002, then changed his mind. But the com­pany’s computer system never removed his name from the payroll. 
Paychecks were deposited into his bank account until February 2007, when Avaya auditors discovered the mistake. 
Prosecutors are recommending a six-year prison term and restitution. Sentencing is scheduled for Jan. 8. 

Researchers drink poisoned coffee 
BOSTON — One of six Harvard Medical School researchers sickened after drinking coffee laced with a toxic chemical said Monday he does not see how the poisoning could have been accidental, but has no idea who might be responsible. 
University police and other agencies are investigating the Aug. 26 poisonings, which were revealed in an internal memo to med­ical school faculty last week. The memo identified the substance as sodium azide, a common preservative used in school labs, but did not indicate whether officials believed the laced coffee to be accidental or intentional. 
“I always thought it was a deliberate sub­stance added to the coffee,” said Matteo Iannacone a postdoctoral fellow. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Delphi gets $6.7 million for research 
KOKOMO, Ind. — Delphi Automotive Systems will develop more efficient car bat­teries with help from a $6.7 million federal grant. 
U.S. Sen. Evan Bayh, D-Ind., says the eco­nomic stimulus funds will finance research into technology designed to improve power delivery from batteries to electric motors. 
Bayh’s office says in a written release that the Delphi project is among 37 initia­tives selected Monday by the Department of Energy’s Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy program to invest in the energy sector. 


Gay Brazilian denied asylum 
Man unable to reunite with his American husband, fights the Justice Department 
Associated Press 
BOSTON — A gay Brazilian man has been denied asylum by the Obama administration and won’t be reunited with his American husband in the U.S., the husband said Monday. 
Tim Coco said Attorney General Eric Holder did not act on a Friday deadline in the case of Genesio “Junior” Oliveira, effective­ly denying the 30-year-old Brazilian man’s request for asylum in the U.S. on humanitarian grounds. 
“We needed the Attorney General to make a decision on whether Junior could come home,” said Coco, 48, of Haverhill. “He didn’t take this request seriously.” 
The Justice Department did not immediately return messages. 
In 2002, Oliveira had sought asylum in the U.S. because he said he was raped as a teenager in Brazil. But an immigration judge denied his request, and Assistant Attorney General Ronald Weich said in a letter that Oliveira repeatedly remarked at his hearing that he “was never physically harmed” by any­one in Brazil. 
The Associated Press does not typically name rape victims, but Oliveira speaks openly about his case and allows his name to be used. 
Oliveira returned to Brazil in 2007 after losing an appeal. Before he left, he and Coco married in Massachusetts in 2005 and bought a house together. 
According to federal immigration law, immi­grants also can apply for residency if they marry U.S. citizens. But the federal government does not recog­nize gay marriages under the Defense of Marriage Act, and Oliveira’s request to remain in the United States based on his rela­tionship with Coco was denied this year. 
In March, Sen. John Kerry asked Attorney General Eric Holder to grant Oliveira asylum on humanitarian grounds. 

Kerry spokeswoman Brigid O’Rourke said Monday that the senator will continue to work toward a solution that would reunite the couple for good. 
“The fact is that if Tim and Junior were a hetero­sexual married couple, they would never have suffered through more than two years of separation,” said O’Rourke. 
Coco said he thought there was “no way” the Obama Administration would deny Oliveira’s asy­lum request after Kerry made his plea to Holder. 
“We are profoundly sad,” said Coco. 
The case comes as Obama tries to smooth a rocky relationship with gay activists, who want him to end the military’s “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy on gays, which he has pledged to do but hasn’t given a timeline. Tens of thousands of gay rights supporters marched in Washington earlier this month, demanding Obama keep his promise to end the policy. 
Coco said he has spent about $250,000 in legal bills and hasn’t seen Oliveira since January, though the two video chat online every night. 
Oliveira was denied a visa to return to Massachusetts last year for the funeral of Coco’s mother. 
Oliveira now lives with his mother, helping her run a boarding house for stu­dents. 
Coco said the couple plans to launch a legal challenge against the feder­al Defense of Marriage Act as a violation of immigra­tion laws. 
“This is our last shot, if nothing else works,” said Coco. “But we think we can pull this off with the right legal counsel.” 
O’Rourke said Kerry sup­ports the couple’s legal challenge to the Defense of Marriage Act, which limits how state, local and federal bodies can recognize part­nerships and determine benefits. He also called for a law to extend benefits to domestic partners. 
This month, Obama called on Congress to repeal the Defense Of Marriage Act. 
AFGHANISTAN 


Helicopter crash kills ten Americans 
Associated Press 
KABUL — A U.S. military helicopter crashed Monday while returning from the scene of a firefight with suspected Taliban drug traffickers in western Afghanistan, killing 10 Americans including three DEA agents in a not-so­noticed war within a war. 
Four more troops were killed when two helicopters collided over southern Afghanistan, making it the deadliest day for U.S. forces in this country in more than four years. 
U.S. military officials insisted neither crash was believed a result of hostile fire, although the Taliban claimed they shot down a U.S. helicopter in the west­ern province of Badghis. The U.S. did not say where in western Afghanistan its helicopter went down, and no other aircraft were reported missing. 
The second crash took place when two U.S. Marine helicopters — a UH-1 and an AH-1 Cobra — collided in flight before sunrise over the southern province of Helmand, killing four American troops and wounding two more, Marine spokesman Maj. Bill Pelletier said. 
The casualties marked the Drug Enforcement Administration’s first deaths since it began operations here in 2005. Afghanistan is the world’s largest producer of opium — the raw ingredient in heroin — and the illicit drug trade is a major source of funding for insurgent groups. 
The U.S. has decided to target produc­tion and distribution networks after pro­grams to destroy poppy fields did little except turn farmers against the American-led NATO mission. 
In the past year, the DEA has launched an ambitious plan to increase its personnel in Afghanistan from about a dozen to nearly 80, greatly expanding its role. 
NATO said the helicopter containing the DEA agents was returning from a joint operation that targeted a com­pound used by insurgents involved in “narcotics trafficking in western Afghanistan.” 

page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 27, 2009 
Pickens 
continued from page 1 
success in achieving energy effi­ciency in the country. 
“I started to watch what politi­cians said about energy and I didn’t know if they weren’t telling the truth or didn’t know what they were talking about,” he said. 
Pickens noted that since the presidency of Richard Nixon, candidates for the presidency from both political parties have focused on the energy issue heavily in their campaigns. 
Pickens focused on several key problems with U.S. energy sources. He said oil production cannot get any higher than its current rate and could see declines by 2012, right as indus­trialization in nations such as China and India accelerates. 
“I’m convinced 85 million bar­rels a day is all you are going to get, meaning it is a peak,” he said. 
Pickens also focused on the problem of importing oil from enemy nations, and asked the younger generations to change that. 
“We cannot continue to import oil from people who hate us,” he said. “You are going to have to get control of energy in America.” 
The “Pickens Plan,” as Pickens laid it out, emphasizes two important sources of energy for future American generations — wind power and natural gas, both of which are renewable energy sources. 
Pickens spoke about the need to replace diesel trucks on the road with natural gas trucks. The model that he used came from southern California, where natural gas trash trucks replaced their diesel counter­parts, taking the equivalent of 325 cars off the road. Pickens said great energy change could be achieved in this country by doing this on a national scale by replacing the current 6.5 million diesel trucks. 
Pickens said this could be achieved cheaply with tax breaks. In addition, he noted that natural gas is cheaper than diesel, with America holding over a century’s supply within its borders. Pickens said the amount of natural gas America holds is roughly equivalent to one and a half times the amount Saudi Arabia holds in oil. 
“This is a game changer,” he said. 
Pickens also touched on his belief that the energy problem is much bigger than politicians realize. He mentioned a conver­sation he had with President Barack Obama over the presi­dent’s goal of getting a million plug-in hybrids on the road. 
“I said our problem is bigger. It’s huge,” Pickens said. 
Pickens closed his lecture por­tion with a reflection on the very issue of energy itself, noting its importance to all Americans in the future. 
“This has no party,” he said. “It’s not political. It has to do with us Americans.” 

Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 


address at the May 2009 cere­mony. 



Jenkins 
After the University continued from page 1 announced in March the U.S. president would speak at 
the controversy. 
Jenkins also confronted the issue of academic freedom in the context of a Catholic uni­versity during his tenure. 
In April of 2006, he released a statement titled “Closing Statement on Academic Freedom and Catholic C har a c t e r, ” which allowed the perform­ance of the Vagina Monologues to set by his Holy Cross predeces­sors, he is making the aspira­tions of this University a reali­ty.” 
In his annual address to the faculty in September, Jenkins repeated his threefold goal of prioritizing undergraduate education, research and the University’s Catholic character while also noting that increas­ing student and faculty diversi­ty and stabilizing the school’s finances are additional aims for the upcoming years. 
Jenkins said in the address that the 2008-09 school year, his fourth year as University president, was the “most chal­lenging and most rewarding” of his tenure so far, citing the challenges of the financial cri­sis and the controversy sur­rounding President Barack Obama’s Commencement Commencement and receive an honorary degree, Jenkins defended his decision when critics protested the invitation, stating Obama’s visit presented an opportunity for dialogue. 
“We are not ignoring the critical issue of 
“The Fellows and Trustees look forward to continuing our work with him in service to Our Lady’s University.” 
Richard Notebaert Board chairman 
be held on campus, provided that an academic panel discus­sion follow the performance. The statement followed several months of debate over whether the controversial play should be performed at a Catholic uni­versity. 
Among his other initiatives in office, Jenkins helped launch the Notre Dame Millennium Development Initiative in 2006, a project in which the University works with interna­tional organizations to con­
tribute to development  in  
Uganda.  
That  initiative  was  

announced in the second annu­al Notre Dame Forum, which Jenkins began during his first year in office. The Forum, which is typically held each fall, will again take place this year, but in the spring semes­ter. 
In a resolution, the Board of Trustees said they have “respect and full confidence” in Jenkins and his continued role as president of the University. 
“The Fellows and Trustees look forward to continuing our work with him in service to Our Lady’s University,” Notebaert said in the release. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
the protection of life. On the contrary, we invited him because we care so much about those issues, and we hope for this to be the basis of an engagement with him,” Jenkins told The Observer in an interview after the announcement. Jenkins gained national attention throughout 

The Observer 




Business

Tuesday, October 27, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Manager accused of defrauding bank 
SIOUX FALLS, S.D. — A former kosher slaughterhouse manager accused of defraud­ing a bank had the final say on financial reports, a former chief financial officer testi­fied Monday. 
Mitchell Meltzer said the manager, Sholom Rubashkin, allowed him to shift expenses to hide purchases from St. Louis-based First Bank. 
Rubashkin, faces 91 fraud charges in the federal trial, including mail, wire and bank fraud. Prosecutors claim Agriprocessors Inc. intentionally defrauded First Bank on a revolving $35 million loan by faking invoices from meat dealers. 
The Agriprocessors plant in Postville, Iowa, was the site of a major immigration raid in May 2008, when 389 illegal immigrants were arrested. After the raid, First Bank sent Agriprocessors about $3.45 million to keep the plant afloat. 
“Sometimes he would offer changes, and they made them,” Meltzer said. “He usually wanted more income.” 

Scientists to testify in climate case 
SALT LAKE CITY — Defense lawyers for a college student who disrupted the auction 
of oil and gas drilling leases on land around some of Utah’s national parks out­lined in court papers Monday a plan to put global warming on trial instead of their client. 
The lawyers for Tim DeChristopher want to call some of the nation’s pre-eminent cli­mate scientists to testify about what they said are the dangers that heat-trapping gases have in store for the planet. Prosecutors have objected to widening the scope of the trial into a publicized philo­sophical discussion over global warming and environmental damage — points they said are irrelevant to the charges. 
Last December, DeChristopher bid up prices by hundreds of thousands of dollars on some parcels and won 13 other parcels while acknowledging he had no intention or capacity to pay $1.7 million for the leas­es. He was indicted in April on felony charges of interfering with a government auction and making false representations. 


Newspapercirculationfallssharply 
Daily circulation of U.S. papers sees a 10.6 percent decrease since last year 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Circulation at newspapers shrank at an accelerated pace in the past six months, driven in part by stiff price increases imposed by pub­lishers scrambling to offset rapidly eroding advertising sales. 
Average daily circulation at 379 U.S. newspapers plunged 10.6 percent in the April-September period from the same six-month stretch last year, according to figures released Monday by the Audit Bureau of Circulations. 
It’s the largest drop recorded so far during the past decade’s steady decline in paid readership — a span that has coincided with an explosion of online news sources that don’t charge readers for access. Many newspapers also have been reducing delivery to far-flung locales and increasing prices to get more money out of their remaining sales. 
The latest decline out­stripped a 7.1 percent decrease in the October 2008-March 2009 period and a 4.6 percent decline in last year’s April-September window. 
As both publications indi­cated earlier in the month, 2008. Its Sunday edition ers are raising the sub-newspapers. The Wall Street Journal remained the top weekend scription rates and news-For instance, circulation surpassed USA Today as seller at 1.4 million, a stand prices for their print revenue at The New York the top-selling newspaper decrease of 2.6 percent. editions. Times Co. and another in the United States. The Sunday circulation at all Some newspapers also major newspaper publisher, Journal’s average Monday-the newspapers covered in are planning to charge for McClatchy Co., climbed by 7 Friday circulation edged up the ABC survey fell 7.5 per-access to at least some sec-percent during the summer, 
0.6 percent to 2.02 million cent in the latest six-month tions of their Web sites. even though they both lost 
— making it the only daily span. Besides bringing in more subscribers. newspaper in the top 25 to The circulation numbers revenue, the online fees Bringing in more money see an increase. are just the latest sign of could cause more people to from readers is now more 
USA Today suffered the distress in the shrinking keep subscribing to the important than trying to worst erosion in its 27-year newspaper industry. print editions if fewer sto-preserve circulation, history, dropping more than Newspapers are trying to ries are available for free according to Mark Adkins, 17 percent to 1.90 million. recover from a steep drop on the Web. But it would president of the San The newspaper, owned by in advertising revenue — also threaten to shrink Francisco Chronicle. His Gannett Co., has blamed traditionally their main theironline audiences, mak-newspaper suffered a near-reductions in travel for source of money. The worst ing it more difficult to sell ly 26 percent drop in circu­much of the circulation U.S. recession since World the Internet ads that are lation in the April-shortfall, because many of War II and the lure of the gradually replacing some September period to its single-copy sales come Internet have combined to forms of marketing in print. 251,782. But the remaining in airports and hotels. make the industry’s annual Although higher prices subscribers collectively pay 
The New York Times ad revenue $20 billion less for print editions alienate the Chronicle more than its stayed in third place at than it was three years ago. some readers, enough of much larger audience did 927,851, down 7.3 percent To compensate, many of them are footing the bill to in the previous year, Adkins from the same period of the nation’s largest publish-funnel more money to said. 

NETHERLANDS 


Experts: U.S. risky for eco-friendly investors 
ciency, and they are likely to attract melt glaciers and the arctic ice cover 
Associated Press 
the capital needed to reduce global to raise sea levels and spread pests 
AMSTERDAM — Investors want-emissions of greenhouse gases, said and disease. ing to put money in climate-friendly the report. But it was unusual among the flur­businesses would be wise to look at The riskiest country is Italy, which ry of climate studies by activists, sci-Germany, Brazil or even China is short on regulation and enforce-entists and international agencies in rather than at the United States, an ment, the group said. The United taking the investors’ viewpoint and international investment group said States has had “on-off” regulatory examining countries according to Monday. policies, and its future remains their climate-favorable business 
Other lower-risk countries among uncertain, it said. environment. the world’s leading economies are It is the latest study to suggest that The bank’s researchers compiled Australia, Japan and France, said a current policies and plans will fail to 270 policies, regulations and man-report by the Deutsche Bank. cut emissions by enough to avert dated emissions targets to create a 
Those countries have the most serious changes in the world’s cli-risk profile for investors. Its overall comprehensive and transparent poli-mate. Scientists have warned that risk assessments, however, were cies that give greater certainty to continued unchecked carbon emis-general, ranking countries or investments in such businesses as sions, mainly from burning fossil regions on a scale of one to three renewable energy and energy effi-fuels, will disrupt weather patterns, and most listed as a two. 

page 8 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 27, 2009 
Transpo 
continued from page 1 
this year, “it seems to be a rising concern for many students.” 
Among a variety of efforts, the trio pointed first to their work on transportation — including a new Transpo public bus route aimed at students and potential new taxi regulations — as one method of increasing safety off campus. 
Brellenthin said student govern­ment leaders met with local cab companies during the summer to “relay a number of student con­cerns to the cab companies while getting their input” on issues, including safety. 
Weber said she and Schmidt were able to review the taxi ordi­nance during the summer and, along with city officials, are “throw­ing around the idea of establishing a price ceiling to increase the relia­bility of the cab companies.” 
She also said officials are consid­ering requiring that taxis have a standard placard inside detailing passenger rights, cab owner infor­mation and taxi identification infor­mation. 
Weber said in their work with cab companies, student govern­ment leaders found there was “still a need for a reliably consistent method of transportation, because even if the taxi system in South Bend is really wonderful, there are still limitations.” 
Schmidt told the committee the University, student government and local public transportation authori­ty Transpo are finalizing a new public transportation route aimed at students. 
“Transpo is a resource that’s already available to students; stu­dents can take this for free,” Schmidt said. He told committee members that students primarily use Transpo routes No. 7 and The Sweep, which offer service until approximately 1:15 a.m. on Friday and Saturday nights, which he indi­cated are peak times for students traveling to and from off campus locations. 
“That’s when people are going off campus most often and that’s where the most problems occur,” Schmidt said. 
The new route, Route 7A, is ten­tatively set to run from 9:20 p.m. to 
3:20 a.m. 
Schmidt said the route would take riders from library circle on the University campus past apart­ment complexes east of campus, throughout the northeast neighbor­hood and into the downtown South Bend area. 
“It’s an 18-minute trip as we have it set right now, one way,” he said, or about 35 minutes roundtrip. 
The representatives also spoke about their efforts to increase police patrols in student housing areas off campus. 
Weber said students have contin­ued to raise the prospect of Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) patrolling off campus, and student government has researched the idea, she said. 
“We absolutely understand the objections and obstacles to this,” she said, naming concerns about boundaries, limitations of NDSP resources and issues regarding jurisdiction. 
But Weber said other Indiana schools have overcome jurisdiction­al issues, and said boundaries could be based on the concentra­tion of students living off campus and their vicinity to campus. 
Brellenthin also told the commit­tee about the possibility of using a federal, state or local grant to fund increased patrol presence in specif­ic areas during specific times. 
“We are working with the South Bend Police Department and the University on finding, researching and deciding which grant is the best option to pursue,” he said. 
Schmidt, Weber and Brellenthin also took questions and heard com­ments from committee members during the presentation. 
One trustee noted that should student government leaders request additional resources or dif­ferent policies, they must have “a pretty compelling reason why you and your constituency should be treated differently.” 
The Observer has a policy of not attributing quotes or information to specific members of the Board. 
Another trustee stated that stu­dents living off campus should see themselves as “members of the community” and should recognize crime against any area resident — not just students — should be of concern. 
The trustee added that efforts on behalf of students to address crime concerns should be focused on “how can we make the city better, not how can we make this better for the students who live in the city.” 
Schmidt told the committee members that he believes students are aware of their role within the community, and told the group that student government will continue to focus on student safety issues. 
The presentation Oct. 15 was the first of three Schmidt, Weber and Brellenthin will make to the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees this school year. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 


Accident 
continued from page 1 
bits of pieces came off,” he said. “I have a newfound respect for those roads and what the people have to deal with. I couldn’t imagine driving that road in snowy or icy condi­tions. It’s probably almost impossible.” 
Geygan said the accident offered a learning experience in a way he would not have expected. 
“This really brought us together as a group,” he said. “It was probably the best edu­cation we got during the trip. We saw how poor the infra­structure is in Appalachia.” 
Geygan noted the neglected conditions of the road, and he said emergency personnel did not respond immediately to the 



Arrests 
continued from page 1 
secure our team’s confidence and set the tone for avoiding a finish like last season after starting with the same record as last season,” sophomore Kelly Nolan said. 
Saturday’s game saw the arrests of 14 people both in and outside the stadium, director of Notre Dame Security Police Phil Johnson said. Johnson also said 21 people were removed from Notre Dame Stadium, mostly for alcohol-related violations. 
Johnson said six people were arrested on campus outside the stadium, one of whom was detained for indecent exposure as well as public intoxication. 
“Each was lodged in the Saint Joseph County Jail,” Johnson said. 
Police also issued four summons­es for underage drinking outside the stadium. 
Inside the stadium, six people were arrested for public intoxica­tion, one for public intoxication and disorderly conduct and one for public intoxication, disorderly con­duct and resisting law enforce­ment. 
After the game, students focused on how the 20-16 win ended a los­ing streak to Boston College that dated back to 2000. 
“I think it’s a really great Catholic rivalry and I thought it was a really fun game. I can’t wait for them to come back senior year,” sopho­accident. 
“The ambulance didn’t get there for about an hour and a half,” he said. “It put a lot of things in perspective to see how few resources the area has.” 
Luckily, no one in the group required serious medical atten­tion, Tate said. Tate injured her wrist and Hall burned his hand. 
“I was climbing back up mountain after accident, but I slipped back down towards the car, reached my hand out and caught the exhaust pipe,” Hall said about his burn. 
Geygan said several local people helped the group while they waited for the ambulance and tow truck. 
“A couple of people who lived in the area were pointing to spots on the mountain saying if we fell there, it would have been 80 foot drop,” he said. “I 
more Didi Thekkethala said. 
Students also said they fully expected an unpredictable game, based on the season thus far. 
“It seems like you’re never sure which way the game is going to go, down to the very last minute,” freshman Liz Moore said. 
Sophomore Tim Ryan expressed some reservations about the team’s performance despite the win. 
“It’s great that we finally snapped the losing streak against Boston College but I was still a little worried because the team seemed a little flat,” Ryan said. 
Freshman Joe Vanderberg agreed. 
“I thought the game was closer than it should have been,” he said. 
Other students disagreed and pointed out outstanding plays that led to the Irish’s close 20-16 victo­ry. 
“McCarthy’s interception gave hope to everyone and was a true turnaround in a close game,” freshman Sam Murphy said. 
In the end, the team was able to make its way back into the rank­ings within the next 24 hours. 
For both students and players, the cold weather did not deter post-game celebration. 
“Despite the weather, Irish fans are always there until together we say ‘love thee Notre Dame,’” Moore said. 
Contact Honora Kenney at hkenney@nd.edu and Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
feel really blessed to be alive.” 
Tate said the Center for Social Concerns has been sup­portive throughout the process. 
“They said they don’t care about the car as long as every­one is okay,” she said. 
In the future, Tate said she thinks the University should install an OnStar system or something similar in the cars to make the driving trips safer. 
“It took so long for the ambu­lance to come and none of us got cell phone reception,” she said. “I felt so helpless. It was a really humbling experience.” 
Contact Madeline Buckley at 


mbuckley@nd.edu 

Tuesday, October 27, 2009 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 9 



Toys R Us to open FAO Schwarz shops 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Ahead of the holidays, Toys R Us is open­ing FAO Schwarz boutiques in some of its stores and relaunching the iconic toy store’s Web site. 
The announcement gives the first clear indication of Toys R Us’ plan for the brand best known for the scene in the 1988 movie “Big” in which Tom Hanks danced on a floor piano. The largest 

U.S. toy-store chain bought the brand in May. 
FAO Schwarz has two standalone stores, one in New York and one in Las Vegas. 
This year, Toys R Us will open 585 boutiques within its own stores branded with the FAO Schwarz name begin­ning Nov. 1. 



Casino group to build hotel 

New hotel to be constructed within six months after gambling begins 
Associated Press 
TOPEKA, Kan. — A group hoping to build a casino south of Wichita promised Monday to open a hotel within six months after gambling starts, but a state review board remained skeptical of the project. 
The announce­ment was hotel. That firm, mostly Kansas investors, already is building a new casino in Dodge City. 
Board members peppered Chisholm Creek representatives with questions, and Chairman Matt All told the group the board needs more information before deciding whether to allow the project to move forward. The 
designed  to  “We’re trying to meet  board plans to vote  
i  m  p  r  o v  e  the concerns of the  on both the Kansas  
Chisholm Creek’s chances of win- board.”  City and Wichita-area casino plans  
ning approval for  in December.  
its $225 million  John Frieden  “We  still  have  
project from the Kansas Lottery  Topeka attorney  questions about this proposal,” All  
Gaming Facility  said. “We’re late in  
Review  Board.  this process and so  
The group said it  we  need to have  

is making a firm commitment to solid information that makes us 
the casinos — then reopened the application process. 
The Chisholm Creek group includes Lakes Entertainment Inc., of Minnetonka, Minn., which has been involved in 11 Indian tribal casinos in seven states. 
The proposed casino in Kansas City would overlook Kansas Speedway, the NASCAR racetrack already at the center of a tourist-drawing district of shopping, dining and entertain­ment sites. Kansas Speedway’s parent company, International Speedway Corp., is partners with Penn National Gaming Inc., of Wyomissing, Pa., in the $521 million venture. 
Penn and ISC have said they expect to begin building a hotel by 2014, two years after open­ing their casino. They noted Monday that their proposed contract with the lottery 


open a 100-room hotel by comfortable.” March 2012 at its site outside Earlier, All had said Mulvane, about 20 miles south the lack of a hotel of Wichita. would be a key issue 
Review board members had for either casino plan, been troubled because both the and several board Chisholm Creek plan and a pro-members questioned posal for a casino in Kansas whether casinos City, Kan., hadn’t included without hotels are hotels during the first phase of true tourist destina­the projects. Some of the board’s tions. A 2007 state consultants said during a day-law allowing the casi­long hearing Monday that the nos contemplated lack of hotels would hinder the “destination” projects new casinos’ ability to draw and directed the tourists. board to pick projects 
“We’re trying to meet the con-to encourage tourism. 
penali zes
“We’re late in this 
them finan­
process and so we cially if they 
need to have solid don’t deliver. “Once the 
information that 
economy
makes us 
heals, we’re 
comfortable. committed to build,” said speedway
Matt All 
President Jeff 
Chairman 
Boerger. 
Some of the 
board’s con­sultants warned that holding out for better casino proposals — by rejecting either plan and forcing the lottery to take new applica­tions — would be risky. 
“I don’t think it’s worth the wait, frankly,” said Bill Lerner, a founder of Las Vegas-based Union Gaming Group, one board consultant. 
cerns of the board,” John Frieden, a Topeka attorney rep­resenting Chisholm Creek, said during a break in the hearing, shortly before its public announcement. 
Chisholm Creek officials said they have a commitment from Topeka-based Double Down Development LC to build the 
Last year, the board had mul­tiple proposals for both Kansas City and the Wichita area and picked a developer for each, only to see them back away from their plans because of the economy. The Kansas Lottery — which will own the new gam­bling and contract with private developers to build and operate 



New policy gives break to unlicensed divers 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — San Francisco police are easing a poli­cy that requires officers to impound the vehicles of drivers caught without a license — a move expected to help illegal immigrants. 
The revised policy, which takes effect next month, gives unli­censed drivers 20 minutes after they are pulled over to have a licensed and insured driver move their vehicle. If not, the vehicle can be towed, but only with the approval of a supervisory officer. 
“This is an attempt to try to enhance public safety,” said San Francisco Police Chief George Gascon, who took over the depart­ment in August. 
Gascon said the current policy can leave families stranded on the side of the road. It can also encourage unlicensed drivers to run from the police and buy cheap, unsafe vehicles. 
Although Gascon said the policy change was not motivated by a desire to help illegal immigrants, he acknowledged it will have a “substantial impact” on them. 
“There’s no question in the communities where you have larger representations of people who are here (without docu­ments), those folks cannot get a license,” he said. 
San Francisco would be among the first cities to implement the no-tow policy, although other cities, including Oakland and San Jose, have looked into the change, said Mark Silverman, director of immigration policy at the San Francisco-based Immigrant Legal Resource Center. 
Silverman, who was consulted about San Francisco’s policy change, said towing and impounding cars “wreaked havoc” on undocumented work­ers. 
“People need their cars to go to work, take their kids to school, to the hospital,” he said. “Immigrants in general have lim­ited income and to have to pay (thousands of dollars) is I think way out of proportion to the infraction.” 
But critics say the city should not make life easier for people who are in the country illegally. 
“They need their cars to make a living in jobs they are not sup­posed to have,” said Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the Washington, D.C.-based Federation for American Immigration Reform. “San Francisco is admitting that they are aiding and abetting peo­ple in violating federal law.” 
Mehlman said the policy also puts other drivers at risk. 
Police officials say it only applies to people who do not have a license, not those who have had their license suspended. 
If the person is caught driving without a license again within six months, the vehicle will be impounded. 
The Observer 


Viewpoint 

page 10 Tuesday, October 27, 2009 
THE OBSERVER Love in truth 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 


ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
Our first three columns this term dis­cussed the Obama administration’s takeover of the American private sector, including the automotive industry, banking, health care, student loans, etc. To avoid getting lost in details, let’s note some con­trolling principles offered by Pope Benedict XVI in his third encyclical, “Love in Truth” (Caritas in Veritate) (CIV), issued June 29. CIV builds upon his first two encyclicals, “God is 

Charles Rice 
Love” (Deus Caritas Est, 2006) and “In Hope We Were Right or Saved” (Spe Salvi, Wrong?2007). It carries forward Benedict’s assertion in his first World Day of Peace message, on Jan. 1, 2006, that “Any authentic search for peace must begin with the realization that the problem of truth and untruth is the concern of every man and woman; it is decisive for the peaceful future of our planet.” His first three encyclicals emphasize that love and acceptance of the truth about man and God offer the only hope for peace. “Jesus,” said Benedict in that message, “defined himself as the Truth in person, and … states his complete aversion to ‘everyone who loves and practices falsehood.’” 
CIV focuses on “integral human develop­ment,” as urged by Paul VI in “Populorum Progressio” in 1967. CIV’s opening words note the spiritual as well as material char­acter of such development: “Charity in truth, to which Jesus Christ bore witness … is the … driving force behind the … devel­opment of every person and of all humani­ty.” 
CIV deserves attention, especially within the Beltway and in the media. Don’t hold your breath waiting for that. Let us, rather, note some unfashionable truths offered in CIV: 
1. Solidarity. We are relational by nature. John Paul II described “the full meaning of freedom” as “the gift of self in service of God and one’s brethren.” Veritatis Splendor, No. 87. “The human being,” said CIV, “is made for gift.” No. 34. “Economy and finance … can be used badly where those at the helm are motivated by purely selfish ends … [I]n commercial relation­ships … gratuitousness and the logic of gift as an expression of fraternity … must find their place within normal economic activi­ty.” No. 36. 
2. Subsidiarity. “[I]t is an injustice for a larger and higher organization to arrogate to itself functions which can be performed efficiently by smaller and lower bodies.” Pius XI, Quadragesimo Anno (1931), No. 
79. This principle insists on “the autonomy of intermediate bodies … and is the most effective antidote against [an] all-encom­passing welfare state.” No. 56. Obamacare and other takeovers are at war with this principle. 
3. 
The moral law applies to all human activity. “The conviction that man is self-sufficient and can … eliminate … evil … by his own action alone has led him to confuse happiness and salvation with material prosperity and social action. [T]he convic­tion that the economy must be autonomous [and] shielded from ‘influences’ of a moral character [has] led to economic, social and political systems that trample upon person­al and social freedom.” (No. 34). Integral human development requires more than self-interest. It requires “upright … finan­ciers and politicians whose consciences are … attuned to … the common good.” No 71. 

4. 
Consistent ecology. “The Church … must defend not only earth, water and air as gifts of creation … She must above all protect mankind from self-destruction … [T]he decisive issue is the … moral tenor of society. If there is a lack of respect for the right to life and to a natural death, if human conception, gestation and birth are made artificial, if human embryos are sac­rificed to research, the conscience of socie­ty [loses] the concept of human ecology and, along with it, that of environmental ecology. It is contradictory to insist that future generations respect the natural envi­ronment when our educational systems and laws do not help them to respect them­selves. The book of nature … takes in not only the environment but also life, sexuali­ty, marriage, the family, social relations: in a word, integral human development. Our duties towards the environment are linked to our duties towards the human person … It would be wrong to uphold one set of duties while trampling on the other. Herein lies a grave contradiction in our mentality and practice.” No. 36. Exhibit A for that contradiction is the pro-abortion politician who told Notre Dame’s graduates last May that they “must decide how to save God’s creation from a changing climate that threatens to destroy it.” 

5. 
Population growth is good. “[O]penness to life,” CIV states, is “a rich social and eco­nomic resource. Populous nations have 


[emerged] from poverty thanks not least to the size of their population and [their] tal­ents … [F]ormerly prosperous nations are [in] decline … because of their falling birth rates; this [is] a crucial problem for highly affluent societies. The decline in births … puts a strain on social welfare systems, increases their cost, eats into … financial resources needed for investment, reduces the availability of … labourers, and nar­rows the ‘brain pool.’ … [S]maller … fami­lies run the risk of impoverishing social relations, and failing to ensure … solidarity. These situations are symptomatic of a scant confidence in the future and moral weari­ness. It is … a social and even economic necessity … to hold up to future genera­tions the beauty of marriage and the family, and the fact that these institutions corre­spond to the deepest needs and dignity of the person … States are called to enact policies promoting the centrality and the integrity of the family founded on marriage between a man and a woman … and to assume responsibility for its … needs, while respecting its … relational character.” No. 44. 
6. Respect for life is essential to develop­ment. “In … developed countries, legisla­tion contrary to life [contributes] to the spread of an anti-birth mentality … [A]ttempts are made to export this mentali­ty to other States as if it were a form of cul­tural progress. 
“Some … [o]rganizations work … to spread abortion [and promote] sterilization in poor countries, in some cases not even informing the women concerned. [D]evel­opment aid is sometimes linked to the … imposition of strong birth control meas­ures. Further grounds for concern are laws permitting euthanasia as well as pressure … in favor of its juridical recognition.” No. 28. 
“Openness to life,” CIV concludes, “is at the center of true development. When a society moves towards the denial or sup­pression of life, it ends up no longer finding the… motivation and energy to strive for man’s true good.” No. 28. 
The Pope is the one universal voice show­ing the way to a Culture of Life built on love, Truth and hope. It is time even for politicians to give him a listen. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the law school faculty. He may be reached at rice.1@nd.edu or 574-633-4415. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


News Sports 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 




QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Ashley Charnley Laura Myers Alicia Smith Mike Gotimer Graphics Chris Michalski Andrea Archer Scene Viewpoint Kaitlyn Conway “The cure for boredom is curiosity. 
“To travel hopefully is a better thing There is no cure for curiosity.” 
than to arrive.” 
Lauren Brauweiler 
Dorothy Parker 
Robert Louis Stevenson 
U.S. author, humorist, poet & wit 
Scottish author 
The Observer 




Viewpoint 

Tuesday, October 27, 2009 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Turn it up 
As Ron Burgundy once said: “I wanna say something. I’m gonna put it out there; if you like you can take it, and if you don’t, send it right back.” 
As you know, recent opponents have called our stadium “quiet.” While this is no doubt attributable to the many wine-and-cheese alumni who enjoy nothing more than to tell other patrons to sit down during the game, our student sec­tion could improve. I propose two enhancements: 
1. 
When the band plays the Celtic Chant, make noise. Waiving your arms in silence is not intimidating, nor does it contribute to home field advantage. During the game against UW in the fourth quarter, as soon as the band began to play the Celtic Chant the whole section around me became silent and pumped their arms skyward in unison. If we are to continue this “cheer” let us add some crowd noise. Yell along in unison with the band. 

2. 
Make loud continuous noise from the end of the play to the subsequent snap of the ball. Many times our student section does not begin to cheer until the other team has broken the huddle and has come to the line. If we were to be loud from the end each play it could hamper the other teams ability to call the correct play in the huddle and lessen their time to make audibles and calls at the line of scrimmage. There is no shame in being unable to speak on Sundays. 


Aaron Solem 
law student off campus Oct. 14 


True Fighting Irish 
Dear Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s, and Holy Cross students: 
You are the most incredible, hardest-working fans on the face of the planet. And, how about that band of yours? Dead sexy, and they sound great too. Watching Saturday’s game on my laptop in Scotland, I could feel the electrici­ty in South Bend from here. 
I hope you indulged yourselves at The Backer. You rule. 
Lauren Mangiaforte 
senior off campus Oct. 17 


Pro-life vs. pro-birth 
In response to Christopher Damian’s letter (“Who we are,” Oct. 14), if you and all others who call themselves “pro-lifers” can honestly look at yourselves and stand before God and say that you are for the abolishment of capital pun­ishment; that you are anti-war; that you are for a person’s right to a dignified death; that you care deep in your heart about the welfare of children born into houses of abuse (sexual, physical, emotional, substance, etc.), neglect, abandonment and poverty and are willing to fight for those children; if you consider adopting a child from a mother who doesn’t want it or is too young, or too stoned, or too inexperienced, or too lazy to raise the child; if you’re willing to pay for a child born with numerous physical disabilities that will require a lifetime of medical care; if you care about equal educational oppor­tunities, access to medical care and other means and programs to help the child succeed and become a valued, productive member of society, and to pre­vent the same child from becoming a ward of the state either through foster care or the prison system, then you can stand on top of the dome, wave your flag and proudly proclaim yourselves pro-life 
If you meet these qualifications and standards, I too will admit to you being pro-life. 
Otherwise, you are just “anti-abortion,” or better still “pro-birth,” because that’s what most so-called pro-lifers really are. This is not sanctimonious vali­dation on my part, just a definition. By your comments, you indicate to me that you are and will continue to be pro-birth. If you are, man up and accept that you are: there’s nothing wrong with that, and fight for that. I applaud your efforts in arranging the cemetery. But fight also for ways to reduce the number of abortions as President Obama told our graduating seniors back in May. 
The responsibility of being a pro-lifer is so much more than just setting up a couple of crosses. You can’t consider yourself one until you reconcile your beliefs with your actions on what happens to the life of the child after he or she comes into this world, and how you and society at large will take care of that child. If you claim to be a follower of Christ, that is his charge to you and to me. “Christian” is not a title, it’s a responsibility. 
You get to justify your “pro-life” beliefs before God, not only through words but actions as well. 
I personally believe abortion is abhorrent and evil. But I also believe in the sanctity of all human life — from the womb to the tomb. 

Eduardo Magallanez 
alumnus class of 1983 Oct. 14 



U-WIRE 


Fashion’s dangerous art 
Every fashionista loves shoes, wants shoes and needs shoes. Even if those shoes are painful, it’s only a small price to pay for looking fabulous. Large heels and uncomfort­able soles are normally what constitute painful shoes, but artist Omar Perez introduces different kinds of painful, but still fabulous, heels. 
Perez is a self-trained woodworker who not only creates wicked high heels, but also crafts fine furniture. His shoe work is on display in the Artist’s 
Shaziya 

Hall at the Houston Center for Contemporary Craft through Oct. 
25. Perez has used his experience in wood crafting to create a Bandukia collection of shoes, which he calls “Stilett‘O’s.” They are not 
University of

only made of wood, but are also accented with random day-to-
Houston

day elements one would never find on a pair of Manolo 
Daily Cougar
Blahniks. 

There are 14 pairs of “Stilett‘O’s” on display made with woods such as maple, ebony and walnut burl. Each pair has a story of its own. Some are influenced by cultures around the world, some by current trends and some by human emotions. Two pairs of the shoes have international ele­ments from places like India and China. “Rupi” is made from cocobolo, maple, Indian currency and henna dye. “Tashi” features a Chinese theme with chopsticks, vine, paper and a Chinese coin. “Teteo Inian” features not only walnut burl woodwork, but also crocodile skin and feathers. With current trends focusing on animal skins and feather usage in handbags and headbands, the “Teteo Inian” mixes modern and ancient trends very well. “Serpentine Liaison,” the largest pair of shoes on display, is made from ebony, maple, snakeskin and band saw blades. The piece has a hint of red and silver, with the blades used as straps. 
These days, a shoe isn’t only looked at for its color or heel size, but also for the details of its straps, and Perez has made them more noticeable than ever. From worldly ele­ments to current trends, Perez has used his “Stilett‘O’s” to convey emotion. “Trust No One” shows epic sorrow and anger. The pair was made from pau ferro, American dollar bills, a lizard and a 50 mm bullet. The U.S. currency used is visible in a triangular shape in the back of the shoes. The main attraction, the bullet, serves as the heel. 
It’s amazing to see the abilities and imaginations of artists, but it’s even better to see these imaginations used for a fashionista’s most important accessory. 
This column first ran in the Oct. 14 edition of The Daily Cougar, the daily newspaper serving The University of Houston 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The Observer 



Scene

page 12 Tuesday, October 27, 2009 

Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffe1@nd.edu 
By JOEY KUHN 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Three years after the Billboard No. 1 hit album “Decemberunderground,” A.F.I. is back with their latest effort, “Crash Love.” 
The California gothic punk band’s name is an acronym for “A Fire Inside.” Their new album, however, might have fans won­dering whether the fire has sput­tered out. 
In the 1990s and early 2000s, 
A.F.I was more of a hardcore punk band, putting out albums with frantic drumbeats and shout­ed choruses on every song. Then, in 2003, the band achieved its first major success with “Sing the Sorrow,” a dark, arching achieve­ment of an album. “Sing the Sorrow” contained the perfect balance of fist-in-the-face punk songs, melodramatic and haunt­ingly gothic ballads, and more radio-friendly pop-punk fare such as “Girl’s Not Grey.” 
With “Decemberunderground,” 
A.F.I. started pursuing a more pop-oriented agenda. They never lost the dark, almost overblown emo sound that gives their music its appeal, but they continued to explore the world of catchy guitar hooks and lyrics that were actual­ly able to be understood. “Crash Love” follows the same trajectory, going even further into main­stream post-punk territory similar to Green Day or Alkaline Trio. 
It was produced by Jackknife Lee and Joe McGrath, who has worked with Morrissey, Alkaline Trio and Blink-182. The album has received mostly favorable reviews, although certain critics 
and fans have questioned whether 
A.F.I. has compromised its artistry for com­mercial success. 
“Crash Love” kicks off with powerful, crunching gui­tars and a deli­cious metal riff on “Torch Song,” but the rest of the song falls somewhat flat. “Beautif ul Thieves” is a fairly enjoyable post-punk anthem that alternates between U2-esque gui­tar effects and a pounding chorus, all in a minor key, of course. But by the third song, “End Transmission,” it is clear that this album’s aesthetic is going to be very different from “Sing the Sorrow.” The guitars are jangly and almost cute, and the lyrics seem more aligned with summer fun than A.F.I.’s usual lustrous gloom. 
“Too Shy to Scream” will proba­bly be this album’s “Miss Murder.” With its bouncy beat and ultra-catchy chorus, it can’t fail to become a radio hit. Unfortunately, at only four songs in, it is probably the high point of the whole record. 
“Veronica Sawyer Smokes” is almost unbearably sappy, sound­ing like Dashboard Confessional without any of the sensitive singer/songwriter appeal. “Okay, I Feel Better Now,” “Darling, I Want to Destroy You” and “It Was Mine” are all forgettable, downtempo chuggers. 
Although A.F.I. is usually a lyri­cally poetic band, “Crash Love” as a whole is plagued with stale, 
cliché lines such as “This night has 
only just 

begun” or “Nothing pure can ever stay.” The trite lyrics would be forgivable if they were sung with extraordinary gusto, but most of the album is disappointingly lack­luster in this respect. Almost none of singer Davey Havok’s usual screaming and wailing is present. “Sacrilege,” an angry challenge to religious dogma, is probably the only song on which Havok dis­plays his old fiery zeal. That and “Medicate,” the first single, are the album’s best throwbacks to A.F.I.’s original punk style. 
Even from the album’s artwork, it is clear that “Crash Love” is a departure for A.F.I. Instead of wintry landscapes and gothic text, the cover of “Crash Love” features loopy cursive writing in the mid­dle of a shiny heart. The lighter feel of “Crash Love” is under­standable considering A.F.I.’s recent popular success with this approach. Still, it ends up making them sound like whiny, lovesick teenagers rather than the impas­sioned prophets of darkness and abandon. 
Contact Joey Kuhn at jkuhn1@nd.edu 
Observer Graphic I ANDREA ARCHER 



IRISH INSIDER 
THE 

Tuesday, October 27, 2009 observer Notre Dame 20, Boston College 16 
Burying B.C. 

Interception on final drive seals ND’s first win vs. Eagles since 2000 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
Just send your blood pressure medication bill to the Golden Dome, Irish fans. 
For the sixth-straight game, Notre Dame’s fate was not decid­ed until the closing minutes. Irish junior linebacker Brian Smith picked off Eagles quarterback Dave Shinskie’s pass with 98 sec­onds left to capture Notre Dame’s 20-16 win over Boston College. 
“Anytime you’re kind of backed up, it’s a big attitude adjustment for the defense,” Smith said. “We know it takes one play for us to get off the field, so we go after ‘em.” 
The Irish (5-2) used a “dink and dunk” passing attack, featuring liberal helpings of star junior wideout Golden Tate, to chip away at the Eagles (5-3), whose five turnovers helped a struggling Notre Dame secondary. 
“We’re a high-wire act,” Boston College head coach Frank Spaziani said. “There’s no margin of error for us. There’s no safety net. When we fall off the wire, it’s not good. So five turnovers is hard to overcome.” 
Notre Dame junior quarterback Jimmy Clausen went 26 for 39, throwing for 246 yards and two touchdowns in the victory. Clausen hit seven Irish receivers on the day, connecting with Tate on both of his touchdown passes. 

Tate finished with 128 receiving yards on 11 catches, a career high Charlie Weis said. “We knew we goal split the uprights from 37 Shinskie found Gunnell wide open The two teams traded the ball in receptions. Despite limping off had to stop the run, and our run yards out. A quick three and out in the end zone on a 7-yard touch-until early in the fourth quarter the field in the first half after defense was fantastic. We made from Boston College put the Irish down pass. The score was set up when Notre Dame lined up in the appearing to twist his ankle, jun-big plays and forced turnovers to offense back on the field, but sen-by several deep strikes into the Wildcat formation at 4th-and-goal ior tailback Armando Allen led counteract their [big plays].” ior defensive end Jim Ramella Notre Dame secondary earlier in on the 1. Junior back Robert Notre Dame in rushing with 98 Spaziani echoed Weis’s senti-forced a safety after Clausen’s the drive, including a 22-yard Hughes came up inches short yards on 21 carries. ments, adding, “[Notre Dame throwaway pass from inside the completion on third and twelve at from a score, however, and a 
“I know that I’m going to get hit defensive coordinator Jon] Tenuta Irish end zone did not make it midfield to freshman tight end turnover on downs gave Boston every play whether I have the ball is good at taking away your best back to the original line of scrim-Chris Pantale. College the ball on its own goal or not,” Allen said. “I think putting players. They’re a well-coached mage. The Irish responded with a line. on a couple pounds definitely football team. We made some Notre Dame appeared to gain touchdown drive of their own, The Irish defense clamped allowed me to take a few more adjustments, but it wasn’t good on its lead after a fake field goal in with Clausen hitting Tate in the down and forced a three and out, hits. But running behind an offen-enough.” the second quarter allowed senior corner of the end zone from 11 allowing the Notre Dame offense sive line like ours and seeing them Despite shutting down the punter Eric Maust, who handled a yards out to take a 13-9 lead with to take over at midfield after the run down the field and make potent Eagles running attack, the high snap, to run untouched into 36 seconds left in the half. The Eagles punted from inside their some extra hits is more impor-Irish secondary was gashed the end zone, but the play was Eagles were content to take a end zone. On the next drive, tant. My confidence has built repeatedly for big plays, and called back for holding on sopho-knee to end the half after the Clausen floated a pass to Tate every game because of that.” Boston College was able to extend more long-snapper Lane Clelland. ensuing kickoff. inches over a Boston College 
For Boston College, freshman many drives after converting third The Irish were forced to settle for Shinskie led Boston College defender’s outstretched fingers. quarterback Dave Shinskie fin-down through the air. another field goal to bring the down the field to open the second Tate made a cut to shake the cov­ished with 279 yards, with a Weis appeared annoyed when score to 6-2. half with a touchdown on the ering safety, and sprinted into the touchdown and three intercep-questioned about his team’s pass-When asked whether Maust back of 58 yards on two comple-end zone for a 36-yard touch­tions. Shinskie connected with ing defense, but defended his was improvising after a bad snap, tions to Gunnell, who showed no down reception to take the lead receiver Rich Gunnell early and scheme. Weis stated that the play was problems in finding seams in the 20-16. often, hitting the senior 10 times “You could say you want to play designed as a fake. Notre Dame secondary. “I saw Jimmy throw the ball for 179 yards and a touchdown. everyone in coverage, but this “That was a designed play,” After a delay of game call with the guy covering the route 
Sophomore Eagles running team ran for 300 yards last Weis said. “If we got a certain look stalled the Irish’s next possession, underneath, and I was like ‘uh­back Montel Harris, who ran for week,” Weis said. “You want to from them — which we got — it the Eagles looked poised to build oh,’” Tate said. “But it was good 264 yards last week in a victory take away what they do best, was going to be a walk in touch-on their 16-13 lead, driving the throw. [Clausen] had confidence over NC State, was held to only 38 which is what we did.” down. It was supposed to be ball down to the Notre Dame 5-he could get it by him, and it yards on 22 carries for a 1.7 Notre Dame took the lead on snapped about six feet lower, yard line. The Irish defense held, worked out well.” yards/carry average. the opening drive of the game though.” however, as senior defensive back 
“Boston College rushed for 300 when freshman kicker Nick On the next drive, Boston Sergio Brown forced a goal line Contact Michael Blasco at yards last week,” Irish coach Tausch’s 11th consecutive field College took the lead 9-6 after fumble from Harris. mblasco@nd.edu 



player of the game stat of the game play of the game quote of the game 
Golden Tate 5 Brian Smith’s interception at the Notre 
“It’s just my nature. I

Irish wide receiver Dame 22-yard line with 1:38 left. 
always want to make more than just 
The number of turnovers forced 

a catch.” Tate set a career high with 11 catches by the Irish defense, which held The third Irish interception of the for 128 yards and two touchdowns in the Eagles to only 16 points day killed any hope of a Boston Golden Tate the Irish win. despite giving up 349 total yards. College comeback. Irish wide receiver 



page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, October 27, 2009 


report card 
A­
B+ 
B+ 
B 
B+ B+ 


C+ B­
B+ 

quarterbacks: Clausen turned in another spectacular performance. Even though Weis’ “dink and dunk” approach limited his yardage, the junior threw for 246 yards with two scores and no picks. 
running backs: Armando Allen rushed for 98 yards, averaging 4.7 yards per carry. Aside from him, though, the Irish rushed for only eight yards and totaled 2.9 yards per carry. 
receivers: Golden Tate had another career day with 11 receptions for 128 yards and two touchdowns. Freshman Roby Toma looked effective in his first action, catching two passes for 13 yards. 
offensive line: Clausen was only sacked once, on an intentional grounding call in the first quarter. Other than that, the line kept their quarterback’s jersey clean and paved the way for 106 rushing yards. 
defensive line: Even though they didn’t get any pressure on Dave Shinskie, Ian Williams and Kapron Lewis-Moore were effective in stopping the run game, and combined for 13 tackles. 
linebackers: Manti Te’o continued to prove that he belongs on the field, leading the Irish with nine tackles, including 2.5 tackles for loss. Brian Smith also had the game-clinching interception. 
defensive backs: It looked like another career day for an opposing quarterback, as Shinskie was shredding the defense, but three late interceptions saved the game for the Irish. 
special teams: Nick Tausch continued to be Mr. Reliable for Notre Dame, nailing his 11th and 12th consecutive field goals. Freshman punter Ben Turk, though, averaged only 32.7 yards per kick. 
coaching: Charlie Weis acknowledged the mistakes his team made against Boston College last year, and adjusted according­ly. The Irish continue to be slightly disap­pointing in the red zone, though. 
3.13 

overall: It hasn’t been pretty all season, but a win’s a win. The Irish eked out another close one to move to 5-2 heading into Washington State. 

adding up the numbers 
Consecutive games the Irish have played decided by a touchdown or less. The Irish last 
6 

played this many close games in 1983-84. 

Number of wide receivers who have seen action9 for Notre Dame this season. Freshman Roby Toma made his debut against the Eagles. 
Consecutive field goals made by fresh­man Nick Tausch, who has been perfect 
12 


since missing his first career kick. 

13 
Touchdowns Jimmy Clausen has scored (12 passing, one rushing) when Notre Dame has been tied or trailing this season. 
Number of fourth quarter comeback wins by the Irish this season, a Notre Dame record. 
4 

Montel Harris’ yards per carry average against Notre Dame Saturday. Harris had 
1.7 


rushed for 264 yards last weekend. 
The last time the Irish allowed a safety until an intentional grounding penalty 
1999 


gave BC two points in the first quarter. 

27 
Team-leading number of tackles made by fresh­man Manti Te’o since he was made a full-time starter against Washington. 




Defense does enough to win 
When coach Charlie Weis heard that the top four tacklers in Notre Dame’s 20-16 win over Boston College didn’t play in the second­ary, he started clapping. 
“Hey, alright,” he said, a huge grin displaying his happiness. 
That stat is one of afew that indicate how far Notre Dame’s front seven have come this sea-Bill Brink son. 

Jimmy 
Sports Writer 
Clausen, Golden Tate and Armando Allen can create the most explo­sive offensive unit in the nation, but I’m still a firm believer that defense wins games. 
Quietly — or loudly, depending on how you look at it — the defense beat Boston College. Quietly because of how good the defense did despite the big plays. Loudly because the big plays exposed the weaknesses that still exist. 
Quietly because position changes and blown coverage allowed Shinskie and wide receiv­er Rich Gunnell to exploit the gaps in the zone all game. Loudly because despite the numbers Eagles freshman quarterback Dave Shinskie put up, Notre Dame still intercepted him three times. 
Boston College running back Montel Harris, who rushed for 264 yards and five touchdowns against North Carolina State last week, gained 38 yards on 22 car­ries. The defense made stopping the run its only priority, passing attack be damned, and it worked. 
Defensive tackle Kapron Lewis-Moore said the team’s goal was to allow less than 100 yards rush­ing. They allowed 70. 
“We are getting better, not only as a defensive line but as a defense as a whole,” Lewis-Moore said. 
A large part of that improve­ment came from freshman line­backer Manti Te’o, who has learned the intricacies of the defense, removed the training wheels and gotten down to destroying opposing players. He led the team with nine tackles and is the team’s best true tack­ler. 
Not only did Te’o make big hits, he read the plays. More than once he shot the gap in the offensive line before the running back did and hit him in the backfield, and he laughed in the face of a screen pass as he blew it up for a loss. 
The defensive line didn’t record a sack but had 10 hurries on Shinskie. His interceptions were in part forced because he threw before he was ready. The Irish also forced two fumbles. 
The run defense looked gor­geous, like a well-written sym­phony might sound. The pass defense looked like the conductor fell off his stand and the musi­cians started playing to their own beat. 
The Irish played zone, and the Eagles knew it. They ran routes right in the gaps in the zone: above the cornerback but below the safety outside the hash marks, and in the middle of the field between the safeties above the linebackers (the seams). Gunnell lived there Saturday, catching 10 balls for 179 yards and a touch­down. 
“They just hit a seam in our coverage, which is one of the weak spots in our coverage,” said safety Kyle McCarthy, who had two interceptions in the game. 
Gunnell had no one near him when he caught his seven-yard touchdown pass. Not one defend­er released outside with him on his wheel route. The Irish also allowed a fourth-and-17 conver­sion in the game’s final minutes. 
Shake-ups in secondary person­nel could explain the confusion. Safety Harrison Smith saw time at nickel back, and Sergio Brown, the usual nickel back, played some safety. Sophomore Jamoris Slaughter also played. In full fair­ness, the defense was entirely committed to stopping the run but still managed three interceptions. 
Notre Dame is 117th in the nation in pass defense, allowing 
282.4 yards per game in the air. Luckily for the Irish, next week’s opponent, Washington State, is 118th. But that’s got to change. True, stopping the run should be the first priority of any defense. But it can’t come at the expense of neglecting pass coverage entirely, especially in close games like Notre Dame has had this sea­son. 
Whether the problem is a schematic or personnel issue, the holes in the pass defense need some caulk. But the rest of the defense — the pressure from the line, the hits and the foresight from the linebackers — is now a viable threat, and was responsi­ble for Saturday’s win. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not those of The Observer. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


Tuesday, October 27, 2009 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Wide receivers step up in victory 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer 

Junior wide receiver Duval Kamara (18) runs down the sidelines during Notre Dame’s 20-16 win over Boston College Saturday. Kamara finished with seven catches for 60 yards. 
the Irish relied heavily on Tate and jun-and makes catches.” By LAURA MYERS ior Duval Kamara. Sophomore John Kamara, who had a breakout freshman Sports Writer Goodman and freshman Roby Toma also year in 2007 but struggled in 2008, espe­
saw action. cially benefited from the defense’s focus 

Charlie Weis expected Armando Allen “[Toma] has been knocking on the door on Tate. He finished Saturday with seven to come out as the leading receiver here for the last week,” Weis said. catches for 60 yards. Five of those catch-Saturday in what Weis referred to as a “When Robby [Parris] went down early es and 42 yards came in the first half. “dink-and-dunk” offensive game plan. in the game and came up a little lame, Goodman entered the game with just 
However, the distinction went once the guys that were waiting in the wings one career reception, but caught three in again to junior wideout Golden Tate, and were the guys that were going to go in the first half for 22 yards. three backup receivers also had time to there. And he was the guy waiting in the Toma also made his impact in the first shine. wings.” half, grabbing two catches for 13 yards 
Weis said that Boston College’s defen-Tate had another career day with 11 in his Irish debut. sive strategy forced the Irish to tone catches for 128 yards and two touch-The use of so many weapons in the down their usual aerial attack. downs. He has now caught for over 100 first half made it harder for the Eagles to 
“I didn’t think we would throw one ball yards in three straight games, a feat not defend Tate exclusively, allowing him a down field,” he said. “That’s the way matched by a Notre Dame player since big second half. they play. They dare you to be patient. If Derrick Mayes in 1995. “In the first half, their linebackers you recall last year, we weren’t patient “Golden stepped up once again,” were dropping where my routes were,” and we threw four interceptions. We’re Clausen said. “That’s what we need out Tate said. “We made adjustments in the not coming out and throwing the ball to of Golden. The receivers all stepped up. second half and gave me opportunities.” them.” Whether it was Duval, Roby Toma. When Floyd returns from his injury, 
His new tactic: “We’re going to throw Robby Parris was banged up, couldn’t opposing defenses have one more the ball flat, and we’re going to throw it really go. John Goodman — all the weapon to worry about. short, and we’re going to throw it all day receivers stepped up today.” “Whenever you can get one of the best long.” The Eagles spent much of the first half players in the country back, that’s huge,” 
And throw it they did. Junior quarter-trying to defend against Tate, which led Tate said. back Jimmy Clausen had 19 completions to extra opportunities for the backup But until then, the Irish have a big pool in the first half, a season-high for one receivers. of backup receivers they can rely on. half, and 26 completions overall. “They know that I’m going to get cov-“It’s exciting to know you have those 
With that many passes, there had to be ered up a bunch until Michael comes other guys,” Tate said. “That’s why several targets. back, and there are guys stepping up,” they’re here, to catch the ball and make 
With sophomore Michael Floyd still out Tate said. “Toma comes in and makes plays and they’re doing it.” with a broken collarbone and senior some key catches. Duval comes in and Robby Parris unable to finish the game, makes come catches. Goody comes in Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
Notes: Herzlich receives Irish jersey 
sixth consecutive game decided and receiving gloves for the sec-receiver and if you saw out 
By LAURA MYERS 

by seven points or less. This has ond half. He helped junior wide-there, he was making plays left 
Sports Writer 

not happened since 1983-1984 out Golden Tate to warm up and right, and he’s a real good and has never happened in a before the second half began, talent. I was just going to say 
uPrior to Saturday’s game, single season. The previous sin-playing catch but not throwing good game to him, and he was Irish coach Charlie Weis and gle-season record was five the ball back to Tate. Floyd will just a little frustrated I guess. I receiver Barry Gallup, Jr. pre-games decided by seven points likely be able to play again in was just trying to say good sented an honorary Notre Dame or less, which occurred in 1939. November. game to him.” jersey to Boston College line-The Irish have also set the sin-backer Mark Herzlich. gle-season record for fourth • Clausen’s intentional uAfter the game, Weis said 
Herzlich, the 2008 ACC Player quarter comebacks with four. grounding penalty that led to a the field goal attempt that Eric of the Year, was diagnosed with “Coach Weis says he’s getting safety for Boston College was Maust ran in for a touchdown, Ewing’s Sarcoma, a rare form old and tired, but I’m getting old the first safety by a Notre Dame before being called back by a of cancer, in April and has been and tired too,” junior quarter-opponent since Oklahoma on holding penalty, was an inten­in treatment ever since. He has back Jimmy Clausen said. “We Oct. 2 , 1999. tional fake. hopes to return to Boston are going to keep trying as “Actually it was a snap to College if he is able to recover much as we can to get better, to • Clausen had a brief Eric, and if we got a certain fully. get prepared better and not to encounter with Boston College look, which we got, okay,” Weis 
Charlie and Maura Weis have these close games any-wide receiver Rich Gunnell after said. “It was a walk-in touch-donated $5,000 to Uplifting more.” the game, which ended in down if we got the certain Athletes, a non-profit that bene-Clausen stiff-arming Gunnell look.” fits athletes with rare diseases. uSophomore wide receiver and walking away. 
Michael Floyd dressed for the “To be honest I was just going Contact Laura Myers at 
uThe win was Notre Dame’s game and even put on a helmet up to him to say he’s a heck of a lmyers2@nd.edu 




scoring summary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
Boston College  2  7  7  0  16  
Notre Dame  3  10  0  7  20  
First quarter  

Notre Dame 3, Boston College 0 
Nick Tausch 37-yd field goal with 10:08 remain­ing. Drive: 10 plays, 53 yards, 4:52 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 3, Boston College 2 
Jim Ramella safety with 7:42 remaining. 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 6, Boston College 2 
Tausch 34-yd field goal with 8:44 remaining. Drive: 10 plays, 36 yards, 2:31 elapsed. 
Boston College 9, Notre Dame 6 
Rich Gunnell 7-yd pass from Dave Shinskie (Steve Aponavicius kick) with 4:40 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 68 yards, 4:04 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 13, Boston College 9 
Golden Tate 11-yd pass from Jimmy Clausen (Tausch kick) with 0:36 remaining. Drive: 12 plays, 74 yards, 4:04 elapsed. 

Third quarter 
Boston College 16, Notre Dame 13 
Montel Harris 2-yd run (Aponavicius kick) with 
12:14 remaining. Drive: 6 plays, 56 yards, 2:46 elapsed. 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 20, Boston College 16 
Tate 36-yd pass from Clausen with 8:12 remaining. Drive: 3 plays, 49 yards, 1:04 elapsed. 



statistics 
total yards 

rushing yards 

passing yards 

time of possession 


passing  
Clausen  26-39-246  Shinskie  17-35-279  
rushing  
Allen Gray, J. Hughes Maust Clausen  21-98 1-6 4-5 1-4 6-1  Harris Shinskie McCluskey  22-38 3-19 3-15  
receiving  
Tate Kamara Goodman Toma Rudolph Allen Parris  11-128 7-60 3-22 2-13 1-11 1-9 1-3  Gunnell Larmond, Jr. Pantale Jarvis Anderson Harris  10-179 3-61 1-22 1-21 1-2 1-(6)  


page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, October 27, 2009 




Breaking another streak 
Once again, the Irish won a game in the final minutes. After taking a 
13-6 lead into the locker room at halftime, Boston College took a lead on a Montel Harris touchdown run in the third quarter. Golden Tate came up big again, though, hauling in his second touchdown pass of the day with just over eight minutes left in the game. The Eagles had chances to take the lead late in the game, but three Irish interceptions — two by Kyle McCarthy and one by Brian Smith — sealed the win for Notre Dame. Jimmy Clausen was solid, if not spectacular, throwing for 246 yards and two touchdowns with no interceptions. Tate had a career-high 11 recep­tions for 128 yards. With senior Robby Parris hobbled due to injury, jun­ior Duval Kamara stepped up with seven catches for 60 yards, and fresh­man receiver Roby Toma saw his first action of the season. Despite another sub-par performance, the defense stepped up big when it mat­tered, forcing five turnovers. 
For more photos, check out the photo gallery at ndsmcobserver.com 





Clockwise from top: Notre Dame senior safety Sergio Brown does a celebratory back flip before the alma mater, senior offensive lineman Eric Olsen finishes a block, junior wide receiver Golden Tate and sophomore John Goodman celebrate, junior safety Harrison Smith defends a pass, and Tate runs past a Boston College tackler. 
The Observer 




Scene

Tuesday, October 27, 2009 page 13 
By COURTNEY ECKERLE 
Scene Writer 
“I Told You I Was Freaky” is the latest project of Flight of the Conchords, New Zealand’s fourth most popular folk-pop (and comedy, of course) group, fol­lowing their 2008 self titled debut, as well as their 2007 Grammy win­ning “Distant Future” EP. 
The tracks on this new album are pulled straight from the second season of their self-titled HBO show into an all-star group of parody tunes. The Conchords, Bret McKenzie and Jermaine Clement, shot into the com­edy spotlight after ten episodes of their show aired and are now among the elite of other musi­cal parodists 
— namely Weird Al Yankovic, The Lonely Island and Michael Scott from 
“The Office.” 
Taking notes from The Lonely 
Island’s outstanding earlier suc­
cess, the flannel-wearing folk pair 
changes their forte and brings 
more hip hop beats to the forefront 
of their album, although the album 
contains no stand out hits like “I’m On A Boat,” and certainly none that will create as much frenzy or a ran­domly emitted catchphrase. Also, T-
Pain is no where to be found. 
“I Told You I Was Freaky” opens 
with the hilarious R&B rip-off 
“Hurt Feelings,” which starts out 
with the lyrics, “Some people say 
that rappers don’t have feelings, 
we have feelings,” and leads into 
Bret and Jermaine detailing differ­
ent occasions when they’ve had 
their feelings hurt, a so-called 
“autobiographical rap,” telling 
when someone called Jermaine a 
llama, or when Bret’s friends went 
to go see the movie “Maid 
in Manhattan” without 
him. With a very serious 
melody and tone, if it 
wasn’t flavored with such 
silly lyrics (e.g. the word “llama”), it could almost pass as a legitimate hit on the R&B charts. 
Calling back to the Police with the rasta-fied “Roxanne” knock off “You Don’t Have To Be A Prostitute,” Bret and Jermaine perfect the story line that made their series popu­lar-two guys who take silly problems way too seriously. Because Bret overdraws on their account, Jermaine decides that being a prostitute is the only way to pay their bills. Luckily he isn’t very successful, but that doesn’t stop Bret’s guilt (and his distaste for Jermaine bringing his clients home), which leads to a very soulful man ballad about his compromising the honor of his best friend, which includes the very touching lyrics, “You can say no, to being a man-ho” that bring a tear to the eye almost as much as the idea of Jermaine wearing tight red shorts. 
A not-so-shining track is the Russian sea-shanty diddy “Petrov, Yelyena and Me,” which feels forced and too far off from the rest of the album, coming off not as funny, but as a desperate death rattle to finish the album and the season. On the other hand, synth-rock pleaser “Fashion is Danger” takes Frankie Goes to Hollywood to the mat and wins. 
This CD is good enough to hold fans for a while, since the band announced that they are taking at least a yearlong hiatus (although perhaps indefinitely) due to the immense pressure the album put on them, since this season marked the first time in their ten year history that Flight of the Conchords actually had to sit down and write new materi­al. 
The CD is best sought out by fans of the show. With only a few exceptions, the jokes in songs are best when accompa­nied by the visuals of the show, and newcomers will find that the material falls short without a fanatic’s spirit. While there are individual standout and absolutely stellar songs, it was ultimately forgettable as a whole, certainly not a proper farewell album if that’s what it ends up being. 



Dear Miley Cyrus, 

I fully expect you to pay my $160 speeding ticket. It’s your fault, after all, that I got pulled over Wednesday night and cited for going 14 miles over the speed limit. 
On Wednesday night, I decided to be the oldest child that moms love and siblings are grateful for by picking up my 16-year-old sis­ter and her pals from a 
Adriana Pratt
Halloween party. It was enough of a good deed to take time out of my uber-packed (not) 
Assistant
Wednesday night to run an 
Scene Editor

errand, but to on top of that drive around seven teenage girls was Nobel patience-prize worthy. If I had to hear one more time how Betty* almost grinded with Bobby* but not quite because they didn’t actually come within 10 feet of each other, I might have gone insane. (*Names have been changed to protect privacy.) 
My one and only savior that quickly turned into the devil was “Party in the U.S.A.” I was slowly but surely losing all hope in teenage-kind when, thank heavens, faint whisperings of Miley’s song leaked through the car speakers. I desperately latched onto the volume dial and cranked it up, substituting my sister and her friends’ screeches for Miley’s. 
My muscles relaxed, my mind relaxed and all was good in the world. My car’s passengers (finally) stopped their chattering and joined in a unified singing of the chorus line. Miracles do happen. “Party in the U.S.A.” might just be the solution for 
have taken the risk once I heard the sug­gestions coming out of my passengers’ mouths. “A, you should cry!” was the most appropriate. After what felt like an eternity and a half, the cop finally returned and hand­ed me that white slip of glory, a.k.a. my first-ever speeding ticket. The neon green paper detailing the expense of my fine was an added bonus. The irony of it all is that, just that very 
day, I had made my Facebook status, “Today is a “Party in the U.S.A.” on replay kind of day.” Miley, I don’t feel 
like getting me a ticket was a very nice way to repay me for singing your praises. 
“Party in the U.S.A.” is supposed to 
evoke feelings of happiness, excitement and joy, taking you back to memories of cramped and sweaty dorm parties and boys proving just how cool they are by belting out every line. It is not supposed to rob you of your speeding-ticket virginity. 
I was wrong when I wrote in a 

world peace. I bet if you put Kim Jong Il and Barack previous article (“Party in the Obama in a room and blared this song over the U.S.A.: Party Starter,” Sept. 29), speakers, something might just get accomplished. 
“Just let your head nod like Anyways, I might have maybe gotten just a little 
‘yeah’ and your hips move too into the song because, before I knew it, red like ‘yeah’ and you won’t and blue flashing lights danced in my rearview regret it.” Losing yourself to mirror as a “shark,” as I so fondly call a Miley song while at the police officers, pulled me over. Chills of nerv­wheel of a moving vehicle ous anticipation ran through my body as I is not a commendable shakily turned down the volume of the idea and unfortunate-radio and did a panicked search for my dri­ly, you just might ver’s license. It was nowhere to be found. 
regret it. 
“License and registration,” the cop barked through my rolled down window. I 
Contact Adriana 
meekly admitted I had left my license at 
Pratt at 
home and thrust my mom’s car’s registra­
apratt@nd.edu. The 
tion at him. My mother would have been 
views expressed in 
proud of the disappointed look he whipped 
this column are 
out. He must be a parent. 
those of the author 
I was too scared to roll up the window while he headed to his car to check that I and not necessarily those wasn’t a criminal, but I probably should of The Observer. 
ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, October 27, 2009 
NBA 


Barkley wants chance to be a GM 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Charles Barkley thinks he can do better than some of the general man­agers he criticizes on TV. 
The Hall of Fame player and TNT analyst said Monday he’d like his chance to run an NBA team, though he’s in no rush because he’d want the right job. 
“I think that it’d be fun to try to build my own team,” Barkley said at a luncheon, joined by studio partners Kenny Smith and Ernie Johnson. “We talk about it all the time. Sometimes we say, ‘What is that guy doing? Why did he draft that guy? Why did he make a trade for that guy?’ 
“Some of these guys have done a bad job, plain and sim­ple.” 
Barkley was critical of the Minnesota Timberwolves, who under new team president David Kahn took point guards with the Nos. 5-6 picks in the draft, then signed point guard Ramon Sessions in free agency. 
He compared the Wolves’ draft strategy to when the Detroit Lions kept spending high draft picks on wide receivers. 
The 46-year-old Barkley planned to do TV for only a couple of years, but is now in his 10th season with TNT. He’s in no hurry to leave for a team executive job that opened up, because some of them wouldn’t give him an opportunity to be successful. 
“Every job ain’t a good job,” said Barkley, who said he wouldn’t take any position unless he was given complete control of basketball decisions, because some owners aren’t interested in winning. 
Smith also is interested and has interviewed for some posi­tions. He doesn’t think he or Barkley are hurt by not having previous experience working for a team. 
“Every day you can hear what we say about your team, what your team is. You know our philosophy. If you follow basketball, it’s not like you don’t know Charles and myself. 
You can’t not know us and you can’t not know how we think,” Smith said. “We’re just in a unique situation where we’re interviewed every night.” 
Barkley has seen some of his contemporaries try and fail as team executives. Isiah Thomas was fired after a horrible tenure running the New York Knicks, and even Michael Jordan, Barkley’s good friend, is regularly criticized for his inability to build a winner in Washington and Charlotte. 
Nevertheless, Barkley said he’s not worried about becom­ing another guy getting blasted on the air. 
“I want that challenge, and honestly, this business, it ain’t brain surgery,” he said. 
“I tell guys, this is never per­sonal. If you win, they’re going to write good things about you. If you don’t, they’re going to write bad things about you. That’s just how it is. It ain’t right, it ain’t wrong, and some of my peers have not done a good job, and that’s just the truth.” 
NFL 

Delhomme’s job in jeopardy 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. — For the first time in seven years, Jake Delhomme is in jeopardy of losing his starting job. 
After another abysmal perform­ance Sunday left Carolina 2-4 and Delhomme with an NFL-high 13 interceptions, Panthers coach John Fox acknowledged he’s con­templating benching Delhomme in favor of either Matt Moore or 
A.J. Feeley. 
“I still believe Jake is our best quarterback. I have no reason to believe otherwise, truth be told,” Fox said Monday. “But collectively we’ll do whatever it takes for us to improve. What that is I can’t honestly tell you at this second.” 
A day earlier, Delhomme threw three interceptions, two which were badly overthrown and directly led to 14 Buffalo points in the Bills’ 20-9 win. The 34-year­old Delhomme, who received a lucrative contract extension in the offseason, can’t seem to snap out of the worst stretch of his career. 
It began when Delhomme threw five interceptions and lost a fum­ble against Arizona in the play­offs. Counting two lost fumbles this season, Delhomme has com­mitted 15 turnovers and thrown only four touchdowns. His passer rating of 56.5 ranks 32nd in the league and Carolina’s minus-14 turnover margin is by far the worst in the NFL. 
Sunday’s loss ended Carolina’s two-game winning streak and left Delhomme seemingly stunned. He said he was “numb” and added it was a “crushing” loss after Carolina outgained Buffalo 425­167. 
“Last night I was numb and right now, you watch the film — I’ve watched it three times already today — I think it’s more frustration,” Delhomme said Monday. 
Delhomme stood in front of his locker with Arizona game tape under his arm vowing to prepare to start as always. He said he met earlier in the day with the Fox, but declined to reveal details. 
“I think my confidence is high, but it’s easy to say it,” Delhomme said. “You’ve got to get it done. ... I’m not trying to play the victim. I’m the one pulling the trigger.” 
While Fox said he sees no dif­ference in Delhomme’s arm strength or delivery, he hinted Delhomme’s psyche will play into his decision who starts in Sunday’s playoff rematch with the Cardinals. 
“We’ll do whatever it takes for us to start developing some confi­dence in that phase of the game,” Fox said. 
Trouble is, the Panthers have few good options behind Delhomme, who has been Carolina’s starter since Week 2 in 2003, when the relative unknown led the Panthers to a surprising trip to the Super Bowl. 
Moore started three games as an undrafted rookie in 2007 when Delhomme was recovering from reconstructive elbow surgery. Moore’s only appearance since was when he completed 6 of 11 passes for 63 yards and an inter­ception after Delhomme was benched late in the season opener against Philadelphia. 
“I feel ready if needed,” Moore said. “But I think we’re 100 per­cent behind Jake.” 
The Panthers signed the jour­neyman Feeley on Sept. 15 after Josh McCown was placed on injured reserve with knee and ankle injuries. Feeley has since been scrambling to learn the offense. 
“Do I think I can go out there and manage the game and play? Yeah,” Feeley said. “Do I have a grasp of the offense like the other guys? Obviously that’s not the case.” 
Delhomme still has the support of several teammates. Many came to his defense, including left tack­le Jordan Gross, who is opposed to a QB change. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Miles welcomes break from SEC 
Associated Press 
BATON ROUGE, La. — Les Miles figures there’s little use in trying to ignore the fact that No. 9 LSU’s game at Alabama on Nov. 7 is looming largest on the minds of just about everyone associated with the program. 
He only hopes his players will see Saturday night’s home game against strug­gling Tulane as a much-need­ed opportunity to get better before LSU (6-1) returns to its Southeastern Conference schedule. 
“We understand that our greatest ally at this point is time — to improve, do better and play strong and play dominant against our next opponent.” Miles said Monday. “Then we’ll look around and see where we are at.” 
Tulane (2-5) is coming off a 43-6 loss at Southern Mississippi, its third straight loss, and Tulane hasn’t beat­en LSU since 1982. 
Miles nonetheless referred to the Green Wave as “dan­gerous,” and said his players must continue to build on the substantial improvement they showed in a 31-10 victory over Auburn. 
Jordan Jefferson passed for a career-high 242 yards and threw a pair of touchdown passes against Auburn, going a long way toward putting his miserable performance against Florida (96 yards passing, five sacks) behind him. 
It was only the ninth career start for the sophomore, and it was the first time this sea­son he looked comfortable throwing deep and trusting his receivers to make plays, something he’d pledged to do during LSU’s recent bye week. 
“What I think we’re finding is, each game he continues to improve, he understands, he learns, he sees the field well, and I’m not surprised,” Miles said. “There’s no ability for a coach to take you beyond experience. ... You need as many snaps as you can get, and then, it helps him trans­late those plays in a game more effectively, especially for a guy that has the talent that he has.” 
A pair of freshman also emerged on offense, with Russell Shepard scoring on a 69-yard run and Rueben Randle hauling in a tough 31-yard catch along the side­line. 
Miles said a number of young players who had not seen much action until the Auburn game “will play key roles during the rest of the season.” 
If the rest of the season goes as planned, LSU could re-emerge as a contender to win the SEC and compete for a national title. If LSU pulls out a victory at No. 2 Alabama, the Tigers would vault into first place in the SEC Western Division, setting up a potential rematch with Florida in the SEC title game. 
“Our football team recog­nizes that if they do the things that they are capable of, we’ll get to a position where we’ll play for every­thing that we want,” Miles said. 
The timing of the bye week appeared to work in LSU’s favor, giving the Tigers an opportunity to take a hard look at what went wrong in their 13-3 loss to the Gators on Oct. 10. 
“The recognition of how we played against Florida and the comparisons of the two teams that were made by the (LSU) players who played really told them something,” Miles said. “I think it became a more urgent want to pre­pare, improve and be the team they are capable of being.” 
Although LSU has only lost one game all season, there were few instances before the Auburn game in which the Tigers looked dominant. 
LSU needed a late goal-line stand to escape Mississippi State with a win and a pair of late touchdowns to beat Georgia. The Tigers’ offense was thoroughly stifled by Florida, with the game remaining close only because of timely plays by LSU’s defense. 
Even the defense was struggling in key areas, entering the Auburn game ranked last in the SEC in sacks with five. The unit nearly doubled that total against Auburn, sacking Chris Todd four times. One sack produced a turnover and LSU also had an inter­ception. 
“This defense seems to have a smile on its face when it goes out to play, and they are playing aggressive and downhill,” Miles said. “There is great effort. There is a sprit there that is allowing them to continue to get better.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we

WANTED FOR RENT TICKETS FOR SALE FOR SALE can help. For more information, visit 
Notre Dame s website at: PART TIME WORK andersonND rentals.com. HOUSES HELP! Need Fb tix for family. Ford 79 T-Bird UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? http://csap.nd.edu ——————————————— ——————————————— 4 BDRM HOUSE ON 32 ACRES Will pay top $$. 45K Miles Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has Fall Break realizations, Part 1: $14.25 OF NATURE AND SERENITY. many resources in place to assist 574-251-1570. Orig Owner you. If yo or someone you love While walking in Central Park last 
9 MILES NORTH OF NOTRE ——————————————— needs confidential support or assis-Tuesday, my roommates and I real­base-appt.,no experience needed, DAME. VICTORY TICKETS tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at ized that all kids from our genera-customer sales/service, $1,200 FOR WEEKEND. $8,000 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For tion are scared of Central Park, and 
Buy Sell Trade FB Tix. more information, visit ND s website New York City by extension, CALL GEORGIA PEACH BED AND at: because of the Bird Woman from 574-273-3835 BREAKFAST @ 269-357-6979. Victorytickets.net 574-232-0964 574-299-0925 http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu Home Alone 2. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 


Around theNat on 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 

Tuesday, October 27, 2009 
page 15 

NCAA Football Division I AP Top 25 
team previous 
1 Florida 2 2 Alabama 1 3 Texas 3 4 Southern Callifornia 4 5 Cincinnati 5 6 Boise State 6 7 Iowa 7 8 TCU 10 9 LSU 9 10 Oregon 12 11 Georgia Tech 11 12 Penn State 13 13 Oklahoma State 14 14 Virginia Tech 15 15 Houston 17 16 Pittsburgh 20 17 Ohio State 18 18 Miami (Fla.) 8 19 Utah 19 20 West Virginia 22 21 South Carolina 23 22 Oklahoma 25 23 Arizona NR 24 Mississippi NR 25 NOTRE DAME NR 
NCAA Football Division I Coaches’ Poll Top 25 
team previous 
1 Florida 1 2 Alabama 2 3 Texas 3 4 Southern California 4 5 Boise State 5 6 TCU 7 7 Cincinnati 6 8 Iowa 8 9 LSU 10 10 Penn State 11 11 Georgia Tech 13 12 Oregon 14 13 Oklahoma State 12 14 Virginia Tech 15 15 Ohio State 17 16 Houston 17 17 Pittsburgh 19 18 Miami (Fla.) 9 19 Utah 20 20 West Virginia 22 21 South Carolina 23 22 Mississippi 25 23 Oklahoma NR 24 Arizona NR 25 NOTRE DAME NR 


around the dial 
MLB World Series 
Philadelphia at New York 
7:57 p.m., FOX 
NHL 

Philadelphia at Washington 7 p.m., Versus 
MLB 

Indians hire Manny Acta as manager 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND — Manny Acta had two choices for his second job managing in the majors. He picked Cleveland over Houston, where his baseball career began. 
Acta, Washington’s for­mer manager who turned down a chance to return to the Astros, was introduced as Cleveland’s 40th manag­er on Monday. Acta signed a three-year contract with the Indians, who outbid the Astros over the weekend for the 40-year-old. 
“This is a perfect place for me,” Acta said. “That’s why I’m here. I’m attracted to all these talented young players. I’m looking for­ward to teaching and lead­ing them and helping this team win a championship.” 
Acta spent 2½ years with the Nationals, who fired him after a 21-61 start this season. He compiled a 158­252 record in Washington, but was confident he would get another chance. 
Indians general manager Mark Shapiro said Acta’s win-loss record became less of a factor as they learned more about him. 
Cleveland began with an initial list of 35 candidates, which the club whittled to about 10 before inviting Acta, former New York Mets manager Bobby Valentine and Torey Lovullo, the Indians’ Triple-A manager, to Cleveland for second interviews. The team had also planned to interview Los Angeles Dodgers hitting coach Don Mattingly a second time. 
But when the Astros made an offer to Acta, the Indians jumped in and negotiated with his agent before agreeing to a con­tract on Saturday night. 
“I knew we might lose him because he got offered a job,” Shapiro said. “They offered him a job first while we were still working through our process. We just sped up our time frame, since we were head­ed in that direction.” 
During the club’s search, Shapiro said the team kept getting the same positive feedback on Acta. 
“When you look at the resume and the character­istics of the person, you combine those and put them into our situation, he’s the right man for this organization,” Shapiro said. “He’s the right man for this city and he’s the right man for our team.” 
Acta said he didn’t sense the Indians’ strong interest in him until they offered the job. 
“These people are very good poker players,” he said. 
Acta’s losing record is a stain on his resume he would like to erase. But he’s not the first manager to begin slowly and hopes he can one day be viewed as nothing but a winner. 
IN BRIEF 
Alex Smith to start for Jets’ WR Edwards charged NCAA delivers letter of S a n F r a n c i s c o 4 9 e r s with misdemeanor assault inquiry to Michigan football 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. — Alex CLEVELAND — Authorities say ANN ARBOR, Mich. — The NCAA has Smith is getting a big chance to res-New York Jets wide receiver Braylon joined the University of Michigan in an urrect his career. All but forgotten, Edwards has been charged with mis-investigation into practices of college the former No. 1 overall pick is the demeanor assault over accusations football’s winningest program. San Francisco 49ers’ new starting he punched a man outside a University president Mary Sue quarterback — again. Cleveland nightclub. Coleman announced Monday the NCAA 
“I don’t know if I’d say surprised. Cleveland city prosecutor Victor has given the school a notice of inquiry. I don’t know if I was anticipating it, Perez filed the charge Monday. It car-“It marks the beginning of an investi­either,” Smith said Monday after ries a maximum sentence of six gation,” NCAA spokeswoman Stacey getting the news from coach Mike months in jail and a $1,000 fine. Osburn explained. Singletary. “It’s the opportunity I’ve An arraignment was scheduled for The NCAA’s enforcement staff often been waiting for; happy.” Nov. 17 in Cleveland Municipal Court. looks into allegations, according to 
Singletary made the announce-Patrick D’Angelo, an attorney for Osburn, but only sends school presi­ment Monday after also sitting Edwards, says his client will plead dents a letter of inquiry when an initial down with Shaun Hill, who was not guilty. review determines a violation may have benched after the first half of the Edwards is accused of punching occurred based on credible informa-Niners’ a 24-21 loss at Houston on promoter Edward Givens, a friend of tion. Sunday. NBA star LeBron James, following an The school started looking into allega-
Smith, who hadn’t played in near-argument Oct. 5. Two days later, the tions brought against Rich Rodriguez’s ly two years, came in and gave the Browns traded Edwards to the Jets. program in August after a report in the offense a much-needed jolt of ener-The Jets said in a statement that Detroit Free Press cited anonymous gy and efficiency, and he nearly led the team was aware of the allega-players claiming the amount of time San Francisco (3-3) back from a 21-tions prior to the trade and will let they spent during the season and in the 0 deficit. the legal process to run its course. offseason exceeded NCAA limits. 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, October 27, 2009 
MLB 

Yanks and Phils ready for Series 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — They boast All-Stars all over the dia­mond, high-priced players decorated with coveted awards. They come loaded with October experience and shiny rings, expecting to win another World Series. 
Impressive team ... these Philadelphia Phillies. 
Hardly a bunch of slouches on the other side, either. Derek Jeter, Mariano Rivera, Andy Pettitte and the New York Yankees are a model of Rodriguez from the get-go. A-Rod hit .438 with five home runs and 12 RBIs through the playoffs. This is his first foray into baseball’s big event. 

“A lot of great players have never had the opportunity to play in the World Series,” Rodriguez said Sunday night after the Yankees’ clinching win over the Angels in Game 6 of the AL championship series. 
“It’s been a dream of mine since I was a 5-year-old boy 
to play in the 
World Series. 

postseason “In order to win the In order to 
success, eager World Series, you win the World to include Alex Series, you 
have to get there and
Rodriguez in a have to get 
we’ve done that now.” 
championship there and celebration. we’ve done 
A pair of that now,” he 
Alex Rodriguez
franchi ses said. 
Yankees third baseman 
separated by a 90-minute ride on the New Jersey Turnpike, with no real rivalry to speak of despite their century-long histories. 
That could change starting Wednesday night. Ryan Howard, Jimmy Rollins and the defending champ Phils are set to dig in against CC Sabathia in Game 1 at Yankee Stadium. 
“I think the fact that we’re playing the Yankees and it’s close to Philadelphia and how the fans and the media react to it and how both cities look forward to it, that puts more icing on the cake,” Phillies manager Charlie Manuel said Monday. “It does something for the game.” 
The Phillies worked out at Citizens Bank Park before hopping an Amtrak train 
World Series has lasted more than five games. 
In the meantime, all aboard! 
How much of the country will tune into the all-Northeast matchup remains to be seen. The folks in Las Vegas already have taken a look — in spite of the Phillies’ credentials, the Yankees are heavy 2-to-1 favorites. 
Philadelphia is trying to become the NL’s first repeat champion since the 1975-76 Big Red Machine. The Yankees return to the Series for the first time since 2003, having last won in 2000. 
Cliff Lee opens for the Phillies, hoping to continue their run that includes a five-game romp over Tampa Bay in last year’s World Series. At 16-4, Philadelphia has assembled the best record over a 20-game span by an NL team in postseason histo­ry. 
Manuel hasn’t shown any tendency to pitch around opposing sluggers, so Lee, Cole Hamels and Pedro Martinez figure to challenge It’s a power-

packed matchup, marking the first time since 1926 the World Series pits the teams that fin­ished 1-2 in the majors in home runs, according to STATS LLC. Back then, Babe Ruth and Yankees led with 121, followed by St. Louis with 90. 
This year, Mark Teixeira and the Yankees hit 244 and the Phillies tied with Texas at 224. 
Add in two homer-friendly parks, along with the teams that led their leagues in runs, and runs could flow. Then again, everyone knows that pitching rules the postseason 
— neither Manuel nor Yankees manager Joe Girardi has announced his plans, though New York seems to be 
leaning toward a 

for the hour-“There’s defnitely a th ree-man 
plus trip to rotation of 
special mystique
Penn Station Sabathia, A.J. in Manhattan. when you walk into Burnett and 
Whether they Yankee Stadium, new Pettitte. ride back up But what 
or old.” 
next week will about Brad be decided Lidge? A post-later — none Jayson Werth season star 
of the last five Phillies right felder last year, the 
Phillies reliev­

er was a bust this season. That is, until this October — he was the only closer in the playoffs who did not give up a run. 
Also worth watching: the forecast. 
After last year’s World Series ended with a game suspended two days because of rain, more wet weather might be on the way. 
AccuWeather.com said a storm was headed toward the Bronx and predicted rain and temperatures in the mid-50s for Game 1, with the drizzle possibly lingering for Game 2 Thursday night. 
The first World Series game at the new, $1.5 billion Yankee Stadium will be played across the street from the old ballpark, where a record 26 championship ban­ners flew. 
“There’s definitely a special mystique when you walk into Yankee Stadium, new or old,” Phillies outfielder Jayson Werth said. “It’s the cathe­dral of baseball, where everybody wanted to play as a kid.” 
MEN’S SWIMMING 
Irish victorious in first dual meet 
he won,” junior Christopher 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Wills said. “Both events came 
Sports Writer 
down to the last stroke and he was the one who put his hand Notre Dame won its first on the wall first.” dual meet of the season On the diving side of the 
against the Oakland University “Improving from theGolden 
frst meet to the
Grizzlies with a 
score of 179-second is exciting 
119. and encouraging.” 
The Irish placed first in 
Tim Welsh 
eleven of the 
Irish head coach
fifteen events Friday at Notre Dame’s Rolfs competition, the Irish took first place in both events. Junior Eric Lex 
(369.15) came in first place, sen­ior Caleb Dunnichay 
(350.5) came in second place, and junior Wes Villaflor 
Aquatic Center. They won nine (339.75) placed third in the of the thirteen swimming three-meter five. In the one-events and both the one-meter meter event, Dunnichay fin-and three-meter diving events. 
“Oakland is a very solid and well coached team,” Irish coach Tim Welsh said. “They beat us in a dual meet at their pool last year, and they outscored us in swimming at the Dennis Stark Relays (we outscored them in diving), so this win is a strong team per­formance from our men.” 
The Irish gained some early points in the 200-meter med­ley relay, composed of sopho­more Petar Petrovic, junior Joseph Raycroft, freshman John McGinley and senior John Lytle. Freshmen Bill Bass and Christopher Johnson each received first places in their first collegiate dual meet. Bass was the first to finish in both the 500-meter freestyle and the 200-meter individual med­ley, and Johnson won the 100­meter breaststroke. 
“I thought Bill Bass did real­ly well, not only because he won two events but also because of the way in which ished first, followed by Lex and Villaflor, respectively. 

“We measure our season by improvement,” Welsh said. “Improving from the first meet to the second is exciting and encouraging. By winning the meet, the team can take credit for their improvement, but there is still much more to be done, and a lot of improve­ment we hope, plan, and strive for to come.” 
The team’s next event is a home event against the Cleveland State Vikings and 
the  Mi ami  U n ive rsity  
Redhawks for a tri-meet  on  
Oct. 31.  

Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 


Tuesday, October 27, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
NFL 

Colts’ defense off to strong start 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Defense is changing Indianapolis’ image. 
Peyton Manning has only had to rescue the Colts from one fourth-quarter deficit this sea­son. Shootouts have been replaced by blowouts, and the disparity between touchdowns scored and touchdowns allowed by the Colts seems to be growing with each passing week. 
Yes, suddenly Indy’s potent offense has found itself a per­fect complement — a dominant defense. 
“You look at the last eight quarters and we’ve not allowed a touchdown,” coach Jim Caldwell said Monday. “The bottom line is can you keep them out of the end zone? And we’re doing that.” 
The unbeaten Colts (6-0) suc­ceeded on that front with remarkable regularity this sea­son. 
In six games, Indy has yield­ed just six touchdowns — including two by Seattle only after the Seahawks fell into a 34-3 fourth-quarter deficit. The last meaningful TD scored against the Colts came in the third quarter of Week 3 at Arizona. The last touchdown Indy surrendered in the first half: Sept. 21 at Miami. 
No, this is not how most NFL observers view the Colts, who now have the league’s No. 9 defense to go along with their high-scoring offense. Yet everyone from former coach Tony Dungy to the players thinks this defense may be the best of the Manning era. 
“One thing that really strikes me is that on the first series of games (last year), they (oppo­nents) would drive down and get a touchdown and from that point, it would be very deflat­ing,” said middle linebacker Gary Brackett, the Colts’ long­time defensive captain. “This year, when we start fast and you get our offense the ball two or three times in the first quarter, you get games like 42­6.” 

Of course, that’s always been the game plan for the Colts. Execution was the problem. 
This year, things have been different. 
Indy has topped 30 points in four straight games, winning each by at least 17 points. Only two opponents have scored as many as 13 points in a game — Miami in Week 2 and Seattle in Week 4. Caldwell has joined Denver’s Josh McDaniels as first-year head coaches to start 6-0, matching the best start since the merger in 1970. 
Certainly, some of the reason for Indy’s improvement can be attributed to a schedule that has pitted Indy against four teams that are 2-4 or worse. Yet Indy also has beaten the defending NFC champions, the defending AFC East champi­ons, is 4-0 on the road and has faced four of the NFL’s top nine running backs — Steven Jackson, Chris Johnson, Ronnie Brown and Maurice Jones-Drew. 
And the biggest improvement can’t be measured in numbers. 
Under Dungy, the Colts rarely blitzed, opting instead to take away big plays and make opponents drive methodically, thereby risking more mistakes. 
New defensive coordinator Larry Coyer has altered Dungy’s approach. He’s taking advantage of the Colts’ speed and versatility with more aggressive schemes. The com­bination of blitzes and pres­sure has given Pro Bowl defen­sive ends Dwight Freeney and Robert Mathis more one-on­one matchups, allowing them to create havoc more often. 
It’s working perfectly. 
Indy has 16 sacks, tied for sixth-most in the NFL, and tied for No. 3 among teams who have already had a bye. The pass coverage, which allowed only six TD passes last year has given up only two this sea­son. 
“It’s been a lot of fun,” safety Antoine Bethea said. “Everybody is making plays, from the defensive line to the linebackers to the defensive backs. It’s great when you can go out and have a good time and not have a lot of stress.” 
But the Colts aren’t even at full strength yet. 
Bob Sanders, the 2007 NFL defensive player of the year, made his season debut in Sunday’s 42-6 rout at St. Louis and was in for only about 25 plays. Cornerback Marlin Jackson (strained ACL) isn’t expected back until after this week’s game, and cornerback Kelvin Hayden said he was not quite himself Sunday after missing three weeks with a hamstring injury. 
“I think we can be so much better with getting Kelvin back, getting Bob back,” Bethea said. “The guys we’ve had playing have stepped in and given us a lot of help and now that gives us a lot of depth along with a lot of experience and that will help us down the road.” 


SMC SOCCER 
Saint Mary’s out of MIAA tournament 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s (4-13-1, 1-6 MIAA) dropped all three of their MIAA contests over fall break and were eliminated from the end of the season MIAA Tournament. 
The Belles opened the week with a 3-0 loss to Albion Oct. 17. 
Senior forward Sam Smogor made two shots on goal to lead the Belles in the loss, while sen­ior goalkeeper Patty Duffy notched two saves. 
On Tuesday, the Belles dropped their final home con­test to Hope by a score of 4-2. 
“Against Hope we put our­selves in too big of a hole to come back from,” Belles’ coach Ryan Crabbe said. “Being down 3-0 in the second half is tough. The team competed and brought the game back to 3-2; however, we fell victim to some bad officiating and Hope gained a late 4-2 advantage. The way the game was officiated was really unfair to both teams.” 
The Hope contest was close until halftime as Hope scored the first goal of the game in the 34th minute, and then again with less than four minutes until the half. 
The Belles gave up another goal right after half time, then rallied when senior midfielder Colleen Ferguson scored to make the score 3-1. 
Junior defender Corissa Hart brought the Belles within one goal of the Flying Dutch with a deflection shot past Hope’s goal­keeper. 
Hope put the Belles away with a final goal, ending Saint Mary’s chances to make it to the post­season MIAA Conference Tournament. 
Duffy notched nine saves for the Belles in the contest playing all 90 minutes. 
The Belles dropped their final contest of fall break to Kalamazoo by a score of 3-2. 
“Against Kalamazoo we did well but again gave away the lead,” Crabbe said. “Then fell behind 3-1. The team worked hard to get back 3-2. Again, too big of a hole and playing from behind is always tough.” 
Freshman midfielder Ashley Morfin put the Belles on the board first, notching a goal in the 20th minute. Kalamazoo rallied to knot the score at one 12 minutes later and the score would stay there until the half. 
Kalamazoo took a lead in the 54th minute, and then followed it up with another goal in the 56th minute to give them a 3-1 lead. 
The Belles cut the lead to one in the 80th minute, but were unable to score again in the game. 
Freshman goalkeeper Adele Bruggeman made seven saves in goal for the Belles in 59 min­utes of play in the game. 
“She (Bruggeman) has worked very hard,” Crabbe said. “Our goalkeeper coach Marc Colwell has done a tremendous job with both Adele and Patty this sea­son.” 
The Belles will play in their final contest of the season against Olivet on Wednesday. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba01@saintmarys.edu 
NFL 
Allen out for the year with left ACL injury 
Associated Press 
DAVIE, Fla. — Will Allen’s sea­son-ending knee injury will force the Miami Dolphins to go with two rookie cornerbacks begin­ning Sunday against the New York Jets. 
Allen hurt the anterior cruci­ate ligament in his left knee in the third quarter of the Dolphins’ loss to New Orleans and will require surgery, coach Tony Sparano said Monday. 
He’ll be replaced in the lineup by 2009 first-round draft pick Vontae Davis. Second-round pick Sean Smith has been starting opposite Allen. 
Sparano conceded he was unsure whether the rookies were ready to assume such a load. 
“They need to mature really fast,” Sparano said. “I don’t know if they’re equipped for 10 games in a row of doing full-time duty without having Will Allen out there. But these guys are playing at pretty good levels.” 
The loss of Allen depletes a secondary already under strain. Miami (2-4) has allowed 73 points in the past two games, with pass defense a big part of the problem. The Dolphins rank last in the NFL in yards allowed per completion. 
Davis has seen significant playing time as a reserve and on special teams. He played 28 snaps Sunday against the Saints. 
“I’ve been playing well and getting better and better,” Davis said. “That’s the biggest thing — improving. I’m comfortable in the defense.” 
Smith won a starting job in training camp. Since April, he and Davis have been projected as the team’s cornerback combo of the future. 
“We knew this day was going to come somewhere down the road,” Smith said. “We didn’t expect it to be this soon. Now that it’s here, we have to step up and rise to the occasion.” 
Allen, who has missed only one game since joining the Dolphins in 2006, leads the team with two interceptions this year. 
“He’s the field general,” Smith said. “Before the play, he would give us alerts and things to look out for. For the most part, he’s always right. Losing a guy like that is definitely going to hurt us.” 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, October 27, 2009 
MLB 

Steinbrenner will attend Game 1 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Once he was omnipresent at Yankee Stadium, micromanaging so much that World Series tickets could not be sent out until he revised the seating charts in his office. He raged at his players and celebrated them with equal gusto. 
Now George Steinbrenner is 79 and frail. Still the owner but no longer the leader of his beloved Yankees, he saw just three regular-season games this season. 
But he’s coming back to New York just for the Series, and the Yankees can’t wait. 
“We’re trying to do this for pops, Mr. Steinbrenner,” Yankees manager Joe Girardi said. 
George Steinbrenner was missing from the bubbly fueled celebration in the well-appoint­ed clubhouse of the new Yankee Stadium on Sunday night, after the Yankees cap­tured their first American League pennant in six years. He preferred to watch from home in Tampa, Fla. 
But he was very much talked about. 
His deeds were praised. Toasts were made in his honor. 
“It means a tremendous amount to him,” son Hank Steinbrenner said Monday. “And then winning the World Series would mean a tremen­dous amount to him.” 

Billions of dollars were spent to assemble baseball’s priciest collection of talent, and they came from Steinbrenner’s bank accounts. After erecting the fanciest ballpark ever seen, at a cost of $1.5 billion, it could even be said that he laid the very foundation for the fran­chise’s latest restoration. 
Yet he’s been more an absence than a presence at the new stadium, visiting from Florida only for opening day, a 10-2 loss to Cleveland. The other games he saw were in Tampa. 
He speaks haltingly in public and walks with difficultly fol­lowing the second of two faint­ing spells that required hospi­talization in December 2003 and October 2006. When he’s seen, most often during spring training, he appears with­drawn. 
His trademark attire used to be a turtleneck and navy blaz­er; now it’s dark glasses. George Steinbrenner largely has been silenced, at least for Yankees fans. 
He’s said to easily get emo­tional in recent years, a wave of sentimentality he fought to suppress during his younger days. Hank Steinbrenner said his father has singled out Mariano Rivera and Alex Rodriguez for special praise. 
“This has taken him back 10 years, this team,” Hank said. “It’s very important to him. It’s very special.” 
Heading a group that bought the team in 1973, Steinbrenner became famous on the back on front pages on New York’s tabloids as “The Boss.” 
He fought with manager Billy Martin and lavished love and money on Reggie Jackson as the Yankees captured two World Series titles in the 1970s. His relationship with the 1990s teams was more tranquil, although losing streaks usually would bring back the old venom. He was a clubhouse presence into 2006, but by the time he attended the 2008 All-Star game at old Yankee Stadium, he was in a golf cart to deliver the balls for the cere­monial first pitches. 
He didn’t even go to the final game at the old place, wasn’t there to hear Derek Jeter implore fans to “take the mem­ories from this stadium, add it to the new memories that come with the new Yankee Stadium, and continue to pass them on from generation to generation.” 
And he wasn’t there for the most important initial memo­ries from the new ballpark, missing all 15 walkoff wins during the regular season and skipping the playoffs against Minnesota and Los Angeles. 
“We want to win this whole thing. We’re one step away. We want to do it for my dad.” said son Hal Steinbrenner, who was doused by Jeter in the club­house. “I know we all feel the same.” 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles can’t stop slide over break 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s had a rough fall break, losing two matches to MIAA opponents. The defeats bring their losing streak to three in the middle of a stretch of nine straight conference games to close out the regular season. 
The losses are even harder to bear due to the fact that the Belles (9-12, 5-8 MIAA) put up a better score in their first matchups against Hope and Olivet earlier this season. 
In the first match on Oct. 20, the Belles were outmatched by No. 7 Hope College and were swept 3-0. The Flying Dutch controlled the pace and never allowed the Belles to score more than 13 points in a set. The Belles’ main offensive threat, senior Lorna Slupczynski, was held to only six kills, but she along with sophomore Lindsey Stuss led the way for her team. 
The Belles played Olivet much more closely Friday, but still only managed to win one set despite being able to sweep the Comets at home on Sept. 22. Slupczynski had a bounce-back game, lead­ing all players with 23 kills. Stuss added 11 kills and junior Ellen Huellsmann stepped up on defense with 25 digs. 
Belles Coach Toni Kuschel attributed much of the late-sea­son struggles to injuries to key players, including middle hitter Andrea Sasgen, who is third on the team in kills and has been instrumental in their offense throughout the season. With Sasgen out for the matches against both Hope and Olivet, Kuschel has been forced to rearrange her lineup and bring an outside hitter to fill Sasgen’s spot in the middle. 
“We have had a very difficult last couple of weeks,” Kuschel said. “We have a few girls play­ing all the way around for the first time this year.” 
Nevertheless, the team still has three important MIAA matches coming up that could potentially bring their conference record to .500. Kuschel remains positive as she has the entire season. 
“I am very proud of this team for not giving up and taking on these new roles,” she said. “I am confident that we can come up with a few big wins this week if we can all play together and communicate out on the court.” 
The Belles’ next match will be senior night against Albion, which is scheduled for Wednesday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 


Tuesday, October 27, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
WOMEN’S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Welsh Family looks to continue playoff hopes against BP 
By MEGAN FINNERAN, 
CHRIS ALLEN and COLIN 
KING 
Sports Writers 
Welsh Family vs. Breen Phillips 
Welsh Family (2-3) will play its last game of the regular season tonight when they face winless Breen Phillips (0-4), hoping for a win to stay in playoff contention. 
“We are just going to play hard and play like this is our last game of the season,” sen­ior captain Tara Schimpf said. “We are going to have fun and enjoy every minute of it.” 
The game will be Welsh Family’s first in two weeks, after beating Lewis 26-0. The victory saw huge strides from freshman quarterback Vicky Moreno as she led the team to four touchdowns. 
Junior linebacker Samantha Miller led the Whirlwinds’ defense in the shutout. 
“We had to think on our feet and adjust during the game at times, but we have talented players that worked hard and kept fighting,” Schimpf said of the dominating performance before break. 
Breen Phillips has also been working hard, hoping to improve both sides of its game. The Babes have narrowed their losses defensively and are working offensively, aspiring to put some points on the score­board. 
The two teams will face off at 7 p.m. at Riehle Field. 
Howard vs. Farley 
Two undefeated teams will meet in what could be a playoff preview as Farley (3-0-1) takes on Howard (4-0) tonight. 
Farley hopes that a long lay­off will not affect them in this important matchup. 
“We think we are pretty well prepared,” senior captain Caity Shepherd said. “We had a bye last Tuesday and then break so we’ve had two weeks off, but the team is playing very well.” 
The Finest will face a tough challenge on the defensive side of the ball in stopping the Howard attack led by junior quarterback Kayla Bishop, jun­ior wide receiver Kaitlin Robinson and freshman wide receiver Laura Coletti. The aerial attack of the Ducks has averaged more than 20 points per game, but Shepherd is supremely confident in Farley’s defense. 
“The defense is finally click­ing,” Shepherd said. “People know and understand where they need to be on the field.” 
On the offensive side of the ball, Farley relies on the tal­ented arm of sophomore quar­terback Megan Bastedo, who will attempt to compete with Howard’s notorious passing attack by throwing to talented sophomore receivers Katie Smith and Laura Yoviene. 
“Our offense has come together a lot more as the sea­son progressed,” Shepherd said. “We put in some new plays in practice.” 
The Ducks, who have already secured a high playoff seed regardless of the outcome against Farley, are not resting on their laurels, but rather are looking to end the season strong. 
“We’re focused on winning the game and keeping our undefeated record,” Robinson said. “Every game is important and Farley has some strong players.” 
Howard hopes to rely on the strong offense and opportunis­tic defense that has brought them to a 4-0 start. 
“We’re going to play strong on both sides of the ball and go for the perfect season,” Robinson said. 
The two powerhouses will collide at 8 p.m. at Riehle Field in an important late-season matchup. 
McGlinn vs. Pasquerilla East 
McGlinn and Pasquerilla East will put their playoff hopes on the line when they square off tonight. 
The Shamrocks (1-1-1) are coming off a crucial victory against rival Welsh Family. McGlinn outlasted the Whirlwinds 21-13 in a matchup of last year’s champi­onship game. 
“Defeating such a high-cal­iber team has given us the con­fidence we need to return to last season’s form,” senior cap­tain Emily Dore said. 
In order to maintain their winning ways, Shamrock quar­terback Lauren Miller must lead the charge. The dual threat quarterback will look to keep Pasquerilla East’s defense on its heels by delivering the ball to talented receivers of junior Kathleen Stanley and sophomore Kate Tucker. Stanley and Tucker will need big games if the Shamrocks are to keep their playoff hopes alive. However, the team seems confident about their ability heading into the game. 
“We’re progressively improv­ing and have had a lot of good practices lately,” Dore said. “We’re really starting to come together as a team.” 
Pasquerilla East will look to stop McGlinn’s momentum and recreate some momentum of their own. The Pyros (2-2) lost to Howard in their last game. In order to have a chance against McGlinn, they will need a better effort from their defense. 
“Our defense had a slight let­down last game,” senior quar­terback Tara Pillar said. “Other then that they’ve been a major strength of our team.” 
Pillar heads the Pyros offen­sive attack. She has an array of underclassmen receivers, led by sophomore Kristin Mannion and freshman Erica Chenard. 
“Each game a different receiver has stepped up so far,” Pillar said. “We’ll see who it is this week.” 
Pillar will lead Pasquerilla East against the defending champion Shamrocks at 9 p.m. at Riehle Field. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu, Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu and Colin King at cking6@nd.edu 


page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, October 27, 2009 
Big East 
continued from page 24 
They started off with a 3-0 (32-30, 25-21, 25-22) victory Oct. 17 to end a four-year losing streak to the Panthers. The first-set win was the highest scoring set Notre Dame has recorded in the 25-point stage. The Irish also outhit Pittsburgh 
28.7 percent to 22.2 percent overall. 
Senior outside hitter Christina Kaelin had 18 kills in the match and sophomore outside hitter Kristen Dealy posted a double-double with 13 kills and 13 digs. Senior setter Jamel Nicholas had 44 assists while senior out­side hitter Serenity Phillips added 11 kills and five blocks. 
Notre Dame’s success carried through to the following day as it swept West Virginia 3-0 (25­26, 25-21, 25-23). The Irish had three players with double-digit digs and two with at least ten kills in the victory. Every Irish player also came off the bench and had significant playing time in the match. Nine Irish players made at least one kill in the match. Notre Dame outhit West Virginia 25.7 percent to 11.7 percent. 
While Notre Dame’s all-around play has improved this season, its side-out game con­tinues to be a strong point. However, Brown said she feels the Irish are making the biggest strides in their defense, espe­cially in their digs and blocking. 
Against West Virginia, Phillips posted 18 kills while Kaelin had 
10. Sophomore libero Frenchy Silva led the Irish defense with 21 digs, and Nicholas and Dealy each had 10. Phillips also led all players with five blocks and Nicholas had a match-high 39 assists. 
Notre Dame has highly bene­fitted from its extensive senior leadership this season. 
“You just can’t duplicate expe­rience,” Brown said. “They have lots of playing time and they’ve been in every experi­ence imaginable, and are expe­rienced in figuring out the way to win and having the confi­dence to win.” 
Phillips’ experience and weekend performances earned her the Big East Player of the Week Award to become the third Notre Dame player to receive the honor this season. 
The Irish defeated DePaul 3-0 (25-14, 25-21, 25-12) Friday to win their eighth straight match and their seventh consecutive over the Blue Demons. Irish had 36 kills, 23 assisted by Nicholas. Nicholas also closed the match with two aces. 
Phillips led the offense with eight kills, as well as making six digs and three blocks. Freshman middle blocker Hilary Eppink aided the cause with seven kills in two sets, and senior middle blocker Tara Enzweiler had three blocks. 
Nicholas posted a team-high ten digs to lead the Irish defense. Silva and senior out­side hitter Megan Fesl posted nine digs each. 
Notre Dame returns home to host Seton Hall Saturday and Rutgers Sunday in the renovat­ed Joyce Center Arena. 
“The team has done a great job of focusing on one match at a time,” Brown said. “We want to continue getting as many players match time as possible. As we get down the road and into the league and national championships, we need play­ers who have match experience on the court.” 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
MLB 
Cardinals hire McGwire as hitting coach 
"By no means is he trying to hide, and by no means are we trying to hide him," Mozeliak said. 
McGwire hit a then-record 70 home runs in 1998 and retired with 583 homers and a .263 career average in 2001. He famously refused to answer questions about steroids use during a March 2005 congres­sional hearing, saying he was­n't there to talk about the past. 
Former congressman Tom Davis, who led the committee that held the hearings, told the Daily News of New York that he welcomed the news. 
"I think he's entitled to another chance," Davis told the newspaper. 
McGwire has received just under 25 percent support from voters in his three appear­ances on the Hall of Fame bal­lot, well under the 75 percent needed. La Russa hopes the 46-year-old can use this posi­tion to repair a tarnished image. 
Mark is passionate about the game, passionate about the Cardinals," chairman Bill DeWitt Jr. said. "Tony thinks he'll be a great coach, and I think he's got a lot to offer." 
McGwire was not at the news conference at Busch Stadium, but La Russa and general man­ager John Mozeliak said there will be no effort to shield McGwire from questions about steroids. The team anticipated a telephone news conference with McGwire. 

Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS — Mark McGwire is back in baseball, reunited with Tony La Russa as the St. Louis Cardinals' hitting coach. 
La Russa agreed to return for a 15th year as manager Monday with a one-year con­tract, the first time he hasn't had a multiyear deal with the team. All of his coaches will return except for Hal McRae, who will be replaced by the former star. 

Tuesday, October 27, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 21 
Kubinski 
continued from page 24 


was, a couple of loose shots and a couple of short putts that just did-n’t drop this week. It’s not some­thing we normally do, but honestly the last two weeks we’ve played that way.” 
Sophomore Max Scodro posted the lowest score for the Irish for the second straight tournament, finishing in a tie for 32nd place with a 219 over three rounds. Scodro came into the final round four-under, but struggled on the final day, recording a five-over 77 to finish three-over par. His three-under 69 in the second round was his best single-round score so far this season. 
“[Scodro is] definitely an exciting player,” Kubinski said. “He’s got all the potential to be one of the best players in the country. The last round was the only round that he didn’t make a birdie, which is so uncharacteristic of him. He started out with some patience, but as the birdies didn’t come, I think he pressed a little bit and made some bogeys. He’s one of our real bright spots, and I’m looking forward to basically two and a half years watching him contend for tourna­ments.” 
Fifth-year senior Josh Sandman finished in a tie for 45th place after shooting seven-over for the tourna­ment, but could not recover from his first round, in which he posted a plus-eight 80. Junior Jeff Chen also had his score counted in each round for the Irish, finishing in a tie for 58th place at nine-over par. 
No. 38 Georgia Tech finished the tournament 21-under par, which gave them the tournament victory. Behind the Yellow Jackets were No. 26 Virginia and Michigan, who shot 14-and 11-under, respective­ly. No. 16 Augusta State and No. 12 Tennessee also finished the tour­nament under par. 
The Irish will attempt to regroup and put forth a strong showing Oct. 30 at The Match Play in Southern Pines, N.C. 
“I think it’s really just two or three shots per player that we just have to figure out and get rid of the looseness,” Kubinski said. “We really have to buckle down and get some good practice in, and get back on the winning feeling that we had three weeks ago at home. I don’t think the guys have lost too much confidence, but we have to get back to work.” 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 


page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, October 27, 2009 
hope to get back there for a fourth time for them.” 
WVUSeniors 
The festivities honored all continued from page 24 of the seniors, and the night 
continued from page 24 

was highlighted when Georgetown on the Irish Waldrum substituted senior 
19 at Alumni Stadium, and Senior Night. Micaela Alvarez for sopho­
despite a dominating perform-Alumni Stadium bid more forward Melissa 
ance they were unable to pull out farewell to the most accom-Henderson with only a few 
a victory as the Mountaineers plished senior class in pro-minutes left in the game. 
slipped by them 1-0. gram history. Earlier in the week Alvarez 
The Irish held every statistical “[Senior night] is hard suffered a season-ending 
advantage in the game but were every year because you get knee injury, and without 
unable to make a breakthrough attached to that class and it crutches, could only stand in 
and actually register a goal. is hard to see them go,” place on the field. 
Notre Dame outshot the Waldrum said. “This senior 
Mountaineers 12-1 in the second class in particular has been Contact Douglas Farmer at 
half and 18-3 for the entire game. to three Final Fours, and we dfarmer1@nd.edu 
The Irish also held the edge in 
corner kicks over the course of 
the game 15-3. 
The play of the game in the 

but I thought we played 
match was by West Virginia mid-horrid in front of him. 
fielder Alex Silva, whose goal in 
Boston 
“He played big [against 

the 48th minute put West Virginia continued from page 24 Boston.] I thought he did a 
on top. The goal by Silva was the good job for the most part 
only shot the Mountaineers made Arena in Boston. controlling his rebounds.” 
in the second half, but it was the goal in the first period of overtime from sophomore midfielder After a first period that The game also marked the 
difference in the game. to give the Irish a much needed Michael Rose in the 48th minute. could only be described as return of the Ridderwall, 
“We out shot them 12-1 in the win over their Big East rival. Thomas fed Rose a cross that he sloppy on both sides, the Maday and Kevin Deeth 
second half, yet the only one that Duckett launched a hopeful was able to knock in for the Irish took a 1-0 lead 15:27 line. The trio played togeth­
counted was their shot,” Irish shot from 25 yards out that found score. The goal was Rose’s first of into the second period cour-er for most of last season, 
coach Bobby Clark said. “We its way past the Georgetown his career at Notre Dame and tesy of sophomore right with good results. Jackson 
played superbly well, but soccer keeper and into the back of the was enough to secure the victory. wing Billy Maday. has been juggling lines 
can be a cruel game. The soccer net. The goal was the first of “This goal has been long in the Sophomore defenseman since the season began, but 
gods did not smile down on us.” Duckett’s career as a member of cards for Michael,” Clark said. “It Sean Lorenz got the puck at put the three back together 
The Irish did not allow the dis-the Irish squad and marked the was only a matter of time.” the point, and fed it to for this game. 
appointment of the 1-0 loss to second time this year that Notre The Irish seemed about to let Maday at the top of the left “Going into a game like 
West Virginia get them down as Dame has won on a golden goal. up on Pittsburgh in the waning circle. The sniper took his this, playing a team like BU 
they took their show on the road, The previous time was off the toe moments, but the defense was time and fired the puck in their building, we had to 
however, as they had two more of senior forward Bright Dike on able to hold and secure the victo­past Terrier sophomore have some kind of chem-
Big East contests. Oct. 10 against Providence. ry. goalie Kieran Millan, who istry, ” Jackson said. “I 
The momentum of the solid “If Duckett can improve his With just two games left in the made 13 saves on the night. know that line has chem-
play against West Virginia pro-defense he can become a very regular season, the Irish look to The Irish didn’t waste any istry. Will they stay together 
pelled the Irish to a 2-1 victory good attacking fullback,” Clark position themselves to get a time padding their lead, forever? I couldn’t tell you 
over No. 16 Georgetown (9-6-1; said. “He is doing very well.” NCAA bid. either, as just 12 seconds that. But I thought that we 
6-4-0 Big East) in overtime. Notre Dame’s first goal came “We need every win we can get later Ben Ryan scored on a needed to establish some 
Georgetown is currently third in off of a header from senior mid-to get into the NCAA tourna­rebound to double the kind of chemistry.” 
the Blue Division behind Notre fielder Michael Thomas that was ment,” Clark said. “We do not Notre Dame lead. The Irish returned to 
Dame and Connecticut. played to him from sophomore have the luxury of overlooking The Terriers came out South Bend for a Friday 
“We have done very well on the midfielder Brendan King off of a any team. We have to finish these determined in the final night matchup against No. 
road,” Clark said. “The team was set piece. The goal was Thomas’ two games well.” period, and certainly had 14 Boston College. Notre 
very determined to get the result. fifth of the season and led the The Irish have one more non-their chances to score. With Dame had won four the 
It took us a while to settle in, but Irish into halftime with a 1-0 conference tune-up at Michigan Notre Dame on the power previous five meetings 
we played well in the second half advantage. State (9-4-1) on Wednesday play early in the stanza, between the teams, includ­
and overtime.” The Irish finished their week before Saturday’s deciding game Boston left wing Chris ing a 4-1 win in Boston last 
The match against the Hoyas with a 1-0 win over Big East cel-against Connecticut. Connolly found himself with season. The only time Notre 
saw the Irish pick up a couple of lar-dwellers Pittsburgh (1-12-2; a shorthanded breakaway Dame had lost to the Eagles 
breaks, as junior defender Bilal 0-8-1) in Pennsylvania. Contact Jared Jedick at on Phillips. He was unable since 2003 was in the 2008 
Duckett registered the golden The lone goal of the game came jjedick@nd.edu to get a shot off, though, National Championship and the Irish were able to game. move the puck up to junior The Irish struck first left wing Calle Ridderwall, when Deeth found who launched a wrist shot Ridderwall for the junior’s that deflected off Millan’s third goal of the season just glove and into the back of 4:21 into the game. Boston the net 2:53 into the final College rallied though, and period. evened the score 5:43 into 
The Terriers continued to the second when Ben Smith threaten as the third period deflected a Phillip progressed, including one Samuelsson shot past stretch about halfway Phillips. The Eagles took through the final period the lead just a few minutes that featured heavy pres-later, at 9:11 of the second, sure on Irish junior goalie when Brian Gibbons deked Brad Phillips. a defenseman and tucked a 
“It was all a blur,” Phillips wrist shot past Phillips on said. “That one shift, I don’t the power play. know how long it was, but The Irish tied the game at it felt like forever.” two 11 seconds into the 
Phillips was able to hold final period on Ben Ryan’s off the Terriers, making 34 second goal of the season, saves en route to a shutout but were unable to hold on and 3-0 Notre Dame win. to the lead, as Joe Whitney 
The Irish were especially scored for Boston College effective in shutting down on another deflection with the Boston power play, just 8:31 left in the game. which went 0-for-8 on the Notre Dame was able to evening. mount pressure on a power 
“We’ve got a good group play chance in the final of forwards that understand minutes, but was unable to how to kill penalties, ” put the puck past Eagle 
Irish coach Jeff Jackson junior goalie John Muse, said. “We’re trying to break who made 20 saves on the in a couple of young guys in night. At the other end, that role. But it really boils Phillips saved 13 shots in down to your goalie and the loss. your defensemen.” 
Jackson said that, even Note: though Phillips was shaky u Despite the loss to in his first two starts — Boston College, Irish junior both losses — he has confi-goalie Brad Phillips was dence in the junior, who named CCHA goaltender of missed all of last season the week for the week of due to injury. Oct. 19. So far on the sea­
“I’ve said from the very son, Phillips is 1-3 with a beginning, this is Brad 2.27 goals against average. Phillips ’ job to lose, ” Jackson said. Contact Sam Werner at He lost his first two games, swerner@nd.edu 



Tuesday, October 27, 2009 The Observer  TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 





JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Tuesday, October 27, 2009 page 24 
HOCKEY 

Beantown Beating 
Irish split games against east coast foes 
By SAM WERNER 
Sports Writer 
Before opening CCHA play this weekend against Ohio State, the Irish got a taste of east coast hockey with four straight games against Hockey East teams over fall break. 
First, the Irish split a weekend series at home with Providence on Oct. 15 and 16, losing 3-2 and winning 2-0. The second game marked the debut for fresh­man goalie Mike Johnson, who notched a shutout in his first career start. 
After the split against the Friars, Notre Dame hit the road to take on defending national champion No. 3 Boston University at Agannis 
PAT COVENEY/The Observer 

Irish junior left winger Calle Ridderwall skates up ice during Notre Dame’s 3-2 loss to see BOSTON/page 22 Providence on Oct. 15. The Irish split the series with the Friars. 

MEN’S SOCCER 
Wins give team shot at Big East 
By JARED JEDICK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish won two out of three games and improved their position in the Big East over Fall Break. 
Notre Dame (9-6-1, 7-3-0 Big East) now sits second in the Big East Blue Division and may have a chance to win it in a deciding final game of the regu­lar season against No. 10 Connecticut (10-2-3, 7-1-1 Big East) on Saturday. 
For the Irish to have an opportunity to take first place, Connecticut would have to lose or draw with Marquette this week before taking on the Irish at Alumni Stadium. 
Notre Dame first took on West Virginia (6-3-6; 5-2-2) Oct. 
see WVU/page 22 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Squad nabs regular season conference championship 
By DOUGLAS FARMER Sports Writer  granted by any means, but it is certainly one of the goals we have every year.”  the things we want to achieve,” Waldrum said. “More impor­tant than anything is the fact  West Virginia, and since then she has really started to gain some confidence in her goal  age of 0.15 goals against in nearly 600 minutes of game time.  
The No. 6 Irish hosted and  that we started playing better  scoring. She could not have  “[Nikki] continues to do very  
Notre Dame (14-3, 11-0-1 Big  beat four conference foes over  in the last month of the season.  picked  a  better time to get  well,” Waldrum said. “We’ve  
East) ended the regular season  the past two weekends by  a  We are coming together at the  hot.”  got  a  player who is playing  
on a 12-game unbeaten streak  combined score of 12-1. First  right time of the year.”  Junior  forwards  Rose  really consistently and is hot  
and a six-game winning streak  Notre  Dame  topped  Junior  forward  Taylor  Augustin and Erica Iantorno  right  now.  That is  a  position  
to claim its 12th conference  Connecticut  6-1  and  then  Knaack scored four goals in  joined Knaack in scoring two  where they really need a lot of  
title in its 15  seasons  in the  Providence 2-0 last weekend.  the four games, including two  goals  apiece  against  confidence what they are doing  
league.  Then the Irish beat Villanova  goals along  with  an  assist  Connecticut.  Iantorno  also  and Nikki has that right now.”  
“[Winning the Big East title]  and No. 22 Georgetown, each  against Connecticut.  scored against Villanova.  Weiss’ shutout of Villanova  
is  hard  to  put  into  words  2-0, this past weekend.  “[Taylor] has been huge for  Junior  goalkeeper  Nikki  was  her fifth solo shutout of  
because we always talk about  “[The successful home stand]  us  in the last four games in  Weiss may have appreciated  the season, all in the previous  
the standard that this program  was fantastic just from a stand- particular but it goes back  a  the offensive outburst, but did  six games. She split time with  
has set for itself,” Irish coach  point that it allowed to wrap  little  earlier  than  that,”  not necessarily need it, as she  senior Kelsey Lysander against  
Randy Waldrum said. “It is  up the conference champi-Waldrum said. “She got the  closed the conference season  
something  we  don’t take for  onship which is always one of  game-winner  on  the road at  with a conference record aver- see SENIORS/page 22  

ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish stay perfect in conference 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame continued to dominate the Big East on the road over Fall Break as it swept Pittsburgh, West Virginia and DePaul to give the team an eight-game winning streak. 
Irish coach Debbie Brown said she felt her team benefitted overall from the break. 
“I think the team is in a good place in the terms of confidence we’re developing and playing on a high level,” Brown said. “We were able to play everyone on our roster and not many teams are able to do that.” 
The Irish (14-4, 8-0 Big East) remain the only undefeated team in the conference. 
see BIG EAST/page 20 

MEN’S GOLF 
Struggling team last at tournament 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Writer 
The Irish struggled to post con­sistent scores for the second tour­nament in a row, finishing in last place at the UNCG Bridgestone Collegiate Championship, a two-day, three-round tournament in Greensboro, N.C., held Friday and Saturday. 
“It was definitely a big disap­pointment for us,” Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. “We expected to really have a chance to be right up there in the last round and have a chance to win, based on having four or five guys play­ing well. We just didn’t get any­one playing three rounds, but really we didn’t even get two good rounds out of our best play­ers, which was definitely a disap­pointment.” 
After shooting a first-round 302, which put them 15th out of 15 teams, the Irish were unable to recover and finished the tour­nament at plus-24 despite a one-over second round. 
“We missed a lot in that four-to six-foot range, and when you have just two or three of those per player, and you’re counting four scores, you’re talking about eight to twelve shots per round,” Kubinski said. “That’s really all it 
see KUBINSKI/page 21 





