the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Eyes on Africa Foundation makes progress 
Notre Dame-founded program raises more than $100,000, helps provide HIV testing in Africa and looks forward to future 
that we’d raised the amount 
By AMANDA GRAY 
of people being tested by over 
News Writer 
700 percent.” Following a trip to Africa to The Eyes on Africa 
study AIDS prevention and Foundation (EOAF) is bring-
the stigma associated with ing into focus its goal of help-
the disease, Lakusta founded ing the troubled continent by 
Eyes on Africa the summer raising donations and starting 
after his freshman year. several new projects, founder 
“There are some really and Notre Dame senior Jeff 
crazy stories of people com-Lakusta said. 
ing out of the woodwork to “Now, we’ve raised more 
help out, and that’s what it’s than $100,000 and taken sev­
all about,” he said. “The real eral groups of volunteers to 
purpose of Eyes on Africa is Africa,” Lakusta said. “We’ll 
not only to support organiza­have another trip this sum­
tions in Africa, but to show mer, and anyone is invited. 
people that making a differ-Volunteers need to pay their 
ence isn’t as hard as it own way — so we don’t take 
seems.” donors money to pay for peo-
The organization is also ple’s trips — and it’s a life-raising funds to provide jobs changing experience.” for HIV-positive women by 
Last year the Foundation building a group based on the helped to provide an HIV test-led a team of nurses who said. “The problems were problems, privacy issues, Etafeni organization, Lakusta ing vehicle to the area outside administered the tests. both evident and more intri-safety concerns, and simple said. Cape Town, South Africa. A “Basically, that meant they cate — not many people are weather and timing con -“It’s a great, community-car dealer donated the vehi-took their needles and testing willing to get tested so overt-straints. based model we think is a cle and EOAF helped to reno-supplies in coolers, with tents ly, because of the stigma “When EOAF returned this unique solution to some of the vate it. Etafeni, a community-on their back, and tested any-associated with the disease. past summer, we got the data based care center for AIDS, one who walked by,” Lakusta But there were also sanitation from our caravan and learned see AFRICA/page 3 



ND’s ‘only’ Orthodox Jew shares experience 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 
Senior Damian Sharratt is the only Orthodox Jew in Notre Dame’s undergraduate student body and the first in the University’s history to request a kosher meal plan. 
Sharratt has had this meal plan for two and a half years. 
“Notre Dame said you have to buy a meal plan if you live on campus. I explained [the situa­tion] to Food Services … I put them in contact with the former rabbi of the community and he hooked it all up that the guy who cooked for the Yeshiva [an all male Jewish high school in South Bend] would send over meals once a week and they would freeze them and put them in a fridge in South Dining Hall.” 
Sharratt is a double major in mechanical engineering and industrial design. 
He said the main reason he came to Notre Dame is the University’s high academic 
see ORTHODOX/page 4 



Students fill out CIFs at higher rate 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
Students have been filling out their Course Instructor Feedback (CIF) forms at a higher rate this year, accord­ing to University vice president and associate provost profes­sor Dennis Jacobs. 
“They are well above where they were last year,” he said. “It’s rolling in as we speak.” 
As of Tuesday evening, 58 percent of students had filled out their CIF forms. That compares to roughly 40 per­cent at this period last year, Jacobs said. In total, only 58 percent of CIF forms were filled out last semester. 
Jacobs said students the system reminds students three days by e-mail until they complete their forms. The deadline is midnight Sunday. 
Jacobs said the CIF system is important for evaluating 
see CIF/page 4 


COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Members discuss results of Transpo debut 
route as a way to provide stu­dents with safe, convenient and free transportation off campus on the weekends. 
COR members agreed that Transpo was a success, with generally positive feedback and no incidents to report. 
“It’s supposed to be fun,” Schmidt said. “Obviously we have to be responsible, but the point is it got everyone home safely.” 
However, COR members agreed on the need for more education about the route and the timetable for pick-up and 
see COR/page 6 


By ANN-MARIE WOODS 
News Writer 
Following the opening week­end of the new Transpo bus route, the Council of Representatives (COR) dis­cussed student responses to the initiative and potential improve­ments for the future. 
“In my opinion it went very, very well,” student body presi­dent Grant Schmidt said. “It accomplished everything we wanted it to.” 
Schmidt and student body vice president Cynthia Weber began working on the new bus 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER College strives to improve food services page 3  A male perspective on ‘Twilight’ page 10  Men’s basketball win streak page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Wednesday, December 9, 2009 


INSIDE COLUMN 
Help renew the rivalry 
How should I put this nicely? 
Student attendance at basketball games this semester has been, well, less than stellar. In fact, at a few games this season, there have been more players on the benches than stu­dents in the stands. 
I understand it may be tough to get pumped up for Idaho State or IUPUI, but there is one opponent com­ing to the JACC — excuse me, Purcell Sam Werner Pavilion — that does warrant your 

Associate 
attention. 
Sports Editor
On Dec. 19, one of the great inter-sectional rivalries in college basketball will return to Notre Dame when UCLA comes to town. For those of you unaware of the history between the two teams, here’s a primer. 
The Irish and Bruins faced off 42 times between 1966 and 1995, but then took an extended break until 2004. Since then, the teams have faced off three times, with UCLA win­ning two of those recent games. 
Notre Dame has beaten UCLA twice when the Bruins were ranked No. 1 in the country, including the 1974 upset, which has gone down as arguably the greatest game in Notre Dame basket­ball history. 
The Bruins entered into the game with an NCAA-record 88 consecutive victories, having not lost since a 1971 defeat to the Irish. Trailing 70-59 with just 3:30 remaining hope looked lost for the Irish. But Notre Dame score 12 consecutive points, capped off by a Dwight Clay jumper from the corner, and set off an epic party in South Bend. 
Last year, the Bruins shut down Notre Dame in Los Angeles en route to an 89-63 win. 
Now, I’m sure you saw the date for this year’s epic showdown and said, “Well, of course I want to stay, but the game is the day after finals end, so won’t the dorms be closed?” 
Not so fast. In a shockingly compe­tent decision by the Office of Residence Life, dorms will stay open until noon on Sunday. All you have to do is fill out a short form at orlh.nd.edu and you can stay for the madness. 
Really, there’s no excuse not to stay. Finals will be over, and it’s only one extra day. Even if you didn’t buy tick­ets this season, borrow one from a friend who already has flight reserva­tions. Basketball tickets can be used with any valid Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s or Holy Cross ID. 
At the very least, do it for Luke Harangody. The Irish senior is likely going to graduate as the Big East career leader in points and rebounds, and, quite frankly, the student body doesn’t seem to really care. For every­one complaining about Jimmy Clausen and Golden Tate leaving a year early, come out to Purcell Pavilion and sup­port Harangody, who came back for his senior season. 
Show your support. Stay for UCLA. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: CHRISTMAS WOULDN’T BE CHRISTMAS WITHOUT _________ ? 






Mary Ellen Keneally  Spencer Andrews  Andrea Bailey  Sarah Angle  Zachary Angus  Sam Dettmann  
sophomore  freshman  junior  junior  sophomore  freshman  
Howard  Knott  Howard  Howard  Keough  Dillon  
“My family.”  “My mom’s  “‘It’s a  “The smell of  “Bruce  “Spritz  
Christmas  Wonderful  a live tree.”  Springsteen’s  cookies.”  
dinner.”  Life.’”  ‘Santa Claus  
is Coming to  

Town.’” 
Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

IAN GAVLICK/The Observer Senior saftey Sergio Brown has some fun with the media, sitting in for Jimmy Clausen prior to the press conference announcing Clausen’s and Golden Tate's decision to declare for the 2010 NFL draft Monday. 
OFFBEAT 
Pa. police arrest Amish man in buggy for DUI 
LANCASTER, Pa. — Police in central Pennsylvania arrested an Amish man on drunk driv­ing charges over the weekend after he was found asleep in his mov­ing buggy. Police said a 22-year-old man was slumped over and asleep in a slow-moving buggy on Sunday night. 
An off-duty officer from nearby reported seeing the horse pulling the buggy at a walking pace as it straddled the center line. 
Police said a breathalyz­er test snowed the man's blood-alcohol content was 0.18, more than twice the 
0.08 legal limit for driv­ers. 
Police: Man dresses up as mom to withdraw cash 
FRANKLIN, N.J. — Police said a Franklin man dressed up as his mother in an attempt to withdraw money from her bank account. Tita Nyambi, 25, was still at the Chase Bank in Franklin, in Somerset County, when police arrived Monday afternoon. Tellers called to report that a man wearing women’s clothes and speaking in a high pitched voice was try­ing to withdraw money through the bank's drive-through window. 
Police said Nyambi hand­ed tellers his mother’s license and a bank form forged with her signature. Nyambi was arrested and charged with forgery and attempted theft by decep­tion. 
Franklin police Sgt. Philip Rizzo said Nyambi was wearing his mother's pink blouse, her black coat and head scarf. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight Thursday Friday 

IN BRIEF 
A colloquium titled “Rare isotopes in cosmic explo ­sions and in accelerators on earth” will be held in 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. The coloquium will be held at 4 
p.m. today. 
The Snite Museum of Art is hosting an exhibit titled “Darkness and Light: Death and Beauty in Photography” today through Dec. 20 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. The exhibit will examine various aspects 
of death and beauty in thought-provoking images from around the world, ranging from 1844 to the present. 
The Notre Dame men ’s basketball team is playing Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center . For ticket information, call 574-631­7356 or visit the Athletic Ticket Office Web site. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will be hosting its Christmas Concert twice Saturday: at 6 
p.m. and at 8:30 p.m. Both will take place in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 for students. 
The Notre Dame women’s basketball team will play Valparaiso Saturday at 2 
p.m. in the Joyce Center. For ticket information, call 574 -631 -7356 or visit the Athletic Ticket Office Web page. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Saturday Sunday 

Atlanta 57 / 43 Boston 44 / 34 Chicago 36 / 23 Denver 19 / 11 Houston 73 / 58 Los Angeles 58 / 47 Minneapolis 24/ 12 New York 45 / 35 Philadelphia 44 / 33 Phoenix 58 /49 Seattle 32 / 22 St. Louis 43 / 27 Tampa 79 / 60 Washington 45 /35 
Wednesday, December 9, 2009 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Saint Mary’s works to improve food services 

By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
One of the things students miss when they are away from home is the cooking, but Saint Mary’s Barry Bowles, general manager for Sodexho at the College, said he does his best to work with the more than 1,200 students who have meal plans on campus. 
Bowles said one of his most demanding challenges is satisfy­ing the diverse needs of the young women. He said he tries to please as many as possible, knowing he can never satisfy everyone. 
“Students have a different idea of what healthy means, they have a different idea of what variety means,” Bowles said. 
According to Bowles, the din­ing hall Web site has been updated recently to keep in sync with the rest of the College’s Web site. The site now offers more convenient nutritional information for students, as well as continuing to provide weekly menus for breakfast, lunch and dinner. 
The updated Web site also has a place where students can go to make comments, either anonymously or with their e­mail addresses so they can get a direct response. Bowles said he would like to hear from students more. 
“Saint Mary’s women are so nice. It’s hard to get people to open up,” Bowles said. 
The form requires students pick what venue they have a concern with, or even positive feedback for, and then the date on which it happened. The forms are linked on the food services Web page. 
Also, students wishing to make comments can do so at the front desk of the Student Center. 
The process for reviewing the comments was changed, and they no longer go directly to food services, Bowles said. Now, a representative in Student Involvement sees them first, and then gives a report to Bowles. He then responds to them by posting on the bulletin board inside the door of the Noble Family Dining Hall. 
Another issue on campus with food services has been rumors about the closing of Dalloway’s, the campus clubhouse. Bowles said he has no authority to close the location, and he encourages students to continue to go there. 
“It has one of the more cozy, warm atmospheres on campus. I would love to see more stu­dents make use of it,” Bowles said. 
Lunches are served at Dalloway’s every Monday through Friday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and dinner is served there every Monday through Thursday starting at 7:30 p.m. These meals count as meal swipes on students’ cards, Bowles said. 
Bowles is also working to make meals available in Spes Unica Hall. He said he hopes to have a fresh sandwich and maybe fresh fruit or something small to go with it that would be available for students who only have time for a quick lunch, or who need something on the go. 
Bowles said he is working on other projects that faculty and students have wanted to see such as a food cart in the library. The timeframe for these ideas is still up in the air though. 
Overall, Bowles would like to see more feedback from stu­dents — both positive and nega­tive — about food services on campus. 
“We are available to talk to, so please talk to us,” Bowles said. “I love talking to students and I am available and very approachable.” 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
wanting to support the proj-
Africa 
ects we’ve already started, the possibilities are limit-continued from page 1 less.” 
Lakusta said the more for­´problems faced by so many,” tunate have a responsibility Lakusta said. “If we can raise to help those in need. 
$5,000 we’ll provide the ini-“We aren’t as separated tial resources they need to from each other as we think, 
‘strangers,’ we’ ll quickly africafoundation.org or e-
s t a r t  t h e  p r o j ­ a n d  t o  t u r n  
ect.” H e a l s o s a i d v o l u n t e e r s a r e c r u c i a l f o r t h e F o u n d a t i o n ’ s c o n t i n u e d s u c ­cess. “We have a lot of great projects  “I’m exciting for the possibilities for our future, but without the continued, growing support of ‘strangers,’ we’ll quickly reach  a w a y f r o m the needs of m o s t o f t h e world is just plain wrong,” he said. “We owe it to our­s e l v e s t o offer what we  
coming up, and I’m excited about the possibilities f o r o u r f u t u r e ,  our ceiling.” Jeff Lakusta  h a v e t o l i f t up others.” If anyone is interested in  
but without the continued, grow-i n g s u p p o r t o f  founder  the organiza­t i o n , g o t o www.eyeson­ 

reach our ceiling,” Lakusta mail Lakusta at jlakusta@eye­said. “With the combined help sonafricafoundation.org of people interested in start­ing their own projects in Contact Amanda Gray at Africa through EOAF, or those agray3@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, December 9, 2009 
CIF 
continued from page 1 
nearly 1,000 faculty members in a variety of ways. 
“The CIF is quite critical among many factors that con­tributes to an evaluation of a faculty members teaching,” he said. 
Jacobs said these evaluations are key for determining the tenure trajectory of University faculty. 
He also said the CIF evalua­tions are important for collect­ing feedback on a course, developing course improve­
ments and evalu­ating the University as a whole. 
“We’re exam­ining over 2,000 courses each semester using the CIF,” he said. 
Jacobs said students have two key incen­tives for com­pleting their CIF tions, and hope the percentage goes up in the coming days.” 
Philosophy professor Paul Weithman said it is important for teachers that a large per­centage of their students fill out the CIF forms to provide accu­rate feedback. 
“I would rather have a higher turnout rather than less. Otherwise, then, people have a disproportionate influence,” he said. 
Sonza said the faculty appre­ciates the effort the students put into CIF forms that their comments are taken seriously. 
“It is extremely important that students take advantage of the opportunity to provide their 
“I greatly appreciate my students’ insight, and appreciate their thoughtful suggestions..” 
Johara Sonza spanish professor 
forms. If students do so, they can see their first semester grades on Dec. 22 instead of Dec. 28, and they can access teacher reviews generated by the CIF system when they reg­ister for classes in the spring. 
University faculty members said they were pleased with student turnout so far. 
“Seventy-three percent of all my students have filled out the CIFs,” Spanish professor Johara Sonza said. “I am pleased to see that this per­centage of students have already filled out the evalua­feedback on a particular instructor or course,” she said. “I greatly appreciate my students’ insight, and appreciate their thoughtful sug­gestions. The CIFs enable us, as instructors, to make adjust­
ments in order to improve our courses and teaching for Notre Dame students.” 
Weithman agreed that stu­dent feedback is vital for enabling professors to improve their courses. 
“I really want to know how the class has gone,” he said. “Even though I have taught for a while, students change, and year in and year out I think that it is important to get feed­back on a class.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
Orthodox 
continued from page 1 
standing. 
“It’s a good school. My family kind of made me [go], actually,” he said. “I went to Florida State my first year, did well, and my family basically told me I had to go to a better school.” 
Sharratt grew up in a Reform Jewish family in Hollywood, Fla. He decided to become Orthodox around the age of 18, right before he came to Notre Dame. 
Sharratt said the tight-knit Orthodox community is “some­thing that no other culture in the world has.” 
“There are times where I’ve been at some random place and with two phone calls I have free housing and free food,” he said. “[The hosts] don’t even know me. It’s very trusting.” 
Sharratt has found the Orthodox community in South Bend to be “small but good.” For services, he attends the Hebrew Orthodox Congregation or the kollel, which is an insti­tute for Talmudic study, in South Bend. 
Orthodox Jewish faculty mem­bers have also been a source of support for Sharratt. 
“I’m very close with Dr. Franks. He teaches Philosophy of Mathematics and Logic. I’m usually at his house every week­end. I’m never on campus dur­ing the Sabbath. I’ve never been to a football game. There’s a lot of rules associated with keeping [the Sabbath].” 
Sharratt said although it would not be impossible to keep the Sabbath on campus, it would be difficult. 
“You can’t write, you can’t drive, you can’t manipulate elec­tricity. It is a day of service and prayer,” he said. 
Friday nights, Sharratt attends Shabbat services, which are followed by a formal dinner at the Franks’ home. For him, Saturdays are spent resting and praying. 
“It’s a day of reverence, a day of rest, but really it’s a day to focus on spirituality,” Sharratt said. 
Sharratt said all of his profes­sors and peers have been accepting of his faith. 
“I haven’t gotten one ounce of anti-Semitism,” he said. “If any­thing, I’ve gotten more respect.” 
However, Sharratt said he feels a general ignorance per­vades campus about what Judaism stands for and how Orthodox Judaism is distin­guished from the Conservative and Reform denominations. 
“I would say the majority of people on campus have never met an Orthodox Jew,” he said. 
Practicing Orthodox Judaism, Sharratt said, requires more than just attending synagogue, observing the Sabbath and praying three times a day. According to him, it means fol­lowing laws that affect every aspect of life. 
“There are laws on how to clip your fingernails, tie your shoes, dress, what to think about, what you should have on your mind, self-inspection, prayer, business dealings —there are 613 biblical commandments,” he said. “Then, you have the Rabbinic [laws].” 
These laws, Sharratt said, are a constant reminder of one’s devotion to Judaism and to the Torah. 
“The fundamental questions I’m asked are: what is your pur­pose in life? What’s the purpose of your being alive? What hap­pens after death? All the major philosophical, ethical issues, Judaism addresses,” he said. “[Judaism] gives you a complete purpose of life [and helps to explain] why you do all the things you do.” 
Sharratt said he has greatly improved his spirituality over the last few years. 
“It’s been a roller coaster,” he said. “Whenever you’re striving to better yourself there will be ups and downs. Being here, I’ve had my ups and downs, but overall it’s been a very good experience.” 
Sharratt said that practicing Orthodox Judaism at a school with a pervasive Catholic atmos­phere has been a challenge but has also helped him to strength­en his commitment to the faith. 
“I’ll tell you a very important thing that I’ve kind of noticed,” he said. “If, for example I’m one of 10,000 Jews living in one community, everyone’s doing the [same thing], but when you’re more isolated, all those things that you would [normally] do, you have to question ‘why am I really doing this?’ You really get to a more pure form of service of G-d. You are really able to know yourself that much more.” 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 


World & Nation 
Wednesday, December 9, 2009 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Police recover stolen jewels 
PARIS — Police say they have recovered nearly $1,181,900 in jewels stolen last month in a holdup at a Cartier jewelry store in the southeastern French city of Lyon. 
A police official says officers came across the stash by accident while searching the apartment of a suspect in another jewelry theft. The suspect is still at large. 
The police official spoke on condition of anonymity Tuesday because of department policy. 
In the Nov. 26 attack on the Cartier store, thieves used a sledgehammer to smash through the reinforced glass on the down­town storefront. They then swiped jewelry and watches from display cases. 
The attackers roughed up the store’s man­ager and slapped one customer but no one was injured. 
Grenade attacks injure three 
MEXICO CITY — Near-simultaneous grenade attacks on offices, businesses and gas stations in a northern Mexican state slightly injured three people, prosecutors said Tuesday. 
Sonora state prosecutors’ spokesman Jose Larrinaga said the attacks occurred in three cities, including the capital, Hermosillo. 
The targets included two gas stations, a restaurant, a bank office and a building housing the state Attorney General’s Office. The injuries were all from the restaurant attack; the victims were treated and released, Larrinaga said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Man rescued from cesspool 
EAST HILLS, N.Y. — A man was rescued after spending more than four hours Tuesday trapped up to his chest in sewage waste after falling into a Long Island cesspool, authorities said. 
The man, who was not immediately identi­fied, was in stable condition after being taken to a hospital. 
Assistant Roslyn Fire Chief Adam Boll said the man appeared to be in his 20s. Rescue personnel monitored the victim’s vital signs throughout the rescue operation and he was always in stable condition, Boll said. 
Authorities were called to the neighbor­hood of million-dollar homes on Long Island’s so-called “Gold Coast” shortly after 11 a.m. Nassau County Police Detective Lt. Kevin Smith said the worker had apparently been inside the 18-foot hole, working to install a new cesspool tank, when the dirt walls surrounding him began to collapse. 
Team rescues dogs from cold 
PORTLAND, Oregon — The Oregon Humane Society has sent a team to rescue as many as 100 dogs living without shel­ter in cold weather on rural property. 
Officials say some of the dogs are living underground in holes covered with planks, while others are chained to farm equipment and have little or no shelter from the snow, wind and subfreezing tem­peratures. 
The Humane Society says the team leav­ing Tuesday was responding to a request from Harney County Sheriff David Glerup after three people were charged with ani­mal neglect. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Men drive through day care facility 
INDIANAPOLIS — Prosecutors have filed charges against three men accused of driving through the wall of an Indianapolis day care while trying to escape from police after a robbery. 
Twenty-one-year-old Darron Crowe, 19-year­old Theo Sanford and 28-year-old Nathaniel Harris were scheduled for an initial court hear­ing Wednesday. 
Authorities say the men robbed a dollar store Thursday and were fleeing police when they lost control of their sport utility vehicle and crashed through a day care’s wall, injuring four children and an employee in a shower of bricks and other debris. 
IRAN 
Students, militia clash in protest 
In response to a second day of demonstrating, officials warn unrest will not be tolerated 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN — Hard-line militiamen firing tear gas and throwing stones stormed a crowd of thou­sands of university students protesting for a second day Tuesday, as Iran threatened a tougher crackdown on the opposition after the biggest anti-government demonstrations in months. 
More than 200 people were arrested in Tehran on Monday during protests by tens of thousands at univer­sities nationwide, and Iran’s top prosecutor warned further unrest would not be tolerated. He hinted authorities could even pursue the top opposi­tion leader, Mir Hossein Mousavi, an escalation the government has so far balked at in Iran’s postelec­tion turmoil. 
Masked motorcyclists — likely hard-line militiamen 
— harassed Mousavi at his Tehran office on Tuesday. An angry Mousavi confront­ed them, daring them, “Kill me!” before being hustled away by aides, according to pro-opposition Web sites. 
Authorities appear con­cerned that the protest movement could pick up new steam after Monday’s demonstrations, in which students clashed with police and militiamen in the streets of Tehran. 
A fierce crackdown since the summer crushed the mass protests that erupted after June’s disputed presi­dential election. But Monday’s unrest showed how students have revital­ized the movement. They showed an increased bold­ness, openly breaking the biggest taboo in Iran, burn­ing pictures of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and chanting slogans against him. 
The protests spilled over into a second day Tuesday. Several thousand students rallied in Tehran University, chanting slogans and wav­ing Iranian flags in front of the Engineering College when they were assaulted by hard-line Basij militia­men, witnesses said. At least one student was dragged away, the witness­es said. 

Footage posted on the Internet, said to be from Tuesday, showed the crowd of students sitting in front of the college building, many wearing surgical masks and scarves over their faces against gas or to hide their identities. They clapped and chanted “death to the dictator” and insults against President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and his supporters, saying “Ahmadi came up short, he brought out brainless youth.” 
They are then seen flee­ing as Basijis rush after them, firing tear gas and throwing stones. Students jostled in the crowd to get away, some crying out in warning, “Basiji, Basiji,” while women screamed, “God is great.” One student is seen staggering away, holding his eyes after being hit by pepper spray. Inside the college building, stu­dents lit papers in a bonfire in an attempt to ward off clouds of tear gas. 
About a dozen students also clashed with riot police on the streets outside the university, witnesses said. The witnesses spoke on condition of anonymity fearing retribution. Foreign journalists, including The Associated Press, have been barred from covering protests. 
Tehran’s police chief, Gen. Azizullah Rajabzadeh, announced that 204 pro­testers, including 39 women, were arrested in the capital during Monday’s demonstrations and would be handed over to the judi­ciary. There was no imme­diate word on the number of arrests outside Tehran. 
Iran’s top prosecutor, Gholam Hossein Mohseni Ejehi, warned that the judi­ciary will no longer tolerate protests. 
“So far, we have shown restraint. From today, no leniency will be applied,” he said, according to the official IRNA news agency. 
ITALY 
Pope prays at traditional Spanish Steps 
Associated Press 
ROME — Pope Benedict XVI on Tuesday lamented what he described as a steady diet of news about evil in the world, saying it hardens hearts, as he prayed at the Spanish Steps in a Christmas season tradition. 
Shoppers who jammed the narrow streets, including Via Condotti with its posh shops, paused from buying Christmas gifts to catch a glimpse of Benedict as he was driven in a glass-sided popemobile to the square below the Spanish Steps. 
“Every day, through the newspa­pers, television, radio, evil is report­ed, repeated, amplified, making us used to horrible things, making us become insensitive, and, in some way, poisoning us,” the pope said after kneeling in prayer before a statue of the Virgin Mary to mark the Dec. 8 Catholic feast day in her honor. 
“Hearts harden and thoughts dark­en,” Benedict said. 
He also complained that the mass media “tend to make us feel like specta­tors, as if evil regards only others and certain things could never happen to us.” 
Instead, Benedict said, “we are all actors, and for better or worse, our behavior has an influence on others.” 
An aide held a white umbrella over the 82-year-old pontiff in a drizzle at dusk. Benedict wore an ermine-trimmed, crimson cape to guard against the chill. 
Benedict’s next major public holiday appointment is Christmas Eve Mass, which he will celebrate at 10 p.m. instead of the traditional starting hour of midnight in St. Peter’s Basilica. 
The announcement by the Vatican that the pope had agreed with his aides to move up the appointment by two hours raised some concern about the pontiff’s health. 
But Vatican officials have insisted his health is fine, and that Benedict had agreed with aides to have more time to rest before a noon appearance to crowds in St. Peter’s Square on Christmas Day. 
page 6 The Observer  NEWS Wednesday, December 9, 2009 
Senate blocks tough abortion limits 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Abortion opponents failed to inject tougher restrictions into sweeping Senate health care legislation Tuesday, and Democratic leaders labored to make sure fallout from the con­troversy wouldn’t hinder the drive to pass President Barack Obama’s top domestic priority. 
The 54-45 vote over abortion took place as Democrats, in day-long private talks in the Capitol, appeared to have a tentative deal to scuttle plans for a government-run insurance option that liberals have long sought, Democratic senators said. 
In general, the legislation is designed to expand insurance coverage to millions who lack it, while banning insurance industry practices such as denying cover­age on the basis of pre-existing medical conditions and reining in the relentless growth of medical costs in general. 
Most Americans would be required to carry insurance for the first time, and face penalties if they refused. At the same time, the bill includes hundreds of bil­lions of dollars in subsidies to help defray the cost of coverage for lower and middle income fami­lies. 
A potential alternative to the government-run insurance option was taking shape, several officials said, including a private insurance arrangement to be supervised by the federal agency that oversees the system through which law­makers purchase coverage. 
Additionally, the federal Medicare health care program for the elderly would be opened up to uninsured Americans beginning at age 55, a significant expansion of the already large program that currently serves the over-65 pop­ulation. 
Taken together, Tuesday’s developments underscored the complexity that confronts the administration and Democratic Majority Leader Harry Reid as they seek the 60 votes needed to overcome Republican opposition and pass a bill by Christmas. 
Yet another controversy quickly followed, when Democratic Sen. Byron Dorgan proposed legalizing the importation of prescription drugs from Canada and several other countries as a way of hold­ing down consumer costs. The idea enjoys widespread support but is opposed by the pharmaceu­tical industry, which has worked closely with the administration on health care and has spent millions of dollars on television advertise­ments in support of legislation. 
The Food and Drug Administration issued a letter say­ing it would be “logistically chal­lenging” to assure the safety of imported drugs, raising concerns without stating outright opposi­tion. 
Reid — the chief architect of the health care bill as well as an abor­tion opponent — played a promi­nent role in the debate over attempts by conservatives to toughen abortion restrictions in the Senate measure. “No one should use the health care bill to expand or restrict abortion,” he said, arguing that abortion foes were attempting to do just that. “And no one should use the issue of abortion to rob millions of the opportunity to get good health care.” 
The current legislation would ban the use of federal funds to pay for abortion services under insurance plans expected to be offered in a new health care sys­tem, except in cases of rape, incest or when the life of the mother was in jeopardy. 
Individuals who receive federal subsidies to purchase insurance under the plans would be permit­ted to use personal funds to pay for abortion services — the point on which the two sides in the dis­pute part company. 
Opponents derided the idea as an accounting gimmick. Abortion rights supporters, Senate Democratic women most promi­nently, countered heatedly, saying abortion opponents were driven by ideology. 
Meanwhile, abandonment of a government-run insurance option would mark a significant defeat for Senate liberals, who have long demanded its inclusion in the leg­islation as a way to force private insurers to hold down costs. It also would set up a final struggle with the House of Representatives, which passed a health care bill earlier this year that gives millions of consumers the option of buying government-run coverage. 
In place of the public insurance option that Reid inserted into the bill earlier, Democrats are consid­ering a plan for the Office of Personnel Management to over­see private insurance, much as it does for federal employees and lawmakers. 
COR 
continued from page 1 
drop-off. COR members sug­gested posting a route map inside the bus and distributing laminated cards with the times and locations to increase Transpo’s use. 
In other COR news: 
Study space will be available in the dining halls during finals week. 
The east room of South Dining Hall will be available Sunday through Thursday from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. 
The gold and F rooms of North Dining Hall will be avail­able Sunday to Wednesday from 8 p.m. to 2 a.m. 
Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods4@nd.edu 


The Observer 
Business
Wednesday, December 9, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

IN BRIEF 
Group sues regarding pollution 
SEATTLE — An activist group is suing the Port of Olympia, claiming that discharges of stormwater from its terminal are polluting south Puget Sound. 
The nonprofit group Olympians for Public Accountability filed the Clean Water Act law­suit in U.S. District Court in Seattle on Monday. It says that despite previous prom­ises, the port has failed to monitor and clean up its discharges into Budd Inlet, especially from Weyerhaueser Corp.’s log export facili­ty. The lawsuit says the stormwater is depleted of oxygen and includes unaccept­able levels of zinc, copper and other pollu­tants. 
The port’s executive director, Ed B. Galligan, issued a statement saying the port has been working with the group for some time and he’s “quite surprised” it filed the lawsuit. 
Pepsi announces Dr Pepper deal 
PURCHASE, N.Y. — PepsiCo Inc., the world’s second-biggest soft drink maker, said Tuesday it has reached a deal to make and distribute Dr Pepper and other drinks after it completes its buyout of its two biggest bot­tlers. 
Dr Pepper Snapple Group Inc. had deals with the two bottlers, and PepsiCo’s latest deal would replace those once the acquisi­tions close. The deal is contingent on the buyouts going through. 
PepsiCo said it will distribute Dr Pepper, Crush and Schweppes brands in the U.S., as well as several brands in Canada and Mexico. Dr Pepper Snapple said it would start selling some of its brands that the bottlers sold in the U.S., such as Sunkist, Squirt, Vernors and Hawaiian Punch. 
Dr Pepper Snapple Group said it would receive a one-time payment of $900 million from PepsiCo as part of the distribution deal. The payment will be recorded as sales over the life of the licensing deal, which has an initial 20-year term and is renewable. 
PepsiCo expects to close the bottler buyouts this month or early next year. It has proposed buying the shares it does not already own of the Pepsi Bottling Group Inc. and PepsiAmericas Inc. 
Print publishers challenge Kindle 
Five newspapers and magazines are teaming up to create new reading technology 
Associated Press  
LOS ANGELES — Five of  
the nation’s largest pub­ 
lishers of newspapers and  
magazines are teaming up  
to challenge Amazon.com  
Inc.’s Kindle electronic- 
book reader with their own  
technology that would dis­ 
play in color and work on a  
variety of devices.  
Time Inc., News Corp.,  
Conde Nast, Hearst Corp.,  
and Meredith Corp., whose  
magazines include Time,  
Cosmopolitan and Better  
Homes and Gardens,  
announced a joint venture  
on Tuesday to develop new  
ways of presenting publi­ 
cations digitally to rival  
Kindle’s gray “electronic  
ink” technique.  
The publishers’ answer  
to the text-oriented Kindle  
promises to emphasize  
visuals, retaining the dis­ 
tinctive look of each publi­ 
cation. It also aims to  
incorporate videos, games  
and social networking  
along with a classic maga­ 
zine layout that can be  
flipped through with the  
touch of a finger.  
The new standards the  
publishers are jointly  
developing would let con-AP  
sumers read the digital Publishers announced a plan Tuesday to challenge Amazon.com Inc.’s Kindle elec­ 
publications on some tablet tronic-book reader with their own digital format that would display in color.  
computers, portable elec­ 
tronic readers and smart  adopt them, too.  attempt to reassert control  the options are limited to  
phones that render color  News Corp. Chief  over their content before  digital downloads or paper  
images.  Executive Rupert Murdoch  becoming prey to terms  copies from physical book­ 
“The genesis of this idea  has made no secret of his  dictated by Amazon.com,  stores.  
is to build a fully featured  dissatisfaction with the  Sony Corp. or Barnes &  “‘Will they pull content  
kind of immersive e-read- Kindle.  Noble Inc. on their elec­ offline?’ is a big question,”  
ing application that can  News Corp. receives a lit­ tronic readers.  said Outsell Inc. analyst  
render our content beauti­ tle more than a third of the  But Forrester Research  Ned May. “It’s a prisoner’s  
fully on those devices that  $14.99 monthly subscrip­ media and technology ana­ dilemma. It takes just one  
come to market,” said John  tion fee Amazon.com  lyst James McQuivey ques­ person not to, to garner all  
Squires, the venture’s  charges for The Wall Street  tioned whether the cost of  the traffic and destroy the  
interim managing director.  Journal, but it has limited  making rich, interactive fea­ effort.”  
The Kindle has been  access to subscriber data,  tures would be worth the  Representatives from  
available since 2007.  Murdoch said last month,  revenue it might bring in.  Amazon.com, Sony and  
Electronic books, newspa­ describing why the rela­ “It takes more time to  Barnes & Noble did not  
pers and other publications  tionship was “not a great  make that kind of content  immediately return mes- 
that Amazon sells for the  deal.”  in an environment where  sages seeking comment.  
Kindle will only work with  “Kindle is a fantastic  people are paying less,”  The new joint venture  
that device.  invention for reading  McQuivey said.  would allow partners to set  
Companies in the joint  books. It is not much of an  Content producers will  prices for their content. It  
venture are hoping to  experience for newspa- also struggle to get people  also has plans to develop  
break that lock and sell  pers,” he said.  to pay for magazines and  new advertising formats  
content starting in 2010  Analysts said the pub- newspapers because many  that are interactive and  
using the new standards.  lishers’ joint venture to  also offer free versions  target an audience that is  
Publishers outside the joint  develop their own e-reader  online. Such publications  more engaged than in  
venture would be able to  technology was a bold  are unlike books, where  print.  

EMIjoinsUniversal-backedmusicvideosite 
Associated Press recording company not yet involved licensing deals expire, Vevo’s player with Vevo. Warner Music has been will gradually replace online videos 
LOS ANGELES — Music videos separately developing its own artist-that are on artist Web sites and other from Norah Jones, Coldplay, Katy branded video channels on YouTube. online destinations such as AOL. Perry and other artists under EMI Faced with declining sales of com-The recording companies, led by Group PLC are headed to an online pact discs, recording companies are Universal, a unit of France’s Vivendi music video venture, Vevo, set to experimenting with new ways of dis-SA, are seeking to gain a greater launch Tuesday with a gala in New tributing their music online through share of advertising revenue from York. ventures such as Vevo. It will show music videos than is currently gener­
EMI’s videos on Vevo will join con-videos for free, supported by ads. ated on sites such as YouTube. tent from Universal Music Group, Such deals are not exclusive, howev-They also seek to separate profes­which holds the largest stake in the er. Last month, EMI became the only sionally produced content from the new venture. Sony Music major recording company to put its user-generated fare on YouTube, Entertainment is also an equity part-music videos on Hulu, which primarily while better matching advertisers ner along with Abu Dhabi Media Co., carries television shows and movies. with a youthful demographic. an arm of the Abu Dhabi govern-Vevo launches Tuesday as both a YouTube will receive a small per­ment. Web site and an embedded video centage of advertising revenue for 
EMI, which is based in London, will player that will replace Universal, providing Vevo with technology. not take a stake in the company. Sony and EMI videos now available Vevo has hired its own ad sales Discussions continue with Warner on Google Inc.’s video site YouTube. team and is led by CEO Rio Caraeff, a Music Group Corp., the only major Over the next year, as current Universal digital strategy executive. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 
page 8 Wednesday, December 9, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Robbie Singer Laura Myers Sarah Mervosh Michael Blasco Caitlin Housley Molly Sammon 
Graphics Viewpoint 
Sofia Iturbe Patricia Scene Fernandez Jordan Gamble 
What is the worst aspect of 
That it started. Really? Really Mendoza? Really Notre Dame? This course was at best a joke in extremely poor taste. “Foresight” is the perfect excuse for a course with no substance and no direction. If I were to rank Tim Hronick everything that I 
Guest
have learned in life by order of Columnist usefulness, all things from “Foresight” would fall somewhere below my memorization of the mating habits of the Burmese mole-rat. 
I could digest the fact that this is a real course after some soul-searching, but a requirement? Absolutely ridicu­lous. Why not have a different class that is, I don’t know, useful because it covers material from a field of study that exists. But chances are good that even despite overwhelming evidence that this class should be removed from the cur­riculum because there is nearly unani­mous hatred for it to a degree normally reserved only for telemarketers and Pete Carroll, it will return year after year like a deranged Santa Claus to spread misery amongst business jun­iors. It would have been less painful and much more productive for me to have spent every moment that I wasted on Foresight this semester instead repeatedly breaking each of my toes with a cinderblock. Seriously. 
This course was about as intellectual-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Foresight? 
ly stimulating as watching a season of Gilmore Girls. The books and articles that we had to read were written by somebody with the mental capacity of Miley Cyrus. Because of the sheer severity of the mental trauma that this class has caused me I am going to spend the remainder of my sad life liv­ing in a hut in a remote village in Nicaragua making 3 dollars and 14 cents a month producing plastic mold­ings for portable, hand-held female uri­nals. It is absolutely beyond me why anyone on earth would ever delude themselves into believing for one moment that this class would ever be informative besides perhaps giving a prime example of what constitutes a complete waste of time. 
Have you ever seen that move “The Patriot” with Mel Gibson? Yeah, well do you remember that part in the final bat­tle scene where the British dudes shoot a cannonball and it whizzes past Mel Gibson’s character and totally just rips off this dude’s leg at the hamstring? Yeah. I would much rather be that dude and have to endure getting totally jacked by that cannonball and then spend the rest of my potentially short life (gangrene treatments were pretty shoddy back then) having to lean against whatever is handy nearby than have to endure this worthless experi­ence again. 
After surviving this cruel travesty I have to restrain myself each day from smacking my forehead with heavy, blunt object in hopes that whichever brain cells tragically lose their lives through such an activity will be the ones that contain my memories from that worthless classroom. 
Do you know why Charlie Weis got fired? Because he was a horrible coach. Do you know why he was a horrible coach? After the 2006 season Charlie Weis took a class called “Foresight” that Swarbrick insisted the entire football program go through even though it is clearly not necessary for 99.6 percent of those employed in the department. 
What we have here is the same situa­tion. Simply knowing that Mendoza forces students to go through such a miserable joke of a course makes the story of Lindsay Lohan’s descent from a cute, popular star to a disreputable, prostitute-like caricature of a human being almost seem like a heartwarming romantic comedy. I think that maybe Heath Ledger found out that he was going to have to take “Foresight” and he did a little future evaluation himself and determined that it just wasn’t worth it. 
So if you were wondering, no, I did not enjoy this course. 
Tim Hronick is a junior. He can be contacted at thronick@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
Who will be the next Notre Dame head football coach? 
Brian Kelly Bob Stoops Skip Holtz Other 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Everyone is as God has made him,and oftentimes a great deal worse.” 
Miguel de CervantesSpanish novelist 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 
Wednesday, December 9, 2009 page 9 
I’m still hungry 
I would like to take what Mitchell Myers said in his article Grab and Go sys­tem unfair one step further with this: 
I stare morosely at the pathetic array of food behind the glass door. Three halves of a peanut 
Jacob Szczudlak
butter sandwich wrapped in a ster-
Guest
ile little package is 
Columnist
to be the staple of my quick lunch. I take it from the shelf trying to look at the bright side of things; at least I won’t be eating the soggy veggie wrap that was my other choice. I then snag a yogurt, possibly the most suste­nance I will be getting from this meal. I grab a juice box, which I can tell from its size will not even be enough to wash my peanut butter sandwich down. That brings me to six points. Now here?s the difficult decision. What will I get with my final point, a tiny snack size bag of chips or an even more miniscule cup of pud­ding? Choice made, I head to the regis­ter to check out. 
Is this going to be dinner the lady at the check-out inquires. 
Dinner!? I exclaim in surprise, but it’s barely noon! 
She calmly explains to me that I cannot charge the meal as my breakfast because it is passed the time that is considered breakfast. I also cannot use my lunch because I participate in the Wednesday Fast, meaning I give up the privilege of eating in the dining hall so that the money that is saved from my not eating will be donated to charity. This naturally leaves my dinner meal as the only charge possibility. I, personally, find this to be ridiculous. We are busy college students who need to be able to use our meals at the time of our choosing and know that even if we don’t have the time to sit down in one of our fine dining halls that we will get a filling meal. 
What I’m trying to get at is that Notre Dame’s meal system needs a bit of revamping. First of all, the seven-point system is a flawed one. For those of you that do not know about the seven-point system, the gist of it is this: each food item is assigned a certain point value. Sandwiches and wraps are three points; yogurts, parfaits are two; fruit, juice, pudding, chips, things like that are one point. Students choose items until the total point value is equal to seven points. I feel that it should be changed to some­thing similar to Purdue’s On-the-Go. Purdue’s On-the-Go uses a much more effective system. Instead of a meal that adds up to seven points, Purdue allows their students to pick one entrée and four sides. This means that Purdue students are always guaranteed five items. Here at Notre Dame if you want to have a yogurt and a sandwich you can only at most get four items. Plus Purdue has many more choices than Notre Dame. For their entrée, they can pick from sandwiches, hot or cold, hotdogs, burg­ers, salads, etc. Their sides are really diverse: fountain drinks, fruit snacks, 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
I'm a believer 
In response to Mark Easley’s article, (“Global warming skeptic,” Dec. 7), I find several points that he makes alarming. The effects of climate change are having a direct effect on human and ecological well-being. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), sea levels rose six inches during the 20th century. The summer thick­ness of artic sea ice is half of what it was in 1950. Glaciers and permafrost are melting, flooding some areas and drying up ecosystems in others. These changes impact species on all continents. Seawater is more acidic because of increased car­bon dioxide absorbed by water, affecting coral reefs and marine life. Human health is negatively impacted by outbreaks of infectious diseases. Seawater temperatures are warming, contributing to changing weather patterns that bring stronger storm systems to some areas, while causing droughts in others. 
Yes, the world has gone through periods of warming and cooling. There are naturally occur­ring phenomena like volancanic eruptions. But also yes, I believe humans have a responsibility to protect the earth in ways we can control. MIT sci­entists estimated in 2008 the average American emitted 20 metric tons of carbon dioxide annually, compared to a world average of four metric tons. It is crucial that the U.S. reduce carbon emissions. Easley asks how developed nations could ask developing countries to pay higher costs for ener­gy. In reality, developing nations are already pay­ing the price for climate change because their peo­ple, economies, governments, and health systems are more vulnerable to the fluctuations caused by climate change. 
Spending the financial resources to “green” America’s economy is not wasteful: it’s innovative. The benefit of international cooperation fosters global interdependence. A U.S. policy that creates incentives for environmental protection is an investment in our future economy. America has the technology and skills to create jobs making solar panels, wind turbines, fuel cells, light rail transit and electric cars. Investing in sustainable energy will decrease reliance on foreign energy. Instead of sending money overseas, Americans would be investing in our economy and our environment. To me, that is very important at this point in history. 
Megan Fitzgerald 
junior 
Cavanaugh Hall 
Dec. 8 
macaroni salad, potato salad, ice cream, along with all the things that we offer. So you see, for the hard working student needing to eat on the go, this system is more filling and appetizing. Studying on an empty stomach, as we all know, is just one more distraction that we don’t need. 
Now imagine this. It’s Friday after­noon. The week has been a difficult to say the least. A math test over a subject you still don’t understand even after six hours of nonstop studying, a lab where you titrated a substance that you can’t even pronounce, homework in every class and your on-campus job have you extremely worn out. That without including section sports, dorm sports and the various clubs you are in. You have barely had time to sleep let alone eat, leaving you with four extra meals. What do you do with them? You can’t eat in the dining hall, you’ve already had din­ner. You can’t go get Grab-and-Go either. What happens is that these meals are wasted. They don’t roll over; you can’t spend them; your money pays for noth­ing. These meal need to be able to be claimed. Food Services should not put a limit on the number of meal that students can eat per day nor the time at which they can use them. There are times dur­ing the week where you simply cannot fit in breakfast for example. Why not let students have an early lunch and a late lunch? We should be able to eat when we can rather than at the rigidly assigned times that we must now. The 14 meals should be able to be used at any time during the week. Let students budget their own meal plan. We’re big boys and girls. That way students’ money will not be wasted. We should be able to redeem our remaining meals at the end of the week, or run out by Thursday. It should be about the conven­ience to the student. Stocking up at the end of the week will give us the option of going out or eating at home. So what if we grab 28 bags of popcorn at one time. Maybe we are planning on throwing the greatest popcorn and a movie party ever. 
We students need to take control of our money. We know when we are hungry and we know when we are not. Let us decide to waste all of our meals in the first five days of the week and go hungry the last two. Make Grab-and-Go compa­rable to the dining hall food. Eating on the fly gives us students more time to study, which is after all the whole reason we came to Notre Dame, right? We need to be able to have a comparable option to the dining hall. Students need to be able to eat on the go, and to be able to do it when they want to. The best way to do this is to overhaul they Grab-and-Go sys­tem and to remove limits on when stu­dents can claim their meals. 
Jacob Szczudlak is a junior. He can be contacted at thronick@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The best from Europe and America 
This morning I read Mr. Easley’s Climate Change letter (“Global warming skeptic,” Dec. 7). I am a GreeND member studying in Notre Dame’s Rome Architecture Program. His assertion about Europe’s worry about climate change is correct; people here are indeed worried about global warming. It greatly saddens me that back at home this is not the case. 
Here “being green” is just daily life; the Romans live in apartments that are hundreds of years old. These buildings rely on natural ven­tilation for heating and cooling eight months out of the year. They have been around for so long that their carbon footprints are essentially neutral by now. People here live close together, and walk every­where. Since they are in such close quarters, they plant rooftop gar­dens, cutting down on the urban heat island effect. When they do travel long distances, fast trains are used. In Italy, even the diet is greener; Italian food has less meat and ingredients are more local and seasonally varied than in the states. The government encourages people not to drive cars, without any politi­cal debate; it is simply “the right thing to do.” 
At Notre Dame, while some naysayers create debate where there should be none, other students get very passionate about recycling and other environmental issues, demonizing bottled water and pub­licly pushing people to take short showers. 
When the American Congress set new lightbulb efficiency standards, people mourned the impending death of incandescent lightbulbs. Lo and behold though, scientists have found ways to make incandesents that use the requisite 30 percent less energy. 
Interestingly, in Italy, with all of its worry and acceptance about Climate Change, I see none of this impas­sioned grassroots action. If Americans can unite — as Europeans have — behind a firm conviction that something must be done, this uniquely American deter­mination and innovativeness will bring forth a set of solutions that will avert catastrophe. 
Jackson Bangs 
junior 
off campus 
Dec. 8 
Let’s approach climate change 
Peer-reviewed science continues to provide more and more evidence that climate change is happening and that it is caused by humans. The disagree­ment among climate scientists on those two points is all but non-exis­tent. Despite what you may hear, there is a clear consensus on those issues. Don’t trust everything the media tells you. Don’t trust me either. Read the peer-reviewed science on these issues and make your own deci­sion. 
The real point for debate, that I’m glad Mr. Easley addresses (“Global warming skeptic,” Dec. 7), is how we respond to climate change. It is true that there is a great deal of uncertain­ty surrounding what the magnitude of climate changes effects will be, but almost every model predicts at least some serious and costly consequence including more variable weather pat­terns, sea level rise, species extinc­tions and the spread of disease. Our challenge is to find the balance between the costs of abating GHG emissions and the benefits of avoiding unpredictability in the future. Because the people in the developing world have the least technology avail­able to them to cope with changes and their economies are most closely tied to agriculture, it is the future genera­tions of the developing world that stand to benefit the most from GHG reduction policies. 
I think Mr. Easley is right in saying that it doesn’t seem right to deny tech­nology advancements to the poor of this generation when wealthy coun­tries like the United States have been spewing GHGs into the atmosphere for decades. However, it also seems wrong to condemn future generations to live with the effects of unabated cli­mate change when they had no part in causing the changes. It may be that there are greater benefits to investing in infrastructure, education and health care than solely in GHG reduc­tion technologies. 
I propose that with sustainable development we can invest in a mix of both and achieve our goals of alleviat­ing poverty and addressing climate change. These are the kinds of edu­cated discussions we need to have at Notre Dame. I believe further delay­ing reductions in GHG emissions would be a terrible mistake, but by the same token it would also be a terrible mistake to ignore our other available opportunities. How we respond to cli­mate change now will determine the fate of humanity for centuries to come. Let’s approach climate change at Notre Dame on a new level of seri­ous examination and informed debate of a very real threat learning. 
Connor Kobeski 
senior 
Siegfried Hall 
Dec. 7 
The Observer 
Scene
page 10 Wednesday, December 9, 2009 

I’ve never thought of myself as a typical male. However, there are times in my life when I’m confronted with the fact that no matter how much it pains me, I share com­mon traits with a Dave-Matthews-listening, Natty-Ice-swilling, Xbox-live-playing frat 
Nick Anderson 
boy. On matters such as red meat, college foot­ball and the simple joy 
Scene Writer 
of a bubble bath, I can and have held conver­sations lasting multiple minutes with my sleevelessly-attired and Chinese-character-tattooed counterpart. 
For the first 20 years of my life, I could have added another five minutes of conversation to my lifetime concerning the “Twilight” books by Stephenie Meyer. (Yes, we could have held a conversation before the books were writ­ten). While most of my readership will likely be familiar with a typical male stance, I would like to clearly explain my understanding of it. 
When it comes to movies concerning the topic of love, there were two traditional meth­ods of dealing with it: romantic comedies and Disney movies, both riddled with their own particular evils on the matter. Romantic comedies follow cheesy, clichéd storylines and more often than not are connected to Cameron Diaz. With few exceptions, rom­coms send males into one of three states: sleep, rage or a sleepy rage. Disney movies are actually identical with the exception of Cameron Diaz. Either way, unrealistic and boring depictions of relationships dominate popular cinema. 
“Twilight” broke new ground in its depic­tions of romantic relationships. Specifically, it added a sparkling vampire whose mysterious and cold persona can only be explained by his love for the female lead, Bella. Digging deeper into an already cavernous hole occupied by the notion of romantic love in popular culture, the ridiculous expectations and corny 

For my male companions who have made it this far through the article without actually knowing anything about “Twilight,” I’ll do my best to explain. Edward and Bella (vampire and moody girl, respectively) are now mar­ried and living off the coast of Brazil. Taking part in a common newlywed activity, houses are destroyed and Bella is repeatedly knocked unconscious. It has something to do with Edward’s super powers and glitter. In these “miracle-of-life moments,” Bella con­ceives a mutant human/vampire fetus who grows quickly and strikes fear into the heart of pretty much everyone, to the point where Edward wants Bella to have an abortion. Bella, whose ribs have been broken by the super baby’s kicks, carries the pregnancy to term. In this time Jacob, a shape-shifter who resembles a werewolf, finds Bella in order to kill her, or something. Bella starts to give birth but starts losing blood. Edward then returns, turns Bella into a vampire and gives her a C-section with his teeth. Jacob then imprints on the baby. This means he falls in love. A were­wolf falls in love with a baby. 
Obviously, my third-hand retelling of “Breaking Dawn” contains inaccuracies, but on the off chance that these statements are remotely true, I plan on attending the mid­night premiere of both movies. (At Meyer’s insistence, the final volume is being split into two movies). If done well, their strangeness will rival David Lynch’s “Eraserhead,” a feat I’d always assumed was impossible. In fact, I silently applauded as “New Moon” shattered box office records. Why? Because in the future of the film series, a werewolf falls in love with a baby. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
Contact Nick Anderson at nanders5@nd.edu 

The Observer 
Scene
Wednesday, December 9, 2009 page 11 


she sings, and it will seem even better. 
“Dance in the Dark” sort of sounds, at least initially, like something out of the ‘80s, with a standard synth-riff. However, all Lady Gaga needs is a minute to remind you that you are, indeed, in the 21st century. At first, “Dance in the Dark” seems like just another danceable Lady Gaga track. But after a good minute or two of listening, it’s hard to stop nod­ding your head. The catchy refrain is full of Lady Gaga “soul,” if you can call it that, while the rest of the song is just plain good. Full of surprises, that Lady Gaga is. 
Lady Gaga meets with fellow tour-de­force pop diva Beyonce on “Telephone.” Beyonce’s part may be minimal, but it’s pretty great. Divalicious as always. In case the word hasn’t been thrown around enough already, “Telephone” is yet another upbeat, catchy tune on “The Fame Monster.” As with many of Lady Gaga’s other tunes, like “Dance in the Dark” and even “Bad Romance,” it gets better with time. Give it a few listens, and let it transport you back to Domerfest. 
“So Happy I Could Die” seems more like trance music than pop music, but its danceable nonetheless. Perhaps the pre­quel to “Just Dance,” Lady Gaga is ready to have some fun in the club in this song. It’s catchy, of course. In fact, in may be impossible for Lady Gaga to write a non-catchy song. But who’s complaining? “So Happy I Could Die” is another solid addi­tion to her catalog, changing the pace and tone of “The Fame Monster” a little in the process. 
The last song on “The Fame Monster” before the reissues of “The Fame” is “Teeth,” which sounds a little southern-twang country, more in the style of Christina Aguilera or even Carrie Underwood. It’s pretty much different from anything you’ve ever heard from Lady Gaga before. But, regardless, it’s a fine addition to a pretty solid batch of new tracks on “The Fame Monster.” 
The rest of “The Fame Monster” are reissues of tracks from Lady Gaga’s first album “The Fame,” including such hits as “Just Dance,” “LoveGame,” “Paparazzi” and “Poker Face.” There’s nothing new about the songs, there are no remixes, but for this without “The Fame,” it’s a great way to get all of Lady Gaga’s golden oldies. 
The final two tracks, both new, are “Disco Heaven” and a remix of “Bad Romance.” “Disco Heaven” is a far cry from actual disco, but Lady Gaga’s 21st­century take on the much-loved, much-loathed dance genre seems less likely to polarize than its namesake. It’s not great, especially when compared to the rest of the album, but it will probably get people moving anyways. “Bad Romance (Starsmith Remix)” is merely an ade­quate remix of a great new song. Reminiscing once again on the great ‘80s, this remix puts too much synthesizer into an already great dance tune, making it more awkward than awesome. 
Regardless of the weak ending, “The Fame Monster” is a great new album from a truly creative and talented per­former. Although it’s almost more enjoy­able to watch Lady Gaga live, the songs retain all of the energy of her perform­ances on the CD. That’s an impressive feat, and well worth a listen. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
By ADRIANA PRATT 
Assistant Scene Editor 
It’s the “Halliday” sea­son, and Howard Hall is spreading cheer this Wednesday evening with their signature Christmas event. A winter wonder­land will appear between Crowley Hall of Music and LaFortune from 8-10 p.m., full of sweet treats, a sleigh ride and if Santa’s on our side, some magical white precipitation from the sky. 
The herald angels, other­wise known as the Glee Club and Howard Liturgical Choir, will be singing as horse-drawn carriages trot around God Quad and South Quad. Santa will be on standby, pouring cups of hot chocolate and promising report cards full of A’s for those who avoided his Naughty List. 
On top of all those goodies, the event will feature tons of free homemade baked goods, Howard’s social campus co-commissioner, Kelly Colas, said. 
“We already have around 20 pounds worth of puppy chow. Most of the girls in Howard are baking home­made cookies and we’re going to have s’mores and a grill to roast the marshmallows on,” she said. 

Howard Hall would love to see the whole campus attend the event. “I’m really excited for everyone to have a chance to unwind before finals week and to see Howard girls and all of campus come together … I think it’s going to be really fun,” Michelle Lee, Howa r d’s other social campus co­commis­sioner, 
said. 
Lee also recom­mended 
that guests arrive 
on the early side to 
ensure they get the chance to go on a sleigh ride. The sleigh will be available from during the entire event but can only take a certain number of trips around the campus. 
The classy men of Glee Club will start fa-la-la-la-la-ing at 8:30 p.m., then turn over the stage to Howard’s liturgical choir at 9:30. Christmas car­ols will ring throughout campus, sure­ly making Buddy the Elf proud. 
Howard hopes to share holiday cheer with the rest of campus, Colas said. 
“I’m most looking forward to seeing everyone have a good time at the ‘Halliday.’ It’s a great opportunity … for everyone to get excited about Christmas and the rest of the semes­ter,” she said. 
The event has changed over the years, with new additions including a sleigh ride and a sitting area for guests to relax and indulge in the deli­cious treats. 
“We started planning in September and getting in touch with the sleigh company, filling out the SAO request and getting the t-shirts,” Colas said. 
“Howard Halliday” t-shirts will be on sale for $13. All proceeds will go to Howard’s bone marrow drive. 
Put on your Christmas gear, gather up your friends and take a trip to LaFortune for some goodies and a photo with Santa Wednesday night. Be careful on your way over though. We don’t want anyone getting run over by a reindeer. 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 
SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 
page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, December 9, 2009 
NASCAR 
Danica Patrick prepares for Nationwide debut 
Associated Press  she tries to become the only female driver currently compet­ schedule these days — I don’t even know what airline I’m get- Tuesday, it’s believed Patrick had settled on the organization  and Dario Franchitti lasted just half a season before returning  
PHOENIX — Danica Patrick  ing in one of NASCAR’s top two  ting on anymore, just what time  many weeks ago and had only  to IndyCar this past year and  
received all kinds of advice dur­ series.  the flight leaves,” Patrick said.  been waiting to announce her  winning the title.  
ing her lengthy flirtation with  Patrick will run a full IndyCar  “I asked Mark Martin ‘How do  IndyCar deal to finalize the  So  there’s  been  rampant  
NASCAR. Some encouraged her  Series schedule with Andretti  you do it?’ and he said he got  NASCAR contract.  speculation as to how the 27­ 
to give it  a  try, while others  Autosport and squeeze NASCAR  used to it. I have no doubt I will  “There’s  no  mystery that I  year-old  Patrick  will  fare.  
openly  won- in when she can.  get used to it.”  went  to  Although she’s  
dered why I n d y C a r ’ s biggest star would open her­self up to such scrutiny. Now that she’s officially a part­ “It’s time for the hard work, time to buckle down and learn how to drive these cars. It’s going to be challenging.”  Her immediate plans are to par­ticipate in the ARCA test next week at Daytona I n t e r n a t i o n a l Speedway and make her stock- Patrick unveiled her green and orange No. 7 Chevrolet in a news conference at Chase Field with GoDaddy.com, which is sponsoring her in both series, as well as Martin in the pre­mier Sprint Cup Series. GoDaddy had an existing rela- Charlotte during the summer and visited with vari­ous teams,” said Patrick, adding she picked JRM because “first and foremost,  “I want to win a lot more races. I want to win the Indy 500. And I want to have fun.”  enormously pop­ular and mar-ketable, she has just one victory in five seasons of IndyCar rac­ing. She has one win, last year in  
time NASCAR driver — she announced a two-year deal  Danica Patrick Nationwide driver  car debut in that series opener on Feb. 6 — one day before she’ll  tionship with JR Motorsports that helped pave the way for Patrick to choose the Earnhardt-owned team over  I’m going to drive for a great team. There is adequate and  Danica Patrick Nationwide driver  Japan, and 16 top-five finishes. She was fifth in the standings  
Tuesday to drive  star in two Super  everyone else jockeying for her  proper support.”  this past season.  
for the second-tier Nationwide  Bowl  ads  for  sponsor  in NASCAR.  Sponsorship concerns, series  But she insisted she’s ready to  
Series  team  owned by Rick  GoDaddy.com.  She  took  a  summer  tour  stability and increased potential  try something new while still  
Hendrick and Dale Earnhardt  JR Motorsports fields cars in  through North Carolina meeting  earnings have led several open  holding down her day job.  
Jr. — how will she be received?  the Nationwide Series but does  various drivers and car owners,  wheel drivers to migrate to  “It’s time for the hard work,  
“I expect her to be eaten up  not have a schedule mapped  and there was a time when for- NASCAR, but with very limited  time to buckle down and learn  
by the wolves,” said Kelley  out for Patrick. Unclear is how  mer IndyCar Series champion  success. Juan Pablo Montoya  how to drive these cars. It’s  
Earnhardt, general manager of  many races she’ll run, when  Tony Stewart was thought to be  left Formula One and didn’t  going to be challenging,” she  
JR Motorsports.  she’ll fit them in, or when she’ll  the front-runner for her move  begin to compete at a consis­ said. “I’m always looking for  
Earnhardt quickly said she  get the seat time needed to  to NASCAR.  tent level until this past season,  the next challenge, and there’s  
was only joking, and clarified  learn how to drive  a  heavy  In  the  end,  though,  the  his third since the move.  still plenty of challenges left in  
that she expects Patrick to be  stock car.  crossover  relationship with  Three-time IndyCar Series  IndyCar. I want to win  a  lot  
respected immediately. But  Patrick said she can handle  GoDaddy made JR Motorsports  champion Sam Hornish Jr. has  more races. I want to win the  
there’s no doubt Patrick will  the heavy workload.  the obvious choice. Although  had a very rough go of it during  Indy 500. And I want to have  
face an enormous spotlight as  “If  I  could  show  you  my  the deal was only announced  his two full seasons in NASCAR,  fun.”  

NFL 
Quinn anxious to prove himself against rival Steelers 
11) host the suddenly stumbling down, 271-yard performance was my ability and everything. I since 2003, placing the defend-
Associated Press 
Steelers (6-6) on Thursday against San Diego, Quinn’s sec-just have to continue to grow ing Super Bowl champions in 
BEREA, Ohio — Like so many night. ond impressive outing in his last and mature and learn and get jeopardy of missing the playoffs. Ohio kids raised on football, When the teams met on Oct. three games. After throwing one better.” Opponents have been successful Brady Quinn developed a strong 18 at Heinz Field, Quinn TD pass and five interceptions Mangini was impressed with in spreading out the Steelers distaste for everything watched from the sideline as the in his first three starts, he has Quinn’s ability to handle San defense with four-and five-Pittsburgh Steelers. Steelers won their 12th straight seven TDs and not a single pick Diego’s defense, which like receiver sets. With Pro Bowl 
Growing up a die-hard over the Browns, 27-14. He had in his past three. Pittsburgh’s, blitzes from every safety Troy Polamalu sidelined Browns fan, Cleveland’s quar-lost his starting job to Derek Quinn has thrown 126 consec-angle. While there have been with knee injuries, teams have terback learned from an early Anderson a few weeks earlier, utive passes without an inter-questions about the QB’s arm found a soft spot in the middle age that those neighbors from benched after two starts by ception, the second-longest strength, Quinn’s football IQ has of the field that’s not been there Pennsylvania wearing black and coach Eric Mangini. active streak in the league. never been challenged. before. gold were the enemy, Iron City Quinn has been back under “I’m just trying to make good “I thought he did a nice job Quinn isn’t counting on villains to be despised and beat-center for five starts, and it’s his decisions, trying to take care of IDing (identifying) where the Polamalu’s absence to aid the en whenever possible. Quinn’s turn to try and end the Steelers’ the football,” he said. “It always pressure was coming from,” Browns, who have lost 10 heroes wore brown and orange. utter dominance over the gives us a chance to win. The Mangini said. “He changed some straight home games. 
So which of the Steelers did he Browns — 18 wins in 19 games only statistic that really matters of the protection calls on the “Clearly not having him on the hate most? Jerome Bettis? Rod since 2000. Cleveland hasn’t is wins and losses. We’re still line of scrimmage to get us to a field takes something away from Woodson? Greg Lloyd? Bill beaten Pittsburgh since Oct. 5, searching for that win.” point where we had the num-them, but Tyrone Carter does a Cowher? 2003, when Tim Couch directed Quinn is 0-7 as a starter this bers to pick it up and that great job filling in for that spot,” 
“I don’t know,” Quinn said on the Browns to a 33-13 win. season and 1-9 in his stop-and-opened up some things. Quinn said. “Believe me, they’ll Tuesday. “I wasn’t really fond of Since then, Kelly Holcomb, start pro career. He says he feels “The one thing about him is be ready to go.” any of them. That’s usually how Jeff Garcia, Trent Dilfer, Charlie more comfortable than at any he’ll study it, he’ll pick up some He’s prepared, too. it works.” Frye, Anderson and Bruce time in three years and believes things from the first game even And in what has been an 
Quinn, who has been showing Gradkowski — who directed he can develop into the quarter-though he wasn’t playing and unusually rough season in a signs he could blossom into a Oakland to a comeback win over back Cleveland banked on get-there’s also going to be some decade of rough seasons in solid NFL starter, will face Pittsburgh last week — all have ting when they selected him in variations of things that are Cleveland, nothing would warm Cleveland’s bitter — and much failed to knock off the Steelers. the first round of the 2007 draft. unique to us.” the hearts of Browns fans more better — rival for the first time Quinn’s up. But is he up to it? “I hope so,” he said. “That’s Pittsburgh has dropped four than a victory over the hated as a pro when the Browns (1-He’s coming off a three-touch-the intent. I’ve always felt that straight games for the first time Steelers. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
If you or someone you care about All this was a long time ago, I And that’s what Christmas is all CYO CAMP RANCHO FRAMASA 
has been sexually assaulted, we remember, about, Charlie Brown. SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS ­FOR RENT TICKETS can help. For more information, visit And I would do it again, but set HIRING NOW! Secure your summer 
Notre Dame's website: down ———————————————— job! Camp Rancho Framasa is an 
Seinfeld Dec 18 7PM 7th Row Ctr. 4 http://csap.nd.edu This set down Wisdom comes through suffering. inclusive, residential camp, located andersonNDrentals.com. HOUSES Tkts $80. ea 631-9620 ———————————————— This: were we led all that way for Trouble, with its memories of pain, in south central, Indiana, operated ———————————————— ———————————————— Considering Adoption? ND Alums Birth or Death? There was a Birth, Drips in our hearts as we try to by the Catholic Youth Organization 
Hoping to Adopt. If you are an certainly, sleep, since 1946. Serving campers aged OFF-campus housing, Irish expectant mother searching for a We had evidence and no doubt. I So men against their will 7 to 16 in various programs. We Crossings and Dublin Village 3 and family, please see our website at had seen birth and death, Learn to practice moderation. offer a welcoming staff community 
PERSONAL 
4 bdr, furnished and unfurnished. http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro-But had thought they were different; Favours come to us from gods. in a beautiful outdoor setting. January and June 2010 leases file.net. this Birth was ———————————————— General Staff, Counselor Manager, available. www.cespm.info Call 574-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do ———————————————— Hard and bitter agony for us, like Inclusive Programming, Ropes 968-0112 not go it alone. Notre Dame has Fear is the mind-killer. Fear is the Death, our death. Course, Adventure and Health posi­———————————————— many resources in place to assist little-death that brings total oblitera-We returned to our places, these tions available. All positions start at 
you. If you or someone you love tion. I will face my fear. I will permit Kingdoms, PERSONAL $240/week. Training is HOUSE FOR RENT $500/PERSON needs confidential support or assis-it to pass over me and through me. But no longer at ease here, in the provided;start date May 29, 2010. 2 FULL BATHS 4 BDRM **WALK tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at And when it has gone past I will turn old dispensation, For application and information con-TO ND** 54650 WILLIS CALL 574-1-17819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For the inner eye to see its path. Where With an alien people clutching their PART TIME WORK $14.25 base-tact: (toll-free): 888-988-2839, x25 277-8471 more information, visit ND's website the fear has gone there will be noth-gods. appt., no experience needed, cus-or email angi@campranchofra­
at: http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu. ing. Only I will remain. I should be glad of another death. tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835. masa.org ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— 
Around theNat on 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Wednesday, December 9, 2009 
page 13 
CSCAA Division I Men’s Swimming and Diving Top 25 
team points previous 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 Stanford Arizona Texas Michigan Auburn California Florida Indiana Ohio State Tennessee Minnesota Georgia Virginia Purdue North Carolina Princeton LSU SMU Louisville Harvard Florida State Penn State Kentucky UNLV USC 
300 289 279 267 264 255 237 236 215 213 201 189 174 173 157 148 133 127 121 101 98 96 73 65 48 1 2 3 4 5 6 8 7 9 10 11 12 15 14 16 17 18 19 13 22 21 20 23 24 NR 
CSCAA Division I Women’s Swimming and Diving Top 25 
team points previous 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 Stanford Georiga Texas Arizona Florida Auburn Tennessee Texas A&M California USC Minnesota Virginia Indiana Wisconsin Penn State SMU North Carolina UCLA Arkansas Princeton Virginia Tech Louisville Northwestern Washington Harvard 
297 293 275 274 261 250 233 226 219 216 205 190 181 167 156 141 132 130 122 108 104 90 81 62 60 2 1 3 4 5 6 7 8 11 9 10 12 13 14 15 17 16 19 18 19 21 22 23 24 25 
NFL 

Plaxico Burress requests work release 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Former Super Bowl star Plaxico Burress wants to get a break from prison, but prosecutors said Tuesday they will likely try to block his bid for work release because he hasn’t served enough time. 
The former New York Giant applied for a work fur­lough — which would let him spend some portion of his time at home — on Nov. 25, about two months into his two-year sentence for carrying an unlicensed gun that went off and wounded him at a Manhattan night­club. State prison system officials are expected to decide on his request next month. 
Prosecutors said the bullet narrowly missed a security guard, and they insisted on at least a two-year prison term. A quick furlough would send “a very bad mes­sage,” Manhattan Chief Assistant District Attorney Mark Dwyer said Tuesday. 
“It’s too early,” he said. 
Burress’ lawyer, Benjamin Brafman, declined to com­ment. 
Statistically, Burress’ effort is a long shot. Less than 5 percent of the more than 31,500 work release applica­tions statewide were granted last year, according to the state Department of Correctional Services. 
Under state law, inmates convicted of nonviolent offenses can apply for work furloughs within two years of their release dates. Burress pleaded guilty in August to a form of attempted criminal possession of a weapon that allows him to be eligible for work release, state correc­tions spokeswoman Linda Foglia said. 
Officials deciding on fur­loughs weigh factors includ­ing the inmate’s crime, his prison behavior and any opposition to the release, she said. 
Burress, then a Giants receiver, was at the Latin Quarter nightclub in November 2008 with a .40­caliber gun tucked into his waistband. He later said he was concerned for his safety because a teammate had been held up at gunpoint elsewhere days before. The weapon slipped down Burress’ leg and fired, injur­ing his right thigh. 
The gun wasn’t licensed in New York or New Jersey, where Burress lived; his Florida concealed-weapons permit had expired. 
Sentenced in September, Burress is now being held in protective custody at an upstate prison because of his notoriety. 
Inmates on work release generally get to spend sever­al days and nights each week out of prison working and reconnecting with their families; the exact arrange­ments vary for each inmate. Some are allowed out full-time for the last few months of their sentence, Foglia said. 
IN BRIEF 
Tim Donaghy voices dislike 
for Rivers on TV and radio 
BOSTON — Boston Celtics coach Doc Rivers said he ’s tired of hearing about disgraced referee Tim Donaghy. 
Donaghy was released from prison last month after serving most of a 15-month sentence in a gambling scandal. He appeared on “60 Minutes” on Sunday night and on a Boston radio show Tuesday morning, when he was critical of Rivers. 
Rivers said he’s “so sick of that guy right now.” The Celtics coach said he loves the NBA and hates that “we’re giving a guy like that credibility.” 
Donaghy claimed on the TV show that he bet on NBA games based on his knowledge of other officials’ biases for and against certain players and teams. He claimed his officiating was not compromised. 
Rafael Soriano accepts salary 
arbitration, stays with Braves 
ATLANTA — The Atlanta Braves’ surplus of late-inning relievers forced the team to part ways with outfielder Ryan Church on Tuesday. 
Church was designated for assign­ment by the Braves to clear a spot on the 40-man roster for reliever Rafael Soriano, who made a surprise deci­sion a day earlier to accept salary arbitration. 
The Braves last week signed closer Billy Wagner and setup man Takashi Saito. The expectation was Soriano and Mike Gonzalez would decline salary arbitration offers and become free agents. 
Instead, Soriano is still with the Braves. The right-hander can’t be traded before June 16 without his consent. 
The team added about $10 million in payroll with Wagner and Saito, and Soriano could gain a raise from $6.1 million to more than $7 million. 
Flyers’ Emery expected to 
have surgery on abdomen 
PHILADELPHIA — Flyers goalie Ray Emery will undergo surgery Wednesday to repair a torn muscle in his lower abdomen, and is expected to miss about six weeks. 
Philadelphia general manager Paul Holmgren made the announcement Tuesday night before the Flyers played the New York Islanders. 
The Flyers, who lost five straight and eight of nine, recalled goalie Johan Backlund from the Adirondack Phantoms, but will rely heavily on Brian Boucher. 
Emery hadn’t been playing well, and was pulled from Saturday’s game against the Washington Capitals after allowing five goals. 
Holmgren said the injury played a part in Emery’s slump. 
“You know how hard he practices,” Holmgren said. “He’s been trying to fight through this, but couldn’t practice the way he normally does, and his game suffered. He’s a down young man, and feels he let his team down.” 



around the dial 
NBA 
Bulls vs. Hawks 7 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA Men’s Basketball 
Kentucky vs. Connecticut 
9:30 p.m., ESPN 
page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, December 9, 2009 
MLB 
Managers play coy as winter meetings begin 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Baseball’s winter meetings opened at their usual glacial pace. 
Roy Halladay, Curtis Granderson and Dan Uggla were some of the big names being dangled on the trade market Monday. Toronto appeared to be moving espe­cially deliberately in talks involving Halladay, the much-coveted 2003 AL Cy Young Award winner. 
“Nothing’s happened. If he comes to a team in our divi­sion, I would be interested. He’s really good,” Boston Red Sox manager Terry Francona said. 
Detroit right-hander Edwin Jackson was another player who could be traded, but in a a town known for fast moves around the speedway, base­ball’s wheelers and dealers were slowly mulling their options at the winter meet­ings. 
There were just two minor deals in the first few hours of the four-day session at a hotel just a few miles from Indianapolis Motor Speedway. Washington acquired right-handed reliever Brian Bruney from the New York Yankees for a player to be named and Texas obtained left-hander Clay Rapada from Detroit for a player to be named or cash. 
Of the 23 free agents offered arbitration by their former club last week, only three accepted by Monday’s midnight deadline: Minnesota pitcher Carl Pavano, Atlanta reliever Rafael Soriano and Colorado reliever Rafael Betancourt. 
Among other free agents, St. Louis and right-hander Brad Penny reached a tenta­tive agreement on a $7.5 mil­lion, one-year contract, a deal that won’t be completed until after the Cardinals approve the results of his physical Tuesday, a person familiar with the talks said. The per­son spoke on condition of anonymity because the deal was not yet final. 
Catcher Ivan Rodriguez and the Nationals reached a pre­liminary agreement on a $6 million, two-year contract. That deal is subject to the 38­year-old catcher passing a physical, a person familiar with those negotiations said, also speaking on condition of anonymity because the agree­ment was not yet complete. Rodriguez will receive $3 mil­lion each in 2010 and 2011. 
Detroit agreed to a $1.55 million, one -year contract with shortstop Adam Everett. Also, the Yankees said left-hander Andy Pettitte’s repre­sentatives told them he wants to return for 2010. New York was prepared to make him an offer upward of $10 million, a baseball official familiar with the talks said. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because talks were ongoing. 
“I’ve been told in the right circumstances he wants to pitch,” Yankees general man­ager Brian Cashman said. 
Cashman also acknowl ­edged he was interested in right-hander Jason Marquis. The GM said he traveled to Indianapolis on Sunday on “Air Levinson” — the private plane of the pitcher’s agents, Sam and Seth Levinson. 
“Obviously, he’s very suc­cessful — pitched in tough markets,” Cashman said. “He’s a New Yorker, so he’s tough.” 
Cashman, who received his budget only last Friday, also must decide what offers to make to left fielder Johnny Damon and designated hitter Hideki Matsui, who like Pettitte became free agents. Matsui, the World Series MVP, wants to stay in the major leagues. 
“I manage two Japanese players and it’s fun,” Chicago White Sox manager Ozzie Guillen said. “I love it because all of a sudden when you get fired from the United States, you might have a chance to manage in Japan. You never know.” 
Jason Bay and Matt Holliday, the top two free-agent hitters, appear to have slow-moving markets. Given the recession, many teams are reluctant to spend top dollar for stars. 
“We are not in that bidding at all, ” Braves manager Bobby Cox said. 
Even the Yankees appear to be trying to reduce their $200 million-plus payroll. Cashman said one of the reasons he traded Bruney was that he was eligible for arbitration after making $1.25 million last season. 
Still, other teams are wary of the financial might of the World Series champions. 
“They have a couple of things that make life difficult for us: They have a lot of money and they have smart people running what they are doing,” Francona said. “They are not going to go away. I hope they don’t get better. But they are there, so we have to deal with them.” 
Boston agreed to a small deal with right-hander Scott Atchison, who spent the last two seasons with the Hanshin Tigers in Japan ’s Central League. Hanshin purchased the contract of outfielder Matt Murton from Colorado. 
The New York Mets, coming off a dismal first season at Citi Field, have held numer­ous trade talks but weren’t close to any deals. 
Also, former agent Dennis Gilbert was at the hotel. Now a Chicago White Sox execu­tive, he is among the bidders trying to purchase control of the Texas Rangers from cur­rent owner Tom Hicks. Gilbert said he hopes to find out whether his bid succeeds by a Dec. 15 deadline that’s been set. 



Wednesday, December 9, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
MLB 
Harvey singled out for HOF 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Supremely self-assured every time he stepped onto a ballfield, umpire Doug Harvey developed a stub­born habit: After the final out, he would take his wad of chewing tobacco and throw it on home plate. 
“I never did have any doubt in my mind,” he said. “The only thing in my mind was, ‘Bring it on, suckers!’” 
That strong, authoritative tone he commanded games with for more than three decades is diminished. The man called “God” by players and managers alike now walks slowly, with assistance. He needed a bit of help putting on his Hall of Fame jersey Tuesday. 
Yet his spirit remains unbro­ken. That’s despite the barrage of radiation treatments, the feeding tube, the seizure and the stroke he endured — medical problems that began after he was diag­nosed with oral cancer in 1997. 
“He’s always so positive,” said his wife, Joy, a tear welling up in her eye. 
A day after he became only the ninth umpire elected to the Hall, the 79-year-old Harvey came to the baseball winter meetings for an introductory news conference. He was joined on the dais by the other new Hall of Fame member, longtime manager Whitey Herzog. 
“I just hope he doesn’t kick me out of Cooperstown,” Herzog said. 
At 78, Herzog seemed as robust as ever, slapping the backs of Tom Lasorda and other cronies, bounding up the stairs to the podium and telling loud, ani­mated stories. Harvey mostly sat back, listened and smiled, a Hall cap covering his silver-white hair. 
Harvey retired after the 1992 season, having worked 4,670 games, five World Series and six All-Star games. Always confi­dent, he chuckled when asked whether he’d ever missed a call. 
“Oh, sure,” he said. “But I remember one year I went until Aug. 28 till I kicked a play at sec­ond base.” 
Any plans for an easy retire­ment, however, were shattered by the onset of cancer. Twice-a­day radiation treatments for six weeks followed. He lost a lot of weight and needed a cane and walker to get around. 
“They gave him a 30 percent 
MLB 
Granderson dealt to Yankees from Detroit 

chance of living,” Joy said. “But he’s a fighter.” 
Together, the Harveys took their message about the dangers of smokeless tobacco to players, coaches and managers. Little Leaguers, major leaguers, any­one who would listen. It’s a cause they continue to support. 
They’ve been married 49 years, having met when he was an umpire in the old C league. Near the end of his big league career, Harvey and his wife fin­ished a season in Pittsburgh, then drove to upstate New York for a vacation. 
Along the way, they stopped in Cooperstown. Among the arti­facts they saw: One of Harvey’s umpiring uniforms. 
“We just bought a ticket and poked around. No one knew who we were,” Joy said. 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Instead of spending at these winter meetings, the New York Yankees are in a dealing mode. 
The World Series champions pulled off the first big trade of this year’s session, reaching a tentative agreement Tuesday on a three-team, seven-player swap that would bring them All-Star center fielder Curtis Granderson from Detroit. 
New York would trade right-hander Ian Kennedy to Arizona, and lefty reliever Phil Coke and outfield prospect Austin Jackson to Detroit, a baseball official said on condition of anonymity because the deal was not yet final. 
Detroit would ship All-Star pitcher Edwin Jackson to the Diamondbacks, and Arizona would send touted young pitchers Max Scherzer and Daniel Schlereth to the Tigers. The teams were still working on technical aspects of the trade, the official said, including checking medical records. 
“Granderson, of course he’s going to make them better,” Tampa Bay manager Joe Maddon said. “He’s a pretty good outfielder. He plays with a lot of energy. He’s the kind of guy that fits into that landscape in New York, where he’s going to thrive within that kind of a situation.” 
Among free agents, the Washington Nationals surprised many by reaching a preliminary agreement on a $6 million, two-year contract with 38-year-old catcher Ivan Rodriguez, a person familiar with those talks said. That person spoke on condition of anonymity because Pudge must pass a physical. 
The 14-time All-Star figures to be a backup and mentor to 25­year-old Jesus Flores. 
Seattle finalized its $36 million, four-year contract with Chone Figgins, who is likely to become the Mariners’ third baseman and No. 2 hitter behind leadoff man Ichiro Suzuki. St. Louis completed a $7.5 million, one-year deal with pitcher Brad Penny, who joins a rotation that includes Chris Carpenter and Adam Wainwright. 
While Milwaukee was negotiat­ing with Randy Wolf, the pitcher’s agent said he didn’t have an agreement with anyone yet. 
Also, the Chicago Cubs were shopping mercurial outfielder Milton Bradley. 
Among players eligible for salary arbitration, the Chicago White Sox agreed to a $14 million, three-year contract with third baseman Mark Teahen, and the Atlanta Braves designated outfielder Ryan Church for assignment rather than offer him a contract by Saturday’s dead­line. Some teams are waiting to find out which players won’t be tendered contracts before making free-agent moves. 
“Some of the non-tender guys will blend in equal to some of the free-agent guys,” Mets general manager Omar Minaya said. 
The three-team trade was the big news of the day. The speedy Granderson would displace Melky Cabrera as center fielder on the Yankees. A left-handed batter who could benefit from Yankee Stadium’s short porch, Granderson was a first-time All-Star last sea­son, when he had 30 homers, 71 RBIs and 20 steals. 
“There’s a lot of noise out there. Clearly I can’t speak to the noise,” Yankees general manager Brian Cashman said. 
Granderson’s batting average has dropped from .302 in 2007 to .280 in 2008 to .249 last year. He also had 141 strikeouts — his fourth straight season over 100 — and hit .183 against lefties. 
“He beats up righties with power,” said Maddon, who man­aged Granderson in this year’s All-Star game. “But they’re going to have to work on the left-on-left issues, and I know that’s some­thing that they’re probably going to address right out of the chute.” 
Cabrera, a 25-year-old switch-hitter, batted .274 last season with 13 homers, 68 RBIs and 10 steals. He could shift to left, depending on whether New York re-signs Johnny Damon or designated hit­ter Hideki Matsui. 
Cashman spoke last weekend with Damon’s agent, Scott Boras, and met Tuesday with Matsui’s agent, Arn Tellem. Cashman also met twice with Randy Hendricks, an agent for left-hander Andy Pettitte. 
“You always want to get younger, especially when you have an older team,” Cashman said before adding: “Just because somebody is younger doesn’t mean they’re actually better.” 
Detroit, which failed to make the playoffs following a late-season slide, may be looking to cut payroll after a big attendance drop this year at Comerica Park. Granderson is owed $25.75 mil­lion: $5.5 million next year, $8.25 million in 2011, $10 million in 2012 a $2 million buyout of a $13 million club option for 2013. 
Edwin Jackson was 13-9 with a 
3.62 ERA this year and is eligible for salary arbitration after making $2.3 million, including $100,000 in performance bonuses. He can become a free agent after the 2011 season. 
Kennedy, who turns 25 on Dec. 19, impressed when he came up from the minors at the end of the 2007 season, going 1-0 with a 1.89 ERA in three starts. But he strug­gled with injuries in each of the last two seasons. 
He strained a muscle near his right ribcage and had bursitis in his right shoulder blade in 2008, when he was 0-4 with an 8.17 ERA in nine starts and one relief appearance. He pitched in just one big league game this year, when he was sidelined by surgery May 12 to remove an aneurysm from beneath his right biceps. 
“We just went through a very rough season, and so for us to turn down any way to make our team better would be irresponsible,” Diamondbacks manager A.J. Hinch said. 
Coke was 4-3 with a 4.50 ERA in 72 relief appearances. While he pitched 1 1-3 scoreless innings in the AL playoffs, he gave up two runs over 1 1-3 innings in the World Series. 
Austin Jackson, 22, is consid­ered one of the Yankees’ top prospects. He hit .300 last season at Triple-A Scranton/Wilkes-Barre with 23 doubles, four homers, 65 RBIs and 24 steals. 
Scherzer, the 11th overall pick in the 2006 amateur draft, is a 25­year-old righty who went 9-11 with a 4.12 ERA in 30 starts for Arizona last season, striking out 174 in 170 1-3 innings. 
Schlereth, a 23-year-old lefty, was the 26th pick in the 2008 amateur draft. He made his major league debut this year and went 1­4 with a 5.89 ERA in 21 relief appearances with 22 strikeouts. 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, December 9, 2009 
NFL 
Ex-scout Polian plots course 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Colts president Bill Polian is just an old-school scout at heart. 
He willingly attends college games, enjoys interviewing players and coaches and spends countless hours study­ing film to evaluate college prospects. He prefers being involved to delegating, and he still believes NFL winners are built through the draft. 
After decades in pro foot­ball, Polian couldn’t imagine doing it any other way. 
“That’s how I’ve always done it and that’s how I’m going to keep doing it until it doesn’t work,” he said with a chuckle. “We look for athletic ability, for what we call foot­ball temperament and aggres­siveness, a love for the game and durability. We want play­ers who have the ability to process information.” 
He’s good at spotting them. Polian’s acumen for finding and replenishing talent is vir­tually unmatched. 
In the 1980s, he turned a reeling Buffalo franchise into the only NFL team to reach four consecutive Super Bowls. In 1995, he took advantage of the NFL’s generous expansion rules and got Carolina to the 1996 NFC championship game. 
But his masterpiece has come in Indianapolis, where he finally won a Super Bowl and his team is on the cusp of making more history. A victo­ry Sunday over Denver would give Indy a league record 22nd consecutive regular-sea­son wins, a record 114th win in a decade, and home-field advantage throughout the playoffs. Indy already has extended its own NFL mark of consecutive 12-win seasons to seven. 
Few thought this was even possible before Polian arrived following the 1997 season. Polian’s task: Rebuild a once-proud franchise that had pro­duced only five winning sea­sons in the previous 20 years and had a major image prob­lem. 
Whether it was the unforget­table midnight move from Baltimore, Art Schlichter’s gambling problems, John Elway’s forced trade, the criti­cism Indy took for spending too much to get home-state native Jeff George in the 1990 draft or the infamous 1994 draft day argument between then Colts executive Bill Tobin and ESPN draft analyst Mel Kiper Jr., the Colts were any­thing but a model franchise. 
Polian’s changes began with a critical move: Taking Peyton Manning over Ryan Leaf with the No. 1 pick in the 1998 NFL draft. To the old scout, there was never a question about who he wanted. 
“Television, especially sports channels, are in the business of ratings, and many times they’ll construct players out of whole cloth who really have no reason to be stars,” Polian told his radio listeners Monday night. “The greatest of all examples is when Peyton Manning came out. They said he did not win the Heisman Trophy, and he was consid­ered by the so-called experts to be a ‘product of the system, a guy with a weak arm and a guy who didn’t have room to grow.’ Ryan Leaf was consid­ered by many to have the bet­ter arm and be a better leader.” 
Polian is content letting the historians determine who got it right. 
During the next 11 years, Polian’s draft touch seemed almost magical. 
His first-round picks have included Edgerrin James, the Colts’ career rushing leader; three-time Pro Bowl receiver Reggie Wayne; Indy career sacks leader Dwight Freeney; Dallas Clark, the Colts’ new career leader in receptions for a tight end and former Pro Bowl running back Joseph Addai. He traded down to get Bob Sanders, the 2007 NFL defensive player of the year, in the second round and the Colts won the Super Bowl in large part because 2000 first-round pick Rob Morris solidi­fied the Colts horrid run defense. 
But Polian is even better at finding talent in hidden places. 
Take 2003, when he traded up in the fifth round to get future Pro Bowl defensive end Robert Mathis from Alabama A&M. Or 2008, when he land­ed Division III receiver Pierre Garcon in Round 6. Or last April, when he took corner­back Jerraud Powers in Round 3 and receiver Austin Collie in Round 4. All four are starters. 
“He has a very unusual tal­ent to see things that fit with­in our scheme,” first -year coach Jim Caldwell said of Polian. “But you have the coaches involved in that aspect as well, giving Bill feedback on it, and then we determine who best would fit our needs.” 
Polian doesn’t deviate from his philosophy, either. 
Of the 53 players on Indy’s active roster, 31 were origi­nally drafted by Polian. Seventeen of those draft picks were in the fourth round or later. Only four Colts players, including kickers Adam Vinatieri and Matt Stover, have played in a game with another NFL team. And 12 players, including defensive captain Gary Brackett, safety Melvin Bullitt, cornerback Jacob Lacey, right guard Kyle DeVan and three-time Pro Bowl center Jeff Saturday, weren’t drafted at all. 
“I’d have taken any job, I was just looking to get a job,” said Saturday, who came to Indy in 1999 and is now the second-longest tenured Indy player behind Manning. “Obviously, it was a fantastic fit, looking back. But they gave me an opportunity.” 
Polian uses stories like Saturday’s to recruit more undrafted players, explaining to agents that the Colts will give their clients a better opportunity than most teams. 
Not only has it helped Polian keep the stream of talent flowing into Indy, it also has given him enough depth to overcome obstacles. The Colts have already lost three defen­sive starters — Sanders, cor­nerback Marlin Jackson and linebacker Tyjuan Hagler — to season-ending injuries this year. Another starter, corner­back Kelvin Hayden has played just five of 12 games, and Freeney sat out two games ago. 
Yet the Colts have allowed a the third-fewest points in the league and still haven’t lost. 
Polian believes it’s not a coincidence; it’s a reflection of his longtime philosophy and the hard work being done by the team’s scouts, the way he learned this business decades ago. 
“It’s like Marv Levy used to say, ‘Just do your home­work,’” Polian said. “One key thing is having continuity in the front office and with the coaching staffs, that’s a really important template to build a team. But it’s really a tribute to the scouts to do it this way.” 
MLB 
Cardinals sign Penny to one-year contract 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Brad Penny and the St. Louis Cardinals com­pleted their deal Tuesday, giving the NL Central champions a pitcher they’d coveted for quite some time. 
A day after the sides reached a tentative agreement, Penny passed a physical. The two-time All-Star got a one-year contract for $7.5 million, with about $1.5 million more available in per­formance bonuses. 
Penny went a combined 11-9 with a 4.88 ERA in 30 starts for Boston and San Francisco last season. He recently turned down a one-year offer to stay with the Giants. 
Penny helped Florida win the 2003 World Series, although Cardinals manager Tony La Russa already had his eye on the burly right-hander. That season, St. Louis and the Marlins began sharing a spring training com­plex in Jupiter, Fla. 
“Whenever a guy faces you and you’re not happy when he gets announced, you always think, ‘Boy, it would be nice to get him on your side,’“ La Russa said. “So I’m going back to the Marlin days of spring training, that season and ever since. He’s a guy that we thought would be a real good starter for our side.” 
The top of St. Louis’ rotation is strong with Chris Carpenter and Adam Wainwright. But the Cardinals were facing the loss of free-agent starters Joel Pineiro, John Smoltz and Todd Wellemeyer. 
“Brad Penny has long been a pitcher of interest to us and we are thrilled to have him,” Cardinals general manager John Mozeliak said in a statement. “By teaming Brad with our Cy Young finalists Chris Carpenter and Adam Wainwright, in addi­tion to Kyle Lohse, we feel that our pitching staff will continue to be a key cornerstone for the ballclub.” 
The 31-year-old Penny has spent most of his career in the National League. He was an All-Star in 2006 and 2007, winning a career-high 16 games each season. 



Wednesday, December 9, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
Losses 
continued from page 20 
last season. A strong freshman class has helped Henley in mak­ing the transition to a much younger team, and has allowed her underclassmen to take a much larger role on the court. 
A young team does mean inex­perience and reworking on the floor, however. Saint Mary’s has struggled the most so far this season at protecting the basket and working together up and down the court. Although they have outscored their opponents 430-337, the Belles defense is not where Henley would like it to be. 
“We are still focused on play­ing better team defense as we go on the road Wednesday,” Henley said. 
With it being the last week of classes and finals coming up, Henley is concerned for the over­all welfare of her team as well as improving her team’s perform­ance. 
“As we prepare for Calvin on Wednesday, we certainly under­stand that this is tough week for all students heading into finals 
— we will keep practice shorter this week,” Henley said. 
The Knights most recent meet­ing with the Belles in last sea­son’s MIAA tournament semifi­nal match, which Saint Mary’s won 67-58. It was the first time the Belles had defeated the Knights, who have had a strong start this winter with a 7-1 record. But Henley and the Belles know what is necessary for them to come out on top, and have a game plan ready for Wednesday night. 
“Calvin is a very strong team,” Henley said. “We need to be able to set the tone early with our defense and control the boards at both ends.” 
Saint Mary’s takes on Calvin at 
7:30 p.m. at the Knights’ Van Noord Arena for its second con­ference contest this season. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
Bowden: No apologies for Gator Bowl bid 
Associated Press 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. — Florida State coach Bobby Bowden isn’t apologizing for his team being picked for a New Year’s Day bowl game despite its 6-6 record. 
The Gator Bowl invited Florida State a day after the iconic coach announced his retirement, pitting the Seminoles against Bowden’s prior employer, 18th-ranked West Virginia. 
“We’re the fortunate ones in my opinion to be there because there are other teams that have better records, but I’m glad we’re there,” Bowden said Tuesday. “1978, we were 8-3 and did not get a bowl bid and there were other people who got ‘em with poorer records. We felt like we had not been done right.” 
Bowden is also happy that he’ll go out against West Virginia, the school the Seminoles played to start their string of 28 straight bowl invitations. 
“I guess it was meant to be,” Bowden said about his career finale against a school where he spent 10 years while his children grew up. “I’ve always felt like things were meant to be.” 
Bowden also said he might reunite with some of his for­mer Moutaineers players during the bowl trip. 
Earlier Tuesday in Thomasville, Ga., Bowden told about 300 people attending a Fellowship of Christian Athletes breakfast that he plans to spend more time sharing his Christian beliefs after he leaves the sidelines for the final time. 
“I’m going to evangelize,” Bowden said. “That’s what I want to do. I want to do a lot of speaking.” 
Bowden said that upon reflecting on his life, God wanted him to be a football coach. But now, he said, there are other challenges, most notably in the area of promoting Christianity and talking to young people about their priorities in life. 
“I’ve always felt like God directs your life,” he said afterward. “Many times I’ve asked him how long does he want me to coach? You know, what happened last week it was God telling me, hey, get out.”’ 
Bowden said he and his wife, Ann, made the decision two days after losing a sixth straight game to archrival Florida. 
“At my age, I’m past the years for coaching,” Bowden said. “There is a peace, knowing that you have no more worry about what goes along with that job,” Bowden said. “No more recruiting, no more raising money, no more worry about grades, no more worry about conduct.” 
SURFING 
Waves large enough for extreme contest 
Associated Press 
HONOLULU — A one-day surfing contest that takes place only in extreme condi­tions was held for the first time in five years Tuesday, thanks to the massive waves pounding Oahu’s famed North Shore. 
Thousands gathered at Waimea beach to watch the world’s top surfers rocket down waves 30 feet high. Some arrived at 4 a.m. for a good spot, while others camped out all night. 
Popularly known as “The Eddie,” the competition is held only when waves top 20 feet in Waimea Bay. This is only the eighth time the conditions have been right since the event was founded in 1984. 
Many of the 28 competi­tors were professional surfers, including Kelly Slater, Bruce Irons and Sunny Garcia. All were experienced big-wave rid­ers. Entrants were selected by a poll of surfers. 
“We want guys who can’t wait to pull themselves over the ledge and drop into a 25-foot wave,” said Bob McKnight, president of Quiksilver, the event’s spon­sor. He was at a meeting in 1984 that led to the found­ing of the event. 
The contest is held in honor of Eddie Aikau, a leg­endary Hawaiian surfer, Waimea Bay lifeguard and waterman. Aikau died in 1978 at the age of 31 when the traditional Hawaiian voyaging canoe he was on capsized en route from Hawaii to Tahiti. Aikau pad­dled on his surfboard toward Hawaii’s Lanai island, 19 miles away, to get help, but never returned. The rest of the crew was rescued soon after. 
Clyde Aikau, Eddie’s brother and 1987 winner of “The Eddie,” is competing at age 60. He said his family was humbled by the contest. 
“It’s always cool to surf for Eddie,” Clyde Aikau said in a television interview Tuesday after riding a wave. 
“Hawaiians call it chick-en-skin to have so much support for Eddie over all these years,” he said, using the local slang for goose bumps. “It’s a tremendous feeling.” 
The winner, Greg Long of San Clemente, Calif., took home $55,000, while the total purse was $98,000. 
Long, 24, edged ahead of his childhood idol Slater with a score of 323. Slater, 37, placed second with 313. 
page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, December 9, 2009 
IPFW 
continued from page 20 
do,” McGraw said of the defensive pressure. “We want to press, we want to attack, we want to be aggressive and we’re hoping to run a lot off of the transi­tion.” 
Notre Dame came out strong, forcing three early turnovers to jump out to a 6-0 lead. 
“We just like to get out and start off strong,” Bruszewski said. “We get so pumped up before the game and we really want to come out and set the tone.” 
IPFW responded by going on a tear from the three-point line, grabbing an 18­17 lead after Chelsey Jackson’s jumper with 10:18 remaining in the first half. 
The Irish roared back in front just seconds later behind two Erica Williamson foul shots and took a 41-28 lead into halftime. 
Notre Dame put the game out of reach in the second half after a 13-4 run capped off by a steal and a layup from sophomore Fraderica 
MIAA 
continued from page 20 
the challenges of competing in the MIAA. 
“Hope is a very good team, normally finishing first or sec­ond in the conference every year,” Dombkowski said. “It will definitely be a tough meet, Miller with 15:21 remaining in the game. 
“We were getting mad,” Schrader said of the spurt. “We were just frustrated that we could be up by 30 
over this team, but we weren’t.” 
Mastodon guard Anne Boese led all scorers with 24 points on 6-of-8 shooting from behind the arc and 4­of-4 shooting from the free-throw line. 
“Boese was spectacular today,” McGraw said. “We had a tough time finding her and shutting her down tonight.” 
Despite another slow start for the Irish, McGraw was happy with the strides that her team has made since its last time out. 
“I was pleased with the intensity,” she said. “We worked a lot harder. We played faster. It was defi­nitely a huge improvement from Eastern Michigan.” 
The Irish will play host to another in-state opponent 
wh e n  th e y  t ak e  o n  
Va lp ar ai so  S a t u rday  a t  
Purcell Pavilion.  

Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
especially since it will be com­ing off an event where they will be swimming doubles, so they’ll probably be pretty tired. The next day we have a meet against Olivet, which should be a close meet because Olivet and us are more evenly matched.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
Brey 
continued from page 20 
“I’ve been a little disappoint­ed up to this point with our free throw shooting,” Brey said. “I think we are better than being a 68 percent free throw shoot­ing team. Hopefully today starts a trend of us bringing it up into the 70s.” 
Notre Dame will take on the Cougars and then Loyola Marymount before taking on the always-dangerous UCLA on Dec. 19 in the Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center. It will be one of Notre Dame’s first true tests before starting conference play. 
Tonight’s game against IUPI tips off at 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 

NBA 
James’ 43 not enough for Cavs 
Associated Press 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. — Mike Conley drove past Shaquille O’Neal(notes) for a layup with 3 seconds left to give the Memphis Grizzlies a 111-109 overtime vic­tory over the Cleveland Cavaliers on Tuesday night. 
LeBron James, who had 43 points and 13 rebounds, took the last shot, but his 30-footer over Rudy Gay hit the front of the rim, snapping the Cavaliers’ 4-game winning streak. 
Zach Randolph led Memphis with 32 points and 14 rebounds. 
O.J. Mayo scored 28, and Gay finished with 21 points. Marc Gasol had 11 points and eight rebounds. 
Mo Williams had 20 points and eight assists for the Cavaliers, while O’Neal scored 16. Reserve Daniel Gibson added 13 points. 
James’ two free throws with 
14.9 seconds left tied the game at 109. But on the ensuing pos­session, Conley held the ball out front and drove to the right side of the basket, lofting it off the glass as O’Neal moved over. 
The two teams were tied at 100 at the end of regulation. Gay’s layup with 18 seconds left tied the game. Cleveland had the final possession, but James lost the handle on the dribble, and by the time he gathered it up, his desperation jumper was short, sending the game to overtime. 
James, who has a reputation for big fourth quarters, was 5 of 13, including 1 of 5 from outside the arc, in the fourth and over­time. His driving layup with 26 seconds left gave Cleveland a 107-106 lead. 

Wednesday, December 9, 2009 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
COLIN HOFMAN, JAY WADE AND LAUREN ROSEMEYER 
THE MOBILE PARTY 


 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 
Wednesday, December 9, 2009 page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Irish hope to add to four-game win streak against IUPUI 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will look to improve on its best start since the 2006-07 season and win its fourth game in a row when they take on IUPUI tonight in the Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center. 
The Irish (8-1) are counting on senior Luke Harangody to post his 25.7 points and 9.9 
rebounds per game, but are also hoping that junior Tim Abromaitis will continue his impressive play. After starting the season on the bench, Abromaitis recorded double-digit scoring in the first seven games before earning a start and scoring 31 points Sunday against Central Florida. 
“Abromaitis was fabulous, but he’s been really good and he’s been coming on,” Irish coach Mike Brey said after the Central Florida game. “We thought it was time to get him in there and start him and have another really offensive guy on the floor because [opponents] double Harangody early sometimes, and it also made us a little bit bigger. Certainly, [Abromaitis] keeps answering every bell and we are very proud of his devel­opment.” 
The Irish have played well offensively this season, averag­ing 80.7 points per game with three players averaging double-digits — Harangody, Abromaitis and senior Ben Hansbrough. The Irish also hold their oppo­nents to 66.6 points per game, about 10 less points than the Cougars (7-2) average. 
IUPUI has three players who average more than 15 points per game, including senior for­ward Robert Glenn, whose 18.3 points per game lead the team. Junior Leroy Nobles and sopho­more Alex Young also score 15 points per game, and have helped the team to their 41 per­cent 3-point shooting percent­age. 
The Irish have played well in most aspects of the game so far this season, but Brey still has some concerns, particularly rebounding, since no one besides Harangody averages at least five rebounds per game, and free throw shooting. 
see BREY/page 18 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Back on track 
Women easily defeat IPFW after struggles 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
Junior forward Becca Bruszewski led five Irish scor­ers in double figures with 18 points as No. 3/4 Notre Dame easily dispatched of IPFW 96­60 Tuesday at Purcell Pavilion. 
Bruszewski also finished with five assists and four steals, both of which are career highs. 
“Becca got us off to a great start tonight,” Irish coach Muffett McGraw said. “Our postgame really came on and we finally got the ball inside a bit like we’ve been trying to PAT COVENEY/The Observer do.” Senior guard Lindsay Schrader dribbles during Notre Dame’s 97-53 exhibition win over Indianapolis. The No. 3/4 Irish defeated IPFW 

As a team, the Irish (8-0) 96-60 Tuesday to improve their record to 8-0. shot a season-high 57.8 per­cent from the field, including looked inside more which was classmate Ashley Barlow the right time. If we get our of which were steals, leading 62 points in the paint. a really good thing because added 12 points and three defense down, we are going to 37 points. The Irish have 
“Tonight I thought we were we need to do that in order to steals for the Irish. be hard to beat.” forced at least 20 turnovers in really smart about not just get better as a team.” “Anyone can have a 20-point Applying full-court pressure every game this season. settling for the three,” Senior guard Lindsay night on this team,” and a fierce half-court trap “It’s what we’re trying to McGraw said. “We took them Schrader finished with 14 Bruszewski said. “It’s just ball for much of the game, Notre when we had them, but we points and 8 rebounds while movement and who’s open at Dame forced 31 turnovers, 22 see IPFW/page 18 
SMC SWIMMING 
Star to go abroad in spring 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Although expectations have never been high for the Belles, the team’s core of young talent may lead the squad to its best ever finish in the MIAA. The team has never placed better than fifth overall, a pattern Belles coach Alicia Dombkowski would like to change this season. 
“Hopefully this year we can maybe get into fourth, which will probably be between Saint Mary’s and Olivet,” Dombkowski said. 
The Belles are coming off a solid performance at the Calvin Invitational last weekend, finish­ing sixth at the 11-team event. Saint Mary’s logged a score of 98, which proved to be too little to outlast MIAA rival Calvin and first-place Grand Valley. 
Nevertheless, the Belles were led by the outstanding perform­ances of several individuals who are turning some heads around the league. Sophomore Audrey Dalrymple handed in the top individual finish for the Belles, earning a sixth-place finish in the 200-yard breaststroke with a time of 2:26:92 against Division I, II and III competitors. 
“I think they did very well,” Dombkowski said. “Audrey made a national meet cut, which is very good for this time of the season, but she’s also going abroad next semester, so she won’t be with us. But they all swam very well, including Ellie Watson and Katie Griffin. A lot of them had season-best times.” 
With Dalrymple out of the mix, the Belles will rely heavily on the performances of Watson and Griffin, two very promising fresh­men, in order to finish in the top half of the league. 
“They’re two freshmen and a sophomore, so they’re very young, but they definitely lead the team at practice and at the meets,” Dombkowski said. “They’re very dedicated and work hard all the time. Griffin is very close to two school records, and Ellie is very good as well, so they bring a lot of upfront talent to the team.” 
The Belles will have a month off until their next conference match against Hope, a perennial contender for the league title. As the season progresses, Domkowski said looks forward to 
see MIAA/page 18 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles take on ranked team in MIAA game 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Coming off of their first con­ference win, the Belles travel to Calvin today to take on the No. 19 Knights in the second MIAA match of the season. Saint Mary’s defeated Calvin in each of the three contests between the two last season for the first time in school history. 
Saint Mary’s (4-2, 1-0 MIAA) recently defeated conference foe Trine in its season opener Saturday. 
“Winning the conference opener is always a good win,” Belles coach Jenn Henley said of Saint Mary’s third home match. “Even better that it was at home.” 
The Belles battled it out with the Thunder through five lead changes and eight ties to take the lead late in the second half. Up until that point, neither team had been able to keep a lead of more than five points until Saint Mary’s went on a 10-0 scoring run in the last few minutes of the game. 
Losing four seniors to gradu­ation made things harder for the Belles as they started up the new season. Henley has been forced to work with her few returning players, many of whom had little playing time 
see LOSSES/page 17 





