IRISH INSIDER 
THE 

Monday, November 9, 2009 observer Navy 23, Notre Dame 21 
Home invasion 
Navy edges Irish for second straight win in Notre Dame Stadium 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Jimmy Clausen set career-highs in pass attempts (51), completions (37) and passing yards (452), and a new school record of completions, Golden Tate made nine catches for 132 yards and a touchdown and Michael Floyd returned to the field for Notre Dame. 
The numbers appear to be from a Notre Dame rout, but the Irish were unable to come back against Navy Saturday, falling 23 -21. Notre Dame was in contention for a BCS berth heading into Saturday’s match-up, but Navy’s victory effectively ended that hope. The Irish also fell to 6-3 as the Midshipmen moved to 7-3. 
“I think it came down to red-zone production for us,” Irish coach Charlie Weis said Saturday afternoon, and he was right. Notre Dame scored 
on only two of their six chances in the red zone. 

As in the Irish style this season, Notre Dame worked on making a comeback with less than a minute left. After the Irish recovered an onside kick, Clausen found Tate for a 31-yard touchdown pass to make the score 23-21 with 24 seconds left in the game. The following onside kick went out of bounds, however, and Navy left South Bend with their second straight win at rank as the fourth highest in Notre Dame Stadium. a single game in Notre Dame 
Navy quarterback Ricky history and are the most by Dobbs passed for 56 yards an Irish signal caller since and rushed for 102 in the Brady Quinn threw for 467 game, second to fullback against BYU in 2005. Vince Murray’s 158. Going As good as the Clausen ­into the game, Weis knew orchestrated offense was, Murray would be Navy’s athreat. triple­
“Well, I think option the first thing you “[Murray] had too offense have to do is stop ruled the
many yards, some of 

the fullback,” field.
them easy yards, and

Weis said. “That’s “ T h e i r where the whole he had a couple of big offense did defense starts, great today
runs.” 

with stopping the and execut­fullback. He had ed their too many yards, Charlie Weis game plan,” some of them Irish head coach Clausen easy yards, and said. “I give he had a couple a lot of of big runs.” credit to 
Where Notre Dame did their coach, their defense and outdo Navy was in game stats, all their players.” including going the entire Tate also put up strong game without once punting. numbers in the game, most 
On top of Clausen’s impres-coming out of the second half sive career highs in attempts, where he had eight catches completions and passing and 127 of his 132 yards. yards, he had one intercep-Michael Floyd, playing in tion and threw for two touch-his first game since breaking downs. His 452 passing yards his clavicle against Michigan State on Sept. 19, had 10 receptions for 141 yards and a touchdown, tying his career high in receptions. 

Leading the Irish defense Saturday was Brian Smith with 10 tackles, followed by Sergio Brown and Kyle McCarthy with nine and Ian Williams with behind 7-0. The Midshipmen began the second quarter with another touchdown on Murray’s 25-yard run to make it 14-0 at halftime. 
The Irish finally got on the board with 5:03 left in the third quarter after junior halfback Robert Hughes made it over 
eight. Not r e Da me  “You can’t be worrying  t h e f o r  g o a l l i n e a t o u c h - 
could not cross  about two or three  d  o  w  n  .  
t h e 5 0 -y a r d line on its first  games down the line.”  However, Navy r e s p o n d e d  
p o s s e s s i o n w h e n s e n i o r  Charlie Weis  w i t h t h e i r  o n e o f o w n  
wide receiver  Irish head coach  w h e n  D o b b s  
R o b b y  P a r r i s  t h r e w  a  5 2 - 
f u m b l e d  a  y a r d  p a s s  t o  
reception that  j u n i o r  w i d e  
was  recovered  receiver Greg  

by Navy. From there, Dobbs Jones to increase their lead to marched the Midshipmen 21-7. down the field to score and Sophomore cornerback Navy led 7-0. Robert Blanton apparently 
Despite moving the ball thought Jones was an ineligile well, Notre Dame failed to receiver, and as a result score in the first half. Jones was wide open on the Freshman kicker Nick Tausch play. attempted a field goal from The Irish finally started to the Navy 24 and missed wide rack up points late in the left, leaving Notre Dame still fourth quarter. Floyd caught a 12-yard touchdown pass with 
4:46 left to make it 21-14. After a key defensive stop that forced a Navy punt, the Irish started a new drive at their own 13-yard line with time running out. Their suc­cess was cut short, however, when Navy sacked Clausen twice, the second time for a safety with a minute left in the game. 
Weis felt along the same lines as his players in terms of correcting mistakes and looking ahead. Not only is he prepared to fix his team’s mistakes from Saturday, but Weis is also ready to look to next week. 
“Right now that’s the only thing you are chasing,” he said. “You can’t be worrying about two or three games down the line, you’ve got to worry about Pittsburgh at 8 Saturday night.” 
Ranked Notre Dame teams had defeated unranked Navy teams 41 straight times, a streak dating back to 1936. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 


player of the game stat of the game play of the game quote of the game 
Vince Murray 2 of 6 Craig Schaefer’s sack of Jimmy 
“People make mistakes. I mean, this

Navy fullback Clausen in the end zone 
game was a mistake.” 

The number of red zone Murray gashed the Irish defense for opportunites the Notre Dame The safety put Navy ahead 23-14 
Ian Williams 158 yards and a touchdown, averaging offense scored on thanks to with 1:00 left and ended any serious Irish defensive tackle 
11.3 yards per carry. turnovers and failed conversions. hope on a Notre Dame comeback. 



page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 9, 2009 
report card 




B B B+ C­
C+ C­D­
F 
quarterbacks: Jimmy Clausen threw for a career-high 452 yards, but couldn’t lead the Irish offense into the end zone often enough and had a critical fumble. 
running backs: Notre Dame rarely ran the ball against the Midshipmen but Theo Riddick was impressive in his five carries. Robert Hughes never got going on the ground but had 59 receiving yards. 
receivers: Golden Tate and Michael Floyd each had more than 100 yards and did their jobs against the Navy corners, although Floyd looked a little rusty at times. Robby Parris’ fumble was a huge momentum shift. 
offensive line: Against a much smaller Navy defense the line of scrimmage was not controlled, and the two sacks of Clausen came on the most critical plays of the game. 
defensive line: Vince Murray and Ricky Dobbs gashed the Notre Dame defense early, in particular up the middle. The unit improved as the game went on but struggled early. 
linebackers: Brian Smith had a career-high 10 tackles and Harrison Smith had a nice game at linebacker. There seemed to be missed assignments defending the option and Navy had 348 yards rushing. 
defensive backs: This unit struggled help­
ing out in run support, although Sergio 
Brown had nine tackles (but several 
misses). Greg Jones was uncovered on 
his huge touchdown catch. 
special teams: Nick Tausch missed both 
field goal attempts after making his last 
14. John Goodman was solid returning punts and Theo Riddick had some nice moves on kickoff return duty. 
coaching: Losing to Navy twice at home is simply unacceptable, and much of the blame for the red zone failures has to go to play-calling. Turnovers, miscommuni­cation and penalties are all signs of a poorly coached team. 
overall: A disastrous perform­
ance for a team that should have soundly beaten Navy. 
1.96 
adding up the numbers 
Years since an unranked Navy team had defeat­ed a ranked Notre Dame team, a streak of 41 
73 
consecutive games. 
Number of times the Irish failed to score a point4 while in the red zone against the Midshipmen. 

Completions for Jimmy Clausen out of 51 attempts, the most in Notre Dame 
37 
history. 

2 
Field goals missed by Nick Tausch after the fresh­man kicker had converted a school record 14 straight. 
Passes without an interception for Clausen until Navy linebacker Ram Vela’s pick in the 
160
fourth quarter. 

5 
Consecutive games with a touchdown recep­tion for receiver Golden Tate. 
Yards for sophomore receiver Michael Floyd in his first game back since breaking his clav­
141 
icle against Michigan State. 

0 
Number of punts for Notre Dame in the game despite scoring just 21 points. 





Irish caught looking ahead 
The players won’t say it. The coaches won’t say it. Nobody with­in with the Notre Dame football program is admitting it, but to anyone who follows sports, it’s fairly obvious what happened to Notre Dame on Saturday. 
The Irish fell into the proto­typical trap game. 
Next week­end’s show­down in Pittsburgh was Sam Werner supposed to be the make-or-Associate break game. It 

Sports Editor 
was all set up perfectly to be two top 20 teams nationally broad­cast in primetime. 
Except the Irish forgot about that pesky little Navy team that always plays Notre Dame tough. Who could really blame them? Navy had only beaten Notre Dame once in the past 45 years. 
Except that one time was two years ago, and many of the players on Notre Dame’s roster played in that game. This team, more than any Irish squad of the past half-century, should not have underes­timated what Navy was capable of. 
The quotes from after the game were eerily reminiscent of the interviews after the loss to Syracuse last season, when the usually fiery Golden Tate said he felt the attitude was “Eh.” 
“I think it did feel a little flat,” Tate said after Saturday’s loss. “I'm not sure why. I definitely did feel it, but I'm not sure why we felt that way, why I felt that way.” 
The worst part of Saturday’s loss, though, isn’t that it was the second loss to Navy in the past three years, or the fact that this year’s junior and senior classes will never see a win against Navy in Notre Dame Stadium during their time as a student. 
No, the worst part was that, even though the loss was unexpected, it was hardly shocking. 
The Irish had been talking a tightrope all season, and so far had come out on the winning end more often than not. 
Saturday, though, all the woes that had haunted the Irish all sea­son showed up once again. 
First, the red zone production was abysmal. Including Saturday’s game, the Irish have scored touch­downs on only 51 percent of their trips inside the opponent’s 20-yard line. On Saturday alone, Notre Dame found points on only two of the six red zone chances. 
Next, the run defense, and defense in general, was gashed repeatedly. The Midshipmen rushed for a staggering 348 yards against Notre Dame. A run defense that looked to have improved over the past few weeks regressed back to early-season form. 
It would be one thing if the Irish were burned by Navy quarterback Ricky Dobbs or one of the Midshipmen’s speedy tailbacks, but the play that seemed to give the Irish fits was a simple dive play to the fullback. Vince Murray led the Midshipmen in rushing, with 158 yards on only 14 carries, almost all of them right up the middle. 
Poor tackling, another bugaboo for the Irish all season, showed up in spades Saturday. How many times did a Navy player appear to be stopped, only to rattle off a few more yards after initial contact. 
Against Navy’s triple option, it appeared that Notre Dame’s strug­gling pass defense would get a break, and the Midshipmen did pass only three times all day. On one of those passes, though, the Irish got burned for a 52-yard touchdown pass where it appeared the Irish simply neglected to cover the Navy receiver. 
On the other side of the ball, the offensive line play was suspect as well. It’s one thing to give up pres­sure when USC is rushing only four defensive linemen, but to give up consecutive sacks — and one safety — to a Navy line that weighs in at an average of just 
262.3 pounds is simply unaccept­able for a team with legitimate BCS aspirations. 
Despite all of this, Notre Dame still had a chance to win. I’ll admit that when the Irish regained pos­session in the waning minutes down only seven, I thought that Jimmy Clausen would lead yet another fourth quarter comeback. 
It wasn’t to be, though, and the loss obviously raises more ques­tions about Charlie Weis’ job secu­rity. In all likelihood, those ques­tions won’t be answered until the end of the season. 
One thing is certain, though. The Irish won’t be getting distracted by any BCS talk for the rest of this season. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 


Monday, November 9, 2009 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Offense fails to convert in red zone 

VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer Junior quarterback Jimmy Clausen waits for the snap near the Navy end zone during Saturday’s 23-21 loss to the MIdshipmen. Notre Dame scored on just two of their six trips into the red zone, which included an interception and a fumble. 
position to score was not the By ALEX BARKER issue; it was scoring that Sports Writer was the issue,” he said. 
With the offense sputtering 
With the return of Michael and the defense unable to Floyd to the lineup after sit-make stops for much of the ting out the last five games game, it seemed as though because a broken collar-things couldn’t possibly get bone, Notre Dame’s offense worse the Irish. They did. looked, at times, unstop-After hitting a Notre Dame 
pable. But once again, the Irish offense just couldn’t get it done when it mattered most. 
Jimmy Clausen and company were a horrific 2­for-6 inside the red zone against Navy, record 14 consecutive field goals, 
“Getting the ball down 

kicker Nick into position to score Tausch missed his 
was not the issue; it 

only two 
was scoring that was 

attempts 
the issue.” against the Midshipmen, tries from 30 
Charlie Weis 

and 41 
Irish head coach 

yards. This would come back to 
Jimmy Clausen’s pass fell incomplete in the end zone. 
“We had missed a couple field goals in the game, and sometimes that taints you,” Weis said of the decision. “I thought that the possessions in the game, especially they were up two scores, but the two scores were touch­downs, I think the posses­sions in the game and the time of possession was going to warrant that we were going to need some points.” 
What really cost the Irish down the stretch were uncharacteristic turnovers that cost them valuable scoring opportunities. 
Down by two touchdowns late in the third quarter, the Irish were threatening to close the gap as they made their way down to Navy’s nine-yard line. But instead of sliding down or getting out of bounds to avoid con­tact as he has done all sea­son, Clausen got impatient, taking on a Navy defender inside the two-yard line and fumbling the ball after tak­ing a huge hit. 
“I just got hit. A guy made a good play, and I fumbled the ball,” Clausen said of the play. 
On the next possession, the Irish once again drove deep into Navy territory before turning the ball over. Clausen’s pass, intended for Floyd, who wasn’t expecting it, ricocheted off of Floyd’s back into the arms of Midshipmen linebacker Ram Vela. 
“Yeah, we were trying to get a double cadence and we just miscommunicated,” Clausen said. “He was block­ing the screen, and I was just trying to throw a slant, and it went off his back and a guy made a good play on it.” 
As good as Notre Dame’s offense is outside of the red zone, it won’t matter if its woes in the red zone contin­ue. Next week doesn’t figure to be any easier as the Irish travel to take on a Pittsburgh defense that is allowing just 17 points per game. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

Notes: Rudolph’s injury status unknown 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
uSophomore 
tight end Kyle Rudolph left Saturday’s game in the second half with what trainers initially thought was a broken collarbone. Irish coach Charlie Weis said Sunday that initial x-rays came back nega­tive and the medical staff was still evaluating him. 

“They x-rayed him and that came back negative,” Weis said. “He went out and walked out of the locker room with a sling, but I don’t know what the status of that is yet.” 

uWeis 
also said Sunday that sophomore quarterback Dayne Crist’s surgery on his ACL went very well Friday. 



“It went very, very well, bet­ter than we would have expect­ed. Usually when you get an ACL there’s a lot of residual damage along with that, and it was as clean as could be. There was no cartilage, no other ligaments, no bone,” Weis said. “It only took about an hour to fix, and the progno­sis is very good, probably a time frame faster than we nor­mally would have expected based off of how little damage there was.” 
uClausen’s 37 completions against the Midshipmen easily beat the previous record of 33, set by Joe Theismann against USC in 1970 and Brady Quinn against Michigan State in 2005. The junior’s 452 passing yards were the most since Quinn threw for 467 against BYU in 2005. 
uThe 
loss dropped Weis’s record against teams with win­ning records to 8-19. Weis is also just 1-13 against teams ranked the in the top 25. 

uIrish 
defensive players had different reactions to giving up 348 yards on the ground to Navy. “They out-schemed us, they just played harder,” said junior defensive tackle Ian Williams. “I played my heart out, but I guess they just had a better scheme than we did.” 


Senior safety Kyle McCarthy indicated the failure was more in execution than the scheme. 
“We have drilled all week that we have to take care of the fullback. That was a big part of our game plan and I guess we just didn’t execute it,” McCarthy said. “We made any adjustments that we felt we needed, and Navy just beat us; there is really no excuse.” 
Weis sided with McCarthy when asked about the question Sunday. 
“I did hear quite contrasting answers to the same question. I think that question was pre­sented to Ian, it was also pre­sented to Kyle McCarthy, and from what I understand, Kyle McCarthy’s answer was quite different, where he said it had nothing to do with the scheme,” Weis said. “So there’s a reason why one guy is a cap­tain and one guy is not.” 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 


scoring summary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
Navy  7  7  7  2  23  
Notre Dame  0  0  7  14  21  
First quarter  

Navy 7, Notre Dame 0 
Ricky Dobbs 1-yd run (Joe Buckley kick) with 
7:15 remaining. Drive: 12 plays, 51 yards, 6:08 elapsed. 
Second quarter 
Navy 14, Notre Dame 0 
Vince Murray 25-yd run (Buckley kick) with 
14:56 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 76 yards, 2:54 elapsed. 

Third quarter 
Navy 14, Notre Dame 7 
Robert Hughes 1-yd run (Nick Tausch kick) with 
5:03 remaining. Drive: 10 plays, 80 yards, 3:57 elapsed. 
Navy 21, Notre Dame 7 
Greg Jones 52-yd pass from Dobbs (Buckley kick) with 3:29 remaining. Drive: 3 plays, 72 yards,1:34 elapsed. 

Fourth quarter 
Navy 21, Notre Dame 14 
Michael Floyd 12-yd pass from Jimmy Clausen (Tausch kick) with 4:46 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 90 yards, 1:48 elapsed. 
Navy 23, Notre Dame 14 
Clausen tackled by Craig Schaefer in end zone for a safety 
Navy 23, Notre Dame 21 
Golden Tate 31-yd pass from Clausen (Tausch kick) with 0:24 remaining. Drive: 3 plays, 66 yards, 0:36 elapsed. 



statistics 
total yards 

rushing yards 

passing yards 

return yards 

time of possession 

passing  
Clausen  37-51-452 Dobbs  2-3-56  
rushing  
Riddick Hughes Floyd Tate  5-35 Murray 7-22 Dobbs 1-8 Teich 2-3 Greene  14-158 31-102 5-52 5-36  
receiving  
Floyd Tate Hughes Parris Ragone  10-141 Jones 9-132 Greene 6-59 5-28 2-33  1-52 1-4  


including two turnovers and two missed field goals. 
In his postgame press con­ference, Irish coach Charlie Weis acknowledged that his team’s poor performance down near the goal line was the difference between win­ning and losing. 
“Getting the ball down into haunt the Irish. After failing to convert on three plays from inside the five-yard line, Weis was faced with a tough choice on fourth-and­goal down 14-0 early in the second quarter. He elected to go for it and the Irish turned the ball over on downs after quarterback 

page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 9, 2009 

VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer 






Too little too late 
Notre Dame had no trouble moving the ball against the Midshipmen, never even punting. But as soon as the Irish were near the Navy end zone, everything that could go wrong did go wrong. A failed fourth-down attempt, a fumble at the two-yard line, two missed field goals and an interception off the back of Michael Floyd all dismantled Notre Dame drives that looked as if they would result in scores. The Midshipmen rushed for 348 yards, gashing the Irish up the middle and often pitching to uncovered backs. Despite numerous miscues, Notre Dame still had a chance to force overtime in the closing minutes. This time, however, there was no dramatic comeback, as Clausen was sacked on third and fourth downs to preserve the Navy win. A late onside kick recovery and touchdown pass from Jimmy Clausen to Golden Tate gave a glimmer of hope, but with the loss Notre Dame’s BCS chances went down the drain. 
For more photos, check out the photo gallery at ndsmcobserver.com 




COLEMAN COLLINS/The Observer COLEMAN COLLINS/The Observer 

Clockwise from top: Sophomore defensive tackle Ethan Johnson leaps in effort to block a Navy field goal, freshman running back Theo Riddick races downfield, junior defensive tackle Ian Williams is upended trying to block a punt, sophomore wide receiver Michael Floyd runs after a reception, senior receiver Robby Parris fumbles. 



