
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 43: ISSUE 122 WEDNESDAY. APRIL 15,2009 

Students ask to cut ties &om BEl 
Alliance says company 'undermined' dignity of employees; University denies request 
Coalition member Michael
By MADELINE BUCKLEY News Editor  Angulo said PSA has been in dialogue with several employ­ 
ees at HEI hotels who claim the  
A coalition of students from  management has used intimida­ 
the  Progressive  Student  tion tactics to keep them from  
Alliance (PSA) met with Chief  unionizing.  
Investment  Officer  Scott  A Feb. 19 Observer article  
Malpass and a representative  reported the University is one of  
from HEI Hotels and Resorts  several colleges nationwide  
Tuesday to ask the University to  investing in HEI  - a company  
cut ties with the company.  that owns and operates hotels  
Malpass told The Observer  -and the company receives  
the University will not divest in  almost $1.2 billion from univer­ 
HE!.  sity endowments, including the  
"I have checked with the com­ endowments of Notre Dame,  
pany's public records and their  Harvard, Princeton, Yale and  
grievances and their record is  the University of Chicago.  ZHIBIN DAiffhe Observer  

stellar," Malpass said. "Absolutely stellar." 

Group works to pron1ote collllllunity 
StaND Against Hate Week raises awareness 
ByJOHN TIERNEY A'sisranr News Editor 
StaND Against Hate Week began Tuesday with the goal of raising awareness of words and deeds that are powerful, according to Sr. Sue Dunn, the administrative co-chair of Core Council. 
"I think what we hope to do is to try to raise awareness of people's language and actions, which have at times an adverse effect on other members of the community," Dunn said. 
Patrick Tighe, a student assistant at the Gender Relations Center, which is co-sponsoring StaND Against Hate Week, said he hopes it will help bring the University com­munity together. 
"Tho goal is to promote an inclu­sive spirit at Notre Dame, for all members of tho eommunity," Tighe said. 
ReprPsentatives from Core Council. which is the week's primary sponsor, were stationod in LaFortune StudPnt Center and both dining halls Tuesday soliciting signatures for an alJicd plNlgP banner opposing hat1~-speech. according to Dunn. 
The banners can also be signed on Wednosday from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 
p.m. 
in the dining halls and from 1 

p.m. 
to 3 p.m. in Lafortune. The banners signed Tuesday and today will later be displayed in LaFortune and the dining halls. 


When students sign the banner, they are "saying you're going to live 
see STAND/page 6 

Michael Angulo and other students show support outside Scott see HEI!page 6 Malpass' office Tuesday in the lobby of Grace Hall. 
D'arcy speaks out against protests 
Bishop says Catholics should not support 'unseemly' demonstrations 
noted "a positive meeting" issued March 29 andByJENNMETZ 
with Jenkins, indicating titled "Concerning
News Writer 
the bishop expects "fur­President Barack Obama 
ther dialogue to continue" speaking at Notre Dame 
Fort Wayne-South Bend on this graduation, receiving 
Bishop John D'Arcy issue. honorary law degree," 
released a statement April 1-1 i s announced the bishop 
10 urging Catholics to not short would not be attending 
participate "unseemly" or state­the 2009 Commencement 
"unhelpful" demonstra­ment exercises. 
tions against President c o n -A number of national 
Barack Obama and eluded bishops, including D'Arcy, 
University President Fr. with a have spoken out against 
John Jenkins. request the University's decision 
He wrote: "The Notre to "work to invite the president to 
Dame community is well­towards speak at Commencement 
equipped to supervise and a peaceful graduation and to confer an honorary 
support discussions and experience for the class of Doctor of Laws degree 
prayer within their own 2009 at our beloved Notre upon him. 
campus." Dame." 
D'Arcy's statement D'Arcy's last statement, see D'ARCY/page 6 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Producer, 
Tmywirmer 
visits SMC 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Hal Prince, winner of 21 Tony Awards and producer and director of over 50 musi­cals, including West Side Story, Phantom of the Opera and Fiddler on the Roof, spoke at Saint Mary's College Tuesday about his "lucky" career and how the theater industry has changed. 
From the time he was 8 years old and saw his first play, Prince "was addicted to the whole habit of going to theater" and right out of col­lege he got his first job in the theater business at the age of 20. 
"I was too scared to look for a job, so I wrote a letter," he said. The letter, which he wrote to George Abbott, read, "I do not know what I could do to earn $25 a week ... so I would like to work for you for nothing. And if you can tell by my performance that you aren't paying me, please fire me." 
That letter sparked Abbott's interest, and Prince was hired to work as an assistant stage manager for no pay for the first six months. 
"I was energetic, incredibly ambitious and l think probably a painful presence to people in the office," he said of his younger self. 
Prince actually had to write the words "Watch it!" on the top of his note pad every day 
see PRINCE/page 8 

Foundation seeks runners inMarathon 
malnourished infants to
ByJENN METZ 
children age five in 
Lesotho, Southern Africa 
Touching Tiny Lives and also conducts out­Foundation (TTLF), a non­reach to villages with lit­profit with strong Notre tle to no access to health Dame roots committed to eare. the light against IIIV/AIDS The Board of Directors in Africa. hopes University currently has five Notre students will join their Dame graduates; two efforts by joining their Notre Dame graduates are 2009 Bank of America currently stationed at the Chicago Marathon team. safehouse as part of a 
Registration for tho post-graduate fellowship Marathon is still open, program. The Gove·rning and instructions for join­Board of the Foundation ing the TTLF team are also has University con-available on the nections, including Foundation's Web site, University President touchingtinylives.org Emeritus Fr. Theodore 
TTFL supports a safe­Hesburgh, who serves as house for HIV/AIDS at risk or affected and acutely see TTLFIpage 8 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, April15, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Free boat ride for one 
Ladies of Notre Dame, imagine the classiest, most elegant celebration you could possibly think of. It's com­plete with fancy dresses, well­dressed (and strikingly attractive) men and downright jovial atmos­phere. 
Now take that 
Sam Werner 
image, put it on a boat (even classier) and you Associate have the 2009 St. Sports Editor Edward's Hall Yacht Dance. 
As The Lonely Island and T-Pain have proven, anything is 124 per­cent better when on a boat. That means that if you thought you had a fun normal awesome SYR, you'll have more than twice as much fun at the St. Ed's Yacht Dance (sorry, though, flippy floppies are not included, and climbing buoys is dis­couraged). 
Now, ladies, I'm sure you're say­ing to yourself, "That sounds awe­some! Too bad all the hot guys are probably taken by now." You are, however, sorely mistaken. One gen­tleman has been waiting for you. Yes, you. 
His name is Paul Macias, and he's everything you eould ask for in a date and then some. I would know -I've lived down the hall from him all year. In addition to being a model R.A., Paul is President Emeritus of St. Ed's. I'm sure you ladies know it pays to have friends in high places. 
Positions and titles are so imper­sonal, though, and Paul is much more than that. A native of Petal, Miss., Paul is a senior history major who, despite his Faeebook relation­ship status, is still looking for the right girl. 
That right girl, though, could be you. 
Look in the mirror right now. See the color of your hair? That's Paul's favorite hair color on a girl! And your eyes are just what he's looking for. 
Paul is an avid mountaineer, spe­cializing in Aggro Crag climbing, and a knowledgeable historian, hav­ing watched nearly every episode of Legends of the Hidden Temple mul­tiple times. He has accomplished more this year, than most people do in a lifetime, leading two teams to NCAA BCS Championships (in the NCAA 09 video game) and captain­ing an Olympie squad (in the St. Ed's Hall Olympics). 
After playing soccer in high school, Paul has stayed in peak physical condition at Notre Dame, leading the St. Ed's soccer and C­team basketball squads to glory. Though his bookstore basketball team bowed out in the first round, Paul scored multiple baskets in a tight loss. 
Paul has been described by some women as "rugged" and "a big teddy bear." Let's face it, ladies, who wouldn't want to go on a date with a big, rugged, teddy bear? 
He's the complete package-an athlete, a scholar, and a gentleman. Contact Paul at pmacias@nd.edu if you're interested (and, really, why wouldn't you be?). 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
In rhe April 8 edirion in rhe srory enrided "SMC class quora per hall ignires conrroversy," ir was srared 95 juniors could live in LeMans. The quora for LeMans is acrually 180 juniors. The Observer regrets rhis error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU READING RIGHT NOW? 






Chris Massad  Jackie Emmanuel  Mike Rodio  Christina McClain  Sean Sail  
junior  freshman  freshman  junior  freshman  
Keenan  Welsh Family  Keenan  Lyons  Keenan  
"MyMCAT  '"WWZ: The  '"The Hungry  '"Brick Lane' by  "Reading? Who  
study guide."  Oral History of ,,Zombie Wars.  Caterpillar.' It gets me every  Monica Ali."  does that?"  
time."  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 

The Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Co. will be per­forming "Othello" today at 8 
p.m. in Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business. Tickets can be pur­chased for $5 at the LaFortune Box Office or at the door. 
A lecture entitled "Culture of Life and the Catholic University" will be held today at 8 p.m. in the Sorin Room in the LaFortune Student Center. It will be presented by John O'Callaghan, pastoral teach­ing on life issues. 
A documentary made by Notre Dame alums called "The Road to Fondwa" will be on Thursday at 6:30 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune Student Center. It is free and open to the public. 
Dr. Allan C. Carlson, presi­dent of Howard Center for Family will be giving a lec­ture Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in Room 140 of DeBartolo Hall on his book "Third Ways." He will discuss Family Centered Economics and why it disappeared. 
There will be a panel dis­cussion entitled "What direc­tion is Catholic education heading?" on Sunday from 2-3:30 p.m. in the Coleman Morse Center student lounge. Students and faculty are invited to attend and par­ticipate in the conversation. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 
ee 
HIGH 63 HIGH 57 LOW 40 LOW 35 
Atlanta 65 I 43 Boston 52 I 38 Chicago 54 I 36 Denver 64 I 40 Houston 78 I 57 Los Angeles 66 I 49 Minneapolis 64 I 38 New York 55 I 40 Philadelphia 55 I 40 Phoenix 74 I 62 Seattle 53 I 37 St. Louis 63 I 40 Tampa 77 I 61 Washington 50 I 43 

ZHIBIN DAifThe Observer 

Students stand in line to order food at Reekers on Tuesday. 
OFFBEAT 

Cash stash in bra stops bullet from piercing heart 
SAO PAULO -Police say a wad of cash stuffed in a woman's bra saved her life during a shootout in north­eastern Brazil. Salvador city police spokesman Vicente de Paula said 58­year-old lvonete Pereira de Oliveira was a passenger on the bus that two gun­men held up on Saturday. 
He said an armed off­duty policeman on the bus opened fire. In the ensuing gunbattle a bullet struck the left side of Oliveira's chest. 
De Paula said Tuesday that the 150 reals (about $70) worth of bills that Oliveira hid inside her bra slowed the bullet enough to prevent it from entering her heart and killing her instantly. 
Oliveira underwent sur­gery to remove the bullet from her left breast and was released from the hos­pital on Monday. 
Suspicious package con­tains leg, not bomb 
HILLSBORO, Ore. -A scary situation turned into a strange one when a bomb squad determined that a suspicious package left outside the Washington County Sheriff's Office contained a prosthetic leg. Sheriff's Sgt. Vance Stimler said deputies called the Portland bomb squad out to Hillsboro Sunday after­noon after noticing a can­vas bag with a cylinder­shaped object sticking out. 
With the help of a robot, the bomb squad quickly discovered the object was not an explosive. 
Stimler said deputies still don't know whose leg was inside the bag, or why it was placed in front of the sheriff's office. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0::: 1.&.1 :::1: 
!;( 
1.&.1 
3: 
..... 
<
(,) 
0 
HIGH HIGH HIGH 62 HIGH 
....... LOW LOW LOW 45 LOW 





after the election. 
By LIZ O'DONNELL 
"In other years, interest in 
News Writer 
the paper would normally taper off towards the end of 
Student body president Grant fall," Schmidt said. "This year, Schmidt and chief of staff Ryan they adjusted from the high Brellenthin said they have elections season numbers to received a few complaints in lower spring non-election num­recent weeks about a lack of bers in a sharp manner, which papers with The Collegiate resulted in an apparent drop in Readership Program. papers." 
The program, which was According to USA Today's implemented at Notre Dame in Web site for the program, the fall of 2006, supplies The newspapers should arrive on New York Times, The Chicago campus early each morning, Tribune and USA Today to stu­allowing students to obtain 
dents for free in  copies of their  
several locations  desired news­ 
across campus.  "It is a benefit and  papers  
"We spoke to  convenience for  throughout  
our local contact Megan Cox, who is the regional  students and will hopefully be  the day. The reason for students  
marketing man­ager at USA  sustained.,  noticing a lack of papers in  
Today in Chicago," Brellenthin said,  Grant Schmidt student body president  the dining halls after a certain hour,  
"She  then  has to do with  
explained to  us  the dining hall  

the situation of what had hap­papers being used earlier in pened." the day, Schmidt said. 
Student government signed a USA Today uses the excess contract, which allots a set newspapers as a way of keep­budget for the number of ing track of student usage of papers it will consume each the papers, providing data to year. Based off the general con­Notre Dame about students' sumption, the paper will tweak consumption patterns. the number of copies delivered The Collegiate Readership in order to maximize usage Program was developed in while still falling within the 1997 at Penn State by budget. University president Graham 
"Basically, we take a hands­Spanier. Their program off approach to managing enjoyed so much success that it papers per location," Schmidt became a prototype for pro­said. grams around the country. 
This year, there was an Since then, the program has extremely high level of paper been implemented at over 500 consumption in the fall due to universities around the coun­the election. For this reason, try. USA Today allocated a large According to the USA Today number of papers before and Web site, while the program is 
Lacor Internally Displaced Persons camp in Northern Uganda. 
Profits made throughout the week will go towards providing 
Summer Sessions are open to both 
male and female students. 
costumes and theatrical equip­
""' 

$ 

ND and Baird now
Enligh~5JJ. Summer 
offer scholarships 
at Saint Mary's College 
Newspaper program faces issues 
Africa week now 
Student government discusses cost concerns, lack of newspapers 
underway at ND 
mainly a campus initiative, 
ment for the children, who put on plays and performances as a way of sharing their stories with others. 
The events began yesterday with African food in LaFortune's Dooley Room and a screening of the Academy Award-winning movie "Tsotsi" in the Mongomery Auditorium. 
Today, two lectures will take place. The first, titled By the Fireside, will discuss several topics, including the experi­ences of a Kenyan lawyer and reconciliation in Burundi. The lecture begins at 6:30 p.m. in the Oak Room of South Dining Hall. 
At 7:30 p.m. in the Coleman­Morse student lounge, a pres­entation called The Cost of the Crisis: The Outlook for International Development will examine how the economic cri­sis affects the developing world. 
On Thursday, a panel discus­sion on United States-Africa relations will take place at 7 
p.m. in the Notre Dame room in LaFortune. 
Africa Night begins on Friday at 8 p.m. on the Fieldhouse Mall, and features performanc­es and traditional food. 
The week concludes with an African celebration mass at 10 
p.m. on Sunday in the Pangborn Hall chapel. 
Additionally, Africa week t­shirts will be sold at every event for $10 each. 
Githinji said she hopes that Africa week will help students understand Africa is more than what they see on the news. 
"The ASA works to show that Africa is more than poverty, more than disease, more than what you see on the Discovery Channel," she said. "You just need to look at the big picture. That's what this week does." 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 
lence, ethical leadership and a sense of giving back to the greater community -all foundational val­ues of Notre Dame and Mendoza College. Jay already has accom­plished many things in his life, and I'm confident that he will continue to do so with grace and compas­sion." 
In addition to the MBA fellowship, the partnership includes two undergraduate, need-based schol­arships worth $2,000 each, with preference given to under-repre­sented populations and first-gener­ation college participants. This year's undergraduate scholarships were awarded to Andria Seneviratne, a junior accountancy major from Rockville, Md.; and Jason McClain, a junior finance major from St. Louis, Mo. 
The final component of the part­nership is a $1,000 funding com­mitment to a University organiza­tion, with preference given to organizations that work with or tar­get under-represented populations. For the first year, the University's Undergraduate Women in Business Association has been selected to receive the funding. 

Want to get ahead and still have time for summer fun? Need to lighten your course load in the fall? 
Enroll in the Saint Mary's College Summer Sessions and take advantage of 
• 
small class sizes that invite conversation and collaboration 

• 
personal attention from professors, not TAs 

• 
avariety ofclasses, from physiology to photography, including study-abroad experiences 


Many ofthese classes allow you to earn three credits in just three weeks. 
For more information and to enroll, visit saintmarys.edu/summertoday! 
-t%1­

t~et your SLimmer started rig11t Jt one 
or the !lest Ubeal Arts ColhJge> in the naticn, 
SAINT 
MARY'S 

~·US. News & World Report 
COLLEGE 
NOlRf UAMf, IN 

America'.; Best College~ 2009 
saintmarys.\'du 

'------------------------------------------------------------­
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame and Baird, an employee-owned international wealth management, capital mar­kets, private equity and asset man­agement firm, have announced a new partnership to provide gradu­ate and undergraduate students with fellowship and scholarship opportunities for the next five years. 
The relationship, which is part of the Notre Dame Corporate Partners for Ethieal Global Leadership pro­gram, annually includes an MBA fellowship, two undergraduate need-based scholarships and fund­ing for a University organization. 
Jay You, a first-year MBA student concentrating in finance, ha.o:; been chosen as the University's first Baird Fellow. Under the fellowship, You will receive $20,000 for his sec­ond year of study and the opportu­nity to work with Baird mentors. 
"Jay is an outstanding choice for the Baird Fellowship," said Brian Lohr, director of MBA admissions at Notre Dame's Mendoza College of Business. "He's a first-class individ­ual committed to academic excel-there are a few components of the program that are the same at every participating school. 
These include the standard distribution of three different newspapers to the school, access to online academic resources for use in and out of the classroom, marketing and recycling. 
At Notre Dame, the newspa­pers are distributed at six loca­tions, which include North and South dining halls, the LaFortune Student Center, the Mendoza College of Business, the Joyce Center and the Hesburgh Library. 
Schmidt said the dining halls are traditionally the two areas where papers are consumed the fastest, so they are looking into distributing an appropriate amount of papers to those loca­tions. 
There are over 300 local and national newspapers that have partnered with USA Today to bring the program to campuses 
For the upcoming school year, Brellenthin said they are looking to have more frequent contact with Cox so they will be notified when drastic changes occur. 
Brellenthin also said the Schmidt-Weber administration is looking to fill the position of Director of the Collegiate Readership Program, which will be a hands-on manager of the program from the University's end. 
"This [program! is a unique service," Schmidt said. "It is a benefit and convenience for students and will hopefully be sustained." 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at 
eodonnel@nd.edu 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
The African Student Association's (ASA) annual Africa week kicked off yester­day and will continue until Sunday. 
The ASA, the Africa Faith and Justice Network and the Kellogg Institute's Ford Program are sponsoring this year's event. 
Brigitte Githinji, ASA's presi­dent, said the goal of the week­long series of events is to broaden and enhance the Notre Dame community's per­ception of Africa. 
"The event's goal is to teach people about Africa because I think the information they have is kind of skewed," Githinji said. "People make assumptions, and what our club does is inform them that there is progress there; it's not just poverty and disease. We try to give them a more well­rounded view." 
Africa Week is the ASA's sig­nature event, and the group spends all year organizing it. 
"We work all year trying to think of ideas for the week. We start planning the year before and we're just constantly plan­ning," Githinji said. "It's a group effort and the whole club works together in plan­ning it. We form different com­mittees which then come together to work on each day's event." 
Proceeds from the week's events will go towards the Battery Operated System for Community Outreach Uganda Relief Project -specifically, to former child soldiers in the 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, Wednesday 15, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
.-------------~­
page 4 The Observer + NEWS COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Group addresses readership issues 
By LIZ O'DONNELL 
News Writer 
The Collegiate Readership Program and student govern­ment's role in contacting the class of 2013 were two items of discussion at Tuesday's Council of Representatives (COR) meet­ing. 
Chief of staff Ryan Brellenthin said the costs for The Chicago Tribune, one of the three news­papers involved in the program, will rise nearly 250 percent an issue next year. 
Brellenthin asked the council for their input on whether or not they believed the paper should be kept as a part of the program, or if they should look into other options. 
Joey Brown, president of the class of 2009, said the commit­tee should possibly look into asking for more money to be put into the budget for the pro­gram. 
Student body president Grant Schmidt said this option may not be feasible due to the tight budget student government is currently on. 
Instead, COR members agreed there is a need for a used paper rack to be added to each of the dining halls. 

With the addition of these racks, it is student govern­ment's hope members of the undergraduate population will recycle papers for later use by other students. 
Overall, the members of the council felt that student govern­ment should look into options other than cutting the Chicago Tribune out of the program. 
"Current usage demonstrates that people use the paper," stu­dent body vice president Cynthia Weber said in reference to the per day usage, which is estimated at 272 copies. 
The Chicago Tribune is the least consumed out of the three newspapers in the Collegiate Readership Program at Notre Dame, with students consuming an average of 394 copies of the New York Times per day as well as 401 copies of USA Today. 
COR members also looked at ways in which student govern­ment could reach out to mem­bers of the class of 2013 before they came to campus during the meeting. 
"It would be beneficial for us to contact the new freshmen," Schmidt said. "This is like a sort of branding thing for student government." 

~ 

President of Judicial Council Ian Secviar said it was impor­tant for members of student government to reach out so new students would have a chance to understand what the organization was all about. 
"It is important that we are changing their opinions early and often," Secviar said. "We are leaders and need a united front." 
One of the ways the council discussed contacting the incom­ing class was to place a student government card inside one of the various organization pack­ets students receive before coming to campus. 
Class of 2010 president Chris Tillett said the group should explore the possibility of send­ing out an e-mail. 
Gus Gari, the director of external affairs said student government should look into the idea of creating a logo specifically for student govern­ment. 
"The logo would give us a way of branding ourselves like the Student Union Board has," said Gari. "It would bring everything that we do together." 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at edonnel@nd.edu 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
Invites Nominations for the 
Sheedy Award 
Each year, the Sheedy Award, narned for a former dear 
of the College of Arts and Letters, honors one member 
of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nomination letters for this year's award to: 
Stuart Greene Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Monday, Apri113, 2009 

Wednesday, April 15, 2009 
Ex-Ill. governor pleads not guilty 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Ousted Gov. Rod Blagojevich pleaded not guilty to racketeering and fraud charges Tuesday, defiantly embarking on a long journey to clear his name but facing seri­ous money problems and with­out a team of lawyers in place. 
"I'm glad this process has finally begun," the impeached former governor told the media throng that spilled into the street in front of the court­house after he and his brother, Robert, were arraigned on cor­ruption charges. 
"It's the end of the beginning in one respect but it's the beginning of another aspect" of the case, Blagojevich said. "That is the beginning of me being able to prove and clear my name and be vindicated of what are inaccurate allega­tions." 
Blagojevich, 52, is charged with scheming to sell President Barack Obama's former U.S. Senate seat, attempting to extort campaign money from companies seeking state busi­ness and plotting to use the financial muscle of the gover­nor's office to pressure the Chicago Tribune to fire editori­al writers calling for his impeachment. The accusations led to his ouster as governor, but he repeated Tuesday what he has been saying for months -that he is not guilty. 
The former governor appeared to be in his element as the focus of a major political story yet again. He chatted amiably with reporters, and when one television camera­man stood atop a concrete pil­lar outside the courthouse to get a shot from above, he oblig­ingly looked up and smiled. 
Blagojevich was arrested Dec. 9 after authorities said he was heard on FBI wiretaps dis­cussing swapping the Obama seat for a Cabinet post, a new job or campaign money. A fed­eral grand jury returned a 19­count indictment April 2 that alleges corruption beginning before Blagojevich even took office. 
At the 10-minute arraign­ment, Blagojevich and the only attorney currently on his case, longtime friend Sheldon Sorosky, entered a plea of not guilty. 
U.S. District Judge James B. Zagel then started a sequence of legal maneuvers that attor­neys said would most likely lead to a Blagojevich trial a year or two down the road. Blagojevich faces charges including racketeering conspir­acy, wire fraud, extortion con­spiracy, attempted extortion and making false statements. Most of the charges carry a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. 
Prosecutors must give the defense team mounds of docu­ments and recordings made over years of investigation. Defense attorneys can then be expected to ask Zagel to throw out much of it. 
"The circumstances of these wiretaps hasn't been flushed out yet," said DePaul University law professor Leonard Cavise. "We can expect all kinds of motions to suppress evidence. They will challenge the war­rants. They will challenge whether the government had probable cause to tap Blagojevich's home and cam­paign office phones. 
The sheer bulk of evidence defense attorneys must sift through makes it all the more important for Blagojevich to assemble a full legal team quickly. 
"It's just not possible for just one lawyer to defend Mr. Blagojevich, no matter who that lawyer may be," Sorosky told the judge. 
The lack of a legal team can be traced to a lack of money. 
Sorosky told Zagel he is seek­ing prosecutors' permission to tap Blagojevich's $2 million campaign fund to pay addition­al attorneys because much more legal muscle is needed to mount an adequate defense. Outside of court, Sorosky said even that money won't be enough. 
Sorosky recalled that the blue-chip law firm of Winston & Strawn had defended former Gov. George Ryan on racketeer­ing and fraud charges and that chief counsel Dan K. Webb esti­mated the total cost at millions of dollars. Winston & Strawn defended Ryan for free, but no big-name lawyers are lining up to do the same for Blagojevich. 
"What was it that Jerry Maguire said?" Sorosky said as he entered a coffee shop across from the courthouse still trailed by reporters and cameras. 
"Show me the money," a tele­vision reporter yelled out. 
One of the city's top criminal lawyers, Edward M. Genson, had been Blagoejvich's chief defense counsel. But he resigned after the former gov­ernor was deaf to Genson's entreaties to stop sounding off on television interview shows. 
Genson law partner Terence 
P. Gillespie announced more than a month later that he would be stepping in. But he had to withdraw because he had previously represented a Blagojevich co-defendant, Springfield millionaire William Cellini. 
Attention has recently focused on the possibility that veteran defense attorney Thomas Breen might be brought in. But no agreement has been reached so far. 
Robert Blagojevich, a self­employed real estate investor, told reporters after entering his not guilty plea that he was "prepared to cope with the charges and work through them." 
His attorney, Michael Ettinger, acknowledged the case has put stress on the brothers' relationship. Rod Blagojevich brought his brother on to head his campaign fund after federal prosecutors began investigating an earlier fund chairman, businessman Christopher G. Kelly. 
"Everything is going to work out between the two of them and obviously the type of situa­tion they're both in, it's a little strain, but everything's fine," Ettinger said. 
Kelly and Cellini are to be arraigned Thursday, as is co­defendant John Harris, a for­mer Blagojevich chief of staff whose attorneys have said is cooperating in the govern­ment's investigation. Another former chief of staff, Alonzo Monk, is to be arraigned next week. 
-----------------------, 

ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, April 15 , 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE 0-ssERVER:s WIRE SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
North Korea restarts nuclear program 
SEOUL, South Korea -North Korea said Tuesday it was restarting its rogue nuclear program, booting U.N. inspectors and pulling out of disarmament talks in an angry reac­tion to U.N. Security Council condemnation of its April 5 rocket launch. 
Pyongyang ordered U.N. nuclear inspectors to remove seals and cameras from its Yongbyon nuclear site and leave the country as quickly as possible, the International Atomic Energy Agency said. 
North Korea told the IAEA it was "immedi­ately ceasing all cooperation" and "has decided to reactivate all facilities and go ahead with the reprocessing of spent fuel," according to a statement from the U.N. agency. 
U.S. journalist retained in Iran 
TEHRAN, Iran-Iran said Tuesday its national security court put an American journalist on trial behind closed doors on allegations she spied for the U.S.-a charge Washington calls baseless. 
The unusually swift one-day trial threat­ened to anger the U.S. at a time when the Obama administration is showing willingness to engage its longtime adversary after many years of rocky relations. 
Roxana Saberi, a 31-year-old dual American-Iranian citizen, was arrested in late January and initially accused of working without press credentials. But an Iranian judge leveled a far more serious allegation against her last week, charging her with spy­ing for the United States. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Harsh 'sexting' penalties revisited 
MONTPELIER -Parents, school districts and law enforcement have been grappling with what to do with teenagers who take sexually explicit photos of themselves with their cell phone cameras and send them to friends. 
Vermont legislators are moving to get rid of one option: child pornography counts that result in lifetime listings on the state's Internet sex offender registry. 
Legislation passed by the Vermont Senate and pending in the House would remove the most serious legal .consequences for teenagers who engage in "sexting." The bill would carve out an exemption from prosecu­tion for child pornography for 13-to 18-year­olds on either the sending or receiving end of sexting messages, so long as the sender vol­untarily transmits an image of himself or herself. 
\\Omen aocused of staging take funerals 
LOS ANGELES -It was quite a send-off for Jim Davis, or so the people paying his funer­al bills were led to believe. 
They were told Davis was laid to rest at Abbey Memorial Park in Compton after being placed in an ornate, top-of-the-line casket lined with elaborate floral arrangements. Altogether, the bill to bury Davis at the palm­lined cemetery came to nearly $31,000. 
But there was a problem: There was no Jim Davis. He was dreamed up by a group of scam artists, authorities say. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Alcohol tax proposal taken from bill 
INDIANAPOLIS -Alcohol taxes would double only in Marion County -not the whole state ­under a plan advanced by the Indiana Senate. 
The Senate on Tuesday made several changes to a bill aimed at rescuing the Indianapolis Capital Improvement Board, which expects to be $4 7 million short in its operation of the city's professional sports stadiums and convention center. 
The revised Senate plan would allow Marion County to raise its alcohol, car rental, hotel and ticket taxes with the extra cash going to the board. But the revised plan wouldn't double alcohol taxes statewide as previously proposed. 
KENYA 
Somali pirates continue hijack spree 
Bandits take more than 60 hostages, seize four more ships on Tuesday 
Associated Press 
MOMBASA -Somali pirates were back to busi­ness as usual Tuesday, defiantly seizing four more ships with 60 hostages after U.S. sharpshooters rescued an American freighter captain. "No one can deter us," one bandit boasted. 
The freed skipper, Richard Phillips, will return home to the United States on Wednesday, after reuniting with his 19-man crew in the Kenyan port of Mombasa, according to the shipping company Maersk Line Ltd. 
The brigands grabbed more ships and hostages to show they would not be intimidated by President Barack Obama's pledge to confront the high-seas ban­dits, according to a pirate based in the Somali coastal town of llarardhere. 
"Our latest hijackings are meant to show that no one can deter us from protect­ing our waters from the enemy because we believe in dying for our land," Omar Dahir Idle told The Associated Press by tele­phone. "Our guns do not fire water. I am sure we will avenge." come to operate hundreds lion and more for each ship Good Hope takes up to two 
On Monday, Obama of miles from there in a and crew. Kenya estimates weeks longer at huge vowed to "halt the rise of sprawling 1.1 million they raked in $150 million expense. piracy" without saying square-mile danger zone. last year. In an unusual nighttime exactly how the U.S. and The top U.S. military offi­A flotilla of warships raid, pirates seized the allies would do it. cer, Adm. Michael Mullen, from nearly a dozen coun­Greek-managed bulk carri­
The pirates have vowed said he takes the pirates' tries has patrolled the Gulf er MV Irene E.M. before vengeance for five col­threats seriously, but of Aden and nearby Indian dawn Tuesday. Hours later, leagues slain by U.S. and "we're very well prepared Ocean waters for months. they commandeered the French forces in two to deal with anything like They have halted many Lebanese-owned cargo hostage rescues since that." Mullen, chairman of attacks but say the area is ship MV Sea Horse. Friday. the Joint Chiefs of Staff, so vast they can't stop all On Sunday or Monday, 
"The recent American spoke on ABC's "Good hijackings. they took two Egyptian operation, French navy Morning America." The Gulf of Aden, which fishing trawlers. Maritime attack on our colleagues or After a lull at the begin­links the Suez Canal and officials said the Irene car­any other operation mean ning of the year because of the Red Sea to the Indian ried 21 to 23 Filipino crew nothing to us," said Idle, rough seas, the pirates Ocean, is the shortest route and the fishing boats 36 26, whose gang holds a since the end of February from Asia to Europe and fishermen, all believed to German freighter with 24 have attacked 78 ships, one of the world's busiest be Egyptian. A carrier the hostages. hijacked 19 of them and shipping lanes, crossed by size of the Sea Horse would 
The pirates say they are hold 16 vessels with more more than 20,000 ships need at least a dozen crew, fighting illegal fishing and than 300 hostages from a each year. The alternative although the exact number dumping of toxic waste in dozen or so countries. route around the conti­was not immediately avail­Somali waters but have Pirates can extort $1 mil-nent's southern Cape of able. 

Court halts deportation of Nazi guard 
ue its legal battle in court, said make our arguments with the 6th 
Associated Press 
Justice Department spokeswoman Circuit, and it's just a shame that Mr. Laura Sweeney. Demjanjuk had to go through the hell 
CLEVELAND -The return of An arrest warrant in Germany that he went through once again this alleged Nazi death camp guard John claims Demjanjuk (pronounced dem­morning," he said as he walked into a Demjanjuk to Germany for trial on YAHN'-yuk) was an accessory to some federal building in Cleveland where war crimes was delayed again 29,000 deaths during World War II at Demjanjuk was being held. Tuesday by a federal court, shortly the Sobibor camp in Nazi-occupied It was unclear whether Demjanjuk after six immigration officers Poland. Once in Germany, he could be would be returned to his home in removed the retired autoworker from formally charged in court. Seven Hills. Nishnic was allowed his suburban Cleveland home in a Citing the need to act because of the access to Demjanjuk while he was in wheelchair. possibility of Demjanjuk's imminent custody but was told that no decision 
A three-judge panel of the 6th U.S. deportation, the court issued the stay had been made on whether he would Circuit Court of Appeals granted a without addressing the U.S. govern­be released. stay until it could further consider ment's argument that the court had As Demjanjuk's wheelchair was Demjanjuk's motion to reopen the no jurisdiction to rule on Demjanjuk's loaded into a van at their home, his 
U.S. case that ordered him deported, appeal. wife, Vera, sobbed and held her in which he says painful medical ail­Former son-in-law and family hands to her mouth. As the van ments would make travel to Germany spokesman Ed Nishnic said the family moved down the street, Vera turned torturous. was relieved the stay was granted. and waved, sobbing in the arms of a 
The government planned to contin-"We're delighted. We're prepared to granddaughter. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 15, 2009 
D'arcy 
continued from page 1 
Obama 's stance on the protection of life -includ­ing issues like abortion and stem-cell research -are seen by some to be in viola­tion of a 2004 Lnited States Conference of Catholic Bishops document titled "Catholics in Political Life." 
In his March 29 statement, D' Arcy wrote: "President Obama has recently reaf­firmed, and has now placed in public policy, his long­stated unwillingness to hold human life as sacred. While claiming to separate politics from science, he has in fact separated science from ethics and has brought the American government, for the first time in history, into supporting direct destruc­tion of innocent human life." 

According to an April 11 South Bend Tribune report, a spokesperson for the dio­cese office named the anti­Notre Dame and anti-Obama protest scheduled for 10 
a.m. Good Friday in Fort Wayne, which was organ­ized by anti-abortion activist Randall Terry, as one of the demonstrations in question. 
Although Terry's efforts were not specifically men­tioned in D' Arcy's state­ment, Terry released a response on his Web site, stopobamanotredame.com, accusing the bishop of issu­ing contradictory statements on the Obama controversy. 
According to the South Bend Tribune report, Terry's Good Friday demon­stration drew at least 10 participants. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

apartments available for 2009·2010 ::walking distance to campus:: 2-bedroom, 2-bath with 990± SF :: free rnteme! :: washer, dryer and dishwasher :: central air cond~ioning ::large balcony:: cathedral ceilings 
Call C~ristina at ~14·1~J·1~J~ to scneaule an a~~ointment or email us at mana~er@nastaaiumcluo.com 
Leasing now for 2009-2010* 
Notre 
Dame Apartments 
Notre Dame Apartments are a Notre Dame tradition! 2 Bedroom, 1 ,200 sq. ft. Apartments Newly Remodeled Free Internet Free Water On-Site Laundry 
HEI 
continued from page 1 
PSA launched the campaign demanding the University divest in HEI in the fall because they 
"/ have checked with 
claim Notre guided and I'm group of students returned with­Dame is "invest­the company's public disappointed." out appointment to Malpass' ed in a company records and their Coalition mem-office and asked him to meet who continuous­ber Holly Bird. with a former HEI employee
grievances and their
ly disregards the who participated who was on campus to work principles that record is stellar. in the meeting with the PSA coalition. our University with Malpass and Herman Romero, formerly a
Absoutely stellar." 
seeks to culti­the HE! represen­cook at an HE! hotel, said, in a vate," the group tative, said the statement translated from said in a letter Scott Malpass group presented Spanish by Angulo, that the to University Chief Investment Officer Malpass with tes­company fired him, along with 
President Fr. John Jenkins. 
"I-lEI Hotels and Resorts has repeatedly undermined the dig­nity of their employees and denied their fundamental right to organize in an environment free from fear and intimidation," the letter said. 
Malpass said HEI supports unions, but not the method of unionizing for which PSA is advocating. 
"They're pushing for a card check neutrality method when the law requires a secret ballot," he said. "So the company is not anti-union at all. They are happy to have unions; it's the mecha­nism used to get unions that is contested." 
Malpass said card check neu­trality is a method in which employees are required to obtain 50 percent plus one of employee's signatures on a card to be recognized as a union by the company. But the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) requires that a secret ballot be administered to all employees to vote on whether they will union­ize. 
Malpass said the secret ballot method is more democratic 
StaND 
continued from page 1 
and uphold and promote the spirit of inclusion statement," Tighe said. 
A person who signs the banner is expected to "promote an inclusive spirit here on campus," he said. 
Wednesday evening, the 111m "Prayers for Bobby," which was released in January as a Lifetime movie, will be screened at the Hesburgh Library Auditorium at 7 p.m. 
The film chronicles the story of a young gay man who is dis­owned by his mother when he comes out. The man eventually commits suicide, and the film deals with the aftermath of his death for his family, ineluding his mother, who eventually works as an advocate for gay rights. 
"It's a pretty powerful movie," Dunn said. 
StaND Against Ilate Week t­shirts will be distributed from noon-2 p.m. on Fieldhouse Mall Thursday. These t-shirts are intended to be worn Friday dur­ing the National Day of Silence in support of those who are because the card check method does not require all employees to be asked, so some employees can be disenfranchised from the process. 
"The company is very ethical. 
It has tremendous values," he said. "This is very unfair and mis­card check neutrality because it is not democratic," she said. 
Bird said the representative said the method of secret ballots administered by the NLRB is standard because it includes all workers and protects their anonymity. 
After the official meeting, a 
timonies from 
several workers who claim they were fired after attempting to unionize with the card check method. 
Bird said Malpass told the stu­dents he researched the compa­ny thoroughly and did not find two other employees after they attempted to unionize workers with the card check method. 
Coalition member Roman Sanchez, who accompanied Romero to Malpass' office, said Malpass told Romero there was nothing that could be done with-
any complaints or violations. "lie said if the "HE/ Hotels and workers have an 
Resorts has repeatedly 
example of a viola­

tion, then they need undermined the dignity to file an official of employees. " complaint," she said. "But the prob­
A letter to Fr. Jenkins
lem with that is the 

legal system takes from the Progressive forever for people's Student Alliance complaints to go through." 
out an official complaint. 
"Malpass' stance was that if this worker had a complaint, it should go through the proper chan­nels," Sanchez said. 
Although Malpass said 
affected by hate-speech. a connection with persons 
The Day of Silence is a "move­throughout the nation who are ment that started several years victims of intolerance and hate­ago to encourage people to speech and, sometimes, tragic stand in solidarity with people hateful actions." who feel that they are harassed StaND Against Hate Week is in and discriminated against no way connected with the 
because of their orientation," 

"There's a connection
Dunn said. The day coin­with persons cides with the throughout the nation 
federal govern­

who are victims of
ment's release of statistics related 

intolerance and to hate <:rimes in hate-speech and, school settings, 
sometimes, tragic 
according to 

hateful actions. " 
Dunn. Dunn encour­ages people to 

Sr. Sue Dunn 
wear the t-shirts 

administrative co-chair
distributed 

of Core Council 
Thursday to honor the Day of recent petition circulated to add sexual orienta­tion to the University's non­discrimination policy, Dunn said. 

"That was gen­erated through a group within a coalition of the Progressive Student Alliance and that is not our intent this week," Dunn said. "This has 
Silence on Friday. 

During the Day of Silence, a silent procession will walk with the banners signed Tuesday and today from the Main Building to the Log Chapel. The procession will conclude with a prayer serv­ice at the Log Chapel around 3:15p.m., according to Dunn. 
"We tried to tie StaND Against Hate Week to coincide it the Day of Silence," Dunn said. 'There's more to do with the Day of Silence." 
The week is "geared towards creating an inclusive environ­ment regardless of sexual orien­tation and ending hate-speech of any kind directed toward gay and lesbian members of the community," Tighe said. 
Contact John Tierney at 
jtieme1@nd.edu 

Off-Street Parking 
Only Three Blocks from Campus 
*These apartments rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
(574) 234-2436 
StorageBetween Notre Oama & Airport a/ ltre carper of 
Mayflower &Edison 
Ca/1574.247. 7805
Space 
Lighted &Paved Free Lock with Every Unit 


Sx10...$169 t DEP 10x10...$269 t DEP 

When the students asked the HE! representative about the lack of the card check neutrality method of unionizing in the com­pany, Bird said the representa­tive said the company is sup­portive of unions, but not the card check method of unioniz­ing. 
"[The representative) said they all agree at REI that people should have the right to union­ize, but the company is against the University will continue to invest in I-lEI, Bird said PSA will continue to support HEI work­ers. 
"We are trying to figure out how we want to approach it in the fall," she said. "We want to have really hard concrete evi­dence to really refute their claims." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
·. 

Visit www.ndsmcobserver.com 
I 


Wednesday, April 15, 2009 

MARKET RECAP 
Stocks Dow 
Jones 7,920.18 -137.63 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,186 106 2,533 241,101,116 
AMEX 1,365;51 :;:!:>,3~!52!:1 NASDAQ 1,625.72 2759 NYSE 5;301.50 T£1olf78 S&P 500 841.50 -17.2J NIKKEI (Tokyo) 8,842.68 o.oo·· FTSE 100 (London) 3,988.99 +5.1X 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP INC (C) +5.53 +0.21 4.01 BK OF AMERICA (SAC) -8.44 -0.93 10.09 FINANCIAL BULL 3X (FAS) -19.61 -1.91 7.84 AMER INTL GROUP (AIG) +0.10 +0.10 1.52 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -2.07 -0.059 2.786 13-WEEK BILL -2.94 -0.005 0.165 30-YEAR BOND -0.81 -0.030 3.657 5-YEAR NOTE -4.13 -0.074 1.717 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.64 49.41 GOLD {$/Troy oz.) -3.80 892.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.08 87.80 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 98.9700 EURO 1.3266 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2139 BRITISH POUND 1.4920 
IN BRIEF 
Executive pleads guilty in URS tax case 
MIAMI-The second U.S. citizen charged in wide-ranging tax probe of Swiss banking giant UBS AG pleaded guilty Tuesday to filing a false tax return to conceal a secret account at the Swiss bank holding more than $3 million 
Robert Moran, president of Fort Lauderdale­based Moran Yacht and Ship, entered the plea in federal court the same day the single charge was unsealed. Moran, who reached a plea deal with prosecutors, faces up to three years in federal prison and $250,000 in fines when sentenced on June 26. 
Prosecutors said Moran, 57, failed on his 2007 U.S. tax return to report his interest in a UBS account and did not report any income earned on the account, which was in the name of a Panamanian shell company called Winter Drive Investments. 
Moran is the second U.S. citizen charged since February, when UBS turned over dozens of names of account holders suspected of con­cealing income from the Internal Revenue Service in a deferred prosecution agreement. A Boca Raton accountant currently free on $12 million bail is scheduled to enter a plea next week to similar charges. 
Deere to reorganize, cut 200 jobs 
PITTSBURGH -Deere & Co. said Tuesday it plans to combine operations that make its iconic green and yellow tractors with another unit that manufactures products like riding lawn mowers, resulting in about 200 job cuts. 
The world's largest maker of farm machin­ery said the restructured unit will help it bet­ter meet customer needs, cut costs and boost global sales of products like riding mowers. Sales of such products have tumbled as the global economic downturn has slowed spend­ing and made it harder to get loans. And while Deere's farm machinery sales have been strong, the company has slashed its 2009 earnings outlook. 
The company's agricultural equipment divi­sion, with sales of about $3.26 billion, accounted for about 63 percent of total rev­enue for the first quarter ended Jan. 31, while sales of $558 million from its commer­cial and consumer equipment unit represent­ed some 11 percent. 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Obamatempers economic optimism 
President believes his broad domestic agenda zs the path to recovery 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Aiming to assert control over the nation's economic debate, President Barack Obama on Tuesday warned Americans eager for good news that "by no means are we out of the woods" and argued his broad domestic agenda is the path to recovery. 
In a speech at Georgetown University, Obama aimed to juggle his recent glass-half­full takes on the economy with a determination to not be stamped as naive in the face lingering problems. He summarized actions his administration has taken to steady the limping economy and coupled that with a fresh overview of his domes­tic goals. 
The speech, which key aides had signaled in advance would not contain any major announcements, came as Obama nears his symbolic 100-day mark in office, important because that has become a tradition­al marker by which to judge new administrations. 
"There is no doubt that times are still tough," Obama said. "But from where we stand, for the very first time, we are beginning to see glimmers of hope. And AP 
President Barack Obama delivers remarks on the economy Tuesday at Georgetown
beyond that, way off in the distance, we can see a vision University in Washington, D.C. of an America's future that is to the economy. made compatible with will move us from an era of far different than our trou­In a speech at Morehouse Digital Age technology and borrow and spend to one bled economic past." College in Atlanta, Bernanke innovation, telling Congress where we save and invest, Obama's message came on talked of flickering signs of that "I expect a bill to arrive where we consume less at a day of conflicting economic improvement, citing recent on my desk for signature home and send more indicators and Federal data on home and auto before the year is out." exports abroad." Reserve Chairman Ben sales, home building and He also said the economy Obama also said the prob­Bernanke's suggestion that consumer spending. must be transformed from lem is exacerbated by politi­the recession may at last be But the government's one less dependent on a cians with an outsized inter­bottoming out. broader message -that a risk-obsessed financial sec­est in scoring points and an It would have been difficult full turnaround might be a tor and more on clean ener­impatient media. to make that case based on a long time coming-may not gy, good education and "When a crisis hits," he report the government be welcome news for a health care costs brought said, "there is all too often a released earlier Tuesday weary U.S. public. under control. lurch from shock to trance, showing that retail sales Obama, in fact, said in his "We cannot rebuild this with everyone responding to plummeted by 1.1 percent in speech that a complete economy on the same pile of the tempest of the moment March, a performance much recovery depends on build-sand," he said, invoking a until the furor has died down poorer than experts had ing a new foundation for the Biblical reference to Jesus' and the media coverage has anticipated. At the same U.S. economy and making Sermon on the Mount. "We moved on to something else, time, wholesale prices changes in the political land-must build our house upon a instead of confronting the dropped sharply, a strong scape. And he said anew rock. We must lay a new major challenges that will indication that inflation that rules governing the foundation for growth and shape our future in a sus­appears to pose little threat financial system must be prosperity a foundation that tained and focused way." 
Parents find ways to curb cost of kids 
and dads are finding ways to dote on worker for the federal government
Associated Press 
their kids without opening their wal­while Hughes stayed home with the 
GREENBELT, Md.-Jarratt Hughes lets. Fancy birthday parties, music kids, allowing them to avoid paying a and Marcia Harris splurged last year lessons, sports leagues and gifts are heap of money for child care. on a birthday party for one of their being scaled back or eliminated. Even "It's a big change," Hughes said at a eight children. A show at Medieval the Tooth Fairy has been put on a Target store in Greenbelt as he calmly Times dinner theater -complete budget. turned down his kids' pleas. Sons with a four-course meal, Hollywood The pain is not limited to the kids. Jonathan and Joshua pointed to toys; special effects and a jousting tourna­Businesses are also feeling the pinch. daughter Ashley begged for a doll. ment -cost $500 for the whole fami­And even parents with reliable It's a change for corporate America, ly. incomes are saying "no" more often. too. 
On Sunday, another daughter turns "Parents are cutting back across the In 2008, sales of toys fell 3 percent 13, but the festivities will be more board," said BMO Capital Markets to $21.6 billion from the previous reminiscent of the 1930s than the analyst Gerrick Johnson. year. Children's clothing fell 2.2 per­11th century. Hughes said the family began trim­cent to $36.8 billion, according to the 
"She won't get much," said Hughes, ming costs after he lost his job. But research firm NPD Group. who lost his job as a courier for a doc­the situation worsened after the At RockNfun Music in Falls Church, tor's office late last year. "We might recent death of a generous family Va., the number of people, mostly just sing 'Happy Birthday' and have member who had helped with mort­children, taking guitar. piano and cake and ice cream with just the fami-gage payments. The couple decided other lessons has fallen 5 to 10 per­ly. " Harris would support the family cent in the past four months, co­
As the recession drags on, moms through her job as a maintenance owner Kevin Glass said. 

Wf'ldnvsday flpril15. Z009 • 7:00pm Club Fcrver • South Bend. Indiana 
"f'kfrf.U m ",.~ m. au• ~lf/BU4:k~ u..r e QriB, t1CMfh P«ffof~«rn ~ lkfcl( Ofk•. ~..,.. ~ J7ott/U~90 Of~ ~IOOt~~Hf, fiJ$0 at eft Tkt.~$t4<t tot.UIHI$ Of ~~$fltt,c:qm, ~f'K• 1'kfltj »' 91Mrol ~-"' tkMb R'Mofn. U6 ny of~ 
• tt gftd"'" ~kG" l1¥b ** :Q ~~~I!Nt: t.h:OW. 


page 8 
Prince 
continued from pagel 
at work to remind himself to keep his energy under control, and "to get me through the day." 
Prince eventually went on to direct his own musicals, but "knew that I had yet to express my own voice, and my own voice was pretty dark." 
After going to Russia for vaca­you," Prince said. "I found a voice." 

"You might think that it's all been gravy, but it hasn't," Prince said. "There've been long dry patches in my lifetime . . . but I've outlasted it." 
Prince said a key component in his success as a producer and director has been luck. 
"What I've described to you is a very lucky life," the 81­year-old Prince said. "It's very lucky to be born when you were born. I'm glad that I lived 
tion, Prince was when I lived." 
"We need to have a
introduced to a Prince said he
moment to go back
more "flamboy­was fortunate to ant" style that and think what made be introduced helped him good values. 
the theater what it 
come into his "It's lucky to be 
was at its best. " 
own as a direc­exposed to val­tor. ues, to the right 
"Seeing a cur­Hal Prince education and to tain of light that know to take
Tony Award winner 
was used instead of a curtain ... was something that never dreamed could happen," Prince said, adding that the use of smoke and dynamic, rough scene changes also spoke to him. 
"I saw the show and thought, yes, there is a lesson in all of this. You've got to get back to 

advantage of 
that education," 
he said. "The luck of a chance meeting, net­working ... the luck of being able to see luck when it's star­ing you in the face." 
Prince also commented on how times have changed in the theater business due to its high cost and commercialism. 
Instead of funding new 
The Observer + NEWS 

shows, the industry revives old ones, he said. 
Despite his numerous suc­cessful shows, ''I'm certain that not one of those shows could raise the necessary funding to be produced today," he said. "It's easy to revive something that you wouldn't put on in the first place, which is a very painful irony." 
However, Prince said eco­nomic change might end up being beneficial. 
"We need to have a moment to go back and think what made the theater what it was at its best," Prince said. And due to the economic change, "that's happening right now." 
However, he said his work with young people has taught him that the upcoming genera­tion is "ambitious, disciplined, excited and scared, as they should be, of the future." 
Prince ended on a serious note, however. 
"I really do feel privileged to be born in an earlier time," Prince said. "What I dearly hope is that we can relive that again. You can argue with me if you want, but it's how I feel. It's passionate. I really feel it." 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
TTLF 
continued from page 1 
honorary director. 
Maura Costello, the contact for the Foundation's fundraising efforts, is hoping to raise local awareness in the Notre Dame eommunity. 
"I think the Marathon has the potential to be a great fundraising and awareness initiative," she said. 
Participants need to indi­cate TTLF as their charitable cause during the registration process and return a charity agreement to Costello. The minimum fundraising amount is $500, and there are three outlined fundraising cate­

gories with commitments to raise $50, $75 and $100 per mile. 
She can be reached at mcostello@touchingtinylives.o rg 
TTLF was founded in August 2005 by Notre Dame graduate Ken Storen after regularly taking children into his home while living in Lesotho in 2004. 
According to its Web site, the Foundation's mission is to ensure "the health and digni­ty of children impacted by the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Through the provision of clinical care and subsistence support, through the imple­mentations of HIV transmis­sion prevention programs, and through the promotion of 
global social responsibility, [TTLF strives] to catalyze processes of healing and hope for the children of Lesotho and the greater international community." 
Megan Towle, Notre Dame '07, told The Observer in a February 2007 article the Foundation's main goals are providing children a safe home, serving as an outreach program, preventing mother­to-ehild transmission of IIIV and offering academic research opportunities for students regarding the for­mation of partnerships with international non-govern­mental organizations. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
NY Gov. to legalize gay marriage 
Associated Press 
ALBANY, N.Y.-New York Gov. David Paterson plans to introduce legislation this week to legalize same-sex marriage, reviving a bill that died in 2007 and still faces strong opposition despite a new Democratic majority in the state Senate. 
Paterson, talking to reporters Tuesday in Hempstead, N.Y. said "there is clearly a problem" when gays and lesbians in civil unions are denied 1,200 to 1,350 civil protections such as health care and pension rights because they're not married. 
"The timing was always right. It's just who is willing to take that step, and I am," Paterson said. "l think it is, as other states are showing, the only ethical way to treat peo­ple who want to live together in peace under the civil law. So my general feeling about all these issues is the right ethical decision will inevitably be the right political decision." 
In radio interviews last week Paterson said he believes it will eventually become law. But polls show legalizing gay marriage remains controver­sial in New York. And some gay marriage advocates are worried that bringing the issue up in New York before there's clear support to pass it could set back efforts to legal­ize it there, as well as in other states. 

Assemblyman Daniel O'Donnell, a Manhattan Democrat, said he will attend Thursday's announcement and sponsor the governor's bill, which will be identical to the one backed by then Gov. Eliot Spitzer as a civil-rights meas­ure when it passed the Assembly 85-61 two years ago. "''m hoping to do better than that this time," O'Donnell said Tuesday. 
"''m very happy the gover­nor has made this a priority," O'Donnell said. "When we got the bill from Governor Spitzer in 2007, we didn't have the votes either. I did that in 2007 and I intend to do that again in 2009." 
The Democrat-controlled Assembly passed the bill with three Republicans voting in favor, as well as some Democrats who faced criticism in their upstate districts for their support. It died in the Senate, where the Republican majority kept it from going to a vote. 
Senate Majority Leader Malcolm Smith supports the measure but still doesn't believe there are enough votes to pass it, spokesman Austin Shafran said. The Democrats have a 32-30 majority. 
"Most significantly, an issue of this importance demands more than a symbolic gesture and empty rhetoric," Shafran said, acknowledging the Senate doesn't have to act on a bill just because it was introduced. "We are commit­ted to the process of securing the votes for passage of mar­riage equality, and as the leader has said in the past, it will pass as soon as we have those votes." 
Mark Hansen, spokesman for the Senate Hepublicans, said Tuesday that, "Our con­ference is opposed to gay mar­riage and that has not changed." 
"I think this is an attempt to gain momentum," said the Rev. Jason McGuire, legisla­tive director of' New Yorkers for Constitutional Freedoms, which opposes the measure. "But the simple reality is this is a very controversial issue, especially with this talk about the Senate majority being as razor thin as it is." 
The College of Arts and Letters 
Invites 
Faculty and Staff Nominations 
for the Seventh Annual 
Arts and Lt'tters Award of Apprt'ciation 
The College of Arts and Letters announces its Seliellth annual Award of Appn;·dation, !o he conferred on an outstanding Hwulty or staff member from outside the College. 
The Colkgc invites nominations of faculty or stan· employees whose work elsewhe1·e, in other unils or departments of the llniYersily. contribuws immeasurably to the College of Arts and Lcu.:rs and enriches its life in signilka111 ways. 
A .:cniticatc and hmmmrium accompany this award. 
Please send or email a brid kiter to the Cnmmincc de;;crihi ng the outslanding contributinns your nomine<' has made tu the !ile of the College of Arts and Leu.:rs. 
Arts and Letters Award of Appreciation Committee clo Cindy Swonger 100 O'Shm1ghncssy Hall 
>:.~.W\l~JJ;.~t@n!.L\:'rl\1 
Deadline Monday, April 27. 2009 
tJNJVFRSITYOF 
NOTRE DAME 
COLLH>E OF AIUS AND I.ET'lTRli 
Please recycle the Observer. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, April 15, 2009 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Archbishop urges New Yorkers to etnbrace faith 
Associated Press  hope and love to the God who gently knocks on the door of  tics that his residence was dubbed "the powerhouse."  quipped, "It's very comfort­able."  New York, N.J., a retired teacher who emigrated from  
NEW YORK - Archbishop­ our being, asking Him to live  Cardinal John O'Connor was  A St. Louis native and the  Cuba in 1962, said she did not  
designate Timothy Dolan on  with us? Or will fear, self­ the most forceful U.S. Catholic  oldest of five children, Dolan  know much about the Irish­ 
Tuesday urged New Yorkers to  absorption, and darkness keep  voice in the public debates of  is known for putting a friendly  American  Dolan,  but said  
give  up  fear  and  embrace  us locked up in ourselves?"  his era, especially on  abor­ face on Catholic orthodoxy. He  "He's the bishop of New York,  
faith in the first of two servic­ "The church is at her best,  tion.  holds  a  doctorate from The  he represents Peter, he repre­ 
es installing him as the city's  faithful to her mission," he  At  the  start  of Tuesday  Catholic University of America  sents the church, he's  not  
Roman Catholic leader - the  said, "when she invites people  night's prayer service, Dolan  and is former rector of the  Irish, he's Christ."  
most prominent post in the  to  open  the  door  and  ask  grinned broadly and waved to  Pontifical North American  Jose Francisco, 16, of the  
American church.  Jesus in."  well-wishers  outside  the  College in Rome, considered  South Bronx, said he didn't  
In his sermon, the former  Dolan, 59, succeeds New  cathedral. The ceremony calls  the West Point for U.S. priests.  mind standing in the rain for  
Milwaukee archbishop said  York Cardinal Edward Egan,  for  him  to  knock  on  St.  He has said that he will chal­ more than 3 hours to welcome  
Jesus does not force open peo­ 77, who is retiring after nine  Patrick's door nine consecu­ lenge the idea that the church  Dolan.  
ple's hearts, but waits for  years.  tive times. He broke up the  is unenlightened because it  "It's a good thing to be here,  
them to accept him. He built  The New York archdiocese is  knocks into two sets instead  opposes gay marriage and  to show him our support,"  
the homily around  a  central  the nation's second-largest  - six, then three more at the  abortion.  Francisco said. "We put our  
moment  in  the  ceremony,  after Los Angeles, yet is the  prompting of an aide.  During  the  ceremony,  religion before video games,  
when he knocked on the doors  most visible face of American  Dolan,  a  burly man, said,  Archbishop Pietro Sambi, the  before everything."  
of St.  Patrick's  Cathedral  Catholicism, and has been led  "Thanks for opening the door  Vatican ambassador to the  The archdiocese  covers a  
before entering.  by prelates who were giants  wide enough even for me to  U.S., read a letter from Pope  region with 2.5 million parish­ 
"That's the ultimate ques­ inside and outside the church.  get in." When he sat in the  Benedict XVI naming Dolan to  ioners in about 400 churches  
tion," Dolan said to the 1 ,500  Among them  is  Cardinal  archbishop's chair for the first  the job. Dolan said in his ser­ and an annual budget estimat­ 
well-wishers in  the  pews.  Francis Spellman, who was so  time, which was adorned with  mon  that  he  was  anxious  ed to be at least half a billion  
"Will  we  open up in faith,  influential in New York poli­ his episcopal coat of arms, he  about his new job, which he  dollars.  
will formally accept during a  The vast Catholic service  
Mass on Wednesday in the  network in the region includes  
cathedral.  10 colleges and universities,  
!/(O'W £easing Por 2009-2010  Across the street from the cathedral, a small group held  hundreds of schools and aid agencies, and nine hospitals  
a 5-foot-wide by 20-foot long  that treat about a million peo­ 
.ft.pp{y tToaay  canvas banner they had made to welcome Dolan.  ple annually. Among the challenges he  
£imitetlSpace .ft.vaifa6CelI I  The yellow, red and brown acrylic-painted banner includ­ faces are drawing more men to the priesthood; serving the  
ed  a  drawing of the  Good  growing number of New York  
Offering %e (}Jest ~ta{cJ@tes in 'Town!  Shepherd and a quote in Latin: "Where Peter is, there  Latinos; strengthening the finances of Catholic schools  
$99 l'f'or 1" :M.cmtfts (}?fnt "Witli 12 :Montli £ease!  is the Church. Where the Church is, there is no death,  and parishes; and leading the church's opposition to gay  
$300 Off1st :M.ontfis Cf?ptt 'Hh'tli 9 :M.ontli £ease!  but eternal life."  marriage and abortion in lib­ 
l'f'ree}lppficat:icm l'f'ee l'f'orStud'ents 'Hh'tli !.®.!  Donis Santana, 64, of West  eral-leaning New York.  
Cfose to Campus!  
CastletJoint ,~ * 1QU C1e~ Bd. SoatJt Bead, D1 46U7Apar.n•en,s ~·= (lJ74) ~n.-111.1) ecc: (574) 111-#1.14 www.aldau.com  Flood-threatened citymges evacuation  

 Associated Press  U.S. Geological Survey's Water Science Center in Bismarck, said  
VALLEY CITY, N.D. -Faced  the  flood  risk  could  last  a  
with the threat of a major flood,  month.  
the mayor of Valley City called  Robinson said community vol­ 
Tuesday for the evacuation of  unteers, students and others are  
sick and elderly residents, as  also working to hold back the  
well as those living in low-lying  river. Classes have been can­ 
areas, so that emergency crews  celed at public schools and at  
could focus on trying to hold  Valley City State University and  
back the swollen Sheyenne  students have switched to sand­ 
River.  bag duty.  
Mayor Mary Lee Nielson asked  Linda Sorensen was moving  
affected residents to leave their  all her furniture to the second  
homes by Wednesday evening,  floor of her home Tuesday. She  
saying it would help keep emer­ and her husband, Ronald, who  
gency routes free of traffic.  own a plumbing and heating  
"We may need to get people in  business, have been helping  
and out of there in a hurry," she  homeowners prepare for flood­ 
said.  ing.  
Nielson said the evacuation  "Some of our guys are being  
order is voluntary but "strongly  hauled to homes by boat so we  
recommended."  She said it  can keep their pumps up and  
would affect about 1,450 homes  running," Sorensen said.  
- "not quite half the city" of  The Sheyenne empties into the  
nearly 7,000 people.  Red River, which is expected to  
"No one living has seen any­ reach a second flood crest of its  
thing like what's happening in  own near Fargo this week.  
Valley City, Barnes County and  The Red crested at Fargo and  
the entire area. It's beyond  neighboring Moorhead, Minn.,  
words," said state Sen. Larry  late last month just short of 41  
Robinson,  D-Valley  City.  feet, after volunteers filled thou­ 
Robinson, who was in Bismarck  sands of sandbags to raise lev­ 
for the legislative session, said  ees above that mark. The river's  
he spent part of last weekend  second crest there is projected  
sandbagging.  to reaeh 37 feet, which is lower  
About 450 National Guard  than earlier forecasts.  
members have been called in to  The National Weather Service  
help, the mayor said. Crews  has posted Oood warnings for  
have had to repair at least three  much of North Dakota. Roads  
dike leaks in recent days, but  are  flooded  throughout the  
Nielson said there  were  no  state, and state Transportation  
reports of problems with the  Department Director Francis  
dikes overnight Monday.  Ziegler said some highways will  
"It was a blessing," she said.  have to be completely rebuilt. A  
The  Sheyenne  Hiver  rose  100-mile stretch of Interstate 94  
Monday above the 20-foot Valley  between  Bismarck  and  
City record set in April 1882. It  Jamestown  was  reopened  
reached 20.6 feet Tuesday, with  Tuesday after an overnight do­ 
a projected crest of around 22  sure because of flooding, but  
feet later in the week.  officials imposed a 5 mph speed  
Greg Wiehe, the director of the  limit.  


THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
page 10 
Wednesday, April 15, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mart Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGEII & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asreiner@nd.edu 
8USINE~S OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs@nd.edu 
SCHIE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

We are legend 
Early last semester, fellow colum­nisVconcerned citizen/love guru Bob Kessler penned an am using and provocative piece on the Saint Mary's Executive Board stipend. In it, he sug­gested a few alter­
nate uses for the $20,000 usually dis­tributed to the Board's members, among them build­ing a beer fort and installing bidets in the dorms (I support the dorm room 

ball pit initiative, Brad Blomstrom 
for the record}. Things were pre­
sumably resolved The Daft Punk following the con­troversy, and the world went on spinning as usual 0 say 
"presumably" because actually know­ing the outcome of the story would imply I read articles outside of the 
Viewpoint, which is patently false}. 
In any event, graduating seniors have started receiving mail asking for dona­tions to the senior class gift. Before I go any further, let me say that this is a worthy cause in my mind, given all that the university has done for us in our four years. Unlike the Saint Mary's cash, which stinks of the abuse of power, the senior legacy fund does not appear to be shady in any obvious manner. This year's class gift will go toward establishing an "internship assistance fund," which will allow stu­dents to defray some of the cost of spending the summer after their junior year in the white collar world's version of indentured servitude. Still, as they are prone to do, Kessler's words from last October continue to ring loudly in my ears. What else can we do with this newfound cash? Are we content to just stick it in the endowment fund without a second thought? No. Not on my watch. To borrow a line from Maximus in Gladiator: "What we do in life echoes in eternity." An unpaid internship fund is the safest use for these funds, but it is too bland for my palate. Let's achieve greatness, Class of 2009, so that every student that leaves Notre Dame after us will know us not as alums but as legends. 
The senior legacy fund's suggested donation is an exceedingly cute $20.09, with the extra $.09 providing an excel­lent way to rid myself of the nine pen­nies currently stuck to the bottom of my car's center console. With approxi­matf~ly 2,000 seniors, this implies around $40,000 to use for the better­ment of the Notre Dame community, and makes the Saint Mary's stipend look like pocket change. Outlined below is my three-part plan for achiev­ing Domer immortality: 
Build a replacement for the X Lot. Hight now, the vast majority of you are asking yourselves, "What is the X Lot?" If you are included in that group, I have two things to say to you. One, I'm sorry, and two, get with the program. The X Lot, also known as the Hadio Tower Lot, is home to the student tail­gates on gamedays and is more com­monly known as "the happiest place on earth." Like all good things, however, the X Lot's time is running short due to the new hockey arena that is planned for the site. No.1 ranking be damned, the hockey team is taking something I love and killing it. The largest chunk of the $40,000 will go toward turning that silly pavilion they just built next to the DPAC into a bigger, better X Lot. 
Secondly, a portion of the proceeds will establish a legal defense fund for those cited by the Indiana State Excise Gestapo at the X Lot. I don't care if Indiana's Keystone Cops have under­cover agents, camcorders, horses, or helicopters -when it comes to game­
day, future generations should never 
have to say, ''I'm sorry I party." 
My last, and best, proposal comes from some research I conducted over Spring Break in Panama City, Florida 
(a.k.a. America's Sodom). The largest bar/dub/den of iniquity in town boasts that it hosts roughly 6,000 revelers nightly. In a place as humid as Florida, that's a lot of body heat. Suffice it to say, I expected my evening there to be about as sweaty and sloppy as the Backer during Amen Corner (a.k.a. Callin Baton Houge, Hocky Top, and Country Roads in rapid succession). Instead, I was delighted to find an elaborate system of cryogenics sus­pended above the dance floor that, when employed, lowered the tempera­ture of the room by around 40 degrees in under 5 seconds. When I left the bar, dry and content, I was determined to bring such a marvelous contraption to Notre Dame. Thus, with the remain­der of the senior legacy fund, we will install a similar system in the Backer. No more tropical rainforest; now everyone will be able to stand in the Backer sludge with their two-inches of personal space at a reasonable temper­ature. 
This is our opportunity, 2009. With my plan, we will make it so that future senior classes will find no better use for their legacy funds than constructing statues in our honor. 
Brad Blomstrom is a senior majoring in finance and economics that hopes everyone enjoyed the free Keystones from the Easter Bunny sprinkled across campus last week. He can be contacted in person at the X Lot this Saturday or anytime at bblomstr@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
POliCIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content. including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q}t£stiom regarding Observerpolities should be directed to Editor-in-Chiefjenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obscf'\'l!r (USPS 599 2--4000) i.s published Monday through Friday except during_ eXJtm and vacatio-n periods. Asubscfip1ion tQ Tiu: Observer is.$120 tin one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer ls pubfuhcd ar: POSTMASTER 
024 Sourh Dining H:aU Se:nd address. corrections to: 
Notre Dame, tN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Pcriodic.U pus~ -paki 2t Nom. Dame P.O. Box779 
and ;uldirional mailing offices. 014 South Oiniug Hall 
Notre l>.une, lN 4655&.0779 
The Ob$::rver i5 a membt-r ofrk Associated Press. An n::producrion rights. are <a<n<d. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Misinterpretations 
Cecilia Prinster's column, "Lay Down Your Stones" (April 8}, is misleading in its use of the Vatican II constitution "Gaudium et Spes" (GS). The Alumni Association president cites the constitu­tion's condemnation of "whatever violates the integrity of the human person, such as mutilation, torments inflicted on body and mind, subhuman living conditions, arbitrary imprisonment, deportation, disgraceful working conditions, where men are treated as mere tools for profit" (No. 26}. She notes that President Obama supports this teaching. 
However, her citation does not include the first part of that samesentence, which reads, "Furthermore, whatever is opposed to life itself, such as any type of murder, genocide, abortion, euthanasia or willful self-destruction... " The Vatican Council puts the "life issues" first. Later, that same document bluntly states, "from the moment of its conception life must be guarded with the greatest care, while abortion and infanticide are unspeakable crimes" (No. 51). 
We should expect our elected officials to oppose "unspeakable crimes" as their highest priority, even as they tend also to Guantanamo. 
Adrian Reimers 
faculty 

Philosophy 
AprilS 

Thank you 
Dear CommUniversity Students, 
The work you did on Saturday to beautify, entertain, teach, upgrade and just improve the North East part of the City of South Bend is greatly appreciated. 
I was involved with the students cleaning, spreading mulch and painting in the parks and was very impressed with their hard work and the amount accomplished. I heard about how other projects had gone, like the students who helped the electronically challenged at the Robinson Center and the tour of the campus. I went to the cookout at the end and had a great time eating and talking. You even managed to make the day sunny and fairly warm. The Park Department and the South Bend people who benefited from your help thank you! Best wishes and could this be the first annual CommUniversity Day? 
Ann Puzzello member South Bend Common Council April6 
TODAY'S STAFF QUOTE OF THE DAY 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Ashley Charnley Matt Gamber 
········ 
Sarah Mervosh Michael Blasco Graphics Molly Sammon 

Submit a Letteri!i'' 
Blair Chemdlin Scene "If the only tool you have is a "Art is making something out ofViewpoint Kaitlyn Conway hammer, you tend to see every nothing and selling Lt."
to the Editor at 
problem as a nail."
Stephanie Vossler Frank Zappa
Abraham Maslow 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
U.S. musicianAmerican psychologist 


THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT 
page 11 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Slamming the doors 
Two men went up to the temple to pray, offers the story of the Pharisee and the Publican (Luke 18:10). The former rushes to the front of the church, boasting of his tithing and good works; the Publican remains in the back of the chamber confessing his unworthiness even to raise his eyes to the Lord. 
The protestors who have rocked the Notre Dame cam­pus are a regrettable second-coming of the Biblical Pharisees, declaring their goodness, proudly dismissing all other views. Their posters are printed, their feet are planted and they know what Jesus would do. They also know they have the support of the majority of Notre Dame Alumni, who likewise believe, absolutely, that the son of Notre Dame would slam our campus door on the President of the United States, preventing him from delivering this year's commencement address at my Alma Mater. 
I fear they may succeed. 
If Father Jenkins, occupying a Main Building besieged by jammed phone lines, thousands of e-mails and the sound of bull horns surrenders to this noise -or in the more likely event that President Obama decides enough controversy is enough -the holy war will end and Notre Dame will be left to stand alone in the debris of paper cups and grotesque flyers, blowing across a beautiful campus that has always been a place of inclusion, dia­logue and. sometimes, reconciliation. 
We are headed for a painful moment destined to stain Notre Dame's shining reputation, its values expressed by the image atop our Golden Dome, a symbol recognized around the world for the breadth and depth of the unconditional love of the VIrgin, who rises above the tallest trees in northern Indiana, and bears a posture at odds with today's protesters: her arms are open. Our Lady's welcome has always been extended to all who have ever come to the home of the fighting Irish faithful. It is the proflle of a loving Mother who, by the way, knows something about slammed doors. 
It is a sad irony that as the Obama drama becomes larger and larger, the Catholic Church is shrinking. The chorus of the devoted has diminished, more Catholic schools and parishes are closing, fewer men and women are joining religious orders, and less than 25 percent of us regularly attend Sunday Mass. 
The Roman Church has been a giant presence in the twentieth century of American culture, central to the lives of millions whose family members sought refuge there; a place where boys first flirted with girls and shyly learned to dance. Now in their senior years, millions of these teens of long ago stand in tears as the double­doors through which their family members have passed for generations, to be baptized, married and buried, are swinging shut. 
As this alarming decline of Holy Mother Church con tin-
Church was not misrepresented 
I would like to respond to Ellen Burns' April8 ("Partisan Hand") letter criticizing ND Response spokeswoman Kathleen Donahue. Burns asserts that Donahue misrepresented the Church's teaching on the death penalty in saying that there was more "room for leeway" on the question, and Burns implies that this "misrepresentation" was motivated by political bias. In response, I would like to quote a letter written by then-Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger (now Pope Benedict) to the archbishop of Washington, D.C. addressing the subject in his capacity as Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith: "Not all moral issues have the same moral weight as abortion and euthanasia. For example, if a Catholic were to be at odds with the Holy Father on the application of capital punishment ... he would not for that reason be considered unworthy to present himself to receive Holy Communion. While the Church exhorts civil authorities ... to exercise discre­tion and mercy in imposing punishment on criminals, it may still be permis­sible ... to have recourse to capital punishment. There may be a legitimate diversity of opinion even among Catholics about waging war and applying the death penalty, but not however with regard to abortion and euthanasia." 
Ratzinger frames the discussion in the appropriate light. The death penal­ty is not an intrinsic moral evil; while Pope John Paul II gave his opinion that its application in most circumstances in first-world nations is unnecessary, it is incorrect to elevate this opinion of his to the level of a doctrine or dogma. I would say, therefore, that Donahue was mostly accurate in her presentation of the Church's views. 
John Gerardi 
junior 
Knott 
AprilS 
Pro-life, but 
Let me start by saying that I am pro-life. 
believe that life begins at conception. Barring the extremely rare cases of preg­nancy resulting from rape or incest, or pregnancies that threaten the life of the mother, I believe that abortion is morally wrong. I believe that most of the students and faculty on this campus agree with me. That being said, I refuse to stand behind the pro-life movement on campus because I don't believe that their actions are doing anything to reduce the number of abortions that take place every day. Calling President Obama the anti-Christ ("Bleak Future," April 8) is not going to persuade a preg­nant woman to choose adoption. Having the leader of the pro-life movement go on FoxNews to discuss the issue is not going to help struggling mothers-to-be make the right decision. And protesting this year's commencement exercises in May will do nothing to ensure the health and safety of each and every human life, from concep­tion to natural death. These actions amount to political posturing, and I'm sure that they do little to prevent abortions. 
Instead, the pro-life movement should perform actions that change the minds and hearts of the general public. Go after abor­tion in the way that many non-profit organ­izations went after smoking -with a vig­orous ad campaign. Organize a fundraiser to raise money to produce and air televi­sion commercials that will encourage struggling pregnant women to choose life. Hang posters that show that an unborn fetus is a human being, no matter how far along in development that fetus is. Finally, and most importantly, engage with your pro-choice counterparts. Dispassionately discuss the issue with them. Help them to see that all life needs to be respected. I think that you will find that you have much more in common than you think. 
The ultimate goal of the pro-life move­ment is to reduce the number of abortions that take place. The only way that the movement will accomplish this goal is by convincing the general public that unborn human life is a gift from God and it should be treated as such. When the pro-life movement starts to undertake efforts that might actually reduce the number of abor­tions, I will be there to show my support. But as long as the pro-life movement con­
tinues to focus  on political actions, I will  
not.  
Kevin Martin  
junior  
Fisher  
AprilS  

Does Notre Dame need a union? 
First of all, I would like to thank the students of the Campus Labor Action Project (CLAP) and the faculty and staff for supporting your campus service workers. I honestly believe that with their persistence on behalf of us there have been some positive changes within our department of Building Services. For example, we now have an awe­some facilities director and we are fortunate to have a new associate director. Of course, continuous improvement takes time. For example, when a supervisor fails to treat her staff with fairness and respect, trust and productivity are eroded. Unfortunately, some staff will be afraid to speak up. Others will complain about the problem but never bring the issue forward. In such a case it is imperative that senior leadership seek out patterns of concern and halt the negative conse­quences of a poor supervisor. Does Notre Dame Building Services need a union? I don't think so provided that ineffective supervision is pro­hibited and staff are free to honestly voice their concerns. So, I say to my fellow coworkers don't be afraid to speak up! You have that right! 
Mary Beth Sosa employee Building Services April9 
ues with ever greater momentum, Catholic bishops are publicly announcing the names of notables forbidden Holy Communion. 
The list includes our pro-choice Catholic vice president and Speaker of the House. If Obama's Notre Dame visit is canceled, the Bishops will have pulled off a trifecta, stiff­arming the three most powerful figures in the our nation. (Meanwhile pro-choice Catholics Joseph Biden and Nancy Pelosi are just two of the names already on the roster of mortal sinners, a document that adds to another list of damned lesser lights who, like me, are divorced, remarried and, therefore, denied the Eucharist.) 
Somewhere within this sad story we may fmd the answer to why so many faithful are becoming less faith­ful with each passing year. As my fellow alumni join the righteous Randall Terry in a rush to the front of Sacred Heart Church to boast of their good works, their con­gratulatory high-fives may obscure another drama unfolding at the back of churches everywhere: the scene of young Catholics rushing past the Publican and out the double-doors, forever. 
Phillip J. Donahue 
alum 
class of 1957 
April12 

Unions provide a voice 
In his letter, "Unions Cause More Harm than Good," (April 2) Mark Easley asserts that col­lective bargaining is simply a way for employ­ees to bully their employers into unreasonable contracts. However, this is not the case. What Easley fails to notice is that workers don't seek unions when they are satisfied with their rela­tionships with their employers; they seek them when they feel disrespected and their needs are ignored. Employers, not employees, are often the bullies, firing workers without reason, cutting hours so to avoid giving benefits, not respecting seniority in layoffs, firing employees before pay increases, and showing a general level of disrespect. The function of a union is not to be a "mob set out to bully the employer," but to provide a platform on which workers and employers can negotiate on equal footing. 
It is very possible for unions and employers coexist peacefully, and many businesses are doing well with unionized workers. What I found most appalling about Easley's letter was his assertion that if workers want to make more money, they simply need to, "get a second job, increase their skill set by going back to school, or look for a better career." The naivete ofthis statement is astounding. For most low income workers, none ofthese suggestions are even options. First, many people work multiple jobs and still find themselves living lifestyles far below middle class comfort, often in poverty. Also, the suggestion of a low wage worker going back to school is unreasonable. School takes time (meaning they can't have that sec­ond job Easley suggested) and money, which low wage workers simply don't have to spare. 
A union is a way for workers who feel slight­ed at their place of employment to bargain for fair wages, benefits, and better working condi­tions, so that they don't have to get a second low wage job and can maybe even spend time with their families and try to live a comfortable life. 
Liz Furman 
sophomore 
Cavanaugh 
AprilS 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE 
ByJ.J. REES 
Scene Writer 

Full disclosure -I'm very inexperienced with Indian food. I could probably count the meals on one hand. A friend's father is from India, so I was some­what familiar with a few of the tastes, but most of my experience at Taj Indian Restaurant in Mishawaka was very new. Luckily, I had a seasoned guide who pointed out Taj's best, and through the course of the lunch buffet, I became a fan of Indian food. 

Taj's menu tells the story of the Taj Mahal and its exquisitely beautiful gardens. The restaurant claims to take its name from the ancient Urdu translation of "The Great Palace." I'm no stickler, but every source 

Taj Indian Restaurant 
508 W. McKinley Ave; (574-254-9070) Hours: Lunch Buffet 11-2:30, 5-9:30 Su-Th, 5­10 Fri-Sat Prices: $7-12 10 Words or l.er':»S: Solid Indian food, excellent lunch buffet deal. 
By ELLIE HALL Scene Writer 
Legends Nightclub has done it again. 

On Thursday night, Legends will host Gym Class Heroes, an alternative hip-hop/rock/R&B group that burst onto 
the national music scene in 2007 with the single "Cupid's Chokehold."  Gym Class Heroes  Besides all that, thny're best live acts touring today.  one  of the  
Since then, the band has headlined  refuse to define them­ As if that wasn't enough, Boston duo  
international tours, spent two sum­mers on the main stage at the Vans Warped Tour and released two CDs.  selves to one genre of music, touring with  Chester French will be opening for Gym Class Heroes. The band's upcom­ing album, "Love the Future" is one of  
Gym Class Heroes refuses to define themselves to one genre of music, touring with indie rock and pop­punk bands like Fall Out Boy as well  in die rock and pop­punk bands like Fall Out Boy as well as hip  the most anticipated CDs of 2009. Chester French members Maxwell Drummey and D.A. Wallach formed the band as undergraduate students at  
as hip hop acts. Instead of using looped samples or  hop acts.  Harvard University, finishing a demo tape during their senior year and  
beats, the band features live music  sending it out to  record companies.  

along with MC Travis McCoy's wry lyrics and Kanye West and PharrAll Williams liked the demo 
I can find indicates that Taj means "crown." Fortunately, the people who run Taj know their food better than their Urdu. 
The no-nonsense decor leads to a threadbare atmosphere, which actually isn't a problem. Our server was helpful and cooperative but extremely quiet. Service and ambiance can best 
be described as minimalist. The way vegetables and nuts of which it con­Taj is set up seems to subtly point the sists. I never thought I'd seriously use
The way Taj is set up
diner's attention to the food. At the the word "explosion" in a review, but 
seems to subtly point
lunch buffet, an inconspicuous sproad it's a great way to describe the com­is set up in the back of the restaurant, the diner's attention bined taste of raisins, carrots, pota­with simpiA plates and succind labels. toes, combined in a savory sauce. The
to the food. 

I was told that the ehicknn curry garlic naan (unleavened bread with would be a good fulcrum for the meal, garlic, coriander and seasoning) was a 
and it ended up being one of the best parts. This saturated boneless chi(:ken is stowed in a finely spicy gravy-like curry with tastns of onion, tomato, and ginger. Paired with the aromatic long grained basmati rice, the chicken curry was an excellent food to serve as a primer for tastebuds not very familiar with Indian food. 
Next at the buffet was the chicken tikka masala, tandoori chicken (cooked in a tandoor oven made of brick or clay, which uses a smoky open flame) in masala (tomato based sauce and light cream). This chicken was marinated in yogurt with herbs and spices. The chicken itself was not as palatable as the more standard chicken in curry, but pairnd with the peas pulao (basmati rice flavored with peas and dif­ferent spices), the chicken tikka masala was a good shift from the other spices. 
The sides were an excellent complement to the main entrees. The saag paneer (chopped spinach with homemade cheese, garnished with light cream) 
tongue-in-cheek humor. Songs like "Clothes Off'!" and the band's current single "Cookie Jar" (featur­ing The-Dream, who penned Hihanna's smash hit "Umbrella") showcase Gym Class Heroes' hip-hop origins, while "7 Weeks" and "Live Fornver" expose a layer of deeper meaning that many contemporary artists have abandoned. 
was very cheesy but also somewhat creamy, and along with the dal, it was a good respite from the typical Indian spiciness. The potato fritter was crispy and plain, and it served a similar purpose. 
A high point of the meal was the nav ratan shahi korma. This delectably savory dish gets its name from "nine gems," after the nine fruits, 
delicious way to salvage excess sauce. 
Dessert was an adventure, and not one I'm sure I'll repeat soon. Gulab jamun is deep fried milk balls in a honey and sugar syrup. Three very sweet words should have been a forewarning of this overwhelm­ingly sweet dessert. The fried globes were too soggy with the syrup, and it quickly ended the meal. 
One of the pleasant surprises of the selection at Taj was the mango lassi, a flavorful yogurt drink. Halfway between a milkshakc and a smoothie, this was a delicious counterweight to the earthy spices of the food. The sweet mango taste purged the palate of any curry or masala. 
Indian food can be a treat, and having such a sound restaurant as Taj in the South Bend/Mishawaka area is a boon. With a lunch buffet for just $6, at least one visit to Taj is a necessity. 
Contact]. J. Rees at jrees@nd.edu 
so much that they entered into a bidding war to sign the band. Chester French eventually signed with Williams and their first single, "She Loves Everybody," has been climbing the Billboard's dance charts since its release in October. 
The concert starts at 9 p.m. Doors open at 8 p.m. and lines cannot form before 5 p.m. No excuses. Finish your papers and lab reports tonight and be ready for one heck of a show. 
Contact Ellie Hall at ehall4@nd.edu 


----~~~-~~~~---~ -----~~~~­

By jOEY KUHN 
Assistant Scene Editor 
features dual frontmen in Brendan Bayliss and Jake Cinninger, adding variety to their live shows. Probably the biggest name in music to come out of Notre Dame or South Bend in the last 20 years 
This Saturday night, Umphrey's McGee returns to (with the possible exception of Ted Leo), the mem­South Bend to play at the Morris Performing Arts bers of Umphrey's still maintain strong ties to the Center. Umphrey's was formed on campus at Notre University. Brendan Bayliss is the son of Notre 
Dame in the late 1990s, and four members of the band are Notre Dame graduates. Their most recent album "Mantis," released in January, has been heralded as "their most progressive, melodic and artistically cohesive album to date" by Amazon.com. 
"Umphrey's has achieved a sig­nificant level of popularity by con­stant touring, including several appearances at the Bonnarroo Festival in Tennessee, opening in large amphitheaters around the 
Umphrey's McGee is best classified as a jam band in the tradition ofthe Grateful Dead, Phish, and Dave Matthews Band. 
Dame men's tennis coach Bobby Bayliss, and members of Jake Cinninger's family are employed at Notre Dame. The band tours in the South Bend and Chicago areas fre­quently. 
The last time Umphrey's played in South Bend was on Sept. 5, 2008, in St. Patrick's Park. Bayliss gave an interview to The Observer before the show in which he recollected meet­ing the original bassist for Umphrey's in the basement of Keenan Hall. The band started out 
country for the Dave Matthews Band, and headlin­ing their own shows from coast to coast and in Europe and Japan," Peter Kernan of Pacific Coast Concerts said. 
Umphrey's is best classified as a jam band in the tradition of the Grateful Dead, Phish and Dave Matthews Band. Nevertheless, their sound is defini­tively their own. Most of their songs feature com­plex arrangements and rhythmical innovation, including the use of odd time signatures. One of their trademarks is their ability to stop and start on a dime, completely changing the direction of a song in an instant without missing a beat. The band also 
playing at Mickey's Pub, which is now known as Finnegan's, as well as the Oyster Bar and other local venues. 
At the St. Patrick's Park concert, Umphrey's pulled out all the stops to make the show spectacu­lar, and one can expect more of the same at the Morris this Saturday. The band's live act focuses on lengthy improvisational forays in which the band members dazzle the audience with both their tech­nical chops and their artistic passion. Complex lighting displays help induce an overall effect of psychedelia. 
Despite Umphrey's reputation as a jam band, 
though, they do not succumb to looking like Grateful Dead wannabes, as their musical influ­ences range from Pink Floyd and Frank Zappa to Led Zeppelin and The Beatles. 
Tickets for the show are $25.50, all seats reserved, and are available at the Morris box office, by phone at (57 4) 235-9190 or at www.morriscen­ter.org. 
Contact Joey Kuhn at jkuhnl@nd.edu 


By ERIC PRISTER Scene Writer 
Before I begin, let me just say that I love the food in the dining hall. Sure, I get tired of it sometimes, just like everyone else, but for the most part, the food is much better than it could be, and much better than it is at other schools. In fact, as I have overheard many a tour guide say, Notre Dame's dining halls are rated the second-best in the country, and I could not dis­agree. Having said this, I have one, and only one, request-berries. 
I do not mean the occasional straw­berry topping that comes with angel food eake. I also do not mean the pie filling that comes from a can next to the waffle station. I am talking about fresh berries that would exponentially improve the fruit choices given to Notre Dame students. 
Not only are there a wide variety of 
berries to choose from, such as blue­berries, strawberries, blackberries or my personal favorite, raspberries, these fruits are so universally loved that they would be a sure-fire hit each time they appeared. 
Even more than the wonderful taste, berries would offer a plethora of options for dining hall diners to be creative and make dishes that would increase the already wide variety of food choices offered. In addition to eating the berries alone, they would make great toppings for desserts, can be a valid addition to one's everyday bowl of cereal, or could be combined with the vanilla yogurt offered daily to make a parfait dessert of which onlookers could not help but be jeal­ous. 
Coming from someone who has a very difficult time choosing a salad instead of a corn dog, berries would also be a delicious way to add healthy foods to one's diet. The USDA now recommends that both males and females between ages 19 and 30 eat two cups of fruit each day, and what better way to reach that goal than to eat something as delicious as a par­fait? 
According to the Berry Health Benefits Network, each type of berry has its own unique set of health bene­fits beyond the normal vitamins that each contains. For instance, straw­berries can help prevent such illness­es as heart disease and cancer, as the body uses the antioxidants which make the strawberries red. Raspberries have antioxidants as well, but are also being used in Japan as a weight-loss supplement. And blueberries seem have been shown to have the highest levels of antioxi­dants, and can also help lower one's cholesterol, which can help prevent heart disease and stroke. 
Now, I understand that Notre Dame is in South Bend, Ind., and that the 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphics 

weather here is not exactly optimal for the growing of fresh berries (or for much of anything, for that mat­ter). I also understand that the University strives to serve as much locally-grown food as possible. I am not convinced, however, that all of the food served in the dining halls comes from the greater South Bend area, which means that berries could be imported from other, more fertile places in the United States. 
Please, Food Services, hear my request. You have done a wonderful job of creating many eating establish­ments that serve our campus well, and, in particular, you have done an incredible job with the two dining halls. I see only one thing as lacking, and have shown all of the benefits that this one addition would bring. We just want our berries. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 

WoMEN's LAcRossE 

Irish come up short in narrovv loss at 'Cuse 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sporrs Wrirer 
Despite a 10-point second half rally, the No. 10 Irish fell one goal short Saturday in their 14-13 loss to No. 8 Syracuse at the Carrier Dome, as sophomore midfielder Shaylyn Blaney's last-·minute attempt to tie the game was blocked by the Orange defense. 
The Irish (11-3, 4-2 Big East) were down 12-3 at the half, but came back to outscore the Orange (10-3, 5­
1) 10-2 in the second period.· Blaney led the comeback with four goals, three in the second half. Senior captain Jillian Byers added three goals and an assist in the game, along with two goals each from sophomore midfield/attack Kaitlin Keena and sophomore midfield Kailene Abt. Junior Gina Scioscia and sophomore Ansley Stewart both had a sin­gle goal for Notre Dame with Stewart earning two assists as well. 
Senior attack Katie Rowan led the Orange offense with four goals and two assists, fol­lowed by three apiece from junior midfield Christina Dove and junior attack Halley Quillinan. 
Syracuse opened up the match with a goal from Quillinan in the first minute of play. Blaney responded with a goal on an assist from Byers a minute later to bring the game to 1-1. 
Dove answered for the Orange by starting a scoring run with 10 straight goals in 15 minutes, bringing it to 11­
1. Dove had three total goals in the run, followed by senior midfield Bridget Looney and Rowan each with two, and sin­gle goals from Quillinan, soph­omore attack Tee Ladouceur and senior attack Awehiyo Thomas. 
With six minutes left in the half, Notre Dame managed to stop Syracuse's scoring drive when Byers scored off a low shot on Orange sophomore goalkeeper Liz Hogan to put the Irish at 11-2. Byers scored the final Irish goal of the half with less than two minutes left off of an assist from freshman attack Maggie Tamasitis. Rowan countered for the Orange by scoring her third goal of the half with four sec­onds left, moving the Syracuse lead to 12-3. 
The Irish team that came 
CLASSIIFIEDS 

back on the field after the intermission seemed like a dif­ferent one that had gone into the locker room 15 minutes before as they quickly took control. 
Keena jump-started the Notre Dame attack just more than a minute into the half as she scored off an assist from Stewart. Abt's first goal came soon after as she broke away from the pack to net her shot at 26:34. Quillinan broke the Notre Dame run briefly with her third goal of the day at 
25:45 to bring the game to 13­5. 
After Quillinan's interrup­tion, Blaney re-started the Irish drive when she netted her second game goal off of an assist from Keena at 24:47, the first of six unanswered goals. Scioscia followed with her first goal just more than a minute later before Blaney drove back up to the net a minute after put the game at 13-8. Stewart next scored with help from Sciascia, followed two minutes later by Abt with her second goal to make it 13­
10. Syracuse held off free­position shots by Blaney and Byers before Blaney came back with her fourth goal of the day at 7:21, cutting the Orange lead to 13-11. 
After stalling the game with two minutes left, Notre Dame failed to force a turnover and Rowan scored on an open net with 1:55 to play, moving them up 14-11. However, the Irish made one last scoring run as Byers netted a goal with 1:08 left and Keena scored her second goal with 58 seconds left to move the score to 14-13. 
In the final draw, the Irish worked the ball to Blaney, whose shot was blocked by Hogan with 31 seconds left. The Orange stalled and held onto their one-goal lead and win 14-13. 
Notre Dame outshot Syracuse 30-27 in the game and had 15 ground balls to Syracuse's 13, but fell behind on draw controls 18-11. Irish senior goalkeeper Erin Goodman had seven saves and Hogan eight. 
Next up for the Irish is the closing game of their four­game stretch on the road as they take on No. 11 Vanderbilt (8-4) today in Nashville at 
3:30 central time in a non­conference match-up. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselOl @saintmarys.edu 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Thomas accepts FlU job 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -While growing up in Serbia, Florida International forward Nikola Gacesa often heard his father talk about the way Isiah Thomas played basketball. 
"He is a big fan," Gacesa said. 
Gacesa will soon have his own stories to tell: Thomas is back in coaching, accepting an offer from FlU to revive his career and their program. 
Ending a whirlwind courtship, Thomas and FlU agreed on a five-year con­tract Tuesday -an out-of­nowhere deal that gives the former Knicks coach and president a chance to restore the reputation he built as a Hall of Fame player and tar­
nished through  a  series of  
embarrassments  in  New  
York.  

''I'm committed to growing something hero, and strongly believe that over time, we'll put a team on the floor that everyone at FlU can be proud of," Thomas said. 
Thomas hnlpnd thn Detroit Pistons win two NBA champi­onships as one of thn all-time great point guards, then coached the Indiana Pacers before taking over in New York, where an array of problems marred his tenure. 
Nonetheless, FlU moved quickly to lock up its top choice for the job. 
"Isiah will give FlU a tremendous opportunity to take the basketball program to the highest level," FlU ath­letic director Pete Garcia said. 
In New York, Thomas endured legal and personal troubles off the court, and more losses than wins on it. His Knicks were 23-59 last season, prompting a firing many fans had long awaited. The Knicks never won a play­off game in his tenure as president or coach. 
Knicks president Donnie Walsh, who fired Thomas, wished him luck at FlU. 
"I think it's a great thing for him and it's kind of what I wanted for him from the day I let him go," Walsh said. 
It was more than losses that doomed Thomas in New York. 
In 2007, a jury ordered Knicks owner Madison Square Garden to pay $11.6 million to a former team executive who alleged she was sexually harassed by Thomas, who continually maintained his innocence and was never found person­ally liable. 
This past October, there was more drama. 
Officers responded to Thomas' New York-area home after a 911 call report­ed someone had overdosed on sleeping pills. According to police reports, officers found a man passed out and gave him oxygen until an ambulance arrived. 
Authorities never publicly identified Thomas as the vic­tim, but a person familiar with the case confirmed to the AP that it was Thomas. 
Still, Thomas' hiring at FlU quickly became a galvanizing story in South Florida. 
"This is bigger than basket­ball and bigger than athlet­ics," said FlU president Modesto A. Maidiqun. "Having a nationally recog­nized coach like lsiah at FlU will have a positive impact on our university as a whole, helping us achieve additional national exposure." 
With Thomas -whose career record in the NBA was 187-223 (including three playoff seasons with the Pacers) -on board, national exposure is certain. 
"It's a testament to the direction of FlU athletics," Golden Panthers football coach Mario Cristobal said. "It's a great thing. There's tremendous amounts of excitement here." 
Thomas will face some immediate challenges: FlU went 13-20 this past season, its third 20-loss campaign in four years, and has not post­ed a winning record since 1999-2000. He'll need to move quickly on filling some roster slots, since the spring signing period for Division I players starts Wednesday. 
"If you really think about it, some of these kids that are coming out of AAU that are going to go to college for one year, that's a pretty good sell," Walsh said. '"Come down to Miami, spend a year with me.' I think he's posi­tioned to do well with recruiting there." 

Miami Heat center Jermaine O'Neal, who played for Thomas at Indiana, said the coach deserved a new opportunity. 
"He's a motivator and a teacher and he has some skills that really fit the col­lege level," O'Neal said. "He can take people and make them feel like they have a chance to be anything they want in life." 
Thomas replaces Sergio Rouco, who was reassigned Monday after posting a losing record in each of his five sea­sons as coach. 
Thomas' hiring brings another coach with strong New York ties to the Sun Belt Conference's schools in South Florida: Former St. John's coach Mike Jarvis just com­pleted his first year at Florida Atlantic. about an hour north of FlU in Boca Haton. 
"I think it is a great day for the league, to be very honest with you," Jarvis said. "Anything that will help bring real media attention to the league, it helps. It helps with recruiting, it helps with perceptions that people have." 
Thomas spent his entire NBA playing career with the Pistons, appeared in 11 All­Star games and was the MVP of the 1990 NBA finals, when Detroit won its second straight title. 
His new players, Gacesa said, couldn't be more thrilled. 
"It's an incredible feeling," Gacesa said. "I think we're still realizing how big this is for us. We still don't realize how big this is, how much knowledge and skills he can offer us and how much he can help us take this school to another level, take this school to where we are sup­posed to be." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ar the Nacre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexc-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cencs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves che right co edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FoR RENT 
3 bdrm house for 07/01/09 on Corby, $1600/mo. Owners are ND alums. Pis call/text 619-804-3359 
andersonNDrentals.com FFIEE COMCAST! 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer­ing 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 

Rental house 1 mile from ND on Transpo route. New kitchen, bath, windows & carpet. 2 bedrooms. 2 living rooms, & dining room. Appliances included. Call Linda, 574-288-0168 
2009/1 0 student rentals Angela St./St. Peters & S.B. Ave. $1300­$2000/mo. Contact Bruce Gordon 574-876-3537. 
Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 
PERSONAL 
FOUND: Dental retainer in South Dining Hall the week of March 29. Call631-6147 to claim. 
Happy Birthday, Suni 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: http://osa.nd.edu/health­safety/assault/ 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NOs Assistance for Pregnant Students//Office of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd.edulhealth-safety/assis­tance-for -pregnant -students. 
ADOPTION -Loving Domer couple looking to adopt a baby (babies), please call Marie and James {301 )977 -5069 or (866)202-1424 PIN 5448. 
I close my eyes, then I drift away Into the magic night. I softly say A silent prayer like dreamers do. Then I fall asleep to dream my dreams of you. 
-

~--------~--~ ~ 


OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, April 15, 2009 
NCAA Women's Tennis 
ITA Division :1 Rankings 
team points previous 

1 Northwestern 88 1 2 Georgia 76 2 3 Baylor 72 4 4 NOTRE DAME 70 3 5 Duke 69 9 6 Miami (Fla.) 68 5 7 Georgia Tech 67 6 8 California 66 8 9 Southern California 62 7 10 Stanford 56 10 11 UCLA 56 12 12 Clemson 55 11 13 Tennessee 51 13 14 Fresno St. 44 14 15 Arkansas 44 15 16 Florida St. 40 17 17 Vanderbilt 40 19 18 LSU 40 24 19 North Carolina 39 18 20 Florida 37 16 21 Michigan 37 23 22 Kentucky 35 20 23 SMU 35 22 24 Arizona St. 30 21 25 Alabama 30 25 
NCAA Women's Lacrosse IWLCA Division :1 Rankings 
team record previous 

1 Northwestern 9·0 1 2 Maryland 8·0 2 3 Penn 1·0 3 4 North Carolina 7-2 6 5 Duke 8·2 7 6 Georgetown 5·3 4 1 Princeton 5·1 9 8 Syracuse 6·2 8 9 NOTRE DAME 8·1 10 10 Virginia 6·3 5 111 Vanderbilt 4-3 11 
111  Boston University  5·3  
13  Loyola (Md.)  6·1  
14  Stanford  6·2  
15  Penn State  4·4  
16  Dartmouth  3·3  
17  Ohio State  7-1  
18  James Madison  4·3  
19  Cornell  6·2  
20  New Hampshire  4·3  


NCAA Men's Golf Nike Division :1 Rankings 

team  poin,ts  
1  Georgia  497  
2  Oklahoma St.  477  
3  Southern California  460  
4  Clemson  421  
5  Stanford  394  
6  Florida  374  
7  Indiana  346  
8  Alabama  309  
9  Washington  304  
10  Georgia Tech  293  
11  South Carolina  276  
12  Texas Tech  250  
13  UNLV  215  
14  Tennessee  201  
15  Illinois  190  

around the dial 
NBA Houston Rockets vs. Dallas Mavericks 8 p.m., ESPN 
MLB San Diego Padres vs. New York Mets 7 p.m., ESPN2 

CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER'S w:m.E SERVICES 
PGA 

Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. -There were so many ways this most thrilling of Masters could have ended. 
What if Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson had carried their duel into a playoff? Now that would have turned Augusta National upside down. 
Or how about Kenny Perry, the ultimate grinder, winning his first major at an age when most players are prepping for the senior tour? Boy, that would have been something. 
Instead, it was a burly man from. Argentina who crafted an ending no one could have envisioned. 
IN BRIEF 

Pacers' Travis Diener reflects 
on becoming a free agent 
INDIANAPOLIS -Travis Diener has enjoyed his two years as an Indiana Pacer, but that doesn't mean he'll return for a third. 
The reserve point guard has a player option on the final year of his contract this offseason. He stands to make $1.7 million if he sticks around, but he'll become an unre· stricted free agent if he doesn't. 
Though he became a fan favorite last season for his quickness and hustle, Diener hasn't played much this season while backing up Jarrett Jack and T.J. Ford, and they both might be back for the 2009-10 cam­paign. Diener isn't sure what the future holds, but he is keeping his options open. 
"It's something I've got to sit down with my agent about, and at the end of the day, just make the best deci­sion that will fit me the best," he said. 
Down at the 10th green, long after Woods and Mickelson had headed for exits and dragged many of the patrons with them, Angel Cabrera barely beat the setting sun with a gimme of a putt as Perry looked on helplessly. 
OK, it wasn't Hollywood. But Cabrera sure earned it. 
When his swing got loose and produced two straight bogeys on the front side, he hung in there. When he faced a two-stroke deficit with two holes to play, he didn't give up. And, most impres­sively, when his first tee shot of the sudden-death playoff rolled to a stop behind a big tree on the first playoff hole, he never lost hope. 
"I only had a spot like this big" -meaning tiny -"and only trees, so I've got to put it through there, that's it," Cabrera said, a translator relaying his words. "Easy as that." 
Cabrera hooked his ball around one tree but struck another, and was fortu­nate to see it carom to the left and out into the fair· way, a sand wedge away from the green. He knocked it up to 8 feet behind the hole, and made the putt to save a remark­able par. Perry messed up his approach and had to settle for par, too. The third member of the play· off, Chad Campbell, 

New book in the works about Beckham's American career NEW YORK -A new book will offer an up-close-and-personal take 
on  David  Beckham's  American  
adventure.  
Grant  Wahl's  "The  Beckham  

Experiment," due out in July from Crown Publishing Group, draws upon interviews with Beckham, and teammates and officials at the L.A. Galaxy. The British soccer superstar signed a five-year contract reported­ly worth $250 million in 2007. 
Wahl is a senior writer at Sports Illustrated. According to a statement from Crown, his book will look at Beckham's relationship with his Galaxy teammates, his marriage to Victoria Beckham and his friendship with Tom Cruise. 
The book's release is timed to Beckham's expected return to Los Angeles. Beckham, who turns 34 in May, has been on extended loan to AC Milan. 
page 15 
missed his 6-footer and the race was down to two. 
Only one more hole was needed. Perry found mud on his ball in the middle of the 1Oth fairway, and his shot veered left of the green. Cabrera knocked his below the hole and ­for perhaps the first time all day -he was finally the one in command. Perry's chip raced past the flag, and he missed the putt coming back. 
Perry didn't even get a chance to finish. Cabrera's putt stopped next to the hole. He marked it, took a quick look to make sure there was nothing on it, and calmly delivered the winning stroke on his sec­ond career major. 

Former Debiot Ti1!ers' _pitcher
Fidrych found ileao at 54 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. -Former pitcher Mark 'the Bird' Fidrych came to the Detroit Tigers in 1976 after going 4·1 with a 1.59 ERA the previous season with the Evansville Triplets, their Triple-A affiliate in the American Association. After a series of injuries, he rejoined the Triplets in 1980, ending 6-7 with a 
3.93 ERA. 
The 1976 American League rookie of the year was found dead at age 54 on Monday in an apparent acci· dent at his farm in Massachusetts. 
Former Evansville catcher Steve Patchin calls news of Fidrych's death "just terrible." 
Patchin tells the Evansville Courier & Press that Fidrych "worked hard­er than anybody" he ever saw and was a "total team player." 
He says, "There was no pretense about him. What you saw was what you got." 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, April 15, 2009 
SMC GOLF 

Belles grab first-round edge 
Team leads with two to play in nat'l qualifier 
By NATHANIEL LEE 
Spons Writer 
No. 21 Saint Mary's cashed in on its home-course advan­tage in the first round of the MIAA's national championship qualifier, finishing first with a 325, 13 strokes ahead of sec­ond-place Olivet. 
Three rounds total will determine the league's auto­matic qualifier for the NCAA Div. III Championships, and the Belles earned the right to host the first of three rounds by finishing the fall season in second place. No. 11 Olivet earned top honors in the fall, so it will host the final two rounds later this month. 
"There is an advantage in being at home, and we made sure that we capitalized on that opportunity," Belles coach Mark Hamilton said. "We will be mindful of that heading to Olivet's home course, but we beat them there last time, so we are 

looking forward to it." senior captain Meredith 
Playing in top form, the five Fantom, whose 86 earned her scoring girls from Saint a tie for the eighth. Mary's all finished in the top "We know we left a few eight on the day to top Olivet strokes on the course still," at Blackthorn Golf Club. The Hamilton said. "There are a Belles and the field were led few things we can shore up by sophomore Emily Gore's 4-before the next round, under-under-par 77, standing places highlighted by where you just an eagle on the can't miss a
"There is an 
sixth hole. shot, especially
advantage in being at 
Fellow sopho­
more Mary Kate home, and we made Boyce turned in sure that we a 7-over 80 to 
capitalized on that 
earn a tie for 
second place. opportunity. " "Emily Gore had an out­
Mark Hamilton 
standing game," 
Belles coach 
Hamilton said. "She had been 
at Olivet's course which has a lot of hazards. We need to be mentally tough." 
At the end of all three rounds -the final two of which will be 

played April 24-25 in Marshall, Mich. -the team with the lowest combined score will go on to represent the MIAA with the confer­ence's automatic qualifier at the NCAA Div. III Championships in Port St. Lucie, Fla., on May 13-16. 
Contact Nathaniel Lee at nlee5@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 

Squad tries to recover from 2losses 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's, fresh off back­to-hack conference losses that have sent the Belles below the .500-mark, will try to bounce back today at Bethel. 
The Belles (5-7, 1-2 MIAA) fell to Albion, 6-3, on Saturday and were blown out by Calvin, 8-1, last Wednesday. This comes after starting the conference slate with an 8-1 thrashing of Alma on March 28. 
In their loss to Albion, the Belles got strong performanc­es in singles from junior Camille Gebert and sopho­mores Jessica Kosinski and Betsy Reed, but consistency has eluded the young squad at times. 
"It's hard to say who will do well at each spot," sophomore lillian Hurley said. "I am hop­ing everyone can give their best. We have a much stronger team than last year, so it would be great for everyone to step it up and pull out a win." 
Gebert was able to pull out her victory at No. 2 singles with a double bagel over Cassie Simmelink. 

"Her win was not that sur­prising," Belles coach Dale Campbell said. "She has been improving steadily throughout the season. She won our only match against Calvin." 
Kosinski won her singles flight at No. 3 singles only dropping two games, while Reed followed up at No. 4 sin­gles by winning a tight match in three sets. 
"[Reed] was playing the way she knows she can play," Campbell said. "She was able to fight back after losing the second set, and fought to pull out the third set that kept us in the match." 
Again doubles was a down­fall for the Belles as they lost all three flights of doubles to open the match. 
Bethel head coach John Natali said doubles would be key for his team in the match against Saint Mary's. 
"It is crucial for teams to win all three doubles points," Natali said. "The team that wins even two of the three doubles matches has a slight advantage heading into sin­gles play." 
The Belles were up in five of their six singles matches against Albion and were not able to pull out all of them, and that lost the match for them, Campbell said. 
"We are continuing to work on improving our doubles," Campbell said. "We are also going to work on l'inishing our singles matches and becom­ing more confident. It may not always be pretty wins, but sometimes you have to win ugly." 
Saint Mary's has less than a month before it heads to the conference tournament, where the Belles finished fourth overall last season. 
"Despite our loss to Albion we want to continue to be motivated," Campbell said. "The loss was tough but we know we are close to break­ing through and that should help us the rest of the sea­son." 
The Belles will travel across town to face Bethel today at 4 
p.m. and then will host Kalamazoo Saturday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Want more on your favorite ND and SMC sports teams? 
Check out The Casual Observer at observersportsblog.wordpress.com 
Leasing now for 2009-2010* 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 

Enjoy the good life when you live off campus at a very reasonable price! 
3,4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 2 1/2 Baths Free Internet Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher Security System Off-Street Parking Located Close to Notre Dame 
Only $350 per month, per student 
*Our townhomes rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our town homes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
(574) 234-2436 
out for a while and hadn't played much lately, so for her to return in such good form, shooting an all-time low after all her hard work, was great." 
Sophomore Rosie O'Connor shot an 83 and snagged fourth place. Two strokes behind her was freshman Natalie Matuszak, who tied for sixth· with an 85. In the final scor­ing position for the Belles was 

Wednesday, April 15, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Pray e r from A r o u n d t he World 
A series exploring the belief and practices of the world's great faith traditions 
JEWISH PRAYER 
Rabbi Eric J. Siroka Temple Beth-El, South Bend 
TODAY, April 1 5 7-7:45 pm 330 Coleman-Morse 
Sponsored by : Campus Ministry, FOG Graduate Residences, Graduate Student Union, lnt'l Student Serv. & Activities and University Village 
C-M 

A celebration of National Poetry Month with a Tag Team Poetry Extravaganza! 
Pleasejoin us for live performances from the Creative Writing Faculty, Emeriti and MFA students 

CREATIVE WRITING PROGRAM 

PRESENTED AT THE HAMl'vtESNOTRE DAME P>OOKSTORE Please contact 574.631 5791 with questions. 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles break out of slump withwins 
By CHRISTOPHER MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's posted back­to-hack sweeps of Robert Morris and Albion to end the team's two-game losing streak. 
"We bounced back well because we didn't play the way we wanted to against Alma and we just wanted to have a couple of good games against a non-conference opponent with Robert Morris," Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. "It got us right back to the game we've been playing all year, and our hit­ters were hitting from the top of the lineup to the bottom." 
The Belles (22-4, 6-2 MIAA) took the field Wednesday fully aware of the importance of beating non-league opponent Robert Morris for favorable playoff positioning. They dominated the Eagles (20-17, 7-3 CCAC) from start to fin­ish, taking the twinbill by scores of 3-2 and 8-0. 
Senior Cathy Kurczak and freshman Lauren Enyati led the charge for Saint Mary's in game one, driving in all three runs and giving the Belles the edge over the Eagles. Freshman hurler Monica Palicki scattered five hits over the course of seven innings to pick up the win. 
In a display of confident hit­ting and fundamental soft­ball, Saint Mary's crushed any chance of a split for the Eagles by winning their 20th game of the season in the nightcap. Wednesday's win marks the fourth straight season that the Belles have won at least 20 games, a feat that can be attributed to the leadership of Sullivan in her fourth year in the position of head coach. 
"My seniors, from the day they got here as freshman, have just changed the pro­gram and set a new tone for us," Sullivan said. "Ashley Fusaro and Katie Rashid are two wins away from 100 career wins, which no one has ever been remotely close to." 
Freshman Angela Gillis con­tinued her exceptional debut season by going the distance for Saint Mary's in a two-hit shutout. Enyati and Senior Ashley Fusaro each had three hits in a complete team effort. 
But the highlight of the week came on Saturday, when the Belles topped MIAA opponent Albion by scores of 6-4 and 8-1 in a doublehead­er. 
In game one, the Belles came back from a 1-0 deficit in the first inning by scoring three runs in the bottom of the frame to take a lead they wouldn't give up. Junior Ashley Peterson picked up an RBI after scoring Enyati on a double off the left field wall, which was followed by a sin­gle from sophomore Hayley Bojorquez to drive in another run. 
Kurczak added an insur­ance run in the fourth after reaching home on a Peterson ground-out. Palicki lowered her ERA to 2.09 and picked up her 10th win of the season by going the distance. 
The back end of the double­header quickly turned into a blowout, as the Belles pound­ed out runs early and often to set the tone. After jumping to an early 2-0 lead, Saint Mary's added three more in the fourth, highlighted by Fusaro's 15th career home run, a soaring drive over the center field fence. 
Gillis picked up her 12th win of the year by scattering four hits over seven innings and lowering her ERA to 
0.80. Gillis was named MIAA Pitcher of the Week for the second consecutive week as the Granger, Ind. native was honored for her outstanding performances against Robert Morris and Albion. 
"She moves the ball well and always hits her spots for the most part," Sullivan said. "When I told her she was the pitcher of the week again, her only response was, 'It's all because of the defense.' She's very humble." 
The Belles will host Hope (13-17, 6-6 MIAAl today at 
3:30 p.m. as they look to extend their hot streak to six games. 
Contact Christopher Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
t _<}:·-·,.-$';-·$~·.:·,_ ::.'t>·tr<,,{(~ t:"Ji->.:"' ~:;~·-:;·.-::<,.:. ~-~,, ~:rr.'=/;·/, t·:._, .. <.-/_~-~:--:-., ... .! ,_-. ; r. _,;/l'l­}i',"f-~u-~-,.,_ .--,~~-~-~ ~:.u·~:J ['~lu-..:;uf,.:,:'!:: ~ :f ,:·!-.~·""''·~· /-:.::.,.. ·/·~·/.::>__-.·· . -.;.> .. , !?r(l~f>.~:.~'r ( >··,-...f.fl..\ ... i" '?f:~l~·n-.,<i .'\ /..:"<,'.~ ..-.-.;/ ... , 
t ' . 

Please recycle The Observer. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 15, 2009 
ROWING 

Irish look solid in tune-up regatta 
By BRENDAN CORSONES 
Sports Writer 
Despite victories against Brown, Minnesota and Ohio State in Columbus, Ohio, over the week­end, Irish coach Martin Stone described his squad as "not up to spned." 
No. 18 Notre Dame fared well in the afternoon. capturing two race vietories and improving on five of the six race times from the morn­ing session. 
Stone praised the second varsity eight, who were able to improve from their third place finish in the morning session to second in the afternoon, shaving five seconds off their time to clock in at 6:36. The Irish lost only to No. 3 Brown, by four seconds. and bested No. 20 Minnesota by 14 seconds. 

The second novice eight also impressed, pulling ofl' lirst-place finishes in the morning over No. 15 Ohio State and in the afternoon over Minnesota. That squad also improved its time from 7:11 in the morning to 7:04 in the afternoon. 
The other squads were not as lucky, and although Stone "made some changes" and saw improve­ment, the first and second varsity fours could manage no better than third-place finishes in the morning and afternoon. 
The first varsity four fell to 

each session. The first varsity eight was beaten by Ohio State and Brown in the morning, and Brown and Minnesota in the after­noon. The Irish clocked in at 6:31 and 6:27, respectively. 
Stone said the "very good" com­petition had much to do with the finish, and he said he still believes the two varsity tour boats could be competitive in the future. 
Stone was pleased with the per­formances of the first novice eight, however, who grabbnd a victory in the afternoon session over Minnesota after falling to Ohio State in the morning. He described the novice boats as showing "a lot of promise." 
Looking forward to the coming Big East championships, Stone was cautiously optimistic about the tournament that his team was able to sweep all six races in last year. The Irish will be looking for their sixth straight Big East Championship, and Stone said it would be "tough to be great" in all six races as they were last year. 
He mentioned Louisville and Syracuse as two teams that could dethrone the Irish and keep them from another Big East crown. 
In regard to winning all six races, he said that if it did not happen, it would not be from lack of talent. 
"Could it happen? Sure," Stone said. "Can I guarantee it? Of 
Brown and Ohio State with a time course not, but we have a good of 7:24, and then in the afternoon shot in all the races." session to Brown again and Minnesota. The second varsity Contact Brendan Corsones at four lost to the same crews in bcorsone@nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Squad shuts out Ball State after Louisville loss 


Sigourney Weaver stars in this true story about a religious suburban housewife and mother, Mary Griffith, who struggles to accept her young son Bobby being gay. What happens to Bobby is tragic, and causes Mary to question her faith; ultimately, this mom changes her views in ways she never could have imagined. Also starring Ryan Kelly ("John From Cincinnati"), Susan Ruttan ("LA Law), Dan Butler ("Frasier) and Henry Czerny ("The Tudors"). Based on the book, ..Prayers for Bobby" by Leroy Aarons. 
Sponsored by: The Core Counc i I for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexua I & Questioning Students, The Gender Relations Center. Student Government & University Counsel mg Center 
e Fo P ra p sen 
The Cost of the Crisis: 
The Outlook for 
International Development 

Jeffrey Bergstrand, Rev. Robert Dowd,csc & Amitava Duff 
TONIGHT at 7:30PM-Coleman-Morse Lounge (1st floor) 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 

Momentum going into the postseason is important in any sport, but it can be essential for a young team like the Irish. 
And No. 20 Notre Dame (12­

10) took that momentum by fin­ishing off the regular season in dominating fashion with a 7-0 win over in-state rival Ball State Monday. That victory was especially crucial after a 4-3 loss to No. 24 Louisville Saturday, as the weekend was a microchosm of an up··and-down season defined by youth and a daunting schedule. 
"Coming into the season we knew we were going to have some highs as well as some lows, but as long as we kept improving we thought that there was a good ehance to peak at the right time," senior Brett Helgeson said. 
On Saturday, Louisville cap­tured an early lead as their first doubles team of Simon Childs and Viktor Maksimcuk barely upset Helgeson and Tyler Davis 9-8 (7-5). Maksimcuk followed that up with a win in second singles over Stephen Havens, bringing the score to 2-0. 
Sophomore David Anderson and freshman Casey Watt tied it up with straight-set wins at fifth and third singles. respectively. 
After Notre Dame dropped fourth singles but won at sixth singles, the match came down to the duel between the two highest-ranked singles players in the Big East: No. 24 Helgeson and No. 41 Austen Childs. Youth overcame experience in that battle, as the sophomore Childs took down Helgeson in the only three-set match of the day. 
The Irish brought it all together for the match on Monday, as they swept both doubles and singles against Ball State. Freshman Samuel Keeton, in his first start since March 1 against Wisconsin, put together a good showing with a straight-set win at sixth singles. 
Notre Dame's next stop is in Tampa, Fla., where the Irish will compete in the Big East championships. 
"The team has really put in the hours on and off the court and I believe we are prepared to defend our title at the Big East tournament," he said. 
Louisville's win on Saturday clinched the top seed, leaving Notre Dame to take the No. 2 spot. The Irish will face No. 7 Georgetown on Friday at 9 a.m. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 
Refreshments will be served. 

KELLOGG
. THE fORD fAMILY PROGR.A.M 
IN HuMAN DeVELOPMENT SruDit..S 

INSTITUTE 
AND SouDARITY 
For more information visit: kellogg.nd.edu/fordprogram 
Check out The Casual Observer at observersportsb log. wordpress.com. 

Wednesday, April 15, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
TRACK AND fiELD 
Strong showing encourages team 
MEN'S GOLF 
Irish play well despite poor finish at Kepler 
, •. 
... IS 
(Deadline~ v,gry) 
Recognized Clubs and Organizations must register on an annual basis with the Student Activities Office. 
Go to sao.nd.edu and click the link for Club and Organiza­tion Registration for instructions and online forms 
lAD 
SAOJID.EDU 


By ALEXANDER WEST 
Sports Wri rer 
After a solid performance from the entire team Saturday at the Ole Miss Invitational, the Irish set themselves up for the possibility of a successful run at the Big East championship and possibly beyond. 
Coach Joseph Piane couldn't praise his team enough after its strong performance . 
"We have some national class kids," Piane said. "Several kids qualified for the NCAA and Big East [championships]." 
Headlining Notre Dame's effort were dominating performances in the men's 800-meter run, where the Irish took the first five places and nine of the top 12. Juniors Blake Choplin and Jack Howard led the pack, finishing first and second, respectively. 
The men's team boasted several other top finishers. Junior Jake Walker took second in the 1500, and classmate Eric Quick also placed second in the long jump. 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Writer 
The Irish ended their weekend 
tournament on a high-note, shoot­
ing their best round of the Robert 
Kepler Intercollegiate on their way · to a 1Oth-place finish. 
"We struggled at [the Robert 
Kepler Intercollegiate]," Irish coach 
Jim Kubinski said. "Yet, we had 
split our starters between that event 
and the one that fmished up in 
Chicago today as a preparation 
strategy for our Big East champi­
onship. We felt that each player 
would benefit from a different 
preparation arena." 
The Irish started the two-day, 
three-round tournament with a 25­
over 309, before stumbling in the 
second round with a 31-over 315 
that put them in 11th place overall 
after the first day. The Irish fought 
back on the second day of the tour­
nament, though, recording a 21­
over 305 and moving back into 1Oth 
place in the 13-team tournament. 
"I was disappointed in our finish 
but pleased with the way our play­
ers competed," Kubinski said. "I 
liked the fact that our guys gave it 
their best in spite of not getting the 
scores we had hoped for." 
Notre Dame's all-conference jun­
ior Doug Fortner led the Irish in the 
Kepler Intercollegiate, finishing 14 
over par, good enough to put him in Sophomore Greg Davis took home fourth place in the hammer toss, and freshman Joe Miller claimed top honors in the 3000-meter steeplechase. 
The women's squad also looked strong, as junior Jackie Espinoza and senior Heidi Rocha won the discus throw and the 5000, respectively. 
"Everyone did an all-around great job," Piane said. "It's nice when we go out and perform well, but right now we're starting to focus on the Big East champi­onships." 
Other notable finishers for the women included a third-place fin­ish from junior Elise Knutzen in the javelin and sophomore Marissa Treece's second-place fin­ish in the 1500. Sophomore Theresa Cattuna also finished third in the 5000. 
The Irish return to action today and Thursday this week at the Mt. SAC Multi Event Relays in Walnut, Calif. 
Contact Alexander West at awest@hcc-nd.edu 

a tie for 18th individually, his third top-20 finish this season. His best round was his first, when he shot a one-over 72 in the morning on the first day. 
"[Fortner] is a very good college player right now," Kubinski said. "He can be an elite player. His final round was also outstanding except for two mental errors mid-round. He has to learn to stay mentally alert on every shot." 
The best score on Sunday in the last round of the tournament for the Irish came from sophomore Jeff Chen, who shot a three-over 7 4 to lead Notre Dame back into 10th place. Chen finished the weekend at 16-over, which put him in sole pos­session of 25th overall. 
"Jeff finished with a heck of a round," Kubinski said. "I liked the fact that our guys gave it their best in spite of not getting the scores we had hoped for." 
The Irish scoring was rounded out by junior co-captain Olavo Batista, who finished in a tie for 55th place, shooting a 25-over 238, and by junior Carl Santos-Ocampo and freshman Tom Usher, both of whom shot plus-26 239, putting them in a tie for 59th overall. 
Next stop for the Irish is the Big East championship on April 19 in Dade City, Fla. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 

Please recycle The Observer. 

page 20 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, April 15, 2009 
' 
I I I 
' ­
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
I 
' 
' 



Race starts at 8:00A.M. 
On the north side ofthe football stadium (race-day check in from 7:00-7:45am) 
Refre.sh~J~ents & T·Shirts to all Finishers Register i.n Adva.oce.. via RecReglster@ recspo.rts.nd.edu $15~00 In Advance or $20.00 Day of Race Advqnce Registration Ends @ 5:00 p.m. 4/17 



Wednesday, Aprill5, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Perfect 
continued from page 24 
"We just made plays," Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said of the dramatic fmish. "We won a cou­ple faceoffs, and we just had guys make some plays. The most important thing was winning the faceoffs so we had possession of the ball." 
Corrigan said Swezey's goal, especially, was the result of indi­vidual players taking the game into their hands. 
"For Duncan's goal, in all hon­esty, Pete Christman did a great job," Corrigan said. "He threw a triple team and got the ball to Neal Hicks who made a very dif­ficult catch and throw to Duncan who then made a great move and a great shot to finish it off. So there were three guys that made outstanding plays." 
The Pioneers (6-6, 1-2 GWLL) opened the scoring 12:55 into the game, with a goal by Andrew Lay. The Irish responded, though, with four straight goals to claim the lead. Junior midfield Grant Krebs and sophomore midfield Zach Brenneman scored in the opening stanza to give the Irish a 2-1 lead after one quar­ter, and two goals from Swezey extended the Notre Dame lead to three. 
After Denver's Todd Baxter cut the lead to 4-2, Brenneman found the back of the net again to restore the three-goal cushion. 
Another goal from Lay cut the lead back to two, but senior attack Ryan Hoff scored for the Irish just 22 seconds later. 
With three minutes left in the frrst half, Krebs scored again to push the lead to 7-3. The Pioneers, though, refused to go quietly, and two goals from Ben Wahler and Mark Matthews cut the lead to 7-5 at halftime. 
Denver continued its comeback attempt in the third quarter, as Matthews' second goal of the game was the only scoring in the period. 
The Irish appeared to be in the clear when junior midfield Kelly McKenna scored on a feed from Earl to make the score 8-6, but Denver's back-to-hack goals tied the score and set the stage for Swezey's game-winner. 
While Corrigan said he was pleased with his team's effort, he wasn't happy with the Irish defense in certain situations, such as man-down or directly off a faceoff. 
"We gave up a lot of goals in a lot of different ways," he said. "And that was disappointing because I think we can do better than that. But our 6-on-6 defense was very solid. We just need to do a better job managing the game." 
Senior goalie Scott Rodgers made 15 saves on the afternoon to push his record to 10-0 on the season as well. 
On the offensive side of the ball, the Irish continued to spread the ball around and cre­ate chances for multiple players. This time, it was Swezey who ended up with the hat trick, but six other Irish players have also done so this season. 
"I think the best thing we've done offensively throughout the year is share the load," Corrigan said. "We've got a lot of people contributing and that does make us hard to scout I think." 
Duke's upset win over Vrrginia Saturday meant that Notre Dame is now the only undefeated team remaining in Division I. Corrigan, though, was quick to dismiss any significance. 
"It won't matter if we lose the next three, so we're going to stay focused on trying to beat Quinnipiac on Saturday." 
The Irish will face the Bobcats next Saturday in Hamden, Conn. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
Aggies 
continued from page 24 
Frilling led the Irish dou­bles with an 8-4 victory, after being tied 3-3. Juniors Cosmina Ciobanu and Kali Krisik followed suit, beginning their match with a 4-4 tie, and ending victoriously 8-4. Junior Colleen Rielley and fresh­men Shannon Mathews fin­ished the Irish sweep with a nail-biter of a victory, 9­8. 
"We have three very strong doubles teams," Tefft said. "We are close to playing to our potential. We should win all of our doubles points." 
The Irish never let the Aggies truly get into the match once singles play began. No. 35 Tefft fought back in her match to take the point, 4-6, 6-4, 1-0. No. 37 Frilling then took her match easily, 6-1, 6-1, and the Irish rolled through the Aggies on their way to another victory. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Attention Seniors! 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions anticipates hiring Admissions Counselors this spring! 
As part of the Undergraduate Admissions staff, the Admissions Counselor is expected to make an important contribution to the recruitment and selection of the frrst-year class by managing relations with prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic territory. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel and communication \Vithin the geographic territory, assessment and evaluation of applications and conducting group/individual information sessions. Additional responsibilities will be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment and the Director of Admissions Operations. 
Among our candidates, we may seck individuals \Vho \Vill assist with our diversity recruitment efforts. 
Minimum Requirements: Candidates should possess a Bachelor's degree and strong familiarity \Vith all aspects of academic and student life at Notre Dame. Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, diplomacy and the willingness to \Vork long hours, including many evenings and Saturday mornings. 
Please 1"\Jote: Intemiews wil//?e scbedttfed qfter Apri/10. 
Pr~ferred statt date irJu!y 1, 2009. 
Application Process: To apply, please visit http://ND.jobs and apply to job #09123. 
The University of Notre Dame is cotnn1itted to diversity in its staff. faculty, and student body. As such, we strongly encourage applications from mctnbcrs of n1inority groups, \Vmnen, veterans, indiYiduals with disabilities, and others who \viU enhance our con1n1unity. 
i\.\/E()E. 
Bailers 
continued from page 24 

from the charity stripe for the whole game. 
The Bailers began the sec­ond half by missing their first four shots, and The Legends drew close. 
"We couldn't buy a basket," Bailers senior Doug Susco said. "It had a lot to do with the court too. We couldn't get our grip on the ball." 
With the Bailers up 18-17, the court was lined with spec­tators from baseline to base­line. The pressure seemed to get to both teams, as they both turned the ball over several times before Hughes ended the game on a free throw. 
"We let the game get real tight," BaUers captain John Dillon said. "We should have made the free throws but next game we'll hit them." 
No. 18 We Didn't Go to Jared's 21, The Smurfs 13 
Jared's got off to a slow start but eventually lived up to its lofty ranking to beat The Smurfs by eight. 
The Smurfs opened the game strong as freshman Grayson Duren seemed to make every shot he took. Duren scored The Smurfs' final seven points of the first half, as well as the team's first point of the second half. 
"We rely on skill a lot more than size or athleticism, so anytime we can make a couple shots we'll keep running and hoping to knock them down," Duren said. 
But Jared's closed the first half strong, as Andrew Cavanaugh scored six of his 12 points in the half, and Jared's led 11-10 at halftime. Jared's would then score the first seven points of the second half. 
"[Duren] looked like [NBA legend] Pete Maravich so we put our own little Pistol on him on defense," Cavanaugh said. "And we came out like gang­busters in the second half." 

Before long, Jared's had scored enough inside buckets to procure the necessary 21 points, and The Smurfs' hot hands went cold. 
"They were a lot bigger and a lot more athletic than us," Duren said. "Really, they were a better basketball team, so we were lucky to hang in there as long as we did." 
Going Pro In Something 
Other Than Sports 21, 3D 
Monkeys 16 
Going Pro pulled away at the end to defeat 3D Monkeys in a game that seemed to be tied for the majority of play. 

Both teams played competi­tively, never allowing the other to get on a run or gain any momentum. In the first half, junior center Kevin Brooks dominated the boards and tal­lied key put-backs to keep his team close. 
3D Monkeys broke the 10-10 tie to take the slight lead into halftime, but with the score knotted up at 15-15, Going Pro turned to its defense. The man-to-man pressure forced turnovers that led to lay-ups at the other end. 
"I think we performed at a high level, the other team played real strong, but we came back at the end and fin­ished them off real tough," said Going Pro captain Dave Crowley, a senior. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer 1 @nd.edu and Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 

j 

~ = The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
!r---~pa~ge~2;-========================~~~===================================W,=ed=ne=sd=ay=,A=p=ril=l=5,=20==09 ! ~ t 
t 
~ 
' 
~ ­•
' 
. 
. • •' 
• 
• 
:
. 
~­
~ 
' 
' 
•
•
.
. ' 








F NOTRE DAME 


NO Cover legends.nd.edu Valid ND, SMC, HCC ID Req'd Guest List Enforced 



Wednesday, April 15, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
1 0 Longest-serving 39 Friend from way,senator in U.S. 
Across  31 Out  
Ohio town called  34 Leaves after  
the Bicycle  dinner?  
Capital of the  35 Actress Naldi of  
Midwest  the silents  
Sitcom father of Mearth  36 All day every day  

way back
history 41 Opening for

14Sing _ 
outside? 

15 'The Love" 42 Spread
16 Be biased 44 Places for hops
17 Wedding flower girl, maybe 45 *Best Actor winner for ''The
18 Librarian's Champ," 1931
imperative 49 First P.M. of

19 It's below the Burma
elbow 20 *Bush cabinet 
50 Proto-matter member who from which the resigned in 2006 universe was 

23 Wall Street made earnings abbr. 
51 Real ending?24 Monopoly token 
54 *"Star Wars"25 Grand actress who's a26 *Her "Rehab" Harvard grad

won a Grammy for Song of the 58 New member of Year Ia familia 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

59 Simple quatrain form 
60 AI-Qatif, for one 
61 _Sea, outlet of the Amu Darya 
62 Small songbirds 
63 New Mexico county 64 Glowing 65 Old pump name 66 Livia, to Tiberius 
Down 2005 #1 album for Coldplay 2 Poet who wrote ''This is the way the world ends I Not with a ban~ 
but a whimper' 3 Incessantly 4 Ancient Peruvian 5 What some 
amusement park rides have 6 Rob of "Numb3rs" 7 A pint, typically, at a blood bank 8 Chew out 
9 Restaurant offering that might come with a toy 
101957 Fats Domino hit 11 Holler 12 Pretoria money 13 Strand material 21 Towel off 22 String after E 26 "No doubt!" 27 Prefix with liberal 28 180's 29 Factoid for fantasy baseball 30''1'mall 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Caleb Madison 
31 Fresh 46 Tennis's lvanovic 55 "Down with ...!": Fr.
32 "Livin' La Vida 47 City on the Rio Grande 56 Relative of a stork
33 Worldwide: Abbr. 48 Want ad abbr. 57 "Ciao"
37 Kiss 51 "No more for me" 58 Judging by their
38 ''The Bells" writer names. where
52 Congo, once
40 Stereotypically 
the answers to messy digs 53 Artist James 
the four starred 43 ''The Second 54 "I, Claudius" clues might be Coming" poet figure found? 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users; Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

ctu:nnrru;s ~toRN owrms o.w: sarah t.khdk Gdlar..~2: Rot><!n Carhk 41\; B""! Gandt <l'lc Juh<> Cbri>hc. M . 
Happy nkth<lay: y,,u ,·m1 mak" hif~ chau~••< m your life if you don't hnut your,df '"a W'"?rat>llical h.>elllt<m Tal;~ <Hl pr<.~"cts that an· ditkrcu! from what you W<1nld hat·c ••ou >l<lerc>t! iu the t}ast Suct<ku ~han~"' 111 pcr;on~l rd.ll!onships ~an t"' exp¢~k-d Do11't wast~ too m1..:h time :malylin~ a .;itmti'"' ftx1111 whtch it~~ hetter I<> w~.lk :~wa: Your munh~r> m-c'U(dl ~5. B.41.48 
ARIES tM~rch li-AprillJlo: If l'"" become twerly b:al<~u> ;m,ltalkttl\·e. yvumny pve away an itk~a yon have tn fHJnwonc.le~f, cre-ll~•w.•. Scevct!l .aud underhandt•d.rll'.~~s on your pan or th:H of30mt."'oac d~ svdl bnnp you down. ])~,.)n'r }!li~f iH\-'olvc-d. 5 $t~lr.:o. 
T\I'RllS •.April20-!'>1u~ llh: Take a w~l<l kx>k at yonr inve>tm~!ll$, bnk and <:f<>(lit card l"'lauces and any JOlllt Wlllllres you ~r.: mw,IH·d m. As>~<:s• yvur l""'llon and your ~lknm uvos. ·nm ts not the !uno to knd, borrow OT lake a chanct•. 5~1ars 
GEMINl !\lay 21·.1Utw 201: Dlln't let lite\ httk fltnbkms t'aU1X }Oil !!Hd If )oll 'lTC ini· Httc-d by -s:tunt.~'mc yt)tt1hou1;tht Y(lJ) t~uttld t'l"ly on, yw1 could '!Jtl '!«OH!ctlnnp~ dmJ wi.tl C·Ost y<>u tknt"!tlhe ·road. D<>1i! chang~ y<>ur plim> l~<:au,;e s<.lUte11tlC else <ll'<'s ..1 ~mrs 
CANCER (,}mt~ 21-,Jul~· 221: Ymt bw 11<1!hinr-to fc,tr, "' JlUUj) mt<> a new pm)t<'t or )!IOUp that offers 'omcthin)! a little dUleren! fmm wh:tt yo11 art· USt'd to Dort'l let your kd· itti!~ <onfux Yt'U. Dvu't let anyc,nc play on your cmotioth. J star:; 
LEO !july ZJ·Aug. 2Zl: Yonr big I~Kar1. g~nemsity and omspok<!nnes~ will tt•mpt •.lii~Krs to lake ad\·autape of you. Dtm'l protni<e anyone anytllm~ uuks' you ca11 aff<lrd it. Trip' ami ne~Oiiati<>r" shonld ll<' pm nn hold until you haw :t better dwnt·e of gellillf! your way 5 Sllffil 
VIRGO (Aug. :t\-&pL 121: You don't have to make a mme if you a~1t'1 reacly Qne>tion any<1ll< who is errnhc or '"'i"l' "lll<ltionnl blocklr•1il I<> C<>t."t'<'e you. Now is not tb" time to spentlm<>uey on yonr home or donate or pay fnr orhers. 2 stat'$ 
I.IBRA (Sept. ;B-Oct. ll): You can add a httle extra fla\'or 10 ronr life if you try some thin.(/, uew.TI1e fnem!s you make aud the inspiration yon get alon~ the way will lead to JlO>ihw dtange>. Temn II)J w1th someone who vahM" yvur skills. teduuql!e and your friendship. 4 star> 
SCORPfO {tkt.l.'-Nov. 21.1: Yon need to be around people who ,•ncournJ;!e and inspire yon. Personal and professionaltJal'lnmbip<s willjlrow if yon mingle and network. You can de•·elopor take a new appr'"tch. 4 stan 
SA(;ITTARU1S tNov. 22·1>«.11 1: Ifyon haven't built a 'trongtic to a fUOlll' you have been &alinjl with you, may be <'ttt out when you least expect Honesty and ime)ll'ity will be a necessity. Uu&rhandcdncss will catch up wtth you. 5 stars 
CAPIUCORN Hkc.2l-Jan.l9): You haw plenty of jlOOd tdeas to pu! into play and, if you 11ive them a dbtiuctiw spin, you will attrru:t interest iu what you are doing. Dou't giw in lo anyone lookm~t for a h:mdoutor donation or ll¢!10liatillj! anmlfair &al. J stars 
AQL\Rlt'S tJan, 20-Fcb.l8): You may he in • ge~~<'rons mood but, before you fall f"r a sob story. consider where your mon"y is l~t ~pent. Take into ~:on~idern!iou what you can do to makt' your life, and thai of yotu: family, lx;ncr. Don'! be too eager to make chanj!e~ or decisions. 4 ~tars 
PISt'ES {feb. 19-Marelt 20): Sit tight ami watch to see wbat everyone else docs. If you .itUllJl the gun or make a mow t!tat tsn't well l't.'<'eived. you wilt have trouble reversing your llccistou. Problems with personal and pmfes~ional partJt<.Tihips will tkwlop. 2 star.< 
Birtbday Baby: You are ~cnsiti•·c nnpredtctahle. enet)!etic and pas:>ionat". You are unique aud ~o·harismati.: ready lor auy dt<lllenge. 
www.BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 
THE DOME PIECE 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
DAVID CAVADINI 
WHAf'WIP YOtl WANNA CAts /1', SCtiM. Wll HIR/!1111' SINr6NC6 
YOtl T'O OtllfY6Ail OJ' 
RIJ/IP/NG rHI I'ORtlfPPIN 
POI.IGHNtlf'! 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City __________ State _____ Zip______ 
JUMBLE 

I I [ ] tSINOUF I

IIJ I I 
N8N .JtMli.E NINTENOO www.jumllle.oomlc.ls
t t
GRATTE

J [ J J I 

Ans: A [ 

I I I JrI I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) PROVE HAREM WALRUS FLUNK'tYesterday's IJumbles: 
Answer: Why she took the job at the coffee shop ­FOR THE "PERKStt 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WOAD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurel 

WHAT THf;: OAI~Y S 
FARMER FACE:O WHf;:N MIL-K P~ICf;:S TUMBL-ED. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form !he surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, April 15, 2009 
page 24 
MEN'S lACROSSE 
Team edges Denver to remain undefeated 
By SAM WERNER Associate Sports Editor 
With five minutes left in regu­lation, and the score tied 8-8, it looked like Notre Dame's unde­feated season might be in jeop­ardy. Denver had just netted two straight goals, including one man-down score, and the crowd at Invesco Field was ready for their team to spoil Notre Dame's perfect start. 
The Irish, though, had other ideas. 
Senior attack Duncan Swezey's third goal of the game broke the tie with 2:08 left in regulation, and sophomore midfield David Earl sealed the deal with anoth­er goal with 1:02 to give the No. 4 Irish (10-0, 3-0 GWLL) the win in the sixth annual Rocky Mountain Showdown. 
see PERFECT/page 21 

Still perfect 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
ND routs A&M to end season 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 

No. 4 Notre Dame finished its regular season with a 6-1 rout of Texas A&M on Saturday, but the Irish believe much lies ahead for the Big East's top team. 
As has become customary for the team, Notre Dame (21­
4) opened the match by win­ning the doubles point. sweeping all three doubles matches. Throughout the whole season, the Irish have lost the doubles point only four times, twice against No. 1 Northwestern. 
The No. 2 doubles tandem in the country of senior Kelcy Tefft and freshmen Kristy 
see DOUBLES/page 21 
ND SOFTBALL 

Squad crushes Connecticut, sweeps Wisconsin to stay hot 
Tuesday and the Huskies 12-4 really contributed to our solid In the first game against "Our team has really come
By MOLLY SAMMON Saturday. defense." Wisconsin, Notre Dame rallied in together, and everybody con­

Sports Writer 

Senior Brittney Bargar got the Clay, sophomore Brianna the seventh inning by scoring four tributed to the win," Clay said. win on the mound against Jorgensborg and senior Beth of its five runs. Clay and sopho­"Everyone is doing their job, and 
Notre Dame won its sixth Connecticut, giving up three Northway each homered against more Erin Marrone each con­it'll help us get farther in the straight Tuesday, sweeping host earned runs and striking out four. the Huskies, and senior Linda tributed home runs against NCAA Tournament." Wisconsin in a non-conference Bargar teamed up with sopho­Kohan notched thnm hito;. Wisconsin. The Irish will take on Villanova doubleheader three days after more Jody Valdivia for each of "Offensively, we've been on lire A successful weekend with three in Villanova, Pa., for a conference wiping out conference foe Tuesday's wins. lately," Clay said. "I was in a hit­more wins for the Irish should contest Saturday. Connecticut on the road. "Both of our pitchers, Valdivia ting slump, so hitting an opposite­help to prepare them for the ·chal­
The Irish (27 -13, 9..3 Big East) and Bargar, did really well," junior field home run against the wind lenges that the rest of the season Contact Molly Sammon at topped the Badgers 5-0 and 4-2 catcher Alexia Clay said. 'They felt really good." will bring .. msammon@nd.edu 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 

Ranked teams avoid upsets 
By DOUGLAS FARMER and 
CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writers 
When sophomore Robert Hughes led the No. 24 Steel City Ballers onto the court against The Legends of Notre Dame, the crowd expected a blowout. While the Ballers did prevail 21-18, they did not blowout The Legends by any means. 
The Bailers opened in a 2-1 ~2 zone, of which the Legends took advantage by hitting two jumpers for a quirk 2-0 lead. Soon there­after, the Bailers' more physical style of play yielded a few layups and n~bound put-backs. 
At halftime the Ballers led 11-8, with Hughes leading the effort with four points, despite only shooting 3-9 from the field. The Legends would have fared much better if they had done better than their 0-for-3 showing from the free throw line in the first half. The tmderdogs went 2-for-9 
see GWLL/ page 22 


BASEBALL 

Irish rained out, set to play at U.S. Cellular 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 

Notre Dame's scheduled game at Western Michigan Tuesday was canceled because of inclement weather. The Irish (20-12, 6-6 Big East) will resume action tonight against Northwestern at U.S. Cellular Finld at 8 p.m. 
Notre Dame lost two of thrnn games to Cincinnati over tlw wnnkend. Tlw Irish won the sncond ganw of a doubldwad­nr. (,-2, Sunday afternoon. Junior Eril: Maust pitclwd 7 1/3 innings and gave up two earned runs on six hits. The Irish broke a 2-2 tie in the eighth inning. 
Notre Dame dropped the first game of the doubleheader, 7-3, in part because the Irish defense committed four errors. Sophomore Brian Dupra threw a complete game -six innings because the game was short­ened for the doubleheader and the Bearcats didn't bat in the bottom of the seventh -but gave up seven runs, six of them earned. He struck out six, tying a career high, and walked three. 
Sophomore Cole Johnson kept up his stellar pitching, throwing 9 2/3 innings of two­run ball, but the Irish lost Friday 5-4 in 11 innings. Senior reliever Jeremy Barnes walked three batters in th1~ bottom of the 11th and allowed the Bean~ats to come back from down 4-2 and win. 
Tlw Wildcats 17-23. 1-7 Big Ten) have struggled so far this season. They have two three­game losing streaks in their past eight games and at one point this season lost seven straight. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 




