~-~~-~------~----------------------------------­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 44: ISSUE 4 FRIDAY. AUGUST 28.2009 
ND, SMC recognized in rankings 
U.S. News & World Report ranks University No. 20 
By ROBERT SINGER Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame fell two spots from No. 18 to No. 20 in U.S. News & World Report's 2010 ranking of the top universities in the nation released on Aug. 20. 
Harvard and Princeton tied for first, while Yale took third. The ranking placed the California Institute of Technology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Stanford University and the University of Pennsylvania in a four-way tie for fourth. 
Notre Dame dropped two spots this year because it received lower peer assessment ratings from other universi­ties, which account for 25 percent of the 
see RANK/page 8 
P.S. News & \Vorld Report 
National Universities rankings 
1. Harvard University 
1. Princeton University 
3. Yale University 
20. University of Notre Dame 

College placed in top 100 of America's Best Colleges 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's College cracked U.S. News & World Report's top 100 on their list of 2010 America's Best Colleges. 
For the third year in a row, the College has been named one of the nation's Best Liberal Arts Colleges, according to an Aug. 20 press release. 
"It is wonderful to be nationally rec­ognized for the academic excellence at Saint Mary's College," President Carol Ann Mooney said in the release. 
Saint Mary's was ranked 97th out of 249 schools across the country. Students are excited about the rank-
see SMC/page 8 
Innovation Park to open in October 
University seeks to expand its research impact, bring commercial enterprises to South Bend 
Innovation Park will concen­trate on "the step beyond research," as companies will develop practical uses for research performed by profes­sors and students at the University. 
Faculty members and grad­uate students are currently approaching Brenner with ideas for new businesses, he said. Many of the future clients of Innovation Park will be companies from the outside that are "looking to engage with the University," Brenner said. 
A relationship with the University is critical for com-
see PARK/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERYER.COM 
Student arrested, charged with rape 
Observer Staff Report 
A Notre Dame junior was arrested on campus Wednesday and charged with felony rape in connection with a February 2009 incident, according to campus security logs and local media reports. 
The student was arrested in or near his dormitory, Knott Hall, according to Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP} crime logs, during the 3 p.m. hour Wednesday. According to reports, the student was a member of the Notre Dame swim team, but is not cur­rently listed on the roster. 
The student was released from the St. Joseph County Jail after posting $5,000 bond, according to a WNDU report. 
The South Bend Tribune reported Thursday the felony rape charges were filed on Aug. 19 by the St. Joseph County Prosecutor's Office after police were called to investigate a case on Feb. 23 in Knott Hall. 
According to the charges filed by the prosecutor's office, a partially-dressed woman was found sleeping on the floor in the men's resi­dence hall wearing a shirt belonging to the accused stu­dent. 
When police questioned the student, he told officers the two had been at a party, "hooked up" and had sex, 
see RAPE/page 6 

By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
Innovation Park, a product development facility launched by the University, seeks to connect the private sector with the research arm of Notre Dame, according to Park President and Chief Executive Officer David Brenner. 
After breaking ground last September, the Park is sched­uled to open Oct. 23. 
The businesses that will occupy the Park's offices will "help take innovative ideas ... to viable commercial enter­prise," Brenner said. Work at 
Undergrads reflect on first week of classes 
By JIM FERLMANN 
News Writer 
As the school year kicks off. some students report tough classes while others enjoy the relatively easy workload during the first week. 
Catherine Russell, a sopho­more, said the first week of classes went great. 
"I have a few teachers that I already really like. I'm a new Business major, so it's like a new world for me," she said. "There are some class­es that are a lot harder than I thought they were going to 
be." She said her schedule is centered on requirements. 
''I'm taking four Business requirements and Italian and Theology, which is a require­ment too." 
Some students said they try to take advantage of the light workload to get acclimated to their classes. 
"During introductory week, you just take it easy and get your feet wet," said Ryan Ripp, a senior Finance major. "An easy second semester would be ideal, because four of the five classes I'm taking now are requirements. Hopefully I ca~ cruise into 
graduation with some easier electives." 
Christina McClain, a senior English major, said her first week of classes started off well. 
"Senior Seminar is a little daunting, but other than 
that,  everything  else  is  
good," she said.  
Anthony Conklin,  a  junior  

English major, said he always tries to strike a bal­ance between electives and requirements when forming his schedule 
"I have five required elec­tives in my major along with 
see CLASSES/page 8 

INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER B1 Block Party Saturday page 4 • Running backs preview page 28 • +500) Days of Summer review page 15 • Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Don't envy NDseniors 
When I was a freshman here, I was kind of jealous of the seniors. They didn't have to worry about awkward Frosh-0 events, finding their classrooms, or making friends. Their lives seemed so much more together than mine. 
Now that I've reached senior year, I'm starting to rethink that. Not much has really changed. 
Despite my best efforts, I still have really poor time management skills-which explains why I'm 
Irena Zajlckova
trying to write 
this column, fin­ish up another 
News
Observer article, and do 66 pages Production of reading for Editor class today all at the same time. 
Rather than worrying about mak­ing friends, I now worry about not seeing the ones that live off-cam­pus (luckily, until they learn how to shop for groceries and master the use of their shiny new ovens, it appears I'll be seeing my friends just as much as before, because they still come to the dining hall for every single meal). 
I still don't pay attention to where my classes are, or which classes I'm even going to. Yesterday, not only did I go to the wrong classroom, I went to the wrong building. 
Instead of worrying about what my major will be, now I'm worry­ing that all my major changes have pushed my GPA too low for me to get into law school. 
Professors still can't pronounce my last name. Actually, some still can't even pronounce my first name. 
I also still lose my 10 all the time. I recently dropped it into a chair in LaFortune and couldn't get it out. I don't even understand how that happens. 
And I definitely still make poor life choices. But now I make them at bars instead of at dorm parties. 
So yeah, it's just like freshman year. I'm actually jealous of fresh­men now. Freshmen are secure in the knowledge that they have four years here. As a senior, I have one, and then I have to leave and every­thing changes. 
I'm reminded of this a lot thanks to a particularly emotional friend who bursts into tears at random times, like while DARTing last spring or looking through an entire year's worth of facebook pictures at the library during study days. She'd go on a rant about how it was our last time DARTing {it isn't} or how after we graduate, we won't have any friends to take pictures with. 
So make the most of your time here, freshmen. It goes really quickly, so try not to waste it. Do as many fun things as possible and try not to freak out too much, because there are always things to worry about. And don't be jealous of the seniors, because we really don't have it as easy as you think. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko­va@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, August 28, 2009 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD BE ANY SESAME STREET CHARACTER, WHO WOULD YOU BE? 







Caitlin Ascherl  Stefanie Schwab  Emily Ehrman  Shelagh O'Brien  Alyssa Pinon  Christina Smotherman  
sophomore Le Mans  Freshman Regina  Freshman Regina  Sophomore Regina  Senior Holy Cross  Senior Holy Cross  
"I would be  "I would be Big  "I would be  "I would be  "I would be  "I would be Bert  
Snufalufagus  Bird because I  Cookie Monster  Grover because  Kermitt because  and Ernie  
just because. ''  have always  because I LOVE  he is a loveable  it's not easy  because I am  
wanted to be  to eat!"  monster."  being green!"  being white and  

tall!" 


Nude model arrested In New York Museum 
NEW YORK -It seems the only nudes allowed at New York City's Metropolitan Museum of Art are the ones in the collection. 
Police say they arrested a 26-year-old woman who was posing naked for a photographer, and in full view of visitors, in the museum's arms and armor department on Wednesday. 
Model Kathleen "K. C." Neill faces a charge of pub­lic lewdness. 
Defense attorney Donald Schechter says the museum is full of nude art, and to call what the model and her photographer were doing obscenity "is ridiculous." 
Photographer Zach Hyman directed the shoot. He's been getting some attention locally for photo­graphing nude models on subways. 
Hyman has said he's inspired by nude paintings at the Met and his photos are not pornographic. 
Narrowest home In New York worth over $2 million 
NEW YORK -It's 9 1/2 feet wide and 42 feet long and is billed as the narrow­est house in New York City. But there's nothing small about its asking price: $2.7 
million. 
Located at 75 1/2 Bedford 
St. in Greenwich Village, 
the red brick building was 
built in 1873, sandwiched 
in a narrow space that used 
to be an alley between 
homes at 75 and 77 
Bedford. 
The narrow house is con­
sidered a curiosity and is 
one of the neighborhood's 
most photographed homes. 
A small plaque on the 
house notes that poet Edna 
St. Vincent Millay once lived 
there; so did anthropologist 
Margaret Mead. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 



HIGH LOW 
nerdy!" 
IN BRIEF 
The film "Summer Hours" will be shown today at 6:30 
p.m. at The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are available online at performingarts.nd.edu or by calling the Ticket Office at 574-631-2800. 
Notre Dame Women's Volleyball will play Denver today at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse as part of a three day invitational. For ticket information, call 57 4­631-7356. 
Notre Dame Women's Soccer will play Loyola­Chicago today at 7:30p.m. at Alumni Field. For ticket infor­mation, call574-631-7356. 
Shakespeare at Notre Dame will present "Twelfth Night" today, Saturday and Sunday at 8 p.m. at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Performances will continue through August 30. Tickets are $12-35. 
RecSports will conduct Swim Lesson Assesments today from 6 until 8 p.m. at the Rockne Pool for placement into fall swim lessons. A make­up swim assessment will be held on Wednesday, Sept. 2. 
RecSports will hold a Biathalon at St. Joe's Beach on Saturday at 10 a.m. Registration is necessary, but the event is free. The biathalon will consist of a 1/2 mile swim and a 2 mile run. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

MONDAY TUESDAY 

74 52 


HIGH LOW 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~------­
Friday, August 28, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
'Hydration Station' installed at LaFortune 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
The Hydration Station, an alternative to a traditional drinking fountain, was installed last week between the men's and women's rest­rooms on the first floor of the LaFortune Student Center. 
"It is essentially a touch-free water bottle filler," Director of student activities facilities Ryan Willerton said. "It's something unique." 
To operate the machine, the student places his or her water bottle in front a sensor, which activates a stream of water that pours into the bot­tle. 
The Hydration Station replaced an older water foun­tain that was not consistently used and caused maintenance problems, Willerton said. Last June, he began to look at replacement options. 
The Haws Corporation mar­kets the Hydration Station as a cheap and environmentally friendly substitute for bottled water. According to the corpo­ration's Web site, the filter uses carbon to polish the water, and the sensor features a several second delay to allow the user to position their bottle under the spout. 
Willerton said the new sys­tem is comparable to a tradi­tional drinking fountain in its price and cost of maintenance. Like a water fountain, it con­nects to the main water line. 
Although the Haws Corporation has been produc­ing the Hydration Station for less than one year, Willerton said Notre Dame joined a number of other colleges and universities that already have the system on campus. For example, University of California Berkeley has two units in its Rec Center and the University of Alabama has 15 units in its dorms and athletic department. 
While considering the option of a Hydration Station, Willerton and the Student Activities Office contacted a former colleague who works at Penn State to ask about the Hydration Station on their campus. They also asked for feedback from student employees and student gov­ernment representatives who were on campus this summer. 
After viewing a sample machine, Willerton said the Student Activities Office part­nered with the Office of Sustainability to fund the pur­chase of the Hydration 

Sophomore Laura Philipp fills up a bottle of water at the new Hydration Station in LaFortune Student Center. 
Station. Senior Mark Manley said If the system continues to 
"It's a nice new addition," he that the Hydration Station receive positive feedback, said. "Every year we try to seems like a logical installa­Willerton said that additional change the student center and tion because it is touch-free units might be installed on add something new." and more sanitary. He com­other floors of LaFortune. 
Willerton said the Hydration pared it to the automatic hand "Everyone we talk to kind of Station is a great improvement dryers, sink faucets and soap raises their eyebrow and says, to the LaFortune Student dispensers in the LaFortune 'Wow, that's really cool,"' he Center because students, pro­bathrooms. said. fessors, staff and visitors can "I just saw it a few minutes all benefit from its installa­ago, and it looked interesting," Contact Laura McCrystal tion. Manley said. at lmccryst@nd.edu 
Take a Film Course in the Browning Cine1na! 
Italian Ntltioltal Ci1te111a 

Pro,j'essor ./()hn Jflelle 
LLRO 40545, rn· 40233, RO!T 40505 T R lJJO-3: !5 in!JrmtTiittg ('inema. DEPAC 

Taught in English ""'ith no pre-requisites 
Learn the hismry ofone <~/'the world's most renownt•d national cinemas. A.nuzvze greatjllms b.v Pastrone, Rossellini, Fellini. Pasolini, V1~wxmti and contempormyJi!mmakers. [/ndersumd the interaction between Italian histmy, film histm}', and national identiW Class meets in Browning Cinema in DEPAC. Fulfills universi(vfine arts requirement, F7T intemationalf1lm requirement, and Italian Studies electives. Instructor is an internationally recognized scholar specializing in the fu:<;tory C!f'Ita!icm cinema. 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, August 28, 2009 

Block Party set for Saturday 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
A back-to-school tradition for many, The Show, which brings well-known musicians to the Joyce Athletic Center, is not returning to campus this year. 
Instead, Legends of Notre Dame is holding the first ever B1 Block Party Saturday. 
The Block Party will feature artists Matisyahu and Eric Hutchinson in an outdoor event in the B1 parking lot near the restaurant and club. Food vendors and a beer gar­den -for students over 21 ­will be available. 
Aaron Perri, general man­ager of Legends, said the con­struction in the Joyce Center played a major role in the decision to discontinue the show this year. 
"The Block Party doesn't necessarily replace The Show," Perri said. "The Show just couldn't happen this year because of the construction and when we saw there wasn't going to be a major concert at the beginning of the year, we decided to fill the void with a Legends show. 
"But The Show could cer­tainly come back in its true form next year." 
In order to fill the shoes of The Show, Perri said the venue needed to accommodate a large number of students, so they decided to hold the con­cert outdoors in a more festi­val-like setting, 
"We wanted to fit in as 
many people as possible. We're expecting 6,000 people and they can't all fit in Legends," he said. "We've never really had anything like this on campus." 
The doors open at 5 p.m. for students to enjoy food and drink and several student and warm-up bands. 
Eric Hutchinson will take the stage at 7:30 p.m. and Matisyahu, at 9:30p.m. 
Student body president Grant Schmidt said student government was asked for 
input when Legends and the Student Activities Office were reworking the entertainment for the begin­ning of the school year. 
"A lot of us at ND always
comment on the challenge of getting big names to NO's campus and 
lights." 
Freshman Matt Nelligan said he is attending the Block Party, even though he had previously never heard of Matisyahu or Eric Hutchinson. 
''I'm just going to meet peo­ple," he said. "It's a great way for freshmen to get to know more people." 
Freshman Grace Corrigan said she also bought tickets to the Block Party to socialize. 
"It sounds like fun," she said. "I think even if I didn't know who the bands were, I would 

"We've never really had anything like this on campus. " 
Aaron Perri General Manager of Legends 
also comment on the need for events that can really bring the student body together," he said. "I think Saturday will be huge." 
In the past, The Show com­mittee has struggled to get big names to commit, so the Block Party worked to make the venue a draw, as well as the artists, Schmidt said. 
"This is basically the first of its kind," he said. "For this concert, the venue and the event as a whole are the high-probably go just for the atmosphere." 
Sophomore Mia Stenger said she attended The Show last year as a freshman, but was not impressed with the atmosphere and perform­ances. 
"I left after about five 
minutes," she said. "It was boring." 
But Stenger said she is con­sidering attending the Block Party. 
"It seems like it will be more fun than The Show," she said. "It's better outside than in the Joyce Center." 
Tickets for the Block Party are available for $10 at ww.b 1 blockparty.com 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

New SMC Finance Vice Pres. takes office 
By SARAH GUNN News Writer 

Citing Saint Mary's strong reputation as an undergradu­ate institution as a draw to the area, Richard Speller takes on his new position as vice presi­dent for Finance and Administration at the College. 
Speller has worked as the vice president of Finance and Administration at DePauw University, vice president for Finance and Treasurer at Arcadia University and vice president for Business Affairs at Jamestown College. While fulfilling his duties at the College, Speller remains inter­im chief financial officer at DePauw. 
"The vice president for Finance and Administration (VPFA) serves as the College's chief financial officer, oversees all matters related to the administrative and financial management of the College and is the primary steward of Saint Mary's financial, human and physical resources. The VPFA is responsible for the supervision of the financial and administrative functions of the College," Speller said of his new role. "The VPFA is also responsible for providing the leadership and vision nec­essary to develop and oversee prudent fiscal strategies that assure continued financial strength of the College includ­ing short-and long-range financial planning and analy­sis, modeling and investment management." 
The new vice president said he wants to "further the suc­cess of Saint Mary's College as it seeks to achieve its next, higher level of institutional aspiration." 
"Saint Mary's College does a lot of things very well, and I would hope to contribute to the continuing evolution of the [College]," Speller said. 
Speller was drawn to the position at Saint Mary's because of the College's "out­standing reputation." 
He said he wanted to contin­ue to work at a "selective pri­vate college in a more urban setting." 
As for the current economic recession, Speller said the College has been affected "just as it has put financial pres­sure on all of higher education and families across the coun­try." 
Because of this, he said, there is a stronger demand for "good management practices." 
However rough the economy may be right now, Speller says that Saint Mary's has "the strength and capability to weather these recessionary pressures." 
Contact Sarah Gunn at sgunnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



Donation establishes new scholarship 
Special to The Observer 
University of Notre Dame gradu­ates Mark W. and Stacey Miller Yusko of Chapel Hill, N.C., have made a $35 million gift to their alma mater to establish a new undergraduate scholarship pro­gram. 
The Yuskos' benefaction equals the third largest gift in the University's history and will be directed to the creation of the Hesburgh-Yusko Scholars Program, a comprehensive merit scholarship and enrichment initia­tive that will seek to attract talent­ed undergraduate students to the University and provide them with the tools to become transforma­tional leaders in the image of Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame's president from 1952 to 1987. 
"On behalf of Notre Dame, I want to extend my most sincere appreciation to Mark and Stacey for this extraordinary gift," Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., the University's president, said. "Their generosity is matched only by their vision for this scholarship pro­gram, and we look forward to working with them for many years to attract high-caliber students and nurture their gifts so that they might have an enduring impact on the University, the nation and the world. 
"Father Hesburgh's service to society is legendary, and I have no doubt that this program will pro­duce young men and women who follow in his footsteps." 
Mark Yusko is the founder, presi­dent and chief investment officer of Morgan Creek Capital Management, a registered invest­ment adviser that provides invest­ment management and advisory services based on the university endowment model of investing to wealthy families, individuals and institutional investors. Stacey Yusko is the director of the Chapel Hill-Carrboro Meals on Wheels program and a member of Notre Dame's advisory council for the College ofArts and Letters. 
"We are excited about making a significant difference in the future of Notre Dame and building a pro­gram that will further enhance the University's ability to produce graduates who will make signifi­cant impact on our world," the Yuskos said. "Notre Dame made a tremendous difference in our lives, and we are honored to have this opportunity to further enhance the educational and spiritual mission of Our Lady's University." 
Twenty Hesburgh-Yusko Scholars will be selected annually by an advisory committee from a pool of qualified admitted students nominated by a network of approved high schools and the University's admissions staff. The students will be chosen based on distinguished academic accom­plishments, exemplary integrity and moral character, demonstrat­ed leadership abilities, and a com­mitment to a life of service embracing the values of Catholic social tradition. 
Each scholar will receive four years of merit scholarship awards of $25,000 per year. Other compo­nent<; of the program will include a complement of fully funded sum­mer enrichment experiences, sem­inars and service-learning projects during the academic year, career advising, and alumni mentoring and networking. 
"This is more than just a schol­arship program," Notre Dame Provost Thomas G. Burish said. "It is a comprehensive initiative designed to fully engage the select­ed scholars and cultivate their God-given talents. I join with Father Jenkins in thanking Mark and Stacey for this wonderful gift." 
Mark Yusko earned a bachelor's degree in biology and chemistry from Notre Dame in 1985 and a master of business administration degree in accounting and finance from the University of Chicago. Prior to founding Morgan Creek Capital Management in 2004, he served for six years as president and chief investment officer of UNC Management Company, the endowment investment office for the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. From 1993 to 1998 he was a senior investment director at Notre Dame. He is a director of Carolina Meadows, the Weaver Foundation and MCNC, a not-for­profit organization that advances education, innovation and eco­nomic development in North Carolina. 
Stacey Yusko earned a bache­lor's degree in English from Notre Dame in 1986 and a master's degree in library science from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. She is active in local service and education programs in their community and is a director of the Morgan Creek Foundation, the North Carolina Museum of Art and Carolina Performing Arts. The couple previously established endowment<; supporting aeademie enrichment at Notre Dame, with a focus on the Department of English and the Ward-Phillips Lecture Series, and on faculty hir­ing support programs within the Office of the Provost. 




ORLD & NATION 
Friday, August 28, 2009 CoMPILED FROMTHE 0-ssERVE:P:s WlRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Korea discusses reuniting families 
SEOUL -North and South Korea have no major differences on resuming reunions of families separated by the Korean War, reports said Thursday, but are far apart on the issue of South Korean prisoners of war and civilian abductees believed held in the North. 
The dispute emerged on the second day of rare talks between the two sides on arrang­ing reunions of families separated since the war ended in 1953 in a cease-fire, not a peace treaty, according to reports by South Korean media accredited to cover the talks. 
The meeting, which opened at North Korea's Diamond Mountain resort on Wednesday, come as the communist regime adopts a more conciliatory stance toward South Korea and the U.S. after months of animosity over its nuclear and missile pro­grams. 
Iran revokes claims involving the U.S. 
TEHRAN -Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Kharnenei said claims that opposition leaders had links to Western powers have not been proven despite widespread allegations of foreign meddling by hard-liners. 
The comments late Wednesday appear to mark a significant shift away from the assertions of others in the Islamic leadership, including President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, that the United States, Britain and other nations had a direct hand in guiding the violence and outrage following the disputed June 12 elections. 
It also could spill over into the trials of more than 100 pro-reform activists and politicians, including some who have offered statements say­ing foreign agents helped stoke Iran's worst inter­nal unrest since the 1979 Islamic Revolution. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Mother in abduction hoax imprisoned 
DOYLESTOWN, Pa. -A white suburban mother who placed a 911 call claiming two black men had carjacked her -but instead flew to Disney World with her child to escape a looming arrest -was sent to prison Thursday for nine to 23 months. 
Bonnie Sweeten, 38, pleaded guilty in Bucks County Court to identity theft and fil­ing a false police report, misdemeanors that typically bring probation. 
But a judge offended by Sweeten's per­formance on a 911 tape said her hoax led to a frantic national search, traumatized her daughter and, perhaps worst of all, tore open society's racial wounds. 
"Your wants, your needs, your wishes and desires came before everybody,"Judge Jeffrey L. Finley said. 
Sex offender kept victims in a shed 
PLACERVILLE, Ca. -A woman who was snatched from a bus stop as an 11-year­old child in 1991 turned up Thursday after being held for the past 18 years in isola­tion in a backyard compound by a convict­ed sex offender who fathered two children with her, police said. 
The details about her time in captivity emerged after Jaycee Lee Dugard surfaced at a police station in Northern California, nearly two decades after she vanished out­side her home. 
LOCAL NEWS 
IU addresses tuition concerns 
INDIANAPOLIS -A top state lawmaker said Thursday that Indiana University is making progress in addressing his concerns over tuition increases, so he is putting two time-sensitive IU projects back on the agen­da for possible state approval. 
Republican state Sen. Luke Kenley of Noblesville, chairman of the State Budget Committee, previously removed IU and Purdue projects totaling $53 million from Friday's committee agenda because he was upset over their tuition increases. 
IU recently approved an in-state tuition increase this school year of 4.6 percent. 
Kennedy begins final journey 
Thousands pay tribute to senator along 70-mile route to Boston 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Sen. Edward 
M. Kennedy began his fmal journey Thursday, frrst past landmark after landmark bearing his family's famous name and then to his slain brother's presidential library where mourners lined up by the thousands to bid farewell to him and an American political dynasty. 
Crowds assembled along the 70-mile route that snaked from the family's compound in Hyannis Port, along the Rose Fitzgerald Kennedy Greenway, past the John F. Kennedy Federal Building and by the JFK stop on the city's subway system. 
Finally it came to the John 
F. Kennedy Library and Museum, where his body lay in repose. As many as 12,000 people waited in line to file past his closed casket and mark the end of a national political chapter that was equal parts tri­umph and tragedy. 

For many, it was hard to untangle Kennedy's larger­than-life role as statesman from his role as neighbor and local celebrity, whether he was taking a turn con­ducting the Boston Pops or throwing out the frrst pitch Caroline, daughter of for­rental near the Kennedy assassinated. for the Red Sox. mer President John F. home, where a U.S. flag flew Several enlarged photos 
"It was Teddy's home Kennedy, and Maria Shriver, at half-staff in Kennedy's showed events in Kennedy's team. It just seemed appro­daughter of his late sister memory. life -meeting with Martin priate to leave him the cap," Eunice; and his son Patrick "The Kennedys and Luther King Jr., reading to a said James Jenner, 28, plac­Kennedy, a Rhode Island Hyannis and the Cape, they school girl. A rosary hung ing a Sox cap he was wear­congressman. just kind of go hand in over a picture of Kennedy ing near the entrance to the Before the motorcade hand," said Nylan, 38, who standing in his office. library. "It symbolizes every­departed, mourners crowd­said people had been stop­Echoes of the Kennedy thing that he loved about his ed the end of the barricaded ping near his house to leave history were hard to miss as home state and everything road leading to the family flowers since Kennedy died the motorcade traveled he was outside the Senate." compound. late Tuesday. through the city. 
The motorcade started its Virginia Cain, 54, said she On Main Street in down­Kennedy's wife, Vicki, put trip in Hyannis Port, at the walked 2 miles from her town Hyannis, flags, flowers her hand over her heart as Cape Cod home where summer home in Centerville and personal notes lay at the procession rolled down Kennedy's family held a pri­so she could watch the pro­the base of a flagpole out­Hanover Street in the North vate Mass. Eighty-five cession and witness history. side the John F. Kennedy End neighborhood, past St. Kennedy relatives traveled "I can remember where I Museum, where about two Stephen's Church, where his with the senator's body to was when President dozen people gathered. mother, Rose, was baptized the John F. Kennedy Library Kennedy died, and I'll Someone had placed an and where Kennedy later and Museum, where the remember where I was old Kennedy campaign sign eulogized her. The crowd Senate's third-longest-serv­when the senator left with a new inscription: "God applauded, and his niece ing member will lie in Hyannis Port," she said. bless Ted, the last was first," Caroline and other family repose. A bouquet of white and referring to his ascension to members acknowledged 
Among those accompany­yellow lilies lay on the lawn political greatness after his them with a wave from their ing Kennedy were nieces of David Nylan's vacation two older brothers were cars. 

PAKISTAN 

Bomber attacksPakistanibordercrossing 
Associated Press intelligence officials said. of Ramadan. The border had closed 
Pakistan's lawless border with for the day a few hours earlier. 
PESHAWAR -A suicide bomber Afghanistan is a main front in the Ali Raza, an official in the admin­attacked the main border crossing battle against al-Qaida and the istration office, said he heard a for convoys ferrying supplies to U.S. Taliban, who are destabilizing both huge explosion in the building next and NATO troops in Afghanistan, countries. Under heavy U.S. pres­door. killing at least 19 security officers, sure, the Pakistani military has "We rushed out and saw destruc­officials said. launched ground offensives and air tion all around," Raza said. 
The strike Thursday raised fears attacks on the insurgents in recent He said several of the wounded that the Pakistani Taliban is months, but much of the region told him the last thing they remem­regrouping and making good on its remains under militant control. bered was seeing a boy approaching word to carry out revenge attacks The suicide attacker walked up to carrying what they thought was following the slaying of its leader, a group of border guards outside water. It was unclear if the boy was Baitullah Mehsud, in a CIA missile their barracks at the Torkham the bomber. strike earlier this month. checkpoint in the Khyber region At least 19 people were killed and 
Also in the border region, two U.S. and detonated his explosives, local 20 wounded, according to Fazal missiles hit a suspected militant police officer Sadiq Khan said. The Akbar, the head doctor at Landi compound, killing six people, the victims were breaking their daylong Kota hospital, where all the victims latest in a string of such attacks, fast during the Islamic holy month were taken. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, August 28, 2009 
evening, except that she had University spokesman been drinking in a dorm Dennis Brown could not be
Rape 
room and at a "swim house" reached late Thursday for continued from page 1 party. comment, but Brown told the When police asked the Tribune that NDSP did inves­
according to the charges. woman if she remembered tigate the incident. 
The woman had a blood­having sex with the student, The St. Joseph County alcohol level of 0.13 and, she told officers she would Police and Prosecutor's according to the charges, never have consented to have Offices could also not be told police she did not sex with him, according to reached late Thursday for remember much about the the charges. comment. 




Park 
continued from page 1 
panies seeking to work in Innovation Park, according to Brenner. 
"We want to ensure that every one of our clients have a point of engagement with the University," he said. 
He cited using Notre Dame­owned patents and research and hiring the University's fac­ulty and staff as possible points of engagement. 
The University views Innovation Park as a way to "take its research impact on the world to a higher level," Brenner said. 
Other major research univer­sities "have a place for their ideas to go develop," he said. 
"We're an ingredient for the University to get from where it is to where it wants to go." 
Currently, Notre Dame allows many of its innovative ideas to go elsewhere to develop, but Innovation Park should allow those ideas to stay in South Bend, according to Brenner. 
Innovation Park looks to take companies to "a stage where they're ready to grow," Brenner said. It will help them build a support system and will encour­age them to stay in the South Bend area when they are ready to grow. 
"We want to make them feel like putting their roots down in the area," he said. 
Brenner said a similar prod­uct development park estab­lished by Purdue more than 20 years ago has added between 2,000 and 3,000 jobs in West Lafayette. 
Undergraduate students have a role to play in Innovation Park, according to Brenner. 
"A lot of companies are ask­ing if there's a role for students to play as interns or part time employees," he said. "We're working with the Career Center and student employment as we start to bring in clients. We want students in there helping with the work." 
Brenner also said that stu­dents will be hired to help run the building, as is the case in other buildings across campus. 
"Students can learn useful life lessons," he said. "We were very excited to have students around as interns over the sum­mer." 
Innovation Park is funded by multiple sources, including fed­eral, state and local govern­ments, the University and pri­vate donors. 
The economy has not delayed the Park's opening, Brenner said. Companies are still inter­ested in moving into the Park, and while "the economy slowed them in putting the pieces together," it hasn't been a real problem. 
Many companies are current­ly in final negotiations to move into Innovation Park. Brenner said he expects occupancy to steadily build throughout the remainder of the year. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiemel@nd.edu 






l®lllS'!intMm's 
Hotel & Suites 
Availability for the following football weekends: 
Washington & Connecticut 
THE OBSERVER 


USINESS
Friday, August 28, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
stocks 

Dow 9,580.63 -;-37.11
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2.004 146 1,671 2,269.690,739 
S&P 500 235 . .:1 l +.65 
NlKKEf(toitYDJi !!i!ll!il11ilfBvf!J,J[~I'~[i'i~~~ wiiJii 
FTSE 100 (London) 4.R69. 35 -21.23 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAlIll PRICE CITIGROUP INC (C) +9.07 +Al 5.05 FANNIE t-1AE (FNH) +3.78 •<L07 L92 S&P DEP RECIEPTS (SPY) +.2:2 >0.23 103.40 FREDDIE MAC (FRE} + 10.34 +0.21 2.24 
Treasuries 

10·YEt\R NOTE +.70 ·0.0240 3A6 13·1NEEK BILL ·3.45 ·0.000 0.14 30·YEJ\R BOND ~>.71 +0.03 4.23 
5·YEAR NOTE +1.55 +0.080 2:.49 
Commodities 
·JO 72A9

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) 
+LSO 947.30

GOLD ($/Troy oz.) 
PORK BELLIES (cents;ib.). ·0.65 75.80 
Exchan e Rates 

YEN 93..7250 EURO 1.4359 POUND 1.6265 CANADIAN$ 1.0884 

IN BRIEF 
FEC allows campaign funds for staff 
WASHINGTON -Federal regulators ruled for the first time Thursday that campaign funds can be used to help pay the legal bills of current and former congressional staffers. 
The Federal Election Commission decided that Rep. Pete Visclosky's campaign committee could be tapped to pay these legal expenses. The Indiana Democrat is under investigation for his ties to a now-defunct lobbying firm, PMA Group. He and members of his current and former staff have been subpoenaed by fed­eral investigators. 
The agency previously had allowed campaign funds to be used only for legal expenses of officeholders or candidates. But this time around, the commissioners voted 5-1 in favor ofallowing the practice. 
FEC Chairman Steven T. Walther was the sole member to vote against the advisory opin­ion, saying he was concerned that there was not enough information to determine in some cases whether a former staff's legal bills would have been incurred independent of their work for Visclosky. 
Another commissioner, Donald F. McGhan, voted to allow the funds to be used, but said that using campaign funds to pay for legal fees raised some ethical questions. 
Ford to add shifts at plants 
DETROIT -Ford Motor Co. said Thursday that it would add a third shift to production plants in Michigan and Missouri to meet increased demand for its F-150 trucks and Escape crossover vehicles. 
The moves offer specifics about Ford's plan to increase production of cars and trucks in the fourth quarter by 33 percent over 2008 levels to a total of 570,000 vehicles. 
Ford is gaining market share in the U.S. and two of its vehicles -the Focus and Escape -were among the top-sellers under the government's Cash for Clunkers program in July and August. 
The Dearborn, Mich.-based automaker said earlier this month that it would increase pro­duction to replenish inventories depleted during the clunkers program, although it expects September sales to fall below July and August levels. 
Data shows recession may be ending 
A small drop in the economy hints at recovery; analysts say growth is likely 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Further evidence the recession is ending came in a report Thursday confirming that the economy shrank at an annual rate of just 1 percent in the spring. 
Many analysts say growth likely returned in the cur­rent quarter. Smaller dips in consumer spending and other areas during the April­June period led some econo­mists to raise their forecasts for the July-September quarter. 
But with unemployment aid claims stubbornly high, Americans may benefit little from a recovery if jobs remain scarce and spending stays too low to fuel a strong rebound. 
The Commerce Department estimated that the U.S. gross domestic product, the broadest gauge of economic health, shrank at an annual rate of 1 per­cent in the second quarter. The new estimate of the nation's output of goods and services was the same as an earlier estimate released last month. 
The negative figure marks a record fourth consecutive quarterly decline. But it was far smaller than the nose­cent of total economic activi­job prospects, won't likely be sharpest back-to-back dive the economy had taken ty, fell at an annual rate of 1 able to take up the slack, he declines in a half-century. during the previous two percent in second quarter. It said. · The four straight quarterly quarters. was a slight improvement Unemployment is not declines in GOP mark the 
Businesses did slash from the 1.2 percent decline expected to peak until next first time that has occurred inventories at an even reported last month. spring, probably somewhere on government records dat­greater rate than had been Gault predicted the econo­above 10 percent. The job­ing to 1947. expected in the spring. But my will gain momentum in less rate is now 9.4 percent. The recession that began economists were encour­the current quarter and final White House economic in December 2007 is the aged by upward revisions to three months of this year as adviser Christina Romer ear­longest since the Great consumer spending, exports businesses switch from trim­lier this week said the unem­Depression. It's also the and housing construction. ming stockpiles to rebuilding ployment rate is likely to hit deepest as measured by the Analysts had expected the inventories. He expects the 10 percent this year. drop in GDP, which is down second-quarter economic GDP to jump to above 3 per­Economists think the unem­3.9 percent from its previous figure to show a drop of 1.5 cent in the July-September ployment rate will inch back peak. percent, quarter, boosted by the Cash up to 9.5 percent for August, Even though economists 
"The big surprise in this from Clunkers auto pro­with 220,000 more jobs lost, expect the economy to start report was that there was gram. down a bit from 247,000 in growing again in the current enough spending in the con­Growth likely will remain July. That report is sched­quarter, signaling the end of sumer sector and elsewhere around 3 percent in the uled for release next week. the recession, that won't to offset all the loss from fourth quarter, Gault said. The 1 percent dip in GDP mean the end of job losses. inventory reductions," said But then it could slip in the in the April-June quarter fol­Businesses likely will contin­Nigel Gault, chief U.S. econo-. first half of next year as the lowed declines of 6.4 per­ue to keep tight control over mist at IHS Global Insight. support from inventory cent in the first quarter and labor costs until they see 
Consumer spending, which rebuilding begins to fade. 5.4 percent in the final three more evidence that the accounts for about 70 per-Consumers, faced with bleak months of 2008, the recovery will not falter. " 


New coupons mean users clip less 
Associated Press or some embarrassment in using them. On a recent shopping trip to the gro­
But as the economy worsened, frugal cery store, Englebert tucked a clutch of 
PORTLAND -Electronic coupons, became cool and their popularity grew. offers under her tattooed arm. Besides arriving by cell phone, Twitter, e-mail Use of electronic discounts and the store's printed circular, there were and Facebook, are helping generate an coupons more than doubled in the first manufacturers' coupons she'd gotten by old standby's comeback and bringing in half of 2009 compared with the same e-mail and coupons she'd bought on new, younger customers. period last year as overall coupon use eBay. Using in-store sales and coupons, 
Many shoppers, especially young con~ rose 23 percent, according to coupon­she bought 14 items -including maca­sumers like 30-year-old April Englebert, processing company Inmar Inc. They roni and cheese, meat and other items used to reject coupons printed in news­· now account for more than 3 percent of __:_ for a grand total of $5.98, saving papers and direct-mail booklets as passe all coupons used, up from roughly 2 per­$24.88. or cumbersome. cent in 2008. Englebert said she spends about five 
But Englebert, an accounting clerk in While they still represent a small part hours a week hunting for coupons ­Portland, Ore., was so thrilled when she of the total coupons used, they have checking her favorite blogs for the hot cut her monthly grocery bill from $500 strong potential -growing quickly and deals of the day, searching manufactur­to $300, mainly with electronic coupons, providing a new way for shoppers to er Web sites for special promotions and that she recruited friends and co-work­stretch increasingly tight budgets. finding groups on Facebook or through ers to try them. ~It does take some significant outside Twitter feeds among other tools. She 
"It's awesome," Englebert said. forces for people to wake up and pay even hits eBay where something like a "There is a lot offree stuff to be had." attention to the savings opportunities $5-off coupon may not be of any value to Coupon use had been declining since avail<;tble to them," said Matthew Tilley, someone who isn't going to use it but is 
1992 as consumers found less need for director of marketing for Inmar. worth the 99 cents she might pay for it. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, August 28, 2009 
Rank 
continued from page 1 
overall rankings, said Dan Saracino, director of Undergraduate Admissions. 
The peer assessment por­tion distributes surveys to three officials at each univer­sity -the provost, president and chief of Admissions ­and asks them to rate other schools on a 5-point scale. 
In addition to considering the opinions of other universi­
sities in the country, so if we weren't in the top ·20, that might be a concern. But we're in the top 20. Does it occupy a great deal of attention in our daily work? Not at all." 
This year's lower ranking should not deter next year's applicants, according to Saracino. 
"There has been research done that shows students don't choose colleges because of rankings," he said. 
Saracino mentioned some positive aspects of Notre 
Dame that are 
not weighed 

ties, the U.S. News & World Report ranking is also based on  "We don't go about .our business in admissions with a""'"  by the ranking system, including financial sta­ 
faculty strength and class size, graduation and retention rates,  focus on the ranking or believe in gaming the system...,  bility and the percentage of students who graduate in  
student selectiv­ four years.  
ity, alumni giv­ing rate and financial aid. Saracino said  Dan Saracino director Office of Undergraduate  "I think there are other things that should be  
that while the  Admissions  looked at," he  
University takes  said.  "Given  
note  of  the  the economic  

rankings, the administration situation in the country, I does not base decisions on think it's reasonable for par­them. ents to know what the finan­
"We don't go about our busi­cial stability of the institution. ness in admissions with a If the economy continues to focus on the ranking or sputter, will programs have to believe in gaming the system," be cut?" he said. "We like to be recog­Notre Dame is one of only nized as one of the top univer-several universities on the list that has been awarded a triple-A credit rating from Moody's Investors Service, Saracino said. 
Saracino said the "Student Selectivity" criterion of the ranking system allows other universities to boost their scores in ways that do not enhance the quality of educa­tion they offer. 
Because this .portion rewards a lower acceptance rate, universities can increase their point total by encourag­ing students who have test scores below the minimum threshold for consideration to apply, Saracino said. 
"This ranking system rewards those who act ques­tionably," he said. 
University administrators also expressed criticism of how the rankings are calcu­lated. 
"While we recognize that the U.S. News & World Report survey serves a useful func­tion for some prospective stu­dents and their parents, we are on record for more than 15 years as having reserva­tions about its methodology," University spokesman Dennis Brown said. "That said, by any measure, we believe Notre Dame belongs in the top 20 of any survey of under­graduate institutions." 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 
SMC 
continued from page r 
ings, but some say it wouldn't have affected their decision to come he~e. 
"I think it is cool and well­deserved, but it doesn't make a difference in how I feel about the school," junior Jennifer DeMarco said. ''I'm glad we are ranked in the top 100, but the only thing that would have had a real effect on my decision would be the top 10." 
These rankings do follow closely with Mooney's goals that she set at the beginning of her presidency with the College. She made a strategic plan for the College that the school has been working towards since she began in 2004. 
.Mooney said in a press release that she realizes par­ents and high school students look to the rankings when choosing the best college or university for them. 
"We know that prospective s\udents and their parents 
put value on these rankings and we are very pleased· to be listed in the top 100 liber­al arts colleges," Mooney said. 
According to the Report's Web site, they rank schools according to their category, which is determined by the size of the school, the major programs offered and region. It then takes colleges and universities within the cate· gories and awards them points. 
Factors include admissions scores, selectivity, graduation rates, the commitment to undergraduate teaching and retention and graduation rates. After weighing all these aspects, Saint Mary's scored 51 out of a possible 100 points. 
Saint Mary's was also rec­ognized by the Princeton Review earlier this year as Best in the Midwest, a title it has held for the past seven years, which is when the Review began its Best Regional College category. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at 
acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Classes 
continued from page 1 
the general requirements," Conklin said. ''I'm taking my last lecture requirement and . all of my major electives as well. I'm still trying to figure 
out what to do with the rest of the year." 
Renae Barilar, a senior Business and Italian double­major, said after three years, she is used to the rou­tine of the first week of classes. 
"It's going to be a hard semester but I'm excited for 

it and I like all of my profes­sors," she said. ''I'm getting close to graduation now so I have all required classes. Next semester, I'm going to a have a lot more leeway in what I take." 
Contact Jim Ferlmann at jferlman@nd.edu 

tJ MUiiaAimiSludenlProgoms CJldSeMces


(4 . 
Presents 


Religious Attire in the Secular World 
(An ilteraAfudcblgue) 

$5.00 Footlongs Available 
OFF CAMR...US!
. ··r;::;:·· 
(I nchnling locations Selo 


*SR 23@ Ironwood *SR 933 Norih *Downtown *Speedway SR 2 3@ Edison 
*Indian Ridge Pia za 


r----------------------------------~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-----------­
Friday, August 28, 2009 The Observer + NEWS page 9 



Tourist boom causes rifts 
Associated Press 
ON THE RIVER CAM, England --On the surface, it is the stuff of English post­cards --champagne-swilling tourists gliding down the River Cam and listening to the lore of Cambridge University. 
But a nasty undercurrent runs through this river, an otherwise placid waterway that snakes past Cambridge's many gothic buildings 
Competition for the rich tourist trade has increased recently among operators of the historic wooden tourist boats called punts --a trade estimated at 2.5 million pounds ($4 million) a year. In some cases, the scramble for profits has turned ugly. 
This month, two boats were cut to pieces with an electric saw--the apparent work of a punting rival. In other inci­dents, operators have cut moorings with bolt cutters, chained punts together or sunk boats to sabotage each other's business. Last year, one man dangled a competi­tor over the railing at Magdalene Bridge. 
"They've been grabbing each other's throats, throwing drinks over each other; it's been out of control," said Tom Lohman, a 30-year-old punter who plies his trade on the 14­mile (23 kilometer) River Cam. 
Punts --narrow wooden boats piloted by guides using wooden poles --have long been a popular feature of Cambridge life. 
The guides wearing tapered vests can be seen steering the boats across the shallow river year round, cracking jokes or charming their passengers with anecdotes about Isaac Newton and other famous alumni. 
Tours go for 10 to 15 pounds per person, although prices can be higher for spe­cial tours. Those interested in steering the punts on their own can also rent a boat for about 15 pounds an hour. 
Punt guides are usually young, although most aren't Cambridge students and don't work year round. Remuneration tends to hover around Britain's minimum wage (about 5 pounds an hour or 12,000 pounds a year; $19,500) although Lohman said there was more money to be made in the busy summer months. 
The Cam Conservancy, the body charged with managing navigation on the waterway, said competition has increased, in part, because it can't limit the number of punts on the river. Cambridge City Council said scuffling between punters has generat­ed a flood of complaints from tourists and colleges. 
"We've put an awful lot of staff time into dealing with this," said Alastair Roberts, the council's safer communi­ties manager who said the body is now devoting more money to enforcing regula­tions on mooring and solicit­ing business. "It is a signifi­cant issue for the city." 

There are more than 200 traditional punts and nearly 60 of the newer wide-beam boats meant to carry a dozen tourists at a time, according to the Cam Conservancy. The number of boats has swelled in the past five years. 
Conservancy deputy manag­er Jonathan Wakefield said that while overcrowding had become a problem in the past five years, his organization's remit was limited to verifying a punt's safety. 
"Even in this past year it's gotten more and more tense," said Dan Scott Lintott, 17, as he guided his punt down the river. 
Although incidents are often hidden from tourists or observers, many say the ten­sion is palpable. 
"That guy gives me a lot of animosity," Scott Lintott said, jabbing his pole into the bot­tom and pausing to look at another punter --a blond man with an upturned collar. 
Ann Turner, a 65-year-old from Saltaire in northern England, said some of the promoters hustling tourists on to the river were aggres­sive. She said she was approached four times. 
"There does seem to be a crowd of them," she said. "Some of them are a little too much." 
Checkpoint spending dravvs govt. scrutiny 
Associated Press 
DALLAS --Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said Thursday that politics did not influence the decision to spend millions of dollars in stimulus money on little-used border checkpoints while passing over higher-priority projects. 
Members of Congress have asked for answers after The Associated Press showed that the Obama administration did not follow its internal priority list when handing out money to repair border stations nation­wide. 
Two Montana senators have taken credit for securing money for projects in their state, includ­ing $15 million for a border crossing that sees about three travelers a day. Democratic Sen. John Tester said he and col­league Max Baucus personally appealed to Napolitano to make that and other Montana projects happen 
At a Dallas news conference Thursday, Napolitano said the AP story "was just wrong and I'll say that because there was no kind of political issues involved there." 
The AP reviewed the depart­ment's priority list, which showed that some low-priority projects were being funded ahead of more pressing needs. Officials would not allow AP to keep or publish the list and would not provide justifications for deviating from it. 
On Thursday, the AP renewed its request for the department to release its justification for deviat­ing from the list, which Congress requires to be updated annually. 
A House oversight committee has added the checkpoint proj­ects to its investigation into how the stimulus money is being spent. The top Republican on that committee, California Rep. Darrell Issa, sent Napolitano a letter Wednesday, questioning why some projects leapfrogged others. 
In promoting the stimulus, President Barack Obama banned "earmarks," which lawmakers routinely slip into bills to pay for pet projects, and he told agencies to "develop transparent, merit­based selection criteria" for spending. 
But Customs and Border Protection, which sets the priori­ties for all border station projects nationwide, said it would not provide the priority list. Officials said the list was just a starting point and would be too easily misunderstood. Officials said they could select projects out of order for any number of reasons. 
Napolitano has acknowledged that politicians can influence an administration's spending plans. A busy border station in her home state, for instance, was ranked No. 34 on the master pri­ority list. But as governor of Arizona, she lobbied hard to get it at the top of the Bush adminis­tration's spending plan. 



We accept the Lord's call to pledge ourselves publicly and perpetually as members ofthe Congregation ofHoly Cross by the vows of consecrated celibacy, poverty and obedience. Great is the mystery and meaning within these vows. Andyet their point is simple. They are an act oflove.for the God whafirslloved us. 
-Constitutions ofthe Congregation of Holy Cross. V.43 


Join us as our brothers in Holy Cross profess their perpetual vows and consecrate their lives to Christ forever. 
Saturday, August 29, 2009 2:00p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 


vocation.nd.edu 
page 10 The Observer + NEWS Friday, August 28. 2009 
TAIWAN 
China critical ofTaiwan, Dalai Lama 


Associated Press 
TAIPEI China on Thursday denounced Taiwanese President Ma Ying­jeou 's decision to allow the Dalai Lama to visit the self­ruled island, casting a shadow over rapidly improving rela­tions between Taipei and Beijing. 
However, Beijing appeared to stop short of deliberately undermining Ma's stature and jeopardizing the budding ties across the 100-mile-(160-kilo­meter-) wide Taiwan Strait. 
Ma's announcement which followed an invitation to the Tibetan spiritual leader by officials from Taiwan's pro­independence opposition ­surprised many. The China­friendly leader has made a priority of seeking better rela­tions with the mainland and just last December nixed plans for a visit by the Dalai Lama in what was deemed an attempt to placate Beijing. 
China has long vilified the Dalai Lama for what they say are his attempts to fight for independence in Tibet, which has been under Communist rule for decades. 
Ma said Thursday he was approving the Dalai Lama's visit because it could help ease the island's pain after the dev­astation of Typhoon Morakot, the storm that struck Taiwan earlier this month at the cost of an estimated 670 lives. 
"The Dalai Lama could come to Taiwan to help rest the souls of the dead and also pray for the well-being of the survivors," he said. 
Office of the P1:esidem Repubu~, of Chiu fTaiwau) 

Taiwanese President Ma Ying-jeou delivers a speech Thursday. China denounced Taiwanese President Ma Ying-jeou's decision to allow the Dalai Lama to visit the self-ruled island. 
In its first official comment on Ma's decision, China said it "resolutely opposes" the Dalai Lama's visit "in whatever form and capacity." 
Quoting an unnamed official at the State Council's Taiwan Affairs Office, the state-run Xinhua News Agency said "the Dalai Lama is not a pure reli­gious figure." 
"Under the pretext of reli­gion, he has all along been engaged in separatist activi­ties," the official was quoted as saying. 
Taiwan's Mainland Affairs Council -the Cabinet-level body responsible for relations with China -declined to com­ment on the Xinhua report. 
Xinhua did not mention Ma by name, placing the blame for the Dalai Lama's visit 

Bernanke's identity 
stolenwithwife's purse 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-No one is safe from identity theft, not even the chairman of the Federal Reserve. 
Ben Bernanke's personal checking account became entan­gled in an elaborate identity­theft scheme after his wife Anna's purse was stolen last August at a Capitol Hill Starbucks. According to a District of Columbia police report, it contained her Social Security card, checkbook, credit cards and IDs. 
It's not been revealed how much money was stolen from the Bernankes' account. But some­one started cashing checks on their bank account just days after the purse was stolen from her chair. The thefts helped fuel an ongoing investigation into a sophisticated ring. 
Losses from the fraud totaled more than $2.1 million and involved at least 10 financial institutions, court document said. Clyde Austin Gray Jr. of Waldorf, Md., a suspected ring­leader in the scheme, pleaded guilty on July 22 in Alexandria, Va., federal court. 
The banks bore primary responsibility for the losses and the victims' accounts, including the Bernankes, were most likely made whole. 
"Identity theft is a serious crime that affects millions of 
Americans each year," Bernanke said in a statement. "Our family was but one of 500 separate instances traced to one crime ring. I am grateful for the law enforcement officers who patiently and diligently work to solve and prevent these fmancial crimes." 
Prosecutors wrote that Gray hired pick pockets then made counterfeit IDs for the partici­pants. The coconspirators con­ducted the bank transactions, and Gray took a cut of the pro­ceeds. 
At least one check from the Bernanke account for $900 was deposited Aug. 13, 2008, into the account of another identity theft victim at a Bank of America branch in suburban Maryland, according to an affidavit filed in 
D.C. Superior Court. Authorities alleged that George L. Reid, 41, of Washington, cashed checks that day amounting to at least $9,000 in a string of transactions after the fake deposits inflated the related account balances. 
Bank of America spokes­woman Tara Burke said Thursday, "We're looking into it. We're still gathering facts." 
Brian Lapidus, an identity theft expert with Kroll Fraud Solutions, said it's not unusual to hear of high-ranking officials caught up by identity theft. His firm has worked with celebrities, senators and others who have been victims. 

squarely on the opposition Democratic Progressive Party. The distinction appears to be a deliberate Chinese effort to make clear its displeasure with Ma's decision, without necessarily pushing him into a corner. 
Such nuance is understand­able. 
In his 15 months in office, Ma has turned the corner on his DPP predecessor's anti­China policies, bringing the Taiwanese and Chinese economies ever closer togeth­er, and speaking in favor of a peace treaty with Beijing. 
The moves have reduced tensions between the sides to their lowest point since they split amid civil war in 1949, and raised hopes for an even­tual solution to one of the 
world's most enduring con­flicts. 
Ma's decision to approve the Dalai Lama's visit came a day after leaders of seven munici­palities hard hit by Morakot issued a joint statement invit­ing the Dalai Lama to visit storm victims from Aug. 31 to Sept. 4. The invitation from the leaders was issued as Ma faced charges that he botched the government's response to the island's deadliest storm in 50 years. 
The invitation put Ma into a bind -either risk angering China, or give further ammu­nition to the opposition, which accuses him of hewing too closely to Beijing's line. 
It also created great difficul­ties for Beijing. The commu­nist leadership is trying to build on its historic rap­prochement with Taiwan while at the same time seeking to isolate the 7 4-year-old spiritu­al leader whom the mainland accuses of fomenting sepa­ratist violence in China-held Tibet. Too harsh a reaction risks alienating Taiwanese while playing down the visit might encourage other gov­ernments to welcome visits from the Dalai Lama -some­thing Beijing has battled mightily to discourage. 
Taiwan and Tibet share sim­ilar histories. Both are territo­ries that Beijing believes should be under its rule. Despite a failed 1959 uprising that sent the Dalai Lama into exile, China controls Tibet and has refused the Tibetan reli­gious leader's request for greater autonomy. 

Wednesday THEATRE MEET & GREET September 2 Lettrn ttbout the rmmy opportunities in theatre at 6:00pm Notre Dame 11nd meet our theatre faculty and students. Following the MEET & GREJ:n;· there ulill be: 
AllDI110NSfor l'HE SUGAR WIFE kY Elizabeth Kuti Directed by Siiti Scott B024, Rehearsal Studio 
rihursday AUDITIONSfor September 3 THE SUGAR WIFE kY Elizabeth Kuti 6:30pm Din'cterl by Siiri Scott Dedo 1he,ure 
AUDITIONSfor New Playwrights W0rkshop presenting 
CARGO and SCATTERED VOICES 
Works by student t1uthors, directed by Anton juan Cultumlly diverse indit,idua!s itwitt,d to rtudition and ca/lb,u·ks will be announced B024, Rehears11l Studio 
Friday CALLBACKS FOR September 4 "l'HE SUGAR WIFE 6:30pm Decio 7hMtre 
Friday, August 28, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 

~r: an•.krast is t.hc-most irQPOrtaat ..... aftbe day••• WJt..c•n ~•• U anyli.-al Le-Pccp! 
~loauy-friday 6:l0-l:88pna S.turda)·-Suaday 1:GG·2:00pra 
Luke we are reallyglad you decided to stay! 


GO IRISH! 
1%7 S.. ~lichi1an Sired Downtown Soutb Be-ad lii·P£EP lie CrouP" \\,c-lconar .... c•ll aht-ad 
:J:hank~ for making us vour favorite ~reakf~¥! and. lunch place 
ND Coupon 
Buy one rnlrt-c-and Jt"t tiM­SKond talrH-% oR' \'"a lid throtr&h 10/4/09 
Go IRISH! 

page 12 
THE OBSERVER 
Th~ lntkpnuknt, Daily Newspapn-&rving No~rr Dam~ and Saint Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINF5S MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber ScENE EDITOR: jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERI1SING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CoNTROLLER: Patrick Sala SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
ViEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO1 @saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OBSERVER ONLIN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qtmtions regarding ObsmJeT policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chiefjenn Maz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The ~(USPS 599 2-40<10) i$ published Monday through Friday c::~ during exam and VKation periods. A suhscriprion ro The Ohscrv;;r is $12Q-fOr one:: OI,CI.dcmit: pr; $65 fur ODL' scmesr~ 
Th< Observer is published '" POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall St!nd addres!i conettiom to: 
Notre Dame, IN 465-56..0779 Thcabs<rv.r Periodkal postag_e paid ar Notre Dame P.O.Jloxn9 and additional: mailing offic(!. 024 Sourh Dining Hall 
Nom: Damt, lN 465:56--0779 

The Observer i5. a m<:mber ofthe k....ociatcd Press. All rtproduction rights m 
'~· 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT 
Friday, August 28, 2009 
Catching up with the Ivies where it counts 
U.S. News & World Report announced its annual potential that no other university has. Best Colleges 2010 last week, and Notre Dame has When it comes to the U.S. News & World He port fallen two spots in the rankings. After a tie with we'd like to point out an interesting correlation Emory and Vanderbilt for 18th among national uni­between aeademic excellence and perceived doueh­versities in 2009, Notre Dame was passed by both iness -tho four douchiest schools (Brown, Duke, southern schools and fell to 20th. Princeton, Ilarvard, respectively) all are ahead of 
Though we are sure that this is cause for con­Notre Dame in the Best Colleges ranking. Clearly cern, and are prepping our transfer applications to this is no coincidence. We believe that if Notre top-19 schools as we write this, there's a different Dame could just be recognized for being the douch­set of rankings that we'd also like to iest college, it would find itself near the bring to your attention. top of the list of Best Colleges in 2011. 
GQ Magazine recently put out its inau­Then again, no rankings tell the whole gural list of America's 25 Douchiest os~ERVER story. U.S. News & World Report may Colleges. The eclectic grouping of believe that there are 19 better places schools ranges from the obvious (Duke, to be getting an education. GQ might
Editorial 
No. 2) to the obscure (Deep Springs, No. 5). Notre Dame ranked No. 15, but we believe, just as in U.S. News & World Report, we again might be underrated. 
As the home of the "moral douche," GQ notes the favorite Notre Dame student pickup line: "You know, I thought about the seminary, but then I decided it wasn't for me. If you know what I mean. " 
It is this perception of Notre Dame as the home of the mere moral douche that left us at No. 15 in the rankings. We think we can do better. When it comes to douchiness, a unique convergence of ath­letics, legacy and Catholic guilt give Notre Dame a 
think that there are only 14 larger col­
lections of douches among the nation's universities. But we know that neither number really says anything about the quality of this uni­versity, or the students who attend. Though it can be entertaining to attach numbers and assign rank­ings, it is missing the point. We are all at Notre Dame, and not any other school with any other ranking, because we know that this is a special place, and that no number could ever encapsulate what Notre Dame means to each of us individually. At the dawn of the new school year, we say: Enjoy this place. Make the most of your time here. 
And try not to be a douche while doing it. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports QUOTE OF THE DAY 
QUOTE OF THE DAY Madeline Buckley Laura Myers Laura McCrystal Michael Blasco Molly Madden Molly Sammon 
"No matter what side ofthe "You may be disappointed ifyouGraphics Viewpoint argument_lJOU are on.. you always fail, but you are dogmed if you do 't 
Jaclyn Espinoza Michelle Maitz find people on your slile that you try.
wish were on the other. " 
Scene Adriana Pratt Beverly Sills 
Jascha Heifetz U.S. opera singer Russian-American violinist 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Friday, August 28, 2009 page 13 
The freshmen hippies of Lyons Hall 
Forty years ago today, we Lyons Hall freshmen had barely completed a week's worth of school work taught by eminent University professors as well as mere graduate assistants wearing sweaters and smoking pipes to appear more pro­fessorial. During the Fall of 1969, our chaotic and iconic decade was in decline, but most of us had no idea how our lives and time could someday come full circle. Those who were most relentless in their desire for a peaceful society were labeled "hippies." 
That autumn was the first time in Notre Dame history that every dormito­ry on campus reserved a fourth of its residential space for freshman. We each chose a typical freshman dormito­ry like Stanford and Keenan. None of us imagined that a computer would thrust us to the outreaches of the South Quad. Lyons was an uppe_r-class study hall with grade point averages bottoming out in the 3.8 range. But in a matter of weeks, my class of freshman hippies shattered that reputation with a flurry of course failures and pink slip warn­ings. 
In 1969, the world-and more 

directly the Notre Dame computer ­bestowed a mix of blessings and curses like my 8 a.m. classes every day, including Saturday morning. Yet thanks to that computer, the first freshmen of Lyons became lifelong friends. Blue-col­lar conservative-thinking, Vietnam War-supporting, short-haired Democrats like me survived random placement. My Orange County, Calif. conservative Republican roommate who worshiped the free market system brought his girlfriend and mother to help him move. His mother left after two days ... his girlfriend after two weeks. 
Our other two New England long­haired, peace-advocating liberal hippy roommates anchored their half of the 318 quad. One left school after a month. The other hippy roommate, Jim Hynes, had just attended an outdoor festival in New York called Woodstock. His large flowing, curly Afro-styled hair dwarfed his face and thick, geeky glass­es as he passionately described the incredible music and ultimate love-fest in the mud. Someone called him "Hairman," which has stuck as his nickname now for four decades. 
Gradually we nicknamed our diverse group of guys with abbreviations like Murph, Sol, Leps and Kelly along with more cryptic names like the Duck, E­well, Ratman, Bird, Mouse, the Cretan and the Pumpkin -our late class pres­ident, Steve Pallucca, who not only shared his birthday with John Belushi, but lived "Animal House" with us years before it was ever written. In 1969, we were a society scarred by the raging Vietnam War, and yet I could laugh at the Pumpkin's antics while learning personal generosity from him. 
Blue-collar students learned what wealth lay beyond their neighborhoods. Chicagoan and fellow freshman Mike Paulius sometimes worked 12-hour days at his summer job in a steel mill for two solid weeks to defray tuition. Being indoors all summer left him with uncharacteristically pale skin. He too believed Woodstock a chaotic failure until hearing Hairman's firsthand account. 
Our generation's now classic music evolved through genres like Led Zeppelin's new heavy metal sound or The Beatles' "Abbey Road" album. It was a year when "Sesame Street" excit­edly debuted in hopes that low-income children could learn through the medi­um of television. Yet "The Brady Bunch" premiered between the Charles Manson mass murders and the My Lai Massacre in Vietnam. Senator Ted Kennedy drove off a bridge killing his passenger, but NASA launched four Apollo missions which included two moon landings. 
Our government prepared the first military draft of us freshmen. At Harvard University, nearly 300 students seized a building where 45 were injured and 184 arrested. Protests con­tinued through the convergence of the civil rights and women's rights move­ments with the first gay protest at Stonewall. All were labeled hippies. Nationwide, my fellow freshman hip­pies used Woodstock as the benchmark of free speech and equality for the anti­war, gender and civil rights movements. Music resonated as the soul behind our ideals of civility and sharing. 
Some places are made sacred by the people and events that grace them. Today, as the Class of Lucky '13 finds its way on campus, they may hear the songs of generations past whispering to them if they dare listen. The blood of the Notre Dame bricks gently oozes if they but look. Insight comes when step­ping away from the crowd. Truth derives from unconditional acceptance of others, and respect for all of mankind. In many ways, today is no dif­ferent than 1969. It merely has fewer freshmen hippies. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a communications strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs direc­tor in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
U-WIRE 
Proposed texting-vvhile-driving ban is 
federal overreach 
Our fast-paced society appeared seemingly overnight In a span of only a few years, the world imploded: suddenly anyone and anything was attainable on little more than a whim. 
This explosive, or implosive, socie­
David Rlegner

tal change wasn't without its fair share ofgrowing 
Iowa State 

pains: Internet stalkers, phishing University scams, Nigerian Iowa State princes, Y2K, I Daily Love You e-mails, poorly planned 
software "updates" and literally countless other prob­lems that appeared over time. Once again, we, as a society, are navigating a technological 
obstacle course of our own creation. 
We've created a monster, but a ban on tex­ting while driving isn't the answer. 
My beef with an outright ban on drive-texting is not with the ban itself; simply put, it's a stellar idea It will remove a dangerous condition from our roadways and certainly make them safer and more pleasant for everyone. My problem lies solely with the backhanded, sneaky and overbearing way in which the federal govern­ment is forcing its hand 
Ifyou're unfamiliar with the basics of the Constitution then you may not yet see the issue at hand A brief, over simplified, lesson in con­stitutionallaw: ifthe Constitution doesn't expressly say the federal government can do something, then it can't 
At least, that's the idea. 

Our founding fathers realized that the Constitution could not possibly cover all future situations so they added the 1Oth Amendment. This amendment states that any power not specifically given to the federal government is left to each state's government to decide indi­vidually. 
This simple and elegant system has been abused, re-interpreted and mangled beyond all recognition. The federal government forgets the lOth Amendment with amazingfrequency. Sometimes, an issue that could easily be left for the states to decide isiron-fisted in Congress instead. 
No example is as poignant or easy for citizens to understand as the "federal" drinking age. Contrary to popular belief, there is no federally­mandated drinking age. Under the National MinimumDrinking Age Act of 1984, the federal government has the power to withhold 10 per­cent of a state's highway funds should it fail to setits legal drinking age at 21. Technically, states still have a choice, but from a practical standpoint they do not. 
We're standing by idly as our federal govern­ment mires itselfin yet another constitutionally­questionable situation where a state's rights are ignored. The texting ban is currently framed in exactly the same way as the drinking age. States failing to pass a ban on texting within a time limit would face a 25 percent reduction in annual federal highway funds. 
This is my issue with the texting ban: when laws are structuredto intentionally use tax dol­lars as leverage, the states lose their individuali­
ty. 

The federal government has taken 50 hostages, and with budgets already teetering on the brink, they know state governments will knuckle under and give in to demands to avoid complete meltdowns. 
A ban on textingwill undoubtedly make roads safer, but that does not mean that the federal government needs to put sanctions on its own states to achieve this goal 
First and foremost, each state has unique cir­cumstances that will help makes roads safer. For instance, a texting ban may make congest­ed roads in New Jersey safer, but perhaps South Dakota would be better served enforcing speed limits and adding more streetlights and guardrails. 
Why should South Dakota be penalized for prioritizing different ideas than New Jersey? In a country as vast as the United States it's naive to think that an overarching law can solve all problems in all locations. 
Secondly, no highway funds are tied to bans on eating, reading, putting on make-up or countless other distractions. Ifthe federal gov­ernmentis going to regulate the roads, they should do it right or not at all. Half-baked plans never satisfY like a well-baked cake. 
Finally, states should be encouraged to pio­neer new ways to make roads safer. The feder­al government should focus less on penalizing andimplement a system that rewards states for using their own methods. This allows states to experimentwith ideas without fear of fund­reductions. 
Rather than requiring a texting ban, states could be required to reduce road accidents by 10 percent before 2015 using any policies they see fit. This would promote a combination of many methods for the advancement of road safety not just those the federal government has selected. 
Certainly a 10 percent reduction could be attained by a plethora of ideas, including adding traffic signals and street lights, increas­ing police patrols, banning more distractions, improving driver education, imposing teen driv­ing restrictions, resurfacing more frequently, adding guard rails, purchasing more snow plows in northern states or creating congestion reduction projects. 
Each ofthose ideas is a good one, but eachis best-suited for specific situations, which the fed­eral government should not attempt to dictate. 
Banning texting is a good idea, but that does­n't mean we should support this bill. Sometimes you can do the right thing the wrong way. Sometimes being safe isn't as important as being free. Sometimes whatis right doesn't need to be mandated Sometimes states should be permitted to progress ontheir own terms. 
This colmnnfirst ran in theAug. 26 edition of The Iowa State Daily, the daily newspaper servingIowa State University. 
The views expressedin this colmnn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of7he Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 14 
Friday, August 28, 2009 
Back to school playlist 

by Jess Shaffer 1 ~~she Wolf"-Shakira 
2 _j "New In Town"-Little Boots 3 _j ~~candy,-Paolo Nutini 
4 _j "Sweet Dreams (Beautiful Nightmare)"-Beyonce 
5 3"Eiectric Feel"-Katy Perry Cover 6 _juwhatta Man"-Salt NPepa 7 _j"It's Not Fair"-Lily Allen 8 _j "Good Girls Go Bad"-Cobra Starship 
9 _j •Australia"-The Shins 
9songs, 
Back to School, 36.7MB 
L__.__________________ JACLYN---ESPINOZA I Observer Graphic 


By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Scene Wrirer 

On Saturday from 5 to 11 p.m. Legends will host one its biggest events to date -the B1 Block Party -in the B 1 parking lot outside of Legends. The 6,000-person party will feature reggae/hip hop sensation Matisyahu, backed by pop band Eric Hutchinson and two student bands, Samurai Jim and the Pat McKillen Band. There will also be appearances by OJ That's Right, New Orleans' New Wave Brass Band, the RhythmWorks Drum Team, BET's OJ ProStyle and OJ Cartiac live from the Legends rooftop. 
How did Notre Dame go from having The Show the first weekend back to a huge outdoor party with some of the nation's top performers? Says Legends General Manager Aaron Perri, "The idea arose from ... the confidence I had in the Legends team to pull something like this off ... I can't think of a better way to showcase what we do here at Legends week in and week out than to unleash the Bl Block Party right at the beginning of the year." 
The party is open to all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students and will be complete with a huge Lollapalooza-style main stage, promotional giveaways, cornhole, a text to screen and LED video walls. The first 2000 through the door will receive free Chipotle chips and guac (that's right, free guac). Popular food chains including Chick-Fil-A, Sonic, Papa Murphy's Pizza, Kona Ice and ND Concessions will be stationed throughout the lot. Every food item will be affordably priced at $3 or below, and a beer garden will be available to the 21­and-over crowd. 
The concert's supporting act, singer-song­writer Eric Hutchinson, blurs the boundaries between rock, folk pop and powerpop, combin­ing various influences to create a sound that is uniquely his. Hutchinson's song "Rock and Roll" ('if he wanna rock he rocks, if he wanna roll he rolls') reached No.1 airplay in the U.S. and gained him wide publicity. Hutchinson has been compared to Ben Folds and Jason Mraz, and has toured with acts like O.A.H and Matt Nathanson. 
JACLYN ESPINOZA I Observer Graphic 
The headlining Matisyahu will give a truly unique performance. The Hasidic Jewish reg­gae musician blends his passion for the Jewish faith with the cultural sounds of reggae, rap and hip-hop. As a young teenager, Matisyahu was a self-proclaimed dreadlocks-bearing, Birkenstock-wearing "Deadhead." However, after discovering a latent connection to God in the mountains of Colorado followed by taking a pilgrimage to Israel, Matisyahu ultimately decided to become a Hasidic Jew and abide by traditional Jewish law. 
He released his first album in 2004 but his career really took off after doing a guest set for Phish at Bonnaroo in 2005. He has since released three studio albums -the latest, "LIGHT," was released on Aug. 25. Matisyahu's spirituality comes through his music clearly and powerfully, which makes for a riveting concert
The first 2000 
experience.

through the door The party still isn't will receive free over when Matisyahu finishes up around 11.
Chipotle chips 
Head inside to the 
and guac. Legends Nightclub for an 
after party with New 
York City's OJ Prostyle until the early hours of the morning. 
According to Perri, a common reaction to the B1 Block Party is almost incredulity. He says, "In talking to people the continuous reaction is 'I can't believe you're doing this! A party in the parking lot? A OJ on the roof? A beer garden? ... To say this will be an exciting event is an understatement." 
Don't miss this one, because there won't be another party like it right in Notre Dame's backyard all year. The Bl Block Party will sure­ly be the most packed place on campus Saturday from the early evening on. So start the year off right -catch up with friends, eat some good food and dance to good music. Tickets are $10 and can be purchased at the door or pre-ordered online. For more informa­tion check out www.blblockparty.com. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 
Matisyahu will perform Saturday at the Legends 81 Block Party. His latest album "Light" was released on Aug. 25. 


the big screen. The opening not only provokes 
laughter from the audience, but also sets the tone 
for what will be a moving, painful and funny trip 
down love's treacherous lane. Citing Cameron 
Crowe (writer of "Almost Famous," "Jerry 
Maguire," etc.) as their stylistic inspiration, 
Neustadter and Weber's alternative approach to 
romance and their desire to grasp reality and 
force it into a film is not only refreshing but more 
insightful than most of today's Hollywood roman­' tic comedies. ln a unique approach to chronology, the film 
of any future Tom might have had with Summer reminds the audience that, as the Rolling Stones once sang, "You can't always get what you want." 
The film's strengths don't solely lie in its artistic and unique compilation. In fact, the characteriza­tion and development of the characters by the actors is flawless and the movie's best asset. Many of us have found ourselves in the shoes of Tom Hansen or Summer Finn, or maybe even both. The hopefulness and innocent naivety of Tom in his determined pursuit of Summer calls to mind painful memories of chasing the one believed to 

Zooey Deschanel 

Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@ndedu 



ships don't always seem fully formed, but it is still worth see­ing. Aided by a great cast of voic­es, including Tina Fey, Liam Neeson, Matt Damon, Betty White, Noah Cyrus and Frankie Jonas (those last two have some famous older siblings you might know), "Ponyo" is a wonderful adventure fit for kids of any age. Just sit back and enjoy its sim­plicity. If you can do that, you might be surprised. 
Ponyo 

Directed by: Hayao Miyazaki Featuring: lina Fey, Uam Neeson, Matt Damon 

Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 

_, 
JACLYN ESPINOZA I Observer Graphic 

By Maija Gustin Scene Writer 
The Japanese import "Ponyo," released across the country on Aug. 14, is sure to be one of the best-reviewed movies of the fall. However, you've probably never even heard of it. That needs to change. 
"Ponyo," from legendary Japanese animation master Hayao Miyazaki, takes Hans Christian Andersen's "The little Mermaid" and transplants it in modern-day Japan. ln the film, a young boy named Sosuke finds a goldfish and decides to care for it. This goldfish, named Ponyo, goes on a quest to become human because of her love for Sosuke. What follows is a whimsical jour­ney that ends in a profound mes­sage about love. Bear in mind, this movie is for children. The cheese factor is high. 
When Ponyo, hungry for adventure, leaves her father's submarine-like home to travel to the surface, she immediately stumbles upon Sosuke. He brings her a bucket and takes her to school. The bond is instant and strong. After her father finds her and brings her back home, she escapes and takes on a human form. However, in becoming human, Ponyo has upset the world's ecological harmony. She must either revert back to being a goldfish or become a real human through true (but platon­ic, as they are five years old) love with Sosuke. 
The overt environmental themes are no accident. Miyazaki, it would seem. is just as concerned with making a film about friendship as he is about making an eco-friendly one. That being said, his statement is sin­cere and an important message to send to his younger audience in particular. 
Miyazaki's films, which include "My Neighbor Totoro," "Princess Mononoke," "How's Moving Castle" and 2003's Oscar-winning "Spirited Away," are never domestically popular but are con­sistently well-reviewed. This is generally because he is so unabashed about them being cliche. He fills his films with overt messages about love, friendship, hard work and helping others. He makes them accessible to all and revels in their playfulness. But even though it seems as if he often sees with the eyes of a child, his films have such poignancy that adults are usually just as entranced as children. He creates magical worlds where even the most childish themes seem to have depth. His entirely hand-drawn worlds become lens­es through which one can look at what is really important in life. 
"Ponyo" is no exception. It is cheesy and childish, but it is made with such a tailored matu­rity that all can at least appreci­ate it. It needs to be seen with an open mind and a willingness to forgo reality. The dialogue is unsophisticated and the relation­
,---------------­
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, August 28, 2009 
NFL 

Browns to split reps for QBs in preseason 
Associated Press 

BEREA, Ohio -Brady Quinn has a new home in the Browns' renovated locker room ­behind a pillar in the far back corner. 
It's in contrast to his role with the team, where he's front and center with Derek Anderson in Cleveland's quarterback race. 
The saga will continue Saturday night in the Browns' third preseason game against Tennessee, when both Quinn and Anderson could play into the second half. Which player starts, however, will have little bearing on the ultimate winner of the competition. 
"I wouldn't read anything into that at all," coach Eric Mangini said Thursday. "Somebody has to (start), but the goal is to get a balance. That hasn't changed." 
Quinn and Anderson equally shared all the practice snaps throughout training camp. Quinn started and played well in the preseason opener against Green Bay, while Anderson's moment came last week against Detroit, when he led the offense to its first touch­down in seven games. 
If the rotation continues, Quinn would be in line to start against the Titans. Mangini plans to sit down with both quarterbacks Friday to inform them who will start. Both are expected to see significant time with the starters. 
"When you're unsure if you're starting or not, you have to prepare as the starter," Quinn said Thursday. "If you're the No. 2, that's still the same way you prepare. If the No. 1 guy goes down, the No. 2 guy has to be ready to go. Otherwise, he's doing his team an incredible injustice." 
Quinn replaced Anderson as the starter halfway through last season, but his year ended after just three starts because of a fractured finger. Quinn is in line to receive hefty bonuses should he win the starting job. 
"Obviously there's a financial side to everything we do with this job," Quinn said. "But it's not something you think about. We're compensated well. We're just trying to play the game." 
A day after the New York Jets, Mangini's old team, named rookie Mark Sanchez as the starting quarterback, the Browns' quarterback competi­tion shows no sign of ending. 
Mangini has never indicated when he plans to announce his starter for the Sept. 13 season opener against Minnesota, and this week he didn't dismiss the idea that the decision might not come until the day before kick­off. Despite the uncertainty, Mangini has been impressed with how Anderson and Quinn have handled the scrutiny. 
"It's a credit to both of them," Mangini said. "Both have been competitive, both have worked hard at the things we've asked them to do. They've both been good teammates in the process, and I respect that. It's not always easy to be fiercely com­petitive and fiercely loyal to the team. I think they've been that. That's what you ask guys to go. How you deal with that situa­tion tells you a lot about who· that person is." 

CLASSIFIEDS 
NFL 


Sanders pondering future 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS The Indianapolis Colts are in no hurry to push the return of oft­injured strong safety Bob Sanders. 
Sanders is on the Colts' phys­ically unable to perform list after undergoing surgery on his right knee in the spring. He has not practiced since the start of training camp. The 2007 NFL Defensive Player of the Year has spent the last few days meeting with renowned orthopedic surgeon Dr. James Andrews at his clinic in Birmingham, Ala. 
Andrews, who performed the initial surgery on Sanders, has told Colts officials Sanders' rehabilitation is on schedule. 
"(Sanders is) doing well. Dr. Andrews has looked at him and really feels he's on target and coming along," coach Jim Caldwell said this week. "He'll be there for a couple days and when he comes back, he'll con­tinue on with the process he's going through here in terms of his rehab. 
"He's making progress. He's moving forward. He feels good about where he is. Dr. Andrews feels good about where he is. That means I should feel good about where he is." 
Team president Bill Polian told an Indianapolis radio sta­tion on Wednesday that he will wait before making a final decision on placing Sanders on the Colts' 53-player roster or to leave him on the physically­unable-to-perform (PUP) list. 
"We would have basically two choices with Bob. Right now, he's on the physically unable to perform list. And we have to either put him on the physically unable to perform list at the cut to 53 or activate him," Polian explained. "Now if we put him on PUP, he's not eligible to come back until the sixth week of the season. And because the bye week is in there, that would really be after our fifth game. 
"If we carry him active as one of the 53, he would be eli­gible to come back at any time we wanted to dress him for the ballgame. He's, in effect, active but if he was unable to play, would not dress," he told ESPN 1070. 
"Right now, I can't tell you what list would be most appro­priate until we hear from Dr. Andrews and then see what kind of a timetable he's on. If you had your druthers, obvi­ously, you'd like to have him active and available, if not for the first game, soon thereafter. I mean if I had to guess, I'd say that's what it would be. But PUP is still available to us, too, if it's going to be longer than that. Then we could put him on that and bring him back for our sixth regular-season game. 

Placekicker Adam Vinatieri continues to make progress in his rehab from offseason knee and hip surgeries. Vinatieri is also on the PUP list. 
"He is making real good progress. He's working dili­gently at being ready. He's moving along quickly," Caldwell said, adding he does­n't expect any problems for Vinatieri working with a new holder. Rookie punter Pat McAfee has taken over that role from former Indianapolis punter Hunter Smith. 
"You know how important that timing is. That is some­thing we are just going to have to work out. As (Vinatieri) starts to ramp up his activity, it'll all start to work together at some point. By the time he takes the field, those problems will be ironed out." 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Penn State to play at FedEx Field 
Associated Press 

BLOOMINGTON, Ind. Indiana coach Bill Lynch wanted to expand his program's recruit­ing base. The cash and a chance to play at an NFL stadium helped, too. 
The Hoosiers announced Wednesday that they've agreed to move next season's home game against Penn State to FedExField, home of the Washington Redskins, for $3 mil­lion. 
"It's a great opportunity for our program from the fmancial end of it, and it's a great opportunity to play at FedExField," Lynch said. "We've not actively recruit­ed that area, but we have talked about it, so we think it's a win-win." 
The Hoosiers will be required to sell 7,000 tickets in a stadium that seats more than 91,000. 
Penn State, meanwhile, will play a road game Nov. 20, 2010, in an area where it has a strong fan base. The Nittany Lions have 13 players on the roster from Maryland, four from VIrginia and five from Delaware. 
It's the first time they have played in metropolitan Washington since an Oct. 2, 1993, visit to Maryland. 
Penn State officials said Indiana was approached by a third party about moving the game, and the Hoosiers contact­ed Penn State in the late spring or early summer to discuss the possibility. The deal apparently was completed a few days ago with the Redskins paying out the $3 million. 
"This game will provide a great chance for some of our players to play close to home and for our fans and the more than 40,000 Penn State alumni in Maryland, Virginia, Delaware and Washington, D.C. to see the Nittany Lions play in person," Penn State athletic director Tim Curley said. 
It's not the first time Indiana and Penn State have played in an NFL stadium. The Nittany Lions beat the Hoosiers 27-24 at the now-demolished RCA Dome in October 2000, and are 12-0 in the series between the schools. 

Indiana officials said they will try to add a nonconference home game in 2010. 
FedExField has hosted other college games, including the 2004 BCA Classic between VIrginia Tech and Southern Cal that drew 91,665 fans. It also will host Boise State and Virginia Tech on Oct. 2, 2010. 
But Indiana sees this as more than just a moneymaking oppor­tunity. 
"We believe that this will be an outstanding, bowl-like experi­ence for our student-athletes, provide us with added recruiting visibility on the East Coast, and will serve as a wonderful oppor­tunity for our student-athletes to spend time in and around the nation's capital," Glass said in a statement. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
SOCCER REFEREES Needed for 2009 Fall Season -The Stanley Clark School, a south side elemen­tary/middle school is located north of Erskine Golf Course on Miami Street Soccer referees are needed for 5-6th grade and 7-8th grade girls and boys soccer matches. Pay is $37 per game to licensed refer­ees. If interested, please contact Caryn MacKenzie, Athletic Director, at Stanley Clark School at574-291­4200. 

FoR SALE 
Maintenance-Free Villa, minutes from the Golden Dome! Like new, one owner, very convenient to shopping, dining & the airport! Well constructed featuring cathedral ceil­ings and thoughtful floor plan. If you are looking for a place to call home for a weekend, a month or forever near the shadow of the Golden Dome, please give me a call, I would love to show you this great villa! REMAX100-SUSAN ULLERY. Broker Associate (574}235-3446. 
FoR RENT 
Unfurnished House for rent 2 bedrm fenced yard 2 car garage. 1 mile to campus. 219-575-0550 leave a message. 
Charming,clean 3 brm, 3 full bath house available for football week­ends. $700 for two nights. Call Liane 57 4-287-2822 or 57 4-309­4158. 
Home for rent football weekends. Walk to stadium, sleeps 6-10. williamckelly@gmail.com 
TICKETS 

Businessman buying season GA tickets. 574-277-1659. 
HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top$$. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FB Tix. Victorytickets.net574-232­0964. 
PERSONAL 

EARN $50 FOR 1 HR OF WRITING ACT, Inc. invites you to participate in an essay-writing study. Limited number of participants so register soon to secure a spot www.act.org/essaystudy 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu 
UNPlANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at1-2685. For more information, visit ND s website at: http :1/pregnancysupport@ nd.edu 
Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lyeh wgah'nagl fhtagn. 
In his house at R'lyeh, dead Cthulhu waits dreaming. 





OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES
Friday, August 28, 2009 
page 17 


team previous 
1 St. John's (N.Y.) 3 2 Creighton 5 3 Wake forest 2 4 North Carolina 4 5 Maryland 1 6 Akron 9 7 Indiana 6 
the mentality and tempera­missed two weeks of work­York Jets' starting quarter­
8 California Associated Press 
10 
ment to handle the position. outs this month after break­back, left USC with a year of 
9 Northwestern 
8 
LOS ANGELES His personality is very well ing a small bone below his eligibility remaining, a deci­
1 0 Dartmouth 
27 
Freshman Matt Barkley was received by all the players, left knee Aug. 10. sion that initially bothered
11 UIC 12 
named No. 4 Southern and he's extremely talented. Barkley is thought to be Carroll and set off the three­
12 Tulsa 
13 
California's starting quar­At this point, he's ready to the first non-redshirt fresh­way competition. 
13 South florida 7 14 UC Irvine terback on Thursday. be the guy for us." man quarterback to be Now Barkley must shoul­
11 
15 Loyola (Md.) With an outstanding per­Barkley was perhaps the picked to start a season der the enormous expecta­
18 
16 NOTRE DAME 20 formance at training camp, nation's most sought-after opener for the Trojans. tions of his position at USC. 
17 UCLA 28 Barkley beat out sophomore football recruit last year at "He's the starting quarter­He's following nearly a 
18 Dayton •••••••·.·•IW19 Aaron Corp to get the start Orange County's Mater Dei back at USC-it's not a one­decade of outstanding col­
19 UC Santa Barbara 21 in the Trojans' season open­High School, the alma game deal," Carroll said. lege quarterbacks, includ­
20 Connecticut 16 er against San Jose State at mater of fellow USC quar­"He seized the opportunity ing Reisman Trophy win­
21 Drake 23 the Coliseum on Sept. 5. terback Matt Leinart. After that was in front of him and ners Carson Palmer and 
22 Virginia NR Coach Pete Carroll unex­choosing the Trojans, took control. He deserves all Leinart, along with John 
23 Boston University 25 pectedly announced his Barkley graduated from the credit in the world, and David Booty and Sanchez. 
24 St.louis 22 decision several hours high school one semester we expect nothing but great USC opens the run for its 
25 Michigan State 14 before practice and two early to participate in spring things from him." eighth consecutive Pac-10 
days before USC's mock practice. Barkley also beat out title next weekend against game. Corp, in his third year at Mitch Mustain, the former the Spartans before "He has exceeded all our USC, was named the Arkansas starter who Barkley's ultimate early
NGCA Women's Golf Division 1 
expectations," Carroll said Trojans' starter out of played eight games as Mark test: a trip to Columbus to Coaches Poll in a statement. "He has all spring ball, but Barkley took Sanchez's backup last sea­face No. 6 Ohio State on the physical ability. He has advantage when Corp son. Sanchez, now the New Sept. 12. 
team points 
1 Arizona State 448 2 UCLA 431 
IN BRIEF 

3 Southern California 412 4 Oklahoma State 395 
5 Auburn 369 Vick makes debut with T.O. returns to practice Rockies' new pitcher Padilla 6 Virginia 342 Eagles, take six snaps vs. TB after suffering toe injury throws 3-2 WID vs. Dodgers 7 Wake forest 319 All eyes were on Michael Vick -for ORCHARD PARK, N.Y.-Bills DENVER-Vicente Padilla gave 8 Alabama 291 all of six plays. wide receiver Terrell Owens took the Los Angeles Dodgers a shot in 9 Purdue 257 Playing his first NFL game since his a step closer in recovering from the arm and the Colorado Rockies 10 LSU 254 release from prison, the Eagles quar­a sprained toe after working out a punch to the gut. 11 North Carolina 238 terback got a standing ovation in a and catching passes in individu­The right-hander, jettisoned by 12 Duke 193 half-empty stadium, avoided any ugly als drills during practice. Texas earlier this month after 13 Pepperdine 190 protests and completed four passes Coach Dick J auron was encour­angering the Rangers by throwing14 Georgia 176 for 19 yards. aged by Owens' progress at hitters, returned to the National 15 Arkansas 171 "It's been a long journey for me," Thursday. He added it's possible League on Thursday and pitched 
Vick said. "I just want to do it right the receiver will be cleared to the Dodgers to a 3-2 win over the this time around." start practicing fully next week. Rockies. Though his minutes were limited It was the third straight day "I can do a lot for this team," Thursday night, Vick was ready to Owens has worked out, and said Padilla, who allowed two runs
around the dial 
take on any assignment. He played marked the most time he's prac­and six hits in five solid innings. quarterback, ran the wildcat forma­ticed since jamming his foot in Rafael Furcal, in the game for his WOMEN'S TENNIS tion, even lined up at wide receiver the Hall of Fame game on Aug. defense, delivered a tiebreaking and completed a pass right-handed. 9. RBI single in the sixth and Matt
U.S. Open 

Philadelphia even won the game, Owens has been ruled out from Kemp hit his career-high 19th
7 p.m., ESPN2 

beating the Jacksonville Jaguars 33-playing in a preseason game at homer as the Dodgers put the 32 on David Akers ' 34-yard field Pittsburgh on Saturday. brakes on the surging Rockies by HIGH SCHOOL fOOTBALL goal in the final minute. Vick's return Jauron all but ruled out Fred taking two of three at Coors Field. Old Spice High School Showcase overshadowed a somewhat sloppy Jackson from playing after the They also opened a four-game lead effort by an Eagles team that has running back missed his second in the NL West over the wild-card
7 p.m., ESPN 

Super Bowl aspirations. practice with a sprained wrist. leaders. 

r 
page 18 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, August 28, 2009 
' 
' 
' 

I I 
i ­
' 
'I 
' 
' 
' 
' 
I I 
' 
' 
I 
' ­' 
' 
I 
' 
' ­
' 
' 
I 
I I I I I 
' 
' 
I "' 
I 
6:30PM  NO Women's Volleyball vs. Denver in Joyce Center Fieldhouse  
Enter Gate 3; Pre-Game Taco Bar; Game Starts at 7:00PM  
7:30PM  NO Women's Soccer vs.loyola-Chicago at Alumni Field  
9:00 PM  SCVNGR: Text-Message Team Scavenger Hunt  
Start at Stepan Center (text notredame to 7lPJJ41 to play)  

9PM -11 PM live Band Karaoke on North Quad 
9PM -11 PM Bopology (live Swing Band) on Reekers' Patio 
9PM -11 PM Carnival on the Quad on South Quad with Free Carnival Food 
9PM -11 PM Mike Super: Magic and Illusion at Washington Hall 
9PM -11 PM Open Rec Time at Rolfs and Rockne 
9PM -11 AM Free Ice Cream from the McSmithers' Ice Cream Truck (Circling Campus) • 
9PM -1 AM Laser Tag at Stepan Center 
9PM -1 AM Bumper Cars on Fieldhouse Mall 
10 PM -12 AM Bear Bus: Build Your Own Teddy Bear on South Quad 
11 PM -1 AM Found Footage Festival in Lafortune Ballroom 
11 PM -1 AM Sand Volleyball Tournament at Riehle fields 
12:00 AM Free Quarter Dogs in the Huddle Mart 12 AM -2 AM BrainBlast Trivia in the Huddle 12 AM-2AM John Hughes Tribute: Sixteen Candles in Reekers 
SeveraiiRISHenanigans events are co-sponsored by NO Athletics and RecSports 
We know-it sometimes rains in northern Indiana' 
Check out sao.nd.edu and our facebook group ~~SAO Events" 
for up-to-date rain site information for aiiiRISHenanigans events. 


Friday, August 28, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Gillispie charged with DUI 
Associated Press 
LAWRENCEBURG, Kent. ­Former Kentucky basketball coach Billy Gillispie was arraigned on a drunken driving charge Thursday after refusing sobriety tests during an early morning traffic stop in which officers said they smelled alco­hol on his breath. 
Police say they arrested Gillespie at 2:47 a.m. along a highway in Lawrenceburg about 30 miles from Lexington, where Gillispie coached the Wildcats until he was fired in March. Charles F. O'Connor, a passenger in the car, also was arrested on a charge of alcohol intoxication in a public place. 
Gillispie was jailed overnight in neighboring Franklin County and wore an orange prison jumpsuit at his video arraign­ment later that morning, a copy of which The Associated Press obtained. Attorney William L. Patrick entered a not guilty plea on Gillispie's behalf. 
Judge Linda Armstrong also told Gillispie his right to drive in Kentucky was being suspended for up to 120 days and set his next court appearance for Sept. 23. 
Gillispie talked little during the brief hearing. When Armstrong asked if he had any questions, he replied: "No ma'am. Thank you." 
Jail records say he was released at 9:33 a.m. to the cus­tody of Darran Winslow, a Louisville attorney. O'Connor was not arraigned Thursday. 
Police responded after dis­patchers received complaints of an intoxicated driver. Gillispie was driving a white Mercedes with Texas plates. 
Lawrenceburg police officer Michael Corley clocked Gillispie doing 63 mph in a 45 mph zone and pulled up behind him at a red light. When the light turned green, Gillispie's car stayed motionless for one or two min­utes before continuing down the road, Corley wrote in his report. 
Corley eventually pulled Gillispie over in a school park­ing lot. 
"Billy had a strong fruity smell coming from his person [possibly wine] and had red, glassy eyes and slow, slurred speech," Corley wrote. 
Corley asked Gillispie for his license. Gillispie said it was in the trunk. The coach appeared to be unsteady on his feet, Corley wrote. When Corley asked Gillispie if he had been drinking, Gillispie replied no, that he had been golfing all day. 
The report said Gillispie refused breath and blood tests for alcohol. 
At a Lawrenceburg golf course near the site of the arrest, Wild Turkey Trace, Gillispie's name did not appear on a sign-in list of Wednesday's golfers. 
Police Chief Tommy Burris said in an interview he didn't know where Gillispie had been drinking but assumed it was somewhere outside the county and he was just passing through. 
"It was just a routine DUI arrest like the guys do a dozen times a night," Burris said. "They didn't even know who he was until he was out of the car." 
Gillispie was replaced by Memphis coach John Calipari this year after a rocky two-year tenure in which the Wildcats went 40-27. The arrest comes five months after Gillispie was fired, and the fallout has been messy. 
Gillispie sued the university in federal court in Texas, alleging that the school's athletics department owes him $6 mil­lion for firing him two years into a seven-year agreement. The university says he never signed a formal contract and the school doesn't owe the money. 
Despite the firing, Gillispie has retained a high profile in Kentucky and was a fixture at Keeneland Race Course during its spring meet, standing in the paddock before races and talk­ing to fans. 
The arrest marks at least the third time Gillispie has been accused of driving under the influence. In 1999, Gillispie was arrested on two charges: driv­ing while intoxicated and improper use of a lane in Tulsa, Okla., where he was an assis­tant coach under Bill Self. 
He eventually pleaded guilty to a charge of reckless driving. The other charges were dis­missed. 
In 2003, in his first year as head coach at the University of Texas-El Paso, he was arrested on suspicion of drunken driving. The charges eventually were dismissed after a specially appointed prosecutor decided that there was not enough evi­dence to suggest that Gillispie was drunk. The coach, then 43, maintained his innocence through that process. 
Gillispie addressed his mis­takes during his introductory press conference at Kentucky in April 2007, saying he wasn't "proud of some of things that I've done." 
NBA 
Dunleavy could co111e back by early season 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana Pacers guard Mike Dunleavy says he could return from a severe knee injury earlier than expected. 
Dunleavy says he can do everything except have phys­ical contact, and he expects that to change within weeks. Pacers coach Jim O'Brien has said he didn't expect Dunleavy to be available until at least January 2010. 
He had surgery in March to remove a bone spur from the patella tendon on his right knee. 
But Dunleavy is back on the court running. Though there is work ahead, he says he's "at a good place right now." 
"If it goes pretty well, yeah, I could be back pretty early in the season," Dunleavy said. "There's still a lot of time for that to hap­pen." 
His teammates say they like what they've seen. 
"I've been in and out of Indianapolis, and I've seen Mike from time to time, and he's doing great," Pacers forward Danny Granger said. "They're saying he's ahead of schedule, that he's ahead of where we thought he was going to be at, which is great for us because we're really going to need him this year." 
Dunleavy finished sixth in the most improved player award voting two seasons ago after averaging 19.1 
points, 5.2 rebounds and 3.5 assists per game. 
The wing combination of Dunleavy and Granger was expected to carry the Pacers last season. Instead, while Granger emerged as an All­Star, Dunleavy missed the first 34 games with lingering pain in the knee. He returned and averaged 15.1 points in 18 games before shutting down and opting for surgery because the pain continued to increase. 
In June, he had an unrelat­ed minor surgery on his left hip. 
Dunleavy said he's healing well from both surgeries. He said he can do most of his normal work, but can't take contact. 
"Right now, I'm not playing and doing any live basket­ball," he said. ''I'm not play­ing against guys, I'm not playing up and down, but I'm getting close to that." 
He may need to return quickly if he wants to regain his starting job. His replace­ment, Brandon Rush, scored 29 points in back-to-hack games in late March against Washington and Chicago last season. The Pacers added free agent Dahntay Jones, a starter in Denver, as insur­ance. 
Pacers forward Troy Murphy is excited about Dunleavy's progress. 
"I've seen him," he said. "He looks great. I think he's going to have a big come­back year and he's going to do really well." 
MLB 
Keppinger's ninth-inning blast lifts Astros over Cards 
Rangers climb closer to Red Sox in wild-card race after 7-2 win over Yankees on back of Kinsler's pair of homers 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -One big swing from Jeff Keppinger, hardly a long-ball threat, eased the Houston Astros' frustrations after getting worked over by St. Louis Cardinals pitchers. 
Keppinger hit a tiebreaking homer with two out in the ninth inning and Houston rallied to beat the Cardinals 4-3 on Thursday, avoiding a three­game sweep. 
Keppinger's shot to left on a 2-2 pitch from Kyle McClellan (4-3) was his fourth of the sea­son and first since June 19. He has only 17 homers in 1,116 career at-bats, so he was run­ning when the drive barely cleared the wall. 
"It was kind of nice to see the outcome," Keppinger said. "You ever look up at the scoreboard and see my totals?" 
Jose Valverde (2-2) pitched two scoreless innings for the Astros, who scored all four runs with two outs and won for only the fifth time in their last 19 road games. They avoided a second three-game sweep in St. Louis this season by taking the final game of a series that fea­tured only 13 runs in three one­run contests. 
The Astros rallied a day after Roy Oswalt complained of a "dead" team atmosphere. The Cardinals won the first two games 1-0 and 3-2. 
"This was real big," Keppinger said. "You don't give up just because you're 10 games or 11 games back. You know, you play it all the way out to the end." 
Matt Holliday homered for the NL Central-leading Cardinals, who lost for only the fourth time in 19 games. St. Louis, which had won four straight overall, went 1 for 10 with runners in scoring position and missed chances to score in each of the last three innings. 
"We all want to come in here and high five and play music and have fun," Brendan Ryan said. "But we can't do that." 
The Astros tied it on Darin Erstad's RBI double off McClellan in the eighth, spoiling Chris Carpenter's bid for his 15th win. Keppinger's first homer in 116 at-bats barely cleared the left-field wall. Holliday made a try for it but the ball appeared to sneak under his outstretched glove. 
"It was close," Holliday said. "I felt I had a chance at it and timed it pretty well. Those are hit or miss plays." 
Ryan Ludwick's two-run sin­gle off Brian Moehler in the sixth, only his third hit in 17 at­bats against the right-hander, put the Cardinals ahead 3-2. Holliday's 18th homer came in the second and was his seventh in 31 games with St. Louis. 
Rescued by Erstad's hit, Moehler remained 5-0 against the Cardinals over 10 starts. He's one of only five pitchers and the only active one with 60 or more innings and no losses against St. Louis. 
"We didn't roll over," Moehler said. "We battled." 
Kaz Matsui and Michael Bourn each drove in a run in the second for the Astros. Matsui doubled in Carlos Lee before Carpenter set up Bourn's RBI single with consecutive walks to eighth-place hitter Chris Coste and Moehler. 
Carpenter finished the third with strikeouts of Miguel Tejada and Lee, the third-and fourth­toughest batters to fan in the NL, and the Astros had two hits in his final four innings. He allowed five hits total before leaving after the sixth. 
Rangers 7, Yankees 2 
NEW YORK -Ian Kinsler and Chris Davis launched the loud­est shots of the afternoon. The way Jason Grilli and his bullpen pals kept things quiet, that tilt­ed this game to Texas. 

Kinsler homered twice, a trio of relievers pitched shutout ball and the Rangers became the first visitors to win a series at Yankee Stadium since mid­June, beating New York on Thursday. 
"This sends a statement that we can play with anyone out there," Grilli said. 
Davis also had a three-run homer for Texas, which took two of three from the team with the best record in the majors. 
Grilli, C.J. Wilson and Frank Francisco combined for 5 1/3 innings of two-hit relief. The Rangers remain in the thick of the pennant race, trying for their first playoff spot since 1999. 
"We're treading into territory we've never been in before," Texas manager Ron Washington said. 
Cut by the Colorado Rockies this season and activated from the disabled list over the week­end, Grilli (2-2) entered in the fourth with Texas ahead 3-2. He escaped a first-and-third jam by getting Alex Rodriguez on an easy comebacker and pitched 2 1/3 innings. 
Grilli was aware he'd done well against Rodriguez -the Yankees' cleanup man is 0-for-5 facing him. Grilli also realized his early relief appearance was an important one. 
"It's not always so glamorous, but sometimes it's the tipping point," he said. 
Neither starter let the other side hit the ball much, either ­for different reasons. 
A.J. Burnett (10-8) lost despite striking out a season­high 12 in six innings. Texas' Dustin Nippert was pulled after walking seven in 3 2/3 innings. 
Through 7 1/2 innings, in fact, only 33 of 66 hitters overall managed to put the ball in play. By the end, the teams combined for 25 strikeouts and 11 walks. 
"Obviously, I had a good breaking ball today," Burnett said. "Everything was there." 
Kinsler got Texas' first hit, a three-run homer in the fourth. Burnett retired the first 11 bat­ters before walking Josh Hamilton and Nelson Cruz on full counts, bringing up Kinsler. 
Catcher Jose Molina went to the mound to talk with Burnett, and Kinsler lined the next pitch over the left-field wall. 
' ' ' 
' page 20 The Observer + ADVERTISEMENT Friday, August 28, 2009 
WANT AN INSIDE LOOK AT ND OR SMC? 
WRITERS WANTED 
News Writers • Sports Writers • Scene Writers 


The Observer is also now hiring Photographers. 
Photographers are paid. Past experience is helpfuL Contact Photo Editor Ian Gavlick at igavlick@nd.edu for more information. 

Friday, August 28, 2009 The Observer + PAlO ADVERTISEMENT page 21 

SCREAMING 

THIS SAT @ 5 IN THE 81 LOT 
FEATURING MATISYAHU 
AND 

laiC HUTCHINIOII 
•-••••~uu:u •., 

NIW OIU.ANI NIW WAVI IIAII tAND, 
D.t CAUtAC a Dl JIOU'f'U 
AUO W/ SAMUIA~ JtM a tMt ttAT M•ltllUM lAND 

PLUS ••• 
GIANT MAIN $TAGII • HUGI UD VIDIO WALLSI 
FOOD VINDOAS' at~a OAtDIMl COaNHOUJ & (OP COU"IIJ MUCH MOIII 
WWW.a1a&OCIItPAaYY.COM 
•o• tnt • ,,.,oJ 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, August 28, 2009 
NFL 

Sanchez settling in at QB 
Associated Press 

FLORHAM PARK, N.J. ­Mark Sanchez won't have to do it all himself for the New York Jets to be successful. 
The rookie quarterback's sup­port staff is ready to help shoul­der the load. 
"I think he understands that he doesn't have to win it," right tackle Damien Woody said Thursday. "He shouldn't feel that way. We have enough good parts around us where all he really needs to do is not mess it up and make a couple of plays here and there, just grow on the job." 
Coach Rex Ryan announced Wednesday that Sanchez won the starting job over Kellen Clemens with a solid training camp. While Sanchez has been hailed as the new face of the franchise, the pressure to win now won't be entirely on him. 
"Having a young guy like Sanchez in there, having the 0­line we've got and the Pro Bowl-caliber running backs we have in the backfield is a heck of a complement," running back Leon Washington said. "We look forward to helping him out, just like we look forward to him helping us out." 
Sanchez, the fifth overall draft pick out of Southern California, is slated to make his regular­season debut at Houston on Sept. 13. He'll become the first rookie in Jets history to open a season under center, something not even Joe Namath accom­plished. 
"I think any quarterback would feel good about having those guys in front of him and those backs behind him," offen­sive coordinator Brian Schottenheimer said. "Not only good players, but there's a lot of experience there. That's some­thing we feel gives us the ability to have a stable attack, still be balanced but yet we know when we need to run the hall, we can run the football. We obviously still feel comfortable that we'll be able to throw the football when we need to as well." 
In fact, most of the pressure entering the season might actu­ally be on the offensive line to protect Sanchez and keep the running game flowing. 
"We've shown we can do it, and the good offensive lines and good offenses show they can do it back to back," center Nick Mangold said. "That's really where the main pressure comes from. Mark has shown that he can make the throws and get us in the right position." 
Along with Mangold and Woody, who have both made Pro Bowls, the Jets have left tackle D'Brickashaw Ferguson, left guard Alan Faneca and right guard Brandon Moore all back from a unit that helped New York rank ninth in the league in rushing. 
"As an offensive line, we always believe we lead the offense," Mangold said. "We set the tempo up front, we provide the protection and open the holes, so it's on us. If you have a rookie quarterback or whoever back there, we're going to be the ones out there leading and trying to get things in perfect position for all the skill guys." 
Ryan has made it clear he wants to pound the football on offense rather than air it out, especially since the Jets have Thomas Jones, who led the AFC in rushing, the speedy and ver­satile Washington and bruising rookie Shonn Greene in the backfield. 
"We can take ofT some of the pressure of him being a rookie quarterback in New York," Washington said. "He's going to depend on us and we've emphasized to him in the hud­dle and off the field in the meet­ing rooms that, 'Hey, if we need to dump it down and make a completion, dump it to the run­ning backs. If you're ever in doubt, just hand the ball ofT and let the big guys up front take care of it." 
Safety Jim Leonhard saw firsthand what a rookie quar­terback can do with a solid sup­porting cast, as Joe Fiacco led Baltimore to the AFC champi­onship game last season. He thought the Ravens' defense and special teams unit played a major role in helping Fiacco be successful by establishing favor­able field position. Leonhard can visualize a similar situation developing with the Jets. 
NFL 

Hester to field punts again In preseason 
Associated Press 

LAKE FOREST, Ill. -Devin Ilester is ready to start fielding punts again. 
Bears coach Lovie Smith Thursday said plans are for Hester to play at returner in Sunday's Bears game at Denver for the first time this preseason. 
"I think it's important for us to see,'' Smith said. "This week we're playing the game like the regular season is here. You'll see most of our guys in a role that they will play during the course of the season. 
"I don't think that there's a reason why we would let Devin do a lot of that before now, but things change about this third game of the preseason." 
Hester hadn't even fielded many punts prior to this week's practices, and wants to do it Sunday to get off the rust. 
"I feel like I need to get back into the groove, but at the same time it's up to the coach­es -it's not up to me," he said. "All I can do is go by what the coaches say." 
Hester's big challenge until now has been learning new starting quarterback Jay Cutler so the two can become a viable passing combination. 
They hooked up for two con­nections in the first preseason game, but failed to connect four times. Last week against the New York Giants, Hester failed to go deep enough to catch up to a 60-yard heave by Cutler. 
"The thing is, he has a great arm and he proved it that night, on the move and throw­ing it, what, 60 yards on the move?" Hester said. "That's pretty tough for a quarterback. You don't really see a quarter­back who can get it out that far away. 
"Jay's a quarterback who' can do it. And now we know what we have to do now." 
Because he knows Cutler's arm strength now, Hester said he has one simple adjustment to make. 
"To just keep running as fast as I can, no matter what," Hester said. "If he gets flushed out of the pocket don't come back, don't do any scrambling drills, just keep going." 
Cutler remarked after the first preseason game about Hester's inability to go up and break up an interception, and later said he never meant it as a slam of his receiver. 
His thoughts on Hester now are obviously more supportive. 
"He's fine, he's doing a great job," Cutler said. "We missed a couple routes, I put him in some bad spots a couple times and he's going to be explosive out there. 
NE\V (~()lJRSE! 

Between Religion and Literature: !\leaning, Vulnerability and Hun1an Existence 
FALL 2009 Vittorio Montemaggi 

Taught in English, this course explores how theology and literature can combine to cnrkh our understanding. Vocusing on the work of Augustine, Aquinas, Dante, Primo Levi, Dostoevsky and Shakcspean~, students will address questions such as: 'How does the way we usc tnnguagc bear upon our notions oftruth?': 'How arc the intellect and the imagination engaged by literary texts?': 'How does all this relate to ht.lW we think ab.out God. human nature, and the relationship between them?' Su~..:h questions will be addressed. in particular. by rdkcting on how the texts studied invite us to think ahoutlove, tbrgiveness, vulnerability and creativity. 
Vmorio l\'lmncnwg:gi has been appnml.~:·d by 1hl' College of Arh and L..:tters as tl1.: m;-,v /\sNiNWnl Proft:>snr of Rdigion und L,itt'mlun.:. He: j1,ins Nom: lhtrm: frnm the th1iv.:rsity (\( Cambridg\\ \\ht~re h.;.• rect'iv.:d· a BA iu fheoh\~Y and !{..:!igitttJS Swdic:< un !'v1Phd in rurope(!J\ I itcnHure ;;:nd a Pht) in l'hc<J!ogy. and where ht.: )''dd re;';t:an:h and !cadting pthitinn::; in the two lkiJs, 
Friday, August 28, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 

fo1· the 200!1-2010 i\fitdelllif lt~iir 
From the Division of Student Affairs 
Re\:. \1a1·k L.1•o01·man, [;.s.f. 
Vice President for Student Affairs 316 Main Building 631-7394 

\Is..:\no Firth llr. William Kirk 
Associate VP for Student Affairs Associate VP for Residence Life 316 Main Building 316 Main Building 
631-2685 631-6144  
Sr. Susan llunn, 0.1!  llr.l1. B1·ian fo11ghlin  Dr. G. David }loss  
Assistant VP for Student Affairs  Assistant VP for Student Activities  Assistant VP for Student Affairs  
316 Main Building  315 LaFortune Student Center  316 Main Building  
631-5550  631-9314  631-5550  

lis..Jennifer !lonahan  Rt,v. lla1·k It Thesing, t:.S.f.  
Executive Assistant to the Vice President  Budget Manager  
316 Main Building  316 Main Building  
631-5550  631-3069  
~\L(~OIIOL &DltU; EDif\TIO\  l~UIPrS lii\ISTRl  
Ms. Christine Nowak, Director  Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C., Director  
204 St. Liam Hall  316 Coleman-Morse Center  
631-7970  631-7800  
[\IU~t~lt (;E~Tt~R.  GElDER REh\TIONS (;ENTER  
Mr. Lee Svete, Director  Ms. Heather Rakoczy-Russell, Director  
248 Flanner Hall  311 Lafortune Student Center  
631-5200  631~9340  

1\TERl\TION.tL STllOENT SER\'U~ES &,U,Tifi1,1ES tllfLTillJLTI'RI\L STIJDENT PROGfttMS &SER.\'IfES 
Ms. Bethany Burgun, Director Ms. Iris Outlaw, Director 204lafortune Student Center 210 Lafortune Student Center 
631-3825 631-6841 
RESIDENfE LIFE &IIOtS"G SElTRITl' POLifE 
Mr. Jeffrey Shoup, Director Mr. Phillip Johnson, Director 305 Main Building 204 Hammes-Mowbray Hall 631-5878 631-5555 
STtDENT .\fTIHTIES I'NilERSITl l~OtNSELI\11 fE\TER 
Ms. Peggy Hnatusko, Director-Programming  Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Director  
Mr. Ryan Willerton, Director-Facilities  3rd Floor-St. Liam Hall  
315 Lafortune Student Center  631-7336  
631-7308  
I'NlfERSITliiK\LTII SER\"IfES  
Ms. Ann E. Kleva, Director  
tst floor St.liam Hall  
631-7497  

~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
l 
I 
I I ' 
I 
I 
I 
I 
• 
'I 
I 
I 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, August 28, 2009 
Run 
continued from page 28 
here is what the teams in the BCS are doing,' and those teams are averaging 4.6 yards per carry and we're averaging 3.3," Weis said. 
Emerging as the top back over the past year is junior Armando Allen, who brings the most speed and pass­catching ability to the table. Allen led the team with 585 yards rushing in 2008 and averaged 4.4 yards per carry while also tallying the second most receptions on the team with 50. 
"They're all gunning for Armando," We is said. "Armando is the guy, you're going to have to take it away from him first." 
Fighting for carries behind Allen are junior Robert Hughes and sophomore Jonas Gray. Freshmen Cierre Wood and Theo Riddick may also be a factor out of the backfield or in special teams. 
"Those are all different types of backs. Allen is the small fast guy, Robert is the pounder, and Jonas is the guy who's got a lot of both of them in him but with the least expe­rience," Weis said. 
A huge change made during the offseason was the move of senior James Aldridge to full­back, hopefully providing a powerful short yardage or receiving threat in two back sets. A highly touted running back out of high school, Aldridge has struggled with injuries throughout his Irish career, but Weis said he took the change in stride. 
"James has taken the new role very well, and was named the leader of that unit," said Weis. 
The final change of the win­ter took place with the hiring of a new running backs coach, with veteran Tony Alford com­ing in from Louisville. Alford has 14 years of experience coaching the position. 
Weis said establishing a con­sistent running attack will have a positive impact on all the other offensive units. 
"It all starts with the run game. If you can run the ball, everything is easier," We is said. "Protection is easier, throwing the ball is easier, everything is easier. It all starts with being able to con­trol the line of scrimmage." 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

in the fall of 2009 is very simi­lar to last spring's, with
Ireland 
Mauna being the only loss. continued from page 28 
"We have no new freshmen 

coming in so we are all famil­match-play format on five dif­iar with one another," said ferent courses, including Huffer, who will be one of only Killarney Golf two sopho­and Fishing mores on the 
Club, which is among the  "/ think we all had  team year.  this  
world's  top  so much fun  "We  can  
courses. The trip also includ­ playing golf.,  build on that and keep the  
ed sightseeing  team going,"  
opportunities of  Becca Huffer  she said.  
the  Cliffs  of  Irish golfer  Huffer and  
Moher and the  the Irish will  
Aillwee Caves.  open up their  
"[The  trip]  season at the  

was amazing, I think we all Mary Fossum Invitational in had so much fun playing golf, East Lansing, Mich. beginning having friendly competitions, on Sept. 11. and just getting pumped for playing golf," said Huffer. Contact Chris Michalski at 
The team returning to play jmichals@nd.edu 
FulbrightInformation Session 
tor Notre Dame graduate students and advisers 
Speaker: Joanne Forster 
Institute of International Education 
September 3 
3:30 -4:30 pm Room 1DO McKenna Hall 
On-campus submission deadline of Fulbright applications is Sept. 18, 2009 


Friday, August 28, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
Wins 
continued from page 28 
high enough in the first half versus the Badgers," Waldrum said. "I'd like to see us start the game this Friday the way we played the second half against Wisconsin." 
A higher intensity will limit Loyola's attacks on Irish goalkeeper Kelsey Lysander. 
Waldrum has warned the Irish of Loyola (0-2) junior midfielder Laura Trevillian, whom he describes as a "very good attacking player." 
Loyola began the year with back-to-hack losses to DePaul, 4-0, and Dayton, 1­0. 
"[The Ramblers] are a hard working team that can dis­rupt your playing rhythm," Waldrum said. "We have to be patient in our possession. We don't want to get caught up in a 'kick and run' game 
Juniors 
continued from page 28 
The Belles will rely on several juniors to lead them to their ultimate goal, an NCAA Championship. 
Leadership should come from junior Rosie O'Connor, a first team all-MIAA honoree last season. O'Connor was recog­nized as the leader in the con­ference with an 80.2 stroke average in MIAA events and earned All-Region distinction by the National Golf Coaches Association. 
In addition to O'Connor, jun­ior Mary Kate Boyce looks to provide a boost to the Belles. Last year, her first on the team, Boyce shot a 77 in only her sec­ond round of competition and later medaled in an MIAA spring qualifier. 
Another returning golfer hop­ing to make an impact is sopho­more Natalie Matuszak, who earned second team all-confer­ence honors last fall. 
Eight-year head coach Mark Hamilton has seen his share of success while at Saint Mary's, including a 2003 run that saw the Belles end the season at No. 4 in the nation. After winning the MIAA conference champi­onship from 2002-2005, Saint Mary's has seen conference rival Olivet take the crown for the past three years. 
This weekend's Trine Invitational will be followed by the O'Brien D-Ill Championships, which the Belles will host Sept. 13 and 14. Saint Mary's will begin its con­ference schedule Sept. 17 with a match at Albion. 
Contact Brendan Corsones at bcorsone@nd.edu 
with them." 
When the Irish maximize their possessions, they will frequently rely on sophomore forward Melissa Henderson. While not yet at 100 percent following summer surgery, the Irish offense seems to run through her. 
"[Henderson] has that nat­ural ability to get herself into scoring positions," Waldrum said. "A lot of our attacking will go through her." 
Against Wisconsin, Waldrum said he felt the Irish did not pressure enough on offense to create goal-scoring opportunities. 
"Most of our chances [for goals] were developed by our midfielders," Waldrum said. "Defensively we dropped off too deep and overcompensat­ed." 
Notre Dame faces Loyola­Chicago tonight at 7:30 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Denver 
continued from page 28 
season 25-7 overall, including a third-place finish in the con­ference championship. 
The Irish are 2-5 against LSU all-time, and this year's matchup will not be easier than any before. The Tigers were unanimously chosen to win the SEC West this season after finishing 18-10 last sea­son and making an NCAA Tournament appearance. 
But the toughest opponent of the weekend may be No. 5 Stanford, against which Notre Dame is winless in six tries. The Cardinal enter the week­end with a high ranking in the National Volleyball Coaches Association preseason poll following a 31-4 record in 2008 and an unmatched 12th Pac-10 title. 
Nevertheless, Brown is con­fident that her team's experi­ence on offense will be enough to carry them to victo­ry. 

"Both Christina Kaelin and Kellie Sciacca are certainly really strong attackers for us," Brown said. "I think that we have really strong attack­ing from the other three posi­tions as well, so I think really the strength is going to be in our balance more so than resting on any one or two people's shoulders." 

The Irish are slated to take the court at 7 p.m. Friday against Denver, 6 p.m. Saturday against Stanford, and 1 p.m. Sunday against LSU at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

Availability for the 
following football weekend: Connecticut 
~Hilton 

~Garden Inn· 
Everything. Right where you need it.• 
THIS WEEKEND IN 
~-~~~ ~·~W~!5~~ 

,........-------------­
page 26 

> I I 
I I • 
I I I 
I 
I 
~ 
I ~ 
I 
I 
I 
I -­
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Vice President for Student Affairs '. 
~ 
...... "" 
316 Main Building 
631-7394 

lis. :\nn Firth llr. \\"illiam ~irk 
Associate VP for Student Affairs Associate VP for Residence Life 316 Main Building 316 Main Building 631-2685 631-6144 
Sr. Susim Dunn, 0.1~ llr. ~1. Brian foughlin Dr: II. David }loss 
Assistant VP for Student Affairs Assistant VP for Student Activities Assistant VP for Student Affairs 316 Main Building 315 LaFortune Student Center 316 Main Building 631-5550 631-9314 631-5550 
}Is..Jennifer tlonahun lte\: .llark 8. Thesing, tS.t 
Executive Assistant to the Vice President Budget Manager 
~uunmi llnll 
Rector; Rev. George Rozum, C.S.C. 
Badin llitll 
Rector: Sr. Denise lyon, I.H.M. 
farr·ollllall 
Rector: Rev. James lewis, O.Carm. 
fin:imaugh llall ~ · 
Rector: Ms. Amalia de Ia Torre 
Dillon Uall 
Rector: Rev. Paul Doyle, C.S.C. , 
Dunton llall 
Rector: Rev. Thomas Eckert, C.S.C. 
Farley lliiii 
Rector: Sr. Carrine Etheridge, I.H.M. 
Fisher llall 
Rector: Rev. Robert Moss, C.S.C. 
llowitrd llnll 
Rector: Sr. Lucille D'Amelio, O.P. 
Keeniln llall 
Rector: Rev. Daniel Nolan, C.S.V. 
316 Main Building 316 Main Building 
631-5550 631-3069 
Keough llall 

Rector: Rev. Peter McCormick, C.S.C. 
Knott Hall 
Rector; Br. Jerome Meyer, C.S.C. 
tewis llall 
Rector: Ms. linda Cirillo 

tvons llitll ....... 
~ 
Rector: Ms. Denise MeDsker 
llt:Giinn llall 
Rector: Sr. Mary Lynch, S.S.J. 
11orrisstw.. lhtll 

Rector: Rev. Ronald Vierling, M.F.C. 
0'\eillllall '• .· . 
Rector: Mr. Edward Mack 
Pilngbm·n llall 
Rector: Sr. Mary Donnelly, D.P. 
l•asquer·illa tJist llall 

Rector: Sr. Cynthia Broderick, D.P. 
l•itsquerilln\Vest llitll 
Rector: Ms. Sophie Henrichs 

J$1UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
Rt'itn llall
•. 

Rector: Ms. Breyan Tornifolio 
St. Edwiu·d's llilll 
Rector: Rev. Ralph Haag. C.S.C. 
Siegfr·ied linII 
Rector: Rev. John Conley, C.S.C. 
, Sorin llall 
Rector: Rev. James King, C.S.C. 
Stanford llall 
Rector: Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C. 
n·alsh llilll 
Rector: Sr. Janet Stankowski, D.P. 
'' 
.. 

\\'elsh t'amilv., llall 
Rector: Sr. Christine Connolly, O.P. 
Zahm llall 
Rector: Mr. Corry Colonna 
FOG fomplex 
Rector: Ms. Mary Alice Beck 
[niversity \'illage &Cripe St.reet i\pilrt.ntents 
Rector: Mr. Nathan Elliot 

Friday, August 28, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
CROSSWORD 
Across It doesn't exist 

12 Find fault with 
14 A soldier's gear, 
for example 16 Bloomer after whom bloomers are named 
17Raison _ 
18 Rent to another 
19 Toy from China 
23"Young_ Boone• (short· lived 1970s TV series) 
24 You might grind it out 25 Fast hits 27 With 5-Down, snooping aid 28 Discussed at length 
29 Musical direction that means "lyrical" in Italian 
30Actor who debuted in "Kung Fu: The Movie" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
4 Bone involved in pronation 5 See 27 -Across 6 Move quickly 7 Spike's former name 8 Ring contents, maybe 
9 Bibliog. equivalent of "ditto" 
1 0 Calamitous decline 11 French painter Courbet 12Arise 
13 Pulitzer-winning historian Frederick Jackson_ 
14 Outfits 15 Fish that can move equally well forward and backward 19 Team whose home arena is the Palace of 
Auburn Hills 
20 Better 
21 Company with a 
tree in its logo 
22 Fluid dynamics phenomena 
25 Convertible 
carriage 
26 It's assumed 
26 Bit of assistance 
29 Local or regional 
Boy Scout 
gathering 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Palrlck Berry  
30 Nulfifies, as an  35 ·-bySinatra"  42 1/6 of an inch  
oath? 31 Made a comeback 32Medieva!  (1982 collaborative jazz album) 36 Reaganomics recommendation  44 Ad _ (at the place: Abbr.) 45 Good name for a trial lawyer  
conquerors  39 One addressed  46 Ingredient in  
33 Maximally  as "lord"  Delftware  
34 Max of video  41 Parliamentary  glazing  
game fame  faction  47 "What next?"  

For answers, call 1-90Q-285·S656. $1.49 a minute; or, wilh a credit card, 1·800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visil nytlmes.com/mobi!exword for more Information. Online subscriptions: Today·s puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.comlwordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comlleamlngfxwords. 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Alexa VeJYI. 21: Sarah C'halke. 33: Alex Lifeson. 56: Willy DeVilk 56 
Happy Birthday: Makina plans and not following through will lead to e1001ional upset and unexpected changes In your p<mionallif.:. This IS a good vear to tak~ a Jook at who you are and consider what's requtred to update ym1r appeaL Now i• not the time to back down when you btwe so mucllto gain. Yow numb<!Ts are 6. 19. 22. 26, J:!. 41. 49 
ARIES {March 21-Apri1 19): Get a bener handle oo your financ~s: budget and change •ome of your deals to .uit yoUI current needs. Once you feel beuer about your spending habil!.. you will be able to move on to a new project wilh confidence. Lo\'e is in the stars. 
***** 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): There 1nay be a conflict betw<enthe changes you want to make at home and who o:he is willin& to go along with your plans. Don't had: down but do compromise. A happy home life is wtll worth giving up a few minor things. 
*** 

GEMINI {May 21-June 20): Tak~ the time to listen to someon~ who in~erests you and you can lorm a coalition that will benefit you both. A change in plans will hdp you maniptdate your,profel'lional situation. Your etl'on~ can lead to a highct pn)'ing or m<>re 
Ullere>l:illg pOSIUOU. *** 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): You'll get all worked up over nothing. Not ~vet~yone will agree with von. but does it really matter'! 0rg!Uiization and good preparation will help you succeed and prove rour point wjthoUII'llliC<lf. *** 
LEO (Inly 21-Ang. 22): You can win at wbatewr you do ifyou go about it the right way. {'oneenll'llle on Dlllking ev~:ryorn: comfonable with your plans and you will get help. admimti<1n and low trom some<'ne in yQI!f lite wb.' really nllltters t~> yon
***** 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): Be ~areful with whom you mare infonnarion. Someone mav not hi! as hone~t or !oval as you hop<!. You can cxctl but only if vou are willing to do the work younelf. Uncertainty will be your downfall. Procero '~iib conftdence. ** 
LIBRA (S!Illt. 23-0et. 22): You cnn talk your way into any deal or activity or group thai )'llu wi~h to be a pan <lf but. before you do. mak¢ SUTe that you really W\Ultto be invoh•ed. Chances are good that your moti\'C~ may not be in the right place. **** 
SCORPIO (Oet. 23-Nov. 21); A \vork problem llll\Y leave wu f«ling rn10tiooally down. D<ln't let diU. ;;.t;u\d in d!e way oflll<.wing forward with .me ufyour own plan$. Yon don't baN to spend money to get sontethlDg off the growl<!. *** 
SAGJITARIUS (Nov. 22-0ec. 21 ): You can sltillfullv market yow-wlent and grab interest bul if you cannot follow through. you will face the wrnth ofsomeone with more experi¢~~ce. Know wbat you are doing bdbre you prt'ICee<l *** 
CAPRICORN (Dee. 22-Jan. 19): Don't let anyone lllke advantage ofyour tnlrnts. your financiN p~itil)n or vour abiUtv to bring }»'file tPgetbe!: Be sure that the ('e('l'le ~r<>UII<i you are sound and can ofi(.r what they say before you get involved.*** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20.Fcb. 18); Ymtr playfulnes• will capture interest and get you involved io something perfect Jot you to pursue. An idea that can earn you extra cash will inlrigue you but before you g~t involved. mnkc sure it doesn't go against !UIY rules. 
**** 

PISCI!S (Feb. 19-Marcb 20); Your inability to make up your mind will unnerve «>m-:un~ you are nymg ''' betheud or get iltt,, a pMtnersbtp with 0<.1n'1 get inn>IYed w•th S<>meone personally if you lww a busines• <'r work relationship with this per«m.
** 

Birlbday Baby: You are stf011Jf·lllmded. willful. scn>itiw. caring and pa>M<.>natc obout whatever you dtl. You Ill'<: sophisticated and classy. 
Eu,.W,.'s 1\'i.'b SJIC>: <tlg;cillillnstcom for ronli<kutitti COfJsullatioru, myspace.romleugenialast for Eug.>nl•~ btcg. ~stroodvke.com (Cf lim 
32 Snooping aid 35 Activities at punk 
rock concerts 36 "Gona run!" 37 High bark 38End_ 39 Foolish, in 

British slang 40 Fruit salad Ingredient 42 Folk singer Tom with a Grammy Ufetfme Achievement Award 43 It gets you up and around 48 Words from one who won't settle 49 People in a line 
Down 
Whim-wham 
2 It might contain a filling 3 Diagonally set spar 



THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
JUMBLE 
~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one leiter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
RUHTT  
1 rxtLISGRY jJ rr  ) 1  

JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

WHAT HAPPENED WHEN HIS GI<IP WAS L.OST. 
Now arrange the circled leiters to form the surprise answer, as

1 suggested by the above cartoon. ., 
A: HE(llJ)(JJJu(JlJJ' 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: ELEGY DECAY ORPHAN LOCATE Answer: Some homemakers preserve summer vegetables because -THEY "CAN" 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
• 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ Address _______________________________________ City _______ State _____ Zip_______ 
....--------------~·­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, August 28, 2009 
page 28 
FOOTBALL 
Running: Back 
Weis makes changes to improve ground game 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Associate Sports Ediwr 

The running backs have been there, but the running game has not. 
This year, with a stable of talented backs and one of the most experienced offensive lines in the nation, there is no excuse why the Notre Dame rushing attack can't be just as much of a threat as the pass. 
For several seasons the Irish offense has been plagued more than anything by an inability to run the football, and Irish coach Charlie Weis said it was a top priority in the offseason. "We looked back at all the teams that played in the BCS, took the highs and lows, and said, 
see RUN/page 24 


NO VOLLEYBALL 
SMC GOLF 
Belles head to Trine for '09 opener 
By BRENDAN CORSONES 
Sports Writer 
The Belles will kick off their season this weekend at the Trine University Invitational in Angola, Ind. 
Featuring a young, talented squad, the Saint Mary's golf team looks to build upon last year's 1Oth place finish at the NCAA Championships. They also hope to recapture the MIAA crown for the first time since 2005 and to push back into the NCAA finals in the coming spring. 
Though its roster contains just one senior, the team returns four of its top five golfers from last year, many of whom garnered national merit. 
see JUNIORS/page 25 

Irish to kick off season with Shamrock Invitational 
By CHRIS MASOUD Sports Writer 

Notre Dame will open its season at home today at the 15th annual Shamrock Invitational. 
The Invitational is the first step in what may be a very difficult schedule. However, Irish coach Debbie Brown said she believes her team is better prepared than ever to handle the punishing schedule ahead of them. Notre Dame will face eight NCAA Tournament teams from 2008, including No. 17 Michigan, No. 10 Florida and national runner-up Stanford. 
"We had the opportunity to go through a couple weeks of two-a-day practices, and the team came in great shape and definitely motivated and com­petitive," Brown said. "It's def­
initely time for us to get out on the floor and compete against somebody other than ourselves, so we're looking forward to that." 
The Irish maintain an all­time record of 35-6 (.854) at the Shamrock Invitational. The squad posted a 2-1 record last year after taking two games against IPFW and Nevada before falling to Valparaiso. However, this 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Squad to try for 30th straight 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame looks to win its 30th consecutive regular-sea­son game tonight against Loyola-Chicago. 
The last time the Irish lost outside of the postseason was Sept. 23, 2007, to No. 14 Penn State in a 2-1 game. 
The No. 2 Irish {1-0) topped Wisconsin 3-0 in their season opener on Aug. 21, scoring twice within the first five min­utes of the second half. The vic­tory raised Notre Dame over No. 4 Stanford in the rankings. Only No. 1 North Carolina remains above the Irish. 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum said he feels the team can and should continue its winning ways, but will need to improve upon its game against Wisconsin. 
"Our intensity level was not 
see WINS/page 25 year's field promises to be one of the most challenging in recent history. The Irish will face Denver, LSU and Stanford in an exhibition of elite volley­ball. 


"It's the first match of the season so there's no tape, nobody's played yet," Brown said. "Certainly each of the teams lost significant contrib­utors to their teams, so we're not going to know their lineup or the exact systems they're playing until we actually see them. The first weekend is always a challenge that way." 
Notre Dame and Denver have never met before on the hardwood, but the Irish are 3­0 all-time against Sun-Belt Conference opponents. The Pioneers finished the 2008 season 25-7 overall, including 
see DENVER/page 25 

ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Huffer looks to build on freshman year success 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 
For someone who won Big East Freshman of the Year for women's golf and led the team in stroke average in her first season, the next three years carry huge expectations. Sophomore Becca Huffer will do her best to fulfill those expecta­tions and more as she leads the Irish into the Fall 2009 season. 
"I just want to improve on last year, keep playing consistent," said Huffer, who was named Colorado's High School Athlete of the Year in January, joining an elite group that includes Carmelo Anthony. 
To keep her swing and gain confidence, Huffer has been playing in tournaments in her hometown of Denver, Colo. for much of this summer. These tournaments also allowed her to work on her putting, which she said was "kind of a problem" in 2008. 
The Irish team as a whole also has a tough act to follow this year after finishing a pro­gram-best 16th place in the NCAA Central Regional in the spring. 
"We definitely want to get to the finals this year," said Huffer. "We also want to reclaim our Big East Title, and just keep get­ting the top teams every year." 
The Irish finished second behind Louisville in the Big East Championships in the spring, with then-senior Lisa Mauna claiming the overall individual championship with a score of minus-1. 
As part of this preseason, the golf team also traveled to Ireland for an eight-day trip beginning Aug. 8. They played a 
see IRELAND/page 24 




