
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Blind dating gets new meaning at GRC event 
Program held at Legends featured series of social activities performed while wearing blackened goggles 

By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
Is love truly blind? 
That was the question put to the test at Notre Dating in the Dark, a program put on by the Gender Relations Center (GRC) last night at Legends. 
The event put three male stu­dents and three female students through a series of social activi­ties while wearing blackened goggles that prevented them from seeing one another. The purpose was to see how relation­ships develop when knowledge of the other person's appearance is unknown. 
The idea for the evening came from a reality TV show, Heather Rakoczy Russell, director of the Gender Relations Center, said. 
STUDENT SENATE 



Senate discusses student safety 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Student body president Grant Schmidt told members of Student Senate he plans to present to the University's Board of Trustees on stu­dent safety off campus, and asked senators to share questions and concerns about the topic at the meet­ing Wednesday. 
"We've gotten a lot of e­mails and people talk to us daily about this," Schmidt said. "It's been an issue for 
awhile." 
Schmidt said he leaned towards student safety off campus, because it is an issue that student govern­ment will not be able to tackle on its own. 
Schmidt, along with stu­dent body vice president Cynthia Weber and chief of staff Ryan Brellenthin, will present to the student affairs division of the Board of Trustees in mid-October. It will be the first of three presentations this year. 
"The direction that we're planning on looking into is what is the role of the administration? What is the role of Notre Dame off cam­pus? What is the role of stu­dent government?" Schmidt said. 
Schmidt said he is most often asked if Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) .can go off campus. The consid­erations that accompany that request focus on juris­diction, he said. 
"Where would we want them? Would we want them just at Irish Row, and Irish 
see SENATE/page 4 
''I'm a little ashamed to admit that I watched a reality show called 'Dating in the Dark' this summer," Russell said. "It turned out to be really interesting to watch these six people on the show develop relationships in total darkness; they never got to see one another." 
The reality show was modified for an audience in a club setting at Notre Dame. 
"Planning this was a logistical nightmare," Russell said. "We finally decided that we should have the six contestants in dark­ened goggles, so that they can't see one another but the audience can see them." 
Working with the University Counseling Center, the GRC had potential contestants take a Meyers-Briggs type test, a wide­ly-used psychological assessment used to determine major person­ality preferences, and selected three women and three men they thought would be compatible. 
The committee had the contest­ants make up a stage name to maintain anonymity. Some of the aliases included Eleanor Brownson, Buster Lorado, Rainbow Clay and Spike Beeching. 
The night was broken up into three segments. The first was called "The Experiment" and had the six contestants go through a variety of activities while wearing the goggles. 
There was also a section in which the boys went off-stage and the girls remained, removed their goggles, and then went through the boys' backpacks. 
see DARK/page 3 

Over 80 organizations come to ND Service Fair 
By MEGAN HEMLER 
News Writer 

Hundreds of Notre Dame students, along with repre­sentatives from over 80 serv­ice organizations, filled the Joyce Center concourse Wednesday night from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. for the annual Postgraduate Service Fair. 
The fair featured faith­based organizations such as the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) and the Jesuit Volunteer Corps, but also included programs with­out a religious affiliation, 
such as AmeriCorps and Teach for America. 
"I came here to look at Peace Corps and Teach for America," senior David Bettwy said, "but I also want to get an impression of what the faith-based ones are like because I don't really have any idea." 
The Fair offered students the chance to meet with serv­ice representatives in an informal setting. With casual clothing and light refresh­ments, the Service Fair had a 
see FAIR/page 4 


Notre Dame faculty, staff, students participate in food Co-op 
By KATIE PERALTA 
News Writer 
In an effort to supply their families with organic, fair­trade food while at the same time supporting northern Indiana farmers, area resi­dents, including Notre Dame faculty, staff, students and alumni, are turning to Purple Porch Co-op, a new local organization that connects people directly to area pro­ducers. 
The farmers and growers of Purple Porch provide fresh seasonal produce, dairy prod­ucts, grains and meats to area residents, Greg Koehler, a co-founder and Purple 
Porch volunteer said. 
"[Farmers provide] produce like apples, butternut and winter squash, pumpkins, gourds, lettuce, local honey and lots of grains," Koehler said. "We have meat produc­ers whose animals are natu­rally raised and grass-fed." 
According to the organiza­tion's Web site, Purple Porch was founded last year after area residents became dis­contented that the produce at their local grocery store was often imported from many miles away. The group is named after the purple porch on which product distribution initially took place. 
"This is not a business that benefits one person," Koehler said. "We all benefit. It's everybody's." 
Koehler said since the coop­erative's inception last spring, membership has grown to over 100 paying members. 
Rebecca Bonsib of Earth Cure Farm Producers agreed that the cooperative has ben­efitted her business. 
"It's been good exposure," she said. 
Members of the cooperative pay a fee of $35 per year, Notre Dame alumna and vol­unteer Liz Zaph said. Product orders, she said, can be made conveniently online, where farmers advertise their sea-
see CO-OPIpage 4 

INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER Gigot Ideas Challenge page 3 • Reality shows you love to hate page 14 • Clausen injury update page 28 • Viewpoint page 12 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, October 1, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN QUESTION OF THE DAY: /s IT POP OR SODA? 
Real World 

Rundown 

As far as season openers go, there's Major League Baseball's opening day, NFLs Kickoff Weekend, and the season premiere of the latest Real World/Road Rules ChallengE>. That's the pecking order. 
Now, you may have missed last night's debut of "The Ruins" on MTY. That's why I'm here. Here's a play-by­play recap of what went down. 

10:00 p.m. -The episode kicks off with some dramatic shots of Thailand, as well as highlights from the upcoming season. Notable newcomers to this season are Chet and Sarah from Real World: Brooklyn, also known as the least interesting Real World season ever. 
10:10-If you picked 10 minutes for how long it took Tonya to get drunk and naked, congratulations, you win. 
10:14 -One sentence from Kenny just contained three f-bombs and two "bro"s. And you wonder why I watch this show. 
10:29-Wes claims that he's going to "tackle his teammates" to throw chal­lenges ifhis teammates don't agree with him. Dishonest play on The Challenge? Can we get a Congressional Committee on this? 
10:46 -The first challenge involves climbing a rope over your teammates. I don't know. It didn't make a whole lot of sense. All I know is Wes tried to throw the challenge lor his team but couldn't even do that right. Darrell says he wants to send Wes home so he doesn't continue to throw challenges. Good strategy, Darrell. 
10:53-We were so close to our first fight of the season, involving, you guessed it, Wes and Darrell. 
10:56-In the least surprising devel­opment of the season, Wes chooses to go into The Ruins against Chet, the skinny rookie Mormon guy. This has to be one of the biggest mismatches in Challenge history. 
11:01 -It's so cute watching Chet try to be competitive and, well, manly. An actual quote: ''I'm going to go in there and destroy Wes. From now on, I'm gonna be known as the bow-tie killa." 
11:15-Wes barely squeaks out the Ruins showdown over Chet, who kept it respectably close. It looked for a while like Chet might play the role of Appalachian State, but it wasn't to be, which is too bad, because every Challenge needs a skinny little Mormon. 
11:25 -Another close Ruins for the women, with Tonya coming out on top. I'm glad Tonya will stay to provide her own style of drunken, naked debauchery. 
In all, it was definitely an intriguing first episode. Obviously the biggest sub­plot is Wes trying to submarine his own team. It'll definitely be interesting to see how that plays out over the rest of the season. I'd like to thank James, Colin and Casey for giving me someone else to watch this with and not feel like a com­plete loser. 
One of the scenes from next week shows Shauvon saying, "I think I popped my implant." This is going to be a good season. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 


Sam Werner 
Associate Sports Editor 
An article in me Sept. 30 edition ofThe Observer titled "Bishops support universal health care policy" was not primed in its entirety. A complete copy is available at The Observer's Web site. The Observer regrets chis error. 






Ellen Niemiec  Sean McCullough  Eric Hageman  Rebekah Wierson  Greg Delaiglesia  Taylor Osicek  
sophomore  junior  sophomore  sophomore  freshman  junior  
LeMans  Dillon  Stanford  Pangborn  Fisher  Badin  
''I'm going to  "Coke. It's  "Soda, because  "Soda. I hate  "Soda, because  "Pop. I'm from  
have to go with  southern  I'm not a  when people  I'm from Texas. "  Chicago and  
pop, being from  dialect."  Midwestern  say pop, it's  that's what I've  
the Midwest.  hick."  irritating.  ,  always heard. "  
It's just more  
, 

fun to say. 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

VANESSA Observer Juniors Kelly Jones and Deborah Olmstead, head officers in the Notre Dame Glass Club, make glass beads on Tuesday night in the Jordan Hall of Science. 
OFFBEAT 
Motorcyclist riding with baby leads to 3 arrests 
JONESBOROUGH, Tenn. ­Washington County authori­ties said a motorcyelist riding down the road without a hel­met led to a series of discov­eries and three arrests. The Johnson City Press reported that when officers stopped 21-year-old outside his home on Tuesday, they found he wasn't alone. The man also had an 18-month-old baby on board, also without a hel­met. 
As they wrote him up for reckless endangerment, evading arrest and driving on a suspended lic~ense, offi­cers learned another man at the home was a fugitive from North Carolina. They arrest­ed him as well. 

But before the offieers eould leave, they spotted a third man allegedly breaking into a nearby barn. So they arrestc~d him, too. 
Cops: Woman fried, ate goldfish amid fight with ex 
PASADENA, Texas ­Authorities say a Houston­area woman who was burned up at her former common-law husband fried their pet goldfish and ate some of them. Pasadena police say it's a eivil matter and no eharges will be filed. The seven goldfish were pur­ehased together by the cou­ple during happier times. 
Police spokesman Vance Mitehell says the man report­ed on Saturday that the woman took the goldfish from his apartment. 
Mitchell says the two argued earlier about some jewelry the man had given her but took back. She want­ed the jewelry returned. 
Officers who were dis­patched to the woman's home arrived to find four fried goldfish on a plate. The woman said she already ate the other three. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY GAME DAY 
a:: 
U.l 
:z: 
~ 
U.l 
~ 




0,,,,,,,

0,,,,,,,
.... 

,,,,,,, 
,,,,,,,
<
(,) 

....0 HIGH 67 HIGH 51 HIGH 68 HIGH 58 LOW 52 LOW 39 LOW 48 LOW 45 IN BRIEF 
"Song Sung Blue," the love story of a Milwaukee hus­band and wife singing duo who pay tribute to the music of Neil Diamond, is showing today at 9:30 p.m. in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
The Kellogg Institute is hosting a leeture on "Soeial Cleavages and Political Preferences in Comparative 
Perspective"  by  Thad  
Dunning,  Associate  
Professor  of  Political  

Science, at Yale University, today at 4:15 p.m. in Hesburgh Center. 
The stadium tunnel will be open to the public as part of Game Day events for the 2009 season Friday from 10 
a.m. to 5 p.m. 
"Brothers at War," an inti­mate portrait of an American family during the Iraq War, will be showing in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Friday at 6:30 p.m. It is a free but ticketed event. Tickets can be reserved at the Ticket Office. 
The Linden String Quartet, winner of the Grand Prize and the Gold Medal in the Senior String Division of the 39th annual Fischoff National Chamber Music Competition, will be per­forming Friday at 8 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 62 HIGH 65 LOW 40 LOW 50 

Atlanta 73 150 Boston 61 142 Chicago 62 I 45 Denver 75 I 44 Houston 87 173 Los Angeles 77 I 58 Minneapolis 63 I 47 New York 62 147 Philadelphia 63 I 46 Phoenix 95 I 66 Seattle 59 I 51 St. Louis 70 I 50 Tampa 85 I 64 Washington 66 I 48 

\ Thursday, October 1, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
College changes class 
Mendoza hosts ideas challenge 
By MEGAN DOYLE News Writer 
The Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies at the Mendoza College of busi­ness hosted Ideas Challenge 2009 on Wednesday night to encourage student innovation and make connections in order to spur scheme devel­opment. 
The second annual Ideas Challenge serves as an infor­mal precursor to the Notre Dame Business Plan Competitions. The Business Plan Competitions are year­long events offering students the chance to vie for forty thousand dollars in prize money students by developing designs for business ven­tures. 
"This night is really intend­ed to be a celebration of ideas and innovations," Program Manager Karen Slaggert said. 
Students from all colleges were invited to present their unique ideas in an informal setting. The concept of an Ideas Challenge developed when the Gigot Center saw the need to expand the acces­sibility of the Business Plan Competitions to non-business majors. 
"The Ideas Challenge should serve as a user-friend­ly outlet for the development of ideas. We wanted to reduce the sense of intimida­tion for students who do not have business experience but want to participate," Slaggert said. 
The participants, including graduates and undergradu­ates, represented every col­lege on campus, and the over forty ideas presented ranged in topic from science to elec­tronic networking to service projects. 
Students were allotted about 90 seconds to come up with their own "elevator pitch." This activity simulated a chance encounter with a prospective investor while riding in an elevator and allowed presenters one shot to make a strong impression. 
"I intend to participate in the Business Plan Competitions on campus, and I am excited to see what everyone here has to offer," junior Caitlin Putt said. "There are great resources available here in terms of ideas and talents." 
After the presentations, 
help kids trying to manage 

ring purchase policy
their own businesses," Taylor said. 
"Listening to all of the ideas that are put forward here can inspire everyone to develop new thoughts as well," fresh­man Andrew Charnesky said. 
Program Manager Melissa Paulson said she was excited by the positive turnout at the Ideas Challenge. 
"Over 140 people were here tonight, and over 40 gave presentations. I saw a great number of social proposals in the room, but I was also impressed by the balance between disciplines," she said. "Really, I am so glad that so many students were 
attendees voted on the best proposals, resulting in a three-way tie. 
One of the winning teams, named Team LED Zeppelin, implemented guitar music into an Electrical Engineering Senior Design project. 
· Seniors Matt Prelee, Jon Altenburger, Rob Jones and Arthur Kinsey developed an idea to use 
"The Ideas Challenge should serve as a user-friendly outlet for the development ofideas. We wanted to reduce the sense of intimidation for students who do not have business experience but want to participate. '' 
Karen Slaggert Program Manager Gigot Center 
lege, Hayes said she decided to wait to buy hers. She waited until her junior year, even before the policy was put in place, to buy her class ring. 
"It's not just for symbolic rea­sons," Hayes said of her deci­sion. "It's a waste of money to buy the ring unless you are going to graduate from Saint Mary's." 
The original design of the ring included only the seal and the phrase "Spes Unica," but the words "Saint Mary's College of Notre Dame" were later added. The phrase was changed to "Saint Mary's, Notre Dame" in 1973 when the two schools decided to forgo a merger, Balfour salesman Jim Bell said in a 2005 interview with The Observer. 
Other images on the current ring represent the French ori­gin of the founding Sisters of the Holy Cross -two fleurs-de­lis on the top of the ring and the French Cross. 
The current design of the Saint Mary's ring has been sold since 1973, although the tradi­tion of class rings has been a part of the college since at least the 1950s. The ring bears the college seal, adopted from the Sisters of the Holy Cross seal. 
Another symbol of Christ on the ring is the phrase "Spes Unica" or "One Hope" on the bottom of the ring. 
Students have the choice of a small diamond or an open book to be displayed in the center of the ring. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

By MEGAN LONEY News Writer 
Since July 21 of this past sum­mer, Saint Mary's College has mandated that only students of junior status or higher can order class rings. 
The idea behind this new poli­cy is to maintain the integrity of the class ring, Vice President for Student Affairs Karen Johnson said. Before, under­classmen could buy a Saint Mary's ring, even if they planned on transferring some­
not afraid to  where else.  
get up, pitch  "In the past a student could  
their ideas,  enter Saint Mary's, buy a ring in  
and have fun  her first week, and then with­ 
with this  draw with the ring," Johnson  
night."  said.  
The Ideas  Juniors and above will have  
Challenge is  to provide proof, such as a tran­ 
one way in  script, that they have completed  
which the  60 credit hours. Once students  
Gigot Center  have reached this threshold,  
has responded  they are able to purchase a ring  
to the opening  at any time.  
for entrepre- Johnson said she has received  
neurs in  no reactions to the policy from  
today's job  alumni, students or parents.  
market.  Senior Elementary Education  
"So much  major Megan Hayes said this  
incentive to  policy is appropriate for the  
take risks is  sale of the Saint Mary's class  
present right  rings.  
now because of  "The class ring is like a right  
the difficulty of  of passage," Hayes said. "It  

LED markers to teach musi­ breaking into the job mar­ represents all four years that  
cal instruments to beginners.  ket," Slaggert said. "Our mis­ I've been here [at Saint Mary's].  
Another participant, junior  sion is to educate students  It's something you should earn,  
Mike Taylor, suggested a Web  and create a buzz about inno­ not just pay money for."  
site to offer advice to high  vation  so  students  can  After knowing another stu­ 
school students hoping to  become agents of change as  dent who bought a class ring  
become entrepreneurs.  they  head  into  the  real  during her first year and ended  
"I mowed lawns in high  world."  up transferring to another col- 
school, and I think that this  


and were surprised to find a 
color-coded planner in another bag. When the boys got their turn to 


MPA IN ENVIRONMENTAL 
go through the girls' purses, they found a passport that didn't have any stamps, an iPod that fea­tured music from Hanson, and they commented that one of the girls "might be Catholic" when they found a rosary novena book. 
r 

The second part was called "The Intermission" which gave the contestants a chance to inter­act with each other when the 

SCIENCE AND POLICY 



audience wasn't watching, although they still had to wear their goggles and remain in "darkness."
The Master of Public Administration Program in Environmental Science and 
The next segment was "The Big Reveal," in which the con­
Policy is a twclve~momh program that combines Columbia University's hands-on 
testants came out and got to see the face of the person who theyapproach to teaching public policy and administration with pioneering chinking 
were most interested in. Then, the contestants decided whether 
about the environment, educating today's environmental leaders for a sustainable 
they wanted to pursue a relation­ship with the person they indicat­ed.
tomorrow. FOR MORE INFORMATION, please call 212-854-3142, e-mail 
If the contestants wanted to pursue a relationship, then they
ael2130@col umbia.edu, or visit www .columbia.edu/ cu/mpaenv ironment. For 
would be led onstage with the goggles on. And if the person information about SIPA programs, visit sipa.columbia.edu. 
they were interested in also wanted to continue a relation­ship, they would meet their romantic interest onstage -gog­would be a great way to give Contact Megan Doyle at back to the community and mdoylell@nd.edu 
gles still being worn.  
Together, or individually if the  
~ COLUMBIAjSIPA  THE EARTH lNSTITUTE  other party did not appear, the students took off their goggles  
School ofinternational and Public Aff.tirs  COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY  and looked at the person they  
had most connected with during  
the program.  
There were many groans from  

Dark 
continued from page 1 
The girls found one male contes­tant's backpack to be "intense" 


EARN YOUR 
the audience, as many of the contestants were led onstage only to see that the person they had chosen did not feel the same spark as they had. 
"Is this a sick joke?" senior Will Stark said after being led onstage only to take of his goggles and see that the girl he had chosen had not shown up. 
While the contestants said the experiment was interesting, they also said it made them appreci­ate just how important sight is to forming relationships with other people. 
"It's hard to describe," sopho­more participant Janine Joly said. "It was all the stages of a relationship in a very confused order." 
Senior participant Chris Tulsiak agreed that the lack of sight made forming relationships more difficult. 
"I think that people play off visual keys," he said. "I felt like I was talking to a voice box at some points." 
Senior participant Patrick Tighe said the lack of visuals made him more attentive to the conversations. 
"I normally really struggle with listening," Tighe said. "But with the goggles on it made me realize what was really being said." 
The overall goal of the experi­ment was to explore moral foun­dations, Russell said. 
"We really wanted this pro­gram to start dialogue among students about moral discern­ment," Russell said. "I hope that all those who attended will gain information that causes them to reflect on their values in choos­ing a friend or romantic partner." 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 1, 2009 
=================================== 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
Crossings? Would you want them in the Northeast neigh­borhood?" he said. 
"The question also comes up, how would you have NDSP respond to something that wasn't necessarily stu­dent related? Should they be responsible for protecting those people as well?" Schmidt said. 
Pasquerilla East senator Taylor Ruby Gagan said she was concerned that if NDSP went off campus, more stu­dents would get in trouble for underage drinking. 
"What would they be doing regarding students who are underage but who are at those off-campus locations? Is it going to be easier for students to get in trouble?" she said. 
Schmidt said other ques­tions that he has been asked include whether would Notre Dame ever provide off-cam­pus housing and whether more pressure should be put on the South Bend Police Department (SBPD). 
Crisiti Yanker of Lewis Hall said strengthening SBPD would be effective since they are already in the off-campus area. 
"SBPD would be the best option, to put pressure on them because they are already in that area," Yanker said. "Most incidents that I've heard of have been in that area of Notre Dame Avenue. Maybe we could get 
higher patrol of SBPD lin that area]." 
Matthew Robinson of St. Edward's Hall suggested allo­cating money to improve SBPD. 
"Of that $5 million that we're donating to the com­munity, could we earmark some of it to uplift South Bend police force on Friday and Saturday nights?" he said. 
Gagan also suggested increasing the number of telephones on campus for the blue light emergency. 
Keough Hall senator Marc Anthony Rosa asked if there were funds to increase light­ing in some of the darker off­campus areas to improve safety. 
Schmidt said he would not answer the questions, but would take them into consid­eration for the presentation to the Board of Trustees. 
Andrew Bell of Knott Hall said it was important to emphasize to the Board of Trustees that student govern­ment was doing all it could to improve off-campus safety. 
"I think that it's important when you approach the Board to emphasize what we're doing and not just ask­ing, asking, asking," he said. "Like saying, this is really important to us and this is what we're doing but we can't do it on our own. We have to ask you as the Board to help us because we obvi­ously can't do it on our own." 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 


ND's Kellogg Institute awarded $180,000 grant 
Special to the Observer 
The U.S. Department of Education has awarded the University of Notre Dame's Kellogg Institute for International Studies an Undergraduate International Studies and Foreign Languages Program (UISFL) grant of approximately $180,000 to advance Asian language and area studies at the University. 
"We are committed to creating a vibrant and distinctive inter­disciplinary program in Asian studies that carries the Notre Dame stamp of excellence and supports the University's mission to internationalize the curricu­lum, the intellectual life, and the spirit of the campus," said Jonathan Noble, the provost's advisor for Asia initiatives, who will serve as chair of the pro­ject's faculty steering committee. 
Program components include new courses in Asian language and area studies with a special focus on innovative language learning and assessment, profes­sional and curriculum develop­ment opportunities for faculty, and regional mini-conferences to bring Asian studies experts from around the Midwest to explore common academic interests. 
"Receipt of the grant validates our efforts to continue to enhance Asian studies at Notre Dame," Noble said. "We antici­pate a significant impact on the University, our community, and our relationship to Asia." 
The grant also will fund Asia­specific library resources and a new outreach initiative to pro­vide Asia-specific curriculum resources to teachers in elemen­tary and secondary schools in Indiana, Michigan and Illinois. 
The award represents the cul­mination of an unusually large collaborative effort that has been under way for several years. Collaborators include the Notre Dame's Center for Asian Studies, Center for the Study of Languages and Cultures, Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures. and Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, as well as faculty in anthropology, business, theology, and film, television and theatre. 
Project co-directors are Sharon Schierling, associate direetor of the Kellogg Institute, and Howard Goldblatt, director of the Center for Asian Studies and research professor of Chinese. 

Fair 
continued from page 1 
markedly different atmos­phere from tho annual Fall Career 1\xpo h1~ld in the Joyce Center two weeks ago. Organized as morp, of a meet-and-grnet instead of screening of applicants, the fair inel uded a variety of regional, national, and international service oppor­tunities. 
"EvPrybody who we're talking to has done the pro­grams themselves, so they'rn a really good resource," senior Brianna Muller said. 
With the lingering effects of the eeonomic recession, "Students have become more ereative in what they can do after they graduate," Center for Social Concerns 
Director  of  Student  
Leadership  and  Studemt  
Transitions  Michael  

Hebbeler said. "Applications are up this year. For exam­ple, Jesuit Volunteers Corp, their applieations have dou­
Co-op 
continued from page 1 
sonal products. Members then pick up their orders weekly at a distribution cen­ter. 
"I like [Purple Porch I because l can go online and see what they have," Zaph said. "I get a better feeling of what's in season." 
Zaph said she also enjoys the close-knit community of people at the weekly two­hour product distribution. 
"It's neat getting to know the growers and farmers," Zaph said. 

. . 

: . . 
bled." that this is somehow a year "Our students are known off," Hebbeler said. "But 
for being on top of their gamn and 
"It's important to 
r e a I I y 
note that grad 
researching places of schools and interest to 
employers are really
them. That 
drawn to people
really helps move the coming out ofservice, search for­
and I think that's a 
ward," he 
misconception, that
continued. 
The Center this is somhow a year for Social off" Concerns, which opened 
Michael Hebbler 
this year in a 
newly con­Director of Student structed Leadership building, is 
Center for Social 
responsible 
Concerns
for bringing the fair to Notre Dame each year. he said. 
you're actually on the ground, you're learning and your skills are being used and you're also hopefully being transformed in some way through com­munity, through the relationships that are being formed, and coming out a much different person than you were going 
in."  
"That's  fur­ 
thering  the  
mission  of  

Notre Dame," 
Hebbeler said that service enhances a resume in the eyes of employers. 
"It's important to note that grad schools and employers are really drawn to people coming out of service, and I think that's a misconception, 
Farmers and producers also like the idea of a coop­erative because of the online feature. 
"I like the ordering direct from the customer," Marty Fair, who co-owns Fair Bakery of Hochester, Ind. 
Referring to the fact that farmers know exactly how much to bring to distribution from the online sales, Fair said, "You don't overproduce or waste." 
"By ordering ahead of time, small famers are not stuck with stuff they don't sell at the end of the day," Notre Dame political science professor and Purple Porch member Matthew Doppke 
"It's good that Notre Dame provides us with opportuni­ties to continue serving oth­ers after we leave," senior Lisa Bunn said. 
Contact Megan Hemler at mhemler1@nd.edu 
said. Doppke is also a volun­teer with the cooperative. 
Doppke and Koehler both hope to market the coopera­tive to Notre Dame students, especially graduates and off­campus undergraduates. 
"Today's students are very savvy on the Internet," Koehler said. "They could order online conveniently." 
Doppke and Koehler both hope to involve the University with the coopera­tive. Those interested can visit the organization's Web site at www.purpleporch­coop.com 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 

VDYJLLA8E'
. ·---. 

,. ' . . ... 
. . ·.-. 


APRINE CAMPUS BOUSIIG CoHIIUIITY 

• ~lit Art Brad Sew Hi;lti8ti....Cmrtr ..tCrsr i1 Clllb Heast 
............. 
~~......,..f.~ 

• 
hl "rW.S.Drd.Hath&...lttsletWc.t 

• 
Oa!ltY T 8IIC!1Uai2-t7¥·rrr _, 


• O.Sitt·~Offictt 
• S.~V'*---~flirlllrRI!ef ~~-Cart 
r.~aff)ryaiaaduDir
-·-~-­
.. li(;.SperiWW.fllluM.t£..­,__Uilft.di.W 
• OlSiteY 1 1 •at.mal1f7'f. , u • o.Silr~OLr 







Please recycle The Observer. 





ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, October 1, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Candy may have connection to arrests 
LONDON -Willy Wonka would be horri­fied. Children who eat too much candy may be more likely to be arrested for violent behavior as adults, new research suggests. 
British experts studied more than 17,000 children born in 1970 for about four decades. Of the children who ate candies or chocolates daily at age 10, 69 percent were later arrested for a violent offense by the age of 34. Of those who didn't have any violent clashes, 42 percent ate sweets daily. 
The study was published in the October issue of the British Journal of Psychiatry. It was paid for by Britain's Economic and Social Research Council. 
The researchers said the results were interesting, but that more studies were need­ed to confirm the link. 
Hunger strike over prosecutions grows 
CARACAS, Venezuela-More than 150 university students have joined a hunger strike to demand the Organization of American States investigate allegations that dozens of Venezuelans have been jailed for their opposition to President Hugo Chavez. 
Student activist Angel Arellano said Wednesday that 163 people -mostly stu­dents -have joined the protest since last week, when 10 students set up cots outside the OAS offices in Caracas and vowed to con­sume only water )lntil the Washington-based group's Interamerican Commission of Human Rights promises to launch a probe. 
Some students sewed their mouths shut. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Man protests innocence in scheme 
MINEOLA, N.Y. -An attorney who claimed his own experience as an adopted child motivated him to help people seeking to start families is suspected of running a Ponzi-like scheme that ripped off couples from New York to Texas, promising children that didn't exist. 
Kevin Cohen, 41, pleaded not guilty Friday to grand larceny and other charges after one Long Island couple told prosecutors they paid him $60,000 in fees for a promised baby that he never delivered. Since then, 15 other couples from New York, Georgia, Ohio and Texas have contacted a prosecutor in New York's Nassau County, telling similar stories. 

Environmentalists not welcome 
FLAGSTAFF, Arizona -The leader of the country's largest Indian reservation is throw­ing his support behind the neighboring Hopi Tribe, whose lawmakers declared environ­mental groups unwelcome on the reserva­tion. 
Navajo President Joe Shirley Jr. and Hopi lawmakers say environmentalists' efforts could hurt the tribes' struggling economies by slowing or stopping coal mining. 
Shirley said Wednesday he will stand in solidarity with the Hopi Tribe. 
He also joined Hopi lawmakers in encour­aging other tribes to re-evaluate their rela­tionships with environmentalists. 
Andy Bessler of the Sierra Club says the group respects tribal sovereignty and under­stands the need for tribes to develop their economies. 
LOCAL NEWS 
20-year-old. guilty in Mishawaka slaying 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -A 20-year-old man who pleaded guilty to killing a man during a botched robbery has been sentenced to 55 years in prison. 
Alex R. Milewski and two co-defendants previously pleaded guilty in the Oct. 27 death of 30-year-old Justin Bird. 
Authorities said Bird was shot at a Mishawaka home when he tried to intervene between Milewski and a friend making a drug deal. Milewski, James E. Bucher Jr. and Jacob Manriquez, later admitted they planned to rob the home's resident of mari­juana. 
CHINA 


Anniversary stirs pride, also unease 
China's plans for exuberant celebrations are cause for safety concerns 
Associated Press 
BEIJING -To mark 60 years of communist rule China put together its biggest-ever military parade: hundreds of thou­sands of marchers, batter­ies of goose-stepping sol­diers and weaponry from drone missiles to amphibi­ous assault vehicles. Everyone else, though, was asked to stay home. 
China blocked off its city center closing everything from Tiananmen Square to the Forbidden City as it readied for Thursday's cel­ebration, asking residents to tune into the events by television. 
Festivities surrounding the founding of the People's Republic will feature President Hu Jintao review­ing chanting troops, a fly­over by domestically made fighter jets and tens of thousands of students flip­ping cards to make pic­tures. 
Sixty floats celebrating China's manned space pro­gram and other symbols of progress will follow the mil­itary convoy along the parade route through Tiananmen Square. 
The display is meant to underscore what the lead­ership calls the "revival of the great Chinese nation," es over the country's gut Beijing were sealed off and well with Chinese who say and the plans stirred both wrenching twists -the businesses were told to it traditionally represents patriotism -and some ruinous campaigns of revo­shut down, beginning the full life of a person. The unease at the pomp and lutionary leader Mao Tuesday. country's leadership has firepower. Zedong that left tens of mil­"How many hundreds of avoided mention of any­
"China's international lions dead -as well as its millions are being spent on thing to do with supersti­standing has risen in an current challenges: a the National Day troop tion, though. unprecedented way. We feel widening gap between rich review? Can you tell the Early this year, before extremely proud of the and poor, rampant corrup­taxpayers?" the prolific China's economy rebound­increasing strength and tion, severe pollution and blogger Li Huizhi, a small ed from the global down­prosperity of our mother­ethnic uprisings in western businessman in southern turn, authorities promised land," Premier Wen Jiabao areas of Tibet and Xinjiang. Guangzhou city wrote on only a modest celebration said in a nationally tele­In a sign of concern about his popular blog Sunday. in keeping with the gloomy vised speech on the the social ferment "Aren't the possibly tens of times. anniversary's eve. unleashed by free-market billions in money spent per­Early this year, before 
The feel-good, if heavily reforms, the government haps a bit of a disservice to China's economy rebound­scripted moment is tapping has suggested people in the people? Because in ed from the global down­into Chinese pride sur­Beijing stay home to watch today's China, there are turn, authorities promised rounding the country's the parade on television. countless places more in only a modest celebration turnaround from the war­Security in Beijing has need of this money." in keeping with the gloomy battered, impoverished been intensifying for weeks Explanations vary for times. state the communists took over worries that protests, why such elaborate festivi­The parade is now billed over in 1949 to the dynam­which are common in ties are being staged. by state media as China's ic, third-largest world econ­China, or an overexuberant Among them is the specula­largest-ever display of omy of today. crowd might mar the cere­tion that 60 is an auspi­weaponry, reminiscent of 
The buoyant mood gloss-monies. Parts of central cious number that plays the Soviet Union. 

Four Klamath dams to be removed 
"We relicense our hydro projects -relicensing to settlement involving a
Associated Press that's the regular course of b_usiness," possible dam removal framework." MEDFORD, Oregon -The turning PacifiCorp Vice President and General Kempthorn said from Washington, point toward removing four Klamath Counsel Dean Brockbank recalled D.C., that he did not initially want the River dams in Oregon and California Wednesday after the Portland-based dams removed, but President George to restore struggling salmon runs utility announced it had agreed to W. Bush wanted a resolution to the came in the little Shenandoah Valley terms for removing the dams. long-standing water crisis, and he town of Shepherdstown, W.Va. "In this case, Gov. (Ted) Kulongoski, was determined to find an agreement Michael Bogert, an aide to then­Gov. (Arnold) Schwarzenegger, and at that would be a good business deci­Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorn, that time Secretary Kempthorn made sion for PacifiCorp. summoned representatives of it very clear from a public policy point PacifiCorp has agreed to terms for PacifiCorp and the governors of Oregon of view that they did not want these removing four hydroelectric dams on and California to the U.S. Fish and dams relicensed. They wanted the the Klamath that produce enough Wildlife Service National Conservation dams removed as part of a larger power for 70,000 customers. If they Training Center there in May 2008. (Klamath) basin settlement and actually come out sometime after They would find a way to peace in the restoration program. 2020, it will open some 300 miles of Klamath after decades of battling over "Once that became abundantly river to salmon for the first time in a water, fish, power and farming. clear, we shifted our framework from century. 

page 6 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, October 1, 2009 

Budgetcrisismaycause partial shutdown of Mich. government 


Associated Press 
LANSING -One of the nation's most economically battered states stumbled toward a partial government shutdown Thursday as Michigan lawmakers failed to agree on a spending plan in one of the only states without a budget in place. 
A deal to fill a nearly $3 billion shortfall with federal recovery dollars and more than $1 billion in cuts fell through, as 
many lawmak­ "We have taken steps  had issued tem­ 
ers discovered they couldn't stomach deep  to put a shutdown in place.''  porary layoff notices earlier in the day and  
cuts to schools  told state  con­ 
and local serv­ices such as police and fire  Liz Boyd spokeswoman for  tractors they might not get paid.  
protection in  Mich. governor Jennifer  Democratic  
the  stricken  Granholm  Gov.  Jennifer  

state. 
They also failed to final­ize a temporary budget and avert Michigan's second shutdown since 2007. 
Secretary of State offices were set to close Thursday and state parks prepared to ask visitors to leave if the impasse remained when state workers were sup­posed to report for work. Essential services such as state police and prisons would continue running. 
"We have taken steps to put a shutdown in place," Granholm 
spokeswoman "What you're saying feared 
Liz Boyd said is we're going to take Democrats only shortly after· wanted the
money from our
midnight. But stopgap to win Boyd said the more time for
citizens. Guess what? 
governor's They don't care for tax increases. office was "The continu­
that."
waiting on a ation budget possible reso­was there as a lution from the George Cushingberry safety valve in 
Legislature to House Appropriations case we didn't keep govern­finish," said
Chairman 
ment running before state offices were scheduled to open Thursday. 
Michigan already is strug­gling with the nation's high­est unemployment rate, a shrinking auto industry, a high rate of home foreclo­sures and an economy that soured long before the national recession hit. The number of people receiving food stamps and unemploy­ment checks keeps going up, and it's the only state where the Census Bureau found poverty rates rose two years in a row. 
Pennsylvania is the only other state without a budget deal enacted. Leaders there reached a tentative deal nearly two weeks ago, but have been unable to get the votes to put all the pieces in place. Only Michigan and Alabama have fiscal years that start Oct. 1, and Alabama has passed its budget. 
Michigan is having a tough time finding money for everything from prisons to universities and in-school health clinics for adoles­cents. State revenues have grown just 1.3 percent annually during the past decade when federal funds are left out, according to the nonpartisan House Fiscal Agency. 
University funding has dropped 22 percent during the past seven years when adjusted for inflation, fore-Granholm had 
angled to get 
an interim budget sent to her by the Wednesday midnight dead­line. It would mean 30 more days for lawmakers to put a more palatable deal in place and she probably wouldn't have had to cut much spend­ing during that period. 
The interim budget origi­nally was Senate Republicans' idea. But as House Democrats on Wednesday tried to restore programs such as scholar­ships and library money, GOP lawmakers 
ing up tuition rates. Yet the higher education compro­mise lawmakers passed Wednesday eliminated the popular Promise Grant scholarship, which gave col­lege students up to $4,000, and cut other student finan­cial aid to the bone. 
The lack of a budget deal left 51,000 state workers unsure as they headed to bed Wednesday night whether they'd have to show up for work Thursday. The administration 
Republican Senate Majority Leader Mike Bishop of Rochester. Having one in place would only give Granholm "30 more days to pressure the Legislature to adopt something she wants." Granholm spokeswoman 

Uganda Information Session 
~m Interested in Africa? 
Interested in challenges and issues of developing nations? 
Interested in Sub-Saharan Post Conflict Transformation? 
Don't miss this study abroad opportunity through the School for International Training (SIT)! 
Information Session: Semester and Summer Options. 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2009 207 DeBARTOLO HALL 5:30 PM 
APPLICATION DEADLINE FOR All SESSIONS IS NOVEMBER 15, 2009 
Liz Boyd disagrned, saying Bishop and Democratic Housn Speaker Andy Dillon of Wayne County's Redford Township failed to get the votes to pass a budget deal that included denp cuts and no new revenue. 
"They're unable to get approval on budgets based on agreements they agreed to-not us," Boyd said. 
As legislative leaders attempted to l'ind common ground, school and local government leaders grew increasingly nervous con­templating just how much in 
Tht' Onice of Muhieullural Student Progranls and Services and the .Minoritv Pre-.\Jedical Socic1v · Present · 
"Interrace Forum 
EXCESS: ·are Disparities
America 

ay, October 7, 
2009 5:30P.M. Geddes Hall 
(C~enter f(>r Social Concerns C~om~e House) 
Please RSVP bv l\t1ondav. ()ctobcr 5th to
' -/ 
msps@~nd.edu with '"Interrace" in the sul~ject line or call 574-63 1-684 I 
cuts they'd have to absorb. 
Hevenue for cities, villages and townships has dropped by nearly a quarter in the past eight years, and mayors statewide said absorbing a proposed 11 percent cut in the new budget would force them to lay off police, close parks and shut off some city services. 
Michigan is even in danger of losing millions of federal dollars for Medicaid and similar programs if it can't come up with its share of matching funds. 
House Appropriations Chairman George Cushingberry, D-Detroit, warned lawmakers they had to make a choice between hurting education, health care services and public safety or finding more money. 
But Republican Sen. John Pappageorge of the Detroit suburb of Troy criticized Democrats for talking about raising more revenue. 
"What you're saying is we're going to take money from our citizens," he said. "Guess what? They don't care for that." 
THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Thursday, October 1, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 9,712.28 -29.92 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
1,663 li2 2,074 3,048,996,501 

FTSE 100 (London) 5,133.90 -25.82 
COMPANY 0/oCHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP (C) +2.98 +0.14 4.84 CIT GROUP INC (DEL) -45.00 .-0.99 1.21 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) ·0.39 -0.41 105.59 BK OF AMERICA CP (SAC) -1.40 -0.24 16.92 

Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.46 +O.DlS 3.31 13-WEEK BILL -4.17 -0.005 0.115 30-YEAR BOND +0.62 +0.025 4.05 5-YEAR NOTE -1.02 -0.024 2.32 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE {$/bbL) +3.90 70.61 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +14.90 1009.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) ·3.00 81.70 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 89.7550 EURO 1.4642 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0694 BRITISH POUND L5969 


IN BRIEF 
Judge approves Texas coal plant. 
DALLAS -A federal judge has thrown out the last remaining legal challenge against a large coal-powered plant near Waco, meaning the facility will open in 2012 as scheduled, an attorney said Wednesday. 
Environmental-groups have long fought against Sandy Creek Energy Associates L.P., challenging its air-pollution permits and ques­tioning whether the proper pollution control equipment was being installed. 
But a federal judge in Austin ruled late Monday against the Sierra Club and Public Citizen in their lawsuit alleging the plant in Riesel had never taken the steps required by the Clean Air Act to control emissions of mer­cury and other toxic materials. The plant did indeed have the proper controls on its permit, the judge wrote in the his ruling. 
"It's still very much on schedule, and this eliminates the last pending lawsuit challeng­ing the project," said Eric Groten, an attorney for Sandy Creek. 
Sandy Creek is one of 11 coal-powered plants around the state that are either under construction or in the permitting process. The defeat for environmental groups comes as they've been touring the state pushing for a moratorium on new coal-fired plants. exas is the nation's leading producer of greenhouse gases and consumes more coal than any other state. 
NY regulators release gas drilling rules 
ALBANY, N.Y. -State officials have com­pleted new environmental regulations for nat­ural gas drilling that will clear the way for well permits in New York's part of a rich field that covers parts of four states. 
The new rules, released foF public review Wednesday, apply to the New York portion of thf' Marcellus Shale region -a largely untapped gas reserve that also runs through parts of Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia. Tlwy are in addition to statewide oil and gas regulations released in 1992. 
More than a year ago, Gov. David PatBrson told the Department of Environmnntal Conservation to address concerns about drilling in the region, which covers the south­ern half of New York. The order effectively halted drilling there. 

Bank CEO to leave by year's end 
Bank of America's Lewis decides to retire as CEO and leave the company's board 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Ken Lewis, the embattled CEO of Bank of America Corp., is leaving the company, succumbing to nearly a year of strife that followed his company's acquisition of Merrill Lynch & Co. 
The bank, the nation's largest by assets, said Wednesday that Lewis, 62, decided on his own to leave and would retire as CEO and also leave the company's board by the end of the year. The com­pany did not announce a successor, saying one would be selected by the time Lewis steps down Dec. 31. 
The fact that no succes­sion plan was announced indicated that the Bank of America board did not expect Lewis' decision at this time. Nonetheless, the news, coming after share­holders had stripped Lewis of his chairman's title ear­lier this year, wasn't sur­prising because of the intense pressure he carne under after the Morrill deal. Lewis had said he would stay on as CEO until after the company's finan­cial problems were resolved, a process expect­ed to take several years. 
However, with the bank meeting conducted by tele­government, in part to off­were moved up and paid also under heavy criticism phone Wednesday evening. set those losses. The bro­out in December. from government officials, "The board was surprised kerage lost $15 billion in Months later, the criti­Lewis was increasingly when Ken told them what the fourth quarter and cism is still intensifying. seen as vulnerable. he wanted to do." more than $27 billion for New York Attorney General 
"lie's had a big target on Stickler said Lewis began the year. Bank of America Andrew Cuomo in his chest for the whole thinking about stepping ultimately received $45 bil­September subpoenaed Merrill Lynch deal, and I down after returning from lion in government assis­five members of Bank of can only imagine the emo­vacation in August. Stickler tance. America's board as part of tional stress he's endured " said Lewis' decision was But Lewis came under an investigation into the said Alan Villalon, senior driven by the fact that the even greater attack after Merrill deal. Lewis' depar­research analyst at bank is in better shape to Merrill Lynch, with the ture won't affect the inves­Minneapolis-based First recover from the recession knowledge of Bank of tigation, Cuomo said in a American Funds, which and because "I think he's America executives, gave statement. owns Bank of America just feeling a little burned billions of dollars in bonus­Bank of America had stock. out for pretty obvious rea­es to Merrill employees settled a separate investi­
Bank of America sons." even as Bank of America gation last month into dis­spokesman Bob Stickler The Merrill Lynch deal asked for more bailout closures about the Merrill said Lewis wasn't asked to was first questioned after money from the govern­bonuses with the leave by the board or the Bank of America disclosed ment. The deal was forged Securities and Exchange bank's regulators. that Merrill's losses were a year ago at the height of Commission, but a fedenil 
"He made the decision far more than expected. the financial crisis and judge threw out that $33 himself," Stickler said, Bank of America then closed Jan. 1; the bonuses, million settlement, and~ adding that Lewis informed asked for and got an addi­which would normally needlessly penalized the the bank's board during a tional $20 billion from the have been paid in January, bank's shareholders. 

FrontierAirlines to emerge from bankruptcy 
Associated Press 
Frontier Airlines is set to exit bank­ruptcy protection on Thursday as part of Hepublic Airways, which seems determined to run an efficient airline even if it rurfles some feathers in the process. 
By buying Frontier. Hepublic is transforming itself from a regiot1al jet hauler of travelers for other air­linfls into a carrif'r that compp,tos for its own passengers. Earlier this year it bought Milwaukee-based Midwest Airlines, too. 
Republic may move Frontier's maintnnancn opPratiol'l out of Denver. It's grounding the last of the Boeing 717s flown by rwwly acquired Midwest Airlines. And it's gambling that tho payofl' from hauling its own customers will make up for whatever goodwill it might burn with the big­airline partners that hire it to fly pas­sengers for them. 
Hepublic is looking at moving Frontier's aircraft maintenance and some tic-keting operations out Denver because of high costs there, CEO Bryan Bedford said in an interview on Wednesday. 
Bedford said both Indianapolis (where Hepublic is based) and Milwaukee are competing for the maintenance operation. and he hopes to make a decision by the end of October. Fronti1~r employs about 250 people to work on planes in Denver, and they would get a chance to move to jobs wherever they're located, Bedford said. 
Taxes at the Denver airport make maintenance there more expensive, he said. And a special tax on tickets processed on Frontier's computer in Denver adds about $1.5 million a year extra to the airline's tax bill, he said. 

I le said he expects Frontier pilots and flight attendants to stay in their own unions sinee they work on the Airbus A320 family of planes while Hepublic erews fly Embraer regional jets. Frontier's mechanics are repre­sentPd by the Teamsters, while Hepublie's aren't in a union. 
Republic is also returning the last of Midwest's 717s to Boeing in November. and furloughing the last 150 pilots and flight attendants who crewed thorn on Nov. 30. Those work­ers could get jobs back if their unions integrate with those at Hepublic 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, October 1, 2009 

Indonesia hit by earthquake 
Country struck by tremors of 6.8 magnitude; hu-ndreds feared dead 
Associated Press 
PADANG, Indonesia -A pow­erful earthquake that struck western Indonesia trapped thou­sands of people under collapsed buildings -including hospitals, a hotel and a classroom, officials said. At least 200 bodies were found in one coastal city and the toll was expected to be far high­er. 
The temblor Wednesday start­ed fires, severed roads and cut off power and communications to Padang, a coastal city of 900,000 on Sumatra island. Thousands fled in panic, fearing a tsunami. 
The undersea quake of 7.6 magnitude was followed by a powerful, shallow inland earth­quake on Thursday morning with a preliminary magnitude of 6.8, the U.S. Geological Survey said. It hit about 150 miles (240 kilometers) south of Padang at a depth of just 24 kilometers (under 20 miles). 
Shallow, inland earthquakes generally are more 'destructive, but there were no immediate reports of damage or injures. 
On Wednesday, buildings had swayed hundreds of miles (kilo­meters) away in neighboring Malaysia and Singapore. 
In Padang, the capital of West Sumatra province, the shaking was so intense that people crouched or sat on the street to avoid falling. Children screamed as an exodus of thousands tried to get away from the coast in cars and motorbikes, honking horns. 
At least 500 buildings in Padang collapsed or were badly damaged, said Disaster Management Agency spokesman Priyadi Kardono, adding that 200 bodies had been pulled from the rubble there. The extent of damage in surrounding areas was still unclear due to poor communications, he said. 
Padang's mayor appealed for assistance on Indonesian radio station el-Shinta. 
"We are overwhelmed with victims and ... lack of clean water, electricity and telecom­munications," Mayor Fauzi Bahar said. "We really need help. We call on people to come to Padang to evacuate bodies and help the injured." 
Hundreds of people wero trapped under collapsed build­ings in Padang alone, including a four-star hotel, he said. Other collapsed or seriously damaged buildings included hospitals, mosques, a school and a mall. 
Thousands were believed trappe'd throughout the province, said Rustam Pakaya, head of the Health Ministry's crisis center. 
"This is a high-scale disaster," Health Minister Siti Fadilah Supari told Metro TV. 
Indonesian broadcaster TVOne showed footage of heavy equipment breaking through laters of a flattened 3-story cement building, where dozens or children had been taking classes. It said more than 30 children were missing and feared dead, but gave no source for the information. 
Wednesday's quake struck just off the coast of Padang, the U.S. Geological Survey reported. It occurred a day after a kille1· tsunami hit islands in the South Pacific and was along the same fault line that spawned the 2004 
Asian  tsunami  that  killed  
230,000 people  in  a  dozen  
nations.  

A tsunami warning was issued 
Baby kidnapped by fake inunigration agent 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE -A newborn snatched from a Nashville home was missing and his mother recovering from stab wounds she said she suffered in a struggle with the woman kidnapper pos­ing as an immigration agent, authorities said Wednesday. 
Maria Gurrolla told reporters she had never seen the woman before she showed up at her door Tuesday evening. She said the woman got a knife from· the home and stabbed her several times. 
"I need my baby back," the 30­year-old mother said through an interpreter outside Vanderbilt University Medical Center. 
Gurrolla said the woman, whom she described as a robust white American, did not say any­thing about wanting to take the baby, who was on the sofa. 
"She said she was an immigra­tion officer and she was there to arrest her," said Gurrolla's cousin, serving as interpreter. It was not clear if Gurrolla was an immigrant, but police said she has lived in Nashville for at least 10 years. The cousin said the family did not want to discuss her legal status. 
Gurrolla said she did not see the woman take the baby because she ran to a neighbor's home to get help. That neighbor. Eric PPterson, told ThP Associated Press that Gurrolla banged on his door and was "covered from her head to her toe with blood" with gashes on her neck and upper chest. 
She pleaded with him to rescue her children from the "lady in the kitchen" who had a butcher knife. He went to the home a few doors down and saw a woman speeding away from the home. He brought Gurrolla's 3-year-old daughter back safely to his house, but found no baby, h0 said. 
Police issued an Amber Alert with a picture and description of a 30-year-old woman. They found and questioned a woman matching the description near Buffalo, N.Y., then said they did not believe she was involved in the case. 
Gurrolla was in ·a wheelchair and covered by a blanket at the hospital. Her eyes wore bloody and swollen and she had a long scratch on her face. 
Dr. William Dutton said she had a penetrating chest wound and her lung had collapsed. He said she also deep stab wounds to her neck, but was in stable condition. He said she still has physical signs that she gave birth recently. He described the birth as complicated but declined to elaborate. 
Wednesday for countries along the Indian Ocean, but was lifted after about an hour; there were no yeports of giant waves. 
The shaking in Padang felled trees and crushed cars. A foot could be soen stieking out from one pile of rubble. At daybreak, residonts used their bare hands to search for survivors, pulling at the wreckage and tossing it away piece by piece. 
"People ran to high ground. Houses and buildings were badly damaged," said Kasmiati, who lives .on the coast near the quakn's epicenter. 
"I was o~,~tside, so I am safe, but my children at home were injured," she said before her cell phone went dead.· Like many Indonesians, ~he uses one name. 
The loss of telephone service deepnned the worries of those outside the stricken area. 
"I want to know what hap­pened to my sister and her hus­band," said Fit.ra Jaya, who owns a house in downtown Padang and was in Jakarta when the quakn hit. "I tried to call my family there, but I could not reach anyone at all." 
Hospitals struggled to treat the injured as their relatives hovered nearby. 
IIfdonesias government announced $10 million in emer­gency response aid and medical teams -and military planes were being dispatehed to set up field hospitals and distribute tents, medicine and food rations. Membnrs of the Cabinet were preparing for the possibility of thousands of deaths. 
Loeal television reported more than two dozen landslides in the provinee. Some blocked roads, c&using miles-long tral'lic jams of cars and trueks. 
Washington Post, LA Ti111es split services 
Associated Press 
SAN FHANCISCO -The Los Angeles Times and The Washington Post are breaking up their news service after 47 years, m£!king it the latest casu­alty of the media upheaval driv­en by the array of alternative information and entertainment sources on the Internet. 
The divorce announced Wednesday takes effect Jan. I. Beginning then, the Los Angeles Times will distribute some of its best work through a news service jointly owned by newspaper publishers McClatchy Co. and the Tribune Co., the Times' owner. 
The Tribune Co. has been operating under Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection since December. The financial duress before and after the bankruptey filing led to staff cutbacks at the Times and the Tribune's other newspapers, including The Baltimore Sun and Hartford Courant, whose stories also were distributed through the Times-Post venture. 
It's unclear whether the Tribune Co.'s troubles factored into the demise of the Times-
Wamm & t.im:Jiii

~occo's 
Aestaure.nt 
9irsl Orijpna/:::Przza in 7aam / 
Sim<i! 195r 
Specfafi;dng in ii<Jli;m Entrees 

Tve!l\. -Thurn.; 5 ;00 PM -11 :00 PM Fri. -S.at.: 5;00 PM~ 1:00AM 537 North St. LQUiS • Sout11 B~nd, IN S74<B:l-2464 


Post service -a partnership forgfld in 1962 by two renowned publishers, Otis Chandler on the Los Angeles side and Philip Graham on the Washington end. · 
When the service started, newspapers were still highly profitable and the dominant news sources in their markets. But the number of people reading newspapers has been shrinking as more people turn to the Internet, leading more advertisers to shift their spend­ing online. 
The worst U.S. recession since World War II has drained even more ad revenue from newspapers, prompting both the Post and the Times to reduce the number of reporters and photographers feeding content to their news service. 
Although they are smaller than they once were, the Times and Post still have large audi­ences. The Times is the fourth largest U.S. newspaper with a weekday circulation of 723,000 while the Post is the fifth largest with a weekday circulation of 665,000, according to the most recent figures from the Audit Bureau of Circulations. 
Proprietors 


·University Resources for Gay, lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) 

Contact: Sr Sue Dunn. OP, 1-5550 or Eddie Velazquez at evelazgu@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources) in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) 
Contact: Dr Maureen Lafferty at mlaffert@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 

corecouncil.nd.edu 

-~-­
--------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, October I, 2009 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
SAMOA 



Death toll in Tuesday's tsunami surges to 119 
Associated Press 
APIA -Police in green reflective vests searched a ghastly landscape of mud­strewn streets, pulverized homes and bodies scattered in a swamp Wednesday as dazed survivors emerged from the muck and mire of an earth­quake and tsunami that killed at least 119 in the South Pacific. 
Military transports flew med­ical personnel, food, water and medicine to Samoa and American Samoa, both devas­tated by a tsunami triggered by an undersea earthquake. A cargo plane from New Zealand brought in a temporary morgue and a body identification team. 
Officials expect the death toll to rise as more areas are searched. 
Survivors fled to higher ground on the islands after the magnitude 8.0 quake struck at 
6:48 a.m. local time (1 :48 p.m. EDT; 1748 GMT) Tuesday. The residents then were engulfed by four tsunami waves 15 to 20 feet ( 4 to 6 meters) high that reached up to a mile (1.5 kilo­meters) inland. 
The waves splintered houses and left cars and boats -many battered and upside down ­scattered about the coastline. Debris as small as a spoon and as large as a piece of masonry weighing several tons were strewn in the mud. 
Survivors told harrowing tales of encountering the deadly tsunami. 
"I was scared. I was shocked," said Didi Afuafi, 28, who was on a bus when the giant waves came ashore on American Samoa. "All the peo­ple on the bus were screaming, crying and trying to call their homes. We couldn't get on cell phones. The phones just died on us. It was just crazy." 
With the water approaching fast, the bus driver sped to the top of a nearby mountain, where 300 to 500 people were gathered, including patients evacuated from the main hospi­tal. Among them were new­borns with IVs, crying children and frightened elderly people. 
A family atop the mountain provided food and water, while clergymen led prayers. Afuafi said people are still on edge and feared another quake. 
"This is going to be talked about for generations," said Afuafi, who lives just outside the village of Leone, one of the hardest hit areas. 
On Samoa, the two-hour drive from the Apia airport to the heavily damaged southeast coast initially showed no sign of damage before becoming little more than a link between one flattened village after another. Mattresses hung from trees, and utility poles were bent at awkward angles. 
It was clear that tourists were among the casualties, but fig­ures were impossible to ascer­tain immediately with officials saying they had no solid head count on the number of visitors in the area. 
"There's not a single house up, it's total devastation (in) the most popular place for tourists," Dr. Ben Makalavea from Apia's main hospital told New Zealand's National Radio Thursday. He said some couples can't find their children, and fear they may have been washed out to sea. 
"One woman we saw was so confused that she doesn't even know where she comes from," he said. 
Makalavea added that the hospital needs nurses, doctors, surgeons and blood to treat the increasing numbers of casual­ties with broken bones and cuts. 
At Sale Ataga village, more than 50 police, some wearing masks to filter out some of the growing stench of decay in the steamy conditions, searched for bodies underneath uprooted trees and palms piled up at the foot of a mountain. 
Tony Fauena, a 29-year-old taro farmer, said the bodies of his 35-year-old niece and her 6­month-old son were found Tuesday but four other family members were still missing. "We don't know if the rest are under there or released out to sea," he said. 
Suavai Ioane was rattled by the violent earthquake that shook Voutosi, a village of 600 people. But he didn't have much time to calm down. 
"After the shaking finished, about five or 10 minutes after, the wave very quickly came over us," said Ioane, who was carried by a wave about 80 yards (meters) inland. He knew he was lucky to be alive; eight bodies were found in a nearby swamp. 
The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center in Hawaii said it issued an alert, but the waves got to the islands so quickly that resi­dents only had about 10 min­utes to respond. Another sys­tem designed to alert aid agen­cies suffered a hardware mal­function that delayed notifica­tion, but that did not affect island residents. 
The quake was centered about 120 miles south of the islands of Samoa, which has about 220,000 people, and American Samoa, a U.S. territo­ry of 65,000. 
Another strong underwater earthquake rocked western Indonesia Wednesday, briefly triggering a tsunami alert along the Indian Ocean. The 7.6-mag­nitude quake toppled buildings, cut power and triggered a land­slide on Sumatra island, and at least 7 5 people were reported killed. Experts said the seismic events were not related. 
Hampered by power and communications outages, offi­cials in the South Pacific islands struggled to determine casual­ties and damage. 
Samoa National Disaster Management committee mem­ber Filomina Nelson told New Zealand's National Radio the number of dead in her country had reached 83 -mostly elder­ly and young children. At least 30 people were killed on American Samoa, Gov. Togiola Tulafono said. 
Authorities in Tonga, south­west of the Samoas, confirmed at least six dead and four miss­ing, according to Tongan gov­ernment spokesman Lopeti Senituli. He said the waves practically flattened two of the island's three villages. The gov­ernment dispatched a boat with supplies to the island to help its more than 1,000 residents. 
In Pago Pago, the streets and fields were filled with debris, mud, overturned cars and boats. Several buildings in the city-just a few feet above sea level -were flattened. Power was expected to be out in some areas for up to a month and officials said some 2,200 people were in seven shelters across the island. 

"Right now, we're focused on bringing in the assistance for people that have been injured, and for the immediate needs of the tens of thousands of sur­vivors down there," said FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate. 
Reinforcements were on the way, including a Navy frigate and two huge Air Force cargo planes soon to leave from Hawaii. 
A Coast Guard C-130 plane loaded with aid and carrying Federal Emergency Management Agency officials flew from Hawaii to American Samoa's capital of Pago Pago, where debris had been cleared from runways so emergency planes could land. President Barack Obama declared a major disaster for American Samoa. 
English said the temporary morgue and the body identifica­tion team were sent to Samoa after local officials expressed concern "about the growing death toll." 
Hundreds of people bombard­ed American Samoa's radio sta­tions with requests to announce the names of their missing loved ones. Broadcasters urged listeners to contact their fami­lies immediately. 
In Carson, Calif., High Chief Loa Pele Faletogo, president of the Samoan Federation of America, comforted Samoans in the U.S. who came to him seek­ing news of their relatives. The chief said he learned the body of one of his cousins, in her 60s, was found floating along the shore. 

For Gay, lesbian, Bisexual Slluestioning Students at Notre Uame Tuesday. October 6 
7:00 p.m. -8:00 p.m. 31B Coleman Morse 
The Core Council invites gay, lesbian, bisexual Hquestioning members of the Notre Dame family. along with their friends and allies, to an informal gathering at the Co#Mo. 
Everyone is Welcome and Gonfidentiality is Assured 

Coffee and Refreshments Wt11 Be Served 
/ 
:~:~~ .-:~f ~r~: i::.: ,:" :·~v' 4. 1:%Ii:n&d<J~~~t%WS 

Pilot killed after plane 
crashes into cornfield 
Associated Press 
ALBANY -A single-engine plane crashed into an Indiana cornfield Wednesday after the pilot, who was seen slumped over at the controls, lost con­sciousness and the aircraft flew out of control, officials said. 
Military officials do not believe the crash was terrorism-related but instead said the pilot may have had a health problem or been suffering from a lack of oxygen. F-16s under direction of 
U.S. North American Aerospace Defense Command intercepted the plane and followed it for about an hour until it crashed. 
Indiana State Police Sgt. Rod Russell said the pilot, who was the only person aboard the plane, died in the crash but that the pilot's name would not be released until the body is posi­tively identified. No one on the ground was injured when it crashed. 
David Lykins, 54, of Muncie said he and his nephew were doing construction work on a nearby home when they saw the plane, its wings pointed down, fly in three circles overhead before it clipped some trees and crashed into the field. 
"That's when all the debris started flying and a big puff of smoke came up," he said. 
Lykins said he called 911 while his nephew ran ahead through the cornfield to reach the plane, which was engulfed in flames and clouds of smoke. 

The plane departed from Grand Rapids, Mich., and then flew north to Traverse City, Mich., said FAA spokesman Tony Molinaro in Chicago. It turned around in Traverse City was fly­ing back to Grand Rapids when it lost communication with ground air traffic controllers, Molinaro said. 
The plane crashed about 12:40 
p.m. EDT in a field in a rural area of eastern Indiana, about 60 miles northeast of Indianapolis and 185 miles south of Grand Rapids, NORAD said. John Erickson, a spokesman for the Indiana Department of Homeland Security, said the air­craft crashed on its own. 
Controllers in Indianapolis reported the plane had been cir­cling with the pilot slumped over in the seat at about 25,000 feet, said Doug Church, a spokesman for the National Air Traffic Controllers Association. 
Church said controllers in Minneapolis had earlier given the pilot the OK to fly at that alti­tude, strongly suggesting the pilot intentionally flew to that altitude and then lost conscious­ness. Pilots of the F -16s deployed after air traffic controllers lost contact with the small plane saw the pilot slumped over, officials said. 
page 10 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, October 1, 2009 
illegal marijuana farms overtake San Francisco 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -Socked in by coastal fog, gardeners in the city's Sunset District strug­gle to coax vegetables from plots rarely touched by sun­light. But recently. a certain crop has flourished behind closed doors. 
Marijuana farms have become so widespread in this middle class neighborhood that the city's new police chief appealed to the public Wednesday for tips to help shut the operations down. 
Apparently even in this pot­tolerant town, there is such a thing as too much green. 
In the Sunset, police say row houses crammed with as many as 2,000 marijuana plants bear the marks of classic criminal enterprises. 
Raids on three dozen homes and warehouses have uncov­ered 20 guns, more than 8,000 plants and nearly $85,000. Investigators believe that organized crime is keeping the drugs, cash and weapons flow­ing. Often once grow houses are raided; police said, their backers just set up new opera­tions down the street. 
"All this has led to the cre­ation of a very dangerous situ­ation," Chief George Gascon said. 
Growers are attracted by rents that are moderate by San Francisco standards. Coastal winds sweep pot's skunky smell away. 
Beyond the concern about drug-ripoff shootouts and deals gone bad, officials said the real worry is the potential for fire from houses gutted to create intensive urban farms. 
At a news conference Wednesday, San Francisco Fire Marshal Barbara Schultneis said growers rewire the homes to avoid detection of the huge spike in energy use needed to grow pot. Shoddy electrical work can spark blazes she said, as can hot grow lights used to simu­late sunshine. 
Houses in the Sunset often share common walls, which allows fires to spread quickly. Growers often nail plywood to the insides of windows to keep out natural light and prying eyes, investigators said. As a result. fires can burn longer without being noticed. 
City firefighters typically battle two blazes a year caused by marijuana growing operations, Schultneis said. This year they have already fought four, including one at a warehouse that partially col­lapsed onto a firelighter, caus­ing serious injuries. 
Conflict over grow houses has long been an issue in many small towns along California's North Coast, the heart of the state's pot-grow­ing territory. The boom in San Francisco's indoor growing operations comes at a time when legalizing marijuana across the state has become a hot topic, and many pro-pot activists feel they are gaining traction with politicians and voters. 
The trend toward accept­ance spurred by the spread of medical marijuana -legal under state law -has led to a common feeling that pot has essentially become legal, espe­cially in liberal bastions like San Francisco. 



FBI says it did not edit bombing videotapes 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY -The FBI says it did not edit videotapes of the aftermath of the 1995 bombing of the Oklahoma City federal building before turning them over to an attorney who is conducting an unofficial inquiry into the bombing. 
The FBI turned over more than two dozen tapes taken from security cameras on buildings and other locations around the federal building to Salt Lake City attorney Jesse Trentadue. who obtained them through the federal Freedom of Information Act. Trentadue said the tapes are blank at vari­ous times in the minutes before the blast. 
"They have been edited," Trentadue said Wednesday. 
The soundless recordings show people rushing from nearby buildings immediately after a 4,000 pound fertilizer­and-fuel-oil bomb detonated in front of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building on April 19. 1995, killing 168 people, including 19 children, and injuring hundreds more. 
Some show people fleeing through corridors .cluttered with debris. None shows the actual explosion that ripped through the fedPral building. 
Trentadue said the absence of footage before the blast indi­cates something was on the tapes that the FBI did not want to make public. 
"They don't do anything by accident," he said. 
A spokesman for the FBI in Washington, Paul Bresson, said in an e-mail to The Associated Press that the agency did not edit the tapes before turning them over to Trentadue. 
Bresson said the FBI identi­fied 26 videos in its files in response to an April request by Trentadue for video from secu­rity cameras in 11 different locations. FBI agents did not report finding any security tapes from the federal building itself. 
"The FBI made no edits or redactions in the processing of these videos." Bresson said. "The tapes are typical security cameras -the view switches camera to camera every few seconds." 
Bresson declined to expand on the FBI's e-mail statement when contacted Wednesday. 
Trentadue began looking into the bombing after his brother, Kenneth Trentadue, dind at the Oklahoma City Federal Transfer Center in August 1995. Kenneth Trentadue was a convicted bank robb1~r who was held at the federal prison after being picknd up on an alleg1~d parole violation at his home in San Diego in JunP 199!1 


Marine avoids prison sentence 
Associated Press 
CAMP PENDLETON -A Marine was spared prison time Wednesday for killing an unarmed Iraqi detainee during a battle to recapturn the city of Fallujah. ending a ease that proved troublesome for the gov­ernment because there were no bodies and no relatives eom­plaining oflost loved ones. 
A military judge redueod Sgt. Jermaine's Nelson's rank from sergeant to lance corporal but ruled out a bad eonduet dis­charge. 
The sentencing came al'ter Nelson pleaded guilty Tuesday to dereliction of duty after the government droppmJ a murder charge as part of a plea agree­ment. 
During the two-day court­martial, a court fi1r the first time hoard Nelson's taped eonfi1ssion from March 2007 -a grisly account that his squad leader, Sgt. Jose Luis Nazario, beat unarmed detainees in a house, killnd two of thorn by shooting them in the forehead and ordnred squad members to kill two others. Four Iraqis died in the house. 
Nolson, 28, apologized before hn was senteneod. tnlling tho judge he had failed the Marinos by following Nazario's orders and ignoring his training. lie said he should have left the house and asked superiors for help when he disagreed with his squad loader. 
"I gave in to the~ peer pressure and now I have to live with it for the rPst of my lili1," Nelson said in an unswom stat1mwnt. "It's like I slapped my own family in the face." 
The judge, Navy Capt. Keith Allred, sentenced Nelson to 150 days in prison, but the plea deal rulPd out incarceration. The judge didn't know terms of the agrenment until after announc­ing his sentence. 
Under tho agreement, Nelson got tho Jess severe punishment and remains eligible for an hon­orable discharge. 
"I just wanted everybody to hoar my side of the story and that's exactly what happened," Nelson told reporters after the sentencing. 
Nazario's lawyer, Kevin McDermott, said his elient strongly disagreed with Nelson's account. 
"We are surprised and disap­pointed to say the least," McDermott said in a statement. "Obviously Nelson was intimi­dated and worn down by the find a man standing against a wall and throe men hiding under a staircase. He ordered them to lie face down on the floor. 

Nazario and Weemer entered the home and a search turned up "about four" AK-47 guns. 
Nazario, visibly angered, butted one dntainee's ear with his rifle. Nelson said he band­aged the wound. Nazario then kicked the detainee in the groin twice and shot him, NeLc;on said. 
"You're going to do one, Weemer's going to do one and I'm going to do ... another one," Nelson recalled being told by Nazario. 
According to Nelson, Nazario shot another detainee and com­
plained when blood spilled on his boots. Weemer then shot a man who was on his knees, Nelson said. 
"He was just shootin' shootin', shootin', 
government. In exchange for apparently r.ho­reographod tes­timony in sup­port of the gov­ernment's theo­ry about what happened in a room in Fallujah five years ago dur­

"/gave in to the peer pressure and now I have to live with it for the rest ofmy l~fe." 
Jermaine Nelson 
U.S. marine 
ing brutal house-to-house fight­ing, Nelson was given a deal." 
Nelson was tho only remain­ing defendant in a ease that resulted in two legal defeats for the government. Nazario was acquitted last year in federal court in Hiverside, Calif'., on counts that included voluntary manslaughter. He was beyond tho reach of a court-martial because he had completed his military obligations. 
Nelson's squadmate, Sgt. Hyan Weemer, was acquitted by a mil­itary jury of murder and derelic­tion of duty in April. 
In his 2007 confession to a Naval Criminal Investigative Service investigator, Nelson said he entnred tho Fallujah home to shootin'," Nelson said. 

Nelson said he shot the remaining detainee. He didn't elaborate. 
The case came to light long after thn battle. 
In 2006, after he left the Marion Corps, Weemer applied for a job in the Secret Service. During a background interview before a polygraph test as part of the application, he was asked about the most serious crime he ever committed. 
"We went into this house, there happened to be four or five guys in the house," Weemer said in a recording of the inter­view played during his trial. "We ended up shooting them, we had to." 



Thursday, October 1, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 

Close by campus, Martin's has what you want. 
Starbuck's Coffee® beverages WiFi free in Side Door Deli area 70+ item Salad Bar Complete Tailgating Supplies New Sandwich Express mode*to.. order subs Sushi selections mode fresh doily Hot Deli Fried Chicken, egg rolls, sides and more Panini bar featuring meat and veggie varieties Party trays custom mode Donuts made fresh daily in store College logo cokes, balloons and more Kitchen Fresh entrees, iust like homemade ATM and stamps Party supplies Fuel Center 


Toll Road 




martinr 
Count On Us! 
\ 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 12 Thursday, October 1, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bca Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary ]esse CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 jmerz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersporrs@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY's DEsK 
acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 igaviick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and colwnns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leuers to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief]enn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published MondaythuJUgh Friday excepr during ex.~m and vacation periods. Asubscrip!ion to The Observer is$ 120 for one acadc:mic year; $65 for one semes~cr. 
The: Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall &nd addr~ eomcrions to: Notte Dame, IN 4655(l--0779 111c: Observct Periodical postage p.1.id .tt Nom: D11mc: P.O. Box719 and additional m2iling offices. 024 Soulh Dining Hall 
Notn: Dame, IN 4655fl..On9 
The Ohscrv~:.r fs: a rnemher ofthe As>nclat.::d P~. All repm4uctiml rights ate reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Robert Singer Alex Barker Irena Zajickova Mike Gotimer Megan Loney Christopher Viewpoint Masoud 
Stephanie Vossler Graphics Andrea Archer 
Scene Alexandra Kilpatrick 
I chose, as a fn~shman, to major in both philosophy and English. I told myself that they would ~~ornplement one another. but this proved a fiction: phi­losophy looks outward. seeking the world in which we live, while English Daniel looks inward, Sportiello seeking the storins that we tell our­Bound selves. In the end. Variables my choice to pur­sue philosophy over English was largnly arbitrary, and I born for a long time the sorrow that followed this insight: although I joked afterward that I had overcome a disability, I oft.en felt that I had lost a part of myself. for I knew in my heart that I was not only a rational animal but also a teller or stories. 
The sorrow fadnd in time. I learnPd, in philosophy, to seek the world. to grapple with expnrience !'or the truth, wresting from it an undnrstanding of' the world -a thnory that would allow me to predict further expPriencn and. perhaps, to survive it. But the theory I sought proved subtler than expected. 
Thew rages, in the philosophy of sei­encc, a controversy between instrumen­talism and realism: the former holds that thP objects or SCiencn are "really" just convenient lietions-that things like electrons and genes are just stories that we tell ourselves in order to predict experience -while the lat.tnr insists that these objects are real -"really'' real, and only convenient because real. That one cannot tell, even in principle, whether these objects are "really" real is a fact that is rarely mentioned amid the foot-stomping. 
I once took this foot-stomping rather seriously. It was a long time before I was shown, in the words or 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Fiction 
Wittgenstnin. the way out of the fly bot­tle -bnl'ore I came to sen the contro­versy as a ~~onfusion. Quine, in his "On What There Is," coneedes that things like nlectrons and genes are nothing morn than ~~onvenient fictions-noth­ing more, that is, than stories that we ted! oursnlvns in order to make sense of expnrinnrn. But the same is true, he points out. or things like tables and chairs: just as we posit nlectrons in order to make sense of' streaks of light in a cloud chamber. we posit chairs in ord11r to makn sense of enrtain shapes in our vision. The objects of our every­day livns an~ no loss fictional than those of seience. 
But if all nhjnets arn fictions. then any of thorn is as mal as anything could nvPr be: electrons, genes, tables and chairs aw, though fictional, hardly arbi­trary. !'or they are based on experience. And insofar as thny Jigure in a theory that allows us to predict and survive nxpnriencn, that theory is true-oven as it is nothing more than the story that wn toll ourselves. Wn are indend ration­al animals, f'or we senk to understand the world in whieh wn live-but to be .-ational is just to be tellers of stories. In choosing philosophy, I had chosnn l~nglish as wnll: in turning away f'rom the inner and toward thn outer, I came to learn that they were one and the samn. 
Quine suggests that, "from a phenom­enalistic point of view, the conceptual scheme of physical objects is a conven­ient myth"-and that, moreover, the conceptual seheme of abstract objects "is, from the point of view of a strictly physiealistie conceptual seheme, as much a myth as that physicalistic con­ceptual scheme itself is for phenome­nalism." Quine might have gone further: just as positing concrete objeets makes sense of experience and, in turn, posit­ing abstract objects makes sense of con­crete objeets, positing a transcendent objeet makes sense of the rest. 

This is, of course, exactly what Aristotle and Aquinas realized when thny arguod for the existence of God: we posit (;oct as the ultimate explanation of experienee, the necessary object that gives rise to a conting11nt world. God is, in othnr words, the last and greatest story that we tell oursnlves: he is our Jimtl hope for survival in t.l1e facn of experience. 
But if God is a story that we tell our­sPlves. thP reverse is also trw~: God is, in his necossity, the author of our con­tingent world. In knowing himself, God knows the world as a finite manifesta­tion of his infinite being. His fiction unfolds in the opposite direction: it bears the weight not of explanation but rather of ernation. For in making sense of himself, God posits-that is, creates -a great chain of abstract objects, concrete objects, and phenomena. And all of th11se are ordered baek toward their author -a fac.t made manifest by our contemplation. which inverts that of God and of which he is the final posit. 
We arn, thnn, the story that God has told himsl'lf. And insofar as our story comes to echo his -insofar as we learn the truth-we return, posit by posit, unto him. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his second year of the !'h. D. program in philosophy. Listen to his radio show every Sunday at 3 p.m. lie can be contacted at dsportie@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
What is your favorite new restaurant at Eddy St. Commons? 
Five Guys Chlpotle Hot Box Pizza New Irish Bar 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Freedom is not worth having ifit 
does not include the freedom to 
make mistakes. " 
Mahatma Gandhi Indian spiritual leader 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Thursday, October 1, 2009 
page 13 
To kneel or not to kneel 
Presiding at Notre Dame Masses around campus these days has become a study in group dynamics, and some­times group gymnastics. I am referring to the differing approaches to kneeling, standing, bowing and other liturgical 
Fr. lou DeiFra
postures and ges­tures at Mass. My words here do not Faith Point seek to contribute to the debate sur­rounding "Who's right and who's wrong?" but rather, in reflection of last Sunday's Gospel, to offer a word of cau­tion to both "sides." (It is a bit painful to mention "sides" when talking about a group who is celebrating the Eucharist together.) 
In last Sunday's Gospel, Jesus' apos­tles come running to Jesus, distressed that they just witnessed someone driv­ing out demons in Jesus' name, though this person was not "one of us"-i.e., part of their group of disciples. If Jesus ever had a moment when it would have been important for him to "control his message," it would surely have been now-at the very beginning of his min­istry, as this nascent "Christian move­ment" was just beginning to take shape. Yet Jesus, not for the first time, exhibits a striking restraint from control here. The right word might be "liberality" in its technical sense but has become impossible to use in a politics-neutral discussion. However, perhaps it might be said that Jesus' "liberality" in this situation is used precisely to "conserve" 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
a guideline about how his message and mission can spread most authentically. And what is that guideline? 
It is important to note that Jesus does not lapse into any kind of relativism on this, or any other, occasion. His message is clearly not, "Let him do whatever he wants to; as long as he's helping people, it really doesn't matter." Rather, he is quite explicit about what authorizes this renegade demon-driver: "Do not pre­vent him. There is no one who performs a mighty deed in my name who can at the same time speak ill of me." Jesus displays his rather surprising comfort with the un-named exorcist precisely because he was casting out demons "in my name." A living, authentic relation­ship with the person of Jesus -and the authenticity of this person's faith seems to be confirmed by his power over evil -is the authorizing credential for disci­pleship. 
As a presider at Mass, the disparate postures of the congregation at various times in the liturgy are unavoidably noticeable. Arguments proliferate about the importance of the reverence of kneeling, the union of standing, how far one ought to bow before receiving the Eucharist, whether one should genuflect before receiving the Eucharist. The "General Instruction of the Roman Missile" (GIRM) has plenty to say here, from preferring postures that "con­tribute to making the entire celebration resplendent with beauty" to fostering practices that "serve the common spiri­tual good of the People of God, rather than private inclination or arbitrary choice." 
The GIRM includes rules about both the preferred postures at different parts of the Mass, including kneeling during the Communion Rite. However, it also leaves room for variation in certain situ­ations, including, it would seem, appro­priate postures for chapels without kneelers. So, as with the disciples in last Sunday's Gospel, we encounter an instance of some ambiguity. 
Still, the words of Christ in Sunday's Gospel and the teachings of the GIRM ­Scripture and Tradition -converge quite conspicuously in guiding the atti­tude we are to extend to one another as we live out our Christian lives as authentically as we can, particularly at the Eucharist, which forms us as the People of God: "In the celebration of Mass the faithful form a holy people, a people whom God has made his own ... They should endeavor to make this clear by their deep religious sense and their charity towards brothers and sisters who participate with them in the same celebration. Thus, they are to shun any appearance of individualism or division, keeping before their eyes that they have only one Father in heaven and accord­ingly are all brothers and sisters to each other." 
I must admit, the differing postures and gestures, as noticeably disparate as they sometimes are, are not what attune my attention the most when celebrating Mass. Rather, it is -sadly -the looks I often see -from one kneeling to one standing, or from one standing to one kneeling. At their most benign, they are looks of curiosity. More frequently, they are looks of confusion and sudden self­consciousness. On some occasions, they are looks of contempt and judgment. None of these seem particularly desir­able during a time of worship, especially of communal worship, and especially at the Eucharist. 

Last Sunday's Gospel was not about postures we ought or ought not to assume at Mass. But the Gospel does seem to assert -rather provocatively -that an authentic relationship to Jesus Christ -an authenticity con­firmed both by word and by the quality and power of a disciple's Christian wit­ness ("one who performs a mighty deed in my name")-is the primary guiding principle of discipleship, not member­ship to a particular clique of disciples. While the Gospel doesn't solve our prac­tical problem of what postures and ges­tures we should or should not perform, it does make very clear an admonition not to cast judgment on others who are living out an authentic Christian faith, and indeed, to enter into "Communion" with them. 
This week's Faith Point is written by Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC. Fr. Lou is the direc­tor ofthe Bible Studies and the ACE Chaplain. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Hope in the city 
We've all got a lot to be hopeful about. A football team that's 3-1, hopefully about to jump into the rankings with another win. A fall that started late, hopefully meaning that winter will too. Mid-terms two weeks away, hopefully giving us enough time to study, or at least throw together last minute plans to hit Vegas for fall break. Hope gives us something to be excited about, something to look forward too. Hope also gives us something to work towards, a challenge to meet or goal to fulfill. 
Each year about 300 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students choose to take personally hope's call to action. They take 48 hours out of their win­ter breaks to "plunge" into urban poverty and examine what hope looks like in over 35 cities across the country. They pair up with Alumni Clubs and charitable organizations to learn about prob­lems of poverty, hunger, education, healthcare, inequality, unemployment, and homelessness through direct service. This immersion experience is the basis of a one-credit experiential learning course offered by the Center for Social Concerns. 
With people still reeling over the economic melt­down, the health-care crisis, and the intensification of our military situations abroad, some have found it hard to hope. It becomes even more important though, in times of turmoil, to embrace hope, as Pope Benedict XVI does in his recent encyclical Spe Salvi and as the Center for Social Concerns contin­ues to do with its "Hope in Action" campaign. We must remember though that hope does necessitate action, and action in solidarity with the poor, who have been and will continue to bear the brunt of these crises. 
While we at Notre Dame are not immune to the effects of these hard times, we have an obligation to find hope in the world and act on it. It is my hope that you'll take some time this winter to go into the city not just to shop or catch a show, but to give witness to the other side of the city, the unrec­ognized poverty and the hidden hope that is found there. For more information on the Urban Plunge, visit socialconcerns.nd.edu. The application opens this week and the deadline to apply is October 30th.. 
Kaitlin Sullivan senior off-campus Sept. 29 

Losing sight of giving roots 
Our Holy Father, Pope Benedict XVI, spoke Sunday Sept. 27th in Prague to the faculties there about the proper use of academic freedom in the pursuit of truth. Many would consider this statement to be triv­ially true, and as such pay only trivial lip-service to it. But as Catholics and as Christians more generally, the truth is not merely a provisional point at which our intellectual affairs are aimed, some pragmatic goal, but it is transcendent and divine: Our Lord did tell us that He is "the way, the truth, and the life." And so, our work at the university, our pursuit of Truth, must be informed by a truly holistic and universal view, one in which moral and religious perspectives are not only relevant but essential to our enterprise. · 
But often academic freedom is invoked not as a proper means to pursue truth, but in order to divorce the intellectual and the moral. In light of this, our Holy Father asks a serious of tough questions: "Is it not the case that frequently, across the globe, the exercise of reason and academic research are -sub­tly and not so subtly -constrained to bow to the pressures of ideological interest groups and the lure of short-term utilitarian or pragmatic goals? What will happen if our culture builds itself only on fashion­able arguments, with little reference to a genuine his­torical intellectual tradition, or on the viewpoints that are most vociferously promoted and most heavily funded? What will happen if in its anxiety to preserve a radical secularism, it detaches itself from its life-giv­ing roots?" 
And his sobering answer: "Our societies will not become more reasonable or tolerant or adaptable but rather more brittle and less inclusive, and they will increasingly struggle to recognize what is true, noble and good." 
Perhaps we would do well to ponder these words, and ask ourselves: has the pursuit of truth at Notre Dame and our university's proper autonomy been thwarted and subverted? In the work of the universi­ty, is more attention paid to what is fashionable, popu­lar or well-funded? Has Notre Dame detached itself from its life-giving roots? And, perhaps most impor­tantly, does Notre Dame struggle to recognize what is true, noble and good? 
Jonathan Buttaci alumnus Class of2009 Sept. 28 

No band? I'm_ sorry 
In response to Jim Blase ("No band, no excuses", Sept. 28), I would like to ask, were you in band when you attended Notre Dame Law School? My guess is no. If you knew how the band worked, you would know that we are told what games we are playing at, and when. We, as band members, cannot just "volunteer" to attend a game that the whole band is not being sent to, it just does not work that way. If I were to walk into the Purdue stadium holding my clarinet saying, ''I'm going to volunteer to play the Notre Dame school songs," they would look at me like I was crazy. I know the band appreciates people wanting us to be at games, but you have to know how the system works before you get upset about it. 
Purdue was my first game as a "normal" Notre Dame student, no uniform, no instrument, and I wouldn't trade it for a thing. Don't get me wrong, I love playing in the band at football games more than anything, but the opportunity to wear an Notre Dame jersey, beads, face paint and other Notre Dame accessories is some­thing I've been waiting for, so don't take that away from me because your voice wasn't loud enough to sing the Victory March and Alma Mater over the Purdue fans like mine and the rest of my band friends who attended the game. Thanks, and Go Irish, beat Huskies! 
Jessica Young senior Lewis hall Sept. 29 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE

page 14 
Thursday, October 1, 2009 

By BRANDY CERNE Scene Writer 
Amprica's favorite love-to­hate/hate-to-love reality shows are back. New seasons of M'IV's "The llills" and "The City" have started, but with some changes. The most notable: 
changes in casting have also taken plaee in its second season. I I all· of thn east was overhauled, leaving behind just Port and haughty eo-worker Olivia Palermo. 
Port has returned to working for cutthroat Kelly Cutrone while also working on her clothing line. 

with women who are her com­plete opposites. 
Port's former eo-worker Palermo has a new job this sea­son as well. She now works for "Elle" magazine under Erin Kaplan, who does not appreciate Palermo's uppity attitude. They have a throw down over styling 
issues within 

The Zephyr Song-Red Hot Chili Peppers  
2  Glass in Lullabies-The Autumns  
3  IWant You Back-Jackson 5  
4  
5 6  Hey Jealousy-Gin Blossoms BeTrue to Your School-The Beach Boys  
7  Fight for Your Right -Beastie Boys  
8  Coney Island -Good Old War  
9  Rocket Man-Elton John  
There She Goes-The La's MoMoneyMo Problems-Notorious B.I.G. feat. Mase & Puff Daddy Under Pressure-Queen & David Bowie  

the replacement of Palermo's first few Lauren Conrad on days of working, "Thn llills" with hinting to the Kristin Cavallari, audience that 
Conrad's an:h­many more are to nemesis from high come. school. Thnir dra­Both shows will mas played out on benefit from tlie "The llills'" prede­casting !ihake-ups. cessor "Laguna Cavallari is a Beach." much more enter­
Cavallari's pres­taining lead that ence is sure to Conrad's blank shake up the reality good girl charac­show in its fifth sea­ter. Everyone loves son. "The Hills" to watch a bad girl peakNl when wreak her havoc, Conrad and former which Cavallari best friend lleidi will definitely do Montag had a on season five of screaming match at The Hills. Port, a club in Season :{ while sweet and over Conrad's driven, is not alleged sex tape and exactly the most 



Montag's evil othnr half. Spencer Pratt. Sincn then, She has a new roommate and co­"The llills" had become stale and worker, Hoxy Olin, whom she irrelevant by reitnrating Montag's was schoolmates with in whining about becoming friends Calirornia. Olin is a wild, partying with I .auren again and the fad straight shooter and a weleome that thn show nnvnr 
exciting lead. Hopefully there will be more screen time for Cutrone and new girl Olin. as they are sure to have the best lines and create the most drama. 
For some inex­








acknowledged plicable reason, Conrad's rising "The Hills" and celebrity and other "The City" draw job of fashion viewers back designor. With any episode after indiea Lion from thn episodP. Is it that premiere episode, they get a "Thn llills" is head­voyeuristic pleas­ed in a new dirlll~­ure out of watch­tion full of drama ing the young, rich with Cavallari as il'i and famous )pad lead. their glamorous 
In just the pre­lives? Their lives miere. nntitled "Thn can hardly be con­Bitch is Back," sidered accurate Cavallari has a loud on a "reality light with two of thn show" that is so other vapid only­obviously scripted famous-for-doing­and poorly acted. nothing stars, These shows are Stnphanin Pratt and the ultimate in Audr·ina Patridge. guilty pleasure, Cavallari is known mostly because for stealing guilt is the promi­boyfriends, so wlwn nent emotion felt she starts flirting while watching 
with Patridge's ex, the insull<> start slinging. This will inevitably continun to develop throughout the season so many more lights can hn nxpnetnd. 
Over in "Thn City," the New York City counterpart to Los Angeles' "The Hills" and the Whitney Port spinoff'. new addition to the cast. Cutrone's interview with Olin was the high­light of the premien1, as the audi­
onee got a glimpse of the two 1:haracters that will bring the most bite to "The City." It is an intoresting dynamic to see kind, saceharine Port surround herself 

them. There are many, many better ways to spend one's tinw, yet "The llills" and "The City" are so addicting and entnrtaining that they cannot be missnd. 
Contact Brandy Cerne at bcerneO 1 @nd.edu 
ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Thursday, October 1, 2009 
page 15 
iNDustry Alliance Documentary Film Festival , DPAC@ 6:30 p.m. and 9 p.m. 
ln an effort to promote alumni fihnmak­ers, the Alumni Association in partnership with the Dep~t of Film, Television and ThP-2LfC and the DeBartolo Performing Arto. Center are presenting the iNDustry Alliance Documentary Film Festival. On 
'Thursday and Friday of this week, DPAC will be playing four documentaries made by Alumni. On Thursday evening there will be a showing of "The Man Who Would Be Polka King" at 6:30 p.m. This film tracks the road to fame for Jan Lewan, an International Polka star. Following "Polka King," "Song Sung Blue" will be shown at 9 p.m., chronicling the inspiring yet tragic love story of a Milwaukee husband and wife Neil Diamond cover band. Also consid­er attending "Brothers at War" and "Jam" on Friday night. 
Burn Book, Geddes Hall Auditorium @ 7 p.m. 
Most, if not all, women on this campus are familiar with the movie "Mean Girls" starring Lindsay Lohan. The University Counseling Center, along with sev­eral other offices on campus, will be hosting a "Mean Girls" watch Friday evening, to be followed by a brief dialogue regarding the way young women interact with one another. A prominent part of the movie, the "Burn Book" an.d its effects on the women in the story will be discussed. This event is part of a weeklong program designed to raise awareness and challenge body image and eating disorder awareness on Notre Dame's campus. 
nts 
Get Your Jams On '('.J"~ck Jam Nightclub), Legends @ Midnight 
Everyone loves a cheesy dance song from the nineties. And everyone is in luck! 
Legends is hosting "Get Your Jams On" nightclub Saturday night. They are sure to play such classics as "Whoomp! (There it is)" and "Gonna Make You Sweat (Everybody Dance Now)." "YMCA" may even make an appearance, you'll just have to see for your­self. 
No doubt this will be a blast, so bring your friends and get ready to dance all night long to some of the most ridiculous tunes from the last 20 years. Decade appro­priate clothing and accessories suggested. 

Fleur de Ly;; The Palace of Frederick the Great, DPAC @ 1:30 
p.m. and 5:30 p.m. 
Fleur de Lys is a musical group associated with both Saint. Mary's and Notre Dame. They play period music on instruments authentic to the time. 
·This Sunday they will be performing a· show entitled "The Palace of Frederick the Great." This program is set to include music from the time of Frederick the Great's reign as king of Prussia. Frederick was a great patron of the arts, in addition to being a com­poser in his own right. The music selections will be taken from C.P.E. ·­Bach, Hasse, Brenda and Quantz in 
. addition to Frederick's own music. All pieces will be played on the instru-· ments for which they were originally composed. ­
Contact Genna McCabe at gmccabe@nd.edu 


take a page from the book of fans of By COURTNEY ECKERLE bands like Kings of Leon and keep a 
Scene Writers 
stiff upper lip with a bittersweet sigh and let the back-roads band trek off into the mainstream. Perhaps it's The crooning North Carolinian just the accident of conquering 
quartet The Avett Brothers' latest every dance hall and prairie-home album "I and Love and You" heart from coast to coast, or the explores love and connection of summation of the inevitable, since family -both those related and the the Avett's caught the eye of Rick kind you choose for yourself. Thi'i Rubin, the co-head of Columbia choice reflects the band itself, as Records who signed the band and sweet singing brothers Seth and produced their new major-label Scott Avett make up half of the four­debut. some. The brothers also adopted The album shies away from the bassist Bob Crawford and cellist Joe caterwauling and banjo-filled hoot­Kwon into their fold. enannies that made their live per­
It's rare to see a previously unrec­formances famous and have kept ognized and hardly heralded band consistent in previous albums. This like the Avett's achieve a bigger change distills the album, making spotlight, but with thi<> latest album, melodies that feel like home and die hard fans are going to have to lyrics like the kitchen table. "I and Love and You" is sure to inspire a
'I and Love and You' 
whole new horde into the "Avett 

The Avett Brothers 
Record Label: American Recordings 
Nation", which has
Recommended Tracks: "Kick Drum Heart," 
become 
"Head Full of Doubt/Road Full of Promise," "I 
fans' self­proelaimed
and Love and You" 

pledge of allegiance. 
With the b a n d gracefully toeing the I i n e between independent integrity and wide­spread success and appeal, their personal brand of rustic bluegrass­Americana isn't at all held captive by the Mason-Dixon Line, as they merge sounds that hail from every hop, skip and a jump part of the country. "Head Full of Doubt!Hoad Full of Promise" is a song that will sound new to old fans, showing that no obstacle -not even the politirs deal breaker -is insurmountable with sueh lyries as, "And your life doesn't change by the man that's elected I If you're loved by someone you're never rejected." 
Second on the album, "January Wedding" is a sweet as pie Appalaehian love ballad that name drops Audrey Hepburn and keeps a light seriousnes..<> to getting hitched. The sincerity or the tone and lyrics make it a (note to guys) heart melt­ing message to a lady love. Title track "I and Love and You" deals with the pain of leaving them by crooning, "That woman she's got eyes that shine I I ike a pair of stolen polished dimes." 
Serious as a shotgun tune 'The Perfect Space" starts off a somber ballad then kicks in as unexpectedly and as epically as The Who's "Behind Blue Eyes" with a bit of met..:'1.1 and a lot of sound to groove with. The lyrirs, "Okay part two now clear the house I The party's over L:'lke the shouting and the people I Get out," illustrate the kind of frus­trated melody relatable to anyone who has ever hosted a party gone badly wrong. Infectious frolicking tune "Kick Drum Heart" is one of the few times the Avett's really rock out on the album, if only for the rea­son they were afraid of giving too mueh of a good thing -a literal kick drum raps punctuate the chorus. 

While the Avett Brothers have had a successful career and following for nearly a decade, the album's final tune "Ineomplete and Insecure" repeats the line, "I haven't finished a thing since I b'tarted my life I I don't feel much like starting now," perfect for an album that is a continuation of the realization of this troupe's potential. It thankfully keeps from warbling too much about love, which would have made the album maudlin, or too many upbeat pop rock tunes, which would have been just as great a betrayal to fans as the Avett Brothers suddenly transform­ing into the Jonas Brothers. One thing old and new fans alike can be sure of is that thi'i ragtag family is just getting rewed up. 

Contact Courtney Eckerle at ceckerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, October 1, 2009 
MLB 

Phillies clinch third straight NL East title 

Chamberlain lasts less than four innings against the Royals in final start before the postseason begins 
last out after Scott Eyre retired manager Charlie Manuel has a
Associated Press 

the first two batters in the ninth. chanee to rest his regulars and 
PHILADELPHIA-Now, the Astros starter Brian Moehler set up his postseason pitching Philadelphia Phillies can rest and (8-12) gave up seven runs in 4 rotation. The Phillies still have a prepare to defend their World 1/3 innings. chance to secure homfl-field Series title. A crowd of 45,207 -the 38th advantage throughout the NL 
Kyle Kendrick pitched three straight sellout at Citizens Bank playoffs. They entered the night scoreless innings in relief of Park -waved their white-and­1 112 games behind Los Angeles. Pedro Martinez and the Phillies red "Fightin' Phils" rally towels Martinez, who is 5-l with a beat the Houston Astros 10-3 throughout the night and made 3.63 ERA in nine starts, strug­Wednesday night to clinch their the atmosphere festive. gled from the start. He walked third straight NL East crown. Celebrations are becoming Hunter Pence to force in a run in 
Raul Ibanez hit his career-high common for the Phillies, who the first and gave up homers to 34th homer and Jimmy Rollins used to be the NL's laughing­Towles in the second and fourth. had a double and triple for stock. The losingest team in pro­Towles' drive to left-center in Philadelphia, which is heading to fessional sports has been think­the second was initially ruled a the postseason for the third ing dynasty since winning the double, but umpires changed the straight year for the first time franchise's second championship call after reviewing the video. He since Mike Schmidt, Steve in 126 years last October. easily cleared the left-field wall Carlton and crew won three con­Unlike the last two years, the his next time up to give the secutive division titles from Phillies didn't sweat out this divi­Astros a 3-1 lead. 1976-78. sion title. They moved into first But the Phillies answered with 
The Phillies are trying to place for good on May 30 and four runs in the bottom half. become the first repeat champi­have spent 136 days atop the Shane Victorino singled and stole ons since the New York Yankees standings. second before Chase Utley won three World Series in a row In 2007, the Phillies trailed the walked. Ryan Howard followed from 1998-2000. The Cincinnati Mets by seven games with 17 with an RBI single. Utley scored Reds were the last NL team to remaining. They took advantage when Ibanez hit a bouncer to the win two straight in 1975-76. of New York's historic collapse mound and Moehler threw it into 
J.R. Towles, a career .187 hit­and clinched the division on the center field for an error. Howard billion ballpark the same way 1901 at the Huntington Avenue ter (43 for 230), hit a pair of solo final day of the regular season, advanced to third and Ibanez they began -with a loss. Baseball Grounds. homers off Martinez, a three­ending a 14-year postseason ended up on second. Joba Chamberlain lasted just 3 Hoping to be the Yankees' No. time Cy Young Award winner. drought. Jayson Werth's HBI groundout 2/3 innings in his final tuneup for 4 starter in the AL championship But the Astros couldn't spoil Players and fans had a wild put the Phillies ahead for good. the postseason and was booed series and World Series, Philadelphia's party. celebration and Philadelphia was Pedro Feliz doubled in another by fans at Yankee Stadium when Chamberlain h11.d a dreadful 
Kendrick (3-1) gave up two hits promptly swept by Colorado in run to make it 5-3. he walked off Wednesday night two-month stretch starting in and struck out four. Martinez the division series. Rollins and Victorino hit back­during the Kansas City Royals' mid-August, going 0-4 witlt R.42 lasted just four innings, allowing Last year, the Phillies were 3Yz to-hack triples to start win over New York. ERA in eight starts. After receiv­three runs and six hits in his first games behind the Mets with 17 Philadelphia's fifth. Ibanez's sac­Derek Jeter homered leading ing a warning that he said "was start since a neck strain forced to play. They caught them during rifice fly made it 7-3. off the first, and Nick Swisher's a little bit more stern" from him out of a game at Atlanta on the final week and clinched on 29th homer tied the score in the manager Joe Girardi and coach­Sept. 19. Brad Lidge, who has 11 the next-to-last day of the regu­Royals 4, Yankees 3 fifth, a two-run drive off es early last week, he rebounded blown saves after a perfect sea­lar season. The Yankees ended the first Robinson Tejeda. to beat Boston on Friday. son last year, came in to get the With four games left this year, regular season at their new $1.5 Kansas City broke a seventh­"It's important that he has a 
inning tie when Mark Teahen good start," Girardi said walked against Damaso Marte Wednesday. "He had a good start (1-3) and John Buck tripled off last time and he's had good Sergio Mitre on a catchable drive starts during the year, but we that Swisher got turned around want him to have another good on and then fell down. Yuniesky start because there are decisions Betancourt followed with a that still have to be made." missed a squeeze bunt, and Girardi didn't give the pitcher Buck was tagged out by catcher another warning. Jorge Posada. "I think the message was clear. 
Jamey Wright (3-5) pitched I think he understood the mes­two innings for the win in relief sage that, you know, we needed off Hobinson Tejeda, and Joakim to see him better," the manager Soria got three outs for his 30th said. "I mean, it was only seven, save in 33 chances, stopping the eight days ago that we had it." Yankees' seven-game winning Chamberlain allowed three streak. After Betancourt's throw­runs, seven hits and four walks, ing error from shortstop put throwing just 52 of 91 pitches for runners on second and third strikes and going to three-ball with two outs in the ninth, counts on six of 22 batters. Hamiro Pena flied out to shallow He gave up run-scoring singles center. to Brayan Pena in the first, 
New York opened the ballpark Teahen in the third and another on April 16 with a 10-2 loss to to Pena that finished his night in Cleveland but went on to finish the fourth. It could have been 57-24 (. 704) at new Yankee worse: the Royals loaded the Stadium, the third-highest win­bases with one out in the second ning percentage since 1901 for a before Tug Hulett popped out team in a first-year ballpark, and Billy Butler flied out. according to STATS LLC. The When Girardi finally came to Boston Red Sox were 57-20 the mound, Chamberlain headed (.740) with one tie in 1912 at back to the dugout v.ith his head Fenway Park, and the Boston bowed, then while in foul territo­Somersets were 49-20 (.710) in ry looked up toward the stands. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK 
$14.25 base-appt.,no experience needed,customer sales/service, 
574-273-3835. 


FOR SALE 
Corn Hole, solid wood, dorm size, tailgate size, full size. WI or W/0 bags. 
Call Brian 574-850-7166. 
FoR RENT 
andersonND rentals. com. HOUSES 4 BDRM HOUSE ON 32 ACRES OF NATURE AND SERENITY(9 MILES NORTH OF NOTRE DAME) ($1200.00) FOR WEEKEND. CALL GEORGIA PEACH BED AND BREAKFAST@ (269) 357-6979. 


TICKETS 
HELP I Need FB tix for family. 
Will pay top $$. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FBTix. 
Victorytickets.net 574-232-0964. 
Need 2 MSU & USC tix & parking pass. 574-276-8507. 
Buying NO football tix. GAs. 574­277-1659. 


PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. 

Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. 
If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 
For more information, visit ND s website at: http://pregnancysup­port@nd.edu 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu 
Awful bloody film. I say, it's just a ridiculous premise. What would happen if your mobile phone killed you? Why would a mobile phone kill anyone? 
Doesnt make sense. How can a mobile phone have an agenda and kill people ... 




OUND THE NATION 
CoMPH.ED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES Thursday, October 1, 2009 page 17 
MLB 
NCAA Football Division I APTop25 
team  previous  
1  Florida  1  
2  Texas  2  
3  Alabama  3  
4  LSU  7  
5  Boise St.  8  
6  Virginia Tech  11  
7  Southern California  12  
8  Oklahoma  10  
9  Ohio Sl.  13  
10  Cincinnati  14  
11  TCU  15  
12  Houston  17  
13  Iowa  NR  
14  Oklahoma St.  16  
15  Penn St.  5  
16  Oregon  NR  
17  Miami (Fla.)  9  
18  Georgia  21  
19  Kansas  20  
20  BYU  19  
21  Mississippi  4  
22  Michigan  23  
23  Nebraska  25  
24  California  6  
25  Georgia Tech  NB  

NCAA Men's Cross Country USTFCCCA Division I Poll 
team  previous  
1  Oregon  1  
2  Oklahoma St.  2  
3  Stanford  3  
4  Wisconsin  4  
5  Northern Arizona  5  
6  Colorado  6  
7  lona  7  
8  Portland  8  
9  Alabama  10  
10  Georgetown  9  
11  Tulsa  11  
12  BYU  12  
13  William &Mary  n  
14  Virginia  14  
15  Providence  16  
16  Iowa St.  25  
17  Arkansas  18  
18  Cal Poly  21  
19  North Carolina St.  19  
20  Auburn  13  
21  Butler  20  
22  Washington  24  
23  Michigan  22  
24  New Mexico  26  
25  Oklahoma  NR  

NCAA Women's Volleyball AVCA Division I Coaches Poll 
team  points  
1  Penn St.  1487  
2  Texas  1440  
3  Washington  1393  
4  Hawaii  1305  
5  Florida  1255  
6  Michigan  1160  
7  Oregon  1122  
8  Minnesota  1058  
9  California  1015  
10  Nebraska  886  

around the dial 
NCAA Football 
Ohio State at Toledo 6 p.m., Big Ten 

Colorado at West Virginia 
7:30 p.m., ESPN 


Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -Eric Wedge lost his job and kept his uniform. 
Wedge was fired Wednesday as manager of the Cleveland Indians, who are in the final days of a terrible season that began with high hopes. 
Despite being told he would not be back next season, Wedge will man­age the last six games of his seventh year with Cleveland, which entered Wednesday's doubleheader against the Chicago White Sox one game out of last place in the AL Central. 
"I still wanted to finish what we started this year," said Wedge, who led the Indians to one playoff appearance since 2003 and went through two rebuilding projects with the midmarket club. "I felt it was the right thing to do. It's been a long run here ­as managers go." 
General manager Mark Shapiro said he and own­ers Larry and Paul Dolan came to a collective deci­sion on Wedge's future "fairly recently" and that Cleveland's coaches were told Tuesday night that they would not be retained for the 2010 season. Wedge is under contract for 2010. 
Wedge's firing had been rumored for weeks, and although him still being around makes for an awk-

IN BRIEF 
Michael Vick renews 
contract with Nike 
NEW YORK -Michael Vick is back with Nike two years after the company severed ties over the quarterback's involvement in a dog­fighting ring. 
"Mike has a long-standing, great relationship with Nike, and he looks forward to continuing that relation­ship," his agent, Joel Segal, said Wednesday. 
Segal would not reveal terms of the agreement. Nike declined a request for comment. 
The deal was announced during a panel discussion at the Sports Sponsorship Symposium by Michael Principe, the managing director of BEST, the agency that represents Vick. 
The endorsement is the latest step forward for Vick as he seeks to rehabil­itate his career and his image after serving 18 months in federal prison. On Sunday, Vick played his first regular­season game since December 2006. 
ward situation, he's glad to have some resolution. 
"It's been a big elephant in the room for a while," he said. 
After leaving the inter­view room at Progressive Field, Wedge headed back to his office to begin preparing for his final two home games. It was a strange scene as he walked down the corridor. He was passed by several White Sox players who said hello and seemed sur­prised to see him still wearing his Chief Wahoo cap. 
The Indians won the doubleheader opener 5-1. 
Shapiro refused to dis­cuss any specifics about why Wedge was dismissed. 
The Indians were plagued by slow starts throughout the 41-year-old's tenure and this season they could­n't overcome some early injuries and an atrocious bullpen that blew games in April and May. 
Cleveland also recently went on an 11-game losing streak and has dropped 20 of its last 25, a tailspin that likely sealed Wedge's fate. 
"It was not one over­whelming component that led us to this," Shapiro said. "It was a large num­ber of things occurring. I think we just reached the point where it was time to make a change." 
Shapiro said the Indians will begin their search for a new manager soon. 
Marlins' Nolasco strikes out 
nine consecutive batters 
ATLANTA -Florida Marlins pitcher Ricky Nolasco struck out nine consecu­tive batters against the Atlanta Braves on Wednesday night, one short of the major league record. 
The streak ended with a leadoff dou­ble by Adam LaRoche in the sixth inning, and Nolasco finished with a club-record 16 strikeouts. After throw­ing more than 120 pitches, he was lifted by manager Fredi Gonzalez with two outs in the eighth. The Marlins were leading 5-2. 
The big league record for consecutive strikeouts in a game is 10 by Hall of Farner Tom Seaver for the New York Mets on April 22, 1970, against San Diego. 
Seaver struck out 19 in that game at Shea Stadium, including his final 10 batters in a 2-1 victory. 
The major league record for strike­outs in a nine-inning game is 20, set by Roger Clemens (twice) and Kerry Wood. 

Yankee Stadium sets 
another home run record 
NEW YORK -Another home run record has fallen at the new Yankee Stadium. 
Derek Jeter homered against Kansas City's Robinson Tejeda leading off the bottom of the first inning Wednesday night, and the $1.5 billion ballpark became the frrst major league stadium with home runs in all but one regular­season game. 
Three ballparks had home runs in 79 of 81 games, according to STATS LLC: Edison Field (2000), Coors Field (2001) and U.S. Cellular Field (2004). The only game without a home run at Yankee Stadium this season was on June 18, when the Washington Nationals won 3­0 in a game that started after a 5-hour, 26-minute rain delay. 
Playing its regular-season home fmale, New York also became the frrst team to go deep in 73 home games, according to STATS. The 2004 Chicago White Sox homered in 72 home games. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 1, 2009 
NFL 
Cowboys running wild despite injuries 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas -Imagine how many yards the Dallas Cowboys would be running for if they could keep their running backs healthy. 
Even with starter Marion Barber missing the last game because of an injury and back­up Felix Jones leaving two games with injuries, Dallas has averaged a whopping 193.7 yards rushing per game, 23 yards better than any other NFL team. 
OK, three weeks into the sea­son, league-leading totals are pretty worthless. But here's a pretty significant statistic: The Cowboys have run for more than 200 yards each of the last two games, a back-to-hack feat they haven't pulled off since 1979. In other words, it never happened in all the years Emmitt Smith was running for the most yards in NFL history. 
So, what gives? 

How can Dallas be so much more successful than last year, when it ranked 21st in rushing, with pretty much the same run­ners and blockers? 
"I don't have the answer," offensive line coach Hudson Houck said Wednesday. "I wish I did." 
A logical reason would be the team's preseason pledge to run­ning more. However, that's not the case. The Cowboys actually have five fewer carries than three games into last year, yet they have 129 more yards. 
The obvious difference is they're running more effective­ly. 
The linemen are in their sec­ond year under Houck and are back at full 
strength with "We certainly don •t team ... is really right guard Kyle important,
want to go into the 
Kosier recovered more for the
game with one
from foot prob­coaches and lems that limited running back.,, then my team­him to three mates," Choice games last sea­said. "Once
Wade Phillips
son. Barber is those guys look
Cowboys head coach
more comfortable at you in the 
can do both," running backs coach Skip Peete said. "With Marion and Tashard, we can grind it. Then with Felix there's a chance of a big play every time he touches it. It's very exciting to watch." 
Dallas is going to get a stiff test Sunday against Denver. The Broncos have the stingiest defense in the NFL, allowing only 214.7 total yards per game. They are seventh against the run at 78.3 yards per game. 
A bigger issue is the health of the Cowboys' running backs. With Barber and Jones hob­bling, Choice is likely to start and could be the only one who suits up. 
Jones is almost certainly out because of sprained ligament in his left knee. Barber could be back from a thigh strain. There's no telling yet whether he'll start, relieve or be inactive again. If he'll miss the game, Dallas probably would call up Chauncey Washington from the practice squad. Anderson is the only other ballcarrier on the 53­man roster and he has two car­ries over three seasons. 
"It's a tenuous situation cer­tainly," coach Wade Phillips said. "We're looking at what we can do or what the possibilities are. We certainly don't want to go into the game with one run­ning back." 
Choice is no typical third­stringer. He already has 100 yards on 22 carries, a solid 4.5 yards per carry, and he did a nice job as the primary running back over the final month of 2008 when Barber and Jones were hurt. 
"Being put in that position last 
year and com­
ing through and 
showing the 
in his second year as the starter, while Jones and third-stringer Tashard Choice are better in their second NFL season. 
Offensive coordinator Jason Garrett is doing things differ­ently, too. 
His basic formation uses two tight ends, Jason Witten and Martellus Bennett, and some­times he goes with a third, rookie John Phillips. Other times he goes with fullback Deon Anderson. The results show Garrett is doing a good job mixing things up, sometimes calling the perfect play against a defense. 
For instance, against Carolina on Monday night, he called for a left-side run when the Panthers were blitzing from the right side. Jones broke through for 40 yards. He had a 56-yarder against the New York Giants the week before and Barber had a 35-yarder that game, too. 
All told, the Cowboys have seven runs of at least 20 yards and 18 of 10 yards or more. 
Could that be the secret to the surge in production, that Dallas has become a big-play running team instead of a grind-it-out type? 
"The interesting thing is, we 

huddle and 
know that you can play, it's a good feeling." And they certainly do. "We are very confident when 
he is out there," quarterback Tony Romo said. "He is a smart, smart kid." 
Barber hurt his left thigh at the end of his 35-yard run and missed the last game. Phillips said Barber was limited in prac­tice Wednesday, but not as lim­ited as last week. How Barber looks Thursday will go a long way toward determining his availability Sunday. 
Jones overcame a thigh bruise in the opener, then sprained a ligament in his left knee Monday night. 
"I guess, realistically. I should rule him out (Sunday), but I'm still not," Cowboys owner Jerry Jones said. "He has a lot of resolve and, at best, these things are very subjective." 
After Denver, Dallas plays at lowly Kansas City, then has a bye. So there's a notion Dallas might let Felix Jones have a three-week break. 
"That's being pretty conserva­tive, at this juncture," Jerry Jones said. "That may turn out to be the case, but I'm not ready to say that now." 
NFL 

T.O. still silent on offensive \\Toes 
Associated Press 
OHCIIAHD PAHK. N.Y. -If Terrell Owens has any con­cerns about thn Buffalo Bills' oiTonso and his laek of a big­play role in it throe weeks into the season, he's going to keep it to himself. 
And if reporters don't like that, too bad, because Owens feels whatever h1-1 says will be taken out of context, and he has no intention of throwing more fuel on th1-1 fire. 
"I think over the years that's always gotten me in trouble and created some sort of divi­sion in the locker room with guys on the team," Owens said after practke Wednesday. "I try to do th1-1 right thing now. And even when I try to do the right thing, it's not the right thing. I'm in a situation where I'm in a no-win situation. 
"I just try to do the best I ean do without offending some­one." 
Welcome to TO. Version 2.0, the one who is refusing to cause a disruption or say any­thing that might be considered a knock against quarterback Trent Edwards or the offense after he had a 185-game reception streak snapped in a 27-7 loss to New Orleans last weekend. 
"Guys, all I can say is that I'm working hard, we're work­ing hard as a team," Owens said, as the Bills (1-2) prepare to play at Miami (0-3) on Sunday. "Myself, I just have to make the best of the opportu­nities that are coming my way." 
It made no difference to Owens that he has live eatches for 98 yards and one touch­down, or that he and fellow deep throat Lee Evans have been mere afterthoughts in what's essentially been a dink­and-dunk passing attack. And if Evans has said that he and Owens have approached Edwards about taking more shots downl'ield, then that's OK. 
"Lee is a captain on this team, and if he said that, then I'll just go with that," Owens said. "I don't feel the need to say that because if I say it, according to you guys, I'm tak­ing a shot at Trent or what not. So I just tend to not say any­thing." 
That's a considerable switch for a high-profile player who is no stranger to controversy. 
Owens' reputation for being disruptive has grown during his 14-year NFL career follow­ing several public quarterback feuds. He's criticized Jeff Garcia, was suspended by the Eagles after a series of dustups with teammates and coaches, and has also suggested Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo played a role in the receiver being cut by Dallas. 
Owens said it's not his inten­tion to repeat the past in Buffalo, the team that signed him to a one-year contract in March, days after the Cowboys cut him. 
"My thing is they brought me here to give this team a lift and obviously create some oppor­tunities," he said. "I don't know what else to say. I'm just going to try to stay positive and keep working hard and hope for the best. That's all you can do." 
It hasn't been enough so far. 
Owens was initially criticized after he refused to address reporters following a season­opening loss at New England. l-Ie was questioned again after avoiding the media following a 33-20 win over Tampa Bay in Week 2. 

Then came last weekend. After failing to make a catch sinee Week 6 of his rookie sea­son, Owens went to the postgame podium, where he provided short answers and, on four occasions, said "Just going with the plays called." 
His responses didn't sit well with two NBC football analysts, former coach Tony Dungy and former safety Rodney Harrison, on Sunday night. 
Harrison referred to Owens as "a clown," and added, "He's more concerned with his own stats than the team's success." 
Owens shot back at Harrison with several posts on his Twitter page, making refer­ence to Harrison being sus­pended in 2007 for using a banned substance. 
"I can only take so much and try to be the butt of some­body's jokes," Owens said. ''I'm not going to allow someone to just call me a clown and feel like they can just run all over 
me." 
Bills defensive tackle Marcus Stroud believes the criticism has been unfair. Stroud also credited TO. for not giving in to his emotions following the loss. 
"Any time you go out and play hard and lose a game, it's hard," Stroud said. "The thing is, a lot of people want to see him do something and they try to target him, but at the same time, he is getting a lot of unfair criticism." 


Thursday, October 1, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
The INSTITUTE FOR CHURCH LIFE (!CL) 
and the CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
(CSC) welcome the Notre Dame and 
South Bend community to celebrate the 
dedication of Geddes Hall: 
MASS 

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1 
4:00PM 


BASILI.CA OF THE SACRED HEART 
OPEN HOUSE 
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 3 
10:30 AM -1:00 PM 
. T .. 
GEDDES HALL 
•• -~M'•' 


I I I I -I I I 
I 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 1, 2009 
NBA 

D'Antoni willing to be patient with Knicks 
Associated Press 

SARATOGA SPRINGS, N.Y.­Mike D'Antoni could be forgiven if he sometimes catches himself daydreaming of Steve Nash and Amare Stoudemire executing the perfect pick-and-roll. 
Perhaps he occasionally closes his eyes and pictures LeBron James or some other superstar finishing on the fast break. 
When he opens them again, he sees a New York Knicks team that is given little chance of winning big this season. 
Yet D'Antoni vows to stay patient and positive, even if he suddenly racks up losses as quick­ly as his old Suns teams used to pile up points. 
"You have to have a plan," D'Antoni said Wednesday. "I would be very selfish. I tell players to sacrifice all the time. Ifthe plan is that we've got to do this, then what does that tell me if I can't do it?" 
It won't be easy though. 
"If we don't win, it's going to be hard," said his brother, Dan, a Knicks assistant. "You can be patient, and he w1derstands that. But it's hard to choke it back. He wants to win, he thinks he can 
win." 
The plan Mike D'Antoni alluded to was the Knicks' goal of being in position to make a run at James or some other free agent next summer, when a deep class of free agents will be available. To do that, they traded away their top two scorers, Jamal Crawford and Zach Randolph, early last season to free up salary cap space, then did little to upgrade this summer, choosing to save their money instead. 
It was somewhat lousy timing for D'Antoni. After the Knicks threw away money on bad eon­tracts for most of the decade, he arrived in time to Se!Ol them become financially responsible. Still, team president Donnie Walsh said hi'i coac:h has never come to him with a rPquest to get him bet­ter talent now. 
"We talk every day and he knows," Walsh said. "Look, we would get a player if tho guy was somebody we knew we wantnd to live with, but we're not taking chances. So no, he hasn't. He understands what wn're trying to 
d0." 
He can't like the effect it will have on his career record. The Knicks went. 32-50 last season and it's possible D'Antoni could lose 100 games in two seasons in New York. Isiah Thomas was flred for that. 
D'Antoni knew only winning in Phoenix, where he averaged 58 vktories in his four full seasons and twice reached the Western Conference finals. He was consid­ered an offensive genius and a star in the coaching business ­but of course he had All-Stars like Nash and Stoudemire. Becoming a great coach often involves hav­ing great players first, and right now D'Antoni doesn't. 

"That's amazing, isn't it? That's how it is. That's how it usually works," D'Antoni said. "But I don't think you get into that. I've never been into that." 
No player on the Knicks roster has ever been an All-Star. A coach like Larry Brown loves having players who are low on star power so he can teach them. Many coaches would probably prefer it the other way. 
"I think Mike i<> halfway of that," Dan D'Antoni said. "Winning drives him, but he loves basketball and he loves getting guys to a cer­tain level. So I think he's not quite Larry Brown, he's probably not Pat Riley. He's probably some­where in between. 
"He understands we're going to have to do a teaching job, that it's not going to be instant wins, that there is going to be a stepping process. But certainly he thinks and we think the organization and coaches are up to that task and that the players will buy in." 
Mike D'Antoni said the Knicks will have to overachieve this sea­son to make the playoffs, but he believes they can. More likely, their lack of talent will keep them out of the postseason for the ninth straight year. 
Walsh's plan has risks. The Knicks could strike out in free agency and be right back in the same place when they open camp next fall. But D'Ant.oni is on board, and he won't roek the boat. 
"This L<; fun, I love it. It's a chal­lenge and I'm with our guys, and you know what, if we lose, we lose," D'Antoni said. "But if we do everything we're supposed to do and that's what happens to us, then so be it. I'm OK with that." 

Are you an A&l sophomore planning to Study Abroad?
NHL 

Please visit the following site 
httg:f1.aLnd.edufacademic-advising·and-reguirementsL
Judge rejects both bids for Coyotes 
Associated Press 

PHOENIX -The NHL could claim a partial victory on Wednesday after a U.S. bank­ruptcy judge rejected bids by the league and Canadian billionaire Jim Balsillie to purchase the Phoenix Coyotes. 
Judge Redfield T. Baum reject­ed outright Balsillie's offer to purchase the team and move it to Hamilton, Ontario, which the NHL had vehemently opposed. The judge upheld the league's right to decide who owns its teams and where they play. 
Although Baum also turned down the NHL offer, he left the door open for the league to go ahead and purchase the fran­chise if it amends its bid to treat Coyotes owner Jerry Moyes and ex-coach Wayne Gretzky more favorably. 
Canadian hockey fans and Canadian hockey," he said in a statement. "It was a chance to realize a dream. All I wanted was a fair chance to bring a sev­enth NHL team to Canada, to serve the best unserved hockey fans in the world. I believe I got that chance." 
Glendale issued a statement expressing pleasure at Balsillie's bid being turned down, saying the city "looks forward to work­ing with the NHL to keep the Coyotes playing in Glendale, Arizona, for years to come." 
Moyes took the team into Chapter 11 on May 5 with a plan to sell to Balsillie, contingent on moving the franchise to Hamilton. 
Balsillie's bid, which rose to $242 million when $50 million 
was added in an 
unsuccessful 
effort to per­
"In  hockey  "It remains our goal  suade Glendale  
parlance, the court is passing the puck to the  to secure the long­term stability ofthe  to drop its oppo­sition, was denied with  
NHL  who  can  Coyotes in Glendale."  prejudice,  
decide  to  take  meaning  the  
another shot at  Bill Daly  proposal is dead.  
the sale net or it  Baum said he  
can pass off the  NHL deputy commissioner  found  no  legal  

puck," Baum wrote. 

NHL deputy commissioner Bill Daly issued a statement saying the league is "pleased that the bankruptcy court has confirmed the league's rights to select its owners and the location of its franchises." 
"We are reviewing the opinion and considering how we can best address the court's concerns regarding our offer to purchase the Coyotes," Daly said. "It remains our goal to secure the long-term stability of the Coyotes in Glendale." 
The ruling came on the eve of the start of the NHL season and after nearly five months of bitter legal wrangling with Balsillie and Moyes on one side and the NHL and the city of Glendale, where the team plays, on the other. 
Balsillie said he would not appeal. 
"From the beginning, my attempt to relocate the Coyotes to Hamilton has been about 
basis for over­
turning the NHL's right to determine the ownership of its member teams and where those teams play. 
"This conclusion effectively is the end for the efforts of PSE, Balsillie, Moyes and the Coyotes to force a sale and relocation of the hockey team .... ," Baum wrote. 
PSE is the company formed by Balsillie to pursue the Coyotes. The Canadian, co-CEO of Blackberry manufacturer Research In Motion, contended that the NHL was an illegal car­tel and that its rules were anti­competitive under antitrust law. 
Balsillie, who listed his person­al worth at $3 billion, has said his bid obviously was the best and that a team would thrive in hockey-crazy Hamilton, while it could never succeed in Glendale. 
The NHL board of governors voted 26-0 against Balsillie, labeling him untrustworthy. It is the third time Balsillie has tried 
to successfully complete your application, 
and failed to buy an NHL team. Previous eflorts to purchase the 

Note: You must receive adean's approval for your application to be completed. 
Pittsburgh Penguins and Nashville Predators also fell through. 

To see adean make an appointment with:
At the last minute when other potential bids fell through, the league offered $140 million to 

Office for Undergraduate Studies 
buy the team and try to resell it. 

104 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Its first option was to resell the franchise to a purchaser to keep 

Phone: (574) 631-7098 
the team in Arizona. Failing that, the NHL said it would look to relocate the franchise. 
"There are multiple factors that support the NHCs bid," the 

Deadline: Nov. 6. 2009 
judge wrote. 
However, he based his rejec­tion of the league bid on that fact that it would pay all unseeured creditors in full except Moyes and Gretzky, who would get only a share of what was left after every other party got its money. 
"One of the prime policies of 


bankruptcy is equality of distri­bution among c.reditors," Baum wrote. 

II::LD'V':ER, 'V':ILJLAO~IE A PRIME CAMPUS HOUSING COMMUNITY rorrnerly Turtle Greek Apartments  
Football Ga.....e Day Parking ~djacent to Stadiu••11 $20AIIDay Enter on State Road 23 Entrance (1 block vvest of Eddy) VValk to Tailgate anc:l Garne  
'17'1 0 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend,. IN 46637 Ph 574. .272.8'1.24 Fax 574•.272.8204 vvvvvv.clovervillageapartments.com  

Moyes says he loaned about $100 million to tho franchise, while Gretzky has a $22.5 mil­lion claim. 
"There has been no determina­tion that the Moyes and Gretzky claims are not 'legitimate erodi­tors,"' Baum said. "It would be inherently unjust for this court to deprive them of their possible rightful share of any proeeeds without first providing all involved a fair trial on their daims." 
Just what happens next is uncertain in a complex case where more than 1,000 docu­ments have been filed. The league has funded the franchise since last fall and the Coyotes open their season Saturday at Los Angeles. 
Gretzky announced his resig­nation as coaeh last Thursday. 
The unsecured crnditors com­mittee and th1~ largest seeured creditor, SOF Investment, backed the NHL bid. 
The franchise has never turned a profit since moving from Winnipeg in 1996. Baum listed the results of the audit of the franchise that concluded the Coyotes had an operating loss of $54.8 million and a total loss of $72.1 million in 2008. 


Thursday, October 1, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
Oowney addresses benching concerns 
Associated Press 
FLORHAM PARK, N.J. ­Maybe David Clowney should have retweeted his entire mes­sage to Rex Ryan. 
The New York Jets wide receiv­er called his benching for com­plaining about playing time a "minor misunderstanding" because the coach didn't see his entire comment on Twitter. 
Clowney said Wednesday that someone passed along to Ryan only the first half of his tweet, which was in response to a friend asking why he didn't see him on the field much during the Jets' 16-9 win over New England in Week 2. 
Clowney tweeted shortly after the win: "1 play in the 1st Half, 4 plays in the 2nd half ... A bit dis­appointed about my playing time but very happy and satisfied about the win." " · 
He added in a subsequent tweet that, "My team always comes first so I'ma just keep grinding." 
"Of course, he's not on Twitter," Clowney said of Ryan. "»e's not on anything for him to see that for himself, but our media per­sonnel showed him what I actu­ally wrote and showed him that I actually stated that my team comes first and I'm just going to keep working hard and we're just going to keep winning." 
But Ryan said his decision last week to sit Clowney against Tennessee on Sunday was only partially fueled by the receiver's tweet. 
"I wouldn't be doing this team the right thing," Ryan said, "if I thought he was being selfish in the fact that maybe he wasn't preparing like he should or he needed maybe a little kick in the pants or something. Then, that's what we're going to do. I'm not saying him, specifically, but I owe it to our team to get the best out of everybody." 
Clowney, who has no catches this season, said he was informed by Ryan a few days before the game that he'd be inactive. 
"I wasn't in the right direction," Clowney said. "He even told me he felt I kind of slipped·off a little bit in practice, which is fine." 
Clowney said he was only benched and not fined for his actions, and had "no clue" who went to Ryan with the tweets. 
On Monday, Ryan said he want­ed to see how Clowney respond­ed, and said he was "outstand­ing" leading into the game against the Titans. Clowney said he and Ryan have no tension between them, and he fully expects to play at New Orleans on Sunday. 
NFL 
LT returns to practice for Chargers 
and not playing. I think we're 

Associated Press 
going to wait and see." 

SAN DIEGO -LaDainian Tomlinson participated in Tomlinson was back at prac­all of practice. tice Wednesday for the first 'Tm just trying to get back time since spraining his right into it, just kind of testing it ankle in the season opener, and see how it feels during an encouraging sign for a San practice," he said. "Any time Diego Chargers team that has you come off being injured, struggled to run the ball. you gain confidence back by 
After missing two straight practicing. So today was a games for the first time in his measuring stick of where I 
brilliant career,  am.  It  felt  
Tomlinson hopes  pretty good."  
he can play Sunday night at  "Any way I can help  Tomlinson said the key  
Pittsburgh, Not only do the Chargers (2-1)  this team, I'm willing to do it."  will be how his ankle feels on  
expect  the  Thursday.  
defending Super  LaDainian Tomlinson  "I'm going  
Bowl champions  Chargers running back  to continue to  

to be riled up after falling to 1­2, but San Diego hasn't won in Pittsburgh since upsetting the Steelers in the AFC championship game following the 1994 sea­son. • 
The Chargers have been careful to avoid rushing Tomlinson back. They could either chose to let him play Sunday night or have him sit out a third straight game and then have the bye week to continue to heal. 
"I want to play in this game," Tomlinson said. "But again, that's dependent on how the ankle does. I think having the bye week definite­ly helps us both ways, playing 
get treatment 
and we'll see 
as the week goes along," he said. 
''It was good to have L.T. practice," coach Norv Turner said. "I thought for what we asked him to do and what he did in the first day back, things went smooth. I'm anx­ious to see how he feels in the morning. I thought there were a couple of times that he turned it on pretty good. But again, when you're com­ing back, to me, it's a day-to­day thing and we'll see where he is tomorrow." 
Tomlinson's absence coin­cided with the Chargers struggling not only in the running game, but when they had the ball inside the oppo­nent's 20. 

They're 1-for-11 in the red zone in their last two games, with the only touchdown being Philip Rivers' 5-yard run in Sunday's 23-13 win over Miami. 
The Chargers are usually strong inside the 20 with Tomlinson, the 2006 NFL MVP. 
"Any way I can help this· team, I'm willing to do it," he said. "Definitely the red zone is the area maybe I can take some of the pressure off things that we do down there, and teams have to play us a little bit more honest. That's what it's all about, and hope­fully I can do that." 
The Chargers have gained only 199 yards in three games, ranking them next-to­last in the NFL. _ 
"There's no question throughout the season we're better when we run the ball well," Turner said. "You look at the end of the year last year when we started playing the way we're capable of playing, it was because we got the run going. We haven't run the ball well enough to keep them from just zeroing in on our passer and our pass protections." 
Also back at practice was rookie right guard Louis Vasquez, who hasn't played since spraining a knee in the season opener. 
Available through December 16 
8:00 pm -1:00 am 1Sunday -Wednesday 
Walk-ins are available or students may reserve space In advance by calling (574) 831-9915 
~U-NIVER. SITYOF 
WNOTREDAME 
Division ofStudent Affairs 
The Career Center 
tll\lfVtiUH'ft Of MOTIU\ tM\1t 
standout. 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 1, 2009 
NFL 

Davis needs to step up for 49ers 
Associated Press 

SANTA CLARA, Calif. ­Vernon Davis declared from Day 1 this season that he could be a key pla,ymaker. 
He vowed to have a big impact for the 49ers in new offensive coordinator Jimmy Raye 's system -as long as he was given the chance. 
The veteran tight end known as much for his volatile nature as his lack of production during his first three NFL seasons is now getting those opportuni­ties, finally emerging as the tal­ented threat San Francisco selected with its top draft pick in 2006 at sixth overall. · 
He delivered with a career day in Sunday's last-second loss at Minnesota, and the Niners could be calling his number even more this week against St. Louis with star running back Frank Gore sidelined by an ankle injury. 
Davis is a captain and seems ready to change his image once and for all, through his behav­ior and letting his play do the talking. For starters, he ignores all the opponents who regularly taunt him. 
"You can't let nobody get under your skin," Davis said Wednesday. "Because the minute you l11t them get under your skin is the minute you get weak." 
Davis, who has come a long way to earn a leadership role for coach Mike Singletary, matched his career best with seven catches against the Vikings and set career highs with 96 yards game, but praise from him is hard to come by. lie acknowl­edges the improvement. 
"I think what Vernon is capa­ble of is a lot better but it was certainly a good game for him," Singletary said. "It was taking another step. If you ask Vernon, Vernon wants the ball. And Vernon is going to make plays." 
Davis earned a reputation for fighting early in his carePr, even with teammates during training camp. He did it this year after saying sueh antics were behind him. Singletary sent him to the showers early during the coach's debut last October against Seattle for the way Davis reacted to a personal foul penalty. 
Davis considers growing up a big part of his success -and he largely credits Singletary in. that process. 
"I mean, you grow," Davis said. "When you first come in here, you try to find yourself, whether it's as a rookie, or your second year, third year. You're trying to find yourself and you're developing, not just as a player. but as a person. And when you develop as a person, you fine-tune yourself' and you figun1 out that, 'Jiey, it's not just .about you, it's about the team." ­
Davis insists he won't get too excited about his 2009 num­bers unless the 49ers (2-1) keep winning. His teammates appre­ciate that newfound attitude. 
The 25-year-old Davis was a Pro Bowl alternate last season after making 31 receptions for 35S yards and two touchdowns, with his catches 
and two touch­''I'm just scratching ranking third on down recep­the team.
the surface right now.
tions. He scuffled 
He has already With opportunities, with linebacker equaled his TO anything is possible." Marques Harris total from last during camp this season and his summer and
Vernon Davis 
14 catches are everybody paid
49ers tight end
nearly halfway with sprints 
to the 31 he had in 2008. 

"I can do a lot more than that," Davis said. ''I'm just scratching the surface right now. With opportunities, any­thing is possible." 
After Sunday's 27-24 defeat, Singletary told Davis that very thing: The· coach knows Davis has more to offer. 
Raye, the 49ers' seventh offensive coordinator in as many years, runs a tight-end friendly offense and always has. While in Kansas City, he kept All-Pro tight end Tony Gonzalez a main part of the Chiefs' mix. 
Davis has been targeted on 23 of 83 throws this season, 
27.7 percent of San Francisco's pass plays, compared to 49 of 509, or 9.6 percent, last season under former coordinator Mike Martz. 
He's as focused as ever, too. 

"You ain't got time for all that foolishness and all the crazi­ness. You gotta go," he said of­his role. "You've got plays that are waiting for you and your teammates are waiting for you." , 
Davis had TO catches of 5 and 20 yards Sunday, the last of which gave his team the lead in the fourth quarter. 
Singletary won't go as far as to call Davis' day a "breakout" across the width 
of the field. Davis claimed afterward it was­n't a fight, rather just an act of 
being competitive. 
All of that seems so long ago considering how he's doing lately. Quarterback Shaun I I ill looks forward to throwing Davis' way more often. 
"He's a guy I feel very com­fortable with," Hill said. "lie can be a huge weapon for us and we'll continue to hopefully use that. Some of these games, they're trying to got under his skin and he's just not allowing it at all. l-Ie's walking away from stuff. lie's come a long way in that. As far as his play­ing ability, he's developed somn skills he didn't have when he came in the league." 
-Whnn Davis was announced as one of the team's six C<Lp­tains Sept. 11, Singletary said he "exemplil'ied a lot of thosn qualities that you have to have in order to bn a leader." Captain Vernon, who would have thought it? "I definitely do soc a chango in Vernon," running back Michanl Hobinson said. "You just have to use your best judge ment and understand that you'rn not abovn the world and things can happen to you. I think Vernon has matured tnn­f'old and he's doing a great job." 
NFL 

Bradshaw is latest injured Giant 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTIIEHFOHD, N.J. ­The banged-up New York Giants have another injury to worry about. 
With 10 players already on their injury rPport, coach Tom Coughlin limnd a new name on the list Wednesday: backup half­back Ahmad Bradshaw, who rushed for 104 yards in New York's 24-0 win over Tampa Bay this past weekend. 
Bradshaw walked to praetieP wearing a boot on his right ((Jot to protect sprains to his ankle and foot. lie did not work out. 
Neither Coughlin nor Bradshaw snemed concern11d whether the backup to starter Brandon Jacobs would play Sunday when tho Giants (3-0) travel to Kansas City (0-3). ­
It's an old collego injury, Bradshaw said, remembering his initial injury-a high ankle sprain -came on a toss play during his freshman year at Marshall. 
"You know what, I have played through a lot of pain dur­ing collegn, when I first injurnd it." Bradshaw said. "I have just boon able to do that ever since. It always hurts during tho gamn. There is a lot of pounding in the game, somebody might !'all on it a dilli~rent way." 
Bradshaw said the injury liJreecl him to miss two games as a freshman, but he has dealt with the pain ever sitH:n. 
"I do a lot of' cutting and I am always on the edge of my feet and it is a lingering thing for a running baek," said Bradshaw, adding the pain he was feeling Wednesday was nothing com­pared to what he felt in collegH. 

lie said the. boot takes pres­sure oil' the foot and ankle. 
While the Giants remain opti­mistic Bradshaw will play, the reality is that most players who have missi1d practice this season have not played on Sundays. 
If that's the ease, free agent Gartrell .Johnson would back up Jacobs. lie was signed a week into the season after Danny Ware dislocated his elbow on the opening kickoll' in the sea­son opener. 
"I think I'm ready," said Johnson, who got six carries for 23 yards against the Bues. "Getting some good game time last week was good for me. I nend to get my timing down, so I have a lot to improve on." 
Johnson still has a lot of learn. I le was awarded on waivers after being cut by San Diego hours before the Chargers' Monday night season opener. lie flew cross-country and has been taking a crash course on the Giants' offense for past two weeks. 
"That's just the name of the game, that's just the NFL," said tlw rookie from Colorado State who still is living in a hotnl because he hasn't had the time to find an apartment. "You just never. know. You always have to be prepared." 
.Jacobs obviously will get the bulk of the carries. He had a season-high 26 carries last week for 92 yards and a touchdown on a day the Giants rushed for 226 yards on 49 attempts. 
Quarterback Eli Manning echoed the approach the Giants take to all injuries: someone gons down, the next guy steps up. 
"We know whoever is back there, they will know what to do," Manni_ng said, adding if they don't, he'll tell them. "We will be on the same page. Guys will step up for us and make plays. 
Guard Rich Seubert said Johnson was impressive. against the Bues. 
"He ran the ball hard," Seubert said. "It was exciting to see him out there. I think he will fit in fine, if we need him." 
Besides Bradshaw and Ware, defensive linemen Chris Canty (eall) and .Justin Tuck (shoulder) did not practice Wednesday. Tuck, who played eight plays against Tampa, said his left shoulder is improving and he expects to play more in Kansas City. 
Cornerbacks Aaron Ross (hamstring) and Kevin Dockery (hamstring), receivers Hakeem Nicks (foot) and Domenik Hixon (knne), and linebacker Clint Sintim (groin) wme limited in praetice, while offensive line­men Kareem McKenzie (knee) and Adam Koets (ankle) partici­pated fully. 


Thursday, October 1, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
MLB 
Nolasco, Marlins beat Braves 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA-Ricky Nolasco struck out nine straight Atlanta Braves and set a Marlins record with 16 strikeouts -the most by a major league pitcher in more than two years -in Florida's 5-4 victory Wednesday night. 
Trying to make a late push for the NL wild card, the Braves ral­lied for two runs in the ninth inning and had a chance to win after loading the bases with two outs. But the game ended when Matt Diaz was thrown out trying to scamper back to third follow­ing a pitch in the dirt. 
Nolasco's nine consecutive strikeouts in one game were one short of the big league record set by Hall of Farner Tom Seaver for the New York Mets on April 22, 1970, against San Diego. 
Seaver struck out 19 in that game at Shea Stadium, includ­ing his final 10 batters in a 2-1 
Sr. Sue Dmm. OP. Su.~tknl Alli1in;, 631-7&1!1 
Auu Firth, Studelll Allitirs, 631-2!i!l:i 
Sy!Yia Dilluu, C:uupus Ministry, 631-7163 
John Dillon, Campus Ministry, Wit-7 Ui3 Qr. Stts.1ttSteibr-P<l.~ali<"h, CounM'Iing Or., GH 1-13G/i l'.,.Kkva, Health Servin·>, 63!..8286 
.sCare Center: 2ilt~mma 
th;uitit\s: 2ili-<H 1 l 
victory. 
Nolasco's 16 strikeouts were the most in the majors since Johan Santana fanned 17 for Minnesota against Texas on Aug. 19, 2007, according to STATS LLC. 
With Martin Prado at the plate in the ninth, Diaz initially broke for home on a ball that bounced away from catcher Ronny Paulino. Diaz hesitated, howev­er, and Paulino retrieved the ball quickly before making a strong throw to third. 
After he was called out, Diaz slammed his hand on the bag in frustration. 
The play gave Brendan Donnelly his second save, though he did not retire a batter. Donnelly had just been brought in to replace closer Leo Nunez. 
Atlanta, which began the night three games behind Colorado for the wild card, has lost two straight with four games remaining. The Rockies played later against Milwaukee. 
The Braves also were elimi­nated from the NL East race. Philadelphia beat Houston 10-3 and clinched its third straight division title. 
Nolasco (13-9), who struck out 14 of his first 19 batters, set a Marlins record with his 15th strikeout when Diaz fanned for the final out of the seventh. Nolasco's final strikeout victim was rookie Brooks Conrad for the first out of the eighth. 
Nolasco's night ended after 123 pitches when manager Fredi Gonzalez brought in Dan Meyer with two outs in the eighth and a runner on first. Meyer retired Chipper Jones on a liner to end the inning. 
Atlanta scored twice in the ninth on Yunel Escobar's RBI single and pinch-hitter Omar Infante's RBI single. 
Nolasco's streak of nine straight Ks ended with a leadoff double by Adam LaRoche in the sixth. Nolasco fanned 12 through five innings, retiring 14 of his first 15 batters. 
Throwing 83 strikes, Nolasco allowed four hits, two runs ­none earned -and two walks in 7 2/3 innings. He has won two of his last three decisions and four of his last six starts. 
Nolasco was 1-3 with a 7.44 ERA with 10 homers allowed in his previous six starts against the Braves. After winning 15 games last season, the right­hander got off to a rough start this year and was sent to the minors for a two-week stretch that ended June 7. 
Both runs scored in the sev­enth on LaRoche's two-run sin­gle. Neither run was earned because Escobar reached on shortstop Hanley Ramirez'·s fielding error. 
The Marlins, who have won two straight, took a 3-0 lead in the third off Braves starter Javier Vazquez (15-10), who lost for the first time in five starts. 
After Chris Coghlan led off with a single, third baseman Jones' fielding error allowed Cameron Maybin to reach, and both runners advanced on Hamirez's groundout. 
Jorge Cantu followed with an RBI single to make it 1-0. Maybin was already at third when Cantu stole second and scored on Vazquez's wild pitch to Ross Gload. 
Dan Uggla followed with an RBI single for a 3-0 lead. Gload's sixth homer, a two-run 

shot off Vazquez in the fifth, made it 5-0. 
Vazquez was 4-0 with an 0.84 ERA in his previous four starts, but he's been unable to solve Florida. No team this season had beaten the right-hander more than once, but the Marlins took their third victory over Vazquez after he allowed eight hits, five runs -three earned ­with nine strikeouts in six innings. 
The 16 strikeouts tied the most by a pitcher against the Braves since franchise relocated to Atlanta in 1966. The last pitcher to do it was Sid Fernandez for the Mets on July 14,1989. 
The Marlins were eliminated from postseason contention after the Hackies beat Milwaukee on Tuesday. 
Kansas City 4, New York 3 
The Yankees ended the first regular season at their new $1.5 billion ballpark the same way they began -with a loss. 
Joba Chamberlain lasted just 3 2/3 innings in his final tuneup for the postseason and was booed by fans at Yankee Stadium when he walked off Wednesday night during the Kansas City Royals' 4-3 win over New York. 
Derek Jeter homered leading off the first, and Nick Swisher's 29th homer tied the score in the fifth, a two-run drive off Robinson Tejeda. 
Kansas City broke a seventh­inning tie when Mark Teahen walked against Damaso Marte (1-3) and John Buck tripled off Sergio Mitre on a catchable drive that Swisher got turned around on and then fell down. Yuniesky Betancourt followed with a missed a squeeze bunt, and Buck was tagged out by catcher Jorge Posada. 
Jamey Wright (3-5) pitched two innings for the win in relief off Robinson Tejeda, and Joakim Soria got three outs for his 30th save in 33 chances, stopping the Yankees' seven-game winning streak. After Betancourt's throwing error from shortstop put runners on second and third with two outs in the ninth, Hamiro Pena flied out to shallow center. 
New York opened the ballpark on April 16 with a 10-2 loss to Cleveland but went on to finish 57-24 (.704) at new Yankee Stadium, the third-highest win­ning percentage since 1901 for a team in a first-year ballpark, according to STATS LLC. The Boston Hed Sox were 57-20 (.740) with one tie in 1912 at Fenway Park, and the Boston Somersets were 49-20 (.710) in 1901 at the Huntington Avenue Baseball Grounds. 
Hoping to be the Yankees' No. 4 starter in the AL champi­onship series and World Series, Chamberlain had a dreadful two-month stretch starting in mid-August, going 0-4 with 8.42 ERA in eight starts. After receiv­ing a warning that he said "was a little bit more stern" from manager Joe Girardi and coach­es early last week, he rebound­ed to beat Boston on Friday. 
"It's important that he has a good start," Girardi said Wednesday. "He had a good start last time and he's had good starts during the year, but we want him to have another good start because there are deci­sions that still have to be made." 
I I I 
' 
page 24 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, October 1, 2009 
Co-Sponsors: Gender Relations Center, Feminist Voice, Snite Museum of Art Student Government and University Counseling Center 

AND 
thursday, october 1 THIN Guided Exhibit Tour with Steve Moriarty, Curator of Photography Snite Museum; 4:30 -5:30 pm 
Love Your Body, Love Thee Notre Dame Poster Campaign 
friday, october 2 Mean Girls Movie & Dialogue Geddes Hall Auditorium; 7:00pm 
saturday, october 3 New "What is an Eating Disorder?" brochures available in residence halls 
sunday, october 4 Prayers for healing at campus Masses 
GRC~ 
gender relations center 
~t~ Uf»*~'*~*' • ~n.·:~it-'1.'4>1 + ~'*{h>l~~ ... "'<~.~~~..(.Hi~ 
monday, october 5 THIN Documentary Film Screening, with Q & A Snite Museum Auditorium; 12:00 -1 :00 pm 
tuesday, october 6 THIN Guided Exhibit Tour with Steve Moriarty, Curator of Photography Snite Museum; 12:00 -1 :00 pm 
Mass & Dinner: Love Your Body; Feed your Soul Mass: Ryan Hall chapel; 5:30pm Dinner: Ryan Hall social space; 6:30 pm (RSVP required) 
wednesday, october 7 FIRE Forum: Body Image &Eating Disorders Geddes Hall Auditorium; 7:00 pm 
thursday, october 8 

LOVE YOUR BODY DAY Yoga; TBA Resource Tables "Love Your Body" open mic and coffeehouse Reekers; 8:00 -9:30 pm 
Thursday, October 1, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
strong season. attack, boasting a strong "We are just going to have passing game.
Ryan 
to come out aggressive "Our receivers are quick continued from page 28 against Ryan and make sure and athletic, and we expect 
we stick to the game plan," them to consistently make more than ready for Lyons. Connell said. plays," Cline said. "Our top Last week's game brought Ryan and Lyons will play receivers are senior Erin improvement even between Thursday at 7 p.m. at Riehle Dolan, junior Holly Hinz, and the first and second halves, so Field. sophomore Brittni the extra practice time will Alexander." surely prepare them even Cavanaugh vs. Walsh If Cavanaugh expects to more. Two teams looking to build continue its march to the 
"We look to come out with a more momentum off of playoffs, they will have to bang and plan to prove that already impressive starts will contend with an equally fiery Ryan, even as a new team, is meet Thursday as Cavanaugh Walsh team coming off a a force to be reckoned with," and Walsh battle at Riehle come-from-behind 18-12 win Bowen said. Field. against Pangborn. 
While Ryan is rather new to Cavanaugh started their "[Coming from behind] was existence as a whole, Lyons is season with a 14-7 win over a good reminder that this sea­new to the 2009 season. After Badin, giving up one touch­son is going to be a lot of successful scrimmages and down after an interception work," senior captain Meghan practice time, Lyons is ready left Badin with excellent field Hadley said. "But the team to actually play. position. The Chaos expect an handled it marvelously and 
The defense is led by sopho­even better performance from we came out on top." mores Kat Rodriguez and their defense against Walsh. Walsh is looking to dupli­Caroline Maroney, both of "We're confident that we cate their undefeated regular whom proved their strengths can earn a shutout season record of last season, last year. They are joined by Thursday," senior captain and will benefit from new numerous freshman. Sarah Cline said. freshman face such as defen­
Offensively, Lyons is looking The defensive identity of sive lineman Alyssa Casill strong, especially with its Cavanaugh's team can be who had two sacks last game, upperclassmen. Wide traced back to the intensity of as well as seniors returning receivers senior Maria its leaders, and the high from abroad. Petnuch and sophomore expectation the Cavanaugh "We are looking forward to Caroline Maroney are ready players carry with them every getting [the seniors] back in to catch any ball that comes time they step on the field. as well as getting some new their way. "To play Cavanaugh football faces in the mix," Hadley 
"We have an impressive is to be part of a family and a said. "But everyone on our receiving core that I think legacy," Cline said. "Knowing team contributes. It's the will be effective at moving the we're playing for the greatest truth." ball down the field," senior dorm on campus gives us The Wild Women will look quarterback Claire Connell extra motivation to win." to put together all of the said. On the offensive side of the pieces against Cavanaugh and 
The Lions are ready to take ball, Cavanaugh pours equal come out on top with a state­on Ryan and start out with a passion into their aerial ment victory. 
Mass 
With an African American Flavor (aka Rejoice! Mass) 

Sunday, Oct. 4 9:00p.D1. 
Coleman-Morse Center Chapel ofNotre Dame Our Mother 
ALL ARE WELCOME Food &fellowship to follow! 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 

"We have the talent. We have the heart," Hadley said. "Now we just need some good football." 
The two undefeated squads will face off at Riehle Fields Thursday at 8 p.m. 
PW vs. Pangborn 
Pangborn (0-1) hopes to rebound from an opening loss 
with  a  victory  over  
Pasquerilla  West  (1-0)  
Thursday.  

"We were disappointed in our first game's loss, but it was a very even match and we are looking forward to our next game," Pangborn sopho­more captain Julie Cooney said. "Our team has meshed incredibly well. We aren't worried about bouncing back." 
At the center of the Phoxes offense is junior quarterback Gabby Tate, who will lead a high octane passing attack. All-purpose senior Megan Bescher and sophomore wide receiver Liz Pawlak will be on the receiving end of Tate's passes. 
Opposing Tate and company will be an outstanding Pasquerilla West defense, which used multiple fourth down stands against Ryan last week to preserve a 14-7 vic­tory. 
The Purple Weasels defense, led by senior line­backer Cynthia Curley and senior defensive back Alyssa Moya, will focus on shutting offense not only hopes to con­tinue the success it had with option football last week, but also find more balance through the air. 

down  the  Phoxes'  aerial  
attack.  
The  Pasquerilla  West  

"Our passing game is only going to continue to develop. We have six or seven very athletic receivers and our quarterback, junior Simone Bigi, is gaining more confi­dence with each throw," Pasquerilla West senior cap­tain Cynthia Curley said. "We know we can run, but we know we can pass and catch too. Pangborn will not see a one-dimensional offense on Thursday, and that may be difficult to adjust to." 
Both teams promise to bring plenty of intensity to this game and hope to come out on top. 
"We are going to come out with the same intensity from the start and ensure it's car­ried on throughout the game," Cooney said. "We will play to the end and hopefully come out with a victory." 
Pasquerilla West takes on Pangborn on Thursday night at 9 p.m. at Riehle Field in a game that will see plenty of passing, well-executed plays, and defensive stands. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu, Chris Allen at callenlO@nd.edu and Barrick Bollman at jbollman@nd.edu 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Porter leads Bulldogs past Rainbow Warriors 
Associated Press 
RUSTON, La.-Louisiana Tech coach Derek Dooley wrote an open letter to fans urging them to attend Wednesday night's game against Hawaii to see something special. 
Turns out that something special was tailback Daniel Porter. 
The senior rushed for 160 yards and two touchdowns, moved up the charts on three career rushing lists and helped the Bulldogs to a dominant 27-6 win Wednesday night. He also wiped away all those questions surrounding a slow start. 
"I got my mojo back tonight," Porter said, adding, ''I'm not going to say I was in a slump, but I was­n't getting my yards." 
Porter jumped from lOth to eighth on the Louisiana Tech (2-2, 1-0 WAC) career rushing list and kept Hawaii (2-2, 0-1) on the chase the entire game. The senior surpassed his season total of 145 yards rushing, as did the team with 352. 
The Bulldogs entered the game ranked 103rd of 120 FBS teams with 97.3 yards rushing per game. Porter nearly reached that num­ber in the first half and continued to make big runs as Louisiana Tech pulled away in the second half for its ninth win in its last 10 home games. 
"The problem with the run was (it was) the worst exhibition of tackling in football," Hawaii coach Greg McMackin said. "We were diving and not tackling the way we teach. We're not that kind of foot­ball team." 
The Louisiana Tech defense had no problem tackling and was dom­inant as well, snapping Hawaii's 62-game streak with at least one touchdown. The Bulldogs held the No. 7 offense to minus-7 yards rushing and 301 total yards, well below its average of 515.3. 

Tech defenders kept the Warriors out of the end zone with a goal-line stand late in the second quarter and sacked quarterback Greg Alexander five times before knocking him from the game late in the third, and finished with seven. 
"The sacks are just devastating," Louisiana Tech coach Derek Dooley said. 
The Warriors played their third consecutive road game for the first time since 1964, traveling to Seattle to play Washington State and Las Vegas for UNLV before the 13-hour trip to Ruston. It was just their fifth Western Athletic Conference loss in the last 25 league games. 
McMackin said there is "no whining in football" but acknowl­edged his team appeared to be at a low ebb as it weathered home games 36 days apart. 
"We didn't have any energy and didn't play our best game," he said. "We're really looking for­ward to going home and playing Fresno State in front of our crowd." 
All the travel helps explain why it appeared Porter got stronger as the game went on. The Warriors had allowed just 126.7 yards rush­ing per game, but Porter passed that early in the second half. He played sparingly in the fourth quarter, but picked up runs of 19 and 14 yards on Bulldogs' fmal scoring drive, which ended in a field goal. 
r-----­
page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, October 1, 2009 
Clausen 
continued from page 28 
last, in terms of dealing with the toe injury. 
"Last week after the Michigan State game, after I got injured, it was pretty painful. I could barely walk on it," Oausen said. "Just to translate that to this week, I feel a lot better than I did. After the Purdue game, I felt pretty good on Sunday and [Tuesday] when I was out there to practice." 
The toe will require that Oausen play through pain, however, and he said he was prepared to do so for the rest of the season. He had a plate placed in his shoe that limits the mobility of the toe and limits the pain, but the pain is still there, he said, whether he's taking drops from under center or out of the shotgun. 
"It really doesn't matter," Clausen said. "When you're out there playing, you've got to run around, throw the ball." 
Anyone watching Notre Dame's 24-21 victory over Purdue last Saturday saw someone else in Irish white and gold doing just that for the better part of the second half. Sophomore Dayne Crist, Clausen's heir apparent, saw his first meaningful game action against the Boilermakers, effec­tively guiding the offense on a pair of touchdown drives. 
"Whenever guys are out there making plays, it gets me excited," Clausen said. "Just seeing Dayne out there and just making plays is just a fun feeling. Having Dayne being another quarterback, it's just fun watching him go out there and make plays, just like other guys on the team." 
Another way the Irish made plays Saturday was with the Wildcat formation. The formation­do-jour of both college and pro football was the subject of much discussion Tuesday, as captain Eric Olsen was asked several questions about the Wildcat's role in Notre Dame's offense. 
"It's a little bit of an unconven­tional set for a football team or for an offense," the senior guard said. "It gives the offense an extra weapon, so to speak, in their gamn ... When you use it effeetively in certain situations in a game, it really helps out the offense." 
From a defensive standpoint, there are several things the Irish will have to worry about against Washington Saturday, beginning with Huskies quarterback Jake Locker. But Notre Dame L<> mostly focused on itself, especially early in the week with taekling fundamen­tals still an area in need of improvement. 
Senior safety Kyle McCarthy said the Irish partieipated in some extra full-speed tackling drills dur­ing Tuesday's practiee in an attempt to shore up those strug­gles. 
"I don't think it's any secret that our defense eels like we should tackle better than we did," the defensive captain said. "So we had a much more physical practice, at least in individuals, than usual. We were working on our tackling, and hopefully that translates to better tackling on Saturday." 
Even with those issues, however, the run defense was much improved against the Boilermakers Saturday, and spe­cial teams captain and backup linebacker Scott Smith hoped to see that continue against the Huskies with a similar approach. 
"Being able to stop the run has a lot to do with just attacking the line of scrimmage and kind of moving the offensive line back so we're trying to get to the heels of the offensive linemen as quickly as possible," Smith said. "Just like I talked about earlier, kind of trying to force the ball east and west and not let them run straight down the line because that's the easiest way to score, just run straight down your throat. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
NFL 
Judge rules not to toss out Roethlisberger case 
Associated Press 
CARSON CITY, Nev. -A Nevada judge denied motions by lawyers for Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger to dismiss a civil lawsuit alleging he raped a Lake Tahoe casino worker, according to court docu­ments released Wednesday. 
Washoe District Judge Brent Adams rejected arguments that the suit should be dismissed, say­ing the woman's allegations make a "sufficient" claim that ifproven, would entitle her to relief. 
"The court recognizes that a motion to dismiss is only proper where it appears beyond doubt that the plaintiff could prove no set of facts which, if true, would entitle them to relief," Adams wrote in the order filed late Tuesday. 
Adams also refused to strike the woman's complaint, finding that as written, it is not "unneces­sarily salacious or graphic," as argued by Roethlisberger's lawyers. 
In other brief orders, the judge also rejected arguments that the suit should be dismissed because it failed to name an "indispens­able party" -that being Harrah's Hotel-Casino -and denied Roetlilisberger's request to expe­dite diseovery, or the sharing of evidence. 
Roethlisberger's lawyer David Cornwell said that dnspite the outcome, his team was encour­aged by the judge's reasoning. 
"Finding that plaintiff survived this round because of a generous 'beyond doubt' standard indicates that, at these early stages, the court is inclined to give plaintifl' her day in court," Cornwell said in a written statement. "Of course, tllis cuts both ways." 
"In any event, her allegations remain false and we remain com­mitted to a vigorous defense." 
Cal Dunlap, the woman's lawyer, has repeatedly declined comment on court filings and did so on Wednesday. The Associated Press, as a matter of policy, does not identify people who say they have been sexually assaulted. 
The woman, a 31-year-old VIP hostess at Harrah's, filed a civil suit in July, alleging Roetlilisberger sexually assaulted her while he was at Lake Tahoe the previous summer to compete in a celebrity golf tournament. The suit daimed she was hospi­talized for several months because she was traumatized after the alleged attack. 
MIAA 
continued from page 28 
going a long way lbr us." 
The Belles shot a team score of 315 in the first round to take a lead they nevnr rnlinquished, 1£>1­lowing it up with a 320 on day two for a 635. They were 1 S strokes ahead of tl1e semnd plaeo team, DePauw. 
Freshman Martyna Mierzwa medaled lor the tl1ird time this Iilli with a 154 to load the field of 99 golfers. She shot a 76 on day one and followed it up with a 79 on day two to claim the title. 
Just a few strokes behind was sophomore teammate Natalie Matuszak in semnd for the Belles and ovBrall with a combined 157. Matuszak had the second best seore in round two with a 77 to follow up her day one round of 80. 
Junior Mary Kate Boyce and senior Perri I lamma both posted 
The svsti!ini!ble rniln<lqement <lnd use of fresh water is on!'! of the pre-eminr>nt 

Chi:lllenges of our time. A~ the climate dl<lnges. populations ()row, and economie~ expand, pressures on the pli:lnN'$ limited fr(~shwater resources i:lre increasing, rais, ing the ri~k of politkal ,md military conflict, worsening hum<1r1 health, and expanding ecological destruction. Dr. Peter H. Gleh:k, one of the world'~ experts on global water L~sue~, will disw~~ the water Cri$i.~ and new Wi:l)l$ of solving it, lndudin9 irmov<ttive use of new and old technologies, the smart use of economics. ecosystem re~· toration. and 1e·thinking both water supply and water demand. These solu­tlon>··-what Gleick <<llls "th{• soft path for w<~ter"··-offer a positive vision for Wi'lter in the cornin9 decades. 
more and more comfortable and eonfident in each of our games which comes across into our next rounds." 
Last spring, the Belles took tenth at the NCAA tournament after taking second to Olivet in the fall 2008 season. Saint Mary's is currently 11 strokes ahead of Olivet for the lead in the MIAA. The Belles won four eonsecutive conference championships from 2002-2005, and are looking to take back tl1e title this faJl. 
"With the remaining matches this season all being ML<\.A match­es, we need to play with confi­dence and hold a tight lead over the other teams," Hamma said. "lf we can secure a win this fall sea­son, it will really set us up for suc­cess this spring; a win would guarantee two of the three rounds for the eonference and a spot at nationals would be at our home course." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveseiO 1@saintmarys.edu 
scorns of 162 to take a share of ninth overall. Boyce shot a 79 on day one and an S3 on day two, while Hamma shot an 80 in the first round and an S2 in the sec­ond. 
Junior Hosie O'Connor tied for 27th in the event with her fmal score of 171 to round out the Belles top eompetitors. O'Connor went out with an 87 in the first round but eame back with an 84 to finish the weekend. 
Today's event will be the third conference competition for Saint Mary's this fall. The regular sea­son MlAA jamborees and a sea­son-ending two-day tournament are played to determine the league fall champion in hopes of winning the automatic entrance into the NCAA tournament in the spring. 
"It is important to come off this past weekend's win and go out there and win again tomorrow," Hamma said. "We have the skills to take a big step tomorrow over Olivet. With every win, we get 
Adrian 
continued from page 28 
son, the Belles have lbund a eou­ple more weaknesses that they need to work on to remain in the eonference picture tl1L<> s1mson. 
"Tonight we took a step back­wards," Crabbe said. "Now we have a lot of work to do in order to catch back up with the rest of the conference and have a shot at making it to the MIAA tourna­ment." 
The Belles gave up their first goal of the game to Brittany Moreau in the 21st minute of the ganu\ and a little over two min­utes later the Belles gave up another goal. 
After a weak first half the Belles came out strong in the see­ond half out shooting their oppo­nent 11-9. 

son and continue to leave her mark on the Belles defensive unit. 
For Saint Mary's, it will take a lot of relying on each other to overcome their early season diffi­culties and find the recipe needed for success. 
"We know eaeh other and the team is closer this ynar, but we still need to keep working to get to the point where we know for a fact that eaeh and every one of us is going to give it their all for the team," Duffy said. "If we come out and honestly do that for every game it will be hard not to find suceess." 
Crabbe also stressed that the team needs to work on maintain­ing its focus and seoring goals before their next MIAA game. The Belles will face Trine Saturday beginning at 3 p.m. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO1@saintmarys.edu 
However, the Belles were not able to capitalize on these oppor­tunities and were held scoreless for the second straight contest. 
"The players do show a tremendous amount of support for each other," Crabbe said. "However, we need our players to demand more of each other when faeed with adversity on the field." 
Senior Jessica Slean has been a pleasant surprise fi>r Crabbe this season. 
Crabbe noted that she has been one of his most eonsistent players this season and has shown the most improvement from thn 2008 season. 
"She is hands down our hard­est working player day in and day out," Crabbe said. "We need more players to follow her exam­ple." 
Senior goalkeeper Patty Duffy also had four saves in the game to increase her total for the sea­


Thursday, October 1, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 




Things I tell people at bars:
Things I learned at ND: 
Things I wish I learned: 
Math 

Film 
"I'm a finance major"
Organic Chemistry* 

Philosophy
Matlab 
"Oh, you have an offer from

Art Studio 
Fluid Dynamics 
Deloitte tool"

Peace Studies 
HeatTransfer 

and 
"Yeah, that class is a total joke"
How to talk to girls 
*Never actually learned 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 

Name _________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ________ State _____ Zip_______ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Kieran Culkin, 27; Lacey Chabert, 27; Domi­nique Moceanu, 28; Jenna Elfman, 38 
Happy Birthday: Your unique way of doing things will capture the attention of someone who can help you along the way. You have already set the stage for success by working out the details, so take action and see where all your hard work can lead. An activity will lead you to the top people in an industry that interests you. Your numbers are 7, 12,21, 25,27, 34,41 
ARIES (March 21-April19): An opportunity that will allow you to profit and learn at the same time will present itself. Make last-minute changes if it will ease your mind and secure your position. Domestic or house problems will surface; stay calm. **** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): An opportunity will occur--be ready to take on the chal­lenge. You won't have to look far to fmd answers but verify all the facts you've been given. An exaggerated point of view can throw you off-course. **** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You are facing a no-win situation that must be handled with diplomacy. One false move and you may end up defending your position, actions and your integrity. Physical challenges and hard work will take your mind off pressing issues.** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Run the show, call the shots and do your thing. That's when you are happiest and do your best work. A home-based business will bring benefits down the road. Give extra care to an older friend or relative. ***** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Temptation may get the better of you when it comes to parting 
with your hard-earned cash. Don't believe the sales pitch you are given. Do your research. Chances are that whatever you are being told is too good to be true. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'll be inclined to take on someone else's responsibility. In doing so, you will open up a channel of communication with someone who has something to offer. Meeting someone extraordinary will change the way you think about your future. 
*** 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Think outside the box when it comes to your social networking or investment plans. You stand to profit in many ways if you get involved with people who can offer you the skills needed to complete something you are pursuing. ***** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): If something doesn't seem right to you, it probably isn't. Don't give in to anyone trying to convince you to make unnecessary changes. Stay put until you have everything in place and the protection you need to move forward. ** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Someone will criticize you for your inability to follow through with a promise. Trying to talk your way out of a situation may work in the initial stages but, sooner or later, you will be questioned and asked to keep your word. *** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't let past pressures or memories stand in your way. 
Old emotions may flare up but, in the end, you have to be rational and do what's best for 
yourself. Love is in the stars.*** 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Someone may be uncertain about where you fit into their 
future. If you can't get a straight answer, move on and cut your losses. Invest in yourself by 
siguing up for a course, investing your money or doing something to update your look. 
*** 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may have to answer questions if you haven't done things by the rules. A relationship will need a little tender-loving-care if you don't want to send the wrong signal. A short trip for two can do wonders for your love life.*** 
Birthday Baby: You are creative, entertaining and insightful. You are a trendsetter with piz­zazz plus integrity. 
JEFF KNUREK 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

1lft~f.l~~ ~ THATSCRAMBLEDWORDGAME ~ \!;1} ~ by Mike Argirlon and Jeff Knurek 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 

one letter to each square, Musrve cost at least 
to form four ordinary words. 
S100apound 
SUROE j
I [l [J
©2009 Tribune Media Sefllices. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
KLEAN ± 


WHAT THE:: E::.XPENSIVE:

I [ [] 

Ot=t=R HUNTING TRIP AMOUNTED TO. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
IJ r I I 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
A( I I I I I )oF"( I I I I)" 
(Answers tomorrow) FOCUS NUTTY DISOWN NEPHEWYesterday's IJumbles: 
Answer: Playing with a yo-yo has its ­UPS AND DOWNS 
CROSSWORD 
Across 29 New York's _ 60 .... Beach. Fla. Moccasin 
Institute (art 62 Muscle school) connector
adornment 32 Straying 64 Fourth row
5 Faux pas 
33 Brother-and­£5 Paradise lost
9 Took _ (went 
sister dancing 66 Have a
swimming) 
duo hankering
13 & 14 Nancy 
36 Out on the water 67 Suffix akin to ­
Lopez and 
trix
37 C7HSN306

Annika 
68 Comedic star
Sorenstam have 38 Foolish chatter 
Martha
each won this 41 Educ. course in 
69 Many August
several times which grammar 
babies
and idioms are

16 Russo who co­
70 Guinea pigs. 
taught

starred in 'The 
maybe
Thomas Crown 42 Verified. in a Altair" way 
Down 
17 Uterary lead role 44 Most merciless 
Mont_
for Gregory Peck 46 Stereo 
2 Ancient Spartan 
in 1956 component 
magistrate
18 Run _of 49 Those against 
3 Wide open 19Ciinched 
50 Joins 

4 Fifth row 20 Alphabet trio 5 Resull of poor
52 First row 56 Online gasp ventilation21 Keyboard key 
57 "You're the __ 

6 Boost
22 Boot feature 
(Cole Porter 

7 Japanese butler 
24 Singer Corinne 
classic} in "Auntie
Bailey_ 
56 Popular ISP Mame• 
25 Bring into being 
59 Brazilian hot 8 Mickey Mouse's 271ntros spot puppy pal 9 Shipping ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
magnate Onassis -=+~:.:..t-='-1 10 Shrinks -::+~±:-! 11 Passionately ..:,:.+~~'-~ 12 Sup~ort for the ~~~~~~~~~ arts. lilllllllilt-::+':+::-t-':+:::-t-:=-t-::1 15 Act without the 
parents' blessings, say 21 "Don't go in there! It's _l" 23Aiways, poetically 26 Fitting 28 Lobby in a D.C. building? R~..::+-=+.:;+:;.{ 30 _ II razor ~..;..~..:.:..L.:;.:.~..:..:..~..:...~ 31 Neon 
SCHAD & FREUDE 
T.I.N.D. 
WILLSHORTZ 


Pu:ale by Derek Bowman 
33Gene 43 Third or sixth 54 Bigger than big Roddenberry· row inspired sci-fi 
55 Intersecting

45 Suffix akin to •
series points
trix 34 Metallic shade, 47 Intersected 58 Aviation-related 
in Sheffield 
48 Like plain text 
61 Seventh row

35 Knock out 51 Second row 37 Upsets 53 Classic 63 Edinburgh Broadway refusal
39 Disappointments 
musical with the 40 Architect song ~Ance Blue 64 Up on things, Saarinen Gown" daddy·o 
For answers, call1·900·285·5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1·800·814·5554. 
Annual subscriptions are available lor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS. AT&T users: Text NVTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobllexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles. nytimes.com/crosswords {$39.95 a year). Share tips: nytlmes.com/Wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comlleamfng/xwords. 
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
DAN POHLMAN 

l 
I 
..J 
r-----------------------------~~~----~--­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, October 1, 2009 
page 28 
==============-----=--~------~---~================================== 
.,­
NO WoMEN's GoLF 

Experienced leadership catapults tean1 to top of Big East 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI Sports Writer 
Most teams at the collegiate level from year to year have to deal with losing seniors and replacing them with untested freshmen. The Notre Dame women's golf team, however, is not facing that issue this fall. 
Losing only one senior from last year, Lisa Mauna, the Irish feature one of the most talented and experienced teams in the Big East. The Irish didn't pick up any freshmen this year. but rather have a starting lineup of two sen­iors, two juniors, and one sopho­more. 

Leading the way is senior Annie Brophy, who is easily the most experienced player on the roster. Brophy has played in every com­petitive round in her Notre Dame career, which comes out to a total of more than 100 rounds of golf. 
"Annie came in and was a good player within the junior rankings, but I think she has just progressed nicely over the last few years and positioned herself well within eol­lege golf," Irish coach Susan Holt said. "I think her progression in her game over the years has allowed her to step into that lead­ership year and be one someone that people can look up to." 
This progression culminated in a tangible accomplishment her sophomore year, a Big East indi­vidual championship, which eoach Holt described as the "turning point" in her production. 
"I think she kind of validated herself as a player," said Holt. "I thought she responded well to [being the Big East champion! last year and I've been real pleased with her play so far this year. 
Brophy's best finish so far this sea.•;;on was 14th in the Bettie Lou Invitational. 
Junior So-1-Iyun Park has also provided consistent scores and quality leadership for the Irish. Park currently has Notre Dame's best career stroke average with 
74.82 and recently posted the top score of four over par for the Irish at the Bettie Lou Invitational. 
This strong leadership is some­thing of utmost importance for the team's success, but their experi­ence lends itself to even more. Playing a number of the same tournaments from last season, many of the Irish players have experinnce on these courses. 
Although the Irish fielded the samn lineup for the Mary Fossum Invitational as they did la<>t year, it did not equate to improved scores. 
"Typically you'd like to think that having prior knowledge of a course would certainly help you prepare for an event," said Holt. "There is a mental preparation advantage to playing a course that you have seen before." 

The Irish will be on an even playing field with their opponents in the next tournament, as they did not have the opportunity to compete in the Windy City Collegiate tournament last year. Nevertheless, the Irish possess the necessary skill and leadership to surpa<;s the competition. 
The first round of the Collegiate is scheduled to begin on Monday. 
Contact Chris Michalski at 
jmichal2@nd.edu 
FooTBALL 

Tiptoeing back 
Clausen feeling 'good' heading into UW game 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Editor 
And now for your daily turf toe tutorial, here's Jimmy Clausen. 

''I'm feeling good. I practiced yesterday, and I'm just getting bet­ter every single day," the Irish jun­ior quarterback said at his Wednesday press conference. "It's just a nagging injury. I don't think I'll be 100 percent healthy until the end of the season or after the season." 
Even with the lingering pain, all signs point to Oausen -and jun­ior running back Armando Allen (ankle), for that matter-being fully prepared to play Saturday against Washington. As Irish coach Charlie Weis said earlier this week, Clausen is much further along this week, as compared to 
see CLAUSEN/page 26 
SMC SoccER 

Belles drop match vs. Adrian 
By KATE GRABAREK Sports Writer 
Adrian broke out to an early 3-0 lead over Saint Mary's Wednesday and the Belles were never able to recover. 
"I thought we played below expectation in the first half and we quickly fell behind 3-0," head coach Ryan Crabbe said. "I went into this match v.i.th much higher expectations." 

The Belles (3-7-1, 0-1) struggled in the first half of the game allow­ing all three goals before the half and were shut out for the seventh time this season. 
With the game marking the beginning of the conference sea-
see ADRIAN/page 26 



SMC GOLF 
Belles enter third round of tourney 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's moved up to No. 2 this wPek a<> it heads to Kalamazoo today to play in the third MIM fall jamboree this afternoon at the Milham Park Golf Club. The Belles currently sit atop the nine-team conference after winning the first MIAA competition and finishing as the runner-up in the seeond. 
La<>t weekend, Saint Mary's took first in a field of 16 teams in the DePauw Small College Classic at Deer Creek Golf Club. 
"Our win this past weekend was really big for us and helped push us to our No. 2 ranking in the nation in Division III," Belles cap­tain Perri Hamma said. "We have been a strong team on and off the course and I think that is really 
see MIAA/page 26 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Ryan looks for first victory against Lyons 
By MEGAN FINNERAN, CHRIS ALLEN and BARRICK BOLLMAN Sports Wrirers 
Thursday will mark a beginning for both Hyan and Lyons. 
Cranted, Ryan has played one game, a 14-7 defeat to Pasquerilla West, but it was lhe first game in dorm his­tory, and the team is still in the beginning stages. 
"We have really been meshing this season," senior captain Kenzie Bowen said. "We have a lot of young enthusiasm. I would like to 
believe that we have the most fun week in and week out." 
In torms of key players, Hyan does not recognize any. but rather chooses to acknowledge its team as a whole on both the offensive and defensive ends. 
"We play as one unstop­pable unit," Bowens said. "Our defense is certainly one of the most intimidating defenses in the league and our offense is quickly gain­ing confidence." 
Even with their rookie sta­tus, the Hyan women are 
see RYAN/page 25 






