
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Panel: Obama faces many challenges 
Political science professors speak ofproblem-s and opportunities for the new administration 
By ROBERT SINGER News Writer 
Exactly one week after President Barack Obama's inauguration, a roundtable of political science professors met for a panel discussion, talking about Obama's chal­lenges as he begins to tackle economic and military crises against a backdrop of high expectations. 
The discussion was titled "Challenges and Opportunities Facing the Obama Administration" and held in the Coleman-Morse lounge Tuesday evening. 
Professor Dan Lindley spoke of an overlooked dimension of dealing with high expectations. 

"The power he gets from his popularity is intangible, but nonetheless real," Lindley said. 
Since the public expects Obama to bring about so much _ positive change, they will be more willing to back his pro­posals, he said. 
"High expectations are a form of power," Lindley said. 

These expectations will apply to many different crises as the United States confronts chal­lenges in a variety of arenas, according to the professors at the roundtable. 
Lindley spoke of the need to build strong alliances by focus­ing on mutual interests to meet 
see OBAMA/page 3 


Career Fair sets up shop at Joyce Center 
135 companies will recruit employees, interns in the midst of difficult economic times 
mix of industries that should 
appeal  to  just  about  all  
majors," Monahan said.  
The  companies  will  be  

recruiting for fulltime and internship positions in different fields, Monahan said. 
A diversity reception that will be "centered around the issue of diversity in the workplace" will take place today from noon until 2:30 p.m. in the Monogram Room of the Joyce Center, Monahan said. 
The reception will be an open networking session and is open to all students, Monahan said. 
see FAIR/page 3 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Accounting prograllls ranked in top 10 
By AARON STEINER Assistant News Ediror 

Notre Dame's Accountancy Program recently received high marks from an annual survey of accounting profes­sors nationwide. The under­graduate program was ranked fourth in the nation and the Master of Science in Accountancy program was ranked sixth among graduate programs in Public Accounting Report (PAR), a trade maga­zine. 
Fred Mittelstaedt, professor of accountancy and chair of the department, said Notre Dame has ranked high in the report for "the last number of years." 
"The undergraduate pro­gram has been in the top five for the last several years," Mittelstaedt said. 
According to the report from PAR, "the survey asks account­ing professors, department heads and department chairs to name the undergraduate and graduate programs that ... they feel most consistently turn out students capable of some day attaining partner status." 
Mittelstaedt said because of the survey's nature, choices are "based on reputation, how [professors) think our students do, and also their perceptions about what they know of our 
see RANK/page 4 


By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 

Despite the poor economy and dismal job market, 135 companies will be looking for internship and job applicants at the 2009 Winter Career and Internship Fair at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse today from 4 to 8 p.m. 
A variety of companies, non­profit agencies, government agencies, accounting and financial firms will be repre­sented at the Fair, according to Associate Director of the Career Center Kevin Monahan. 
"This fair especially is a good 
Pangborn opens cafe in lounge 
The Phoxy Cafe offers coffee, hot chocolate an~ biscotti twice per week 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
Students desiring a cup of hot chocolate or a mug of cof­fee to warm up from the win­ter weather can stop in Notre Dame's newest South Quad snack stop, the Phoxy Cafe. 
The cafe: located in Pangborn's lobby, offers cof­fee, hot chocolate, and biscotti Monday and Wednflsday from 8 to 10 p.m. Katifl Callison, the Phoxy Cafe's project coordinator, said that the cafe is just starting and hours may change as well as the variety of snacks offered. Hours are likely to change during the semester as 
see CAFE/ page 4 




Food compost plan started by student 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
On average, Notre Dame stu­dents waste 5.03 ounces of food every meal. So junior Sarah Cline is working to implement a composting sys­tem. in which food wasted in the dining halls would be con­verted into fertilizer, instead of rotting in a landfill. 
Cline, a junior and member of GreeND, won the United Nations' "Climate Crews" com­petition with the help of last semester's GreeND president Lourdes Long. The competition called for students to submit a plan to improve the environ­mental impact of their school. 
Cline entered a proposal to cbange the way thP University's dining halls get rid of food waste. 
"There is a lot of food waste in the dining halls that can't be recycled. but it's better jf it's not just thrown in a land­fill." she said. "They can use it as fertilizer and it's really helpful." 
About half of colleges and universitios nationwide have a composting system, Cline said, but Notre Dame currently has no system in place. 
"At this point, all of the waste in the dining hall gets 
see FOOD/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Turn off 

the lights 
When I was little, my parents gave me a lot of instructions. They told me to duck if someone throws a softball at my head and I can't catch it. They told me not to bite the cat, regardless if it bit me first. 
They also told me that I should always, always, always, turn off a light when I leave a room. Just flip­ping a switch saves them money, saves the light bulb, and saves ener­
gy.  
Now that I'm  
almost 20 years  Laura Myers  
old, that seems  
like common  
sense. Which is  Sports Writer  
why I was sur­ 
prised at what I  

saw on Thursday and Friday as I walked home from Legends. 
On Thursday, my friend Katie and I went to Legends for their poker league. It ended at 2:30a.m. (Katie came in third or fourth). We live in Cavanaugh, so we walked past Debartolo and O'Shag and then into the little alley comprised of Hayes­Healy, Riley, and Nieuwland. Interestingly enough, literally all of the lights in Hayes-Healy were on, and several in Nieuwland. 
On Friday, my friends and I went to the comedians, who were disgusting, by the way. I'm all for a dirty joke, but these guys, the second one espe­cially, went above and beyond what anyone would consider reasonable. Half the time, the crowd, rather than laughing, just stared at him open­mouthed. Come on man, know your audience. 
Anyway, I walked back from that a little after midnight. This time, a good two-thirds of the lights in Nieuwland were still on. Now, I know some teachers love to hear them­selves talk, but I don't think there were any physics lectures that con­tinued to midnight on Friday. 
This year I happened to shack up with two environmental science majors, so my literacy in all things Green has gone up a bit, which is why I'm fairly up in arms about this. I mean, Notre Dame just won a $10,000 award for its sustainability efforts, but they can't turn off some lights? 
And maybe if it were just one or two lights, I could understand the slip up. But as I said, it was literally the entire building on Thursday night, and a majority on Friday. There is just no excuse for that. 
Story formula: Present the problem. Present the reasons for the problem. Present solutions to the problem. 
So here are some solutions. 1) Make sure you have a custodian go around and check that kind of thing. GreenND wants suggestions of what to do with the money it won -why not use it to ensure lights get turned off? 2) Let us do it for you. I bet that volunteers from Cavanaugh (the win­ners of RecycleMania last year), would have no problem heading ov_er to Nieuwland and turning off lights. It's one of those things that's not hard to do. 3) Turn off the light when you leave a room. 
Of course, a five-year old could tell you that. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer + PAGE 2 Wednesday, January 28, 2009 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT THE POPE'S NEW YouTUBE CHANNEL? 


..,. 
Mary Clare Murphy Tim Latham Paul Macias Mary Allison Johanna Kirsch 
junior junior senior senior junior 
Lyons Knott St. Ed's offcampus McGlinn 
"Papal emo "/ can't think of "Oh, Jesus." "Does the Pope "!hope he vlogs would be anything I'd be even know what doesn't read the 
,

pretty amusing less likely to YouTube is?" comments. 



but possibly watch." sacrilegious." 

TAYLOR ITSELLJThe Observer A child from the Early Child Development Center (ECDC) holds a doll while coloring. ECDC is looking for volunteers for the Spring Semester who can commit two hours per week to spend time with children, ages two to kindergarten. 
OFFBEAT 
Firefighter charged for stealing severed foot 
PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. ­Authorities said the St. Lucie County firefighter who took a man's severed foot from an Interstate 95 crash scene last year has been charged with misdemeanor theft. The firefighter told the Florida Highway Patrol after the Sept. 19 crash that she took the remains to help train her cadaver dog. She eventually resigned from the St. Lucie County Fire District. She was arrest­ed Monday. 
FHP Lt. Tim Frith said 
TODAY 
the severity of a theft charge is usually deter­mined by the value of what is stolen. Since there's no law specifically dealing with the theft of a body part, he said it was diffieult to determine the monetary value of the foot. 
The firefighter was released from jail on her own reeognizance Monday afternoon. 
Woman shoots boyfriend who wouldn't let her sleep 
MONROE, La. -A 21­year-old Monroe woman charged with aggravated battery allegedly told police she shot her boyfriend because he wouldn't let her sleep. The motive for Saturday's shooting was detailed in an arrest affi­davit. 
The woman remains in Ouachita Correctional Center with no set bond. She was charged with shooting her boyfriend, who was found by Ouachita Parish sheriff's deputies in his car at an . 
intersection early Saturday. The boyfriend's name was not released. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 

Q
..... 

*&*.,.
<C 
* *~** 
(.) 

0 
...I 
LOW 12 LOW LOW 12 LOW 8 



IN BRIEF 
Author Deb Olin Unferth will read from her first novel, "Vacation" at 7:30 p.m. at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. Unferth teaches at Hoosevelt University in Chicago. The event ira; free and open to the public. 
"Much Ado About Nothing" is being performed at Washington Hall tonight at 
7:30 p.m. The play will show through Friday, January 30. Tickets are $12 for students, $18 for Faculty, Staff and Seniors, and $20 Regular Admission. 
A blood drive is taking place on Thursday from 10:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. in Room 217 of the Engineering Lounge, which is on the 2nd floor of Cushing Hall. To sign up, call Donna Fecher at 574-631­5432 or go to the AME office in 365 Fitzpatrick Hall. 
"Le plus heureux des trois," a play by Eugene Labiche will be performed at 7 p.m. on Friday at the Snite Museum of Art. Although the play wil be in French, an English synopsis will be pro­vided. Tickets are $5 cash only and can be bought at the Center for the Study of Language and Culture, 329 DeBartolo Hall or at the door. 
The film "Happy Go Lucky," is being played at 6:30 p.m. on Saturday at the Browning Cinema in DeBartalo Performing Arts Center. Purchase tickets at performin­garts.nd.edu or call 574-631­2800. . 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 
O.Q
*&*.,. *&*.,.
* *~** * *~** HIGH 26 HIGH 28 LOW 25 LOW 18 
Atlanta 58 I 29 Boston 34 I 26 Chicago 19 I 15 Denver 42 I 23 Houston 52 I 34 Los Angeles 72 I 47 Minneapolis 17 1 12 New York 36 I 25 Philadelphia 39 I 25 Phoenix 67 I 42 Seattle 43 I 38 St. Louis 26 I 19 Tampa 78 I 63 Washington 40 123 
Wednesday, January 28, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

COR discusses funds bias 
Members express concern aver bias duringfunds distribution, offer solutions 
By LIZ O'DONNELL 
News Writer 
The Council of Representatives discussed .the process of allocating funds in its meeting Tuesday evening, with student body president Bob Reish expressing his con­cerns about possible bias when funds are distributed. 
Although the council ulti­mately decided that bias within the Financial Management Board (FMB) would be eliminated based on the checks and~ balances in place in the board, discussion was spurred by interest among COR members in learning about the allocation process, specifically from which. sources the money comes, and where the money goes. 
Currently, the allocation process takes place in the spring and members of stu­dent government organiza­tions (class councils, Club Coordination Council and others) create proposals that are given to the FMB at the allocation meeting. 
Members of the FMB, which include outgoing members from student government, lis­ten to all the proposals and then decide on fund alloca­tion. 
Reish wanted the council to take a closer look into the process to determine whether or not there were any biases present during the allocation process. 
"I am concerned if the case arises where an individual 
·.·· /• '. 
campaign loses to a chal­extensively, something that lenger, that when the new would only serve as a hin­body goes to propose their drance to the process, mem­budget that there could be bers decided. some bias as to who will There was a general con­receive the funding," Reish sensus among COR members said. "I feel that this definite­who had attended an alloca­ly could occur and that it tion meeting that the meet­would be relevant to dis­ings were already long. They cuss," he said. feared that increasing the 
Although most of the mem­meetings' duration would bers felt that this was not a make members less likely to significant issue, they chose make many, if any changes at to talk about possible ways to an to the budget from the 
prevent it from  previous year.  
occurring. Members  "I am concerned ...  The members concluded,  
discussed the  that there could be  however, that  
idea of using a reward system as a means for  some bias as to who will receive the  the checks and balances within the FMB would  
allocating  funding."  eliminate any  
funding  by  bias  held  by  
apportioning  Bob Reish  one member.  
more money to a group who  _.student body president  This, howev­er, does .not  
had functioned  mean  that all  

well during the previous groups will always get all the school year and taking away money they have requested. money from others that had "There is never enough poor performances. money to go around," said 
This, however, posed to Kadeja Gaines, the Student present a possible issue for Union Treasurer. "Hardly the new incoming adminis­anyone ever gets all that they trations. Many of the council ask for." members were concerned that the incoming administra­Other COR notes: ti<:ins should not be penalized u Members of COR dis­for the flaws of its predeces­cussed the reaction of mem­
sors. bers of the Hall President's 
Another suggestion was Council to the same-sex event made to possibly open the planning. The female halls allocation decision meetings were in favor of the idea, to allow both the incoming while the male dorms felt and outgoing members of the that it would be better if councils to be in attendance. there was funding involved. 
This, however, also proved to be an issue because it Contact Liz O'Donnell at would lengthen the meetings eodonnel@nd.edu 

Directly Across From The University of Notre Dame Stadium at Eddy Street Commons 


Exposed brick walls and hardwood style floors 
Expansive windows with spectacular vtews 
Stunning 10-foot ceilings 
Rooftop deck with panoramic views of the University 
of Notre Dame campus Fully equipped kitchens with an abundance of cabinets Private baths for every bedroom Full-siZe washer & dryer in every apartment 
All utilities included -even cable and internet Wi-Fi internet access throughout Club House Enhanced Business Center Private balconies in select apartments 24-hour fitness center with state-of-the-art equipment & Wil Fit Community room with Wii & Billiards Full service concierge Tanning Salon Electrooic card access to your apartment and amenities center 
Garage parktng 
Retail shops and restaurants at street level 
Small pets allowed 
THE DIFFERENCE BElWEEN LIVING AND LIVING WELL 
NOW PRE-LEASING2ooa 
Vlsft our Leasing Center at the East comer of the North Eddy Street construction site on Angela Blvd. 
email: eddy@foundryllving.com 


Obam.a 
continued from page 1 
the security threats of the 21st century. 
"He talks a lot about com­mon security," he said. "The key to common security is common threat perception. How can Obama engineer a sense of common sense per­ception among different nations?" 
If Professor Tony Messina's account of transatlantic rela­tions is any indication, diplo­macy with European nations could prove difficult. 
"In the past Europeans made a very clear distinction of a president they didn't like and the United States," Messina said. "That boundary now is getting blurred. The Europeans are moving toward a worldview that excludes the United States from their think­ing, as far as international leadership." 
Messina said U.S. policies have caused Europe's unfavor­able views. American policy in the Middle East, U.S. action on climate change, the hard stance the Bush administration took against' Russia and the economic competition between the U.S. and the European Union are some of the reasons for the tension, according to Messina. 
Professor Dianne Pinderhughes expressed con­cern that the economic crisis is affecting African-Americans disproportionately, noting that blacks' incomes are on aver­age two thirds of whites', while also raising worries about the enforcement of voting rights laws. 
According to Pinderhughes, during the Bush administra­tion, the Department _of Justice hired numerous people to fill n·on-political positions on the basis of whether they were conservative, Republican and "right thinking." 

Fair 
continued from page 1 
Due to the state of the economy, the number of companies that will be represented at this year's fair is down slightly, Monahan said. 
However, Monahan still expects that students will find "numbers are down slightly, but we still have a good number of employers and a good mix of employers, as well," Monahan said. 
NBC Universal will be one of the companies present at the fair, as well as the public rela­tions company Edelman, Monahan said. Schurz Communications, a company that works in radio and televi­sion, will also be seeking stu­dents, Monahan said. 
'To have a couple public rela­tions firms and advertising firms coming to campus, that speaks well for the draw that is Notre Dame," he said 
In order to prepare for attend­ing the fair, Monahan recom­mended that students log into Go IRISH through the Career Center Web site and choose eight to 10 companies to speak with at the fair. 
Students should research the companies and find out what positions they have posted. 
After researching, Monahan said that students should "then actually go up to the company, introduce themselves and have some questions prepared about 
"My argument is that some of those individuals who were hired might still be in the department and might affect the way voting rights are administered," she said. 
The Obama presidency has a chance to set aside an incre­mental approach and trans­form the government's role in economic and other domestic policy, according to Professor Peri Arnold. 
"We are in a moment of tec­tonic shift in American politics which makes for a different kind of president," he said. 
Arnold remarked on what he 
viewed as a decline in govern­
ment competence over the last 
30 years, arguing that Obama 
has the opportunity to reverse 
this trend. · "There was once a time 
when young people like 'you 
thought about working for the 
federal government," he said. 
"I think we are in a time of 
change," he said. 
He added: "Barack Obama's 
conception of government is 
one that will inspire us." 
Arnold said that in times of 
crisis, past presidents like 
Franklin Roosevelt have gam­
bled with history by proposing 
bold agendas. 
"It's very risky, but it's exact­
ly these kinds of presidencies 
that have made the assump­
tion that there is an opportuni­
ty for great change," he said. 
"It's like walking out on a high 
wire without a safety net." 
Professor John Roos argued 
that as Obama takes steps for­
ward, he must make an effort 
to cooperate with Republicans 
or risk upsetting the nation's 
ideological divide and losing 
his high level of initial support. 
"The first big test is going to 
come in the next two weeks," 
he said. "I think he's going to 
get what he wants, but the 
question is whether he is going 
to get enough Republican votes 
to appear bipartisan." 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 
the job opportunity or about the company and make a good solid impression on that firm," Monahan said. 
Although it is helpful to bring a resume to the fair, Monahan said that it is not a requirement. 
"It's recommended to bring a resume, but if you don't have a resume, that should not stop you from coming," Monahan said. 
Since there are a large num­ber of companies from many dif­ferent areas coming to the fair, students should narrow down the companies that they would like to learn more about. 
"With 135 companies, you have to be a little strategic about who you would like to approach," Monahan said. 
In addition to NBC Universal, Edelman and Schurz, Monahan mentioned Baxter Healthcare Corporation, which is interested in science students. A company that makes athletic wear, Under Armour is looking for students for its retail side, he said. 
Additionally, there will be a "number of engineering firms" such as Lockheed Martin Corporation, according to Monahan. 
First year and second year students should not hesitate to come the fair, according to Monahan. 
"They should come and check it out and use this as an infor­mation gathering ... that way they will be much more pre­pared," Monahan said. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 28, 2Q09 
Cafe 
continued from pag:e 1 
the demand for coffee and snacks increases during stress­ful times such as midterms and finals week, Callison said. 
Callison said Pangborn's hall staff came up with the idea in November, and most of the planning for the cafe has been completed in recent weeks. The hall staff created the cafe to respond to the wishes of students who 'wanted hot drinks without trudging through South Bend's frigid winter weather. 
Callison said the cafe organ­izers eventually want to expand the amount of snacks it offers. 
"We will definitely have more variety in the food and drinks we offer if we get a good response. This could mean that we have baked goods such as warm pretzels and fresh cookies, or somethipg like dif­ferent syrups to accompany the coffee," Callison said. "I think hot spiced cider would also be a popular option, espe­cially given such cold Notre Dame weather." 
The Phoxy Cafe has received positive feedback so far, she said. The cafe offered two free sample nights, and the girls who attended found the cafe's atmosphere and decor very pleasant. 
Organizers administered sur­veys during the sample nights to gather ideas that could improve the cafe. 
Phoxy Cafe shifts are cur­rently voluntary, as the cafe is still trying to cover its startup costs, Callison said. 
However, if the cafe contin­ues its success, Pangborn resi­dents may be able to work there for pay eventually, 
Callison said. 

The cafe's profits will go 
toward dorm activities and -equipment. Callison suggested an espresso machine, but prof­its may also be set aside to go to a charitable cause that 
Pangborn residents support; 

Although the cafe's patrons 
might be mostly from 
Paqgborn, Callison said that all 
are welcome. 

"I feel like this cafe will be a 
great way to make the dorm 
feel more like a home, and 
that it could serve to connect 
students of all years and 
dorms," Callsion said. "It's also 
a great means of setting 
Pangborn apart from other 
dorms. We may be that box in 
the corner, but we are a 
frie~dly and sophisticated _ 
box. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 





SERVE. INSPIRE. CHANGE. 
AME.RICORPS TEACHING OPPORTUNITE.S 
Florida 




Food 
\ 

continued from page 1 
thrown away," she said. 
As one of 10 winners of the contest, Cline will receive $500 to market her plan on campus and a free trip to Washington 
D.C. for a workshop to teach her how to implement it. 
Cline said she was encour­aged to enter the contest by Long. 
"I was not expecting to win," she said. "I was really shocked when I got that e-mail." 
Cline said she already began working with th'e Office of Sustainability, and the University will invest in a com­posting system. 
"We are not sure how it will all work out yet," she said. "It's something that's going to happen for sure, I'm just not sure when." 
The contest required Cline's proposal to be based on the grades given to the University by the Sustainability Report Card, which evaluates Notre Dame's environmental foot­print in various areas. Cline said the University received a low transportation grade, but she thought her project would have a bigger. impact by 
and "we've been in the top 10 since the program started." Mittelstaedt said that Notre

Rank 
Dame's accounting program is consistently well-ranked in
continued from page 1 
various publications. curriculum." In addition to the PAR survey, 
The top three programs in the undergraduate program the undergraduate rankings was rated No. 3 -by were the University of Texas­BusinessWeek's in 2008 and Austin, the University of No. 7 in the 2009 U.S. News Illinois, and and World Report Brigham rankings. Y o u n g Mittelstaedt said
"We have alumni that 
University the success is
have done really well 
respectively. based in part on The same that are in leadership the quality of stu­
three schools took the top three spots in the graduate rankings, in reverse order, and the University of 
addressing the food and recy­$500 she won to create a cling category. media campaign to raise 
"The proposal needed to awareness. have originality and feasibili­"Basically, the only way that ty," she said. "We didn't get a the University would ever com­great grade in transportation, mit to something this big is and there are a lot of ways knowing that students actually Notre Dame could improve it, care about it and comply with but Lourdes and I couldn't it," she said. think of a proj-Students will ect concrete participate in enough." 'There is a lot offood different ways, 
Cline said possibly by
waste in the dining 
composting is removing food
halls that can't be
simple process items that can that will be a recycled." be composted big step before discard­towards achiev­ing their trays.
Sarah Cline 
ing sustainabili­"We will let
junior
ty at Notre students know Dame. how they can 
One goal for implementing help," she said. the project is to garner a lot of Cline said Notre Dame has student support, she said, in put in a lot of effort to improve keeping ·with Notre Dame's the University's sustainability, high grade for the category on the biggest stride being the the Sustainability Report Card. creation of the Office of 
"We got an A for student Sustainability last year. Two involvement, so we want to years ago, Notre Dame had really emphasize that," she one of the lowest scores com­said. "That's something that pared to other universities on has really been working for us the Sustainability Report Card. so far." "We recently had the biggest 
The first step is to make stu­two-year improvement for any dents aware of the amount of school," Cline said. "We are food they waste on a daily moving up a lot." basis in order to gain support and action from students. Contact Madeline Buckley at Cline said she will use the mbuckley@nd.edu 
dents that the
positions in firms. " 

University attracts. 
Fred Mittelstaedt "For one, Chair, Department of they're very Accountancy smart, and sec­ond, they can bal­ance things very 
which he said focuses on "foundational knowledge." 
"We're trying to provide broad skills," he said, teaching both quantitative accounting skills as well as "soft skills" like teamwork and communi­cation. 
That, plus the "great envi­ronment, great faculty ... as well as alumni" help the repu­tation of the department, Mittelstaedt said, highlighting the role of alumni. 
"We have alumni that have done really well that are in leadership positions in firms ... and they like to come back and recruit here because our stu­dents just perform so well," Mittelstaedt said. 
Mittelstaedt said that there are currently 110 seniors in the undergraduate accounting program, and typically there are around 150 from any given class. The graduate program currently has 94 students, he said. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 

VISIT THE ACAQEMY PREP TABLE AT THE NO~E DAME CAREER FAIR, WED 1/28 
Or contact Kristy: kcraig@academyprep.org 

Wed, Jan 281 Thurs, Jan 291 Fri, Jan 30 
Washington Hall I 7:30 p.m. Full Price $20 I Faculty/Staff $18 I Students $12 574-631-2800 I www.performingarts.nd.edu 
PRF~FNTFn RY ~HAKF~PFARF AT NOTRF nAMF 


Announcing the Year 2009 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2009 annual competition for travel in support ofsummer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3.000. and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a tormal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work will normally be in Italian; will involve the study of Italian language. literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University of Notre Dame. 
Recommended programs tor foreign study include. but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua. UCLA in Pisa. Miami University in Urbino. Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages. 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students arc invited to submit a leiter which should include: 
I)  an explanation of how the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their  
degree program at Notre Dame:  
2)  a personal statement indicating their background, interests. and long-term goals;  
3)  a description ofthe research pr~ject or the program they intend to folio":  
-1)  a budget indicating the costs involved:  
5)  two letters of recommendation  
6)  a transcript sho,.ing all grades and courses completed  
7)  a list ofother sources oftlmding (being sought or con finned) for the same project  
(i.e. Ot1ice of International Studies. Nanovic Institute, etc.)  
AJ>plication Deadline:  Friday, March 6, 200'1  
Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Trawl Scholarship  
Program in Italian Studies  
343 O'Shaughnessy Hall  
liniversity of Notre l>ame  

Southern California and the University of Michigan also outranked Notre Dame in the category. 
Mittelstaedt said the Master of Science in Accountanc~ pro­gram wasn't offered until 1998 well," he said, from academics to volunteering to work, "the same types of things that they do in firms." 
In addition, Mittelstaedt credits the curriculum within the department of accountancy, 





ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, January 28, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE O.ssERVE~s WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Mexican immigrant remittances fall 
MEXICO CITY -The money sent home by Mexican migrants fell in 2008 for the first time on record, Mexico's central bank said Tuesday -part of a global trend that could worsen as emigrants from developing countries lose jobs in the global fmancial crisis. 
Remittances, Mexico's second-largest source of foreign income after oil, plunged 3.6 percent to $25 billion in 2008 compared to $26 billion for the previous year, the central bank said. 
The percentage drop is nearly twice what the government had expected for the year, and cen­tral bank official Jesus Cervantes said the decline will likely continue this year. 
Experts blame a crackdown on illegal immi­gration that has stemmed the flow of those heading north to seek work as well as the U.S. recession, in which many Mexicans, especially construction workers, have been laid off. 
It ·was the first time remittances have fallen year-to-year since the bank starting tracking the money 13 years ago. 
Shop seTh; p<Ners of dead in Gaza Strip 
GAZA CITY -Some were killed when tank shells hit their homes. Others died when bombs erased their offices. Still others met their end battling Israeli troops. 
Now their faces are rolling off the presses at the Nibras print shop, which produces full­color posters and banners of the dead. In the wake of Israel's 22-day Gaza offensive ­which killed nearly 1,300 Palestinians :...._ it's one of the few businesses experiencing a post­war boom. 
Islamic Jihad fighter Mohammed Bedawi was among the so-called "martyrs" whose demise was commemorated with a custom­made poster -a tradition for anyone killed by Israel. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Mbm. voters testify to save ballots 
ST. PAUL -Minnesota voters testified Tuesday their ballots had been unfairly rejected as . Republican Norm Coleman argued thousands of disqualified absentee ballots should be counted in the U.S. Senate race. 
"Perhaps my signature is not as good as it once was," Gerald Anderson, of St. Paul, told the three­judge panel hearing Coleman's lawsuit. "It gets cloudy and crooked. I am 75 years old." But. that shouldn't have disqualified his vote, he said: "I want it back. I'm entitled to my vote." 
A statewide recount gave Democrat AI Franken a 225-vote edge. The personal stories that Anderson and five other voters told are just one front on Coleman's effort to have more votes counted. 

Food safety experts call for testing 
ATLANTA-Food regulators didn't consider sal­monella a threat to most peanut products before they tracPd an outbreak to a peanut butter plant in Georgia two years ago. Officials in the nation's top peanut-producing state promptly began checking for the bacteria during routine inspections, and everything went fine for about a year. 
Then this month, investigators zeroed in on another Georgia plant while probing a second bout of salmonella that began in the fall and has sick­ened some 500 people in 43 states, and may have contributed to at least eight deaths. 
As health officials scramble to limit the effects of the latest outbreak. food safety advocates have renewed calls for increased testing at peanut pro­cessing plants. 
LOCAL NEWS 
CIB finance connnittee recommends cut 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indianapolis Capital Improvements Board expects to lose more money than it originally projected from its oper­ation of Lucas Oil Stadium, Conseco Fieldhouse, Victory Field and the Indiana Convention Center next year. 
The CIB's finance committee recommended Tuesday an 8 percent cut in its operating budget and an immediate freeze on hiring, salaries and travel, which it said would save about $6 million. 
"We're going to continue to review this," CIB president Bob Grand said. "If 8 percent isn't enough, we'll have to cut further." 
RussiA 



Metropolitan Kirill elected patriarch 
Interim leader of the Russian Orthodox Church receives 508 out of 700 votes 
Associated Press 

MOSCOW -The interim leader of the Russian Orthodox Church, seen as a modernizer who could seek a historic reconciliation with the Vatican and more autonomy from the state, was over­whelmingly elected patriarch Tuesday. 
Metropolitan Kirill received 508 of the 700 votes cast dur­ing an ali-day church congress in Moscow's ornate Christ the Savior Cathedral, the head of the commission responsible for the election, Metropolitan lsidor, said hours after the secret ballot was over. 
Kirill defeated a conserva­tive rival, Metropolitan Kliment, who received. 169 votes, lsidor said. Another 23 ballots were declared invalid, 
It was the first vote for a Russian Orthodox patriarch since the fall of the officially atheist Soviet Union in 1991. 
Kirill, 62, will be installed Sunday as the successor to Moscow Patriarch Alexy II, who had headed Russia's dominant church since 1990. Alexy II died Dec. 5, at age 79, after leading the church in a powerful post-Soviet revival. 
The son of a priest, Kirill has headed the external relations department of the world's largest Orthodox Christian church for nearly 20 years, immorality he says threatens movement within the church ter, and is wary of any other making him point man for ties humanity. that sees him as too modern institution gaining too much with the Roman Catholic The Vatican "rejoiced" over and too eager for a rapproche­independence. Alexy strongly Church. He met with Pope Kirill 's election, said its ment with Catholics. supported Putin and the gov­Benedict XVI in December spokesman,· the Rev. Federico "He's perfectly aware of the ernment; whatever Kirill's 2007. Lombardi. He said Kirill was risks he will be taking," politi­intentions, observers say a 
Efforts toward a reconcilia­esteemed in the Vatican and cal analyst Stanislav Belkovsky major shirt in the relationship tion nearly a millennium after expressed hope his service said. Regarding ties with the with the state is unlikely. Christianity's east-west schism would "continue to deepen our Vatican, Belkovsky said, "He Some nonreligious Russians have been stymied by accusa­path of reciprocal understand­will go for it if he feels the co.mplain the church has tai­tions by the Russian church of ing and collaboration for the moment has come, but he lored its doctrine to suit the Catholic missionary activity on good of humanity." won't fast-track it." government, which has justi­its traditional territory and In Russia, Kirill is seen as a Kirill will be under pressure fied Russia's retreat from disputes over property and politically savvy figure who to live up to Alexy's reputation Western-style democracy by influence in Ukraine. may seek a more muscular as a unifying figure. saying the country has a 
Kirill has echoed Alexy's role for the church, which has "lie is a true successor of unique history and culture. warnings that those disagree­served the state for much of its Alexy's work. Once again he Kirill, the best-known ments remain obstacles to a 1,000-year history. Church will help consolidate and unite church figure after Alexy, was long-awaited meeting between and state are officially sepa­our society," said Metropolitan the front-runner to replace pope and patriarch -the rate under the post-Soviet Feofan, a church leader in him. His chances improved unrealized dream of the late constitution, but ties have southern Russia. "There is jQy after Metropolitan Filaret ­Pope John Paul II. But he has tightened again since Vladimir in my heart." one of three candidates picked also promoted unity with the Putin came to power in 2000. The Kremlin tightened its by church leaders Sunday ­Roman Catholic Church Kirill will face opposition control over all aspects of life withdrew and urged support­against the secularism and from a strong conservative under Putin, now prime minis-ers to back Kirill. 



Jurors listen to Blagojevich recordings 
Associated Press by the racing industry had been sent to the The governor was arrested last month 
governor's desk, and on the tapes, he says on a variety of corruption charges. includ­

SPRINGFIELD, Ill. -Gov. · Rod to reassure a racing lobbyist he hopes "to ing scheming to benefit from appointing Blagojevich was hundreds of miles away do this so we can get together and start President Barack Obama's U.S. Senate but his voice boomed through the Illinois picking some dates to do a bill-signing." replacement and demanding campaign Senate's chambers Tuesday as his Senators conducting the trial, which contributions in exchange for state servic­impeachment jurors listened to FBI wire­Blagojevich is boycotting though it could es. He denies any wrongdoing and neither taps of conversations in which he seems to remove him from office within days, lis­his brother nor Monk has been charged. demand campaign contributions in tened intently as the fuzzy, indistinct con­Before the tapes were played Tuesday, exchange for signing legislation. versations echoed through the room -the an FBI agent vouched for the accuracy of 
One person on the recordings assures heating system, reporters typing on laptops those and other Blagojevich quotes that Blagojevich that a horse-racing track and the occasional cough accounting for were included the federal criminal com­owner "is good for it" and just has to the only other noise. plaint against him. decide "what accounts to get it out of." Neither the governor nor the others on Again and again, agent Daniel Cain told Another assures him the track owner the call-the governor's brother and chief state senators he had accurately quoted knows he must keep his "commitment" fundraiser Robert Blagojevich and former Blagojevich in a sworn affidavit filed when soon. chief of staff Lon Monk, officials say -the governor was arrested. At each stage, 
Blagojevich replies with comments like specifically mentions money or any House prosecutor David Ellis displayed the "good" and "good job." Legislation sought amounts. ' most danming quote on a poster board. 
page 6 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, January 29, 2008 
Avvard-vvinning vvriter John Updike dead at 76 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK -John Updike, the Pulitzer Prize-winning nov­elist, prolific man of letters and erudite chronicler of sex, divorce and other adventures in the postwar prime of the American empire, died Tuesday at age 76. 
Updike, best known for his four Rabbit" novels, died of lung cancer at a hospice near his home in Beverly Farms, Mass., according to his long­time publisher, Alfred A. Knopf. 
A literary writer who fre­quently appeared on best-seller lists, the tall, hawk-nosed Updike wrote novels, short sto­ries, poems, criticism, the memoir "Self-Consciousness" and even a famous essay about baseball great Ted Williams. 
He released more than 50 books in a career that started in the 1950s, winning virtually every literary prize, including two Pulitzers, for "Rabbit Is Rich" and "Rabbit at Rest," and two National Book Awards. 
Although himself deprived of a Nobel, he did bestow it upon one of his fictional characters, Henry Bech, the womanizing, egotistical Jewish novelist who collected the literature prize in 1999. 
His settings ranged from the court of "Hamlet" to postcolo­nial Africa, but his literary home was the American sub­urb, the great new territory of mid-century fiction. 
Born in 1932, Updike spoke for millions of Depression-era readers raised by "penny­pinching parents," united by "the patriotic cohesion of World War II" and blessed by a "dis­proportionate share of the world's resources," the postwar, suburban boom of "idealistic careers and early marriages." 
He captured, and sometimes embodied, a generation's confu­sion over the civil rights and women's movements, and oppo­sition to the Vietnam War. Updike was called a misogynist, a racist and an apologist for the establishment. 
On purely literary grounds, he was attacked by Norman Mailer as the kind of author appreciated by readers who knew nothing about writing. Last year, judges of Britain's Bad Sex in Fiction -Prize voted Updike lifetime achievement honors. 
But more often he was praised for his flowing, poetic writing style. Describing a man's interrupted quest to make love, Updike likened it "to a small angel to which all after­noon 'tiny lead weights are attached." 
Nothing was too great or too small for Updike to poeticize. He might rhapsodize over the film projector's "chuckling whir" or look to the stars and observe that "the universe is perfectly transparent: we exist as flaws in ancient glass." 

Author Joyce Carol Oates, a friend of Updike's, said there was a "luminosity in John"s style that was just extraordi­nary. He also had a wonderful, warm, sympathetic sense of humor which people didn't always notice." 
In the richest detail, his books recorded the extremes of earth­ly desire and spiritual zealotry, whether the comic philandering of the preacher in "A Month of Sundays" or the steady rage of the • young Muslim in "Terrorist." 
Raised in the Protestant com­munity of Shillington, Pa., where the Lord's Prayer was recited daily at school, Updike was a lifelong churchgoer influ­enced by his faith, but not immune to doubts. 
"I remember the times when I was wrestling with these issues that I would feel crushed. I was crushed by the purely material­istic, atheistic account of the universe," Updike told The Associated Press during a 2006 interview. 
"I am very prone to accept all that the scientists tell us, the truth of it, the authority of the efforts of all the men and woman spent trying to under­stand more about atoms and molecules. But I can't quite make the leap of unfaith, as it were, and say, 'This is it. Carpe diem (seize the day), and tough luck.'" 
He received his greatest acclaim for the "Rabbit" series, a quartet of novels published over a 30-year span that fea­tured ex-high school basketball star Harry "Rabbit" Angstrom and his restless adjustment to adulthood and the constraints of work and family. To the very end, Harry was in motion, an innocent in his belief that any door could be opened, a believ­er in God even as he bedded women other than his wife. 
The series "to me is the tale of a life, a life led by an American citizen who shares the national passion for youth, freedom, and sex, the national openness and willingness to learn, the national habit of improvisation," Updike would later write. "He is furthermore a Protestant, haunted by a God whose manifestations are elu­sive, yet all-important." 
Other notable books included "Couples," a sexually explicit tale of suburban mating that sold millions of copies; "In the Beauty of the Lilies," an epic of American faith and fantasy; and "Too Far to Go," which fol­lowed the courtship, marriage and divorce of the Maples, a suburban couple with parallels to Updik~s own first marriage. 

Build Stronger Relationships with Your Family 

Want to better understand your teen? 
How about your significant other? 
Are you interested in what's going on in their lives but find yourself unable to communicate with them? Or are you just looking for some more family time? 
If so, you're not alone! Consider the family communication project in the Family Studies Center to be a great resource! Couples with teens between the ages of 11-16 are encouraged to call: 
Dr. Julia Schatz@ (574) 631 -0954 or Jackie Bauters and Patricia Kriegel@ (574) 631-0887 
email: tfcptilu@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Wednesday, January 28, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 8,174.73 +58.70 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
2,579 109 1,169 1,165,310,331 

NASDAQ 1 504.90 +15.44 
NYSEJl1¥11ll~illlfJIIIJillilli1J!!JIIiliD11.1111lllltlllill 
S&P 500 845.71 +9.14 
NIKKEI ctot<YoJ:::;Ii;!JIIIIIIIIIIIIill!~'ifll!ll!!l 
FTSE 100 (London) 4,194.41 -14.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) +1.02 +0.85 84.53 BK OF AMERICA (BAC) +8.33 +0.50 6.50 CITIGROUP INC (C) +6.61 +0.22 3.55 FINANCIAL SEL (XLF) +3.51 +0.31 9.14 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -4.69 -0.1240 2.52 13-WEEK BILL +30.00 +0.03 0.13 30-YEAR BOND -4.40 -0.1490 3.23 5-YEAR NOTE -5.63 -0.0930 1.56 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -4.15 41.58 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -9.30 901.40 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) -1.35 79.25 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 89.0850 EURO 1.3204 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2285 BRITISH POUND 1.4167 


IN BRIEF 
Rising unemployment hits all states 
WAS! liNGTON -Rising unemployment spared no state last month, and 2009 is shaping up as another miserable year for workers from coast to coast. 
Jobless rates for December hit double digits in Michigan and Rhode Island, while South Carolina and Indiana notched the biggest gains from the previous month, the Labor Department said Tuesday. A common thread among these states has been manufacturing industry layoffs tied to consumers' shrinking appetite for cars, furniture and other goods. 
With tens of thousands of layoffs announced this week by well-known employers such as Pfizer Inc., Caterpillar Inc. and Home Depot Inc., the unemployment picture is bound to get worse in every region of the country, economists say. 
"We won't see a light at the end of the tunnel until 2010," said Anthony Sabino, a professor of law and business at St. John's University. 
Hedge fund manager surrenders 
TAMPA -On the day a Florida hedge fund manager surrendered to face federal securi­ties and_ wire fraud charges, authorities dis­closed what may have set in motion his two weeks on the lam: A partner concerned about the health of their funds after the Bernard Madoff scandal was pressuring him to have their books audited by an independent accountant. 
It's not yet elear where Arthur Nadel was during his time on the run, but he peacefully surrendered to authorities with two lawyers in tow in Tampa, about an hour north of his home in Sarasota, the FBI said. 
Nadel, who was due to pay investors $50 million when he disappeared, was chained at the waist and wrists when he appeared in court later Tuesday. Attorney Barry Cohen said Nadel is not violent and asked that he be released on his own recognizance. He said Nadel has emotional problems and does not pose a flight risk, but a federal judge ordered him held at least until Friday. 
Asked outside court where his client had been, Cohen said, "He went away for a while just to be alone." He said Nadel turned himself in as soon as he learned about the charges. 
Consumer confidence hits record low 
Index edges down to 37.7 in January; economists expectfinancial funk to continue 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -This is one 
recession Americans aren't 
going to spend their way 
out of. 
The Conference Board 
said Tuesday its Consumer 
Confidence Index edged 
down to 37.7 this month, a 
record low, from a revised 
38.6 in December. It stood at about 87 just a year ago. 
Americans are battered by headlines about massive job cuts, im~uding thou­sands at Home Depot, Corning, General Motors and Caterpillar in just the past two days, and are still watching the values of their homes and retirement funds dwindle. 

"Virtually, there is no con­fidence out there," said Bernard Baumohl, chief global economist at The Economic Outlook Group 
LLC. "Household anxiety has reached a point that we can count them out to get us out of the recession." 
Economists believe 
Americans will remain in a 
financial funk until they 
start seeing fundamental 
improvements in the econo­
my, including a turnaround 
in the housing and job mar­
kets. And two other reports 
Tuesday suggested that's 
unlikely to come soon. 
The Labor Department 
announced that state unem­
ployment rates shot up 
nationwide in December, 

with Indiana and South reports, finishing up about Federal Reserve policy­both current and expected," 
Carolina racking up the 58 points at 8,174. makers are gathering this said Lynn Franco, director 
largest monthly increases. President Barack Obama week to examine what of The Conference Board 
South Carolina's jobless rate and Congress are scram­other tools they can use to Consumer Research Center. 
bolted to 9.5 percent, more bling to enact a $825 billion help ease a recession that The Conference Board 
than 2 percentage points package of increased feder­started in December 2007. survey showed fewer people 
above the national rate. al spending, including They are all but certain to expect to get raises over the 
And the Standard & money for big public works leave the benchmark inter­next few months, or for jobs 
Poor's/Case-Shiller 20-city projects and for states, as est rate at its_ current to be plentiful. 
housing index dropped by a well as tax cuts to revive record low. Nationally, the unemploy­
record 18.2 percent in the economy. But without the help of ment rate, which stands at 
November from the same That could encourage consumer spending, which a 16-year high of 7.2 per­
month a year earlier -the Americans to spend more, accounts for more than cent, could hit 10 percent or 
sharpest annual rate since but Baumohl believ~s the two-thirds of economic more later this year or early 
the index's inception in relief would be only tempo­activity, the economy faces next year, according to 
2000. rary unless financial institu­a slow recovery. In past some analysts' estimates. 
The gloomy news initially tions become healthy recessions, consumers had Michigan and Rhode Island sent the Dow Jones indus­enough to revive lending. helped the economy dig already had unemployment trial average lower, but by Tighter credit has been a itself out of its funk. rates in double digits last mid-afternoon it took heart challenge for shoppers and Americans "are feeling month. And the pink slips from some positive earnings businesses alike. extremely bad about jobs -keep coming. 


Citigroup changes plan to purchase jet 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Citigroup won't be getting a new corporate jet after all. 
Under pressure from President Barack Obama, one of the nation's largest banks reversed course, announcing that it will not take deliv­ery of the jet it had planned to pur­chase before the credit crisis unfold­ed. 
The canceled deal ·came as many politicians voiced concern about how banks are spending government bailout money. 
The White House reached out to . Citigroup on Monday to reiterate Obama's position that such jets are not "the best use of money at this point," calling them "outrageous" spending for a company getting tax­payer dollars, said a White House offi­cial who spoke on condition of anonymity because the official was describing private conversations. 
In a statement late Monday, Citigroup Inc. said it paid a deposit in 2005 to acquire the jet. The New York-based bank said it did not plan to use government money for the pur­chase, and it noted that any cancella­tion of the deal would probably lead to multimillion-dollar penalties. 
On Monday, the New York Post reported that Citi was set to take pos­session of the jet even after receiving $45 billion from the government. 
The government is also providing guarantees on hundreds of billions of dollars of Citi investments in mort­gages and other troubled investments. 
With the cancellation of the jet deal, a deposit on the plane will be lost, but is recoverable once the jet is sold, according to a person familiar with the situation. Citi was in the process of purchasing a Dassault Falcon 7X for $50 million, the person said. 
Citi is also planning to cut the num­ber of corporate jets in its existing fleet from five to two, said the person, who also spoke on condition of anonymity because the details have not been made public. 
Corporate jets have become contro­versial during the credit crisis as crit­ics of large companies question the cost of owning and operating the air­craft, especially for businesses receiv­ing government help. 
In November, executives of automakers Ford Motor Co., General Motors Corp. and Chrysler LLC were sharply criticized for flying on corpo­rate jets to Washington to ask Congress for federal bailout money. 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, January 28, 2009 

Obama seeks GOP help, compromise 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -On the eve of a key vote, President Barack Obama privately promised Republicans he stands ready to accept changes in the $825 billion ec<momic stimulus legislation, invoked Ronald Reagan to rebut conservative critics and urged lawmakers to "put poli­tics aside" in the interest of creating jobs. 
"The American people expect action," Obama said Tuesday as he shuttled between closed-door meet­ings with House and Senate Republicans on a trip to the Capitol that blended sub­stance with political symbol­ism. 
Republicans who attended the sessions said the presi­dent did not agree to any spe­cific changes but did pledge to have his aides consider some that GOP lawmakers raised dealing with additional tax relief for businesses. 
Prodded to budge on anoth­er point, Obama said that despite opposition, he will insist on giving relief to wage­earners who pay Social Security taxes but do not earn enough to owe income tax. His spokesman said the presi­dent reminded his critics that former President Reagan ­conservative hero to many contemporary Republicans ­supported the same concept while in the White House. 
In a measure of the complex political dynamic in Congress, House Republican leaders urged their rank and file to oppose the stimulus measure hours before Obama arrived. 
One Republican later quot­ed the president as saying any changes would have to come after the House giv'es what is expected to be largely party-line approval Wednesday to the Democratic-backed bill. Debate began late in the day on the measure, which includes about $550 billion in spending and roughly $275 billion in tax cuts. Democrats made one small change, vot­ing to delete $20 million intended for renovating the National Mall. Republicans had criticized the expenditure as wasteful. 
In the Senate, traditionally more bipartisan than the House, a companion bill grew to roughly $900 billion. That included a new tax break for upper middle-income taxpay­ers, at a one-year cost of $70 billion. It was advanced by Sen. Chuck Grassley of Iowa, senior Republican on the Finance Committee. 
Democratic leaders in both houses have promised to have legislation ready for Obama's signature by mid-February, and Tuesday's developments coincided with fresh evidence of deterioration in a national economy seemingly growing weaker by the day. 
Housing prices tumbled by the sharpest annual rate on record in November, accord­ing to a closely watched pri­vate report released during the day, and a measure of consumer confidence dropped to a historic low. 
Separately, the Treasury Department announced distri­bution of $386 million to 23 troubled banks, the first awards from the federal bailout fund since Obama took office a week ago. 
Obama traveled to and from the Capitol in a snow,y motor­cade on Tuesday, far different from the inaugural parade seven days earlier. This was a business trip, marking his second reach across party lines in as many days in keep­ing with a pledge to seek bipartisan solutions to major problems. 
On Monday, he leaned on House Democrats to jettison an item that would make it easier for states to provide family planning funds for the poor under Medicaid, a provi­sion in the legislation that had become a target of ridicule for Republicans. Press Secretary Robert Gibbs said Obama supports the con­cept but wants it included in a different bill. 
Ironically, Democrats said deleting the provision would wind up increasing federal spending, since it probably would mean more money spent on higher pregnancy and postnatal care. 
House Republican leaders welcomed the president a few hours after urging their rank­and-file to oppose the stimu­lus bill, and it was far from clear that Obama ·had man­aged to pick up any GOP sup­port during the day. 
Gibbs said the White House expects some GOP lawmakers will vote for the measure on Wednesday in the House, and indicated he hopes there will be more in the Senate and even more later when a final compromise is reached. 
One Republican senator, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the president pledged to Sen. John Ensign, R-Nev., to have aides review two specific proposals. One would affect businesses that pay down their debt. The other would provide a tempo­rary tax holiday for compa­nies that have money over­seas and bring it back to the United States to invest. 
Obama ventured into an uncertain political environ­ment when he stepped into the Capitol, a president with high approval ratings pitching a plan that also has been favorably received in the polls. 
Republicans, on the other hand, are tryiog to regroup after last fall's elections, in which they lost the White House as well as seats in both houses of Congress. While some conservatives seem eager to mount a frontal attack on Obama and his plans, others are pursuing a strategy of criticizing con­gressional Democrats rather than the president. 
Hours earlier, according to officials who were present at a GOP meeting, none of the Republicans in attendance spoke up in disagreement when urged to oppose the leg­islation by their leaders. Rep. John Boehner of Ohio, the party's leader, and Eric Cantor of Virginia, the second in command, said they want­ed "100 percent" opposition to the measure, which they argue includes billions in wasteful spending, these offi­cials said. 
Canada plans stimulus package 
Associated Press 
OTTAWA Canada's Conservative government unveiled a $32 billion plan to stimulate the flagging econo­my Tuesday, a move that could stave off opposition threats to force Prime Minister Stephen Harper from office. 
Finance .Minister Jim Flaherty said the two-year stimulus package includes $9.8 billion for infrastructure. Flaherty is predicting a deficit in Canada for the first time in more than a decade. 
New Liberal Party leader Michael lgnatieff said he'll announce Wednesday whether he'll support the package. The opposition Liberals had vowed to use a parliamentary confi­dence vote to topple Harper's minority government if the stimulus plan fell short. 
"There are some positive signs to this budget," Ignatieff said. "There's some things that we are concerned about. There's a negative side." 
Ignatieff said he's concerned the government has underes­timated the seriousness of the crisis, but he said the govern-
Thursday, January 29 
6:00p.m. 
DeBartolo Hall, Room 202 
800.424.8580, www.peacecorps.gov Life is calling. How far will you go? 
ment has responded to the combined pressure of the opposition parties and those results are positive. 
The credit crisis and the global sell-off of commodities have started to hit Canada hard. The country lost more than 100,000 jobs in the last two months of 2008, and the central bank is predicting eco­nomic output will contract 4.8 percent in the first quarter. 
Flaherty called the crisis "the challenge of our time." 
"Canadians are feeling the effects of the global recession, and they are concerned," he said. . 
The government is providing money for bridges and high­ways, high-speed Internet net­works and home retrofits. The government also lengthened the amount of time unem­ployed people will be able to collect insurance if they are laid off. 
There's also government credit support for automobile leasing, and there is money for job retraining programs, the aboriginal population and struggling industries such as the auto sector and forestry. 
Flaherty said he is prepared 
to provide more  stimulus if  
necessary.  
"We  are  in  uncharted  

waters," Flaherty said. "The economists have been wrong in their predictions. All of the so-called experts continue to become more pessimistic in their forecasts. Things could: get worse and if they get worse, we'll do more." 

The Nanovic Institute for European Studies presents 
5Rare Films by Master Russian Animator




Yttr; Norste;n 
The Films ofYuri Norstein: An Animator's Journey 
The Fox and the Hare (1973) Tale of Tales (1919) Hedgehog in the Fog (7975) The Heron and the Crane (1974) Battle by the Kerzhenets (1971) 
6:30 pm screening will feature Film Expert 
CL.il~E KI/5011 
Winner of the 2008 Zagreb Animation Festival Award for Outstanding Achievement in Animation Theory 

-

Tickets: $6, $5 faculty/staff, $4 seniors citizens, and $3 all students Call 57 4-631-2800 or visit performingarts.nd.edu 
DEBARTOLO 
~ PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 

.---~--------------------------­
Wednesday, January 28, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT . page 9 

page 10 Wednesday, January 28, 2009 

.. 
THE OBSERVER 


Don't you just hate pants? 
The J,.Jqmulnt, Daily N~wsp11per &rvmg Nom Dame and &lintMary's 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWs EDITOR: Jenn Metz 

VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 

SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574~631-7471
FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVEIHISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOIIIN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY's DEsK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the srudenrs of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either instimrion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and deparrmenr editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views oftbe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conract information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The OllM:rvcr {USPS 599 2-40001 b published Monday duough Friday except duri.ng cum and V.lcatiun periods. A :ruM:ripdnn to Tht: Observer is: $100 for one :.u.dimic yt:at; $55 for one smte.sn~r. 
The Observer is published at· POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send a.ddre5S correaioll$ ro; 
Notrt Dame, lN 4655()..0779 TheO~rver 
Periodical p0$tagc paidal Notre D;Unt P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing off~ 024 South Dining H~ 
Norte Dame, IN 465%~779 

Th Obs<rver is a member of dte Associated PttSS. All rcprodw::tion righrs <UC reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports 
Aaron Steiner Matt Gamber Sarah Mervosh Greg Arbogast Emma Driscoll Eric Prister 
Graphics Scene Mary Cecilia Michelle Fordice 
Mitsch Viewpoint Stephanie Vossler 
By the time I'd opened my eyes I was wide awake. I leapt out of bod and bounded down the stairs, skipping steps without noticing. For weeks I'd dreamt of this moment, the glorious 
Brad Blomstrom 
opportunity to unwrap the won­ders of another 

The Daft Punk 
Christmas morn­ing. As I wildly tore into Santa's delivery my mind raced with predictions of what precious gift waited for me beneath the ribbons, bows and wrapping paper. A Luke Zeller Fathead? Sadly no; that wouldn't lit on my waiL 4,000 plastic balls to make a ball pit in my apartment'? Disappointingly no; the package was too smalL A beer tree? Understandably no; people tell me those don't really exist. I was still struggling to come up with a suitable guess when I lifted the lid on the box and looked down at my reward for being an exceptionally good boy in 2008. I wish I could tell you that I was satisfied with what I discovered, but the sight that met my eyes left me shocked, disheartened, and thoroughly embit­tered. 
There they were, staring back up at me with their cold, steely, button eyes and their gnarled, zippered grin. Pants. Thanks a lot, Santa. I got a pair last year, too. Do you know how many times I've worn them? Zero. You really phoned this one in, didn't you? My Christmas list this year was just a post-it note with "ANYTHING BUT PANTS" scribbled on it in Sharpie. I hate pants and I hate you for being jolly while wearing them. 
Before you get upset with me for yelling at Santa Claus, perhaps I should explain the rationale behind my loathing for legged clothing. Pants, like HesLife, The Berlin Wall and the bouncer at Fever, were created to keep us down. They restrict our movement and crush the human spirit, preventing us from ever fully experiencing the freedom we cherish. Take a second right now and think of the times in your life when you were truly happy. Now think of the times in your life when you wore wearing pants. Not much overlap, right? History's greatest heroes were usually barelegged, its greatest villains exces­sively clad. Did Gandhi wear pants when he led the Indian nation to freedom? No, but llitler wore a crisp pair when he goose-stepped into Poland in 1939. Did Usain Bolt wear pants when he set the world record in the 100-meter dash in Beijing'? No, but the 2.3 million people in prison in the United States were each given a fresh pair upon inearceration. Each morning when I see some poor soul in jeans out on the quad I whisper, "Welcome to Shawshank." and head to the Grotto to light a candle. 

At homo in Virginia, my friends and I can skirt (or short) the issue for much of the year thanks to the mild climate, but in the depths of winter it's all pants, all the time. I can only imagine the eternal nightmare that unfolds year-round in Alaska. Do you want to know why I voted for Barack Obama? Because he's from Hawaii, a land free from the tyran­ny of trousers. That, America, is change I can believe in. 
Political considerations aside, I'm proud to say that the pants-wearing plague is noticeably less rampant at Notre Dame than it is at other cold weather locales. It's taken a lot of cre­ativity and courage, but we at Notre Dame have finally ligured out how to really stick it to the man. The answer: sweatpants. They're technically still "pants" for accounting purposes, but everyone knows pajamas-in-disguise when they see them. I can move like a cat in those things. They're durable, eomfortable and suitable for every occa­sion. Last night I went to sleep in a pair of sweatpants. Today I went to class, met with a professor, and went out on a date in them. Come to think of it, I haven't taken this pair off in over a week. Showering and changing? Yeah, right! Thanks to sweatpants I'm able to simply hop out of bed and amble on over to DeBartolo every morning in no time. 
One might expect the functionality of sweatpants to come at the expense of style, but this is simply not the case. I've been at Notre Dame for three and a half years now and I know high fashion when I see it. Nothing says sexy like the supple softness of sweatpants. They sure go great with a North Face, too. I wish I had a new pair of Uggs into which I could snugly tuck them; then I'd look g-o-o-d ... 
My advice to you? Wear your sweat­pants proudly, Notre Dame. In the war against the oppressive pants regime, they make us frontline· freedom fighters. 
Brad Blomstrom is a senior majoring in Finance, Economics and Leisure Studies. He can be contacted at bblomstr@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 

."If liviT_lg cpnditions don't stop zmprovmg m thzs country, we re going to run out ofhumble beginnmgs for our great men". 
Russell P. Askue artist 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''Always forgive your enemies; 
nothing annoys them so much" 
Oscar Wilde author 


THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Wednesday, January 28, 2009 page 11 
What happened to your rights? 
Last year on Sept. 20th, 37 Notre Dame students were arrested at an off campus party in a private residence at 702 E. Colfax Ave, including Notre Dame football play­ers Will Yeatman 
Jeevan Subbiah
and Mike Golic Jr. Based on various accounts appearing Guest in the press, there Columnist appear to be seri­ous allegations of police misconduct, including unlawful entry, illegally obtained evidence and mistreatment and taunting of these students. 
One of the central issues emerging in wake of the arrests is what fundamental due process rights do Notre Dame stu­dents have under these circumstances? Are these fundamental rights protected by provisions in du Lac, the student handbook? For example, if the police illegally obtained evidence during this raid, would the University be able to use such tainted evidence in a disciplinary hearing even though it would otherwise be inadmissible in court under the "exclusionary rule?" What stops the police from repeatedly violating stu­dent's rights to obtain evidence if they know the University will use it? 
Public universities are obliged by law to grant students 14th Amendment lib­erty and property due process rights. The United States Supreme Court has ruled that public colleges cannot expel students without proceedings that pro­vide at least minimal due process (Dixon v. Alabama State Board of Education, 1961). The 197 5 Supreme Court case Goss v. Lopez, ruled that stu­dents in public universities must be given notice and a hearing at a mini­mum before being suspended. However, the Supreme Court has not given stu­dents the right to be represented by lawyers in hearings for suspensions or to cross examine witnesses and produce evidence. Universities are not required to follow criminal trial procedural requirements in a disciplinary hearing. But some states have added student protections, such as laws allowing lawyers into student discipline hearings. Georgia ruled that all student hearings must be open and that disciplinary hearings are not educational records under The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act ("FERPA"). Yet Louisiana and Oklahoma had contradic­tory court decisions on the same matter. 
Private universities such as Notre Dame are not required by law to guar­antee these same 14th Amendment lib­erty and property due process rights. They are obliged to adhere to their con­tractual agreement with students and therefore must follow the disciplinary procedures spelled out in their student handbooks and judicial codes. The lack of guaranteed due process rights at pri­vate schools makes the issue of what is written in the du Lac Student Handbook that much more important. Students should compare du Lac's protections, such as the burden of proof for dis­missal, or the procedures for witnesses and evidence against the protections guaranteed in the handbooks of other universities. 
The 2006 Duke University Lacrosse case brought the issue of student due process rights at a private university into the national spotlight. Bias against the students was exposed in the media, police and university disciplinary sys­tem. The 2007 pr.-;Jsident of the Duke Student Government, Elliott Wolf, wrote an article "Dude, Where're My Rights?" detailing the removal of many student rights from Duke's Judicial code over a nine-year period. Student rights elimi­nated included the need to find proba­ble cause by a judicial officer, the right to remain silent at a hearing with no inference of guilt, the right to an open hearing if F:ERPA rights were waived, the right to confront witnesses and the exclusion of evidence obtained illegally through unlawful search and seizure. 
It would be interesting to see if simi­lar erosions of student rights have occurred in the du Lac student hand­book. Repercussions of the Duke Lacrosse case include lawsuits against Duke University and the city of Durham for claims including harassment, depri­vation of civil rights, and breach of con­tract. 
The Duke Lacrosse case due process issues are well detailed in "The Torch," a publication defending student rights, and in a blog titled Durham-in­Wonderland by Professor KC Johnson. In the June 4, 2007 issue of "The Torch," Robert Shibley wrote that Elliott Wolf sent a March 29, 2000 memoran­dum to Duke's Associate Dean of Students and Director of Judicial Affairs arguing that Duke should not "pursue judicial action against a student based on evidence collected by law enforce­ment officers that was illegally obtained." For example, is Notre Dame considering using illegally obtained evi­dence against those arrested? 
Notre Dame students and their par­ents pay roughly $160,000 for their expensive education at Notre Dame. Though public school students are guaranteed greater due process rights, any private school can enhance student rights by including them in their student handbook. In this internet age, where a student's reputation and future can be affected for life, the issue of what due process rights are guaranteed is very important. National and state laws on this topic seem to be evolving quickly. 
The bottom line for many students, parents and alumni may be that Notre Dame should value and guarantee at least some basic and fundamental due process rights in the du Lac student handbook. Perhaps for Notre Dame, the bottom line may be that students, par­ents and alumni may start to make their final determination of what university to attend and financially support based on which universities afford basic due process protections for their students. 
Jeevan Subbiah is a graduate from Notre Dame Law School ('98) and a former Assistant Rector ofKeenan Hall (1996-1998). He can be contacted at 
jsubbiah@yahoo. com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Too cro-wded to enjoy a tneal 
I often lie on my couch and mutter capacity has been stretched with the softly to myself, ''I'm just not stressed out addition of Duncan Hall. I can't even enough right now." It happens quite a bit. imagine what it will be like with Ryan As I watch endless episodes of "Man vs: Hall next year. So here's some advice for Wild" on tv, I sometimes check my pulse the future Ryan ladies: eat less. I think I'll and make sure I'm still alive. When I dis­be able to deal with the massive crowds cover that my heart rate is hovering in the dining hall. I won't be able to deal around 15 beats per minute, that's when with lines out the door for the Fro-yo I know that I need to wander over to machine. And we all know who eats most South Dining Hall at around 6:30pm. Why of the Fro-yo ... In all seriousness, some­6:30pm? Because that's when South thing needs to be done. I'm all for expan­Dining Hall is filled with more people sion. I'm all for the reduction of over­than a Tokyo subway. That's when I look crowding in the dorms. But for the love of around and see the same look on every­brown sauce, build another dining hall. one's face: Kill me now with this dull Give us more flex-points. Make a heated knife. That's what really gets my heart sky bridge from O'Neill to North Dining pumping again. It's a waste of time to talk hall. Anything. about the overcrowding of South Dining Hall. The problem is not the current over­Parker Milender crowding; it's the promise that it will get sophomore even worse next year. O'Neill Hall 
Many have noticed that the dining hall's Jan. 26 

Seriously? 
As we read the Viewpoints in the precedent for future conflicts involv­Jan. 26 Observer, we were disheart­ing the growing threat from the ened to see how far the quality of the avian population that has invaded discourse within had fallen. We were our waters. particularly distraught by the lack of As opposed to harboring these mili­substance to Ms. Adam's argument in tants in our own dwellings, the clear her letter "Our big-eyed bushy-tailed solution is to create a feline task problem" (Jan. 26). Her letter was an force charged with defending our attack on the fundamentals of seri­territory from these aggressors. For ous academic discussion that have this to succeed, we must give them been the hallmark of the Observer. free reign to carry out their duties The idealistic tripe contained within without unnecessary bureaucracy her letter is an insult to the intellect and oversight. This plan is essential of the entire Notre Dame community. to the safety and well-being of the From start to finish, Ms. Adam's entire Notre Dame community and ideas are offensive and harmful to should be enacted swiftly to avoid our community. Her assertion that • further tragedies. we should "work with nature, not against it" is exactly what the squir­Erik Helgensen rels want from our leadership. In freshman spite of "daily acts of aggression" Stanford Hall ­and "su_icide missions," she has pro­James Stein posed that our leadership appease freshman the squirrels to avoid future conflict. Zahm Hall This action would set a dangerous Jan. 26 

Dear Mr. Smith, 
Even if any hot girls ignored your request and decided to read the entirety of your article ("Uphold Constitution" Jan. 26), I don't think you are in danger of being regarded as an intellec­tual. In the letter you claim offended you so much ("Objectivity please," Jan. 23), Furtado never even asserts his own opinion on whether the facility at Guantanamo Bay should ultimate­ly be closed. He simply expressed a desire to read about both sides of the issue in The Observer. 
Nevertheless, you managed to infer from the letter that the author denies the existence of innocents at Guantanamo, rejects global warm­ing and does not believe in evolution. 
Further, you suggest that Furtado is somehow responsible for our failing economy. Surely any­one who does not believe that global warming 

Missing the point 
is, as you ironically proclaimed, a "cold, sober 
fact," cannot hold a valid opinion about any 
important issue. The miniscule portion of your 
response that was not devoted to defending 
your "carefully constructed persona" or person­
ally attacking the author stiH failed to make a 
convincing argument. The Constitution is in no 
way being "cavalierly" dispensed of, as only U.S. 
citizens are afforded its protection. Torture is 
used to obtain information, not as a deterrent. 
I don't blame you for Il!istakenly asserting that "Even the Nazis got habeas corpus." After all, President Obama made the same claim while campaigning in Pennsylvania last sum­mer. However, the Nazis were not afforded habeas corpus at Nuremberg. The criminals were tried in an international military tribunal, not a U.S. court, an important distinction in itself. More significantly, the Nazis did not have the right to challenge their detention, which is the very defmition of habeas corpus. 
It is tragic to hear about innocent people who have been detained at Guantanamo. The torture of innocents is indeed unacceptable. This is the best, and perhaps the only valid point you make in your letter. Unfortunately, you were unable to avoid the "spin and distortion" you so nobly condemned. Although you might personally believe the issue of whether or not to close Guantanamo is not up for debate, there is cer­tainly a discussion to be had. 
I, like Furtado, would like to see this discus­sion take place objectively in The Observer. 
Mike Sullivan junior Zahm Hall Jan 26 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, January 28, 2009 

January is drawing to a close, creeping towards what some fans have awaited for nearly a year: Super Bowl XLIII is about to go down in the history books on Sunday. Many 
have gone Patrick Griffin 
before and 
attained the 

Scene & Heard
glory that some strive for their entire careers. There have been plenty of surprise end­ings, unexpected follies, and tear­jerking conclusions in past Super Bowls. This year's championship game, however, boasts a lineup that may be considered the best yet -a true display of American spirit and culture. 
Oh yeah, there will be a football game too. 
In recent years, the buzz sur­rounding Super Bowl halftime shows has enveloped the nation with anticipation that rivals the game itself. The NFL champi­onship event has blossomed from more than just a football game into an entire cultural event and an American pseudo-holiday. 
Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band were selected to per­form for Super Bowl XLIII earlier in the season. Before previewing The Boss's highly anticipated 
success Super Bowl party is all about the pre-gaming. By planning your party to watch the game before Sunday morning, you can make sure to have a 
great Super Martha Karam Bowl, no mat­ter who wins. 
Scene & Heard
First step? Regardless of whether or not you're throwing or attending a party, you better know who is playing this year. It is the Pittsburgh Steelers and the Arizona Cardinals. 
Now, use this checklist to make sure that when you and your friends watch the Super Bowl it is not just a watch, it is a party. 
1. Chose your guest list wisely. If you know one of your friends thinks sport watching is serious business, try not to invite him if uses the couch as a trampoline at every touchdown. If your best friend is die-hard football fan from Arizona, your outspoken boyfriend from Pittsburgh should stay with performance, let's reminiscD a grip on Super Bowl performances in recent memory. 
2002: Irish rockers and humanitarians Bono, The Edge, Adam Clayton and Larry Mullen Jr., a.k.a U2, produced one of the most emotional musical perform­ances of all, taking place only months after the September 11th terrorist attacks on the Wor-ld Trade Center and the Pentagon. The stage on which U2 per­formed was shaped like a heart and flanked by a giant banner displaying the names of the near­ly 3,000 citizens who were vic­tims of the attacks. 
2004: Who can ever forget the infamous and controversial "Nipplegate" of Super Bowl XXXVIII? Though the halftime show featured six prolific per­forming artists (Jessica Simpson, Janet Jackson, Justin Timberlake, Nelly, P. Diddy and Kid Rock) and the University of Houston and Texas Southern marching bands, the entire pres­entation pales in comparison to the final seconds of the perform­ance. In a pre-rehearsed conclu­sion to Timberlake's "Hock Your Body," a piece of Jackson's cloth­ing was torn off, but the wardrobe malfunctioned, reveal­ing her exposed breast. The lewd stunt generated uproar among thP American public, heavy fines levied by the FCC, and tighter regulation regarding broadcast­ing delays and cnnsorship. 
2005: Former Beatie Paul McCartney brought excitement to the Super Bowl c-rowd with a set list including the hits "Drive My Car," "Get Back," "Live and Let Die" and "Hey Jude" as the audi­ence joined in for a collaborative finale. 
2006: During the 2006 Super Bowl, the Rolling Stones earned onn of the largest television view­ing audiences in history, drawing 
89.9 million viewHrs. That total was more than the Oscars, Grammys and Emmy Awards combined. The Stones played "Start Me Up," "Hough Justice'~ and "Satisfaction" on a custom stage (the largest in Super Bowl history) in the form of their sig­nature tongue logo. 
2007: Despite a heavy down­pour in Miami, Prince lit up Dolphin Stadium at Super Bowl XLI performing a nonstop 12­minute medley. The performance included several sweeping guitar solos and was performed on a stage in the form of Prince's logo. 
2008: Tom Petty & the Heart 

game. your option 
2. 
Find, or make, a comfortable place to watch the game. It may be difficult to find a section lounge or 24-hour space that is free to watch the game, so make your own place. Most dorm rooms can hold you and a few of your friends cmn­fortably as long as you rearrange your room. Even if for the duration of the game you cannot get into your bed, desk, sink or dresser, if it means fitting your friends-com­fortably, by all means stack, push and crunch your bulk together to get a common-room feel in your double. Also set up a trash bag in a central location in your room to make the clean up easier. 

3. 
Feast and drink well. Though a dorm kitchen and the section microwave are probably not capa­ble of making Super Bowl snacks up to your standards, they both can come dose. The food you chose to be at your Super Bowl party needs to be inexpensive, easy and as mess-free as possible. A traditional option is mini-wee­


because their only requirements are toothpicks and a microwave. Another dorm option that is often featured at weeknight events is a chip and dip tray. The Huddle sells several different ready-to-eat dips and tortilla chips. If all else fails and you have nothing by Sunday, picking up buffalo wings from Buffalo Wild Wings or Wings Etc. passes as authentic Super Bowl food, not procrastination. When choosing beverage, cater to your guest9 with sugar-fee options and cups for water. 
Buy more napkins than you think is necessary and miniature plates to keep everything tidy and limit 
· your post-game clean up. 
4. Set your TiVo. Most college studeHts cannot afford to have a digital video recorder and skipping commereials during the Super Bowl is sacrilege, but this year's game promises to be as memo­rable as years past. With con­firmed guests such as Jennifer Hudson. Bruee Springsteen and Breakers performed on a stage 
shaped like a heart pierced by a 
Flying V guitar. Petty's set includ­
ed "American Girl," "I Won't 
Back Down," "Free Falling" and 
"Bunning Down a Dream." 
So, what will Bruce "The Boss" Springsteen and his E Street Band offer on this Super Bowl Sunday? What shape will his stage take? Will he avoid a derailing wardrobe malfunction? Following a string of creative and memorable performances, expec­tations are high for an innovative · performance. Fresh off of the release of his new album "Working on a Dream," Springsteen will have plenty of new material to choose from. However, one would assume that he will surely include some of his classic hits that some regard as timeless and legendary anthems. Tune in Sunday night to witness Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band go down jn Super Bowl halftime show history. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Patrick Griffin at pgriffi3®nd. edu@nd. edu 
even after this Sunday the game can provide long lasting entertain­ment as memorable as the infa­mous wardrobe malfunction. 
5. As a host, stay neutral. Try not to make your guests uncomfort­
able by covering your door in Steelers or Cardinals gear or by attacking your opposing team. It will make your guests wish they had gone to the party down the hall. 
The key to having fun at any Super Bowl game is to find out what you love about the game and go with it. Whether you're having the party fur the food, friends, or just a study break, stick with these guidelines and you'll hav.e a good time. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Martha Karam at mkaram2@nd. edu@n d. edu 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Wednesday, January 28, 2009 page 13 
With Super. Bowl XLIII quickly approaching, football fever is mounting. Of course, for Pittsburgh fans, football 
Josef Kuhn

fever is more like multidrug­
resistant 
Scene & Heard
typhoid. Few 
teams boast a tradition as long-and strong as the Pittsburgh Steelers. 
I cannot attest to the vivacity of the Cardinals' fan base, but as a Pittsburgh resident I feel that it is my duty to impart to the masses a little bit of Steelers fan culture in preparation for the Super Bowl. 
The Pittsburgh Steelers, estab­lished in 1933, are the oldest fran­chise in the AFC. They are one of only three teams in the NFL to have won five Super Bowls, and this year they will have the chance to become the first team ever to win six. In the 2005 season, the Steelers were the first No. 6-seed­ed team in NFL history to go to a conference championship. As if that wasn't enough, they won the game and then went on to win Super Bowl XL. 
The team included quarterback Ben Roethlisberger, Super Bowl MVP receiver Hines Ward, and leg­endary running back Jerome "The Bus Bettis. was only in his second professional season when he became the 
youngest quarterback ever to win 
a Super Bowl. 
Despite this impressive offensive lineup, the cornerstone of the Steelers has traditionally been their defense. During their 1970s dynasty, when they won four Super Bowls in six consecutive years, the Steelers' famous defen­sive line earned the nickname "the Steel Curtain." This moniker stuck and eventually came to designate the whole defensive squad. The current team is no exception to the rule, having the No. 1 defense in the NFL. 
But their fans make them spe­cial. 
In 2008, ESPN.com ranked Steelers' fans as the best in the NFL based on their "unbelievable" sellout streak -they have sold out every home game since 1972. Both the Steelers and the Pittsburgh Pirates used to play at Three Rivers Stadium, named for the three rivers that converge in the center of the city. However, Three Rivers was demolished in 2001 and the Steelers now play at the beautiful Heinz Field. Named for the famous condiment company based in Pittsburgh, the stadium features Homer Simpson-yellow seats and an open end that looks out onto .the rivers and the Pittsburgh skyline. The 96-foot JumboTron is crowned by two giant light-up ketchup bottles that tilt and pour red ooze down the screen whenever the Steelers score. 
Another fixture of the Steelers franchise is the Terrible Towel. 
It was conceived in 197 5 by Myron Cope, the legendary broad­caster who used to announce Steelers games on the radio. The Terrible Towel is a simple device, consisting of a school-bus yellow towel with "Terrible Towel" print­ed on it in black lettering, but when 65,050 of these towels are gathered together, the results can be deadly for the opposing team. 
Just think of the loudest noise you've ever heard, multiply that by ten, and combine it with a verita­ble ocean of whirling yellow cloth -that's what the Steelers are . greeted by every time they take the field. And who could talk about Heinz Field without reference to the food? Primanti Brothers, a local restaurant chain, has stands throughout the stadium. Their sandwiches are· a Pittsburgh tradi­tion, consisting of your choice of meat, cheese, tomato, coleslaw, and French fries, all between two 
pieces of Italian bread. 
According to legend, the Primanti Brothers sandwich was invented back in Pittsburgh's steel mill days. Mill workers ("steel­ers"-that's where the name comes from) would come into the restaurant for lunch, but they did­n't have enough time to sit down and eat with proper utensils. Instead, the cooks put the side dishes right on the sandwiches for them, so they could take it to go and eat with their hands. It may sound gross, but so does peanut butter to most Europeans. • 
All of this is only basic knowl­edge to your average Steelers fans. There is much more I could tell you, but this should be enough to give you an idea of what this team means to thousands of people across the nation. At least when you're watching the Super Bowl you'll know what all those yellow things are flying through the air. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and notnecessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Josef Kuhn at jkuhnl@nd.edu 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Graphic 
-

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, January 28, 2009 

AUSTRALIAN OPEN 
. 
Women's semifinals becoming Russian affair 
Dementieva's victory means at least three Russians are in semis; Roddick avenges U.S. Open loss to Djokovic 
Both players were soon
Associated Press 
draping towels packed with 
MELBOURNE, Australia -ice around their necks dur­Elena Dementieva got off to ing changeovers and sought a fast start as temperatures shade as long as possible soared Wednesday, advanc­behind the baselines ing to the Australian Open between points. semifinals with a 6-2, 6-2 Suarez Navarro, who had win over Carla Suarez an upset second-round win Navarro. over seven­
The Olympic time Grand gold medalist Slam winner wasted no time e u
"You're dealing with V n s 
as tempera­Williams, tied 
tures hit a guy who's probably best
104 her run degrees, win­the greatest ever. " at a major ­ning 16 of the her quarterfi­first 18 points nal debut at
Andy Roddick
against the 20-the last 

Tennis player
year-old French Open. Spaniard. Fourth-seed­
She raced ed Dementieva through the had never first five games in 22 min­gone past the fourth round utes and, after eventually in 10 previous trips to holding serve in a sixth Australia. Now she's only game that went to deuce 11 one win from reaching a times and lasted 17 min­third Grand Slam final. The utes, finished off in 1 hour, 27-year-old Russian lost the 35 minutes. French and U.S. Open finals 
Dementieva was having in 2004. titles including one in Dinara Safina and Vera against the Swiss star. He problems with her high She'll play the winner of Australia every alternate Zvonareva, who ran off the has reason for encourage­service toss as she looked Wednesday's later quarter­year since 2003, takes on last 11 games to rout 2007 ment though. He ended an straight up into the midday final that features the only 2004 U.S. Open winner Wimbledon finalist Mar-ion 11-match losing stretch to sun, double-faulting four two major winners remain­Svetlana Kuznetsova. Bartoli 6-3, 6-0. Federer last April in Miami. times in that long game. ing in the draw. Already set is an all­No. 3 Safina overcome 11 "You're dealing with a She finished with 10 double Serena Williams, who has Russian semifinal between double faults and 36 guy who's probably the faults. nine Grand Slam singles Olympic silver medalist unforced errors to end the greatest ever," said surprising run of Jelena Roddick, whose only major Dokic 6-4, 4-6, 6-4. title came at the 2003 U.S. 
Andy Roddick continued Open. "I think it helps that his roll, reaching the semi­I~ stopped a big streak finals in Australia to go against him last year in with his previous runs to Miami. It's certainly not the final four at Melbourne going to hurt at all." in 2003, '05 and '07. No. 2 Federer swept the 
He got there courtesy of last 13 games and eliminat­defending champion Novak ing the eighth-seeded Djokovic, who retired against del Potro in 80 min­Tuesday while trailing 6-7 utes. (3), 6-4, 6-2, 2-1. A sore, Federer lost to Djokovic cramping and fatigued in the Australian semis last Djokovic was undone in the year, when he was strug­quarterfinal by 95 degree gling with mononucleosis heat. -that lingered until midyear. 
Roddick wants to go a Rafael Nadal, who beat step further but has one Federer in the French Op(:m problem: Roger Federer. and Wimbledon finals and 
Federer routed Juan then overtook him at No. 1, Martin del Potro of plays No. 6 Gilles Simon of Argentina 6-3, 6-0, 6-0 in France in the quarterfinals his quarterfinal and is only later Wednesday. two wins shy of tying Pete Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, who Sampras' record of 14. upset Nadal in the semis major titles. here last year before losing 
Roddick has not beaten the final to Djokovic, faces Federer in six Grand Slam Spanish Davis Cup winner meetings and is 2-15 career Fernanao Verdasco. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The 
charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


CLASSIFIEDS 
4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. 613 Lafayette Blvd., 6-bdrm & 2-Remaining NO basketball schedule bdrm houses. $350/person. and expert predictions: WANTED NOTICES Starts 6/09. $850/mo. PERSONAL Call574-876-6333. -at Pittsburgh ... L New pop Christian music by Will of 574-250-7653. ---------------­VOLUNTEERS WANTED Titus available at ----------------Houses for the 09-10 school year. CYO CAMP RANCHO FRAMASA -at Cincinnati... W 
www.willoftitus.com or itunes Unfurnished 4-bdrm, 3ba,fpl,sky-2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS ­The Early Childhood Development ----------------lights,2-car garage, FR. deluxe Leasing fast. HIRING NOW I Secure your summer -at UCLA... W Center (ECDC), located at Notre JOB-HOUSE appl, avail. August. job! Camp Rancho Framasa is an 
Dame, is looking for volunteers. If CLEANING.E.ANGELA. 288-8904. Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or inclusive, residential camp, located -Louisville ... W you would enjoy spending 2 hours ----------------Call574-232-4527 or 269-683-www.kramerhouses.com in south central, Indiana, operated per week reading to preschool chil-5038. ----------------by the Catholic Youth Organization -South Florida... w dren, building with blocks and play-----------------NOW LEASING. LAFAYETTE since 1946. Serving campers aged ing games, please attend one of the Townhomes at TOWNHOUSES. $350/PERSON. 7 to 16 in various programs. We -at West Virginia ... L Volunteer Sign-Up Sessions on FoR RENT 3,4 & 5-BDRM UNITS. 2.5 BATHS. offer a welcoming staff community either Thursday, 1/29 or Friday 1/30 Dublin Village, FREE INTERNET NEWLY in a beautiful outdoor setting. -at Providence... W from 3:00-5:00. Volunteering at andersonNDrentals.com REMODELED. General Staff, Counselor Manager. ECDC is a wonderful opportunity to Irish Crossing, Inclusive Programming, Ropes -Rutgers... W support the development of delight-FREE COMCAST! CALL 574-234-2436 OR Course. Adventure and Health posi­ful children and is an excellent addi-----------------Wexford Place, WWWKRAMERHOUSES.COM lions available. All positions start at -at Connecticut.. L tion to your resume. ECDC-ND is Why pay for 12 months? ----------------$240/week. Training is provided; located on the ND campus on Bulla Ivy Quad. Student rentals 2009/201 o. St. start date May 23, 2009. -Villanova... W Road, across from 0 Hara Grace Peter/SB Ave. Homes. $1300­Residences at the corner of Leahy Now offering 1 0-month leases. 3 and 4 Bdr. Only a few lett for $2000/month. 5-7 bdrms, 1st or 2nd Apply online www.campranchofra--St. John's ... W and Bulla. For more information 09/10. CES Property Management. floor. masa.org Questions? Contact Angi please call631-3344 or Contact Bruce Gordon 574-876-at 888-988-2839, x25 or e-mail Final Record: 20-10 (10-8 Big East) www.nd.edu/--ecdcnd Bluegoldrentals.com 574-968-0112 CESPM.info 3537. angi @campranchoframasa.org 






OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, January 28, ·2009 CoMPILED FRoM. THE OssERVEKSWIRE SERVICES page 15 
NFL 

Preseason USA TODAY/ESPN NCAA Baseball Coaches' Poll 
team points 2oo8 record 
1 LSU (14) 738 49·19·1 2 North Carollna(12) 7~7 54·14·0 3 Rice (1) 673 47-15·0 4 Georgia 600 45·25·1 5 Texas A&M (2) 590 46·19·0 6 Stanford {1) 576 41·24·0 7 Arizona St. 533 49·13·0 8 Cal St. ~ullerton 507 41-22·0 9 Florida St. 500 54·14·0 10 Texas 500 39·22·0 11 Mississippi 431 39·26·0 12 Georgia Tech 327 41-21·0 13 Oklahoma St. 321 44·18·0 14 Miami (Fla.) 320 53·11-0 15 San Diego . 304 44·17·0 16 Louisville 292 41·21·0 17 Baylor 269 32-26·0 18 UC Irvine 262 42·16·0 19 Fresno St. 247 47·31·0 20 Missouri 224 39·21·0 21 Pepperdine 156 36·21·0 22 UCLA 140 33·27·0 23 Florida 112 34·24·0 24 Coastal Carolina 102 50·14·0 25 Clemson 20 31·27·1 
USCHO/CBS College Sports
. 

Division I Men's Hockey 
team  points  record  
1 2  NOTRE DAME (37) Boston U. (13)  >987 963·····  ···.···.•  19"3·318-H  
3  Northeastern  867  17-5·2  
4  Comen  831  14~2·3  
5  Minnesota  791  ·12-5·5  
6  Vermont  716  1H~4  
7  Denver  696  15·7.·3  
8  Michigan  692  18e8·0  
9  Princeton  562  13·5·0  
10  Miami {Ohio)  553  14-8·4  
11  Boston College  450  11·8·3  
12  North Dakota  432  15·10·3  
13  New Hampshire  353  11-8·4  
14  Ohio St.  347  16·7·3  
15  Wisconsin  279  13·10·3  
16  Minn. Duluth  271  13·7·6  
17  Colorado Col.  244  13·9·6  
18  Yale  158  13·5·1  
19  Air Force  97  17-6·1  
20  Oartmoulh  67  18-7·2  

Men's USFCA College Fencing Coaches' Poll 
team pointS 
1 Penn St. 10 2 NOTREDAME 10 3 Ohio St. 8 4 Columbia 7 5 Princeton 6 6 Penn 5 7 Harvard 4 8 Stanford 4 9 St. John's (N.Y.) 2 10 Duke 1 11 North Carolina 1 
around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Duke at Wake Forest 
7:00 p.m., ESPN 
NBA Basketball 
Golden State at Dallas 
9:00 p.m., ESPN 


Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA ....,.... A Philadelphia man shot with a gun owned by Colts receiver Marvin I Iarrison is headed to trial Wednesday, accused of lying to police. 
Dwight Dixon is scheduled to appear in a Philadelphia municipal court on a charge of making false sworn state­ments. 
Dixon initially told police he was shot during a rob­bery but later accused Harrison of shooting him. Dixon's attorney, Robert Gamburg, said Dixon did not immediately identify Harrison because he was afraid of him. 
Gamburg added Dixon 

was denied access to his attorney after being shot and spoke under duress. 
''I'm shocked that the DA is going forward with it," Gamburg said. 
The Philadelphia District Attorney's office declined to comment Tuesday, and calls to Harrison's attorney, Jerome Brown, were not immediately returned. 
The shooting last April happened near a North Philadelphia car wash owned by the All-Pro receiv­er that is about a half mile from Playmakers, a bar he also owns. 
Accor-ding to an arrest report dated April 30, 2008, Dixon was interviewed by police officers at ar hospital after being shot and identi­fied himself as Malik Tucker. Dixon told police he had been robbed by two men and was shot during a strug­gle for a gun, the report said. Dixon later told other officers his real name and signed conflicting statements about where and how he was shot. 
Joseph Santiguida, an attorney who represented Dixon in a previous criminal matter, said he went to the hospital immediately after Dixon called and said he'd been shot. 
"I walk into his room and Dwight whispers to me, 'Marvin Harrison shot me,"' said Santiguida, who will tes­tifY as a witness Wednesday. "He didn't know what to do. 
He was worried about saying anything because of retribu­tion if word got out and peo­ple thought he was a rat. It's a street thing." 
When detectives entered the room to interview Dixon, Santiguida said he told police that Dixon did not want to talk. 
Santiguida said he and the officers got into an argu­ment, that police had hospi­tal personnel order him to leave and then questioned Dixon. 
The 32-year-old Dixon said he sustained "serious and permanent injuries" to his arm and body and a "severe shock" to his nervous system and filed suit last September against HarrL<>on. 
IN BRIEF 

A.C. Milan negotiates to 
resign Beckham after loan 
MILAN, Italy-AC Milan plans to meet with David Beckham's agents to see if the former England captain can get out of his contract with the Los Angeles Galaxy and stay with the Serle A club. 
"If Beckham reaches an agreement with the Galaxy, we are prepared to pay a fee," Milan vice president Adriano Galliani said Tuesday. ''We will meet with his representatives in the next few days." 
Beckham is on a two-month loan from the Galaxy and is due to return to Major League Soccer on March 9. 
The former Manchester United and Real Madrid player scored his first goal for Milan in Sunday's 4-1 victory over Bologna. 
"If he decides to free himself and wants to (stay), we will welcome him with open arms, but he belongs to another club and we've got to thank them because they were very kind with us," Galliani said, according to the Gazzetta dello Sport Web site. 
Rex Sox set deadline for 
resigning catcher Varitek BOSTON -The Boston Red Sox have given catcher Jason Varitek until Friday to accept or reject a one-year, $5 million contract offer with options for 2010. A person familiar with the nego­tiations said Tuesday the Red Sox, who begin spring training on Feb. 12, want an answer by Friday. The person disclosed the deadline and details of the offer on condition of anonymity because the team does not pub­licly discuss negotiations. The Boston Herald and Boston Globe reported earlier the offer was $5 million for 2009 with player and club options for 2010. Varitek, who turns 37 on April 11, is coming off the worst of his 11 seasons with the Red Sox. In 131 games, he hit .220 with 13 homers and 43 RBis. 
Former All-Star Casey to 
retire after 12 seasons CINCINNATI -During his 12· year career, Sean Casey's most endearing trait became his most enduring. Fellow major leaguers dubbed him "The Mayor" because he seemed to know everyone he met. He chatted up runners at first base, making the game's luminaries smile by respectfully calling them "Mr." before offer­ing a compliment. When he retired on Tuesday to move into broadcasting -a career that fits his gift for gab ­the 34-year-old Casey remained proud of his reputation as base­ball'~r Mr. Congeniality. "It means a lot to me if I'm looked at as a good guy in the game and a pretty good player," said Casey, who is joining the fledgling MLB Network as a stu­dio analyst. "It's a nice combina­tion." 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, January 28, 2009 
NFL 
James has unique way of keeping his edge 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. -What to 
make of an NFL running back who looks fitter the longer his career stretches out and fresh­er the more hits he absorbs? 
Consider "The Curious Case of Edgerrin James." 
One look at the Arizona Cardinals' 30-year-old running back, on paper or in person, would make you think he has a nutritionist whipping up every meal, a personal trainer follow­ing him around and a team of health professionals on 24-hour call. Not even close. 
James boasts the same lean, sculpted muscles, gaudy stats and durability that were the hallmarks of many of pro foot­ball's best all-purpose backs. But the story of how he came by those things -and how 'The Edge' stays razor-sharp a decade after leaving college early and winning the rushing title in his rookie year with the Indianapolis Colts -does not include the usual cast of char­acters. 
·More often than not, James' offseason workout partners in the Miami area are crack­heads. He makes no bones or excuses about it. James grew up in Immokalee, a town of 20,000 some three hours south of where the Super Bowl will be played Sunday, in a family with several addicts. He spent backbreaking summers work­ing alongside several more, harvesting watermelons at $20 a truckload. 
James said a few years ago that's why, when he showed up at the University of Miami to begin his college career, "I was hardened in every way." Besides, when you do your best conditioning work at 3 a.m., as he has been doing ever since college, pickings can be slim. 
"You find some interesting people at that hour," James said, "and they're plenty happy for the chance to make a few bucks." 
Running with crackheads? Makes sense, maybe. Having them spot you while bench­pressing a 400-pound barbell? Not so much. 
But James laughed off the idea that could be dangerous. "Everybody knows me because I'm around so much. .. . Racking weights, spotting me, doing the things I need is not a problem." 
Neither, apparently is finding a meal at that hour. 
Toward the end of his appearance at media day, a reporter from a children's TV network asked James to list what comprised his own nutri­tional game-day breakfast as a way of getting viewers off to a healthy start each morning. 
"Uhhh, I don't eat breakfast," he began. But trying to be help­ful, James added a moment later, "But I like to have a nice late-night meal." 
That erratic schedule, cou­pled with all the punishment a feature back like James takes, is hardly the only reason many people doubted he'd last this long. More than a few thought James was done when he left the Colts the.season before they won the Super Bowl. And his critics note he was so lightly used in the second half of the season, being benched after losing the starting job to rookie Tim Hightower, that James' resurgence in the regular-sea­son finale against Seattle, and in playoff wins over Charlotte and Philadelphia, should have come as no surprise. 
What all of them underesti­mated was his desire. 
Because of his contributions over seven seasons in Indianapolis, the Colts sent him a Super Bowl ring after their win in 2006. He accepted it gratefully, but would rather have one he earned on his own. 
"You've tried to put yourself in a position to be in games like this, and it didn't happen. It's not that I didn't do something, or that I didn't work hard 



Wednesday, January 28, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
wednesday


january28 

12:00 -2:30pm 
diversity reception 
a networking opportunity for students and organizations embracing diversity 
monogram room, joyce center 
all are welcome to attend 
4:00 -8:00pm 



career&intemship fair 
joyce center fieldhouse 
student ID required 

findoutmore! 

The Career Center 
careercenter.nd.edu 
UNIVERSITY OP NOTRE DAME 
every college • every major • internships • full-time 
. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, January 28, 2009 
NFL 



God suddenly in vogue with football players 
No longer just Warner, Cardinals and Steelers players alike profess their faith ahead of Sunday's big game 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. -Arizona 
running back Tim Hightower 
had just finished a thought­
ful explanation of his reli­
gious beliefs when one of the 
media types who found their 
way into the Super Bowl sta­
dium Tuesday decided he 
needed more proof. 
"Can you pray right now?" 
he asked. 
"I can pray that whatever 
is going on in your life right 
now that you find God," 
Hightower said. 
Hightower handled the 
question with the same ease 
he handled would-be tack­
lers to score the winning 
touchdown that got his team 
into the Super Bowl, which 
by itself was somewhat sur­
prising since he is a rookie · 
on the 'biggest stage of his 
young life. 
Even more surprising at 
this Super Bowl, though, is 
how so many players on both 
teams aren't hesitating to 
invoke the name of God as 
they prepare to play a vio­
lent game where there will 
be no mercy shown on either 
side. 
Usually that has writers 
setting down their pens and 
cameramen hitting the pause 
button until talk returns to 
the game itself. 
But the depth of convic­
tions from evangelical 
Cardinals quarterback Kurt 
Warner to the Steelers who 
will do their best to plant 
him face-first into .the 
ground on Sunday has put 
religion squarely in play this 
week. All of a sudden the G­
word is in vogue. 
"You just have to embrace 
it, whatever God does in 
your life and wherever he 
puts you," Warner said in 
one of his many religious 
references since landing in 
Tampa. "If it means being a 
role model in this game, I'm 
happy to do that. You are 
excited about that opportu­
nity because you get the 
chance to speak to millions 
of people and, hopefully, 
we'll get· an opportunity to 
impact some lives this 
week." 
Warner is the most·vocal ­and visible -Christian on the Cardinals, proclaiming his faith at every opportunity and underscoring it by car­.rying a Bible with him almost everywhere he goes. He had it with him at the postgame press conference after Arizona upset Philadelphia to reach the Super Bowl, and took time to credit his faith in God for the win before answering any 
other questions. 
The 3 7 -year-old Warner's 
public display of faith has 
left an impression on his 
younger teammates, about 
20 of whom join him in Bible 
studies after prabice every 
Wednesday during the sea­
son. 
"Our quarterback is a defi­
nite leader and devout 
Christian," cornerback 
Roderick Hood said. "I think 
that has spearhe a·de d our 
growth. Also, guys see the 
peace we have on the field 
and want to find that them­
selves." 
Hood says he prays before  faith  to  come  back  from  to do it more often than oth­ the mixing of politics and  
every  game,  after  every  injuries this season, praying  . ers, perhaps because they  religion, there has  never  
game and during the game  that he would be 100 per­ could  be  permanently  been  much  outcry  about  
itself. Lest Pittsburgh fans  cent physically and able to  injured on  almost any play.  players  from  both  teams  
get the wrong idea, though,  produce.  But there  are  baseball play­ gathering after  a  football  
he says he prays for every­ Defensive lineman Aaron  ers  who  point  to  the  sky  game to kneel together in  
one  to  be safe and not for  Smith found comfort in his  every time they touch home  prayer.  
any particular team to win.  beliefs when his young son  plate  and  golfers  who  Expect  plenty  of  those  
The Steelers aren't as pub­ was  diagnosed  with  believe that God gave them  prayers before  and  after  
lic  about  their  religious  leukemia.  the  peace  within  to  win  Sunday's game from plenty  
beliefs, but many consider  "It's  really through the  major championships.  of different players. Expect  
themselves devout Christians  Lord's  strength  that  I've  A poll last summer by the  to see Warner with a Bible in  
and can sometimes be  seen  been able to cope with this,"  . Pew Research Center Forum  hand  as  soon  as  he's done  
in locker  rooms  or  on  air­ Smith said.  on  Religion and Public Life  throwing a football with it.  
planes reading their Bibles.  Compared to  that, credit­ revealed that 92 percent of  And don't expect to hear  
Safety Troy Polamalu brings  ing God for helping  on  the  Americans believe in  some  him shout right away that  
teammates to services· at his  field  seems  almost  trite,  form  of God, while 78 per­ he's going to Disneyland if  
Eastern Orthodox Christian  though that doesn't stop ath­ cent identify themselves  as  the Cardinals win.  
church, while running back  letes from doin  it all the  Christians. And while they  Because  he's  going  to  
Willie Parker leaned  on his  time. Football  ers  tend  express some  concern about  thank God first.  

FREEBIE$ (SUBS & CLUBS ONLYJ 
Onion, lettuce. alfalfa sprouts. tomato. mayo. sliced cucumber, Dijon mustard, oil & vinegar. and oregano. 
WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK 
1290 E. IRELAND  138 S. MICHIGAN  54570 N.IRONWOOD DR.  5343 N. MAIN ST.  
574.291.1900  574.246.1020  574.277.8500  574.968.4600  
SOUTH BEND  SOUTH BEND  SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  

"YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOf.IN'S!"® © 
Wednesday, January 28, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 


A SPECIAL THANK YOU TO OUR CORPORATE SPONSORS PLATINUM SPONSORS 
Ell ERNST& YOUNG 
QualityIn Everything~ Do



DeloHte. 


GOLD SPONSOR 11lfif TruePartners· 
·> IIIIII C 0 N S U L T I N G 
I 

. 
SILVER SPONSORS 
0 GrantThornton 
P&G 


HONORABLE MENTIONS 
• Accenture • Amway • General Electric • M&T Bank 
• N avigant Consulting • Protiviti • Sears Holding's Corporation 

The Diversity Reception is a networking event designed to allow students to connect and build relationships with organizations that embrace and promote diversity. Faculty and Staff are encouraged to attend! 
Wednesday, january 28, 2009 The Diversity Reception Noon -2:30pm precedes Winter Career and Internship Fair 4pm-8pm at the joyce Center. 

page 20 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, January 28, 2009 

Wednesday, January 28, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
"We're a guard-oriented two we wanted to guard. We "They did what they wanted That, and stop the three. The team, so if the perimeter's not guarded the other ones pretty to do," McGraw said. "That's box-and-one worked-Ray did-


Rutgers 
working, we're not going to well, but we left the best ones probably the most disappointing n't make a three in the second continued from page 24 win," McGraw said. open." part." half. Force the shooters to drive 
Three-point defense has· Ray did as she pleased with Notre Dame didn't hit a field the lane. In fact, give them no games, needed Tuesday. How haunted the Irish for the better the defense. She shot over the goal until 10:23 remaining in other option. Get right up in could they possibly not need it? part of three zone, and the first half, when freshman their faces until they're itching Life gets no easier from here -seasons, and when the Irish guard Natalie Novosel made a to blow past you.
7Itl was mostly just a

four of Notre Dame's next five their zone switched to a layup. By that time the score The threes aren't falling on Big East opponents have defense box-and-one was 17-6; Rutgers had a 17-0, offense? Feed inside to the
lack ofawareness and records of .500 or better in con­allowed the effort ... We guarded the zone and had six-minute run to put it ahead. taller forwards or centers, or ference play, and after that Scarlet Knights junior guard Notre Dame's sloppy shooting drive the ball, like Novosel did 
other ones pretty well, 

stretch, the Irish travel to play to make four Melissa never let it get closer than seven Tuesday. She finished with 19 
but we left the best ones

No. 1 Connecticut. threes in the Lechlitner the rest of the way. points on 7 -for-11 shooting, 
The easy way to put it is, lots first 5:16. open. shadow her, Some of those shots hit noth-made a few layups and drew of things went wrong, but they Rutgers guard Ray used her ing but backboard, and more three fouls driving the lane. She were the same things that J:lave Brittany Ray teammates' than a few airballed. McGraw knew what would help tqe
Muffet McGraw 

gone wrong before. Notre Dame made four en screens to get said some of it had to do with offense score. 

Irish coach

shot bricks once again in the route to 26 free and drive shot selection, and junior guard "I tried to take advantage of fir~t half, much like it did in the points on the the lane. ·A~hley Barlow said the team the first step and attack the bas-loss to Villanova Saturday. The night. "When I hit that first shot it needed to regain its confidence. ket," she said. "Penetratin,.g and ~ Irish made 7 -of-25 shots in the It doesn't help that Scarlet felt good, and it gave me the Whatever the cause, McGraw is creating more opportunities in first half; they made 6-of-24 Knights leading scorer confidence to shoot more," Ray right: a guard-oriented team transition will help our shoot-against the Wildcats. Epiphanny Prince made all 12 said. can't afford to shoot poorly. ing." 
The Irish were 4-of-22 from of her free throws, scored 24 The Scarlet Knights' post Rutgers shot poorly in the first Such wisdom for a freshman. 3-point range. Freshman for­points and had nine rebounds players also did what they half as well. So what did it do? ward Kellie Watson's 0-for-8 when Notre Dame's intention wanted. McGraw said before Score 22 points in the paint and The views expressed in this performance was an outlier, but was to make sure it knew the game rebounds would shoot 50 percent from the field column are those of the author so were the three 3-pointers in where she was. decide it, and Rutgers' 10-board in the second half. The Scarlet and not neccessarily those of the finall:27 that made the "[It] was mostly just a lack of advantage certainly helped fuel Knights dug themselves out of The Observer. score a lot closer than the-game awareness and effort," McGraw their transition game and keep it. Notre Dame needs to learn Contact Bill Brink at was. said. "[Prince and Ray] were the the Irish from second chances. how and regain its confidence. wbrink@nd. edu. 
NHL 
Nash's hat tricks propels Blue Jackets past Wings 
Sabres crack double­digits in rout ofOilers 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Rick Nash has been through all the bad times with the Columbus Blue Jackets. No one is enjoying the good times more. 
Nash's third goal of the game came on a rebound 3:27 into 
-overtime and gave the Blue Jackets a 3-2 victory over the Detroit Red Wings on Tuesday night. The win kept the surprising Blue Jackets in the thick of the race for their first playoff berth. 
"All the moments have felt real," Nash said after bumping up his scoring total to 22 goals. "We've been on 10-game losing streaks. They've felt pretty real too. This is a lot better." 
Nash's goals came short-hand­ed, on the power play and, finally, even strength. 
"He, more than anyone, recog­nizes the opportunity in front of us and he sent the other players a clear message," Columbus coach Ken Hitchcock said. "He wants to finish the job and make a run for this thing .... Rick's able to start at a high pace and others are able to tag along. And that's what leaders are able to do." 
The Red Wings were without stars Nicklas Lidstrom and Pavel Datsyuk, who were forced by the NHL to sit out their first game back after the break for not fulfill­ing their obligations at the All­Star Game. Henrik Zetterberg didn't play after the second peri­od because of back spasms. 
In the overtime, Nash carried the puck into the zone before passing to Fedor Tyutin who tossed a centering pass through the crease to fellow defenseman Mike Commodore. But Commodore could only kick at the puck with his skate and never got a stick on it. It bounced to the right corner of the goal cage 
Come out at 9 p.m. the night of LNO and cheer on the Special Olympians as they take on the Notre Dame Athletic Department and Rectors! 


-
1.31.2009 


-
-
><
LATt NIGHT 

>< 
Competing for the cause. Proceeds to benufil1he St. Joseph County Special Olympics. 
TEAMS (mms• rts:tmr Saturday, January 31, 2009 
Si!)'4i1itnl Sru<!hlrl! 
~~ml:t 
6p.m. to 2a.m.

StfJJwcmJ~ M()~ri:S:$Wj blf!m !Juooao!Wtml! .]: ,..-,·:(.· Ci:>:'H?-< -~~:d M::~:h. •\,~~-~;)'!':" <: :•:(;··~ niiiM ~anaii/Atumltl :·.,, 1=~ •.. l ~· :,:·,h~=r>~~~w~ ra-:: H~mGn.::,.> h 
r..nmdf 
where Nash was waiting to jam it in. . 
"It's special. Everything kind of came together against on'tl of the best teams in the league," Nash said. "To win it in overtime, sud­den death, it ~as definitely one of the more special goals I've scored." 
It was the former NHL goal­scoring leader's third career hat trick. 
"Well, he's awesome, Commodore said of Nash. "He's a special player. To be his size and with his hands, to be able to pro­tect the puck and turn and make plays -I wish I had a quarter of his talent." 
Marian Hossa and Brett Lebda had Detroit's goals. 
Commodore fmished with two assists for the Blue Jackets, who were returning home after play­ing nine of 12 on the road. Now they play 15 of their next 24 at home where they are 14-7-1, including winning four of the last five and nine of 11. 
Down 1-0 and 2-1, the Blue Jackets pulled even twice in the second period. 
The Red Wings were on the power play when Nash got a stick on Derek Meech's pass for Brian Rafalski near the blue line. Nash beat them to the puck and skated in on goaltender Chris Osgood, beating him through the leg pads for the short-handed goal. 
"He's a good hockey player. It's kind of like Pav and Z, your best player has got to be your best player. That's why you pay them all the money. If they're not your best players, you don't win," Detroit coach Mike Babcock said. "I don't think anybody's sur­prised. Everyone knows Nash is a real good player." 
Just 29 S!JConds later, the Wings counterpunched. The Blue Jackets failed to clear the puck and Lebda made them pay for it when his hard slap shot from the point got past Columbus goal­tender Steve Mason, who finished with 21 saves. 
Hossa then was called for hook­ing Nash. The Blue Jackets, last in the league on the power play, wasted little time with Nash tak­ing a pass from Kristian Huselius and, from a hard angle, firing a shot that deflected ofT Rafalski's stick and popped behind Osgood and into the net to tie it at 2-all. 
On the power play, Zetterberg passed to Niklas Kronwall for a one-timer from the point in the opening period. The shot was right of the goal cage but took a big bounce off the back boards ­directly to Hossa who was at the right doorstep. He jammed it in for his 23rd ofthe year. 
Mason has had a huge year in goal for the Blue Jackets, helping to transform a bad team into a contender. But he said it's been a treat just to be around Nash, the club's captain. 
"He's a world-class player," Mason said. "It's pretty fun watching him every single night, seeing some of the things he does. Tonight was just like any other night for him." 
Sabres 10, Oilers 2 
Drew Stafford scored his first of three goals 10 seconds into the Buffalo Sabres' rout of Edmonton on Tuesday night, the Oilers worst home loss. 
Thomas Vanek and Derek Roy had a goal and two assists apiece for the Sabres, who also got goals from Nathan Paetsch, Jochen Hecht, Jaroslav Spacek and Tim Connolly with a pair. 
Buffalo (25-18-5) has won four of five and eight of 11 games. 
Erik Cole and Robert Nilsson tallied for the Oilers, who snapped a three-game winning streak. The loss on home ice eclipsed a 9-2 defeat to Chicago earlier this season. 
Edmonton had a disastrous start to the game as a mix-up between Lubomir Visnovsk.y and Ales Hemsk.y led to a goal just 10 seconds in. Vanek picked up the errant puck and fed Stafford who beat Oilers starter Dwayne Roloson for his lOth of the sea­son. 
Stafford made it a nine-goal game with two goals just 1:18 apart midway through the third to record the hat trick. 
Just 1:01 after Stafford started the scoring, Clarke MacArthur swung around from the back of the net and fed the puck to a pinching Paetsch for his first of the season. 
The Sabres took a three-goal lead midway through the first on a goal sent in through Roloson's legs by Roy for his 19th. Roloson was replaced with rookie backup Jeff Drouin-Deslauriers after allowing three goals on eight shots. 


SMC BASKETBALL 
Calvin set to host Belles 
By ALEX WEST Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will face the toughest test of its current four-game road trip when the Belles travel to play Calvin today. _ 
The Belles (10-7) will try to improve to 3-0 on their. cur­rent road trip and, more importantly, keep their lead in the MIAA standings over Satun;l.ay's opponent Hope College. 
To do that, the Belles must focus on beating Calvin {10-6), the MIAA's fourth-place team. 
Behrens 
continued from page 24 
"High school swimming in Indiana was a big deal," Behrens said. "It got me where I am today." 
Currently, Behrens is com­peting in three different events, the 50-free (23.81). the 100­back (55.61) and the 200-back (2:01.66). All three of her sea­sonal best times were reached at the Ohio State Invitational on Dec. 5-7. 
''I've always loved the back­stroke, maybe because I get to breathe as much as I want," Behrens said. "I like the 50­free because it's short and sweet." 
With just a few weeks to go before the Big East Championships on Feb. 18, Behrens is ranked third in both the 100-back and 200-back, and tenth for the 50-free in the conference's pre-championship 
"In this league, you can't afford to look past anyone," Belles coach Jennifer Henley said. "We take [it] one game at a time." 
Knights forward Marcia Harris could prove to be a handful for the Belles defense. Harris averages more than 19 points per game with a·.field goal percentage of nearly 60 percent. 
The Knights are also unde­feated (3-0) at home in con­ference play. 
The Belles will be· led by senior forward Erin Newsom, who leads the team in scoring at 14.9 points per game. 
rankings. 
"Even though we are confi­dent, the Big East meet can still be a very nerve-wracking meet, both as an individual and as a team," Behrens said. "Knowing that all the hard work you have put in for the last six months comes down to a few races is very stressful." 
Tough practices and a winter break training trip to the Bahamas have been quite help­ful in preparing the team for the challenge of the champi­onships at the natatorium in Indianayolis, where the team will try for its 13th straight Big East title. 
"We have nine water work­outs a week, plus three weightlifting sessions, and dry­land [workouts] on Saturdays," Behrens said. 
An intense practice schedule -which Behrens said includes nine water work-outs, three weightlifting sessions, and a Saturday dry-land workout. each week -has not only pre­
"We have asked a lot of [Newsom I this season and she has responded," Henley said. 
But Henley also said the team isn't one-dimensional. Saint Mary's has five other players -Nicole Beier (10.6 points per game), Patsy Mahoney (9.4), Maggie Ronan (8.4), Kelley Murphy (7.5) and Anna Kammrath (7 .4) -who average at least seven points per game. 
"[It] can cause some difficul­ty in defending us," Henley said. 
Contact Alex West at awest@hcc-nd.edu 
pared the team for conference championships, but has also intensified team bonding. 
"[Behrens] really is a team player who knows how to be both competitive and support­ive at the same time," senior Claire Hutchinson said. "She loves tQ. race; she brings that type of mentality to practice with her everyday, and it really elevates the intensity of our training environment." 
Approaching the most impor­tant part of the season, Behrens has a clear plan of preparation for the conclusion of the season_ 
"My biggest challenge for the rest of the season will be fixing the small, technical aspects of my races in time for the Big East Championships," Behrens said. "I've put in the hard work, now I just need to make the right adjustments to make sure my races are perfect." 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
Rutgers 
continued from page 24 
After playing great defense on the Scarlet Knights' first few possessions, the Rutgers shoot­ers found their stroke and started lighting it up from beyond the arc. Ray got Rutgers on the board first with a pair of 3-pointers from the left corner on back-to-hack possessions. Prince got into the action next by nailing two treys of her own. 
After giving up four free throws early to the Irish, the Scarlet Knights surged to abig first half lead with a 17-point run. 
The Irish did not score their first field goal of the game until the 10:22 mark of the first half when freshman guard Natalie Novosel took a pass from guard Ashley Barlow for the layup. McGraw said she did not think Rutgers was playing particular­ly good defense, and placed the blame on her team for the Jack of offensive output. 
"I thought our shot selection was questionable at times," McGraw said. 
Foul trouble haunted Rutgers during the last nine minutes of the first half, committing 12 fouls and sending the Irish to the line 19 times before half­time. Those fouls helped get the Irish back into the game with a 7-0 run before another pair of Ray 3-pointers stretched the lead back to 23-12. 
In the second half, Rutgers was able to extend its lead steadily throughout the second half in part due to strong defense. Notre Dame also had many quick possessions in the second half, looking for quick baskets to get back in the game_ The team's inability to make shots and rebound kept the Irish out of the game and helped the Scarlet Knights push the lead to 15. 
The lead hovered around 15 points until a controversial play midway through the half. Rutgers guard Khadijah Rushdan nailed a 3-pointer from the right wing as an offi­cial blew a foul away from the ball. The basket and the foul were both called and Prince's two foul shots finished the five­point swing for Rutgers, mak­ing the score 57-39. 
"The rule is that if she's in her motion to shoot the ball, the basket counts. I didn't see the foul," McGraw said of the explanation she received from the Qfficials. "I thought it was very clearly after the whistle ... but her point was that, if she's in her motion to shoot it, then the basket counts, very much like an NBA continuation type of thing." 
For how much the whistles went Notre Dame's way in the first half, they burned the Irish in the second. Numerous times an Irish stop was undone by a defensive foul, sending Rutgers to the charity stripe 15 times in the half. 
One of the bright spots for the Irish in the game was guard Natalie Novosel, who posted 19 points and four rebounds in the loss. 
Only a late hot streak could salvage the score differential, if not the game. The Irish went on a 13-2 run against the Scarlet Knight bench over the last 1:16 to bring the score to a more reasonable finish. 
Notes 

+ 
The announced atten­dance of 10,082 was the eighth largest crowd in school history. The Irish have had six sellouts. 

+ 
The Irish honored area blood donors during the game, and especially Chuck Weber, who donated 54 gallons of blood, the most in St. Joseph County. 


Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 

Throw in home contests against 10-8 league record right now is the Irish to again become more double as Big East regular sea­league cellar-dwellers South a realistic goal for this team. like sharks, rather than the son and conference champs. 
Big East 
Florida, Rutgers and St. John's, Pittsburgh finished 10-8 last helpless crew. continued from page 24 and the Irish don't seem like year, good enough for seventh Here's a look at where the top 4. No. 3 Pittsburgh (18-1, 6-1) 
they have that much in common place, and won the Big East teams in the conference stand: The Panthers, who were ously close that level. The Irish with Quint tournament. A ranked No. 1 in the country just are in 11th place and right now, from the 9-9 record 1. No. 10 Marquette (18-2 over a week ago, now sit at
"We don ,t want to start­
their NCAA Tournament hopes movie "Jaws" would likely put overall, 7-0 Big East) fourth place in the conference. in jeopardy if they can't right anymore. (If ing thinking about [the the Irish in a Fresh off their win at Notre Such is the nature of the Big the ship soon. you haven't more precari­Dame, the Golden Eagles are East. But Pittsburgh has an
NCAA Tournament} yet. 
"We don't want to start think­seen "Jaws," ous position, but poised to make a play for the opportunity to make some noise
But it,s hard not to when
ing about that yet," Irish guard I'm not still with a shot Big East regular season champi­this week as the team will take Kyle McAlarney said after explaining it you look at the at the NCAA onship. Marquette probably has on No. 21 Villanova today before Monday's Joss to Marquette. to you. Just Tournament. the best backcourt in the coun­getting set to welcome the Irish 
standings and our

"But it's hard not to when you see-the And who's to try and is on a roll after winning on Saturday.
record.,,

look at the standings and our. movie.) say the Irish its last 10 games. record." If the Irish can't sweep Also in the hunt: Providence If they fall to the Panthers, the lose to Kyle McAiarney home games 2. No. 7 Louisville (15-3, 6-0) (13-6, 5-2), No. 15 Syracuse No. 22 Irish do have a shot to Pittsburgh against The Cardinals have really (17-4, 5-3) 
Irish senior guard 

secure a decent seed for the Big and could Louisville and turned it on since conference East tournament. After manage to Villanova or play started. They took down Still alive: Villanova (15-4, 3­Saturday, Notre Dame will play win just three of six from their that they can't catch Pittsburgh, No. 1 Pittsburgh and blew Notre 3), West Virginia (14-5, 3-3), just two games -rematches at other solid league opponents, Connecticut or UCLA on a bad Dame off the court in an over­Georgetown (12-6, 3-4), No.2 Connecticut and home they'd just have to take care of day? Notre Dame played two of time win. The Cardinals still Cincinnati (13-7, 3-4), Notre against No. 7 Louisville -the trio of easy home games to its worst games of the season have one more date with the Dame (12-7, 3-5) against the upper echelon of the finish with a .500 Big East offensively on Saturday and Irish, possibly an upset opportu­conference. record. The Irish would then Monday and still was in it at the nity for host Notre Dame. Out ofcontention: St. John's 
But it still won't be easy the have 18 wins, which, along wjth end of each contest against a (11-8, 2-5), South Florida (7­rest of the way. Aside from their a win in the conference tourney, top-tier opponent. 3. No.2 Connecticut (18-1, 12, 2-5), Seton Hall (10-9, 1­remaining conference slate, the might be good enough for an Beginning Saturday, the Irish 7-1) 6), Rutgers (9-11, 0-7), DePaul Irish have to travel to take on NCAA Tournament bid. A win at must start winning the games The Huskies have just one loss (8-12, 0-7) UCLA. In Big East action, they UCLA could help a lot as well. they should and pick up a cou­but unfortunately for them, it have to play home games In the beginning of the season, ple of underdog vietories. It came against Georgetown, a The views expressed in this against Louisville and Villanova, that hypothetical would have can't have a meltdown like it conference foe. Most likely -column are those ofthe author and at Cincinnati, West Virginia, seemed like a worst-case sce­hadagainst St. John's and it has make that, certainly -nobody and not neccessarily those of Providence and Connecticut. At nario for the Irish. And it still is. to be able to pull out a couple of will run the table. If Connecticut The Observer. least five of those are very The point here, though, is that close wins against quality con­keeps playing like it did against Contact Fran Tolan at winnable game6 for the Irish. Notre Dame is far from done. A ference opponents. It's time for the Irish Saturday, they could ftolan@nd.edu. 

Wednesday, January 28, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
Across 40 Power Newswoman 
connectors, or a Paula 
way to describe 17-,22-, 55-and

5 Fire 51-Across9 Bowling unit 42 Tuesday in14 Prefix with -gram Hollywood
or -graph 43 Dearborn debut
15 December 25, of 1958
e.g. 45 Coastal fliers 
16 Last 17 Show interrupter 47 -blamed 20 Brit. military 48 Jurisprudence 
award 
50 How crowds 21 "Sure, why nof' move 22 Copenhagen 52 Tbsp. or tsp. wad 
55 Old-fashioned 26 Select tub feature 271rnages 
58 Play characters representing 
60 Lead-in to plunk

Internet users 61 Expensive
28 Sound of a alternative to alightning strike toupee
30 George W., to 66 Furious 
George H. W. 31 Shower sponge 67 Farming prefix 
34 Start of a Fred 68 They pop on Flintstone cry planes 38 Mariner's datum 69 Soup alternative 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

70 Car company that originated as an airplane manufacturer 
71 State whose tallest bldg. has only 19 floors 
Down Clearasil target 2 Purely or simply: 
Abbr. 3 Tennis accessories 4 Signals, as to an 
auctioneer · 5 Keats creation 6 Three, four or 
five, commonly 7 Heirloom locale 8 Vivien of film 9 It lets you go 
without charges 1 0 Basketball hoops 11 Historic 1940s 
event, for short 12 Group of brains 13 Prevent, legally 18 Speaking one's 
mind 19 1956-57 crisis site 22 "There's no accounting for 
" 23 Roundish 24 Jockey's whip 25"_Mio" 29 Hand covered 
with 32-Down 32 See 29-Down 33 "_ of God," 
Jane Fonda film 35 Top layer, in a way 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Warren Biro 

36 Unconcerned 49 Ebb 57 Hagar the Horrible:s wife 
37 Abacus user 

51 "200 1" extras 39 Unagi, at a 59 Mex. miss
52 Sap sucker Japanese 62 Coach restaurant 53 Stiller's comedy Parseghianpartner41 Radioed, e.g. 

63 Corn core 
44 Strained 54 "Perry Mason" climax 64 Org. with good
46 Feature of many aims? 

a 1970s rock 56 Spanish concert appetizers 65 "'Tis a pity" 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Tamlyn Tomita, 43; Alan Cumming, 44; Bridget Fonda, 45; Cris Collinsworth, 50 Happy Birthday: Look to the futute with optimism. You can expand some of your inter­ests and trendy ideas from the past. Utilize the old by recycling and adapting whatever you can to work now. Your broad outlook will baffle some but ultimately will make you a hero. Your numbers are 7, 10, 16, 21, 24, 33,42 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Take advantage of any past connections to help you move 
forward now. Reuniting with people will open up new avenues. Make the first move to 
entice others to get involved in your plans. 4 stars 
TAURUS (April20-May 20): You are in the driver's seat, so don't let anyone push you 
into making a quick decision. Be the one to set the course of things to come. Don't let 
emotional issues cause you to miscalculate your position. 2 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take the initiative and get things done. Your aggressive be­
havior will impress onlookers, putting you in a key position to advance. Don't let 
someone's change of heart slow you down or alter your direction. Stick to your chosen 
path. 5 stars 

CANCER (June 21-Jnly 22): You may be forced to look at things a little differently, es­
pecially concerning the way you are handling money and your relationships. Make a con­
certed effort to budget. It will prove that you have discipline and stamina and will impress 
someone important to you. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't be too willing to accept what's being offered, especially if 
emotional factors are involved. You are likely to be deceived by someone who wants to 
take advantage of your generosity. Time is on your side, so don't move too quickly when 
you don't have to. 3 stars 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may be asked to wear a lot of different hats. Do what you can but, if the task is something you know little about, call on an expert. Your insight and ability to delegate will work to your advantage and will help you expand your allies. 3 stars 
LlliRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't let anyone stop you from following your creative 
dreams. You have to know that when anyone doesn't want you to advance, he or she is 
jealous, possessive or wants to beat you at your own game. Don't get angry, get busy and 
accomplish. 5 stars 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Separate your personal, professional and spiritual life. 
Emotional matters will escalate, leaving you questioning what to do next. Rely on your 
basic instincts and you will make the most beneficial choices for your future. 2 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't let love lead you astray. Formulate your ideas and put them to the test, even if someone is trying to slow you down. Rework old ideas and you will come up with something entirely new that can work. Being secretive is smart, not sneaky, when you need to make an impact. 4 stars 
C-APRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): There are deals and settlements that can be made. Don't leave anything to chance when it comes to love, partnerships or legal matters. Cover your­self but be sure and make your offer enticing at the same time. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Now is not the time to play games or try to initiate some­thing you know won't be well received. Don't let emotional matters frustrate you. Weed out what isn't working for you and then move forward. 3 stars 
.PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Red tape troubles can be expected, especially if you haven't 
been honest about what really happened. Emotional difficulties due to past relationships 
will resurface. Problems with banks, government agencies or authority figures will esca­
late. 3 stars 

Birthday Baby: You are outspoken, provocative and intent on getting ahead. You are in­
ventive and playful and attract the partners you need to bring on the success you desire. 
Eugenia1s Web sites: eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations, myspace.comleugenialastfor Eugenia's blog, astroadvice.comjor fun 
WWW.BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 
THE DOME PIECE 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

J~WID)1J!
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, **%$#1!! You're 30 minutes behind 
to form four ordinary words. 
SASEY 
I I I 


@2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 


tf~fi (] 

..
tNORBIN t 
WHAT THE: St=RVt=RS TURNt=D INTO

J I I J 
WHt=N THE: KITCHEN
www.jumble.com 

WAS BACKED UP. LEWLOY
r1 I v, Now arrange the circled letters
l .A l .A to form the surprise answer, as L-._..J..:.......£J.._ _,__J.._,_.!;:,.,.LJ suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print answer here: "[ IIIIIIJ" 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: TABOO FABLE SPEEDY HOOKUPYesterday's 
Answer: Often follows when a business falls ·into the red -THE BLUES 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
..... 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name Address ______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
... 

THE OBSERVER 








PORTS
Wednesday, January 28, 2009 
page 24 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Rutgers dominates as Irish 'D'falters again 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Managing Editor 
Rutgers guard Brittany Ray had 26 points -including a 4­for-6 performance from beyond the arc -and the rest of the Scarlet Knights helped her upend Notre Dame 78-68 Tuesday night at the Joyce Center. 
Ray was not the qnly Scarlet Knight to have a great offen­sive game against the Irish. Epiphanny Prince, who led the team going into Tuesday's game with 20.4 points per game, added 24 points to the Rutgers effort. 
"It was mostly an incredible lack of awareness and effort to know that those [Prince and Ray] were the two ones to guard," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 
see RUTGERS/page 22 

Left defenseless. 

Scarlet Knights played like they needed it more 
The two coaches' first state­ments of their post-game press conferences helped illustrate the reasons behind No. 17 Notre 
Dame's 78-68 loss to Rutgers Tuesday night. 
Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw apolo­gized to the fans. "I didn't think we played 


with the intensi-Bill Brink ty, the effort, the enthusiasm Sports Editor and the energy that we needed today, and I thought Rutgers did," she said. 
Rutgers coach C. Vivian Stringer? 

"We really needed that one," she said. "If you guys don't mind, we needed it more than you did." 
That's the attitude Notre Dame, who has lost three of its last four 
see ANALYSIS/pag(lo.21 
MEN'S TENNIS 
No. 11 Seminoles present another challenge for Notre Dame 
should be ready for that level of against No. 2 Texas. Florida State, which has sev­team of Drew Bailey and 
By LAURA MYERS 
play." This will be Florida State's eral individually ranked play­Maciek Sycut to face Irish soph­Sports Writer 
The young Irish squad, which first indoor match of the season ers, will bring a challenge in omore Stephen Havens and only has one upperclassman in and Notre Dame's second match singles and doubles. freshman Casey Watt. 
The Irish have already faced senior Brett Helgeson, won a 7-at home. The first was a tough "We are playing top 20 teams The Irish bring two ranked some of the nation's top teams 0 match at William & Mary 4-3 loss to No. 14 Pepperdine in five of our first six matches," singles players to the competi­-and they're just getting start­Saturday but lost 0-7 at No. 5 on Jan. 16. Bayliss said. "Clearly this tion in No. 20 Helgeson and No. ed. Virginia on Sunday. "Being ·at home is always an schedule involved risk, but I 112 Dan Stahl, a sophomore. 
No. 30 Notre Dame (1-2) hosts "While Virginia was very tal­advantage," Bayliss said. "You believe that we are talented The Seminoles bring three in No. 1~ Florida State (2-2) today ented," Bayless said. "I don't are playing on the same courts enough to handle some of these No. 29 Bowles, No. 30 Aubone at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. The think we really gave ourselves a on which you practice, the fans top teams if we match what we and No. 79 Sykut. Seminoles are the third ranked real chance to win because we aren't questioning your man­see on the court each day in The Irish have defeated the team Notre Dame has faced so checked out of too many points hood, and the other team, hope­practice." Seminoles five straight times, far. and didn't leave our comfort fully, is adjusting on the ny to First doubles will match the the most recent win a 4-3 deci­
.. "We certainly have already zone at crucial times. Several of the surface, visual background, Irish's No. 37 duo of Helgeson sion in Tallahassee in 2008. faced quality opposition in this our guys learned something in etc. The support we got playing and sophomore Tyler Davis with The match will begin at 4:30 young season," Irish coach Charlottesville. Hopefully we Pepperrline was gratifying and I the Seminoles' No. 23 pair of p.m. Bobby Bayliss said. "So even will see a difference [today[." think our freshmen were pleas­Jean-Yves Aubone and Clint though the Seminoles are a The Seminoles are coming off antly surprised with the cheer­Bowles. At second doubles, the Contact Laura Myers at strong national level team, we of a loss as well, a 4-2 decision ing." Seminoles bring the No. 47 lmyers2@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 

Behrens helps lead ND into Big East stretch run 
By MOLLY SAMMON Sports Writer 
When it came time to pick a college after a heavy recruiting process, the choice was easy for junior Maggie Behrens, who currently holds the team's sea­sonal best times in both the 100-and 200-metor backstroke events. 
"I've always been a big Notre Dame fan since both of my par­ents went to school here," said Behrens, who hails from north­western Indiana. "I feel in love with the school, the traditions and, most importantly, the team." 
Partially because of her par­
ents' experiences at Notre Dame, Behrens was not caught . off-guard by the school's aca­demic challenges. In fact, they were rriore a selling point than a 
determnt to joining the Irish. 
"I knew I didn't want to com­
promise my education for ath­
letics, and Notre Dame has that 
great balance and is strong in 
both ·areas," Behrens said. "You 
have to learn how to balance 
your time and .make a lot or 
adjustments." 
Behrens credits much of her 
growth in the 'sport to her years 
of practice in high school. 
see BEHRENS/page 22 

MEN'S BASKETBALL ANALYSIS 
Time to play like the sharks 
It might seem like Notre Dame is sinking, but don't abandon the ship yet. Yes, the Irish have suffered four straight losses. And yes, after wasting a two-game Fran Tolan homes­tand, they Associate lwad to Sports Editor No. :~ Pittsburgh Saturday. 
But no, this isn't the USS Indianapolis we're talking 
' about here -that ship sank and left its crew to shark­infested waters. 
In other words, the Irish don't belong wilh the bottom feeders in the Big East, but they could be getting danger-
see BIG EAST/page 22 





