the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Vatican reveals D’Arcy’s replacement 
Rhoades announced as new bishop for diocese including ND 

By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 
The Vatican announced Saturday morning that Bishop Kevin Rhoades, currently bish­op of the Harrisburg, Pa., dio­cese, will replace Bishop John D’Arcy as the Bishop of the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend, which includes Notre Dame. Rhoades visited Notre Dame Saturday, concelebrating a Vigil Mass with D’Arcy in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Rhoades will take over for D’Arcy, who is now 77 years old and past the church’s required retirement age, on Jan. 13. 
In the past, D’Arcy has said his role for the universities in 
AP 

Bishop John D'Arcy, center, and Bishop Kevin Rhoades, right, greet visitors after Mass in see D’ARCY/page 6 Fort Wayne on Saturday. Rhoades will assume D’Arcy’s position this January. 



Dad’sRoot Beeroffered at College cafeteria 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
Gone are the days of the Pepsi and Coca Cola oli ­gopoly in Saint Mary ’s Dining Hall. A new bever­age choice has been intro­duced this semester, and for one student, it has a special place in her heart. 
Dad’s Root Beer reminds senior Micki Hedinger of home. Her father, Keith Hedinger is the president and CEO of the company, which is located in Jasper, Ind. 
“I am sure students are enjoying the wider variety of soda options in the din­ing hall,” she said. 
According to Hedinger, the brand was established 72 years ago . However, according to a press release, Hedinger Brands, LLC did not purchase the company until 2007. 
Since that time the com­pany has been making a 
see DAD’S/page 6 



StudentsdisappointedasIrishloseagain 
By JENN METZ 
News Writer 
Irish fans were hardly visi­ble in the sea of Pittsburgh navy that filled a sold-out Heinz Field Saturday. Drowned out by a raucous Panther student section, Notre Dame students who made the six-plus hour drive east to wit­ness Saturday’s loss expressed disappointment in the team’s failure to follow through with a win. 
Senior Meghan Magargee 
see LOSS/page 4 


Arts and Letters sponsors ‘What’s Next?’ Week 
Next?” Week is sponsored by the College of Arts and Letters and 
the  Career  Center  and  has  
events  Monday  through  
Thursday.  

“I have no job offers and I have no idea what I’m doing next year,” Wycliff said. “People always tell me I should be con­cerned, but it will work out eventually.” 
Lee Svete, director of the Career Center, said the program will feature a mini career fair, a talk from an Arts and Letters graduate, a student panel, an information session about find-
see JOBS/page 3


By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
Senior Grant Wycliff is a Philosophy major with no plans yet for after graduation. But he isn’t worried. 
As one of many students in the College of Arts and Letters with a major that “doesn’t necessarily train for a particular job,” Wycliff will participate in a stu­dent panel Tuesday as part of a weeklong set of seminars and networking sessions geared toward helping Arts and Letters majors enter the workforce. 
The week, called “What’s 


Film festival presents worldwide viewpoints 
By MEGAN HEMLER 
News Writer 
Six international films, each an Academy Award winner or nom­inee, were shown this past weekend as part of the “One World: The International Development Film Festival” and offered students a chance to see the world from radically differ­ent viewpoints. 
“It’s really important for peo­ple to understand other people’s perceptions of the same thing … instead of staying under their own rock,” law student Yara Sallam said. 
see FESTIVAL/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Women’s soccer update page 24  Asian Allure review page 12  Irish Insider analysis pullout  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, November 16, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A recipe for memory 
Every time I eat pancakes, I think of my grandfather. 
Something about the smells of syrup and fresh batter and the combination of those things melting in my mouth takes me back to my child­hood. 
When I was three years old, my mother and I would go to my grandparent’s house every Tuesday morn­ing, where my grand­pa would make us pancakes. 
I still remember him standing at the stove in his bathrobe while Mom sat at the table with me. 

Those mornings are some of my earliest memories, yet I can still picture them clearly in my mind. 
Last week, Grampy passed away. 

And so I found myself boarding a bus for Cleveland to be with my family. As I stared into the endless cornfields along the Ohio turnpike, I was flooded with memories of Grampy. 
He, on the other hand, didn’t remember much of anything by the end of his life, as is true of so many people who develop Alzheimer’s disease. 
I began to wonder what memory really is, after all. 
Why am I able to vividly remember those Tuesday mornings when I was three years old, but in his last years of life my grandfather struggled to remember things as simple as the names of his grandchil­dren? 
And worst of all, what will happen if my own parents lose their memories, and will I someday also have Alzheimer’s? 
When I arrived at my aunt’s house last Thursday evening, I found my family hov­ered around a table covered in photo­graphs. 
They were making display boards of pictures for the wake the following morn­ing, but I found that the very process of looking at the pictures was most impor­tant. 
Each photo sparked a different memory. Some of the pictures triggered memories I did not even know I had, such as piling into my grandfather’s old red Mustang convertible with my cousins for a ride around the neighborhood on a sunny summer afternoon. 
Scientists can explain memory, and I hope they continue to make progress in research about Alzheimer’s. But all we need are our own experiences to under­stand how it all works. 
Years from now, you won’t remember reading this column. Instead, you might have memories of sitting in the dining hall reading The Observer and talking to your friends. 
But if you happen to be eating pancakes, I can guarantee you they do not compare to the ones my grandfather made. 
One last thing about those pancakes: When I was still three years old and sitting in Grampy’s kitchen, I asked my mom why his pancakes were so good. 
“They’re made with a special ingredi­ent,” she told me. 
She paused, and I asked impatiently about this secret recipe. Grampy chuckled as Mom responded with just one word. 
“Love.” 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT IS YOUR FAVORITE T ING ABOUT T ANKSGIVING? 






“Football.”  “Shopping on  “Sweet  “Cranberry  “I spend a lot of  “Decorating for  
Black Friday.”  potatoes. Who  sauce from the  time deciding  Christmas the  
doesn’t like  can.”  what I like—the  day after.”  
sweet  ambience or the  
potatoes?”  decor.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 
Britons among ugliest peo­ple in the world 
LONDON — Britons are among the ugliest people in the world, according to a dating web site that says it only allows “beautiful peo­ple” to join. 
Fewer than one in eight British men and just three in 20 women who have applied to BeautifulPeople.com have been accepted, an emailed statement from the website showed. 
Existing members of the “elite dating site” rate how attractive potential mem­bers are over a 48 hour period, after applicants upload a recent photo and personal profile. 
“I would say Britain is stumbling because they don’t spend as much time polishing up their appear­ance and they are letting themselves down on physi­cal fitness,” Beautiful People managing director Greg Hodge said. 
Man distracted by bird drives Bugatti into marsh 
LA MARQUE, Texas — A man blamed a low-flying pelican and a dropped cell phone for his veering his million-dollar sports car off a road and into a salt marsh near Galveston. The acci­dent happened about 3 p.m. 
Wednesday on the frontage road of Interstate 45 north­bound in La Marque, about 35 miles southeast of Houston. 
The Lufkin, Texas, man told of driving his luxury, French-built Bugatti Veyron when the bird distracted him, said La Marque police Lt. Greg Gilchrist. The motorist dropped his cell phone, reached to pick it up and veered off the road and into the salt marsh. The car was half-submerged in the brine about 20 feet from the road when police arrived. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight Tuesday wednesday 
IN BRIEF 
George Saumarez Smith will address the intricate crafts­manship he brings to projects in a lecture titled “Architectural Tradition: Draughtsmanship and Detail.” The lecture will take place today from 4:30 p.m. to 6:00 
p.m. in 104 Bond Hall. 
John Fetterman, the mayor of Braddock, Pa., will be speaking in a lecture titled “The Mayor of Hell.” The lec­ture is free and will be taking place tonight at 8 p.m. in McKenna Hall. 
The New Playright’s Workshop presents its first day of First Harvest on Tuesday Nov. 17 from 7:30 p.m. to 9:30 
p.m. The performance will take place in the Philbin Studio Theatre, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The event is free but tickets are required. Contact the DeBartolo Center box office at 574-631-2800 or performin­garts.nd.edu 
Johanna Fernandez, Professor of History at Baruch College will be giving a lecture titled “The Young Lords and Social and Structural Roots of Sixties Radicalism” on Wednesday, Nov. 18. The lec­ture will be taking place from 
4:30 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. in Room 210 in McKenna Hall. 
Poets Christine Hume and Jeff Clark will read at the Hammes Bookstore on Wednesday, Nov. 18, from 7 
p.m. to 9 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
thursday friday 

The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmmcryst@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

In the Nov. 13 issue of The Observer, Meghan Sweeney’s name was misspelt in a photo caption. In 
HIGH 46 HIGH 41 HIGH 54 HIGH 50 HIGH 51 HIGH 52 

the same issue, in an article titled “The Way We Get By: An Interview with Gita Pullapilly,” Pullapilly’s husband was misidentified as a Notre Dame alum-
Atlanta 74 / 49 Boston 57 / 36 Chicago 47 / 42 Denver 43 / 26 Houston 66 / 44 Los Angeles 75 / 48 Minneapolis 49 / 27 
New York 60 / 41 Philadelphia 63 / 40 Phoenix 74 / 46 Seattle 55 / 47 St. Louis 54 / 45 Tampa 79 / 59 Washington 63 / 44 

nus. Gita Pullapilly is an alumna. The Observer 
regrets these errors. 


Monday, November 16, 2009 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
have to be much more proactive, 
Jobs 
but thinking critically is a skill 

honed in Arts and Letters so you continued from page 1 have to make sure that is 
emphasized when applying to ing and funding internships and different jobs.” a session about graduate school. Kelly will also participate in 
He said this is the first time the Tuesday’s student panel, along Center has combined with the with Wycliff and four other stu-College of Arts and Letters to dents. hold a week of events for Liberal Svete said about 30 percent of Arts majors. Arts and Letters student end up 
“We have had comments from pursuing careers in business, but Arts and Letters students about the goal of “What’s Next?” Week how the big companies, the com-is also to inform students who 
panies  who  can  are looking at  
afford to come to  other  paths  
campus, are domi­ “What Liberal Arts  such as gradu­ 
nated by science, technology and business,” Svete  students don’t realize is that they can work  ate school, post-graduate service or  
said. “What Liberal Arts students don’t realize is that they  for [big] companies too.”  careers in gov­ernment, public policy and com- 
can work for those  munications.  
companies too.”  Lee Svete  “We want to  
Svete said one of  director  help Arts and  
the major goals of  Career Center  Letters  stu­ 

the week is to teach students with a Liberal Arts major how to translate the skills they have into a job, internship or graduate school. 
“Arts and Letters students can write, analyze information, interpret information and speak in public,” he said. “These are all valuable skills to a business recruiter.” 
Economics major Colleen Kelly, a senior, said she has two job offers so far — both business-related. 
“I think what’s interesting is often times students think that the only people who go into busi­ness are business majors,” she said. “If you’re an Arts and Letters student who wants to pursue career in business, you dents not only 
visualize but implement career planning processes, and we want it to be interactive with professionals, peers and faculty,” he said. “Some students have decided they don’t want to work for cor­porate America.” 
He said there are Arts and Letters students who are Fulbright finalists, in the final rounds of interviews with the Central Intelligence Agency and many pursuing programs such as Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) and Teach for America. 
In a recession, career planning is especially important, Svete said. 
“I worry about the job market every day,” he said. “I take it home with me every night because I see talented people without job offers, just years ago, would have had three or four offers.” 
In May, Svete said about 20 percent of the class of 2009, in all majors, was looking for jobs, up from 11 percent the previous year. But the number has now decreased to about 10 percent — a good sign, according to Svete. 
“I’m hearing that the alums who have been out of college five to six years that have been laid off are having a more difficult time finding jobs than the recent graduates,” he said. “They’re more expensive.” 
Svete said a large component of the “What’s Next?” Week focuses on internships because they are crucial to getting a job after graduation. 
Last year, 423 Arts and Letters students found internships through the Career Center, 62 of which were funded by the Center. 
Svete said they hope to increase those numbers this summer. An information session about internships this week will help students find funded intern­ships through channels such as the Kellogg Institute, the Nanovic Institute and the Career Center. 
Even though Wycliff doesn’t have a job lined up yet, he said he is confident that his Liberal Arts education has prepared him for the workforce. 
“We are well-educated stu­dents,” he said. “As long as we can find what we’re interested in, I think we’re just as prepared as business and science students for the real world, if not better.” 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
Biologist discovers gene’s new roles 
Special to The Observer 
A paper by University of Notre Dame biologist Giles Duffield and a team of researchers offers new insights into a gene that plays a key role in modulating the body’s Circadian system and may also simultane­ously mod­ulate its metabolic system. 
The rela­tionship between circadian and metabolic systems the researchers describe could have important implications for understanding the higher inci­dence of cardiovascular disease, obesity and diabetes among shift workers. 
The master circadian clock in the human resides within the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamic brain and receives direct input from the retina (eye) through which the clock can be reset or synchronized on a daily basis to the prevailing light-dark cycle. This provides both time of day and also time of year infor­mation to the brain and body. Things can go wrong with the internal clocks when either the clock system or its light input pathway is disrupted. 
Duffield notes that in addition to the master circadian clock in the brain, many tissues through­out the body harbor circadian clocks. 

“These peripheral clocks, such as in the liver and heart, regu­late local rhythms of biochem­istry and physiology, but are kept in a normal synchronized state with the external environ­ment through a combination of signals, including hormonal and nerve signals from the brain clock, and in the case of the liver, from nutrients that fluctuate with the daily rhythm of feed­ing,” he said. “The local tissue clocks are very important as they impart rhythmic control over as much as 10 percent of local gene activity.” 
In a paper published earlier this year in the journal Current Biology, Duffield in collaboration with researchers from the Dartmouth Medical School and Norris Cotton Cancer Center described how they used DNA microarray techniques to identi­fy an important gene called the “Inhibitor of DNA-binding 2” (Id2) as rhythmically expressed in various tissues including the suprachiasmatic nucleus. 
The researchers produced “knockout” mice that did not express the Id2 gene. They then exposed the mice to a time-zone change in their light-dark cycle and were able to examine the effect of artificial jet lag (or shift-work adjustment). 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 16, 2009 
be a good thing to take advan-awards, but also because they tunities, as well as increasing Andrew Hebert, working group 
tage of,” junior Laura Beverly focus on countries that coincide cross-departmental collabora-chair for the Middle Eastern 
Festival 
continued from page 1 
The festival was hosted by the International Development Research Council (IDRC), and dealt with issues of poverty, governance, justice and devel­opment. 
“When I read the description [of the film] I thought it would 
Loss 
continued from page 1 
and six of her friends trekked to Pittsburgh for the weekend after purchasing tickets in September. After the Irish shutout Nevada in the season opener, Magargee and her friends were enthusiastic and hopeful for a memorable senior season. 
“We wanted to travel as much as possible,” Magargee said. “We were really excited and thinking that we would have an awesome winning season.” 
After several close games and waning student support for the Irish, now 6-4, coupled with the lack of a student ticket lottery, Magargee said she knew of sev­eral students planning to attend Saturday’s game but decided not to. 
The Notre Dame 27-22 loss at Heinz field was disappointing for Magargee. The Irish were down 27-9 in the fourth quar­ter, and two scores from junior wide receiver Golden Tate brought the team within one touchdown for the win. 
“To recover so much and then not pull through was pretty upsetting,” Magargee said. 
Senior Ashley Mensch said she thinks the now-routine fourth quarter comeback attempts are exciting, but it would be better if the Irish came out with a victory. 
Still, the trip to Pittsburgh was fun, and it hasn’t been a negative season for Mensch, who hopes for a win against Connecticut next week. 
“That would be a great way to end our senior football season,” she said. 
Though she said there were only a “moderate” amount of students at the game, she was surprised by the amount of Irish fans of all ages in Pittsburgh. 
The students that were there “had a lot of fun and showed their spirit” with the other said. “The first step is raising awareness. If that awareness turns into action, even better.” 
Paul Jindra, president of the IDRC, said the festival came together “by word of mouth.” 
“We talked to students, pro­fessors, watched trailers and read film synopsis,” she said. 
The six films were chosen not only for their individual 

Notre Dame fans at the game, Mensch said. 
The primetime game in a pro stadium came with several aspects of NFL football Notre Dame fans might not have been used to, including stadium speakers and a jumbotron. 
Junior Steve Stober said he thought playing in a pro stadi­um was a good experience for both the fans and the team. He said he noticed, however, the speakers played music while Irish quarterback Jimmy Clausen attempted to call plays, perhaps causing a distraction. 
Stober traveled to Pittsburgh with four other friends, and went into the game thinking Notre Dame would not come out with a win against the ranked Panthers. He said he saw more fellow Irish fans than expected. 
His seats, high in the end zone, allowed him to see the play develop, and he said he is most disappointed in the offense not finishing their drives. 
“Especially in the first half … they weren’t coming out and finishing their drives. The defense kept the game close in the first three quarters and kept giving the offense a chance to win the game — but they couldn’t finish their drives,” he said. 
As for the two remaining matchups for Notre Dame — Connecticut and Stanford — Stober predicts a 1-1 finish. 
“I think we can beat UConn as long as we just play well. It will be another close game — every game in this season has been close except Nevada and Washington State,” he said. 
After Stanford’s sound defeat of Pac-10 opponent USC this weekend, Stober doesn’t think the Irish have a chance in their last regular season game. 
“I really don’t think we can beat them,” he said. 
with the regional working groups of the IDRC. 
“We’re hoping they see there’s real issues where any­one can apply their own tal­ents,” Jindra said. “There’s a place for everyone in the chal­lenge of poverty.” 
The IDRC helps students find grants and funding for service, internship and research oppor­tion on development issues. 
“We’re really educating stu­dents to become leaders,” Jindra said. 
The film festival was free and open to the public, with infor­mal discussions after each screening. 
“It’s really important for sci­entists, engineers, people from all backgrounds to be involved,” and Central and South Asia groups, said. “Our meetings are a way for students to come together once a week and share their knowledge. It’s also a way for students who have studied abroad to share their first-hand experiences.” 
Contact Megan Hemler at mhemler1@nd.edu 


Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 


World & Nation 
Monday, November 16, 2009 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Brazilian gang members attack police 
RIO DE JANEIRO — Brazilian authorities say gang members threw a grenade and fired at police in Rio de Janeiro, damaging two stations and a patrol car but causing no injuries. 
Authorities have told local media dozens of shots were fired in two separate attacks believed to have been caused by the same group early Sunday. 
The online edition of the O Globo newspaper says the attackers threw a grenade at a police station at the Avenida Brasil, one of the city’s most important avenues. The grenade did not go off. 
Nigerian militants start peace talks 
ABUJA — Nigeria’s main militant group in the oil-rich Delta region said Sunday that it had started formal peace talks with the country’s president for the first time since it declared an indefinite cease-fire last month. 
The Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta called Saturday’s dialogue with President Umaru Yar’Adua useful. 
“This meeting heralds the beginning of seri­ous, meaningful dialogue between MEND and the Nigerian government to deal with and resolve root issues that have long been swept under the carpet,” militant group spokesman Jomo Gbomo said in a statement Sunday. 
The president’s spokesman, Olusegun Adeniyi, said Saturday that Yar’Adua met with a group of negotiators “in continuation of his efforts to find lasting solution to the problem in the Niger Delta and following on his earlier promise to meet with any individual or groups in that direction.” 
NATIONAL NEWS 
NC authorities search for missing girl 
FAYETTEVILLE, N.C. — Authorities acted on a tip Sunday and searched a wide area in south-central North Carolina trying to find a 5-year-old girl reported missing by her moth­er, who has been charged with human traf­ficking and child abuse involving prostitution. 
Capt. Charles Kimble of the Fayetteville Police Department said several agencies spent the day looking for signs of Shaniya Davis between Spring Lake and Sanford, which are about 25 miles apart. Kimble would not elab­orate on what information officers had received. They suspended the search at dark. The area included woods and some homes, police said. 
Dobbs calls CNN departure ‘amicable’ 
NEW YORK — Lou Dobbs says he doesn’t feel like he was pushed out of CNN, the news organization where he worked for all but two years of its existence until last Wednesday. 
“Not at all,” he said in a weekend interview. “I don’t know if people will believe it, but we had a very amicable parting on the best of terms. I spent 29 years there building that company, and I wish everyone there nothing but the best, and they have reciprocated with me.” 
He announced his resignation on “Lou Dobbs Tonight,” finished the newscast and walked out of CNN. 
It’s hard to know whether the abruptness or the lack of rancor surrounding the exit was more noteworthy. Dobbs’ outspokenness had made him a political target — so much so that there were parties celebrating the departure over the weekend — and an uncomfortable contradiction to what CNN says it wants to be. 
LOCAL NEWS 

8 injured in Beta Steel mill explosion 
PORTAGE — A late-night explosion that shook Beta Steel Corp.’s northern Indiana hot-strip rolling mill injured eight work­ers, six of whom required medical care. 
Portage Fire Chief Bill Lundy said Sunday that two of the six workers hospi­talized after Saturday night’s blast suf­fered the worst injuries. He did not know the names or conditions of the workers but said none of them had life-threatening injuries. 
Their injuries ranged from burns to back injuries. Two of the workers shaken by the blast declined medical treatment. 
Immigrants face tuition problems 
Undocumented aliens in Massachusetts plan ahead for college and push for new bill 
Associated Press  
CHELSEA — It seemed  
like a given that Mario  
Rodas would go to college.  
The Guatemalan-born  
student certainly had the  
academic credentials, going  
from English as a second  
language classes to taking  
advanced placement exams  
for college credit his senior  
year at Chelsea High  
School.  
But paying for it was  
another matter. As an  
undocumented immigrant  
in 2005, Rodas would have  
had to pay out-of-state  
tuition fees to go to a public  
college in Massachusetts,  
and he couldn’t afford that.  
If he had lived in Texas or  
Utah, states that allow  
undocumented students to  
pay in-state tuition rates,  
Rodas, now 22, might have  
graduated already.  
“Every year we have  
more and more students in  
limbo here,” Rodas said.  
“And every year we have  
more and more students  
taking advantage (of in­ 
state tuition) elsewhere. I  
don’t understand.”  
Nearly three years after  
Massachusetts House law­ 
makers soundly rejected a AP  
bill that would have allowed Mario Rodas, an immigrant who faced tuition problems in 2005, stands outside Harvard University  
illegal immigrants to attend on Nov. 2. He now studies at the Harvard University Extension School with in-state tuition rates.  
college at in-state tuition  
rates, lawmakers are  Massachusetts is behind on  Patrick. Former Gov. Mitt  New York, Texas, Utah,  
preparing to revisit the  this.”  Romney, a Republican,  Washington and Wisconsin  
issue.  Undocumented students  opposed the measure in  — have such in-state tuition  
Activists say 10 other  say they plan to launch a  2006.  laws for undocumented stu­ 
states, some dominated by  campaign by lobbying key  “Time is our friend here,”  dents. Oklahoma repealed  
conservative lawmakers,  lawmakers and sharing  Chang-Diaz said. “We’ve  its law in 2008.  
have passed legislation with  their stories in face-to-face  had more time to talk to  Meanwhile, four states —  
bipartisan support, and  meetings. Meanwhile,  more people collectively ...  Arizona, Colorado, Georgia  
advocates see no reason  activists have cultivated a  and get them more comfort- and South Carolina — have  
why Massachusetts, a state  broader coalition of sup- able with it.”  passed laws specifically  
controlled by Democrats,  porters that includes union  On Tuesday, the governor  banning undocumented stu­ 
can’t do the same.  members, business leaders  is scheduled to release a list  dents from being eligible for  
That has been a frustra­ and academics — some- of recommendations from  in-state tuition.  
tion for advocates in this  thing lacking in 2006.  his Advisory Council for  Steve Kropper, co-director  
left-leaning state, which  State Senator Sonia  Refugees and Immigrants  of the Massachusetts  
was the first to legalize gay  Chang-Diaz, D-Boston, said  that is expected to include  Coalition for Immigration  
marriage and the only so  the state’s Higher Education  in-state tuition for undocu- Reform, a group that seeks  
far to require health insur- Committee is expected to  mented students. Patrick  immigration restrictions,  
ance for all its residents.  hold hearings on the matter  sent the panel around the  said Massachusetts resi­ 
“Massachusetts is out in  later this year or early next.  state last year to take public  dents have shown to be  
front of so many things,”  Chang-Diaz, a co-sponsor of  comment and to come up  generally sympathetic to  
said Harris Gruman, execu­ the bill, says it stands a bet- with suggestions for new  immigration. But he said  
tive director of the Service  ter chance this time, with  immigration policy.  the public remains resistant  
Employees International  increased lobbying efforts  Currently, 10 states —  to granting illegal immi- 
Union Massachusetts State  and support from  California, Illinois, Kansas,  grants in-state tuition or  
Council. “But  Democratic Gov. Deval  Nebraska, New Mexico,  driver’s licenses.  

ENGLAND 
British issue apology for child migrants 
as 3 to Australia, Canada and other for-not at all.” 
Associated Press 
mer colonies. Many ended up in institu-The British government has estimated 
LONDON — As many as 150,000 poor tions where they were physically and that a total of 150,000 British children British children were shipped off to the sexually abused, or were sent to work as may have been shipped abroad between colonies over three and a half centuries, farm laborers. 1618 — when a group was sent to the often taken from struggling families Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd Virginia Colony — and 1967, most of under programs intended to provide will offer his own apology Monday to the them from the late 19th century them with a new start — and the Empire child migrants, as well as to the “forgot-onwards. with a supply of sturdy white workers. ten Australians,” children who suffered After 1920, most of the children went 
Forty years after the program stopped, in state care during the last century. to Australia through programs run by Britain and Australia are saying sorry to Sandra Anker, who was 6 when she the government, religious groups and the child migrants, who were promised a was sent to Australia in 1950, said the children’s charities. better life only to suffer abuse and neg-British government has “a lot to answer A 2001 Australian report said that lect thousands of miles from home. for.” between 6,000 and 30,000 children from 
The British government said Sunday “We’ve suffered all our lives,” she told Britain and Malta, often taken from that Prime Minister Gordon Brown the BBC. “For the government of unmarried mothers or impoverished would apologize for child migrant pro-England to say sorry to us, it makes it families, were sent alone to Australia as grams that sent boys and girls as young right — even if it’s late, it’s better than migrants during the 20th century. 

page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 16, 2009 

Dad’s 
continued from page 1 
comeback, and has grown by 21 percent in 2008. By the end of 2009, the com­pany is projected to dis ­pense three million cases 
of product in the United States, growing 26 percent. 
“Today there is a lot of interest in nostalgic and retro brands. Root beer is a unique flavor and simple pleasure, which combined with ice cream (a root beer float) or milk (a black cow) makes an inexpensive dessert, ” Keith Hedinger said in a press release. 
Dad’s Root Beer does not just offer root beer. Instead the company offers several varieties of cream sodas including blue, red, orange and original. 
“I think Dad’s Root Beer is a simply unique. It’s a root beer that has been around for 72 years, and was the second most popu­lar root beer in America in 1986, ” Micki Hedinger said. 
Hedinger said she enjoyed having Dad’s Root Beer at the College, and said she believed other students enjoy it too. 
“It is great having Dad’s Root Beer in the dining hall. What ’s not to love about having the root beer right next to the ice cream machine — Dad’s Root Beer Floats! It ’s like having a little taste of home in the dining hall, ” Hedinger said. 
In honor of Senior Dad’s Weekend — an annual event at the College — Hedinger and her father hosted a root beer float party along with the Student Activities Board featuring Dad’s Root Beer. 
Seniors and their fathers were invited to partake in the party, as well as a vari­ety of other events throughout the weekend such as a formal dinner, a game watch at the College Football Hall of Fame and karaoke. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
D’Arcy 
continued from page 1 
his diocese is that of a “teacher.” University President Fr. John Jenkins and other administrators have in the past described the relationship between the local ordinary and the University as a very fond memories.” 
“I never would have imag­ined the next time I would be here I would be coming as the bishop-designate in this diocese,” he added. 
Rhoades acknowledged the Center for Ethics & Culture conference taking place over weekend on campus, citing it as example of the contribu­tions Notre Dame can make to the church. He said a review of the conference schedule “revealed the depths of study and reflection that you’ve been engaged in.” 
D’Arcy said during his homily Saturday that the pope’s selection of Rhoades for the Fort Wayne-South Bend post demonstrates the importance of the local dio­cese. 
“It shows the Holy Father, and his advisors, see the importance of the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend in all its aspects, to send a [bishop] already with five years expe­rience, from diocese larger than [Fort Wayne-South Bend],” D’Arcy said. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 
“friendship.” 
D’Arcy and administrators, however, have clashed in the past, most recently over President Barack Obama’s appearance at the 2009 Commencement ceremony, where he gave the primary address and received an hon­orary degree. 
University 
While meeting the press Saturday, Rhoades — who was one of some 80 bishops who wrote to Jenkins last spring to condemn Obama’s appear­ance — acknowledged those past tensions but said those particular disagreements are “in the past,” saying he hoped to have a “close per­sonal and pastoral relation­ship” with Notre Dame. 
Jenkins praised Rhoades in a statement released Saturday afternoon. 
“We are confident that the ministry of Bishop Rhoades will be a blessing for Notre Dame and the diocese,” Jenkins wrote. “We look for­
“We are confident that the ministry of Bishop Rhoades will be a blessing for Notre Dame and the diocese.” 
Fr. John Jenkins University President 
ward both to his apostolate and to our friendship for many years to come.” 
Rhoades said during Mass that his visit Saturday was the sec­ond time he’d been to Notre Dame. 
“I came here three years 
ago, to Notre Dame, for the Penn State-Notre Dame foot­ball game,” Rhoades said. “After the game, I came here and celebrated Mass at this Basilica, so that brings back 

The Observer 
Business

Monday, November 16, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Mass. struggles to create green jobs 
BOSTON — In June, lithium-ion battery maker Boston-Power Inc. unveiled plans for a new manufacturing plant in Auburn that it said would employ 600 workers — a big gain in the state’s drive for green jobs. 
Five months later, the Westborough-based company has scrapped its plans and is scoping out sites in China and other parts of Asia. 
The company said the planned 455,000­square-foot facility was always contingent on federal stimulus funds which never material­ized — but the story is emblematic of a larger problem facing the state. 
Massachusetts has plenty of small research companies hoping to design the next big breakthrough in renewable energy. But when it comes to holding onto the manufacturing jobs that spin out of that research, the state is struggling. 
Marlborough-based Evergreen Solar Inc. has received $58 million in state aid and been hailed by Gov. Deval Patrick as a green jobs hero for its decision to bring hundreds of solar panel manufacturing jobs to Devens. 
Concerns resolved at Kansas City plant 
CLAYCOMO, Mo. — Ford Motor Co. said Saturday union concerns over working condi­tions at its assembly plant in Kansas City have been resolved. But a union officer said mem­bers were moving ahead with a planned strike authorization vote. 
Ford spokeswoman Marcey Evans said offi­cials from the automaker and United Auto Workers Local 249 reached an agreement late Friday on issues related to the workload at the plant. 
Union leaders have said problems developed in October when Ford added a third shift, including staggered schedules. The union says the changes resulted in increased, uncompen­sated work since the company did not hire workers. Other union issues concern safety. The plant makes the Ford F-150 pickup and the Ford Escape/Mercury Mariner SUV. 
"At this point, no further action is neces­sary," Evans said. "The issues are resolved." 
But the union was still carrying out a strike authorization vote scheduled to end late Saturday, according to Toni McCauley, finan­cial secretary for the union. 
Lawyers hit jackpot with laws 
Attorneys draft laws concerning cases about electing minorities and earn fees 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — Every lawsuit filed or even threat­ened under a California law aimed at electing more minorities to local offices — and all of the roughly $4.3 million from settlements so far — can be traced to just two people: a pair of attor­neys who worked together writing the statute, The Associated Press has found. 
The law makes it easier for lawyers to sue and win financial judgments in cases arising from claims that minorities effectively were shut out of local elec­tions, while shielding attor­neys from liability if the claims are tossed out. 
The law was drafted mainly by Seattle law pro­fessor Joaquin Avila, with advice from lawyers includ­ing Robert Rubin, legal director for the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights of the San Francisco Bay Area. Avila, Rubin’s com­mittee and lawyers working with them have collected or billed local governments about $4.3 million in three cases that settled, and could reap more from two pending lawsuits. 
That’s only a fraction of what might come. Dozens of cities and school boards have been warned they could be sued under the he testified for the bill in and they claim the lawyers a remedy, the law empow­2002 California Voting 2002 that he expected are using the statute to ers state courts to create Rights Act. other attorneys would take shake down local govern-smaller election districts 
All the cases have been on cases because of favor-ments. favoring minority candi­initiated by Rubin’s com-able incentives written into "It’s a money grab," dates. mittee or Avila, who also is the measure. charged John Stafford, Officials in several a member of the lawyers’ Avila said the complexity superintendent of the California communities said group, according to an of the litigation and the fact Madera Unified School they never heard com-Associated Press review of few attorneys are experts District that was slapped plaints of voter discrimina­legal documents, corre-in voting rights have limited with a $1.2 million attor-tion until the lawyers spondence and legislative the number involved so far. neys’ bill even though it stepped forward. In one records, and interviews "I anticipate there will be never contested a lawsuit. case, the Tulare Local with lawyers, school and more cases filed by other The California statute Healthcare District, now government officials, cur-parties," he said. targets commonly used "at-known as Tulare Regional rent and former legislators Avila and Rubin say their large" elections — those in Medical Center, was sued and voting-rights experts. roles in crafting the law which candidates run city-even though its five-mem-
There is nothing illegal shouldn’t overshadow its wide or across an entire ber governing board is a about the lawyers profiting importance and the need to school district. Avila said rainbow of diversity — two from a law they authored use lawsuits and threats to that method can result in emigres from India, a and state lawmakers end years of injustice at the discrimination because Hispanic, a black and a approved. But it is unusual polls. Those they target dis-whatever group constitutes white. The lawsuit argues that after seven years all pute the need for the law. the majority of voters can Hispanics, who make up legal efforts are so narrow-The number of minority dominate the ballot box about a third of local vot­ly focused, especially since officeholders was climbing and block minorities from ers, have been short-Avila told lawmakers when even before it was enacted, winning representation. As changed. 

Google makes concessions on book deal 
Associated Press books and promises to make it easier attacked by a brigade of critics who 
for others to resell access to a digital protested to U.S. District Judge Denny 
SAN FRANCISCO — Internet search index of books covered in the settle-Chin, who must approve the agree-leader Google will ease its control ment. ment before it takes effect. The finan­over millions of copyright-protected Copyright holders also would have cial terms of the settlement remain books earmarked for its digital to give more explicit permission to intact, including a promise to give 63 library if a court approves a revised sell digital book copies if another ver-percent of all sales proceeds to par-lawsuit settlement that addresses sion is being sold anywhere else in ticipating authors and publishers. objections of antitrust regulators. the world. Among other complaints, the oppo-
The offer comes two months after The concessions filed late Friday in sition said the plan would put Google the U.S. Justice Department balked at New York federal court are just the in charge of a literary cartel that Google’s original agreement with latest twist in a class-action lawsuit could illegally rig the prices of elec­authors and publishers, warning the filed against Google four years ago by tronic books — a format that is arrangement could do more harm groups representing the interests of expected to become increasingly pop-than good in the emerging market for U.S. authors and publishers. The suit ular. electronic books. alleged Google’s ambition to make In echoing some of those concerns, 
Google Inc. is hoping to keep the digital copies of all the books in the the Justice Department advised Chin deal alive with a series of new provi-world trampled their intellectual that the original settlement probably sions. Among other things, the modi-rights. would break laws set up to preserve fied agreement provides more flexi-Google negotiated a $125 million competition and protect copyright bility to offer discounts on electronic truce nearly 13 months ago only to be holders, even if they can’t be located. 

page 8 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Monday, November 16, 2009 
Chinese-Americans evaluateObamatrip 
Associated Press 
As President Barack Obama visits China seeking to balance a seesawing rela­tionship, Chinese-Americans embody the challenges fac­ing the giants of East and West. 
They have as many differ­ent feelings about their ancestral home — hope, indifference, pride, pain — as there are characters in the Chinese language. Yet many share a conviction that is both logical and personal: The destinies of China and America are inseparable. 
“Each one is dependent on the other to make their econ­
omy strong, ” said David Zhang, a New York City physician who immigrated to America at age 25. “The U.S. cannot leave China, and China cannot leave the U.S. It’s symbiotic, like an organ­ism.” 
The Great Recession has bound the two nations even tighter, and given China greater influence. America borrowed unprecedented sums to resuscitate itself. China, which needs American consumers to fuel its growth, supplied much of that cash and is America’s largest foreign lender. 
“It’s like that little brother you always used to pick on, and now he ’s lending you money,” said Nanci Zhang (no relation to David), a 22­year-old Los Angeles resi­dent. “But you can’t quite conceive of one brother with­out the other.” 
Nanci Zhang was born in Beijing and moved with her parents to the United States when she was 3. In her American schools, she remembers China’s long his­tory being celebrated while its present was ignored. Now she sees her homeland com­ing to America’s economic rescue, and “it’s kind of vali­dating.” 
About three million U.S. residents are of Chinese descent, according to a 2008 Census estimate. About a third were born here, a third are naturalized citizens, and a third have arrived in the past few years, said Cheng Li, a China scholar at the Brookings Institution in Washington, D.C. 
David Zhang came to America in 1985 looking for freedom and opportunity. “What I dream of here I couldn’t even dream of in China: cars, a house, a good, decent job. I could dream that here, and I realized it. Now in China, all these things we accomplished, they have accomplished.” 
Zhang, a pathologist at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan and president of the Association of Chinese American Physicians, leads regular delegations of American doctors to his homeland. He collaborates with China on cancer research and clinical trials and is urging his hospital to enter the Chinese health care market. 
“As Chinese physicians, we meet with the (Mount Sinai) board of trustees regularly. Ten years ago you don’t even dare speak to them,” he said. 
Yet many Chinese ­Americans fear that China’s rise could create a backlash. They still have painful mem­
ories of Vincent Chin, the Chinese-American beaten to death in 1982 by two unem­ployed Detroit autoworkers as Japanese cars were beginning to decimate the American auto industry. 
“That kind of hate crime, senseless hate crimes, would happen if the countries’ rela­tions are not very good. So on a personal level, Chinese-Americans are always very anxious,” said Min Zhou, a sociology professor at UCLA and author of “Contemporary Chinese America.” 
As China ’s economy has grown, she said, “sometimes I would hear people say, even jokingly, ‘Oh, you’re taking our jobs away.’ When I hear this, I feel, ‘Who am I? I’m American.’” 
Chinese -Americans also are acutely aware of China’s problems, such as pervasive pollution, widespread rural poverty and repression by the Communist government. 
“I don’t feel like China is stable. It has so many prob­lems, I feel like it’s ready to explode at any time,” said Amy Yuan Zhou, no relation to the professor, a 23-year­old UCLA postgraduate stu­dent who moved to America when she was 4. 
Those problems have been a longtime source of tension with America, especially with U.S. criticism of China’s record on human rights and Chinese retorts about American hypocrisy due to its racial problems. 
Now America’s first black president is forging a new image of inclusion, which could exert a subtle pressure on China to do the same. 
“An African -American president, that itself speaks loud,” said Li, the Brookings scholar. He said a Chinese minister of foreign affairs was asked at a recent press conference if he could imag­ine a minority as president of China, but did not answer. 
Li hoped that Obama’s trip could mark a turning point, from American finger-point­ing to a more respectful and cooperative exchange: “The 21st-century world requires a constructive relationship.” 
Another turning point for some was the 2008 Olympics in Beijing. “The distance between us seemed to shrink,” said UCLA professor Zhou. “That ’s pretty pro ­found for me.” 
“My parents liked seeing Chinese people succeed on a wider stage, especially in athletics,” said Nanci Zhang, the Los Angeles resident. “You and I both know what the Chinese are known for, things like physics and chemistry.” 
So which country did she cheer for? 
“The better one, ” she laughed, without elaborat­ing. 
Perhaps she couldn ’t. America took home the most medals: 110, including 36 golds. China was next with 100 medals — including a leading 51 golds. 
Illinois may house Gitmo inmates 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — Gov. Pat Quinn and U.S. Sen. Dick Durbin on Sunday tried to build support and counter criticism of a proposal to sell a prison in rural northwestern Illinois to the federal government to house Guantanamo Bay detainees and other inmates. 
Federal officials are expected to visit the maxi­mum security Thomson Correctional Center, about 150 miles west of Chicago, on Monday. 
Both Quinn and Durbin said the possibility of selling the prison to the federal govern­ment was a once-in-a-life­time opportunity to help cre­ate about 3,000 jobs, both at the prison and directly in surrounding communities in an area where unemploy­ment has topped 10 percent. 
“We have an opportunity to bring thousands of good-pay­ing jobs to Illinois when we need them the most,” Durbin said at a news conference in Chicago, one of several Illinois stops Sunday. “We have an opportunity to bring them to a part of our state that has been struggling and that’s an opportunity we are not going to miss.” 
Critics, including Republican members of Congress from Illinois and GOP candidates for governor, have been quick to condemn the prospect of the sale because of safety concerns. 
GOP gubernatorial candi­date Andy McKenna said Quinn’s plan to cut spending and create jobs includes bringing “terrorists to Illinois.” 
“I wholeheartedly oppose Governor Quinn and President Obama’s efforts to move Gitmo detainees to our neighborhoods,” McKenna said in a statement. 
The plan to consider using the Thomson facility was first reported by the Chicago Tribune. 
Thomson has been largely vacant since its construction in 2001 because of budget problems. The prison was built with 1,600 cells, but only about 200 minimum security inmates are held there. 
Durbin brushed off security concerns, saying convicted terrorists are already incar­cerated in federal prisons without incident. 
He said fewer than 100 of the inmates at Thomson would be Guantanamo Bay detainees if the Federal Bureau of Prisons buys the facility. Federal officials would even erect a more secure perimeter around the prison to beef up security, he added. 
“We’re here today to let the people know we’re not going to let the fearmongers carry the day,” Quinn said. “We’re going to do things right, the Illinois way." 
President Barack Obama’s administration wants to close Guantanamo Bay, a military run detention center in Cuba, and move the detainees to the U.S. so they can be prose­cuted for their suspected crimes. 
The detainees are alleged terrorism suspects who have been held often without charges since the beginning of the war in Afghanistan. 
Local and state officials will be at Thomson on Monday for an inspection by the Federal Bureau of Prisons and Department of Defense representatives. 
U.S. Rep. Donald Manzullo, a Republican whose district includes Thomson Correctional Center, was invited to Monday’s meeting with federal officials at the prison but he did not plan to attend, his spokesman Rich Carter said Sunday. 
Manzullo said he adamant­ly opposes the proposal, despite the jobs it would bring to the area. 
Federal officials were con­sidering Thomson along with a facility in Florence, Colorado and a site in Hardin, Montana. 
Some 215 detainees remain at Guantanamo Bay, and Durbin says the administra­tion has talked to other coun­tries about taking some of them. 
Durbin said he didn’t know when the Obama administra­tion would decide, but hoped Illinois would have an advan­tage because of Obama’s con­nection to the state. 
“He understands this part of our state, he knows the state of the economy there,” Durbin said. 
Quinn said he talked to Obama about a prison deal regarding Thomson during a recent trip to Washington 
Jack Lavin, a top aide to Quinn, said Quinn does not need legislative approval to sell the prison property. But the legislature would get involved when it comes to awarding jurisdiction if it becomes a federal prison. 


Monday, November 16, 2009 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Economy affects charity donations 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE — American charities have weathered a significant drop in giving this year, and while they’re hoping for a holiday mira­cle, a recent survey shows they will probably see a decrease in year-end generosity. 
In light of the economic down­turn, only 38 percent of Americans say they are more like­ly to give a charitable gift as a hol­iday present this year, compared to 49 percent last year, according to a survey conducted by Harris Interactive to be released Monday. 
Some of the biggest U.S. chari­ties say they are budgeting for a disappointing Christmas. 
The survey commissioned by Federal Way, Wash.-based World Vision indicates they are prudent to not raise their expectations for now. The survey did find, howev­er, that 74 percent of Americans plan to increase their charitable giving once the economy improves. 
The nation’s most successful fundraising organizations expect­ed to see their income decline by an average of 9 percent in 2009, according to the Chronicle of Philanthropy. 
Harris Interactive contacted 1,001 U.S. adults in a random telephone survey, and claims a 95 percent “confidence level.” 
About the same number of Americans are giving to charity these days, but they are giving fewer dollars, said Justin Greeves, senior vice president of Harris Interactive, which regularly polls Americans about their charitable giving. 
Times are doubly tough this year for many nonprofits because the need for their services is increasing at the same time dona­tions are decreasing, but Nancy Brown, chief executive officer of the American Heart Association, said her organization is doing its best to cut expenses not services. 
“I say this to our staff all the time: ‘Our mission is not in a recession’,” said Brown. The Dallas-based nonprofit ended its fiscal year on June 30 with dona­tions down about 11.8 percent, and a staff cut of 371 people or about 10 percent of its work force. 
The charity did grow in two ways this past year: both the number of donors and the num­ber of volunteers increased. “More people with less money is better than less people with less money,” Brown said. 
Northwest Harvest, operator of Washington state’s largest food bank, also reported volunteerism was up this fall while cash dona­tions were down. 
Executive Director Shelley Rotondo said the statewide hunger relief organization distrib­uted more food, in keeping with a record increase in need, during fiscal 2009 than in any time in the agency’s 40-year history. 
Film debuts about gay marriage 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY — Reed Cowan’s reasons for making a film about the Mormon church’s activism against gay marriage in California are personal. 
Himself gay and Mormon, Cowan clashed with his family over his sexual orientation and the beliefs of their faith, but it was a conversation between him and a sibling about her support of Proposition 8 cemented his commitment to make the film: “8: The Mormon Proposition.” 
“I thought, if this is the dia­logue in my Mormon family, then what is like in other Mormon households,” the Miami-area filmmaker and former Utah television jour­nalist said. “If this is the pain I feel over Prop. 8 and other Mormon efforts to quash (les­bian, gay, bisexual and trans­gender) rights, what is the pain of others multiplied all over the world?” 
While the 80-minute docu­mentary is still in production, a trailer posted on the Internet has caught the eye of both sides of the debate, viewed by roughly 70,000 people in its first 78 hours online. And the Web site that hosts the video has had nearly 28,000 visitors since it went online last month. 
Cowan contends that the church was the most influen­tial force in the campaign and paints the faith’s theology and culture as historically anti-gay. 
Internet commentary on the trailer is divided. 
Depending on the source, the movie is either an emo­tional and scathing indictment of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, or an unfair characterization of the Utah-based church’s beliefs and motivation for political involvement. The church was part of a coalition of faiths and conservative groups that pushed for approval of a gay marriage ban in California’s constitution. 
Church officials have seen the trailer and other online materials about the film, LDS spokeswoman Kim Farah said, and “it is obvious that anyone looking for balance and thoughtful discussion of a serious subject will need to look elsewhere.” 
Like many faiths, Mormonism defends tradition­al marriage as an institution ordained by God that is cen­tral to a healthy society. The church has consistently worked against legislation to legalize gay marriage since the 1990s. Last week, howev­er, church leaders endorsed a pair of Salt Lake City ordi­nances that make it illegal to discriminate against LGBT persons in employment and housing. 
Narrated by Academy Award winning screenwriter Dustin Lance Black — also gay and raised Mormon — the film chronicles the campaign and includes personal stories from straight and gay Mormons, including newly­weds Tyler Barrick and Spencer Jones, who married in San Francisco on June 17, 2008, the first day same sex marriage was legal in California. 
The film touches on gay sui­cide and homelessness, which many believe occur at higher-than-average rates among gay Mormons and highlights the strong opposition to gay rights from the Utah Legislature and lobbyists who are predomi­nantly Latter-day Saints. 
It also draws on past state­ments of former leaders and efforts to cure homosexuality with electroshock therapy at the church-owned Brigham Young University. 
Mormon church officials appear in the film in footage obtained through other film­makers, media outlets and in a church-produced video that appeared on the Web. 
Cowan said he “begged” for church participation — through both official channels and personal connections — but was rejected. “I got an immediate no,” he said. 
Alex Nibley, a Utah filmmak­er and digital media instruc­tor said the trailer’s powerful, high-quality footage promises an emotional look at it sub­ject. Still, he said, it appears to fit within the typically polaraized spectrum of film takes on the Mormon church 
— most either that promote the faith or attack its views. 


The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 10 Monday, November 16, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 

Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
All you need is love 
The peace camp has taken a lot of flack in recent years. However, America’s current wars overseas high­light just how right the peaceniks are. War is always bad. As Gandhi said, “I object to violence because when it 
James Napier
appears to do good, the good is 
Demarcating
only temporary, 
Democracy
the evil is perma­nent.” But acknowledging Gandhi’s wisdom counts for little if it is not acted upon. People must learn to always turn the other cheek or offer another child when confronted with violence. There is no room for moderation. If non-vio­lent beliefs are to spread, the world must confront the status quo on two fronts. It must cast aside institutions that promote violence and the means by which violence is committed. As a global leader, the United States should lead this movement by reforming her education system, military defense forces and her overall foreign policy. 
Many schools already have zero-tol­erance policies regarding violent behavior but these policies are insuffi­cient. It is not enough to prohibit bully­ing and physical fights. Schools must curtail even rough housing and aggres­sive play, like football, so that students 
— whether in elementary school or high school — learn violence is never OK. In addition to these prohibitions, schools must also teach the positive. Administrators should restructure classes to reinforce feelings of unity and minimize all differences within the student body. 
In order to advance non-violent atti­tudes in the general populace, people must learn by example. For starters, the police must alter the way they con­duct patrols. Maintaining order through intimidation and firearms is a policy bound to fail. Instead of driving around in impersonal cars and armed with lethal weapons, policemen should make a conscious effort to always smile and never carry lethal weapons. Unarmed policemen are more capable of maintaining peace and solving vio­lent situations. An even better way to create a safe environment would be if the president disbanded his body guards to prove the only protection anyone needs is goodwill. 
But it is not enough to implement non-violent policies at home while still conducting military operations abroad. The U.S. should dismantle all overseas military installations and bring the troops home. It is simply no longer acceptable to maintain power and prestige through force. The days of imperialism are over. Every country has the ability to protect its own citi­zens and the presence of American sol­diers only exasperates tense situations. The troops stationed along the 38th parallel in Korea, in Kosovo and on numerous other humanitarian missions should withdraw first. 
The military is not the only institu­tion preventing the realization of global peace; other culprits are government agencies like the CIA and the NSA. Not only do these organizations create mis­trust, but do they operate for the public interest? The fact that 27 known ter­rorist plots have been prevented since 9/11 speaks for itself. The problem is not merely the type of information pro­vided but how it is provided. “Black ops,” espionage and “getting your hands dirty” are all excuses to allow diplomacy to fail. In fact, other coun­tries would probably openly share information if the U.S. abolished clan­destine agencies. 
The sin of violence is also on the hands of the weapons manufacturers enabled by the United States govern­ment. Their weapons murder thou­sands of people every day. To achieve a more peaceful future, the U.S. must stop buying new weapons. Besides, with an unarmed police force and a greatly reduced military, there would really be no need to continue investing in weapons production. If America stops investing in arms development, other countries, even those on unfriendly terms, will probably follow suit. Without new bombs and warships, most wars would end — especially the wars in places like Somalia and the Democratic Republic of Congo where small arms and machetes are the weapons of choice. 
To be clear, this is no isolationist pol­icy; it merely focuses on promoting goodwill rather than aggression. To positively affect current geo-political trends, America must alter current pol­icy. Finding middle ground between the hawks and doves is not enough of a change. Instead of a presence consist­ing of bombs and spies, the U.S. should focus exclusively on economic develop­ment programs. 
Unfortunately, some still believe vio­lence is a tragic necessity. History has taught a good lesson on this issue. Men like Martin Luther King Jr. and Gandhi successfully altered their societies and the ripples of their actions are still being felt. Given what they accom­plished under democratic govern­ments, one can only imagine what they could have accomplished in Stalin’s Russia or Pol Pot’s Cambodia. 
Hopefully, America will soon realize the lessons of history and one day be known as the remnant of a super power — toothless and small. If the suggestions in this column are heeded, that day might not be far away. 
James Napier is a senior history major. He can be contacted at jnapier@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


News Sports 
OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Joseph McMahon Laura Myers What are you looking forward to most Molly Madden Eric Prister in the next two weeks? 
Carly Landon Matt Robison 
Graphics Viewpoint 
Thanksgiving 
“Gratitude is happiness

Mary Cecilia Lianna New Moon 
doubled by wonder.” 

Mitsch Brauweiler Last home football game 
Scene 
G. K. Chesterton 
Other Jess Shaffer 
English writer 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Monday, November 16, 2009 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

We need stability 
It is not a surprise that almost immediately after the last seconds ran off the clock for the Navy game the “dump Charlie” critics were again out in force. We looked bad in that game. Our offense was pathetic and our defense just didn’t show up (although Coach Brown is correct in his criticisms of the cheap shots by some of the Navy defensive players — there were some leg whips that weren’t called as well as numerous crack-backs). However, we had too many chances to win to end up losing. 
The real question is: What is to be done? Before the student body and alumni take on the persona of the mob in an old Frankenstein movie, I would ask them to consider the following: Where are the most rabid anti-Weis remarks coming from? The answer is that the noise is loudest from the anti-Irish among the media. Mark May and his ilk, including the usual suspects at ESPN are the ones urging Charlie’s ousting. This is not just about Charlie. I believe that there is a subtext to this: They want to keep the Irish football program in continuous disarray. Granted, we started this ourselves with removing Lou. Davie was hopeless. Willingham a politically correct disaster. And as a consequence, our fortunes suffered. We lost games, credibility and respect. 
I believe these anti-Irish noisemakers want it to stay that way. And they know the only way that they can do this is to keep us in a state of flux through a game of musical chairs for the position of head coach. 
Is Charlie the right guy for the job? I don’t know. I hope so. We are beginning to come out of the hole Davie fell into and Willingham dug deeper. Charlie deserves credit for getting us back to ground level. Now let him show us that he can climb the mountain. To change coaches again now is to fall back in the hole. What we need is stability. I was here when Ara was. We wanted to win every game then, too. And we expected to, but we didn’t. We lost to Purdue three times and only gar­nered one win against Michigan State. Losing hurts and none of us like it. Getting back on the coaching carousel might sound like a cure, but I think it will only prolong the hurting — and the losing. 
Perry W. Aberli 
alumnus 
class of 1969 
Nov. 12 

Be classy, respectful 
As the Connecticut game approaches, I wanted to bring attention to the students, band members, cheer­leaders and all fans of Notre Dame football to be aware of the chants used at this game. I was already surprised at the chants used during the Navy game, seeing as some of them are not appropriate while playing a team that is literally fighting for our freedom. After seeing no change in that, I wanted to make sure to ask everyone to not do the “kill” cheer when we play Connecticut this week. For those who are unaware, its starting corner­back, Jasper Howard, was stabbed and killed earlier this season. I think as an honorable, Catholic college, we should at the very least be sensitive to this and not use this cheer. I hope we can put some competition aside and respect their loss. 
Lizzie Laughman 
junior Le Mans Hall Nov. 14 


Bring back Brown 
I will preface this with the acknowledgement that the Irish secondary has grossly underper­formed on the field this year compared to pre-sea­son “on-paper” expectations. The reason could be anything from coaching to players being over­rated. Nonetheless, my biggest disappointment this year has been the “disappearance” of Corwin Brown. 
This comment definitely comes on the heels of the Nov. 12 articles reporting Brown’s comments about Navy. No matter how one may perceive those comments, since he arrived at Notre Dame in 2007, Coach Brown has displayed an unmatchable enthusiasm for the game and the University. Moreover, he has earned a reputation as a good recruiter and a coach the players respect. For these reasons, no matter what occurs with Charlie Weis, I would like to see Corwin Brown back on the Notre Dame sideline next season. 
During Coach Brown’s first season with the Irish, I enjoyed his chest-bumping and camaraderie with the players despite a 3-9 performance. His appear­ance and reactions on the sideline let me know that someone on the staff “got it.” And while I did not question the move of Jon Tenuta to defensive coordinate at season’s start (the guy coached top­25 defenses at Georgia Tech and many referenced him as a coach Notre Dame should aspire to have during the 2007 season), I thought Corwin Brown’s young defenses had progressed. 
At season’s start, my dream scenario involved Coach Weis in the coaches’ box upstairs calling plays and Coach Brown on the sideline communi­cating with players. Word out of the Dome after the bowl game last December was that administra­tion officials were impressed by Brown’s pregame and halftime speeches to the players during the Hawaii Bowl. And that turned out pretty well, I believe. Unfortunately, conventionality won out, and here we sit at a very mediocre 6-4. 
Much as history tells us that Bob Davie should have promoted Urban Meyer from receivers’ coach to offensive coordinator in 1999 (most of us agreed with Kevin Rogers’ hire at the time), I believe time will show that Charlie Weis should have moved to the coaches’ box and given Corwin Brown the side­lines for the 2009 season. 
So no matter how this season ends, my biggest disappointment, besides the record of course, will be the “disappearance” of Corwin Brown. Because, as I said, the man gets “it.” 
Dan Laughlin 
alumnus 
class of 2001 
Nov. 12 
Ginger pride 
One generally expects to be able to go about one’s life without facing public intolerance of one’s unusual hair and uneven melanin. I was therefore shocked when I opened my Observer Nov. 13 to find myself staring at bold racism in three menac­ing panels of “The Mobile Party.” Needless to say, my weekend was ruined. 
Why must our community of higher learning be tainted by derogatory remarks about gingers? My people are important contributors to American society. We provide an elusive high standard for the hair dye industry (have you seen some of those magentas?). Gingers single-handedly keep the sunscreen industry afloat. If we are forced to hide indoors because of shame caused by comments like Hofman, Wade and Rosemeyer’s “gross,” how will Neutrogena continue to market its 85 SPF Ultra Sheer Sunblock? Our economy is in bad enough shape already. This racism must end. 
Some readers may scorn my cries. “Gingers aren’t a race,” you may tell me, as others have before, “merely a disease upon humanity.” I have viewed the sickening South Park propaganda about my people — lies, mere lies. Of course gin­gers are a race; we have a collection of so many recessive traits that we must surely be descended from a common genetic source. Consider Erik the Red, a hero of our ancestors, a proud and noble explorer. Would history have remembered some­one as boring as Erik the Dirty Blonde? I leave that for you to judge as you will. I ask all gingers and friends of the ginger people to join me, how­ever, in judging the authors of the hurtful strip from Nov. 13, as well as The Observer editors who deemed such hate acceptable for publication. We must stand firm until our people are freed from the shackles of bigotry. 
Megan Aldrup 
junior Holy Cross Hall Nov. 15 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The Observer 
Scene

page 12 Monday, November 16, 2009 

By COLIN RICH 
Scene Writer 

Critical respect and commercial viability make strange if not unlikely bedfellows in the music world, and nowhere is this contradistinction more apparent than in the modern rock’s psychedelic stratosphere. More often judged by album sales than album reviews, mainstream success comes infrequently to those that carve a psyche­delic niche rather than appeal to the broader rock pro­clivities of most listeners. What distinguishes psychedelia from other alternative rock is an instrumentalist view of technology and an ability to maximize sound through creative editing and a synthesis of traditional and futur­istic pop con­

ventions. Some of the most benevolent yet rapturous aural assaults of modern rock come not from the three-piece groups with a prominent lead guitar, but from the dizzying array of strings and synths characteristic of an entrancing psychedelic dissonance. 
Enter The Flaming Lips, a band as renowned for its critical acclaim as its immense commercial popularity over the past decade. Twenty-six years young, this formi­dable and fluxing gang of Oklahomans is currently a quartet that pivots on the direction of front man Wayne Coyne. These Dust Bowlers can attribute their status as an indie rock paragon to their longevity and the artistic breakthrough of 1999’s enthrallingly complex “The Soft Bulletin.” Lauded by fans and critics alike, this multi­faceted masterpiece drew primarily from the Beach Boys’ “Pet Sounds” for inspiration, utilizing synthesizers, drum machines and studio manipulation to depart from the band’s budding punk artistry. Succeeded by 2002’s 
“Yoshimi Battles the Pink Robots” and 2006’s “At War with the Mystics,” this euphoric triumvirate formed the basis for the band’s popularity, resonating with college youths and rock enthusiasts versed in classic psychedelic outreaches ranging from Pink Floyd to The Who. Thematically these three albums were built as one – they all speak with a hopeful optimism about characters who battle to achieve their destiny, overcome internal vices intrinsic to humanity, and seek to transcend a world fraught with wickedness. 
Now, 10 years after the release of “The Soft Bulletin,” the latest Lips release demonstrates another departure from the folds of their established conven­tions. The 12th studio release and first double album from the band, the aptly titled “Embryonic” is drenched in a sobering shower of evil, defeat and res­ignation to the inevitable. “Convinced of the Hex,” the album’s opener and closest semblance of a single, utilizes all of the musical effects inherent to a Lips pro­duction, but delineates the album from its sanguine, if not thematically naïve, predecessors almost immediately with lyrics like “She says I like your theory/But it won’t pass no test.” Perhaps a refutation of earlier optimism, other song titles suggest a similar dis­tinction from past glories such as “Evil,” a forlorn appeal to going back in time to correct one’s inequities, “Powerless,” and disc two opener, “The Ego’s Last Stand.” The album also features guest appearances by The Yeah Yeah Yeah’s Karen O, whose vocals were recorded by Wayne Coyne via phone, and MGMT, and does hit several pop highs with “I Can Be a Frog” and “Silver Trembling Hands.” 
“Embryonic” seeps slowly out of the stereo, wrapped in a cautious self-awareness that poses the most obvious difference from the triumphant signature ballads of The Flaming Lips. The album adds a solemn gravity to the typically atmospheric levity associated with the Lips’ brand of psychedelic musicianship. Yet these differences, whether they prove a definitive reorientation away from the band’s buoyant disposition or an ephemeral explo­ration of the murkier undercurrents of human nature, still make for an enjoyable album. Currently enjoying positive critical reception, the litmus test for “Embryonic” pivots around the opinion of Lips fans, who face a new sound and potentially a new direction from one of America’s preeminent psychedelic rock groups. 
Contact Colin Rich at crich@nd.edu 



the guy who was a TRL mainstay a few years ago. (Other musicians have not been so congenial, either. Students may remember that Good Charlotte so graciously took time out of their 2008 performance in the JACC to com­plain about the one audience member’s “has-been” com­ment.) 
Despite his early success as a pop heartthrob, his hair and his notoriety as Ashlee Simpson’s first boyfriend, Cabrera thrived in the small venue and intimate setting, and it’s obvious his music still attracts people. The early arrivals to Legends were almost exclusively female, but by the time Asiala was finishing up, a good number of guys had shown up. 

By JORDAN GAMBLE 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Ryan Cabrera’s trademarked the poofy, spiky hair long before Edward Cullen’s liberal use of hair gel ever start­ed to make girls swoon. 
That’s just one of the things the 27-year-old hasn’t changed about his act. His crooning love songs are still catchy as hell even five years after they first became pop­ular in 2004. The crowd at Legends on Saturday night knew all the 
words to songs like “40 Kinds of After a few songs, he took Some even held aloft signs saying Sadness” and “Exit to Exit,” and a off his jacket to reveal a “Marry me, Ry.” Cabrera laughed about few pockets of exuberant fans start-the display, especially a few with more 
Notre Dame T-shirt, which 

ed chanting for Cabrera’s biggest hit, explicit requests (Legends security con-
elicited a cheer from the 

“On the Way Down,” even before fiscated those ones). opening act Steve Asiala had left the floor. From the start, Cabrera kept up crowd 
stage. 

Though he released a third album, “The Moon Under Water,” in 2008, Cabrera mostly stuck to songs off 2004’s “Take It All Away” and 2005’s “You Stand Watching” for his 45-minute set. But the short performance still had room for some surprises. Standing alone on the stage with just his guitar, Cabrera wasn’t afraid to experiment. During one song, he slipped in snippets from Miley Cyrus’ “Party in the USA,” Hanson’s “MMMBop” and even Stevie Wonder’s “Superstition.” He also took on a song from Josh Kelley, who he toured with this summer. 
Even with Legends’ low stage and open floor, some performers have surprisingly managed to put up an aloof wall, proving distant and inaccessible despite the three-foot distance from the mic to the audience. It’d be easy to presume Cabrera would do the same – this is, after all, 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH | Observer Graphic 
energy. His thumping guitar led to a few rounds of beat-keeping claps from the audience, and more than once he posed with the front row for a picture to go on his Twitter. After a few songs, he took off his jacket to reveal a Notre Dame T-shirt, which elicited a cheer from the floor. He was engaging, chatty and clearly singing his heart out on songs like “Shine On” and the much-anticipated “On the Way Down,” which he let go on for a few more choruses so the crowd could sing along. 
People coming for a “Ryan Cabrera show at Legends” got exactly what they expected and then some: an ener­getic performer who was genuinely glad to be playing a fun, quick show. 

Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 
The Observer 
Scene

Monday, November 16, 2009 page 13 

By COURTNEY ECKERLE 
Scene Writer 

Originally called “The Boat That Rocked” in the U.K., the name change to “Pirate Radio” is literally banking on American’s ability to make a hit (or hits) out of anything having to do with the out­laws of the ocean. This second film out of Richard Curtis, writer and director of “Love, Actually” doesn’t fail in bringing these paisley and leather clad square pegs seamlessly together in a total ram­shackle comedy. 
Opening in the year 1966 and going through an epic year in the life of a rebel fraternity 


It’s fun, careless and 
of disc jockeys with Adorable enough mojo to make what-the-hell spirit comer Austin Powers look like a Sturridge plays 
make “Pirate Radio” 
total drip, “Pirate Radio” young Carl, who 
heartwarming batch of 
capitalizes upon every pos-will steal every sible stereotype imagina-vigilantism. a n g lophi le ’s 
ble about the time period, including the most out­landish outfits possible, with Rhys Ifans’ character DJ Gavin often looking exactly like Snoop Dogg in the remake of “Starsky and Hutch.” However, its hazy and floral-filled take on life makes for a spectacular romp through time, even pulling off possibly the most epic game of chicken ever conducted, and also is the first time the words “hep cat” have been used naturally in about 40 years. With headliners like The Who, Smokey Robinson and The Kinks, the music is practically another character, and one 
that is so stellar, the rest of the action has a hard time keeping up. 
A nearly unrecog­nizable Sir Kenneth Branagh’s performance as essentially “The Man,” or a prudish BBC government minister, is spectacularly rigid, with the bland boxy­ness of his scenes com­pletely contrasting with the colorful and swift-

With headliners like The Who, Smokey Robinson and The Kinks, the music escapade. is practically another If this movie is one thing, it is rock and roll. 
character, and one that is 
It’s fun, careless and so stellar, the rest of the what-the-hell spirit make 
action has a hard time “Pirate Radio” heart­warming batch of vigilan­
keeping up. 
Pirate Radio 
Universal Pictures 
Director: Richard Curtis Starring: Bill Nighy, Philip Seymore Hoffman, and Tom Sturridge 


changing frames on the ship. The only color in his wardrobe is fantastically aris­tocratic pinky ring that only someone with a crest or Italian with “connections” could possibly pull off. He also has what some might categorize as an unhealthy obsession with the Queen. His character contrasts greatly with the always sub­lime, always slightly tipsy seeming Bill Nighy, who has played a pirate before in the “Pirates of the Caribbean” trilogy, and has not lost his roguish touch in playing the ship’s more business-mind­ed leader, Quentin. 
Academy Award winner Philip Seymour Hoffman plays essentially the same character as he did in “Almost Famous,” although that is definitely not a bad thing. Just picture this role as a prequel to his 1970s counterpart. The comparison also begs the question fur­ther into the movie ­rock and roll movies have a near death scene? It takes ‘live fast, die 
young’ to a spec­
tacular level. 
heart as the quin­
tessential bashful, 
pale, shaggy haired British boy. 
In fact, the only way they can 
make his near total inexperi­
ence with girls plausible is by 
mentioning he has spent 
his whole life at all boys 
schools. As our guide 
through this boat, he 
does his job well in pro­
viding an outsiders view of 
the odd crew, including a par­
ticularly fascinating pirate named Thick 
Kevin, who is either very dumb or down­right brilliant, quick cameo 
tism. It’s fun for sure, but 
don’t expect anything but shallow waters when it comes to a good look at the movie’s historical inspiration, Radio Caroline. However, there is no denying the comedic energy of this amaz­ing cast. 
Contact Courtney Eckerle at cecker01@saintmarys.edu 


By BRANDY CERNE 
Scene Writer 

Thanks to Asian Allure, students at Notre Dame were transported halfway around the world on Friday and Saturday nights. The Asian American Association performed its annual cultural show cele­brating dances, music, and fashion of Asia. This show is their chance to spread a little bit of their culture to other stu­dents who either do not see enough of it on campus or do not know what Bhangra or Pukol are. 
Asian Allure used the theme of “Asian Allure Live” to tie the show together. Between the acts, the cast acted out vari­ations of famous “Saturday Night Live” skits, such as “the Cheerleaders” and “Night at the Roxbury.” Some of these went over better than others with the audience, such as “Coconuts,” a deviation from the popular “Cowbell” skit with Christopher Walken. While the skits were amusing, they were not the main focus of the show and were not nec­essary. Most of them only had a loose connection to the following performance. 
Many of the acts were energetic and fun for the audience. The show started out with one of the best performances, Modern Tinikling, a Filipino dance. Performers had to be light on their feet, as they jumped in and out of long bamboo sticks that were being hit on the ground and against each other to the beat of the music. The dance is indigenous, but in Asian Allure, today’s popular music was used. 
The Vietnamese Lion Dance was another crowd pleaser. Two students were in a traditional, ornate, lion costume and they danced to a mix of songs with widely known steps, such as “Soulja Boy” and “Cupid Shuffle.” 
Throughout the show, the dances that used the juxtaposition of traditional dances with modern and familiar music were the most enjoyable. These dances represented Asia’s rich history and tradition, which Asian students at Notre Dame chose to balance with their position as youth in a modern world. 
Some dances were strictly traditional, such as the Con Rong Chau Tien Vietnamese dance using fans and flags. Conversely, the KPOP act was performed by the Korean Student Association in stylish and provocative outfits. They danced to Korean pop music, instead of a historical dance. It was interesting to see a thoroughly modern representation of Korean culture. 
The Japan Club and the Chinese Cultural Society performed intense acts: Soran Bushi and Students of Shao-Lin, respectively. Students of Shao-Lin used fans and martial arts in a way that was comedic and playful, yet impressive. 
The Belly Dancing performance by the Arabic Cultural Club was traditional. However, it will always have a time­less appeal, so it translated well to today’s audience. The Bollywood dance also added fun to the night, capitalizing on the popularity of “Slumdog Millionaire” by using the song “Jai Ho.” 
Apart from the dances, there were several vocal performances. senior Simon Chun gave a notable performance of “Hallelujah,” and senior Jeanna Yoon sang a sweet and laidback version of “Fallin’ For You” with graduate studentJoe Hagmann on guitar. Senior Greg Abbracciamento had some difficulties when his mike did not work during his first performance, but his impressive piano 
skills were still on display. Thanks to the seemingly endless cheers from his fan club in the audience, he was able to come back out to perform “When You Were Young” by the Killers at the end of the show. 
Asian Allure does not feature flawlessly performed, professional dances, but this is part of its appeal. It is important to see how our friends and classmates present their cultures, which is such a large part of who they are and where they come from. Overall, Asian Allure was a fun and culturally rich night. 

Contact Brandy Cerne at bcerne1@nd.edu 
Observer Graphic I MARY CECILIA MITSCH 

page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Monday, November 16, 2009 
NFL 

Bengals beat Steelers to complete season sweep 
Cincinnati takes one-game lead in AFC North; Star safety Polamalu reaggravates left knee in first series 
because they own the tiebreak-
Associated Press 
er and, for the first time in their 

PITTSBURGH — Maybe it history, a 5-0 division record. wasn’t a concession speech, Usually by now they’re playing even if it sounded like one. The for next year, only to discover it Bengals spent most of the last may have arrived. 20 seasons chasing Pittsburgh, “This is a breath of fresh air and now it’s the other way to be at this point of the season around, and the Steelers realize and to be playing for a reason,’’ it’s a decidedly uphill climb. Chad Ochocinco said. “It feels 
‘’They’re clearly the best really good.’’ team in the division,’’ safety Especially when the Bengals Ryan Clark said after the almost appeared to be waiting Bengals beat the Steelers 18-12 for the something bad to hap-on Sunday to take control of the pen, settling for four field goals AFC North. “I’d give my left arm by Shayne Graham after deep to play them again.’’ drive after deep drive didn’t 
Who could have possibly envi-produce a single touchdown. sioned the Super Bowl champi-They also played the second ons saying that about a rival half without ace running back they’ve largely dominated and, Cedric Benson, yet still found a at times, intimidated since the way to follow up their 23-20 1980s, especially with seven win over the Steelers on Sept. games left in the season? 27 — and in a city where they 
The Bengals (7-2) pulled it off had won only 13 times in 40 by beating the Steelers (6-3) at years, with many of those wins their own game in their own during the 1980s. stadium, where Pittsburgh had “It’s hard to really describe won its last 10. They smothered the feeling, when you’ve been Ben Roethlisberger and through so many times when Pittsburgh’s running game, you’re leaving this stadium and yielded only four field goals by you’re holding your head low Jeff Reed and converted a tight-from losing the game,’’ Graham as-it-gets game’s only big play, said. Bernard Scott’s 96-yard kickoff The Bengals, a lowly 4-11-1 return for a touchdown. last season, swept both 
“That’s probably the most Baltimore and Pittsburgh a sea-enough veteran guys to get to to them, despite gaining only said. “Something was weird grinding football game I ever son after those teams played for that point. We’re chasing 218 yards. They even got away about the day, I don’t know if it experienced,’’ Bengals coach the AFC title. They’ve won Cincinnati, and hopefully we get with messing up an extra point was the (mid-60s) weather in Marvin Lewis said. seven of eight and are 4-0 on to see them again.’’ attempt for the second time in November. We just didn’t make 
The Steelers were without the road. The Bengals were so Steelers-as many games against the plays we normally make.’’ star safety Troy Polamalu for all “In the past, we would lose like in a game in which the Pittsburgh. Ochocinco (2 catches, 29 but the opening series as he games like this,’’ center Kyle teams’ combined offense was The drive that mattered most yards) and Carson Palmer (18 aggravated the left knee injury Cook said. 444 yards, it was almost as if stretched over four minutes late of 30 for 178 yards) never got that previously sidelined him For the Steelers, it was a frus-they were copying from defen-in the game and ended with going, but there were no for four games. He underwent trating defeat after they had sive zenmaster Dick LeBeau’s Graham’s 43-yard field goal. He Bengals turnovers. Pittsburgh an MRI exam, but there was no won five in a row, scoring at playbook. They didn’t let the hit earlier from the 23, 32 and had one, and it mattered. immediate word about his sta-least 27 points in each. By win-Steelers convert any of their 32. Frostee Rucker returned tus. ning, they would have led the final 10 third-down plays, pres-The Steelers got the ball back Roethlisberger’s interception to 
Whether they have Polamalu division and controlled the sured Roethlisberger into going with slightly less than two min-the Steelers 14 on Pittsburgh’s or not the rest of the way, the momentum; now, Clark con-20 of 40 for only 174 yards with utes to play, but Roethlisberger opening drive of the second Steelers realize they’re in big cedes, they may be playing for a four sacks and bottled up threw incomplete on four con-half, but, settling into a familiar trouble. wild card unless the Bengals Rashard Mendenhall (36 yards, secutive downs from the 33, script, the Bengals came away 
By sweeping the season series collapse. 13 carries) a week after he ran and it was over. only with Graham’s field goal. for the first time since 1998, the “We still got to find a way to for 155 yards in Denver. “There was just something Only this time — and this was Bengals effectively lead get to the playoffs,’’ cornerback Most of all, the Bengals didn’t missing all day, I don’t know the change — they didn’t settle Pittsburgh by two games Deshea Townsend. “We have let the Steelers’ defense dictate what it was,’’ Roethlisberger for losing. 


CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Considering Adoption? ND Alums  “The faculty of desire in accordance  Three random quotes from the Iliad:  Yzma: So, is everything ready for  
PERSONAL  Hoping to Adopt. If you are an expectant mother searching for a  TICKETS  with concepts, insofar as the ground determining it to action lies  Yes, I’m that cool. Book One  tonight? Kronk: Oh, yeah. I thought we'd  
family, please see our website at  within itself and not in its object, is  1) Invocation and summary of the  start off with soup and a light salad,  
Prayer to the Blessed Virgin. (never  http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro- HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will  called a faculty to do or to refrain  story of the Illiad:  and then see how we feel after that.  
known to fail). Oh, most beautiful  file.net.  pay top $$. 574-251-1570  from doing as one pleases. Insofar  "Sing, goddess, of Achilles ruinous  Yzma: Not the dinner. You know...  
flower of Mt. Carmel, fruitful vine,  ———————————————  ———————————————  as it is joined with one's conscious- anger  Kronk: Oh, right. The poison. The  
splendor of Heaven, Blessed  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade  ness of the ability to bring about its  Which brought ten thousand pains  poison for Kuzco, the poison cho- 
Mother of the Son of God,  not go it alone. Notre Dame has  FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232­ object by one's action it is called  to the Achaeans,  sen especially to kill Kuzco, Kuzco's  
Immaculate Virgin, assist me in my  many resources in place to assist  0964.  choice ; if it is not joined with this  And cast the souls of many stalwart  poison. That poison?  
necessity. Oh, Star of the Sea, help  you. If you or someone you love  consciousness its act is called a  heroes  Yzma: Yes! That poison.  
me and show me, herein you are  needs confidential support or assis­ wish. The faculty of desire whose  To Hades, and their bodies to the  Kronk: Got you covered.  
my mother. Oh, Holy Mary, Mother of God, Queen of Heaven and  tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-17819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For  FOR RENT  inner determining ground, hence even what pleases it, lies within the  dogs And birds of prey." Lines 1-5  Yzma: Excellent. A few drops in his drink, and then I'll propose a toast,  
Earth! I humbly beseech you from  more information, visit ND's website  subject's reason is called the will.  2) Zeus, explaining the absolute  and he will be dead before dessert.  
the bottom of my heart to succor  at:  andersonNDrentals.com. HOUSES  The will is therefore the faculty of  power of his will to Thetis, the moth- Kronk: Which is a real shame,  
me in this necessity. There are  http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  ———————————————  desire considered not so much in  er of Achilles:  because it's gonna be delicious.  
none that can withstand your  ———————————————  4 BDRM HOUSE ON 32 ACRES  relation to action but rather in rela­ "Nothing can be revoked or said in  ———————————————  
power. Oh, show me herein you are  If you or someone you care about  OF NATURE AND SERENITY. 9  tion to the ground determining  vain  Pacha: What happened?  
my mother. Oh Mary, conceived  has been sexually assaulted, we  MILES NORTH OF NOTRE DAME.  choice in action. The will itself,  nor unfulfilled if I should nod my  Old Man: Well, I threw off the  
without sin, pray for us who have  can help. For more information, visit  $1,200 FOR WEEKEND. CALL  strictly speaking, has no determin­ head." Lines 526-527  Emperor's groove.  
recourse to thee (3x). Holy Mother, I  Notre Dame's website:  GEORGIA PEACH BED AND  ing ground; insofar as it can deter- Book Three  Pacha: What?  
place this cause in your hands (3x).  http://csap.nd.edu  BREAKFAST @269-357-6979.  mine choice, it is instead practical  3) Hector, rebuking his brother for  Old Man: His groove! The rhythm in  
Holy Spirit, you who solve all prob­ ———————————————  reason itself. Insofar as reason can  lack of honor:  which he lives his life. His pattern of  
lems, light all roads so that I can attain my goal. You who gave me the divine gift to forgive and forget  WANTED  522 Napoleon Street: 1-2 student Nice ktchn,bath,2bdrm,storage Washer/dryer. 5 blks W. off ND Ave.  determine the faculty of desire as such, not only choice but also mere wish can be included under the will.  "Paris, you handsome, woman-mad deceiver, you shouldn't have been born, or  behavior. I threw it off. And the Emperor had me thrown out the window.  
all evil against me and that in all  $580/mo+utl (219)629-5483  That choice which can be deter- killed unmarried.  Pacha: Oh, really? I'm supposed to  
instances in my life you are with  PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­ ———————————————  mined by pure reason is called free  I wish you had-it would have been  see him today.  
me. I want in this short prayer to  appt., no experience needed, cus­ “The Last Unicorn is the best movie  choice. That which can be deter- far better  Old Man: Don't throw off his groove!  
thank you for all things as you con­ tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835.  ever!!!” Laura Myers  mined only by inclination would be  Than having you our shame, whom  Pacha: Oh, okay.  
firm once again that I never want to  ———————————————  ———————————————  animal choice. Human choice, how- all suspect,  Old Man: Bewaaare, the grooove.  
be separated from you in Eternal  Part time help needed at UP Mall.  “I’ve already started thinking about  ever, is a choice that can indeed be  Or having the long-haired Acheans  Pacha: Hey, are you gonna be all  
Glory. Thank you for your mercy  Must be good with kids and have  places that it would be comfortable  affected but not determined by  laugh  right?  
toward me and mine. The person  clean driving record! Email resume  to be homeless.” Jess Shaffer,  impulses, and is therefore of itself  When you appear as champion- Old Man: Grooove...  
must say this prayer 3 consecutive  and days available to: northcoas- Scene Editor and PLS major  not pure but can still be determined  champion beauty­ ———————————————  
days. After 3 days, the request will  trr@gmail.com  Qualifications for ideal homeless- to actions by pure will.”  But have no strength, nor character,  Yes, I’m a PLS major.  
be granted. This prayer must be  ness include: warm weather, friend­ - Kant, retold by PLS major looking  nor courage." Lines 40-45  
published after the favor is granted.  ly cops  for a nice park bench. Or a job.  Was there even a quetion?  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Around theNat on 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 

Monday, November 16, 2009 
page 15 

AP Preseason Men’s Basketball Rankings 
team previous 
1 Florida 1 2 Alabama 3 3 Texas 2 4 TCU 4 5 Cincinnati 5 6 Boise State 6 7 Georgia Tech 7 8 Pittsburgh 8 9 Ohio State 10 10LSU 9 11 Oregon 14 12 Oklahoma State 17 13 Penn State 19 14 Stanford 25 15 Iowa 15 16 Virginia Tech 20 17 Wisconsin 21 18 Clemson 24 19 Brigham Young 22 20 Oregon State NR 21 Miami (Fla.) 12 22 USC 11 23 Utah 16 24 Houston 13 25 Rutgers NR 
NCAA Men’s Football BCS Rankings 
team W-L 
1 Florida 10-0 2 Alabama 10-0 3 Texas 10-0 4 TCU 10-0 
5 Cincinnati 10-0 6 Boise State 10-0 7 Georgia Tech 10-1 8 LSU 8-2 9 Pittsburgh 9-1 10 Ohio State 9-2 11 Oregon 8-2 12 Oklahoma State 8-2 13 Iowa 9-2 14 Penn State 9-2 15 Virginia Tech 7-3 16 Wisconsin 8-2 17 Stanford 7-3 18 USC 7-3 19 Oregon State 7-3 20 Miami (Fla.) 7-3 21 Utah 8-2 22 Brigham Young 8-2 23 Clemson 7-3 24 Houston 8-2 25 California 7-3 


around the dial 
NHL 
Devils at Fliers 
7p.m., Versus 
NFL 
Ravens at Browns 
8:30p.m., ESPN 
NASCAR 

Jimmie Johnson takes title in Phoenix 
Associated Press 
AVONDALE, Ariz. — When a fluke accident cost Jimmie Johnson a huge chunk of his points lead, he knew there was no more room for error in his bid to win a NASCAR record fourth consecutive champi ­onship. 
But when it came time to plot a strategy for Phoenix International Raceway, playing it safe was never an option. 
Johnson cruised to a dominating victory Sunday that moved him to the edge of history, winning the fourth race 
of this Chase for the Sprint Cup championship in what his rivals consid­ered a “statement” show­ing. 
“I guess in the end it could be looked at like that,” Johnson acknowl­edged. “It was, ‘Hey, guys, you know, we need to step up and get it done ... we need to show what we’re made of, we need to get this done.’ 
“I guess in the end, it could have been a state­ment that we’re sending. I’m very proud of the fact we looked each other in the eyes, knew what we had to do, and deliv ­ered.” 
Johnson was wrecked on the third lap of last week’s race at Texas, and sat inside his disabled race car as his crew did a total rebuild of the Chevrolet. He limped to a 38th -place finish that sliced his lead in the standings to just 73 points over Hendrick Motorsports teammate Mark Martin. 
His win at Phoenix — Johnson’s fourth in the last five races here, and seventh victory of the season — stretched his lead to 108 points over Martin heading into the finale at Homestead ­Miami Speedway. Johnson needs to finish 25th or better next week to grab a spot in NASCAR’s record books. 
“We gave it everything we had, ” said Martin, who finished fourth. 
Martin has gained 108 points on Johnson nine times in 265 races, including last weekend at Texas. He did it once at Homestead, in 2005. 
He ’s not counting on catching Johnson this year, and the sentimental favorite for the champi­onship will likely finish second in the final stand­ings for a fifth time. 
He’s the only driver still in mathematical con ­tention to catch Johnson. Fellow Hendrick driver Jeff Gordon will be elimi­nated as soon as Johnson starts next week, and Johnson’s win at Phoenix knocked everyone else out of contention. 
IN BRIEF 
Hendrick denies deal with IndyCar’s Patrick 
AVONDALE, Ariz. — Rick Hendrick said Sunday he has no deal to bring IndyCar superstar Danica Patrick to NASCAR, and there’s no certainty she’ll even be driving stock cars next season. 
“I just think that they are not even close to making a decision on whether to even do it this year or next year,” Hendrick said of Patrick and her repre­sentatives at IMG. 
“You never know until it’s done. You never know until it’s signed. And any­body can change their mind. When you get down to the nitty gritty of any deal, it’s always complicated. There can always be someone who comes back and says ‘I can’t do it because of this.’ So until it’s done, it’s not done. And that’s the honest truth.” 
Patrick is reportedly in the final stages of a contract that would partner her on a limited Nationwide Series schedule with JR Motorsports, the team owned by both Hendrick and Dale Earnhardt Jr. 
Browns sign free agent punter as insurance 
CLEVELAND — The Cleveland Browns signed free agent punter Reggie Hodges in case Dave Zastudil can’t kick in Monday night’s game against Baltimore. 
Zastudil has been bothered by a sore right knee and was limited in practice all week. The team listed him as questionable — a 50 percent chance of playing — on the injury report. 
The Browns worked out several punters on Friday and decided to sign Hodges, who appeared in four games this season for Tennessee. Hodges has also played for St. Louis, Philadelphia and the New York Jets. He was waived by the Titans on Oct. 27. 
Zastudil, who has had knee sore­ness all season, has been one of the few bright spots for the Browns (1­7). His 25 punts inside the 20 is best in the NFL. 
Rookie Delmas misses game due to infection 
MINNEAPOLIS — Detroit Lions starting free safety Louis Delmas was held out of the lineup due to an infected tooth and jaw and right guard Stephen Peterman was taken to the locker room on a cart with a leg injury in the third quarter against Minnesota. 
Delmas felt increasing discomfort dur­ing warmups before Sunday’s game. He was replaced by Marquand Manuel, who left in the third quarter with a shoulder injury. 
Peterman was injured later in the peri­od when he was tangled up in a pile dur­ing a blitz. He limped off the field and there was no immediate word on the nature of his injury. 
The Lions said Delmas was available to play, but questionable to participate. 
Kalvin Pearson replaced Manuel, whose return was announced as questionable. Cornerback Jack Williams hurt his knee on the same play that Manuel did, and his return was also listed as questionable. 

page 16 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, November 16, 2009 Monday, November 16, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
NFL 

Henne leads last-minute drive in Miami win 
Carpenter’s feld goal with 10 seconds left gives Miami the victory; Emotional Tomlinson leads Chargers over Eagles 
Miami (4-5) won despite los-I’m playing, but when I saw said. ‘‘You hate to lose. That’s finding ways to help this team 
Associated Press 
ing running back Ronnie Brown that ball I was thinking, ‘Don’t the only thing on my mind.’’ win.’’ 

MIAMI — Chad Henne stood to a right ankle injury in the drop this,’’’ Sperry said. The replay review helped The score of the Broncos’ 27­on the sideline stewing about third quarter. Tampa Bay (1-8) Williams ran for 102 yards Miami build a 13-point halftime 17 loss at Washington — the costly interception he had was unable to build momentum for Miami, and Brown rushed lead. With the Bucs at their Denver’s third straight — was just thrown and rooting for the after beating Green Bay a week for 82 and a touchdown before own 4 late in the first half, announced moments before Tampa Bay Buccaneers to earlier. his injury. Michael Clayton bobbled a pass kickoff in San Diego. The score. The Dolphins fell behind 23-The Dolphins’ defense and Taylor snatched the ball. Chargers then went out and 
Henne wanted the ball back. 22, then started from their own stymied Freeman in the first The throw initially was ruled won their fourth straight. 
Tampa Bay obliged, taking 16. Henne hit Davone Bess for half. He fumbled a snap under incomplete, but following a The Chargers and Broncos, the lead with 1:14 to go. Henne gains of 25 and 16 yards, and center and Miami recovered to replay review — and a penalty both 6-3, play next Sunday in then directed a 77-yard drive, Ricky Williams ran for 27 yards end a Bucs scoring threat. He on an irate Bucs coach Raheem Denver. Four weeks ago, the Dan Carpenter kicked a 25-to the 7. mishandled a shotgun snap and Morris for unsportsmanlike Chargers appeared dead in the yard field goal with 10 seconds Carpenter came on to kick his lost 13 yards to stall another conduct — the officials credited water, 3 1/2 games back after remaining and the Miami fourth field goal, more than drive. He fumbled twice when Taylor with an interception and losing 34-23 to the then-unde-Dolphins beat the Bucs 25-23 compensating for the extra-sacked, although the Bucs gave the Dolphins the ball at feated Broncos. Sunday. point attempt he had blocked in recovered each time. the Bucs’ 8. ‘‘We didn’t know it would 
‘‘We had a minute left,’’ the first quarter. Then Freeman hit Maurice Miami scored two play later happen this fast,’’ quarterback Henne said. ‘‘It’s your time to Henne, a second-year pro, Stovall with a 33-yard touch-when Henne hit Sperry for a 5-Philip Rivers said. ‘‘We believed go out there and make a come-finished 17 for 31 for 175 yards down pass on the first play of yard score. we could get ourselves back in back.’’ and improved to 4-2 as a the final period to cut Miami’s ‘‘This loss is solely on me,’’ it.’’ 
Henne’s heroics spoiled the starter. lead to 19-16. Linebacker Morris said. ‘‘Getting a personal Eagles running back Brian Bucs’ comeback led by Josh ‘‘I told him after the game in Quincy Black intercepted foul as a head coach is totally Westbrook was knocked out Freeman, who rallied his team the locker room, ‘You grew up Henne at the Dolphins’ 26 with unacceptable. I’m taking those with another concussion. He in the fourth quarter for the today,’’’ teammate Jason Taylor 1:43 left, setting up Carnell points; that’s how much we lost had missed the previous two second time in two NFL starts. said. ‘‘It’s a maturation process. Williams’ 1-yard touchdown by. I should take the blame for games after a concussion dur-The rookie shook off an awful He’s going to make mistakes. run to put the Bucs ahead — that. I used the wrong type of ing a win against Washington first half and led Tampa Bay to We all make mistakes. I still do but only briefly. language to the official.’’ on Oct. 26. a pair of late touchdowns. after 13 years. The key is to Freeman finished 16 for 28 The Bucs’ Connor Barth tied ‘‘In these types of situations, 
An ill-advised pass by Henne bounce back when you do, and for 196 yards. an NFL record held by three football is secondary,’’ coach was intercepted to set up that’s what he did today.’’ ‘‘That kid is going to be other kickers when he made Andy Reid said. ‘‘You’ve got to Tampa Bay’s go-ahead TD. A pivotal replay reversal good,’’ Taylor said. ‘‘He has three field goals of 50 yards or look at this kid and for his With the Bucs at the Miami 1-helped the Dolphins score 10 great poise for a young quar-more. They covered 51, 50 and future, and make sure every-yard line, Henne said he want-points in the final 1:25 of the terback. He moves around well. 54 yards — the three longest thing’s OK for him before he ed them to score quickly to give first half. The sequence includ-I’ve got a lot of respect for that kicks of his career. gets back out there.’’ him more time for a rally. ed a touchdown catch by Kory young kid.’’ Philadelphia’s Donovan 
‘‘It’s tough, especially when Sperry, making his NFL debut Freeman found little comfort Chargers 31, Eagles 23 McNabb threw for a season­it’s your fault with that inter-after being signed from the in such praise. Motivation came in different high 450 yards, completing 35 ception,’’ he said. ‘‘But you practice squad Saturday. ‘‘I feel pretty miserable right forms for the San Diego of 55, and two late touchdowns. can’t let it bother you forever.’’ ‘‘I don’t think that much when now because of the loss,’’ he Chargers on Sunday, from He was intercepted in the end 
Denver’s loss to the little sur-zone by Antonio Cromartie on prise LaDainian Tomlinson’s the game’s last play. wife left in his locker. The Eagles (5-4) made it 
Tomlinson’s career certainly inside the Chargers’ 10-yard isn’t finished and neither is the line three times only to have to AFC West race. settle for field goals by David 
Tomlinson ran for a season-Akers . high 96 yards and scored twice ‘‘When you have those oppor­to continue his climb up the tunities to score we have to career rushing and scoring pound it in there,’’ McNabb lists, and the Chargers beat the said. ‘‘We definitely tried, but Philadelphia Eagles to pull into credit to them, but they stopped a tie atop the AFC West with us, obviously, from running the the slumping Broncos. ball into the end zone.’’ 
Asked if something happened The last time the Chargers that gave him motivation, L.T. played the Eagles, on Oct. 23, got a little emotional. 2005, Tomlinson was held to 7 
‘‘I don’t know if I want to talk yards on 17 carries, his career about it,’’ he said. ‘‘My wife is low for a regular-season game. pregnant. I found out before His previous season-high was the game. She left me a gift in 71 yards in a win at Kansas my locker. It said, ‘Open imme-City three weeks ago. diately.’ I thought it was a Tomlinson scored on a 3-yard necklace. It was a pregnancy run to give the Chargers a 14-0 test.’’ lead four minutes into the sec-
The child will be the couple’s ond quarter. Midway through first. LaTorsha Tomlinson suf-the third quarter he chugged fered a miscarriage in 2005. 20 yards through the right side 
Fired up about fatherhood, of the Eagles’ defense to make Tomlinson passed Thurman it 21-6. Thomas and Franco Harris and Rivers threw touchdown moved into 12th place all-time passes of 20 yards to wide-open with 12,145 yards. His two fullback Mike Tolbert in the touchdowns gave him 146 and first quarter and 20 yards to moved him past Marcus Allen Legedu Naanee in the third and into third place on the all-quarter. Rivers was 20 of 25 for time list. 231 yards and no interceptions, 
‘‘It’s kind of surreal,’’ with a rating of 131.8. Tomlinson said of his latest Naanee was flagged for accomplishment, noting that he excessive celebration for kneel-has a ball autographed by ing in front of a Chargers Harris in his trophy case. ‘‘I cheerleader and handing her grew up watching all those the ball. The Chargers had to guys. It’s mind-boggling that I kick off from their 15. Naanee am third all-time.’’ said it was spontaneous. 
It appeared for a while in the The Eagles were stuffed their offseason that L.T. would be a first three times inside the San salary-cap casualty, but the Diego 10, including when they sides finally agreed to a had the ball first-and-goal from reworked contract. He turned the 1 after Quentin Jammer ‘s 30 in June, then sprained his pass interference penalty in the right ankle in a season-opening end zone in the second quarter. win at Oakland. He missed the They had to settle for field next two games, the first time goals of 18, 25 and 25 yards. in his brilliant career that he McNabb threw a 5-yard pass missed regular-season games to Jeremy Maclin early in the due to injury. fourth quarter and 6 yards to 
‘‘I’m still effective,’’ he said. tight end Brent Celek with 7:12 ‘‘That’s all that counts. Still left to pull the Eagles to 28-23. 


page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, November 16, 2009 
NFL 

Saints hold on against Rams to stay unbeaten 
Bush scores twice to push New Orelans over St. Louis; Rice racks up 201 yards as Vikings roll past Lions 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS — Reggie Bush helped the New Orleans Saints overcome another bundle of mis­takes to stay unbeaten for the best start in team history. 
Bush scored twice for the first time in more than a year and Drew Brees compensated for two interceptions with two touchdown passes that allowed the Saints to escape with a 28-23 victory Sunday over the St. Louis Rams. 
Courtney Roby opened the sec­ond half with a 97-yard kickoff return and Robert Meachem’s 27­yard grab early in the fourth quarter gave New Orleans (9-0) just enough breathing room to tie the franchise record with nine straight wins. 
‘‘You’re not going to blow every­one out,’’ said cornerback Randall Gay, who played on the Patriots’ 16-0 team in 2007. ‘‘It’s a lot harder to blow teams out when for a lot of teams, this is like their playoff game.’’ 
Marc Bulger’s 19-yard pass to Donnie Avery made it a five-point game with 2:44 to go and the Rams (1-8) made it to the New Orleans 32 before Bulger threw incomplete into the end zone on the final play. Tackle Alex Barron was called for holding on the play, which would have ended the game regardless. 
The Rams had no timeouts on their final drive and burned a lot of clock on Bulger’s 5-yard check-down to Steven Jackson the previ­ous play, leaving them just enough time for one final snap. 
‘‘It would have been really nice to pull it off,’’ Bulger said. ‘‘There’s a reason they’re unbeat­en. They made plays when they had to.’’ 
The Rams had a season high for points against a defense that played most of the second half without both starting corner-backs. Tracy Porter limped off with a left knee injury in the opening minute and Jabari Greer was inactive because of a hurt groin. 
Turnovers hurt more. The Saints had three for a four-game total of 13. 
They also stalled on offense late in the game, scoring fewer than 30 points for the first time in five games, and opening the door for the Rams. 
‘‘We’re not content with where we’re at, and we’re certainly not content with the way we’ve played these last few weeks,’’ Brees said. ‘‘We need to close the game out when we’re given the opportunity.’’ 
St. Louis got big games from Avery, who caught two touchdown passes, and Jackson, who had 131 yards and a touchdown on 26 carries and totaled a season-high 176 yards from scrimmage. 
The Rams faced their third straight unbeaten team at home 
— a first in NFL history. They fared much better against the Saints than against the Colts (a 42-6 drubbing) and Vikings (a 38­10 loss). 
‘‘Tough one,’’ coach Steve Spagnuolo said. ‘‘Tough, tough, tough, tough.’’ 
Jackson was at his bruising best again for the Rams, who were coming off their bye and a victory over the Lions the week before that ended a 17-game losing streak. He has 6,206 yards in his sixth season, passing Lawrence McCutcheon (6,186) for third on the franchise career list. 
Before exploiting the Rams with 83 yards on six carries with a 55­yard jaunt and adding two recep­tions for 15 yards, Bush hadn’t done much this season. He scored four touchdowns the first eight games but with only 194 yards rushing. 
‘‘I don’t feel like I’ve dropped off at all,’’ Bush said. ‘‘I feel like I’m still the same person, I don’t feel any faster or slower. 
‘‘I think coach gave me a lot of opportunities to make plays and I think I was able to do that today.’’ 
The Rams saw the electrifying player taken second overall in the 2006 draft, and the two-TD game was his first since Oct. 18, 2008. Bush vaulted over a defender on a 3-yard run for the game’s first score and won a footrace to a cor­ner of the end zone on a 15-yard reception. 
‘‘Yeah, he’s a handful,’’ Rams linebacker James Laurinaitis said. ‘‘He’s a game changer.’’ 
Vikings 27, Lions 10 
Even when Sidney Rice is tightly covered, Brett Favre isn’t afraid to fire a pass downfield. 
Favre’s new favorite receiver just keeps fighting through the contact and coming up with the ball, perhaps finally making Minnesota fans forget Randy Moss. 
Favre passed for a season-high 344 yards, 201 to Rice, and the Vikings overcame several self-inflicted setbacks to beat the Detroit Lions on Sunday. 
‘‘Sidney never surprises me,’’ said Adrian Peterson, who rushed for 133 yards and two touch­downs. ‘‘I have a nickname for him, and it’s ‘Showtime.’ He’s got it tattooed on his arm. It fits him well.’’ 
Thanks to Favre’s arrival at quarterback and a summer spent working out with some of the game’s greatest receivers, Rice has emerged as quite a threat for the surging Vikings (8-1). What he lacks in speed he has made up for with precision, position and poise. 
‘‘It seems like each game he’s getting better and better,’’ said left tackle Bryant McKinnie. ‘‘Some of those catches are definitely Randy Moss-esque.’’ 
The Lions (1-8) joined the Houston Oilers, from Nov. 21, 1982 through Nov. 4, 1984, as the only NFL teams to lose 31 games in a 33-game stretch, according to STATS. 
‘‘You see the progress and see that we’re improving,’’ linebacker Julian Peterson said. ‘‘We just can’t get over that extra hump.’’ 
After a slew of injuries and more poor pass coverage, the Lions dropped their 12th straight at the Metrodome despite keeping another game close for three quarters. 
‘‘We came in with our first goal, which was to stop Adrian Peterson, but with Favre landing bombs like he did it was kind of hard,’’ linebacker DeAndre Levy said. ‘‘It throws off everyone, from the D-line to the cornerbacks.’’ 
Peterson lost a fumble and threw a bad pitch to Percy Harvin for another turnover, both inside the Detroit 20 in the first half. The Vikings committed a season-most 13 penalties, totaling 91 yards. 
‘‘We’re not here to try to impress people,’’ linebacker Ben Leber said. ‘‘We’re here to get some wins.’’ 
The Favre-Rice combination has been impressive, particularly in the past month. In the past four games, Rice has 27 receptions for 553 yards. 


Monday, November 16, 2009  The Observer  SPORTS  page 19  
SMC CROSS COUNTRY  MEN’S SWIMMING  
Belles finish fourth in MIAA Championships  Irish win first in Big East Sparked by victory in medley relay, Irish win 13 total events  

Calvin College takes top honors; Freshman 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 

phenom Kenney records best time for SMC 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 
The Belles finished the 2009 postseason exactly as they did in 2008, placing fourth in the MIAA Championships and 17th in 
t h e  N C A A  D i v i s i o n  I I I  
Regionals.  
R e g i o n a l s  w e r e  r u n  

Saturday in Terre Haute, Ind. No.1 Calvin College took first place overall, and two other MIAA schools, Hope and Adrian, finished ahead of the Belles. 
The Belles had to fight sick­ness, with junior Catie Salyer, sophomore Arianne Rodriguez and freshman Megan Morrissey running under the weather, as well as junior Clare McVey being out for the race completely. Despite this challenge, many of the Belles’ runners posted low times and were rewarded with a team total of 462. 
Freshman Julia Kenney continued her remarkable season, posting the best time for her team for the fourth race in a row. Her time of 
24:18.20 was good enough for 61st overall. Close behind her in 63rd was sophomore Joanne Almond, who posted a time of 24:25.12, her best of the season. 
“Joanne was ready to run 
— the taper really prepared her for a solid performance and I believe we’ll see her continue to help lead the team next year,” Belles coach Jackie Bauters said. 


Senior co-captain Megan McClowry, who has been a team leader all season, took third for the Belles with an overall place of 105th. This was McClowry’s last race of her career, and Bauters said she would be greatly missed by the returning Belles. 
“Megan is such a great ath­lete she has been a joy to coach for the past four years,” Bauters said. “I’m constantly impressed at her ability to give so much at practices and to the team. Her leadership by example especially will be missed.” 
Other seniors that will be leaving the team include Taylor Flaherty, Kate Peters and co-captain Ellen Pfister. Key returnees include Kenney, Almond, junior Sam Wieczorek and freshman Emma Baker. 
The Belles will have plenty to build off of for a successful season in 2010. 
“I feel good about what we accomplished this season but know that we have a lot of 
The city of Pittsburgh was not without the echoes of one Irish victory this week­end. Notre Dame defeated the Panthers 179 -121 on Friday and won their sea­son’s first Big East event. 
“In past years, we have started off slow against Pittsburgh and have had to win the last couple events to win the meet,” senior MacKenzie LeBlanc said. “Our goal was to start off strong and take control of the meet early which was accomplished by everyone on the team.” 
The 200 -yard medley relay win from sophomore Petar Petrovic, senior John Lytle, LeBlanc and freshman Chris Johnson in 1:32.24 was the first of 13 total swimming events the Irish won against Pittsburgh and provided the team with momentum that stuck with them for the duration of the meet. 
Lytle and LeBlanc both received two other first places in individual races later in the meet. Lytle was the first to finish in the 50­yard freestyle (20.70) and 100 freestyle (45.12) events. LeBlanc’s gold finishes were for the 100-yard butterfly 
(51.20) and 200-yard but­terfly (1:50.31) events. 
Sophomore Ryan Belecanech won the 1,000­
y a r d  f r e e s t y l e  d i s t a n c e  
event  for the Irish. Other  
f i r s t  p l a c e s  

from juniors Michael 
helped take some pressure off during the second half of the meet,” Johnson said. 
For its sixth season in a row, Notre Dame has been able to beat the Panthers who boast a respectable and competitive swimming pro­gram and have given tough competition within the con­
ference for the 
Irish for many 
years. 
S u l l i v a n , C h r i s t o p h e r Wi l l s a n d J o s e p h  “The win against Pittsburgh was by far our best meet of the  “ T h e w i n a g a i n s t Pittsburgh was by far our best  
R a y c r o f t  i n  season as a team.”  m e e t  o f  t h e  
their respec- s e a s o n  a s  a  
t i v e  e v e n t s  t e a m  a n d  
h e l p e d  t h e  MacKenzie LeBlanc  gives  us  confi- 
Irish win.  Senior swimmer  dence heading  
On the div- i nt o t he Ohi o  
ing side of the  S  t  a  t  e  
c o m p e t i t i o n ,  I n v i t a t i o n a l  

Caleb Dunnichay took a first which is our biggest meet of place in the one-meter div-the semester,” LeBlanc said. ing event and received The Irish will see 
331.65 points for the Irish. Pittsburgh again at their Though a Pittsburgh diver next meet, the Ohio State took the first place prize in Invitational on Dec. 4, and the three-meter diving com-they will be back at petition, Irish divers Nathan Pittsburgh again for the Big Geary and Wes Villaflor East meet near the end of came in second and third the 2009-10 season. and gained a few more points for the Irish. 
“Diving is always an area Contact Molly Sammon at we can gain points, but it msammon@nd.edu 
talent that is waiting to be developed,” Bauters said. “I hope the ladies are ready to 
SMC SWIMMING
put in the work and continue thinking big—each season is better than the last and that‘s what we’re working on.” 
Belles drop dual meet to Carthage 
Contact Chris Michalski at 
jmichal2@nd.edu 
SMC remains winless despite strong performances from underclassmen 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Despite outstanding indi­vidual performances by a number of swimmers, the Belles fell to Carthage College in a non-conference dual meet Friday. The event, hosted at Purdue University, ended in a 139.5 to 65.5 final score in favor of the Lady Reds. 
Saint Mary ’s entered Friday’s meet winless after dropping the season opener to Kalamazoo College last Friday. 
Hoping to rebound this week, the Belles were unable to get past a strong front of Lady Red swimmers in both the individual and relay competitions. 
Carthage’s Amanda Croix, who was recently named NCAA Division III National Swimmer of the Week, paced all swimmers with an impressive time of 1:57.57 in the 200-yard freestyle, while also giving Carthage the edge in the 500 -yard freestyle with a finishing time of 5:17.44. 
In what has become a second in 4:12.66. continuing trend, Saint Competing in the 100-yard Mary’s was led by the out-breaststroke, Dalrymple standing performances of was the top finisher with a freshmen Katie Griffin and time of 1:11.74. She also 
E l l i e Wa t s o n  s w a m  t h e  
a n d  s o p h o - b r e a s t s t r o k e  
more Audrey Dalrymple. “ T h e y a r e y o u n g , s o  “They are so young, so they’re going to be around for a while.  portion of the 400-yard med­ley relay. G r i f f i n f i n - 
they’re going  All three of them are  i s h e d  s e c o n d  
to be around for a while,”  very good swimmers.”  i n b o t h 2 0 0 -y  a  t h e r d  
B e l l e s A l i  c o a c h c i a  Alicia Dombkowski  f r e e s t y l e a n d t h e 1 0 0 -y a r d  
D o m b k o w s k i  Belles coach  b u tterf ly w ith  

said. “All three of them are very good swimmers. Audrey qualified for nation­als last year, the first swim­mer from Saint Mary’s to qualify. Griffin is very close to two school records, and Ellie is very good as well, so they bring a lot of upfront talent to the team.” 
Watson took first in the 1,000-yard freestyle as she cruised to victory with more than 16 seconds to spare, finishing with a time of 
11:26.97. She also swam the butterfly leg of the 400­yard relay, which finished times of 
2:02.19 and 1:01.14, respectively, while also swimming the back ­stroke leg of the 400-yard medley relay. 
With the goal of a fourth place finish in the MIAA in mind, the Belles have a tough task ahead of them as they season wears on. Hoping to change their for­tunes, they will travel to Grand Rapids, Mich., for the Calvin Invitational next month. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 


page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, November 16. 2009 
Seniors 
continued from page 24 
Nicholas and Tara Enzweiler were honored prior to the match and were the Notre Dame’s starting lineup. 
“It was so fun having them on the court at the same time and to see them play togeth­er,” Brown said. “They have a really strong bond and have done a good job educating the classes under them.” 

Sciacca had six kills, two digs, and a block. Silva had 13 digs in the match. 
Overall, the Irish hit .293 for the match to the Bulls’ .164. Marcela Gurgel led the Bulls with 15 kills, and Alli Arbogast had 10 kills and four blocks. 
Notre Dame received its Big East regular-season champi­onship trophies Sunday after the match. 
“To win the regular season Big East is awesome,” 
Nicholas said. 
“It’s been a 


Phillips led “To win the regular goal since we 
all players season Big East is came into the with 19 kills, season, and 
awesome. It’s been a 
as well as put-we’re glad to ting in five goal since we came go 14-0. It’s a digs and a into the season and high note, it’s team-high six awesome to go 
we’re glad to go
blocks. Kaelin out with a
14-0.” 
put out 13 bang. It was a kills and a good way to go career-high out in the 
Jamel Nicholas 
two service JACC.” 
Senior captain
aces with four digs. Nicholas once again led Notre Dame in assists with 48 and had a team-high 14 digs, a kill, and two service aces. Fesl had three kills, 10 digs and four blocks while Enzweiler had five kills and five blocks. Kristoff added in two digs and two blocks of her own. 
“Our senior class is one of the most special classes com­ing in, and to go through this with them has been amaz­ing,” Nicholas said. 
Dealy had eight kills, three digs and a block while The Irish go 

into the Big East tournament as the No. 1 seed, and will start competi­tion Friday at 3:30 p.m. against No. 8-seed Seton Hall. 
“We wanted to go undefeat­ed and win the regular sea­son, and now that we’re past that, to win the conference tournament,” Brown said. “I think we’re in a good place and we can’t be satisfied, still have to work really hard.” 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

First place finish gives team pass to NCAAs 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
A first place finish at Saturday’s Great Lakes Regional cross country meet has earned the Irish women’s team an auto­matic team bid to NCAA nation­als, but the men’s seventh place finish ends the season for the team. However, senior Jake Walker earned the ability to compete individually. 
“It was by far the best race we have had all year, and I was very pleased with that,” women’s coach Tim Connelly said. 
Five of the top 40 finishers in the women’s competition were wearing the blue and gold of Notre Dame at the Great Lakes regional at Indiana University’s comparatively difficult and hilly course in Bloomington, Ind. Senior Lindsey Ferguson 
(20:58.62) led the way for the Irish and finished third overall. 
“Lindsey led the team to our victory,” sophomore Rachel Velarde said. “She has been an amazing leader for this team and has helped us through every race this year.” 
Ferguson was closely followed by freshman Jessica Rydberg 
(21:23.84) in 10th place, Velarde 
(21:32.40) in 15th and juniors Marissa Treece in 30th and Erica Watson in 36th. Freshman Rebecca Tracy (22:44.84) and senior Beth Tacl (23:04.50) fin­ished out the top seven starting team members whose 94 total points will allow them the opportunity to compete as a team at the NCAA nationals. 
The season ended for the men on Saturday, as they were not able to qualify for the national meet next week. 

“They ran more competitively in this race than they had in any other race this season,” men’s coach Joe Piane said. “I’m con­vinced that if they ran like that all season they would be going to the national meet.” 
In the men’s division, Jake Walker (31:21.10) was the first runner from Notre Dame to cross the finish line. His ninth place finish grants him the opportunity to compete as an individual and represent Notre Dame at the national meet. 
Following Walker at Saturday’s competition were sophomore Joe Miller (32.04.11), junior Dan Jackson (32:10.75), sophomore Jordan Carlson (32:34.90), sophomore Jonathan Shawel (32.46.31), junior Ryan Jacobs (32:57.92) and junior Paul Springer (34:16.88). All contributed to Notre Dame’s 207 total points. 
“Our goal annually is to get to the NCAA national meet and we did not get that this year,” Piane said. “I think it is safe to say the season has been disappointing.” 
Ferguson, Rydberg, Velarde and Walker were all given the honor of receiving all-region dis­tinction based on their competi­tive performances. 
The Notre Dame women’s cross country team and Jake Walker will compete in the NCAA national meet at Indiana State University’s course in Terre Haute, Ind., on Nov. 23 in search of a national title. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
HOCKEY 
Irish face continued ups and downs 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame’s roller coaster ride continued this weekend as the No. 8 Irish lost to Northern Michigan 3-2 Saturday and tied the Wildcats 2-2 Sunday before prevailing in a shootout 2-1 at the Joyce Center. 
Sophomore right wing Billy Maday scored both goals Saturday for the Irish (5-5-2, 2-2-2-1 CCHA) and converted his opportunity in the shootout to seal the victory. Nationally, the result will count as a tie, but in the CCHA standings, Notre Dame earned an extra point by win­ning the shootout. 
“Being down two-nothing we needed some kind of spark. It started with a power play goal,” Maday said of his first score of the game, in the sec­ond period. “Our team fed off that and played with some more jump and energy. From play I was able to find a loose that point on, we played more puck, out-waited the goalie a like the Irish hockey team bit, and I was able to wrap it everyone is used to seeing.” around [the goal].” 
Northern Michigan (3-5-2, Northern Michigan could not 
2-3-1-0) put the Irish down capitalize two goals within 42 seconds in chances to the second period. After a little more than two minutes had passed in 
“There were some 
the period, sen-
positive signs for us. 
ior Ray 
Kaunisto We grinded it out.” slipped the puck past Notre 
Jeff Jackson
Dame junior 
Irish coach
goalk eeper Brad Phillips. After the ensu­ing face-off, the on numerous 
score in the third period, includ­ing a nearly three -minute long five-on ­three power play. 
“[Not giving up a goal on that power play] was huge, espe­cially with the guys we had in the box [junior Ben Ryan, sen­ior Ryan Thang 
and senior Brett Blatchford] because we had some of our top penalty killers in the box,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “That made it much more challenging.” 
In the shootout following a scoreless overtime, Maday and junior Calle Ridderwall converted for the Irish, while Phillips only let one of the Wildcats’ three shots get behind him. 
“Tonight is the first night that [Phillips] shut them down in the third period,” Jackson said. “You have to finish the game … You have to be at your best at the most impor­tant time of the game.” 
Freshman goalie Mike Johnson started Saturday’s game, holding the Wildcats to three goals on 18 shots while senior Kevin Deeth and Ridderwall kept the Irish com­petitive with one goal apiece. Just as they did the next night, the Wildcats put Notre Dame into a two-nothing deficit, and senior goaltender Brian Stewart did not yield the lead. 
Notre Dame’s inability to come back the previous night made Sunday’s recovery even more promising to Jackson. 
“I give our guys credit for coming back from two-noth­ing,” he said. “It was a hard fought win, a tough game. Northern Michigan is a tough hockey team. There were some positive signs for us. We grinded it out.” 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Wildcats scored again, using their two shots in the period to that point for two goals. 
Maday gave the Irish hope once again six minutes later while the Wildcats were down one man on a power play, and he tied the game after less 
th an  t h r e e  min ute s  o f  t h e  
third period.  
“ [M y]  s e c on d  g oa l  wa s  a  

four-on-four situation,” Maday said. “Off of a broken down 


Monday, November 16. 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 21 
get some steals.” car, they keep us running. In the second half, the We ’re really playing the 
Lions 


Irish pulled away with stingy continued from page 24 defense and accurate shoot­
ing. Notre Dame stymied the turnovers continued to haunt Arkansas Pine-Bluff offense, the Irish as the Lady Lions which posted just 7-of -34 kept it close for the better shooting in the half while part of the first half. the Irish managed 19-of-34 
Arkansas Pine -Bluff was shooting. down just four at 19-15 until Notre Dame got solid con-
N o t r e  D a m e ’s  tributions from  
f u l l -c o u r t  n e a r l y  e v e r y  
p r e s s  f i n a l l y  p l a y e r  w h o  
b e c a m e  t o o  t o u c h e d  t h e  
m u c h  t o  h a n - “Our fans are like the  c  o  u  r  t  .  
d le . T h e I r i s h forced 14 first-half steals and  gas to our car, they keep us running.  B r u s z e w s k i w a s o n e o f e i g h t I r i s h  
2 2 t u r n o v e r s t o t a l o n t h e i r w a y t o 5 8 -3 4 halftime lead. “Bringing the  We’re really playing the game for them an just trying to make sure we show our  p l a y e r s t o score in double figures. Senior Ashle y B ar low h a d 1 5 p o i n t s  
e n e r g y r e a l l y h e l p s, ” f r e s h - appreciation.”  a n d D i g g i n s a d d e d 1 4 o f f  
m a n g u a r d Skylar Diggins  Skylar Diggins  t h e b e n c h i n front of a rau­ 
s a i d . m o r e  “ T h e t h a t  Freshman guard  c o u s c r o w d o f 9 , 0 8 0 , t h e  
we’re pumped,  largest ever for  
t h e  m o r e  w e  an  Irish home- 
g e t  a f t e r  i t .  opener.  

The energy really makes you “It was crazy,” Diggins said want to get up and get on of the record crowd. “Our the ball and that helps you fans are like the gas to our game for them and just try­ing to make sure we show our appreciation.” 
Despite the sizeable mar­gin of victory, Notre Dame’s performance was far from flawless. The Irish were ane­mic from the free-throw line, converting just 13 -of -25 attempts. And while the Irish defense forced 33 total turnovers, the offense gave most of them back, commit­ting 27 turnovers of its own. 
“I think we tried to play too fast,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “We were a little sloppy and we just made a lot of really bad decisions.” 
Shay Holmes led Pine Bluff with 14 points on 4-of -14 shooting. Jasmine Abrams had 13 points off the bench and Rekevia Brown added 12 for the Lady Lions. 
The Irish will play their first road game of the season when they travel for a top-ten showdown with No. 10 Michigan State on Thursday. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 


page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, November 16, 2009 
Clark 
continued from page 24 
season and now in the tour­nament, so we’re disappoint­ed. I think we wanted to get a winner.” 
Despite the result, the Irish controlled the tempo of play throughout much of the match. Notre Dame outshot the Red Storm 15-9, includ­ing 11-4 in the second half and overtime. 
“[St. John’s] doesn’t give up a lot of goals,” Clark said. “In good soccer, it’s not easy to score goals. Today, it was two good teams, certainly two of the best teams in the Big East. It was a hard fought match, and I thought we carried the game.” 
Senior forward and Big East Offensive Player of the Year Bright Dike came off the bench for the Irish, tally­ing six shots and three shots on goal in 81 minutes. After receiving a yellow card in the 30th minute, Dike appeared frustrated at times with the physical play of the Red Storm defense. 
Senior goalkeeper Derby Carrillo had four saves for St. John’s, including a spec­tacular fingertip save of a Dike header in the 56th 
Debut 
continued from page 24 
Dame debut, made all three of his 3-point attempts and was 5-for-5 shooting on the game. He and senior Luke Harangody each scored 19 points to lead Notre Dame. 
“I just made some shots today and got better from the 3-point line,” Hansbrough said. “I’ve been working on my jump shot with [Tory] Jackson in the gym. It’s been a year and a half since I played a real game, but it’s been fun.” 
Harangody, a preseason All-American and Big East player of the year, was able to pick his spots as his teammates all con­tributed offensively. 
“Everyone knows [Hansbrough] can shoot like that, and he showed it today,” Harangody said. “It’s so fun to play this offense because on nights like this, I really don’t have to do much.” 
As a team the Irish made 14­of-25 3-point attempts, and shot 56 percent from the field in the game. Peoples had 11 points and junior Tim Abromaitis scored 13 off the bench in a balanced offensive display. Jackson also had nine points and seven assists. 
“It was good to see Abromaitis get in there, because he’s going to have to score for us,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. 
Notre Dame also turned up the intensity on the defensive end, forcing 11 first half Osprey turnovers while not allowing North Florida to get to the free throw line. After con­verting many of those turnovers into points, the game was easily in hand and the Irish staked a 47-16 halftime lead. 
While the Ospreys had a far better second half, outscoring Notre Dame 49-39, many of those points came in the clos­ing minutes with Irish bench players getting minutes. 
Jackson said the team’s sec­ond half performance still gives them opportunities to improve. 
“I feel like we still have a lot of things to work on,” Jackson said. “We shot well today, but once we get ahead by 20-30 points we have to learn to make the same good decisions that got us there.” 
Guard Stan Januska led the Ospreys with 14 points on 5-of­6 shooting. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
minute. Carrillo ’s play extended St. John’s shutout streak to 510 minutes. 
While the match began slowly, with each side test­ing the other’s defense, the Notre Dame offense took attempts, senior Irish mid­fielder Michael Thomas ’s shot was shoved wide on a dive by Carrillo. 
On the ensuing St. John’s attempt, Quinn guessed cor­rectly but watched sopho ­
control in the second half. The Red Storm were unable to mount any sus­tained offensive pressure, in large part due to the excellent goalkeeping of senior Andrew Quinn. 
However, the Irish were unable to force a ball home in either regular time or over ­
“In good soccer, it’s not easy to score goals. Today, it was two good teams, certainly two of the best teams in the Big East.” 
Bobby Clark 
Irish coach 
more midfield­er Bjorn De Hoop ’s shot slice just past his out ­stretched hands. 
Each team made the remainder of their shots, but Carrillo ’s save was the decider. 
Notre Dame’s performance in the tourna­ment almost 
time, and Notre Dame head­ed to penalty kicks for the third consecutive match. 
“Looking at all three games, we were not trying to go to penalty kicks, playing the way we were, ” Clark said. “We were pushing and making moves and trying to win to the last. You can push and huff and puff, but if you can’t get it into the net, you end up gambling in penal­ties. That’s soccer.” 
After both teams made their opening penalty kick certainly locked up an at-large bid for the NCAA Tournament. The Irish will learn their fate this evening when the tournament selec­
tions  are  announced at 5:30  
p.m.  
“ N o w,  t h e  N C A A  

Tournament is our target,” Clark said. “The nice thing is we’re moving nicely into the tournament, and we’re hun­gry.” 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
“She had an amazing week-14-5. Against the Chippewas end,” Waldrum said. “There the Irish held a shots on goal 
NCAA 

was nobody on either of the advantage of 13-4 while out-continued from page 24 teams we played this week-shooting them 26-5. 
end that could deal with her “We came out real well,” assist. and her speed, her strength Waldrum said. “Friday night 
“We’re still playing, so that and her finishing moves.” at halftime we were able to means it was a good week-Senior forward Rachel rest most of our starters, and end, ” Irish coach Randy VanderGenugten scored the the same thing at the end of Waldrum said. “When you first two goals of her career [Sunday]. We were really can shut the over the week -pleased we were able to do opponent out, end, one in each that and stay healthy.” 
“[Henderson] had an
i t g i v e s y o u game, and soph-Central Michigan was mak­that added amazing weekend. omore midfield-ing its first appearance in confidence to There was nobody on er Ellen Jantsch the NCAA tournament in pro-bring into the added one gram history, and defeated 
either of the teams
next round ’s against IUPUI, No. 24 Purdue 2-0 to game.” we played this as did junior advance to face the Irish. 
In the next weekend that could forward Rose Notre Dame will next face r o u n d , Augustin against Oregon State Friday at 
deal with her and her
Henderson C e n t r a l Alumni Stadium. The gave Notre speed, her strength M i c h i g a n . Beavers upset No.3 -seed Dame a lead and her fnishing Augustin scored Florida Sunday, and, also in 
over Central on a free kick, in the Irish regional, Texas 
moves.” 
M i c h i g a n which instead of A&M beat No.4-seed LSU in a after only two lofting the ball shootout. The Irish tried not and a half Randy Waldrum over the defend-to focus on seeds or upset minutes of Irish coach i n g w a l l a n d possibilities, Waldrum said. play when hopefully past “The game itself is going to junior for -the goalie, she be a pressure game because ward Taylor Knaack’s shot fired a shot beneath the it is playoffs,” he said. “We bounced off the crossbar jumping defending wall, and really try not to talk about perfectly into place for Mannino barely made a play the seeding part of it Henderson to head it past on it, as she never expected because that’ll put on stress. Chippewa junior goalie Shay the low shot. We just try to come in pre-Mannino. Henderson finished Notre Dame dominated pared to play the game the day with four goals, both contests, outshooting itself.” including a hat trick in the the Jaguars by a margin of first half, as the Irish won 6-26 -11, and also holding a Contact Douglas Farmer at 
1. shots on goal advantage of dfarmer1@nd.edu 



Monday, November 16, 2009 The Observer  TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 





JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
COLIN HOFMAN, JAY WADE and LAUREN ROSEMEYER 
MOBILE PARTY UNIT 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Monday, November 16, 2009 page 24 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish complete undefeated Big East season 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame continued its Big East dominance and wrapped up a perfect conference sched­ule this weekend. The No. 24 Irish swept Georgetown Friday night to clinch the Big East regular season title and took down the University of South Florida Sunday as they hon­ored their six seniors. 
“It’s just been phenomenal,” Irish coach Debbie Brown said. “I think the team has been really focused throughout the season.” 
Friday marked Notre Dame’s (20-4) 11th regular-season title since joining the Big East con­ference and its first since shar­ing the title in 2005. The Irish swept the Hoyas 3-0 (25-22, 25-20, 25-19), improving them to 13-0 Big East. Notre Dame came back from behind in each of the sets for the win. Five Irish players delivered aces throughout the match as well. 
“I think today we completed one of the goals we set out for from the beginning,” senior outside hitter Christina Kaelin said. “I don’t think we’ve played at our best level so far, and that’s something that we’re looking to do. I think with practice and preparation that’s something we’re working on.” 
Junior middle blocker Kellie Sciacca led the Irish offense Friday with 12 kills. Sophomore outside hitter Kristen Dealy had nine kills and 11 digs, followed by Kaelin and senior Serinity Phillips, who each had eight. Sciaccia, Dealy and Kaelin each had a solo block as well. 
Senior setter Jamel Nicholas had a pair of kills, 33 assists and 10 digs. Sophomore libero Frenchy Silva put in 10 digs of her own. 
Kortney Robinson led the Hoyas with 12 kills, and Lindsay Wise with 5 blocks. 
Georgetown started off the first set in the lead, but Notre Dame fought its way back with kills from Sciacca and Kaelin, and aces from junior libero Megan Dunne and Phillips. The Irish had a strong 10-5 lead in the second set but the Hoyas mounted a comeback to tie it at 
15. A big kill from Phillips and an ace from Nicholas put them back on top to win the second set. 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

On Their Way 
Irish advance easily to third round of NCAAs 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame opened the NCAA Tournament with a statement — two, actually — by winning its first two games by a combined score of 11-1 at Alumni Stadium this weekend. 
The No. 2-seeded Irish (19­3-1) hosted IUPUI (17-5) in the first round of the tourna­ment Friday, and shut the Jaguars out 5-0 behind a combined effort in goal from junior goaltender Nikki Weiss and senior goaltender Kelsey Lysander. Sophomore forward Melissa Henderson led the offensive support by netting two goals and senior defender Haley Ford scored a goal and also had an 
see NCAA/page 22 

MEN’S SOCCER 
Irish fall to St. John’s in shootout 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
For the Irish, the third time is not the charm. 
No. 25 Notre Dame (10-7­4, 8-3-1 Big East) fell 5-3 to No. 14 St. John’s (9-2-9, 6­1-5) in penalty kicks after drawing 0-0 in regular time in the Big East Tournament Finals. The match was the third game of the tourna­ment decided by penalty kicks for the Irish, who downed South Florida and Louisville in earlier play. 
“We’re disappointed, very disappointed,” ninth -year Notre Dame head coach Bobby Clark said. “That’s two runner-ups between fin­ishing second in the regular 
see CLARK/page 22 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Squad opens schedule with victory 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish dominated the first regular season game played in Purcell Pavilion Saturday, demolishing North Florida 86­65. 
Notre Dame controlled the game from start to finish, and opened the game on fire from the perimeter. Senior guard Jonathan Peoples knocked down a 3 for the first points in the newly renovated arena, and sen­ior Tory Jackson and junior Ben Hansbrough each converted their first attempts from distance to put the Irish up 13-2 early. 
Hansbrough, who transferred from Mississippi State last sea­son and was making his Notre 
see DEBUT/page 22 

The final set saw multiple kills from Kaelin, Phillips, Sciacca and Dealy as Georgetown started strong but Notre Dame stepped up to tie it at 10-10. The Irish dropped the next point before recording a string of points to win the match. 
Notre Dame’s senior night was another successful event as it won its 14th consecutive match. The Irish took down the Bulls 3-1(25-18, 23-25, 25-21, 25-19). Seniors Kaelin, Phillips, Kim Kristoff, Megan Fesl, 
see SENIORS/page 20 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Eight players score 10 or more in win 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
High -pressure defense and dominating post play propelled No. 4 Notre Dame past Arkansas Pine-Bluff 102-57 in its season opener Sunday night at the Purcell Pavilion. 
The Lady Lions (0-2) had no answer for Irish for ­ward Becca Bruszewski as the junior led all scorers with 19 points on 8-of-14 shooting while grabbing 10 rebounds on her way to her second career double-dou­ble. 
“They sat in their zone and I was really just look­ing to slip inside for some easy buckets,” Bruszewski said. “I wasn’t hitting well from outside so I was cleaning up inside and just staying in the paint.” 
The Irish (1-0) came out sloppy, committing a num­ber of turnovers which led to an early deficit. Notre Dame didn’t grab its first lead until 4:10 into the game when a layup by sen­ior Lindsay Schrader made it 7-6. However, poor free throw shooting and more 
see LIONS/page 21 





