
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 44: ISSUE 18 THURSDAY. SEPTEMBER 17,2009 

Jenkins thanks staffduring town hall 
President and executive vice president discuss community initiatives, the University'sfiscal standing 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Wrirer 
University President Fr. John Jenkins and Executive Vice president John Affleck-Graves thanked members of the Notre Dame staff for their contribu­tions last year and updated them on University projects at the annual town hall meeting Wednesday afternoon. 
Jenkins began his address by thanking members of the Notre Dame staff for their hard work last school year. 
He said last year was his "most challenging and most rewarding year," citing the world financial crisis and President Barack Obama's 
Commencement speech as two key components. 
"Our Commencement was probably the most watched com­mencement in the history of higher education," Jenkins said. 
Jenkins said the Commencement speech demon­strated the special role of Notre Dame in higher education. 
"What other campus could focus with such discipline, faith and community?" he said. 
Jenkins also thanked the members of the financial team for their efforts in helping Notre Dame to deal with the financial crisis. 
"We have been blessed with an approach to spending that is 
see TOWN HALL/page 4 



Career Fair Expo packs Joyce Center 
Thousands ofstudents, hundreds ofcompanies come together for annual employment convention 
While the recession has cer­tainly impacted hiring practices, Associate Director for Alumni Career Programs Kevin Monahan said the job prospects have improved from last year. 
"Investment banks last year came just for interns -this year it's for full-time positions and interns, so there are some posi­tive signs," he said. 
The Career Expo allowed stu­dents to meet with prospective employers and form networking connections in hopes of landing either an internship or full-time position. 
see FAIR/page 3 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Pierce 
•


receives 
Sheedy 


award 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
NewsWrirer 
Richard B. Pierce, history professor and director of Notre Dame's Africana Studies program, has received the 
2009 Charles 
E. Sheedy Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching. 
The Sheedy Award, which is awarded 


annually to an 
Pierce

Arts and Letters faculty member who has "profound influence on undergraduate students through sustained exemplary teaching," is named for a beloved former dean of the College of Arts and Letters. 
Pierce, who has been a Notre Dame faculty member for 12 years, said his initial reaction to learning that he won this year's Sheedy Award was one of shock. 
"I was surprised and hum­bled," Pierce said. "Surprised first and humbled thereafter." 
Pierce received his under­
graduate  degree  at  
Valparaiso  University  in  
Valparaiso,  Ind.  and  his  

see SHEEDY/page 6 


By MEGAN HEMLER NewsWrirer 
Thousands of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross stu­dents and alumni, along with representatives from more than 150 companies, packed into the Joyce Center Fieldhouse Wednesday night from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. for the annual Fall Career Expo. 
In a change from last year, the Fall Career Expo and the annual Engineering Day career fair were combined into one event that was open to students of all majors. 


Students pursue research activities 
Undergraduates explore their academic passions through outside investigation 
By KATIE PERALTA 
News Wrirer 
Notre Dame students have long had the reputation of being bright and curious scholars. but some take their interest to the next level by participating in the University's Undergraduate Research Program, an opportu­nity for students to pursue their academic interests beyond the classroom. 
The University hopes to encourage more students to par­ticipate every year and present their work at the annual University Scholars Conference, which takes place each spring. 
Cecilia Lucero, assistant dime-tor for Undergraduate Research, said the amount of students who normally participate is difficult to gauge. 
"For the ·undergraduate Scholars Conference, at least, I would say 250 students," Lucero said. "Same with REU [Research Experiences for Undergraduates] and other summer programs." 
Lucero said the program attracts students from all grade levels. 
"Fewer first-year students," Lucero said. "But we did have a handful present at the Undergraduate Scholars Conference in the last two years." 
The program draws students from a wide variety of majors, Lucero said, but most from natu­ral sciences like biology as well as social sciences like psycholo­gy. 
"There are few business stu­dents, though, who undertake academic research in business fields, and we're trying to change this," Lucero said. 
The process of undergraduate research, Lucero said, is a long one -from brainstorming ideas to finding a faculty mentor to lin ding and applying for funding. 
"There's plenty of advantages," Lucero said. Some include, she said, the thrill of discovery, understanding of how scientists and scholars work, enhanced job 
see RESEARCH/page 4 


Law professor Carozza 


travels to Honduras 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Ediror 
The June 28 Honduran mil­itary coup that ousted then­President Manuel Zelaya received criticism from the United States and several international organizations, but a Notre Dame Law pro­fessor saw a bitterly divided country on a recent fact­finding trip to Honduras. 
Paolo Carozza, an associ­ate professor of Law and member of the Inter­American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR). helped investigate how the 
human rights situation in the country has fared since coup d'etat during a trip from Aug. 17-21 with the Commission. 
"It was just difficult on a very basic human level because it's a country in which there's so much polar­ization and conflict and very passionately and deeply held convictions on both sides about what happened and who was to blame and all of this," he said. 
As part of IACHR, Carozza said he observed the coun­try's current political and 
see HONDURAS/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY' S PAPER SMC gives career advice page 3 • Viewpoint page 10 • Live Nickelodeon at DPAC page 4 • Irish defense prepares for Michigan State page 24 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Full Disclosure 
Columnists are supposed to be origi­nal and not write about stories that get twice the coverage they deserve. But then again, presidents aren't sup­posed to call people "jackass." 
Ifyou have 
immersed your­self too deeply into the Notre Dame bubble, let me clue you in. Sunday night Taylor Swift won a VMA for "Best Female Video." In 

the midst of her Douglas Farmer acceptance speech, Kanye 
Assistant
West took the 
Sports Editor 
microphone and said, "Yo Taylor, I'm really happy for you. I'll let you fmish, but Beyonce had one of the best videos of all time." Kanye then walked off the stage. 
Before an interview officially began on Tuesday, President Obama called Kanye a "jackass." 
An ABC reporter immediately leaked the President's words onto Twitter, and ABC has since apologized to the White House, as the comment was meant to be "off the record." 
News flash: there no longer is any­thing "off the record." The recorders no longer turn off. Publicity is only a Facebook status or tweet away. Anything anyone does is fair game. And I say this as an aspiring journalist who would like to believe the opposite. 
But millions recently saw ESPN's best-looking reporter completely nude thanks to a video shot through a key­hole. 
In the past few years nearly half of our nation's elected officials have faced public ridicule for hiring prosti­tutes, living a double life in Argentina, soliciting sex in an airport bathroom, or some combination of the three. 
Every college student in the country has been lectured a dozen times about putting certain pictures online. Yet we all still do it, and will someday supposedly be fired when the picture involving too few clothes and too many roommates appears in our boss' e-mail. 
There no longer is a safe zone known as "off the record." Forget about encrypted passwords, dead­bolts, or safe words. 
Personally, I am going to embrace it. Let me be the first to admit, without too many details, I have done things I am not proud of, I have said things I should not have, and I will do both again many times in my lifetime. In fact, look at my headshot. My hair is a bit shorter, and I'm usually more rested than I was then, but that is close to what I current­ly see in the mirror. So now you even have a face to match to my words. 
I liked Janet Jackson's nipple pierc­ing. Taylor Swift's music hurts my ears, and Michael Floyd's hair is a disgrace to his athletic abilities. 
Mr. President, ifyou think Kanye West is a jackass, don't hide. Say it loud and proud. No need for any of us to hide anymore. There is nowhere left to hide. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmerl@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, September 17, 2009 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR 


Sarah Korbonits Charles Kaiser 
sophomore freshman LeMans Keenan 
'Tm sorry, but I "What's a can't reveal patronus?" that information to 
,
muggles. 

PATRONUS? 

Nick Gunty  Deanna Puddy  Katherine Saenz  
sophomore  freshman  junior  
Duncan  Regina  Regina  
"Sonic the  "Falcon, the  "A mystical  
hedgehog. "  Luck Dragon  ,unicorn.  
from The  
Never-Ending  
Story. ,,  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

KATIE GREENSPONffhe Observer Seniors Tatlana Estrada and Desiree Montealegre fill out nametags at the entrance to the Fall Career Expo and Engineering Industry Day on Wednesday. 
OFFBEAT 


check. But now the university is suing to get back the money she says she's already spent. 
Sara Gaspar of Granger says in court documents filed this week that she "thought finally something wonderful had happened" in her life when the school paid her a $29,387 tip on April 17. She said in court documents that she called the school's cater­ing department three times about the payment, but didn't hear back until she received a threatening call from the school in June. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
been drinking, and he answered that he had. Breathalyzer tests revealed blood alcohol levels above .08, the state's legal limit to drive. 
Krauss was charged with what Rolls said turned out to be his fifth DUI. Jail records showed he was later released on $20,000 bail. They did not list an attorney and his phone number was not listed. 
Notre Dame sues ex-worker over $29,000 tip 
INDIANAPOLIS A woman who worked catering events for the University of Notre Dame says it was her lucky day when the school tipped her $29,000 in her 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
:::1: 
ti 
LLI 
3: 
.... 

e
ct 
(.) 0 

HIGH 75 HIGH 63 HIGH 70 HIGH 72
...1 

LOW 52 LOW 53 LOW 52 LOW 53 IN BRIEF 

The Notre Dame Energy Center will be hosting a lec­ture on "Spain: Bringing Renewable Energy to the U.S. and Beyond" today at 5:30 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
The Class of 2012 is hosting a charity dodgeball tournament at the Bookstore Basketball courts today from 8 p.m. to 10 
p.m. Proceeds will go to the Right to Play charity. 
The Higgins Labor Studies program will be hosting a research workshop on "Transnational Labor and Counter-Hegemonic Globalization" Friday at noon in the coffee house of Geddes Hall. Associate professor Jackie Smith and Ph.D. student Ana Velitchkova will present. 
The "Rally on the Green" football pep rally will take place Friday at 6 p.m. at the Irish Green hospitality village, just south of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. It will feature entertainment on a main stage, plus roaming "kid­friendly" entertainment around the grounds. Food and bever­ages -including beer -will be available for purchase. 
Grammy nominated vocalist, composer and arranger Perla Batalla will be performing at the Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on Friday at 8 p.m. Tickets are $15 for students and are purchasable online or at the Ticket Office. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@ndedu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 




0,,,,,,,
,,,,,,, 
HIGH 77 HIGH 63 LOW 50 LOW 47 
Naked man rklng motorcycle charged with DUI 
OCALA, Fla. -Authorities say a Florida man was charged with driving under the influence after he was spotted riding his motorcycle naked. The Marion County deputy was driving on Interstate 75 early Tuesday when he spotted what appeared to be a naked man on a motorcycle. The deputy caught up with 45-year-old J. Dante Krauss at a red light and stopped him. 
Capt. Mike Rolls said Krauss could not explain where he was coming from or why he was naked. Rolls said the deputy asked him if he had 

Atlanta 78 I 67 Boston 60 I 50 Chicago 73 I 55 Denver 70 I 52 Houston 87 I 70 Los Angeles 82 I 64 Minneapolis 78 I 57 New York 65 I 56 Philadelphia 68 I 57 Phoenix 100 I 78 Seattle 7 4 I 57 St. Louis 80 I 60 Tampa 87 I 75 Washington 75 I 64 
Thursday, September 17, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Fair 
continued from page 1 
The Career Center held anum­ber of resume review sessions and mock interviews with students prior in the weeks leading up the Expo. 
"Workshop attendance has been greater at the Career Center," said Laura Flynn, assistant director for the Colleges of Engineering and Science. "Students tend to be tak­ing action sooner." 
Flynn also said one of the most important things she tells students is to "manage their expectations, due to the economic recession." 
Monahan said that while employers are still coming to the Career Expo, "Nobody walks out with a job or internship in hand, but face to face time still counts in recruiting." 
When asked about the options for non-business majors at the Fall Career Expo, Mr. Monahan said, "There are opportunities in marketing, teaching programs, and government agencies." 
Senior biology major Mary Bruels said, "This is the first time I've been here, so it's a little over­whehning, but I'm hoping I'll have some luck out of it." 
When asked about his experi­ence at the Fall Expo, senior Political Science major Aidan Gillespie said, ''I'm really interest­ed in post-graduate service, so I visited MatchCorps and Teach for America." 
Brittany Rose, a senior account­ing major, said she "didn't have time to visit everyone I wanted to because of the long lines, but I did get to meet with some people I didn't expect." 
The Career Center also held a debriefing session for students at 10 p.m. in Planner Hall to focus on interview preparation. 
Contact Megan Hemler at mhemler 1 @nd.edu 

College to offer on-the-go career advice 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
For students with tight sched­ules, the Career Crossings Office (CCO) of Saint Mary's is now offer­ing ceo on the Go from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. every Wednesday in the atrium of the Student Center for those who want quick career advice without having to set up an appointment. 
The Career Crossings personnel in the atrium offer the same serv­ices during this lunch period that they do in the office, but ceo on the Go is intended to answer more immediate needs, Tricia Dunton Assistant Director of the Career Crossings Office, said. 
Topics addressed by CCO on the Go include internship and job searches and resume reviews, Dutonsaid. 
"Students can drop off their resumes and have us look over their resumes while they eat lunch," Dunton said. 
The wait is usually no longer than five minutes, Dunton said. If students have more in-depth questions, she advised them to make an appointment at the ceo. 
Senior Communications major Emily Van De Somepele used CCO on the Go Wednesday to revise her resume in time for the career fair that took place later that night. 
"I used it [CCO on the Go] as a follow-up from a meeting I had at the office in order to make sure my resume looked right," Van De Somepele said. 
She said juniors and seniors should seriously consider turning to the ceo for help. 
"It's really important for juniors and first-semester seniors to start solidifYing things and looking for a job," Van De Somepele said. "Juniors can start looking for internships through CCO." 
Juniors and seniors are not the only ones who can benefit from the services offered. Freshmen often ask about internships and what they can do to position them­selves in their chosen career field, Dunton said. 
Dunton said CCO on the Go is valuable to the Office's mission. 
"I think it is important to remind people that we are here," Dunton said. "It's to remind them that we can answer a quick question, and they don't want to have to wait for a week to wait for an appoint­ment. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Pladomon lecturer speaks on feminism 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 
Feminism is considered a dirty word in today's dis­course, said Susan Douglas, chair of the department of Communication Studies at the University of Michigan, dur­ing the Plamondon Lecture Wednesday at Saint Mary's. 
Douglas explored the roles of feminism and sexism in the media during the lecture, explaining that the media portrays "have it all" women. 
The media, according to Douglas, depicts women as powerful, strong leaders who have control over men. These television shows, however, present the false presumption that the goals of feminism are no longer relevant. 
"What the media have been giving us then, my dears, over the past 15 years are 
fantasies of power," Douglas said. "Now the media illusion is that equality for girls and women is a complete accom­plished fact when it is not. Since the early 1990s much of the media have come to overrepresent women as hav­ing made it completely in the profession, and having gained sexual equality with men, and having achieved a level of financial success and com­fort." 
Highlighting the examples of Katie Couric, Hillary Clinton and Sarah Palin, Douglas argued that the media celebrates these women so as to create the impression of a general trend, rather than revealing them as exceptions. 
In reality, though, women who have just graduated from college make only 80 percent of what men make, Douglass said. 
"In 2007, when presumably some of the privileged girls who had advantages over boys had entered the work­force, they were still, secre­tary in first place, followed by registered nurses, elementary and middle school teachers, cashiers and retail salesper­sons," Douglas said. "Not a CEO or hedge fund manager in sight." 
Douglas argued that the media does not accurately portray women's roles in society. 
"Slithering just below the shiny mirage of power is the dark, sneaky serpent of sex­ism," Douglas explained. "The objectification of women is now fine." 
Women also are portrayed as tyrannical if they are able to achieve power, Douglas said. 
"Still despite everything, that pulses through our cul­
ture is the belief and the fear that one women have power they turn into Cruella Deville. Evil, tyrannical, hated, unloved." 
Another problem with the media's portrayal of women is the idea that women should find power from buying the right accessories, Douglas said. 
"True power comes from shopping, having the right logos and being hot," Douglas said. 
Douglas said women should come together to oppose what she saw as false portrayals. 
"The only way women can straddle all this is to be super women. To pull back the cur­tain on fantasies of power. I say, girls, we are all in this together," Douglas said. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



Fostering the Baptismal Priesthood in the"Year for Priests" 
Cardinal Roger Mahony 
Archdiocese ofLos Angeles 
Friday, September 18 4:oopm Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
SPONSOHEO BY 

Office of tlw Preside\\t I Dq>artmenl of Theology I Campus Ministry I (('ntPr for Sorial Com.l'fnS 
UNlVl!RSlTYOI' 
NOTRE DAME 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 17, 2009 
community. lenging, but also an opportunity down. Therefore g1vmg is there was a lot of positive feed­"The Eddy Street Commons is for the University to demon­down," AJlleck-Graves said. back, but it also enabled the




Town hall 
continued from page 1 
'conservative," he said. "We have been able to respond to cri­sis in an even keeled way. 
Jenkins also congratulated the audience of staff members for making Notre Dame one of the top-10 universities to work for in the country. 

He highlighted job satisfaction, employee benefits, quality facili­ties, safety and the employees' commitment to the University's mission as key factors in placing Notre Dame high on the list. 
Jenkins said Eddy Street Commons is a development that will help to integrate the University into the South Bend a beautiful facility, " he said. "It is a bridge between campus and the city." 

He also said the University is continuing to work on the open­ing of Innovation Park, which he hopes will enhance the local economy. 
In addition to these two initia­tives, Jenkins said the University continues to work on the Northeast Neighborhood Revitalization Organization as well as the Robinson Community Learning Center as part of Notre Dame's financial commitment to the community. 
Affleck-Graves addressed the audience about the University's economic situation. 
He said last year was chal­strate the strength of its commu­nity in the face of adversity. 
"What was most gratifying was everybody pulled together to get us through," Affleck­Graves said. 
He said the University is not alone with its fiscal struggles, citing other top universities that are also feeling the effects of the crisis. 
"In the industry of higher edu­cation, this is still a very difficult time," he said. 
Notre Dame's endowment has decreased from $7.18 billion to $5.58 billion, and donor gifts are down 34 percent from the 2008 fiscal year to the 2009 fiscal year. 
"People's individual wealth is 
He said Notre Dame needs to remain vigilant about controlling costs and that job protection remains one of the University's top priorities. 
Affleck Graves said the University is also working on three initiatives to benefit its staff: ND Renew, ND Voice and Improve ND. 
ND Renew is a project in its design phase that is headed by human resources. Its goal is to ensure that all employees have a market-competitive salary. Affieck-Graves said they hope to implement it in the spring semester. 
The second program, ND Voice, solicits feedback from employees. Affleck-Graves said University to identify areas of improvement. 
These include accountability, teamwork, and respect and fair­ness for all employees. 
Improve ND, the third initia­tive, was a study conducted to gather feedback about University services, Affleck­Graves said. 
He said the results were posi­tive overall, but one key area they needed to make better was value and pricing. 
"We (have to) explore how do we balance price, level of serv­ice, and the way we look after employees," he said. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonne1 @nd.edu 

Research 
continued from page 1 
and graduate school preparation and meaningful relationships with faculty, among others. 
The new Center for Undergraduate Scholarly Engagement (CUSE) helps stu­dents through the research process. 
"CUSE also sponsors the annual Undergraduate Scholars Conference and supports student academic journals and other symposia where students can present their intellectual work," Lucero said. 
This year's research students are enthusiastic about the prospect of scholarly discovery. 
James Masters, a senior chem­istry major, is conducting his research on the transition of metal-catalyzed reactions of organic compounds. 
Masters became interested in the topic after taking organic chemistry his sophomore year. 
"I quickly realized that I want­ed to perform groundbreaking research in the field," Masters said. "It's inspiring to think that our research may result in the synthesis of entirely new pharma­ceuticals or in more efficient syn­thesis of existing pharmaceuti­cals." 
Eleanor Huntington, a senior who majors in History and Film, conducted research at the Nakivale Refugee Settlement in Mbarara, Western Uganda, for her senior history honors thesis. She is writing her thesis on the Hutu Rwandese refugees follow­ing the genocide in Rwanda in 1994. 
"I wanted to learn more about the genocide after visiting the country during my 2008 fall study abroad program in Uganda," she said. 
Tim Reidy, a fifth-year architec­ture student, also chose to focus on Uganda as a subject of his research project. He plans on designing a marketplace for a town in northern Uganda. 
Reidy visited Uganda for the third time this past summer. 
"I would love to continue my work with Uganda, possibly through a Fulbright Fellowship [after graduation]," Reidy said. 
Master, Huntington and Reidy all received funding for their studies. The University also often awards credit to students who participate in undergraduate research. 
In addition to a grant proposal workshop held Wednesday, Undergraduate Research will hold a grant another workshop Wednesday, September 30, from 3:30-4:30 p.m. The deadline for submitting fall research propos­als is Friday, October 2. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 



Feed your future 
Tune in and learn why we're one of the best places to start your career. 
Begin at www.pwc.tv 






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, September 17, 2009 COMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVER:S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Mexico frees Indian woman 
MEXICO CITY -An Indian market vendor whose kidnapping conviction sparked an international protest walked out of prison Wednesday after authorities decided not to contest an appeal of her 21-year sentence. 
Jacinto Francisco Marcial's release was announced by the Mexico-based Miguel Agustin Pro Juarez human rights center, which has championed her defense. 
Marcial served three years in prison after being convicted of kidnapping six federal agents. 
Bights activists say her trial was full of irregularities, and that Marcial, an Otomi Indian, wasn't given access to an interpreter as required by Jaw. 
Fall election in Canada is unlikely 
TORONTO -A fall election in Canada grew increasingly unlikely Wednesday after the opposition New Democratic party said it would prop up Prime Minister Stephen Ilarper's minority government long enough to pass legislation to help the unemployed. 
The decision comes one day after the Bloc Quebecois party also said it would support Harper, and all but rules out an election this fall. 
The main opposition Liberals have vowed to try to topple Harper's minority govern­ment in a no confidence vote and planned to introduce a no confidence vote in late September or early October. However, they need the support of one of the other opposi­tion parties to topple the government. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Students protest coal use on campus 
COLUMBIA, Mo. -College students from Missouri to Oregon are urging their schools to stop using coal produced at campus power plants or purchased from private utilities in favor of cleaner energy sources ranging from wood chips to geothermal power. 
On Wednesday, students at the University of Missouri and other campuses across the country mounted a Sierra Club-led Coal-Free Campus campaign. The campaign began the same day a group of college presidents ral­lied in Washington in support of clean ener­gy legislation. 
Student organizers said colleges have a societal obligation to reduce and eventually eliminate coal use in favor of renewable energy. At Missouri, the school used more than 48,000 tons of coal to generate electricity. 
Woman spanks stranger's son 
CINCINNATI -A woman took a stranger's toddler son over her knee and spanked him three times inside a Salvation Army store after he said something that annoyed her, police said Wednesday. 
Gloria Ballard was arrested on an assault charge in the Tuesday incident. In a court appearance Wednesday, she asked for a pub­lic defender and a not guilty plea was entered for her. She was also ordered to stay away from 2-year-old Sean Goode and his mother, Donnay Jones. 
Outside court, Ballard denied wrongdoing and said she gave the boy a hug and gently patted his backside because he was upset. 
Jones said her son got spanked after Ballard told her she should make him behave. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Indiana exam scores are under par 
INDIANAPOLIS-State schools chief Tony Bennett wants a renewed commitment from parents, students and schools to improve test scores after results released Wednesday showed that about 70 percent of Indiana stu­dents passed their spring exams. 
Bennett believes 90 percent of students should be passing the" statewide tests in math and English, and said everyone involved with teaching children should take responsibility for the scores and act to improve them. 
''I'm sympathetic to circumstances that affect a child's ability to learn, but that can­not stop us from having high expectations." 

Anti-abortion activist remembered 
James Puillon praised for his dedication to pro-life cause after his death 
Associated Press 
OWOSSO, Mich. -An anti-abortion activist gunned down in a drive-by shooting was praised Wednesday as an unwaver­ing worker for his cause, even if some people didn't agree with his approach of holding a sign depicting a dead fetus. 
More than 250 people, including family, friends and other activists, gath­ered at an Owosso football field to remember James Pouillon, who was shot last week while holding his sign at one of his usual spots across the street from the school. 
"You may not have agreed with his tactics or his methods. But you could not -not -miss his com­mitment or his passion," pastor David Knox of Abba's House, a local church, told those gathered at Willman Field. "Jim shouted to the world what he was living for." 
Pouillon was the first of two people shot and killed Friday by 33-year-old trucker Harlan Drake, prosecutors said. Drake found Pouillon's methods irritating, especial­ly when he'd protest near the high school, police said. 

Drake is charged with first-degree murder in the Matthew Trewhella, 49, "Fortunately for us as a this week. deaths of Pouillon and 61-and his wife Clara drove six school district, even though Pastor Elmer Cox, of year-old gravel company hours from Milwaukee with this was a great community Church in the City in owner Mike Fuoss. Drake's nine of their 11 children. tragedy, things are back to Lansing, began the service family says he suffers from He last saw Pouillon in normal," Hammill said. with a prayer and asked for depression and was having August at an abortion "Students are back in class. forgiveness for Drake. trouble with his medicine. protest at the Woodward The kids are moving back Some of those who 
Some of those who Dream Cruise, a popular into their normal routine." attended the service later attended Wednesday's serv­event near Detroit that cel­For more than 20 years, gathered outside a Planned ice here about 70 miles ebrates car culture. Pouillon protested outside Parenthood clinic in northwest of Detroit wore "If every town had a Jim schools, City Hall, the Owosso, holding up the shirts emblazoned with Pouillon in it, like Owosso library and even the athlet­types of signs that made anti-abortion messages. did, abortion would be ille­ic field where he was Pouillon well-known here. 
The service was held at gal," Trewhella said. "Most remembered. The Vietnam The clinic does not perform the stadium to accommo­people play bingo at his veteran's activism began in abortions but it refers peo­date the crowd, a decision age, but here he was using 1988 when he traveled to ple to clinics that do. some residents criticized. an oxygen tank and speak­Atlanta to protest abortion, "Peaceful protest is a The Owosso Public Schools' ing for the unborn." his daughter, Mary Jo hallmark of democracy, and leasing of the field to the Officers from Owosso, the Pouillon, said before the violence should always be funeral home that conduct­county sheriff's office and service. rejected regardless of polit­ed the service for Pouillon state police stood watch but Mary Jo Pouillon said she ical or social motivation at was "strictly a contractual there were no disturbances. harbors no ill will toward any time or location, and agreement," not an endorse­Three trucks with anti-abor­Drake. especially near a school," ment of his views, tion messages and photos "He needs Jesus just like I Lori Lamerand, president Superintendent Chris Hammill moved through the streets do," she said. Her father's of Planned Parenthood of said. surrounding the stadium. body was cremated earlier East Central Michigan, said. 

SLOVAKIA 

New language law creates tension 
Associated Press government. at the cash register and speaking in 
Slovak Prime Minister Robert Fico Hungarian to one of the buyers when 
'NOVE ZAMKY, Slovakia -In a bor­has said the law does not apply to pri­someone in line warned her about her derless European Union that boasts vate individuals -only to officials choice of language. 23 official languages, one member, and state institutions -but there are "She said 'In Slovakia, Slovakian,"' Slovakia, has enacted a law that lim­clear signs the legislation has started recalled Szucs, adding that she had its the use of the languages of some to affect everyday life. never before faced such problems fellow EU members. "Some people are beginning to since she started working at the mall 
The extraordinary step has roots in abuse this law," said Eva Szucs, a in 1971. animosities that go back to the days of saleswoman at a shopping mall in The law, which took effect on Sept. the Austro-Hungarian Empire and Nove Zamky, a Slovak town with a 1, limits the use of Hungarian and has Slovakia's large Hungarian large Hungarian population some 35 Slovakia's other minority languages, minority afraid of being pursued by kilometers (21 miles) north of the bor­in public and calls for fines of up to the language police. der with Hungary. euro5,000 ($7,300) for anyone "mis­
Slovakia was once part of Hungary Since the law came into force on using" language. The terms of the law and is home to a population of Sept. 1, Szucs said she'd been are ambiguous, and officials have yet 520,000 ethnic Hungarians who com­involved in several incidents at her to spell out what constitutes an plain of discrimination by the Slovak workplace. On one occasion, she was infraction. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 17, 2009 


Sheedy 
continued from page 1 
Ph.D. from Indiana University in Bloomington. He is a lifelong Indiana resi­dent and was born in Ft. Wayne, about two hours southeast of Notre Dame. 
Pierce said he did not always plan to go into teaching, but that his career choice came down to a deci­sion between two post-grad­uate paths. 
''I'm here accidentally. We talk to students all the time about planning things and how to situate yourself for grad school. I did none of those things. I'm here by the grace of god," he said. "It came down between law school and grad school and I was more intrigued with graduate school and the exchange of ideas. I haven't regretted it." 
This semester, Pierce is teaching a freshman University Seminar in Africana studies, which he will also teach in the spring. He said he is excited to help introduce Africana studies to a new group of Notre Dame students. 
In the past, Pierce has taught both history and Africana Studies courses, and has tried to teach courses that include aspects of both subjects. 
Pierce said of all the courses he has taught, he finds it difficult to choose a favorite one. For him, the courses he has most enjoyed teaching have more to do 

with the students taking the class than with the subject matter. 
"It's not about the content of the course, it's really about the students in the course," Pierce said. "The courses that are most mem­orable to me are the ones with the best students in the class." 
In addition to teaching, Pierce is a fellow in the Kroc Institute for Peace Studies, teaches in Notre Dame's Pre-College summer program, advises the Africana Studies Club, and is a member of the faculty board of athletics, where he serves as a liaison to the women's golf and basketball teams. 
Pierce is also researching the history of corporal pun­ishment in American fami­lies. 
"Basically, what's the his­tory of Americans spanking their kids?" Pierce said. "Why do we do it?" 
Pierce has been conduct­ing research over the past two years and hopes to eventually publish a book on the subject. 
In his free time, Pierce enjoys playing golf and spending time with his three children. He also enjoys reading, but joked that reading has become less of a hobby since he started teaching. 
"I used to love to read, but reading's my job now, by and large, so I had to come up with a new hobby," Pierce said. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 

Honduras 
continued from page 1 
social workings and helped report on the discoveries. What they found was a country of division. 
"I think you really have to talk separately about the segment of the population that is strongly in support of the ousted president," he said. "The whole point of the kinds of human rights violations that we verified while there were designed and used in order to pre­vent effective vocalization and participation of his supporters." 
The IACHR noted suppres­sion of media outlets that reported on the coup, arbi­trary detention of support­ers and the usc of undue military force in squashing demonstrations by the de facto government. 
But another group of Hondurans had a different experience in the wake of the governmental upheaval. 
"Outside of that, the pop­ulation is -I wont say unaffected of course -but affected indirectly, but in very different way," Carozza said. "Thny are not only happy with transition, but quite convinced that it's for the benefit of social peace and tranquility and development." 
And those opposing view­points make the conflict intractable, Carozza said. 
"It is those people who support the ouster of President Zelaya that often don't see the kinds of abus­

cs that arp, being made by the de facto authoritip,s," he said. "They don't recognize the gravity of what's going on with a whole segmp,nt of the population." 
During the trip, the IACHR sought to ensure that the de facto govern­ment was abiding by inter­national obligations. 
"Whether or not the peo­ple in power have constitu­tional legitimacy under the Honduran constitution, they 
have certain international obligations on behalf of Honduran s t a t e , " Carozza said. "Still [the de facto leader) has obliga­tions to pro­tect and respect human rights, and it is prop­er for us to hold him accountable, whatever our opinions are about legiti­
"The Honduran 
are, Carozza regime is not a said some countries
regime ofstate 
would feel

terrorism. There are 
they have to not large numbers of recognize the new govern­
dead people, no 
ment.

secret detention facil­
"In the sta­ities. What we found tus of the new government,
was something in the 
the election

middle." 
will be key," he said. Pablo Carozza Carozza said the country
Associate professor of 
has suffered

law 
macy of transients." 
The goal of the fact-find­ing was to publicize the sit­uation in Honduras. 
Carozza said the job of the IACIIR was only to eval­uate human rights viola­tions stemming from the constitutional crisis so other international organi­zations can determine what 
steps,  if any,  should  be  
taken  in  regards  to  the  
coup.  

"The Honduran regime is not a regime of state terror­ism. There are not large numbers of dead people, no secret detention facilities," he said. "What we found was somewhere in the mid­dle." 
As for the direction the country is heading, Carozza said it's hard to say -but all eyes are focused on the upcoming Honduran elec­tion, which will take place in November. 
The key factor will be whether the elections are 
conducted 
fairly. If they 

because of the divisions the coup has caused. 
"This is in the context of country that is on the one hand, extremely beautiful, physically beautiful with beautiful people," he said. "But despite all of that, it's a country that's very poor, and regardless of where one allocates the blame, the sort of common good of country is suffering greatly because of conflict." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
,. fC'JlVEB YILLAGJE & CLOYJ;R RIDDI 
A PRIME CAMPUS HOUSING COMMUNITY 
Deluxe Walk-to-Campus Student Apartments 

• 
StateoftbeArt Brand New High Line Fitness Center • Swimming Pool, Tennis Court, 24 Hour Fitness -and CommunityClub House Center, Basketball Court -­

• Free Tanning Beds 

• 
FreeTanning Beds 


• Free Washer and Dryer in each unit

• 
Private Balconies and Free Parking 

• High Speed Wireless Internet and Comcast 

• 
SwimmingPool~ Sun Deck~ Hot Tub and Basketball Court 


Premium Cable Included 
• 
OnSite Management and 24/7 Maintenance 

• 
On Site Management and 24/7Maintenance ·.~ _On Site Se-curity Officer • On Site Security Officer 



THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Thursday, September 17, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 9,791.71 +IOX.30 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 3,134 68 3,134 3,548,913,364 

AMEX ·.·~;$!&~!5''i'i 1 'lli~~~;~~ NASDAQ 2,133.15 +3051 NYSE 7,038.14.. +t2tJ)'7 S&P 500 1,068.76 +I 6. U NIKKEI (Tokyo) 10,378~26 +107.49 FTSE 100 (London) 5,124.13 +8Z.oo 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP (C) +1.94 +0.08 4.20 GEN ELECTRIC CO (GE) +6.25 +1.00 17.00 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +1.51 +1.60 107.32 BK OF AMERICA CP (SAC) +2.74 +0.46 17.25 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.55 +0.019 3.47 13-WEEK BILL -24.00 -0.030 0.095 30-YEAR BOND +0.09 +0.004 4.27 5-YEAR NOTE +1.88 +0.045 2.44 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.58 72.51 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +13.90 1020.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) ·1.23 86.58 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 91.1250 EURO 1.4713 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0665 BRITISH POUND 1.6483 
IN BRIEF 
Northrup Grumman CEO retiring 
WASHINGTON -Northrop Grumman Corp. said Wednesday Ronald Sugar will step down as chairman and CEO at the end of the year, ahead of his retirement in June 2010. 
Sugar, 61, will be succeeded as CEO by Northrop President and Chief Operating Officer Wesley G. Bush, 48, effective Jan. 1. Sugar will serve as chairman emeritus start­ing Jan. 1 and will continue to advise the com­pany through June 30. 
The company's board named lead independ­ent director and DreamWorks Animation SKG President and Chief Financial Officer Lewis W. Coleman, 6 7, as non-executive chairman beginning Jan. 1. 
Sugar joined Northrop following its 2001 acquisition of Litton Industries Inc., and was elected chairman and CEO in 2003. Bush, who joined the company in 1987, was named presi­dent in May 2006 and COO in March 2007. He will join Northrop's board, effective immedi­ately. 
Consultant Loren Thompson of the Lexington Institute said Sugar's departure is one of many recent exits by top figures in the defense industry as the sector prepares for a few tough years ahead. 
Scott Carson stepped down last month as head of Boeing Co.'s commercial air­plane division. Walt Havenstein, presi­dent and CEO of the U.S. subsidiary of British defense conglomerate BAE Systems PLC, resigned in June to become CEO of Science Applications International Corp. 
Judge may limit speakers in hearing 
NEW YORK -A New York judge says about 400 submissions were filed with his chambers prior to a hearing on a hotly disputed class­action settlement that would give Google Inc. the digital rights to millions of out-of-print books. 
Federal Judge Denny Chin said Wednesday he may have to limit the number of speakers and how long each can speak at an Oct. 7 fair­ness hearing for the settlement in Manhattan. 
He said anyone who wishes to speak must submit a request in writing by Monday at googlebookcase(at)nysd.uscourts.gov. Those permitted to speak will be notified by e-mail by Sept. 25. 
Ex-Kmart CEO admits mistakes 
Conaway regrets actions taken in an attempt to avoid million-dollar penalties 
Associated Press 

ANN ARBOR, Mich. -A former Kmart Corp. CEO said Wednesday that he made mistakes while lead­ing the discount retailer that he wouldn't make again but didn't profit from its collapse into bankrupt­cy. 
Charles Conaway testi­fied in federal court as part of an effort to avoid mil­lions of dollars in penalties for misleading investors about Kmart's financial health in 2001. He said he tried to act in Kmart's best interests before its January 2002 bankruptcy filing. 
''I've made plenty of mis­takes and there are a num­ber of things I would do differently," Conaway said. He said he spent too much time in stores trying to drive improvements for customers and didn't work closely enough with Kmart's chief legal counsel. 
The Securities and Exchange Commission accused Conaway of failing to disclose Kmart was delaying payments to sup­pliers to save cash, months before the bankruptcy fil­ing. In June, a federal jury in Ann Arbor found him liable in a civil trial. 
Earlier in the day, SEC lawyer Alan Lieberman about Kmart's finances that's still excessive. They conference call with ana­told the court Conaway leading up to the bank­say the maximum penalty lysts and Kmart's quarterly would have been fired "for ruptcy filing. He said it was under SEC rules is report to regulators in cause" and not been enti­fall of 2002 before they $60,000. November 2001. The SEC tled to a $5 million reten­learned details. Besides seeking money, accused Conaway of failing tion loan if the truth about "We felt that we were the SEC wants Conaway to disclose an ill-timed pur­Kmart's finances has been misled by information that barred from serving as an chase of $800 million in known at the time. He said Chuck gave us," Stallkamp officer or director at a pub­merchandise and that Conaway got $24 million in said. licly traded company. Kmart was delaying pay­compensation for leading The SEC had asked the Three businessmen who ments to suppliers to save Kmart. judge earlier this year to have worked with cash. 
The civil trial's penalty order $22.5 million in Conaway testified Conaway testified at trial hearing before U.S. penalties, but has lowered Wednesday as character that he didn't write or Magistrate Judge Steven its request to about $13.5 witnesses, saying Conaway read the report and relied Pepe resumes Thursday. million. Kmart's board for­should be able to serve in on his chief financial offi­Conaway last month asked gave a $5 million loan to that capacity. Conaway cer and others. And on the judge to throw out the Conaway when he depart­said it was unlikely that he Wednesday, he noted that jury's verdict, but Pepe ed in March 2002, and the would be asked to do that, Kmart warned investors hasn't ruled on that SEC is seeking that but he promised to abide ahead of the filing in a request. amount, a fine and inter­by SEC rules. press release that its finan­
Thomas Stallkamp, a est. The SEC earlier had "I would in no way, cial condition was worsen­member of Kmart's board said Kmart paid $3.88 mil­shape or form be on the ing. and chairman of its finance lion in tax liabilities associ­wrong side of any securi­"This is as serious as it committee at the time, tes­ated with the loan, but that ties regulation again," he gets," Conaway said in tified that board members amount wasn't paid. said. describing the early didn't know the truth Conaway's lawyers say The trial centered on a January 2002 statement. 


Tnunka becomes newAFL-CIO president 
Associated Press they come out," Trumka told hun­routers are "walking a tightrope 
dreds of cheering delegates in a without a net" as they work for low 

PITTSBURGH -Richard Trumka, speech at their annual convention. wages, no health care and little job who rose from the coal mines of Trumka, 60, a charismatic, former security. Pennsylvania to the top ranks of head of the United Mine Workers, "Even though it wasn't the labor America's labor movement, took the embraced the challenge of rebuilding movement that got us into this mess, helm of the AFL-CIO on Wednesday, union ranks that have fallen from a we are the people who are going to ushering in a more aggressive style high of 35 percent in the 1950s to lead America out of it," he declared. of leadership and vowing to revive just 12.4 percent today. Trumka plans to be a more vocal unions' sagging membership rolls. It's a feat his predecessor, John and visible spokesman for labor's 
The first new AFL-CIO president in Sweeney, failed to accomplish as the cause than Sweeney was. That 14 years, Trumka pledged to make U.S. continued to lose millions of includes more events, more public the labor movement appeal to a new manufacturing jobs and employers speaking and more TV and radio generation of workers who perceive grew more resistant to union organ­appearances. unions as "only a grainy, faded pic­izers. Trumka said he would organize a ture from another time." Trumka insisted that unions "strike force" of 1,000 organizers. lie al<>o 
"We need a unionism that makes remain the best way to lift workers urged union members to help President sense to the next generation -into the middle class during a time of Barack Obama fight for health care young women and men who either economic turmoil. He said the grow­reform -so long as it includes a govern­don't have the money to go to college ing number of Americans working as ment option to compete with private or are almost penniless by the time temps, contractors and telecom-insurers. 
..-­

page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 17, 2009 
lntnate 'trautnatized' 

after failed execution 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS -The lawyer for an inmate whose execution was halted after an unprecedented two hours said trying to put him to death again in a week could be a disaster. 
Romell Broom is still recovering from Tuesday's prolonged execu­tion attempt and is physically and emotionally traumatized, his attorney, Adele Shank, said Wednesday. 
"It went so badly when he was walking in without injured veins, to go forward so soon afterward just seems to be inviting disaster," Shank said. 
Gov. Ted Strickland's decision to stop Tuesday's execution and grant a one-week reprieve appeared to be unprecedented since capital punishment was declared constitutional and the nation resumed executions in the 1970s. 
Inmates in several states have experienced delays with the injec­tion of lethal chemicals, but those executions have always proceed­ed the same day. 
Shank said one option was to ask Strickland to consider a request for clemency and to com­mute Broom's sentence. 
Strickland said he is reviewing the incident and consulting with prison officials and others about the next step. 
"That does not mean there will be a review of the larger issue of lethal injections," Strickland said Wednesday. "That's been settled. Obviously yesterday demonstrat­ed that we have a problem with this particular set of circum­stances." 
A prison log released Wednesday blamed Broom's past drug use for problems finding a usable vein. 
The log indicates that execu­tioners made the observation at 

3:11 p.m., more than an hour after first trying to find a vein. 
"Medical team having problem maintaining an open vein due to past drug use," said the log reviewed by The Associated Press. 
Broom said at one point he was a heavy heroin user, but then said at another time that he wasn't, prisons spokeswoman Julie Walburn said Wednesday. 
Shank said she was unaware of any such drug use. 
"If there's such a thing, it's got to be at least 25 years old," she said. "I don't thinking it should be having an impact at this late date." 
Broom, 53, has been placed in a cell in the infirmary at the Southern Ohio Correctional Facility in Lucasville where he is on close watch similar to the con­stant observation of death row inmates in the three days before an execution. 
"It was the right place to keep him," Walburn said. "The less we can transport an offender, the better." 
Death row inmates are housed in a Youngstown prison and exe­cuted in the death chamber at Lucasville. There's no precedent for housing an inmate whose exe­cution didn't work. 
The night before his scheduled execution, Broom told his brother over the phone that he was ready to die. 
"He is tired of being in prison and having people tell him what to do everyday," according to the prison log. 
Broom was sentenced to die for the rape and slaying of a 14-year­old Tryna Middleton after abduct­ing her in Cleveland in September 1984 as she walked home from a Friday night football game with two friends. 


Snipermastennind's execution date set 
Associated Press 
RICHMOND -A Virginia judge on Wednesday set a Nov. 10 execution date for John Allen Muhammad, mastermind of the 2002 sniper attacks in the Washington, D.C., area that left 10 dead. 
Prince William County Circuit Judge Mary Grace O'Brien picked a Tuesday for the execution so that courts would be open the day before in case of any last-minute legal appeals. 
Jonathan Sheldon, Muhammad's attorney, said Muhammad would appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court and ask Gov. Timothy M. Kaine for clemency. 
Muhammad was sentenced to death for the slaying of Dean Meyers, who was shot at a Manassas gas station during a three-week killing spree in October 2002 that left 10 dead in Maryland, Virginia and the District of Columbia. 
He and his teenage accom­plice, Lee Boyd Malvo, were also suspected of shootings in several other states, including a killing in Louisiana and another in Alabama. Malvo is serving life in prison. 
Meyers' brother, Robert 

Meyers of Perkiomenville, Pa., said the setting of an execu­tion date has served as some­thing of a "reality check" for a death sentence that was imposed more than five years ago. 
"We're not bloodthirsty peo­ple. It's not like we can't wait for this to happen," he said in a phone interview. "But there's a debt to society. And it's been determined in the right way -not by vigilantism -that this is the action to be taken." 
A federal appeals court last month rejected Muhammad's argument that prosecutors withheld critical evidence and that he never should have been allowed to act as his own attorney for a portion of his trial because he was too men­tally impaired. 
The attorney general's office declined to comment Wednesday. 
Cheryll Witz said she wants to witness the execution per­sonally. Her father, Jerry Taylor, was shot and killed by Malvo on a Tucson, Ariz., golf course in March 2002 at Muhammad's direction. 
"It's definitely about justice," she said. "The death penalty is the only justice for him." 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students (Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550 or Eddie Velazquez at evelazgu@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources) in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support Contact Fr, Joe Carey, CSC, at 1·7800 
University Counseling Center (Individual counseling) Contact: Or. Maureen Lafferty at 1)11affert@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 
corecouneil.nd.edu 

JL£J.M...·..;!·••,. •,•..,,,,_)Q£.,...•.•>£> .. >.>.J ...Xb.. -:-:·:·.·>!·:·. ••••••••w,ww!•"J.• 
TTP''%?P ~· .. 
I« I WTTE UfTS 


---~­
Thursday, September 17, 2009 The Observer + News page 9 

.....----------------­
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, September 17, 2009 
THE OBSERVER Graffiti 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Man Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVEIITISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CoNTROLLER: Patrick Sala SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO1@sainrmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 0BSERVERONL/Nf 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and colwnns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leners is encouraged. Lerrers to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed tfJ Editor-in-Chiefjmn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Ob~rn:r {USPS 599 2-4000) ili published Monday through Friday ~pt during exam and vacwon periods. A .subscription tb The OOOervc:r is SilO for one acadtmk year; $65 fur one semester. 
The Observer ir> published at; POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address. corn:ctionili to; Nocrc Dame, IN 46556.0779 TheOb~rvc::r PeriodioJ postaw paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and addittonal mailingoffu:es. (}24 Sooth Dining Hall 
None Dam<, IN 46556-0779 
Tilt: Observt:c is a mcrnW of the Associ~tc::d Press. AU reptmlu<:tion righa. are rc!R!rvc::d. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Robert Singer Michael Bryan Irena Zajickova Sam Werner Magan Loney Chris Michalski Viewpoint Graphics Patricia Andrea Archer Fernandez Scene Jess Shaffer Alex Kilpatrick 
It seems a different world on the 13th floor of the library. But it isn't. 
In the southeast corner, before the window, behind the pillar, at the desk, on the last day of the semester, I lind myself staring at Daniel the graffiti lert by . 
generations. I run Sportlello my fingers over Bound ~he letters etched Variables mto the wood, grasping to comprehend what drove them to this. The authors seem not to have known whether they were having a heated argument or an existential crisis: "Limitations exist only within the human mind," insists one; "Man has failed to become what God meant him to be," responds another; "Rage, rage against the dying of the light," con­cludes a third. There is a desperation to all of it, as though they felt that here, where they were closest to God, there was more at stake -that what they etched into the wood would have to be worthy of endurance into distant ages. Their inscriptions are insights of a sort-revelations into the nature of things, into the machinery of reality at the heart of the world. But it is diffi­cult to scratch the surface of mere appearance, difficult to the point of tragedy, and I cannot shake the feeling that, even given their desperation, the insights that the generations have etched into the wood are shallow ­and that those generations etched deeply because, deep down, they knew this. But what they did not realize, per­haps, is that the table is itself graffiti, as is the library in which it stands: both are just the products of their 
builders trying to come to terms with an indifferent world. And they them­selves, like all of us, are in this sense graffiti as well, since we are just the products of the previous generation trying to come to terms with the world -a generation that passed back into that world in time. 
We know this, deep down -that we are mortal, and therefore with limit. That we in turn will pass back into the world, just as our parents did, reveal­ing that we were part of it all along ­that the distinction we draw between ourselves and the world is, ultimately, something of a falsification. That there is a kind of unity to things, even if this is difficult to admit. That it seems a different world on the 13th floor of the library, but it isn't. 
Whether this insight is trivial or not, I do not know. Perhaps every insight is trivial when compared with some other-even this one. Perhaps, when we scratch the surface of mere appearance, we reveal only deeper appearance. Perhaps underneath the surface of the wood is only more wood. And perhaps my race to under­stand the world is thus a pursuit that cannot end -for after every answer, there is another question. Truth runs ever ahead, alluring and elusive. And I will die before I catch it. 
If any insight is nontrivial, it is this one. Wittgenstein wrote that "The real discovery is the one which enables me to stop doing philosophy when I want to. The one that gives philosophy peace, so that it is no longer torment­ed by questions" -even questions as silly as that of asking what graffiti can tell me about myself. about the world and my place in it. For this question, like all questions, is itself graffiti: it is my desperate attempt to come to terms with a world that cares little for whether I ever understand it. for whether I learn at last how to live in peace as a part of it. The irony is that I can achieve this kind of understand­ing only when I learn to stop my relentless pursuit of it: the last insight, perhaps, is into just how little insight can achieve. 

But to see clearly, to accept the world for what it is, is easier said than done. We are born running after understanding and, like our parents, we will in time bear children who do the same. Generations run after truth and, save for a few sages and saints, they meet their end before they learn to stand still. They etch their desper­ate marks into the world because they see this end: trapped by the limita­tions of the human mind, they fail to become what God meant them to be and rage, rage against the dying of the light. The generations see their end, and they fear it. And I myself am no less afraid. 
It is therefore difficult to deal with the ends of things -with riding the elevator as high as it goes, for instance. Or trying to come to terms with what a semester has meant, imposing a narrative even onto a table among the clouds. 
Let this be my graffiti. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his sec­ond year of the Ph.D. program in phi­losophy. He can be reached at dsportie@nd. edu. Listen to his radio show every Sunday at 3:00p.m. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 
Are you going to the career fair? 
Yes No Who cares, I'm not going to get a job anyway What career fair? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Lack ofmoney is no obstacle. Lack 
ofan idea is an obstacle. " 
Ken Hakuta American inventor 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, September 17, 2009 
page 11 
Attention ESPN: Fantasy football as a 111etaphor for life 
"Write about fantasy football," my 13­year-old told me, with all the confidence that comes from being an eighth grader with his own team in his uncle's fantasy 
league.  
"Fantasy foot­ 
ball? For the  
Faithpoint col- Kate Barrett  
umn?" I'm sure I  
sounded as doubt- Faith Point  
ful as I looked.  
Undeterred, he  

continued. "It'll be great, mom. You can write about how your team needs to be balanced, just like your life. How you can't only care about one position, or one part of your life. You have to take care of it and pay attention to it." 
So I did a little research. I checked out NFL.com and ESPN.com. It became clear to me that for some, fantasy football has become a way to address seemingly end­less amounts of free time apparently begging to be sucked away by blogging about positions, trades, breakouts and projections. 
Now here I am, pretending to write a column about sports to try to grab read­ers who would usually breeze right past a column about faith and spirituality. But as my husband pointed out to my son, such a column still isn't going to interest everyone -what about the people who don't care about fantasy football (insert blank look of 13-year-old incomprehen­sion here)? 
Whatever the reason you're still read­ing this, as my son pointed out, your team needs to be balanced, so I propose that you ask yourself this question: "What, in my life, seems to take up inor­dinate amounts of my time right now?" The answer may be fantasy football, or it may be something else. Maybe, after you finish studying, you spend your free hours exercising, or playing internet poker, or volunteering, or texting, or vis­iting with your friends, or going to par­ties, or a little of each of these. Maybe ­hopefully -you spend some of your time attending to the call of your faith in Jesus Christ, through service, worship, private prayer or study. Time itself is a gift from God -just look at the way we talk about it. We "spend" our time, as if it were a valuable commodity to release with care. We lament the events which "waste" our time and seek out many varieties of "time savers." 
However it's disguised, this truly is a 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Grotto, a place of silence 
One of my earliest memories at Notre Dame is a trip I took to the Grotto with my RA and fellow freshmen after my dorm's first Mass. MyRA told us that he had gone just about every Sunday since arriving at Notre .Dame, and explained that the Grotto was the one place he felt he could peacefully and silently pray and reflect. I have since returned to the Grotto nearly every Sunday night, and have come to call the area my favorite spot on campus. 
When asked why, I simply say that it is where I feel close to God and that I have never found a quieter or more holy place at the University. I am writing to respectfully request that our campus community continues to honor the silent reverence of the Grotto. 
Dating back to last spring, a group of students has begun to gather at night at the Grotto to pray the Rosary aloud, and I direct this letter to this group. While I whole­heartedly support your devotion to the Blessed Mother, I hope that you can understand that your increased devotion has come at the cost of the frustration of many others who visit the Grotto expecting silence. In my own recent trips, I have often found myself unable to focus, and I no longer find the serenity I once expected. As a friend, classmate, and fellow Domer, I ask that you please relocate your nightly devotion out of respect for the campus community. 
If you wish to continue praying aloud at the Grotto, the Rosary is said daily at 6:45 
p.m. Otherwise, please seek out a campus Chapel and help maintain the quiet prayer life of the Grotto. As the Campus Ministry and Liturgy Commissioner for Knott Hall, I would be glad to help arrange for you to use our Chapel. Most importantly, I hope you know that I fully support a healthy prayer life, and I greatly respect your intentions. All I ask is that you help others to maintain their prayer traditions as well. 
Sincerely. 
Michael Croteau Senior Knorr Hall Sept. 15 
A class act 
Dear Members of the Troubadours Glee Club, 
Tuesday night I went to see you perform at the Dome at midnight. I and others were excited to see and hear you for nearly 30 minutes of harmonized excel­lence. I really would like to compliment the style with which you displayed your­selves for those first moments. I thought that style was present in all you did, but I was wrong. When you called all the seniors into the middle we thought it was to do a special performance, but much to our dismay, it was to smoke. 
Really? For the classy Glee Club, you were going to smoke in the middle of your performance? Don't you know smoking ruins your singing voices, and can kill all of those around you? It was not cool or something for the underclassmen to look forward to. Needless to say, I did not want to breathe it in, and felt disap­pointed with such conduct, and so I and many others left. I would like to come to more performances, but would rather be in a smoke-free environment. Please don't make those around you suffer. 
I hope you will continue the tradition of performances around campus for the students, but I hope you will leave the smoking behind. From a Disappointed Fan, 
Clara Ritger alumnus freshman Sept. 16 
column about our faith in our lives, and because I really do believe it's true, I can tell you that believing, practicing and participating in a life of faith is the most valuable way we can spend our time. At Notre Dame, we do that primarily through the Catholic Christian tradition, while we welcome and support anyone of other faith traditions in their spiritual growth as well. Does this mean that all we do with our free time is pray, or read the Bible, or go to Mass? No, but if I'm going to balance my team (or my day) I need to make the important stuff my top priority. Our prayer, our reflections on and study of Scripture, and our partici­pation in the·Eucharist should deeply influence the choices we make through­out each day. 
So if prioritizing and integrating our faith into our daily choices is so essen­tial, why does it seem so easy to get hooked on Wii games, or reality TV, or fantasy football, while reading the Bible or going to Mass or participating in faith-sharing groups can seem ... well, boring? Without getting into the ways the entertainment industry has managed to drown out all the other sounds of our environment, I would challenge you to remember that the easiest, most obvious options before us aren't necessarily the ones we're called to choose. Try walking over to the Grotto or having a serious conversation about your faith with a per­son you admire. It may provide a sur­prisingly welcome hit of instant gratifi­cation, one which will last longer and affect us more deeply than we had imag­ined. 

If we really can make any significant connections between fantasy football and life (and I'm not sure that I'm con­vinced of that), then as my son told me, "you have to take care of it and pay attention to it." Our Lord is waiting to help us attend to every aspect of who we are, what we hold dear, and how we spend the valuable gift of our time. And that's not just a fantasy; it's the most important reality of our lives. 
This week's Faith Point is written by Kate Barrett. Kate Barrett is the director ofthe Emmaus program in Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbar­rett@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

Haiti Progratn a-wareness 
Highlighting the good work accomplished by the NTD program in Molly Madden's article "Program Works to Combat Diseases," it is necessary to note that it is but a component of the Haiti Program here at Notre Dame. 
The Haiti Program is a disease elimination program established in 1999 by Fr. Tom Streit, the familiar Common Human disease instructor who researches for over half of the year in Haiti. The program originated in response to the 10 per­cent of Haitian individuals afflicted by lymphatic filariasis, a debilitating disease that is only prevalent in areas with very poor sanitation, that is to say areas of extreme poverty. 
With the help of a grant from the Gates Foundation, it now combats all 13 of the Neglected Tropical Diseases listed by CDC. The freshmen-led NTD initiative is a great new addition to this already storied yet little recognized humanitarian program here at Notre Dame. 
Brianna McGuire 
)Un!Of 
Farley Hall Sept. 15 


CDs or Tapes? 
The proudest moment I had this past Saturday in Ann Arbor was watching our players walk off the field without first going to the band to sing the Alma Mater. This was the first time in my four years here at Notre Dame that I have seen the football team collectively recognize and respond to the gravity of the loss. 
Over the past four years I've witnessed a mediocre (at best) team snap our 43 year win­ning steak against them, watched our team lay a goose egg at home while allowing one of our biggest rival to score 38 points and brave arctic/mhuman weather conditions only to see us lose our last home game to one of the arguable worst college football teams of the last five years. 
And after every one of these embarrassing losses I had to watch our football team be forced to sing a song in order to appease those of us who think everything will be okay if we just smile and pat each other on the back. While the loss against Michigan wasn't embarrassing in the same way as the previously mentioned games, it definitely hurt more. It was a crucial game for the direction of our program. And to be so close to victory only to fall11 seconds (or nine depending on who's reffing) short is more than disappoint­ing. 
It was devastating. I thought I was going to barfwhen I saw Forcier throw that last pass. When that clock ran clicked down to zero and 110,000 people started celebrating, the last thing I felt like doing was grabbing some stranger next to me and joining in a cho­rus ofKum Ba Yah. 
I appreciated knowing that the football team felt the same way. I know there will be critics out there that will say, "But Cameron, WE ARE (clap clap) NO (clap clap)!" To them I say, shut up. We're still NO whether we celebrate it immediately after a loss or not. I love Notre Dame and I love our football program. I find it ridiculous that after such an impor­tant game there are some of us who want to berate our team for not being your personal singing and dancing monkey. 
I'm glad the team knows there are more important things at hand like putting an end to Sparty's good fortune in South Bend. Go Irish. Beat Spartans. Please. 
Cameron Randle 
senior 
off campus Sept. 16 

page 12 

By SZ¥MON RYZNER Scene Writer 
Despite having a large following in most of the world, Muse is yet to crack into the United States mainstream. "The Resistance", their fifth studio album, con­tinues Muses' legacy of transcending musical genres to create something entirely unique. Muse can easily be called a neo-classical, space rock, electronica, alternative band and their latest album continues in that vein, adding even a hint of jazz to their already expansive genre fusion list. 
Still regardless of this authentic sound it wasn't until this past weekend that Muse first performed on American television during the 
is a direct reference to the relationship of Winston and Julia from the Orwellian novel "1984." With lyrics such as "Love is our resistance" and "You'll wake the thought police," this connection seems pretty simple to make. With Matthew Bellamy singing earnestly at the top of his lungs about love, it's very easy to believe the band's thrill and passion. 
Another standout from "The Resistance" is the track "United States of Eurasia". With plenty of falsetto, Muse successfully recreates a very Queen-like track. The slow buildup of the song and explosion into an Arabian synthesizer piano mixture is well put together and crafts an original Eurasian sound that Freddie Mercury would no doubt have appreciated. 
The album concludes with the three-
track 13­
THE OBSERVER 




CENE 
By COURTNEY ECKERLE Scene Writer 
Singer/songwriter and Michigan native Brendan Benson has probably become most well known as Jack White's wingman in The Raconteurs, although he had three intelligent and innovative, as well as critically acclaimed, solo albums before joining the quartet. "My Old, Familiar Friend," his newly released album, spotlights for the first time his ability to shine solo, illuminating a unique voice that was seemingly only stifled by White, no offense to indie's war­bling demigod. Benson brings this effortless voice to this latest solo act, one that could be nearly as haunting as Hufus Wainwright if not for his decidedly buoy­

Thursday, Sepbember 17, 2009 

found notoriety peeks through in his lyrics, for instance, the somber "You'll Make A Fool Out of Me" shows how a lover can belittle and exploit fame at the same 
time. Similarly, 

Vi d e o minute sym­Music phony con­Awards. cerning Adding attempts at further population of fuel to the the universe growing by humanity. fire that "Exogenesis: h a s Symphony" become works the Muse fan­best as far as d o m , pushing the "Twilight" envelope of author the band's Stephanie previous Meyer has efforts. often stat­Combining ed that Muse's many Muse is genres with a one of her 40 performer favorite orchestra ele­bands and vates their that they craft to 

helped inspire her while she was writing her nov­els. Though this may seem discouraging to many in their appreciation of Muse, their fan base has steadily grown thanks to "Twilight" fans or "Twiheads" as they are sometimes called in Internet communities. 
Muse's latest doesn't appear to try to woo in new fans, instead the album is filled with six-minute tracks containing heavy vocals and allusions to literary works, as well as a concluding symphony with the added instrumentation of 40 more string performers. The excitement doesn't end there as Muse has continued their philosophical questioning of exis­tence and now provided listeners with additional political speculation and intrigue. There is so much packed into this album that no review could possibly scrape the surface of every aspect. 
. "Uprising," the first single of the album, is very traditional Muse, which is to say it takes very much from their previous sound. Though "The Resistance" seems significantly tamer than any of the four previous albums it is significantly more musical. In concert, this song will no doubt be a thrill for attendees thanks to the shouts of "Oi" during the chorus. 
The album's second song, "Resistance," 
another level altogether. Emotion drifts in and out with every note, thusly if humanity does leave earth, this should be their soundtrack. Sadness and excitement fill the symphony as it changes and shifts genres generating a truly powerful conclusion to this latest album. 
Overall, "The Resistance" is a bit of a disappointment. Muse simply rocks a lot less in this album. The music is amazing yet every time when a song gains momen­tum and explodes into a terrific guitar solo, it ends far too quickly. Instead of pursuing the buildup and growing more powerful as the track goes forward, it seems as though Muse pulls back and retracts all of their buildup. Other tracks simply do not reach their potential, it seems as though Muse is holding them­selves back in order to appear more cre­ative when sometimes all they actually need is to rock out, be it on guitar or piano. They are creative and their music is terrific but Muse can still reach greater heights. This isn't a perfect album, it isn't a game changing musical masterpiece but it is a great album with plenty of great tracks, lyrics, quandaries and beats. 
Contact Szymon Ryzner sryzner@nd.edu 
The Resistance 
Muse 
Studio: Warner Music UK Limited Recommended Tracks: ""Uprising," "MK Ultra," "Exogenesis" 
ant sound. This "Poised and Ready" venture also shows his eager yet seems far more apprehensive feelings finessed than towards fame and his earlier success with lyrics, works, and "And people you nods not only to once trusted I Are 1970's rock now looking so dis­with analog gusted I And they're production, lay­waiting anxiously I ered vocals and For you to fall." ELO synths, but "Feel Like Taking also to SO's You Home" has a beaeh cruising steady disco, dance tunes, 80's hard floor beat that would guitar and 90's have Madonna envi­hooks and pace. ous. It moves along 

"My Old, Familiar Friend" is full of dynamic and elever-yet clear-lyrics that the song­smith focuses on personal quests, that vary between love (gained and lost) and lust, settling and ambition. His witty writing 


with an eerie, fast pace that creates a nervous atmos­phere -in a good way. Opposite of that is the rumbling drum storm "Don't Wanna Talk" that turns sunny pop anthem that could be straight off 
the "Clueless" 

deals with soundtrack, which these issues of course, is so like with a wink totally 1995. and a smile, Benson's range on like on the the album is risky melancholy for sure -it could track "Garbage come off schizo­Day," that has phrenic, but it's a lyrics like, bet that pays off "And if she since the songs throws her somehow reflect off heart away I each other like a I'll be there on musical prism, one garbage day." that catches your This cohesive ear with unique style begs the contemporary spins question of on previous musical who the real milestones. storyteller was Benson was in The asked to sing vocals Hacon te urs. on "Free & Freaky" 
"A Whole Lot Better," the first track, is a bouncy organ riff that for the lirst few seconds sounds like it's straight off of a Hacontours album. Then it segues into something that has that 90's pace and catchy pop-rock sound that calls back to Elvis Costello and other Brits like The Kinks, with a sprinkling of the Americana blues and motown his pre­vious band seemed to favor. Lyrics, "I fell in love with you I And out of love with you I And back in love with you I All in the same day," seem to echo the swoop of a melody that is almost sure to incite an infectious Snoopy dance. 
Added wisdom from Benson's new-

for the Stooges' 2007 album, "The Weirdness," and Iggy Pop has been quoted as saying, "I wanted a sweet, clean, effortless American voice on that particular cho­rus, and Brendan had the voice." Brendan Benson's vocal showcasing "My Old, Familiar Friend" is a pop rock gem in a "blink and you'll miss it" kind of way. There is no doubt ­the dude is talented, but the question that remains is if he can capture the same kind of success as a solo artist that he had with The Raconteurs. 
Contact Courtney Eckerle at ceck­erO1 @saintmarys.edu 

My Old, Familiar Friend 
Brendan Benson 
Studio: The Echo Label LTD/ Agile Badger Inc Recommended Tracks: ""Don't Wanna Talk," "A Whole Lot Better," "Feel Like You Home" 


ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE 
page 13

Thursday, September 17, 2009 

Scene Writer 
When most people hear the word "nickelodeon" they think of "Hey Arnold!" or people getting slimed. llowever, before the hit television network, the term had an entirely different meaning. Nickelodeons were small theaters in America during the early 20th century. The etymology of its name comes from the cost of admission-one nickel (although most of them actually charged a dime). 
The nickelodeon fostered the growth of moving pictures which at that time were still in an infancy state. Many people often think of nickelodeons as predecessors to our present day movie theaters, i.e. Cinemark 14 or Loew's. This is true in some respects. The nickelodeon was a popular leisure time activity for the middle class and could often constitute a weekend's entertainment. People would often bring popcorn and other delicious goodies into the theater as well. 
This is where the similarities between nickelodeons and current movie theaters end. In movie theaters today, a typical presentation consists of previews for upcoming films followed by a two-hour-long feature length film. That was not the case in the early 1900's. A typical show consisted of short films accompanied by one or more musicians. 
But what few people know is what took place between these short films -illustrated songs. In the time between short films (presumably while a technician was changing reels) audiences were entertained by illustrat­ed songs. While the music played, glass sides were projected onto the screen to give the audience visual entertain­ment. These slides also encouraged the audience to sing along. 
The discovery of these slides is due in large part to the work of film scholar Rick Altman. Altman was one of the first to realize that the early nickelodeons were not just movie theaters, but rather multimedia theaters. I personally had the opportunity to ask him about some of his work and how he made such a fortunate discovery. 
Altman attended Duke University for his undergraduate studies. He claims that at that point, "films weren't really my thing." It was not until graduate school at Yale where he felt a stronger pull toward cinema. While spending a year studying abroad in Paris, Altman attended the cinema with his wife regularly. As they became more and more avid moviegoers, they started to look for older movies. "We were looking for things that we hadn't seen before. Things that we heard were good because people had written about them," Ntman said. 
In a film club at Yale, he began reading older articles about the !ilm history and film theory. Some articles mentioned "illuminat­ed songs" but never explained what they were. Puzzled, Altman began some research. He soon discovered that these were gla.'is slides that accompanied each line of the song with the goal of getting audiences engaged in the song. 
Unfortunately most of these glass slides had been discarded as junk shortly after feature films began to dominate the cinema. Even the Library of Congress, stockpile of all things cultural, did not have any of these slides in its archives. Through a stroke of good luck, Altman was able to locate a plethora of 20,000 slides thanks to the Bergh sisters in Minneapolis, Minn. He claims he was extremely lucky to find such an incredible amount of slides that might otherwise have been thrown in the trash. 
With the discovery of these slides, Altman continued his foray into the area of film sound. It is important to note that before 
Altman there was virtually nothing written about film sound. Even film theory itself was still 

young. 

Altman now aims to show audiences these illuminated songs in "The Uving Nickelodeon." This project is aimed at recreating the early theater experience for audiences. It promises to be a show unlike any other. 
I had the opportunity to ask Rick a few more questions. I asked him about the lack of interest in older films among college students. He laughs and tells me 'Til have students who tell me. 'I love classic movies ... like "Star Wars."' He continues, "Well, I think some films take a little background to explain, but it's up to the professors to select films that will get students really excited. With the right plot and the right characters, you can get almost any audience excited." 
I also inquired as to where he thinks the future of film is headed. His main interest is in the extras now available on DVD. He says, "We are very lucky to have all tl1ese extra available to us, particularly short films. I think that as peo­ple do more digging, a lot of stuff that no one knows about will surface." 
Rick Altman is currently a professor of Cinema and Comparative Literature at the University of Iowa. "The Uving Nickelodeon with Rick Altman" takes place tonight at DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 7 p.m. 
Contact Conor Rogers at crogersl@nd.edu 
By LIZ CHATEN 
Scene Writer 

Although the affordable chicken breast acts as a standby in American households, this staple can be simply spectacular. This week's dining hall dish shows off the best of this poultry pleaser, adding navor and flair to any meal. 
Chicken Cordon Bleu 

The term "Cordon Bleu" came from the blue sash worn by the highest members of a French order of knights. This blue sash resembled the blue ribbon on a cook's apron. By extension, the term "cordon bleu" came to signify a dish at the peak of culinary excellence. Despite the French appellation, this particular chicken dish actually originates in America. Our earliest record of chicken cordon bleu is a 1967 advertisement in The New York Times for United Airlines, boasting the in-flight meal of chicken cor­don bleu as "prepared by our own European-trained chefs." Here, I provide a surprisingly simple recipe for this culinary classic. 
1. 
Place grilled chicken on a plate. 

2. 
From either the sandwich sta­tion or the carving station, take a few slices of ham and place on top of the chicken. 

3. 
Place a piece of provolone or Swiss cheese on top, and send through the oven. 

4. 
Season with salt and pepper, to taste. 


Low-Fat Chicken Salad 
Whether nestled upon a bed of greens or on hearty, multi-grain bread, I continuously return to this classic lunchtime fare. Here, I offer a low-fat, high-flavor version of this cafe favorite. 
1. 
In a plate bowl, cut or shred grilled chicken into bite-size pieces. If you are at South, the chicken strips from the Mexican station simplify this step. 

2. 
In a small bowl, combine a heaping spoonful of plain yogurt. a teaspoon of mayonnaise, and a spoonful of sour cream. Squirt a lemon on top. Add a spoon of Dijon mustard for a bit of a kick. Mix in with the chicken. 

3. 
Personalize your salad! Between grapes, raisins, onions, carrots, and hardboiled eggs, the possibilities are end­less. Serve either atop a bed of greens, upon a piece of wheat bread, or with an assortment of crackers. 



Grilled Chicken with Peach Salsa 

During the summer months, my dad always set out grilled chicken with a flavorful fruit salsa. The contrast between spicy and sweet simply tantalized our taste buds! Here's a zesty entree that will please both your taste buds and waistline. 
1. 
In a small bowl, cut a few peach slices into bite sized por­tions. If peaches are not available, try the strawberries typically used for frozen yogurt or cheesecake! Add two heaping spoonfuls of pico de gallo on top. 

2. 
Put a piece of grilled chicken in a plate bowl. Drizzle the peach salsa on top. 

3. 
Finish off your meal with a side of brown rice or a bed of spinach greens. Enjoy! 


ContactLiz Chaten at echatenl @nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, September 17, 2009 
MLB 

Red Sox walk off with late win over Angels 
Cervelli delivers game-winning single in ninth for Yankees; Padres win in 10th over Diamondbacks 
play on back-to-back grounders
\ssociated Press 
before taking the lead on Alex 
BOSTON -Alex Gonzalez hit a Gonzalez's two-run, bases-loaded bases-loaded blooper down the bloop to right. left-field line with two outs in the ninth inning on Wednesday night Yankees 5, Blue Jays 4 to give the Boston Red Sox a 9-8 This time the Yankees fought victory over the Los Angeles back with their bats. Angels. Hideki Matsui hit a tying, two­
Boston trailed 3-0 and 7-5 run homer in the eighth inning before tying the game in the bot­off Scott Downs, Francisco tom of the eighth. The Angels Cervelli hit a winning single in took the lead in the top of the the ninth and New York beat the ninth on three straight two-out Toronto Blue Jays Wednesday singles against Daniel Bard (2-1). night. But closer Brian Fuentes (1-5) A day after brawling in the coughed up the lead in the bot­Bronx, the Blue Jays and Yankees tom half. made it through nine innings 
The Red Sox have won seven calmly on the first chilly night of straight, and 10 in a row at late summer. Fenway Park. New York was held to four hits 
Fuentes, who had converted 71 through seven innings, then tied of his last 79 saves, got two quick it on Matsui's 25th homer, a drive outs before walking David Ortiz over the manual scoreboard on and giving up infield singles to the right-field wall. 
J.D. Drew and Jed Lowrie. Pinch­Brett Gardner singled off Jason hitter Nick Green quickly fell Frasor (6-3) leading off the ninth, behind 0-2 but stayed in the box stole second, took third on Derek despite a questionable check Jeter's grounder and scored on swing and then fouled off three Cervelli's sharp single to left. pitches at 1-2 before taking three Mariano Rivera (3-2) pitched a balls to walk in the tying run. one-hit ninth for the win. 
Gonzalez, who hit a two-run, Approaching a return to the bases-loaded bloop to right to playoffs after a one-year absence, give Boston the lead in a five-run New York (94-53) finished its sixth inning, looped one down the next-to-last homestand of the "That is part of baseball, but turned into a win for the San slid around catcher Miguel left-field line that fell in front of regular season by overcoming that's a part of baseball that I Diego Padres. Montero and touched the plate. Juan Rivera when he decided not three wild pitches and an error don't like," Yankees manager Joe Cabrera's RBI single scored "It was a strong throw," San to dive for it. by the shortstop Jeter, who Girardi said. "No pun intended, Durango from second base in the Diego manager Bud Black said. 
That set off a familiar celebra­allowed a grounder to go through but it's a black eye for baseball to bottom of the 1Oth inning and "There's no doubt this guy's fast. tion in Fenway, where the Red his legs. me whenever there's a fight or an gave the Padres a victory over the That's an understatement." Sox have the best home record in Toronto lost two pitchers to incident like that because, you Arizona Diamondbacks on San Diego's Adrian Gonzalez, the major leagues. It was famil­injury. Brian Tallet cut short his know, someone can really get Wednesday. pinch-hitting for his brother iar, too, for Los Angeles, Boston's start after bruising his right foot hurt and you can jeopardize Durango, making his first Edgar, hit a two-run homer in the likely first-round playoff oppo­on Robinson Cano's comebacker someone's career." major league start, opened the ninth off Esmerling Vasquez to tie nent. leading off the second. He fin­Chad Gaudin started for the inning with his third infield single the score at 5. Tony Gwynn led 
The Angels have lost 12 of their ished the inning and was Yankees in place of Andy Pettitte, of the game. He stole second with off the inning with a walk off last 13 playoff games against the replaced by Shawn Camp starting scratched two days earlier one out and then beat the throw Vasquez, who was charged with Red Sox dating to 1986 and are the third. Camp hit Melky because of a tired pitching shoul­home from right fielder Justin his fourth blown save. 0-4 all-time in postseason series Cabrera above the right knee der. Girardi said the goal is for Upton on Cabrera's single to help Gonzalez got just enough of a against the Red Sox. with an 80 mph breaking ball in Pettitte to throw 100 pitches the Padres avoid a three-game fastball to slice it into the left field 
If the standings hold, the teams the fourth, but both benches Monday but if Pettitte's shoulder sweep. seats for his first career pinch-hit will meet again in the first round remained calm. still aches, he could be pushed Cabrera had three hits, includ­homer. this year. Downs also left early. Three back beyond Monday. ing an infield single and a bunt "He's a sinkerballer, so you look 
Despite losing four of their last batters after Matsui's homer, he Gaudin allowed three runs and single. Durango, who made his for a sinker and just try to stay five, the Angels maintained a six­came out with a 1-0 count to seven hits in 5 2/3 innings, failing major league debut as a pinch­with the pitch," Gonzalez said. game lead over Texas in the AL Cabrera, who hit an inning-end­to hold a 2-0 lead. He also made hitter on Tuesday night, had ''I'm not trying to hit a home West; the Rangers fell 61f2 games ing flyout against Frasor. a nice spinning grab on Aaron three infield singles, two of them run." behind Boston in the wild-card Much of the focus was on Hill's third-inning comebacker. bunts. A third bunt went as a sac­Bell (6-4) pitched the lOth for race. events of a night earlier. Mark Teixeira hit an RBI dou­rifice, although replays appeared the win. 
Erick Aybar had four hits for Jorge Posada and Shelley ble in the first and scored on to show he beat the throw to first. It was the speed of Durango the Angels and Rivera had three, Duncan of the Yankees and Jesse Matsui's single, but the Yankees "Having guys like that on the and Cabrera that had both teams including a two-run double in a Carlson of the Blue Jays each stalled. base paths create havoc," Padres talking. four-run seventh inning-aided were suspended for three games Jose Bautista homered leading closer Heath Bell said. "He [Durango] played the game by a dropped third strike -that by Major League Baseball for off the third, and Aaron Lind hit The speed was certainly evi­with us however he wanted to," gave Los Angeles a 7-5 lead. their role in Tuesday's fight. an RBI grounder later in the dent in the 10th when Durango Montero said. "He never hit the Bobby Abreu's third hit was an While Posada and Carlson inning. Rod Barajas had a go­slapped a ball wide of first base ball out of the infield and got RBI single to break a ninth-inning accepted their penalties, Duncan ahead grounder in the sixth for a where Brandon Allen fielded it. three hits. I know he's fast and tie and give the Angels an 8-7 appealed and remained eligible 3-2 lead after Vernon Wells led But Yusmeiro Petit (3-10) was no has good speed, but we should lead. to play. off with an infield single and match for Durango as he tried to have played him a little better." 
Boston scored two in the eighth After a pair of Toronto players advanced on Lyle Overbay's dou­cover the bag while taking the It has been a long time since on a run-scoring groundout by were hit by pitches Tuesday ble. Marco Scutaro doubled lead­throw from Allen. San Diego has had two players Casey Kotchman and an RBI sin­night, Carlson threw a fastball ing off the seventh against Brian After pinch-hitter David with the kind of speed shown by gle by Jacoby Ellsbury. behind Posada in the eighth Bruney and scored on Lind's sac­Eckstein flied out, Durango stole Durango and Cabrera. 
The Angels took a 3-0 lead inning of the Blue Jays' 10-4 win. rifice fly off Phil Coke. second. Cabrera then grounded a "Their bunt singles and their against Paul Byrd, but Boston Moments later, Posada bumped ball past a diving Allen. Upton activity on the bases was tough to scored five times in the sixth, Carlson after scoring a run, and Padres 6, Diamondbacks 5 charged the ball and fielded it in defend," Diamondbacks manager keeping the inning alive when the the dugouts and bullpens emp­The show of speed from rookies medium right field. A.J. Hinch said. "We didn't have Angels failed to turn a double tied. Everth Cabrera and Luis Durango Durango beat the throw as he an answer for it." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has LOST & FOUND WANTED FoR RENT TICKETS PERSONAL many resources in place to assist 
you. If you or someone you love LOST: Womans silver link Citizen PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­APARTMENT right off campus. HELP! EARN $50 FOR 1 HR OF WRITING needs confidential support or assis­eco-drive watch. appt.,no experience needed,cus­1-bdrm. $500/mo. all inclusive. tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 
tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835. Need FB tix for family. Will pay top 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For Round face encircled by crystals. 574-243-7777. $$. 574-251-1570. ACT, Inc. invites you to participate in more information, visit NO s website an essay-writing study. at: Lost outside LaFortune Saturday, You have seen the rest -now VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu
FoR SALE 
Sept. 5, following the band to the CHECK OUT THE BEST. FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232­stadium. 12 x 65 mobile home, 3 bdrm, car­0964. Limited number of participants so If you or someone you care about port, patio, all appliances, low utili­Open Houses Sun. 9/20/09 4-7. register soon to secure a spot. has been sexually assaulted, we High sentimental value. $50 reward. ties, new roof. $300/mo for lot rent. andersonNDrentals.com Need 2 MSU & USC tix & parking can help. For more information, visit Extra storage. $6,500. Call269-pass. Notre Dame s website: Cheryl574-272-9037. 683-7506. 10 minutes from NO. Start at 203 E. Navarre 57 4-276-8507 www.act.org/essaystudy http://csap.nd.edu
0 





OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OssERVEP:S WIRE SERVICES Thursday, September 17, 2009 page 15 
NCAA 
NSCAA/adidas Division I Men's Soccer Top 25 
team  previous  
1  Akron  1  
2  Wake Forest  2  
3  North Carolina  3  
4  Maryland  7  
5  South Florida  8  
6  Creighton  5  
7  California  11  
8  Indiana  12  
9  UC Santa Barbara  6  
10  Dartmouth  13  
11  Duke  19  
12  UCLA  15  
13  Harvard  NR  
14  Boston University  14  
15  St. John's (N.Y.)  4  
16  Louisville  17  
17  UC Irvine  9  
18  Michigan State  20  
19  Monmouth  24  
20  Virginia  16  
21  NOTRE DAME  10  
22  Kentucky  RV  
23  North Carolina Slate  18  
24  Col. of Charleston  RV  
25  Northwestern  22  

Golf World/NIKE Men's Division I Golf Top 25 
team  previous  
1  Oklahoma State  5  
2  Washington  5  
3  Georgia  3  
4  Alabama  15  
5  Stanford  20  
6  Arizona State  5  
7  TexasA&M  1  
8  Arkansas  2  
9  Florida  19  
10  Southern California  5  
11  Georgia Tech  10  
12  Illinois  21  
13  North Carolina State  NR  
14  TCU  9  
15  South Carolina  16  
16  UCLA  23  
17  LSU  NR  
18  Tennessee  12  
19  Clemson  NR  
20  Duke  14  
21  Michigan  3  
22  Oregon  22  
23  Texas  NR  
24  Texas Tech  23  
25  Florida State  NR  

Preseason USTFCCCA Men's Cross Country Division I Poll 
team points 
1 Oregon 357 2 Oklahoma Slate 337 3 Stanford 334 4 Wisconsin 312 5 Northern Arizona 302 6 Colorado 289 7 lona 288 8 Portland 268 9 Georgetown 253 10 Albama 246 
around the dial 
NCAA Football 
Georgia Tech at Miami 
7:30 p.m., ESPN 
WNBA Playoffs 
Indiana at Washington 7 p.m., ESPN2 


Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Myles Brand, who fired Bob Knight as Indiana University bas­ketball coach and went on to become NCAA president, died Wednesday of pancre­atic cancer. He was 67. 
The first former university president to run college sports' largest governing body, Brand worked to change the perception that wins supersede academics and earned accolades for his efforts. 
Brand broke the news that he had cancer in January at the NCAA convention and continued to handle the organization's day-to-day operations, despite undergo­ing treatment. NCAA offi-
IN BRIEF 
cials, who announced his death, were not ready to say who would replace Brand or when they may begin searching for a successor. 
"Myles Brand's passing is a great personal loss of a dear friend and an even greater loss to the NCAA and collegiate athletics," said Georgia president Michael Adams, who worked closely with Brand. "I believe Myles will be remembered as a person who helped us refo­cus on the student in stu­dent-athlete and his aca­demic reforms will long out­live him." 
Brand gained national attention in May 2000 when, as Indiana president, he put Knight on a zero-tolerance policy after a former player alleged the hugely successful but hotheaded coach had choked him during a prac­tice years earlier. 
Four months after that announcement, freshman Kent Harvey accused Knight of grabbing him, and Brand did what fans considered unthinkable -he fired the coach who won three national championships in Bloomington. 
Knight later moved on to Texas Tech, stepping aside for his son, Pat Knight, in February 2008. Texas Tech spokesman Randy Farley said Bob Knight left Lubbock on Tuesday and wouldn't be back until next month. 
"Just because he fired us doesn't mean we want any­thing bad to happen," Pat Knight said. "That's shock­ing. I don't wish death upon anybody. That's sad, no mat­ter who it is." 
Indiana students protested at the time of the firing. gathering in front of Brand's home and even hanging him in effigy, but his decision gave Brand a platform to address the problems he saw in college sports. 
During a January 2001 speech at the National Press Club in Washington, Brand criticized the growing "arms race" in college sports. say­ing that school presidents faced tough challenges with celebrity coaches and sug­gesting the emphasis on winning championships endangered the real mission of universities. 

Rays' Carl Crawford starts 
argument in clubhouse 
BALTIMORE -Tampa Bay outfield­er Carl Crawford angrily shouted at teammate Pat Burrell in the club­house before Wednesday night's game against Baltimore, the latest break­down in a lost season for the Rays. 
It was not clear what caused the dispute shortly before the Rays took the field for pregame stretching. 
Crawford, the MVP of this year's All­Star Game, repeatedly yelled across the clubhouse at the Rays' designated hitter. Burrell did not respond. 
A teammate then stepped in front of Crawford, trying to calm the situation. Crawford was ushered into a side room. 
Manager Joe Maddon said he met with both players after confrontation and cleared the air. 
"Everything's good," Maddon said. 
The AL champion Rays have lost 12 of 13 and steadily dropped out of playoff contention. 
Yan~ees, Ray~ playersreceive suspensiOns, fines 
NEW YORK -Yankees catcher Jorge Posada and Toronto pitcher Jesse Carlson were suspended for three games each and fined Wednesday by Major League Baseball for their roles in a bench-clearing brawl. 
The pair were cited for "aggressive and inappropriate actions" by MLB vice president Bob Watson and started serving the penalties immediately, a day after they tangled. 
Yankees utilityman Shelley Duncan was suspended for three games and appealed, delaying the start of any dis­cipline. 
Toronto manager Cito Gaston said Carlson was fmed $3,000 and that Blue Jays catcher Rod Barajas was docked $1,000. Posada was fined $2,500, and Yankees hitting coach Kevin Long and pitcher Edwar Ramirez also were fined.him."Melancon has hit four bat­ters this year. 

NFL fines Jets, Mangini for 
not reporting Favre injury 
FLORHAM PARK, N.J. -The NFL assessed a total of $125,000 in fines to the New York Jets and former coach Eric Mangini on Wednesday for violating the league's rules on injury reporting with regard to former quarterback Brett Favre last season. 
The Jets failed to place Favre, now with the Minnesota Vikings, on the injury report during the final month of last season, even though he had a torn biceps tendon. 
The league announced it had fined the Jets $75,000, and Mangini and Jets general manager Mike Tannenbaum $25,000 apiece. Mangini now coaches the Cleveland Browns. 
"We have been fully cooperative with the league throughout this investigation and respect their deci­sion," the Jets said in a statement. 
Mangini was not immediately avail­able for comment on his fine. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 17, 2009 
NBA 
Bills fans admit to defacing lawn 
Associated Press 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y -Buffalo Bills cornerback LeO(lis McKelvm is so far willing to forgive and for­get after two male teens admitted to police that they defaced the player's front lawn. 
Hamburg police Sgt. Thomas Best said Wednesday night that McKelvin is refusing to press charges against two 16-year-olds, who said they were the ones who spray-painted a message and an obscenity across the grass in front of the player's home shortly after the Bills' season-opening 25-24 loss at New England on Monday night. 
Best said it'll be up to the Erie County district's attorney's office to press charges against the two sus­pects. Best declined to release the names of the two teens because of their age but noted they both live near McKelvin's home in subur­ban Buffalo. 
The vandalism created head­lines across the country, was fod­der for numerous sports talk radio programs and led to several Bills players questioning their privacy and security as they returned to practice to prepare to host the 
Tampa  Bay  Buccaneers  on  
Sunday.  
While  McKelvin  said  early  

Wednesday afternoon he didn't want anyone arrested for what happened, receiver Terrell Owens had a far more defiant reaction. 
"Once we make it to the play­offs, tell them to do his lawn again," Owens said. "You just attribute that to ignorance." 
linebacker Kawika Mitchell had guessed that the vandalism was caused by "a bunch of kids" but still noted how NFL players are concerned about their security after Washington Redskins safety Sean Taylor died of a gunshot wound following a botched bur­glary attempt in November 2007 at his Miami-area home. 
"It's extremely dangerous when someone is going to come to your house and do anything that's going to affect you," Mitchell said. 
McKelvin shrugged it off, saying he still considers Bills fans to be the greatest. 
"It's just one little incident. I hope it doesn't happen any more," McKelvin said. "I was mad, I was kind of like angry in a way, but I was laughing a little bit for what they put on there. It was just something that isn't appropriate." 
He was particularly impressed by a neighbor, who got out his lawn mower and cut the grass in bid to erase what had been paint­ed. 
And McKelvin's already looking ahead to playing Sunday. "Right now it's all about Tampa Bay," he said. 
McKelvm has plenty ofreason to look forward after being partly blamed for the loss at New England, in which the Bills squan­dered an 11-point lead in the final 2:06. 
After the Patriots scored to cut Buffalo's lead to 24-19, McKelvm was faulted for not taking a knee in the end zone on the ensuing kickoff. Instead, he ran the ball out and had the ball stripped from his hands. The Patriots recovered at the Bills' 31 and scored the decisive touchdown three plays later. 
''I've just got to do my job. And of course with that, with me han­dling the ball, I've got to protect it," McKelvin said, noting that he expects a warm reception from Bills fans on Sunday. "Buffalo fans are great. They're real great." 
And some of those fans intend to prove it based on the numerous reactions supporting McKelvin posted on several Bills message boards. 
Mike Stock, a Bills fan from Syracuse, said the vandalism is not a reflection of the team's fans or of Buffalo -noted as "The City of Good Neighbors." 
"It's unimaginable to me that someone would decide that losing a football game was justification to vandalize someone's property," Stock said. ''I'm not only angry at the act, I'm angry at the potential message it conveys.... Let him know we'll be there screaming 'Leodis' on Sunday and that we've got his back." 
Harry Kozlowski, a season tick­et-holder from New Hampshire, has suggested fans sign a giant card apologizing to McKelvin and deliver it to the Bills. 
"The McKelvin incident is unf(Jr­tunate because it tarnishes all Bills fans," Kozlowski said. "Football fans forget that players are human beings. Ruining a player's lawn is not going to help him play better.... A show of support would do wonders for a guy who already has the weight ofletting his team­mates down on his shoulders." 


The CENTRAL EUROPEAN STUDIES PROGRAM in Innsbruck, Austria 
• 
In1n1.ersion in Gennan language and culture 

• 
Acade1nic year and sem.ester options 


• 
An opportunity for exposure to Central European Issues 


• A great location fron1 \IVhich to access Eastern and Western Europe 
INFORMATION SESSION 
Thursday, September 17, 2009 
5:30 PM 129 Hayes-Healy Center 
Application Deadline is November 15, 2009 www.nd.eduf-ois 
Thursday, September 17, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
Cuddyer leads Twins over Indians for sweep 

rt~ ':.~,.L'D;·v·"lm"'IIC!lill 'VI'L,L .-. '~'IE·.·.;,~.~.···~tu··o:r .. .. '.~.ll(l;'!lll, '-·-·' '· . ..,.,~J .. ~ A PRl~E CA~PUS HOUSING CO~~UNlTY formerly Turtle Creek Apartments  
Football Ga....e Day Parking ~cljacent to Stacliu11111 5 20AIIDay Enter on State Road 23 Entrance (1 block vvest of Eddy) VVa/k to Tailgate anc/ Garne  
"17"10 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend,. IN 46637 Ph 574_272-8"124 Fax 574_272-8204 vvvvvv.clovervillageapartments.com  


800.424.8580 Iwww.peacecorps.gov Life is calling. How far will you go? 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS -Michael Cuddyer is a bit surprised the Minnesota Twins have over· come so much and are still in the pennant race. 
He's a big reason why. 
Cuddyer homered, doubled and drove in three· runs Wednesday and the Twins beat the Cleveland Indians 7-3 for a three-game sweep. 
Joe Mauer singled twice, rais­ing his major league-leading average to .374, and drove in two runs as the Twins won their fourth in a row. 
Just two games over .500, Minnesota began the day 4lfz games behind Detroit in the AL Central. The Tigers were home Wednesday night and Thursday afternoon against Kansas City before visiting the Metrodome for a three-game set beginning Friday. 
"The way we've played this year, it's amazing we still have a chance and it's sitting in front of us," said Cuddyer, who has replaced the injured Justin Morneau at first base and is 8­for-16 in those four games. "At this point we need everybody to contribute. Even the guys that are hurt we need them to cheer us on." 
It's been like that much of the year. 
Mauer missed the first month of the season, and Minnesota's starting rotation has been in flux nearly all season, including the absence of Kevin Slowey since July 4. 
"It's fun to watch. Matt Tolbert's getting out there and battling and covering ground at third base, !Orlando] Cabrera seems to always put some good swings on the ball, Nick Punta's been playing a lot better," man­ager Ron Gardenhire said. "[Denard] Span's been there and Cuddy and Mauer.... The rest of them have to step up and do things, and that's what's been happening." 
Now comes the first of seven remaining games with the Tigers. 
"We get the first three here and we need to take advantage of that," outfielder Jason Kubel said. 
Matt LaPorta homered and had three RBis for Cleveland, which has lost four straight and 13 of 16. 
Nick Blackburn (10-11) allowed two earned runs and eight hits in 6 1/3 innings for his second win in 12 starts since the All-Star break. He lowered his second-half ERA from 7.36 to 6.90. 
Joe Nathan struck ou( the final two batters for his 41st save in 46 chances. 
Cuddyer homered leading off the fifth and added an RBI dou­ble in the seventh. The home run was the second in three games for Cuddyer, who hit a three-run shot to lead Monday's 6-3 comeback win. 
Blackburn came up with his third solid start in four outings. The lone blip was last Friday, when he allowed six earned runs in three innings against the Oakland Athletics. 
Blackburn retired the Indians in order three times in the first four innings and got out of a two-on, no-out jam in the fifth when Kelly Shoppach grounded into a double play and Trevor Crowe grounded out. 
"He threw more curveballs in the first two or three innings than he did in his entire last start, although he was still up in the zone too much," Gardenhire said. 
For the second straight start, Aaron Laffey (7-6) gave up six earned runs and a career-high 12 hits. His own mistake put him behind. 
With two outs in the third, Laffey dropped a soft toss cov­ering first base for an error. Cuddyer followed with an RBI single for a 1-0 lead. 
Laffey walked No. 9 hitter Punta with two outs in the fourth. Span followed with an RBI single, and Mauer had a two-run single two batters later for a 4-0 lead. 
"I didn't feel like we played well at all behind him," Cleveland manager Eric Wedge said. "We made some poor decisions on cutoffs, decisions where we could have taken the out that would have saved us two or three runs easy." 
LaPorta hit a two-run shot in the seventh and added an RBI single in the eighth before Shoppach popped out with the bases loaded. 
"It's important not to give in right now," LaPorta said. "It doesn't matter what the situa­tion is around you. That's part of being a man is finishing strong. Just come out here every day and try and get bet­ter for the ballclub." 
Orioles 4, Rays 2 
First, Matt Wieters stopped the Tampa Bay Rays with his arm. 
Then he beat them with his bat. 
Wieters hit a two-run homer in the bottom of the ninth off Russ Springer, giving the Baltimore Orioles a victory Wednesday night. 
Tampa Bay went up 2-1 in the top half when Ben Zobrist hit a 3-2 pitch from Jim Johnson over the center-field wall. It was the fifth blown save for Johnson (4-5). 
But in the bottom half, Luke Scott drew a leadoff walk from Springer (0-4) and Wieters hit a drive that landed in the front row of the seats in left. The rookie catcher, who had a homer and five RBis on Tuesday, rounded the bases and jumped on home plate and into the arms of his teammates. 
"I was going to look for a fastball early and try to put a good swing on it. I was fortu­nate enough that it carried out," Wieters said. "It's a situa­tion where you might bunt, but they gave me the sign to swing away and try and drive some­thing." 
Wieters twice threw out fleet­footed Carl Crawford trying to steal second. It was the second time in his career Crawford was nabbed twice in the same game; the other was April 10, 2007. 

Crawford has 57 steals and 
has been thrown out 14 times, 
but is only 27 -for-41 after 
opening the season with 30 
straight stolen bases. 
"Wieters did it behind the 
plate and did it with the bat. He. -had a great game," Orioles manager Dave Trembley said. "Threw out Crawford -release was quick, good footwork, right on the bag -and hits a walk­
0 IT. " 
Gregg Zaun homered for the 
Rays, who have lost 13 of 14 to 
drop to .500 (73-73) for the 
first time since June 11, when 
they were 31-31. 
"I love the fact that we came 
back out and tied it up," man­
ager Joe Maddon said. 
And then Wieters untied it. 
"When it left, I didn't think it 
was going that far. He's just a 
strong young man and the ball 
kept carrying," Maddon said. 
It landed just beyond the 
reach of Crawford, who leaped 
in vain at the wall. 
"I tried to put my arm over 
the rail, but it was kind of slick 
and I couldn't get a good grip," 
said Crawford, who can hardly 
believe the Rays are a .500 club 
again. 
"You definitely didn't expect 
this, but you just deal with it," 
he said. "I never thought we'd 
end up like this." 
Making his 1Oth start since 
being summoned from Triple-A 
Norfolk on July 29, Orioles 
rookie Chris Tillman gave up 
five hits and one walk in 6 2/3 
innings. The 21-year-old 
retired the first 10 batters and 
faced one above the minimum 
over five innings. 
After Tampa Bay used singles 
by Evan Longoria and Willy 
Aybar to put runners on the 
corners with two outs in the 
seventh, Matt Albers replaced 
Tillman and struck out B.J. 
Upton to preserve a 2-1 lead. 
Danys Baez worked the 
eighth, and the bottom half was 
halted by rain for 1 hour, 40 
minutes. After the stoppage, 
only a few hundred of the 
announced crowd of 10,548 
remained. 
They hit the exits after Scott 
walked and Wieters homered 
on the following pitch. 
"He's been holding his own in 
this league," Scott said of 
Wieters. "This is not an easy 
league. It's a tough league and 
he's been doing good. The more 
hits he gets, the happier I'm 
going to be because I'm going 
to get better pitches to hit in 
the future." 
Tampa Bay's Andy 
Sonnanstine allowed two runs, 
one earned, and three hits in 5 
2/3 innings. It was the first time 
in nine starts since May 22 that 
he permitted fewer than two 
earned runs. . 
The Orioles went up 1-0 in 
the second when Melvin Mora 
hit a leadoff double and scored 
on a sacrifice fly by Wieters. In 
the fourth, Brian Roberts 
reached on an error and scored 
on a two-out double by Scott. 
Zaun homered leading off the 
sixth, his seventh of the season 
and third since coming to the 
Rays from Baltimore on Aug. 8. 

page 18 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 17, 2009 





Andrews Scholars 
CELEBRATION 
We express our gratitude to the Andrews andMcMeel families for sponsoring over 1,836 students in the Summer Service LearningProgram in the 29 years ofthe James F. Andrews Scholarship Fund. As we gatherwith the 166 Andrews Scholars for 2009 this evening, we celebrate the inspirational legacy ofJames F. Andrews. 
2009 ANDREWS SCHOLARS 
Nicole Alien Mary Kate Conboy ChristineHnm.ma Cha.rles Landis M1U'ta Micha.lska Kerry Reardon Kathryn Sparks MCV-Triniw Boys and Girls Club nf CampScu.lly Panml Plnct'fCatholk Cnuw Boilltv Greek/ Hos;~mont. Genter Eust Hlth Stret>t 
Lawten<'e, .JMA ChnrltiesufEm;t My Bmthcr'>< KMeper MetJlodist Youth Center AdjoaAndoh Mn:ryHarte T<JJmt•s~!ii.', lno. Jasmine Reed Mnunt Carmel Stephanie Cripps Stwred Ht>art Resid<!tWII Meeghan Miller Big Bmtlwnd'ligSlsWl"!' JennaSpencer 
Boys and Girls Ciuh ··· John Langhenry St. Mnrguret's Holl$e ofDuhoi;; County Chopin Street Clinic SarahAngle San Diego Andrew Bessert Good Shl'ph(,rd/ Rapid City Club Di!;UU!S House Ht>nlrlwarw fr)r Dlm1 Montemarano CraigRegi$ Sarah Spieler !hrBoys Diane Davis t.heHmnnkss Boys and Girl" Club of Fn•<.'dmn School Goml Slwph<>td 
Chapin Street Clin1c Caitlin Higgins Lawnmce,MA ChristopherAnthony HnpeCHnk BethanyI..aubaeher Isaac Reichman Veronica Stafford LArche SpokltM Annadel C~U~tillo Tetry Rdlly n.,alth Stephen Morris Cut.holk Workt•r H<mse Phillkrrigtm Catholh~ 
Sacred fllemt Hc;:ident'e Kimberly Hildner Service~ lll'althLhw ofOrangl' County Worker H(!u:;e Nicole At>hley Cmw Ter~sa Spttrta Ht~alth Clinic Mary Deweese Madelyn (Seonju) Lee Elizabeth Mullen Claire Reising ChrisStare 
Little Friend>' JerolHo Siena Francis Hot!..%' Hibi~Wus CNlter Dt• LU.Salk Middl<• Pio DcdmoCenter Alexander Barker Community Supported School Pahokee HHl.mlltinnal Kevin Donkor Ganl<matSL .Lei Lei Claro Mundy Je.tfStelnde Cenh~t Cr(!tona Cell WI' ,Jo:seph'sCenter S!.. Anthony Fnnndal.iun SL Fl'arlds Housel David Retter l nditma Lt~gal 
Employment Program Cheyenne River 0tM'11tion Helping &-rvke6. rue. Matthew Bartittdale Kathleen Dufner Henry Ho(\es nnd Lt•:m.l.l.ng Center Yonth Project Huml~> WlliGtundy Rlme(hde Summer Upper Room-SheaStreeter Medical Clink Achievement t•rogram St. Louis f'ali6h KeUyLemberger LnurnMyers Karen Riedl Covenant l!(m!'le 
Wiltin.m Byrtl The Vulunt('t'1' Gentel' MahnHoli~'<li E1i7.abeth.Bcusou Lauren Elliott Sa.rnhHoldeman Cmnnumity Hm1s<> ofMmlbnn eurtnty Krishna Sttrruiii Hope Clinic St. Patridt'l! Center St>thany Cmholic Lara Roach SL Anthony Foundation 
\Norkffr Holt~ Michelle LetournellU Emily Ni~nik-Cri8to Rey High l:khool Fre(• M!i?dh:al Clink Natasha B~rgstedt SusanEsquivel CtHhoHe Community Salvaterrn Open Arm.-> NHGutlwlk Charitie:;: MaryHoliheu St!n•kes SL Vincent Dowr~tnwn Clifton Roberts Joan Swio11toniowski 
Officff d'lmmigmt.ion Community Meat Chapel FatlwrFn•d SL Ann Centerlbr Laura Berlage nml Rd'ugm• Si.>I'Vin~s PrPir\~um Karina Li~.1l fmmda.t.iun/ rnt>'rl(t'll<'Tl'<tionalCtiJ"{' Daybnmk Homeless Family Kurt Nowak Community Herut.h 
CarliFerna11dez Lily Hough Center Sharing Meadow~> Clink' SaraTaylor Nicholas.Berlin Covenant Hou>W Upper Roqm--Holy Cro~ll Ministrit>>< Don Miller Hnl..lli{' SL !.nul~ Parish Matt Lopez Kyle Obcndorf Amber Rosenberg Summt<l' Pmgram 
Grace Fidgeon Opemtion Helping Hes.-,.d House The AstorHtllllc' for Brian Be\tonville Mnther Tere~• Hvuse Stephanie Honse Ham:ls Ch!ldrml Lat<ren Titone Um;NiHoust> Hartfntd Gutholk Kelly O'Brien Ht•scut' Mi.ssinu of 
ColleenFlahive WorkN· Stephruue Lowe Lift• Ht•>lollfCIJ Center· John Sanders Rmmolw Brinya Bjork Volunteers in Ml'dkilw Garpenrer'l' Place St. Catherine qfSienna bm Vision-Georgia Clink Anne Huntington Kolin O'.Brie.n Pari~'<h KaitlynUhi Ttw;isCenter Good Cm:uweli·Innw~ ChristopherL\lshis HEACH Holy Family Shdter 
Ryan Gabriel C11tholle Chariti<J~'< K.'ltherine Santella Devin Blankinship Otwmtion Hdping ChristopherJain 6ftlw Dhx:H~t1 nf Elizabeth Olveda Op~~ra!lon Helping Katlmrine Valko Sharing Meadows Hand!I GmwilJgllonw t\lknwwn LmW<'l'lllld l'l~h~·s Hand11 Mi~<sionarles (>fGhnrity 
Marilyn Blasingame Lauren Gabriel Jessie Je.nkins Krl:stitt Mannion StephaniePajaknwski Cathleen Santos Rina Ventrelln NH CRtholicClmrit.k!i: The CaddadCkntt'r Senior Fri~·ndship DePalnwr HOU$t,/Thl' Womt•n'~ Care CcllhJr de IaRosa Northern ll!irlois Ot!ke oflrumigm.tion Cenwr Healthy Aging LlvingHoom Btid!{e Projettt Special H~cretttion and Refugee Servicea Mitchel Gainer Clink tmd Restlrredion Katlyn Patterson A>~Hociation 
Uom:,mout Genter Hous<~ Sean Marx Hospitnlity Hr!l!-81" ot' Alyssa Sappcuneld Molly Boyle LJI:Zarus Hmme Bronllo.n !·lospitt<l Cnthol.kc Charit.ka ClaireWelteroth Card inn! Hti}'es Hnm~ KarinaGalvin MattJepsen Elir4!heth Honse Senior Fri•mdship 
Los H«fllltmos Clavt•r Hou"e Michael Maurer Aaron Patzwahl Ct':nter Ht~t!lthy Aging ChrisBrennan Crh;tianos Free tk,lllth Care PTSA Prep Karen ScheUer Clinicand Hesurl'ecction Andm I louse Andrew Jones Center nfC~nt.rnl PA Heartaid~' Clinic Hou.st• 
NicoleGans Operntion Hi'lping Kelly Paulius Joel Bricker Clell:m Heights School Hmlds Anna Mayer Boys and Gi.rlaClubof LindsaySchwartz Michael Wilbur Boysand Girls Club of Catholic Chtu'itk~ of Lawrence. MA Holy Cro~s MinistrieR Gl~aners Pnod Bank Lawrem.-e. MA LuciaOeglio Allan Jones Lake County Sumnwr Progmm 
Brid~c Project Holy Ar1gels Erlca Pepitone Theresa Yerkes MichaelCastillo Lindsey McAlaruen 2nd Floor (180 Tuming NolaSeta Cump Boggy Creek/My Groundwork Brld(l'epcwt Benjamin German Nathaniel Juarez St. ;Itid<.-' Chiltlr<.-'n's Uve~'< Around) Cntholk Churities nf Broth<'r's Keeper 
CampSeuHy Hobitwon Gmnmunity Research 1-h'"Pital tlw Archdioeesn of Maureen Champa LearningCenter StephaniePerez AtlU!tta, l nc. StellaYoon Trdnsition Howw Knthryn Grndecld Laura McCnrty !CA.1'\i Northem fllinui:; Hom~?!essShelter St..Loui11 Centnr James Kachadooriau BnyCiifl'l'fealth CamP EricaSeverson SrH1cinl Reenwt.ion for l'nmiliel\ Operation Hdping Gabriel Phrun M1ttthew2s A.•\sodatinu 
JelfreyGrant HnndOli Laura McCrystal CampChrislopht.Jr Health Clink Elhabeth Chaten I:Ardw H11rhor Hou!>e SiswrsAt)!ldemy Maya Younes East lOthStreet Martha Karam ofBaltimnr~ Emily Poynton Cristin Shaughnessy Ca'l!l Juan Diego Methodil>t 'tnuth Cenh.'r EddieGuilbeau SrateofNewYork MountCarmd Camp Christopher 
Hdennf'oocl Share FamllyGonrt Mark McGuire Kat.b.ryn. Zemlook Roberto Chavez Boys Hope Girls Hope Sean Puscru.1 Carl Silliman Boys and Girls Club · Project Rl'lW\\'lll Rachel Ouinsatno Lindsey Knse Azzarelli Outn!ll<)h Hahitat for Humanity of San Diego 
to~ HenntUI(ll\ HihtJI1 H!:lad P.:ws .MaryMcKennn Clink Gnmwr Chatt.iuNoga IW.lsey ClenllWn Cflr.'tiarws 1md Girl~ Club Hartford Catholk Margaret Zielinski DeLa Salle Genter \Vorker Bridget Quinn ConnorSkeUy Catholic Worker Hou;;c 
Catherine Haarn l."lanuery Kearney I\<U~erit,lwdia St. Mary't~<1ftlw ofOranl;(•~ County Kelly Colas lnfrn.\t. Mm•tality Projm::t Nntivity Sehool Meghan McKinney t\SMUI1.1pt.iun Rescue Milision fleru't House Aum.in AliciaQuiros Joshua Zielinski d'Rmmolw Coleen H.allornn Brian Kennedy ;\nnundation Hou*~ ChelseaSmith Mother Teresa How~e 
Thnnws Rivet Lazarus H(JU!it' Kath~rinc McNelis Cusa T mesa AnnaColes Frunily Progmru Mtrggle's Plru:l.' Meredith Rag:my Timothy Zi.utak SL Louis Center CASA C•)lor:tdo Spring~ Mike Sobolewski AndreHmtse 
Uttl;; Frimtdli 
~,~soc.


~-Std>CIAL ~-~~. 
-Q
..( ~ :J

~CONCERNS 
Community Service 

---------------------------, 
Thursday, September 17, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
est 




Sunday, September 27th 9:00p.m. 
(Please note special time) 
-
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Join students, rectors, hall staff, hall government, and priests-in-residence for this celebration of the Eucharist. 
~ 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 17, 2009 
MLB 

Blanton throws six scoreless to shut down Nats 
Tigers honor announcer, win on Polanco single; Johnson strikes out nine as Marlins beat Cardinals 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA-Inspired by Pedro Martinez and Cliff Lee, Joe Blanton put more goose eggs on the scoreboard. 
Blanton tossed six scoreless innings, Jayson Werth hit a grand slam and the Philadelphia Phillies beat the Washington Nationals 6-1 on Wednesday night. 
Blanton (1 0-7) allowed five hits and struck out seven. The Phillies were one out away from recording three consecutive shutouts for the first time in 40 years when Willie Harris singled in a run off Tyler Walker. 
The Phillies beat the New York Mets 1-0 Sunday night behind eight innings from Martinez and one from Ryan Madson. Lee tossed a six-hitter in a 5-0 win against the National<> on Tuesday. 
"Hitting is contagious, but pitch­ing is contagious, too," Blanton said. "You see a lot of quality pitch­es and a lot of outs and it gets in your head. It breeds confidence." 
The NL East-leading Phillies reduced their magic number for clinching their third straight divi­sion title to 11 with 18 games remaining. 
Uvan Hernandez (8-11) allowed two runs and seven hits in six innings. The lowly Nationals are 3­14 against Philadelphia this season. 
Frustrated by another sloppy performance, manager Jim Higgleman held a team meeting after the game. 
"We made too many mistakes," Riggleman said. "A lot of bad things happened that we can't continue to allow. We've got to do a better job of handling the details of the game." 
Chase Utley and Ryan Howard, who have combined for 69 homers, used their legs to produce the first run in the first inning, with Utley swiping home on a delayed double steal. 
Utley singled with two outs and moved to third on Howard's base hit. Howard then broke for second and slid in safely ahead of catcher Wil Nieves' throw. Utley raced home once Nieves released the ball and scored without a throw as shortstop Cristian Guzman reacted slowly after applying the late tag. 
It was Howard's seventh stolen base this season. He had two career steals before this year, but dropped more than 25 pounds in the offseason. 
"I think he's a little quicker because of the weight," manager Charlie Manuel said. 
Utley became the lOth player in franchise history to record 20 steals and 20 homers in the same season. 
Werth drove a 1-2 pitch from Jason Bergmann deep to left-cen­ter in the seventh for his third career slam and second this vear. The All-Star right fielder ha·s 34 homers and 88 RBis in his first full season as a regular. 
"I knew he could produce from an offensive standpoint and I knew he had power, but I didn't know how consistent he'd be," Manuel said. "He's still learning. He can get better." 
Tigers 4, Royals 3 
The Detroit Tigers gave their fans plenty to cheer about Wednesday night. 
First the team honored long-time radio announcer Ernie Harwell, then the Tigers went out and beat the Kansas Oty Royals to maintain their lead in the AL Central. 
Placido Polanco singled home the go-ahead run with two outs in the sixth inning as the Tigers, seeking their first division title since 1987, reduced their magic number to 13. Detroit leads Minnesota by 4 V2 games. 
"That's jll'it the way we've played games all year," said Detroit short­stop Adam Everett, who drove in two runs, induding the tying run in the sixth. "I don't know how to explain it. They've been beating us up pretty good and to get a win, and win in that fashion, was big for us." 
The victory ended the Tigers' five-game skid against Kansas Oty. 
Detroit saluted Harwell, who recently said he has inoperable cancer, during the third inning. The team showed a three-minute video tribute then the Hall of Fame announcer gave a thank-you speech to an appreeiative and tear­ful crowd of 25,400. 
"I think he really said some nice words," reliever Zach Miner said of Harwell, who spoke to the team before the game. "I think everyone kind of took it to heart and kind of realized that it's a game." 
The 91-year-old Hall of Fame broadcaster was in the Detroit booth from 1960 to 2002. 
Miner (7 -5) and three other relievers kept the Royal'> scoreless over the final five innings. Fernando Hodney worked the ninth to earn his 33rd save in 34 chances. 
Everett and Curtis Granderson each drove in a run in Detroit's two-run fourth and Everett added his tying RBI single off starter Lenny DiNardo (0-1) in the sixth. Reliever Jamey Wright gave up Polanco's hit with two outs. 
Kansas Oty had runners at sec­ond and third to start the eighth after Bobby Seay gave up consecu­tive singles, but Brandon Lyon came on to induce a grounder to the mound and a strikeout before getting Alberto Callaspo to pop up to first. 
"Obviously what Lyon did tonight was game-saving," Leyland said. 
The Royals lost their lead baserunner three times, including in the third when Yuniesky Betancourt was thrown out at the plate by Hyan Raburn. Tigers catcher Gerald Laird later caught his majors-best 34th runner trying to steal, when Willie Bloomquist failed to swipe second. 
"Situational hitting and defense -were weren't at either one and it cost us," Kansas Oty manager Trey Hillman said. 
Maier and Miguel Olivo had RBI singles and Alex Gordon added a sacrifice fly against starter Eddie Bonine. 
Marlins 5, Cardinals 2 
Josh Johnson showed why he's one of the top starters in the majors on Wednesday. 
Even without his best stuff, the right-hander was good enough to shut down the St. Louis Cardinal'>. 
Johnson struck out nine in six effective innings to lead the Florida Marlins to a victory over the Cardinals. 
Cody Ross had three hits and drove in two runs for Florida, which has won 10 of 14 to stay in the playoff race. Ross extended his hitting streak to 11 games, the longest current streak in the NL, and was 5 for 12 in the series. 
Florida (78-68) moved within four games of wild card-leading Colorado, which was at San Francisco on Wednesday night. 
"This is a resilient team," Marlins manager Fredi Gonzalez said. "They forget bad losses quickly and go on to the next game." 

.Johnson (15-4) gave up nine hits but aUowed just one run in hi<> 23rd quality start of the season. He struck out live and walked none, improving to 3-1 with a 3.14 ERA in hi'i last five starl'i. 
"They made good eontact with tl1e ball," Johnson said. ''I'd throw good pitches and they'd get hits. It was one of those days where I did­n't walk anybody. That was huge for me today." 
The Cardinals rallied in the ninth . .Jason LaHue walked with one out and Mark DeRosa foUowed with a double to lett. Gonzalez then replaced Brian Sanches with closer Leo Nunez, whose wildness got the Marlins into more trouble. 
Nunez hit llyan Ludwick and Albert Pujols to foree in a run before coaxing Matt Holliday into a game-ending double play for his 22nd save in 28 opportunities. 
"I really focused on throwing the fastball low and away," said Nunez, who had hit only two batters in hi<; previous 68 innings. "I jll'it wanted to get the ground ball and I got it." 

Central-leading St. Louis fell to 1­5 on its nine-game homestand and lost baek-to-back series for the first time since Jw1e 22-28 against the New York Mets and Minnesota. 
Joel Pineiro (14-11) gave up four runs and 10 hits in 5 113 innings for St. Louis. 
Eight of Florida's first 10 batters reached safely. John Baker and Ross had RBI singles and Dan Uggla also drove in a r~ in the first with a fielder's choice:~ 

inf(m11ation on this, and events at the Kellogg Institute.
0KELLOGG INS 

"'""''v"''""·.nd.edu/events 

Thursday, September 17, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
Eagles' Kolb ready to start 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Donovan McNabb was a causal bystander at Eagles practice. Wearing black sweat pants, an Eagles cap, and his red No. 5 jersey, McNabb looked more like an Eagles fan on a football Sunday than their starting quarterback. 
Unlike those Philly die-hards, McNabb hopes to be playing instead of watching against New Orleans. 
McNabb, who has a cracked rib, could not practice on Wednesday and likely won't all week. So third-year reserve Kevin Kolb took snaps with the first-team offense in prepara­tion for possibly the first start of his NFL career. 
Coach Andy Reid made it clear on Wednesday: Kolb is the starter if McNabb can't play. 
"I think between myself and the coaches and the players, we all have a lot of confidence that he'll go out, given the chance, and perform very, very well," Reid said. 
That means former Pro Bowl QB Jeff Garcia is simply here as insurance-for now. 
Kolb hasn't impressed any­one in his limited playing time over the last three seasons. He is 24 for 45 for 167 yards, no touchdowns and four intercep­tions in eight career games. He was 7 for 11 for 23 yards and sacked twice once he took over for the injured McNabb in a win against Carolina. 
"I've gotten opportunities and haven't done the best job with them," Kolb said. "No excuses." 
That's a small sample size to determine whether Kolb can handle the responsibilities of the No. 1 job if McNabb is out Sunday and beyond. 
The unknown is what makes Eagles fans jittery entering Sunday. Kolb may start the game, but there are no guar­antees he'll be around for the finish. 
Kolb, a second-round pick in 2007, has been waiting for this moment since draft day. 
"You get to run the huddle the way you want to," Kolb said. "All these things have been going through my head for two years. I'll try not to change too much because you want to the same continuity, but you want to put your own little twist on things." 
There's still a chance that Kolb could return to his usual role as McNabb's understudy. Reid said McNabb was making progress and it was too early to rule him out. 
"I know how Donovan's wired and he's a tough guy," Reid said. "I've got to make sure that myself and the doc­tors and trainers evaluate that as we get closer. If he were OK'd to play and felt OK, I think he could go out there with very little practice and perform at a high level." 
Garcia, picked up by the Eagles on Tuesday, would be Kolb's backup. He will be the No. 3 emergency quarterback if McNabb starts. 
Michael Vick and Garcia will share snaps running the scout team this week. Vick is not eli­gible to play until next week against the Kansas City Chiefs. McNabb, Garcia and Vick have combined for 12 Pro Bowls. 
"This is (Kolb's) opportunity to present to the rest of the league what he's all about," Garcia said. "Hopefully he takes advantage of all of that." 
McNabb cracked a single rib when he was crunched by sev­eral defenders on his 3-yard touchdown run in the third quarter of last week's win at Carolina. He didn't immediate­ly get up after the touchdown, and was attended to by Eagles trainers before eventually leaving the field on his own. 
Reid said McNabb's ribs need to get "sticky"-or, not move up and down-before he should play. 
Running back Brian Westbrook, who missed a game last season with a bro­ken rib, said McNabb's ability to play could depend on how much pain he can tolerate. 
"He might be able to take a little bit more pain than I can." Westbrook said. "It's painful when you get hit, when you breathe, when you run. It's painful every time you move." 
Kolb's most meaningful play­ing time came last season when Reid benched McNabb at halftime of a loss at Baltimore. Reid thought Kolb gave the team a better chance to win a game it desperately needed to maintain its slim playoff hopes. 
Kolb was 10 for 23 for 73 yards and two interceptions, including one returned an NFL-record 108 yards for a touchdown by Ed Reed. 
The Eagles were down 22-7 and had a second down inside the 1 with just under 8 min­utes left when Kolb threw the costly pick to Reed. 
That was all for Kolb. McNabb returned to the start­ing lineup the next game. 
y)s listen­
ur football 
preview the Spartans in the Irish Insider podcast. 

www.ndsmcobserver. 
Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, Sntdent Allairs. fi~J-71-11!1 Ann firth. Studt•ut A !lairs, WH -2filti Sylvia Dillun, Campus Ministry, mu-7 Hi:1 
Johu Dillon. Campus Ministry, 631-7 Hia Dr. Susan Stcibt>P<~salidt, Counsclin~ Or.. (~'!1-k':J()S Amt E. Kleva, Health Scn·it·es, {i<ll-1-128{) 
\Vomcn's Care Ct•ntt•r: 2~ l-0:-lli:i 
• Catholit' Chmities: 2:-H-:-u II 
Visit our website at: . bUjJ:I/prelf,ltalU'}'SU(lJX)l1.{1(1.t•du 
Big East 
continued from page 24 
Friday game at DePaul. 
Notre Dame has already played one Big East foe in No. 5 St. John's, losing 2-0 at the adidas/IU Credit Union Classic on Sept. 6. That game did not count as a conference match. 
The conference lineup con­sists of all seven teams in the Blue Division as well as four from the Red. Currently, due to a few rocky starts, only four Big East teams are ranked: Notre Dame, St. John's, South Florida and No. 22 Louisville. 
"I know the ones we play this weekend are doing well," Clark said. "They'll be two very hard road games." 
The Irish will be missing three important defensive players as the team starts conference play. Senior mid­fielder Cory Rellas suffered a knee injury in the first game of the season, and sophomore defender Aaron Maund and freshman midfielder Dillon Powers will be playing at the under-20 World Cup in Egypt for most of the regular sea­son. 
"We've lost three key play­ers, but this is an opportunity for guys to step up," Clark said. "It's a challenge to the squad and the players, but that's why you have a full squad. We have to overcome some big losses, but I think we've got a good shot. " 
Maund and Powers will be back at the very latest for Notre Dame's Oct. 21 game against Georgetown, which should be an important game for the Blue Division stand­ings. The Hoyas (3-1-1) cur­rently sit in second place behind Providence (3-1) and have made an early statement with two players earning player of the week honors Monday. 

While the regular season title is a big accomplishment, Clark pointed out that the Big East tournament is even more important. The winner of the tournament, which will be held Nov. 4-15 on campus sites and then at West Virginia, receives an automat­ic bid to the NCAA Championship tournament. 
"That's why the schedule we play is so important," Clark said. "We have very strong out of conference games to build our RPI [ratings per­centage index] because our end of season aim is the NCAAs. If we do well in the conference and qualify for the tourney and beyond, we can also go to the NCAAs. 
"Right now, we're taking it one stage at a time." 
Clark said traveling is an especially difficult part of the conference schedule. The squad usually plays a Friday game and a Sunday game, alternating a weekend at home and a weekend at two different locations, which vary quite a bit as Big East schools range from Chicago to Florida and everywhere in between. 
"That's one of the hard things of being a Midwest school in the Big East," Clark said. "You travel a lot. I think the DePaul-South Florida trip is the worst. Plus it would have been nice to go to Florida later in the year." 
As the Irish start their con­ference play, they will keep their main goal in mind. 
"We want to win the league," Clark said. "It's our first big challenge of the sea­son ... we've got a terrific team, and they're certainly motivated." 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
Spartans 
continued from page 24 
and the challenge for us for this week is to try and match their physicality," Smith said. 
McCarthy agreed. "Michigan State is one of the most physical games we 

play all year," McCarthy said. "It's just their mentality, it's kind of something they have in their program. They get hard-nosed kids and are a tough team to play and we are definitely going to be sore on Sunday." 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
com/podcasts 



Close by campus, Martin's has what you want. 
Starbuck's Coffee® beverages WiFi free in Side Door Deli area 70+ item Salad Bar Complete Tailgating Supplies New Sandwich Express mode-to-order subs Sushi selections made fresh doily Hot Deli Fried Chicken, egg rolls, sides and more Ponini bar featuring meat and veggie varieties Party trays custom made Donuts made fresh daily in store College logo cokes, balloons and more Kitchen Fresh entrees1 just like homemade 
.. ' 
ATM and stamps Party supplies Fuel Center 


Toll Road 

S..lnt Mary-s College 
martini' 
Count On Us! 

Thursday, September 17, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
Across 28 Sister who's won "A peculiar sort 
the U.S. Open of a gal," in song 
three times 30 Grafton's "~

4 Muddy for Innocent"
8 Themed events 31 Curly shape 13 Actor Tognazzi 32 Starts of someof "La Cage aux games ... and ofFolies" the answers to 
14 Seaside raptor 
16-, 22-, 48 and 15 Allen Iverson's 56-Across? teammates till 
36 R.B.I. producer,'06 

sometimes: 16 Ingredient in Abbr. some gum 
39 Holder of le 18 Gossip tr6ne 
19 Request that 40 Minnesota often follows college "Please" 44 "Hold on!" 
20 Inceptions 47 Hot, after "on" 48 Like some
21 Chow passes22 Oscar Wilde or 51 Mambo king Bill Maher, for 
Puente example 
52 Contravenes 25 Some car roofs 53 They give you 27 Like some 
control announcements 55 Fang that have been 56 Cedar and lost hemlock 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

57 Lightly sprayed 58 Mathematician Post or Arlin 59 Riddle-me-~ 
60 Foreign thoughts 61 Kind of column 62 New Left org. 
Down Hackneyed 
movie endings 2 Perturb 3 G.P.S. device, 
e.g. 4 Part of AARP: Abbr. 5 Small African antelope 6 "Back (1974 Genesis song) 7 Family name of about 15% of 
Koreans 8 Big bomb 9 Runs out 
10 Having a dividing wall, in biology 
11 Locks 12 Map abbr. until 
1991" 15 TV Guide info 17 How many 
writers work 20 Buck ~• first black coach in Major League Baseball (Cubs, 
1962) 23 Opening 24 Patriot's 
concerns, briefly 
26~-Cat 
29 What mach meters measure 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Patrick Mcintyre 
33 Songs from rosy-38 Certain plate 49 Step heavily (on) cheeked singers, 
41 Overstays?
maybe 50 Start of a
42 Not the same 
counting rhyme 34 Moms and dads anymore 

belong to it: 43 Gets ready to 54 Like Clark Kent's Abbr. manner
brush, maybe 35 Rather 
45 This evening, on 
55 Third year in the 36 Bad record, for posters reign of Edwardshort 

46 Organic the Elder 37 Not a long-term compounds with solution nitrogen 56 Corp. honcho 
For answers, call 1 ·900·285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
('ELERRrrlf;S BORN ON TillS DAY: M"ddilk Zuna, 24; Alcxb Blcdd. :18. Tma Bm:ren, .U; Man: Antllony. 41 
flapp!· Rit·tfld•y: Y<JU'l1 hi1W pknl}' l<l d.-"! W!tb fhal "iU "''l"tl< h<Uuh <m apj>hnttiom. 
Uot(f k<sVl: <tU)" roc:t,nt t'ot ~n'or. Y(JU h~vt t3 lot f() w:uu trow f.h~~ ('hanJ!.~"':<i y~JI.) fw..x" tlus yco(Er. 
D<>lft ~,,•., talw hopeotll<: lak<'ll in by If when il ('t>mes tolovc,n:•uan~e or(ka!mg with 
!iiend-'<lfY<"IIlJ!Sfcrs. Ymlf ll!Uilix'fl> are 1>. l.l. !9. 23,25,18.40 
ARIES \\la~fl lk\p!'il 1.9.1: l:lon'l.poiut ''"' fmjter Of uar wl~en atl eonpa.tll<'ll<' IXlilil <lf vtew "'--.ill brillf: ~n~r. re~ults Tllf: mo:rc uudcrs.:tcmdi.u~ you :arc, tl~~ tnow k.JK.twk~l~\" yvu wiU!'-'I:dw l(>r m:.kil1~ a s<J111~1 jmlgn1<.1!1 *** 
TAt'Rl'S <April ZO·:'Ifay lO;: Make the dfort to tlca!With]Je<>pl< U1 I"'N>i!. Ytlll will i'CI ~ IIIllCh l.ctkr r¢'1":<~~"' a11d 11~)1" ~c·wmph,<hcd 1! yu11 C~ll off~'!' Y<lUr ideas ao><lplatts dj. wetly. 'lhu•· p<e!l'lii•ti<•u will kv.nl1<1 sucx-ess. *"**** 
GEMINI (\lay ll-Juut lll): Don'! do 'O<tlell!mg 'rupul t=au>e you are all wrnppc'<i up in a l"'rsonal mallcr. Sepru<ttc ymlf business lllld f"'!'5<li1.1lll<.'<'ds or mistakes will be ""'d". Confusmni• "JlflMclll aud will require lldp f""m """''"""' w1><> know< anti !lll<kr<l:u«h ym1r Mtaa~"~-** 
{',\NCER !,June 21-.lnly 2l): If yGu are~~~ kastl>ll irnk..::iSI~e. Wlll\.'<11~ will try to talk you ill!" domg sonk"thiiiA you don't w•nt 10 do. A lillie ap;p-es,ion '"'your part ,...,u ..,tlhc reeonl str~igbf. Ch.l<l<t tllin~t' are '"'"<lin)! yonr w11y, so <tay in cuutr~JI *** 
Ll:O duly :U·AUJt. ll): Y<~fll h:•w motblt t'<•lttl>lli!lf )'OI>t """'li"'"·e'!)t'da!ly w·b•n (kaling with t><'l'Sl>tud ornllkrs.ldationships and wl~<.-re lllt>EI<'Y ••wl love illkrtwin<:. ·n~re will be a tine !me between bu)'ln!(and winnillj! friend$hip. *** 
VIRGO !Aug. 2.\-Sttpt. lZJ: No! ewrythlnp will be mi!dc av;ulable to Y<lll Ym1 h.aw IIJ refrain fix•tl.l jii!HjlUl!! iutn a ~itu~ti.<'!> !0<1 <11-lid,;Jy m· wioholl! l'~'<ll"'f infomt;~tion *** 
LIBRA. (Sept. !;\..()d. :U\: Askin? tor help may be wmnli11~ but, in oomg so. ~·ou wdl com~<.'<-1 with wu~eor~e who c.:m mntrihmc "Jn~elbinJ,t in retlllll. Greater <"ljljlOI'ttUllt!Ks will l"' matk available ifyou are wtlling to !tiW hack and $loare your exl"'rtise. * ** * 
SCORPIO tll<"t. 23-l'<.,...lll: b<m't fioo out d.lin~< tl10 bard w~y. lJi)t t~p and you'll di• cover wlto is wOO.il>g with you atld woo i>.n't. D<>tl'l dh1llgc your secreh "'" they will be used l!ll~imt y<.111 by ro!lre<.~uc ~"u least c:\I"'CI. ** 
SA01Tl'ARJ11S tNov. 21-1>«-. .tl!: If )~lU kf iUI <tll<llk•nalm~II<"T disrr.....1 you, you will l<>se 5>igll! ~Jfimport~lll mauers.lf "''ure'"re wmll.• f<l milk<: cban)tes. don'll\!lllllnmor her but. ifn isn't S<JJ.~thin~ you want l<llakcpart m.ritkeapass ***** 
t~Al'IUCORN ill«. ll·Juh. l'>t: i.o<Jk at ;til the <bfkl'-'lll mt)tk' inv<>lVitlg ~ fonm..,ml or l<:)talmattrt thai you are ft~<:in)l. S<ltll<.'t1<re will !ti"<' you infonJJationth<l! may cau..;e yoll I<> make a w•tly llU,lake. [lon'l fed you have to <lei fast. C\'CII if SOIIJe<.me IS pre<S!llrillp you. 
*** 

AQUARlllS (Jom. 211-f~b. 1111: Your future will be milt~Cnce<i by do: ~1toicesthm are m"dc by those-~low to y01• spc;!k UJ> m~l M Y"''' fcelinj!'~ oo known. l..o•..: is in the pic· mre and a rel~tior1>hip you <~IC in will "l"'ll up sonl<." new <>p~ious IIL1t amid help yonr cur. rent silt~tfi{)!L *** 
l'ISCK'i w~b. 19-Mardt l{l): If \"()II are oblivi<1U~ (()what e\'t't\'011<: """''"<!~<>\I is duuk· 
mp and ooi:n!J,. yoH wil!IJ011taw ;; wy in what's ~oil·~ on. Y•:.unlust otEKkN<liuJ the m~:<li· 
<11tkms S<> }':<I' (all prot<!<-1 y<>tlr intere5b and J"'rllars even ;obmil mo offer thai will t"'ndit 
Y""·*** 

Jllrtl!day Bahy: \i.11.1 snwe lor perl~clinn. You l.tandk whatever come• your way wllll t>il· zazz mul c'"lml<ln sense. You ~r<: forc-eful m•l determio1<.'<i. 
Eugenia'S tfi>b jffcJ.: RU,~t.<nialw.r .t:t.mt ft:?r nm..!idemiul <'EHt.mltuiimts-. m~·~t>tti.·t~ ...(Ym~lr.-~tgt'nit"li~Mt J(>t Eugt•t1il1:v l>l()g. a.UJr>llth:icf."A.'()!Jt~{trr fun 

SCHAD & FREUDE 
•.• SO THA-T :r e~N
READ HOBBe::~ 
~ PE tJ\:) p.,J£J(. r
FOR IVE~ T 
C:t..A.SS' •.•
llME'.... 

T.I.N.D 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
•o.S1AMMf\~I"'Z.IroJ6­
'T\o4E HOSIE:\ ~ E' F\P ftv o, 
DAN POHLMAN 

Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
JEFF KNUREK 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
tTELKIN j 


WHAr rHJ: POKJ:R
) I [ II 

GROUP PL.AYJ:O FOR. 

I I Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer. as suggested by the above cartoon. 
I I ) ( l l I X I J
Answer here: [ 

(Answers tomorrow) AGONY LADLE PALATE BYWORD
Yesterday's IJumbles: 

Answer: How the lonely bank robber fett when he saw his poster -WANTED 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 

Name~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----~~~­
Address _____________________________________ City _____________ State _____ Zip___________ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, September 17, 2009 
page 24 
fOOTBALL 
Preparing for pain 

By MICHAEL BRYAN Associate Sports Editor 
While Michigan State has won six straight in Notre Dame stadium, Notre Dame's captains were more con­cerned with recent results Wednesday -primarily the last two lost to the Spartans. 
''I've only been here since 2005, same with Kyle [McCarthyI." linebacker and special teams captain Scott Smith said. "Really the only thing that's been somewhat within our control is what's happened since we've been here. I don't really look back to what happened in 1993 or anything like that." 
McCarthy said the familiar­ity with Michigan State's offense should help in trying to break the six-game home losing streak. 
"They do a lot of the same things they did last year, just different guys," McCarthy said. "Obviously the guys are more than capable of run­ning that offense." 
The 23-7 loss in East Lansing was the first for the Irish in 2008, and featured an anemic Notre Dame rush­ing attack that resulted in passing out of necessity. 
"In the first half [last year] we were trying to pound the ball," quarterback Jimmy Clausen said. "They had seven, eight guys in the box 
MEN'5 SOCCER 

Team readies for Big East 
By LAURA MYERS Sports Writer 
Notre Dame begins its con­ference schedule this week­end in hopes of winning its third straight Big East Blue Division title. But there will be a lot of teams standing in the way of the Irish. 
"The Big East is one of the best conferences in the coun­try," coach Bobby Clark said. "To win it three years in a row would be pretty special. It's a real feather in the cap for the guys." 
The No. 20 Irish (2-2-1) currently sit in fourth of the eight teams in the Blue Division of the conference, though the standings will cer­tainly be shaken up once con­ference play begins. The other eight Big East teams comprise the Red Division, which is led by No. 11 South Florida (4-0). whom the Irish will play Sunday aft<'f a 
see BIG EAST/page 21 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
SMC rallies, but falls 3-2 to Flying Dutch 
By BOBBY GRAHAM Sports Writer 
The Belles dropped another close conference match to MIAA rival and No. 8 Hope Wednesday, 3-2. 
"This match was a really tough loss," coach Toni Kuschel said. "We had a lot of unforced errors and there were a few plays that did not go our way." 
The loss was the Belles' third that came in five sets, a sign that the team is playing well but is having issues closing out. 
"We have to learn to keep executing what is working for us at the time and capitalize on the other teams weaknesses". Kuschel said. 
The Flying Dutch got off to a quick start, breezing to victory in the first two games 25-9 and 25-19. Saint Mary's rallied together, however, rebounding to take the next two games 25­20 and 25-21. 
Hope recovered to win the 
fifth and final set 15-10. 
The Belles continued to receive steJJar play from senior star Lorna Slupczynski, who recorded a double-double with 12 kills and 18 digs. 
Despite a tough start to the season, Kuschel recognized the talent on the roster and is con­fident that her squad is making continual progress. 
"Our team is improving each game," she said. "I think is says a lot about how mentally tough they can be to come in to a strong conference and play the way they have been play­ing." 
The Flying Dutch had a bal­anced attack with four differ­ent players notching double­digit kills. Jacie Fiedler, Cassidy Bulthius, Traci Baker and Sara DeWeerdt all had at least 10 kills for Hope. 
The Belles will take a much­needed break this week to readjust themselves and pre­pare for conference rival Olivet Tuesday at home. 
and we just had to throw the ball if we were going to have a chance to win the game." 

The Irish run game seems to be vastly improved this year, with junior Armando Allen emerging as a tougher inside runner and averaging 
5.9 yards per carry. 

"In the grand scheme of things, as an offensive line­man at any level of any foot­ball team, running the ball is kind of a thing of pride," sen­ior center Eric Olsen said. "When you're pushing defen­sive linemen back and get­ting up to linebackers and your running back is making great runs behind you, it's just a good feeling and some­thing that gets everyone excited." 
Both defensive captains agreed that the team was better prepared to recover quickly from the loss to Michigan than those in years past. 
"I think we have a much more mature team this year," McCarthy said. "Last year we were a little young, but this year, those guys have really stepped up into more of a leadership role. 
Both units should be pre­pared for a physical game against a Spartan team angry after last week's 29-27 upset loss to Central Michigan. 
"They like to play physical 
see SPARTANS/page 21 

SMC SOCCER 
Belles drop 8th straight at Titans 
Observer Staff Report 
The Belles' struggles on offense, which have plagued them for most of the season, were too much to overcome as they dropped their eighth straight road contest, a 5-0 decision at No. 7 Illinois Wesleyan College Wednesday night in Bloomington, Ill. 
The Titans jumped out early with a goal in the 12th minute before adding three more first-half goals to put the game out of reach. 
Senior Patty Duffy played 63 minutes in goal, making three saves, before giving way to freshman Adele Bruggeman, who made one stop of her own. 
Senior Jessica Slean and freshman Ashley Morfin were the only Belles players to reg­ister shots in the match. 
Junior goalkeeper Alii Novak registered her 20th career shutout for Illinois Wesleyan as the Belles were outshot 20-2. 
Goals for the Titans were scored by Carlie Hoekstra, Molly O'Brien, Tori Samson, Kelsey Porter and Annmarie Dolak. 
Saint Mary's (2-4) will play the second of three matches on its current road trip when it travels to Ohio for a matchup with Wilmington College Friday. 
The Belles will be searching for their first away goal on the season. With the loss Saint Mary's drops to 4-17-1 over the past two seasons. 






