the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


H1N1 vaccine expected to arrive soon 
Vaccinations to be given to priority groups as number of presumed cases rises to 659 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
As the number of presumed H1N1 cases on campus totals 659 since the beginning of August, Notre Dame hopes to receive vac­cines to treat the virus in the near future, Director of University Health Services Ann Kleva said. 
“We wish we knew. Every day we hope we’re going to get some,” Kleva said. “Within the next few days, or within the end of next week, we hope to receive some.” 
When the shipment arrives, stu­dents or faculty who are preg­nant, regularly interact with chil­dren less than 6 months old and students under 24 with an under­lying illness will be the first priori­ty for vaccination. 
Underlying illnesses like dia­betes, heart disease and asthma make students under 24 eligibly for priority vaccination. After this high priority group is treated, vac­cinations will be available to all students under 24, Kleva said. 
Kleva said the number of doses the University receives will affect who will be able to receive the shot. 
“We have no idea the number of doses we’re going to receive. It could be as little as 50 or it could be as much as 500,” she said. “It will be first come first serve. 
“We’ll do the best possible thing to get them out as quickly as it arrives in on campus,” she said. “We already have plans in place. We have rooms that are already being reserved. In a short period 


see H1N1/page 6 





Documentary highlights refugee camps 
Muslim world. 
“Another one of the pur­poses of Project Nur is to build bridges among Muslims and between Muslims and non-Muslims,” Martin said. 
Martin described the work of Project Nur as spurred by a general lack of knowledge and understanding of Muslim communities. The program, he said, is currently working to spread awareness of human rights violations around academic communi­ties. 
Project Nur and Human Rights ND connected over 
see TERROR/page 4 

ND grad elected Gov. of VA 

By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 
Notre Dame alumnus Bob McDonnell was elected the 71st governor of Virginia Tuesday, topping Democratic candidate Creigh Deeds with about 60 per­cent of the vote as of press time. With the win, McDonnell will become the fourth Notre Dame alumnus in history to be elected as a U.S. governor. 
A Republican, McDonnell pre­viously served as Attorney General of Virginia from 2005 until he left office in February of this year to campaign for gover­nor full time. 
McDonnell, a Philadelphia native, attended Notre Dame on an ROTC scholarship and gradu­ated in 1976 with a bachelor’s degree in Management from the University. 
After graduation he served in the military for 20 years, 16 of which were spent in the Army Reserve. He also received an 
M.B.A. from Boston University in 1980 and a Juris Doctorate degree from Regent University in 1989. 
The Virginia gubernatorial race garnered national attention in recent weeks, with political commentators arguing the out­come would be an indication of political moods both in that state and across the country exactly one year after President Barack Obama was elected. 
Late Tuesday, Republican lead­ers cited the victory as a repudi­ation of the Obama administra­
see GOVERNOR/page 6 



By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Human Rights ND part­nered with Project Nur Tuesday night to present the documentary “Terror’s Children” and to create a greater awareness among students for human rights violations in refugee camps. 
Project Nur visited Notre Dame as a student-led initia­tive of the American Islamic Congress. Bashir Martin, a representative of the organi­zation, described Project Nur’s mission as one of advo­cacy for human rights in the 




Bureau Chief addresses Middle East 
By ADRIANA PRATT 
News Writer 
Political change in the Middle East has been a challenging and frustrating process over the years, especially for the people affected by its current state of affairs. New York Times United Nations Bureau Chief Neil MacFarquhar described factors that have made such change difficult at a lecture Tuesday at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
“The first is the stifling control the secret police have over socie­ty,” MacFarquhar said. “The sec­ond one is the lack of the rule of law. There are plenty of laws on the books but they’re all sort of 
see MIDDLE/page 6 



COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 


Members discuss off­campushousingWebsite 

By ANN-MARIE WOODS 
News Writer 
The Council of Representatives (COR) discussed the online Off-Campus Housing Evaluation Site and finalized the assessment that will be available to students in the coming weeks. 
“This will provide information for students looking to move off campus, with mostly objective information,” student body presi­dent Grant Schmidt said. 
In addition to the objective eval­uations, a subjective online com­ment section will be available to students to assess their off-campus housing. 
In other COR news: 
COR finalized the Student Incident Report form and it will be available for student use on the Off-Campus Housing Web site. 
“When something happens, you will go to the Web site to fill out the form,” Schmidt said. “This is bene­ficial for us to know the numbers associated with these events.” 

Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods4@nd.edu 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Obama visits lab of ND alum page 3  Loyal daughters and sons perform page 10  Women’s basketball wins opener page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Wednesday, November 4, 2009 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: HOW ARE YOU GOING TO CELEBRATE THE RETURN OF MICHAEL  LOYD?
INSIDE COLUMN 



My chemical romance 
There are a lot of things that keep Notre Dame students going all day. Some are specific to us. For example, we like Jesus more than a lot of schools do, and He likes us better too. We also like Michael Floyd more than every school does, and his impending return has us all rejoicing. 
Of course, those are both long-term motivations to con­tinue onward. In the short term, we need something 


Laura Myers 
less ideal and more chemical. Assistant Something students Sports (and workers) Editor across the country use on a daily basis. Something we can actually ingest into our bodies that makes us perk up, open our eyes and smile at our professor as he walks through the door. 
We need caffeine. Imagine the word need with about seven more e’s. That’s how much we need caffeine. Lots of it. All day long. 
That is why I was flabbergasted yes­terday when I walked into the Huddle for a cup of tea and a bagel only to find that of the 20 or so flavors of tea, two of them had caffeine. 
Two. 
Two. 

One was English breakfast, and the other was the regular Lipton tea that you can get in the dining hall. No green, no chai. No weird Indian flavor that actually tastes good, or weird lime flavor that tastes disgusting. 
There were, however, three different types of chamomile. Just what I need in the morning. 
This was an aberration. It’s like if Reckers didn’t have cheese pizza, just sauce and olives. Or if Waddicks stopped serving breakfast sandwiches and instead gave you a melted slice of cheese wrapped in paper. 
The point of tea is caffeine. It’s a stimulant for people who want to feel fancy, for those who can’t handle black coffee or for those who just like the taste of tea. I’m mostly in the third group, although I don’t mind being fancy. 
Huddle, give us our caffeine back. You have swung and missed in the past 
— “organic” carrot chips that are basi­cally pure sugar, Pop Tarts that are not brown sugar cinnamon, not selling Wheat Chex. 
But this is like you swung, missed, accidentally let go of the bat, fell down and had the bat land on your head. Or to switch the sports metaphor, it’s like you went for the tackle but instead grabbed onto a jersey, braced yourself and pulled but ended up getting dragged for many yards. Either way, you screwed up and if it were up to me you would lose your scholarship. 
Besides, all of the racks were full and it was 9:30 a.m. by that point. Which means no one wanted your silly caf­feine-free product. 
What if Michael Floyd had come into the Huddle looking for caffeine and you turned him away at your door? Please, Huddle, imagine Michael Floyd in each of us and give us back that wonderful chemical. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

Ellen Peralta 
sophomore Howard 
“I’m not. I’m a Golden girl.” 

Chris Anderson 
sophomore Keenan 
“With a win.” 


Kate Gordon 
sophomore McGlinn 
“Get ready to do a lot of push-ups.” 

Colin Keeler 
sophomore Stanford 
“By not remembering it.” 

James Doan 
sophomore Fisher 

“By shaving my head into a mohawk like his.” 
Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

TOM LA/The Observer Compact fluorescent light bulbs were distributed to residents of Keenan Hall Tuesday. The bulbs are an energy-efficient, long-lasting and environmentally safe alternative to regular light bulbs. 


OFFBEAT 

Man spikes wife’s tea with anti-depressant 
MILWAUKEE — A veter­an Milwaukee firefighter was charged with drug­ging his wife’s tea with his anti-depressant medica­tion because he said he wanted to calm her after an argument. A criminal complaint charges the 43­year-old man with a felony. He was in the Milwaukee County jail Tuesday on $10,000 bail and was unavailable for comment. 
Prosecutors said the man gave his wife a cup of tea Saturday. She in turn let their 3-year-old son drink from the cup. When he fin­ished, his wife noticed he was spitting a white sub­stance back into the cup. 
The wife, a Milwaukee police detective, confront­ed her husband. He admit­ted putting Lexapro in the tea. She called police. The firefighter told an investi­gator he wanted to calm his wife after an argument about a bill. 
Woman reports herself for drunk driving 
NEILSVILLE, Wis. — The call came into the 911 dis­patcher: “I don’t want to hurt anybody. I’m drunk.” And with that, Mary Strey, 49, of Granton, reported herself as a drunken driv­er about three miles northeast of Neilsville in central Wisconsin. 
Clark County Sheriff’s Chief Deputy Jim Backus said Monday that Strey’s call on Oct. 24 led deputies to cite her for misde­meanor drunken driving with a blood-alcohol level double the legal limit to drive. She makes her first court appearance Dec. 10. 
Backus said drunken drivers reporting them­selves is rare. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Thursday friday 



IN BRIEF 
“Darkness and Light: Death and Beauty in Photography” will be held at 10 a.m. today. The exhibit will be shown in the O’Shaughnessy Galleries in the Snite Museum of Art. 
An exhibit titled “Sculptural Vessels” will be displayed at 10 
a.m. today. The display will be shown in the Milly and Fritz Kaeser Mestrovic Studio Gallery in the Snite Museum of Art today. 
“Dia de los Muertos (Day of the Dead) Ofrenda Installation” will be held at 10 a.m. today in the Scholz Family Works on Paper Gallery in the Snite Museum of Art. 

RecSports and the South Bend Medical Foundation will sponsor a blood drive today from 11 
a.m. to 5:30 p.m. at Rolf’s Sports Recreation Center. Donors will receive a free T-shirts. 
The men’s basketball team will play Quincy Friday in an exhibition game at 7:30 p.m. at the Purcell Pavillion at the Joyce Center. Ticket information is available by calling 574-631­7356. 
The film “Strong Bodies Fight: Rough Cut” will be shown on Friday at the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 9:30 p.m. The film examines the Bengal Bouts box­ing club and its partnership with the Holy Cross Mission in Bangladesh. Tickets are $3 for students and are available at performingarts.nd.edu. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
saturday sunday 


Atlanta 69 / 44 Boston 48 / 35 Chicago 45 / 37 Denver 60 / 45 Houston 79 / 56 Los Angeles 75 / 55 Minneapolis 42 / 30 New York 53 / 40 Philadelphia 54 / 41 Phoenix 91 / 64 Seattle 64 / 51 St. Louis 61 / 35 Tampa 84 / 63 Washington 55 / 44 
Wednesday, November 4, 2009 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Obama visits lab of ND alum 

By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
After graduating from Notre Dame in May, Patrick Brown began graduate school at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). His first semester is already proving interesting: his research labora­tory recently played host to President Barack Obama. 
Brown, who is enrolled in MIT’s graduate physics program, said President Obama’s visit to the school was centered on a speech about investment in energy research. 
“He was giving a talk at MIT related to energy in general, kind of innovation for America in the energy sciences,” he said. 
As part of Obama’s trip to MIT’s campus, he visited a few labs that are involved in energy research on campus, including the lab in which Brown works. 
Brown’s lab, led by MIT pro­fessor Vladimir Bulovic, con­ducts research with organic structures and quantum dots in order to innovate more efficient production and use of energy. 
When Obama visited, only the professor who leads the lab was present to meet him, Brown said. 
“None of the students actually got to be in the lab and meet him or anything,” he said. “It was kind of exciting, though, just to have that happen in your lab.” 
President Obama also signed one of the lab’s growth cham­bers for growing solar cells, Brown said. 
Brown’s interest in quantum solar dot cells began while he was an undergraduate at Notre Dame, where he majored in physics and chemistry. He worked in a lab with Professor Prashant Kamat, where he con­ducted research with quantum dot solar cells. 
“I guess it was just something that I was fortunate to work on with Prashant Kamat so it was something I became interested in,” he said. 
The focus on research, espe­cially the opportunity to continue his work with quantum dot solar cells, attracted Brown to MIT for graduate school. 
“I’ve been learning how to make different kinds of quantum dots,” he said of his research at MIT. 
Quantum dot solar cells can be used to make cheaper and more efficient energy than regular solar cells, Brown said. With quantum dot solar cells, it is possible to adjust the wave­lengths of light they absorb and to create different types of quan­tum dots by mixing them togeth­er to absorb light across the entire solar spectrum. 
“It’s definitely a device-focused lab,” he said. “They’re still kind of new systems … you kind of find out some interesting science along the way while you’re try­ing to make better devices.” 
Brown said he plans to contin­ue to study and research at MIT until he completes his Ph.D. in physics in five or six more years. He will take classes during the first few years, but will eventual­ly focus more time on research. 
After he completes his Ph.D., Brown said he hopes to continue work and research that relates to energy. 
“I got really interested in that at Notre Dame working with Professor Kamat and GreeND.” 
Brown spent the past few sum­mers working at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, an experience that piqued his interest in working solar power. 
“I’m not completely sure where I want to go, but just keep working on using nanotechnolo­gy to get more energy efficient devices,” Brown said. “Kind of looking at these new ways … to make cheaper solar cells and more efficient solar cells.” 

Contact Laura McCrystal lmccryst@nd.edu 




College’s math dept. celebrateswomeninfield 
By MEGHAN PRICE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s College’s math department celebrated women in the field with the first of a two-part math lecture series last night at Spes Unica Hall. 
This first lecture, titled “History of Women in Math,” was deliv­ered by mathematics professor Sr. Miriam Cooney and enjoyed a full audience of students. Alumnae of the Saint Mary’s math program were also in attendance and have also been on campus during the week to talk about their experiences in mathematics. 
Abby Henning, a freshman, discussed the popularity of the lecture. 
“It is very interesting to look so far back and see what women have contributed and to consider where it is going in the future,” she said. 
Cooney discussed the advance­ments women have made in mathematics, not only for the field itself but also for the progress of women in general. 
Cooney addressed the lives of seven important women in the history of mathematics. 
Through these women, whom she referred to as the “Pleiades,” she explored how much circum­stances have changed for math and for women. 
Cooney described the difficul­ties faced by her first subject, Hypatia of Alexandria, who lived around 400 C.E. 
“The situation was very bad for women,” she said. “They couldn’t leave their house without a man.” 
She also discussed women like Sophie Germain, Sofia Kovalevskaya and Grace Young, who struggled to get an educa­tion, get accepted to schools, take certain classes and get a job in the field of mathematics because they were women. 
Cooney said despite the hard­ships these women experienced, they managed to make signifi­cant contributions to the world of math. 
Cooney said one of these women, Amy Noether, made such an impact that that Albert Einstein remembered her as “the most significant creative women genius that ever lived.” 
The lecture proved inspira­tional for attendees. 
Maureen Parsons, a freshman, said she was very surprised by what these women had achieved. She said she hadn’t thought about being a math major before, but that after attending the lecture she was reconsider­ing. 
The next part of this lecture series will be held at 7 p.m. on Thursday in Spes Unica Hall. 

Contact Meghan Price at mprice02@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  NEWS Wednesday, November 4, 2009 


Princetonprof.giveslecturetoCollege 
By SARAH GUNN 
News Writer 
The chair of the history department at Princeton University delivered a lecture on Christian history “intend­ed to rekindle a new genera­tion with intellectual excite­ment” at Saint Mary’s Tuesday. 
William Chester Jordan dis­cussed Christian history in a lecture titled “Crusader Prologues: Preparing for War in the Gothic Age” as a part of Saint Mary’s College’s Christian Culture Lecture Series in O’Laughlin auditori­um. 
The lecture focused on the rituals of crusaders during the Middle Ages. Such prac­tices included confession, invocation of the saints, the blessing of weapons and the recital of prayers “to be suffi­ciently prepared for holy war,” Jordan said. 

Crusader preparations such as the blessing of weapons were done in hopes that the “sharp point of the sword might do its righteous duty,” Jordan said. 
“The shield [was blessed] to protect the crusader’s body and soul,” he said. 
Jordan related Catholic prayers recited by medieval crusaders to those of contem­porary soldiers preparing for departure to Iraq. 
He warned, however, of the dangerous nature of analo­gies and comparisons to events and ideologies of the past. 
“There’s a way to talk about the present with respect to the past,” Jordan said. 
Asking questions about the subject, Jordan said, is key to a deeper understanding of it. 
“There are always more questions to ask, there is a lot more to be done,” Jordan said. 
Jordan said he wanted to display “the joy of medieval history … the joy of making a story out of things from obscure archives,” in his lec­ture. 
Students praised Jordan’s presence at the College. 
“The Humanistic Studies department is extremely privileged to host such a prestigious speaker,” said senior Mary Ellen Toth, who majors in Humanistic Studies and Spanish. 
Another Humanistic Studies major, senior Meghan Kelly, praised the event. 
“It demonstrates the aca­demic values that Saint Mary’s students, Humanistic Studies students in particu­lar, strive to uphold,” she said. 
Contact Sarah Gunn at sgunn01@saintmarys.edu 


Gay marriage vote too close to call 
Associated Press 
PORTLAND, Maine — Gay marriage was put to a vote in Maine on Tuesday in a closely watched referendum that gay-rights activists across the country hoped would prove for the first time that their cause can prevail at the ballot box. 
Voters had to decide whether to repeal or affirm a state law that would allow gay couples to wed. The law was passed by the Legislature in May but never took effect because of a petition drive by conservatives. 
Early returns showed a close contest, as forecast. With 229 of 608 precincts reporting, each side had 50 percent. 
A vote to uphold the law would mark the first time that the electorate in any state endorsed gay marriage. That could energize activists nationwide and blunt conser­vative claims that same-sex marriage is being foisted on states by judges or lawmakers over the will of the public. 
However, repeal — in New England, the region of the country most supportive of gay couples — would be another heartbreaking defeat for the marriage-equality movement, following the vote against gay marriage in California a year ago. 
It would also mark the first time voters had torpedoed a gay-marriage law enacted by a legislature. When Californians rejected same-sex marriage, it was in response to a court ruling, not legisla­tion. 
Maine’s secretary of state, Matthew Dunlap, said turnout seemed higher than expected for an off-year election and voter interest appeared intense. Even before Tuesday, more than 100,000 people — out of about 1 million regis­tered voters — had voted by absentee ballot or early vot­ing. 
Five other states have legal­ized gay marriage — Iowa, Massachusetts, Vermont, New Hampshire and Connecticut — but all did so through legisla­tion or court rulings, not by popular vote. In contrast, con­stitutional amendments ban­ning gay marriage have been approved in all 30 states where they have been on the ballot. 

“If we don’t win, then Maine will have its place in infamy because no state has ever voted for homosexual mar­riage,” said Chuck Schott of Portland, who stood near a polling place in Maine’s biggest city with a pro-repeal campaign sign. 
Another Portland resident, Sarah Holman said she was “very torn” but decided — despite her conservative upbringing — to vote in favor of letting gays marry. 
“They love and they have the right to love. And we can’t tell somebody how to love,” said Holman, 26. 
Hundreds of gay-marriage supporters gathered in a Portland hotel ballroom in the evening to await the results. On display was a three-tiered wedding cake topped with two grooms on one side, two brides on the other, and the words “We All Do.” 
In addition to reaching out to young people who flocked to the polls for President Barack Obama a year ago, gay-marriage defenders tried to appeal to Maine voters’ independent streak — a Yankee spirit of fairness and live-and-let-live. 
The other side based many of its campaign ads on claims — disputed by state officials — that the new law would mean “homosexual marriage” would be taught in public schools. 
Both sides in Maine drew volunteers and contributions from out of state, but the money edge went to the cam­paign in defense of gay mar­riage, Protect Maine Equality. It raised $4 million, compared with $2.5 million for Stand for Marriage Maine. 
Elsewhere on Tuesday, vot­ers in Washington state decid­ed whether to uphold or over­turn a recently expanded domestic partnership law that entitles same-sex couples to the same state-granted rights as heterosexual married cou­ples. And in Kalamazoo, Mich., voters approved a measure that bars discrimination based on sexual orientation. 

Terror 
continued from page 1 
the common theme of cultural awareness. 
“Our focus for Human Rights ND this year is education about human rights,” said club vice president Katie Corr, 
the poverty and day by day sur­vival of these children,” Obaid-Chinoy said. 
The film also examined the difficulties of those who chose to remain in Pakistan. Abdur Raheem, 13, became the pri­mary source of income for his family when his older broth­ers both sustained injuries that put them out of work. 
“What we found were chil­dren facing tough choices and overwhelming responsibilities in very uncertain times,” Obaid-Chinoy said. 
The documentary also spot­lighted the dangers of the lim­ited education offered to refugee children in strict reli­gious schools. Some schools provide a balanced education 
of math, science and lan­guage, but more hard-line institutions simply teach the principles of fundamentalist Islam as breeding grounds for more terrorism. 
“Terror’s Children” depicted boys such as 11-year-old Khal Mohammad declaring their desire to act violently in the name of Islam after receiving this more biased education. 
These examples are 
a junior. “Our goal is showing films like this “Our goal is showing 
one is to create flms like this one is 
an intrigue and 
to create an intrigue
a motivation to 
learn more.” and a motivation to “Terror’s learn more.” 
Children” 
addressed the 
Katie Corr 
plight of refugees, partic-vice president ularly children, Human Rights ND who have fled to Pakistan in reminders of the lost child­hood among the refugees and the need for an educa ­tion that devel­ops critical thinking skills instead of vehement reli­gious fervor, which often can be seen as brainwashing. 
search of sanctuary from the “Another way to wage a war unstable political climate in is to educate,” said Martin. Afghanistan. “Critical thinking and educa-
Journalist Sharmeen Obaid-tion is the key when dealing Chinoy spent 10 weeks in the with human rights.” summer of 2002 in her native Obaid-Chinoy said each city of Karachi, Pakistan, fol-child in the documentary lowing the death asked if his of eight Afghan or her life children. The w o u l d 
stories of these “My aim was to address improve children reflect issues relating to the because of the difficulties of the film. 
psychological impact of
life as a child She replied 
refugee, Obaid-war on education, and people 
Chinoy said. the poverty and day by might be “My aim was to motivated to 
day survival of these
address issues help if they 
children.” 
relating to the were able to psychological see individ­impact of war on Sharmeen Obaid-Chinoy uals affect-education, and ed by the 
journalist 
poor condi­
tions of 
refugee life. 
“I felt like it was incredibly edifying to hear and see actu­al stories. It really gives the chance to connect to the issue,” Corr said. 
The need for greater learn­ing is an issue of great con­cern for refugees as they rebuild lives both in Pakistan and Afghanistan. 
“Relief agencies must pro­vide better education opportu­nities, working conditions, and health care,” Obaid -Chinoy said. “That is the only way to ensure that there is a better day coming for these children and for future gener­ations.” 

Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 






World & Nation 
Wednesday, November 4, 2009 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Actors light London Christmas lights 
LONDON — Jim Carrey, Colin Firth and Bob Hoskins switched on London’s Christmas lights on Tuesday and attended the world premiere of the 3-D film “A Christmas Carol.” 
The actors came to the British capital to promote Robert Zemeckis’ animated movie, which features their voices. 
The three stars turned on the lights at Oxford Circus and Regent Street — London’s main shopping areas — and at St. Paul’s Cathedral. After that, tenor Andrea Bocelli and the St. Paul’s Cathedral Choir led more than 14,000 people in a Christmas carol event. 
The new movie was later screened at a cinema on central London’s Leicester Square. 

Vaccine has potential to cure malaria 
SIAYA, Kenya — Blood streamed into the anemic 4-month-old who already has malar­ia, the mosquito-borne disease that kills a million African children every year. 
“Malaria is one of the deadliest sicknesses for children,” the nurse said — words that sent the young mother into a crumpled heap on the bed beside her wide-eyed baby boy, wrapped in a blue-and-yellow floral blanket. 
There is new hope, however, in this ver­dant area where President Barack Obama’s relatives live. A vaccine that appears to be able to prevent the disease in about 50 per­cent of children, is now undergoing the final stage of testing. 


NATIONAL NEWS 

Town puts limit on cat ownership 
DUDLEY, Mass. — A Massachusetts town has made it illegal to own more than three cats without getting a special license. Voters at a town meeting in Dudley added language to a town bylaw on Monday night that makes it illegal to own more than three cats without a $50 residential kennel license. 
The article was in response to a neighbor­hood feud over the 15 cats owned by Mary Ellen Richards. 
The Telegram & Gazette of Worcester reports that one neighbor claimed the cats have ruined his yard. 
Richards has put her home up for sale and says she plans to move to a “more cat-friendly community.” 

Valet wards off criminal 
BOSTON — A Boston parking valet armed with an umbrella is being credited for help­ing a woman fight off a knife-wielding purse snatcher. Police said Tuesday that 61-year­old Barbara Pero of Auburn was attacked Monday night outside a Boston condominium just after her car was brought up by a valet parking service. A man forced his way into the car and threatened to kill her. 
When Pero jumped out and screamed, 23-year-old valet Felix Vega grabbed a blue wood-handled umbrella from his manager’s office and began beating the suspect. 
Forty-eight-year-old Richard Morse fled but was arrested nearby with Pero’s purse. He was ordered held on $150,000 cash bail Tuesday after a judge was told he has previ­ous convictions for mayhem and armed rob­bery. 


LOCAL NEWS 

School cheif defends proposal 
INDIANAPOLIS — Indiana schools chief Tony Bennett on Tuesday dismissed criti­cism of his plan to revamp the state's teacher licensing standards, saying some in higher education oppose it because they fear how they eventually could be impacted. 
Bennett told members of the Indiana Education Roundtable, an advisory group that includes lawmakers, educa­tors and business leaders, that his pro­posed changes are needed to help bring more top-notch teachers into Indiana’s schools. 


EGYPT 


Clinton engages in peace talks 
Secretary of State makes unexpected stop to discuss Israeli-Palestinian negotiation strategy 
Associated Press 

CAIRO — U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton made a hastily arranged stop in the Egyptian capital Tuesday to consult with a longtime Arab ally amid indications of a shifting U.S. strategy for getting Israel and the Palestinians back to peace negotiations. 
Instead of returning to Washington, as scheduled, after attending an interna­tional conference in Marrakech, Morocco, Clinton flew to Cairo and held late-night talks with Foreign Minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit and Omar Suleiman, the Egyptian intelligence chief. She was due to meet Wednesday with President Hosni Mubarak before returning to Washington to brief President Barack Obama. 
Egypt and other Arab nations reacted with strong concern to remarks Clinton made in Jerusalem on Saturday. She caused a stir when she said with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at her side that his government’s offer to restrain — but not stop — settlement activity in Palestinian areas was unprecedented. 
And in a new twist Tuesday, Clinton made what appeared to be an inadvertent slip of the tongue in a television interview with the al -Jazeera network, refer­ring to the goal of “an Israeli capital in east Jerusalem.” 
It has not been U.S. policy to favor including east Jerusalem in an Israeli cap­ital; the Palestinians claim it as their capital, and the issue is one of the most important and delicate points that would have to be settled in any final peace deal between the two par­ties. 
Two Clinton aides mon­itoring the interview alerted her to the mis-take and that portion of the interview was retaped so she could correct herself. 

Upon arrival in Cairo, Clinton was met at her aircraft by the U.S. envoy for Mideast peace, former Sen. George Mitchell, who briefed Clinton aboard the plane 
on his meetings in Amman, Jordan, with King Abdullah II and, separately, with Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas. 
Arab governments had already reacted with criti­cism to her comments about settlements last weekend in Jerusalem as a tilting of U.S. policy toward Israel. But on Monday in Marrakech, Clinton issued what she called a clarification, saying her words in Jerusalem were meant as “positive rein­forcement ” for the Israelis. She added that Israel’s effort still fell far short of U.S. expec­tations, and she added strong praise for the Palestinians. 
On Tuesday in Marrakech, however, Clinton seemed to indi­cate that the U.S. would like the Palestinians to accept something less than a full stop to Israeli settlements, with the stipulation that they may achieve that goal in direct negotiations. Palestinian leaders have said they will not return to peace talks with Israel unless it halts all settlement building on lands they claim for a future state. 
In the al-Jazeera inter­view, Clinton reiterated that Obama has clearly stated his desire for a halt to set­tlements. But she added that the Israeli offer of “restraint,” to include an end to establishment of new settlements and other measures that limit settle­ment growth, might be close enough to the ulti­mate U.S. and Palestinian goal to merit embracing in the near future. 
“It is not what we want,” she said of the “restraint” offer. 


SUDAN 


Concerns arise as first elections approach 
Associated Press 

KHARTOUM — Permit delays, lack of funds and security intimidation are obstructing international and local observers from monitoring registra­tion for Sudan’s first ever nationwide elections, former President Jimmy Carter’s foundation said on Tuesday. 
These and other hindrances could diminish the ability of the center — the only international group Sudan invited to monitor the process — to verify the vote’s fairness, the group said. 
Sudan is holding its first parliamen­tary and presidential elections in all regions of the war-torn country next April. The elections are a key part of the 2005 peace deal that ended more than two decades of north-south civil war. Two million people died in the war, which devastated the country’s oil-rich south. 
Authorities have asked the Atlanta-based center to monitor the balloting, for which voter reg­istration started Sunday. 
“These elections are supposed to represent a new event in Sudan’s history,” said Aly Verjee, a Carter Center spokesman. “Observation is important ... to build confidence in the process both nationally and international­ly.” 
Verjee said the Sudan’s National Election Commission is over ­whelmed by the task of preparing for the elections. The Carter Center called on Sudanese authorities to ensure the observers’ freedom of movement. 
The vote is critical — the 2005 peace deal created a transitional national unity government, but mis­trust between Sudan’s former north-south rivals runs deep. The elec ­tions are also expected to pave the way for the 2011 referendum in which the south will chose whether to become independent from the north, another critical point of the peace deal. 

page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 4, 2009 

H1N1 
continued from page 1 
of time we can get staffs together and be prepared.” 
Kleva said everyone who wants a vaccination will be able to receive one eventually, but it is a matter of time before enough vac­cines are received. 
“There will be enough for everyone eventually, but they will not be a priority group,” she said. 
Kleva said she does not know the exact number of confirmed H1N1 cases on campus because the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) did not have the resources to test each case. 
“There are so many coming in, they can’t test it,” she said. “CDC tells us, if you have an influenza-like illness, then we are to pre­sume that you have H1N1 and treat it as such.” 
Influenza-like symptoms include a fever of at least 100 degrees, a cough and/or a sore throat, Kleva said. 
Out of 2,339 upper respiratory illnesses reported to the Health Center from Aug. 2 to Nov. 2, 659 were presumed to be the H1N1 virus, she said. 
Though H1N1 seems to spread more easily than the regular flu, its symptoms are generally milder and the recovery period is shorter, she said. 
“I think this flu is highly conta­gious. We are going to see more pupils coming down with the flu than maybe the seasonal flu,” Kleva said. 
She advised students to cover their mouth with their sleeve when coughing and wash hands often in order to prevent the spread of the H1N1 virus. 
“But as far as the seriousness of the illness, the symptoms have been less severe and the recovery period is shorter for H1N1,” she said. 
While it usually takes one to two weeks to recover from the season­al flu, students are recovering from the H1N1 virus in four to seven days, Kleva said. 
The University has not had any H1N1 cases that have resulted in hospitalization, she said. 
When the vaccines for H1N1 come in, Kleva said students ought to get the vaccination, but she also recognized that it is a personal decision. 
“It’s really an individual per­son’s decision. I wouldn’t make a decision for anyone,” she said. “Personally, I feel that this vaccine is like any other seasonal flu vac­cine. 
“The risk of receiving the shot is less than the benefit of receiving the vaccination against the influenza,” she said. 
Kleva said an e-mail will be sent to the student body detailing availability and priority groups when the first shipment of vacci­nations arrives. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 



Middle 
continued from page 1 
enforced in a haphazard way.” 
MacFarquhar described the next challenges as oppressive to the people. 
“The third is the inability to organize and fight because basi­cally the civil rights are nonexist­ent so people have difficulty forg­ing social movements,” he said. “The fourth one would be that all those countries are run by small cliques that always fight against anybody trying to challenge them.” 
MacFarquhar described change as inhibited also by challenges lying in the inherent beliefs within Middle Eastern society itself. 
“The fifth one is that they say that if they do open up and allow societies to flourish, they’ll be overrun by Muslim extremists,” he said. The sixth and last prob­lem is just the question of genera­tional change.” 
Middle Eastern citizens believed younger generations’ education in the west would bring new values to the area, but MacFarquhar said this is a false conviction. 



Governor 
continued from page 1 
tion and the Democratic Party. The current state governor, Tim Kaine, serves as chairman of the Democratic National Committee. 
The race saw the intervention of President Barack Obama, who campaigned on behalf of Deeds. 
Polls indicated that McDonnell’s lead came from his advantage among independent voters and white men. 
McDonnell, known by most as a social conservative, empha­sized the economy throughout his campaign, promising to cre­ate jobs. According to polls, the economy was the top issue among voters when deciding who to vote for. 
His opponent publicly criticized McDonnell’s 1989 master’s the­sis, which, by some interpreta­tions, was critical of working women and single mothers. The thesis and its fallout generated national attention, but polls Tuesday said a majority of voters reported the thesis had “no effect” on their vote. 
McDonnell is also tied to Notre Dame through his oldest daugh­ter, Jeanine, who graduated from the University also on an ROTC scholarship, with a bachelor’s degree in Political Science. 
The native education systems proved much stronger than the Western influence did, he said. 
MacFarquhar added that frus­tration with these issues tended to bring about extremism in these societies. 
“If you can address these issues, I think that you will go a long way towards bringing important change,” he said. 
After recounting personal run-ins with secret police and anti-American Al Qaeda families, experiences chronicled in his new book “The Media Relations Department of Hizbollah Wishes You a Happy Birthday,” MacFarquhar said three factors made it difficult for the United States to impose political change from the outside. 
Problems with vocabulary dif­ferences, he said, a lack of sup­port for agents of change and the United States’ inability to address oppression and the secret police have prevented a successful gov­ernment from being formed in the Middle East. 
“There are a lot of words and events and issues in the region that we perceive wrongly from outside,” MacFarquhar said. 
When asked if it was possible to 
Former Notre Dame football coach Lou Holtz was also involved in McDonnell’s cam­paign — Holtz spoke at a cam­paign function on Oct. 26 in sup­port of the candidate. 
McDonnell currently resides in Richmond with his wife and five children. 
Prior to serving as state Attorney General, McDonnell was a member of the Virginia House of Delegates from 1991 to 2005. He also worked as a prose­cutor in Virginia Beach, as a pri­vate attorney and as a manager with a Fortune 500 health care company. 
McDonnell joins three other Notre Dame alumni as holding state gubernatorial office. Class of 1957 graduate Thomas Lee Judge served as governor of Montana from 1973 to 1981. 
1960 graduate Bruce Babbitt is the former governor of Arizona, serving from 1978 to 1987. 
Joe Kernan of the Class of 1968 was governor of Indiana 2003 to 2005. 
Also on Tuesday, Republican Chris Christie beat incumbent Gov. Jon Corzine for the New Jersey governorship. 
New Jersey and Virginia were the only two states that held a gubernatorial election Tuesday. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 
rid Lebanon of Hizbollah, a Shi’a Islamist political and paramilitary organization, MacFarquhar said it would be difficult because Hizbollah filled a need that was there. 
“They came along and started providing all those social services that were lacking,” he said. “It comes down to the fact that peo­ple will make their choices to a certain extent on ideology, but also in terms of what the govern­ment is going to provide and I think that’s the great failing in Lebanon.” 
MacFarquhar moved to Libya at age 3 and spent more than 25 years in the region. He spent five years in Cairo as the Bureau Chief for The New York Times and has also lived in Israel, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and Cyprus. 

Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 
The Observer 





Business
Wednesday, November 4, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 



IN BRIEF 

Windstream to acquire NuVox 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. — Phone company Windstream Corp. said Tuesday it’s buying NuVox Inc. for $643 million in stock and cash. 
Windstream said the purchase of NuVox, a phone company that serves business cus­tomers, will add to its high-speed Internet service and business revenue. 
Windstream also will get a stronger presence where NuVox operates in the Southeast and Midwest, especially among small-and medium-sized businesses. 
Under the deal, Windstream will issue 
18.7 million shares and pay $280 million in cash. The shares are worth $183 mil­lion based on Windstream’s closing stock price on Monday. Windstream also will assume $180 million of net debt. 
The company plans to pay for the acquisition with cash on hand and loans. The deal is expected to save $30 million a year from the integration of operations and lower capital spending. Windstream said the deal will increase its free cash flow in the first full year of integrated operations. 
The acquisition is expected to close in the first half of next year. 

Farmers receive agricultural fuding 
ELGIN, Minn. — A federal Agriculture Department official in southeastern Minnesota is announcing $17 million in grants to address the needs of begin­ning farmers and ranchers. 
Deputy Secretary Kathleen Merrigan says from Elgin, Minn., that the money will go to 29 institutions around the country to improve the sustainability and competitiveness of U.S. agriculture. 
Merrigan says the training and edu­cation provided through the grants will help ensure the success of the next generation of farmers and ranchers. 
She was in Elgin at the Hidden Stream Farm. The proprietors of which were some of the first graduates of a beginning farmer program run by the Land Stewardship Project. The Minnesota ­based group is getting more than $400,000 of the grant money. 



Strike hits in economic downturn 
Philadelphia’s Transit Union refuses to work until work conditions improve 
Associated Press  
PHILADELPHIA — Even  
in the best of times, waking  
up to a surprise transit  
strike is like a bad dream  
come true. When the sud­ 
den walkout comes during  
an economic downturn, it  
becomes more like a public  
relations nightmare.  
The Philadelphia transit  
system’s largest union  
went on strike early  
Tuesday over wage, pen­ 
sion and health care  
issues, stalling the city’s  
bus, subway and trolley  
operations and forcing  
thousands of commuters to  
find other ways to get to  
work — and to Election  
Day polls.  
“I think they have a lot of  
nerve to ask for more  
money in this economy,”  
said Robert Washington, of  
west Philadelphia, who  
relied on his bicycle to get  
to his office job downtown.  
“There are people who  
don’t have jobs who would  
love to have one of their  
jobs. It’s arrogant.”  
The sudden strike by  
Tr a n s p o r t Wo r k e r s  
Union Local 234 all but  
crippled the Southeastern  
Pennsylvania Transportation AP  
Authority, which aver-Tili Ayala, a worker who was unable to get to work due to the transit union  
ages more than 928,000 strike, sits at the Frankford Transportation Center in Philadelphia on Tuesday.  
trips each weekday. No  
new nego tiations were  Gov. Ed Rendell, who  n e g o t i a t i o n s w e r e n o t  can’t get to school.”  
scheduled Tuesday.  helped mediate negotia­ returned Tuesday.  W i l l i e B r o w n , t h e  
L a b o r e x p e r t s a g r e e  tions for the past four  As recently as Monday  l o c a l ’s p r e s i d e n t , s a i d  
t h a t a w a l k o u t o v e r  days, was stunned when  evening, union officials  w o r k e r s d e c i d e d t o  
wages in a down econo­ the union walked out on  h a d g i v e n n o w a l k o u t  strike at 3 a.m. Tuesday  
m y i s a h a r d s e l l .  a p r o p o s e d d e a l t h a t  deadline as talks contin­ after both sides agreed  
Striking transit workers  i n c l u d e d a n 1 1 . 5 p e r - u e d . S o ea rly m orn in g  t h a t t h e y h a d g o n e a s  
may have a tough time  cent wage increase over  commuters on Tuesday  f a r a s t h e y c o u l d i n  
earning the sympathy of  five years.  w e r e b e w i l d e r e d a n d  negotiations.  
passengers who are los- Given the recession, lay- f r u s t r a t e d b y l o c k e d  Generally speaking, man­ 
ing their own jobs and  offs and salary freezes in  s u b w a y s t a t i o n s a n d  agement can afford to be  
taking salary cuts, said  other sectors, Rendell said  vacant bus stops.  tougher in an economic  
Harley Shaiken, a labor  SEPTA’s offer was “sensa­ “ E v e r y b o d y h a t e s  downturn in part because  
studies professor at the  tional.”  SEPTA, and this is why,”  more labor is available,  
University of California­ “It’s just an excellent  said Ranisha Allen, who  said Robert Trumble,  
Berkeley.  contract in the context  said she had no option  director of the Virginia  
“For public employees  of the times,” he said.  b u t t o c o u n t o n t h e  Labor Studies Center at  
d u r i n g a t o u g h r e c e s - “It was, in my judgment,  kindness of car-owning  Virginia Commonwealth  
sion, it’s more difficult,  nuts to walk out. I think  neighbors to get her to  University.  
b u t n o t i m p o s s i b l e , t o  t h e S E P TA w o r k e r s  w o r k f r o m h e r n o r t h  At the same time, he  
gain broader support,”  w o u l d h a v e j u m p e d a t  P h i l a d e l p h i a h o m e .  said, workers are more  
Shaiken said. “The key  this.”  “ T h e s e p e o p l e g o o n  determined to hang on to  
i s c o n v i n c i n g p e o p l e  Several messages left  s t r i k e a n d t h e y d o n ’ t  what they have and tend to  
that your victory bene­ with the union by The  think about people they  look more critically at  
f i t s t h e m r a t h e r t h a n  Associated Press seeking  hurt, people who can’t  things like income distribu­ 
comes at their expense.”  further comment on the  g e t t o w o r k , k i d s w h o  tion.  


Disney spends funds on conservation 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — Seeking to help fight climate change, the Walt Disney Co. says it will spend $7 million in partnership with three conservation groups to protect tens of thousands of acres of forest lands in the Congo basin, the Amazon basin and in two regions of the United States. 
The projects announced Tuesday are designed to work with local com­munities to either plant trees or set aside forest lands for protection against logging. 
In partnership with Conservation International, Disney is providing $4 million for forest protection projects at two reserves in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo and for a forest program in the Amazon basin area of Peru. 
The company also said it will work with the Nature Conservancy and provide $2 mil­lion for tree planting on 2,000 acres of former forest lands in the lower Mississippi Valley, and $1 million for the Conservation Fund’s forest protection project along California’s North Coast. 
Peter Seligmann, chairman of Conservation International, said the Disney commitment “repre­sents the largest single corporate contribution ever made to reduce (greenhouse) emissions from deforestation.” 
The project in the Congo is expect­ed to prevent 3 million tons of carbon dioxide from being released into the atmosphere over 20 years, and the project in Peru to protect 740,000 acres of pristine forests is expected to prevent the release of 900,000 tons of carbon dioxide over its five-year life, according to the conserva­tion group. 
The Nature Conservancy will work with private landowners to plant trees in 2,000 acres of former forest land in Mississippi, Louisiana and Arkansas. The group said that restoring native hardwood forest would not only help reduce carbon emissions but expand local habitat for migrating songbirds and the black bear. 
“Protecting forests is one of our most powerful tools in the fight against climate change,” said Mark Tercek, president the Nature Conservancy. 
The Observer 




Viewpoint 
page 8 Wednesday, November 4, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
Give country a chance 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 


ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 

Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 

We all remember Freshman Orientation, that intimidating, awkward rite of passage that every Domer must go through upon arriving to campus. In a weekend full of forced interaction, the best way for every­one to get to know Andy Ziccarelli each other is through a series of Moment of icebreakers. One of Inertia the more popular icebreaker questions is, “What is your favorite kind of music?” Sounds harm­less, right? It can be, but there is one answer that I heard more than once during my Frosh-O (and I’m sure was used the last two years as well) that I absolutely cannot stand: “Anything but country.” 
If you are one of those people (and I know you are out there), you’re in good company. A friend of mine is a DJ on WVFI and when I asked her what she was going to play on her radio show, she told me, “anything but country.” So I have just one request for all of you haters and naysayers out there: Just give it a chance. 
I know what it feels like to be a hater. How? I was one of you. In fact, I even used to tell people that I would listen to anything but country. But the truth was, I never even tried. I never turned to the country station on the radio, never lis­tened to a CD and sure as hell never went to a country concert. I just assumed that it was for backwoods, gun-toting southern folks and that the music was slow, sappy and stupid. I had my mind made up. 
But then, I came home this past sum­mer and started working. My job involved a lot of me driving around in my car by myself, and when I was in the office, I was there by myself a lot, too. Sitting in silence for eight hours is a surefire way to make yourself go crazy (seriously, don’t try it), so that was not an option. I needed music. The first week, I listened to the top-40 radio sta­tion, but after I heard each of the eight songs they had on repeat what seemed like 100 times each, I got really sick of it. I needed to find something new, something I had never heard before that I could get into. Right on cue, my best friend handed me a three-disc playlist of country music and just said, “Trust me. If this doesn’t get you into country, noth­ing will.” 
I took the discs, skeptically, but figured I had nothing to lose, so I popped it in my car’s CD player the next morning. And what I found in that playlist blew away every preconceived notion I had of country music. It was upbeat, creative, occasionally hilarious and incredibly entertaining. Within a week, I was hooked, and by the end of the summer I was dressed in a plaid shirt, boots and a cowboy hat belting out “Celebrity” at a Brad Paisley concert. 
Country music is awesome for a num­ber of reasons. The instrumentation is unique and fun and it is perfect for sit­ting on the beach, or just chilling any­where with your friends over the sum­mer after everyone gets back from work. People don’t realize the number of talented guitarists that play country music nor do they appreciate that some of the fiddle solos are mind-blowing (plus, what other genre of music uses fiddle?). It truly is the optimal mood-set­ter for any kind of group gathering. 
What makes country, however, is the lyrics. Unlike like a lot of popular music, the lyrics in country songs have real meaning and aren’t just as an adden­dum to the beat. Country songs are gen­erally about one of four things, all of which are equally awesome: love, fami­ly, partying and being an American. With apologies to Maino and T-Pain, I don’t know anything about being a sol­dier, a rider or a ghetto survivor, let alone all the above. I can’t relate to that kind of music. However, I have gotten my heart broken, like in Brad Paisley’s “Letter to Me” and I am proud to sup­port every “American Soldier” alongside Toby Keith. We all have been at parties with wild guys like Montgomery Gentry’s “One In Every Crowd” and everyone looks back on going “Out Last Night”, just like Kenny Chesney does. You get the feeling that these songs are sung by real people who have had the same experiences as you. You can relate to these guys. It’s comforting. 
So for everyone that thinks about say­ing that you listen to “anything but country” the next time anyone asks, just do me one favor before you do. Give it a chance. 
Andy Ziccarelli should’ve been a cowboy. He is a junior majoring in civil engineering. He can be reached at aziccare@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 



TODAY’S STAFF 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

News Sports 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Katie Peralta Sam Werner Sarah Mervosh Mike Gotimer 
“The wireless telegraph is not 
Caitlin Housley Chris Michalski 
difficult to understand. The “Have you ever noticed that
Graphics Viewpoint 
ordinary telegraph is like a very anybody driving slower than youSofia Iturbe Lianna long cat. You pull the tail in New is an idiot, and anyone going Scene Brauweiler York, and it meows in Los Angeles. 
faster than you is a maniac?”

Jordan Gamble The wireless is the same, only without the cat.” 
Isaac Asimov 
U.S. comedian

Albert Einstein theoretical physicist 
The Observer 







Viewpoint 
Wednesday, November 4, 2009 page 9 
A Notre Dame short story 
Part 2 by Christine Fagan 

Desperate for a way through, he decided to try a new approach. He swallowed all that was left of his pride and leaned his whole body into the bricks. He simply leaned, and with that he could feel movement. The wall ebbed and flowed as if controlled by breath. This wall works remark­ably like a lung, he thought as he continued his leaning. In almost an instant he felt swallowed. The wall consumed him in his entirety and he clumsily fell through the bricks. Given the chance he would have screamed, but a contra­dictory mix of pride and shameless fear over­took him, and he remained silent. After a few seconds of eternity, he was on the other side. Once he regained his balance he stood ready to face the council. He was going to win, if only because he was not ready to die. 

Part 3 by John Cirilli 

He did not know of what he was accused, only that he had done it. The starkly cold eyes (or he thought they might be eyes) of those sitting in council followed his every move with unrelent­ing focus. The minds behind those eyes, hard and sharp and twisted, would never have trifled to accuse the innocent. They saw further into him than he himself, but he knew one thing that they did not. 
Want to write the next paragraph to the story? Submit your paragraph to NDLFshortstory@gmail.com before 4 p.m. Limit of 200 words. Title it Part Four. This story will continue until Nov. 16. If your para­graph is selected, it will be published in Viewpoint and you will get to read it at the NDLF panel discussion Nov. 19. The visiting authors will write the ending paragraphs. Take advantage of the opportunity to write a story along with three New York Times best­selling authors! 



LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Soulja Boy ruined everything 
In regards to Danny Masse’s Nov. 3 Letter to the Editor (“Ignorant or genius?”) discussing Soulja Boy, I fail to under­stand why there is even a debate on whether he is ignorant or a genius. Despite his one hit song, Mr. Boy is extremely inconse­quential to rap music and hip-hop. I do not even know how to refer to him professionally. Is it Mr. Boy? 
But the controversy over Soulja’s intelligence is not what com­pelled me to write today, but rather is the damage he has done to the fabric of our society. I am a victim of this damage and I believe I am not alone among Observer readers. For most of the second half of 2008 I had to deal with everyone practicing that ridiculous dance until perfection. Even my 17-year-old sister had it down pat. I have to tell you, there is nothing more embar­rassing than going to Finnegan’s and everybody knowing the dance but you. So what happened? I went home and watched the video on YouTube until I learned it. Today, I don’t know any­body who can outdo me in the Soulja Boy dance, not even Soulja Boy himself. The countless hours I spent learning this dance could have been better spent doing other activities such as vol­unteer work, studying or even catching up on sleep. 
Not only is he a bad influence on the youth of today, he is criti­cized from those in the same profession. During 2008, Ice-T, a pioneer in rap music, referred to Soulja Boy’s music as “killing hip-hop,” and described Mr. Boy’s most successful song, “Crank That” as “garbage.” Ice-T even suggested Soulja Boy consume male genitalia. Only a truly destructive individual such as Soulja Boy could provoke the normally reserved and eloquent Ice-T in such a way. 
After a series of exchanges between the two musicians over the internet, the only person who came to Soulja Boy’s rescue was none other than Kanye West. The same Kanye West who could not go through an entire VMA’s without downing a bottle of Hennessey and taking the spotlight away from Taylor Swift (who I personally believe is overrated). 
All of this could have been avoided if nobody, including myself, had spent 99 cents to download the song on itunes. I hope next time when there is a dance craze, society will be intelligent enough to not give into the gimmick, and will spend their time and money on things that are more worthwhile. 
Dan Tapetillo 
law student Fischer Grad Residences Nov. 3 


Travesty in North 
Students of Notre Dame, a travesty has separate the Cheerios must be stopped. struck North Dining Hall. It has become appar-P.S. While this may seem like a joke, we are ent that the Cheerios bins are being filled with not kidding. Honey Nut Cheerios, and the Honey Nut bins are being filled with regular Cheerios. The Nick O’Sullivan purity of each has been compromised by such Ryan Traudt mixing. For the sake of us all, especially those sophomores who rely on Cheerios or Honey Nut Cheerios Knott Hall for sustenance, North Dining Hall’s failure to Nov. 3 

Inquiry on ND girls 
Dear Meghan Dougher, Please post a photo of yourself to defend your Viewpoint (“University of ugly girls?” Oct. 28). Sincerely, 
Michael Smigelski 
sophomore Stanford Hall Oct. 28 



EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The Observer 




Scene
page 10 Wednesday, November 4, 2009 

Since 2006, “Loyal Daughters and Sons” has told stories about sexual assaults. And not just any assaults, but the ones most personal at Our Lady’s University: the stories that Notre Dame stu­dents have to tell. 
Kaitlyn Conway 
With its 2009 three-day run starting today, Assistant “Loyal Daughters Scene Editor and Sons” contin­ues to tell the sto­ries that we most need to hear. They aren’t easy stories to deal with, but they’re stories that need to be told, and everyone should try to attend one of the three shows of “Loyal Daughters and Sons.” 
matter — is an issue that the University can no longer brush aside. While many of the sketches were familiar to me (they were carried over from prior productions I have attended in 2007 and 2008), they were grouped differently, and I felt as though that served to emphasize the dark issues the play addresses. The show gets its point across with skill, and one can’t help but to leave feeling thoughtful and wondering how many people struggle with the issues por­trayed. 
Now, the show isn’t just about sexu­al assault. The play also addresses issues of merely being sexually active at a Catholic university and of being homosexual. The play addresses sexu­image are also in the play, which makes it a lot easier to take in every­thing else that’s being portrayed. 
The actors bring great levels of emotion to their characters. Even if they appear in multiple scenes, each time they capture what the person in the different situations would feel. Most importantly, they remained con­nected to the audience. Before the rehearsal began, Thornton reminded the actors that “the whole concept of the show is that you’re Notre Dame students; you’re just like anyone else.” 
And indeed, one cannot help but relate to the students portrayed in dif­ferent situations. You feel horror. You feel terror. You smile and feel good about yourself, all depending on the scene that’s unfolding in front of you. “Loyal Daughters and Sons” is readily accessible, because it portrays situa­tions that we deal with on a too-regu­lar basis. 
The show’s production team will join Notre Dame professors, FIRE Starters (peer educators from the Gender Relations center) and repre­sentatives from the University Counseling Center and the St. Joseph County Rape and Crisis Center for panels following the Wednesday and Thursday shows. 
I know it’s uncomfortable. None of us really want to face the issues brought up by sexuality, both positive and negative. “Loyal Daughters and 


Observer Graphic I SOFIA ITURBE 
The Observer 


Scene 
Wednesday, November 4, 2009 page 11 


You there. Are you tired of watching reviewing one of these esteemed films peri-den rake performed months of hype for the next “great” box odically to give you some worthy sugges-better in combat office hit, only to be thoroughly disappoint-tions. than a circular saw. ed in the product you so willingly dropped (Now there’s some-that 10 spot to see? Are you tired of forking “Bikini Bloodbath” thing you just would-over $10, $15, $20 “Bikini Bloodbath” (dir. Jonathan Gorman n’t learn everyday, for that latest DVD Brian Koepsel, and Thomas Edward Seymour) is a rela-now would you?) release, only to see tively new (2006) film that chronicles a Scene will try to 
Trevor Jackson 
your money sit on a high school volleyball team’s party to cele-find something for 
and Fernando 
shelf? brate the end of the semester. However, those of you out there 
Well, we here have Rodriguez things get ugly when a murderous chef who just can’t stand the solution for you: begins to reek havoc on the community the sight of ketchup B-movies. We are Scene Writers with his meat cleaver and clever one-lin-being poorly used classifying B-movies ers. The film is the first of three set series, as blood for 90 as basically inde-all starring Debbie Rochon as the lesbian minutes. We’ll pendent films. These titles are available on volleyball coach. The film often bridges explore another of the Netflix. Why should these crappy movies genre borders, frequently passing between many genres for which even be remotely appealing to you? Two unintentionally comedic horror and horri-these bastions of the reasons: low cost, low expectations. bly butchered comedy. No small feat there. film industry so 
First, these movies are dirt cheap, and The plot is questionable at best, and the valiantly fly their flag. there are so many of them to choose from. camerawork may indeed induce nausea by Until then, remember, Why go to Movies 14 and be forced to the end of the film. The acting and dialogue safety in numbers when par-choose from only eight to 10 movies and often transcend even some of the worst tying in murderous chef-still be charged $10 when you have literally adjectives ever used to describe a film. infested towns. hundreds of cheap or free movies at your However, if you are not doubled over in fingertips on your laptop. Second, these laughter within 10 minutes, you clearly do Contact Brian Koepsel at movies start you off with very low expecta-not have the sense of humor that enjoys bkoepsel@nd.edu, Trevor tions. This is great: If the movie is bad, you watching a movie so bad it probably would Jackson at won’t even care because you expected it to be considered crap even on NDtv stan-tjackso8@nd.edu and be, and Scene probably even predicted dards. Fernando Rodriguez at right here that it would be dreadful. Just Why guys will love it: Boobs. frodrig3@nd.edu pick something else and try again, because Why girls will love it: The next time a The views that $5 per month Netflix subscription goes murderous chef tries and succeeds to expressed in this a long way. break into your sexy sorority party and column are those 
But what good would that subscription cleave half of your teammates to death, you of the authors and be, if you are left to your own devices with will know, after watching this film, how to not necessarily these swarms of movies to sift through handle the situation and choose your those of The without some guidance? Scene will be means of defense properly. A simple gar-Observer. 



By JOEY KUHN 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Sea Wolf, an indie folk group led by Alex Brown Church, recently released their second full-length album, “White Water, White Bloom.” 
Every sophomore album must suffer the fate of being endlessly compared to its predecessor, and this one is no exception. Unfortunately, “White Water, White Bloom” falls flat compared to Sea Wolf’s first album, “Leaves in the River.” Although “White Water” retains much of the same poetic imagery and musical feel as “Leaves,” it is missing the tiny yet memorable quirks that set “Leaves” apart from its contemporaries. Where is the plink­ing, music-box piano, the striking violin lines, the polka-band accordion? Without that added “oomph,” the special sauce, Sea Wolf just ends up sounding like all the rest of the indie folk bands out there. They are a dime a dozen: Everyone wants to be the new Bright Eyes or Iron & Wine. 
That’s not to say that Sea Wolf doesn’t do anything right. The gentle, delicate sound they create, even on the more upbeat songs, evokes a quiet Northern winter feel, consistent with the lyrics of the album. Most of the songs could be placed in a snowy field on a cold night or in some frosted forest in upper Canada. (Ironically, the band is based in Los Angeles.) This is even reinforced by the album art­work, which depicts the inside of a log cabin com­plete with a wood-burning stove, a window looking out upon snowy hills and a copy of a Walt Whitman book on the table. 
The lyrics place the album firmly in this winter location. Every song seems to be about a relation­ship between the starry-eyed singer and some mys­terious, dark woman. Because of this lyrical and thematic consistency, “White Water” could almost be a concept album. But it’s hard to make out any continuous story from the nebula of hazy ideas. 

The album’s weakness is its own consistency. Instead of letting their musical creativity flow freely, it seems like the band wrote ten different versions of the same song, ranging from lullaby-ish folk to slightly heavier folk. None of the songs really stand out; the creative spark from the first album has gone out. 
Of course, the lack of fire fits the album’s wintry aesthetic. (With a band so preoccupied with time of year, it is impossible to write a review without suc­cumbing to the use of seasonal metaphors.) “Leaves in the River” could be said to take place between late October and early December, and “White Water” takes up where “Leaves” left off. The whole album stays pretty firmly in the winter, and like a long winter, it gets pretty dull. Nevertheless, the last track, “Winter’s Heir,” hints at the first signs of spring. As such, I’ll be expecting a third album with motifs of green grass and bunnies hopping around. 
If you like indie folk music, definitely give “Leaves in the River” a listen, but don’t expect too much out of “White Water, White Bloom.” It may serve your purposes when you’re looking for some chill study­ing music or something to lull you to sleep. Or you might want to put it on to keep you company through those cold winter nights in your log cabin in 

Contact Joey Kuhn at jkuhn1@nd.edu 
SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, November 4, 2009 
NFL 

Seahawks let go of RB James 
Associated Press 
RENTON, Wash. — The Edgerrin James experiment in Seattle is over. 
The struggling Seahawks cut ties with James on Tuesday, releasing the backup running back who never provided the pop Seattle hoped to get when it signed the 31-year-old in late August. 
James’ release was one of a handful of moves Seattle made two days after a lackluster 38­17 loss that dropped the Seahawks to 2-5. Seattle also released safety C.J. Wallace and cornerback Travis Fisher. 
The two-time NFL rushing champ signed with Seattle near the end of training camp hop­ing to revitalize a career that fell flat after moving from Indianapolis to Arizona. After getting benched for the first time last season, James provid­ed a spark the Cardinals need­ed in their run to the Super Bowl. But he was released by Arizona in the offseason, and remained unemployed until the Seahawks came calling. Before his release by the Cardinals, James had one year and $5 million remaining on the four-year, $40 million deal he signed with Arizona before the 2006 season. 
James failed to provide the punch Seattle hoped for when it cut T.J. Duckett to make room for James. He gained just 125 yards on 46 carries with no scores. He averaged just 2.7 yards per carry. 
James had a season-high 16 carries for 46 yards in Seattle’s 41-0 win over Jacksonville, but James got double-digit carries in only one other game. Three times he was held to less than 10 yards rushing. 
His only accolade in his seven games with the Seahawks was the 17 yards James gained last week at Dallas to pass Marcus Allen for 10th place on the NFL’s all-time rushing leaders list with 12,246 yards. 
It has been a difficult year for James. His longtime girl­friend and mother of his four children, Andia Wilson, died April 18 of leukemia. James said he had to sort out his life before he turned his attention back to football and that was why it took until late August before he signed with a team. 
Seattle signed receiver Mike Hass, safety Jamar Adams and cornerback Roy Lewis from the practice squad to fill the open roster spots. The Seahawks also added running back Devin Moore, and cornerbacks Trae Williams and DeAngelo Willingham to fill spots on their practice squad. 
SPORTS MEDIA 

Sportscaster owes ex $916,000 a year 
HARTFORD, Conn. — CBS sportscaster Jim Nantz must pay $916,000 yearly in alimony and child support to his ex-wife and give up their Connecticut home under terms of a newly issued divorce decree. 
The ruling, made Monday in Bridgeport Superior Court, dis­solves the 26-year marriage of Nantz and Ann-Lorraine “Lorrie” Carlsen Nantz. It comes after both testified about the breakdown of their mar­riage; Judge Howard Owens concluded neither was at fault. 
Nantz, described by Owens as “our nation’s most prominent sportscaster,” filed for divorce last year from his wife after years of marriage counseling, according to the decree. 
Although Nantz, 50, acknowl­edged he started dating a 29­year-old woman before the divorce was final, the judge concluded the marriage deteri­orated years earlier and “this remote event in no way con­tributed to the breakdown of the marriage.” 
Owens noted that the couple didn’t share the same interests in Nantz’s television career, which required frequent travel as the network’s primary com­mentator for college football, golf and basketball, as well as appearances at charity events. 
“In fairness, for most of the years he prioritized his family obligation and put his wife and daughter Caroline first. As fre­quently happens in marriages of lengthy duration, the parties do not have the same interest and ardor for their spouses’ endeavors,” the judge wrote in his decision. 
Under the ruling, Nantz must pay $72,000 in alimony month­ly until he dies or his ex-wife remarries, and another $1,000 weekly in child support for the next two years. 
Nantz’s attorney, Gaetano Ferro, said Tuesday that the famed sportscaster only wants what’s best for his daughter and will not fight the terms of the divorce decree. 
“He always wanted a peace­ful resolution of an unfortunate situation,” Ferro said. “He never wanted a trial, never wanted it to come out this way, never wanted a public specta­cle. He wants to put it behind him.” 
Lorrie Nantz will get their home and a separate condo­minium in Westport, while Jim Nantz will get their home in Houston and a luxury condo­minium in the Deer Valley ski resort in Park City, Utah. They were awarded joint custody of Caroline, 15. 
He also must pay Caroline’s college expenses until she reaches 23 years old and has to split various joint accounts with Lorrie Nantz, including the current value of his pen­sion through the Screen Actors Guild. 
He also must keep his ex-wife listed as beneficiary of a $3 million life insurance policy while he’s still paying alimony and/or child support, and pay $70,000 so she can join any country club of her choice. 
She had been seeking more than $1.5 million in yearly alimony and child support. 
Court documents cited Jim Nantz’s $3.2 million salary from CBS and other assets, including millions in other income, shared investment accounts, real estate and other property. 
Nantz, who started his broadcast career at a local CBS affiliate in Salt Lake City, testi­fied that Lorrie Nantz grew uninterested in his career over time, did not want to attend events that were important to him and didn’t provide the emotional support he desired. 
Lorrie Nantz said she went as often as possible, but that those events were not her life’s major interest and her main focus was raising their daugh­ter. 
“They’re two good people, and as sometimes happens over 26 years, they grew apart,” Ferro said. 
Cynthia George, Lorrie Nantz’s Greenwich-based attor­ney, said she and her client had no comment except that they were pleased with the decision. 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Gopher suspended for shoplifting at mall 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS — Another Minnesota basketball recruit is in trouble: Freshman for­ward Royce White faces mis­demeanor charges of theft and fifth-degree assault for allegedly shoplifting and shoving a security guard at the Mall of America. 
Coach Tubby Smith announced indefinite suspen­sions Tuesday for White and senior guard Devron Bostick for violations of team rules he wouldn’t identify. According to the Bloomington city attorney’s office, White has a Nov. 17 arraignment scheduled stemming from the Oct. 13 incident at the mall. 
Police Cmdr. Mark Stehlik said he was unaware of Bostick being involved and that White was the only one arrested. Stehlik couldn’t immediately 
provide more 
“We expect them to 
details. A As for police report conduct themselves in Mbakwe, 
cited by the a proper way. When Smith said he Star Tribune agreed with 
they don’t, 
accuses White athletics direc­of stealing unfortunately they tor Joel 
$100 worth of force our hands and Maturi’s deci­merchandise sion to keep 
force us to do
from Macy’s the junior and twice something we really from playing 
pushing a don’t want to do. ” until he’s security guard cleared in the to the ground. court system. 
Tubby Smith 
Smith said Mbakwe was-White and Minnesota coach n’t at practice 
“If you do something wrong, our guys know that playing time ... is a privi­lege,” Smith said. “We expect them to conduct themselves in a proper way. When they don’t, unfortunately they force our hands and force us to do something we really don’t want to do.” 
White and Mbakwe were expected to give Minnesota some bulk and athleticism at the power forward spot. Damian Johnson and Paul Carter, who are more natural at small forward, will play more inside while White and Mbakwe are out. 
For now, the Gophers are down to 11 players including freshman walk-on guard Dominique Dawson, who was expected to redshirt but might be activated instead to provide more depth. 
“We still have a really solid 
group,” Smith 
said. 
Bostick will be held out of exhibitions Thursday (against Minnesota Duluth) and Monday (against Minnesota State Moorhead) and possibly more, until Smith decides they’re ready to return to the No. 25 Gophers. 
“It could be two games. It could be five, six. It could be more,” Smith said, adding: “It could be 20. It depends on what I want, what I decide.” 
White’s campus phone number rang busy Tuesday. Bostick’s rang unanswered. 
Bostick is a reserve who averaged 11 minutes per game last season. White was dismissed from DeLaSalle High School in Minneapolis last year for academic mis­conduct before finishing his prep career at Hopkins. 
White is part of a touted recruiting class that includes transfer Trevor Mbakwe, who is also out indefinitely while a felony aggravated battery charge against him goes through the legal process. 
Monday or 
Tuesday because he was taking care of his legal matters. 
“We love Trevor, and he’s done everything we’ve asked him to do since he’s been here,” the coach said. 
Smith said he wasn’t sure when he would decide whether Mbakwe should be redshirted or not. 
“He’ll have two years of eli­gibility left if he does sit out this year, but if he gets it resolved in his favor he’ll be back on the court immediate­ly,” Smith said. 
Minnesota’s first regular season game is against Tennessee Tech on Nov. 13. 
Mbakwe is scheduled for a Dec. 14 trial date in Miami-Dade County for allegedly punching a woman in the face in Miami in April. His attorney, Gregory Samms, said Tuesday he’s been told the case will take priority in court that week and won’t be pushed back. Samms has said his client was mistaken­ly identified. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

andersonND rentals.com. HOUSES 3 BDRM HOME ON 1 ACRE VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do ——————————————— WOODED LOT. CLOSE TO ND (1 FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232-not go it alone. Notre Dame hasWANTED FOR RENT 4 BDRM HOUSE ON 32 ACRES BLOCK). $1250/MO. 574-276-2333 0964. many resources in place to assist OF NATURE AND SERENITY. ——————————————— ——————————————— you. If you or someone you love 
PART TIME WORK Looking for a quiet place to relax 5 BDRM, 2 BATH HOME. 705 N.D. needs confidential support or assi­after the game? 9 MILES NORTH OF NOTRE AVE. $2150/MO. AVAIL. JUNE tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at Charming rental unit for 2-4, beauti-DAME. $1,200 FOR WEEKEND. 2010. 574-276-2333 FOR SALE 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For 
$14.25 base-appt., ful view, free canoe and kayaks with CALL GEORGIA PEACH BED AND ——————————————— more information, visit ND s website direct access to St. Joe River. BREAKFAST @ 269-357-6979. If you or someone you care about at: no experience needed, ——————————————— has been sexually assaulted, we http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu Adults only, no smoking, no pets. Irish Crossings and Dublin Village 3 TICKETS can help. ——————————————— 
customer sales/service, See pictures on and 4 bdr, furnished and unfur-I hate to tell you this bro, but you do www.TheRiverGetaway.org or 269-nished. January and June 2010 HELP! Need FB tic for family. not have the core strength to scale 815-3000. Great to stay for Notre leases available. www.cespm.info For more information, visit Notre the facade of Citizens Bank, you 
574-273-3835. Dame Events. 3 day minimum. Call 574-968-0112 Will pay top $$. 574-251-1570. Dame s website: http://csap.nd.edu just don't. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 


Around theNat on 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Wednesday, November 4, 2009 
page 13 

NCAA Men’s Soccer NSCAA Division I Rankings 
team previous 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 Akron North Carolina UC Santa Barbara Wake Forest Louisville Maryland Virginia Connecticut Monmouth UCLA Duke Harvard South Florida Tulsa Charlotte San Diego Northwestern North Carolina State Stanford UC Irvine UNC Wilmington Missouri State Dayton Butler Penn State 
1 3 4 2 5 6 10 8 14 7 16 15 9 18 11 RV 12 13 21 19 23 25 NR 17 RV 

Preseason NCAA Men’s Basketball AP Top 25 
team 
Kansas Michigan State Texas Kentucky Villanova North Carolina Purdue West Virginia Duke Tennessee Butler Connecticut California Washington Michigan Ohio State Oklahoma Mississippi State Louisville Georgetown Dayton Georgia Tech Illinois Clemson Minnesota 
points 
1612 1515 1397 1372 1347 1320 1284 1115 1064 897 864 844 800 776 578 465 410 393 335 326 318 301 282 217 172 
NBA 


Cavs’ Delonte West faces more charges 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — Cleveland Cavaliers guard Delonte West was indicted Tuesday on additional weapons and traffic charges stemming from his Sept. 17 arrest for speeding on a motorcycle and carry­ing multiple weapons. 
The eight-count indict­ment sheds no new light on why West, 26, was riding a motorcycle on the Capital Beltway in Prince George’s County, Md., at 10 p.m. with two loaded handguns and a loaded shotgun. Prosecutors on Wednesday added an 8 1/2-inch Bowie knife to the list of con­cealed weapons West was carrying. 
It’s illegal in Maryland to carry concealed weapons and to transport loaded handguns. 
West was indicted on two counts of carrying a dan­gerous weapon, two counts of carrying a handgun, two counts of transporting a handgun, and one count each of reckless driving and negligent driving. The charges are all misde­meanors. Each weapons count carries a penalty of up to three years in prison. 
West was initially charged with just two counts of carrying a hand­gun and with driving in excess of reasonable and prudent speed. 
Court records don’t list a lawyer for West. His agent, Noah Croom, did not imme­diately respond to a mes­sage seeking comment. 
West has been treated in the past for bipolar disor­der, and last week his wife filed a domestic violence report against him in Ohio. No charges have been filed. 
West, who could still face a league suspension over the charges in Maryland, made his season debut dur­ing Saturday night’s 90-79 win against Charlotte, scor­ing 13 points in 24 minutes. He was expected to play in Tuesday night’s game against Washington. 
Cavaliers general manag­er Danny Ferry, who along with team doctors has been handling West’s delicate state on a daily basis, issued a statement follow­ing the release of the new charges against West. 
“It is our understanding that today’s developments are part of the legal process that continues to take place with Delonte and he and his legal coun­sel will handle that,” Ferry said. “We will continue to take this matter very seri­ously and monitor and respect the legal process as it proceeds, but not specu­late or comment about it.” 
Cavs coach Mike Brown didn’t want to speculate on the possibility of West doing jail time. 
“I believe in the process, I’m going to let it unfold and go from there,” Brown said. 
IN BRIEF 

Rams’ Amendola sits out of practice with concussion 
ST. LOUIS — Rams returner Danny Amendola sat out practice due to a concussion while guard Jacob Bell was cleared after tests showed he had only a mild one. 
Amendola rode a stationary bicy­cle during Tuesday’s workout and coach Steve Spagnuolo said the diminutive receiver was set to undergo tests for concussion-related symptoms on Wednesday. 
“He still has some symptoms, so they weren’t going to take any chances,” Spagnuolo said. 
Bell also had a concussion in the preseason that forced him to miss a few weeks, but Spagnuolo anticipat­ed that the lineman would practice on Wednesday. 
The 5-11, 186-pound Amendola was leveled by the Lions’ Zach Follett early in the fourth quarter Sunday and didn’t return to the Rams’ 17-10 victory. 
Goodell to participate in labor talks with NFLPA 
WASHINGTON — NFL commissioner Roger Goodell and NFL Players Association executive director DeMaurice Smith both are slated to participate in the league’s latest round of labor negotiations. 
Speaking after testifying before a House subcommittee Tuesday about a legal case involving two Minnesota Vikings players, Goodell told The Associated Press he would be present for Wednesday’s talks in New York about a new collective bargaining agreement. 
Goodell has not attended all of the sessions the league and union have held so far. 
The NFL opted out of the collective bargaining agreement last year, although the contract won’t expire until after the 2010 season. That season will not have a salary cap under the current CBA, and Smith has said he hopes to have an agreement before then. 
Chamberlain’s mom faces prison for drug charges 
LINCOLN, Neb. — The mother of New York Yankees pitcher Joba Chamberlain faces up to 20 years in prison when she’s sentenced next month on a felony drug charge. 
Jackie Standley pleaded no contest Monday to an amended charge of delivery of a controlled substance, according to court records. The 44­year-old Standley was arrested in May after selling a gram of metham­phetamine to an undercover officer at her Lincoln residence. 
Standley originally was charged with a Class II felony, which carries a maximum sentence of 50 years, but the prosecutor reduced the charge to a Class III felony. She’ll be sentenced Dec. 16. 
Phone calls to a number listed for Standley went unanswered Tuesday. 
The Yankees play Game 6 of the World Series against Philadelphia on Wednesday. 



around the dial 
World Series 

Philadelphia at New York 
7:57 p.m., FOX 
NBA 

Miami at Washington 7 p.m., ESPN 
page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, November 4, 2009 
MLB 

FanstiredofChampagnegoggles 
Stimson recently posted the 
Associated Press 
question of whether 

NEW YORK — When the Champagne goggles were ever New York Yankees clinched acceptable — or whether it their spot in the World Series made the players seem, well, last week, the casual TV view-wimpy. “Most people thought er might have wondered if it took away some of their they were about to go swim manly nature,” he says. the 200-meter butterfly with Talk to an eye doctor, Michael Phelps. though, and you’ll be convert-
Call it a fashion statement ed to the pro-goggle side with 
f or  t he  ve ry  the speed of one  
r ic h  a nd  v e ry  o f  S a b ath i a’s  
h ap p y : Th e r e they were, stars li k e C C Sabathia, Mark  “Why can’t they all just go into the clubhouse and  fastballs. C h a m p a g n e has a high alco­h ol c on t e nt,  
Teix eir a an d Johnny Damon,  celebrate naturally?”  high enough to damage the sur­ 
spor ti n g s wim goggles to pro­tect their eyes  Patrick Stimson Oakland A’s fan  f a c e l i ni ng of the cornea, says Dr. M a t t hew  

from the victory Ch ampagne being poured, squirted and sprayed amid the post-game revelry. 
It’s become a more familiar sight in the past few years in the locker rooms of baseball’s top teams. And some die-hard fans aren’t too happy. 
Sure, they say, it’s important to preserve those valuable eyes. But the eyewear sure looks a little goofy, doesn’t it? And more importantly, it sug­gests a broader problem, these fans say: Post-game cel­ebrations have become too predictable, with all that unspontaneous Champagne-pouring. 
“I guess it was funny when they first poured Champagne on somebody, but it’s just too prepared, too scripted now,” says Matt O’Donnell, a high school history teacher and baseball fan in Sebastopol, Calif. “The way they have the plastic tarps all laid out in the locker room, and they have the goggles already set up there.” 
O’Donnell, 39, is an ardent Boston Red Sox fan (his 4­year-old son’s middle name is Fenway, after Fenway Park.) “Please, No More Champagne Goggles!” he pleaded on his baseball blog in September, when his team was about to clinch a playoff spot. 
After every big victory, he complained, the plastic sheets go up, “and then a few players will put on the readily avail­able ridiculous looking cham­pagne goggles and begin spraying their teammates. A manager or coach will inevitably be sprayed with bubbly ... and the perpetrator will think it is the funniest thing ever. Yawn.” 
Patrick Stimson agrees. “Why can’t they all just go into the clubhouse and cele­brate naturally?” asks the 28­year-old Oakland A’s fan. “What I like is spontaneous moments.” 
And while the goggles don’t lessen any of his respect for the top players, he does see them as a sign that today’s athletes may be getting a little softer. 
“It just seems like something the older, more hardened players of yesterday wouldn’t wear — not something you’d have seen on Babe Ruth or Pete Rose,” says Stimson, who lives in Los Angeles and works in online marketing. “There’s a notion that today’s players are coddled, multi-gazillion­aire athletes, and maybe this is an outgrowth of that.” 
On his own baseball blog, Gardiner, direc­
tor of emer ­gency ophthalmology services at the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary. (For those medically inclined, the lining is called the epithelium.) 
“A corneal abrasion like that usually heals within two to three days, but it can be extremely painful while it’s healing,” says Gardiner. 
In other words, you don’t want your ace pitcher or hit­ter nursing a corneal abrasion while taking on the next team, as the Yankees did a few days after their pennant victory against the Los Angeles Angels, facing the Philadelphia Phillies for the big prize. (The series stands 3-2, Yankees.) 
For Jane Heller, the well­being of her treasured Yankees is the key concern — much more important than how silly they may or may not look in goggles. 
“I see all these posts, saying gee, what sissies,” says Heller, a lifelong Yankee fan in Santa Barbara, Calif., who blogs about the Yankees on “Confessions of a She-Fan,” and has written a book of the same name. “But it doesn’t bother me.” 
What bothers Heller more is what the goggles might repre­sent: “These quote-unquote celebrations have become so calculated and neat and tidy now,” she says. “It used to be a spontaneous burst of enthu­siasm. There was no plastic tarp covering everything.” 
Heller notes that the goggles are a relatively new phenome­non, something she first noticed in 2007. “I noticed that one player, Doug Mientkiewicz, was wearing them during a celebration,” she says. 
At the National Baseball Hall of Fame’s library, researcher Gabriel Schechter can’t pinpoint when the first Champagne goggles were donned, but he says it’s only in recent years. (Champagne celebrations, on the other hand, have been around since the 1950s, when they took the place of beer.) 
“It might just be that they’re using so much more Champagne now that it’s real­ly hazardous,” says Schechter. 
One important baseball fan doesn’t know anything of the goggle tradition. “Really?” asks W.P. Kinsella, whose novel, “Shoeless Joe,” became the movie “Field of Dreams.” 
“It sounds so calculated,” the author says. “Just so you don’t get a little Champagne in your eyes.” (Kinsella, a huge fan, says he hates watching the celebrations and always turns the TV off any­way once the game is over.) 
Hazards aside, fans like Brian Welch may find it hard not to stifle a giggle when they see the next World Series champs don their swim equip­ment on Wednesday or Thursday, when the series ends. “I think the goggles are hilarious,” says Welch, 34, a Cincinnati Reds fan who lives in Chicago. 
But he hopes the victorious Yanks or Phillies, with finally no games left to worry about, will throw caution to the wind — or, more like it, to the spray. 
After all, says Welch, “Maybe it’s good to save your eyes before you go on to the World Series. But once you’ve won, hey. You’ve just won the World Series! Suck it up. Get some Champagne in your eyes!” 



Wednesday, November 4, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
NFL 

Steroid rulings hurt progress 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — A key law­maker said Tuesday that recent court decisions block­ing suspensions of two NFL players threaten to undermine progress made in reducing performance-enhancing drug use among athletes at all lev­els. 
“If these rulings prevail, they could wreak havoc with policies designed to curb per­formance-enhancing drug use in professional sports,” Rep. Henry Waxman, the chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said at a subcommittee hearing. “In fact, if the rulings are taken to their logical conclusion, play­ers on one team could be allowed to use drugs that would subject players on another team to suspensions and fines.” 
“In short,” he added, “these new legal interpretations could render the NFL and Major League Baseball drug testing programs unenforce­able, loophole-ridden, and unacceptably weak and inef­fective.” 
Waxman, a California Democrat who has held high-profile hearings on steroids in sports, said that if the court rulings are not reversed, “then we need to find out if the col­lective bargaining process can solve these problems or whether congressional action is needed. 
“One thing is clear: we should not allow the drug poli­cies that the NFL, Major League Baseball, and other sports leagues have put in place to be rendered null and void. That is an invitation to steroid abuse in professional sports. And it will inevitably lead to more steroid use on high school football fields and baseball diamonds.” 

NFL commissioner Roger Goodell was to testify later and planned to ask for legisla­tion. 
“We believe that a specific and tailored amendment to the Labor Management Relations Act is appropriate and necessary to protect col­lectively bargained steroid policies from attack under state law,” Goodell said in his written testimony. 
Recent court decisions “call into question the continued viability of the steroid policies of the NFL and other national sports organizations,” Goodell said. 
The NFL had attempted to suspend Minnesota Vikings Pat Williams and Kevin Williams for four games, but the players sued the league in state court, arguing the league’s testing violated Minnesota laws. The case was moved to federal court, and the NFL players union filed a similar lawsuit on behalf of the Williamses and New Orleans Saints players who were also suspended. 
In May, a federal judge dis­missed the union’s lawsuit and several claims in the Williamses’ case but sent two claims involving Minnesota workplace laws back to state court. A judge there issued an injunction prohibiting the NFL from suspending the players and has scheduled the trial for March 8. In September, a fed­eral appeals court panel agreed with those decisions, essentially allowing the Williamses, who are not relat­ed, to continue playing while the case proceeds in state court. 
The Vikings players tested positive in 2008 for the diuret­ic bumetanide, which is banned by the NFL because it can mask the presence of steroids. The players acknowl­edged taking the over-the­counter weight loss supple­ment StarCaps, which did not state on the label that it con­tained bumetanide. Neither player is accused of taking steroids. 
The court ruling led the NFL to allow New Orleans defen­sive ends Charles Grant and Will Smith, who had also been issued four-game suspensions, to continue playing. Both play­ers also tested positive for bumetanide. 
DeMaurice Smith, executive director of the NFL players union, said this case differs from others. He said Dr. John Lombardo, who oversees the league’s steroid policy, learned that StarCaps contained bumetanide but did not inform the players. 
“Frankly, the fundamental failure of that doctor to ensure immediate disclosure of the fact that StarCaps included bumetanide violated his para­mount duty as a doctor — to protect patients, in this case, our players,” Smith said in his prepared testimony. Smith called for changes to the league-union steroid policy that would mandate the NFL notify players when it learns that a product contains a banned substance. 

MLB 
Pedro prepared for Game 6 start in N.Y. 
“What can I say?” Martinez 
Associated Press 
said then. “I tip my hat and call NEW YORK — A city seethes the Yankees my daddy.” in anticipation. He’s been reminded of that 
Outside Yankee Stadium, comment on every visit since. workmen wielding power wash-Taunts of “Who’s your daddy?” ers crisscross the walkways on echoed again across the Bronx a crisp autumn afternoon, duti-throughout Game 2, supple-fully cleaning each and every mented by gestures that can’t groove between thousands of be described here. Martinez left concrete squares. Inside, the field smiling but later that groundskeepers wielding rakes night practically begged Yankee push pebbles back and forth, fans to tone down the abuse, if smoothing the dirt around not for his sake, then at least home plate. Everyone in town, for the kids within earshot. It it seems, wants the place to was not an act. look perfect for the return of Say what you will about the Pedro Martinez. once-flamboyant character; at 
“This is the kind of stage that 38, both his personality and I deserve,” Martinez said, “and competitive nature have been in a stadium leavened by a like this, the nearly two-year most legendary “This is the kind of absence from the of all places.” game, when 
stage that I deserve, 
It will be noth-Martinez won-
and in a stadium like
ing short of a dered whether miracle if the this, the most his arm was shot Yankees’ new and his career 
legendary of all
baseball palace o v e r .
places.” 
r e m a i n s Philadelphia took anchored to its a flyer on him, moorings when Pedro Martinez wondering how 
Martinez walks much magic 
Phillies pitcher
out to the mound Wednesday night in a Phillies uniform for Game 6 of the World Series. The last time the level of psychokinetic energy in New York pushed the needle this far off the meter, the “Ghostbusters” were called in to save the city. 
Pedro ain’t afraid of no ghosts, either, even though he brings a history to the Bronx like almost no other. 
When Martinez last showed his face here — in the interview room after losing Game 2, despite a strong effort — he was wearing a striped jacket that looked like it had been stolen from the set of “Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat.” Yet it was while wearing the red socks of hated rival Boston a half-dozen years ago that Martinez was rendered a villain in these parts forever. 
In Game 3 of the ALCS, he was at the center of a tit-for-tat, purpose-pitch skirmish that erupted into a bench-clearing brawl. Don Zimmer, then a 72­year-old bulldog of a bench coach with the Yankees, rushed from the Yankees dugout straight for Martinez, who threw him to the ground. 
New York didn’t have to wait long for its revenge. 
In the eighth inning of Game 7, Red Sox manager Grady Little left a tiring Martinez in to clean up the jam he’d gotten himself into. Bad idea: four straight hits erased Boston’s 5-2 advantage, leading to a dramat­ic extra-inning, series-ending victory for the Yankees. 
But Martinez’s lowest moment in New York was still almost a year off. The following September, after yet another tough loss, the defiant right-hander who once famously growled, “Wake up the Bambino, I’ll drill him in the ass,” was disconsolate and said he never wanted to face New York again. 
Martinez could 
still conjure up. He has learned to be grateful for every opportunity. 
“Two months back I was sit­ting at home not doing any­thing, none of you were think­ing of me whatsoever,” Martinez said. “None of you were asking me questions, and today I am here, probably pitching one of the biggest games ever in the World Series, two great teams with a whole bunch of legendary players that are going to be. 
“I know when you mention Derek Jeter, you mention Alex Rodriguez, (Mark) Teixeira. I see those guys as probably the future of the game, the next Babe Ruth and Hank Aaron.” 
Back in the day, Martinez rarely bothered to learn the names of the hitters he faced; he simply blew them away. Today, he studies each hitter and every one of their tenden­cies, probing for the tiniest of edges. His fastball rarely tops 90 mph on the radar gun, so he relies more on a vintage circle change-up, an array of curves and cutters, varying his speeds and location. 
The kid who broke into the big leagues at “154 (pounds) soaking wet with a good arm” is now the consummate crafts­man, getting by on nothing more than guts and guile. There is something almost poet­ic about the biggest game of the season resting on his slim shoulders one final time, and in New York, no less. 
On the ride back up from the interview room to the press box at Yankee Stadium, the elevator operator asked: What can you say about Martinez that hasn’t been said? 
The answer is only what Martinez said about himself. 
“Everybody that grows up in the Dominican (Republic) and didn’t have a rich life is a sur­vivor. That’s what we call it in the Dominican, survival. 


page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, November 4, 2009 
NBA 

NuggetsroutPacers to remain unbeaten 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Carmelo Anthony scored 25 points and Chauncey Billups added 24 to help Denver beat the Indiana Pacers 111-93 on Tuesday night, lifting the Nuggets to their best start in 24 years. 
Anthony, who was averaging 38 points, shot just 6-for-17 from the field but made 11 of 14 free throws. Nene added 16 points and 13 rebounds for the Nuggets (4-0), who are off to their best start since the 1985­86 season. 
Former Denver guard Dahntay Jones led the Pacers with 20 points, and Danny Granger added 18 for Indiana (0-3). 
Pacers forward Troy Murphy bruised his lower back when he fell hard to the floor in the first quarter and did not return. He was second in the league in rebounding and third in 3-point percentage last sea­son. 
Indiana has lost all its games by double digits. 
Denver made 8 of 15 3-point­ers on Tuesday while Indiana made just 3 of 22. 
The Nuggets led 30-13 at the end of the first quarter, even though Anthony shot 1-for-7. The Nuggets led 55-39 at half­time. 
Indiana cut Denver’s lead to 59-50 on a layup by Jones, but Billups responded with a 3­pointer. Later in the quarter, when the Pacers again started building momentum, Billups hit another three. Anthony fol­lowed that with a breakaway dunk to make it 71-55. Anthony and Billups combined for 23 points in the quarter, and Denver led 83-71 at the end of the period. 
Denver pulled away in the fourth quarter and led by as many as 25 points. Indiana’s only lead was 6-5 in the first quarter. 

NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
UConn’s Moore leads All-America team 
Associated Press 
Preseason or postseason, Maya Moore is making a habit of rack­ing up honors. 
The UConn junior became just the seventh unanimous choice on The Associated Press’ preseason All-America team Tuesday, gar­nering all 40 votes from a nation­al media panel. It’s the third straight year a player has been a unanimous choice in the presea­son. 
“It’s a great honor to be men­tioned with them,” said Moore, who was one vote short of being an unanimous choice last presea­son. “I’ve been truly blessed to have such great teammates.” 
Moore was joined on the pre­season squad by teammate Tina Charles, Stanford’s Jayne Appel, Ohio State’s Jantel Lavender, and Virginia’s Monica Wright. It was the fifth time two players from the same team made the All-America squad. 
UConn also had two of the four other pairs of teammates on a preseason team — Jen Rizzotti and Kara Wolters in 1995-96 and Shea Ralph and Svetlana Abrosimova in 2000-01. 
Moore has already made the All-America team in her first two years and was the AP’s player of the year last season. She aver­aged 19.3 points and 8.9 rebounds last season in helping UConn to a 39-0 record. The Huskies are a unanimous No. 1 in the preseason poll this year 
Charles stepped up her game in the NCAA tournament, earning most outstanding player honors. The senior center is on pace to set the school career scoring record. 
“Tina really has made huge strides in consistency over the last few months starting with the NCAA tournament and going through the summer playing with USA basketball,” Connecticut coach Geno Auriemma said. “She saw what she can do and now just needs to do it every game.” 
Appel also made a splash in the NCAA tournament. She scored 46 points in the regional finals against Iowa State and followed up with a 26-point effort in the national semifinals loss to UConn. 
“It’s a thrill to be an All-American,” the Stanford senior said. 
Moore, Charles, and Appel were among the 23 invitees to USA basketball’s national team training camp that took place at the end of September. 
“It really is flattering to be con­sidered among the best of the best,” Appel said. 
Lavender averaged 20.8 points and 10.7 rebounds in helping Ohio State to a 29-6 record and a Big Ten title. She is just the sec­ond Ohio State player, joining Jessica Davenport, to be honored as a preseason All-America. 
Wright became the first Virginia player to earn preseason honors since Wendy Palmer in 1995-96. Palmer is now an assistant coach with the Cavaliers. Wright was surprised to learn she had now joined her coach. 
“Wow. That is quite an honor,” Wright said. “To be in the same category as Wendy is truly spe­cial.” 
The senior guard led Virginia with 20.5 points and will be called upon to provide more lead­ership this year with the Cavaliers having such a young team. 
“This is a great All-America team because everyone of these players has earned it over what they’ve done through their careers,” said DePaul’s Doug Bruno, who has coached all five players during different stints with USA Basketball. “It’s espe­cially great for Monica Wright, who has flown under the radar.” 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Pike’s arm healing after surgery 
plate and six screws inserted to 
Associated Press 
stabilize the area. He returned 

CINCINNATI — Tony Pike had after missing two games and led X-rays on Tuesday that showed the Bearcats to the Big East title his non-passing arm is healing wearing a protective splint on the nicely from surgery, another step arm. toward getting him back to full He didn’t have a problem until the game at South Florida, when he took a helmet to the forearm. The force of the blow damaged the plate, which was replaced a few days later after specialists were consulted about the best way to handle the injury. 
practice with fourth-ranked Cincinnati. 
Pike expected to practice on Wednesday wearing a special splint instead of a bulky cast on the left forearm, which was injured during a game on Oct. 15 at South Florida. The senior quarterback has missed the last two games while the injury heals. 
Sophomore Zach Collaros led the Bearcats (8-0) to wins over Louisville and Syracuse, throw­ing for seven touchdowns during those two games. He’s likely to start on Saturday at home against Connecticut (4-4), when Cincinnati attempts to tie the school record for best start. 
Coach Brian Kelly said it’s pos­sible that Pike could get into the game for a short time, but he would prefer waiting until he’s capable of playing without limi­tations. 
“It really would depend on how he practices, because he hasn’t been in there handing off and moving on the perimeter,” Kelly said, before the start of practice Tuesday. “It may be the case that we think he’s 75 per­cent there, we can’t start him but he could come in in certain situations. That’s a scenario that’s possible. 
“I would prefer that not to be the case. I would prefer him to be 100 percent and able to start.” 
Pike broke the left forearm and dislocated the wrist during a game last season and had a 



Wednesday, November 4, 2009 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Crist 
continued from page 20 
third-string quarterback until Crist returns. Fifth-year senior Evan Sharpley was moved up to second string on the Irish depth chart, behind Clausen. 
Goodman, who played quarter­back at Bishop Dwenger High School in Fort Wayne, Ind., prac­ticed at quarterback for Notre Dame in the spring, and has seen some action out of Notre Dame’s Wildcat formation this season. 
Weis also said senior wide receiv­er Robby Parris was ready to play this weekend, junior running back Armando Allen was day-to-day and sophomore defensive lineman Kapron Lewis-Moore was probable. 
Contact Sam Wernerr at swerner@nd.edu 
Phillips 
continued from page 20 

irreplaceable and has benefit-ted the Irish this season. Phillips’ experience has consis­tently helped keep the Irish poised and confident on the court this season. 
“She’s continued to get stronger every year, and that physical strength and consis­tency coming with experience has really helped her as a player,” Brown said. “She leads by example and her con­sistency on the court is some­thing the team really relies on.” 
As Notre Dame remains the only undefeated team in the conference, Phillips has high hopes for her final season. 
“Personally I would just like to finish strong,” she said. “As for the team, our biggest goal is to finish the Big East regular season undefeated as well as win the Big East tournament.” 
Up next, the Irish head to Marquette to take on the Golden Eagles in hopes of con­tinuing their undefeated con­ference season. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 


NBA 

Celts down 76ers; Cavaliers win 
Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA — Rasheed Wallace keeps making his 
hometown  his  stomping  
ground.  
Wallace  rooted on  the  

Phillies at Game 5 of the World Series and he popped by to watch Philly boxing great Bernard Hopkins train for an upcoming bout. 
Boston’s top reserve didn’t stop having fun just because it was time to play. Wallace hit six 3-pointers as part of a 20­point effort and the Celtics remained unbeaten with a 105-74 victory over the Philadelphia 76ers on Tuesday night. 
“It’s home,” Wallace said. “A lot of friends and family don’t get the opportunity to see me play. Everybody can’t get that league pass and all that stuff. It’s always fun to come back here and play.” 
Wallace, who wore a black Phillies jacket to the game, easily had his best game in his short stint with the Celtics. He pretty much caught the ball, let it rip and watched it sink through the net. Wallace made 6 of 8 3-pointers and sank each long attempt about as easily as a layup in the paint. 
Wallace was about the only Celtic who had his normal night, even getting whistled for a technical foul for arguing with the refs in the third quar­ter. His fuse burst late in the quarter when he appeared to be fouled on a shot. The ref called a foul, he just didn’t call it a shooting foul and denied Wallace a trip to the free-throw line. 
Wallace kept badgering the refs over the perceived blown call until he was hit with the T with 4.5 seconds left in the third. 
“I just wanted to get my point across,” Wallace said. “I wasn’t going to get thrown out.” 
Paul Pierce scored 21 points as the Celtics improved to 5-0 even without the usual stand­out performances from Kevin Garnett and Ray Allen. 
“We’re going to win because of our defense no matter how good our offense is,” Celtics coach Doc Rivers said. 
Allen didn’t score his first field goal until the third quar­ter and had five points. Garnett made just one basket on seven shots and scored three points when he was yanked with the game out of hand. 
By the time Wallace got his technical, the game had spi­raled into a blowout. Allen scored his first basket and Pierce hit a 3-pointer in a 14-2 run to open the quarter that shook off the Sixers for good. 
Eddie House made four 3s off the bench for the Celtics and scored 12 points. Shelden Williams added 11 points, helping the Celtics bench to a productive night after the starters and Wallace made this one a rout. 
Cavaliers 102, Wizards 90 
Shaquille O’Neal has always felt like when he gets the ball down low, within a few feet of the basket, he should score every time. 
“Got to,” he said. “If not, get rid of me.” 
The Cavaliers just got him, and they’re not about to let him go. 
O’Neal had easily his best game since joining Cleveland, scoring a season-high 21 points while wearing out Washington’s big men and LeBron James scored 27 points as the Cavaliers won their third straight, beating the Wizards 102-90 on Tuesday night. 
Hitting bank shots. Dropping hooks. Making free throws. Dominating. 
For the first time with the Cavaliers, Shaq was Shaq. 
“It’s a big plus for me and everyone else,” James said. 
The Cavs trailed by 18 in the second quarter before turning up their defense and relying on their superstar combo of James and O’Neal to win their sixth straight at home over the Wizards. When Cleveland’s offense sputtered, the Cavs simply dumped the ball inside to O’Neal and let him go to work. 
“We said, ‘Let’s throw it to Shaq and have him get some­thing for us,’ “ Cavs coach Mike Brown said. 
Mo Williams scored 15 and Daniel Gibson 14 for the Cavs, who made nine 3-pointers in the second half — four in the fourth quarter when James was out. Cleveland held the Wizards to just 36 points in the second half and only 59 over the final three quarters. 
Caron Butler and Gilbert Arenas scored 22 apiece to lead the Wizards. 
O’Neal’s integration into their offense has been a slow process for the Cavs, but they are starting to figure out how to best use the All-Star center, who came over in a June trade from Phoenix. He made 7 of 9 field goals, 7 of 10 free throws, grabbed eight rebounds and put Washington’s frontline in foul trouble. 
He also endeared himself to Cleveland fans by flattening Wizards guard DeShawn Stevenson on a drive in the first half. Stevenson has been a pest to the Cavs, engaging in a war of words with James in the playoffs two years ago. 
“It hurt real bad, but that’s part of basketball,” Stevenson said of O’Neal’s takedown. “He apologized at halftime, so it’s all right.” 
The Cavs have been using the 7-foot-1 O’Neal and his 7­foot-3 backup, Zydrunas Ilgauskas, together with mixed results. But the pair are get­ting more comfortable and confident with every second they spend on the floor and have the potential to be a matchup nightmare for any team. 
O’Neal alone is enough to deal with — even at age 37. He wasn’t surprised the Wizards tried to guard him one on one, and he under­stands why. 
“It’s an age thing. I don’t really take it personal,” he said. “I just have to let them know I’m still here and have to be reckoned with. I under­stand I’m not 27 or 19.” 
Cleveland only led 78-73 after three, but the Cavs pushed their lead to 94-79 by making four 3s as James rest­ed. He only played four min­utes in the fourth. 
Butler, back after missing one game with a bruised left knee, scored 17 in the first half but he and his teammates cooled off after halftime. Washington shot just 33 per­cent over the final three quar­ters. 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 4, 2009 
Diggins 
continued from page 20 
“I was a little nervous [at the start],” Diggins said. “Coming out in front of the community that has been supporting me for years, seeing some of their faces, really helped ease some of my nerves. And when you got players around you that know the offense and under­stand the system, it’s a lot eas­ier to play.” 
Coach Muffet McGraw said she was encouraged by Diggins’ performance, particu­larly the energy that she brought off the bench. 
“[Diggins] came in with a lot of intensity” McGraw said. “She played very intelligent, didn’t force things, and just took what they gave her. She did a good job creating and also running the offense.” 
After a sloppy start to the game, the Irish seized control behind a suffocating full-court press that forced 16 first-half turnovers. Notre Dame held Indianapolis to 5-for-14 shoot­ing from the field on its way to a 42-22 halftime lead. 
“I thought our press got them to turn the ball over,” McGraw said. “I thought we extended the defense a little bit and it’s a shame we don’t have the 10-second line because we possibly could have had a few more turnovers. We really pres­sured the ball like we wanted to.” 
Sophomore forward Erica Solomon also had an outstand­ing game off the bench, finish­ing with 17 points and six rebounds. Solomon was 4-of-7 from the field and 9-of-14 from the free-throw line. 
“I’m still concerned about our depth in the post and I was just ecstatic about the way [Solomon] played tonight,” McGraw said. “If we can have her do that every night, that would be great. She is the x-factor for our team.” 
The Irish did much of their damage on the offensive boards, corralling 20 on the night. 
“We’re really working on getting our guards rebound­ing, getting three rebounders in the lane. And I thought we did a really good job of that,” McGraw said. 
Six different players record­ed three-pointers on the night for the Irish, who shot 8-of-16 as a team from behind the arc. 
“I thought offensively we did a lot of good things,” McGraw said. “That’s where you’ll see the strength of our bench, particularly at the end of the game when the other team is wearing down.” 
In her first career start, sophomore guard Natalie Novosel added 13 points and 6 rebounds for the Irish behind 3-of-9 shooting. 
“[Novosel] really worked on her 3-point shot this summer,” McGraw said. “She’s always been able to drive the ball and now she’s really difficult to guard because of the 3-point­er. She also gets to the foul line really well which is some­thing we like to see.” 
Notre Dame will open regu­lar-season play when it hosts Arkansas-Pine Bluff on Nov. 15 at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 
Weiss 
continued from page 20 

been playing as good as any­body in the country … You’ve got some sophomores that play like they’ve been here four years already.” 
The reason the underclass­men play like veterans is because, in many ways, they are veterans. Any highlight reel of the Irish in the past two seasons has featured sophomore Melissa Henderson prominently. Last year she was named Big East Rookie of the Year and earned first-team Freshman All-American honors as she played in all 27 games, starting 20, and scored 17 goals. 
“A couple of those kids are kids that really played last year, and had a great year,” Waldrum said of the Irish youth movement. “Melissa was pretty much a starter for most of the year.” 
Joining Henderson on the field their freshman season were classmates Jessica Schuveiller and Courtney Barg. Schuveiller started every game and totaled the second-highest volume of minutes among position players on the team, and Barg started all six NCAA Tournament games. This deep experience leads to Waldrum’s rock-solid confi­dence. 
“[Henderson, Schuveiller, and Barg] are kids that had a year experience under their belt playing deep into the NCAA Tournament,” he said. “I don’t think [the post­season] will be something the three keepers [freshman that is new or intimidating Maddie Fox being the third] to them. They have gone has been very close all year,” through it.” Waldrum said. “Nikki has 
Joining the three young been hot lately, which has veterans on the field this been good because we have season has been freshman been able to get her into defender Jazmin Hall. As some big games.” injuries this season depleted Despite Weiss’ record-set­any upperclassmen depth ting performances so far, the Irish may have had at Waldrum said his expecta­the beginning of the season, tions for her in the playoffs 
Wa l d r um  w as  are being held  
forced to turn  in check.  
to players like Hall to step in.  “This will be new for  “ T h e p l a y -offs are a little  
O n c e o n t h e field, Hall has only impressed a n d g a i n e d  [Weiss], with the playoffs and everything.”  different ani-m a l , ” t h e 1 1 t h -y e a r h e a d c o a c h  
valuable expe­ said. “She has  
r i e n c e , m u c h s o  s o t h a t  Bobby Clark Irish coach  shown us s h e h a s  that t h e  

Waldrum said he is already certain she will not be daunted by the playoff pressure. 
“This will be new for her, with the playoffs and every­thing,” he said. “She’ll have to get her feet wet and not let the process intimidate her. But I think she has played in enough big games through the year that she is ready for it.” 
One of the biggest differ­ences for Notre Dame between this postseason and last is the girl in the goal. Weiss did not start a single game last year, but about halfway through the Big East slate this season, she moved past senior Kelsey Lysander into the starting spot in the goal, and after only allowing one goal in nearly 600 min­utes of conference action, she has not looked back. 
“The competition between consistency to 
handle that 
and do well with it, and this time of year that is all you really ask of your goalkeeper, just to be consistent and handle the things you are supposed to. And then if she shows a great save in there along the way, that is icing on the cake.” 
As long as the young Irish continue to play as well as they have been, a cake or celebration of some sort looks to be on its way. Notre Dame plays St. John’s in the Big East tournament semifi­nal Friday, and the youth are just getting started. 
“It’s been the young play­ers that have really carried us,” Waldrum said. “That bodes well for the future too.” 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  
 15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  23  
 
24  25  26  
 27  28  29  
30  31  32  
33  34  35  36  37  38  
39  40  41  
 42  
43  44  45  
46  47  48  49  
50  51  52  53  54  
55  
 56  57  
58  
 59  60  61  62  63  64  65  
66  67  68  
 
 
69  70  71  

Wednesday, November 4, 2009 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 

Note: When the puzzle is done, the circled letters will spell, fromtop to bottom, the name of the town where all the people in this 
puzzle's theme once lived. 
Across 33Meditate (on) 
1 & 6 With 22-35Subject of a Across, noted Debussy piece 19th-century 36Places to 
writer hibernate 
11British rule in 39Noted 19th­India century writer 
14With aloofness 43Mushy snowball 
15It beats nothing sound 
16Arthur Godfrey's 44Tre + tre instrument, 45Have influence 
informally on 
17The Ivies, e.g. 461945 Pacific 

18Where Emirates battle site, briefly 
Airline is based 47Solar wind 
19Málaga Mrs. particles 
20Refrain syllable 49“A” in German 
22See 1-Across 101? 
24With 53-Across, 50Little hooter 
noted 19th­53See 24-Across century writer 55See 70-Across 
29Some saloon signs 57___ sister 
30Took in 58Went underground31In ___ (as
found) 59Bull on gluebottles
32The Bakkers'old 

ministry, for 622008 Pixar robot short 66H.S. subj. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


67Pope's triplecrown 68iPhone function 69Alternative to white 
70 & 71 With 55­Across, noted19th-centurywriter 
Down 
1 Copacabanalocale 2 Georgia Tech'ssports org. 3 On 4 Sylvia who wrote“The Bell Jar” 5 Many-headedserpents
6 Glob of gum 7 TV's Kwik-E-Mart clerk 
8 Place for a designer's name 9 Circular meas. 
10Monopoly avenue in the light-blue group 
11 Rene of “Lethal Weapon” movies 
12Goodyear's Ohio headquarters 
13Casual wear 
21Lively, on a score 
23Tomb artifacts, e.g. 
24Table salt, chemically 
25Friend of Aramis 
26Prepare to drive 
27Bullet point 

WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

Puzzle by Kevin G. Der 
28Superstate in 48Didn't skip 56Get caught in Orwell's “1984” something ___ 32Lamentations 50Alternative to 
60Muff one
this and that, 
34More artful with “the” 61Bit of sunshine 37Galley toiler 51Prone to 

38Coffee spot 63Head of 
complaining

40Cutting-edge London? 
52Rustic retreat 
features 6452, in old Rome 

41“That hurts!” 53Any of us 42Daly of “Judging 54“The Audacity of 65Days of yore, in Amy” Hope” author days of yore 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 



JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

COLIN HOFMAN, JAY WADE & LAUREN ROSEMEYER 
THE MOBILE PARTY 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Wednesday, November 4, 2009 page 20 
FOOTBALL 

Floyd to return vs. Navy, Crist out 4-6 months with torn ACL 
said. “He’s ready to go.” and said ‘I’m ready to go.’” ence also included the bad news. sophomore quarterback Dayne 
By SAM WERNER 

In just 10 quarters of action earli-Floyd adds another important Sophomore right guard Trevor Crist suffered a torn anterior cruci-
Associate Sports Editor 

er this season, Floyd had 13 catches dimension to an offense that could Robinson, who tweaked his ankle in ate ligament (ACL) late in 
for 358 yards and five touchdowns. already be labeled as explosive, last week’s 40-14 win over Saturday’s win over the Cougars. 
The way coach Charlie Weis out-He suffered a broken collarbone even in his absence. Weis said jun-Washington State, was doubtful for “He’ll be out about four to six lined Notre Dame’s injury situation attempting to make a catch in the ior quarterback Jimmy Clausen this weekend’s game. Senior Dan months,” Weis said. “That’s the at his press conference Tuesday first half of Notre Dame’s 33-30 win was thrilled to have his star receiv-Wenger, who started for the Irish at recovery. Fortunately there’s not a could only be described as a case of over Michigan State. er back in action. center last season, will take his lot of other things wrong, but that the good, the bad and the ugly. “I let Michael make the call once “It wasn’t too much longer before place. needs to be done.” 
First, the good. Sophomore wide he got cleared to go,” Weis said. “I I got a text from No. 7 [Clausen],” “He’s making good progress, but Weis said sophomore wide receiver Michael Floyd is set to still let Michael make the call as to Weis said. “As happy as No. 3 he’s doubtful this week,” Weis said. receiver John Goodman would return to action in this Saturday’s whether this was the week or not. [Floyd] was, I think No. 7 might Finally, the ugly. Weis confirmed serve as the team’s emergency game against Navy. He talked to his mom, and they have been just as happy.” Notre Dame fans’ worst fears 
“Michael Floyd is back,” Weis talked about it. He came back to me Unfortunately, Weis’ press confer-Tuesday when he announced that see CRIST/page 17 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
On the right foot 
Notre Dame wins big in exhibition over Indy 
By ALEX BARKER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Highly touted freshman Skylar Diggins scored 17 points in her collegiate debut to lead the Irish to a 97-53 victory over Indianapolis Tuesday at the new Purcell Pavilion. 
A Notre Dame women’s bas­ketball exhibition game record 7,508 people were in atten­dance to see the South Bend native in action and she did not disappoint. Diggins made her presence felt just minutes into the game after forcing a turnover in the backcourt and then finding junior Brittany Mallory under the basket for an easy layup. 
PAT COVENEY/The Observer 

Irish sophomore forward Erica Solomon drives to the hoop during the second half of Notre Dame’s 97­see DIGGINS/page 18 53 win over Indianapolis Tuesday night. Solomon fnished with a game-high 17 points off the bench. 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
ND ready with youth in lineup 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Not many teams in the country can say they are con­fident starting three sopho­mores on the field and a first-year starter in the goal as the postseason begins. 
No. 4 Notre Dame (15-3-1, 10-0-1 Big East) has started at least three sophomores for the vast majority of the sea­son, and junior goaltender Nikki Weiss is shining in her first taste of extended playing time. 
“It doesn’t bother me to have young players [carry us],” coach Randy Waldrum said. “The last month we’ve 
see WEISS/page 18 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Phillips leads Irish through Big East schedule 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
At the center of the Notre Dame team filled with experi­enced seniors is versatile and powerful outside hitter Serinity Phillips. 
At the head of the Irish attack, Phillips has helped keep her teammates motivated and in control on the court and in their domination of the Big East. 
“She’s a huge part of the suc­cess of the team this year and every year she’s been on the team,” Irish coach Debbie Brown said. “She is an all-around player, able to play all six rotations, and is a real stabi­lizing force on the court.” 
From making her 1,000th career kill on Oct. 10 to earning the Big East Player of the Week Award on Oct. 19, Phillips has proven herself to be a force on the court again and again. Her record-making kill came in a Notre Dame (16-4, 10-0 Big East) 3-2 win over Cincinnati where Phillips had 17 kills, seven digs and six blocks. The Big East honor came after she led the Irish in sweeping both Pittsburgh and West Virginia on Oct. 17 and 18. At Pitt, she put in 11 kills, seven digs and five blocks for the Notre Dame win, and had 18 kills, five digs and five blocks against West Virginia. 
“She’s an incredibly hard worker,” Brown said. “Her mile­stones are not ones reached by many players, and are some­thing she should be very proud of and has worked hard for.” 
Not only does she lead the Notre Dame attack, but Phillips has also proven herself strong on defense. She leads the team with 252 kills, an average 3.65 per set, and is at the top of the list for most blocks and points this season with a total 70 blocks and has 300 points. Her total kills and points pass up her 2008 totals of 239 and 293, respectively. Phillips has totaled at least 225 kills and 268 points in each of her three previous seasons. 
While she has excelled per­sonally on the court, Phillips said she feels her place on the team as most important and a leading role in her coming to Notre Dame. 
“Academics played a large role in my decision, as well as the school tradition,” she said. “With regards to volleyball, I fell in love with the team and coaching staff. 
“Being a part of the team has taught me to step outside of myself and help others. It has also opened my eyes to the importance of teamwork and friendship which are two aspects of my life that have played a large role in my col­lege experiences.” 
As Brown has noted earlier this season, the experience the seniors bring to the court is 
see PHILLIPS/page 17 






