
THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 44: ISSUE 41 THURSDAY, OCTOBER29. 2009 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Mendoza adapts in response to financial crisis 

Business College expands focus on ethics in Professorfounds center curricula, continues leadership programs to examine regulation 
What's important to us at Notre
By BOB SINGER By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
Dame is that this be viewed as a 
Assistant News Editor News Writer 
way of life, as a cornerstone of 
what a business education 
Amid widespread scrutiny of should be," Leo Burke, When the stock market corporate management and with Mendoza's Director of Integral began sliding in September the financial collapse in recent Leadership, said. "In the spirit of 2008, Notre Dame Finance memory, the business college is the place, through many of our professor Paul Schultz said expanding its approach to teach­courses and our professors, we financial regulators took sev­ing ethics, Dean of the Mendoza want to emphasize this need for eral futile measures that College of Business Carolyn Woo ethics." resulted in undesired side said. The College's MBA program effects. To prevent this from 
This fall, in addition to offering includes two courses in ethics, happening again, he decided more courses on ethics and con­one required and one selected to create the Center for the tinuing its Executive Integral from a list of topics like market­Study of Financial Leadership program, the College ing ethics, financial ethics in Regulation to examine the is hosting the annual Berges banking and global sustainability, effects of regulations and Lecture Series, which features Professor of Marketing Patrick provide input for future deci­senior executives speaking about Murphy said. On the undergrad­sions. their experiences in the ethical uate level, the College requires "There's a lot going on in dimensions of business. students to take a course on financial regulation right 
"Some colleges have courses in business ethics in their curricula. see ETHICS/page 6 see CENTER/page 4 
Observer F1le Photo 
The Mendoza College of Business has broadened its ethics curricula as a consequence of the financial crisis. 


Study abroad rate ranks seventh in U.S. 

By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Sophomore Erin Wurst said her study abroad application is weighing on her mind more and more, not just because of the approaching deadline, but because everyone is talking about it. 
"All of my friends are apply­ing," she said. "Everyone is kind of talking about where are you in your applications and what's your essay about because you have to stand out to everyone else who's applying." 
Wurst, who is applying to study in Toledo, Spain, for a year, said study abroad has become a favored topic of con-

STUDENT SENATE 
Ideas proposed to improve intellectual climate 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Senators discussed a per­ceived lack of intellectual discussion among students outside the classr.oom at Notre Dame, as compared to peer institutions, and dis­cussed suggestions for improvement at the Student Senate meeting Wednesday. 
"We can talk about sports, our internships, our study abroad programs and the jobs we want to pursue later in life at lunch at dinner time, but we don't talk about 
Plato or great American works," Duncan Hall senator 
C.J. Kelly said. 
Knott Hall senator Andrew Bell said he had a professor who came from Princeton, who said at Princeton, Notre Dame students were consid­ered inferior in their ability to have intellectual discus­sion. 
"But we were really good at taking notes and taking tests," Bell said. "It sort of offended me at first, but it got us thinking. What do peo­ple say about us and how can 
see SENATE/page 6 versation because she knows so many students who are apply­ing. 

"I feel like it's just kind of something that everyone does. It's not really an issue of it you are going abroad, it's like where you are going abroad," she said. 
With 59.5 percent of Notre Dame students earning credit abroad, Notre Dame has the sev­enth-highest study abroad rate in the country, the 2008 Open Doors report said. 
"Our percentage is very high," Director of International Studies Kathleen Opel said. "I would say higher than Ivy Leagues." 
Opel said Notre Dame has had a long-term commitment to 
see ABROAD/page 8 


Lake path closed for 
•


repairs 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
The east area of the Saint Mary's Lake footpath was closed Monday to allow for functional and aesthetic improvements on the path and the surrounding lakeshore. 
This area, located just north of the Grotto at the northwest intersection of Saint Mary's Road and St. Joseph Drive, has been a popular gathering spot, so heavy use coupled with erosion caused the asphalt in the area to deterio­rate, according to Daniel Younggreen, distribution supervisor for Notre Dame Utilities. 
"The main reason for replacing the path is that the walkway on the edge of the lake deteriorated due to wave action on the lake, which caused erosion in that area," Younggreen said. 
Another factor contributing to the deterioration of the path is that the area was pre­viously coated with three-inch diameter field stones, and people most likely threw many of these stones into the lake. The gradual loss of field stone in the area led to fur­ther erosion of the shoreline. 
Younggreen also noted safe-
see LAKE/page 8 

INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER CCAC meeting page 3 • Paranormal Activity review page 12 • Men's soccer falls to MSU page 24 • Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, October 29, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 


No hope for Ohio sports 
As a general rule, I like to remain opti­mistic in life. However, when it comes to my sports teams, that is downright near impos­sible for me, especially now. That is because I am an Ohio sports fan, not including Oncinnati, which I don't consider part of Ohio anyway. Growing up in Columbus, I have been a die-hard Ohio sports fan for my entire life (and yes, I still have some affinity to THE Ohio State University) but I can't remember a time when my teams were this bad. 
Let's start with the NFL, where the Oeveland Browns have once again fallen to the bottom of the standings and show no signs of improving. Even the beloved Brady Quinn couldn't save the abysmal Browns and has now sold his house and will likely be traded. What's most depressing that the other guy, Derek Anderson, is even worse. Silver lining: he actually won a game. Unfortunately for hnn, though, going 2-for-17 with 23 passing yards and an astounding 15.1 passer rating actually doesn't normally get you a win, go figure. 
The front office attributes much of the struggles to sickness and injury, with the flu bug running through the team almost as well as opposing offenses through their porous defense. I'm no doctor but I do know what makes me sick: watching the Browns try to run an offense. Knowing that, I'm not surprised that over a quarter of the team missed practice this last week due to illness. 
And then we have MLB's farm team, the Oeveland Indians. With the Tribe being eliminated from playoff contention in late April, I haven't had much to watch as far as baseball goes. I didn't even notice that they almost fell below the Kansas City Royals. That being said, I was glad to see the Indian's all-star team play this October. Too bad the Dodgers' ex-Indians Jim Thome, Ronnie Belliard, Casey Blake, and Manny Ramirez couldn't take down the defending champs, the Philadelphia Phillies. But wait, that's okay because manager Charlie Manuel will represent the Tribe (it's been a while but I still remember him). And then of course the World Series features the Indians' two Cy Young winners over the last two seasons, C.C. Sabathia and OiffLee, in Game 1. Silver lining: maybe the Indians' front office going back to the late 90s hey­day with Manny Ramirez by hiring another Manny (Acta). 
There have to be some Ohio teams play­ing well, right? Maybe the Cavs? No, I'll be pessimistic here too. They've already lost to division rival Celtics at home and the end of the King's contract is right around the cor­ner. The Blue Jackets? The Blue Jackets are never good, I don't see why this year would be any different. 
I've got one: the Columbus Crew. Wmners of the MLS Cup last year and the owners of the best record this year. This must be the team to root for. Only one problem: no one cares about soccer. 
Okay so maybe it's not entirely hopeless in Ohio, and I'm sure there are other cities with the same thoughts and more facts to elicit pessimism. But as bad as baseball and football have been for Oeveland, I can't see how anyone can have hope. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publicarion and srrives for rhe highes! srandards of journalism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make misrakes. Ifwe have made a misrake, please conracr us ar 631-4 541 so we can correcr our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE KIND OF HALLOWEEN CANOY? 






Catie Baransky  Mairin Talerico  Mike Petravick  Spencer Bruce  Nick Berlin  Cailin Ann Connolly  
freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  senior  sophomore  
Lewis  Lewis  Duncan  Morissey  off-campus  Lewis  
"Kit Kat.,,  "The Reeses  "Dots."  "Any King size  "Milk Duds. ,,  "Candy Corn. ,,  
pumpkin.''  candy bar. ,,  

Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

MAGGIE O'BRIEN/The Observer Band members, who will be in San Antonio during Halloween, dressed up on Wednesday as characters from the "Wizard of Oz." 
OFFBEAT 
Too fat to kill? Fla. man uses weight as a defense 
HACKENSACK, N.J. -A man accused of running up and down a flight of stairs to kill a former son-in-law is offering a novel defense: At 5 feet 8 and 285 pounds, he was just too fat to have pulled it off. 
An attorney for Edward Ates is making the case that his client wouldn't have had the energy need­ed to fatally shoot Paul Duncsak, a 40-year-old pharmaceutical executive, from a perch on the stair­case. 
Lawyer Walter Lesnevich claims that Ates, 62 at the 
time of the 2006 killing, was in such bad physical shape that he couldn't have pulled off the shooting or the fast getaway the killer made. 
Prosecutors are recom­mending a six-year prison term and restitution. Sentencing is scheduled for Jan. 8. 
Somali who claims to be centenarian marries teen 
MOGADISHU, Somalia-A Somali man who claims to be a centenarian has married a 17-year old girl. Ahmed Mohamed Dhore celebrated his marriage to Safiya Abdulle late Tuesday in cen­tral Somalia before hundreds of guests. Somali adolescent girls are often married off to older men. But it is rare for a man as old as Dhore to marry a girl of Abdulle's age. 

Dhore says he wanted to marry Abdulle for a long time but waited for her to grow up. He says his chil­dren and two other wives agreed to the marriage, as did Abdulle's parents. 
Dhore claims to be more than 100, but there is no way to verify the claim. This mar­riage was his 6th; three of Dhore's wives have died. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
:::1: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 





0,,,,,,,
..... 

,,,,,,,
c( 
(,) 

....0 HIGH 65 HIGH 63 HIGH 61 HIGH 48 LOW 55 LOW 55 LOW 41 LOW 38 IN BRIEF 
The Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies is hosting a panel discussion on "Globalization, Social Movements & Peacebuilding" today at 4 p.m. in 104 McKenna Hall. 
The Gender Relations Center is hosting "Sex Signals," an improvisational two-person play, in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business today at 7 p.m. The play offers an irreverent take on dating, but is meant to provoke serious dis­cussion about sexual violence. 
The Society for Women Engineers will sponsor the Trick-or-SWEet 5K Run/Walk today at 7 p.m. The race fee is $10 and benefits the Miss Wizard Day Charity. Prizes will be awarded to the winner and per­son wearing the best costume. 
Friday is the last day to drop a course. More information is available online at http://www.registrar.nd.edu 
The Notre Dame Men's Hockey team will play Ohio State Friday at 7:35 p.m. at the Joyce Center Ice Rink. Ticket informa­tion is available at 574-631­7356. 
The Notre Dame Men's Soccer Team will play Connecticut Saturday at 2 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
Saturday is Halloween. 

Daylight Savings Time ends Sunday at 2 a.m. Be sure to adjust your clocks. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 48 HIGH LOW 36 LOW 
Atlanta 72153 Boston 51 141 Chicago 58 I 50 Denver 33 I 25 Houston 81 I 73 Los Angeles 67 I 47 Minneapolis 53 I 49 New York 55 147 Philadelphia 58 I 49 Phoenix 61 I 47 Seattle 52 I 45 St. Louis 64 I 50 Tampa 88 I 71 Washington 62 I 55 
Thursday, October 29, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Off-campus safety discussedbyCCAC 
By MEGAN HEMLER 
News Writer 

Off-campus safety, traffic problems in South Bend neigh­borhoods and issues regarding zoning were among the con­cerns discussed by the Community/Campus Advisory Coalition (CCAC) Wednesday afternoon at the Downtown Office of the University of Notre Dame. 
The group is made up of rep­resentatives from Notre Dame, Holy Cross and Saint Mary's College as well as representa­tives from South Bend city offices and agencies. 
The Coalition discussed a number of proposals for increasing safety in the neigh­borhoods immediately sur­rounding campus, including instituting a neighborhood watch program, increased police presence and a new Transpo shuttle that will operate during the weekend late night hours. 
"The shuttle will run from approximately 9 p.m. to 3:30 
a.m. Friday and Saturday nights, and anyone can ride it, but it is free for Notre Dame stu­dents," student body president Grant Schmidt said. 
There will also be additional officers in the Northeast neigh­borhoods and Eddy Street Commons, on foot and by patrol car, Schmidt said. 
Schmidt also spoke on the ere­ation of the Off-Campus Student Incident Report, which would serve as a way "for students to report safety concerns and events" and "for student govern­ment to start collecting data." 
Dan Cochran, dean of students at Holy Cross, expressed his concern that the lines of com­munication to report crimes against students are not always clear. 
"When the Holy Cross students were carjacked, the South Bend police called Notre Dame, not Holy Cross," Cochran said. 
In addition to safety concerns, the coalition discussed the prob­lems with traffic congestion on home football game days. Individuals often park too close to the corner of intersections, making drivers unable to see whether or not a car is coming from the opposite direction. 
There were also concerns regarding zoning procedures and housing codes. Often land­lords and families rent single­family homes to multiple Notre Dame students without the stu­dents knowing. 
"It's a bold violation now," said Cathy Toppel, director of code enforcement for the city of South Bend. The CCAC will meet again on 
Dec.  2,  at  3:30  pm  at  the  
Downtown  Office  of  Notre  
Dame.  

Contact Megan Hemler at mhemlerl@nd.edu 

SMC students vvork vvith hotneless 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 

In Professor Terri Russ' communications course at Saint Mary's College, stu­dents have the chance to experience the classroom from a different angle. Russ and her students volunteer at the South Bend Center for the Homeless each Thursday, teaching commu­nications skills to its guests. 
The class meets twice a week, once at the College and once at the Center, and according to Russ, the guests are eager to develop skills while they transition back to society. 
"Every time we go to the center, they're really excit­ed to see us and they're really eager to learn and do whatever activity we have planned for the day," junior Caroline Baumgartner said. "And they're always talking about it." 
The students teach speak­ing and speech writing skills to a variety of guests, ranging from single moms to teenagers. 
"Basically what we're doing is we're going there and teaching a class to four different groups -single moms, general communica­tion, STAR [skilled, trained, able, and ready] programs and teens," senior Cassie McDonagh said. "We're teaching public speaking skills to the members of our 
group." Mary McDougall said. 
"We each cater kind of Since this is the first year differently to the type stu­for the course, students dents we have," she contin-have faced some difficulties 
ued. "So we're just going there every week and meeting with them and going over general public speak­ing skills, teaching them how to write speech­es, different stuff like that." 
The course is designed to help students combine edu­cation with social justice by giving the class the opportunity to connect with the South Bend community. 
Members of the class said it helped to 

"I think that this is probably one ofthe cooler classes that rve ever taken just because I feel so immersed in it and it's not like one of those things where you memorize it and then forget all about it. I find myself actually remembering the things I am teaching to them. I think it's something that is really different than any other class that rm taking." 
Mary McDougall senior 
while working with the cen­ter. However, the experience so far has been benefi­cial for both Saint Mary's students and the members of the classes they teach. 
"I think that this is proba­bly one of the cooler classes that I've ever taken just because I just feel so immersed in it and it's not like one of those things where you memorize it the night before and then forget all about it," McDougall said. "I find 

polish their public speak­ing, as well a their ability to pass on their knowledge to others. 
"While it helps us to give back to the community, it also helps our public speak­ing skills so we are all at once practicing our public speaking skills and teach­ing those skills to people who need to learn," senior 
myself actually remember­ing the things that I am teaching to them. I think it's something that is really different than any other class that I'm taking. I just think that I've learned a lot more here than I have in a lot of other classes." 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



IT'S COMING. 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 29, 2009 
better regulatory decisions, according to Schultz.

Center 
"Hopefully we can promote 

continued from pagel 
now. The SEC is very active in rewriting rules for trading in various markets and there's new restrictions in place on short selling," Schultz said. "We're trying to promote academic research into some of these regulatory issues. Financial markets have changed a lot in recent years so that indicates there will be a lot of changes in regulations in the next few 
good research in the area of regulations," Schultz said. "And hopefully we can lead regulators to make good decisions in regulations." 
Schultz also said the Center would be useful in educating Notre Dame business stu­dents about the regulatory issues facing today's econo­my. 
"What we hope to do is to have some speakers who will be on campus and will be talking about some of these issues that will be of interest to 


years." "Hopefully we can students," Schultz said promote good Schultz said. as technology The Center
research in the area
changes, new also plans to 
regulations are ofregulation.'' host another needed, and conference in that these the spring,
Paul Schultz 
rules are writ­most likely

director, Center for the 
ten primarily toward the end

Study of Financial 
by lawyers. of May. "We [at the Regulation One of the 
Center] think that professors and economists should have more input into this," Schultz said. 
The Center was founded last spring and hosted a con­ference in April that brought together academics and members of the business world, such as officials from the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and United States Federal Reserve. 
The new Center will prove useful in helping regulators be more informed about the possible long-term conse­quences of their regulations, which will hopefully lead to 
main purposes 
of the Center is to bridge the gap between business in the real world and business in academia. Schultz said the two areas are becoming increasingly disconnected. 
"Sometimes in universities we get kind of cut off on what's going on in the real world," Schultz said. "[By creating the Center for the Study of Financial Regulation], we hope to stay in closer contact with what's going on." 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 


Jerusalem Summer Program 2010 
at Tantur Ecumenical Institute for Theological Studies 

INFO 
TION SESSION 
Thursday, October 29,2009 117 Hayes-Healy, 6:00p.m. 

Deadline to apply for the Jerusalem Summer Program is November 15, 2009. First Year students, Sophomores, and Juniors may apply; all majors welcome. Contact Liz.LaFortune.3@nd.edu, 152 Hurley, 631-7251, www.nd.edu/"""'ois 
r---------------------------------------------­




ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, October 29, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Supposed centenarian marries teen 
MOGADISHU, Somalia-A Somali man who claims to be a centenarian has married a 17-year old girl. Ahmed Mohamed Dhore celebrated his marriage to Safiya Abdulle late Tuesday in central Somalia before hun­dreds of guests. Somali adolescent girls are often married off to older men. But it is rare for a man as old as Dhore to marry a girl of Abdulle's age. 
Dhore says he wanted to marry Abdulle for a long time but waited for her to grow up. He says his children and two other wives agreed to the marriage, as did Abdulle's par­ents. 
Dhore claims to be more than 100, but there is no way to verify the claim. This mar­riage was his 6th; three of Dhore's wives have died. 
UN wants Iran to accept uranium plan 
UNITED NATIONS -Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon encouraged Iran on Wednesday to accept a U.N.-drafted plan to ship much of its uranium abroad for enrich­ment, saying it would be "an important con­fidence-building measure." 
Iranian lawmaker Mohammad Karamirad said the government will formally respond on Thursday to the proposal to send enriched uranium out of the country for pro­cessing, according to the semiofficial ISNA news agency. Another Iranian lawmaker, Alaeddin Boroujerdi, said the country's top security body would make a final decision on the proposal later Wednesday. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Man pleads guilty to rap crew attack 
CINCINNATI -The driver of a vehicle involved in an Ohio gun battle that killed a member of the rapper T.l. 's entourage dur­ing a wild highway chase has pleaded guilty to manslaughter and other charges. 
Forty-one-year-old Padron Thomas was initially charged with murder. But he struck a deal with prosecutors that allowed him to plead to lesser charges in exchange for testi­fying in December against his brother, who pulled the trigger. 
A judge on Wednesday scheduled a sen­tencing hearing for Nov. 17. Thomas faces 10 years in prison. He's already serving 17 years on unrelated federal drug charges. 
Thomas's younger brother, Hosea Thomas, was sentenced to 66 years in prison for shooting Philant Johnson in May 2006 after a T.I. concert in Cincinnati. 
Man uses weight as alibi 
HACKENSACK, N.J. -A man accused of running up and down a flight of stairs to kill a former son-in-law is offering a novel defense: At 5 feet 8 and 285 pounds, he was just too fat to have pulled it off. 
An attorney for Edward Ates is making the case that his client wouldn't have had the energy needed to fatally shoot Paul Duncsak, a 40-year-old pharmaceutical executive, from a perch on the staircase. 
Lawyer Walter Lesnevich claims that Ates, 62 at the time of the 2006 killing, was in such bad physical shape that he couldn't have pulled off the shooting or the fast get­away the killer made. 
"You look at Ed and you don't need to hear it from a doctor," Lesnevich said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Proposals receive negative responses 
ROCHESTER, Ind. -The first of three public hearings on a contentious proposal to revamp Indiana's teacher licensing requirements drew criticism from dozens of educators. 
Some at the meeting in Rochester on Tuesday said they wor ried that the propos­al would water down teacher standards, while others urged state officials to take more time considering the changes. 
State schools Superintendent Tony Bennett says teachers spend too much time learning teaching methods and not enough on subject matter. 
CUBA 

Country ready to talk with U.S. 
Foreign Minister reports that Cuba is awaiting U.S. response on embargo discussions 
Associated Press 

UNITED NATIONS Cuba is willing to hold talks with the United States "on any level," Cuban Foreign Minister Bruno Rodriguez said Wednesday in concil­iatory remarks aimed at the Obama administra­tion. 
Rodriguez said in an interview with The Associated Press the island nation was waiting for a response from Washington to Cuba's offer to broaden discussions. 
His comments came despite a testy exchange between the top Cuban diplomat and a senior U.S. official just before the U.N. General Assembly voted overwhelmingly to con­demn America's 4 7 -year trade embargo. 
This year's U.N. vote was 187-3 in opposition to the embargo, up from 185-3 last year, with only Israel and the tiny Pacific island nation of Palau supporting the United States. Micronesia and the Marshall Islands abstained both years. 
It was the 18th year in a row that the General Assembly has taken up the symbolic measure, and the first since President Barack Obama took office in "We are waiting for the gance," Rodriguez said. He Department spokesman January, promising to North American response," likened the policy to "an act Ian Kelly said the General extend a hand of friendship Rodriguez said. He also of genocide" that is "ethi­Assembly vote on the to Washington's traditional said Cuba has been pleased cally unacceptable." embargo ignored U.S. enemies. by progress of ongoing U.S. Ambassador Susan efforts to help Cubans. 
That change in approach talks on migration and re­Rice reacted strongly, call­"This yearly exercise at has been noticed by establishing direct mail ing the Cuban diplomat's the U.N. obscures the facts Havana, Rodriguez said. service. He called those dis­statements "hostile" and that the United States is a 
"We are prepared to have cussions "productive and "straight out of the Cold leading source of food and a dialogue with the govern­respectful." War era." humanitarian relief to ment of the United States at Rodriguez's tone in the "Here we go again," she Cuba," Kelly said. "In 2008, any level," the foreign min­interview was markedly dif­said of Rodriguez's speech. the United States exported ister told AP after the vote, ferent from that in his "I suppose old habits die $717 million in agricultural adding that such talks must speech before the General hard." products, medical devices, be held on the basis of Assembly, in which he Still, Rice said the medicine, wood and mutual respect and sover­claimed the embargo -Obama administration humanitarian items to eignty. which the Cubans refer to was committed to writ­Cuba." 
He reiterated that Cuba as a blockade -had cost ing "a new chapter to this Meanwhile, Venezuelan formally offered in July to the island's fragile economy old story" by engaging with President Hugo Chavez, hold expanded talks with tens of billions of dollars the Cuban government, and a close ally of Cuba, react­the United States to cooper­over the years and prevent­she used the bulk of her ed to the U.N. vote by say­ate in combatting terrorism ed Cuban children from speech to highlight the ing Obama has an opportu­and drug trafficking, and to getting needed medical steps Washington had nity to earn the Nobel work together to fight natu­care. already taken to improve Peace Prize he was recent­ral disasters, among other "The blockade is an ties. ly selected to receive by things. uncultured act of arro-In Washington, State lifting the embargo. 

Bay Bridge failure stirs fear and anger 
"I thought I was going into the Bay," onto the deck below, causing another
Associated Press said Andrea Nelson, a marketing con­section to give way. It took state offi­SAN FRANCISCO -When 5,000 sultant and personal coach who saw cials until 1997 to decide it would be pounds of metal broke off the San the crossbar and two rods fall and cheaper over the long run to build a Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge and bounce on the road ahead of her as new span than retrofit the existing one. rained down on traffic during rush she headed into San Francisco for The cost initially put forth for hour, the accident resurrected fears dinner. She swerved and her car spun replacing the bridge was $1.3 billion about the safety of a span that mil­out as she ran over the rods, which with a 2004 completion; that has lions watching the 1989 World Series gashed her tires. grown to $7.2 billion with a 2013 broadcast learned had failed during "I have lost so much confidence in opening. Meantime, the existing east­an earthquake. the experts, the millions of dollars ern span was outfitted with giant The terrifying scene on Tuesday left that are being spent to reconstruct shock absorbers and other fortifica­only one motorist with minor injuries, and build a new bridge," she said. "I tions meant to help it withstand a but stirred anger over the constant just fmd it shocking and unacceptable." quake. delays and soaring costs of the still­The catalyst for a replacement span Officials provided no precise esti­unfinished new eastern span of the Bay was the 1989 Lorna Prieta earth­mate of when traffic would reopen on Bridge, which has become the largest quake, which caused a 50-foot section one of the region's major transporta­public works project in California history. of the bridge's upper deck to collapse tion arteries. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 29, 2009 
Mendoza 
continued from page 24 

ethics and offers several electives on the subject. 
Last year, Woo said, the College started offering a course called "Giving Voice to Values," which gives students the awareness to solve dilemmas revolving around the question, "When you say something is wrong, how do you bring your values into the work­place?'' The College also offers a course on "Business on the Front Lines"-described by Woo as an examination of "how to start business for the social good in a war torn country." 
Additionally, the Executive Integral Leadership program will continue to be offered to Executive MBA students and real world executives. 
The one-week program, according to Woo, promotes "self-reflection and self-under­standing" by helping participants to recognize the disconnect between their values and deeds with the goal of "integrating inte­rior thinking and external actions." 
Woo laid out four specific caus­es of unethical business behavior, citing the ease with which people can rationalize their actions and highlighting the incentives to record higher profits. 
People "go with the flow" or diminish their sense of responsi­bility for unscrupulous deeds by seeing themselves as part of a larger mechanism beyond their control, view ethical violations as means to a nobler ends, engage in unethical practices because of lax penalties and are pushed to sacrifice their principles with the prospect of enormous gain, Woo said. 
Burke discussed the larger causes of ethical breakdowns in business and their significance for a long-term view of the econ­omy. 
"On a systemic level, it's fueled by the need for ongoing econom­ic growth," he said. "It fuels the question, 'What levels of eco­nomic growth are sustainable environmentally and sustainable in terms of the social good?"' 
"At times, we need to look at what more natural rates of growth might be and how we regulate our appetite to concur with these natural rates of growth," Burke contf'nued. "If you look at high growth rates, it requires more and more con­sumption and what we've see with more and more consump­tion is that it has led to greater and greater debt and has required more and more extrac­tion of resources from the plan­et." 
Looking at the short term, Murphy said the business com­munity should "restore the trust of people at large about the fmancial problems and the prob­lems we were going through a year ago." 
To create a more ethical busi­ness environment, Murphy and Woo argued for change among business leaders. 
"I think that changes must come from the inside," Woo said. "Not only can it come but it must come from the inside, because external regulation can never be sufficient." 
Murphy also saw a need for more effective regulation and for society to identify ways for the business community to serve its needs. 
"Number two, there is undoubtedly a need for the regu­latory community to take a look at how they need to tighten up on a range of standards that prevent excess," he said. "But even more important, individual citizens in society need to come together to set the parameters on what the role of business should be in the larger society." 
Contact Bob Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 

Senate 
continued from page 24 

we usc what people are say­ing about us to improve our intellectual atmosphere here at Notre Dame?" 
Community relations chair Denise Baron said it is socially unacceptable to talk about intellectual topics in social situations at Notre Dame. 
"There is this sense of keep it for the classroom. So when you do bring it up, you get shot down about it or you have to preface a lot of what you say with this is really nerdy," Baron said. 
Martha Bordogna of Ryan Hall suggested assigning a required reading book for incoming freshmen and then having a discussion about the book during rreshmen orientation. 
The book would give stu­dents a common ground got intellectual discussion, she said. 
Bordogna also said discus­sion needs to play a larger 
role in the classroom. 
"I am a political sci­ence and history major and most of those classes you would think would have a lot of discussion," she said "I am a senior and I can 

discussions in a more infor­mal setting. Jordan said over fall break she visited Yale University, which offers a class similar to tutorials, but more informal. 
"Sometimes these would be in the middle of the week at 9 p.m. and there would be four or five kids from your class and you would 
talk about learned," she said. "It might be even in an infor­mal setting with coffee." 
Gender Issues chair Patriek Tighe agreed and said he want­ed to change the social cul­ture at Notre Dame by hav­ing elasses in the dorms, to combine aca­demic and residence life. 
"Having 

what you 
"We can talk about sports, our internships, our study abroad programs and the jobs we want to pursue later in life in lunch at dinner time, but we don't talk about Plato or great American works. " 
C.J. Kelly Duncan Hall senator 
seminars with the people you live with and actually having people come and 
"Community building is facilitated by intellectual discourse and it builds a community of scholars." 
Walker Anderson Campus Technology chair 
teach in your dorms," he said. 
Campus Technology chair Walker Anderson said improving intel­lectual discus­sion would improve com­munity at Notre Dame. 
"Community
building is facil­itated by intel­lectual dis­
Anderson said. "There is this division between the academic life and residence life." 
"So maybe our focus and our goal as we try to find tangible ways to get around this is try to blur that line," he said. 
Keenan Hall senator Chase Biddle said the reason he came to Notre Dame was 
because of its balance between aca­demics and social life. 
"I can't be in those institu­tions where it is all about academics," he said. 
Maria Lynch of Breen­Phillips Hall agreed, and said balance is part of what makes Notre Dame unique. 
Lynch said students at 
Brown University and Providence College were envious of that part of Notre Dame. 
"They were so envious of all our school spirit. While they can maybe talk about Uzbekistan at dinner, they are really jealous of our community here," she said. 
Student body vice presi­dent Cynthia Weber clarified that Notre Dame is not try­ing to become like an Ivy League school, but to look at the weaknesses of our intellectual environment in order to improve them. 
"This is Notre Dame. We are not an Ivy League and we aren't trying to be an Ivy League," she said. 
Contact Sarab Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 

count on one hand the classes that I feel like I real­ly had a lot of discussion in." 
Farley Hall senator Elise Jordan suggested having 
course and it builds a com­munity of scholars," he said. 
"ICurrentlyl. the commu­nity aspect breaks down into two things from what I've been hearing," 



eat tresh 
Thursday, October 29, 2009 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 

Jones 9,762.69 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
476 55 3,359 3,316,761,529 
NASDAQ 
NYSE S&P 500 1,042.63 -20.78 NIKKEI (Tokyo) .,!i,,li~.95 ;m""'ono FTSE 100 (London) 5,080.42 -120.55 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP(C) -4.45 -0.19 4.08 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -1.69 +2.01 104.41 BK OF AMERICA CP (BAC) -2.85 -0.44 15.01 ISHARES MSCI E.M.I.F. (EEM) -4.56 -1.81 37.74 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -1.47 -0.051 3.41 13-WEEK BILL -14.29 +0.01 0.06 30-YEAR BOND -1.07 -0.046 4.24 S·YEAR NOTE -2.06 -0.049 2.33 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -2.09 77.46 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -4.901,030.50 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) ·1.25 89.00 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 90.7250 EURO 1.4724 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0791 BRITISH POUND 1.6393 
IN BRIEF Google adds song feature to search 
LOS ANGELES -A new music feature rolled out by Google Inc. Wednesday will bring its 
U.S. searchers one click away from listening to a full-length song. 
The simple design brings up to four songs to the top of search results. Once one is clicked on, the song will play on pop-up players from MySpace or Lala. The search results are also accompanied by album art and links to music sites Pandora, imeem and Rhapsody. 
Internet users can search by artist name, album or song title and can even access a song by typing in part of its lyrics. 
The clutter-free box pushes down other search results, such as the artists' home page and fan sites, and reduces what Google Inc. calls "time to result," in this case meaning how much clicking one has to do to hear a song. 
"Within that mission of trying to make music search easier is to keep it simple," said R.J. Pittman, Google's director of product manage­ment. "Exercising great restraint in the design of this is what's going to maximize its adoption." 
Taiwan to ease beef restrictions 
TOPEKA, Kan. -Kansas Gov. Mark Parkinson said Wednesday that he has been assured Taiwan will soon ease restrictions on imports of U.S. beef. 
Parkinson met in Taiwan last week with President Ma Ying-jeou during a trade mission to the island nation. Parkinson said Ma indi­cated Taiwan would soon begin accepting shipments of U.S. beef, although no timetable was given. 
The governor, speaking to reporters about his recent trade mission, said there had been considerable effort at all levels of government to reopen beef markets in Taiwan, as well as other nations in Southeast Asia. 
"President Ma indicated that the input we provided was helpful, that he's headed toward a policy that will lift the ban," the governor said. "That would be a terrific benefit to the livestock industry, not just in Kansas, but across the United States." 
Taiwan was the 16th largest market for Kansas products in 2008. Taiwan ranks as the seventh largest export market for U.S. agricul­tural products. 



THE OBSERVER 






USINESS 
page 7 

Costco to accept food stamps 
More and more warehouse clubs allow customers to use the vouchers 
Associated Press 

PORTLAND, Ore. -With many families suddenly struggling to feed them­selves, the big warehouse clubs known for king-size packages of steak and jumbo boxes of Cheerios are increasingly competing with grocery stores for the 36 million Americans now on food stamps. 
Costco Wholesale Corp. said Wednesday that it would start accepting food stamps at its warehouse clubs nationwide after test­ing them at stores in New York. That is a big about­face for a chain that has catered to the bargain­hunting affluent with its gourmet foods, and a reflection of the fact food­stamp use has hit new highs. 
Costco joins warehouse­club competitor BJ's Wholesale Corp., which started taking food stamps last April, and Sam's Club, which began accepting them in the fall of 2008. 
Up until recently, some wholesale clubs were skep­tical poor people would be willing to pay the $50-a­year membership fee or would be interested in buy­ing food in the bulk quanti­ties for which the stores Department of Agriculture more popular than expect­accept food stamps in are famous. said nearly 200,000 retail­ed. Richard Galanti said about half its 407 stores in 
But now, in this economy, ers nationwide now accept the company's assumptions the U.S. by Thanksgiving. stores are battling for food stamps, 20 percent were "probably a bit arro­The rest will be phased in every dollar and see a big more than in 2005. gant." as Costco gets the neces­potential market in the Most major food chains Moreover, some of the sary state approvals. growing ranks of food­-like Wal-Mart Stores warehouse club chains say As for Kroger Co. and stamp recipients. From Inc. and Safeway Inc. -that poor people -partic­other grocers that have warehouse clubs to super­have accepted food stamps ularly those with large long accepted food markets and mom-and-pop and other public assistance families to feed -can save stamps, they are adding groceries, stores are as payment for many money by buying food in new signs to welcome retraining their cashiers years. bulk. those on food stamps, as and hanging new signs to Costco had refused to do The warehouse clubs are well as increasing welcome such customers. so, arguing that there not waiving their member­staffing and stocking up 
"Certainly this economy would not be enough shop­ship fees for food stamp on key products at the was a wake-up call," pers to make it worth the recipients, and member­times of the month when Costco chief financial offi­trouble of updating its ships cannot be bought benefits are issued. cer Richard Galanti recent­electronic payment sys­with food stamps. "This is a big deal. It's a ly told investors. "It is not tems and that food stamps But Costco executives meaningful segment of our just very low-end economic would slow down the said they were surprised to shoppers, and it's increas­strata that are using checkout lines. find that some shoppers ing rapidly," said David these." In May, however, Costco are, in fact, paying the $50 Dillon, Kroger CEO, who 
The rolls of food-stamp began accepting food fee precisely because the recently visited a store to recipients have grown by stamps in New York under company takes food talk with shoppers using 10 million over the past political pressure, and the stamps. food stamps about their two years. The U.S. practice turned out to be The company hopes to concerns. 


Obama hails hate crime legislation 
Associated Press afraid to walk down the street hold­Wednesday. 
ing the hands of the person they Conservatives have opposed the 
WASHINGTON -President Barack love." Obama said in East Room legislation, arguing that it creates a Obama on Wednesday signed and reception, surrounded by joyous sup­special class of victims and could celebrated hate crime legislation that porters. "No one in America should serve to silence clergymen or others extends protection to people based be forced to look over their shoulder opposed to homosexuality on reli­on sexual orientation, sealing a long­because of who they are, or because gious or philosophical grounds. fought victory to gay advocates. The they live with a disability." The bill is named for Matthew president spoke of a nation becoming Civil rights groups and their Shepard and James Byrd, whose a place where "we're all free to live Democratic backers on Capitol Hill family members stood with Obama. and love as we see fit." have tried for a decade to expand the Shepard, a gay college student, was 
The new law expands federal hate hate crimes law, but fell short murdered and found tied to a fence crimes to include those committed because of a lack of coordination in Wyoming in 1998. The same year, against people because of gender, between the House and Senate, or Byrd, a black man, was chained to a sexual orientation, gender identity or opposition from President George W. pickup by three white men and disability. It also loosens limits on Bush. This time, the bill got through dragged to his death in Texas. when federal law enforcement can when Democrats attached it to a "We must stand against crimes that intervene and prosecute crimes, must-pass $680 billion defense meas­are meant not only to break bones, amounting to the biggest expansion ure over the protests of Republicans. but to break spirits; not only to inflict of the civil-rights era law in decades. Obama signed the combined bill in a harm, but to instill fear," Obama 
"No one in America should ever be separate ceremony earlier on said. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 29, 2009 
The office announces informa­tions in every way possible. A'i we "Notre Dame has lots of study dents who go abroad at Notre tion sessions for each abroad loca­approach November, I'm already abroad students because it's so Dame made her feel comfortable
Abroad 
continued from page 24 
international education since the 1960s and continuously works to improve the program by review­ing each location and adding pro­grams to fill needs of departments. 
"We've increased our number of programs and the kinds of oppor­tunities people have," Opel said. 
The University has 32 semester and year-long study abroad loca­tions in 29 different countries, the Office of International Studies Web site said. 
"We have a variety of programs that fit different students' needs, but we don't have so many that we don't have a good knowledge of every program," she said. 
Though Opel said about 948 stu­dents study abroad during each academic year, the Office of International Studies does little recruiting. 

Lake 
continued from page 24 
ty is another central reason for repairing the path, which closely borders the lake, because further erosion could potentially be hazardous to pedestrians. 
The project, overseen by ND Utilities for Landscape Services, involves replacing the remaining field stone with glacier field stone on the exposed shoreline. The new stone, with an average diame­ter of 12 to 18 inches, will be placed on geotextile fabric to prevent silt from getting into the field stone and to mini­mize erosion. 
Improvements on the path also include the installation of a timber border between the path and the field tones for aesthetic purposes, 
tion and has one general informa­tion session during freshmen ori­entation, Opel said. 
"The students who come back from study abroad are really our best recruiters because they tell everyone in the dorm about their experiences," she said. 
Junior Gabriela Moriel, who is currently studying in Puebla, Mexico, said the ringing endorse­ment of studying abroad by returning students was a factor in her decision to go abroad. 
"I did not hear from a single person who did not absolutely love their study abroad experience," she said. "And I think that is a remarkable thing to say, especially when we already go to the best university in the country." 
Moriel said her abroad experi­ence has been just as positive as she had expected. 
"My experiences in Mexico have completely surpassed my expecta-
Younggreen said. Also, a six­inch layer of aggregate base will be placed underneath the path to ensure and extend the life of the path. 
In addition, a storm inlet structure will be installed along St. Joseph Drive to cre­ate a conduit for collecting rainwater. This structure will allow rainfall to run into the lake through the conduit instead of across the soil, which would cause increased erosion of the lakeshore. 
"We fND Utilities I are using best management practices throughout the project in doing anything we can do to improve storm water quality and be good stewards of the environment," Younggreen said. 
Although ND Utilities is overseeing the project, the paths around both Saint Mary's and St. Joseph's Lakes are maintained yearly by starting to get sad because I am not ready for this experience to end," she said. 
Wurst said the accessibility of the study abroad programs make it easy for students to apply, and is probably a contributing factor to the high rate of international study at Notre Dame. 
"They encourage you to go, and they are really organized and they make you feel safe about going abroad and comfortable," Wurst said. "They make it really appeal­ing." 
"I feel like at other schools, especially at big universities, it's like well you can study abroad if you want, here's how you apply. And you are kind of on your own from there," she said. "They don't have as much direction as we do here at Notre Dame." 
Junior Elizabeth Benson, who is studying abroad in London, agreed. 
Notre Dame Landscape Services. The primary focus of the annual maintenance is to ensure the limestone paths are even and safe for use by members of the Notre Dame community. 
The project will be complet­ed within the next two weeks, culminating with the reopen­ing of the area at noon on Nov. 6. 
Younggreen said the project would not affect general use of the path because the area under construction is roped off for pedestrian safety. 
The Saint Mary's Lake paths and banks were last renovated in the summer of 1995 in order to improve the design of the lake area. The field stone currently being replaced was installed during the previous project. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at 
kdurbin@nd.edu 

easy to do. Being abroad is so much fun and everything I'm doing counts f(Jr college require­ments and for my major," Benson said. 
Junior Emma Nalezny, who is also studying abroad in London, attributed Notre Dame's large study abroad percentage to the type of students who attend Notre Dame. 
"I think Notre Dame's study abroad rate is so high because the students are willing to take on an adventure and discover new things," Nale7J1Y said. 
Senior Alex Hiordan, who stud­ied abroad in Toledo, Spain, agreed. 
"Notre Dame students tend to value cultural awareness while they also desire the excitement that comes with being surrounded by completely new people, places, and things," she said. 
Wurst said the number of stu­enough to apply. 
"I know that I'll be surrounded by other Notre Dame students and I'll be in an environment where I'll feel comfortable," she said. "I real­ly don't think I'd go for a year if I was on my own." 
Opel encouraged anyone who is interested to apply for a study abroad program. 
"When you come back and have on your resume that you've done a study abroad, not just for the sake of study abroad, that you really learned something, I think that's what makes it a really marketable experience," she said. 
"We want to put you abroad, so help us do that for you by giving us a good application," Opel said. 
The application deadline is Nov. 15, according to the Office of International Studies Web site. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 



*.t.Eikbart 1&9 WCoun~y Rd. ii, (In front o!WJJ-M,lr!l, (574i 2fl1-H10 4Sr~rvido [n bpai\ol 
*.t.Goshen 4568 flkhitrt Ro;1d, \Otf Hwv 33, tWilr MeijNl, 1574) 875-~Ul 7 *Oppn Sunday 
*Mishawaka 41i0 Ct~pe Rd., t574) 251-2:\23 @Racr10Shack.~mubile hh§regg 
*Mishawaka/South Bend UniwrSity Park Mall, iltKdted in the Food Courll 
t574l243-8069 

"tiJHQ@ftD.RUr:VlH\5 f(»' l"fnrma.ti:tm oo (~h.E<t AT&T 
Berrien Springs I0'1 W. ferry St, t26'l} 47.3-132!1 
prorloct«o11l-UOO-IiiJ-'fU() 

'AT&T imposes: aRegulatory Cost Recovery Charge ot up to $1.25 !ll help defcay tests illturred in complyin\1 with obligations and charges imrtosed by State and Federal teh!tom cegulation&; State and i'Qderal Universal Servke charges; and surcharges fnr government assessments on AT&T. These fees are not taxes or government-required charges. 
3G no! availaht~ in all an~as. CiWerage is not avai!all~ in a!! ille<t>. See coverage map at >totes lor detJil>.limited-time offer. Other mn4ilions &restrKtions apply S~ contract &Jilte plan brochure ror detail~ Submiber muM live &have amaiHnq addt wi!nin AT&f5 owned wi!eless networ'~ wv0oge afN_ Up to S36 activ. l~e Jppties. Equipment p1ice &avail. may vary by mrk &may not be available hom independenl retailer~. Early Termlnallon Fee: None 11 'anct?lled in the btst 30 d,1y>, bul up to S35 tt>S!O(Xin gfee may apply to eqwpment retums: therMfter up to SH5 Some ,Jgents imposP add'\ 1ft'S AT&T Pmmotiun Card: USBConnect MNcury priw lw.fore AT&I Pwmotion Carll, DataConnec p,lan &wit112 ·year con!Jarti; SU9.99. Mmimum $60 !)<~laCooo~ct plan r~quirl!!l AUow 60 roys lo1 fuUiHmenl. C3rd may be u5ed only in thi' liS_ &is ~a!id !or 120 da1·> after iS>uar.te dati: but is not wdeemab!e !or tash &mnnnt IW usee tor tash wi1MrawaIat MM> mautom~ttd qawtioe pumps. Card Jequ{!st mus! be ;w>tma:ted by 12/00/®&you mu>t hi! acustomer tor 30 mnsecutive daf; to receive wd. Sales tax calmlatell ba>8l on price of utldttivatE-1 equipment DataCMnHt p1~n is not unlimiled &&ubsta~ti<ll rha1ge> nlil\' *inwrrEd i! mdua~d dllow~nre f> exceeded. '1:'2001 AT&T lnte!laltla\ Pmpeny SNv<ce pwvidN:I by AT&l Mnbility. All right~ wserv~d Ai&llhe AT&T logo, and aU other marks conMined hf'Will ar€ lradfmar?<s of 4l&l tr.lrll~clt~al Property ar,-d;'Ol AT&li!flili<lted wmp~nif.~.i\11 other marks ~ontamro h~rein ar~ the propr:rty of their respertiv~ owo(>r;, 
M}QAL\lL!\.1\U.A:t.~tUCI.•. Reh@t~ not ~W*II.itM!> 

Thursday, October 29, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, October 29, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
Filler column 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CIDEF Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
. NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: jaclyn Espinoza CoNTROLLER: Patrick Sala SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmerz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO I @saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objeaively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Ediror in Chief, Managing Ediror, Assistant Managing Edirors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters m the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor-in-Chiefjmrl Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publish«~ Monday rhrough Friday exo:pr during ex.am and ttca(ion pe.riCKis. A subscription ro The Observer is $l20-for one academic )'Qr; $65 fur ont semmer. 
Tht Qbwt.tu ~ publishai at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address conccrions ro; Notre Dame. IN -46556.0779 The Observer Periodkal postage paid .ilt Notr~ Dame P.:O. Box 779 
dnd additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining H.JI 
Nm.rt Dame, IN 4655(..,.on9 
The Ob~rvcr is a member of the ~dated Press. All reproduction righu are 
lc:scTVcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Robert Singer Michael Bryan Irena Zajickova Michael Blasco 
Megan Looney Allan Joseph Graphics Scene Blair Chemidlin Alexandra Viewpoint Kilpatrick Stephanie Vossler 
Upon first being told, that I had attained the position of Viewpoint writer in this fair newspaper, my soul positively blazed with delight; and I set to making the ink flow from my pen, in the service of making light of things, which hereabouts 
Brooks Smith 
are taken more seri­ously than they 
Mighty
deserve. And 

Morphin Power
indeed, for one or two columns, the 

Columnist 
freshness and invention which naturally arose from being a new writer with a somewhat dif­ferent perspective won me some modest acclaim from close friends and immediate relations. 
But being unable to sustain this mood, nor plentifully enough supplied with the wit or brains to invent new topics for dis­cussion, I hit upon the determination to immediately let down my readers, by com­posing a column entirely of such desultory filler, as is usually to be found written herein when news is slow and topics of conversation are few. So I racked my brains for such well-worn topies as life at Notre Dame could supply me with, and before long had come up with a list which, if not comprehensive, at least hit upon most of the major cliches which are often remarked upon by lackwits such as myself. 
It wa.•;; my intention to avoid any origi­nality in thought or word, so as to avoid putting off more traditionally minded readers, which at Notre Dame are in no short supply. Indeed, this entire column is written in the style of Jonathan Swift, complete with archaic grammar. If by some mischance I should have happened to use a novel turn of phrase, or put a new twist on an old joke, I heartily apologize 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"If all economists were laid end to end, they would not reach a conclusion. " 
Geor~e Bernard Shaw lr1sh dramatist 
for the unintentional breach of good con­duet. 
First, I assayed to note, that Notre Dame has entirely too many sprinklers, which cover not only grass, but also douse side­walks and innocent passersby with their freely flowing water; and ventured to express the opinion, that perhaps we might be better served, by a higher degree of control over their volume, direction, and timing. 
That topic running dry, I quiekly hit upon another, which was that the squir­rels, who currently run amok over the grass, and are positively shameless about begging li>od, have lost much of their nat­ural filar of mankind, and pose a great danger to the student body, should they ever develop a taste lor human flesh. Certainly this latter topic has been milked dry at len!-,rth, by other would-bn comedi­ans, ami I eonsidered making it the entire­ty of my column; but in my desire to cover as mueh ground as possible, I regn~ttably had to omit it. 
My nnxt subject, wa.<> the age old ques­tion, of which dining hall was superior to the othnr; and indeed much ink has been spillnd, defending the honour of North Dining !fall, li>r its free and easy seating arrangement.<>, or upholding that or South Dining I fall, for its vaunted resemblance to the dining rooms in llo!-,rwarts Sehool of Witchcraft and Wizardry. 
From the topic of dining halls I proceed­ed naturally to considering, whether the women of this fair university consume too much of the Fro-Yo provided therein, and thereby swell their girth beyond that which average males might consider attractive, and push our male population into the open arms of the Saint Mary's population (on which more later). 
Naturally, not wishing to appear partial 

Submit a Letter 
to the Editor at www.ndsmcobsetver.et>m 
to one sex or the other, I next chose to muse on the exceeding awkwardness of many among our male population. and their lack of social skill, especially as per­taining to interactions with females, in which discomfort in the male may be observed to increase directly in proportion to the attractiveness of the girl being spo­ken to. 
It was my intention to dwell for some length of time on the purported lack of intelligence and loose nature of Saint Mary's chicks, but I decided it was best to avoid sparking a tiresome Viewpoint war, as I have seen in these pages many times bel(>re over just this subject. 
I meant to muse on the nonexistent dat­ing culture here at Notre Dame, which essentially segregates its students into those looking for random hookups and those seeking their ring by spring, but a brief reflection on which camp I had been 'sorted in' convinced me to hastily aban­don the subject. 
In summation, it is my hope that, by the expedient of relying on tin~d and shop­worn jokes, I have managed to raise a horse-laugh or two, from the great mass­es, who will slap their knees indiscrimi­nately at any minimally observant quip, which references our fair school; and that I have managed to eonvinee the consider­ably smaller readership, who long for intelligent humor at Notre Dame, that I can ofler them no solace. I welcome the diminished readership and expectations that will accompany my next column. 
Brooks Smith is a junior math and eng­lish major at Notre Dame. He can be con­tacted at bsmith26@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Never bear more than one trouble at a time. Some p_eople bear three kinds -all they have had, all they have now, and all they expect to have." 
Edward Everett Hale 
U.S. author 


Tt-IE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Thursday, October 29, 2009 page 11 
What are you going to be for Hallow-een? 
If you're still asking, "How was your break?" it's time to switch gears; it's Oct. 29 and there's only two days to go. 
In our house, Halloween isn't too big a deal. The extent of our decorating 
Kate Barrett
includes two big pumpkins from the farmers' mar­
Faith Point 
ket plopped on our front steps, which some enterprising squirrels have already discovered as the perfect fall snack food. Our daughter plans to be a hippie, though she had to Google "60's fashion" to answer the question, "Mom, what does a hippie look like?" Our oldest son originally wanted to dress as his favorite food, bacon, or "the candy of meats," as he prefers to call it. Then he learned that a) now that he's in high school you don't get to wear your costume to school and have a party in your homeroom -in fact, you don't even really have homeroom; and b) because of a sporting event he will miss out on trick-or-treating and on two friends' Halloween parties. 
I have a dear friend whose opinions I respect, whose five children have never trick-or-treated or dressed up in Halloween costumes. She feels quite strongly that the holiday celebrates evil with too cavalier an attitude. Now, don't roll your eyes as you're reading -I know it's not a mainstream way of thinking, but she believes so strongly both in the existence of God and in the existence of evil that it pains her to give a day, or anymore now practically the whole month of October, over to glorifying so much of what pulls us away from God. 
C. S. Lewis, his wonderful book "The Screwtape Letters," reminds us quite humorously -but also forcefully ­that evil enters our lives on a petty, even unnoticeable level, much more often and insidiously than on a grand scale. The "patient" referred to in the book simply tries to live his life as a Christian, while Screwtape (who's sort of a middle management type in Lewis' bureaucratic depiction of the under­world) and his nephew and lackey Wormwood plot and scheme about how to use the most ordinary events of the young man's life to draw him apart from The Enemy (God). Screwtape coolly prods Wormwood to "keep the waters muddied," to make it difficult enough for the man to live with faith and integrity that he might just give up trying. The young Christian "patient" could be doomed simply by not looking carefully enough for the truth of a situ­ation; by growing more and more com­fortable delivering humorous insults to garner a laugh; by taking the efforts of a loved one for granted, or by allowing one's prayers to become lax and insin­cere. As Screwtape reminds Wormwood, nothing drastic is neces­sary because "the safest path to hell is the gradual one." 
So is it a ridiculous stretch of the imagination to believe that Halloween somehow qualifies as a holiday in which fictional forces of evil such as Screwtape and Wormwood -or the real forces of evil in which we Christians believe -might take great delight? I don't think so. Big-time Evil gets our attention, but sneaky little evil weasels its way in when we're not looking. Maybe we ought to think twice before wanting to "be" Freddy, or Jason, or Leatherface, or a "sexy" French maid (costumes which are now widely available in grade-school sizes). 
Halloween's origins specifically con­nected it to All Saints' Day on Nov. 1, and the message was quite clear: evil could give it a try, but goodness would triumph in the end. Now that connec­tion is largely unknown, and Halloween has become the second­most commercialized holiday behind ... (tah dah) Christmas. Ugh. Screwtape and Wormwood might find our culture filled with such easy targets they wouldn't even want to waste their time. 
So can we celebrate Halloween at 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Prudence, Pickens style 
At Monday's event featuring energy executive T. Boone Pickens, I expected a constructive discussion of his plan for energy policy, wind, and natural gas. I overestimated. What I found completely lacked argumentative structure and, worse, encouraged people to endorse a mys­terious policy out of self-interested hate. Among Mr. Pickens' main topics: (1) T. Boone Pickens has money and famous friends. (2) Anything American is inherently good (except that which doesn't bring profit, like national parks and the interests of poor people). (3) Natural gas is located within U.S. borders. Therefore, it is inherently good (and inherently accessible to Mr. Pickens' companies). It's the best way to stop buying oil from The Enemy (and start buying from Pickens). Why didn't Pickens actually explain his policy plan? 
I'm all for seriously rethinking our energy policy, but taking Mr. Pickens' policy advice is a lot like agreeing with a Notre Dame raccoon who recommends that the dumpsters should have doggie-doors installed, so the little raccoon can get to the profits-er, dinner. Unlike Mr. Pickens, though, our raccoon doesn't usually dehumanize people who happened to be born in the Middle East by referring to them as, collectively, the "enemy" and "people who hate us." The worst part of this event was the applause at Mr. Pickens' point that if energy­saving batteries are Chinese and not American, then batteries do not belong in a U.S. policy solution. I can only repeat this idea in order to beg the clappers to consider what they were applauding: Mr. Pickens' prudence in appealing to fear on behalf of his own bank account? His fortitude in grossly oversimplifying our energy and foreign trade problems in front of a bunch of smart Notre Dame people? Or his faith, hope, and love for the god we call America, no matter what? 
On second thought, the worst part was that the Office of the Provost co-sponsored this "lec­ture." So much for our pursuit of truth through inquiry enriched by Catholicism's intellectual and cultural resources. 
Kristi Haas senior off campus Ocr. 28 

Too expensive 
After picking up my student tickets for the upcoming Notre Dame Men's Basketball season, I am not only upset but disappointed. Four years ago, tickets were $60, now ... $100. While at the ticket office I asked out of curiosity, "Why the increase in price." The response, "There are more games, and it's a brand new arena." 
Let's just say that answer did not satisfy me. Our non-conference schedule is easier than a freshman at CJ's after a football game. I swear Greg Oden's AAU team had a tougher November than we do (barring UCLA). So it's true that there are more games, but how about the quality of the opponent instead of quantity. 
Second, the new Purcell Pavilion, I assume was paid for by Mr. Purcell himself. Even if it was only partial, students should not shoulder any of the burden of a new arena. That is not fair. Should tuition go up because the University decided to build Duncan and Ryan Halls? Wait, it probably did. 
Don't get me wrong, I will still attend the games and support our team, as I will have noth­ing better to do on a Tuesday night in February. Go Irish, beat all these opponents that kill our RPI come March. 
James Murphy 
seniOr 
off campus Oct. 27 

all? Probably. We don't believe as Catholic Christians that we need to iso­late ourselves from the world. Jesus certainly never did. Halloween can be a great reason to have a party, to buy a little extra of our favorite candy, to carve a pumpkin, and yes, even to dress up in a costume. But it might also be the perfect time to remember to be careful -very, very careful -of the insidious ways evil can creep into our lives and tug us gently but insis­tently away from our focus on God. 
Each time we pray the Lord's Prayer we ask God to "lead us not into temp­tation, but deliver us from evil." If evil is real enough that we need to be delivered from it, then we'd better learn to recognize that evil too wears many costumes, and wants to disguise itself so that we can't see it, no matter how hard we look. So whatever you decide to do on Saturday, be sure to remember the Halloween advice of teachers and parents everywhere: don't choose any costumes that might obstruct your vision. 
This week's Faith Point was written by Kate Barrett, director ofthe Emmaus Program. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd. edu 
The uiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Those defending the innocent 
To Eduardo Magallanez ("Pro-life vs. pro-birth," Oct. 27), I agree with your thoughts regarding the respect we desire for human life of all stages. As Catholics we should strive to defend the dignity of life as John Paul II said "from conception to natural death." I fail to see, however, if you believe abortion is abhorrent, why you would attack the pro-life efforts on campus. As you have pointed out, the degradation of the gift of life takes many forms. 
The abomination that is the murder of the innocent unborn is the most horrific of these attacks and therefore we work to end it. By focusing on this issue we do not downplay or disregard the others that you listed. Ideally we would be able to address every threat to the dignity of life, and as the Christian community as a whole we can. Yet within this community of believers there is no reason why individuals should not direct their energies toward a specific problem. 
It is illogical to criticize these individuals who are working to end a partic­ular evil, by claiming that they should also be working to end all types of evil. Your intention to point out that there are many life issues that need to be addressed is valid and laudable, but mocking Notre Dame's pro-life indi­viduals and their efforts does not move us closer to bringing about the uni­versal respect for life that you and I desire. 
Joe Mackel freshman O'Neill Hall Oct. 27 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE

page 12 Thursday, October 29, 2009 

on the situation, and on each hoopla behind the
By SHANE STEINBERG 
other, the problem becomes film, really-pays
Scene Writer 
increasingly more horrifying, off in the last 30 snc­with the camera there to onds of the film. Or Writer-director Oren Peli's document it all. maybe it doesn't. Like "Blair Witch"-inspired cult Micah is the real diamond "The Blair Witch classic in the making, of a character here because Project," Pvcrything "Paranormal Activity," is the of his believability and his is thrust onto the closest thing to actually ultimate progression through screen during the ali­being worthy of being called the film. His curiosity is real or-nothing closing a "horror film" since its near and understandable, and the scene, culminating in identical twin forever made fun-turned-concern-turned­what will either be camping in the woods terri­terror that he goes through interpreted as a fying nearly 10 years ago. It evolves in such a way that mightily satisfying takes cues from everything he acts as a microcosm for scare of all scarPs from its predecessor's viral the audience itself, and how that'll leave you dis­marketing campaign, to its someone in his shoes would turbed long after the medium, making it seem a in fact deal with the eerie film ends, or a prP­near replica of "Blair happenings in his home that dictable gag that's Witch," thus signaling a plague his girlfriend. We live ultimately uneven departure from everything his terror, not necessarily and too "by the that has plagued the recent hers, and that makes the book." It happens so "Saw"-inspired horror genre journey all the more enjoy­quickly that not even that has been horrifying, but able. a breath is sparPd for all the wrong reasons. All of the suspense, all of before its over, and in 
The film is filled with raw­the build up the end, it affect that it tries to havP. that the feeling is lost. ness and a sense of believ­-and all doesn't The film straddles the line Horror is a onlv breath ability, and thankfully lacks of the have the of believability but never away-real horror·the likes any sort of post-production s a m e quite settles deep enough of which hasn't been seen in touch-ups, over-the-top force, nor under the skin that it loses theaters for quite some scares, pop-outs that are s h 0 c k the vibe of time-but it just there for kicks and any value, nor being just a never quite semblance of unnecessary linger­film, and onp manifests itself. gore. Instead, the film i n g that despite 'The film straddles the Instead, the builds off of mental its producers line ofbelievability but film is rather suggestion manifest­exhaustive choppy in the
never quite settles deep 
ed in a keen eye efforts, is, in weirdest sort of for tension-ridden the end, fic­enough under the skin way. For you suspense that is tional. It's a that it loses the vibe of see, suspense is so masterfully shame too, built up master­
beingjust a film, and
built up through because there fully and the the use of a static are a couple one that despite its scares are sep­
video camera. of instances producers' exhaustive arated by "Paranormal in the film enough story
efforts is, in the end, 
Activity" follows when even that believabili­
fictional. " 
a young couple, the most ty isn't sacri­Micah and Katie. horror-ficed, but when Katie claims to be resistant the audience is haunted by some viPwer can't help but be really pulled in and the unknown pres­in an "okay-l'm-kind-of­opportunity to become a ence in their new f're a ked-out-right-now­truly great horror film pres­house. Her histo­let's-snn-what-happens­ents itself, the film loosens ry with such next" state. It's in these its vice grip. If only it capi­hauntings is moments that the audi­talized on the opportunity, persistent and ence is swept under a this would be a truly scary therefore cover or eeriness that film. Instead, it looms much alarming, but tugs at the nerves and larger than most of the other not to her sends shivers down the garbage that passes as "hor­immature, spine, but the tragedy ror" these days, but falls more-curious­here is that it's in the quite short of the "Blair than-anything­successive moments Witch" plateau. 

else, testos­terone-driven boyfriend, Paranormal Activity 
Micah, who gets the bright idea to film the Directed by: Oren Peli couple during 
Starring: Katie Featherston, Micah Sloat, Mark 
the wee hours 
of the night to Fredrichs, Amber Armstrong see what's real­ly going on, if 
anything. What ensues is a whole lot more than either of 


them is ready to handle, and as the couple loses their grip 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Thursday, October 29, 2009 
page 13 
Contact·GertnaMcCabe··at gmccabe@nd.edu 


By JOEY KUHN Assistant Scene Editor 
When most people think of '80s music, the sound they usually con­jure up is a kind of glossy, sexy, synth-laden pop somewhere between David Bowie and Duran Duran. Yet there were a lot of things happening in music during that decade besides electronic beats and crazy clothes. One of those things was the Meat Puppets. 
The Meat Puppets are best known for their contribution to Nirvana's final album, "MTV Unplugged in New York." Kurt Cobain, the famously suicidal lead singer of Nirvana, became a fan of the Meat Puppets after he saw them open for a Black Flag concert. In late 1993, he invited two members of the Meat Puppets, broth­ers Cris and Curt Kirkwood, to join him on "MTV Unplugged." 
On the show, they played three of the Meat Puppets' songs: "Plateau," "Lake of Fire" and "Oh, Me." These three songs were some of the strongest in the set, and "Lake of Fire" particularly became a staple of alterna­tive rock radio 
Interview with the Vampire @ DPAC, 10 p.m. 
With an all-star cast including Brad Pitt, Tom Cruise, Christian Slater and Kirsten Dunst, "Interview with the Vampire" is the perfect fix for everyone's cur­rent vampire addiction. It centers upon a man named Louis who loses his wife and child. He meets Lestat, a vampire, and makes the decision to become a vampire himself. This decision turns out to torment Louis as he learns to live with the new beast he has become. The SUB movie for this week, "Interview with the Vampire" is showing Thursday night at 10 p.m. and Friday and Saturday nights at 8 p.m. and 
10:30 p.m. 
SAO Halloweeli E~ents all evening 
SAO, in conjunction with severaL. other groups on campus, has put together a variety of Halloween activ­ities for this weekend. It all starts at 3 
p.m. on Fieldhouse Mall, featuring ••· pumpkins, corn hole, OJ music, hot chocolate, hot apple cider and donuts. At 9 p.m. be sure to partici­pate in the Halloween SCVNGR Hunt which takes place at all the spooky sites across campus. Text "ndhaunt­. edtour" to 728647 to sign-up. From 9 
) p.m. to 2 a.m. SAO will be sponsoring campus hayrides leaving from Stepan Center. Also, from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m.i SAO will be sponsoring a haunted house in Stepan Center with several different walk routes and no limit on 
. re-entering. Costumes are encour­i aged at all events. 
Halloween Hip Hop Night @ Legends, Midnight 
All dressed up and nowhere to go Saturday night? Legends is hosting Halloween Hip Hop night and in the words of their Web site it will be "like every other. hip hop night but better: this one} has costumes." And what could be better than great music and fun costumes? Come with all your friends and your most inspired outfit. The music promises to be good and if past hip hop nights 
are any indication, everyone will be there. Plus, there is nothing better than dancing with a myste­rious stranger in a gorilla cos­tume. In short, this is a great way to end an epic Halloween weekend. 

rr 

Alexander Nevsky @ DPAC 3 p.m. This 1938 film is part of a two 
series entitled "Medievalism onL Film: Those were the days" which includes four films which all depict medieval life. "Alexander Nevsky" chronicles the life of Alexander Nevsky, a .. Russian prince in the 13th cen­tury who leads a ragtag team of .• civilians against a foreign aggressor. The film is in Russian with English subtitles and is based on the true story of Nevsky's life. It is running in the 
rowning Cinema at 3 p.m. Sunday. Tickets are $6 for thei 
. public, $5 for faculty and staff, $4 for seniors and $3 for all stu­dents. 
thanks to a particularly haunting before Nirvana, the Meat Puppets mental than their first. It pinpoints vocal performance by Cobain. had created a unique sound of a delicate ratio of punk, country Tragically, Cobain died only 138 their own, blending hardcore western and acid rock, so that days after the con­somehow, all these ele­cert, but his d e a t h together in a sound that
Muslc REWIND 
ments manage to hang 
assured the is ~eird yet appe_a~g. high sales of Thmk the Ptxtes, Nirvana's final record­ing and cemented a place in rock history for the Meat Puppets. punk, country and psychedelic Johnny Cash and Jerry Garcia in 
But the Meat Puppets do not rock. Their eponymous first one band. All three of the songs deserve to be relegated to a minor album, which was heavily punk­performed on Nirvana's "MTV footnote in the influenced, contained only the Unplugged" are from this album. 
of seeds of this sound. But by their Not only is the music bizarrely second album, released in enjoyable, but the surrealist lyrics 1984, the band mem­also run the gamut from simply bers "were so sick of quirky ("Oh Mary Lou, won't you the hardcore thing," tell me what to do I I got a dollar according to drummer on the corner and a razor in my Derrick Bostrom. shoe") to downright indecipher­"We were real-able ("It's a poor living room I Just ly into pissing above the dock I Wish those wild off the hens there I Feathers drip from crowd." every corner"). Curt sings the "Me at words in a distinct, warbling voice 
Puppets not unlike that of a different Kurt. II," per­"Up on the Sun," the 1985 fol­haps the low-up to "Meat Puppets II," quintes­delves even further into the coun­sential try western vein. Distancing them­
M e a t selves from punk, the band mem­Puppets bers mostly ditched tl1e distortion album, is in favor of twanging acoustic gui­
much tars and a rambling bass. As a m o r e result, this album has a much experi-lighter feel than "Meat Puppets II," though it still retains the surreal, acid-washed atmosphere. With about half of the songs being pure­ly instrumental, the Meat Puppets here show a knack for creating lovely, intricate little acoustic webs. 
With every album, the Meat Puppets continued to expand and 
evolve their sound. After their major exposure from "MTV Unplugged," the Meat Puppets put out their best-selling record, "Too High to Die," on which we finally do hear the influence of the eight­ies creeping in with a synthesizer and perfectly metronomic drum­beats. They also began to sound more like some of their Seattle grunge contemporaries such as Pearl Jam. 
The Meat Puppets went through two breakups in the '90s and early '00s, but after each they revived themselves with a new lineup. The band is still active and consists of two of the three original members, Curt and Cris Kirkwood, plus Ted Marcus on the drums. They have released two albums with this new line-up, the latest being 2009's "Sewn Together." 
Contact Joey Kuhn at jkuhnl@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, October 29, 2009 
NFL 

Favre prepares for bitter return to Green Bay 
Associated Press 

EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. ­Before Brett Favre's first pre­season game with Minnesota, a meaningless performance fea­turing all of six snaps, he was nervous and nauseous. 
In the last hours before the Vikings played his former team at the Metrodome, Favre mut­tered to himself, "Man, I'm los­ing it." 
So how anxious must he be THIS week? It's the highly hyped rematch in Green Bay at Lambeau Field, where betrayed fans will be waiting with what could be a cold wel­come and the Packers are eagerly preparing to avenge their recent defeat. 
"I don't think it'll be as bad," Favre said, "but I don't know that." 
The NFL's all-time leading passer wearing rival purple and white -rather than the home green and gold -in his return to the site where he played 16 exceptional seasons, helped revive the famed fran­chise, and played on a Super Bowl winner will go down as one of the most memorable moments in sports history. 
Just don't expect the man 
around which this story revolves to reveal a mental or emotional breakdown in antici­pation of Sunday's main event. 
"I think that's probably more intriguing to everyone else," Favre said. 
He expects a mixture of cheers and boos, but insisted "there's no sentiments" about the upcoming trip. Favre recalled Wednesday scooter rides with his youngest daugh­ter, Breleigh, around the stadi­um concourse to combat the winter blahs, but beyond that he wasn't in a reminiscent mood. He's already been in the visiting locker room at Lambeau for photo shoots, and he's even been booed there before during a handful of bad games. 
This will be a unique experi­ence, but Favre is more con­cerned about the NFC North race between the Vikings (6-1) and Packers (4-2). After appearing stiff and tired during his news conference, Favre loosened up and joked about checking fan mail from Wisconsin for "something tick­ing" or "white powder." He revealed that only two of his family members are going to the game, denying that a bunch of hotel rooms for his relatives had already been booked this summer. 
''I'm way too cheap for that," Favre said. 
Vikings coach Brad Childress didn't plan any special talks with his quarterback. 
"He's a 40-year-old man, as you know," Childress said. 
Perhaps this classic scene from the 1980 comedy "Airplane" is the true reflection of Favre's feelings: The lead character, Ted Striker, tells the htdy sitting next to him early in the film that he's nervous. 
"First time?" the woman asks, shortly before the flight begins. 
"No, I've been nervous lots of times," Striker replies. 
Sure, Favre will feel his stom­ach stirring as he takes the field Sunday afternoon with the Vikings and hears the boos ­however many there are ­emanating from the stadium bowl. Considering the signifi­cance of the game, the fans are bound to be at their loudest. After failing to generate any pass rush in Minnesota's 30-23 victory at the Metrodome, Green Bay's defense could bring a more aggressive approach. 
After kickoff, though, butter­flies usually return to their cocoon. Yes, playing the Packers is a big deal and being a visitor at Lambeau is a first, but the motivation of a 7-1 record is stronger. 
"To me, being able to focus, being relaxed, kind of seeing things clearly as they're hap­pening, is a much better and more productive way to play," Favre said. "Being nervous and having anxiety and things like that, I don't think can be a plus when you're in a decision-mak­ing role." 
Teammate Ryan Longwell, who left the Packers to join the Vikings in 2006, talked to Favre several times this sum­mer as he mulled coming to Minnesota. By far, their longest conversation was about this particular game. 
"I think it'll be different for him, but I think he'll know how to handle it," Longwell said. 
Defensive end Jared Allen expects a "good harsh ripping on" from the crowd. 
"I want to hear some funny stuff out there," Allen said. 
Linebacker Ben Leber down­played the possibility of nasti­ness at Lambeau. 
"Listen, I've been a part of some Raider-Charger games, so I think I've seen the worst in the league," Leber said. 
After Favre's first retirement in 2008, he tried to force his way back with the Packers, who ultimately decided he wouldn't fit anymore. Favre acknowledged Wednesday "it's probably best that things worked out the way they did." 
After playing for the New York Jets last year, hanging it up and then reconsidering again to sign with the Vikings, Favre is in prime form for a talented, well-rounded team with serious Super Bowl aspi­rations. 
That's what burns Packers fans most. 
"I think our fans here in Green Bay are first class, and I think they'll do what they feel is appropriate," Packers coach Mike McCarthy said, when asked what kind of reception he thinks Favre will get. 
Favre has maintained a defi­ant stance when asked about his deteriorating legacy in Green Bay. He repeatedly said his success there should speak for itself, and described a stream of supportive letters he's received from Packers backers since he left. 
NFL 

Westbrook questionable against Giants after concussion 
immediately after the game. ing week and players who That was the Chiefs. This is "Will there be pressure if 
Associated Press 

"His eyes were clear," Reid were not knocked unconscious the Giants. Brian can't play, I hope not, but 
PHILADELPHIA -Brian said. "He didn't have that hazy not able to play the following Westbrook has done well there will be. For (McCoy) it's Westbrook will be a game-time look about him." week. against the Giants, including just a matter of relaxing. It's a decision for the Philadelphia Burkholder, who ushered "Every situation is different," an 84-yeard punt return for a different role for him. He just Eagles against the New York Westbrook off the field is tak­the trainer said. "Some guys touchdown in the Eagles' win has to see the hole, hit it and Giants on Sunday after suffer­ing the one-day-at-a-time take 10 days, some guys take in 2003. In nine games against hold onto the ball. The same ing a concussion earlier this approach, but is encouraged by three days." New York, he has topped 100 things he did in camp and the week. what he has seen. The Eagles have one less day total yards eight times and 100 preseason." 
"We'll see how he does this "He knows everything," to get Westbrook back, after yards rushing five times. He's McCoy, for his part, said he's week," Eagles head coach Burkholder said. "He knows playing Monday night. also scored 11 touchdowns in ready if he has to go. Andy Reid said Wednesday. his brother was on the field. He "That's one of the things I those nine games. "There's always a little pres­
Westbrook was knocked knows Andy was behind me. told management after the The one Giants game sure on you," the rookie back unconscious in the Eagles 27-He remembers walking off the game," Burkholder said. "We Westbrook missed, early in the said. "But that's my job to go in 17 win over Washington on field, going to the locker room, have a short week. That will 2007 season, the Eagles lost and help us out, if Brian can't Monday night when he took a being on the field in the second play into it. But I can't worry and scored just three points. go." knee to his head in the first half. He remembers all of that. about that. I worry about "You prepare for Westbrook," Looking to bolster their depth quarter. "Now, we're looking at a Brian." Giants head coach Tom at the position, the Eagles 
The NFL instituted a rule in headache. Once his headache If Westbrook can't play, he Coughlin. "He's a great player signed P.J. Hill off New 2007 that states a player who clears, and it's a mild will be replaced by rookie run­and he's a guy they rely on Orleans' practice squad. Hill, loses consciousness during the headache, but it's still a ning back LeSean McCoy, the tremendously. In key situa­5-foot-10, 218 pounds, was course of a game cannot return headache. Once that clears team's second-round draft pick tions, he's going to get the signed as a rookie free agent to that game. we'll get his heart rate up and out of Pitt. ball." by the Saints out of Wisconsin. 
Westbrook did not practice see how he responds. If he McCoy played in place of This week he might not. He carried 26 times for 128 Wednesday, nor did he do his does well there we'll try some Westbrook, who was out with a ''I'm not a doctor and I'm not yards, a 4. 9 yards per carry scheduled weekly press confer­football drills." knee injury against Kansas City Brian, so I don't know," Eagles average and scored three ence. Burkholder said through the in the third game of the season quarterback Donovan McNabb touchdowns in the preseason. 
Reid and Eagles trainer Rick years he has seen players who and finished with 84 yards said. "But it's a tough deal. You Among the Saints' final cuts, Burkholder both said the star were knocked unconscious rushing on 20 carries with a get a knee to the head like he was signed to the team's running back was doing better come back and play the follow-touchdown. that, it's tough. practice squad on Sept. 7. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base· appt.,no experience needed,cus­tomer sales/service,574·273-3835 

FoR RENT 
andersonND rentals.com. HOUSES Looking for a quiet place to relax after the game? Charming rental unit for 2-4, beautiful view, free canoe and kayaks with direct access to St. Joe River. Adults only, no smoking, no pets. See pictures on www.TheRiverGetaway.org or 269-815-3000. 

4 BDRM HOUSE ON 32 ACRES OF NATURE AND SERENITY. 9 MILES NORTH OF NOTRE DAME. $1,200 FOR WEEKEND. CALL 269-357-6979. 


TICKETS 
HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top$$. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FB Tix. VictoryTickets.net 574-232­0964 

PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NO's website at: http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu/ 
Cop Trainee: Forget about the badge, when do we get the freaking guns!?! Chief Wiggum: Hey! I told you, you don't get your gun until you tell me your name. Cop Trainee: I've had it up to here with your rules! 
It's the fault of those physicists and that synchronicity theory, every par­ticle being connected with every other; you cant tart without chang­ing the balance in the universe. It makes living a funny joke with nobody around to laugh. I open a book and get a report on future events that even God would like to file and forget. And who am I? The wrong person; I can tell you that. 
Don't get loud. Just get funky. 







OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
Thursday, October 29, 2009 
page 15 

1 Stanf&rd 2 Portland 
3 UCLA 4 Flsrida State 
5 NOTRE DAME 
6 North Caronna 
7 Boston College 
8 UCF 
9 Rutgers 
10 Florida 
11 Wake forest 
12 Maryland 
13 South Carolina 
14 Santa Clara 
15 Ohio State 
16 LSU 
17 Virginia Tech 
18 Southern California 
19 BYU 20 TexasA&M 21 Washington State 22 Purdue 
23 Indiana 24 Charlotte 
25 Penn State 
NSCAA/adidas Men's Soccer Top25c 
team piJIJvtal!$ ' 
1 Akron 2 Wake Forest 3 North Carolina 4 UC Santa Barbara 5 louisville 6 Maryland 7 UCLA 8 Conneclicut 9 South florida 10 Virginia 11 Charlotte 12 Northwestern 13 North Carolina State 14 Monmouth 15 Harvard 16 Duke 17 Butler 18 Tulsa 19 UC Irvine 20 Brown 21 Stanford 22 fona 23 UNC Wilmington 24 Dartmouth 25 Missouri State 
USTFCCCA Men's Cross Country,Tof,r10 
team :/?~~~~~Us 
1 Stanford 
..3$~···· 
2 Oregon 331 3 Oklahoma State ·aaz,,... 4 Colorado 
3~4··· 
5 Northern Arizona 
315·· 6 Alabama 309 7 BYU ~1 8 Portland 2fi5 9 William & Mary ····263 10 Georgetown 24:1 
around the dial 
NHL 
Blackhawks vs. Predators 8 p.m., CSN 
MLB World Series 
Phillies vs. Yankees 
8 p.m., Fox 
NFL 

AP Chiefs running back Larry Johnson hangs his head during Kansas City's 37-7 loss to San Diego Sunday. Johnson, who has a history of poor behavior both on and off the field, was given a one-game suspension this week. 

Chiefs suspend Johnson for gay slurs 
Associated Press 

KANSAS CITY, Mo. ­Running back Larry Johnson, who made two gay slurs within a 24-hour period and has a history of poor behavior both on and off the field, was given what amounts to a one-game suspension Wednesday night by the Kansas City Chiefs. 
Missing one game check will cost the troubled for­mer Pro Bowler about $213,000. 
In a three-sentence release, the Chiefs said Johnson would be suspend­ed until Manday, Nov. 9. The team is on its bye week and will not play again until traveling to Jacksonville on 
IN BRIEF 

Iverson sits out season 
opener against Pistons 
MEMPHIS, Tenn.-The Memphis Grizzlies will have to wait a while longer for the debut of veteran guard Allen Iverson. 
Iverson, the Grizzlies' highly publicized free-agent signing, was listed as inactive Wednesday night for the season opener against his former team, the Detroit Pistons. 
Iverson is still recovering from a partially torn left hamstring he sustained early in the preseason. When an MRI revealed the tear on Oct. 7, the initial scheduled return was Wednesday's opening night. 
But Iverson has been unable to practice while rehabilitating the injury and was not game ready. 
"He's starting to work with us in a non-contact aspect, so that's a positive," Memphis coach Lionel Hollins said. "That makes me feel good that it won't be long." 
Nov. 8. 

The Chiefs had been say­ing for three days that they were "investigating" the sit­uation. Johnson was told to stay away from the team on Tuesday. 
In 2007, Johnson signed a five-year contract extension that guaranteed him about $19 million and could be worth as much as $45 mil­lion. But because of these latest problems, his future with the Chiefs beyond Nov. 8 may still be cloudy. 
Coach Todd Haley and first-year general manager Scott Pioli have repeatedly said they are trying to build a new eulture and a new attitude for a struggling franchise which has sunk to the bottom of the NFL and 
Edwards refuses to 
comment on assault charge 
FLORHAM PARK, N.J. -New York Jets wide receiver Braylon Edwards refused to provide details Wednesday about the misdemeanor assault charge he faces over accusations he punched a man outside a Cleveland nightclub. 
"I have lawyers for that, and that's their job to take care of that," Edwards said in his first media avail­ability since the charge was filed Monday. "Right now, I'm focusing on football. That's what I'm here to do. Those people can take care of that and} can focus on helping this team out. 
Edwards is accused of punching promoter Edward Givens, a friend of NBA star LeBron James, following an argument Oct. 5. Two days later, the Browns traded Edwards to the Jets. 
The charge carries a maximum sentence of six months in jail and a $1,000 fine. 
that disloyalty will not be tolerated. 
A two-time Pro Bowler who needs just 7 5 yards rushing to break the team's career record, Johnson first used the gay slur on his Twitter account in an exehange with one of his followers on Sunday night. Earlier he had posted com­ments calling Haley's quali­fications into question. 
Then in a whispered remark on Monday after telling reporters in the lock­er room he was not talking, Johnson repeated the slur, according to the Kansas City Star which has posted audio of the alleged com­ment. 
The three-sentence news release issued Wednesday 
Sanchez donates 500 hot 
dogs and hamburgers 
FLORHAM PARK, N.J.-Mark Sanchez is hot-doggin' it again. 
This time, the New York Jets' rookie quarterback isn't sneaking a snack on the sideline, though. 
Sanchez bought 500 hot dogs and 500 hamburgers, along with buns and rolls, through A&P supermar­ket, and donated them to the Community Soup Kitchen of Morristown, N.J. 
"Something happened here and wanted to turn it into a positive," Sanchez said Wednesday. 
Sanchez was grilled Sunday after television cameras caught him try­ing to discreetly put mustard on a hot dog and eat it late in New York's 38-0 win at Oakland. He apologized after the game, saying he didn't feel well and needed to eat something. 
"I didn't mean it as a form of dis­respect," Sanchez said. 
night said only that Johnson, who turns 30 in a few weeks, was suspended for conduct detrimental to the club. The Chiefs said they would have no further comment on Johnson's sta­tus "at this time." 
Johnson wrote the objec­tionable material on his Twitter account several hours after the Chiefs (1-6) lost 37-7 to San Diego, one of their most lopsided home losses ever. 
Johnson issued an apolo­gy on Tuesday, almost exactly 12 months after apologizing to the team and its fans and ownership for two incidents in Kansas City nightspots that led to his pleading guilty to disturbing the peace. 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 29, 2009 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Hoosiers to honor former president 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -About 1,000 people are expected to attend Tuesday night's special tribute for Myles Brand, the late NCAA president who died of pancreatic cancer last month. 
The NCAA and Indiana University, where Brand served as president for eight years before taking over the governing body, invited most of the guests. They range from politicians to university administrators and coaches. 
Among those scheduled to speak are Brand's son, Josh, Tennessee women's basket­ball coach Pat Summitt and Georgia president Michael Adams, who chairs the NCAA's executive committee. 
The tribute is expected to begin at 6 p.m. and last about 90 minutes at Conseco Fieldhouse, the home of the NBA's Indiana Pacers. 
Indiana will also recognize former Brand by naming an endowed faculty position for cancer research for him. 
The university says the position is aimed at support­ing a biomedical researcher with expertise in pancreatic and other gastrointestinal cancers at the IU School of Medicine in Indianapolis. 
Current university President Michael McRobbie is to formally announce a fundraising campaign for the Myles Brand Chair during a tribute program for him Wednesday night at Conseco Fieldhouse. 
Proprietors Vlarren &· Lir.da

~occo's 
Restaurant 
9rrslOrijpnaf:7fzza .in ?onm/ 
Sine<· 195f Specializing in IM!i,;m Entr~ Tve$. -Thurs.~ 5:00 PM • 11 :00 PM fti. ~ S.u.; S:OO PM ~ 1:00AM 531 NOlth St. Louis " Soutil Be!'\d, lN 
574-233-2464 




Thursday, October 29, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
TENNIS 


Agassi admits methamphetamine use in book 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Andre Agassi's upcoming autobiography con­tains an admission he used crys­tal meth in 1997 and failed a drug test -a result thrown out after he lied by saying he "unwit­tingly" took the substance. 
According to an excerpt of the autobiography "Open" published Wednesday in The Times of London, the eight-time Grand Slam champion writes that he sent a letter to the ATP tour to explain the positive test, saying he accidentally drank from a soda spiked with meth by his assistant "Slim." 
"Then I come to the central lie of the letter," Agassi writes. "I say that recently I drank acci­dentally from one of Slim's spiked sodas, unwittingly ingest­ing his drugs. I ask for under­standing and leniency and hasti­ly sign it: Sincerely. 
"I feel ashamed, of course. I promise myself that this lie is the end of it." 
Agassi said the ATP reviewed the case, accepted his explana­tion and threw it out. The tour responded with a statement, not­ing an independent panel makes the final decision on a doping violation. 
"The ATP has always followed this rule, and no executive at the ATP has therefore had the authority or ability to decide the outcome of an anti-doping mat­ter," the statement said. 
The International Tennis Federation said it was "surprised and disappointed" by Agassi's revelations. 
"Such comments in no way reflect the fact that the tennis anti-doping program is currently regarded as one of the most rig­orous and comprehensive anti­doping programs in sport," the ITF said in a statement. 
In the past three years, the organization has begun oversee­ing anti-doping efforts on behalf of the ATP and WTA tours. 
"The events in question occurred before the World Anti­Doping Agency was founded in 1999 and during the formative years of anti-doping in tennis, when the program was managed by individual governing bodies," the ITF said. 
The president of WADA, Jim Fahey, said he was disappointed by Agassi's revelations and expects the ATP to "shed light on this allegation." 
Agassi, who married tennis star Stcffi Graf and has two chil­dren, retired in 2006. Excerpts from his autobiography, which comes out Nov. 9, are being pub­lished this week in the London newspaper, as well as Sports Illustrated and People maga­zines. 
In a story posted on People magazine's Web site Tuesday, Agassi says: "I can't speak to addiction, but a lot of people would say that if you're using anything as an escape, you have a problem." 
According to the Times of London, Agassi writes in his book that "Slim" was the person who introduced him to crystal meth, dumping a small pile of powder on the coffee table. 
"I snort some. I ease back on the couch and consider the Rubicon I've just crossed," Agassi writes. 
"There is a moment of regret, followed by vast sadness. Then comes a tidal wave of euphoria that sweeps away every negative thought in my head. I've never felt so alive, so hopeful -and I've never felt such energy." 
''I'm seized by a desperate desire to clean. I go tearing around my house, cleaning it from top to bottom. I dust the furniture. I scour the tub. I make the beds." 
U.S. Fed Cup captain Mary Joe Fernandez, a contemporary of Agassi's, described the revela­tions as disappointing and "a bit of a shock." 
"It takes a lot of guts and courage to come out and say something that nobody would have really known about," Fernandez said. ''I've always admired Andre. He was a huge part of inspiring my generation, and he did a lot of great things and continues to do a lot of great things. He's opening up now, and that's his choice. Maybe people can learn from it and not make the same mistakes." 
Among the most successful and popular tennis players in history, Agassi drew attention not just for his play, but also for his outfits, hairstyles and rela­tionships with women, including a failed marriage to actress Brooke Shields. 
Agassi's first major champi­onship came at Wimbledon in 1992, and he won a gold medal at the 1996 Atlanta Olympics. But by late 1997, he dropped to No. 141 in the rankings, and he was playing in tennis' equivalent of the minor leagues. 
He resuscitated his career in 1998, making the biggest one-year jump into the top 10 in the history of the ATP rankings. The next season, he won the French Open to complete a career Grand Slam, then added a second career U.S. Open title en route to fmishing 1999 at No. 1. 
After an exhibition match Sunday in China against long­time rival Pete Sampras, Agassi was asked if his autobiography contained any major revelations. 
"I think I had to learn a lot about myself through the process," Agassi said. "There was a lot that even surprised me. So to think that one won't be sur­prised by it, it would be an understatement. 
"Whatever revelations exist, you'll get to see in full glory," he added. "But the truth is, my hope is that somebody doesn't just learn more about me, what it is I've been through, but somehow through those lessons, they can learn a lot about themselves. And I think it's fair to say that they will." 
In a posting on People's Web site, Agassi says he "was worried for a moment, but not for long," about how fans would react if they found out he used drugs. 
"I wore my heart on my sleeve and my emotions were always written on my face. I was actual­ly excited about telling the world the whole story," Agassi says. According to the publisher, he worked closely on the book with Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist 
J.R. Moehringer, author of "The Tender Bar." 




Christian Culture 
LECl~URE 
Saint Mary's College 
Crusader Prologues: Preparing for War in the Gothic Age 
Alecture by 

William Chester Jordan 
Professor ofliistorv and Chair ofdu: History Department atPrinceton Univenity 
For more information, visit: 
saintmarys.edu/chri.sdan·cuJru.re~lecture 
The Christian Culture lecture honors Profeswr Bruno Schlesingerand Is made possible by the generosity of Dr. Susan Flttger;)ld Rke '61 and her husband, Or, Donald 8. Rke. It is apremierprogramof the Humanistic Studie> Department showcasing both It and Saint Mary3 Collegea.s cef'lters ofexcellence fOI' the liberal arts. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 29, 2009 
NFL 



NFL's Goodell downplays effect of concussions 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -NFL com­missioner Roger Goodell did not acknowledge a connection between head injuries on the football field and later brain diseases while defending the league's policies on concus­sions before Congress on Wednesday. 
That frustrated several mem­bers of the House Judiciary Committee, including the com­mittee chairman, Michigan Democrat John Conyers, when Goodell told him the NFL isn't waiting for that debate to play out and is taking steps to make the game safer. 
"I just asked you a simple question. What is the answer?" persisted Conyers. 
Goodell replied by saying a medical expert could give a better answer than he could. But some House members com­plained later that Dr. Ira Casson, chairman of the NFL's committee on concussions, had not testified. 
Rep. Linda Sanchez, D-Calif., gave Casson some exposure anyway, playing a clip of a TV interview in which he denied evidence of a link between multiple head injuries in NFL players with brain disorders such as dementia and Alzheimer's. 
Sanchez said that reminded her of tobacco companies deny­ing a link between smoking and health damage in the 1990s. 
Goodell testified alongside new NFL Players Association leader DeMaurice Smith, who said the union "has not done its best in this area. We will do better." Both men did agree to turn over players' medical records to the committee. 
In addition, Conyers wants information on head injuries from the NCAA, high schools and medical researchers to better understand football's health risks. 
Still, several Republicans questioned the point of the hearing. Rep. Ted Poe of Texas said Congress' involvement in football would mean the end of the sport. 
"We'd all be playing touch football," he said. 
Rep. Maxine Waters, D-Calif., whose husband played in the NFL, asked Goodell how the league was addressing the wel­fare of retired players during current collective bargaining negotiations. 
Goodell said it's a "priority for the owners and players to take better care of our retired players," but Waters cut him off, demanding specifics. 
"We've heard from the NFL time and time again -you're always 'studying,' you're always 'trying,' you're 'hope­ful,"' Waters said, pointing a finger in Goodell's direction. "I want to know what are you doing ... to deal with this prob­lems and other problems relat­ed to injuries?" 
When Goodell said talks between owners and players are in the early stages, Waters said it's time "for Congress to take a look at your antitrust exemption" and that she thinks it should be removed. 
A 1961 law grants profes­sional sports leagues antitrust exemption for broadcasting. That has allowed the NFL to sign TV contracts totaling bil­lions of dollars on behalf of all its teams, helping transform the league into the economic powerhouse it is today. 
When Waters was done grilling Goodell, she walked to the back of the hearing room and greeted Hall of Fame run­ning back Jim Brown with a hug. Other former NFL stars present included Willie Wood, who sat in his wheelchair, a few rows behind the witness table. 
In his testimony, Goodell said that the league has "reduced red tape, simplified the process for applicants and their fami­lies, and sped disability deter­minations." 
Several retired players testi­fied at the hearing, ineluding former fullback Merril Hoge, who said a series of concus­sions cost him his career. After his first concussion, he said he never saw a neurological doc­tor and was cleared to play five days later. 
"What happened to me would not happen in the National Football League today," Hoge said. "That does not mean we are all the way there. We are on the way." 
Gay Culverhouse, former president of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, said NFL team 
()n ~ale ~vw: 
SouthBend Symphony Celtic Thunder Tyler Perry's SouthBend Symphony 
Pops Concert &Celtic Concert ''Laugh to Keep Orchestra Concert "Latin Exposure" Orchestra from Crying1' "Signature Strings" Saturday, Oct. 31 Monday, Nov. 2 Tuesday, Nov. 10 Saturday, Nov.14 

UPt:Vminl! ~hVW§ 

doctors are not advocates for the players and called for an independent neurologist to be on the sidelines. 
Dr. Robert Cantu, co-director of Boston University's Center for the Study of Traumatic Encephalopathy, said there is "growing and convincing evi­dence" that repetitive concus­sive and subconcussive hits to the head in NFL players leads to a degenerative brain disease known as chronic traumatic encephalopathy. 
"The public health risk is already here, and we cannot afford to wait any longer to make changes to the way we play sports," he said, calling for rule and technique changes. 
llis colleague at the center, Dr. Ann McKee, showed the committee images of brains of dead football players with CTE. 
"We need to take radical steps" to change the way foot­ball is played, she said. 
Dick Benson told the commit­tee about the death of his 17­year-old son, Will, a high school quarterback in Austin, Texas, several weeks after a helmet-to-helmet hit in 2002. The following year, Benson founded the Will Benson Foundation for Sports Safety. He said the game needs to be changed to reduce physical contact, especially helmet-to­helmet contact. 
"My one request is," he said, pausing to sob, "don't let it happen again." 
Former running back Tiki Barber said he was concerned that high school players don't have the medical access that pros do. 
"My ask of you is that you find a way to mandate that every high school athletic pro­gram has access to medical doctors who can diagnose, understand and treat concus­sions,'' he said. 

Interested in Law? 
Attend the 2009 ND Law Fair 
October 30, 2009 McKenna Hall 11 :00 a.m. -3:00 p.m. 
Representatives from over 60 law schools will be available in an informal setting to answer questions and provide information to students about their law schools. 
Thursday, October 29, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 29, 2009 

NFL 
49ers name Smith starter against Indy 
Associated Press 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. ­Mike Singletary can see it in Alex Smith's eyes, in his body language. He's a different player now. Confident. Mature. Experienced. 
At all of 25, Smith has been at the top and at the very bot­tom during his short NFL career. There was all the hype and talk of his potential when the San Francisco 49ers chose him No. 1 overall in the 2005 NFL draft. 
Three years later he had disappeared, having worked his way back from shoulder surgery only to get hurt again three days before last year's season opener. He missed all of 2008. 
"Alex is a totally different guy today than he was even six months ago," Singletary said Wednesday. "I think his mindset is clear." 
On Sunday, Smith gets to start over, given a second chance -a rare thing in pro­fessional sports these days. 
San Francisco's game at Indianapolis will mark his first start since Nov. 12, 2007, and it just so happens the Colts are also the team he faced in his NFL debut back in '05. 
"I think it's just coincidence I'm back starting again against the team I got my first start against," Smith said. 
He is taking this all in stride, but it's clear he's thrilled to be the top guy again after all this time. 
"Back on the podium," Smith said with a smile Wednesday, the standard day for the starting quarterback to address the media. "I missed it the most." 
Smith missed this so much he opted to stay with San Francisco last spring rather than leave for a pote-ntially better situation and more money elsewhere. He said at the time he wanted to finish what he started, to redeem himself. He never lost belief he could be a starting quar­terback for this franchise. Now, others may begin to regain faith in him, too. 
Singletary has, that's for sure. Even when the coach named Shaun Hill the starter during training camp. 
The 49ers need Smith's leadership on offense now like no other. They have endured six straight losing seasons. They're 3-3 and have lost two straight games on the heels of a 3-1 start, though Smith nearly led them back from a 21-0 deficit in a 24-21 defeat at Houston last Sunday. 
In March, Smith agreed to a restructured contract that sharply reduced his base salary. 
Smith was due to make nearly $10 million this season under the deal he signed in 2005. The 49ers now have Smith under contract through next season at a salary more commensurate with his four up-and-down years with the club. Smith isn't all about the money. He said everything he's endured has given him a new perspective and appreci­ation that he gets to play football for a living. 
"To me he's been a true team player, the ultimate team player, through this process," Singletary said. "The thing that spoke vol­umes to me about him was in the offseason he had a chance to move on and go to another team and make more money. But he decided to stay because he felt that he want­ed to be a part of what was here. He wanted to finish what he started. I'm excited for him going forward and I'm not going to build too much into it. I'm going to let Alex's play speak for itself." 
This season marks the first time Smith has been fully healthy since shortly after his promising 2006 season in which he took every snap for the 49ers, throwing for 2,890 yards and 16 touchdowns. His shoulder problems began with a sack early in the 2007 campaign and later stoked a periodic feud with former coach Mike Nolan that seri­ously hampered both men's careers. Nolan questioned how hurt Smith really was on several occasions, shocking behavior from an NFL head coach. 
Smith seems to have forgot­ten all of these bad memo­ries, or at least pushed them out of mind. 
He has stayed ready, though he never knew when he might get another shot. 
"This is the NFL. If you're a backup quarterback and think you're not going to play, you're kind of in a dream­land," Smith said. "How many QBs go through a season and take all of the snaps and can handle that? It's a lot. You have the mindset, you have to have the expectations to play. The question is, when does it come? You have to be ready for that because you don't know when it's going to come." 
Smith isn't making too much of his promotion, know­ing full well how quickly things can change in this league. If he doesn't perform, Singletary might decide to make another switch, even though the coach said this won't be a "flavor-of-the­month kind of thing." 
Smith's teammates are proud of his turnaround. They all know it's not often someone gets to revive their career with their original organization, but rather is forced to start over elsewhere with a clean slate. 
Smith took over for Hill in the second half against the Texans on Sunday and com­pleted his first six passes on the way to a 15-of-22 day for 206 yards. He threw three touchdowns to tight end Vernon Davis. 
"I always believed in Alex," Davis said. "Sometimes it takes certain guys a little longer to come around. He always had the tools but it just took him some time. He's always had it." 
Smith doesn't think he's changed to get to this point, even if others notice differ­ences in his relaxed demeanor. 
"An bblull an Gbaallge agat?" 
Yes we do. 
A,&• Unwen.«y of lloffe Dam&, atudtl!ti find $Omtthlug IMI U!ey won't at ally ather u111Yersttv In fi1lrtll America: aBII:im depameat mfael. ot~r Oopal'll'ltetli of lrislllllngw..-and tltm~tm Is 1M only pmu ill North Amltriea wllert ulldOfllradeatt stlldlllrts Cllll ·~fill llllllc:ademlc ooooM!Jatian-11 minm--tuwm on tile 1r1stt bnvuqe and tile del! nternry tladttilllllt l!at prndue~td. 
Cinnte, ta si againn go deimhin. 
Sunday, Nov. l 9:00p.tn. 
Coleman-Morse Center Chapel ofNotre Dame Our Mother 
The Alliance.for Catholic Education Jvill provide a receptionfollowing Mass! 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 

For inf(mnation, contact .Jud ' Madden 631-8508 or ·madden2(a}nd.cdu 


---------~--------------~---­
Thursday, October 29, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Umk!r 
.
FIll!.i' 
Carolina Barco 

Colombian Ambassador to the US and former Minister of Foreign Affairs, Colombia 
Luis Ernesto Derbez 
President, University of the Americas, Puebla, and former Minister of the 
Economy, Mexico 
Daniel Brinks 
Associate Professor of Political Science, and Faculty Fellow, Kellogg Institute for International Studies 
Luis Cosenza 

Hewlett Visiting Fellow for Public Policy, Kellogg Institute for International Studies, and former Minister of the Presidency, Honduras (Moderator and Discussant) 
Interrace Forum 
A:presentationon Rate,, hientlty and Multwulturru Illswries by Snite MUSelilll ofAl·tCut'&fill'B@tli.my Mo:tl~O 
About the Presentation Thi'i prewruation \\'ill expkm:~ iht Chtrokr:w mH.ion\ o:nHrtNenial ded:tlon !n make "lndian llloud" ;1 n::quirenlt'lll il,w dtit:<'!bhip In ttl07, Tilt• polky uhim~itely !<tflJ1pt-el tribal ritiu:thbip lhnn almu:.;t :iJ~)O desrc!ldcnts of Aft1t4li Anwricut ~~~lve~ omwt:l by the (:lirl'n· kee, 'llH' nmWT lta!i f'\.1Jlmkd intn;m>tll nul hlnud w;tr, a~ tensiom ovtr rare and tribal tititti~:<hip cominut wrise 
T~w IH'tsema!itm will wududt' with adls(tJ%im! alkill! hnw tlitse rwTt'lli f\'1'111~ ~FH">tk to al;trgn cummdrum !itring hir;Kial and multi. rultm"iljXTWHW... ·· f~l)('ch!l\t· ·i. -~-~ whn·· · I· 1'Ul1 wbn· ·• tfv··wt•!s... in.... drTidr.. :· ·· ·md· ...
··' · · · -t-:· · .... · ·· "'~ · · ·· ·· ···' · .. ~ 
where ami to whom do Ibdnng? 
Wednesday, November 4~ 2009 5:30pm 
Geddes Hall (Oenrer fur SooW Concerns Coffoo House) 

Interhall 
continued from page 24 
Cavanaugh enters the game without a win and has ques­tions at the quarterback posi­tion because of injuries. 
"We need a strong perform­ance from our defense," sen· ior captain Sarah Cline said. "We have an awesome defense and we just need them to do what they can." 
The Chaos have had an up· and-down season that has included a game in which they were routed by Pasquerilla West 30-6, but they hope to carry only the positives over from before break. 
"We should not struggle because of break," Cline said. "We don't expect any nega­tive effects there. We prac­ticed [Tuesday] and we feel good and are ready to play. 
When Cavanaugh has excelled this season, their offense has been a key factor. 
"The offense has executed well this season," Cline said. "When we've struggled, it has been in rainy weather that has been difficult to pass the ball in. If we get a couple scores early, we should be fine." 
Lyons, meanwhile, is win­less on the season but hopes to break through with a victo­ry against the Chaos. 
"We've had some tough games but we are still work­ing hard and ready to go," said senior quarterback Claire Connell, who has missed time due to an injury, leading a freshman to take over the signal-calling duties. 
"We aren't too concerned about how much time off we have had," Connell said. "All the other teams have to deal with the layoff as well, so we don't think we will be at a disadvantage there." 
Lyons expects to be ready to go and compete with the Chaos despite their injury problems. 
"If we come out and play hard we should be fine," 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
Wehrli. Overall everyone real­ly did a great job." 
After doubling their win total from last season, the Belles (4-13-2, 1-6) will lose nine seniors to graduation this year, and will have to do some rebuilding before next season. 
Olivet got on the scoreboard early in the sixth minute of the game, but Saint Mary's battled back. With just over 12 minutes remaining in reg­ulation, Wehrli passed to Smogor for the tying goal. Neither team could convert a shot on goal in either over­time period, ending the game in a tie. 
Crabbe knows that he and the coaching staff will have to emphasize the fundamentals next season with their lack of veteran leadership as they only have one junior on the roster this season. 
After not making the end of the season conference tourna­ment the Belles will need to continue to improve to move Connell said. 
Lyons and Cavanaugh will face off tonight at Riehle Field at 9 p.m. 
Ryan vs. Pangborn 
Pangborn takes on Ryan with a chance to play their way into the playoffs. 
Throughout the season, the Phoxes (2-2) have been a competitive team and one of the top in their division. After starting their season with two heartbreaking loses, includ­ing one to Pasquerilla West in the final seconds, Pangborn has been on a tear with wins over Lyons and Badin. In order to make the playoffs, Pangborn needs to win their final two games and hope for a loss by either Walsh or Pasquerilla West. 
On the other side, Ryan (1­
3) has struggled in their inaugural season, only man­aging one win. 
Pangborn has relied on a total team effort to win. Key contributors include junior Gabby Tate, junior Emily Wurtenberger, sophomore Liz Pawlak, and senior Meghan Besher. They feature a strong balance on offense and a stingy defense. 
"Our keys are quick passes and being aggressive on defense and always trying to get out hands on the ball," junior quarterback Gabby Tate said. 
But the most important part of the Phoxes game is not talent or schemes, but their team unity. 
"We feed off each other's energies and keep the momentum going," Tate said. "For example, when Emily Wurtenberger makes a sack, it makes me that much more determined to get out there and score a touchdown." 
Pangborn hopes to make a strong push for the playoffs starting tonight against Ryan at 9 p.m. at Riehle Field. 
Contact Kevin Baldwin at kbaldwi2@nd.edu, Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu and Barrick Bollman at jbollman@nd.edu 
up in the conference next sea­son. 
"As a team we are very fit," Crabbe said. "The competitive attitude and work rate of the 2009 team has been tremen· dous. It will be important to bring those qualities forward with us as we head into the off-season." 
The Belles defense was a weak point this season and they will look to improve that through recruiting and get­ting stronger in the offseason Crabbe said. 
While they are losing their main starting goalkeeper in Duffy, they have freshman Adele Bruggeman to step in and help fill the void. 
"[Bruggeman] has worked very hard," Crabbe said. "Our goalkeeper coach Marc Colwell has done a tremen· dous job with both Adele and Patty this season." 
Through improving their defense, and working on the fundamentals the Belles are looking forward to continuing to build on their improvement from this season. 
Contact Katelyn Grabarek at kgrabaO1@saintmarys.edu 



page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, October 29, 2009 
Spartans 
continued from page 24 

a cross from senior forward Jeb Brovsky. It was Mena's first goal in an Irish uniform and it tied the game at 1-1. 
"It was a really bonnie goal," Clark said. "Adam, in the game against Georgetown, met a simi­lar ball and hit it with his head the same way and it hit the cross­bar. This time he hit it better and it went in. It was really neat for him." 
The score remained tied into halftime, though Clark said the team wished the first half hadn't ended. 
"We were good, we were back in the game, pushing the game at that point," he said. "You're sorry to see halftime come because that broke our momentum. We had really good momentum after we scored." 
Michigan State once again struck first in the second half when midfielder Cyrus Saydee got one past senior goalkeeper Andrew Quinn in the 56th minute. 
"[Michigan State] wasn't doing anything special and suddenly their left winger scored a pretty fantastic goal," Clark said. "He toasted two or three of our defenders before hitting a shot from a very tight angle." 
Notre Dame was then in a very familiar position -down one goal and fighting for life -but was unable to get the ball into the net. 
"They worked very hard trying to get back into the game," Clark said. "We huffed and puffed but 
Top seed 
continued from page 24 

coach Randy Waldrum said the Irish are not overlooking the chance to win yet another Big East title. 
"Every year they're able to keep their focus," Waldrum said. "They've been through this enough that we're in the part of the season where it's one game and you're out and we can't slip up, so there has­n't been a lot of discussion about us being the top seed and winning the regular sea­son championship. At this point, every team is good enough to beat you on any given day." 
Notre Dame's biggest chal­lenge to winning another championship could come from No. 9 Rutgers, who fin­ished second in the Big East National division behind Notre Dame and remains the only other conference foe ranked in the NSCAA poll. However, the Scarlet Knights find themselves on the oppo­site side of the bracket in the tournament as a result of their second place finish and would only face the Irish should both teams reach the title game. 
On Notre Dame's side of the bracket, Waldrum said a chal­lenging match-up could occur with the winner of the quar­terfinal match between Georgetown-St. John's should the Irish advance that far. 
we couldn't come up with that vital tying goal." 
The Irish outshot Michigan State 14-8 in the game and 7-3 in the second half, but had little to show for it. In fact, the Spartans had just two shots on goal in the game compared to Notre Dame's four, but both went in. 
"If it was on shots taken, we carried the game," Clark said. "But the only statistic that really counts is goals and unfortunately they came up on the right side of that." 
The match was Notre Dame's last away game of the regular season and also its last non-con­ference game. The Irish will return to Alumni Stadium Saturday for Senior Night against No. 5 Connecticut. The Huskies currently lead Notre Dame by one point in the Big East Blue Division standings, and an Irish win com­bined with a Husky loss or tie to Marquette Monday would give Notre Dame the regular season title. The Big East tournament begins Nov. 4. 
The Irish will also be fighting for a chance to make the NCAA tournament. Before Wednesday's game they stood in 36th in the Ratings Percentage Index (RPI), used to determine at-large bids to the tournament, to which 32 teams are invited. 
"If we're going to make the tournament we've got to win some games," Clark said. "These games take on tremendous importance. Today's game was a very important game to us and we came up short. We've got to start winning some games." 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
"I think on our side who's a good team is Georgetown, who we just played Sunday night," Waldrum said. "We haven't seen St. John's all year and didn't play them last year, so they're consistently good and we could see them up there." 
Waldrum was also careful not to overlook some of the other teams in the conference who didn't receive byes, including potential quarterfi­nal opponents DePaul and Villanova, who could present some difficulties for con­tenders on the other side of the bracket. 
"I don't say [the other teams would be a tough game] to underestimate DePaul or Villanova on the other side of the bracket. The other side is so difficult and has been so close all year," he said. 
Another sleeper that Waldrum said could advance all the way to the final on the other side of the bracket is Marquette, who won the Big East American division for the first time in school history to receive the other top seed in the tournament. 
"There's a good chance you could see Marquette in the final," Waldrum said. 
The Irish will face off against the winner of the first round matchup between DePaul and South Florida at 1 
p.m. Sunday at Alumni Stadium. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
Write sports. E-mail Matt at mgamber@nd.edu 
Schedule 
continued from page 24 

The last three games added, though, give some reason for 
pause. 

Next year, the Irish will play non-traditional opponents Utah, Tulsa and, they announced this week, Western Michigan. 
There's nothing wrong with the game against Utah. Ever since Urban Meyer took over as head coach there, the Utes have been a solid, if not elite, football team. 
The problem lies in the last two games, against Tulsa and Western Michigan. These two agreements, in which both schools will play one game at Notre Dame with no return trip, reflect a disturbing trend in Notre Dame's recent sched­uling policies. 
Beginning this season, Notre Dame has started with a "7 -4­1" scheduling model, meaning the team plays seven home games at Notre Dame Stadium, four true road games, and one off-site home game, such as this weekend's against Washington State in San Antonio. 
The main problem of the 7­4-1 model is the fact that it severely limits the amount of true road games Notre Dame can play. In any given season, three away games are taken up by the "regular" opponents that aren't leaving the sched­ule any time soon. 
The main problem with lim­iting road games is that it cuts down on which teams Notre Dame can realistically sched­ule games with. The reason the Broncos and Golden Hurricane are coming to South Bend is because they agreed to do so without demanding a return trip from the Irish. Any top-caliber team would demand at least one game against the Irish at their stadium. 
Both Alabama and Miami have expressed interest in playing Notre Dame in recent years, and, for their part, the Notre Dame athletic depart­ment has said they are inter­ested. It seems, though, that they are only interested if they don't have to make any concessions to the 7-4-1 model. 
Notre Dame has said that the 7-4-1 is in place to maxi­mize the number of home games for Irish fans, which sounds great on the surface. But if we're getting home games against Western Michigan and Tulsa, is it real­ly worth it? 
I'll be the first one to agree that there's nothing like a game in Notre Dame Stadium, but aren't road games an inte­gral part of college football, too? It's fun to load up the car with your friends, hit the road, and see the Irish in another team's stadium. As anyone who traveled to Atlanta in 2006 or Happy Valley in 2007 can attest, road games are a good thing. 
The 7-4-1 would even be fine, though, if it weren't filled with Western Michigan and Tulsa. Either one on it's own would even be okay, but the combination of the two is, at best, undesirable. 
"Last year it was Ball State that was on that remarkable. run, and Buffalo had a great year. Certainly, it's no surprise that TCU and Boise State are having the kind of years they're having," Notre Dame Athletic Director Jack Swarbrick told the South Bend Tribune Oct. 22. "That's the landscape of college foot­ball now. And I know our fans are so savvy and they follow the games closely that they'll understand that." 
There are three non-BCS conference teams that Notre Dame should try to schedule: 
Utah, TCU and Boise State. These three teams are in the 
BCS discussion almost every season. Tulsa and Western 
Michigan are not. 

Just because two random non-BCS teams, as Swarbrick points to Ball State and Buffalo, were decent last sea­son doesn't mean Tulsa and Western Michigan will be good next season. Yes, there are surprise schools every season, but it would be safer to schedule at least a lower level BCS team to ensure at least some stability. 
Finally, and almost worst of all, next year's schedule is just downright boring. 
Sure, the numerical strength of schedule will probably end up being decent, but is anyone -outside of Tulsa and Kalamazoo -excit­ed to see the Irish take on Tulsa or Western Michigan? 
Proponents of the watered­down schedule will just say, "Well, everyone else is doing it." 
Yes, Florida played Troy State and Charleston Southern this year. The Gators, though, can fall back on a loaded SEC conference games against LSU, Georgia and Tennessee. 
As an independent, the his­tory of Notre Dame football is based on big games against varying opponents. Sure, the Irish have had memorable showdowns against USC and Michigan, but who can forget Catholics vs. Convicts in 1988 or the Snow Bowl in 1992? 
Unless Jack Swarbrick and the athletic department have a pleasant surprise for us, it looks like those games are gone for the foreseeable future. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Great La e Swimmers 

thursday, october 29, 2009 
~olJ~rhDC?~~
L I V E N\USIC I N S 0 U T H B E N 0 
1 ass n. Hickory rd. sout-h bend S74-272-8424 (nort-h o• edison... across •rom Hickroy Village) 
c.J'} 
C5
,__ 0.0 
~ 
c::: 
c::: c:::
<J...) 
<J...)
C5 
c:::::L
0 
0
0 

$ ir-"}fC> at: SLJL=:>I<irl<e_com 
$10 advance 
1 2 at the door 

Thursday, October 29, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Brendan Emmett Quigley 
25 1975 U.S. Open  36 Parts of some  49 Take up again,  
winner Manuel  appliance  e.g.  
26 Open galleries  delivery jobs  50 Salmon  
28 Publisher of the fictional New York Inquirer 31 1927 E. E. Cummings play 32 Extremely, in combinations  37 Quaking 38 Lallygagged 41 "MythBusters" subj. 44 Patriotic chant 45 Latin dances  52 Beloved object of 28-Down 55 "Until Every One Comes Home" grp. 56 "Not nice!"  
33 '09, '10, etc.  46 Mazelike  57 One to one, for  
35 Ever faithfully  48 Grps.  one  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CF.LEBRillt:s BORN ON THJS tHY~ Joaquin Phoeui10. ·'5~ Julm Roberts. 42: Bill Gates. 54; Bruce ktmer, 60 
ll11ppy Birthday: YiJu can delve imo area> perwnally mld profe;sionally tl~<tl you hawn'l been able to break into in the past. TI1e lime has c"Ome to share your tdeas. mterests am! m·· tcnriou;. FAl!Oliomtl mnucr~ can be reso!n.><i and a lnJ>t issue tb:tt nmv b:l'·c bt'<!U LK•tht'flll!l yuuca.11 beck~m."<ill!>.:dlowiuv you to move li'·"'"td. Your numllt-n<lll.' 1. 8. 11. Z4. 3~. 
4()_43 

ARIES (Mard• 21-April 19): There b plenty going on bchmd dosed donrs that you may wamto look into. If anyone. amuud you is bemp sec"Utive. you ;hould qne,tion wb)'. Hem~ left out of some!lriug !bat may inlluemoe yonr life p<'rsolllllly or prok..,.sionally i.s appar<,llt 
*** 

TAURUS (April 20-Moty 20): You'll b" in tit~ limdi;tht if you :treu't t'areful. Cll<XlliC your 
lMdes (tll<lrdrnin fr<Jitt talkill!l abom sotuetlting you know little al10m. You wdl re<:eiw 
poor in(ormatmu •ml may be blamed for 111<-'<ldbug if you .liD~• a!onj! what yon hear. 
**** -
OEMlNl iMII)' Zl-Julle 20): t.:l'C Yt'liT insi~ht au<l eharm t<• wcatlter •nY ~{(Jml brewin11 '" 
work or with yonqJ<.'ft>.!k careful no!. lo o!Ier too much to mmeoue lookmg for a bllu<i· 
out_ 'l11is Jl<lNon may also want to take credit for sou~el.hiug you cmtlrihukd. ** 
CANCJ>;R Unne ll·July Zli: Don't hold bad; wh~n youlmvc oo nut•h to ~ain by sharing 
:md jlllsbm~ your t<leas. An emohm\01 enc<>nmer will help you dmfy wht.'n! you Mand .altl 
whm your r>pri.mls •tre. Be forward ·thinking mid take action .**** * 
LEO 1July 2.\-Aug. 22): Don't take anphmg or an)"On<' for ttrnnted. ·-nlr time t(l!ay your 
card• on the table honestly antl<Jpenly is tiO~>'. Alr.:-rations at home can brn~g fitMncial ~ilin. 
L<l\>k into ehll~ thai wills~w }VII cmotimmlly and fimmdill!y. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23·&1'1. 22): Yon'!! be altrncted lo sonK.~>ne who nu•y be off ·tinrils. Krep 
dmtgs simple atld a•'Oid leuing ~nyone know how you ft...,I. Mixmg lnl'>in<.>ss w11b pleasure 
may be enticing but it's cert~inly not J.1111Ciica! *** 
UBRA (Sept, 23·0ct 221: Your past ;><'ffonnance tn.~y be brought otU into the 01)<'11 now 
by someoue lookiug for al!ention. Offer friendship. help and courtesy a11d yoo will avoid a 
stluatiouthat will make. y(l!l tK.'!VmK *** 
SCORPIO t()ct. :1.'-Nuv. 211' Usc yvur wi1 to C<llll<' ~~~~ on tvp wheu ;J.,.Jing-witb pcr 
sonal situalimts that can a.lkr the way tlun~ are done at honJC. You can't Jet anyoue fl<'t 
su:wc you I<> do tlnn!!s dmt don't suit )'DIIf ne,,k ***** 
SAGITIARlUS t:Nov. 22·1K-e. 211: Avoid auy senous rursuits. Youne.e.d to 1\.'t'haf[!e and t<> put things in Jlt-..-sJl"ctl\'e. Haw rome fun with someone you enjoy SJl"mhn~ lime \\1tll and you will find it mudt e;m.;,.r lo fac·e cl~e l<'sponsibtlilte< duo! yrn1 have tak<"n on. ** 
CAPRICORN (Dee. 22-Jun. 19): Re,·ivin~ IJ'Camred memorie.s \qlJ help you realue what you h~ve y:ivettll[l atwl whaf you sh<»lkl try l<l UJe<.lfJJOrAte bad; inw your life:. Go af1cr jol1s that allow you It> put yourskilh,l:lients aud thing~ yon et\joy to the test.**** 
AQVARltlS lJan. 211-F~h. tlh' lx>n't kt s<>ntc'""'''s linger s!Pp Y"" fwm doi111<' w!un )'<l\1 k'<!l is l1<H lor you.11~<.-re I$ ommcy !<> h<: llm<k t'r saved. Someunc frnm yom pa~t Wit! b<' 
able 10 shnl1<onw lij!bl onlt •ihJalioul.lmlmakes no >ell:l<' lo you *** 
PISCES W~b. 19-M.....,b 211>: Your cmoh<m' willl1< d!lltcu!t to cotlln>l but, if you fo!k'w 
your he.f:trt, yon can son o~u dtffere-nce~ re~ardin~ money, corUl'<\t't~ or (tth,·r ne-g.~'{iatwns.. 
Don'llel ym•r <lW!l U!W:e!Mimy nun "W><l<lJ>~rtner'<ltip. *** 
!lirtbd"y l~ll.by: Yon arc li¢1l>itiw, c~nnr mtd afkcti<l!WI<'. Y<lU lm'e a d!llllcng:c <l!ld Y"" shllw your,trengtbamlt•o~tt;.lge when f~c"<xl W!lb adwr~lt)'. You are ~ttong·Wiilcd 
I.:..UJ.wnia\:· \4~·b sitt•JJ: cugeni<lfa.~·(.comJ(tcr t.'ml}i.dt"lllinl t·{msidturilm,,·, my~JJ<we.c<mt!t.•ltgt.•nialtlsl}or £uwwio\ Mox. o.11roarMa.mm }ilfjim 
CROSSWORD 
Across Former "Meet the Press" moderator Marvin 5 _Thule, distant unknown land 11 "_Boys" 
(1886 novel) 14 Noodle product? 15 Pin-up figure? 16 Musician who 
started the Obscure Records label 
17 Band without a drummer? 19 1989 one-man Broadway drama 20 Divine creature with six wings 21 Get in a lather 23 Rappers' posses 24 "See ya, idiot!"? 
27 Goddess with a cow as an emblem 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
58 Full-screen picture, maybe: Abbr. 
59 Cryptozoology figure 
60 Exam with a reading comprehension section, for short 
61 Orthodontist's deg. 
62 Beat decisively, in slang 
63 Like this puzzle ... not! 
Down Garden gnomes 
and such 2 Hold fast 3 Ogler 4 Classic "S.N.L." 
character who spoke with rounded A's 
5 Home of Arches National Park 6 Back muscle, briefly 
7 It comes between dusk and dawn 
a Quebec's Rouleau crater 9 Rapid, to Rossini 
1 0 Subject of an insurance investigation 
11 Aids for spacewalkers 12 Torrents 13 "Let's eat!" 18 PC graphics format 22 Life time? 24 Gorqe 
28 Corn syrup brand 
29 Say again 
30 "Gotta love him!" 
34 N.F.L. coach Whisenhunt 
35 Mission of an Army officers' school? 
38 It might go for a buck 39 Having the most substance 40 Bill producers 42 Race 43 Lie idle too long 
47 Nice touch from Roger Daltry and Pete Townshend? 
50 Cut again 
51 Concoct 
52 Kenyan's 
neighbor 53 Small range 54 Playful kiss on 
the Discovery? 


JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE

SCHAD & FREUDE 

T.I.N.D 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
DAN POHLMAN 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

~J! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. ~ 

REMEG rJ 1 b 
1f 

~'2009 Tribune Mad1a Serv~ees, Inc. ~ All Rights Reserved ~ 
NEWIT 
j 
Ans: 

(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: SURLY GORGE PILFER BLOODY Answer: The young witch joined the bee contestants because she was -A GOOD "SPELLER" 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City __________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, October 29, 2009 
page 24 
.. 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Pasquerilla West hopes to complete undefeated season 
By KEVIN BALDWIN, 

ANDREW OWENS and 
BARRICK BOLLMAN 
Sports Writers 

Pasquerilla West is looking to finish its season off with a perfect 6-0 record when it plays Badin tonight. Badin (1­
3) hopes for an upset after securing its first win just before fall break over Lyons. 
The Purple Weasels' (5-0) last game was also against Lyons in which they raced to a 27-0 shutout. Senior cap­tain Cynthia Curley hopes her team can pick up where they left off and use tonight's game to prepare for the play­offs. 
"Interhall football is a game of momentum," Curley said. "Coming off the break is hard and everyone is gunning for us." 
The Pasquerilla West defense features senior Lindsey McMahon, a reliable force on the defensive line, and sophomore Alison Lindeen, a ball hawk at safety responsible for many inter­ceptions. 
Junior Simone Bigi will pose a double threat to the Bullfrogs' defense at quarter­back, equally adept at run­ning the ball as she is at passing. 
"[Bigi] is the heart and soul of our offense," Curley said. 
The Bullfrogs need a win tonight in order to have any shot at earning a spot in the postseason. 
"This is a must win for us," senior captain Kelley Daniels said. "We're all pumped." 
The Bullfrogs' defense has improved remarkably since the beginning of the year with sophomore Kelsey Brennan emerging as a useful all­around player. 
Badin's offense will have to strike early and assertively in order to gain the upper hand against a relentless Purple Weasels defense. Junior quar­terback Carli Fernandez, along with freshman team­mates Tommasina Domel and Ashley Okonta, will try to catch to the opposing team off guard with a high pow­ered performance. 
"We've been improving with every game," Daniels said. "We have to do our part but we're also going to need 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Spartan surrender 
Irish can't rally and fall to Michigan State 2-1 
By LAURA MYERS Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame found itself playing catch-up twice Wednesday and ultimately fell short as it lost 2-1 at Michigan State. 
"We always seem to be chasing the game," coach Bobby Clark said. "The team put in tremen­dous effort. That was a given and I couldn't fault them for their effort. I thought they worked very, very hard." 
The Spartans (10-4-1) got off to an early lead with a goal by for­ward Rubin Bega in the 14th minute. 
"I thought after they scored that really woke us up," Clark said. 
The Irish (9-7-1) responded in the 36th minute as sophomore midfielder Adam Mena headed in 
see SPARTANS/page 22 luck." 


Pasquerilla West is practic­ing as hard for this game as they would any, intending to finish the season as strong as they started it. 
"We never underestimate anyone," Curley said. The game will begin tonight at 7 p.m. at Riehle Field. 
Lyons vs. Cavanaugh 

Lyons and Cavanaugh face off tonight in a make-up game that was originally scheduled for Oct. 8. 
see INTERHALL/page 21 
fOOTBALL COMMENTARY 
Schedule for2010not acceptable 
Notre Dame released its finalized 2010 football sched­ule this week, and it is, shall we say, uninspiring. 
The regulars are all there ­USC, Michigan, Michigan State, Purdue, Stanford and Navy. Recent series against Boston College and Pittsburgh continue next season, and of course everyone is excited for the game against Army in the new Yankee Stadium. 

see SCHEDULE/page 22 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Team nets No.1 Big East seed 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 
After another undefeated run through the· Big East reg­ular season, No. 5 Notre Dame finds itself in a familiar position at the top of the bracket heading into this week's Big East champi­onship. 
Although the Irish received a bye to the quarterfinals and have a strong chance to secure their 11th Big East title, the road to the champi­onship game should provide a number of challenges as Notre Dame tries to navigate through the competitive field of opponents. For this reason, 
see TOP SEED/page 22 


SMC SOCCER 

Late goal gives Belles 1-1 tie in season finale 
By KATELYN GRABAREK Sports Writer 
The Belles fought to a 1-1 tie in their final game against Olivet in double overtime Wednesday, with both teams fighting to end the season on a high note. 
"The team really played well today and showed a lot of resilience battling back from giving up an early goal," head coach Ryan Crabbe said. "The game was physically very tough as both teams were trying to end their seasons' on a high note." 
Saint Mary's seniors were 
able to really step up for the team in their final game in a Belles uniform especially goalkeeper Patty Duffy, and midfielder Jessica Slean. 
Duffy has been a key play­er for the Belles this season and Crabbe has noted Slean 's improvement this season. 
"Patty with 12 saves was tremendous in goal," Crabbe said. "Jess Slean showed a lot of toughness and deter­mination as well. It was great to see Sam Smogor score the goal late to tie the game and she was assisted by fellow senior Katie 
see BELLES/page 21 










