
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Marys 
VOLUME 43: ISSUE 123 THURSDAY. APRIL 16,2009 
Economic crisis impacts student job search 
Seniors must look harder for full-time employment; some turn to volunteering 
By ROBERT SINGER Assistam News Ediror 
About 24 percent of Notre Dame graduates will still be seeking employment following the cere­mony in May -doubling the 12 percent of the class of 2008 who were in limbo after graduation ­according to an estimate made by Career Center Director Lee Svete. 
When the economy is growing, a typical Notre Dame senior could expect a job offer after interview­ing with six to eight companies, but in the current downturn, that number might be 15 to 20, Svete said. However, this number will probably become more favorable as graduation approaches, as other job candidates give up and companies can more easily identi­fy their needs with a closer start date. 
Svete mentioned two reasons for why companies are cutting back. 
"They've lost revenue and as a result their budget has been decreased," Svete said. "There's been very little attrition at compa­nies. Senior employees are decid­ing to stick around at their jobs, causing a chain reaction." 
After the financial crisis devas­tated retirement accounts, many 
see SENIORS/page 4 

Underclassmen look for alternatives to scarce summer jobs, internships 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Sophomore Caroyln Conley will be spending her summer participating in a paid internship at PNC Bank in Pittsburgh, but said she was "lucky" to receive this posi­tion. 
"A lot of really talented people really don't have internships for the summer because a lot of companies have scaled back," Conley said. "I definitely think that I was very lucky to get an internship at all let alone a paid one." 
Many underclassmen stu­dents have had to adjust expectations and alter plans for the upcoming summer because of the current econ­omy troubles. 
Companies have drastical­ly reduced the number of intern positions they offer due to cost cuts within the company, Lee Svete, director of Notre Dame's Career Center, said. Companies that usually take five or six interns can only take one this year, he said. 
see SUMMER/page 4 

iPhone use increasing on campus 

OIT director Latimer attributes sudden rise this semester to Christmas presents 
iPhone use on campus 

By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
iPhone usage on campus has increased fourfold this year, according to the University's Chief Technology Officer, DeWitt Latimer. 
This increase is part of a cam­pus-wide move towards mobility, which includes Blackberries and other "smart phones," Latimer said. 
"There has been a large explo­sion of smart phones on cam­pus," Latimer said. "There is a clear move towards mobility. The iPhone has kind of become the poster child for this." 
Economy ilnpacts developing world 
Aid lessens as developed world tries to maintain its standard of living 
By MOLLY MADDEN News Writer 
Professors Jeffrey Bergstrand, Father Robert Dowd, C.S.C., and Amitava Dutt discussed the impact of the global economic cri­sis on developing nations in "The Cost of Crisis: The Outlook for International Development," the final installment of a lecture series sponsored by the Ford Program. 
The talk centered on the issue of what the global north can do to help with the problems of the global south that have arisen due to the crisis. 
"Development itself, even when things are good, is very difficult," Bergstrand, a professor of fmance, said. "The big picture is 
see FORD/page 3 


Latimer estimated that as of the beginning of the 2007-08 academic year, the number of iPhones on campus was in the single digits. At the beginning of the 2008-09 academic year, there were 210 iPhones on cam­pus. Currently, there are 838 iPhones on campus. 
"I do think a lot of them were probably Christmas presents," he said. 
Latimer said the increase of iPhone usage is not going to affect student reception because the Office of Information Technology (OlD is prepared for the increase. 
see !PHONE/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Ballard earns 
ROTC 

award 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
Cadet Curtis Ballard has been named as one of this year's recipients of the George 
C. Marshall Award. 
The award, which is a national 
honor, is given annu­ally to the top cadet from each of the 273 Army ROTC units from throughout 


the country. Ballard 
With this honor, Cadet Ballard has been selected as Notre Dame's par­ticipant in the George C. Marshall ROTC Seminar. 
A senior from Steamboat Springs, Colo., Ballard has served as Notre Dame's cadet battalion executive officer this semester. 
This position is responsible for coordinating and synchro­nizing the cadet battalion staff for exercises and events, including a training exercise conducted in Michigan with four other ROTC programs, Lieutenant Colonel Randy Crist, a commander for the Army ROTC program at Notre Dame, said. 
"[Ballard's) ability to form a 
see CADET/page 6 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Online calendar resolution passed 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
Campus Life Council (CLC) unanimously passed a resolu­tion to promote a reevaluation of the online University events calendar at its meeting Wednesday. 
Student body president Grant Schmidt, who reported for the task force on technology and study space in dorms, said the resolution has three parts. 
"We request a reevaluation of the current agenda.nd.edu," he said. 
Schmidt said the task force 

would like to eventually see Google calendar or other Google applications and newer technology integrated into the calendar to make it more accessible for students. 
The resolution also asks Fr. Mark Poorman, vice president for student affairs, to discuss the calendar situation with the Office of Information and Technology (OIT) Chief Information Officer Gordon Wishon. The final part of the resolution asks that the online calendar become a main con­cern, Schmidt said. 
see CLC/page 3 

,­
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, Aprill6, 2009 
====================================================================~ 
INSIDE COLUMN 

How to fix Blue-Gold 
What do you expect to see on Saturday at the Blue-Gold Game: a scrimmage or a football game? Saturday marks the 80th annual Blue-Gold Game at Notre Dame Stadium. For the second year in a row, the game will be decided 
Alex West 
by a quirky point system rather than a Sports Wzre traditional scor­Editor ing method. Everybody knows that a touchdown is six points, seven with the extra point, and a field goal is three, but what about how many points a team receives for a making a first down? Recording a sack? Stopping for the other team for a 3 and out? And don't even get me start­ed on the points for an "explosive play." 
Just two springs ago, the Blue­Gold Game was a competitive foot­ball game between a smorgasbord of players, usually a bunch of guys nobody had heard of. Don't believe me? Just ask 2007 Blue­Gold Game MVP, Junior Jabbie. 
Two springs ago, the big ques­tion was: who's the quarterback? Evan Sharpley, Zach Frazer, Demetrius Jones, and highly recruited, freshmen phenom Jimmy Clausen were all vying for the starting role of quarterback in a post Brady Quinn era. We all know how that story turned out. 
But what can we expect to see Saturday? Everyone that attends the Blue-Gold Game will be watch­ing the first team offense play the first team defense on every single drive. Sure, popular back-ups like Dayne Crist and Jonas Gray will find some time on the field on Saturday, but it will be the starters playing the majority of the game. Where's the fun in that? 
Now, don't get me wrong, after the way the last five regular sea­son games ended last season, it's clear our starters need as much time together as they can get. But, at the spring game, I want to see the former "blue chip" prospects and the guys buried on the depth chart getting some play­ing time instead of the same old faces. 
Defenders of Charlie Weis' math­ematical system will say that last year's game was competitive. Jimmy Clausen ended up throwing a touchdown pass in the waning seconds to Duval Kamara to win the game for the offense. But how can there be a competitive fire for the players to go out and play a game with such different rules for one afternoon? 
Tens of thousands of Notre Dame faithful will flock to the stadium on Saturday with many questions in mind. Was the Hawaii Bowl dominance a fluke? Will the new faces on the coaching staff make that much of a difference? Can receiver John Goodman really throw the ball 85 yards? But the question everybody should be ask­ing is: how many points was that last "explosive play" worth? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Alex West at awest@hcc-nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD RIDE ANY ANIMAL AND NOT GET HURT, WHAT WOULD IT BE? 







Elise Alonzi  Rocky Stroud II  MC O'Donnell  James Bishko  Brandon Porras  
freshman McGlinn  freshman Duncan  freshman McGlinn  freshman Duncan  sophomore Duncan  
"A giant cuttlefish, hypothetically. "  ':.4 dolphin, you know why. ,  ':.4 giraffe, 'cuz think about how tall you'd be. "  "Sarah Palin."  "Miss Piggy. "  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

Man punched in face after removing Cowboys flag 
WASHINGTON -Police said a man was punched in the face after grabbing a Dallas Cowboys flag from a car in downtown Washington. D.C. police Lt. Eric Hayes said someone snatched the flag from a car as it was stopped in traffic Tuesday evening and appar­ently threw it to the ground. 
Police and witnesses said that by the time the man crossed the street, someone exited the car and struck him in the face before driv­ing away. 
Police said the incident may have been motivated by team loyalty, or the motorist might not have wanted any­one to touch his car. 

Police said a man was taken from the scene to be treated for a bruised fore­head. 
Man begs to be sent to jail, judge refuses. 
HOLLIDAYBURG -A cen­tral Pennsylvania man begged a judge to send him to jail, only to have the judge tell him to borrow money to repay a conven­ience store $214 for gaso­line the man allegedly stole in six separate trips. Jerome Banks, 42, wanted Blair County Judge Hiram 
Carpenter to jail him Tuesday. 
Banks said he's due to receive disability payments in about a year, but for now claims he's broke and can't repay the Sheetz store in Tyrone for gas he stole last June and July. 
Carpenter refused to accept Banks guilty plea and send him to jail. The judge told Banks he'd still owe the money after he got out of jail, so he might as well pay it off sooner -at which time Carpenter said he'll dismiss the charges. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
::c 
~ 
LLI 

3: 
...I 
~ 


e
(.) 
0 

..... HIGH 62 HIGH 55 HIGH 67 HIGH 63 
LOW 40 LOW 40 LOW 48 LOW 45 
IN BRIEF 
An informational meeting for the new Economics Club will take place today at 6:30 
p.m. in 209 Debartolo Hall. All majors are welcome and pizza will be provided. 
A documentary made by Notre Dame alums called "The Road to Fondwa" will screen today at 6:30 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune Student Center. It is free and open to the pub­lic. 
Dr. Allan C. Carlson, presi­dent of Howard Center for Family, will be giving a lec­ture today at 7:30 p.m. in Room 140 of DeBartolo Hall on his book "Third Ways." He will discuss Family Centered Economics and why it disap­peared. 
The Creative Writing Program will host a tag team poetry reading today from 
7:30 p.m. to 9 p.m. at the 

Hammes  Notre  Dame  
Bookstore.  
The  2009  "The  Shirt"  

unveiling ceremony will begin at 4 p.m. Friday at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. Shirts will be on sale after the ceremony. 
There will be a panel dis­cussion entitled "What direc­tion is Catholic education heading?" on Sunday from 2-3:30 p.m. in the Coleman Morse Center student lounge. Students and faculty are invited to attend and par­ticipate in the conversation. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

SUNDAY MONDAY 





0,,,,,,,
,,,,,,, 

HIGH 50 HIGH 45 LOW 35 LOW 30 
Atlanta 69 I 47 Boston 49 I 37 Chicago 59 I 35 Denver 52 I 36 Houston 75 I 61 Los Angeles 67 I 50 Minneapolis 66 I 42 New York 57 I 38 Philadelphia 60 I 38 Phoenix 70 I 50 Seattle 58 I 40 St. Louis 65 I 44 Tampa 80 I 57 Washington 62 I 39 
L_ 
Thursday, April 16, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 

CLC 
continued from page 1 
Online calendar needs revision 
"We'd like to encourage OIT 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Student Senate passed a res­olution to reevaluate the University's online events cal­endar, currently located at agenda.nd.edu, and discussed specific improvements needed at Wednesday's meeting. 
Campus Technology Chair Walker Anderson said the two primary issues with agenda.nd.edu are its accessi­bility and aesthetics. 
Anderson said the Web site is relatively inaccessible to stu­dents because people have to go through N o t r e Dame's home 

page to get 'The format is called committee that to it. Even French vanilla. It's created the site. 
then, there is "Anything they

aesthically bland. ,,
only a small were going to put link to the on that calendar calendar at Walker Anderson was going to be the bottom of Campus Technology open to the gener­
Anderson would also like to improve the University calen­dar by making it more central­ized. 
"As of right now there is no one individual responsible for the maintenance of this site," he said. 
Senate also discussed whether the calendar should be solely for campus-wide events that are open to the public, or whether it should also include events only for students. 
Assistant vice president for student affairs Brian Coughlin said agenda.nd.edu currently posts events open to the gener­al public because that was a criteria decided by the 
the Web site, 

Chair
he said. 
"I think your revision is highly needed," Pasquerilla West senator Megan Carey said. 
Carey said she doesn't know how to get to the calendar directly and can only access it because it pops up in conjunc­tion with another Web site she uses. 
Anderson would also like to improve the appearance of the calendar because the current format of agenda.nd.edu is outdated and unappealing. 
"This format is called French vanilla," Anderson said. "It's aesthetically bland." 
"It looks pretty archaic," Carey said. 





J)AY OF SILINCI 
APRIL 17, 2009 

Please understand my reasons for not speaking today. I am participating In the Day of Silence, a national movement protesting the silence faced by lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people and their allies in schools. My deliberate silence echoes that silence, which is caused by harassment, prejudice~ and discrimination. I believe that ending the silence is the first step toward fighting these injustices. Think about the voices you are not hearing today. 
WHAT ABE YOIJ GOING TO DO TO END THE SILENCE? 

The 2009 Day of Silence at Notre Dame Is sponJOred by: The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students • The Gender Relations Center Tht Unlversltv Counsellnc Center • Student Government 
For more lnformatlon, please visit our website at corecouncil.nd.edu 

al public," 
Coughlin said. 
"That's just the 

public nature of the Notre Dame Web site." 
On the new Web site, Anderson said, "I don't see why [most student events] couldn't be promoted pub­licly." 
Anderson also said the improved Web site could be used for admissions. 
"Prospective students will go onto the calendar and see what's happening around cam­pus and say 'Oh, that's cool. Gym Class Heroes is coming to Notre Dame,"' he said. "They can kind of get a taste of stu­dent life and what actually occurs." 
Senate also discussed incor­body," she said. "And a lot of students don't see it that way or don't know that it is even their mission. We don't want it to be so unknown about the process, what happens, why they do what they do." 
Koski said the task force hopes to achieve this goal though residence hall visits by NDSP officers and representa­tives from ORLH. The visits would involve explanations of policies and offer students an opportunity to ask questions. 
The task force also found that the Pillars presentations given to freshmen to promote respon­sible life choices might be more effective if they were given at a different time of year, Koski said. 
"They're great for education ... but they come in that period when freshman are just getting bombarded with information," she said. 
Fr. Pete McCormick, rector of Keough Hall, said Keough held Pillars presentations in the spring and also had NDSP offi­cers visit the dorm to answer questions. He said both events were successful and that the students found them informa­tive. 
The long-term recommenda­tions for the Medical Amnesty Policy include a rector report to ORLH about medical amnesty, Koski said. Such an attachment would allow ORLH to take into account a student's intent to seek medical help for a peer. 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 

porating Coogle into the improvements for the calen­dar. 
"Maybe by each listing have a button that says 'subscribe,' especially if it's a series or 'add to my calendar' if it's a one time thing," Anderson said. 
Anderson said these revi­sions will take place well into next year. 
"It's not gong to be instant change because we have to get these different campus entities to start working with each other," Anderson said. "If we want to do this integrated sys­tem then you also have to basi­cally create new systems so that the different calendars can talk to one another." 
In other Senate News: 

+ Chief of staff Ryan Brellenthin said the Chicago Tribune will increase its price from 35 cents to 85 cents per issue. 
Alternatives to subscribing the Chicago Tribune as part of the College Readership Program could be getting a local paper, like the South Bend Tribune, another region­al paper, like the Chicago Sun­Times, or using the money that was budgeted for the Chicago Tribune to buy more copies of The New York Times and USA Today. 
and Web Group to make this a priority in their endeavors," he said. 
With a better online calendar, Schmidt said students could more easily search for and find events that they want to attend. Because students have taken advantage of other online fea­tures, Schmidt said students would also use a better calen­dar. 
"Clearly students are using these online features, so I think this would have groups central­ize their information" he said. 
CLC also discussed the Medical Amnesty Policy. Former chief executive assis­tant Karen Koski reviewed the recommendations of the task force on Medical Amnesty Policy review. 
Koski said the task force developed both short-term and long-term recommendations for the Medical Amnesty policy, which concerns students who have been drinking but seek medical attention for an intoxi­cated friend. 
The short-term recommenda­tions include a clarification for students about the role of the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ORLH). 
"First and foremost the fact that they set forth that their mission is more about helping young people develop as opposed to a purely disciplinary 
+ Carroll senator Nick Ruof said the committee on resi­dence life will be touring the basement of DeBartalo to determine the viability of installing a food area in the building. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 

see the economy shrinking they cut down on giving foreign aid," Dutt said. "This and contractions in the economy leads to a reduc­tion in resources which additional­ly leads to a rise in poverty and usually inequality within the coun­try." 
Dowd, a professor of political science, said the global community should be concerned about the deprivation that might arise as a result of feelings of inequality. 
"During times of economic diffi­culties, politicians play on people's fears," Dowd said. "This deepen­ing economic crisis is not good for democracies in the south, espe­cially in countries where democra­cy is new." 
Dowd said these developing countries that have recently adopted democracy are prone to destruction. 
"In most parts of the developing world, democracy is new and fledging and the governments are not very good at responding to a crisis such as this," Dowd said. 'This is going to make authoritari­an regimes look much more favor­able." 
Dowd said he fears that if these countries return to authoritarian rule, development will stall com­pletely. 
"It has been shown that democ­racy is better for development," he said. "Whether or not a complete breakdown of democracy occurs depends on if the citizens blame the government of the day or the entire democratic system as the reason for their troubles." 
Dowd said the most important thing the northern countries can do in alleviating the troubles of the developing nations is to make sure government policies that are being pursued are not turning the coun­try inward. 
"What we need to remember is that policies that are focused on maintaining the standard of living in the developed world do not trump policies focused on basic living in the non-developed world," Dowd said. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden@hcc-nd.edu 


Ford 
continued from page 1 

that this crisis will have long-term effects on international develop­ment." 
Bergstrand stressed that while a significant part of the origins of the crisis came from Wall Street, the global community at large is suffering the consequences. 
"In situations such as this, the developing world often pays a big price," he said. "As our economy slows down, we slow down and import less. This begins the trans­mission that hurts development abroad." 
Dutt, a professor of economics, agreed that the crisis in the north­ern, or developed, region of the world has the potential to filter down and be destructive to the southern region. 
"Most of the world's poor live in the southern hemisphere," Dutt said. "This crisis has put the poor in a precarious situation." 
Dutt said while the crisis is affecting Americans and other citi­zens of developed nations, it is nothing compared to the impact that it has on the members of developing nations. 
"Here, the state of the economy means that you don't take your fifth vacation," he said. "Things are very different and much more detrimental to the south." 
Dutt said a unique situation had been created by the relationship between the developed nations and developing nations when the economy was not in decline. 
"Before the crisis, rich countries would lend abroad to poorer countries," he said. "When every­thing began to go wrong, instead of lending, these rich countries called back their loans right as the demand for the goods from these poor countries fell; it put these countries in a very strained situa­tion." 
In addition to calling back loans and no longer importing their goods, these rich countries also reduced their level of aid. 
"When the northern countries 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 16, 2009 
Senior 
continued from page 1 

older employees decided to post­pone retirement, taking away positions from college graduates -sometimes multiple positions, as their salaries can triple those for entry level positions. 
This trend did not keep senior Zach Mady from securing an engineering position with Lockheed Martin in November 2008. 
"The engineering market is dominated by older generations of people," Mady said "There are a larger number of people retir­ing in the field than ever before." 
But even as the banking, con­sulting, architecture, accounting, real estate and retail sectors are shrinking, other industries are expanding, according to Svete. He attributed some of this expansion to the effects of the stimulus pack­age. 
Svete said the stimulus is already having an impact, espe­cially in "infrastructure." 
"The federal government is hir­ing -civil engineers, social serv­ices, and health care," Svete said. 
Other fields that have shown promise for graduating seniors despite the recession are green energy, computer technology, software development, biotech­nology and engineering firms with defense contracts, Svete said. 
"I interviewed with Lockheed Martin for a summer internship two years ago," Mady said. "They liked my work that summer so they retained me for another summer and again I did a service­able job. So, I actually applied before the summer was over. I had an offer in November and was secure in my job." 
Green energy will be a booming field due to the stimulus, but stu­dents must be "geographically diverse" when it comes to consid­ering their career options, Svete said, referencing a large solar panel manufacturing plant in Arizona. 
The alternative energy industry isn't the only "alternative" career path that has grown this year for seniors. According to Svete, the number of students who complete volunteer service after graduation could grow from an average of 200 for past years to 290 for this year, but postponing a conven­tional career by doing service isn't a career interruption -it's an enhancement. 
"As a result, our graduates are much more versatile than gradu­ates from other schools," Svete said. "Ethics and integrity are among the top-ranked traits that employers look for." 
Other students, such as senior Jimmy Champlin, decided to attend graduate or professional school and look for permanent employment when the economy is hopefully more stable. 
After considering the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) pro­gram, Champlin opted for law school, since he thought a political science major would mostly limit him to government jobs. 
"That way I can push back needing a job three years," Champlin said. 
With an abundance of service opportunities and options for graduate school as well as an expected recovery of the econo­my, students should not reconsid­er their desired academic majors to make themselves more attrac­tive job candidates, according to Svete. 
"Economies are cyclical and to make a short-term decision based on vocation rather than passion is the wrong decision," he said. 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 

cally filled by college students, number of UROP applications can help students find summer Svete said. that we had last year," Director opportunities. The Career

SuiDIDer 
"It's a domino effect. When of the Institute for Scholarships Center has access to more than continued from page 1 people are getting laid off from in the Liberal Arts Agustin a million companies on their companies ... they're going out Fuentes said. database and to the entire 
"They've lost revenue. And and filling some of these jobs UROP has not been able to Notre Dame alumni network, as a result, their full time and that are hourly rate," Svete meet the demand because which is "incredible" and internship budgets have been said. "Those jobs at the mall while applications are increas­"amazingly supportive," he decreased," Svete said. aren't there anymore." ing, endowments are down due said. "Internships have dropped not Svete's advice to students to the economy, Fuentes said. "Our underclass students can because of the opportunity, but who can't find an internship or "Everyone's endowment is come in and meet with a coun­because of the pay." job for this summer is to con­down. But ours isn't that bad," selor," he said. "We can find 
Sophomore Brittany Johnson sider volunteering, which he said. out what alumni are in your has an internship this summer shows work ethic and versatili­Fuentes said he does not field and help you contact shadowing a pharmacist in a ty. A volunteer position will foresee having to cut down on them." hospital, but has noticed the also provide a reference for the number of grants given Svete urged students to be economy's effect on the intern­future jobs, Svete said. and hopes that next year, creative, and not to let the dif­ship market. As long as students can artic­UHOP will be able to give at ficult economic times bring 
"Last summer, my internship ulate what they gained from least what it gave this year. them down. was paid and this summer it's their summer experience, "We're going to do every­"You've got to deal with some not paid, but I have to take "employers don't care if you've thing that we can to make sure rejection, you just can't get dis­what I can get because I need made $2,000 in a summer or that doesn't impact our sup­couraged," he said. "Realize pharmacy experience," $10." port for students," he said. it's not you, it's the economy." Johnson said. Troubles finding internships According to Sarah Baer ''I'm not trying to sugar coat 
Johnson said she had to and jobs may have led students from the Office of International this. It's tough out there," adjust her expectations to to consider other summer Studies, applications for study Svete said. "But [Notre Dame accommodate the state of the options and utilize more of the abroad programs this summer students] are still the most economy. University's resources. were strong, but acceptance flexible candidates that I've 
"I have to take the financial The Undergraduate Research rates were low. worked with in 23 years. And hit now and not make any Opportunity Program (UROP), "We received a greater per­I've been in the Ivy League. money this summer and hope­which provides financial sup­centage of declines from I've been across the East fully get into pharmacy port to students wishing to do admitted students than we typ­coast." school," she said. independent research, accord­ically do," Baer said. "I think "We're going to be okay," he 
The summer job market for ing to their Web site, has the reality of paying for the said. students is also suffering noticed an increase in applica­program caused many students because people who got laid off tions. to decline." Contact Sarah Mervosh at have taken jobs that are typi-"We had almost twice the Svete said the Career Center smervosh@nd.edu 
Attention Seniors! 
Notte Dame's Office ofUndergraduate Admissions anticipates hiring Admissions Counselors this spring! 
As pan of the Undefbll'aduatc Admissions staf~ the Admissions Counselor is expected to make an itnportant contribution to the recn1itn1ent and selection of the first-year class by managing relations with prospecti,·e applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alurnni in an assigned geographic territory. 

Responsibilities include cxtensi\·c planning~ traYd and cotntnunication within the geographic territory, asscssn1ent and cYaluation of applications and conducting group/indiYidual infonnation sessions ...\dditional responsibilities will be assigned by the .\ssistant ProYost for Enrolhncnt and the l)in.·cror of Adtnissions ()pcrations. 
..\n1ong our candidates, we rn~w seck indiYiduals who wiJI assist with our din?rsitY 
~-. ~ ~ 
recn1itmcnt efforts. 

Mininn1n1 Requirements: Candidates should possess a Bachelor's degree and strong 
farniliarity with all aspects of acadctnic and student life at N<>trc Datnc. Essential <-Jualitics include strong communication and orbranizational skil1s, enthusiasm, diplon1acy and the willint,:ttlcss to work long hours, including tnany cn:nings and Saturday tnornings. 
Pn,terred .rlart date irJ11!1' I, 2009. 
Application Process: To apply, please ,·isit hrrp:/ /"\i D.jnbs and apply to job #09123. 
·n1c l~nt\Trsit~ of ~otrc Dame is \~omtnitrc..·d to di,·ersity in its sraff, faculty, and student body. \s such, we strongly encourage applications frorn members of minority group!'. won1en~ \'ctcrans. indi' iduals with disabilities, and otlH:rs who will (..'nhancc our comnmnity. .\.\/E<H~. 


---------, 






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, April 16, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICEs page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Colombian drug lord arrested in raid 
BOGOTA -Colombia's most wanted drug lord was cowering like a dog under a palm tree when he was captured Wednesday in a jungle raid involving hundreds of police officers, the defense minister said. 
Daniel Rendon Herrera, alias "Don Mario," was taken in shackles to the capi­tal to await possible extradition to the United States. 
Rendon Herrera allegedly commanded hundreds of armed men in a private militia and directed a criminal organization that sent hundreds of tons of cocaine to the u.s. 
President Alvaro Uribe described Rendon Herrera, 43, as "one of the most feared drug traffickers in the world." 
Rendon Herrera's organization is respon­sible for 3,000 murders in the last 18 months alone, said Gen. Oscar Naranjo, who directs the national police. 
Iran scientists clone female goat 
ISFAHAN, Iran-Iranian scientists have cloned a goat and plan future experiments they hope will lead to a treatment for stroke patients, the leader of the research said Wednesday. 
The female goat, named Hana, was born early Wednesday in the city of Isfahan in central Iran, said Dr. Mohammed Hossein Nasr e Isfahani, head of the Royan Research Institute. 
"With the birth of Hana, Iran is among five countries in the world cloning a baby goat," said Isfahani, an embryologist. 
In 2006 Iran became the first country in the Middle East to announce it had cloned a sheep. Two and a half years later, that animal is healthy, the institute said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
FPA gives stimulus to hazardous sites 
NEW BEDFORD, Mass.-For decades, the New Bedford Harbor was a dumping ground for industrial metals and other contaminants. But now that harbor and 49 other polluted and hazardous waste sites are a step closer to a major cleanup. 
Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Lisa Jackson on Wednesday sin­gled out 50 sites, in 28 states, that will share $582 million in newly approved federal stimu­lus money to continue cleanup operations. 
"The EPA has an answer for these challeng­ing economic times," Jackson said at the har­bor. "We have moved beyond the false choice between a green economy and a green envi­ronment." 

Sacramento tent city cleaned out 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. -Dozens of the peo­ple who have been living in a homeless encampment near downtown Sacramento folded their tents and packed their shopping carts Wednesday, the deadline set by the city to clear out. 
Many said they did not want to go to shelters or had heard that the city's shelters were full. 
"I don't know where I'm going," said Danny Valadez, 48, who lost his job as a painter and has lived at the so-called "tent city" with his girlfriend for the past 13 months. He said they didn't want to live in shelters because there are too many rules and they feel "a little like jail." 
LOCAL NEWS 

Runaway prison inmate captured 
MICHIGAN CITY, Ind. -An inmate who walked away from a work crew at the minimum security unit at the Indiana State Prison last week was captured Wednesday. 
State Prison Superintendent Mark Levenhagen said Steven Grove was taken into custody about 12:30 p.m. Wednesday at a library in Benton Harbor, Mich., about 40 miles from the prison. 
The 26-year-old Kokomo man is being held at the Berrien County Jail in Benton Harbor. 

Nationwide 'tea parties' convened 
Protests sparked by anger at government's spending; rallies held in many major cities 
Associated Press 
FRANKFORT, Ky. Whipped up by conservative commentators and blog­gers, tens of thousands of protesters staged "tea par­ties" around the country Wednesday to tap into the collective angst stirred up by a bad economy, govern­ment spending and bailouts. 
The rallies were directed at President Barack Obama's new administra­tion on a symbolic day: the deadline to file income taxes. Protesters even threw what appeared to be a box of tea bags toward the White House, causing a brief lockdown at the com­pound. 
Shouts rang out from Kentucky, which just passed tax increases on cigarettes and alcohol, to Salt Lake City, where many in the crowd booed Republican Gov. Jon Huntsman for accepting about $1.5 billion in stimulus money. 

"Frankly, I'm mad as hell," said businessman Doug Burnett at a rally at the Iowa Capitol, where many of the about 1,000 people wore red shirts declaring "revolution is brewing." Burnett added: "This country has been on a spending spree for decades, advocacy group based in Grover Norquist, president American theme and never a spending spree we can't Washington and led by for­of Americans for Tax a bad thing." afford." mer Republican House Reform. There were several small 
In Boston, a few hundred Majority Leader Dick Armey The movement attracted counter-protests, including protesters gathered on the of Texas, who is now a lob­some Republicans consider­one that drew about a Boston Common -a short byist. ing 2012 presidential bids. dozen people at Fountain distance from the original Organizers said the move­Former House Speaker Square in Cincinnati. A Tea Party -some dressed ment developed organically Newt Gingrich planned to counter-protester held a in Revolutionary garb and through online social net­address a tea party in a sign that read, "Where were carrying signs that said working sites such as New York City park you when Bush was spend­"Barney Frank, Bernie Facebook and Twitter and Wednesday night. Louisiana ing billions a month 'liberat­Madoff: And the Difference through exposure on Fox Gov. Bobby Jindal sent an e­ing' Iraq?" The anti-tax Is?" and "D.C.: District of News. mail to his supporters, let­demonstration there, mean­Communism." While FreedomWorks ting them know about tea while, drew about 4,000 
In Atlanta, thousands of insisted the rallies were parties throughout the people. people were expected to nonpartisan, they have been state. South Carolina Gov. In Lansing, Mich., outside gather on the steps of the seized on by many promi­Mark Sanford planned to the state Capitol, another Capitol, where Fox News nent Republicans who view attend two tea parties. 4,000 people waved signs Channel conservative pundit them as a promising way "There is no such thing as exclaiming "Stop the Fiscal Sean Hannity was set to for the party to reclaim its so-called free money and Madness," "Read My broadcast his show momentum. that includes stimulus," Lipstick! No More Bailouts" Wednesday night. "All you have to be is a Sanford told several thou­and "The Pirates Are in 
The tea parties were pro­mildly awake Republican sand people outside the D.C." Children held moted by FreedomWorks, a candidate for office to get in statehouse in Columbia, S.C. makeshift signs complaining conservative nonprofit front of that parade," said "Paying down debt is an old about the rising debt. 

IRAQ 

Study findings reveal civilian deaths 
Associated Press The authors concede the data is not the March 20, 2003 invasion through 
comprehensive but maintain that the March 19, 2008, in which 91,358 vio­
BAGHDAD -Execution-style study provides a reliable gauge of lent deaths were recorded by Iraq killings, not headline-grabbing bomb­how Iraqis have died in the six-year Body Count. ings, have been the leading cause of conflict. The total number of civilian deaths death among civilians in the Iraq war, The findings also provide further in Iraq is widely disputed, but the a study released Wednesday shows. evidence of the brutal sectarian count by the London-based group is 
The fmdings, published in the New cleansing and retaliatory violence widely considered a credible mini­England Journal of Medicine, point to between Shiites and Sunnis that mum. the brutal sectarian nature of the pushed the country to the brink of Apart from media reports, Iraq conflict, where death squads once civil war before easing a year and a Body Count uses figures from roamed the streets hunting down half ago. morgues and hospitals since the war members of the rival Muslim sect. "I think that a lot of the executions started. 
Estimates of the number of civilians with torture had to do with trying to However, the authors focused on killed in Iraq vary widely. The study get people to move out of their hous­only 60,481 deaths linked to specific was based on the database main­es," said Michael Spagat, one of the events, excluding Iraqis killed in pro­tained by Iraq Body Count, a private study's authors. "It had to strike fear longed episodes of violence during group that among other sources uses into people's hearts. A lot of it is just the U.S.-led invasion and the U.S. media reports including those of The hatred and retribution." sieges of the former insurgent strong­Associated Press. The study covered the period from hold of Fallujah in 2004. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April16, 2009 
being ranked as last year's 
cell phone receptors on campus, that allow students to check their number one of over 270 pro­
which means that their cus­grades or courses on their
iPhone

Cadet 
grams nationwide on the 
tomers do not get as good of serv­phones. Army's physical fitness test," 
continued from page 1 ice, he said. The applications would be he said. 
continued from page 1 
But poor service for Sprint and meant to make student life easier cohesive team, provide guid­Ballard is currently partici­
"If Apple had a promotion T-Mobile customers is not some­on campus, and have already ance, and supervise these pating in the seminar, which 
[where] every Notre Dame stu­thing that he can control, Latimer been utilized by schools like activities was exemplary," he began Tuesday and concludes 
dent got an iPhone and they came said. Stanford University and Duke said. Thursday. 
back over Christmas break with He said cell phone companies University. Crist said the candidates for This year's seminar is 
10,000 new iPhones ... that must decide to invest in putting One application used by anoth­the award are selected based chaired by retired Lt. Gen. 
would be a problem," Latimer receptors on campus. OIT can er university can "tell you when on a wide array of skills. Richard Timmons and retired 
said. "The growth has boon pre­only encourage the companies to your dryer is buzzed and your "Army ROTC cadets are Maj. Gen. Patricia Hickerson. 
dietable enough that wn ~:an react do so, Latimer said. clothes are rnady," Latimer said. rated on their academic, physi­At the conference, Ballard 
fast enough to that to make sure "There's only so much money "We clearly recognize that cal, and military/leadership will have the opportunity to 
that there anm't problems. to go around. And it takes active mobility is going to be key. We skills," Crist said. participate in roundtable dis­
"We're not going to get caught lobbying and an ongoing partner­want to deploy more and more of "Cadet Ballard sets himself cussions on issues that are 
off guard," he said. ship," he said. "It's up to us to our services that are mobile apart from an extremely pertinent to current national 
One reason that iPhone users convince them to spend it on our friendly," he said. accomplished group of peers security. 
should not have any problems is campus." Ted Mandell, a professor in the by seeking out and excelling in This opportunity is some­
because of the high number of Latimer said Notre Dame is Film, Television and Theatre the leadership position he is thing that Crist said he 
AT&T receptors on campus. "carrier neutral" because they department, sees the increase in assigned, maintaining over a believes will be an excellent 
There arc 17 hidden cell phone would like to have receptors from the use of iPhones and smart 
3.5 GPA, and habitually scoring experience for Ballard. 
receptors sproad across campus all companies, but Sprint and T­phones as a result of society's the maximum on his physical "As one of the top cadets in 
and AT&T is on all 17, Latimer Mobile decided to not put recep­shill towards multitasking. tests." the country, Cadet Ballard will 
said. tors on campus. Although he doesn't see much Each year, the top Army contribute significantly to 
Verizon also has receptors "The Sprint CEO is a Notre iPhone use in his classroom ROTC Cadet at Notre Dame is these important topics and 
throughout campus, although Dame alum, and we just haven't because he teaches in the selected to attend the Marshall share his ideas with other 
they are slightly less prevalent been able to get them to bite," he DeBartolo Performing Arts seminar, which takes place in cadets and the cadre when he 
than AT&'C he said. said. Center, where there is little cell Lexington, Va. returns," he said. 
"Clearly, IAT&T] is the more "We can't say it enough. We phone service, a lot of his stu­Crist said Notre Dame cadets Ballard will receive his com­
aggressive of the two," Latimer would love to have Sprint and T­dents use the Internet on laptops are traditionally among the mission on May 16th. He will 
said. However, he said Verizon Mobile on campus, but they're during class. best ROTC candidates in the graduate with honors with a 
and AT&T havo "roughly Pquiva­not here. Yes, there are angry "I don't have a problem with nation. degree in Arabic this May. 
lent" eoverage on campus. students on campus. Yes, I feel students multitasking," Mandell "Notre Dame cadets, besides "For Cadet Ballard to stand 
Latimer said the move towards sorry for them. But I can't control said. "I think people are being being at one of the top aca­so high among the best is a 
mobility, not specifically an that." trained to constantly multitac;k." demic schools in the country, credit to himself, the 
increase in iPhone usage, is driv­In addition to lobbying for more "Like you have to make deci­are among the highest rated University of Notre Dame, the 
ing an increase in antennas on antennas on campus, Latimer sions: Do I listen to the person I'm ROTC cadets in the country, US Army, and our country," 
campus. said he has plans to utilize the talking to or do I respond to a consistently graduating the Crist said. 
Additionally, campus construc­increase in smart phones by cre­Faeebook I message]?" he said. Leadership Development and 
tion contributes to a need for ating applications that could be Mendell said the iPhone is just Assessment Course in the top Contact Liz O'Donnell at 
more antennas. New buildings used by Notre Dame studenlc; on an extension of laptops when it 15 percent of the country and edonnel@nd.edu 
"block and absorb" cell phone their phones. comes to using the Internet. signals, he said. "We as a University are going to "I always just assume people 
"If you had great reception one start writing more and more are doing three or four things day and all of a sudden they build applications ... that are smart while they're listening in class," a new law school between you phone friendly," he said. he said. "I think that's probably and that antenna, all of a sudden Although he has not committed going to be a common thing now." you don't have groat reception," to any specific applications, Latimer said. Latimer said possible smart Contact Sarah Mervosh at 
Sprint and T-Mobile have no phone applications could include smervosh@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Thursday, April 16, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 8,029.62 +109.44 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,578 liS 1,113 3,003,033,244 
AMEX NASDAQ 1,626.80.. + 1.08 NYSE 5,384,9£ +s3.41 

S&P 500 852.06 +10.56 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 8,962.DJI!1~~~;9.42'~ FTSE 100 (London) 3,968.40 -20.59 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP INC (C) ·1.00 ·0.04 3.97 BK OF AMERICA (BAC) +3.47 +0.35 10.44 FINANCIAL BULL 3X (FAS) +13.10 +1.03 8.86 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +1.07 +0.90 85.25 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.97 -0.027 2.76 13-WEEK BILL ·15.15 -0.030 0.14 30-YEAR BOND -0.27 -0.010 3.65 5-YEAR NOTE -1.28 -0.022 1.70 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.16 49.25 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +1.50 893.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) ·1.00 86.80 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 99.4250 EURO 1.3258 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2016 BRITISH POUND 1.5051 

IN BRIEF 
Fiat CEO demands major cost cuts DETROIT -With just 15 days left before the 
U.S. government pulls the plug on Chrysler, the only man who appears able to save the struggling automaker is casting doubt on whether a deal can be worked out. Fiat CEO Sergio Marchionne, in an interview published Wednesday, said the Italian automaker will walk away from a nonbinding agreement to take a 20 percent stake in Chrysler and share its small car technology unless the U.S. automaker's unions agree to major cost cuts. 
A Fiat spokesman confirmed Marchionne's statements. 
Chrysler, which is living on $4 billion in loans from the U.S. government, has to take on a part­ner and gain concessions from unions and debtholders by April 30, or the Obama adminis-· tration will stop lending it money. No other suitors have emerged, and it's likely that no bankruptcy financing will be available, so Chrysler would have little choice but to be auctioned off in pieces. 
Program gives money to six companies 
WASHINGTON -The Obama administration on Wednesday named the first six companies partici­pating in a $75 billion program designed to help millions of struggling homeowners avoid foreclo­sure. 
The administration said the companies ­including some of the mortgage industry's biggest players-will receive a maximum of $9.9 billion in incentive payments, which are designed to encourage mortgage companies to lower borrow­ers' monthly bills. The government expects to fin­ish arrangements with other companies in the coming months. 
Chase Home Finance, part of JPMorgan Chase & Co., will receive up to $3.6 billion, the largest amount among the six companies. 
The other recipients are: Wells Fargo & Co., GMAC Mortgage Inc., Citigroup Inc.'s CitiMortgage unit, Select Portfolio Servicing and Saxon Mortgage Services Inc. 
The program, unveiled on March 4, will offer struggling homeowners the chance to obtained modified loans with lower monthly payments. It's being funded by $50 billion out of the govern­ment's $700 billion financial rescue program. The remaining $25 billion will come from other gov­ernment sources. 

Wall Street rally shows economic hope 
Signs of improvement spark purchase ofstocks; some experts remain cautious 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Investors snapped up shares of con­sumer product makers and financial companies Wednesday as they latched onto signs that the reces­sion could be easing its chokehold on the economy. 
Early caution gave way to a rally in the last hour of trading as investors looked for stocks that could bene­fit from a rebound. Technology stocks lagged after Intel Corp.'s tightlipped forecast caused jitters about a corner of the market that had drawn buyers over the past month. 
The Dow Jones industrial average ended with a gain of 109 points. 
Money flowed into stocks like Procter & Gamble Co., which boosted its dividend, and American Express Co., which said it is having to write off less bad debt. 
"The market may not be seeing concrete signs of a recovery, but there are specks of light that we're on the road to stabiliza­tion," said Ryan Larson, senior equity trader at Voyageur Asset Management. 

Lackluster economic readings early in the day offered reminders of the economy's troubles. But other signs emerged that the economy could be sta­mists had expected but still and incentives. day earlier. Market watch­bilizing as the day wore on. reflected weaker business American Airlines parent ers said this kind of back­That idea that the reces­activity. AMR Corp. jumped 19 per­and-forth is likely to con­sion is at least not worsen­Other economic reports cent after the carrier's tinue as companies contin­ing has pushed stocks up that came out in the after­$375 million loss for the ue to report results from by more than 20 percent in noon offered some bright first quarter wasn't as bad the first three months of the past five weeks. spots that the market as analysts had feared. the year. 
The government report­responded to. The Federal American Express said in According to preliminary ed that production at the Reserve's snapshot of busi­a regulatory filing that had calculations, the Dow nation's factories, mines ness conditions around the to write off a smaller per­Jones industrial average and utilities fell 1.5 per­nation suggested that centage of loans in March rose 109.44, or 1.4 per­cent in March, the fifth while the economy remains than in February. Amex's cent, to 8,029.62. straight month of decline troubled, some areas like 12 percent rally was the The Standard & Poor's and worse than the 1 per­manufacturing were stabi­biggest advance among the 500 index rose 10.56, or cent dip analysts expected. lizing. 30 stocks that make up the 1.3 percent, to 852.06. The 
Consumer prices fell 0.1 The National Association Dow industrials. tech-heavy Nasdaq com­percent last month as a of Home Builders said its Trading volume was posite index edged up 1.08, drop in energy prices offset housing market index post­light, which can amplify or 0.1 percent, to 1,626.80 the biggest rise in tobacco ed its biggest one-month swings in the market, and after losing ground for prices in more than a gain in five years in April some buyers may have most of the day because of decade. It was better than as many homebuyers been ready to pounce fol­disappointment about the 0.1 percent rise econo-jumped on lower prices lowing a 2 percent slump a Intel's report. 

Prices fall unexpectedly in March 
12-month decline since a similar drop 70.3 percent, the lowest on records
Associated Press for the year ending in August 1955. dating to 1967, the Fed said. WASHINGTON -Consumer prices Meanwhile, the Federal Reserve said Core inflation, which excludes ener­dipped unexpectedly in March, leaving Wednesday its latest survey of business gy and food, rose 0.2 percent last prices over the past year falling at the conditions nationwide found five of its month, matching the gains of the past fastest clip in more than a half-century. 12 regional banks reported a modera­three months. It was slightly higher The recession is expected to keep a lid tion in the pace of the economic than the 0.1 percent rise economists on inflation as widespread layoffs decline. The Fed said several regions expected. dampen wage pressures and weak "saw signs that activity in some sectors Over the past 12 months, core infla­demand keeps companies from raising was stabilizing at a low level ... (but) tion has risen 1.8 percent. While some prices. overall economic activity contracted economists have expressed fears the The Labor Department said further or remained weak." recession could spawn a destabilizing Wednesday that consumer prices The Fed also reported that produc­period of falling prices, other analysts edged down 0.1 percent last month as tion at the nation's factories, mines and point to the rise in core inflation as evi­a drop in energy prices offset the utilities dropped a seasonally adjusted dence that deflation remains only a biggest rise in tobacco prices in more 1.5 percent in March, the fifth straight distant threat. than a decade. It was a better perform­monthly decline. That matched In fact, some economists worry that ance than the 0.1 percent rise in the February's drop and was worse than all of the moves the Federal Reserve Consumer Price Index that economists the 1 percent dip analysts expected. has made to fight the recession and the had expected. Factories and mines are increasingly worst financial crisis in 70 years could Over the past 12 months, consumer idle, as the total industrial capacity uti­be sowing the seeds for inflation trou­prices have fallen 0.4 percent, the first lization rate fell to 69.3 percent from bles down the road. 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, April 16, 2009 
SMC Tostal celebration to host Sara Bareilles 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 
Saint Mary~ College will welcome recording artist Sara Bareilles to campus today as part of the annual SMC Tostal celebration. 
Created after an Irish­inspired spring festival, SMC Tostal will celebrate the end of the academic year. SMC Tostal will host several dif­ferent activities to allow stu­dents to relax and take a break. 
The College's Student Activity Board (SAB) is responsible for planning the events held throughout SMC Tostal. 
"SAB plans this event every year, but the activities throughout the day have var­ied from year to year," Michele Peterson, SAB presi­dent, said. "A few years ago we had fireworks and an outdoor movie. Last year, we had popular recording artist Colbie Caillat perform." 
SAB has been planning the event since last semester, according to Peterson. 
"Things really started pick­ing up about two months ago when our offer for Sara Bareilles was accepted," Peterson said. "When this happened, we were really able to start planning the rest of the day." 
This year SMC Tostal has several new events to offer students. From henna tattoos to a photo booth, SMC Tostal has something for everyone to enjoy. The special musical guest this year will be Sara Bareilles featuring Katius, a band from Dayton, Ohio, as the opening act. 
SAB worked with a booking agent from Indianapolis in order to get Bareilles to come to campus. 
"We have a booking agent from Indianapolis who we contacted to find out which artists were available in our price range on April 16," Peterson said. "Once we fig­ured out who we wanted, we sent in an offer, which was fortunately accepted." 
SMC Tostal is held every year to offer students a chance to relax from the stresses of the end of the year. SMC Tostal is free of charge, and allows for some fun to mix up the daily rou­tine. 
"Students should go to the SMC Tostal because the end of the semester is always stressful and this gives stu­dents the opportunity to relax and have a little bit of fun, all for free," Peterson said. "Also, how often do you get to see a popular record­ing artist for free?" 
SAB decided to make the tickets free so all students could enjoy SMC Tostal. 
"We want everyone to go, regardless if they can afford a ticket or not," Peterson said. "They deserve it!" 
The events in the student center will begin at 12 p.m. and will run through 4 p.m. Special desserts will be in the dining hall from 4:30 
p.m. to 7 p.m. The Bareilles concert will begin at 6 p.m. in the Angela Athletic facili­ty. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Vt.lawmakers to ease 'sexting' laws 
Associated Press 
MONTPELIER, Vt. -Parents, school districts and law enforcement have been grap­pling with what to do with teenagers who take sexually explicit photos of themselves with their cell phone cameras and send them to friends. 
Vermont legislators are mov­ing to get rid of one option: child pornography counts that result in lifetime listings on the state's Internet sex offender registry. 
Legislation passed by the Vermont Senate and pending in the House would remove the most serious legal conse­quences for teenagers who engage in "sexting." The bill would carve out an exemption from prosecution for child pornography for 13-to 18­year-olds on either the sending or receiving end of sexting mes­sages, so long as the sender voluntarily transmits an image of himself or herself. 
The bill, however, would not legalize the conduct. Legislators believe prosecutors could still use laws against lewd and lascivious conduct and against disseminating inde­cent materials to a minor. 
State legislatures, including Vermont's, have been cracking down on sexual predators in recent years, but lawmakers here say they don't want increasingly tough penalties applied to those caught up in what many regard as a youth­ful fad. 
"We felt that it's poor behav­ior and it's not something we want to give our OK to," said Sen. Richard Sears, D­Bennington and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. "But at the same time, do we want a kid in jail? 

Do we want them tagged as a sex offender for the rest of their lives? And the answer is no." 
Prosecutors around the coun­try have tried various approaches against teenagers who used cell phones, e-mail or social networking Web sites to transmit naughty pictures of themselves. 
Last month, a 14-year-old New Jersey girl was arrested for posting nude pictures of herself on MySpace. She was charged with child pornogra­phy and distribution of child pornography for allegedly post­ing nearly 30 explicit pictures on the site. But it's likely she'll avoid jail because she's a juve­nile, according to a prosecutor handling the case. 
In Pennsylvania, 17 students involved in distributing photos of nude or scantily clad female classmates accepted a county prosecutor's offer that their cases would be resolved if they participated in a five-week after-school program on sexual harassment and similar topics. Three balked and sued in fed­eral court to stop prosecutors from filing charges. 
In Ohio, a 15-year-old high school girl faced charges for sending racy cell phone photos of herself to classmates. She eventually agreed to a curfew, no cell phone and supervised Internet usage. 
In Vermont, authorities have charged an 18-year-old from Morrisville, Isaac Owusu, with directing two teenage girls to videotape or photograph them­selves performing sex acts on themselves and send the results to him. The defense maintains the girls were willing partici­pants. 
In that case, Chittenden County State's Attorney T.J. Donovan said Owusu's directing the events is what resulted in charges. 
But he agreed with backers of the legislation that volun­teering to take and send racy photos of oneself shouldn't result in criminal charges. 
"I don't think it serves any public interest to paint those kids ... as sex offenders," said Donovan, chief prosecutor in Vermont's most populous coun­ty. 
Ernie Allen, president of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, said he sympathized with Vermont offi­cials for not wanting to exact heavy penalties for a teenager's foolishness. But he worries that exempting the behavior could have the unintended conse­quence of immunizing genuine sexual predators from prosecu­tion. 
"Our concern is that decrimi­nalizing sexting is a blanket response that is too broad to a problem that is best handled on a case-by-case basis," Allen said. 
Donovan, Allen and others agreed that the real solution is educating teens about the risks ofsexting. 
Allen said his group's "Think Before You Post" campaign was aimed at getting children to think about the practical conse­quences of sending materials that can be reproduced and end up living on the Internet forever. 
Marisa Nightingale, senior advisor with the National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy, said that many teens who send sexting messages do so as a joke. "But you're basically relinquishing control of how people see you in this very sensitive area, which is your sexuality," she said. 



CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 





STUDENTS 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students (Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Eddie Velazquez at evelazqu@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center (Individual counseling) Contact: DL Maureen Lafferty at mlaffert@nd.edu 

Visit our web site at 
http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 
Thursday, April 16, 2009 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
EPAsummitdiscussesbedbugci 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Va.-"Don't let the bedbugs bite." 
Doesn't seem so bad in a cheerful bedtime rhyme, but it's becoming a really big problem now that the nasty critters are invading hospitals, college dorms and even swanky hotels. 
With the most effective pesti­cides banned, the government is trying to figure out how to respond to the biggest bedbug outbreak since World War II. 
Bedbugs live in the crevices and folds of mattresses, sofas and sheets. Then, most often before dawn, they emerge to feed on human blood. 
Faced with rising numbers of complaints to city information lines and increasingly frustrat­ed landlords, hotel chains and housing authorities, the Environmental Protection Agency hosted its first-ever bed­bug summit Tuesday. 
Organized by one of the agency's advisory committees, the two-day conference drew about 300 participants to a hotel in Arlington, just across the Potomac River from Washington. An Internet site notes that the hotel in question has had no reports of bedbugs. 
One of the problems with con­trolling the reddish-brown insects, according to researchers and the pest con­trol industry, is that there are few chemicals on the market approved for use on mattresses and other household items that are effective at controlling bed­bug infestations. 
Unlike roaches and ants, bed­bugs are blood feeders and can't be lured by bait. It's also difficult for pesticides to reach them in every crack and crevice they hide out in. 
"It is a question of reaching them, finding them," said Harold Harlan, an entomologist who has been raising bedbugs for 36 years, feeding them with his own blood. He has the bites to prove it. 
The EPA, out of concern for the environment and the effects on public health, has pulled many of the chemicals that were most effective in eradicat­ing the bugs in the U.S. At the same time, the appleseed-sized critters have developed a pesti­cide resistance because those chemicals are still in use in other countries. 
Increasing international trav­el has also helped them to hitchhike into the U.S. 
"One of our roles would be to learn of new products or safer products.... What we are con­cerned about is that if people take things into their own hands and start using pesticides on their mattresses that aren't really registered for that, that's a problem," said Lois Rossi, director of the registration divi­sion in the EPA's Office of Pesticide Programs. 
The EPA is not alone in trying to deal with the problem. An aide to Rep. G.K. Butterfield, D­N.C., says the congressman plans to reintroduce legislation next week to expand grant pro­grams to help public housing authorities cope with infesta­tions. 
The bill will be called the "Don't Let the Bedbugs Bite Act." 
"It was clear something need­ed to be done," said Saul Hernandez, Butterfield's legisla­tive assistant. 
Bedbugs are not known to transmit any diseases. But their bites can cause infections and allergic reactions in some peo­ple. The insects release an anti­coagulant to get blood flowing, and they also excrete a numb­ing agent so their bites don't often wake their victims. 
Those often hardest hit are the urban poor, who cannot afford to throw out all their belongings or take other drastic measures. Extermination can cost between $400-$900. 
So bedbug problems increase, said Dini Miller, an entomologist and bedbug expert at Virginia Tech, who until 2001 saw bed­bugs only on microscope slides dating from the 1950s. Now she gets calls and e-mails several times a day from people at their wits' end. 
"I can't tell you how many people have spent the night in their bathtubs because they are so freaked out by bedbugs," Miller said. "I get these people over the phone that have lost their marbles." 
Because the registration of new pesticides takes so long, one thing the EPA could do is to approve some pesticides for emergency use, Miller said. 


High school student killed in love triangle 
Associated Press 

CHANDLER, Ariz. -An 18­year-old high school student caught with his 48-year-old math teacher in her bedroom was stabbed to death by her boyfriend, who was himself a former student of hers, police said Tuesday. 
Chandler police said 20-year­old Sixto Balbuena told them he never meant to kill Samuel Valdivia. He allegedly told police "the blade went in like going into butter" and that he just wanted to show Valdivia how much he hurt him by sleeping with Tamara Hofmann. 
Balbuena, a Navy sailor on leave from California, was arrested on a charge of second­degree murder after police found him covered in blood and told them about the killing. He remained jailed in lieu of $100,000 bond on Tuesday and did not yet have a lawyer. 
Balbuena found his girlfriend naked and Valdivia in his boxer shorts in the woman's bedroom around 2:40 a.m. Friday, according to police reports and court documents. 
Balbuena told police that Valdivia apologized to him before Balbuena began kicking, punching and throwing things at him, according to a police probable cause statement. 
Police said Balbuena told them he "wanted to teach the 
victim a lesson," and stabbed him in the lower side with a kitchen knife, according to the court document. Valdivia later died at a hospital. 
He also threw Hofmann to the floor jumped on top of her and demanded to know how long she had been cheating on him, according to the docu­ment. 
Police said Hofmann taught Valdivia math at El Dorado High School in Chandler and was also Balbuena's teacher when he attended Marcos de Niza High School in Tempe. 
A call to both schools was not immediately returned Tuesday. Hofmann's phone number is unlisted. 
Balbuena is the one who called 911. He told officers he felt remorse for stabbing Valdivia after seeing him lying on the floor struggling to breathe, police said. 
Police spokesman Sgt. Joe Favazzo said Hofmann is being investigated for potential mis­conduct relative to her involve­ment with Valdivia. 
A 2006 Chandler police report obtained by The Associated Press on Tuesday shows that police suspected Hofmann of having a sexual relationship with a then-17­year-old Balbuena. 
Both Hofmann and Balbuena denied being in a sexual rela­tionship, and police closed the case. 


A New Commencement 
Notre Dame's invitation to President Ohama to ddiwr the Commencement addres:; and to receive an honorary degree unleashed tl wide controversy and provoked \'iPlently opposed reaction5 nmong all who look upon this University as a sign of the ideal of Catholic higher education. The commtmity finds itself divided nnd confused, and rhe integrity of the University's educational mission .is being challenged. On such an occasion, \Vith g'rt'<lt urgt•ncy we feel the need to rakt· lwld nf the rcns~;ms for which such an institution exists. 
What is the meaning of Christian education, and even more fundamentally what il; Christhm life today? How do we liw today the fruitful faith that led a handful of French mi~>sionaricl\ n century <\nd <l iu1lf ago to found a tiny college on tht• shnre of Saint Mary's L<lh--\Vh~·re before there was nothing-with the firm conviction th;tt the school "will he one of the most powerful means for doing good in this country"? How is that connection between faith <tnd life present as the impetus for our work in the university and in snciery! 
For us faith is not an ethka! code nor an ideology but an experience: an cnnmntcr with Christ present here and now in the Christian community. Christian faith gives us a freedom and a passion for living that express themselves abm't' <Oil in tht· form of questions as we fan: reality, and an inexhaustible openness m e\'erything Iutman. Political and ethical categories do not dcfim' us; nur life sptin~s from belonging tn a t;tct, w a story be_gun and carried fmwHrd hy nn exception<1l Presence in human history. Over the courst:• of t\\·o millennia, rhat Presence has inspired inlltltnerahle initiHtives that have educated mt'n Hnd women, including r.he University of Notre Dumc. We cannot limit our thirst for truth and om dcsin• to t'nter into a genuine relationship with reality; we want certainty about its meaning in its totality. We need a plan· where fairh and reason arc nnr cncmie11, where their unity launches w; on a path of knowledge that is fearless, open, and free. 
An invitation to a Catlwlic university -an invitation to anyone, especially to the President nf the United States of Amcrka -sl1nuld he an invitation to encounter that history, thar method of rdating to reality, ;md that experience nf life and freedom. 
What then is at stake in this Commencement Day? Much more thnn merely defending vulues -even the most 1mcred -or affirming <1 Catholic institution's "openness" to the world. At stake is our hope for the furore of the university and tbe future of :mcit'ty. 
For us hope begins from the recognition that with Christ we discover a new way to Hw life, to study, to do research, to he involved ,., politicll and economics, ro W<1rk in rhe world. ln commencing from that Presence, we live hope nor merely ilS n sentiment, a dre;nn, or a prnjecr of power but as a certninty for the 
future  that  springs  forth  from  an  expcrieth:e  
happening nmv.  
With the certainty of faith  that Fnther Sorin had  

after Notre Dame hunwd ro·thc ground in 1879, let us nxogni::(• at the end of ''ad• d•w that we "built it too small ••• so, tomorrow, as soon as the bricks cool, we will rebuild it, bigger and better than ever". 
What is the meaning of a Catholic·1Uliversity? 
2:00..3:30 p..m., Sunday, April 19, 2009 
Coleman-Morse Center Student Lounge 
•• FREE PIZZA •• 

THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, April 16, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 2009 revisited 
PO. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley SPORTS EDITOR: Marr Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574} 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR·IN·CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

(574} 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpGint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
{574) 631-4543 spmrs@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnOl@sainrmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, dally newspaper published in print and Gn!ine by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's CGllege. Editorial rontent, including advertisements, is not governed by pG!icies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. CGmmentaries, letters and rolumns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include conracr information. 
Q;<estiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directedto EdittJr-in-Chief]enn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The ObSd'VC:r (US{'S 5:99 2-4000) is publi~hed Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation peri-od$. A suhscripnon tO The Observer i~ $l20 fot one academk year;_ $65 fur one semesret. 
Tlu: Observer is pubtiihed u: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining HaJl Send address .corrections to; Norr~ Dame, IN 46556..fl779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Nom: Dame P.O. Box779­and adWtional mailing offiCeS. 024. South Dining H.all 
Notre Elame, IN 4-655()...0779 
The Observer is a rncmbc:r Dfffie A'iSOCi:ued Press.. All reproducrion rights are ,==!. 
As the year winds down and I pen my last column, there is no better time to look back at the year, and see how our beloved campus has changed and evolved. Naturally, there is no better way to a get a pulse of the cam­pus than from Viewpoints past. So let's take a walk down memo­ry lane. 
The begin­ning of the year was dominated by election cov­erage. There were claims made by all sides in defense or admonishment of all things. At least once Obama was named a socialist, or at the very least, the anti-Christ. Letters poured, lines were crossed and feelings were definitely hurt. But, as is usually the case in Viewpoint, the pain fades quickly. 
Only to be replaced by new contro­versy, that is. In this case, it was the phantom snowballs hurled at our own sacred football team during the season finale against Syracuse. Alumni wrote to the Viewpoint en masse criticizing and dressing down the student body for its alleged poor sportsman ship. I only have to ask how many times those alumni watched their Notre Dame team lose to a 3-8 team at home, in the snow. 
Soon students again expressed out­rage at Raytheon's presence at the career fair, and felt that their third attempt (at least in my three years at Notre Dame) to ban the company would definitely succeed. However, because the economy actually man­aged to explode, job-seeking seniors were probably even less sympathetic than in years past. 
While the Raytheon crew didn't make much progress, the pro-life club did. In fact, I would go so far as to say their January surprise, the multiple-page insert whose appear­ance we were warned of in these very pages, terrified a significant portion of the male population of not only babies, but possibly girls, and certainly future Observer inserts. 


Unfortunately, I shipped out to study for the semester shortly before the new Obama situation blew up, so I've missed a lot of the action. However, I have been trying to follow the ordeal from Facebook, which has proved interesting. After perusing the message boards of the major anti-Obama group, I can only come to conclusion that this "Bill Brasky" man to whom so many wall posts referred must be the real menace. 
Regardless, as I see it, the pro­Obama group currently has a slight edge in membership over the anti­Obama group, so they are winning. What might be more telling, though, is that the group "Boycott Notre Dame Football if Obama Speaks at Commencement" has only six mem­bers; if one can't even manage to give up watching a 7-6 football team, how will they stop the President of the United States? Then again, if the protestors are half as effective as their newspaper inserts, no one will want to set foot on campus. 
Nevertheless, these tiffs are noth­ing compared with the now infa­mous, "I hooked up with six guys" letter from late fall last year. To refresh, our friend Melissa confessed to having made out with no less than six Notre Dame stags in the first semester, and unfortunately had yet to hear back from any of them. Not only was the shock value high, as this was a completely surprising and unexpected letter, but it was also highly entertaining. 
However, some students were quite unsympathetic. They responded with sarcasm and reproach. What started as something of a joke, soon turned into a dialogue on gender and the notoriously sketchy Notre Dame hookup culture. All fun was lost. 
Speaking of gender issues, one subject lacking this year, and one I actually missed, was the quiet disap­pearance of the "Vagina Monologues" from the Viewpoint agenda. What happened to it? Listening to the defense of the vagi­na against those who wished to exploit it was always funny, and somewhat scandalous for our paper; at least before our friend Melissa pushed the boundaries of what is acceptable in The Observer. 
For being a supposedly highly homogenous university, I never cease to be amazed by the diversity of opinion and activism of the student body in dialogue over all issues, big and small, serious and comical. With the election and economic issues at the forefront this year, the level of conversation was raised tenfold, and I sincerely hope it continues to reflect the spirit of the academy into next year and the future. 
As a final sentiment, I personally would like to thank anybody out there who has read any of my columns this year, my editor Kara King, who hopefully will hire me again in the fall and to my friends who have helped me to shape my ideas and edit my columns. I wish good luck to all of the graduating seniors, and will see everybody else in the fall. As they say here in Japan, kampai! 
Jason Coleman is a junior accounting major. He can be contacted at coleman. 70@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Serving our dual mission 
Dear Editor, 
The tension between being Catholic and being a univer­sity is constant at the University of Notre Dame, as it should be. When either has too great a pull, we fail to live up to our unique mission. Finding a balance is a never-ending, often contentious challenge. 
The current fulcrum on which Notre Dame is trying to balance itself is our invitation to President Obama. The virulent response to his upcoming visit has weighed down the scale on one side, but not the side that cradles Catholicism. 
Through dramatic demonstrations and verbal protests, members of the Notre Dame community are questioning authority. People are disputing the president's position on vital issues. They are speaking out, calling for change. Such is a defining role of universities in our society. 
On the other hand, those vehemently opposed to Mr. Obama's visit, who would have Notre Dame's commence­ment exercises become a circus, are neglecting Notre Dame's duty to its Catholic identity, as exemplified by Blessed Father Basil Moreau, whose Holy Cross priests founded Notre Dame. In the face of adversity, Father Moreau responded with love, always with love. No minds are persuaded by three-ring threats. No hearts are ever changed with angry insults shouted in frustration. If the goal is to uphold the dignity of life, perhaps the stronger strategy is to win hearts and minds with a display of intense confidence in that belief, and a welcome to join. Father Ted Hesburgh expressed this sentiment with his usual eloquence when he suggested that "quite often, the very fact of being here has changed the speaker." Finding balance between being Catholic and being a university may be Notre Dame's greatest challenge. 

That dual mission, however, is what makes us who we are. It is in maintaining that delicate equilibrium that we can say with greatest pride, "We are Notre Dame." 
As ever, 
Sarah Hamilton Magill alumna class of 1986 Aprill4 

Sarah Hamilton Magill served as Editor-in-Chief of The Observer for the 1985-1986 term. 
TODAY'S STAFF QUOTE OF THE DAY 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports John Tierney Sam Werner Irena Zajickova Douglas Farmer Amanda Gray Chris Masoud 
Graphics Scene "The opportunity for brotherhood 
Andrea Archer Jordan Gamble presents itself every time you meet ''A smile is the shortest distance 
a human being." between two people."
Viewpoint Patricia 

Jane Wyman Victor BorgeFernandez U.S. actress Danish comedian 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Thursday, April 16, 2009 page 11 
Seventh grade and the Resurrection 
For five years I taught religion to seventh graders during their last class period, five days a week. It wasn't easy. From the stu­dents' perspective, Jesus and I were stand­ing between them and freedom. 
Seventh graders 
question everything. Fr. Lou De!Fra The more sacred, the more they revel Faithpoint 
in questioning it. As a seventh grade teacher, your only choice, other than quit­ting, is to accommodate. 
So, I began to open class with a question and answer session. After a short reading from the Gospels, we came to the dreaded moment. Three students were assigned each day to come up with an insightful question about the Gospel passage. 
They loved this moment. The room was a virtual frenzy as students tried to stump the teacher, and basically blow up the class before it ever had a chance to get off the ground. Domanique inquires where Mary and Joseph stashed all the gold that the wise men gave them. Or, Clara asks, with a smug smile, "Since Jesus didn't have a microphone when he was giving the Sermon on the Mount, how could the peo­pie at the bottom of the mountain hear him?" (So young to be watching Monty Python!) 
But, almost every day, someone asked, in some form, the Big Question: "How do we know any of this stuff really happened any­way?" 
It's an impossibly frustrating question. Yet it occurred with such frequency that it was clearly a burning question for them. How do we know that Jesus is real? 
To ask this question puts us in the place of the first disciples after the Resurrection. Recall, for example, the scene on the first Easter morning. Ten of the 11 remaining disciples are huddled together, in a locked room. 
We can certainly relate. When we fail, when we get scared, when we feel loneli­ness, when we get self-absorbed, we have all turned inward, locking ourselves out from what gives us life. 
And so, also, we can relate to the power­ful appearance of the Risen Lord: Jesus Christ as the One who is able to walk pre­cisely into that locked space; to breathe new life, fresh air, a Holy Spirit into us­like throwing open the windows on that first great day of Spring in a room that has 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Because so111e people didn't understand the first ti111e 
ND Response wishes to emphasize its position on the presence and participa­tion of outside groups in its planned events from now until Commencement. As our original statement (March 25) says, "It is appropriate that only members of the Notre Dame community lead all events, and we ask outside groups to respect our responsibilities in this regard." 
At no time has ND Response ever invited or endorsed the presence of third­party protesters; they are here as independent parties not affiliated with ND Response in any respect. It is our belief that, in many cases, the methods of these parties are counter-productive and will do more harm than good at Notre Dame. We are motivated by love of our University and have no desire to turn Commencement weekend -or the weeks leading up to it-into a "circus" of any kind. We are not agents of any outside organization. We are ND. As such, we will act as Notre Dame students: in a respectful and mature manner. We will not tolerate any other behavior on our campus. 
Anyone who wants to turn our beloved University into a circus will merely end up looking like a clown. We are a serious organization; clowns have no place here. 
Jeff Tisak 
senior 
Sorin College April9 

Terroristn at ND 
This is in regards to the story 'We Will Make This a Circus,' (April 8). In it, Randall Terry threatens, as the title suggests, to make my graduation a circus. In addition, he hopes this will scare other Catholic universities into not inviting pro-choice speakers to commencement ceremonies in the future. He does so even in the face of a senior class that, for the most part, supports Obama as commencement speaker. 
He is using Notre Dame as just another step in his agenda. These do not seem to be the actions of a reasonable person. A reasonable person debates and is open to all ideas. A reasonable person tries to understand a situation from all angles. So I ask myself, who else uses these tactics? Who else employs fear to force one's beliefs on other people? These, I believe, are the characteristics of a terrorist. 
He cares not what the graduating seniors think or how this could affect them. He is wholly single-minded in his pursuits with little care for the possible effects they could have on other people. He is concerned only with his ideology and how to make other people comply with it. Terrorism can only survive on these ideals, ideals that Terry are bringing to our campus. 
As he now lives here, he might read this, so I implore him: talk about the issue. But do not use protest as a weapon of fear. The United States has a policy of not negotiating with terrorists. This is Notre Dame, and neither do we. 
AJ. Radcliffe 
senior 
Knorr Hall AprilS 


Insanity 
Mr. Terry, ugly and the ugly as beautiful, and to con­
While I applaud your enthusiasm and fuse the true with the false and the false dedication to the pro-life cause, I seriously with the true." You argue that hate is doubt your sanity. good. You once said "I want you to just let 
Standing up for what you believe in? a wave of intolerance wash over you. I That's fme. Disagreeing vehemently over want you to let a wave of hatred wash an issue? Absolutely, please do. But want­over you. Yes, hate is good." Mr. Terry, ing to send an aborted fetus to the what you do does not even begin to Commander-in-Chief of the United States resemble the great work of MLK. of America? That's just crazy. In my opinion, you foster hatred instead 
Mr. Terry, as an ardent supporter of life of working out oflove, you encourage rad­you claim that all humans should be val­ical behavior and outrage instead of civil ued and respected, but what are you debate and constructive discussion, you doing when you post pictures of aborted revel in your sensationalism instead of fetuses all over South Bend? What are you actually making a difference. I hope you doing when you arrange to have a dead know that no matter how many aborted fetus FedEx'ed to a president of the fetuses you want to disrespect and plaster United States? You are devaluing and dis­outside the gates of Notre Dame, no mat­respecting human life by using these dead ter what kind of inane "circus" you plan to children as instruments to further your create, President Obama will come here. agenda. This is hypocrisy. He will speak to the Class of 2009. I will 
If you really want to take a cue from be there and you, Mr. Terry, will be stuck Martin Luther King as you aptly stated in outside our gates. your Observer article, you will remember Sincerely, that he told us that "like an unchecked cancer, hate corrodes the personality and Allison Ciesielski eal<; away its vital unity. Hate destroys a sen1or man's sense of values and his objectivity. offcampus It causes him to describe the beautiful as AprilS been shut up for the winter. 
On this Easter morning, this is what hap­pens to Jesus' closest companions-save one. Thomas is no where to be found. Where was he? All we know is that while the others had locked themselves in, Thomas had not. 
The other disciples see Jesus, risen from the dead, and they tell Thomas the story. It's as ifThomas is us, hearing, all these years later, the Gospel account of what the others got to see first-hand. But as he hears, that question wells up in Thomas' soul, the same one that wells up, in its own way, in the souls of my seventh graders, in the souls of each of us from time to time: How can I be sure? Where is this Jesus, risen from the dead, in my life? 
And Thomas even comes up with a test, to stump his teacher. "Ifonly I can touch his wounds, then I will believe." It's become somewhat of an infamous test for Thomas, earning him the nickname, "Doubter." But after five years of teaching seventh grade religion, I suspect that it's not so much that Thomas doubted. But rather, that Thomas possesses a restless spirit-always curi­ous, always questioning, always yearning, searching, testing. Taking nothing-not even the death of his friend -sitting down. Thomas, I suspect, had a rather unquench­able and demanding heart, a yearning for a real relationship with Jesus, one that is intimate and incarnate. 
And so, Jesus appears again in the mid­dle of the locked room: "Put your finger here. Believe in me." 
Perhaps Thomas represents our heart's deepest, as-yet-unfulfilled desire-to be one with our God, to touch him, to know, for certain, that he is alive, that death holds no more power over us, that our destiny is to be one with our beloved forever, in the flesh. 
These desires don't ever get fully satisfied in this life -we live, always perhaps, with shadows of doubt. But happy are we whose yearning and longing drives us always clos­er to being one with our beloved, our Risen Lord. 
This week's column is written by Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC, Director ofCampus Ministry Bible Studies and ACE Chaplain. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Allovv controversy 
April 8th's Observer featured an article where I draw the line. We are sending a about Randall Terry and his radical plans message to the world right now about to turn Commencement into a pro-life who we are, and I feel it is a distorted "battle." While I understand why so view. many pro-lifers are currently upset on Media outlets have been spending their this campus, I cannot see how at the time focusing on the anti-Obama argu­same time Notre Dame is seemingly con­ment, and not the pro-Obama one. doning the arrival of a man who boasts Because of this trend, I have received e­40 arrests and claims to be willing to do mails from back home asking for reas­anything for his cause. surance that not all Darners are reacting 
Terry who "once arranged to have a in the ways that the girl on Fox News and dead fetus sent to Bill Clinton" ("We will Randall Terry are reacting. Those e-mails make this a circus," April 8), came to made me think, "If these are the people South Bend to start his "battle" without speaking up for the University, what is so much as a whisper of disapproval the world going to think?" If the statistic from Notre Dame. I feel he is entitled to is correct and 97 percent of seniors want speak, but shouldn't the student body Obama to be here on Commencement, have some reaetion to his moving to then where is their news time? South Bend? So allow Obama, allow the controversy, 
We seem eager and able to band allow Terry, allow the circus, but allow together to keep our President from com­the other side of this debate the news ing here because of his stance on one coverage it deserves so that our issue, but this radical citizen who paints University can show the multiple sides it blood on the mask of our president and has. harasses women on their way to abortion clinics gets no outcry. Is that because he Christine Fagan is pro-life? freshman 
Until now I sat back and saw the good Farley Hall in both sides of this debate. But, this is AprilS 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE

page 12 
Thrusday, April 16, 2009 
P"ds Tribvk: k> Canpus Ac~s 
Where do you go for live music at 
Notre Dame? Legends, AcoustiCafe, he DeBartolo Performing Arts enter, and PEMCo, if it's in season. 
that's about it. 

Notre Dame wasn't always so on selection. There was a time live music abounded, campus ps played at parties and you ould walk out of LaFortune and into a guy asking you to join his 
This is exactly what happened to im McNamee, whose band Pinch formed, played, recorded and up in the span of one semes­r under the Dome. Pitch Point is t one of many bands that had 
heyday here in the '90s, using the Notre Dame college scene to channel and reinvent the indiepunk wave that swept the pre-millennium years. 
There were more than 100 bands that formed here, practiced in ofT­campus basements and recorded demo tapes. And they are quickly being catalogued in one place, com­plete with band history, photos, and free downloads: 
South Bend Power 90s (south­bendpower90s.blogspot.com) is a blog dedicated to telling the story of the ND band scene of that late great decade. Started by Theodore Hennessey, '96, they "work to pre­serve, archive, and make available music that was played and recorded by the indiepunk college rock com­munity in South Bend, Ind., during the 1990s." There are currently 39 bands posted, with many more to come. 
Each entry provides a history written by the band members, pho­tos of shows and rehearsals, and quite often a link to free downloads. It is an interesting trip to read up on the antics of bands that were boasting large campus followings 

of ~ 'SUs 

long before our time. There was an entire indie band subculture at Notre Dame in the mid-nineties, with bands inspiring each other and challenging each other to write new, different material. There were even campus CDs released, compilations of work from the many bands play­ing here. 
Most bands of the day seemed intent on recording their original work, and many made demo tapes. Those tapes have now been convert­ed to mp3 files, so it's very easy to hear for yourself exactly what was heard blasting out of Cavanaugh in '94. The entries are blunt, genuine and, in true punk style, often quite irreverent. ("I think this was largely due to me being from the Confederate South and somehow feeling more and more isolated in the Yankee dominated world of South Bend. Could also have been the cliched searching of a young adult trying to find his way in the world," writes Chad Shaffler of Tacklebox.) If nothing else, they are a witty travel log of how previous students from across the country dealt with finding themselves in the Midwest at a Catholic, conservative university in their late teen years. 
The blog is constantly updated with new posts (each one from a dif­ferent band). Often there are com­ments about what the band mem­bers are doing nowadays, from rais­ing kids to using that engineering degree for writing adult fiction. 
A piece of Notre Dame culture is thoughtfully being preserved, and not just for those who lived it. The blog is almost a calling-card for our generation to take up a guitar and some drum sticks and made music about anything. Bands of yesteryear were flourishing, and the best tech­nology they had to work with was cassette tapes. Imagine what cam­pus bands could do today. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 
Mary Jesse I Observer Graphic 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE

Thursday, April 16, 2009 
page 13 

What happened to Notre Dame's music scene? Throughout the 1990s Notre Dame students formed bands left and right, recording demo tapes, playing parties and local bars and clubs. Although Sweep the Leg Johnny and Chisel are the most 
Ellie Hall 

famous indie bands formed by Notre Dame stu­
Scene Writer 

dents, more than 20 other student groups emerged from 1989-2000 and created a sub­culture of live music at Our Lady's university that has virtually disap­peared today. 
The student body should be ashamed by this, especially in light of the thriving music scenes of other universities. The four members of 
alternative favorite Vampire Weekend met at Columbia. Two undergrad­uates at Harvard formed the band Chester French (playing tonight at Legends) and signed with Pharell Williams' Star Trak record label as sen­iors. MGMT went to Wesleyan. Duke University is so proud of DJ/MC Mike Posner (a current junior) 
that his EP is featured on the university's iTunes U page. In light of these statistics from similar 
· · "schools, Notre Dame's lack of practi­· cally any student-based music culture is even more glaring. The South Bend/Notre Dame bands of the '90s recorded their demos and albums on tape decks, in local stu­dios, and wherever they could find recording devices. We live in the age of GarageBand and other easy means of music preservation. The technology has made it so that any person with a computer can press a button and make an mp3 me of themselves play­ing instruments and singing. Myspace and Youtube have only simplified the ways a band or an artist can get 
noticed. And yet the decline of Notre Dame's music scene persists. 
Acoustic Cafe cannot be cited as an example of Notre Dame's student music life. One or two students with guitars in the LaFortune basement cannot compare to a rock band or a· student MC in terms of popularity, cultural relevance and the potential ' for wider campus involvement. It says . something about the university that.·· the only ongoing student music night features acoustic sets rather than anything heavier (and potentially more appealing). Legends' upcoming "Battle of the Bands" is the only event wherein Notre Dame's music venues open the doors to student bands, and·· I plan to attend just to see if any of these elusive bands show up. 
Ten years ago Notre Dame produced ·· alternative music acts that toured the country and 
Technology has made it so recorded albums. Notre Dame stu­
that any person with a 
dents also formed 

computer can press a but­
bands, recorded ton and make an mp3 file demos, and never played music
ofthemselves playing 
again after they

instruments and singing... 
graduated. Now And yet the decline of -nothing, or very close to
Notre Dame's music scene 
nothing. Who's to

persists. 
blame for this 

continual decline? The university? The student body? Whatever it is, every person on campus should recognize the loss o ·· live student music at our school work to recreate a music scene. I you're in a band, email us at Scene and we'll write about you. If you play::; •· · music, find others with instruments and think about writing some songs together. Every university should have a counterculture, even ones as tradi­tional as Notre Dame. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Ellie Hall at eprister@nd. edu 
1 
2 
3 
4 5 6 7 8 
9 1 0 11 

Love South Quad Style -The Catatonics 
Sunburn-Chisel 
Bottlerotket -decaf. 
Limit '96 -Streganona 
Abstractions-Sweep the Leg Johnny 

First Steps -Sweep the Leg Johnny 
She Said~ He Said -Tweak 
Banana 6 -emily 
Dead Fish -Pinch Point 
Stained Glass Window -Victoria's Real Secret 

Beat Around the Block -Victoria's Real Secret 
Using a file-sharing site, Theodore Hennessey '96 shares the wealth ofmusic that came out ofNotre Dame's campus at the end ofthe last century. 
The collection is getting ever more comprehensive, but here is a sampling. 
Sometimes the static overwhelms the vocals, but the tape-deck organic quality gives this music some extra character. 

The tracks (and some artists have entire albums) even come with customized cover art. 
All music available through the South Bend Power 90s b/og 
southbendpower90s.blogspot.com 
Jesse I ObseiVer Graphic 

_j 
I page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, Aprill6, 2009 
I I I I I 
MLB 


Jeter knocks in Ransom in ninth to beat Rays 
Marquis outpitches Harden in victorious return to Wrigley; offensive spurts, Laffney help Cleveland escape road woes 
lefty struck out Mark Teixeira
Associated Press 

and Nick Swisher, then walked 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. -The Jorge Posada intentionally before road-weary New York Yankees getting Cano to ground into an headed to their new home on a inning-ending force play. high note. 
Andy Pettitte pitched into the Rockies 5, Cubs 2 eighth inning, Robinson Cano hit Jason Marquis wasn't a fan a two-run homer and Derek Jeter favorite in his time with the singled in the go-ahead run in Chicago Cubs, and if he didn't the ninth to lead the Yankees know it then, he does now. The over the Tampa Bay Rays 4-3 Wrigley Field faithful booed him Wednesday. at every turn this week. 
Jeter also doubled in the eighth Marquis got some measure of and scored the tying run on revenge Wednesday, hitting a Johnny Damon's double off J.P. two-run single off Rich Harden to Howell. He delivered the put Colorado ahead against his tiebreaking run against Troy former team, then pitching the Percival (0-1) following a one-out Rockies over the Chicago Cubs. double to Cody Ransom. "Everybody has the right to 
New York concluded a nine­react the way they want and feel game, opening trip and returned the way they want," he said. home for Thursday's debut of the "Obviously, that's not the way I $1.5 billion new Yankee Stadium, was raised, to boo people, but across 161st Street from the everybody is different. If there House that Ruth Built. CC was something I didn't like, I just Sabathia makes his first home didn't pay attention." start in pinstripes against his for­Marquis (2-0), who spent the mer team, the Cleveland Indians. previous two years with the Cubs, 
"It always seems as so the sea­was jeered during introductions son doesn't really officially start before Monday's home opener until you have your home open­and again several times er," Jeter said before the game. Wednesday. He hit a bases­''I'm sure it's like that for most loaded single in the second and teams." allowed one run and five hits in 
Pettitte, who allowed three seven innings. runs and six hits in 7 1-3 innings, Did this win mean anything pitched the fmal game in the old extra? too aggressive." throw out !annetta at third to end Wedge sounded encouraging. ballpark last year but it wasn't "Not really," he said. "A little Street is 0-1 with a save and a the inning. "He pitched well enough to his turn to pitch the opener in the ammo to talk to the guys I'm 13.50 ERA in four appearances. "Jason can swing it," Soto said. earn that," Wedge said. "I new one. friends with, but other than that, His status as closer is unclear. "I trust Harden's fastball any­thought Laffey was good. I was 
He has been tough on Tampa a win is a win. It feels great every ''I've got a whole night and a time, but he got good wood on very impressed with his effort. He Bay, going 15-4 in 25 career time I get it." whole 'nother day to figure some­it." gave us every opportunity to win starts. At one point he won 12 Rockies manager Clint Hurdle thing out," Hurdle said. "If we Marquis, the 2005 NL Silver the game and we took it from consecutive decisions, though the didn't talk to Marquis about need to figure something out." Slugger winner at pitcher, has a there." Rays have fared better against pitching against his old club. He Seth Smith homered for the .211 batting average, five homers Called up from Triple-A him lately. had a different take on Marquis' Rockies, who completed a two­and 43 RBis in 446 career at­Columbus to replace the injured 
Brian Bruney (1-0) struck out status among Cubs fans. game split on a cold afternoon bats. Scott Lewis, Laffey gave up three the only two batters he faced to "He did pretty well here," with the wind blowing in. Smith homered in the third, hits and two runs, with three get the win. Mariano Rivera Hurdle said of Marquis' 23-18 Harden, rested for much of and Colorado made it 4-0 when walks and five strikeouts. worked a perfect ninth for his record with Chicago. "He pitched spring training to aid a balky Todd Ilelton doubled and Alfonso "It's a pretty good way to cele­second save in as many opportu­a lot of innings and won some shoulder, allowed four runs, five Soriano misplayed Garrett brate my birthday," he said. "''m nities. games. I walked around the hits and four walks in three Atkins' single to left. only 24, but I feel old." 
B.J. Upton and Carl Crawford streets enough here the last cou­innings, his shortest outing since Pinch-hitter Micah Hoffpauir Jensen Lewis (1-0) issued three delivered RBI doubles for Tampa ple of days and everybody told July 7, 2007, when he went 2 2-3 doubled in a run for the Cubs in straight walks in the bottom of Bay in the third. After Cano's me they liked him." innings for Oakland against the fifth, but pinch-hitter Dexter the seventh but still got the victo­two-run homer off Andy Manuel Corpas followed Seattle. He struck out eight but Fowler made it 5-1 with an RBI ry with 1 2-3 innings of relief. Sonnanstine made it 2-all in the Marquis with a hitless eighth threw 92 pitches. double in the eighth. Kyle Farnsworth (0-2) gave up fourth, Carlos Pena led off the before Huston Street got in trou­"He struck out the side in the three runs while getting only one bottom half of the inning with his ble in the ninth, allowing a lead­first, but then he started to throw, Indians 5, Royals 4 out in relief for the Royals. fourth homer of the season for a off home run to Derrek Lee fol­instead of pitch," Cubs manager While failing to get a win on his After the Royals tied it 2-all in 3-2 Rays lead. lowed by a walk to pinch-hitter Lou Piniella said. 24th birthday, Aaron Laffey may the sixth, Asdrubal Cabrera dou­
Sonnanstine, who struggled Mike Fontenot and a single to Harden has 18 strikeouts in have landed a job. bled leading off the seventh with his command during a loss Reed Johnson. two starts, but the Cubs lost both The left-bander, who almost against Farnsworth and scored at Baltimore last week, allowed Jason Grilli came in, and games. made the rotation in spring train­on an RBI single by Mark two runs and four hits in five Fontenot was thrown out by "I felt good, maybe a little too ing, went 5 1-3 innings and DeRosa, who has a five-game hit­innings. The right-hander struck Chris !annetta trying to advance good," Harden said. "It's some­allowed only two runs ting streak and seven RBis in out three and walked one before on a breaking ball in the dirt that thing I've always fought, where I Wednesday while Cleveland eight games. he was replaced by Joe Nelson. got away from the catcher. feel too good and I start throw­picked up its first road win and After Victor Martinez walked, 
The Yankees had little success Geovany Soto then hit into a ing, instead of delivering every avoided a three-game sweep with Hafner hit an RBI double and against the Rays bullpen until the game-ending double play, giving pitch with a purpose." a victory over Kansas City. Shin-Soo Choo made it 5-3 with a eighth, when Jeter lined a double Grilli his second career save and After Harden struck out his Travis Hafner's second double sacrifice fly. over Upton's head in deep center first this year. first four batters, Colorado keyed a three-run seventh inning The victory made the strug­field. Howell replaced Grant "At that point, I should've loaded the bases on a pair of for the Indians, who hadn't been gling Indians 1-5 on the road Balfour and gave up Damon's stayed at second," Fontenot said. walks and an infield single. Clint swept in KC since 2006 and were heading to New York for a four­tying double down the right field "With Geo up, he could've tied Barmes then struck out, but 0-5 on the road this year. game series that will open the line. the game with one swing. I Marquis singled to center on a Asked if Laffey pitched well new Yankee Stadium. It broke a 
Howell steadied to keep New thought the ball rolled farther ball Johnson couldn't come up enough in his ftrst start to stay in six-game road losing streak dat­York from taking the lead. The away from him. I was trying to be with on a dive. Johnson did the rotation, manager Eric ing back to last year. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is S cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST & FOUND 
FOUND: Dental retainer in South Dining Hall the week of March 29. Call631-6147 to claim. 

FoR RENT 
3 bdrm house for 07/01/09 on Corby, $1600/mo. Owners are NO alums. Pis call/text 619-804-3359. 

Rental House 1 mile from NO, on TRANS PO route. New kitchen, bath, windows & carpet. 2 bed­rooms, 2 living rooms & dining room. APPLIANCES INCLUDED. Call Linda 574-288-0168. 
Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or www.kramerhous­es.com 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 
Affordable Graduate and Faculty Off-Campus Housing. Call for Availability (574)243-2818 or (57 4)276-6118. 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer­ing tO-month leases. B\uego\drentals.com 
2009/1 o student rentals Angela St./St. Peters & S.B. Ave. $1300­$2000/mo. Contact Bruce Gordon 574-876-3537. 



PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at http://osa.nd.edu/health­safety/assaull/ 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1­7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NOs Assistance for Pregnant Students//Office of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd.edu/hea\th­safety/assistance-for-pregnant­students. 
ADOPTION -Loving Domer couple looking to adopt a baby (babies), please call Marie and James (301)977-5069 or (866)202-1424 PIN 5448. 
I don~ think your parents like me, and I think that Jello gave me a fake phone number. 
Good luck Dance Company Don't break anything though. 

"You are going to have a hard-work­ing, intelligent, nasty football team." 



OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, April 16, 2009 CoMPILED FROM.THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 

MLB 

NCAA Men's Baseball USA TodayjESPN Top 25 
team  record  
1  Georgia  29·6  
2  Arizona State  25·8  
3  LSU  26·9  
4  Rice  25·8  
5  North Carolina  27·9  
6  Cal St. Fullerton  22·9  
7  Miami (Fla.)  25·10  
8  UC Irvine  22·9  
9  Oklahoma  28·8  
10  Texas  24·8  
11  Georgia Tech  21·8·1  
12  Arkansas  24·8  
13  Baylor  23·10  
14  Virginia  28·7·1  
15  Coastal Carolina  29·7  
16  Mississippi  25·10  
17  East Carolina  26·9  
18  Clemson  23·12  
19  Oregon Stale  20·7  
20  Florida State  21-11  
21  Cal Poly  24·8  
22  TCU  22·10  
22  TexasA&M  21·14  
24  San Diego  23·13  
25  Florida  23·12  


NCAA Softball USA Today/NFCA Top 25 
team record 
1 Florida 42·3 2 Stanford 35·3 3 UCLA 29·8 4 Washington 31-7 5 Arizona Slate 34·8 6 Georgia 29-7 7 Alabama 33·8 8 Michigan 29·9 9 Arizona 33·9 1 0 Northwestern 23·8 11 Missouri 36·5 12 Tennessee 33·9·1 13 North Carolina 37·7 14 California 28-12 15 Ohio Stale 32·6 16 Oklahoma 31-13 17 Louisville 36·5 18 LSU 25-10·1 
19 Florida Slate 32-13 20 DePaul 24-9 

NCAA Division 1-11 Men's Volleyball Top 15 
team points 
1 UC Irvine 240 2 Pepperdine 217 3 Cal St. Northridge 197 4 Stanford 190 5 Southern California 168 6 BYU 159 7 Penn State 150 8 Long Beach State 145 9 UCLA 115 10 uc San Diego 92 11 Ohio State 78 12 Lewis 63 13 UC Santa Barbara 39 14 Hawaii 26 15 Ball State 22 

around the dial 
NHL Playoffs 
Columbus at Detroit 7 p.m., Versus 
Calgary at Chicago 
9:30 p.m., Versus 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Introduced to a standing ovation, Rachel Robinson stepped to the podium at Citi Field and smiled as she gazed around the regal new rotunda that bears her husband's name. 
Majestic, black and white photos adorn the brick and tile walls Jackie Robinson with his Brooklyn Dodgers teammates, and pioneering general manag­er Branch Rickey. Robinson leaping high in a UCLA track uniform, walking tall in a cap and gown, kneeling with children as they show him their art work. 
High above the ballpark entrance, an inscription of his famous quote: "A life is not important except in the impact it has on other lives." At the other end of the room, an 8-foot, blue sculpture ofhis No. 42. 
Grainy highlights of Robinson's life and career run continuously on two large video screens. One of the engravings on the ter­razzo floor: Jack Roosevelt Robinson. 1919-1972. Trailblazer. Humanitarian. American. 
''I'm speechless," Rachel Robinson said. "Jack was actually a very humble man. Some of you who are baseball fans wouldn't believe that because you only saw him on the field arguing with umpires and 
IN BRIEF Senate approves funding

for Indy stadiums 
INDIANAPOLIS -A Statehouse proposal that would allow Indianapolis to raise local taxes to save its cash-strapped stadium agency cleared the Indiana Senate Wednesday as the debate over who should pay for the bailout contin­ued. 
The Senate voted 33-17 Wednesday for a proposal to fund the Indianapolis Capital Improvement Board, which expects to be $47 million short in its operation of the city's profes­sional sports stadiums and conven­tion center. 
The bill would allow increases in Marion County's alcohol, car rental, hotel and ticket taxes with the extra cash going to the board. The bill could face changes as law­makers try to create a solution for the board before the legislative session ends April 29. 

trying to beat the other guys. But he was a very humble man. I think he would have been stunned by being acknowledged in this way and remembered in this way. It's so grand and so beautiful. And the rotun­da is not just a physical space but it carries with it so many memories and so many messages." 
On the 62nd anniversary of the day he broke base­ball's color barrier -and changed America in so many ways -Robinson was honored Wednesday all around the majors with the sport's annual Jackie Robinson Day. 
For the first time, howev­er, all players, managers, 
Fan fights Yankees "God 
Bless America" ejection 
NEW YORK -A baseball fan who says he was ejected from Yankee Stadium by police after he left his seat to use the bathroom during the playing of "God Bless America" sued the New York Yankees and the city on Wednesday. 
Bradford Campeau-Laurion says in his federal lawsuit his rights were violat­ed at an Aug. 26 game between the Yankees and the Boston Red Sox when he tried to pass a police officer. 
The lawsuit said the officer did not let him take a step before grabbing his right arm and twisting it behind him. It said two officers marched him down several ramps to the stadium's exit, where he was pushed out as one officer told him to leave the country if he didn't like it. 
Campeau-Laurion, a director of Web productions for a media company, does not participate in religious services and objects to being required to do so, the lawsuit said. 
coaches and umpires wore No. 42, retired for every big league team in a 1997 cere­mony at the New York Mets' old ballpark, Shea Stadium. 
The team's new place, $800 million Citi Field, fea­tures the Jackie Robinson Rotunda, a stately entrance behind home plate for fans to file through. 
It was inspired by Ebbets Field, where Mets owner Fred Wilpon went to Brooklyn Dodgers games as a boy. He and Rachel Robinson worked together to help design the rotunda, with its 70-foot archways and 160-foot diameter floor an homage to the 27 -foot­high, 80-foot wide Ebbets entryway. 


Indiana's Williams to 
leave at end of semester 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -Indiana guard Nick Williams has decided to transfer to another school at the end of the semester. 
The 6-foot-4 Williams, from Mobile, Ala., started 29 games as a freshman last season and averaged 
8.9 points and 4.5 rebounds per game. 
Coach Tom Crean said Wednesday that Williams, who opted out of a commitment with Marquette to join the Hoosiers last spring, was dissat­isfied with his role this season and concerned about his future role in the program. 
Williams said in a statement that he intended to look for another school after completing his work this semester. 
Williams would have to sit out next season and then will have three years of Division I eligibility remaining. 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, April 16, 2009 
NFL 




Jones-Drew agrees to deal with Jags 
Associated Press 

JACKSONVILLE, Fla. Maurice Jones-Drew was one of the most productive running backs in the league the last three years, totaling 6,003 all-purpose yards and scoring 40 touchdowns despite splitting time with Fred Taylor. 
With Taylor now out of the pic­ture, the Jaguars expect even more from Jones-Drew. 
His new deal proves it, too. 

Jones-Drew signed a five-year, $31 million contract Wednesday with Jacksonville that includes $17.5 million guaranteed. 
"It really was a matter of want­ing more Maurice," Jaguars coach Jack Del Rio said. "We want Maurice on the field more often. We believe he's a feature guy and it's his time. We're excit­ed about that.'' 
Jones-Drew replaces Taylor, who parted ways with Jacksonville in February as the franchise's all-time rusher. Taylor, who signed with New England after getting released, ranks 16th in NFL history with 11,271 yards. The Jaguars believe Jones-Drew is capable of filling the void. 
''I'm very confident this is the type of young man that will go out and continue to display the things that have made him so popular to begin with," Del Rio said. "He's gonna get plenty of work. We're excited about getting him the ball more often. 
"We were doing the best that we could as a staff of recognizing the talent and paying the respect to Fred while he was here and couldn't wait to get Maurice in the game. Now, he's our guy." 
Jones-Drew has 2,533 yards rushing and 1 ,408 yards receiv­ing since Jacksonville made him a second-round draft pick in 2006. He has averaged 4.8 yards a carry, 9.5 yards a reception and been at his best in goal-line and short-yardage situations. 
He rarely fumbles, has few dropped passes and has a knack for making big plays and scoring touchdowns. He has become a leader in the locker room and a fan favorite because of his fear­lessness, friendliness and flair for turning negative plays into first downs. 
''I still love the game," Jones­Drew said. ''I'm going to play the way I play. Nothing's going to change. You see some guys get paid and they kind of shut it down. That's not how I was raised, that's not how I ever played the game before. I'm going to continue to play and work hard and do everything I can to help this team win." 
Jones-Drew led the team with 824 yards rushing last year, ranked second with 62 receptions for 565 yards and scored 14 touchdowns. He was one of the few bright spots on a team that was hampered by three key injuries along the offensive line and chemistry issues in the locker room. 
The Jaguars struggled to a 5-11 finish, and players eventually pointed fingers at receiver Jerry Porter and cornerback Drayton Florence. The two signed huge free agent contracts before the season, then did little to merit the money. 
Team owner Wayne Weaver responded by cleaning house. He parted ways with longtime per­sonnel director James "Shack" Harris and several assistant coaches and then released Porter, Florence, Taylor and defensive end Paul Spicer. He also released troubled receiver Matt Jones and chose not to re-sign several free agents, including linebacker Mike 
Peterson,  left  tackle  Khalil'  
Barnes and  receiver  Reggie  
Williams.  


THIS SATURDAY! APRIL 18 
~ 
TICKETS STILL AVAILABLE! 
Tickets available at the Morris Box Office and at Super&ounds Catalog Center in Goshen. 574-235·9190 or 600·537«6415 • online at www.MorrisCenter.org 

<~ v', ~ ~--~~ 

I>-,~ -, UMPHREY'S MCGEE MANTIS ·NEW STUO!fl AlBUM i IN 5i!JR£S NUWi\ _j FEATURING 10 NEVER-BEFORE·HERRO UMPHREY'S TRACKS RNO INNOVATIVE ,/~~· · ,· PUSH'" TECHNOLOGY TO DELIVER BONUS MATERIAL THROUGHOUT 2009 ~)&~,_;.,;_...,. VtSrT WWWJJMPHREYS.COM!M!!NTIS fOR AUDIO, NEWS RNiliNF!lRMRT!IlN 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Thomas introduced as FlU coach 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Isiah Thomas sat in his new gym for an hour, at one point turning his gaze toward the Florida International play­ers he'll now coach. 
"There'll be a lot of ups," Thomas said, almost in a cau­tionary tone. "There'll be a lot of downs." 
He's experienced plenty of both, of course. Without the ups, FlU wouldn't have wanted Thomas. Without the downs, Thomas wouldn't have needed FlU. 
And so begins a surprising basketball marriage that got under way Wednesday when Thomas was introduced as FlU's new coach, three days shy of the 1-year anniversary of his firing as coach of the New York Knicks. Thomas will not accept a salary in his first season, instead donating that money back to FlU, and will earn somewhere around $275,000 in the final four years or his deal. 
That doesn't count the $12 million or so the Knicks will continue paying him over the next two years. 
"I did not come here for the money," Thomas said. 
Instead, he'll have a chance to rebuild his tarnished Hall of Fame image. 
Thomas wants to move past the problems that marred his tenure with the Knicks, such as being the central figure in a sexual harassment lawsuit and, according to authorities, being found unconscious in his New York-area home last fall after someone at the residence called 911 to report someone over­dosed on sleeping pills. 
He was asked more than once about those events, never 

offering specific details on either. 
Instead, he said few people in the sports and entertainment world stay on the mountaintop for long, even citing Prince and Michael Jackson as examples. 
"When you rise all the way to the top of your profession, no matter who you are, the jour­ney to the top is great," Thomas said. "And then you've got to come down." 
So he came down to FlU and a program that went 13-20 this past season, has lost 20 games in three of its last four years, and made its lone appearance in the NCAA tournament 14 years ago. There's 42 banners swaying in FlU's gymnasium and only two have anything to do with men's basketball. 
"I like taking something from the bottom and trying to build it to the top," Thomas said. "There's a lot of risk in that and there is a lot of reward in that." 
Thomas, a Hall of Fame inductee after a stellar playing career with the Detroit Pistons, coached the Indiana Pacers for three seasons, making the play­offs each time. He had two los­ing seasons in New York, and his career record in the NBA is 187-223. 
"I've had three successful seasons and two losing sea­sons," Thomas said. "So I would say that I'm up." 
Still, he acknowledged disap­pointment with his time in New York. 
The Knicks never won a play­ofT game in his tenure as presi­dent or coach, and some of his personnel moves were disaster­ous. 
"My regret is that I wasn't able to deliver what the people in New York wanted, and they want a championship," Thomas said. "A lot of us have tried .... I couldn't get it done." 
FlU has "no doubt," athletic director Pete Garcia said, that Thomas can get it done now. 
Thomas arrived outside FlU's basketball arena at 10:25 a.m. Wednesday, about an hour before his introductory news conference began, riding pas­senger in a sleek black Mercedes. Even before he could get out of the car, three well­wishers couldn't wait to greet him. 
"Hey! There he is!" shouted one of the men, all of whom got handshakes from Thomas before the car pulled into a parking space. 
"It's a landmark day in our history," Garcia said. 
Nonetheless, Garcia was dogged by questions about Thomas' history, specifically the 2007 case where a jury ordered Knicks owner Madison Square Garden to pay $11.6 million to a former team executive who alleged she was sexually harassed by Thomas, who con­tinually maintained his inno­cence and was never found personally liable. 
"It's safe to say the last two years have definitely taken a toll on my family," Thomas said. "Again, I'm extremely comfortable, and I think the university is comfortable in their findings and what were the facts of the case. It was two years ago. It was a heavy toll and price on my family. But I think all of us are comfortable with the people we are and what we stand for." 
Garcia said FlU investigated Thomas, but would not say what he found or who he spoke with. 
Umphrey's McGee Comedy Relief Oak Ridge Boys South Bend Rock Concert Package Country Concert Symphony Concert 
uMantis" Tour Featuring Sommore Country Legends Magical Melodies 
Saturday, April18 Saturday, April 25 Thursday, May 7 Saturday, May 16 

UPC()min!t ~h()W§ 
Thursday, April 16, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NHL 

Crosby leads the Penguins to opening victory 
Lundqvist's 32 saves, Naslund's timely assist help the 7th-seeded Rangers upset the 2nd-seeded Capitals 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH Almost seemed as if the Pittsburgh Penguins were playing last sea­son's conference finals against the rival Flyers all over again. 
The Penguins got a goal and an assist each from stars Sidney Crosby and Evgeni Malkin and shut down the frustrated Philadelphia Flyers' fleet of scor­ers for a 4-1 victory Wednesday night in the opening game of the first-round Eastern Conference playoff series. 
Penguins goalie Marc-Andre Fleury, idle for long stretches in the first two periods as his team­mates controlled play at the other end, made 26 saves as the Penguins won their fourth con­secutive conference playoff series opener. 
Eleven months later, the Penguins controlled the Flyers much like they did in winning the conference finals in five games last season, when they scored at least four goals in each victory and finished it off with a 6-0 rout in Game 5. Dating to Game 4 of those finals, the Penguins had scored 12 consecutive playoff goals against the Flyers until Simon Gagne scored late in the third period with Pittsburgh leading 4-0. 
The Flyers didn't like it, either, ending the game with three play­ers in the penalty box as they tried to send a message through some physical play that Game 2 on Friday night won't be so easy. 
This time, the Penguins put the pressure on early, built a multi­ple-goal lead while not letting Philadelphia sustain any offen­sive momentum and leaned on Fleury to make the big saves when the Flyers did make a push. 
They also waited for Flyers mistakes, and there were plenty of them -the first of which was Philadelphia not holding a third­period lead Sunday at home against the Rangers. New York's 4-3 victory meant the Flyers opened the series in Pittsburgh rather than on their home ice, and it made a difference. 
The Penguins also were disci­plined, mostly staying out of the penalty box at the same time the Flyers took several careless penalties, including a hooking call on a tired Arron Asham that led to Crosby's power-play goal at 4:41 of the first period. Asham couldn't get off the ice during a line change, stayed out for an extended shift and drew a pivotal penalty as Crosby scored 15 sec­onds into the power play. 
Crosby threw the puck down low to Evgeni Malkin, whose rebound deflected off Crosby's skate, the goal post and goalie Martin Biron's right skate before settling into the back of the net. The goal was upheld after a video replay confirmed Crosby didn't intentionally kick the puck. 
Tyler Kennedy made it 2-0 at 
1:39 of the second after Braydon Coburn turned the puck over in the neutral zone, allowing Jordan Staal to start an up-ice rush that ended with Kennedy chipping the puck into the top of the net. 
Philadelphia, held without a shot for the first 10 minutes of the second, finally started pres­suring late in the period and was on the power play to start the third because of a Brooks Orpik elbowing penalty. Mike Richards put off a shot off the right post in the opening minute of the third -a goal would have cut it to 2-1 


Now £easina Por 2009-2010 )f.pp{y lJ:oday £imitetfSpace )f.vaifa6fe!1 I 
q{fering '11ie <Best <R_,ntaf<J@tes in Town! $99 Por 1" ::Montfts cJ?§nt 'Willi 12 ::Montli Lease! $300 Off1 .. 9dontlis cJ?§nt ~ 9 9vtontli Lease! Pree)ifpplica.titm Pee PorStw:fents Uftli I.<D.! ClOse to Campus! 




eastle1'oint 
z•ou C1~ .lkl. So•Ut .a-c~. m <H~!I7
Apar,tment.s a-.: us7-c) n2-•·uo .-.uc: ,.s,.., 212-.u-c 
' 

-but Scott Hartnell's tripping penalty shortly after that blunted any momentum the Flyers were building. 
Malkin made it 3-0 at 6:28 after another giveaway. Mike Knuble tried to bank a pass off the back wall, but the puck skit­tered to Malkin and he quickly snapped it past Biron. Defenseman Mark Eaton scored four minutes later to make it 4-0, his first goal in 24 career playoff games. 
Richards hit the post again later in the third, but the puck rebounded to Gagne for the only goal by the Flyers, the first NHL team in 15 years to have six players with 25 or more goals in a season. 
Rangers 4, Capitals 3 
With the score tied in the third period, the New York Rangers did what they do best -kill off a power play. Then Markus Naslund popped out of the penal­ty box and set up the winning goal. 
Naslund fed Brandon Dubinsky, who made a move that left Jeff Schultz sprawled on the ice. Dubinsky then beat goalie Jose Theodore inside the near post with 8:17 remaining, lifting the Rangers to a victory over Alex Ovechkin and the Washington Capitals in Game 1 of the Eastern Conference series. 
Scott Gomez had a goal and two assists, Nik Antropov and Naslund each had a goal and an assist, and Henrik Lundqvist made 32 saves to help the sev­enth-seeded Rangers take the early series momentum against the second-seeded Capitals. 
Tomas Fleischmann, Viktor Kozlov and Alexander Semin scored the goals, and Ovechkin had a pair of assists for the Capitals, who will try to pull even when they host Game 2 on Saturday. Jose Theodore made 17 saves for Washington. 
The Rangers, the NHL's best penalty killers during the regular season, uncharacteristically allowed two power-play goals ­the first time in 30 games they've allowed more than one -but they shut the Capitals down when it mattered. Naslund was 

NOTRE DAME.STADIUM 
AprU 18, %009 Race starts at s:oo A.M. 
The College of Arts and Letters lm·itcs Faculty and Staff Nominations for the Seventh Annual Arts and Letters .Award of Appreciation 

The Colkge of Arrs and Letters announces its seventh annual Award of Apprccimion, to be conferred on an outstanding laculty or staff member !rom 
•11•tsidc lhe College. 

The College invites nominations of faculty or MatT employees whose work dscwhcrc, In other units or dcpl!Hmcnts of the University, contributes immeasmably w the Cnlkge of Arts and Letters and enriches its lii:C in signillcant ways. 
A .:crtificate uml honorarium accompany this uwllrd. 

Pkase send or email (1 brid'letter to the Committee dcsaibing the outstanding ~:ontributions your nominee has made t.o the lite of the College of Am and Letters. 
Arts and Lt'tters Award of Al'prcdation Committee clo Cindy Swonger ton O'Sh;utghncssy !Jail 
~s.wongcr~ 
Deadline l\·1onday-, April 27, 2009 
UNlV£RSITYOV 
NOTRE DAME 
COlLECt OF ARB ANO u;TTERS 

whistled for infractions twice in the game's fmal 12 minutes-the second time for slashing Ovechkin -but Washington's No. 2-ranked power play came up empty both times. 
While much of the focus was on the Capitals' power play vs. the Rangers' penalty kill, it was New York's supposedly anemic man-advantage unit -ranked 29th in the league -that swung the momentum in the second period. 
Antropov and Naslund scored power-play goals on back-to­hack shots to give New York a 3­1 lead. The Capitals rallied to tie when Kozlov netted late in the second and Semin on a power­play early in the third. 
The Capitals will rue the fact that they dominated a first peri­od that ended scoreless. They outshot the Rangers 14-4, and Ovechkin was active with six shots and six hits -including had a few tit-for-tat exchanges with Marc Staal. The league's leading goal-scorer put on a nice move to get around Michal Rozsival, but his point-blank shot was stopped by Lundqvist. 
Among the other highlights: Rangers bad boy Sean Avery, try­ing his best to agitate the Capitals, drew a holding penalty for stuffing his glove in John Erskine's face. Avery and Mike Green had more than their share of confrontations, and Avery shoved his stick into Theodore's chest in the game's final moments. 
Washington got on the board 
6:40 into the second period when Ovechkin steadied a pass from Green with his left skate before wristing a shot that was deflect­ed by Fleischmann to Lundqvist's stick side. 
The red-clad Capitals fans in the sold-out Verizon Center were still celebrating when the Rangers tied the score about a minute later-thanks to a crafty play by Avery. With Gomez carry­ing the puck down the left side of the neutral zone, Avery tripped Green from behind near the blue line -a move just subtle enough to avoid a penalty -leaving Gomez plenty of room to skate in and beat Theodore at the 7:49 mark. 
Antropov put the Rangers ahead 2-1 with a power-play goal at 18:25, double-clutching on a wrist shot inside the far post past screened goalie Theodore. 
Less than a minute later, Sergei Fedorov was whistled for delay of game before clearing the puck over the boards -the second time the Capitals were guilty of that infraction -and the Rangers capitalized when Naslund took a drop pass from Gomez and ripped a slap shot past Theodore, who barely moved and again appeared to be screened. 
The Capitals regained some momentum going into the inter­mission when Backstrom worked the puck down the left-hand side and slid a perfect pass to Kozlov, who was charging toward the crease to convert the easy goal with 49 seconds left in the peri­od. 
The Capitals then tied the score 1 :42 into the final period on a power play after Ovechkin drew a tripping penalty on Dan Girardi. Ovechkin, near the goal line to the left of the Rangers net, put a shot off of Lundqvist's arm. Semin poked the rebound into the net. 


~--­

The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, Aprill6, 2009 
Wakefield takes no-hit bid into eighth inning 
Lowell, Drew hammer home runs to support knuckleballer in effort to give bullpen a well-deserved rest 
Associated Press  RBI single later in the inning. Wakefield also gave up Matt  was concentrating on that. I was just thankful that I got to  to open the eighth, and Suzuki rapped a single to left. Fans of  Trevor Cahill, who lost a 1-0 decision to Seattle's Erik  
OAKLAND, Calif. - When  Holliday's run-scoring double  the eighth very easily."  both teams gave a loud ovation  Bedard last Sunday. "We need  
Tim  Wakefield  stopped by  in the ninth, but escaped one  Although Wakefield has been  to  the  knuckleballer,  who  some luck, but as long as we  
Terry  Francona's  office  last jam before getting hugs  a  dependable  member  of  stranded  two  A's  on  base  keep pitching like that, we'II  
Wednesday  morning,  he  and congratulations from each  Boston's rotation since 1995,  moments later.  be fine."  
already realized the Boston  of his teammates.  he has never allowed fewer  "We hit the ball hard off him,  Before the game, Boston put  
Red Sox were staggering. They  "They were really aggressive  than three hits in  a  complete  and they made  a  few good  Matsuzaka on the 15-day dis­ 
had lost six of seven while  early, and then something kind  game-though he  onee took a  plays," Ellis said. "The way the  abled list with  a  mild right  
struggling to  hit, and their  of clicked in the second or  no-hitter into the  ninth  at  ball moves, you think it's going  shoulder strain. Matsuzaka  
bullpen was gassed after pitch­ third inning," Wakefield said.  Tampa Bay, a game he recalled  away, and all of a  sudden it  has struggled in two starts this  
ing 11 innings last night.  ''I'm  not  disappointed.  only vaguely. lie also didn't  breaks back over the plate. A  season  after winning three  
"I understand the circum­ Obviously (a no-hitter) is some­ pitch particular- knuckleball  games and the MVP award at  
stances of today," Wakefield  thing that's great to try to get,  ly well down the  is kind of a  the World Baseball Classic.  
recalled telling his manager. "No matter what, don't take  but the most important thing was to preserve our bullpen."  stretch last sea­son during the  "Obviously /a no-hitter}  flip of the coin: some  Lowell connected for his sec­ond homer of the season after  
me out." Francona never even had to consider it. His 42-year-old knuckleballer helped the Red  With an off-day Thursday, consider the bullpen pre­served-and a potential early­season crisis avoided.  Hed Sox's run to the AL champi­onship series, failing to get out  is something that's great to try to get, but the most important thing was to  days it's on. You don't see it very often."  Jason Bay's two-out single in the second. Lowell's fly landed on the shelf above the left-field scoreboard that divides the  
Sox get a whole lot better with one of the best performances  Mike Lowell hit a two-run homer in the second inning  of the third inning of Game  preserve our bullpen. "  Wakefield, who hadn't  stands from the field, getting out of the park by a few inch­ 
of his long career. Wakefield took  a  no-hitter  and J.D. Drew added a three­run drive during the six-run  4 against Tampa Bay.  Tim Wakefield  won s e  v  e  in n  es. Orlando Cabrera and Jack  
into the eighth inning in  a  eighth for the Hed Sox, who  Harely crack­ Red Sox pitcher  games  and  Cust both came close to getting  
masterful display of his unusu­ were off to their worst start  ing 70 mph on  five starts in  hits for Oakland in the  sev­ 
al art, finishing with a four-hit­ since 1996.  the  Coliseum  Oakland  enth, but Boston's defense res­ 
ter Wednesday in Boston's  Boston  slumped  to  2-6  radar  gun,  s  i  n  c  e  cued Wakefield. Drew made a  
slump-snapping 8-2 victory  Tuesday night with a  6-5 loss  Wakefield retired Oakland's  September 1999, threw his  running grab  of Cabrera's  
over the Oakland Athletics.  in  which  starter  Daisuke  first  15  hitters, mostly  on  first complete game since May.  drive to the outfield, and Nick  
Wakefield (1-1) got within  Matsuzaka couldn't make it to  harmless grounders and pop­ Wakefield's brilliance over­ Green made a twisting leap to  
five  outs of the first no-hitter  the second inning, forcing six  ups. Suzuki reached first on an  shadowed Brett Anderson (0­ snag Cust's bloop to shallow  
of his 17-season major league  relievers to work into the 12th  error by Lowell at third base to  2), Oakland's 21-year-old rook­ center.  
career, nearly becoming the  in frigid Oakland tempera­ open the sixth, but Wakefield  ie left-bander. He looked sharp  After  David  Ortiz  hit  an  
second-oldest  pitcher  to  tures.  easily got out of the inning.  in just his second major league  eighth-inning double for his  
accomplish the feat after Nolan  "You have to be  more  eco­ "I had to mess up (the per­ appearance, allowing just five  first extra-base hit of the sea­ 
Ryan, who did it twice when he  nomical when you have to go  fect  game),  but  I  thought  hits and two walks through  son,  Drew  put  his  second  
was older than Wakefield's 42  deep into the game," Wakefield  something special was going to  seven innings.  homer of the season deep into  
years, 256 days.  said, explaining his plan to go  happen," Lowell said. "We  "He's throwing up zeros, and  the right field stands. Green  
Kurt Suzuki broke it up with  straight at hitters, particularly  needed something like that,  you're trying to put up zeros,"  and Jacoby Ellsbury hit run­ 
a one-out single to left for the  in the late innings. "You have  and Tim came through for us."  Anderson said after commiser­ scoring singles later in the  
A's, and Landon Powell had an  to throw more strikes, and I  Wakefield walked Mark Ellis  ating with fellow A's starter  eighth.  


• NOTRE DAME MARCH FOR LIFE~ 
Notre Dan1e Response Student Coalition wants YOU at Notre Dan1e's can1pus on Friday, April 17 for the first Notre Dame March for Life. We will begin at 6 P.M. \vith prayer at the Grotto, follo\ved by speakers and a march around catnpus. 
April 17-18 is NO's Blue-Gold Weekend. So, cotne to n1ake a stand for the dignity of life, and enjoy the festivities on campus. This is a \\'in-win for everyone, pro-life and football fans alike! 

Please invite friends, acquaintances, enemies, and strangers so that all have the · opportunity to join us. 
WE HOPE TO SEE YOU THERE! 
In keeping with the respectful and prayerful nature ofour campaign, please note that all signs, pamphlets, and publications must be 
approved by 1\'D Re.~po11se. 

Thursday, April 16, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB 
Mets get first win at Citi 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Oliver Perez rebounded from a rough sea­son debut and the New York Mets earned their first victory at Citi Field, beating the bum­bling San Diego Padres 7-2 on Wednesday night. 
Carlos Delgado homered and Perez pitched six smooth innings to help New York end San Diego's five-game winning streak. The Padres spoiled Monday night's opener at the $800 million ballpark with a 6­5 victory over the mistake­prone Mets. 
After giving up eight runs and five walks in 4 1-3 innings against Cincinnati last week, Perez (1-1) held the Padres to one run and three hits. The often-erratic lefty walked only two and struck out four. 
Bobby Parnell, J.J. Putz and Sean Green finished up as New York celebrated Jackie Robinson Day with a comfort­able win. 
One home run shy of 500, Gary Sheffield got his first start for the Mets, in right field. He went 0-for-2 with a walk and scored a run. 
Making his first start in the outfield since May 16 last year with Detroit, Sheffield handled two fly balls without a problem. The 40-year-old slugger signed with the Mets on April 4, four days after he was released by the Tigers in a surprise move. 
It wasn't all good news on Wednesday for the Mets, how­ever. No. 2 starter Mike Pelfrey has tendinitis in his pitching forearm and could miss his next scheduled start Sunday against Milwaukee. 
San Diego threw the ball all over the place in the seventh inning-except over the plate. Three walks, two wild pitches and an ugly error helped New York score four runs on one hit, a bunt single by Luis Castillo. 

Luke Gregerson opened the inning by throwing 10 straight balls before he was lifted for Edward Mujica. On the next pitch, Castillo dropped a nice bunt toward third that loaded the bases. 
With pinch-hitter Ryan Church facing an 0-2 count, Sheffield scored when Mujica uncorked a high wild pitch. After Church struck out and Jose Reyes was intentionally walked, Daniel Murphy's sacri­fice fly made it 4-1 Mets. 
Castillo scored from third on another wild pitch. Reyes stole second base on the same deliv­ery and raced all the way around the bases when catcher Nick Hundley threw wildly toward the plate for an error in an attempt to get Castillo. 
In the eighth, Delgado hit a leadoff homer against Luis Perdomo into the second deck in right field. It was a harsh welcome for Perdomo, who was facing his first batter in the majors. 
Adrian Gonzalez homered in the ninth for the Padres, his second of the series. 
New York loaded the bases with nobody out in the fourth on singles by Murphy and David Wright, plus a walk to Delgado. 

ConlideDtialsuppoJtandassistance available atNotre Dame: 
Sr. Sue Dunn. OJ>, Student Allitirs. bHI-7XJ!l Ann Firth, Sllukut AU:Iirs. ();-!l-26R') Syh·ia Dillon. Campus Ministry. ti:-!1-7 IG:i 
• John Dill011, Cunpm Ministry, 631-711iH Dr. Susan Stdlw-Pallali('h, Co11nse!iug Or., WH •mti5 
W<uncn\ Care Cl•ntcr: 281-0363 Catholk Clmtitk'l>: 23 h'-llll 
nd.c(lu/llcahh-salety/a . .;sistattre-!(w-Jm.'J>'llatll-stmk'llls 

SMC TENNIS 
Belles beat Bethel in cross-town matchup 
By KATE GRABAREK Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's (6-7, 1-2 MIAA) beat cross-town rival Bethel Wednesday 7-2, when it came away from the doubles competi­tion with three wins that got it started on the right foot. 
"We have been trying to improve in doubles," coach Dale Campbell said. "We also need to work on finishing our singles matches." 
The Belles received strong contributions from sophomore Betsy Reed in the match, as Reed teamed up with fellow sophomore Jessica Kosinski to defeat senior Jade Jones and sophomore Serena Frey 8-6. 
"My personal goal is to con­tribute to the team in the best way possible," Reed said. "I want to do what is best for the team so we can achieve our goal of winning conference." 
Sophomore lillian Hurley and junior Camille Gebert also teamed up for a win at No. 1 doubles against senior Bree Oles and sophomore Carrie Edison by the same score. 
Sophomores Franca Peluso and Jessica Camp were able to win their No. 3 doubles match 8-5 to earn the sweep for the Belles. 
Hurley defeated Jones in straight sets at No. 1 singles, while Gebert defeated Edison by only dropping three games in her match. 
"Jade has had a great car.eer 
for us," Bethel head coach John Natali said. "Carrie Edison has also come on strong again this season playing No. 2 singles and No. 1 doubles. They have shown great leadership on the court." 
Kosinski won a tough match at No. 3 singles in three sets by a score of 6-4, 5-7, 10-5 over senior Sherra Millender. 
Reed earned her second win of the day at No. 4 singles to round out the victories for the Belles by defeating Frey again while only dropping one game. 
Camp dropped her No. 5 sin­gles match against junior Julia Horn 6-3, 6-0, while fellow sophomore Laura Arnold also dropped her No. 6 singles flight against freshman Brittany Anglin. 
Next up the Belles will be tak­ing on MIAA rival Kalamazoo Saturday. 
"This weekend against Kalamazoo will be a great test for us," Reed said. "We are looking forward to a solid team win." 
The Belles are coming off of two tough losses in the confer­ence to Calvin and Albion. 
Campbell said he hopes the tough loss to Albion will moti­vate the team because they know they are close to pulling out those close matches. 
The Belles will host Kalamazoo on Saturday begin­ning at 1 p.m. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO I @saintmarys.edu 



apartments available tor 2009·2010 :: walking distance to campus :: 2-bedroom, 2-bafu with 990± SF:~ free intemet: washer, dryer and dishwasher:: central air conditioning :: large balcony ::cathedra! ceilings 
Call Cnristina at ~1~·!~l·1~J~ to scneaule an a~~ointment or email us at mana~er@ndstaaiumclub.com 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April 16, 2009 



'Cats 
continued from page 24 
struck first in the top of the first. Second baseman Trevor Stevens reached first on a bunt single and was driven home on third base­man Chris Lashmet's double to put the Wildcats on the score­board. 
Northwestern added another run off freshman lefty Ryan Richter in the third, but Notre Dame was fortunate to escape down only two. Richter began the inning with a walk, consecutive singles, and another walk, giving up one run and loading the bases with no outs. Richter, who was making hls first career start, then settled down, forcing a pop-out and striking out two to escape the inning. 
The Irish never threatened Wildcats' sophomore pitcher Eric Jokisch until the fifth, when junior first baseman Casey Martin and senior shortstop Jeremy Barnes started the frame with singles. Jokisch then induced two ground balls and a fly to deep center 
Jokisch held Notre Dame to just four hits and no runs over five innings pitched. The sophomore was accurate and efficient with his pitches, striking out three and making it through five innings on only 55 pitches. 
"You have to tip your hat to Jokisch," Notre Dame coach Dave Schrage said. "We knew we had a challenge with him on the mound ... he's one of the top pitchers in the Big Ten." 
The Wildcats struck again in the top of the seventh, with the desig­nated hitter Vercelli blasting a pitch from Irish reliever Todd Miller into the bleachers in left field. 
"I started out 0-for-3, and my fourth at-bat I got aggressive," said Vercelli. "I didn't think I hit it good enough, but the left fielder kept trailing, kept trailing, and it went over." 
Notre Dame finally got on the 


Scioscia 
continued from page 24 
junior attack Gina Sciascia added two goals and three assists, and a single goal from freshman midfielder Megan Sullivan finished off the Irish scoring. 
Leading the Commodore offense with six goals and an assist was junior attack Sarah Downing, followed close behind by sophomore attack Katie Denkler with four goals and an assist. Junior midfielder Carter Foote, freshman midfielders Ally Carey and Alex Priddy and senior midfielder Cara Giordano each added two goals for Vanderbilt. 
For the second consecutive game, Notre Dame's biggest issue was getting its offense started. The Commodores started off the game with a 2-1 lead after goals from Downing and Denkler 45 seconds apart with Abt putting one of her own in the net. But after Abt put the Irish on the board, the Commodores went on a four­goal run to lead 6-1. 
Byers put the Irish back in the game after scoring off of an assist from Sciascia before the Commodores netted another four goals. Sciascia closed the half with her first goal of the game, after midfielder Shannon Burke intercepted a Commodore pass and notched an assist, to make the score 10­3. 
The Irish defense stepped up at the start of the second half board in the bottom of the sev­enth, when Barnes launched a homer of his own into the oppo­site-field bullpen in right. It was a bit of deja vu for Barnes, who homered to almost the exact same spot at U.S. Cellular last year when Notre Dame took on Northern lllinois. 
"He's been our leader all season long as far as hitting goes, and likes hitting in this ballpark," Schrage said. 
Vercelli added a couple of insur­ance runs for Northwestern in the top of the ninth, hitting his second homer of the night down the line in left field off Irish reliever Steven Mazur, scoring Lashmet, who had walked. 
"I was looking slider, and it came up slider," said Vercelli. "To hit a home run [in a major league stadium] is a dream come true, and to hit two is a fantasy." 
Northwestern coach Paul Stevens was thrilled with his team's performance, much of which he attributed to their excitement at playing in a major league stadium. 
"I can't even tell you how excit­ed I am," Stevens said. "They were overwhelmed just walking through the front of this place ... tonight all our hard work and per­sistence paid off." 
Barnes and catcher Cameron McConnell led the Irish offense with two hits each. Richter took the loss for the Irish, but struck out a career-high six batters. 
Schrage said he hopes Notre Dame can continue the recent tra­dition of playing at U.S. Cellular. 
"It was outstanding to play here, we did it last year and it was every bit as good this year as far as the ballpark and the crowd," said Schrage. "Hopefully we can keep doing this in the future. It was a great atmosphere." 
The Irish return to action this weekend at home with a three game series against Big East opponent West VIrginia. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
as senior goalkeeper Erin Goodman managed to hold off the Vanderbilt offense until the 
21:40 mark when Denkler net­ted her fourth goal of the day, extending the lead to 11-3. From here, the Irish offense went on a four-goal streak from Abt, Sciascia, Sullivan, and Byers over the next four min­utes to cut the Commodore lead to 11-7 in hope of repeating the comeback made last Saturday at Syracuse. 
Vanderbilt had different ideas, however, and scored three of the next four goals. The only Irish player to briefly halt their scoring drive was Abt, with her third goal of the game, in between goals from Giordano, Carey, and Downing. Downing continued to score twice more in the final minutes of the game, as well as goals from Foote and Carey. Byers put up two more and Abt one to finish the game at 18-11. 
Goodman finished with nine saves off of Vanderbilt's shots, while the Commodores' Wills had 17 in her 57:08 minutes of play. Senior goalkeeper Rachel Woolford stepped in to play the final minutes, stopping two shots. 
The Irish will hope to end their two-game losing streak Saturday as they close out their Big East season against Connecticut at home in a noon game at Alumni Field. The Irish seniors, playing in their final home game, will be honored prior to the start of the game. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO1 @saintmarys.edu 

Piane 
continued from page 24 
at this weekend's events. 
"We're really trying to get some more kids qualified for the Big East )tournament) and NCAA [TournamentJ", Piane said. "That's our goal. The kids who are running this weekend are doing so for that opportunity." 
After a string of tourna­ments throughout the coun­try, this weekend will be a breather for those athletes that have earned qualifica­tions. This weekend marks the last chance for the Irish to pick up any more invitations 
Mayflower & EdiSon 
Cal/574.247. 7805

Space 
Lighted &Paved Free Lock with Every Unit 
5x1 0...$169 +DEP 10x10... $269 +DEP 


; <:·~:.··tih·; i>.hof..n ~-tlrur~h;-._ !.Jt.·.',f:~"'?-·~.x· ~ i. : _. { ;ffi' :\'i_t~ft"";; .·J~~·'i.N'tf {Jfa~fH<··,-=; ~ (;f~j.:_::--. ;·h-J:>;;~.:· .-·\·dt;~·, 
"l/tliq<u: .f>roduN~ tinw /.-!' \r•r 1 ~'dn #l<~gy •• 
)~.:~~·-/. .f{ \.~~ .. : \ ·· · ·;.fj f.'c'.< !.:'·!.":; '.</ 'i'J -Jpf,j•/ v(<:l~}j /;Hi~· /'/•;.·,,,_ . , i,, Sn,;l/i 8wnd l:\ 4(>628 (.'' · .: ' ., ~ su, 
¢~JtNti! J,Uif:T<'r(fr.'nl'iltCfl\(, ftt'i 


for the Big East champi­onships. 
"The kids that aren't run­ning are resting up after a brutal stretch of meets," Piane said. "We're trying to get as many people qualified as possible, especially since a few people have been really close, [senior] Dan Clark, example. The [Mt. Saint Antonio College Relays] is a great meet, with nearly 8,000 competitors, to get some peo­ple qualified." 
Clark has missed the cut narrowly several times this season. He earned invitations to both the Big East and NCAA championships in his junior year. 
The Mt. SAC Relays kick off this evening at 5:30 p.m. One of the oldest and largest events in the country, the Mt. SAC Relays features thou­sands of athletes competing at the high school, collegiate and professional level in both track and field events. 
Other members of the Irish teams will head to Purdue's Dave Rankin Invitational for competition Friday and Saturday. After the Big East championships next week, the team will head to the Georgia Tech Invitational as a final tune-up before the NCAA Championships at the end of May. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
FRIDAY, APRIL 17TH THE SHIRT UNVEIUNG 
FESTIVITIES BEGIN AT 4:00 PM UNYEIUNG BEGINS AT 5:45PM 
REMARKS BY LOU BOLTZ 
......a. 
JIOIRE D\ME~ 

BOOKSTORE 
!toE 'fHI: £tnt: ~IO!ITtJt 
, • .c~~QIU1l•-......... 

SATURDAY, APRIL 18TH BLUE/GOLD GAME 
9:00AM ·11:00 AM GALE SAYERS BOOK SIGNING FEE BENEFITS GALE SAYERS FOUNDATION* 
11:00 AM ·1:00 PM 
JIM LEFEBVRE BOOK SIGNING RESTm SOUL MUSICAL PERFORMANCE 



Events are subject to change. 
Please call 574~631~5791 to confirm. 
'Otllv Glllo Soyel'$' book wiN bel ~'*'· no memorabilitl. $1S.OO allll)gn~ph fee will bCI a «mtribution towards the Gale Sayars Foundation. Sr~lalown of costa as foiiOW5: c:~ of book ($24.95} + 1111~raph fee ($15.00) " total cost ($39.95). 
Thursday, April16, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
led the way for Nation, driving out strong in the opening Hornacek said. "They're tough on the boards, to the basket and hitting key moments of the second half, but Both teams were in foul trou­and as soon as they're on the


Jared 
jumpers to keep Anlan on their Kramer Properties' speed and ble early, and it looked as boards, they're breaking, so you continued from page 24 toes. size advantages took control. though Night on the Town was have to get back," Old School "We just couldn't score for 10 The score was pushed to 15-6, going to take advantage, hitting captain Todd Hill said. "It was for Jared's to handle. minutes," Winiarski said. "We but momentum shifted to Nunc some early free throws to keep tough on us. It just wore us 
"Our team works real well started picking it up in the end, Dimittis when Mumford missed the game close in the first half. down." together, and we had really but we didn't get any rebounds a breakaway dunk. The Monstars struggled with The Delivery Boys set the good spacing, so a lot of the and we just couldn't make a Guard Charlie Keller's outside their free throw shooting, which pace of the game right from the time we just spread the floor bucket." shooting brought the game allowed Night on the Town to outset, but Old School stayed and let our guys do work," within reach, but once again hang around. with them through most of the Manny said. "Credit those guys, No. 8 Kramer Properties 21, Kramer Properties had an "We have to hit free throws. We first half. It was not until the they're a tough team." No. 21 Nunc Dimittis 11 answer, as the outside shooting didn't shoot very well from the second half, when the Delivery 
In a highly anticipated from sophomore Frank Carl and line [Wednesday], so we have to Boys switched their defense, Anlan Properties 21, matchup, Kramer Properties the inside domination from sen­pick that up a little bit," that they pulled out to a solid Innovation Nation 14 overpowered and defeated ior Lance Ladendorf and fifth­Hornacek said. lead. 
Both teams were cold from Nunc Dimittis Wednesday after­year senior Matt Hamel. After going into halftime with "We switched up to man to the floor to start the game, but noon. "Those guys are a terrific a 11-8 lead, the Monstars came man and got on the boards and it didn't take long for the Anlan Both teams came out of the team, some very classy guys out firing in the second half, got out running. That's our shooters to find their strokes gate with high energy, but over­who were a pleasure to play," and had the game at 18-12 strength, to get out on the open and cruise to a 21-14 victory in anxiousness and jitters led to a Fr. McCormack said. "This tour­before going on a cold streak floor, and we did that well," the sectional finals. Innovation flurry of turnovers and no bas­nament is such an amazing that extended the game and Delivery Boys sophomore David may have brought more hustle kets in the opening minutes. experience, it is my eighth year forced them to slow down their Rudy said. "They were scrappy. to the contest, but Anlan's sharp However, Kramer junior Tommy of playing and I always have a pace. They were fighting for loose shooting prevented the game Mumford blocked a shot, and great time. I'll definitely be back "We were patient on offense balls. We started out in a zone from being close. the turnover led to the first next year to enjoy the fun." and tried to get the ball inside. and they tore it apart. We just 
"We played tough, we played point of the game, setting the They were in foul trouble so we fought back and played well." pretty well the whole tourna­tone of the contest. No. 10 Monstars 21, No. 23 tried to take advantage of that," Despite the loss, Hill felt good ment and they were definitely "They were a great team, but Night on the Town 17 Hornacek said. about the way his team per­the toughest team we've faced," we played well. The plan was to Led by solid play from their The Monstars were eventually formed. Anlan captain Joe Seib said. "I crash boards and keep the ball big men, the No. 10 Monstars able to put the game away, led "We knew they were going to got to give the refs a lot of cred­moving on offense, that worked defeated No. 23 Night on the by junior Hank Jenkins, whose try to run us, so we tried to slow it, they called a good game, but out well for us," Kramer Town in a game that was more two late buckets helped put the them down with old-man ball," we got a lot of tall guys so it Properties captain Joe Marren one-sided than the score indi­game out of reach. Dollard was he said. "That's all we could do. helps us on the boards." said. "As we get deeper in the cates. able to score on a put-back to We still have the competitive 
But the biggest contributor on tournament our teamwork and The Monstars used an in-and­finish off Night on the Town. spirit of a 20-year-old. the Anlan side was the 5-foot-9 mental toughness are going to out offensive style, starting each Unfortunately it's trapped in 30­track and field standout Tyrell keep us going against these possession by trying to get the No. 6 Delivery Boys 21, Old and 40-year-old bodies, so it Atkins, who proved that his ath­strong, fit teams." ball inside to their big men, who School15 makes it tough." letic talents extend beyond the Kramer Properties opened up would work the defense and Using their youth and athleti­The Delivery Boys look to use 60-meter dash. Atkins finished the game with a 4-1 run, and find their teammates for open cism, the No. 6 Delivery Boys their speed and the fast break with 12 points, highlighted by a continued to score two or three looks. Captain Ryan Hornacek held off Old School on their way to their advantage as they con­one-handed dunk on a fast baskets for every one drained and juniors Patrick Dollard and to a victory that moves them tinue in the tournament. break early in the second half. by Nunc Dimittis. Strong inside Andrew Derksen rotated into the Sweet 16. "[We have to] keep it running 
Despite their spirited effort, play and drawn fouls were the through the post throughout the One of the Cinderella stories and play well," Rudy said. Nation couldn't buy a shot for key to their 11-4 halftime lead, game, using their size and of the tournament, unranked most of the contest as sloppy including a 4-for-5 performance strength to overpower Night on Old School, whose average age passing and over-aggressive from the free throw line. the Town. is 35 years old, hung with the Contact Chris Masoud at shooting caught up to them Nunc Dimittis, under the lead­"We try to get the ball inside Delivery Boys, but just did not cmasoud@nd.edu, Nathaniel Lee early on. Captain Ryan ership of Keogh Rector Father and take advantage of mis­have enough to pull out a victo­at nlee5@nd.edu and Eric Prister Winiarski and guard Pat Riche! Pete McCormack, C.S.C., came matches when we can," ry. at eprister@nd.edu 








:-lEGENDS 
F NOTRE DAME 
NO Cover legends.nd.cdu Valid ND, SMC, HCC ID Req'd Guest List Enforced 



Thursday, April 16, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
PATRICK GARTLAND 

CROSSWORD 
Across 36 Bygone flier, for Result of some short oil deposits 
39 Street sign ... or 5 X 
a hint to this 11 Drain puzzle's theme 14 Certain cable, 
40_-eyed

informally 
41 "Por_

15 Provincial capital Cabeza" (tango in NWSpain song)
16 Pres. initials 17 Classic Cadillacs 
42 Incendiary 

19 Cry when seeing 44 Uke humans something for and ostriches the first time 
46 Ohio governor20 Positive aspects Strickland 

21 Total 47 One-eyed gOd of23 Hard fats myth24 Ones making 
51 Fruit waste

snap decisions? 25 Passed quickly 52 Paris's Rue _ 27 ltefT! of sports Croix de Ia 
equtpment Bretonnerie:
approximately Abbr.
43 long 28 The Sun Devils, 
54_-Roman for short 55 Cold and damp 30 "Mr." whose first 57 Mountain name is Quincy climbing hazard 31 Chili 59Doo-wopaccompaniment, syllableoften 
60 Batman. with 35Siip "The" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
..:,:.+-:-+::::+':+:.:.f 30 E -mails: Abbr. 32 "Be_!" 33 Last digit in a 
price, often 
62 Essential 63 Earthen pots for liquids 64 ~ name in '50s 
65 Fingers 
6£ Naughty 
67 Scraps 
Down Point a finger at, 
say 2 Confine 3 Sartre novel, 
with "La" 4 Hastens 5 Quiet fishing 
spot 6 Company started in 1946 at the Detroit and Miami airports 7 Scratch 8 Red carpet walker 9 ShangrHas 
10 Out the window 
11 Uke a saber 
12 North Carolina county seat 13 Educ. group 18 Mad workers, for 
short 221992 top 10 hit "Life Highway· 24 Companion of 
Panza 
26 Knight time? 28 Tiger or Twin, briefly 29 Censors have them: Abbr. 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Da~!d Chapus 
34 British author 48More like a 56 Tum-of-the­
century year inBagnold doornail? 
KiflgJoon's36 Benchwarmers 49 Superlatively re1gn 
37Sang 
slippery 57 chic 58 "That's enough 
50 Frank who wrote 
38 Features of out of you!" 
many Olympic "The Pit," 1903 59 What peoplebroadcasts 
52 Ingratiating who head for the behavior hills do?
43 British fighter 53 Prepared, as a 61 Popular TVplane 
report drama set in las 45 G.P.'s grp. 54 Dogfaces Vegas 
For answers, can 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card. 1-800-814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobi!exword for more information. Online subscriptions; Today's puzzle and more than 2.000 pas! puules, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wo«iplay. Crosswords ror young solvers: nytimes.comtlearning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 


HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Izabella Miko, 28; Emma Bunton, 33; Geena Davis, 53; Robby Benson, 53 
Happy Birthday: You'll have plenty of charisma and drive to get things done. Any nega­tive you face you will swiftly turn into a positive. Taking stock of your situation and real­izing your true potential will help you maneuver your way into something that will grow rapidly and will make a profit. Your numbers are 7, 9, 18, 23, 35, 37, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Your ability to utilize your talents and your past connec­tions will serve you well now. Your proactive manner will result in greater confidence. Advancement is within reach. ***** 
TAURUS (April20-May 20): Negotiate all you can for the best deal possible in busi­ness or in your personal endeavors. Take an upfront approach to all that you do and you will be taken seriously. Love may cost you ifyou aren't willing to say no to unreasonable requests. *** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take advantage of any professional challenge that can help you prove your talent and ability to handle whatever comes your way. Don't let a lover hold you ransom or accountable for something that he or she is responsible for. *** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Everything you do should be based on partnerships and how well you get along with the people involved. If you can feel comfortable, you will do a better job. Friendly interaction will lead to advancement. *** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Keep things in perspective and honest and you will fmd a way to get what you want. A partnership may undergo a change but it will be beneficial to you in the end. Long distance relationships or dealing with people from different backgrounds will present a challenge. ***** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A change of plans or feelings will cause you grief. Focus on the here-and-now and forget about what emotional games are being played. Step outside the melodrama and put your efforts into something concrete that will lead to your ad­vancement. ** 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Avoid anyone who is on the rampage or looking for a fight. 
Stay calm and reasonable and concentrate on the projects and people that inspire you the most. Be open to what others are doing but do what works best for you. **** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Favors will be granted. Get out and present what you have to offer. Don't let friends or relatives take advantage of you. It's the people you don't know that well who will recognize what you have to offer. Love is on the rise. *** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Look back at your past performance and your true talents will be clear. A new concept or service may be in the works. Added responsibili­ties at home will set you back emotionally and fmancially. *** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Someone from your past will need help. By offering assistance, you will get something important to you in return. Love is showing some in­teresting twists and turns. Plan a passionate evening for two. A commitment can be made. 
*** 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can position yourself for the future if you talk to 
those who can contribute to your professional ideas. Get on top of any paperwork that needs to be taken care of. Think big but don't spend big. **** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't let idle chatter, rumors and gossip ruin your day. If you get involved in such nonsense you will end up being blamed by someone you care about. Stick to accomplishing your goals and helping others. ** 
Birthday Baby: You are exceptionally creative and inventive. You are open and relish the new and the unknown. You are original and unusual. 
www. BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 
fORBIDDEN DOUGHNUT 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 

Address ______________________________________ 
City _________ State ______ Zip___________ 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 






THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
JEFF KNUREK

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurel 

~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
EPPIR 



I I I 

©2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
r~ffb 
tREFERT I
J I I [) 
NEWJUIIIllE NINTENOO www.jumble.com!ds 
I ELEVAN ± 
rJ r J 1 
Answer: ( 


I I I ) " ( I I I I ]" 
(Answers tomorrow: Yesterday's IJumbles: SCOUR RUMMY FUSION TARGET Answer: What the dairy farmer faced when milk prices tumbled -A SOUR FUTURE 

WHt::N THt= AIL-ING POt::T TOOK TO HIS Bt::D, Ht:: --­
Now arrange the circled letters 10 form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

.------------------­
THE OBSERVER 










PORTS

Thursday, Aprill6, 2009 
page 24 
BASKETBALL 
Brey hints that Harangody will declare for NBA draft 
By CHRIS HINE Senior Staff Writer 
Irish junior Luke Harangody will announce today whether he will put hls name in for consideration for the NBA Draft today or will definitely come back for hls senior year at Notre Dame. 
But at Wednesday night's bas­ketball banquet, where Harangody received the team's 
BASEBALL 
ND offense comes up flat vs. Northwestern at U.S. Cellular Field 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Associate Sports Editor 
CHICAGO -Playing at a big­league stadium didn't help Notre Dame keep the ball inside the park Wednesday, as two home runs from Northwestern's Tony Vercelli led the Wildcats to a 5-1 victory at U.S. Cellular Field. 
The regional rivals played the non-conference tilt at the home of the Chicago White Sox in front of a crowd of 2,101, with proceeds of the game benefiting White Sox Charities, which supports hun­dreds of Chicago-based causes from cancer research to youth education and athletics. 
The Irish (20-13) fell behind early, as Northwestern (9-23) 
see 'CATS/page 20 MVP Award, Brey seemed to indi­cate that Harangody may opt for the draft, at least tor now. 

"We'll talk to you [Thursday] afternoon about how we're going to attack the next two months," Brey said. "Basically, it's a two month project, taking you up to June 15 ... We'll talk in-depth about all of it, but it's going to be a two-month thing." -
Harangody will make hls official announcement in a press confer­ence at 4:15 p.m. today in the Joyce Center. 
He can declare for the draft and still return to Notre Dame for his senior season as long as he does not hire an agent. June 15 is the last day that players who have not hired agents can withdraw from the draft and return to school. 
Harangody won the Big East Player of the Year award hie.; soph­omore season and was a first­team All-Big East selection this season, when he averaged 23.3 points and 11.8 rebounds per game and was named a second­team All-American by the Associated Press. 

Former Irish forward Zach Hillesland received two awards at Wednesday's banquet. First he received the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley Hockne Student­Athlete Award and the Captains' Award. 
Former Irish forward Hyan 
Dead zone 

VANESSA GEMPISffhe Observer 
Junior right fielder David Mills slides into third during a 6-5 Irish loss to Oakland March 
25. Mills went 1-for-3 in Notre Dame's 5-1 loss to Northwestern Wednesday. 
ND TRACK 
NCAA, Big East bids upfor grabs 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
The Irish are looking to nab a few more NCAA and Big East tournament qualifications this weekend at a pair of pres­tigious events. Notre Dame will compete at the 51st Mt. Saint Antonio College Relays from today through Saturday in Walnut, Calif., while other Irish athletes will stay closer to home at the Dave Rankin Track and Field Invitational in West Lafayette, Ind. 
Several strong showings have left Notre Dame in a fine position heading into next week's Big East champi­onships, but head coach Joe Piane said he is hoping that a few more athletes will qualify 
see PlANE/page 20 

ND WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish lose second straight 
No. 9 Notre Dame can't come back vs. No. 12 Vanderbilt 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports Writer 
The No. 9 Irish got off to a rough start Wednesday, trailing 10-3 at the half, and couldn't recover, falling 18-11 to No. 12 Vanderbilt Wednesday after­noon. 
Notre Dame (11-4, 4-2 Big East) outshot Vanderbilt (9-4. 2-2 SEC) 34-30, but wasn't able to get its shots into the net. Senior captain and Tewaarton trophy nominee Jillian Byers and sophomore midfielder Kailene Abt had four goals apiece in the contest, but the Irish offense wasn't a match for the Commodore freshman goalkeeper Rachel Wells. Irish 
see SCIOSCWpage 20 Ayers won the Best Defensive Player Award. Hising senior Jonathan Peoples and rising junior Tyrone Nash were co-recipients of the Most Improved Player Award. 


Hising senior Tory Jackson won the Outstanding Playmaker Award while former Irish guard Kyle McAiarney took home the Team Irish Award. ­
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 

We Didn't Go to Jared's advances to Sweet 16 
Cinderella run ends as Old School falls to Delivery Boys 
By CHRIS MASOUD, 
NATHANIEL LEE and ERIC 
PRISTER 
Sports Writers 

We Didn't Go to Jared's made a game out of it by mounting a feeble comeback in the second half, but We're on a Boat (ft. T­Lang) held on to secure the 21­13 sectional victory. Excellent weather conditions and unpar­alleled Rec Sports officiating ensured that both teams would have nothing to complain about at the end of the day. 
"We really did a nice job out there moving the ball," Boaters captain Tim Lang said. "We all played team defense really well together, it was a team effort." 
Jared's came out strong from the opening whistle as Chad Breeden, the undisputed heart of the team, outmanned his opponents in the post for an easy basket. But the Boaters' defense quickly buckled up, preventing Jared's from taking any uncontested shots or easy lay-ins the rest of the way. 
"We had all five of our guys show up, which is a plus, but I don't think it was enough," Jared's guard Andrew Cavanagh said. ''I'm a big fan of Stephon Marbury, so we tried to show them a little bit of Starbury. but unfortunately like the Knicks we didn't win." 
Led by the outstanding perimeter shooting of Mike Manny and the aggressive driv­ing of Mike Lee, the Boaters fast-paced tempo was too much 
see JARED/page 21 






